Why, I felt as if I had just arrived from Paris!"
M. de Ronville leaned back and laughed. She looked so pretty and
spirited, standing here. He could imagine her in the white beaver and
handsome pelisse.
"How about the French?" he asked. "Have you forgotten it all?"
"Oh, no. Grandmere and I talk sometimes."
"We must have a little reading. Why, we could talk as well. I
sometimes get rusty."
"It was very nice of the Pembertons to remember me," she said
reflectively.
"I had said you were likely to come, and they heard Mr. Bartram had
returned. So they came at once."
She could see he was proud of the compliment paid her.
"Now, you are tired," he said. "I'll read the paper for myself."
"No, no." She took it away playfully. "When my voice gets shaky, you
may ask me to stop;" and the mirth in her tone was good to hear.
How delightful it was to lean back comfortably and listen to the
pleasant voice, with its subtle variations. Ah, if Aldis Bartram could
have made sure of her in that other time, before she had learned to
love and had her sorrow. And now he seemed to be settled in bachelor
ways, and resolved to miss the sweetness of love and life.
"Aldis," he said, at the tea table, "do you know young Dr. Langdale?"
"In a way. He is not in my line, you know. A very promising young
fellow. Were you thinking of trying him?"
"Oh, no. But he is from Pittsburg. The Hassels and Miss Pemberton seem
to know him quite well. And he is a friend of Daffodil's."
"Oh, and is that lieutenant his brother?"
Daffodil blushed, though why, she could not have told, and she merely
nodded.
"Mrs. Hassel seems to think very highly of him."
"He's made some sort of discovery--they had him at Dr. Rush's, and he
is in a fair way to success. Score one for Pittsburg."
"But he has been studying here," rejoined Daffodil frankly.
The next day it rained, and rainy days seemed to affect M. de
Ronville, but he hardly noted it. They read and talked French, and had
a rather laughable time. And in the afternoon an old friend, Colonel
Plumsted, came in to play chess, and Daffodil watched, much
interested. Aldis was surprised to find his host in such good spirits
when he returned.
Mrs. Hassel gave her tea party soon after. Daffodil met several old
friends, who remembered the little girl. Belinda found time to impart
the secret that she and Jack Willing were engaged, though she meant to
have one good winter of fun before she was married. Jack seemed to be
a nice, jolly fellow. And there was Anton Wetherell and Arthur
Pemberton, and Arthur was asked to take her out to the supper table.
"Why, it's quite like old times to have you here again! Truly, I never
thought of your growing up. You were always in my mind as a little
golden-haired fairy that flashes about and then--do they return to the
'little folk'?"
"I haven't, you see. But I was not quite a fairy. And one grandfather
used to call me Yellowtop." She laughed musically.
"One? How many grandfathers did you have?"
"I had three at one time, one in every generation. But the oldest one
went away, and now there are only two."
"And I danced with you, I remember. I hope you haven't forgotten how.
We have dancing parties, as well as tea parties. We are considered
quite staid and sober-going people, but we young folks put in a good
deal of fun. Bel's engaged, I dare say she told you, and I am the only
solitary--shall I call myself a blossom? left on the parent stalk."
They both laughed at that. It takes so little to amuse young people.
"You'll have to go to one of Lady Washington's receptions, though in
the whisper of confidence be it said they are rather stiff. There's
the Norris house, that's the place for fun. The Norris girls find so
many bright people, and they're not the jealous kind, but they make
everybody shine."
Then Bel took her off to meet Miss Plumsted.
"I'm very glad to see you;" and Miss Plumsted's voice was honestly
sweet. "Grandfather goes to play chess with M. de Ronville. He is your
guardian, I believe. And now, are you going to live here?"
"Oh, no. I am here only on a visit. My parents and all my folks live
at Pittsburg."
"Oh, that seems way out West. The Ohio River is there, and they go out
to St. Louis and down to New Orleans. Is it a real city?"
"Not yet, but they are talking about it."
Then some one else came. Two or three of the young men dropped in
during the evening, and there was some music on a flute and a violin.
Altogether it was a very pleasant time, and Arthur Pemberton took her
home and asked if he might not have the pleasure of calling
occasionally.
She hardly knew what was proper. It seemed ungracious to say "no," so
she answered that he might.
CHAPTER XVI
SAINT MARTIN'S SUMMER
One of the quiet evenings, the two men were playing chess and Daffodil
was watching them; Susan came in and said in her most respectful
manner:
"A gentleman wishes to see Miss Carrick. Here is his card."
Daffodil took it and read, "Archibald Langdale, M.D."
"Oh," in a glad, girlish tone, "it's my old friend, Archie, that I
haven't seen in ever so long. Dr. Langdale;" with a pretty assumption
of dignity.
"Yes."
"And, uncle, you must see him. Not that I want you to accept him for a
family physician, for really I don't know what he is like. He may be
the veriest prig;" and she gave a dainty half laugh. "If he is spoiled
it will be the fault of your city, he was very nice at Pittsburg. And
you, too, Mr. Bartram."
"I have met the young man. I didn't see that he was much puffed up
with his honors."
"Thank you." She made a fascinating courtesy. How pleased she was, he
could see that.
"We will soon be through with the game. Yes, I'll come," said M. de
Ronville.
She would hardly have known Archie. He stood up straight and he was
quite as tall as Ned. He had filled out somewhat, though he was still
rather thin, but his face had lost that deprecating expression, and
had a clear notion not only of truth and honor, but of his own power
as well. It was a tender face also, with the light in it that draws
one unconsciously. The eyes seemed to have grown darker, but the hair
was light as in boyhood.
"I am so glad to see you again;" and he took both hands in a warm
clasp. "I couldn't wait until some accidental meeting, where you might
kindly invite me for old friendship's sake."
"That would not have been worth while. I have heard about you, and I
wondered if you had outgrown childish remembrances."
"You would bring them all back if I had. How little you have changed,
except to grow tall. And now tell me about yours and mine. Once in a
great while Ned writes, and mother doesn't seem to have the gift of
chatty letters. Hers are mostly about my humble self, her son
rather, and how he must avoid certain things and do other certain
things, and not grow hard-hearted and irreligious and careless of his
health;" smiling with a touch of tenderness. "So, you see, I do not
hear much about the real Pittsburg."
"Oh, you would hardly know it now, there are so many changes, and so
much business. New streets, instead of the old lanes, and the old log
houses are fast disappearing. We are making real glass, you know, and
there is talk of a paper mill. And nearly all the girls are married;
the older ones, I mean. Families are coming in from the country,
others go out to Ohio and Kentucky. Why, it is a whirl all the time."
"I'd like to see it and mother. I've planned to go several times, but
some study or lectures that I couldn't miss would crop up. And it
takes so much time. Why doesn't some one invent a quicker way of
travelling? Now, if we could fly."
"Oh, that would be just splendid!" eagerly.
"I used to watch the birds when I was a boy, and flying seemed so easy
for them. Now, why can't some one think up a pair of wings that you
could slip on like a jacket and work them with some sort of springs,
and go sailing off? I'm learning to put people together, but I never
was any hand for machinery."
"Oh, think of it! A winged jacket;" and they both laughed gleefully.
Then M. de Ronville entered and expressed his pleasure at meeting the
young man, who was already distinguishing himself, and who was an old
friend of Miss Carrick.
"Not that either of you are very old," he commented smilingly.
Mr. Bartram he recalled. And certainly the generally quiet student
talked his best. Was Daffodil a sort of inspiration? Was that one of
the graces of early friendship?
He apologized presently for his long stay. He so seldom made calls,
that he must plead ignorance of the correct length, but he had enjoyed
himself very much. And then M. de Ronville invited him to drop in to
tea. He would like to discuss some new medical methods with him.
"A very intelligent, well-balanced young man," the host remarked. "If
the other one is as sensible, they are sons to be proud of."
"Their mother is proud of them, but their father would rather have
had them in business," said Daffodil.
Belinda Pemberton was quite fascinated with Daffodil. "You are such a
sweet, quaint, honest little thing," she said, "and you do make such
delightfully naïve remarks. And Arthur declares you must have learned
to dance in fairyland."
"I think I did," she returned gayly. "And I do love it so."
Then the little circle, and the wider one, had a fine surprise. Betty
Wharton, now Madame Clerval, returned quite unexpectedly, as her
husband had resigned his position.
"I had quite enough of Paris," she said to a friend. "One wants an
immense fortune to truly enjoy it. And somehow things seem shaky.
Then, too, one does have a longing for home when one gets past youth."
So she opened her house and set up a carriage. Monsieur Clerval found
himself quite in demand by the government, as the country needed a
multitude of counsellors.
She came in to see M. de Ronville, who gallantly said she had renewed
her youth, and begged for the secret.
"It is simply to keep young, to resolve not to grow old;" with a gay
emphasis.
"But time passes, my dear lady."
"And where is that pretty, golden-haired Daffodil?" she enquired.
The girl was summoned. Yes, she had outgrown childhood, but there was
a delightful charm in her young womanhood.
"We were such friends--if you can remember so far back."
"And you were so good to me, and made everything so enjoyable. Wasn't
I very ignorant?"
"You were very frank, and honest, and adaptable. So we must take up
the old intimacy again. M. de Ronville, I shall drop in often and say,
'Lend me your daughter for this or that occasion.' Or is it your
niece? And if some one falls in love with her you must not scold me.
Young men have eyes, and really, I am too kindly-hearted to throw dust
in them."
Daffodil turned scarlet.
"Is it quite right to go about so much?" she said to M. de Ronville
afterward, and the tone had a great uncertainty in it, while the
curves of her pretty mouth quivered. "For you know----"
He drew her down beside him on the sofa.
"I thought some time we would talk it over--your unfortunate marriage,
I suppose, comes up now and then to haunt you. Yet, it was fortunate,
too, that the explanation came just as it did. I honestly believe it
was an ignorant child's fancy. You were not old enough to understand
real love. I think he could hardly have been a thorough villain, but
an incident like this has happened more than once. And I truly believe
you have overlived it."
She shuddered, and her eyes were limpid with tears. It was good to
feel his friendly arm about her.
"It is like a dream to me, most of the time. And I think now, if he
had made a passionate, despairing protest, it would have gone much
harder with me. But it was right for him to go away when his father
sent, and he was the next in succession to Hurst Abbey. And there was
his child, his boy. I could never have been his true wife, but it hurt
to be given up so readily, yet it was best. It gave me courage. And
what if he had tired of me later on? They all helped me to bear it.
And there was the deception. For if he had told the truth, there might
have been pity, but no love."
"It was a sad thing to happen. My heart ached for you. But you know,
Daffodil, you never were a wife in the true sense of the word. You are
quite free, you have always been free. And you must feel so. You must
not carry about with you any uncertainty. It is something buried
fathoms deep, that you need never draw up to the surface, unless in
time to come you tell the story to the man you marry."
"I shall never marry," she returned gravely. "I have it all planned.
Felix shall have the fortune, for what could a woman do with it in her
own hands? And he has the name, he has only to leave off the Carrick.
And it shall be my business to make every one as happy as I can. And
if it is not wrong to take pleasure for myself--I do love joy and
happiness, and I could not grieve forever, when I knew the thing I
would grieve for was wrong."
There were tears dropping off the bronze lashes, but she was not
really crying. He pressed her closer. There was an exquisite depth to
her that did not often come to the surface.
"So you have it all planned for the years to come," he returned after
a moment or two. "That is quite far off. Meanwhile you must have a
good time with other young people. That will make me the happiest, if
you care for me."
"Oh, indeed I do, indeed I do," she cried earnestly. Then, after quite
a pause, she continued--
"I almost lost sight of what I wanted to ask. It was whether I ought
to explain anything, whether it would be sailing under false colors
when no one knew;" and she gave a tangled sort of breath that she
would not allow to break into a sob.
"My dear child, there would be no use in explaining what could only be
a matter of gossip. I think, nay, I am certain, Aldis and myself are
the only ones who know, and if there had been any trouble I should
have sent him to your assistance. I dare say, some of your friends and
neighbors at home have wellnigh forgotten about it. And now, do not
let it disturb you, but be as happy as God meant you should be, when
He snatched you from the peril."
"Oh, thank you," she rejoined with a grateful emotion that he felt
quiver through her slender body.
She wondered if she was too light-minded, too easily pleased. For
every joyous thing seemed to come her way. The girls sought her out,
the young men wanted to dance with her, and were willing to bore
themselves going out to supper, if they knew she would be there. It
was not because she was brighter or wittier than the others, or could
think of more entertaining plays, but just that she seemed to radiate
an atmosphere of happiness.
She did not give up all her time to pleasure. She drove with her
guardian on pleasant days; he had left off riding now, but he sent her
out occasionally with Mr. Bartram, lest she should get out of
practice, he said. Then she read to him, or they took up French. She
made merry over her blunders.
The autumn was long and warm. They sat in the garden in the sunshine,
or walked up and down. Now and then he went to the office, when there
were some important matters on hand.
Madame Clerval gave a dance after she had her house set in order. It
might have been called a ball. It was mostly for the young people; she
was just as fond of them as ever, and secretly admitted that she
didn't enjoy prosy old people, who could talk of nothing but their
pains and aches, and how fast the country was going to ruin.
"Do you think Mr. Bartram would consider it a nuisance to come for
me?" she asked of her guardian, with a face like a peony.
"Why, no, child. Madame made quite a point of his coming. He is
growing old too fast."
"Why, he isn't old," she said rather indignantly. "And you see--it's
hard sometimes not to offend this one or that one, and if he is really
coming, will you ask him to bring me home? Wouldn't you prefer it?"
"I think I would;" very gravely, though he wanted to smile.
Wetherell and Arthur Pemberton were pushing each other for her favors,
and she tried to distribute them impartially.
The dance was a splendid success, and the dainty supper had a French
air. Mr. Bartram came in just before that. Daffodil was engaged, of
course. Madame provided him with a charming partner.
There was only a galop afterward. At private affairs it was not
considered good taste to stay after midnight. Mr. Bartram made his way
to Daffodil, and asked her if she was ready to go, and she nodded
gracefully.
She looked so pretty as she came down the stairs, wrapped in something
white and fleecy, smiling on this side and that.
"It was very enjoyable," he said, "at least to you young people. I'm
not much of a dancer nowadays, so I didn't come early."
"It was just full of pleasure. Madame Clerval always plans admirably."
He smiled to himself. Most girls would have protested about his being
late, even if they had not specially cared.
The young people took up the habit of calling in the evening, three or
four of them, sometimes half a dozen. Mrs. Jarvis would send in some
cake and nice home-made wine, which was quite a fashion then. They
made merry, of course.
"Dear uncle," she said one morning, it was raining so they couldn't go
out, "didn't we disturb you last evening with our noise and laughter?
I don't know why they are so eager to come here, and think they have a
good time, for I am not as full of bright sayings as some of the
girls. And if it annoys you----"
"My child, no. I lay on the sofa and listened to it, and it almost
made me young again. I had no merry youth like that. Oh, am I coming
to second childhood?"
His eyes were bright, and she thought she had never seen them so
merry, save at first, when he had laughed at some of Felix's pranks.
And his complexion was less pallid, his lips were red.
"Then second childhood is lovely. And you have grown so interested in
everything. You don't get tired as you used. Are you real happy, or
are you doing it just to make me happy?"
She gave him such a sweet, enquiring look, that he was touched at her
solicitude.
"It is both, I fancy. You see, last winter I was ill and alone a great
deal. I missed Betty Wharton, who was always flying in with some fun,
or a bright story that had been told. Aldis had all the business to
attend to, and sometimes wrote in the evenings. Time hung very heavy
on my hands, and I began to think it was time for me to go hence. And
by spring I had quite lost heart, though I began to crawl about a
little. And I kept thinking how I should live through another dreary
winter, and be half sick. It kept looming up before me. Then I thought
I ought to settle something about your business when your father wrote
concerning the lease. You came into my mind. I thought how brave you
had been through that unfortunate time, and wondered if you would not
like a change. I wanted some one to bring in the sunshine of youth,
and you had spent so many of your years with elderly people, I thought
you must have some art. I could make it pleasant for you, and the
reflected light would brighten me. So I begged a little of your sweet
young life."
"I am glad if it has made you happy," she said, much moved.
"It has given me new zest, it has made me almost well. True, I have
had some twinges of my old enemy, rheumatism, but they have not been
severe. I have not been lonely. There was some pleasure within my
reach all the time. Oh, old people do want a little of the sun of
youth to shine on them. And if you had no dear ones at home, I should
keep you always, golden-haired Daffodil."
She took his hand in hers, so full of fresh young life. "And I should
stay," she said.
"So, do not think your little merry-makings annoy me at all. I am
glad for you to have them, and next day it is like reading a page out
of a book, a human book that we are apt to pass by, and say we have no
pleasure in it, but it is what we need, and what we want, down in our
very heart of hearts, but often we are ashamed to ask for it."
It was true, he was much better. The house was losing its grave
aspect. Jane had been used to flinging about wise old saws, and
comparisons, and finding things to enjoy; Susan was quiet, falling
into routine, and staying there until some new duty fairly pushed her
out in another direction. She had no sense of humor or enthusiasm, yet
she performed all the requirements of her place with ease and
industry.
Mrs. Jarvis was just as kindly solicitous as ever, but intellectually
there was a great gulf between her and M. de Ronville. She entertained
whatever guests came with an air of precision, never forgetting she
was a higher sort of housekeeper. She enjoyed the quiet of her own
room, where she sewed a little, and read a good deal, the
old-fashioned English novels, such as "Children of the Abbey,"
"Mysterious Marriage," "The Cottage on the Cliff," and stories of the
latter half of the century. She thought it no part of a woman's
business to concern herself with politics, she would have preferred
living under a real King and nobility, but she accepted the powers
that ruled, and stayed in her own little world, though she, as well
as M. de Ronville, enjoyed the stir and interest that Daffodil brought
about.
After Madame Clerval came, there was more variety and gayety in
Daffodil's life, and she helped to rouse M. de Ronville as well. Then
came a reception at the Presidential mansion.
"Of course, you will go," Madame said to him, in her persuasive, yet
imperious, manner. "We must not be a whit behind those New York people
in the attention we pay our President. And one need not stay the whole
evening through, you know. You will meet so many old friends. Come, I
cannot have you getting old before your time."
"But I am an old man," he protested.
"In our new country we must not get old. It is to be the land of
perennial youth," she answered gayly.
Aldis Bartram joined his persuasions as well, and M. de Ronville went
almost in spite of himself. He had kept his delicate, high-bred air
and French atmosphere, and looked well in the attire of that day, with
his flowered waistcoat, his black velvet suit and silk stockings, with
a jewelled buckle on his low shoes. His beautiful white hair was just
tied in a queue, with a black ribbon. There was something dignified
and gracious about him, and friends thronged around to congratulate
him. And though he had seen Washington in many different phases of his
eventful life, he had not as yet met him as President of the nation
he had fought for and cemented together.
There were handsomer girls than Daffodil; indeed, the fame of the
beauties of Philadelphia in that day has been the theme of many a song
and story. But she was very pretty in her simple white frock that in
the fashion of the day showed her exquisite neck and shoulders, though
the golden curls, tied high on her head, shaded and dazzled about it
in a most bewitching manner. Madame Clerval was wise, she was not
trying to outshine any of the belles, yet there was a bevy of young
men about her constantly, and most devoted to her and to M. de
Ronville, was Dr. Langdale. In fact, he was really the favorite
visitor at the house. He ran in now and then with news of some new
book, or some old translation, and a talk of the progress of the
library and the trend of general education. Why should Boston have it
all? Or a new medical discovery, though he was in no sense M. de
Ronville's physician.
Was it strange that both these young people, having passed their
childhood in Pittsburg, should come to a nearer and dearer
understanding? Aldis Bartram watched them with the sense of a new
revelation. Yet he could not subscribe to it cordially. The medical
enthusiast was hardly the one he would choose for a girl like
Daffodil. Arthur Pemberton would do better, yet he was not quite up to
her mark. She was a simple seeming girl, yet he was learning that she
had a great deal of character and sweetness. Somehow she kept herself
curiously enfranchised from lovers. Her friendly frankness gave them a
status it was difficult to overcome.
"I never expected to enjoy myself so much again," said M. de Ronville,
when they were in the carriage. "It is an excellent thing to go on
moving with the world, to keep in touch with the things that make up
the sum of life, instead of feeling they belong to the gone-by time,
and you have no interest in them."
How much like his olden self he was, Aldis Bartram thought. He
wondered if he had been at fault in letting him drop down. There was
much perplexing business, and he had hated to bother the elder man
with it. Sometimes it seemed tedious to explain. Had he grown selfish
in certain ways, preferring to take the burthen, rather than the
trouble of sharing it with another? He had much personal ambition, he
was in full earnest of a man's aims and life purposes. Yet it was this
man who had helped him to the place whereon he stood, and it was not
honorable to crowd him out under the plea that his best days were
over.
It seemed, indeed, as if days fairly flew by, there was so much
crowded in them. When the morning was fine, Daffodil insisted they
should drive out. It was delightful to keep bowing and smiling to
friends, with this attractive girl beside him. He went to some
meetings of the Philosophical Society, and he took a new interest in
the Library plans.
"You certainly have worked a transformation," Bartram said to
Daffodil, when M. de Ronville consented to go to a concert with them,
to hear two remarkable singers, who had come from abroad. "You will
have to stay. Didn't I hear you discussing Pittsburg with Mrs.
Jarvis?"
"Oh, they are longing for me to return. And in two days March will
come in, that will be spring. And I was only to stay through the
winter."
"But March is a cruel and deceitful travesty on spring. February has
been too short."
"But they want me. And, yes, I want to see them all, and the garden,
and the woods, and what new things have happened to Pittsburg. For
there is something new coming in all the time."
Her face was so eager and full of happy interest.
"Well--I don't know what we shall do without you"; and the inflection
of his voice was disconsolate. "I am afraid we shall fall back to the
old routine. I am a busy man, you know, and have to shoulder a great
many cares not really my own. Perhaps, too, I haven't the divine art
of making a house bright, a woman's province."
"Oh, Mr. Bartram, I will tell you;" in a clear, earnest tone. "Why do
you not marry, and bring some one here to do it? There are so many
charming girls, sometimes I feel quite unimportant and ignorant beside
them."
She uttered it in the same manner she might have asked why he did not
bring home some flowers to grace the study table. Her lovely eyes were
raised to his in the utmost innocence, and not a tint of color wavered
on her cheek. His flushed with sudden surprise.
"Perhaps the charming young girl would consider it a dull house for
life, and then elderly people have whims and fancies--well, younger
men do. I have myself. And it would be asking a good deal."
"I think uncle hasn't many whims, and he does keep them in the
background. You almost have to watch for them. Why, think of grandad!"
and she laughed with a soft musical sound. "What he liked yesterday he
may not like at all to-day, so Norry does the new thing, and says
nothing about the other. And he often disputes with father as to
whether there was any real need for the war, and that we would be
better off under King George. But uncle is so large-minded, and then
he has so many refined and delightful tastes. But you would get
lonesome if you were not very well, and no one came to cheer you up,
or bring you new thoughts and bright bits of things, that were going
on in the world outside."
She paused suddenly, and flushed like a culprit, looking more
beguiling than ever, with her downcast eyes.
"I suppose I oughtn't have said it, but it seems true to me, only I'm
not blaming you. You have a great many things to attend to, and you
must do them in a man's way, devote your whole mind to them, and you
can't be frivolous, or other people's business would suffer. If I
hadn't any one I would come and stay, but--I love them, and sometimes,
in spite of the pleasure, my heart is almost torn in two with the
longing. I said I would come back in the spring, and I must go. Then
it will not be quite so bad, for Madame Clerval will be in and out,
and he is so much better. And you'll let him take an interest in
business, when he feels like it--oh, I seem to be giving you advice,
and I sincerely beg your pardon. After all, I am not much more than a
little girl, and I am talking as if I was old and wise;" and a sudden
shame flamed her cheeks with scarlet.
"I think you have been wise, and sweet, and patient, without growing
old. You have done a great deal for your guardian this winter--I
really was afraid we should not have him with us for very long, and he
did seem to wish for you so. Perhaps we were selfish, he and I."
"Oh, I was ready to come, too. It has been a delightful winter, and
everybody has been so good to me, I've been just full of pleasure. But
when you love those you have left behind, you sometimes feel as if
you could fly."
She winked very fast, then made a sudden dab at her eyes, and half
laughed, too.
"I think I understand. I have had no one to love dearly since I was a
little lad, and all I remember about my mother is that she was pale,
and ill, and could not endure a noise. Then I was put in school, and
my father went away and died. When I was eighteen I went in M. de
Ronville's office, and finished my studies. He has been my best
friend, really like a father to me. I ought to make all the return in
my power."
"Oh;" and there was a bewildering sweetness in her tone. "I have been
so happy most of my life, and had so many to love me."
Then that unfortunate episode had not cost her any deep-seated grief.
Had she loved at all, or was it only a childish fancy? He hoped it
was, for the sake of her future.
He turned then and went out of the room. M. de Ronville had been up in
his dressing-room, with his valet, and now he went to the library, and
she followed him. There were some reports to look over, then the
carriage came for them. It was sunny, with very little wind, and they
had plenty of wraps.
Aldis Bartram went his way to the office. The two clerks were there
and busy. He opened his letters, and answered several, the others had
need of some legal opinions to be looked up. Then he took up a rather
complicated case, but he soon lost the thread of it, for Daffodil's
almost upbraiding voice haunted him. He had been outwardly patient
many a time when all was irritation within, for he was too manly and
too really grateful to show impatience.
Had Daffodil's being there this winter proved the source of the
reaction in M. de Ronville's health? Had loneliness intensified the
disease and discomfort? Perhaps. And now two or three young men
dropped in, and had entertaining talks with him. Or was it because
they liked the byplay of the pretty, vivacious girl, who never made
herself the first attraction.
"Marry some pretty, charming young girl!" Where would he find one to
M. de Ronville's liking?
CHAPTER XVII
OH, WHICH IS LOVE?
March opened cold and stormy. Rheumatism made a clutch at M. de
Ronville. For several days he did not come downstairs, but insisted
that some of the guests must come to him. Dr. Langdale skipped away
from a lecture he really desired to hear, and spent an hour comforting
the invalid. Madame Clerval came in with a budget of news and friendly
gossip, and Daffodil talked of her little girlhood, and old Pittsburg,
as they had begun to call it, and sitting on the arm of
great-grandfather's chair, and listening to tales of a still older
time. He did not wonder that his friend Duvernay had lived to be
almost a hundred, with all that affection to make the way pleasant.
Then he improved and came downstairs, took up chess-playing, and
little promenades on the porch when the sun shone. And then the talk
veered round to Daffodil's departure. He would not hear anything about
it at first.
"Yet we have no right to keep her away from her own household, when
she has been brave enough to give up all the winter to us," Mr.
Bartram said.
"Oh, no, I suppose not. If I was younger, or in assured health, I
should go and spend the summer with them. Oh, don't look so startled.
I know it wouldn't do, with my uncertain health."
Aldis smiled. "If the summer is fine, and you keep pretty well, we
might both take a trip. I would hardly trust you to go alone."
"So we might." The elder was gratified with the consideration.
"Aldis?" presently, in a half-enquiring tone.
"Well?" glancing up.
"Do you think--that Dr. Langdale--that there is anything between him
and Daffodil?"
"There has been some talk. But young Pemberton is devoted to her as
well."
"With either she would have to come back here to live. I like the
doctor. He is such a fine, large-hearted, sympathetic young fellow,
with so much real charity for suffering. I seem to be envying other
people's sons and daughters;" ending with a longing sound. "Yes, if
she were in love with him."
Aldis Bartram experienced a feeling of protest. Yet, why should he
object? They were both young, they had been friends from childhood,
and he was certainly worthy of her.
That very evening he dropped in. There had been a wonderful surgical
operation on a poor fellow, who had been mashed and broken by a bad
fall. There had been a dispute at first, whether they could save him
intact, but after hours of the most careful work there was a good
chance. Dr. Langdale was so proud and enthusiastic, giving every one
his due with no narrowness.
Then he said, "Oh, Daffodil, are you really going home?"
"They have sent for me. The winter has gone!" and there was a piquant
smile hovering about her face.
"It has been such a short winter I have not done half the things I
planned to do. But I am resolved to run away some time in the summer.
It is ungrateful not to visit mother. And I do want to see the town,
and all the old friends."
"Oh, do come!" There was a joyous light in her eyes, and a sweetness
played about her lips.
Yes, he surely thought he would. Then they went on about other
matters. Bartram was not much versed in love indications, but
something rose within him--as if there should be a higher, stronger,
more overwhelming love for her.
She would make them talk cheerfully about her going. She said sagely
there was such a thing as wearing out one's welcome, and that now she
should feel free to come again.
"Next winter," said her guardian. "I think I can get along through the
summer with this thought to sustain me, but I shall be a year older,
and perhaps more feeble."
"I strictly forbid either of the consequences;" she laughed with
adorable gayety, her eyes alight with fun.
"One would think I was of great consequence," she exclaimed a few days
later, "by the lamentations my friends make. Or is it a fashion? It
will make it harder for me to go. If we could move Pittsburg over! But
there are the splendid rivers, and the hills covered with
rhododendrons. And, you see, I shall miss the daffodils."
"If it is such sorrow to part with one, I hardly know how you can
endure losing so many," said Aldis Bartram gravely.
She looked at him enquiringly. He seldom paid compliments to any one
but Madame Clerval.
There were bloom and beauty enough in the grand old town, where every
point was romantic. Every day Daffodil and her guardian were out
driving, until it seemed to her she could have found her way about in
the dark. And in his office Aldis Bartram sat thinking how lonely the
house would be without the sunshine of her golden head, and the sound
of her sweet, merry voice, her small, thoughtful ways, and the ease
with which she could change from one mode of action that she saw was
not bringing about a desirable result. At first he considered this a
sort of frivolity, but he understood presently that she not
infrequently gave up her own pleasure or method for something that
suited M. de Ronville better.
He was ambitious, and he had marked out a career for himself. He meant
to be rich and respected, his instincts were all honorable, and this
had commended him to his employer, who detested anything bordering on
double dealing. So, from one position he had been advanced to another,
and by persistent study had taken his degree with honor. He enjoyed
the life of the class with which he was in keen touch, and he found he
could maintain a degree of mental superiority that satisfied his
ambition.
There had been a partnership; he was junior counsel, and some of the
clients preferred the young, broad-minded man. Then had come the
proffer of a home that really surprised him. There were no relatives
to be jealous; why, then, should he not be as a son to this man, who
no longer felt equal to the burthen and heat of the new day that had
dawned on the country, and was calling forth the highest aims and
energies of the men of the time?
There had been one intense fascination in his life that had turned to
the ashes of bitterness. And now, while he was affable and enjoyed the
society of women, he considered himself proof against their
blandishments. He had heard of Daffodil's interrupted marriage, and
gave her a very sincere sympathy. But he had not been warmly in favor
of her visit. Still, it seemed cruel and selfish not to agree to the
longing of the invalid, who had an obstinate idea that his days were
numbered. A pet and play-thing was perhaps what he needed, for
sometimes the devotion exacted bored him and seemed a painful waste of
time and energy.
Then M. de Ronville saw the necessity of arranging his guardianship of
Daffodil Carrick on a different basis, so that there might be no
trouble at his death. Her father might not understand all the fine
points, and need some legal aid. This had brought about the visit to
Pittsburg, and he had joined his solicitation to that of the guardian,
truly believing M. de Ronville's days were numbered, and he did
fervently desire to give him whatever happiness and comfort was
possible.
But Daffodil was different from the vague idea he had formed of her.
She was not a sentimental girl, even if she had been caught by a
specious love, and though gay and eager, had a tender, truthful, and
noble side to her nature. They were all of a higher class than he had
thought possible, and Felix he considered quite an unusual boy. Mr.
Carrick had made one brief explanation of the marriage, none of the
others alluded to it.
"But you know that the law holds her as an unmarried woman. There was
nothing binding in the vows on her side, and pure fraud on his," said
Bartram decisively.
"Yes, we are aware of that, but young as she is, it has changed her in
some respects. But she is dearer than ever to us. I deprecate this
fashion of such youthful marriages, though mine has been very happy,"
returned the father.
Dr. Langdale came in one morning with a face full of the highest
satisfaction. Bartram had been lingering about, discussing the
journey. Madame Clerval had offered one of her French maids, but she
knew so little of American ways.
"Daffodil," the doctor exclaimed, "will you take me for an escort? I
find there is nothing very important for the next few weeks. I have
but one more lecture in my course. And I do want to see mother. So, if
you have no objection----"
"Why, I should be delighted, though I begin to feel quite like a wise
and travelled body. And think how women are coming from abroad and
from Canada, and going West, and all over, and reach their destination
safely. But I shall be very glad all the same, and your mother will be
wild with joy."
"I am afraid we do not think of the pleasure we can give our elders,
who, in the nature of things, have less time for the enjoyment of
their children. And I feel ashamed that I have allowed the time to
slip by, content with a hurried letter. I mean to do better in the
future."
"And I applaud your decision," exclaimed M. de Ronville. "Oh, I think
you young people really do not know how much happiness you can give us
elders just by the sight of your happy faces, and a little cordial
attention."
Daffodil glanced at Dr. Langdale with a smile that seemed almost a
caress, it was so approving, enchanting. Aldis Bartram caught it and
turned away, saying--
"I must leave you to perfect arrangements. I am late now, so I must
wish you good-morning," bowing himself out of the room.
He was very busy, and did not go home to dinner, as he had been doing
of late. And it was not until he was walking home in the late
afternoon that he allowed himself to think of Daffodil's departure.
"She will marry Dr. Langdale and come back here to live, which will be
a great pleasure to M. de Ronville," he said to himself, remembering
it had his friend's approval. And why should it not have his? Yet he
felt as if he did not cordially assent. And if she returned next
winter--he lost a sudden interest in the plan. They would be lovers
and there would be their joy and satisfaction flaunted in everybody's
face.
How could Daffodil keep so bright and cheerful? Had she any real
depth? Did not every change, every new plan appeal to her just the
same?
But if he had seen her with her arms about Mrs. Jarvis' neck, and the
tears in her eyes, he would not have made the comment to himself. And
the tender, beseeching tone in which she was saying--
"Oh, you will not let him miss me too much. And when it is pleasant,
won't you walk about the garden with him and praise his roses and the
flowers he cares for? And keep him thinking that he is better, and has
years yet to live, and if Mr. Bartram will go on being devoted to
him."
"Mr. Bartram seems to have grown more tenderly thoughtful. Of course,
he has a great deal on his mind, and now there are so many perplexing
questions about the country, and when one is tired out with the day's
work it is hard to rehearse it all over. Oh, my dear, I think you have
worked a change in us all with your sweet, generous ways, and your
lovely outflowing youth. I am afraid I was beginning to think too much
of my own comfort."
Dr. Langdale proved himself most solicitous. Bartram found the
planning was taken quite out of his hands, and he chafed a little.
Madame Clerval declared herself inconsolable, but she had the fine
grace that speeds the parting guest when the going is inevitable.
There was only one day more. M. de Ronville had his breakfast sent
upstairs. Daffodil went to find some papers her guardian was going
over, and turning, she met Aldis Bartram entering the library.
"I was afraid you might forget them," she said, handing the packet to
him.
"Thank you." How often she had charged her mind with these little
things.
"I suppose," he began in a wandering sort of tone, as if his mind had
strayed to something else, "that it will not really be out of order to
congratulate you, since it will be a long while before I shall see you
again."
"Oh, about going home? But I shall often think of you all here, and
wish the old fairy stories were true, where you could be transported
elsewhere in a moment. I think I did truly believe in them once."
How charming she was in that absolute simplicity, the exquisite,
innocent, glowing face too frank for concealment. He had no business
to probe her secret, and yet he must know.
"Oh, I meant, you will not come back to us the same. You will have
learned the lesson of love, and I hope--you will be very happy."
"I don't understand"--a puzzled line settling in her fair brow. "Oh!"
suddenly relieved, and then half smiling, "did you think," and then
her face crimsoned to its utmost capacity, "that I, that Dr.
Langdale--it is a mistake. We were dear friends in childhood, we are
warm friends now. For, you see, he has been like a little bit of
Pittsburg to me, and sometimes, when I was longing for the dear ones
at home, it was comforting to talk them over. And he has no thought of
marrying in a long, long while. He means to do so much first."
Was she a finished coquette by the grace of nature? Young men were not
given to consideration of this or that when the bewildering passion
seized them. But coquette or not, a sharp, overmastering knowledge
seized him. Once she had advised him to marry and bring in the
household a charming girl. She recognized that his duty would be to M.
de Ronville while he lived. He knew that, too, if he would not prove
himself an ingrate. And here was the charming girl.
He looked at her so long and steadily that there came faint colors in
her face, growing deeper, the lines about her mouth showed tremors,
the bronze-fringed lids drooped over her eyes, and she turned away.
But the delicious half-bashful movement set his pulses aflame.
"Daffodil," and he caught her hand, "if there is no other among these
young men, or even at home, may I not sue for a little favor? I know
it surprises you; then perhaps I am too old to win a young girl's
regard, love I mean----"
"Oh, you must not," she interrupted. "For I think you hardly like
me--you did not at first. And then, I--well--I do not mean to marry.
You know there was the----"
"Which simply has no weight in your life."
"But you see, I thought I loved him. Oh, I did love him. And I was
so happy. Why, I would have gone to the end of the world with him!
Only when one deceives you, when one dares not tell the whole truth,
and when one cannot, does not want to give up wealth and station, what
was love is some way crushed out. But how could I tell if any new love
was the right thing? I might be mistaken again. And there are fickle
women in the world I have heard, who can love many times. I don't
desire to be one of them. Maybe it is only friendship I am fitted
for."
She was trembling in every pulse, though she had made such a brave
defence. And she seemed to him a hundred times sweeter than she ever
had before. He had much ado not to clasp her to his heart. "My dear
little Daffodil," he said with passionate tenderness, "though you have
been wooed and said marriage vows, you know nothing about a true and
fervent love. That was not much beyond a child's fancy, and you have
overlived it, or you could not be so light-hearted. It is only a dream
in your life. And I will wait until the woman's soul in you wakes. But
I shall not let you go from my influence, I shall keep watch and ward,
and try to win you."
"No, no, I am not worth all that trouble. No, do not try," she
pleaded.
"I shall take your earlier advice. You said I must marry some charming
girl and bring her here. No other girl or woman could satisfy M. de
Ronville as well."
"Did I advise you to do that?" and she blushed daintily. "Well," and
there was a glint of mischief in her eyes, soft as they were, "once I
was offered to you, and you declined."
"Offered to me?" in surprise.
"When I was here before. It was in this very library. I was outside,
and when I knew who was meant I ran away."
"Oh, you were such a child then! And I was doing something that I have
always despised myself for. I knew a beautiful and fascinating woman,
who led me to believe she cared a great deal for me. And then she
laughed at my folly. I deserved it for my blindness. So you see, I too
had a rude awakening, and found that it was not love, but a mere sham.
I believe for a month or so I have been trying not to love you,
shutting my eyes to a longing that stirred all my nature. And now that
I have admitted it, it has taken a giant's growth in a few hours. I
will wait until you can give me the true, sincere regard of your soul.
But I could not let you go until I had settled whether I had any
