effect to the last in Aberystwyth, and when one left 
the Terrace where the English visitors superabounded, 
the Welsh had the whole place to themselves. I would 
not push my conjecture, but it seemed to me that there 
was an absence of the cloying loyalty which makes so- 
journ in England afflictive to the republican spirit; I 
remember but one shop dedicated to the "King's Majesty, 
with the royal arms over the door, though there may 
have been many others ; I am always warning the reader 
not to take me too literally. 

Though I was about the streets by day and by dark, 
I saw no disorderly behavior of any kind in the town 
away from the beach ; I do not mean there was any by 
the sea, unless some athletic courtship among the young 
people of the watering - place element was to be ac- 
counted so. There was not much fashion there, ex- 
cept in a few pretty women who recalled the church 
parade of Hyde Park in their flowery and feathery 
costumes. Back in the town there was no fashion at 
all, but a general decency and comfort of dress. The 
Welsh costume survives almost solely in the picture- 
postal cards, though perhaps in the hilly fastnesses the 

 

women still wear the steeple-crowned hats which we 
associate with the notion of witches; when they come 
to market in Aberystwyth they wear hard, shiny black 
straw hats like the men's. Amongst the throng of Sat- 
urday-night shoppers I saw none of the drunkenness 
that one sees so often in Scottish streets, and in Eng- 
lish cities, and, I grieve to say, even in some New Eng- 
land towns. In the Welsh quarter Sunday was much 
more the Sabbath than it was on the Terrace, where 
indeed it seemed a day of pleasure rather than praise. 



VII 

All the week I had the best intention of hearing the 
singing in some of the Welsh churches, but my good- 
will could not carry the day against the fear of a ser- 
mon which I should not understand. A chance sermon 
would probably have touched upon the education act 
which was then stirring all Dissenting England and 
Wales to passive resistance, and from Lincolnshire to 
Carnarvonshire was causing the distraint of tables and 
chairs, tools, hams, clocks, clothing, poultry, and crops 
for the payment of such part of the Dissenters' taxes 
as would go to the support of the Church schools. Pos- 
sibly it might also have referred to the Walk Out of the 
Welsh Members of Parliament; this was an incident 
which I heard mentioned as of imperial importance, 
though what caused it or came of it I do not know. 

Instead of going to church, I strolled up and down 
the Terrace and observed the watering-place life. The 
town was evidently full, or at least all the lodging- 
houses were, and as it is with the English everywhere 
in their summer resorts, there were men enough to go 
round, so that no poor dear need pine for a mate on 

 

that pleasant beach. Aberystwyth is therefore to be 
commended to our overflow of girls, though whether 
there are many eligible noblemen among those youth 
I have not the statistics for saying. All the visitors 
may have been people of rank; I only know that I 
was told they were mostly from the midland cities, and 
they seemed to be having the good time which people 
of brief outings alone have. The bathing began, as I 
have noted, very early in the day with the men in the 
briefest possible tights; the women, for compensation, 
wore long trousers with their bathing-skirts, and they 
enhanced the modesty of their effect by the universal 
use of bathing-machines, pushed well away from the 
curious shore. There was not much variety in the visit- 
ing English type, but there was here and there a sharp 
imperial accent, as in the two pale little, spindle-legged 
Anglo-Indian boys, with their Hindu ayah, very dark, 
with sleek dark hair, arid gleaming eyes in a head not 
much bigger than a black walnut. 

The crescent of the beach was a serried series of 
hotels and lodging-houses, from tip to tip, but back of 
these were streets of homelike, smallish dwellings, that 
broke rank farther away, and scattered about in sub- 
urban villas, with trees and flowers and grass around 
them. Beyond stretched, as well as it could stretch 
among its hills, the charming country of fields, and 
woods, and orchards. 



VIII 

I suppose I did not quite do my duty by the ruins 
of the Norman castle, and I feel that it is now too late 
to repair my neglect. The stronghold was more than 
once attempted by the Welsh in those wars which make 

 

their history a catalogue of battles, but it held out Nor- 
man till the Normans turned English. Owen Glen- 
dover took it in 1402, when it was three hundred years 
old, though not yet feeble with age, and in due time 
one of Cromwell's lieutenants destroyed it. Some very 
picturesque fragments remain to attest the grace and 
strength of the ancient hold. It is near the University 
College and the Amusement Pier, so that the mere 
sight-seers can do all the ordinary objects of interest 
at Aberystwyth in half a day or half an hour. But 
we were none of these. We had fallen in love with 
the place, and we would fain have stayed on after the 
week was up for which we had taken our lodging. It 
appeared from a house-to-house canvass, that there was 
no other lodging to be had in all that long crescent of 
the Terrace; or, if this is incredible, there was none 
we would have. Our successors were impending; and 
though I think our English landlady might have in- 
vented something for us at the last moment, the Welsh 
Power was inexorable. Her ideal was lodgers who 
would go out and buy their own provisions, and we 
had set our faces against that. Some one must yield, 
and the Welsh Power could not; it was not in her 
nature. We were therefore in a manner expelled from 
Aberystwyth, but our banishment was not from all 
Wales, and this was how we went next to Llandudno. 





FROISSART'S saying, if it was Froissart's, that the 
English amuse themselves sadly antedates that notion 
of Merry England which is now generally rejected by 
serious observers. I should myself prefer the agnostic 
position, and say that I did not know whether the Eng- 
lish were glad or not when they looked gay. What I 
seem to be certain of, but I do not say that I am cer- 
tain, is that they look gayer in their places of amuse- 
ment than we do. I do not mean theatres, or parlia- 
ments, or music-halls, or lecture-rooms, by places of 
amusement, but what we call summer resorts a little 
more largely than those resorts which the English call 
watering-places. Of these I should like to take as a 
type the charming summer resort on the coast of North 
Wales which is called Llandudno in print, and in speech 
several different ways. 



The English simply and frankly, after their blunt 
nature, call the place Landudno, but the Welsh call it, 
according to one superstition of their double I and their 
French u, Thlandidno. According to another, we cannot 
spell it in English at all ; but it does not much matter, 
for the last superstition is the ever-delightful but ever- 
doubtful George Sorrow's, who says that the Welsh 

II is tlie same as the Spanish II, but who is probably 
mistaken, most other authorities agreeing that if you 
pronounce it thl you will come as near it as any Sae- 
seneg need. It is a constantly besetting question in 
Wales, where the prefix Llan speckles the map all 
over, owing to that multitude of Saints who peopled 
the country in the times when a Saint's sons were every 
one saints, and none was of particularly holy, or even 
good life, because he was known for a saint. Like a 
continental noble, he inherited his title equally with all 
his brothers. 

But through whatever orthoepic mazes you search it, 
Llandudno has every claim on your regard and admira- 
tion. Like Aberystwyth, its sea front is a shallow 
crescent, but vaster, with a larger town expanding 
back of it, and with loftier and sublimer headlands, 
at either end, closing it in a more symmetrical frame. 
But I should say that its sea was not so blue, or its sky 
either, and its air was not so soft or dry. Morally it 
is more constantly lively, with a greater and more in- 
sistent variety of entertainments. For the American 
its appeal might well have begun with the sight of his 
country's flag floating over a tennis - ground at the 
neighboring watering-place and purer Welsh town of 
Rhyl. The approach to his affections was confirmed 
by another American flag displayed before one of the- 
chief hotels in Llandudno itself. I learned afterward 
of the landlord that this was because there were sev- 
eral Chicago families in his house, and fifteen Amer- 
icans in all ; but why the tennis-ground of Rhyl flew 
our national banner, I do not know to this day. It was 
indeed that gentle moment when our innocent people 
believed themselves peculiarly dear to the English, and 
might naturally suppose, if from Chicago, or Boston, 
or Denver, that the English would wish to see as often 

 

as possible the symbol of our successful revolt from the 
princes and principles to which they have religiously 
adhered. 

Both that home of the patriotic Chicago families, 
and the other best hotel were too full for us, and after 
a round of the second-best we decided for lodgings, 
hoping as usual that they would bring us nearer the 
native life. The best we could get, facing the sea mid- 
way of the crescent, were not exactly Welsh in their 
keeping. The landladies were, in fact, two elderly 
Church - of - England sisters from Dublin, who had 
named their house out of a novel they had read. 
They said they believed the name was Italian, and 
the reader shall judge if it were so from its analogue 
of Osier Wood. The maids in the house, however, were 
very truly and very wickedly Welsh: two tough little 
ponies of girls, who tied their hair up with shoe-strings, 
and were forbidden, when about their work, to talk 
Welsh together, lest they should speak lezing of those 
Irish ladies. The rogues were half English, but the 
gentle creature who served our table was wholly Welsh ; 
small, sweet-voiced, dark-eyed, intelligent, who suffered 
from the universal rheumatism of the British Isles, but 
kept steadily to her duty, and accepted her fate with 
patience and even cheerfulness. She waited on several 
other tables, for the house was full of lodgers, all rather 
less permanent than ourselves, who were there for a 
fortnight; we found our landladies hoping, when we 
said we were going, to have had us with them through 
the winter. 


Our fellow-lodgers were quiet people of divers de- 
grees, except perhaps the highest, unless the nobility 


bring boiled hams with them when they visit the sea- 
side. The boiled ham of the drawing-room floor was 
frankly set out on the hall table, where it seemed to last 
a week, or at least till the lodgers went away. There 
was much coming and going, for it was the height of 
the season, with the prices at flood tide. We paid six 
guineas a week for three bedrooms and a sitting-room ; 
but our landladies owned it was dear. An infirm and 
superannuated sideboard served for a dressing-table in 
one room; in others the heavier pieces of furniture 
stood sometimes on four legs, sometimes on three. We 
had the advantage of two cats on the back fence, and a 
dog in the back yard; but if the controversy between 
them was carried on in Welsh, it is no wonder we never 
knew what it was about. 

Our hostesses said the Welsh were dirty house- 
keepers : " At least we think so," but I am bound to 
say their own cooking was very good; and not being 
Welsh our hostesses consented to market -for us, except 
in the article of Spanish melons: these I bought my- 
self of increasing cost and size. When I alleged, the 
second morning, that the melon then sold me for six- 
pence had been sold me by another boy for fourpence 
the day before, my actual Cymric youth said, " Then 
he asked you too little," which seemed a non sequitur 
but was really an unexpected stroke of logic. 

It was the utmost severity used with me by my co- 
racials in Llandudno. They were in the great majority 
of the permanent inhabitants, but they were easily out- 
numbered among the pleasurers by the Saeseneg, whose 
language prevailed, so that a chance word of Welsh 
now and then was all that I heard in the streets. Some 
faint stirrings of ambition to follow the language as 
far as a phrase-book would lead were not encouraged 
by the kindly bookseller who took my money for it; 

 

and I did not go on. It is a loss for me in literature 
which translation cannot supply, for the English lovers 
of Welsh poetry, after praising it to the skies, are never 
able to produce anything which is not direly mechani- 
cal and vacuous. The native charm somehow escapes 
them; the grace beyond the reach of art remains with 
the Cymric poets who have resources for its capture 
unknown to their English admirers. George Borrow 
seems the worst failure in this sort, and the worst of- 
fender in giving his reader the hopes he never fulfils, 
so that his Wild Wales is a desert of blighted literary 
promises. I believe that the merit of Welsh poetry 
dwells largely, perhaps overlargely, in its intricate 
technique, and in the euphonic changes which leave the 
spoken word ready for singing almost without the of- 
fices of the composer. 



One of the great musical contests, the yearly nation- 
al Eisteddfod, was taking place that year at the neigh- 
boring town of Miyl, but I did not go to hear it, not 
being good for a week's music without intermission. 
At Llandudno there was only the music of the Pierrots 
and the Niggers, which those simple-hearted English 
have borrowed, the one from France and the other 
from these States. Their passion for our colored min- 
strelsy is, in fact, something pathetic. They like Pier- 
rots well enough, and Pierrots are amusing, there is no 
doubt of it; but they dote upon Niggers, as they call 
them with a brutality unknown among us except to the 
vulgarest white men and boys, and the negroes them- 
selves in moments of exasperation. Negro minstrelsy 
is almost extinct in the land of its birth, but in the land 

of its adoption it flourishes in the vigor of undying 

 

youth ; no watering-place is genuine without it. Bands 
of Niggers haunt the streets and suburbs of London, 
and apparently every high day or holiday throughout 
the British Islands requires the stamp of their pres- 
ence as a nostrum requires the name of the patentee 
blown in the bottle. The decay of their gay science 
began among us with the fall of slavery, and the pass- 
ing of the old plantation life; but as these never ex- 
isted in Great Britain the English version of negro 
minstrelsy is not affected by their disappearance. It 
is like the English tradition of the Red Skins, which 
has all but vanished from our superstition, but remains 
as powerful as ever in the constant fancy of those isl- 
anders. 

The English like their Niggers very, very black, and 
as their Niggers are English they know how to gratify 
the national preference: such a spread of scarlet lips 
over half the shining sable face is known nowhere else 
in nature or art; and it must have been in despair of 
rivalling their fellow-minstrels that the small Amer- 
ican troupe we saw at Aberystwyth went to the op- 
posite extreme and frankly appeared as the White 
N"eegurs. At Llandudno the blackness of the Niggers 
was absolute, so that it almost darkened the day as they 
passed our lodging, along the crescent of the beach on 
their way to their open-air theatre beyond it. They 
were followed by a joyous retinue of boys and girls, 
tradesmen's apprentices, donkeys, bath-chairs, and all 
the movable gladness of the watering-place, to the music 
of their banjos and the sound of their singing. They 
were going to a fold of the foot-hills called the Happy 
Valley, bestowed on the public for such pleasures by 
the local nobleman whose title is given to a principal 
street, and to other points and places, I suppose out of 

the public pride and gratitude. It is a charming 

 

amphitheatre overlooked by the lofty tops around, 
and there on the green slope the Niggers had set up 
their stage, and ranged the spectators' chairs in the 
classification of first, second, and third so dear to the 
British soul. There they cracked their jokes, and there 
they sang their songs; the songs were newer than the 
jokes, but they were both kinds delivered with a strong 
Cockney accent, and without an aspirate in its place. 
But it was all richly acceptable to the audience, who 
laughed and cheered and joined in the chorus when 
asked. Here, as everywhere, the crowd delighted equal- 
ly in songs of the sloppiest sentimentality and of hu- 
mor nighest indecency. 

On the afternoon of our visit the good lady next me 
could not contain her peculiar pride in the entertain- 
ment, and confided that she knew the leader of the 
troupe, who was an old friend of her husband's. It 
was indeed a time and place that invited to expansion. 
Nothing could have been friendlier and livelier than 
the spectacle of the spectators spread over the grassy 
slope, or sublimer than the rise of the hills around, or 
more enchanting than the summer sea, with the large 
and little shipping on it, and the passenger-steamers 
going and coming from Liverpool and all the points in 
the region round. The two headlands which mark the 
limits of the beautiful beach, Great Orme's Head, and 
Little Orme's Head, are both of a nobleness tempered 
to kindliness by the soft and manageable beauty of their 
forms. I never got quite so far as Little Orme's Head, 
for it was full two miles from our lodging, and a fort- 
night was not long enough for the journey, but with 
Great Orme's Head I was on terms of very tolerable 
intimacy. A road of the excellence peculiar to Eng- 
land passes round on the chin, so to speak, and though 
I never went the length of it, I went far enough to 

 

know the majesty of the seaward prospect. From the 
crown of the Head there is a view of perhaps all the 
mountains in Wales, which from this point appears en- 
tirely composed of mountains, blue, blue and enchant- 
ingly fair. On the townward side you may descend 
into the Happy Valley, as we did, and find always a 
joyous crowd listening to the Niggers. If, after some 
doubt of your way, you have the favor of a nice boy 
and an intelligent collie dog, whom the boy is helping 
herd home the evening cows of a pleasant farm, you 
will have a charming glimpse of the local civilization; 
and perhaps you will notice that the cows do not pay 
much attention to the boy, but obey the dog implicitly ; 
it is their Old World convention. 



IV 

From another side we had ascended the mountain 
by the tram line which climbs it to the top, and at 
every twist and turn lavishes some fresh loveliness of 
landscape upon your vision. Near by, we noticed many 
depressions and sinkages in the ground, and a conver- 
sable man in well - oiled overalls who joined us at a 
power-house, said it was from the giving way of the 
timbers in the disused copper-mines. Were they very 
old, we asked, and he said they had not been worked 
for forty years; but this, when you come to think of 
the abandoned Roman mines yet deeper in the hill, was 
a thing of yesterday. The man in the oily overalls had 
evidently not come to think of it, but he was otherwise 
a very intelligent mechanic, and of a hospitable mind, 
like all the rest of our chance acquaintance in Great 
Britain. I do not know that I like to think of those 
Eoman mines myself, where it is said the sea now 

 

surges back and forth: they must have been worked 
by British slaves, who may be fancied climbing pur- 
blindly out when the legions left Britain, and not join- 
ing very loudly in the general lamentation at their 
withdrawal, but probably tempering the popular grief 
with the reflection that the heathen Saxons could not 
be much worse. 

The hill-top was covered with the trippers who seem 
perpetually holidaying on their island, and who were 
always kind to their children when they had them, and 
to each other when they had not. They were commonly 
in couples, very affectionate and inoffensively young. 
They wandered about, and from time to time went and 
had tea at one of the tea-houses which are always at 
hand over there. Except the view there was not much 
to see; the ways were rough; now and then, you came 
to a pink cottage or a white one where the peasantry, 
again, sold tea. At one place in our walk over the oc- 
ciput of Great Orme's Head into the Happy Valley in 
its bosom, we fell a prey to a conspiracy of boys sell- 
ing mignonette : it appeared to be a mignonette trust, or 
syndicate, confining its commerce to that flower. 

I have no other statistics to offer concerning business 
on Great Orme's Head, or indeed in all Llandudno. 
One of the chief industries seemed to be coaching, for 
a score of delightful places are to be easily reached by 
the stages always departing from the hotels on the 
Parade. There was no particularly noticeable traffic 
in leek, though I suppose that as I did not see the 
national emblem in any Welshman's hat to be sure, 
it was not St. David's Day it must have been boiling 
in every Welshman's pot. I am rather ashamed to be 
joining, even at this remove, in the poor English joking 
which goes on about the Welsh, quite as much as about 
the Scotch, the Irish having become too grave a matter 

 

for joking. There are little burlesque manuals mak- 
ing merry with the language and its agglutinative pro- 
lixity, which I shall certainly not quote ; and there are 
postal-cards representing Welsh dames drinking tea in 
tall witch-hats, with one of them saying : " I wass en- 
joying myself shocking, look you." There was, of 
course, nothing serious in this joking; the Welsh, who 
have all the small commerce in their hands, gladly 
sold the manuals and postals, and I did not see one 
Englishman laughing over them. 

The Saeseneg visitors rather amused themselves with 
the sea and the resources of the heach and the bathing. 
As contrasted with the visitors at Aberystwyth, so dis- 
tinctly in the earlier and later stages of love-making, 
I should say those at Llandudno were domestic : fathers 
arid mothers who used the long phalanx of bathing- 
machines appointed to their different sexes, and their 
children who played in the sand. I thought the chil- 
dren charming, and I contributed tuppence to aid in 
the repair of the sand castle of two nice little boys 
which had fallen down; it now seems strange that I 
should have been asked for a subscription, but in Eng- 
land subscriptions spare nobody; though I wonder if 
two such nice little boys would have come to me for 
money in America. Besides the entertainment of ly- 
ing all afternoon on the beach, or sitting beside it in 
canopied penny chairs, there was more active diversion 
for all ages and sexes in the circus prevailing some- 
where in the background, and advertising itself every 
afternoon by a procession of six young elephants neat- 
ly carrying each in his trunk the tail of the elephant 
before him. There were also the delightful shows 
of the amusement pier where one could go and see 
Pierrots to one's heart's content, if one can ever get 
enough of Pierrots; I never can. 



Besides all these daytime things there were two very 
good theatres, at one of which I saw Mr. Barrie's Lit- 
tle Mary given better than in ISTew York (that was 
easy), and at the other a comic opera, with a bit of 
comedy or tragedy in a stage-box, not announced in the 
bills. The audience was otherwise decorous enough to 
be composed of Welsh Baptist elders and their visiting 
friends, but in this box there were two young men in 
evening dress, scuffling with a young woman in dinner 
decolletee, and what appeared to be diamonds in her 
ears. They were trying, after what seems the conven- 
tion of English seaside flirtation, to get something out 
of her hand, and allowing her successfully to resist 
them; and their playful contest went on through a 
whole act to the distraction of the spectators, who did 
not seem greatly scandalized. It suggested the mis- 
giving that perhaps bad people came to Llandudno for 
their summer outing as well as good; but there was 
no interference by the police or the management with 
this robust side-show. Were the actors in the scene, all 
or any of them, too high in rank to be lightly molested 
in their lively event; or were they too low? Perhaps 
they were merely tipsy, but all the same their interlude 
was a contribution to the evening's entertainment which 
would not have been so placidly accepted in, say, At- 
lantic City, or Coney Island, or even Newport, where 
people are said to be more accustomed to the caprices 
of society persons, and more indulgent of their whims. 



A more improving, and on the whole more pleasing, 
phase of the indigenous life, and also more like a phase 
of our own, showed itself the day of our visit to Con- 

 

way, a little way from Llandudno. There, on our of- 
fering to see the ruins of the wonderful and beautiful 
old castle, we were met at the entrance with a demand 
for an exceptional shilling gate money, because of the 
fair for the local Wesleyan Chapel which was holding 
in the interior. What seemed at first a hardship turned 
out a chance which we would not have missed on any 
account. There was a large tent set up in the old castle 
court, and a table spread with home-made dainties of 
many sorts, and waited upon by gentle maids and 
matrons who served one with tea or whatever else 
one liked, all for that generously inclusive shilling. 
They were Welsh, they told us, and they were speak- 
ing their language to right and left of us, while 
they were so courteous to us in English. It was 
quite like a church fair in some American village, 
where, however, it could not have had the advantage 
of a ruined Norman castle for its scene, and where 
it would not have provided a range for target prac- 
tice with air-guns, or grounds for running and 
jumping. 

The place was filled with people young and old who 
were quietly amusing themselves and were more taken 
up with the fair than with the castle. I must myself 
comparatively slight the castle in the present study of 
people rather than places, though I may note that if 
there is any more interesting ruin in the world, I am 
satisfied with this which it surpasses. Besides its 
beauty, what strikes one most is its perfect adapta- 
tion to the original purpose of palace and fortress 
for which the Normans planned their strongholds in 
Wales. The architect built not only with a constant 
instinct of beauty, but with unsurpassable science and 
skill. The skill and the science have gone the way of 
the need of them, but the beauty remains indelible 

 

and as eternal as the hunger for it in the human soul. 
Conway castle is not all a ruin, even as a fortress, how- 
ever. Great part of it still challenges decay, and is 
so entire in its outward shape that it has inspired the 
railway running under its shoulder to attempt a con- 
formity of style in the bridge approaching it, but with- 
out enabling it to an equal effect of grandeur. One 
would as soon the bridge had not tried. 

All Conway is worthy, within its ancient walls, of 
as much devotion as one can render it in the rain, 
which begins as soon as you leave the castle. The 
walls climb from the waters to the hills, and the streets 
wander up and down and seem to the stranger mainly 
to seek that beautiful old Tudor house, Plas Mawr, 
which like the castle is without rival in its kind. It 
was full of reeking and streaming sight-seers, among 
whom one could easily find one's self incommoded 
without feeling one's self a part of the incommoda- 
tion, but in spite of them there was the assurance of 
comfort as well as splendor in the noble old mansion, 
such as the Elizabethan houses so successfully studied. 
In the dining-room a corner of the mantel has its sand- 
stone deeply worn away, and a much-elbowed architect, 
who was taking measurements of the chimney, agreed 
that this carf was the effect of the host or the butler 
flying to the place and sharpening his knife for 
whatever haunch of venison or round of beef was 
toward. It was a fine memento of the domestic past, 
and there was a secret chamber where the refugees of 
this cause or that in other times were lodged in great 
discomfort. Besides, there was a ghost which was 
fairly crowded out of its accustomed quarters, where 
so far from being able to walk, it would have had 
much ado to stand upright by flattening itself against 
the wall. 

 



VI 



In fact, there was not much more room that day 
in the PI as Mawr, than in the Smallest House in the 
World, which is the next chiefest attraction of Con- 
way. This, too, was crammed with damp enthusiasts, 
passionately eager to sign their names in the guest-book. 
They scarcely left space in the sitting-room of ten by 
twelve feet for the merry old hostess selling photo- 
graphs and ironically inviting her visitors' guests to a 
glimpse of the chamber overhead, or so much of it as 
the bed allowed to be seen. She seemed not to be- 
lieve in her abode as a practicable tenement, and could 
not be got to say that she actually lived in it; as to 
why it was built so small she was equally vague. But 
there it was, to like or to leave, and there, not far off, 
was the " briny beach " where the Walrus and the 
Carpenter walked together, 

" And wept like anything to see 
Such quantities of sand." 

For it was in Conway, as history or tradition is, that 
Through the Looking-Glass was written. 

There are very few places in those storied British 
Isles which are not hallowed by some association with 
literature; but I suppose that Llandudno is as exempt 
as any can be, and I will not try to invoke any dear 
and honored shade from its doubtful obscurity. We 
once varied the even tenor of our days there by driv- 
ing to Penmaenmawr, and wreaking our love of literary 
associations so far as we might by connecting the place 
with the memory of Gladstone, who was literary as well 
as political. We thought with him that Penmaenmawr 



was " the most charming watering-place in Wales," and 
as you drive into the place, the eye of faith will detect 
the house, on the right, in which he spent many happy 
summers. We contented ourselves with driving direct 
to the principal hotel, where I know not what kept us 
from placing ourselves for life. We had tea and jam 
on the pretty lawn, and the society of a large company 
of wasps of the yellow- jacket variety, which must have 
been true Welsh wasps, as peaceful as they were musi- 
cal, and no interloping Scotch or Irish, for they did 
not offer to attack us, but confined themselves alto- 
gether to our jam : to be sure, we thought best to leave 
it to them. 

It is said that the- purple year is not purpler at any 
point on the southernmost shores of England than it 
is at Llandudno. In proof of the mildness of its win- 
ter climate, the presence of many sorts of tender ever- 
greens is alleged, and the persistence of flowers in 
blooming from Christmas to Easter. But those who 
have known the deceitful habits of flowers on the 
Riviera, where they bloom in any but an arctic de- 
gree of cold, will not perhaps hurry to Llandudno 
much later than November. All the way to Penmaen- 
mawr the flowers showed us what they could do in 
summer, whether in field or garden, and there was one 
beautiful hill on which immense sweeps and slopes of 
yellow gorse and purple heather boldly stretched sepa- 
rately, or mingled their dyes in the fearlessness of na- 
ture when she spurns the canons of art. I suppose 
there is no upholsterer or paperhanger who would advise 
mixing or matching yellow and purple in the decora- 
tion of a room, but here the outdoor effect rapt the 
eye in a transport of delight. It was indeed a day 
when almost any arrangement of colors would have 
pleased. 

 



VII 

It is not easy in that much summer-resorted region 
to get at the country in other than its wilder moods; 
it is either town or mountain; but now and then one 
found one's self among harvest-fields, where the yield 
of wheat and oats was far heavier than with us, either 
because the soil was richer or the tilth thorougher. 
The farms indeed looked very fertile, and the farm- 
houses very alluringly clean and neat, at least on the 
outside. They were not gray, as in the West of Eng- 
land, or brick as in the Southeast, but were of stone 
whitewashed, and the roofs were of slate, and not 
thatch or tile. As I have noted, they were not so 
much gathered into villages as in England, and again, 
as I have noted, it is out of such houses that the 
farmers' boys and girls go to the co-educational col- 
leges of the Welsh University. It is still the prefer- 
ence of the farmers that their sons should be educated 
for the ministry, which in that country of multiplied 
dissents has pulpits for every color of contrary-minded- 
ness, as well as livings of the not yet disestablished 
English Church. It is not indeed the English Church 
in speech. The Welsh will have their service and their 
sermon in their own tongue, and when an Oxford or 
Cambridge man is given a Welsh living, he must do 
what he can to conform to the popular demand. It is 
said that in one case, where the incumbent long held 
out against the parish, he compromised by reading the 
service in Welsh with the English pronunciation. But 
the Welsh churches are now supplied with Welsh-speak- 
ing clergy, though whether it is well for the Welsh to 
cling so strongly to their ancient speech is doubted by 
many Welshmen. These hold that it cramps and 



dwarfs the national genius; but in the mean time in 
Ireland the national genius, long enlarged to our uni- 
versal English, offers the strange spectacle of an en- 
deavor to climb back into its Gaelic shell. 

I do not know whether an incident of my experience 
in coming from Chester to Llandudno is to be offered 
as an illustration of Welsh manners or of English man- 
ners. A woman of the middle rank, certainly below 
gentlewoman, but very personable and well dressed, got 
into our carriage where there was no seat for her. She 
was no longer young, but she was not so old as the 
American who offered her his seat. She refused it, 
but consented to sit on the hand-bag and rug which he 
arranged for her, and so remained till she left the 
train, while a half-grown boy and several young men 
kept their countenances and their places, not apparent- 
ly dreaming of offering her a seat, or if they thought 
of her at all, thought she was well punished for let- 
ting the guard crowd her in upon us. By her stature 
and complexion she was undoubtedly Welsh, and these 
youth from theirs were as undoubtedly English. Per- 
haps, then, the incident had better be offered as an 
illustration of Welsh and English manners combined. 




NOTHING is so individual in any man as the peculiar 
blend of characteristics which he has inherited from 
his racial ancestries. The Englishman, who leaves the 
stamp of the most distinct personality upon others, is 
the most mixed, the most various, the most relative of 
all men. He is not English except as he is Welsh, 
Dutch, and Norman, with " a little Latin and less 
Greek " from his earliest visitors and invaders. This 
conception of him will indefinitely simplify the study 
of his nature if it is made in the spirit of the frank 
superficiality which I propose to myself. After the 
most careful scrutiny which I shall he able to give 
him, he will remain, for every future American, the 
contradiction, the anomaly, the mystery which I ex- 
pect to leave him. 



No error of the Englishman's latest invader is com- 
moner than the notion, which perhaps soonest suggests 
itself, that he is a sort of American, tardily arriving 
