be in her element. She was very fond of 
young people and really wanted to know her 
daughters' associates. They had a great time 


 

in the tennis court, they saw all the lovely 
adornments of the parlor; the girls’ rooms had 
received sundry additions, and in the parlor 
were hung two of the paintings by Vesta’s 
father which were to be hers: a beautiful Ve- 
netian night scene, and some Spanish children 
dancing. There were two colored fiddlers and 
they had quadrilles on the tennis ground, which 
had been rolled hard as a floor. Oh ! how gay 
and merry they were! Then there was tea on 
the wide porch that ran all across the front, 
four tables, and the two maids to wait on them. 
Miss Grant and Mr. and Mrs. Underwood 
were the only grown guests, and the latter 
made herself most agreeable to the girls and 
she had quite a budget of fun. 

The moon coming up at about eight crowned 
the scene. The young people wandered around 
with nothing to mar their delight except now 
and then some one said, “ Oh, if poor Dick 
could be here ! ” 

Mr. Underwood and the host had quite a 
spirited talk about school matters, and the fu- 
ture of boys particularly. They both agreed 
on many points. 




Mr. Underwood felt that here was a mail 
who would care, and would uphold him in the 
moral as well as intellectual improvement. 

Mr. Henderson made them a little speech. 
The river up above was fine for rowing and 
that was one of the things that had been his 
specialty in college life. He hoped there would 
be a boat club, and a debating club, as well as 
baseball. He wanted to see Westfield High 
School the pride of the county. 

Mr. Underwood added a little in a rather 
humorous fashion, that did rouse the boys’ en- 
thusiasm. 

“ Some of you boys ought to move a vote of 
thanks to Mr. and Mrs. Henderson for the 
lovely entertainment,” said Helen to a group 
of boys. “ Larry?” 

“ Oh, I couldn’t! Please don’t ask me,” and 
the boy’s face was scarlet. 

“ We want the debating society to make you 
off-hand speakers against the time you are 
men. Isn’t there one boy brave enough? ” 

They all hung back and looked at each other 
in dismay. 

“ Oh, boys ! ” she exclaimed upbraiclingly. 


 

Archie Varick stepped out. “ I’ll do it if 
you think I can.” 

“ Yes. It is only a simple thing after all.” 

Archie’s business training of a year in an 
office had given him a sort of courage. So he 
stepped out in a manly fashion and acquitted 
himself very creditably, ending with a pro- 
posal of three cheers that were given heartily. 

Mrs. Henderson gave all the girl guests a 
most cordial invitation to visit her young peo- 
ple and be friends with them. 

“ She is really very well-bred,” said Georgia 
Winters, “ and will be an acquisition to West- 
field.” 

Something surely had inspired the larger 
girls and boys. Helen spoke of the decided 
change. 

“ It is all the preliminary work,” declared 
Mr. Underwood. “ You can’t have your crop 
without plowing and harrowing and seeding. 
That doesn’t make much show, but your crop 
springs up presently if the seed is good for 
anything.” 

“ And there are no adverse influences,” she 
added, with a half smile of mischief. 




“ Poor Dick! Yet I can’t help thinking it 
may be his salvation as well as ours. He was 
getting in with a bad lot and dragging some of 
the boys with him. I like Mark. He has a 
kind of soldierly way with him that I admire. 
Oh, you will reap the results of your labor 
next year. You have good courage, Miss 
Grant.” 

Next year! Would she come back? Two 
months ago she had been really disheartened. 
She knew there were easier places to be had. 
Her ready decision had settled a good many 
rough points for her, but she was not quite 
satisfied to make it now. 

The school was like a little world again. 
The big outside world changed its mind, cast 
off theories and beliefs that were vigorous 
while they lasted, but were superseded by 
newer ones, whether they were truer or not. 
And after the lawn party she noted a great 
change. The Henderson girls were sought 
after, their opinions asked, walks and pleas- 
ures planned with them. It was fortunate that 
they had been brought up in honest, upright 
ways, and made strong enough to rely upon an 


 

opinion they considered right. They had been 
trained to look at the best in people, not to 
magnify little faults and failings. They were 
full of fun and ready for any pleasure. Vesta 
Coursen was so shy and reserved they could 
not make much headway with her, but a girl 
who had a fortune in her own right, and whose 
father was an artist who had been honored 
abroad, was not to be passed by. 

As for Mark, he had slipped into a sort of 
leadership without aspiring to it and filled 
Dick’s vacant place. The tennis court and the 
boat quite distanced the auto, now that its mas- 
ter lay helpless in bed. They could all join in 
the tennis, and rowing received a new impetus 
since there were boats to hire. 

Poor Dick! How many times they said it. 
The boys did so with sincerest sympathy, 
though they admitted to each other, in very 
confidential moments, that he had led them 
into scrapes they were ashamed of now, and 
they wondered somewhat at their ready par- 
ticipation. 

“ I don’t go to a saloon any more, nor drink 
beer,” said Carl Benson. “ Old Woody gave 




us a great talking to about it — Dinsmore and 
Lang and me, — for it was quite noised about 
that Dick was 'way off that day, and he surely 
was. I used to chew cloves — I didn’t want 
Miss Grant to notice it. Boys, do you believe 
he really kissed her that day, or was it pure 
brag ? I am ashamed that we dared him to do 
it.” 

Almost a month later Mr. Underwood told 
the larger boys that Dick was allowed to see 
company and had wished for them. His arm 
was about well, but there had been an injury 
to the spine, and how bad it was the doctor 
could not quite tell. 

“ It’s best that he should have some diver- 
sion, they think, and he has begged to see some 
of you boys, so I said you would come.” 

“I’ll be mighty glad to!” exclaimed Carl. 
“ Poor old Dick ! ” 

“You and Larry then, and a day or two 
after White and Walter Lang.” 

The next morning Larry was at school early 
and went up to Miss Grant’s desk. 

“ Well,” she asked in a tone of soft inquiry, 
“ did you see your friend? ” 


 

“ Oh, Miss Grant ! ” and Larry tried to clear 
a bit of emotion out of his throat. “ Your 
heart would ache for him, I know. He was so 
robust and daring, and full of spirit and plans, 
and now he lies there white as a bit of marble, 
with great imploring dark eyes as if asking 
for help. And his hands are so thin now he 
couldn’t even hold a ball. His voice is so weak 
and tremulous,” and Larry winked very hard. 
He wouldn’t for worlds, in his boy’s pride, tell 
Miss Grant that they all cried together. 
“ And we told him about school and the plan 
for a senior class, and how we were studying.” 
Larry hurried lest there should be a break in 
his voice. “ He was so interested. Oh, Miss 
Grant, it’s been just awful for him to lie there 
alone day after day and not move about, when 
he was always so active. The nurse reads to 
him, and his father had a book rest made for 
him, so he can have papers and magazines 
about. But that’s not like real life, and the 
boys and school and play. And he was so in- 
terested in the boat club! He’s a real good 
oarsman. Its just dreadful ! ” 

“ It is, indeed,” in her sympathizing tone. 




“You boys must do all you can to cheer 
him.” 

The girls talked of “ poor Dick ” as well, 
but he seemed to have dropped out of the vital 
part of friendship. Of course they did not 
visit him. The mothers went occasionally. 
Mrs. Eastman came home quite restored, but 
she could talk of nothing except their great 
misfortune and her agonizing and inconsolable 
grief. 

The boys gave up pleasures for him, and 
now there were many delights for the splen- 
did afternoons. Were boys more chivalrous 
than girls? She had known a good deal about 
girls, their crudeness, their self-aggrandize- 
ment, their vanity, and littleness on many 
points. Boys of this age were a new study to 
her. Were they developing kindlier and more 
sympathetic traits from this sad mishap to one 
of their number? Larry had never been inso- 
lent and supercilious like Dick, but his rough- 
ness seemed curiously toned down. He was 
gentler now, and took more interest in the 
younger boys. 


CHAPTER XVII 


A SUCCESS AND A CONFESSION 

“ Oh, Miss Grant ! ” Georgia Winters ex- 
claimed one afternoon, when several of the 
girls had lingered to see the outcome of her 
plan that she had announced to them with 
great enthusiasm, indeed had arranged it in a 
most fascinating manner. “ Don’t you think 
we can have a commencement ? The high 
school at Newton is going to have a splendid 
one. A friend was over yesterday telling me 
all about it, and last evening after she went I 
began a poem. It was a sort of inspiration to 
me,” and the girl’s eyes shone with eagerness 
and a desire to distinguish herself. 

Helen was rather startled for a moment. 

“ Mr. Underwood will have to decide that. 
Or rather — I think we haven’t the right material. 
You see we should have some gradu- 
ates, and there will be only promotions. We 

have no honor pupils, no diplomas to distribute. 
No, it would not be a real commence- 
ment," and she smiled with a sort of winsome 
sympathy for their disappointment. 

“ But we might have some little celebra- 
tion,” said Miss Ford. 

“ There will be the closing exercises of the 
school.” 

“ That won’t be anything special to us,” re- 
turned Georgia in a rather short tone. 

“ Some of you might take part in the singing."

“If it’s the grammar school’s entertainment 
let them provide their own music,” and 
Georgia gave a toss of her head. 

“ Oh, Miss Grant, don’t you think you could 
persuade him?” pleaded Althea Barber. 
“ Why, we might almost as well not have had 
any high school. Who will know about it? ” 

“ But if we have so little to show for the 
year’s work,” she said in a tone that was not 
altogether discouraging. “ Oh, girls, I do 
wish some of you, all of you, would try for 
promotion in the seniors. Generally it is the 
girls who outstrip the boys, though this time 
they have had the longer training.” 


 

The girls looked deeply disappointed. Helen 
felt really sorry for them. 

“ I will see what Mr. Underwood says,” she 
added in a kindly tone. 

Mr. Underwood negatived the plan at once. 

“ Why, we really would have nothing to 
show,” and he laughed. “ Mr. Hildreth is to 
make an address, and you may be sure the ex- 
periment will not suffer at his hands. But I 
wish there was one bright boy who would take 
it up enthusiastically from the pupils’ side. 
Would Lang or Benson do it ? ” 

She thought a moment. “ Harry White 
would do excellently. He is a ready speaker 
and has some very good points. Then he is 
fond of study and really proud of his advance- 
ment. He has a fine voice and nice manners.” 

“ I’ll see him and talk about it. I hope de- 
voutly that we shall have some graduates next 
year.” 

Helen smiled rather absently. Would she 
really be here? Why should she be so irreso- 
lute? 

The girls received the non-compliance rather 
sullenly. 


“ I do not believe she really tried,” declared 
Katherine Ford. “ She’s been so wrapped up 
in the boys lately that she’s hardly had a bit 
of attention for us. Next year, indeed! I’m 
not sure I shall come back. I don’t see what 
good half the stuff we learn is going to do 
one,” with a gesture of disdain. 

“ No, she doesn’t take the interest in us that 
she ought,” returned Georgia. “ She hasn’t a 
real poetical nature though she makes such a 
fuss over the old English poets. She can talk 
to Allen Millard about Chaucer and Spenser 
when she ought to be doing other things. And 
she brought me Dr. Donne and Gower, and 
some other stupid old fellows that had written 
short poems, a great book full that she thought 
were excellent studies. Why, if I could not 
write sweeter and better poems I wouldn’t try 
at all ! ” 

“ I do think old English literature a bore. 
Beside we are Americans and we have poets 
of our own. I like some of Longfellow’s, and 
that "Bedouin Song’ of Bayard Taylor, and 
Eugene Field. Why, we have ever so many 
poets of our own ! ” 


“ Those old things came in the study of the 
beginnings,” said Honor Bain. “ I was a good 
deal interested in it, though I think the spell- 
ing something awful.” 

“ They didn’t really know how to spell in 
those days,” with an air of superiority. 

“ I mean to be a modern poet,” interposed 
Georgia loftily. “ Mother has some books I 
like better. Mrs. Hemans’s poems are lovely, 
though she was English. But there’s Alice and 
Phoebe Carey, and they had a salon on Sun- 
day afternoon. I’d like to do that, only I’d 
have mine in the evening and ask in different 
poets, and we would read from our own works. 
I mean to write enough for a volume and have 
them published. Miss Grant thinks those of 
her friend are so sweet and dainty, but they 
seem to me the sort of things ’most any body 
could sit down and dash off in a few moments. 
They haven’t any real deep thought.” 

“ But we’re not all poets by nature,” said 
Caroline Bradley. “ I couldn’t write a poem 
to save my neck.” 

" Yes, it is genius,” agreed Georgia. “ It 
comes to you like a beautiful dream, as if you 




had been wandering in some enchanted coun- 
try and you must write. Sometimes I get up 
after I have been in bed a little while, because 
such a splendid thought came into my mind. 
You lose them quickly if you don’t seize them 
at the moment. I wish we had an enthusiastic 
teacher with a poetical temperament.” 

“ But what would we do in the knotty points 
of trigonometry? And there’s logic and 
rhetoric.” 

“ I don’t expect to teach school,” said 
Georgia loftily, “ so I don’t bother my brain 
about those things.” 

“ But you have to if you want to pass.” 

“ I really don’t care whether I graduate or 
not. I could go to boarding-school where I 
could have elective studies, but mother and I 
have nice times together, and while the rest of 
you are here it is rather stupid to stay at 
home.” 

“ You are a lucky girl, Georgia Winters.” 
Georgia gave a sigh of content, bridling her 
head. She was glad of the half vanity that 
made this admiration seem only her just 
deserts. 


 

How rapidly the days passed ! Helen did not 
have time for half the things she had planned 
to do. The walks had to be abridged, though 
she did try to get a short ramble in the 
morning. Now and then she met Mr. Hildreth 
and had a nice talk. There had been several 
visits, once to dinner with just Mrs. Stirling, 
when she had a fine opportunity to inspect the 
library. Twice when there had been several 
guests, with Mrs. Underwood as the enter- 
tainer. But these walks were a great delight 
to her. The talks always began with the school 
and branched off into books they both liked 
and why they liked them. 

As for other invitations, cordial as they were 
she felt they must be declined at least until 
after vacation. Examinations began. Miss 
Parker had worked steadily and well, and 
there would be quite an influx in the high 
school. 

“ We shall have our senior class,” Helen an- 
nounced triumphantly, “ unless you exercise a 
severe censorship. Seven * boys, and not a 
girl! And I am puzzled about the juniors. 
There are eight girls who ought to enter, but 



truly they are not well prepared. Here is 
the list.” 

Mr. Underwood glanced it over and drew 
his brow into a little frown. 

“ There are three mothers here that we shall 
make bitter enemies if we do not advance their 
daughters. Why not give them two years in 
the junior? In another year or two we can 
show our independence and keep to the true 
standard. What do you propose to do with 
your poet ? ” 

Helen laughed and flushed. “ She is not 
my discovery and I despair of cultivating the 
true poetic art. A great many girls write 
verses in their school days,  green and salad 
days ’ some one calls them, then they marry, 
and the care of this weary world extinguishes 
the divine afflatus. I wish it might be so with 
Miss Winters.” 

“ That’s capital. She is fairly pretty; bright, 
when she is not unduly sentimental. I’m sorry 
the Gazette took her up. Still I suppose the 
town can endure one half-fledged genius.” 

“ She is so sure of her poetic gift that I have 
not felt equal to combating it, though I have 


 

set her at some rather hard reading. There 
are poetic natures. Allen Millard has one, 
and several of the smaller girls have almost di- 
vine appreciation. But this is a flow of beauti- 
ful words and a facility of rhyming, with a 
great paucity of ideas. We do get tired of 
starry skies and stars dancing in their orbit, 
and bluest heaven and all that.” 

“Well, we will hope for better things next 
year. It has been hard, uphill work, but I 
think the worst is over, Miss Grant.” 

He had been watching the doubt in her face. 
Now their eyes met. She flushed, tried to 
speak, but there was merely a quiver of the lip. 

“ Oh, surely, surely, you will come back ! 
The appointment has been settled upon. We 
cannot let you go.” 

“ I have not decided,” in a wavering tone. 
He sprang up and began to pace back and 
forth in a sort of surprised agitation. 

“ Miss Grant, the work, your work is only 
half done. I wonder that you have accom- 
plished so much. I was a little doubtful when 
you first came, but I have no doubt now. Let 
me tell you what Dinsmore’s father said a few 





nights ago. ‘ That school-teacher of yours is 
A i. I didn't know my boy could be improved 
so much. Why, he’s grown studious and polite 
and has developed a thoughtfulness that is un- 
usual in a growing boy. And he has given up 
cigarettes. He’s neater and cleaner and quite 
refined.’ ” 

“ But a good deal of that is due to Dick’s 
accident. They have been very kind and 
friendly with him, and I think even he looks at 
things differently. Isn’t there any improve- 
ment ? ” 

Mr. Underwood shook his head slowly. 
“ They are afraid it will have to come to an 
operation. It’s mighty hard for the poor lad. 
There is a difference in the boys, I can see that 
myself. I have tried to persuade several of 
them to give up the pernicious habit of smok- 
ing while they are so young. I gave up smok- 
ing in the street for the sake of the example, 
but Mrs. Underwood always inveighed against 
it as ungentlemanly. But to come back to our 
subject. You have nothing else in view?” 

She answered with a negative motion of the 
head. Somehow she could not trust her voice. 


 

“ Then stay, stay. I want you. I should 
not know how to get on without you. We 
have come to be real friends, I think; at least 
it is a most enjoyable and satisfactory friend- 
ship to me. I trust to your judgment as I 
would to a much older person. Why, I should 
feel like throwing up the thing. Mr. Hildreth 
will never consent. Oh, promise me you will 
not think of going! You must stay and enjoy 
the fruit of your labors. And next year we 
will have a real commencement.” 

“ I have hardly had time to consider it. The 
days have been so full.” 

“ Then do not think. I shall set Mr. Hil- 
dreth at persuading you. Oh, he will not let 
you go ! His very heart is set upon the success 
of the school. And really we cannot afford to 
have it anything else. We must not make 
ourselves the butt of the county.” 

“ I should want no other persuasion save 
yours, and the proffer of your friendship. 
Thank you for your good opinion and all your 
kindness.” 

“ You deserve it, and more. Did you have a 
bad ten minutes with the girls on account of 




the refusal? Mrs. Winters went at me on the 
same subject, but I convinced her we had no 
grounds to go upon. It will take all our ener- 
gies for the closing exercises.” 

Harry White consented to do his best, and 
under Mr. Underwood’s supervision composed 
a really creditable address, but he insisted that 
he should learn it by heart and deliver it as a 
speech. 

The girls forgot their tiff and took quite an 
interest in the exercises. The ground floor 
had been arranged for an auditorium or lecture 
room when necessary, and was quite com- 
modious. The children had trimmed it with 
branches of greenery and bloom, and long be- 
fore the hour the audience began to assemble. 
Mr. Underwood was really proud of the num- 
bers. The platform was draped with flags and 
some tall jars of flowers and ferns were dis- 
posed around. 

There was a fine chorus from the children. 
An interesting address from Mr. Hildreth on 
the prosperity that had attended the venture, 
and on the general improvement of the town. 

There followed the usual speaking and sing- 


 

ing, and Harry White’s speech was received 
with rapturous applause, as in an earnest, manly 
way he recapitulated the efforts that had been 
made for the boys’ welfare and their own re- 
solves to make the best of the opportunities be- 
fore them, promising that friends and parents 
would find a great improvement another year. 

He was followed by Mr. Underwood, who 
made a brief, felicitous address and delivered 
the diplomas, tied with white ribbons for the 
girls and red for the boys, quite a number of 
whom would enter the high school. After that 
came the parting song, and then the personal 
congratulations. It seemed to Helen as if she 
would never get through. 

“I just think I might have had a chance with 
my poem,” Georgia Winters said to her 
mother. “ It would have been quite as good 
as that speech of Harry White’s.” 

‘“Your turn will come presently,” consoled 
Mrs. Winters, though she felt rather annoyed. 

Some one took her arm gently and Helen 
turned to face Mr. Eastman. 

“ Dick would make me come, and the whole 
thing has been splendid. Mr. Hildreth must 




be a proud man to-night,” he began in a tone 
of hearty admiration. “ But you look very 
tired. Miss Grant, I want to ask a great favor. 
You know perhaps that Dick is to go to a 
hospital,” and the father’s voice had a tremble 
in it. “ These doctors cannot do anything 
more for him and this is our last hope. He 
wants to see you very much. Oh, will you not 
come to-morrow afternoon? My poor boy — to 
think he has missed all this. Here is a note 

he sent, but he wanted you to promise me ” 

and his voice broke. 

“ I promise you,” she replied without a mo- 
ments hesitation. 

“ Oh, thank you ! He was so afraid ” 

“ Tell him I, too, wish he had been 
here. Yes, I will come,” she replied, much 
moved. 

The throngs went hither and thither. It had 
really been a gala night. Helen’s head was in 
a whirl with congratulations and invitations. 
She was glad to get home and went straight to 
her room. 

Richard Eastman’s note was brief and writ- 
ten with a very shaky hand. 


 

“ Dear Miss Grant : I do not deserve that 
you should take pity on me, but I am going 
away, as perhaps father will tell you, and I 
want to see you very, very much. Dick.'' 

“ Poor fellow ! ” she sighed. And if she had 
not fully and freely forgiven him before she 
did then. 

She slept late the next morning, but she did 
not sleep away all the fatigue. There had been 
a very severe strain all the week. And when 
she came downstairs, Lilian had set out all the 
gifts of the children. Booklets, scrap-bags, 
and even some pretty doilies they had worked 
themselves; vases, and a chain of beads. 

“ Why, it looks like Christmas ! ” she ex- 
claimed gayly. “ I didn’t think so many 
cared.” 

“ Oh, Miss Grant, they were all praising 
you so heartily ! And I don’t wonder,” Lilian 
ended. 

There were letters to write and a host of 
things to do, but she went out on the cool porch 
and lay in the hammock. She kept thinking 
of Dick; she dreaded and yet she wished to see 




him. The doctors had admitted that it was a 
very grave matter. 

A step came up the walk and a tall figure 
shadowed her. But before she could stir Mr. 
Hildreth held up his hand commandingly. 

“ I am glad to see you taking it easy after 
all the stress, but not storm,” smiling. “ Every- 
thing went off in a most admirable fashion. I 
know there never was so much attention paid 
to closing exercises before. How finely that 
lad, Harry White, acquitted himself ! He has 
the making of an orator in him. Next year we 
will have a high school commencement. I 
heard some of the girls were deeply disap- 
pointed.” 

“ But they understood how it was. I think 
the boys have improved wonderfully. They 
ought to be very grateful to you.” 

“ They or their fathers ? ” with a humorous 
intonation, seating himself in a veranda chair. 

“ Some of the fathers are, I know,” Helen 
returned. 

“ I have been very remiss about another 
matter, and have come to make amends before 
you see it in this evening’s paper. At the 




school meeting on Tuesday evening you were 
unanimously appointed for the ensuing year. 
It’s a mere matter of form.” 

“ But suppose I had decided not to return ? ” 
with fascinating archness. 

