an impression of quantity. Then he sees that this quantity is really
wealth; that the dim confusion of faces is a magnificent composition,
and that some of the details of this composition are extremely
beautiful. It is impossible however in a retrospect of Venice to specify
one’s happiest hours, though as one looks backward certain ineffaceable
moments start here and there into vividness. How is it possible to
forget one’s visits to the sacristy of the Frari, however frequent
they may have been, and the great work of John Bellini which forms the
treasure of that apartment?
VII
Nothing in Venice is more perfect than this, and we know of no work of
art more complete. The picture is in three compartments; the Virgin sits
in the central division with her child; two venerable saints, standing
close together, occupy each of the others. It is impossible to imagine
anything more finished or more ripe. It is one of those things that sum
up the genius of a painter, the experience of a life, the teaching of
a school. It seems painted with molten gems, which have only been
clarified by time, and is as solemn as it is gorgeous and as simple as
it is deep. Giovanni Bellini is more or less everywhere in Venice, and,
wherever he is, almost certain to be first--first, I mean, in his own
line: paints little else than the Madonna and the saints; he has not
Carpaccio’s care for human life at large, nor the Tintoret’s nor the
of the Veronese. Some of his greater pictures, however, where several
figures are clustered together, have a richness of sanctity that is
almost profane. There is one of them on the dark side of the room at the
Academy that contains Titian’s “Assumption,” which if we could only see
it--its position is an inconceivable scandal--would evidently be one of
the mightiest of so-called sacred pictures. So too is the Madonna of San
Zaccaria, hung in a cold, dim, dreary place, ever so much too high, but
so mild and serene, and so grandly disposed and accompanied, that the
proper attitude for even the most critical amateur, as he looks at it,
strikes one as the bended knee. There is another noble John Bellini,
one of the very few in which there is no Virgin, at San Giovanni
Crisostomo--a St. Jerome, in a red dress, sitting aloft upon the rocks
and with a landscape of extraordinary purity behind him. The absence of
the peculiarly erect Madonna makes it an interesting surprise among the
works of the painter and gives it a somewhat less strenuous air. But it
has brilliant beauty and the St. Jerome is a delightful old personage.
The same church contains another great picture for which the haunter
of these places must find a shrine apart in his memory; one of the most
interesting things he will have seen, if not the most brilliant. Nothing
appeals more to him than three figures of Venetian ladies which occupy
the foreground of a smallish canvas of Sebastian del Piombo, placed
above the high altar of San Giovanni Crisostomo. Sebastian was a
Venetian by birth, but few of his productions are to be seen in his
native place; few indeed are to be seen anywhere. The picture represents
the patron-saint of the church, accompanied by other saints and by the
worldly votaries I have mentioned. These ladies stand together on the
left, holding in their hands little white caskets; two of them are in
profile, but the foremost turns her face to the spectator. This face and
figure are almost unique among the beautiful things of Venice, and they
leave the susceptible observer with the impression of having made,
or rather having missed, a strange, a dangerous, but a most valuable,
acquaintance. The lady, who is superbly handsome, is the typical
Venetian of the sixteenth century, and she remains for the mind the
perfect flower of that society. Never was there a greater air of
breeding, a deeper expression of tranquil superiority. She walks a
goddess--as if she trod without sinking the waves of the Adriatic. It
is impossible to conceive a more perfect expression of the aristocratic
spirit either in its pride or in its benignity. This magnificent
creature is so strong and secure that she is gentle, and so quiet that
in comparison all minor assumptions of calmness suggest only a vulgar
alarm. But for all this there are depths of possible disorder in her
light-coloured eye.
I had meant however to say nothing about her, for it’s not right to
speak of Sebastian when one hasn’t found room for Carpaccio. These
visions come to one, and one can neither hold them nor brush them aside.
Memories of Carpaccio, the magnificent, the delightful--it’s not for
want of such visitations, but only for want of space, that I haven’t
said of him what I would. There is little enough need of it for
Carpaccio’s sake, his fame being brighter to-day--thanks to the generous
lamp Mr. Ruskin has held up to it--than it has ever been. Yet there is
something ridiculous in talking of Venice without making him almost the
refrain. He and the Tintoret are the two great realists, and it is hard
to say which is the more human, the more various. The Tintoret had
the mightier temperament, but Carpaccio, who had the advantage of more
newness and more responsibility, sailed nearer to perfection. Here and
there he quite touches it, as in the enchanting picture, at the Academy,
of St. Ursula asleep in her little white bed, in her high clean room,
where the angel visits her at dawn; or in the noble St. Jerome in his
study at S. Giorgio Schiavoni. This latter work is a pearl of sentiment,
and I may add without being fantastic a ruby of colour. It unites the
most masterly finish with a kind of universal largeness of feeling, and
he who has it well in his memory will never hear the name of Carpaccio
without a throb of almost personal affection. Such indeed is the feeling
that descends upon you in that wonderful little chapel of St. George
of the Slaves, where this most personal and sociable of artists has
expressed all the sweetness of his imagination. The place is small
and incommodious, the pictures are out of sight and ill-lighted, the
custodian is rapacious, the visitors are mutually intolerable, but
the shabby little chapel is a palace of art. Mr. Ruskin has written a
pamphlet about it which is a real aid to enjoyment, though I can’t but
think the generous artist, with his keen senses and his just feeling,
would have suffered to hear his eulogist declare that one of his
other productions--in the Museo Civico of Palazzo Correr, a delightful
portrait of two Venetian ladies with pet animals--is the “finest picture
in the world.” It has no need of that to be thought admirable; and what
more can a painter desire?
VIII
May in Venice is better than April, but June is best of all. Then the
days are hot, but not too hot, and the nights are more beautiful than
the days. Then Venice is rosier than ever in the morning and more golden
than ever as the day descends. She seems to expand and evaporate, to
multiply all her reflections and iridescences. Then the life of her
people and the strangeness of her constitution become a perpetual
comedy, or at least a perpetual drama. Then the gondola is your sole
habitation, and you spend days between sea and sky. You go to the Lido,
though the Lido has been spoiled. When I first saw it, in 1869, it was
a very natural place, and there was but a rough lane across the little
island from the landing-place to the beach. There was a bathing-place in
those days, and a restaurant, which was very bad, but where in the warm
evenings your dinner didn’t much matter as you sat letting it cool on
the wooden terrace that stretched out into the sea. To-day the Lido is
a part of united Italy and has been made the victim of villainous
improvements. A little cockney village has sprung up on its rural bosom
and a third-rate boulevard leads from Santa Elisabetta to the Adriatic.
There are bitumen walks and gas-lamps, lodging-houses, shops and a
teatro diurno. The bathing-establishment is bigger than before,
and the restaurant as well; but it is a compensation perhaps that
the cuisine is no better. Such as it is, however, you won’t scorn
occasionally to partake of it on the breezy platform under which bathers
dart and splash, and which looks out to where the fishing-boats, with
sails of orange and crimson, wander along the darkening horizon. The
beach at the Lido is still lonely and beautiful, and you can easily walk
away from the cockney village. The return to Venice in the sunset is
classical and indispensable, and those who at that glowing hour have
floated toward the towers that rise out of the lagoon will not easily
part with the impression. But you indulge in larger excursions--you go
to Burano and Torcello, to Malamocco and Chioggia. Torcello, like the
Lido, has been improved; the deeply interesting little cathedral of the
eighth century, which stood there on the edge of the sea, as touching
in its ruin, with its grassy threshold and its primitive mosaics, as the
bleached bones of a human skeleton washed ashore by the tide, has now
been restored and made cheerful, and the charm of the place, its strange
and suggestive desolation, has well-nigh departed.
It will still serve you as a pretext, however, for a day on the lagoon,
especially as you will disembark at Burano and admire the wonderful
fisher-folk, whose good looks--and bad manners, I am sorry to say--can
scarcely be exaggerated. Burano is celebrated for the beauty of its
women and the rapacity of its children, and it is a fact that though
some of the ladies are rather bold about it every one of them shows
you a handsome face. The children assail you for coppers, and in their
desire to be satisfied pursue your gondola into the sea. Chioggia is
a larger Burano, and you carry away from either place a half-sad,
half-cynical, but altogether pictorial impression; the impression of
bright-coloured hovels, of bathing in stagnant canals, of young girls
with faces of a delicate shape and a susceptible expression, with
splendid heads of hair and complexions smeared with powder, faded yellow
shawls that hang like old Greek draperies, and little wooden shoes
that click as they go up and down the steps of the convex bridges; of
brown-cheeked matrons with lustrous tresses and high tempers, massive
throats encased with gold beads, and eyes that meet your own with a
certain traditional defiance. The men throughout the islands of
Venice are almost as handsome as the women; I have never seen so many
good-looking rascals. At Burano and Chioggia they sit mending their
nets, or lounge at the street corners, where conversation is always
high-pitched, or clamour to you to take a boat; and everywhere they
decorate the scene with their splendid colour--cheeks and throats as
richly brown as the sails of their fishing-smacks--their sea-faded
tatters which are always a “costume,” their soft Venetian jargon, and
the gallantry with which they wear their hats, an article that nowhere
sits so well as on a mass of dense Venetian curls. If you are happy you
will find yourself, after a June day in Venice (about ten o’clock), on
a balcony that overhangs the Grand Canal, with your elbows on the broad
ledge, a cigarette in your teeth and a little good company beside you.
The gondolas pass beneath, the watery surface gleams here and there from
their lamps, some of which are coloured lanterns that move mysteriously
in the darkness. There are some evenings in June when there are too many
gondolas, too many lanterns, too many serenades in front of the hotels.
The serenading in particular is overdone; but on such a balcony as I
speak of you needn’t suffer from it, for in the apartment behind
you--an accessible refuge--there is more good company, there are more
cigarettes. If you are wise you will step back there presently.
1882.
THE GRAND CANAL
The honour of representing the plan and the place at their best might
perhaps appear, in the City of St. Mark, properly to belong to the
splendid square which bears the patron’s name and which is the centre
of Venetian life so far (this is pretty well all the way indeed) as
Venetian life is a matter of strolling and chaffering, of gossiping and
gaping, of circulating without a purpose, and of staring--too often with
a foolish one--through the shop-windows of dealers whose hospitality
makes their doorsteps dramatic, at the very vulgarest rubbish in all the
modern market. If the Grand Canal, however, is not quite technically a
“street,” the perverted Piazza is perhaps even less normal; and I hasten
to add that I am glad not to find myself studying my subject under the
international arcades, or yet (I will go the length of saying) in the
solemn presence of the church. For indeed in that case I foresee I
should become still more confoundingly conscious of the stumbling-block
that inevitably, even with his first few words, crops up in the path
of the lover of Venice who rashly addresses himself to expression.
“Venetian life” is a mere literary convention, though it be an
indispensable figure. The words have played an effective part in the
literature of sensibility; they constituted thirty years ago the title
of Mr. Howells’s delightful volume of impressions; but in using
them to-day one owes some frank amends to one’s own lucidity. Let me
carefully premise therefore that so often as they shall again drop
from my pen, so often shall I beg to be regarded as systematically
superficial.
Venetian life, in the large old sense, has long since come to an end,
and the essential present character of the most melancholy of cities
resides simply in its being the most beautiful of tombs. Nowhere else
has the past been laid to rest with such tenderness, such a sadness of
resignation and remembrance. Nowhere else is the present so alien, so
discontinuous, so like a crowd in a cemetery without garlands for
the graves. It has no flowers in its hands, but, as a compensation
perhaps--and the thing is doubtless more to the point--it has money
and little red books. The everlasting shuffle of these irresponsible
visitors in the Piazza is contemporary Venetian life. Everything else is
only a reverberation of that. The vast mausoleum has a turnstile at the
door, and a functionary in a shabby uniform lets you in, as per tariff,
to see how dead it is. From this constatation, this cold curiosity,
proceed all the industry, the prosperity, the vitality of the place. The
shopkeepers and gondoliers, the beggars and the models, depend upon
it for a living; they are the custodians and the ushers of the great
museum--they are even themselves to a certain extent the objects of
exhibition. It is in the wide vestibule of the square that the polygot
pilgrims gather most densely; Piazza San Marco is the lobby of the opera
in the intervals of the performance. The present fortune of Venice, the
lamentable difference, is most easily measured there, and that is why,
in the effort to resist our pessimism, we must turn away both from the
purchasers and from the vendors of ricordi. The ricordi that we
prefer are gathered best where the gondola glides--best of all on the
noble waterway that begins in its glory at the Salute and ends in
its abasement at the railway station. It is, however, the cockneyfied
Piazzetta (forgive me, shade of St. Theodore--has not a brand new café
begun to glare there, electrically, this very year?) that introduces us
most directly to the great picture by which the Grand Canal works its
first spell, and to which a thousand artists, not always with a talent
apiece, have paid their tribute. We pass into the Piazzetta to look down
the great throat, as it were, of Venice, and the vision must console us
for turning our back on St. Mark’s.
We have been treated to it again and again, of course, even if we have
never stirred from home; but that is only a reason the more for catching
at any freshness that may be left in the world of photography. It is in
Venice above all that we hear the small buzz of this vulgarising voice
of the familiar; yet perhaps it is in Venice too that the picturesque
fact has best mastered the pious secret of how to wait for us. Even
the classic Salute waits like some great lady on the threshold of her
saloon. She is more ample and serene, more seated at her door, than all
the copyists have told us, with her domes and scrolls, her scolloped
buttresses and statues forming a pompous crown, and her wide steps
disposed on the ground like the train of a robe. This fine air of the
woman of the world is carried out by the well-bred assurance with which
she looks in the direction of her old-fashioned Byzantine neighbour;
and the juxtaposition of two churches so distinguished and so different,
each splendid in its sort, is a sufficient mark of the scale and range
of Venice. However, we ourselves are looking away from St. Mark’s--we
must blind our eyes to that dazzle; without it indeed there are
brightnesses and fascinations enough. We see them in abundance even
while we look away from the shady steps of the Salute. These steps are
cool in the morning, yet I don’t know that I can justify my excessive
fondness for them any better than I can explain a hundred of the other
vague infatuations with which Venice sophisticates the spirit. Under
such an influence fortunately one need n’t explain--it keeps account
of nothing but perceptions and affections. It is from the Salute steps
perhaps, of a summer morning, that this view of the open mouth of
the city is most brilliantly amusing. The whole thing composes as if
composition were the chief end of human institutions. The charming
architectural promontory of the Dogana stretches out the most graceful
of arms, balancing in its hand the gilded globe on which revolves the
delightful satirical figure of a little weathercock of a woman. This
Fortune, this Navigation, or whatever she is called--she surely needs no
name--catches the wind in the bit of drapery of which she has divested
her rotary bronze loveliness. On the other side of the Canal twinkles
and glitters the long row of the happy palaces which are mainly
expensive hotels. There is a little of everything everywhere, in
the bright Venetian air, but to these houses belongs especially the
appearance of sitting, across the water, at the receipt of custom,
of watching in their hypocritical loveliness for the stranger and the
victim. I call them happy, because even their sordid uses and their
vulgar signs melt somehow, with their vague sea-stained pinks and drabs,
into that strange gaiety of light and colour which is made up of the
reflection of superannuated things. The atmosphere plays over them like
a laugh, they are of the essence of the sad old joke. They are almost
as charming from other places as they are from their own balconies,
and share fully in that universal privilege of Venetian objects which
consists of being both the picture and the point of view.
This double character, which is particularly strong in the Grand Canal,
adds a difficulty to any control of one’s notes. The Grand Canal may
be practically, as in impression, the cushioned balcony of a high and
well-loved palace--the memory of irresistible evenings, of the
sociable elbow, of endless lingering and looking; or it may evoke the
restlessness of a fresh curiosity, of methodical inquiry, in a gondola
piled with references. There are no references, I ought to mention, in
the present remarks, which sacrifice to accident, not to completeness.
A rhapsody of Venice is always in order, but I think the catalogues
are finished. I should not attempt to write here the names of all the
palaces, even if the number of those I find myself able to remember in
the immense array were less insignificant. There are many I delight in
that I don’t know, or at least don’t keep, apart. Then there are the bad
reasons for preference that are better than the good, and all the sweet
bribery of association and recollection. These things, as one stands on
the Salute steps, are so many delicate fingers to pick straight out
of the row a dear little featureless house which, with its pale green
shutters, looks straight across at the great door and through the
very keyhole, as it were, of the church, and which I needn’t call by
a name--a pleasant American name--that every one in Venice, these many
years, has had on grateful lips. It is the very friendliest house in all
the wide world, and it has, as it deserves to have, the most beautiful
position. It is a real porto di mare, as the gondoliers say--a port
within a port; it sees everything that comes and goes, and takes it all
in with practised eyes. Not a tint or a hint of the immense iridescence
is lost upon it, and there are days of exquisite colour on which it may
fancy itself the heart of the wonderful prism. We wave to it from the
Salute steps, which we must decidedly leave if we wish to get on, a
grateful hand across the water, and turn into the big white church of
Longhena--an empty shaft beneath a perfunctory dome--where an American
family and a German party, huddled in a corner upon a pair of benches,
are gazing, with a conscientiousness worthy of a better cause, at
nothing in particular.
For there is nothing particular in this cold and conventional temple to
gaze at save the great Tintoretto of the sacristy, to which we quickly
pay our respects, and which we are glad to have for ten minutes to
ourselves. The picture, though full of beauty, is not the finest of the
master’s; but it serves again as well as another to transport--there
is no other word--those of his lovers for whom, in far-away days when
Venice was an early rapture, this strange and mystifying painter was
almost the supreme revelation. The plastic arts may have less to say
to us than in the hungry years of youth, and the celebrated picture in
general be more of a blank; but more than the others any fine Tintoret
still carries us back, calling up not only the rich particular vision
but the freshness of the old wonder. Many things come and go, but this
great artist remains for us in Venice a part of the company of the mind.
The others are there in their obvious glory, but he is the only one for
whom the imagination, in our expressive modern phrase, sits up. “The
Marriage in Cana,” at the Salute, has all his characteristic and
fascinating unexpectedness--the sacrifice of the figure of our Lord,
who is reduced to the mere final point of a clever perspective, and the
free, joyous presentation of all the other elements of the feast.
Why, in spite of this queer one-sidedness, does the picture give us no
impression of a lack of what the critics call reverence? For no other
reason that I can think of than because it happens to be the work of its
author, in whose very mistakes there is a singular wisdom. Mr. Ruskin
has spoken with sufficient eloquence of the serious loveliness of the
row of heads of the women on the right, who talk to each other as they
sit at the foreshortened banquet. There could be no better example
of the roving independence of the painter’s vision, a real spirit of
adventure for which his subject was always a cluster of accidents; not
an obvious order, but a sort of peopled and agitated chapter of life,
in which the figures are submissive pictorial notes. These notes are all
there in their beauty and heterogeneity, and if the abundance is of a
kind to make the principle of selection seem in comparison timid,
yet the sense of “composition” in the spectator--if it happen to
exist--reaches out to the painter in peculiar sympathy. Dull must be the
spirit of the worker tormented in any field of art with that particular
question who is not moved to recognise in the eternal problem the high
fellowship of Tintoretto.
If the long reach from this point to the deplorable iron bridge which
discharges the pedestrian at the Academy--or, more comprehensively, to
the painted and gilded Gothic of the noble Palazzo Foscari--is too much
of a curve to be seen at any one point as a whole, it represents the
better the arched neck, as it were, of the undulating serpent of which
the Canalazzo has the likeness. We pass a dozen historic houses, we note
in our passage a hundred component “bits,” with the baffled sketcher’s
sense, and with what would doubtless be, save for our intensely Venetian
fatalism, the baffled sketcher’s temper. It is the early palaces, of
course, and also, to be fair, some of the late, if we could take them
one by one, that give the Canal the best of its grand air. The fairest
are often cheek-by-jowl with the foulest, and there are few, alas, so
fair as to have been completely protected by their beauty. The ages and
the generations have worked their will on them, and the wind and the
weather have had much to say; but disfigured and dishonoured as they
are, with the bruises of their marbles and the patience of their ruin,
there is nothing like them in the world, and the long succession of
their faded, conscious faces makes of the quiet waterway they overhang
a promenade historique of which the lesson, however often we read it,
gives, in the depth of its interest, an incomparable dignity to Venice.
We read it in the Romanesque arches, crooked to-day in their very
curves, of the early middle-age, in the exquisite individual Gothic of
the splendid time, and in the cornices and columns of a decadence almost
as proud. These things at present are almost equally touching in their
good faith; they have each in their degree so effectually parted with
their pride. They have lived on as they could and lasted as they might,
and we hold them to no account of their infirmities, for even those of
them whose blank eyes to-day meet criticism with most submission are far
less vulgar than the uses we have mainly managed to put them to. We have
botched them and patched them and covered them with sordid signs; we
have restored and improved them with a merciless taste, and the best of
them we have made over to the pedlars. Some of the most striking objects
in the finest vistas at present are the huge advertisements of the
curiosity-shops.
The antiquity-mongers in Venice have all the courage of their opinion,
and it is easy to see how well they know they can confound you with an
unanswerable question. What is the whole place but a curiosity-shop, and
what are you here for yourself but to pick up odds and ends? “We pick
them up for you,” say these honest Jews, whose prices are marked
in dollars, “and who shall blame us if, the flowers being pretty well
plucked, we add an artificial rose or two to the composition of the
bouquet?” They take care, in a word, that there be plenty of relics, and
their establishments are huge and active. They administer the antidote
to pedantry, and you can complain of them only if you never cross their
thresholds. If you take this step you are lost, for you have parted with
the correctness of your attitude. Venice becomes frankly from such a
moment the big depressing dazzling joke in which after all our sense
of her contradictions sinks to rest--the grimace of an over-strained
philosophy. It’s rather a comfort, for the curiosity-shops are amusing.
You have bad moments indeed as you stand in their halls of humbug and,
in the intervals of haggling, hear through the high windows the soft
splash of the sea on the old water-steps, for you think with anger of
the noble homes that are laid waste in such scenes, of the delicate
lives that must have been, that might still be, led there. You
reconstruct the admirable house according to your own needs; leaning on
a back balcony, you drop your eyes into one of the little green gardens
with which, for the most part, such establishments are exasperatingly
blessed, and end by feeling it a shame that you yourself are not in
possession. (I take for granted, of course, that as you go and come you
are, in imagination, perpetually lodging yourself and setting up your
gods; for if this innocent pastime, this borrowing of the mind, be not
your favourite sport there is a flaw in the appeal that Venice makes
to you.) There may be happy cases in which your envy is tempered, or
perhaps I should rather say intensified, by real participation. If you
have had the good fortune to enjoy the hospitality of an old Venetian
home and to lead your life a little in the painted chambers that still
echo with one of the historic names, you have entered by the shortest
step into the inner spirit of the place. If it did n’t savour of
treachery to private kindness I should like to speak frankly of one of
these delightful, even though alienated, structures, to refer to it as
a splendid example of the old palatial type. But I can only do so in
passing, with a hundred precautions, and, lifting the curtain at the
edge, drop a commemorative word on the success with which, in this
particularly happy instance, the cosmopolite habit, the modern sympathy,
the intelligent, flexible attitude, the latest fruit of time, adjust
themselves to the great gilded, relinquished shell and try to fill it
out. A Venetian palace that has not too grossly suffered and that is not
overwhelming by its mass makes almost any life graceful that may be
led in it. With cultivated and generous contemporary ways it reveals a
pre-established harmony. As you live in it day after day its beauty and
its interest sink more deeply into your spirit; it has its moods and
its hours and its mystic voices and its shifting expressions. If in
the absence of its masters you have happened to have it to yourself
for twenty-four hours you will never forget the charm of its haunted
stillness, late on the summer afternoon for instance, when the call of
playing children comes in behind from the campo, nor the way the old
ghosts seemed to pass on tip-toe on the marble floors. It gives you
practically the essence of the matter that we are considering, for
beneath the high balconies Venice comes and goes, and the particular
stretch you command contains all the characteristics. Everything has its
turn, from the heavy barges of merchandise, pushed by long poles and the
patient shoulder, to the floating pavilions of the great serenades, and
you may study at your leisure the admirable Venetian arts of managing a
boat and organising a spectacle. Of the beautiful free stroke with which
the gondola, especially when there are two oars, is impelled, you never,
in the Venetian scene, grow weary; it is always in the picture, and the
large profiled action that lets the standing rowers throw themselves
forward to a constant recovery has the double value of being, at the
fag-end of greatness, the only energetic note. The people from the
hotels are always afloat, and, at the hotel pace, the solitary gondolier
(like the solitary horseman of the old-fashioned novel) is, I confess,
a somewhat melancholy figure. Perched on his poop without a mate, he
re-enacts perpetually, in high relief, with his toes turned out, the
comedy of his odd and charming movement. He always has a little the
look of an absent-minded nursery-maid pushing her small charges in a
perambulator.
But why should I risk too free a comparison, where this picturesque and
amiable class are concerned? I delight in their sun-burnt complexions
and their childish dialect; I know them only by their merits, and I am
grossly prejudiced in their favour. They are interesting and touching,
and alike in their virtues and their defects human nature is simplified
as with a big effective brush. Affecting above all is their dependence
on the stranger, the whimsical stranger who swims out of their ken, yet
whom Providence sometimes restores. The best of them at any rate are
in their line great artists. On the swarming feast-days, on the strange
feast-night of the Redentore, their steering is a miracle of ease. The
master-hands, the celebrities and winners of prizes--you may see them
on the private gondolas in spotless white, with brilliant sashes and
ribbons, and often with very handsome persons--take the right of way
with a pardonable insolence. They penetrate the crush of boats with
an authority of their own. The crush of boats, the universal sociable
bumping and squeezing, is great when, on the summer nights, the ladies
shriek with alarm, the city pays the fiddlers, and the illuminated
barges, scattering music and song, lead a long train down the Canal. The
barges used to be rowed in rhythmic strokes, but now they are towed by
the steamer. The coloured lamps, the vocalists before the hotels, are
not to my sense the greatest seduction of Venice; but it would be
an uncandid sketch of the Canalazzo that shouldn’t touch them with
indulgence. Taking one nuisance with another, they are probably the
prettiest in the world, and if they have in general more magic for the
new arrival than for the old Venice-lover, they in any case, at their
best, keep up the immemorial tradition. The Venetians have had from the
beginning of time the pride of their processions and spectacles, and
it’s a wonder how with empty pockets they still make a clever show. The
Carnival is dead, but these are the scraps of its inheritance. Vauxhall
on the water is of course more Vauxhall than ever, with the good fortune
of home-made music and of a mirror that reduplicates and multiplies.
The feast of the Redeemer--the great popular feast of the year--is a
wonderful Venetian Vauxhall. All Venice on this occasion takes to the
boats for the night and loads them with lamps and provisions. Wedged
together in a mass it sups and sings; every boat is a floating arbour,
a private café-concert. Of all Christian commemorations it is the most
ingenuously and harmlessly pagan. Toward morning the passengers repair
to the Lido, where, as the sun rises, they plunge, still sociably, into
the sea. The night of the Redentore has been described, but it would be
interesting to have an account, from the domestic point of view, of its
usual morrow. It is mainly an affair of the Giudecca, however, which is
bridged over from the Zattere to the great church. The pontoons are laid
together during the day--it is all done with extraordinary celerity and
art--and the bridge is prolonged across the Canalazzo (to Santa Maria
Zobenigo), which is my only warrant for glancing at the occasion. We
glance at it from our palace windows; lengthening our necks a little, as
we look up toward the Salute, we see all Venice, on the July afternoon,
so serried as to move slowly, pour across the temporary footway. It is
a flock of very good children, and the bridged Canal is their toy. All
Venice on such occasions is gentle and friendly; not even all Venice
pushes anyone into the water.
But from the same high windows we catch without any stretching of the
neck a still more indispensable note in the picture, a famous pretender
eating the bread of bitterness. This repast is served in the open air,
on a neat little terrace, by attendants in livery, and there is no
indiscretion in our seeing that the pretender dines. Ever since the
table d’hôte in “Candide” Venice has been the refuge of monarchs in want
of thrones--she would n’t know herself without her rois en exil. The
exile is agreeable and soothing, the gondola lets them down gently. Its
movement is an anodyne, its silence a philtre, and little by little it
rocks all ambitions to sleep. The proscript has plenty of leisure to
write his proclamations and even his memoirs, and I believe he has
organs in which they are published; but the only noise he makes in the
world is the harmless splash of his oars. He comes and goes along the
Canalazzo, and he might be much worse employed. He is but one of the
interesting objects it presents, however, and I am by no means sure
that he is the most striking. He has a rival, if not in the iron
bridge, which, alas, is within our range, at least--to take an immediate
example--in the Montecuculi Palace. Far-descended and weary, but
beautiful in its crooked old age, with its lovely proportions, its
delicate round arches, its carvings and its disks of marble, is the
haunted Montecuculi. Those who have a kindness for Venetian gossip like
to remember that it was once for a few months the property of Robert
Browning, who, however, never lived in it, and who died in the splendid
Rezzonico, the residence of his son and a wonderful cosmopolite
“document,” which, as it presents itself, in an admirable position, but
a short way farther down the Canal, we can almost see, in spite of the
curve, from the window at which we stand. This great seventeenth century
pile, throwing itself upon the water with a peculiar florid assurance,
a certain upward toss of its cornice which gives it the air of a rearing
sea-horse, decorates immensely--and within, as well as without--the wide
angle that it commands.
There is a more formal greatness in the high square Gothic Foscari,
just below it, one of the noblest creations of the fifteenth century,
a masterpiece of symmetry and majesty. Dedicated to-day to official
uses--it is the property of the State--it looks conscious of the
consideration it enjoys, and is one of the few great houses within our
range whose old age strikes us as robust and painless. It is visibly
“kept up”; perhaps it is kept up too much; perhaps I am wrong in
thinking so well of it. These doubts and fears course rapidly through my
mind--I am easily their victim when it is a question of architecture--as
they are apt to do to-day, in Italy, almost anywhere, in the presence
of the beautiful, of the desecrated or the neglected. We feel at such
moments as if the eye of Mr. Ruskin were upon us; we grow nervous and
lose our confidence. This makes me inevitably, in talking of Venice,
seek a pusillanimous safety in the trivial and the obvious. I am on
firm ground in rejoicing in the little garden directly opposite our
windows--it is another proof that they really show us everything--and in
feeling that the gardens of Venice would deserve a page to themselves.
They are infinitely more numerous than the arriving stranger can
suppose; they nestle with a charm all their own in the complications of
most back-views. Some of them are exquisite, many are large, and even
the scrappiest have an artful understanding, in the interest of colour,
with the waterways that edge their foundations. On the small canals,
in the hunt for amusement, they are the prettiest surprises of all.
The tangle of plants and flowers crowds over the battered walls, the
greenness makes an arrangement with the rosy sordid brick. Of all the
reflected and liquefied things in Venice, and the number of these is
countless, I think the lapping water loves them most. They are numerous
on the Canalazzo, but wherever they occur they give a brush to the
picture and in particular, it is easy to guess, give a sweetness to the
house. Then the elements are complete--the trio of air and water and of
things that grow. Venice without them would be too much a matter of the
tides and the stones. Even the little trellises of the traghetti count
charmingly as reminders, amid so much artifice, of the woodland nature
of man. The vine-leaves, trained on horizontal poles, make a roof
of chequered shade for the gondoliers and ferrymen, who doze there
according to opportunity, or chatter or hail the approaching “fare.”
 There is no “hum” in Venice, so that their voices travel far; they
enter your windows and mingle even with your dreams. I beg the reader
to believe that if I had time to go into everything, I would go into the
traghetti, which have their manners and their morals, and which
used to have their piety. This piety was always a madonnina, the
protectress of the passage--a quaint figure of the Virgin with the red
spark of a lamp at her feet. The lamps appear for the most part to have
gone out, and the images doubtless have been sold for bric-a-brac.
The ferrymen, for aught I know, are converted to Nihilism--a faith
consistent happily with a good stroke of business. One of the figures
has been left, however--the Madonnetta which gives its name to a
traghetto near the Rialto. But this sweet survivor is a carven stone
inserted ages ago in the corner of an old palace and doubtless difficult
of removal. Pazienza, the day will come when so marketable a relic
will also be extracted from its socket and purchased by the devouring
American. I leave that expression, on second thought, standing; but I
repent of it when I remember that it is a devouring American--a lady
long resident in Venice and whose kindnesses all Venetians, as well as
her country-people, know, who has rekindled some of the extinguished
tapers, setting up especially the big brave Gothic shrine, of painted
and gilded wood, which, on the top of its stout palo, sheds its
influence on the place of passage opposite the Salute.
If I may not go into those of the palaces this devious discourse has
left behind, much less may I enter the great galleries of the Academy,
which rears its blank wall, surmounted by the lion of St. Mark, well
within sight of the windows at which we are still lingering. This
wondrous temple of Venetian art--for all it promises little from
without--overhangs, in a manner, the Grand Canal, but if we were so much
as to cross its threshold we should wander beyond recall. It contains,
in some of the most magnificent halls--where the ceilings have all
the glory with which the imagination of Venice alone could over-arch a
room--some of the noblest pictures in the world; and whether or not
we go back to them on any particular occasion for another look, it is
always a comfort to know that they are there, as the sense of them on
the spot is a part of the furniture of the mind--the sense of them close
at hand, behind every wall and under every cover, like the inevitable
reverse of a medal, of the side exposed to the air that reflects,
intensifies, completes the scene. In other words, as it was the
inevitable destiny of Venice to be painted, and painted with passion, so
the wide world of picture becomes, as we live there, and however much we
go about our affairs, the constant habitation of our thoughts. The truth
is, we are in it so uninterruptedly, at home and abroad, that there
is scarcely a pressure upon us to seek it in one place more than in
another. Choose your standpoint at random and trust the picture to come
to you. This is manifestly why I have not, I find myself conscious, said
more about the features of the Canalazzo which occupy the reach between
the Salute and the position we have so obstinately taken up. It is
still there before us, however, and the delightful little Palazzo Dario,
intimately familiar to English and American travellers, picks itself out
in the foreshortened brightness. The Dario is covered with the loveliest
little marble plates and sculptured circles; it is made up of exquisite
pieces--as if there had been only enough to make it small--so that it
looks, in its extreme antiquity, a good deal like a house of cards that
hold together by a tenure it would be fatal to touch. An old Venetian
house dies hard indeed, and I should add that this delicate thing,
with submission in every feature, continues to resist the contact of
generations of lodgers. It is let out in floors (it used to be let as
a whole) and in how many eager hands--for it is in great
requisition--under how many fleeting dispensations have we not known and
loved it? People are always writing in advance to secure it, as they
are to secure the Jenkins’s gondolier, and as the gondola passes we
see strange faces at the windows--though it’s ten to one we recognise
them--and the millionth artist coming forth with his traps at the
water-gate. The poor little patient Dario is one of the most flourishing
booths at the fair.
The faces in the window look out at the great Sansovino--the splendid
pile that is now occupied by the Prefect. I feel decidedly that I
don’t object as I ought to the palaces of the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries. Their pretensions impose upon me, and the imagination peoples
them more freely than it can people the interiors of the prime. Was not
moreover this masterpiece of Sansovino once occupied by the Venetian
post-office, and thereby intimately connected with an ineffaceable first
impression of the author of these remarks? He had arrived, wondering,
palpitating, twenty-three years ago, after nightfall, and, the first
thing on the morrow, had repaired to the post-office for his letters.
They had been waiting a long time and were full of delayed interest, and
he returned with them to the gondola and floated slowly down the Canal.
The mixture, the rapture, the wonderful temple of the poste restante,
the beautiful strangeness, all humanised by good news--the memory of
this abides with him still, so that there always proceeds from the
splendid waterfront I speak of a certain secret appeal, something that
seems to have been uttered first in the sonorous chambers of youth. Of
course this association falls to the ground--or rather splashes into the
water--if I am the victim of a confusion. Was the edifice in question
twenty-three years ago the post-office, which has occupied since, for
many a day, very much humbler quarters? I am afraid to take the proper
steps for finding out, lest I should learn that during these years I
have misdirected my emotion. A better reason for the sentiment, at any
rate, is that such a great house has surely, in the high beauty of its
tiers, a refinement of its own. They make one think of colosseums and
aqueducts and bridges, and they constitute doubtless, in Venice, the
most pardonable specimen of the imitative. I have even a timid kindness
for the huge Pesaro, far down the Canal, whose main reproach, more even
than the coarseness of its forms, is its swaggering size, its want
of consideration for the general picture, which the early examples so
reverently respect. The Pesaro is as far out of the frame as a modern
hotel, and the Cornaro, close to it, oversteps almost equally the
modesty of art. One more thing they and their kindred do, I must add,
for which, unfortunately, we can patronise them less. They make even the
most elaborate material civilisation of the present day seem woefully
shrunken and bourgeois, for they simply--I allude to the biggest
palaces--can’t be lived in as they were intended to be. The modern
tenant may take in all the magazines, but he bends not the bow of
Achilles. He occupies the place, but he doesn’t fill it, and he has
guests from the neighbouring inns with ulsters and Baedekers. We are
far at the Pesaro, by the way, from our attaching window, and we take
advantage of it to go in rather a melancholy mood to the end. The long
straight vista from the Foscari to the Rialto, the great middle stretch
of the Canal, contains, as the phrase is, a hundred objects of interest,
but it contains most the bright oddity of its general Deluge air. In all
these centuries it has never got over its resemblance to a flooded city;
for some reason or other it is the only part of Venice in which the
houses look as if the waters had overtaken them. Everywhere else they
reckon with them--have chosen them; here alone the lapping seaway seems
to confess itself an accident.
{Illustration: PALAZZO MONCENIGO, VENICE}
There are persons who hold this long, gay, shabby, spotty perspective,
in which, with its immense field of confused reflection, the houses have
infinite variety, the dullest expanse in Venice. It was not dull, we
imagine, for Lord Byron, who lived in the midmost of the three Mocenigo
palaces, where the writing-table is still shown at which he gave the
rein to his passions. For other observers it is sufficiently enlivened
by so delightful a creation as the Palazzo Loredan, once a masterpiece
and at present the Municipio, not to speak of a variety of other
immemorial bits whose beauty still has a degree of freshness. Some of
the most touching relics of early Venice are here--for it was here she
precariously clustered--peeping out of a submersion more pitiless than
the sea. As we approach the Rialto indeed the picture falls off and a
comparative commonness suffuses it. There is a wide paved walk on either
side of the Canal, on which the waterman--and who in Venice is not a
waterman?--is prone to seek repose. I speak of the summer days--it is
the summer Venice that is the visible Venice. The big tarry barges are
drawn up at the fondamenta, and the bare-legged boatmen, in faded blue
cotton, lie asleep on the hot stones. If there were no colour anywhere
else there would be enough in their tanned personalities. Half the low
doorways open into the warm interior of waterside drinking-shops, and
here and there, on the quay, beneath the bush that overhangs the door,
there are rickety tables and chairs. Where in Venice is there not the
amusement of character and of detail? The tone in this part is very
vivid, and is largely that of the brown plebeian faces looking out of
the patchy miscellaneous houses--the faces of fat undressed women and of
other simple folk who are not aware that they enjoy, from balconies once
doubtless patrician, a view the knowing ones of the earth come thousands
of miles to envy them. The effect is enhanced by the tattered clothes
hung to dry in the windows, by the sun-faded rags that flutter from the
polished balustrades--these are ivory-smooth with time; and the whole
scene profits by the general law that renders decadence and ruin
in Venice more brilliant than any prosperity. Decay is in this
extraordinary place golden in tint and misery couleur de rose. The
gondolas of the correct people are unmitigated sable, but the poor
market-boats from the islands are kaleidoscopic.
The Bridge of the Rialto is a name to conjure with, but, honestly
speaking, it is scarcely the gem of the composition. There are of course
two ways of taking it--from the water or from the upper passage, where
its small shops and booths abound in Venetian character; but it mainly
counts as a feature of the Canal when seen from the gondola or even from
the awful vaporetto. The great curve of its single arch is much to
be commended, especially when, coming from the direction of the
railway-station, you see it frame with its sharp compass-line the
perfect picture, the reach of the Canal on the other side. But the backs
of the little shops make from the water a graceless collective hump, and
the inside view is the diverting one. The big arch of the bridge--like
the arches of all the bridges--is the waterman’s friend in wet weather.
The gondolas, when it rains, huddle beside the peopled barges, and
the young ladies from the hotels, vaguely fidgeting, complain of the
communication of insect life. Here indeed is a little of everything, and
the jewellers of this celebrated precinct--they have their immemorial
row--make almost as fine a show as the fruiterers. It is a universal
market, and a fine place to study Venetian types. The produce of
the islands is discharged there, and the fishmongers announce their
presence. All one’s senses indeed are vigorously attacked; the whole
place is violently hot and bright, all odorous and noisy. The churning
of the screw of the vaporetto mingles with the other sounds--not
indeed that this offensive note is confined to one part of the Canal.
But Just here the little piers of the resented steamer are particularly
near together, and it seems somehow to be always kicking up the water.
As we go further down we see it stopping exactly beneath the glorious
windows of the Ca’d’Oro. It has chosen its position well, and who
shall gainsay it for having put itself under the protection of the
most romantic facade in Europe? The companionship of these objects is
a symbol; it expresses supremely the present and the future of Venice.
Perfect, in its prime, was the marble Ca’d’Oro, with the noble recesses
of its loggie, but even then it probably never “met a want,” like the
successful vaporetto. If, however, we are not to go into the Museo
Civico--the old Museo Correr, which rears a staring renovated front
far down on the left, near the station, so also we must keep out of the
great vexed question of steam on the Canalazzo, just as a while since we
prudently kept out of the Accademia. These are expensive and complicated
excursions. It is obvious that if the vaporetti have contributed to
the ruin of the gondoliers, already hard pressed by fate, and to that of
the palaces, whose foundations their waves undermine, and that if
they have robbed the Grand Canal of the supreme distinction of its
tranquillity, so on the other hand they have placed “rapid transit,” in
the New York phrase, in everybody’s reach, and enabled everybody--save
indeed those who wouldn’t for the world--to rush about Venice as
furiously as people rush about New York. The suitability of this
consummation needn’t be pointed out.
Even we ourselves, in the irresistible contagion, are going so fast now
that we have only time to note in how clever and costly a fashion the
Museo Civico, the old Fondaco dei Turchi, has been reconstructed and
restored. It is a glare of white marble without, and a series of showy
majestic halls within, where a thousand curious mementos and relics of
old Venice are gathered and classified. Of its miscellaneous treasures
I fear I may perhaps frivolously prefer the series of its remarkable
living Longhis, an illustration of manners more copious than the
celebrated Carpaccio, the two ladies with their little animals and their
long sticks. Wonderful indeed today are the museums of Italy, where
the renovations and the belle ordonnance speak of funds apparently
unlimited, in spite of the fact that the numerous custodians
frankly look starved. What is the pecuniary source of all this civic
magnificence--it is shown in a hundred other ways--and how do the
Italian cities manage to acquit themselves of expenses that would be
formidable to communities richer and doubtless less aesthetic? Who pays
the bills for the expressive statues alone, the general exuberance
of sculpture, with which every piazzetta of almost every village
is patriotically decorated? Let us not seek an answer to the puzzling
question, but observe instead that we are passing the mouth of the
populous Canareggio, next widest of the waterways, where the race of
Shylock abides, and at the corner of which the big colourless church of
San Geremia stands gracefully enough on guard. The Canareggio, with its
wide lateral footways and humpbacked bridges, makes on the feast of St.
John an admirable noisy, tawdry theatre for one of the prettiest and the
most infantile of the Venetian processions.
The rest of the course is a reduced magnificence, in spite of
interesting bits, of the battered pomp of the Pesaro and the Cornaro,
of the recurrent memories of royalty in exile which cluster about the
Palazzo Vendramin Calergi, once the residence of the Comte de Chambord
and still that of his half-brother, in spite too of the big Papadopoli
