CHAPTER VI 
SAMUEL went to a bake shop and bought a 
loaf of bread and sat on the bench of the 
pubhc square and devoured it bit by bit. It was 
the cheapest thing he could think of, and quantity 
was what counted just then. 
Next he had to find a room to spend the night. 
He knew nothing about hotels and lodging- 
houses — he walked through the workingmen's 
quarter of the town, scanning the cottages hesi- 
tatingly. At last in the doorway of one he no- 
ticed a woman standing, an elderly woman, very 
thin and weary looking, but clean, and with a 
kindly face. So he stopped. 
" Please," said he, " could you tell me any 
place where I could hire a room? " 
The woman looked at him. " For how long? " 
she asked. 
" I'm not quite sure," he said. " I want it for 
one night, and then if I get a job, I may want 
it longer." 
" A job in Lockmanville? " said the woman. 
" Well, I've the promise of one," he replied. 
" There can't be very many," said she. " I've 
two rooms I've always rented," she added, " but 
when the glass works shut down the men went 
away. One of them owed me three dollars, too." 
" I — I'm not able to pay very much," said 
Samuel. 
" Come in," responded the woman; and he sat 
down and told her his story. And she told him 
hers. 
Mrs. Stedman was her name, and her husband 
had been a glass blower. He earned good wages 
— five dollars a day in the busy season. But he 
worked in front of a huge tank of white-hot glass 
and that was hard on a man. And once on a hot 
day he had gone suddenly dizzy, and fallen upon 
a mass of hot slag, and been frightfully burned 
in the face. They had carried him to the hospital 
and taken out one eye. And then, because of his 
family and the end of the season being near, he 
had gone to work too soon, and his wotmd had 
gone bad, and in the end he had died of blood- 
poisoning. 
" That was two years ago," said Mrs. Sted- 
man. " And I got no damages. We've barely, 
got along — this year's been worse than ever. It's 
the panic, they say. It seemed as if everything 
was shutting down." 
" It must be very hard on people here," said 
Samuel. 
" I've got three children — all girls," said Mrs. 
Stedman, " and only one old enough to work. 
That's Sophie — she's in the cotton mill, and that 
only started again last month. And they say it 
may run on half time all the year. I do sewing 
and whatever I can to help, but there's never 
enough." 
Samuel forgot his own troubles in talking with' 
this woman. His family had been poor on the 
farm, but they had never known such poverty 
as this. And here were whole streets full of peo- 
ple living the same sort of life; hanging over the 
abyss of destruction, and with no prospect save 
to struggle forever. Mrs. Stedman talked cas- 
ually about her friends and neighbors, and new 
glimpses came to make the boy catch his breath. 
Next door was Mrs. Prosser, whose husband was 
dying of cancer; he had been two years dying, 
and they had five small children. And on the 
other side were the Rapinskys, a Polish family; 
they had been strong in the possession of three 
grown sons, and had even bought a phonograph. 
And now not one of them had done a stroke of 
work for three months. 
To have been robbed and put in jail seemed a 
mere incident in comparison with such bitter and 
lifelong suffering; and Samuel was ashamed of 
having made so much fuss. He had stated, with 
some trepidation, that he was just out of jail; but 
Mrs. Stedman had not seemed to mind that. Her 
husband had been in jail once, during the big 
glass strike, and for nothing more than begging 
another man not to take his job. 
It was arranged that Samuel was to pay Her 
thirty-five cents for his supper and bed and break- 
fast, and if he wished to stay longer she would 
board him for four dollars a week, or he mighlj 
have the room alone for a dollar. 
The two younger children came in from school; 
they were frail and undersized httle girls, with 
clothing that was neatly but pitifully patched. 
And shortly after them came Sophie. 
Samuel gave a start of dismay when he saw 
her. He had been told that she worked in the 
cotton mill and was the mainstay of the family; 
and he had pictured a stiu-dy young woman, such 
as he had seen at home. Instead, here was a frail 
shp of a child, scarcely larger than the others. 
Sophie was thirteen, as he learned afterwards; but 
she did not look to be ten by his standards. She 
was grave and deliberate in her movements, and 
she gazed at the stranger with a pair of very big 
brown eyes. 
" This is Samuel Prescott," said her mother. 
" He is going to spend the night, and maybe 
board with us." 
" How do you do? " said Sophie, and took off 
the shawl from her head and sat down in a corner. 
The boy thought that this was shyness upon her 
part, but later on he reahzed that it was lassitude. 
The child rested her head upon her hand every 
chance that she got, and she never did anything 
that she did not have to.  
The next morning, bright and early, Samuel 
was on hand at the saloon, greatly to the amuse- 
ment of his friend Finnegan. He got down on 
his hands and knees and gave the place such a 
scrubbing as it had never had before since it was 
built. And in return Finnegan invited him to 
some breakfast, which Samuel finally accepted, 
because it would enable him to take less from the 
Stedmans. 
Professor Stewart had not specified any hour in 
his invitation. He lived in the aristocratic dis- 
trict across the bridge, and Samuel presented him- 
self at his door a little before eight. 
" Professor Stewart told me to come and see 
him," he said to the maid. 
" Professor Stewart is out of town," said she. 
" Out of town! " he echoed. 
" He's gone to New York," said she. " He 
was called away unexpectedly last night." 
" When will he be back? " 
" He said he'd try to be back the day after to- 
morrow; but he wasn't sure." 
Samuel stared at her in consternation, 
" What did you want? " she asked. 
*' He promised me a job." 
*' Oh! " said she. " Well, can't you come back 
later on? '* 'Arid tHen, seeing that Samuel Had 
nothing better to do than to stare at her dumb- 
ly, she closed the door and went about her 
business. 
Samuel walked back in a daze. It gave him 
a new sense of the world's lack of interest in him. 
Probably the great man had forgotten him alto- 
gether. 
There was nothing to do but to wait ; and mean- 
time he had only sixty cents. He could not stay 
with Mrs. Stedman, that was certain. But when 
he came to tell her, she recurred to a suggestion 
he had made. There were a few square yards of 
ground behind her house, given up mostly to to- 
mato cans. If he would plant some garden seed 
for her she would board him meanwhile. And so 
Samuel went to work vigorously with a borrowed 
spade. 
Two days passed, and another day, and still 
the professor had not returned. It was Satur- 
day evening and Samuel was seated upon the 
steps of the house, resting after a hard day's work. 
Sophie was seated near him, leaning back against 
the house with her eyes closed. The evening was 
warm and beautiful, and gradually the peace of 
it stole over her. And so at last she revealed her- 
self to Samuel. 
" Do you like music? " she asked, 
" .Very much indeed," said he. 
" Not everybody does," she remarked — " I 
mean real music, such as Friedrich plays." 
" I don't know," said Samuel. " Who is Fried- 
rich? " 
" He's a friend of mine," Sophie answered. 
" He's a German boy. His father's the designer 
at the carpet works. And he plays the violin." 
" I should like to hear him," said he. 
" I'll take you," she volunteered. " I gener- 
ally go to see them on Sunday afternoons. It's 
the only time I have." 
So the next day Samuel met the Bremers. 
Their cottage was a little way out in the country, 
and they had a few trees about it and a flower bed. 
But the house was not large, and it was well 
filled with a family of nine children. Johann, 
the father, was big and florid, with bristling hair. 
He was marked in the town because he called 
himself a " Socialist," but Samuel did not know 
that. His wife was a little mite of a woman, 
completely swamped by child-bearing. Most 
interesting to Samuel was Friedrich, who played 
the viohn; a pale ascetic-looking boy of fifteen, 
with wavy hair and beautiful eyes. 
Music was a serious rite with the Bremers. The 
father played the piano, and the next oldest son 
to Friedrich was struggling with a 'cello; and 
when they played, the whole family sat in the 
parlor, even the tiny tots, round-eyed and silent. 
Samuel knew some " patriotic songs," and a 
great nmnber of hymns, and a few tmies that one 
heard at comitry dances. But such music as this 
was a new revelation of the possibilities of life. 
He listened in a transport of wonder and awe. 
Such wailing grief, such tumultuous longing, 
such ravishing and soul-tormenting beauty! 
Friedrich had only such technique as his father 
had been able to give him, together with what he 
had invented for himself; his bowings were not 
always correct, and he was weak on the high 
notes ; but Samuel knew nothing of this — he was 
thinking of the music. And he needed no one to 
tell him about it — he needed no criticisms and no 
commentaries. Across the centuries the souls of 
Schubert and Beethoven spoke to him, telling 
their visions of the wonderful world of the spirit, 
toward which humanity is painfully groping. 
It was impossible for him to keep from voicing 
his excitement, and this greatly delighted the 
Bremers, who craved for comprehension in a 
lonely place. His sympathy gave wings to their 
fervor, and they played the whole afternoon 
through, and then Johann invited them to stay 
to supper, so that they might play some more in 
the evening. 
" You should haf been a musician," he said to 
ISamuel. " You vas made for it." 
They had a supper such as the boy had missed 
for some time ; a great platter of cold boiled meat, 
and a bowl of hot gravy, and another bowl of 
mashed potatoes, with no end of bread and butter. 
Also there was some kind of a German puddihg, 
and to the stranger's dismay, a pitcher of beer in 
front of Johann. After offering some to his 
guests, he drank it all, and also he ate a vast 
supper. Afterwards he dozed, while Friedrich 
played yet more wonderful music, and this gave 
Samuel a new insight into the life of the family, 
and into the wild and terrible longing that poured 
itself out in Friedrich's tones. The father was 
good-natured and sentimental, but sunk in gross- 
ness ; and the mother was worn out with the care 
of her brood, and beneath all this burden the soul 
of the boy was crying frantically for life. 
The exigencies of trade demanded endless va- 
riety of designs in carpets and rugs, and so all 
day Johann Bremer stood in front of a great 
sheet of cardboard, marked off in tiny numbered 
squares, on which he painted with many colors. 
For this he received thirty dollars a week, and his 
son received twelve dollars as his assistant — paint- 
ing in the same colors upon all the squares of cer- 
tain numbers, and so completing a symmetrical 
design. It was a very good job, and Johann 
prodded his son to devote his energies to the evolv- 
ing of new designs. But the boy hated it all — 
thinking only of his music. And his music meant 
to him, not sentimental dreaming, but a passion- 
ate clutch into the infinite, a battle for deliverance 
from the bondage of the world. So Johann him- 
self had been in his youth, when he had become a 
revolutionist, and before beer and gravy and do- 
mesticity had tamed him. 
No one said a word about these things. It 
was all in the playing. And now and then Sam- 
uel stole a glance about the room and discovered 
yet another soul's tragedy. Sophie, too, was 
drinking in the music, and hf e had crept into her 
face, and her breath came quick and fast, and 
now and then she furtively brushed away a tear. 
Afterwards, as they walked home, she said to 
Samuel, " I don't know if it's good for me to 
listen to music hke that." 
" Why not? " he asked — " if it makes you 
happy." 
"But it makes me unhappy afterwards. It 
makes me want things. And I get restless — and 
when I go back to the factory it's so much 
harder." 
" What do you do in the factory? " asked 
Samuel. 
" I'm what they call a bobbin-girl — I tie the 
threads on the bobbins when they are empty." 
" Is it very hard work? " 
" No, you mightn't think so. But you have 
to stand up all day; and it's doing the same thing 
all the lime — the same thing the whole day long. 
You get dull — you never think about anything. 
And then the air is full of dust and the machinery 
roars. You get used to it, but I'm sure its bad 
for you." 
They walked for a while in silence. " Do you 
like to imagine things? " asked Sophie suddenly. 
" Yes," said he. 
" I used to," said she — " when I was younger." 
It was so strange to Samuel to notice that this 
slip of a child always spoke of herself as old. 
" Why don't you do it now? " he asked. 
" I'm too tired, I think. But I've a lot of 
pictures up in my room — that I cut out of maga- 
zines that people gave me. Pictures of beautiful 
things — birds and jBlowers, and old castles, and 
fine ladies and gentlemen. And I used to make 
up stories about them, and imagine that I was 
there, and that all sorts of nice things were hap- 
pening to me. Would you like to see my pic- 
tures? " 
" Very much," said Samuel. 
" I think of things like that when I listen to 
Friedrich. I've a picture of Sir Galahad — he's 
very beautiful, and he stands at his horse's head 
with a sword in his hand. I used to dream that 
somebody like that might come and carry me off 
to a place where there aren't any mills. But I 
guess it's no use any more." 
" Why not? " asked the other. 
" It's too late. There is something the matter 
with me. I never say anything, because it would 
make mother unhappy; but I'm always tired now, 
and every day I have a headache. And I'm so 
very sleepy, and yet when I lie down I can't sleep 
— I keep hearing the mill." 
"Oh!" cried Samuel involuntarily. 
" I don't mind it so much," said the child. 
" There's no help, so what's the use. It's only 
when I hear Friedrich play — then I get all 
stirred up." 
They walked on for a while again. 
" He's very unhappy," she said finally. 
" I suppose so," replied Samuel. " Tell me," 
he asked suddenly. " Isn't there some other work 
that you could do? " 
" What? I'm not strong enough for hard 
work. And where could I make three dollars a 
week? " 
" Is that what they pay you? " 
" Yes — that is — when we are on full time." 
" Does it make all the girls sick? " he inquired. 
" There's that girl who came in this afternoon — 
she seems well and strong." 
" Bessie, you mean? But it's just play for her, 
you see. She lives with her parents and stops 
whenever she feels like it. She just wants to buy 
dresses and go to the theater." 
" But that girl we passed on the street to-day! " 
"Helen Davis. Ah, yes — but she's different 
again. She's bad." 
" Bad? " echoed Samuel perplexed. 
There was a brief pause. It was not easy for 
him to adjust himself to a world in which the good 
were of necessity frail and ill, and the bad were 
rosy-cheeked and merry. " How do you mean? " 
he asked at last. 
And Sophie answered quite simply, " She lives 
with a fellow." 
The blood leaped into Samuel's face. Such a 
blunder for him to have made. 
But then the flush passed, giving place to a feel- 
ing of horrified wonder. For Sophie was not in 
the least embarrassed — she spoke in the most mat- 
ter-of-fact tone. And this from a child of thir- 
teen, who did not look to be ten. 
" I see," said he in a faint voice. 
" A good many of the girls do it," she added. 
" You see, they move about so much — the mills 
close, and so a girl has no hope of marrying. But 
mother says it's wrong, just the same." 
And Samuel walked home the rest of the way 
in silence, and thinking no more about the joys 
of music. 
CHAPTER VII 
ON Monday morning Samuel fomid that 
Professor Stewart had returned, and he sat 
in the great man's study and waited vmtil he had 
finished his breakfast. 
It was a big room, completely walled with 
crowded bookshelves; in the center was a big 
work-table covered with books and papers. Sam- 
uel had never dreamed that there were so many 
books in the world, and he gazed about him with 
awe, feeling that he had come to the sources of 
knowledge. 
That was Samuel's way. Both by nature and 
training, he had a profound respect for all au- 
thority. He believed in the majesty of the law — 
that was why it had shocked him so to be arrested. 
He thought of the chiu-ch as a divine institution, 
whose ministers were appointed as shepherds of 
the people. And up here on the heights was this 
great College, a temple of learning; and this pro- 
fessor was one who had been selected by those in 
the seats of authority, and set apart as one of its 
priests. So Samuel was profoundly grateful for 
the attention which was given to him, and was 
prepared to pick up whatever crumbs of coimsel 
might be dropped. 
" Ah, yes," the professor said, wiping his glass- 
es with a silk handkerchief. " Samuel — let me 
see — S amuel ' ' 
" Prescott, sir." 
" Yes — Samuel Prescott. And how have you 
been? " 
" I've been very well, sir." 
" I meant to leave a message for you, but I 
overlooked it. I had so many things to attend to 
in the rush of departure. I — er — I hope you 
didn't wait for me." 
" I had nothing else to do, sir," said Samuel. 
" The truth is," continued the other, " I'm 
afraid I shan't be able to do for you what I 
thought I could." 
Samuel's heart went down into his boots. 
" You see," said the professor a trifle embar- 
rassed, " my sister wanted a man to look after 
her place, but I found she had already engaged 
some one." 
There was a pause. Samuel simply stared. 
" Of course, as the man is giving satisfaction 
— you see — it wouldn't do for her to send him 
away." 
And Samuel continued to stare, dumb with ter- 
ror and dismay. 
" I'm very sorry," said the other — " no need to 
tell you that. But I don't know of any other 
place." 
" But what am I to do? " burst out Samuel. 
" It's really too bad," remarked the other. 
And again there was a silence. 
" Professor Stewart," said Samuel in a low 
voice, " what is a man to do who is out of work 
and starving? " 
" God knows," said the professor. 
And yet again there was silence. Samuel could 
have said that himself — he had the utmost faith 
in God. 
And after a while the professor himself seemed 
to realize that the reply was inadequate. " You 
see," he went on, " there is a peculiar condition 
here in Lockmanville. There was an attempt to 
comer the glass industry, and that caused the 
building of too many factories, and so there is 
overproduction. And then, besides that, they've 
just invented a machine that blows as many 
bottles as a dozen men." 
" But then what are the men to do? " asked 
Samuel. 
" The condition readjusts itself," said the other. 
" The men have to go into some other trade." 
" But then — the cotton mills are on half time, 
tool" 
" Yes, there are too many cotton mills." 
" But then — in the end there will be too many 
everything." 
" That is the tendency," said the professor. 
" There are foreign markets, of course. But the 
difficulty really goes deeper than that." 
Professor Stewart paused and looked at Sam- 
uel wondering, perhaps, if he were not throwing 
away his instruction. But the boy looked very 
much interested, even excited. 
" Most of our economists are disposed to blink 
the truth," said he. " But the fact is, there are 
too many men." 
Samuel started. It was precisely that terrible 
suspicion which had been shaping itself in his 
own mind. 
" There is a law," went on the other, " which 
was clearly set forth by Malthus, that population 
tends continually to outrun the food supply. And 
then the surplus people have to be removed." 
" I see," said Samuel, awestricken. " But isn't 
it rather hard? " 
" It seems so — to the individual. To the race 
it is really of the very greatest benefit. It is the 
process of life." 
" Please tell me," Samuel's look seemed to say. 
" If you will consider Nature," Professor 
Stewart continued, " you will observe that she 
always produces many times more individuals 
than can possibly reach maturity. The salmon 
lays millions of eggs, and thousands of young 
trees spring up in every thicket. And these in- 
dividuals struggle for a chance to hve, and those 
survive which are strongest and best fitted to meet 
the conditions. And precisely the same thing is 
true among men — there is no other way by which 
the race could be improved, or even kept at its 
present standard. Those who perish are sacri- 
ficed for the benefit of the race." 
Now, strange as it may seem, Samuel had 
never before heard the phrase, " the survival of 
the fittest." And so now he was living over the 
experience of the thinking world of fifty or sixty 
years ago. What a marvelous generalization it 
was! What a range of life it covered! And how 
obvious it seemed — one could think of a hundred 
things, perfectly well known, which fitted into it. 
And yet he had never thought of it himself ! The 
struggle for existence! The survival of the fit- 
test! 
A few days ago Samuel had discovered music. 
And now he was discovering science. What an 
extraordinary thing was the intellect of man, 
which could take all the infinitely varied facts 
of life and interpret them in the terms of one vast 
law. 
Samuel was all aglow with excitement at the 
revelation. " I see," he said, again and again — 
"I see I" 
" It is the law of life," said the professor. 
" No one can escape from it." 
" And then," said Samuel, " when we try to 
change things — when we give out charity, for in- 
stance — we are working against Nature, and we 
really make things worse." 
" That is it," replied the other. 
And Samuel gave a great sigh. How very 
simple was the problem, when one had seen it 
in the light of science. Here he had been worry- 
ing and tormenting his brain about the matter; 
and all the time he was in the hands of Nature — 
and all he had to do was to lie back and let Na- 
ture solve it. " Nature never makes mistakes," 
said Professor Stewart. 
Of course, in this new light Samuel's own case 
became plain. " Those who are out of work are 
those who have failed in the struggle," he said. 
" Precisely," said the professor. 
" And that is because they are unfit." 
" Precisely," said the professor again. " As 
Herbert Spencer has phrased it, ' Inability to 
catch prey must be regarded as a falling short of 
conduct from its ideal.' And, of course, in an 
industrial community, the ' prey ' is a job." 
" Who is Herbert Spencer? " asked Samuel. 
" He is recognized as the authority in such mat- 
ters," said the other. 
"And then," pondered Samuel, "those who 
have jobs must be the fit. And the very rich 
people — the ones who make the millions and mill- 
ions — they are the fittest of all." 
Er — yes," said the professor. 
" And, of course, that makes my problem clear 
— I'm out of a job, and so I must die." 
The professor gazed at Samuel sharply. But 
it was impossible to mistake the boy's open-eyed 
sincerity. He had no thought about himself — 
he was discovering the laws of life. 
" I'm so glad you explained it to me," he went 
on. " But all these thousands of men who are 
starving to death — they ought to be told it, too." 
" What good would it do? " asked the other. 
" Why, they ought to imderstand. They suf- 
fer, and it seems to them purposeless and stupid. 
But if you were to explain to them that they are 
being sacrificed for the benefit of the race — don't 
you see what a diflPerence it would make? " 
" I don't beheve they would take the sugges- 
tion kindly," said the professor with a faint at- 
tempt to smile. 
" But why not? " asked Samuel. 
" Wouldn't it sound rather hypocritical, so 
to speak — coming from a man who had suc- 
ceeded? " 
" Not at all I You have a right to your success, 
haven't you? " 
" I hope so." 
" You have a job " — began Samuel and then 
hesitated. " I don't know how a professor comes 
to get his job," he said. " But I suppose that the 
men wHo make the great f ortimes — the ones who 
are wisest and best of all — they give the money 
for the colleges, don't they? " 
" Yes," said Professor Stewart. 
" And then," said Samuel, " I suppose it is 
they who have chosen you? " 
Again the professor darted a suspicious glance 
at his questioner. " Er — one might put it that 
way," he said. 
" Well, then, that is your right to teach ; and 
you could explain it. Then you could say to these 
men: ' There are too many of you; you aren't 
needed; and you must be removed.' " 
But the professor only shook his head. " It 
wouldn't do," he said. And Samuel, pondering 
and seeking as ever, came to a sudden comprehen- 
sion. 
" I see," he exclaimed. " What is needed is 
action I" 
"Action?" 
" Yes — it's for us who are beaten to teach it; 
and to teach it in our hves. It's a sort of revival 
that is needed, you see," 
" But I don't see the need," laughed the other, 
interested in spite of himself. 
" That's because you aren't one of us ! " cried 
Samuel vehemently. " Nobody else can under- 
stand — nobody! It's easy to be one of the suc- 
cesses of life. You have a comfortable home and 
plenty to eat and all. But when you've failed 
— when you're down and out — then you have to 
bear hunger and cold and sickness. And there is 
grief and fear and despair — you can have no idea 
of it! Why, I've met a little girl in this town. 
She works in the cotton mill, and it's just killed 
her by inches, body and soul. And even so, she 
can only get half a day's work; and the mother is 
trying to support the little children by sewing — 
and they're all just dying of slow starvation. 
This very morning they asked me to stay to 
breakfast, and I refused, because I knew they had 
only some bread and a few potatoes, and it wasn't 
enough for one person. You see, it's so slow — 
it's such a terribly long process — this starving 
people off by inches. And keeping them always 
tormented by hope. Don't you see. Professor 
Stewart? And just because you don't come out 
honestly and teach them the truth. Because you 
won't say to them: ' The world is too full; and 
you've got to get out of the way, so as to give us 
a chance.' Why, look, sir — you defeat your own 
purposes! These people stay, and they keep on 
having more children, and everything gets worse 
instead of better; and they have diseases and vices 
— they ruin the whole world. What's the use of 
having a world if it's got to be like this town — 
crowded with hovels full of dirty people, and sick 
people, and starving and miserable people? I 
can't see how you who live up here on the heights 
can enjoy yourselves while such things con- 
tinue." 
" Um — no," said Professor Stewart; and he 
gazed at Samuel with knitted brows — unable, for 
the hfe of him, to feel certain whether he ought 
to feel amused, or to feel touched, or to feel out- 
raged. 
As for Samuel, he realized that he was through 
with the professor. The professor had taught 
him all that he had to teach. He did not really 
understand this matter at all — that was because 
he belonged to the other world, the world of suc- 
cessful and fit people. They had their own prob- 
lems to solve, no doubt ! 
This non-comprehension was made quite clear 
by the professor's next remark. " I'm sorry to 
have disappointed you," he said. " If a little 
money will help you " 
" No," said the other qmckly. " You mustn't 
offer me money. How can that be right? That 
would be charity." 
"Ahem I" said the professor. "Yes. But 
then — you mentioned that you hadn't had any 
breakfast. Hadn't you better go into the kitchen 
and let them give you something? " 
" But what is the use of putting things off? " 
cried Samuel wildly. " If I'm going to preach 
this new idea, I've got to begin." 
" But you can't preach very long on an empty 
stomach," objected the other. 
To which Samuel answered, " The preaching 
has to be by deeds." 
And so he took his departure; and Professor 
Stewart turned back to his work-table, upon 
which lay the bulky manuscript of his monumen- 
tal work, which was entitled : " Methods of Re- 
hef ; A Theory and a Programme." Some pages 
lay before him; the top one was headed: " Chap- 
ter LXIII — Unemployment and Social Respon- 
sibility." And Professor Stewart sat before 
this title, and stared, and stared. 
CHAPTER VIII 
SAMUEL meantime was walking down the 
broad macadam avenue debating his prob- 
lem. The first glow of excitement was over, and 
he was finding difficulties. The theory still held ; 
but in the carrying out of it there were compli- 
cations. 
For one thing, it would be so hard to spread 
this doctrine. For if one tried to teach it by 
words, he seemed a hypocrite, as the professor 
had said; and on the other hand, if one simply 
practiced it, who would ever know? Suppose, 
for instance, that he starved to death during the 
next few days? That would be only one person 
removed, and apparently there were millions of 
the superfluous. 
The truth was that Samuel, in discussing the 
theory, had applied it only to himself. But now 
he pictured himself going home to tell Mrs. Sted- 
man that she must give up her futile eflFort, and 
take herself and her three children out of the 
way of the progress of the race. And he real- 
ized that he could never do it — he was not equal 
to the task. Doubtless, it was because he was 
one of the unfit. It would need some one who 
did not know them, some one who could ap- 
proach the matter from the purely scientific 
standpoint. 
Then there was another difficulty graver yet. 
Did not this doctrine really point to suicide? 
Would it not be the simplest solution of his prob- 
lem if he were to climb down to the river, and tie 
a stone about his neck, and jump in? Samuel 
wished that he had thought to ask the professor 
about this. For the idea frightened him; he 
had a distinct impression of having been taught 
that it was a dreadful sin to take one's own 
life. 
The trouble seemed to lie in the dull and vmro- 
mantic nature of the life about him. If only there 
had been some way to die nobly and heroically 
for the good of others. If only there was a war, 
for instance, and a call for men to perish on the 
ramparts ! Or a terrible pestilence, so that one 
covdd be a nurse ! But there was nothing at all 
but this slow starving to death — and while other 
people lived in plenty. Samuel thought of the 
chance of finding some work which involved 
grave peril to life or limb; but apparently even 
the danger posts were filled. The world did not 
need him, either in life or death! 
So there was nothing for it but the starving. 
Having eaten nothing that day, Samuel was 
ready to begin at once ; he tightened his belt and 
set his teeth for the grapple with the gaunt wolf 
of hunger. 
And so he strode on down the road, pining for 
a chance to sacrifice himself — and at the very 
hour that the greatest peril of his life was bearing 
down upon him. 
He had passed " Fairview," the great man- 
sion with the stately gates and the white piUars. 
He had passed beyond its vast grounds, and had 
got out into the open coxmtry. He was walking 
blindly — it made no great difference where he 
went. And then suddenly behind him there was 
a clatter of hoofs ; and he turned, and up the road 
he saw a cloud of dust, and in the midst of it a 
horse galloping furiously. Samuel stared ; there 
was some kind of a vehicle behind it, and there 
was a person in the vehicle. A single glance was 
enough for him to realize — it was a runaway! 
To Samuel the thing came as a miracle — it was 
an answer to his prayer. And it found him ready. 
The chance was offered him, and he would not 
fail — not he! He did not falter for a second. 
He knew just what he had to do, and he was 
ready — resolute, and alert, and tense. 
He moved into the center of the road. The 
horse came on, galloping at top speed; it was a 
blooded horse, swift and frantic with fear, and 
terrible to see. Samuel spread out his arms ; and 
then in a flash the creatiu:e was upon him. 
It swerved to pass him; and the boy wheeled, 
leaped swiftly, and flung himself at the bridle. 
He caught it; his arms were wrenched, but he 
himg on, and jerked himself up. The horse fltmg 
him to one side ; but with a swift clutch, Samuel 
caught him by the nostrils with one hand, and 
gripped fast. Then he drew himself up close and 
hung grimly, his eyes shut, with a grasp hke 
death. 
And he was still hanging there when the run- 
away stopped, and the occupant leaped from the 
vehicle and rushed to help him. " My jGodI " he 
cried, " but that was nerve ! " 
He was a young fellow, white as a sheet and 
trembling in every muscle. " How did you do 
it? " he panted. 
" I just held on," said Samuel. 
" God, but I'm thankful to you ! " exclaimed 
the other. " You've saved my life ! " 
Samuel still clung to the horse, which was 
quivering with nervousness. 
" He'd never have got away from me, but one 
rein broke. See here! " — And he held up the end. 
" What started him? " asked Samuel. 
" Nothing," said the other — " a piece of paper, 
likely. He's a fool — always was." And he shook 
his fist in the horse's face, exclaiming, " By God, 
I'll tame you before I finish with you! " 
" Look out! " said Samuel. " You'll start him 
again! " And again he clutched the horse, which 
started to plunge. 
" I've got him now," said the other. " He'll 
quiet down." 
"Hold fast," Samuel continued; and then he 
put his hand to his forehead, and swayed shghtly. 
" I — I'll have to sit down a moment, I'm afraid. 
I feel sort of dizzy." 
" Are you hurt? " cried the stranger anxiously. 
" 'No," he said — " no, but I haven't had any- 
thing to eat to-day, and I'm a little weak." 
" Nothing to eat! " cried the other. " What's 
the matter? " 
" Why, I've been out of a job." 
" Out of a job? Good heavens, man, have you 
been starving? " 
" Well," said Samuel with a wan smile, " I had 
begun to." 
