Howland Wade had given him back John Pellerin.

The possession was one he did not mean to part with lightly; and the
dread of its being torn from him constrained him to extraordinary
precautions.

“You’ve told Winterman, I suppose? How did he take it?”

“Why, unexpectedly, as he does most things. You can never tell which way
he’ll jump. I thought he’d take a high tone, or else laugh it off; but
he did neither. He seemed awfully cast down. I wished myself well out
of the job when I saw how cut up he was.” Bernald thrilled at the words.
Pellerin had shared his pang, then--the “old woe of the world” at the
perpetuity of human dulness!

“But what did he say to the charge of plagiarism--if you made it?”

“Oh, I told him straight out what Howland said. I thought it fairer. And
his answer to that was the rummest part of all.”

“What was it?” Bernald questioned, with a tremor.

“He said: ‘That’s queer, for I’ve never read Pellerin.’”

Bernald drew a deep breath of ecstasy. “Well--and I suppose you believed
him?”

“I believed him, because I know him. But the public won’t--the critics
won’t. And if it’s a pure coincidence it’s just as bad for him as if it
were a straight steal--isn’t it?”

Bernald sighed his acquiescence.

“It bothers me awfully,” Wade continued, knitting his kindly brows,
“because I could see what a blow it was to him. He’s got to earn his
living, and I don’t suppose he knows how to do anything else. At his
age it’s hard to start fresh. I put that to Howland--asked him if
there wasn’t a chance he might do better if he only had a little
encouragement. I can’t help feeling he’s got the essential thing in him.
But of course I’m no judge when it comes to books. And Howland says it
would be cruel to give him any hope.” Wade paused, turned his wineglass
about under a meditative stare, and then leaned across the table toward
Bernald. “Look here--do you know what I’ve proposed to Winterman? That
he should come to town with me to-morrow and go in the evening to hear
Howland lecture to the Uplift Club. They’re to meet at Mrs. Beecher
Bain’s, and Howland is to repeat the lecture that he gave the other day
before the Pellerin Society at Kenosha. It will give Winterman a chance
to get some notion of what Pellerin was: he’ll get it much straighter
from Howland than if he tried to plough through Pellerin’s books. And
then afterward--as if accidentally--I thought I might bring him and
Howland together. If Howland could only see him and hear him talk,
there’s no knowing what might come of it. He couldn’t help feeling the
man’s force, as we do; and he might give him a pointer--tell him what
line to take. Anyhow, it would please Winterman, and take the edge off
his disappointment. I saw that as soon as I proposed it.”

“Some one who’s never heard of Pellerin?”

Mrs. Beecher Bain, large, smiling, diffuse, reached out parenthetically
from the incoming throng on her threshold to waylay Bernald with the
question as he was about to move past her in the wake of his companion.

“Oh, keep straight on, Mr. Winterman!” she interrupted herself to call
after the latter. “Into the back drawing-room, please! And remember,
you’re to sit next to me--in the corner on the left, close under the
platform.”

She renewed her interrogative clutch on Bernald’s sleeve. “Most curious!
Doctor Wade has been telling me all about him--how remarkable you all
think him. And it’s actually true that he’s never heard of Pellerin?
Of course as soon as Doctor Wade told me that, I said ‘Bring him!’
It will be so extraordinarily interesting to watch the first
impression.--Yes, do follow him, dear Mr. Bernald, and be sure that you
and he secure the seats next to me. Of course Alice Fosdick insists on
being with us. She was wild with excitement when I told her she was to
meet some one who’d never heard of Pellerin!”

On the indulgent lips of Mrs. Beecher Bain conjecture speedily passed
into affirmation; and as Bernald’s companion, broad and shaggy in his
visibly new evening clothes, moved down the length of the crowded rooms,
he was already, to the ladies drawing aside their skirts to let him
pass, the interesting Huron of the fable.

How far he was aware of the character ascribed to him it was impossible
for Bernald to discover. He was as unconscious as a tree or a cloud, and
his observer had never known any one so alive to human contacts and yet
so secure from them. But the scene was playing such a lively tune on
Bernald’s own sensibilities that for the moment he could not adjust
himself to the probable effect it produced on his companion. The young
man, of late, had made but rare appearances in the group of which Mrs.
Beecher Bain was one of the most indefatigable hostesses, and the Uplift
Club the chief medium of expression. To a critic, obliged by his trade
to cultivate convictions, it was the essence of luxury to leave them at
home in his hours of ease; and Bernald gave his preference to circles in
which less finality of judgment prevailed, and it was consequently less
embarrassing to be caught without an opinion.

But in his fresher days he had known the spell of the Uplift Club and
the thrill of moving among the Emancipated; and he felt an odd sense
of rejuvenation as he looked at the rows of faces packed about the
embowered platform from which Howland Wade was presently to hand down
the eternal verities. Many of these countenances belonged to the
old days, when the gospel of Pellerin was unknown, and it required
considerable intellectual courage to avow one’s acceptance of the very
doctrines he had since demolished. The latter moral revolution seemed to
have been accepted as submissively as a change in hair-dressing; and it
even struck Bernald that, in the case of many of the assembled ladies,
their convictions were rather newer than their clothes.

One of the most interesting examples of this facility of adaptation was
actually, in the person of Miss Alice Fosdick, brushing his elbow with
exotic amulets, and enveloping him in Arabian odours, as she leaned
forward to murmur her sympathetic sense of the situation. Miss Fosdick,
who was one of the most advanced exponents of Pellerinism, had large
eyes and a plaintive mouth, and Bernald had always fancied that she
might have been pretty if she had not been perpetually explaining
things.

“Yes, I know--Isabella Bain told me all about him. (He can’t hear us,
can he?) And I wonder if you realize how remarkably interesting it is
that we should have such an opportunity now--I mean the opportunity to
see the impression of Pellerinism on a perfectly fresh mind. (You
must introduce him as soon as the lecture’s over.) I explained that to
Isabella as soon as she showed me Doctor Wade’s note. Of course you see
why, don’t you?” Bernald made a faint motion of acquiescence, which she
instantly swept aside. “At least I think I can make you see why.
(If you’re sure he can’t hear?) Why, it’s just this--Pellerinism is in
danger of becoming a truism. Oh, it’s an awful thing to say! But then
I’m not afraid of saying awful things! I rather believe it’s my mission.
What I mean is, that we’re getting into the way of taking Pellerin for
granted--as we do the air we breathe. We don’t sufficiently lead our
conscious life in him--we’re gradually letting him become subliminal.”
 She swayed closer to the young man, and he saw that she was making a
graceful attempt to throw her explanatory net over his companion, who,
evading Mrs. Bain’s hospitable signal, had cautiously wedged himself
into a seat between Bernald and the wall.

“Did you hear what I was saying, Mr. Winterman? (Yes, I know who you
are, of course!) Oh, well, I don’t really mind if you did. I was talking
about you--about you and Pellerin. I was explaining to Mr. Bernald that
what we need at this very minute is a Pellerin revival; and we need
some one like you--to whom his message comes as a wonderful new
interpretation of life--to lead the revival, and rouse us out of our
apathy. ...

“You see,” she went on winningly, “it’s not only the big public
that needs it (of course their Pellerin isn’t ours!) It’s we, his
disciples, his interpreters, who discovered him and gave him to the
world--we, the Chosen People, the Custodians of the Sacred Books, as
Howland Wade calls us--it’s we, who are in perpetual danger of sinking
back into the old stagnant ideals, and practising the Seven Deadly
Virtues; it’s we who need to count our mercies, and realize anew what
he’s done for us, and what we ought to do for him! And it’s for that
reason that I urged Mr. Wade to speak here, in the very inner sanctuary
of Pellerinism, exactly as he would speak to the uninitiated--to repeat,
simply, his Kenosha lecture, ‘What Pellerinism means’; and we ought all,
I think, to listen to him with the hearts of little children--just as
you will, Mr. Winterman--as if he were telling us new things, and
we--”

“Alice, dear--” Mrs. Bain murmured with a deprecating gesture;
and Howland Wade, emerging between the palms, took the centre of the
platform.

A pang of commiseration shot through Bernald as he saw him there, so
innocent and so exposed. His plump pulpy body, which made his evening
dress fall into intimate and wrapper-like folds, was like a wide surface
spread to the shafts of irony; and the mild ripples of his voice
seemed to enlarge the vulnerable area as he leaned forward, poised on
confidential finger-tips, to say persuasively: “Let me try to tell you
what Pellerinism means.”

Bernald moved restlessly in his seat. He had the obscure sense of being
a party to something not wholly honourable. He ought not to have come;
he ought not to have let his companion come. Yet how could he have done
otherwise? John Pellerin’s secret was his own. As long as he chose
to remain John Winterman it was no one’s business to gainsay him; and
Bernald’s scruples were really justifiable only in respect of his own
presence on the scene. But even in this connection he ceased to feel
them as soon as Howland Wade began to speak.



VI


IT had been arranged that Pellerin, after the meeting of the Uplift
Club, should join Bernald at his rooms and spend the night there,
instead of returning to Portchester. The plan had been eagerly
elaborated by the young man, but he had been unprepared for the alacrity
with which his wonderful friend accepted it. He was beginning to see
that it was a part of Pellerin’s wonderfulness to fall in, quite simply
and naturally, with any arrangements made for his convenience, or
tending to promote the convenience of others. Bernald felt that his
extreme docility in such matters was proportioned to the force of
resistance which, for nearly half a life-time, had kept him, with his
back to the wall, fighting alone against the powers of darkness. In such
a scale of values how little the small daily alternatives must weigh!

At the close of Howland Wade’s discourse, Bernald, charged with his
prodigious secret, had felt the need to escape for an instant from
the liberated rush of talk. The interest of watching Pellerin was so
perilously great that the watcher felt it might, at any moment, betray
him. He lingered in the crowded drawing-room long enough to see his
friend enclosed in a mounting tide, above which Mrs. Beecher Bain and
Miss Fosdick actively waved their conversational tridents; then he took
refuge, at the back of the house, in a small dim library where, in his
younger days, he had discussed personal immortality and the problem of
consciousness with beautiful girls whose names he could not remember.

In this retreat he surprised Mr. Beecher Bain, a quiet man with a mild
brow, who was smoking a surreptitious cigar over the last number of the
Strand. Mr. Bain, at Bernald’s approach, dissembled the Strand under
a copy of the Hibbert Journal, but tendered his cigar-case with the
remark that stocks were heavy again; and Bernald blissfully abandoned
himself to this unexpected contact with reality.

On his return to the drawing-room he found that the tide had set toward
the supper-table, and when it finally carried him thither it was to land
him in the welcoming arms of Bob Wade.

“Hullo, old man! Where have you been all this time?--Winterman? Oh,
he’s talking to Howland: yes, I managed it finally. I believe
Mrs. Bain has steered them into the library, so that they shan’t be
disturbed. I gave her an idea of the situation, and she was awfully
kind. We’d better leave them alone, don’t you think? I’m trying to get a
croquette for Miss Fosdick.”

Bernald’s secret leapt in his bosom, and he devoted himself to the task
of distributing sandwiches and champagne while his pulses danced to the
tune of the cosmic laughter. The vision of Pellerin and his Interpreter,
face to face at last, had a Cyclopean grandeur that dwarfed all other
comedy. “And I shall hear of it presently; in an hour or two he’ll be
telling me about it. And that hour will be all mine--mine and his!” The
dizziness of the thought made it difficult for Bernald to preserve the
balance of the supper-plates he was distributing. Life had for him at
that moment the completeness which seems to defy disintegration.

The throng in the dining-room was thickening, and Bernald’s efforts
as purveyor were interrupted by frequent appeals, from ladies who had
reached repleteness, that he should sit down a moment and tell them all
about his interesting friend. Winterman’s fame, trumpeted abroad by Miss
Fosdick, had reached the four corners of the Uplift Club, and Bernald
found himself fabricating de toutes pieces a Winterman legend which
should in some degree respond to the Club’s demand for the human
document. When at length he had acquitted himself of this obligation,
and was free to work his way back through the lessening groups into the
drawing-room, he was at last rewarded by a glimpse of his friend, who,
still densely encompassed, towered in the centre of the room in all his
sovran ugliness.

Their eyes met across the crowd; but Bernald gathered only perplexity
from the encounter. What were Pellerin’s eyes saying to him? What
orders, what confidences, what indefinable apprehension did their long
look impart? The young man was still trying to decipher their complex
message when he felt a tap on the arm, and turned to encounter the
rueful gaze of Bob Wade, whose meaning lay clearly enough on the surface
of his good blue stare.

“Well, it won’t work--it won’t work,” the doctor groaned.

“What won’t?”

“I mean with Howland. Winterman won’t. Howland doesn’t take to him.
Says he’s crude--frightfully crude. And you know how Howland hates
crudeness.”

“Oh, I know,” Bernald exulted. It was the word he had waited for--he saw
it now! Once more he was lost in wonder at Howland’s miraculous faculty
for always, as the naturalists said, being true to type.

“So I’m afraid it’s all up with his chance of writing. At least I can
do no more,” said Wade, discouraged.

Bernald pressed him for farther details. “Does Winterman seem to mind
much? Did you hear his version?”

“His version?”

“I mean what he said to Howland.”

“Why no. What the deuce was there for him to say?”

“What indeed? I think I’ll take him home,” said Bernald gaily.

He turned away to join the circle from which, a few minutes before,
Pellerin’s eyes had vainly and enigmatically signalled to him; but the
circle had dispersed, and Pellerin himself was not in sight.

Bernald, looking about him, saw that during his brief aside with Wade
the party had passed into the final phase of dissolution. People still
delayed, in diminishing groups, but the current had set toward the
doors, and every moment or two it bore away a few more lingerers.
Bernald, from his post, commanded the clearing perspective of the two
drawing-rooms, and a rapid survey of their length sufficed to assure
him that Pellerin was not in either. Taking leave of Wade, the young
man made his way back to the drawing-room, where only a few hardened
feasters remained, and then passed on to the library which had been the
scene of the late momentous colloquy. But the library too was empty, and
drifting back uncertainly to the inner drawing-room Bernald found
Mrs. Beecher Bain domestically putting out the wax candles on the
mantel-piece.

“Dear Mr. Bernald! Do sit down and have a little chat. What a wonderful
privilege it has been! I don’t know when I’ve had such an intense
impression.”

She made way for him, hospitably, in a corner of the sofa to which she
had sunk; and he echoed her vaguely: “You were impressed, then?”

“I can’t express to you how it affected me! As Alice said, it was a
resurrection--it was as if John Pellerin were actually here in the room
with us!”

Bernald turned on her with a half-audible gasp. “You felt that, dear
Mrs. Bain?”

“We all felt it--every one of us! I don’t wonder the Greeks--it was
the Greeks?--regarded eloquence as a supernatural power. As Alice says,
when one looked at Howland Wade one understood what they meant by the
Afflatus.”

Bernald rose and held out his hand. “Oh, I see--it was Howland who made
you feel as if Pellerin were in the room? And he made Miss Fosdick feel
so too?”

“Why, of course. But why are you rushing off?”

“Because I must hunt up my friend, who’s not used to such late hours.”

“Your friend?” Mrs. Bain had to collect her thoughts. “Oh, Mr.
Winterman, you mean? But he’s gone already.”

“Gone?” Bernald exclaimed, with an odd twinge of foreboding. Remembering
Pellerin’s signal across the crowd, he reproached himself for not having
answered it more promptly. Yet it was certainly strange that his friend
should have left the house without him.

“Are you quite sure?” he asked, with a startled glance at the clock.

“Oh, perfectly. He went half an hour ago. But you needn’t hurry home
on his account, for Alice Fosdick carried him off with her. I saw them
leave together.”

“Carried him off? She took him home with her, you mean?”

“Yes. You know what strange hours she keeps. She told me she was going
to give him a Welsh rabbit, and explain Pellerinism to him.”

“Oh, if she’s going to explain--” Bernald murmured. But his amazement
at the news struggled with a confused impatience to reach his rooms in
time to be there for his friend’s arrival. There could be no stranger
spectacle beneath the stars than that of John Pellerin carried off by
Miss Fosdick, and listening, in the small hours, to her elucidation of
his doctrines; but Bernald knew enough of his sex to be aware that such
an experiment may present a less humorous side to its subject than to
an impartial observer. Even the Uplift Club and its connotations might
benefit by the attraction of the unknown; and it was conceivable that
to a traveller from Mesopotamia Miss Fosdick might present elements of
interest which she had lost for the frequenters of Fifth Avenue. There
was, at any rate, no denying that the affair had become unexpectedly
complex, and that its farther development promised to be rich in comedy.

In the charmed contemplation of these possibilities Bernald sat over his
fire, listening for Pellerin’s ring. He had arranged his modest quarters
with the reverent care of a celebrant awaiting the descent of his deity.
He guessed Pellerin to be unconscious of visual detail, but sensitive
to the happy blending of sensuous impressions: to the intimate spell of
lamplight on books, and of a deep chair placed where one could watch
the fire. The chair was there, and Bernald, facing it across the hearth,
already saw it filled by Pellerin’s lounging figure. The autumn dawn
came late, and even now they had before them the promise of some
untroubled hours. Bernald, sitting there alone in the warm stillness of
his room, and in the profounder hush of his expectancy, was conscious
of gathering up all his sensibilities and perceptions into one
exquisitely-adjusted instrument of notation. Until now he had tasted
Pellerin’s society only in unpremeditated snatches, and had always left
him with a sense, on his own part, of waste and shortcoming. Now, in the
lull of this dedicated hour, he felt that he should miss nothing, and
forget nothing, of the initiation that awaited him. And catching sight
of Pellerin’s pipe, he rose and laid it carefully on a table by the
arm-chair.

“No. I’ve never had any news of him,” Bernald heard himself repeating.
He spoke in a low tone, and with the automatic utterance that alone made
it possible to say the words.

They were addressed to Miss Fosdick, into whose neighbourhood chance had
thrown him at a dinner, a year or so later than their encounter at the
Uplift Club. Hitherto he had successfully, and intentionally, avoided
Miss Fosdick, not from any animosity toward that unconscious instrument
of fate, but from an intense reluctance to pronounce the words which he
knew he should have to speak if they met.

Now, as it turned out, his chief surprise was that she should wait so
long to make him speak them. All through the dinner she had swept him
along on a rapid current of talk which showed no tendency to linger or
turn back upon the past. At first he ascribed her reserve to a sense
of delicacy with which he reproached himself for not having previously
credited her; then he saw that she had been carried so far beyond the
point at which they had last faced each other, that it was by the merest
hazard of associated ideas that she was now finally borne back to it.
For it appeared that the very next evening, at Mrs. Beecher Bain’s, a
Hindu Mahatma was to lecture to the Uplift Club on the Limits of the
Subliminal; and it was owing to no less a person than Howland Wade that
this exceptional privilege had been obtained.

“Of course Howland’s known all over the world as the interpreter of
Pellerinism, and the Aga Gautch, who had absolutely declined to speak
anywhere in public, wrote to Isabella that he could not refuse anything
that Mr. Wade asked. Did you know that Howland’s lecture, ‘What
Pellerinism Means,’ has been translated into twenty-two languages, and
gone into a fifth edition in Icelandic? Why, that reminds me,”
 Miss Fosdick broke off--“I’ve never heard what became of your queer
friend--what was his name?--whom you and Bob Wade accused me of
spiriting away after that very lecture. And I’ve never seen you since
you rushed into the house the next morning, and dragged me out of bed to
know what I’d done with him!”

With a sharp effort Bernald gathered himself together to have it out.
“Well, what did you do with him?” he retorted.

She laughed her appreciation of his humour. “Just what I told you, of
course. I said good-bye to him on Isabella’s door-step.”

Bernald looked at her. “It’s really true, then, that he didn’t go home
with you?”

She bantered back: “Have you suspected me, all this time, of hiding his
remains in the cellar?” And with a droop of her fine lids she added:
“I wish he had come home with me, for he was rather interesting, and
there were things I think I could have explained to him.”

Bernald helped himself to a nectarine, and Miss Fosdick continued on a
note of amused curiosity: “So you’ve really never had any news of him
since that night?”

“No--I’ve never had any news of him.”

“Not the least little message?”

“Not the least little message.”

“Or a rumour or report of any kind?”

“Or a rumour or report of any kind.”

Miss Fosdick’s interest seemed to be revived by the strangeness of the
case. “It’s rather creepy, isn’t it? What could have happened? You
don’t suppose he could have been waylaid and murdered?” she asked with
brightening eyes.

Bernald shook his head serenely. “No. I’m sure he’s safe--quite safe.”

“But if you’re sure, you must know something.”

“No. I know nothing,” he repeated.

She scanned him incredulously. “But what’s your theory--for you must
have a theory? What in the world can have become of him?”

Bernald returned her look and hesitated. “Do you happen to remember the
last thing he said to you--the very last, on the door-step, when he left
you?”

“The last thing?” She poised her fork above the peach on her plate. “I
don’t think he said anything. Oh, yes--when I reminded him that he’d
solemnly promised to come back with me and have a little talk he said he
couldn’t because he was going home.”

“Well, then, I suppose,” said Bernald, “he went home.”

She glanced at him as if suspecting a trap. “Dear me, how flat! I always
inclined to a mysterious murder. But of course you know more of him than
you say.”

She began to cut her peach, but paused above a lifted bit to ask, with a
renewal of animation in her expressive eyes: “By the way, had you heard
that Howland Wade has been gradually getting farther and farther away
from Pellerinism? It seems he’s begun to feel that there’s a Positivist
element in it which is narrowing to any one who has gone at all deeply
into the Wisdom of the East. He was intensely interesting about it the
other day, and of course I do see what he feels. ... Oh, it’s too
long to tell you now; but if you could manage to come in to tea some
afternoon soon--any day but Wednesday--I should so like to explain--”




THE EYES


I


WE had been put in the mood for ghosts, that evening, after an excellent
dinner at our old friend Culwin’s, by a tale of Fred Murchard’s--the
narrative of a strange personal visitation.

Seen through the haze of our cigars, and by the drowsy gleam of a coal
fire, Culwin’s library, with its oak walls and dark old bindings, made a
good setting for such evocations; and ghostly experiences at first hand
being, after Murchard’s brilliant opening, the only kind acceptable to
us, we proceeded to take stock of our group and tax each member for a
contribution. There were eight of us, and seven contrived, in a manner
more or less adequate, to fulfil the condition imposed. It surprised
us all to find that we could muster such a show of supernatural
impressions, for none of us, excepting Murchard himself and young Phil
Frenham--whose story was the slightest of the lot--had the habit of
sending our souls into the invisible. So that, on the whole, we had
every reason to be proud of our seven “exhibits,” and none of us would
have dreamed of expecting an eighth from our host.

Our old friend, Mr. Andrew Culwin, who had sat back in his arm-chair,
listening and blinking through the smoke circles with the cheerful
tolerance of a wise old idol, was not the kind of man likely to be
favoured with such contacts, though he had imagination enough to enjoy,
without envying, the superior privileges of his guests. By age and by
education he belonged to the stout Positivist tradition, and his habit
of thought had been formed in the days of the epic struggle between
physics and metaphysics. But he had been, then and always, essentially
a spectator, a humorous detached observer of the immense muddled variety
show of life, slipping out of his seat now and then for a brief dip into
the convivialities at the back of the house, but never, as far as one
knew, showing the least desire to jump on the stage and do a “turn.”

Among his contemporaries there lingered a vague tradition of his having,
at a remote period, and in a romantic clime, been wounded in a duel;
but this legend no more tallied with what we younger men knew of his
character than my mother’s assertion that he had once been “a charming
little man with nice eyes” corresponded to any possible reconstitution
of his dry thwarted physiognomy.

“He never can have looked like anything but a bundle of sticks,”
 Murchard had once said of him. “Or a phosphorescent log, rather,” some
one else amended; and we recognized the happiness of this description
of his small squat trunk, with the red blink of the eyes in a face like
mottled bark. He had always been possessed of a leisure which he had
nursed and protected, instead of squandering it in vain activities. His
carefully guarded hours had been devoted to the cultivation of a fine
intelligence and a few judiciously chosen habits; and none of the
disturbances common to human experience seemed to have crossed his sky.
Nevertheless, his dispassionate survey of the universe had not raised
his opinion of that costly experiment, and his study of the human race
seemed to have resulted in the conclusion that all men were superfluous,
and women necessary only because some one had to do the cooking. On the
importance of this point his convictions were absolute, and gastronomy
was the only science which he revered as dogma. It must be owned that
his little dinners were a strong argument in favour of this view,
besides being a reason--though not the main one--for the fidelity of his
friends.

Mentally he exercised a hospitality less seductive but no less
stimulating. His mind was like a forum, or some open meeting-place for
the exchange of ideas: somewhat cold and draughty, but light, spacious
and orderly--a kind of academic grove from which all the leaves had
fallen. In this privileged area a dozen of us were wont to stretch our
muscles and expand our lungs; and, as if to prolong as much as possible
the tradition of what we felt to be a vanishing institution, one or two
neophytes were now and then added to our band.

Young Phil Frenham was the last, and the most interesting, of these
recruits, and a good example of Murchard’s somewhat morbid assertion
that our old friend “liked ‘em juicy.” It was indeed a fact that Culwin,
for all his mental dryness, specially tasted the lyric qualities in
youth. As he was far too good an Epicurean to nip the flowers of
soul which he gathered for his garden, his friendship was not a
disintegrating influence: on the contrary, it forced the young idea
to robuster bloom. And in Phil Frenham he had a fine subject for
experimentation. The boy was really intelligent, and the soundness of
his nature was like the pure paste under a delicate glaze. Culwin had
fished him out of a thick fog of family dulness, and pulled him up to
a peak in Darien; and the adventure hadn’t hurt him a bit. Indeed,
the skill with which Culwin had contrived to stimulate his curiosities
without robbing them of their young bloom of awe seemed to me a
sufficient answer to Murchard’s ogreish metaphor. There was nothing
hectic in Frenham’s efflorescence, and his old friend had not laid even
a finger-tip on the sacred stupidities. One wanted no better proof of
that than the fact that Frenham still reverenced them in Culwin.

“There’s a side of him you fellows don’t see. I believe that story
about the duel!” he declared; and it was of the very essence of
this belief that it should impel him--just as our little party was
dispersing--to turn back to our host with the absurd demand: “And now
you’ve got to tell us about your ghost!”

The outer door had closed on Murchard and the others; only Frenham and I
remained; and the vigilant servant who presided over Culwin’s destinies,
having brought a fresh supply of soda-water, had been laconically
ordered to bed.

Culwin’s sociability was a night-blooming flower, and we knew that he
expected the nucleus of his group to tighten around him after midnight.
But Frenham’s appeal seemed to disconcert him comically, and he rose
from the chair in which he had just reseated himself after his farewells
in the hall.

“My ghost? Do you suppose I’m fool enough to go to the expense of
keeping one of my own, when there are so many charming ones in my
friends’ closets?--Take another cigar,” he said, revolving toward me
with a laugh.

Frenham laughed too, pulling up his slender height before the
chimney-piece as he turned to face his short bristling friend.

“Oh,” he said, “you’d never be content to share if you met one you
really liked.”

Culwin had dropped back into his armchair, his shock head embedded in
its habitual hollow, his little eyes glimmering over a fresh cigar.

“Liked--liked? Good Lord!” he growled.

“Ah, you have, then!” Frenham pounced on him in the same instant, with
a sidewise glance of victory at me; but Culwin cowered gnomelike among
his cushions, dissembling himself in a protective cloud of smoke.

“What’s the use of denying it? You’ve seen everything, so of course
you’ve seen a ghost!” his young friend persisted, talking intrepidly
into the cloud. “Or, if you haven’t seen one, it’s only because you’ve
seen two!”

The form of the challenge seemed to strike our host. He shot his head
out of the mist with a queer tortoise-like motion he sometimes had, and
blinked approvingly at Frenham.

“Yes,” he suddenly flung at us on a shrill jerk of laughter; “it’s only
because I’ve seen two!”

The words were so unexpected that they dropped down and down into a
fathomless silence, while we continued to stare at each other over
Culwin’s head, and Culwin stared at his ghosts. At length Frenham,
without speaking, threw himself into the chair on the other side of the
hearth, and leaned forward with his listening smile ...



II


“OH, of course they’re not show ghosts--a collector wouldn’t think
anything of them ... Don’t let me raise your hopes ... their one merit
is their numerical strength: the exceptional fact of their being two.
But, as against this, I’m bound to admit that at any moment I
could probably have exorcised them both by asking my doctor for a
prescription, or my oculist for a pair of spectacles. Only, as I
never could make up my mind whether to go to the doctor or the
oculist--whether I was afflicted by an optical or a digestive
delusion--I left them to pursue their interesting double life, though at
times they made mine exceedingly comfortable ...

“Yes--uncomfortable; and you know how I hate to be uncomfortable! But it
was part of my stupid pride, when the thing began, not to admit that I
could be disturbed by the trifling matter of seeing two--

“And then I’d no reason, really, to suppose I was ill. As far as I knew
I was simply bored--horribly bored. But it was part of my boredom--I
remember--that I was feeling so uncommonly well, and didn’t know how
on earth to work off my surplus energy. I had come back from a long
journey--down in South America and Mexico--and had settled down for the
winter near New York, with an old aunt who had known Washington Irving
and corresponded with N. P. Willis. She lived, not far from Irvington,
in a damp Gothic villa, overhung by Norway spruces, and looking exactly
like a memorial emblem done in hair. Her personal appearance was in
keeping with this image, and her own hair--of which there was little
left--might have been sacrificed to the manufacture of the emblem.

“I had just reached the end of an agitated year, with considerable
arrears to make up in money and emotion; and theoretically it seemed as
though my aunt’s mild hospitality would be as beneficial to my nerves as
to my purse. But the deuce of it was that as soon as I felt myself safe
and sheltered my energy began to revive; and how was I to work it off
inside of a memorial emblem? I had, at that time, the agreeable illusion
that sustained intellectual effort could engage a man’s whole activity;
and I decided to write a great book--I forget about what. My aunt,
impressed by my plan, gave up to me her Gothic library, filled with
classics in black cloth and daguerrotypes of faded celebrities; and I
sat down at my desk to make myself a place among their number. And to
facilitate my task she lent me a cousin to copy my manuscript.

“The cousin was a nice girl, and I had an idea that a nice girl was just
what I needed to restore my faith in human nature, and principally
in myself. She was neither beautiful nor intelligent--poor Alice
Nowell!--but it interested me to see any woman content to be so
uninteresting, and I wanted to find out the secret of her content. In
doing this I handled it rather rashly, and put it out of joint--oh, just
for a moment! There’s no fatuity in telling you this, for the poor girl
had never seen any one but cousins ...

“Well, I was sorry for what I’d done, of course, and confoundedly
bothered as to how I should put it straight. She was staying in the
house, and one evening, after my aunt had gone to bed, she came down to
the library to fetch a book she’d mislaid, like any artless heroine on
the shelves behind us. She was pink-nosed and flustered, and it suddenly
occurred to me that her hair, though it was fairly thick and pretty,
would look exactly like my aunt’s when she grew older. I was glad I had
noticed this, for it made it easier for me to do what was right; and
when I had found the book she hadn’t lost I told her I was leaving for
Europe that week.

“Europe was terribly far off in those days, and Alice knew at once what
I meant. She didn’t take it in the least as I’d expected--it would have
been easier if she had. She held her book very tight, and turned away a
moment to wind up the lamp on my desk--it had a ground glass shade with
vine leaves, and glass drops around the edge, I remember. Then she came
back, held out her hand, and said: ‘Good-bye.’ And as she said it she
looked straight at me and kissed me. I had never felt anything as fresh
and shy and brave as her kiss. It was worse than any reproach, and it
made me ashamed to deserve a reproach from her. I said to myself: ‘I’ll
marry her, and when my aunt dies she’ll leave us this house, and I’ll
sit here at the desk and go on with my book; and Alice will sit over
there with her embroidery and look at me as she’s looking now. And life
will go on like that for any number of years.’ The prospect frightened
me a little, but at the time it didn’t frighten me as much as doing
anything to hurt her; and ten minutes later she had my seal ring on my
finger, and my promise that when I went abroad she should go with me.

“You’ll wonder why I’m enlarging on this familiar incident. It’s because
the evening on which it took place was the very evening on which I
first saw the queer sight I’ve spoken of. Being at that time an ardent
believer in a necessary sequence between cause and effect I naturally
tried to trace some kind of link between what had just happened to me in
my aunt’s library, and what was to happen a few hours later on the same
night; and so the coincidence between the two events always remained in
my mind.

“I went up to bed with rather a heavy heart, for I was bowed under the
weight of the first good action I had ever consciously committed; and
young as I was, I saw the gravity of my situation. Don’t imagine from
this that I had hitherto been an instrument of destruction. I had been
merely a harmless young man, who had followed his bent and declined all
collaboration with Providence. Now I had suddenly undertaken to promote
the moral order of the world, and I felt a good deal like the trustful
spectator who has given his gold watch to the conjurer, and doesn’t know
in what shape he’ll get it back when the trick is over ... Still, a
glow of self-righteousness tempered my fears, and I said to myself as I
undressed that when I’d got used to being good it probably wouldn’t make
me as nervous as it did at the start. And by the time I was in bed, and
had blown out my candle, I felt that I really was getting used to it,
and that, as far as I’d got, it was not unlike sinking down into one of
my aunt’s very softest wool mattresses.

“I closed my eyes on this image, and when I opened them it must have
been a good deal later, for my room had grown cold, and the night was
intensely still. I was waked suddenly by the feeling we all know--the
feeling that there was something near me that hadn’t been there when I
fell asleep. I sat up and strained my eyes into the darkness. The room
was pitch black, and at first I saw nothing; but gradually a vague
glimmer at the foot of the bed turned into two eyes staring back at me.
I couldn’t see the face attached to them--on account of the darkness,
I imagined--but as I looked the eyes grew more and more distinct: they
gave out a light of their own.

“The sensation of being thus gazed at was far from pleasant, and you
might suppose that my first impulse would have been to jump out of bed
and hurl myself on the invisible figure attached to the eyes. But it
wasn’t--my impulse was simply to lie still ... I can’t say whether
this was due to an immediate sense of the uncanny nature of the
apparition--to the certainty that if I did jump out of bed I should
hurl myself on nothing--or merely to the benumbing effect of the eyes
themselves. They were the very worst eyes I’ve ever seen: a man’s
eyes--but what a man! My first thought was that he must be frightfully
old. The orbits were sunk, and the thick red-lined lids hung over the
eyeballs like blinds of which the cords are broken. One lid drooped
a little lower than the other, with the effect of a crooked leer; and
between these pulpy folds of flesh, with their scant bristle of lashes,
the eyes themselves, small glassy disks with an agate-like rim about the
pupils, looked like sea-pebbles in the grip of a starfish.

“But the age of the eyes was not the most unpleasant thing about them.
What turned me sick was their expression of vicious security. I don’t
know how else to describe the fact that they seemed to belong to a man
who had done a lot of harm in his life, but had always kept just inside
the danger lines. They were not the eyes of a coward, but of some one
much too clever to take risks; and my gorge rose at their look of base
astuteness. Yet even that wasn’t the worst; for as we continued to scan
each other I saw in them a tinge of faint derision, and felt myself to
be its object.

“At that I was seized by an impulse of rage that jerked me out of bed
and pitched me straight on the unseen figure at its foot. But of course
there wasn’t any figure there, and my fists struck at emptiness. Ashamed
and cold, I groped about for a match and lit the candles. The room
looked just as usual--as I had known it would; and I crawled back to
bed, and blew out the lights.

“As soon as the room was dark again the eyes reappeared; and I now
applied myself to explaining them on scientific principles. At first
I thought the illusion might have been caused by the glow of the last
embers in the chimney; but the fire-place was on the other side of my
bed, and so placed that the fire could not possibly be reflected in my
toilet glass, which was the only mirror in the room. Then it occurred
to me that I might have been tricked by the reflection of the embers in
some polished bit of wood or metal; and though I couldn’t discover any
object of the sort in my line of vision, I got up again, groped my way
to the hearth, and covered what was left of the fire. But as soon as I
was back in bed the eyes were back at its foot.

“They were an hallucination, then: that was plain. But the fact
that they were not due to any external dupery didn’t make them a
