confidence of the young philanthropist. 
"I just thought so," she said. She rose and took on 
her manner of quiet practicality. She laid her hands on the 
tray. 
" No, no," said Winterbourne. " I'll carry it up. I ought 
to be court-martialled and shot for not toting everything for 
you, you little nigger. Bess, I never saw you really laugh, 
before." 
Her lips curved again. 
" I guess I don't laugh very often." 
 
" Is It because you 're too infernally tired all the time ? 
I bet it is. This thing has got to stop. There 's going to 
be a wench in the kitchen, and Anna Clayton Ramsay 's 
going to be carted off to a sanatorium, and Lyddy to the 
work-'us, and I 'm going to send for a grand piano and a 
pile of books, and you 're going to be crammed with cul- 
ture and sent abroad to marry a wicount. Now I'll carry 
up the tray." 
At the head of the stairs Bess took one glass from it and 
went in to Mrs. Ramsay. 
" You carry in the other," she commanded. 
So Winterbourne unwillingly, even startled, as not having 
foreseen the path his helpfulness would lead him, took on 
himself the task of Ganymede and went into his wife's cham- 
ber, she sitting pretty and rosy against pillows, not in the least, 
he grudgingly thought, Bess and her cares still in his mind, 
like any invalid he ever saw. The old eager look leaped 
into her eyes at sight of him, and he, giving her the glass 
awkwardly, met it with a kindly one. If she was not sick 
— and sometimes on his evening walks he doubted whether 
she was not able to be very much on deck — she must be 
encouraged to a better state of things. She had something 
to say to him, and pointed out the chair at her side. 
" John, I think Bess believes in the immanence of God." 
" Of course she does. She 's too healthy not to." 
" Do you mean her physical health ? " 
" Of course I do. Partly. Her blood flows true. When 
she stands upright, there 's a line from the throne of God 
going straight through her and pinning her to the earth. 
And the currents go both ways, up from the earth and down 
from God." 
Catherine did not know what he meant, though it sounded 
mystical and she strained her tired mind to see if she could 
 
get out of it something valuable to be salted down. She had 
a great idea of using things afterwards, not perhaps for com- 
petitive display, but in some fashion to add to the richness 
of life. Winterbourne also didn't quite know what he meant, 
only that it was exactly as Bess seemed to him. 
"What makes you say it's because she's healthy?" 
Catherine groped again. " If that was so, the people with 
the strongest bodies would be the most spiritual. And 
they 're not." 
" Anything that's unspoiled believes in God," said Win- 
terbourne dogmatically. "Anyway he believes in Him 
enough to be afraid of Him or fight Him. Bess is such a 
perfect darling she believes in Him and loves Him." 
Catherine did not think he ought to call even so filial 
a creature " darling " ; but she let it pass, finding in herself 
scant strength for any controversy. 
"Afraid of Himl" she said. "I can understand that. 
' Caliban upon Setebos.' " 
Winterbourne had not read very far in the poet Brown- 
ing. He said, after one trial, he had no music and was a 
slovenly workman besides. It wasn't because he was cryp- 
tic that people had to cut paths through his labyrinths ; it 
was because he had been too cocky to take pains. So he 
shared the impression common among others in a more 
humble intellectual walk, that Setebos was an island. 
" I don't know anything about that," he said. " I only 
know if there 's a thunder-shower, I 'm afraid and put my 
head under the bedclothes. When the sun comes out I 
strut. That 's because I 've heard Zeus speaking. Bess 
wouldn't do that. When the lightning wakes her, she prob- 
ably pops her head up and says, ' Want something. Father 
Zeus? What d'ye lack? Hebe asleep? Ganymede gone 
on a tout ? Want me to carry a tray to somebody ? ' " 
 
• 
"John," said Catherine, almost in a portentous tone, "did 
you know that Anna Clayton Ramsay believes we are God ? " 
"Does she?" Winterbourne responded grimly. "Well, 
I never 've seen anything in Anna Clayton Ramsay person- 
ally to support her claim." 
" I have always been an agnostic," Catherine went on ; 
but Winterbourne forgot she was sick and to be considered, 
and emitted the sound that served him for a groan. 
"An agnostic. Cat! You're not an agnostic. Nobody is 
but a few old dickeys that have read books till their heads 
are addled. You've just got hold of a lot of terms, and 
they 've choked you up so you can't breathe. You 're like a 
mouse in a rag-bag. The bag shakes so you can't even 
make a nest there." 
" But you 're not a churchman yourself, John," she re- 
minded him. 
"A churchman I" said Winterbourne, with scorn, getting 
out of his chair. " I believe in Jupiter, and so does Bess. I 
swear by Jupiter and I swear by Bess. So does Jupiter, I bet 
you. We 're a close corporation." 
Catherine was looking at him and frowning, forgetting to 
drink her egg-nog. The glass shook a little in her grasp, and 
Winterbourne steadied it for her. 
" There, there," he said with a gruff kindliness, " drink 
your milk." 
But he wondered at the same time how a delicate creature 
like this could be fed all day long and continue to absorb 
it. Catherine had not finished her queries. 
"She says I must pray, too." The phrase held wonder. 
"Bess?" 
" But she doesn't know any prayers except ' Now I lay 
me.' I had her get the prayer-book and read me some. She 
quite waked up, John. She said they were beautiful. But I 
 
persuaded her to go to church, a week ago Sunday, and last 
Sunday she wouldn't go. She said it made her sleepy." 
" Good for Bess ! Don't you interfere between her and 
Jove, Catherine." 
" It isn't Jove." Her eyes grew larger. It looked even 
as if she had been frightened by something sacrilegious per- 
haps, and Winterbourne, noting that, thought it seemed like 
terror at seeing sacred unapproachable things brought to the 
aid of the market-place. " She said I must pray for strength 
to do what I ought to do. But when I asked her what I 
ought to do, she said she didn't know. What do you sup- 
pose she thinks I ought to do?" 
Winterbourne didn't know either ; but the imp inside him 
that commented on current events suggested it might be that 
she should cease drinking egg-nogs and get up and behave 
prettily. 
" I asked her if she prayed night and morning, and she 
said no, she was too busy. Don't you think that's the 
queerest thing ? " 
" No. I think it 's the most outrageous thing I ever heard." 
"Oh, she didn't intend to be outrageous." But though 
he had not meant that, he would not tell her what did seem 
to him as outrageous, that the child should not have time 
for her baby-prayers. " But when I asked her when she did 
pray, she said, ' 'Most all the time.' Does she seem to you 
like a religious girl, John ? " 
" She seems to me like a martyr in this abominable house," 
Winterbourne muttered within his beard. 
"What? But this is queer, too. I asked her if she knelt 
to pray, and she said no. She said if she did that folks might 
see her and it would take her mind off. Now if she 's as 
devout as she seems, shouldn't you think she'd be glad to 
be in difficult circumstances?" 
 
"No, by thunder!" said Winterbourne, " I should n't. 
She 's a perfectly normal creature, and she knows the Al- 
mighty understands her like a book. She knows she needs 
every grain of powder she 's got for warfare. She isn't going 
to spend any popping off at marks." 
" Do you mean the conservation of energy ? " 
He hated his colloquialisms when they were so belabored. 
" Good-night, Catherine," he said. " You'll be tired." 
"You were dear to come," she told him. Her face 
smoothed out, and the brightness ran back into it. He had 
the shamed pleasure of escape, flavored with the certainty 
that she would want him to come again. 
 
XXIII 
WINTERBOURNE went down into his particu- 
lar sitting-room, where the windows were wide 
open and the night breeze came in, thinking at 
first that he would light his lamp and read away the hours 
that always seemed to be at his command for this loved 
pleasure. Sleep was not so necessary to him as it used to 
be, and he often found himself wishing it was not desirable 
at all. Though he thought he had a healthy acquiescence 
in the course of things, the wane of physical life, the going 
hence into a decreed obscurity when the body is no more, 
he kept a steady serious love for the earth and her beau- 
ties, and no hours of day and night together were enough 
to exhaust his tried passion for her. But to-night even 
Theocritus seemed a task. He was a little tired, more with a 
weariness of the mind from his few minutes with Catherine 
than from the day itself. All his occupations now, he would 
frankly have owned, were play. It was play to help Dwight 
Hunter run up and down the rows of carrots with a wheel- 
hoe, fun to think their feathery green was his because he 
had evoked it from the earth, fun to go clamming and come 
home so full of salt air that his body was one great appe- 
tite, and then to stretch his legs and smoke. But when 
inconvenient questions began to play upon his brain, then 
he was tired. 
His problem now was to save Bess from her task of 
nurse and kitchen-maid ; but she would not be saved. She 
knew more than any of them about the scared mind of 
Lyddy, fearing more invasion, trembling over her kitchen 
 
rights, wondering, in spite of her trust in Winterbourne, 
whether she might not be crowded out altogether and per- 
haps end her days with the relations with whom she had 
had perpetual warfare. To Winterbourne, Lyddy was a 
dear old creature intimately connected with his own life ; 
but even he did not see through the crust of her cantanker- 
ousness that she was a pathetic old woman with a trembling 
heart. For her sake Bess would have no other kitchen 
help. Therefore, the only other factor in the problem was 
Mrs. Ramsay, and she must go. Sick or well she must go 
home to her own job. The phrase pleased him, and he bit 
his teeth on the stem of his cold pipe and repeated it grimly. 
Her husband and her children were the job she had under- 
taken. 
Then suddenly, under his breath, Winterbourne began 
to laugh. He continued, though still softly, because no un- 
restrained mirth was so necessary to him as to bethink him- 
self not to call down something feminine from above to 
inquire what the matter was. Even Bess would have broken 
his self-communing into pieces. The cap he had meant for 
Mrs. Ramsay had been suddenly caught by some breeze of 
fancy, whirled about and settled on his own head, and, 
to his pathetic terror, it fitted. What if this house, what 
if the wife he had married and the attendant train of cir- 
cumstance, were his job, as Mrs. Ramsay's gold-topped 
children were hers ? He had for the last few years avoided 
fruitless speculation over the earlier part of his life. Ha¥- 
ing settled that he and Catherine were to. live apart, he 
chose not to dwell upon it any more. It had seemed to 
him that he had turned out of a way that led nowhere — a 
path where you were expected to keep flowers always blos- 
soming, but where there were fragrances too heavy for the 
normal nerves, into a broad highway, and here the world was 
 
walking up and down on its sane, commonplace errands, 
and it was a man's chief pleasure to look on. But could it 
be that, having entered the choking path and begun to water 
the flowers there, he had got to continue cherishing them ? 
Possibly nobody earned exemption by merely wanting it, 
and was it his task to recognize that he still had a house, in 
the warmest meaning of the word, and that it was his task 
to set it in order and keep it so ? 
He resolutely turned back to the beginning of it all, 
when Catherine had left him to go abroad, and they had 
both realized that it was for their lifetime. This was his 
deed. He had not said it should be so, but he had made it 
so by dividing the property and showing her that his was 
to be henceforth a different order of life, one that she not 
only was unfitted to enter, but that she would not wish 
to share. He made himself recall pictures he had then 
resolutely put by as part of the hurt of life that need not 
be perpetuated. Why should a man in the light of modern 
day scarify himself with knives of penitence? He saw her 
wan face when they parted, the pathetic eyes that seemed 
always to be beseeching him to make her happiness. It 
wasn't he, he often wanted to tell her, out of his first sav- 
age impatience at it all, it wasn't he that had the power of 
life and death over her happiness. It was life itself. This 
present world, if you let yourself be imprisoned by the pas- 
sions and desires of it, is a bad box to be in. That, she 
never had the wit to recognize. She looked to him as the 
inferior god who could weave certainties, just as Lyddy 
turned to him to make her safety. And he saw now that if 
it was his job, he had got, if not to cause her happiness, to 
help her to endurance. 
Winterbourne, in his way of long reflection, was always 
recognizing the pathos of woman-things who are so in love 
 
with happiness. Yet perhaps it was being in love with 
beauty really, because, satisfy the ideal in them, and they 
will starve, walk over hot iron, accept martyrdom gladly. 
It made him angry with them, furious, that they should 
keep on carrying this banner of the ideal into the market- 
place, and expecting men to rally round it. It made so 
much trouble, not for him only and his busy mates, but for 
the women, too. Why was it that they had to worship this 
absurd romance, the glamour that exists only to veil the 
hard condition underneath ? Nobody could meet their im- 
possible ideals, nobody but the poets on the printed page; 
the poets themselves were no such admirable figures, unless, 
indeed, they were dead. 
His mind went wandering off into the past where there 
were knights and that kingdom in the air called chivalry. 
It was enchanting to him, too, the aerial framework of it, 
when he saw it in the sky. But how men who were making 
trusts and fighting trusts, rolling over and over, their teeth 
at each other's throats in the dust of the highway, could be 
expected to see gleaming cities above them, armies fight- 
ing in the clouds, he could not guess. Yet the unalterable 
conviction never left him that Catherine looked to him for 
her happiness and to no one else. And he had, in the years 
so far behind them that they two were no longer the two 
they were then, given her the biggest of promissory notes. 
But nature, as colossal in her brute way as the soul of man, 
had risen up and denied her joy. He could not create it for 
her, because they were different people now. How could he 
make her serene when she made him uneasy ? With Bess he 
was as much at ease as if she were a pretty child playing in the 
yard while he pursued his chosen homely tasks. If he called 
her to look at a butterfly, she would come, say ' Pretty,' and 
return to her own as simple deeds. But Catherine, if he 
 
summoned her to see the butterfly, would flush and glow 
and ask him if he meant the soul. They were not mates of 
kindred tastes, going hand in hand together through a world 
they saw with the same eyes. What should be done about 
it now? Should he try to make her see with his eyes? The 
petty tyranny of it 1 Her way was as good as his, if he could 
stomach it. Should he try to see with hers ? Impossible. It 
would wear out his endurance in a week, so that he would 
have made himself more cruel to her than before. Yet, he 
saw more plainly, the more he forced himself to look the 
state of things in the face, that it could not be shifted. It 
was his job. 
 
XXIV 
EVERY morning Winterbournc went over to the Ram- 
says' and started the children on their day. At first, 
finding Tonty doing it, he washed the faces of Teeny 
and Tiny, but this he gave over because Tim, seeing him 
at it, had laughed. Winterbourne set a big bowl on the play- 
room hearth as a spot that might be slopped with impunity, 
and Tim stood in the doorway several minutes, creased with 
mirth, to note the stoical forbearance on the nurse's face, 
the look, suited to the children's expectations, as if he liked 
it. Yet Winterbourne did it badly, deft as he was, because 
Teeny and Tiny, from his participance in it, would regard 
it as a game. Winterbourne looked up and saw him, and at 
Tim's morning face of smiles, he frowned. 
"Come here, young man," he said. "Take a hand your- 
self." 
But Tim refused and gave the variety of laugh known as 
a snicker. 
" You go ahead, Jackie," he recommended. " You 're 
doing it elegant. Nobody can do it as elegant as you." 
Winterbourne dried a shining pink cheek tenderly with a 
towel too smooth to take the water, and albeit full of holes. 
It was all he and Tonty had been able to find. 
" They 're your own blood and bone, young man," he 
said. "You 'd better take a hand at them now and then." 
But Tim shook his headsunnily and went away whistling. 
The wise Tonty heard this, and it gave her a serious look 
for a long time after the children were clean and until the 
day's carnival had made them dirty again. This was the first 
 
time she had suspected that Jackie's deeds, done for them, 
were not a part of his pleasure. Now it seemed that they 
were tasks, undertaken from benevolence, though she did 
not know so long a word, and the knowledge graved 
another line in her understanding of life, a line that 
should some time set its visible counterpart upon her fore- 
head also. From that morning she herself washed the two 
smallest faces, and bribed Tony, by means that led to her 
own penury in toys and dearest possessions, to wash his. 
Sometimes the bribes were big enough, sometimes they 
failed, and then Tony went smooched like a coal-man. But 
the two little ones she could manage by the sleight of her 
vigorous young arm, and they were made to rise the earlier 
that she and they might have their daily battle over the 
tub. 
Tonty was very much hated about this time. Often her 
lavatory offences were not forgotten all day long, and she was 
an outcast from her clan. On Saturday only there was a riot 
known as full bath. Of this little Harriet had official charge, 
but so ill did she accomplish her mission that Mr. Ramsay 
himself, the unknown as much almost to his children as to 
the town, plunged into the breach and either scrubbed his 
offspring or in some dark fashion ensured their cleansing. 
Winterbourne felt at one time a grudging appreciation of 
Mrs. Ramsay. Here she had been known as an absentee 
mother, and yet, behold, the children were manifestly in 
greater disorder than before her exile. This, in a modified 
form, he said one day to Tim. 
" The children evidently miss their mother very much," 
he conceded. 
Tim replied with an airy cynicism, — 
" They miss Mary Flaherty, that 's who they miss. If 
Mary 'd come back, we 'd all be as smooth as silk." 
 
As smooth as silk they had never been since Tim's birth, 
yet everything being relative, it might seem so now. 
But a solemn morning had come when, summoned by 
Bess, the children were to see their mother, and the three of 
them, marshalled by Tonty, set forth on the road, with hair 
just escaping from its douche and brushing into the curl 
nature had long ago decided upon, and cheeks shining pink. 
Tonty had thought the proprieties demanded that Tim also 
should go, but he had drawn the sheet up to his chin and 
bidden her forge ahead and let a man sleep. Tonty reasoned 
that he also was a child, though so long a one, and it seemed 
an ill return for the clemency of Bess in bidding them to this 
great ceremonial not to respond fully. They all had an im- 
perfect idea of what they were to see. Once they had pottered 
off alone to a woman's club in town where mother was to 
speak, and had never reached it at all, through an incomplete 
understanding of the way ; but they had brought up at a 
cider mill, and been taken home by a farmer in the edge of 
the evening, soaked through and through with the juice of 
apples, and heavy-headed with sleep. But this was a festival 
decreed and they went toward it gravely. They were four 
beautiful children, the sun lighting their golden tops, and 
whatever raiment they had on hidden by four of the dirtiest 
tiers mortal child was ever clothed withal. Bess saw them 
coming their eager straggling way, and went down the path 
to meet them. She appraised the tiers, and regretted them, 
but said nothing, knowing from the care on Tonty's brow 
that the best possible had been done, and to criticise would 
be to add a darker veil to that sweet, serious face. 
Bess had a little table set out in the arbor. There were 
heart-shaped cookies for it, by and by, and goblets of morn- 
ing's milk. She took a hand of Tony, for he was frowning 
by this time in suspicion of the quest, and went in with a gay 
 
alacrity, as if it were a very nice errand they had come on, 
Tony squirmed a little to get his fingers away from her strong 
ones, and his face twisted slightly. He wanted to roar out 
with the candor of the natural man and demand what he was 
here for anyway, on strange stairs. But even as he longed, 
his small legs were lifting over the treads, and he reflected 
that after all he was a man ; and then he was in a pretty room 
and a lady lay there in bed, with a ruffle round her neck, and 
he was led up to her, the others following, and told, " Here 's 
mother." Bess released him then and gave the others a kindly 
little poke to get them into line, and turned about and left 
them. She had things to do in the adjacent room, and her 
good sense told her to let Mrs. Ramsay see her children un- 
hindered. But really nobody but Tonty, who pondered many 
things in her heart, and had kept a. clear memory that Jackie 
had told her mother was sick and gone away to get well, 
knew it was mother at all. It was a nice pink lady with smooth 
brown hair, the braids of it coming out on each shoulder of 
her nightie, and she was looking at them steadily. There 
was a good deal of the baby in Tony, when he was not on 
his native ground. Hegot uneasy under the look, and thought 
he would turn away in a minute and begin to whistle; but 
somehow he stayed staring back at her, and really in his con- 
fusion and the strain of it all, he wanted to cry. But the lady 
looked at Tonty now more directly than at the rest and said 
plainly, — 
" How dirty their shoe-strings are ! " 
She had meant to say tiers, and the innocent word had 
flown away and incontinently escaped her. All the corners 
of her mind that had to do with speech were disordered still. 
She would have a great deal of repacking and labelling to do 
there before she could put her hand on things in the dark. 
Tonty frowned anxiously, and bent to look at their pathetic 
 
feet. She had insisted on shoes to-day because it was a Sun- 
day occasion, and the mismated yawning gear she found had 
not justified the valor of the search. Yet the strings, soggy 
with dust and wear, had not seemed to her inferior enough 
to merit scrutiny, 
" Come here," said Mrs. Ramsay. More pink had run 
into her face and her eyes glistened. Something in the spec- 
tacle of four clean faces in the morning sun, four gleaming 
heads, seemed to her noteworthy. " Kiss mother," she in- 
vited them. 
Tonty gravely did it, and with her duteous right arm 
brought Teeny and Tiny to the scratch. They would have 
kissed anybody that looked as pleasant as the lady in bed, 
if they happened to feel like kissing. Being normal little 
animals, they sometimes felt so madly like it that they could 
have kissed the turkey-gobbler if he would have put his 
feathers flat long enough for them to stop being afraid of 
him. And again Helen herself might have wooed and seen 
them taking to their bosoms some damaged doll of sawdust 
lineage. But Tony was in no such vein. He stepped back a 
pace, and his freckles stood out roundly over the pallor under 
them. 
" You ain't mother," he said hoarsely. " I won't." 
" Of course I 'm mother," said Mrs. Ramsay remind- 
ingly, almost meltingly, for he looked to her a very nice 
little boy. Besides, she was hurt. " Why do you think I 'm 
not mother?" 
Challenged thus to the point of pure reason, Tony was 
ready, with indisputable proof. 
" Mother," said he, "wears a bonnet — and gloves." 
Mrs. Ramsay seemed to collapse visibly in the bed, and 
stared at her little boy, not to put him out of countenance, 
but with a sincere desire to comprehend him. She had begun 
 
to wonder about her children, how they were doing without 
the wise brooding she made no doubt she gave them. Hav- 
ing summoned them, she had seen them, in candid anticipa- 
tion, flocking to her breast. But here was a set-faced little 
boy, hands clenched across his rotundity under the dirty 
tier, and he abjured her. Mrs. Ramsay had never felt so 
small, not when a statesman, in open meeting, challenged 
her statistics. 
Tonty was mortified. She felt partly the hostess of the 
meeting and partly the mother of the three piebald waifs, 
half-clean half-dirty, like illustrations of the origin of evil. 
It was her part to offer some gracious consolation to the 
repulsed lady, the while her good little right hand itched to 
lay upon Tony the smacking he deserved. 
" Shall you come home soon, mother? " she inquired, with 
a sweet precision, and Mrs. Ramsay replied that she should 
come as soon as she stopped remembering her cerebellum. 
And here Bess, judging the interval by the amount of work 
she had done in absence, considered it time to remove the 
guests, and swept them all downstairs before her, almost 
tumbling over one another now in their eagerness to escape, 
and out to their arboreal banquet, where even Tonty, released 
from the spell of the attractive but exacting lady called 
mother, chorussed with the rest. 
While they ate and choked ecstatically, Winterbourne on 
his own mission, self-appointed, the child of last night's rev- 
erie, appeared at his wife's bedside. She was quite placid. 
The time for her mid-forenoon drive was not yet ; she had 
had breakfast, and to lie unnoted, by the world forgot, was as 
near release from her haunting nervous miseries as she could 
now attain. But here was her husband, something that 
looked like eagerness shining in his eyes; really it was only 
the determination to be a good boy. 
 
" I want you to dress, Catherine,' said he, ''and come out 
for a walk." 
She looked up at him in a terrified amaze. The time was 
not many weeks ago when she would have hailed the invi- 
tation as the paean to the bride, and gone with him light- 
footed. Now she had passed into that no man's land where 
bed is the house of refuge, and its laws concern risings and 
sleepings and the administering of food. In so far as he 
would drag her forth, he was an invader, her enemy. 
"Where's Bess?" she helplessly besought him. Bess
being omniscient, would know whether this thing had to be. 
"You needn't put on all your things," he encouraged 
her. " We 're going down the back path to the Valley of 
Birds. Nobody'll see you. In ten minutes I'll knock." 
He left her, and when the door closed behind him, she 
could feel no relief. She knew he was on the other side of 
it, inexorable, and that here was the chance she had come 
back to seize — of being a wife after his own indifferent 
heart, now mysteriously requiring her. She did get up, and 
she did dress, the outer covering only her pretty niglige; 
and with a shawl over that and her braids down her back she 
looked like a frightened creature reft unprepared from home. 
She opened the door uncertainly, hoping he was gone ; but 
he was there in the plenitude of his strength and mastery. 
" That 's a good girl," said he. " Now take my arm. 
We'll slip out at the side door, and nobody'll be the wiser." 
Bess, she prayed, would be the wiser. All her hope lay 
in championship, at some random point, when they went 
through the house. But the sitting-room, the blinds closed 
toward the full sun, lay in a clouded peace. Children's voices 
came from the back, but that was not the way they were 
going. Through the door he drew her, in a haste she found 
it hard to follow, and down the path between the carrots. 
 
through the gate and into a green lane. Midway in the car- 
rots she had a recurrence of her sense that it was absurd to 
have them there, encroaching toward the house, but it was 
only a comment of the mind now. Her feelings were en- 
gaged far otherwise. Since she was going to die before they 
reached home, what matter whether carrots had been sown 
or asphodel? The lane led to a miraculous pasture here in 
the outskirts of the town, pine woods, a violet bank in the 
early days of the year, and a spring. But in the midst was a 
circular knoll, and this was where they were wont to come 
to sit, and here nested the birds who had found out that in 
Winterbourne's woods they were never shot. There was a 
peculiar orchestral effect of them here, as if the way the val- 
ley lay drew in sounds from all woodland quarters, and in 
the evening it was brave to hear the " kling " of the thrush, 
and fancy you were in deeper coverts. 
Catherine knew its beauties and repute, and that the way 
to it even, the winding lane with roses and tangled black- 
berry, was like a road to summer; but to-day the forms of 
things rose darkly before her eyes, and the smoke of glory, 
as from an altar where beauty burns before high God, was 
absent. But still he bore her along, talking a little, in his 
big voice that sounded louder than it need, and she could 
not answer. Winterbournc never heeded that from anybody. 
He was of the race of the born soliloquist. What he said 
was the innocently egotistic expression of his own mind, like 
savage man roaring in the wilderness because something in 
him demands release. After a long time, it seemed to her, 
they were in the Valley of Birds, and Winterbourne released 
her arm with a breath of content over his clever purpose. 
" Sit down on the bank, Catherine,'' he bade her. " Lie 
down. Lie on your back and look up. Don't you call this 
better than the ceiling of a room f " 
 
She did He down, but on her side, and put an arm over 
her eyes to shut out the hateful trees. 
" We must come by dawn some day," he said, disposing 
himself on the grass with satisfaction. " That 's when the 
birds get in their work. Little devils ! to say all they 've got 
to say while they 're alone ; they know we 're tied to our 
beds by sloth and civilization, because we use up every- 
thing we 've got in the course of twenty-four hours and can't 
renew ourselves in time to be up at the morning chorus. 
If we held service in the woods, we should know a few 
things we don't now." 
So he rolled on, forgetting Catherine, forgetting every pre- 
conceived determination, and conscious of what he some- 
times called, in moments of formulating, the Pan feeling, 
the sense that he was at one with his habitation, the earth. 
The earth currents ran without let through his veins, and he 
was not too old to feel his heart beat with a serene ecstasy. 
He murmured to himself now stanzas of poetry, the mean- 
ing of it, the English or the Greek of it not mattering, so 
that the sound seemed to his ears to fit the diapason of the 
time. Winterbourne felt blest, as he lay and looked up into 
his own trees. Here he was in a seclusion he could govern, 
as deep, so far as the ear and eye went, at this point, as if 
forests encompassed him. He had the robust health that 
lets a man still answer the call of beauty and of life, and dis- 
ordering emotions were far behind him. And then his eyes, 
following down the curious fretwork of a tree-bole to the 
needles below it, were caught by the blue and white figure 
stretched there in its unthinking grace, and he remembered 
the woman-thing he had brought out to lie in the lap of the 
woods and be mothered by the great kindness of the air. 
"Cat," he said softly, "you asleep?" 
" No," she answered, in as still a voice, not taking her 
 
arm down from her eyes. " John, how are we ever going 
to get home ? " 
To her, also, it was the primeval wilderness, but with a 
difference. He, in his musing, found himself shocked back 
to verities. Here he had been regarding the wood festival 
as a deep solemnity, and she was wondering how she could 
get home. But he bade himself remember that Bess said she 
was sick, and little as it looked like it, treat her as one in- 
competent. 
"You don't want to go back yet," said he. It was a 
kindly tone, almost the one he would have used to Tonty, 
only she never would have been so incomprehensible. " You 
want to get yourself soaked with the air and the sun." 
" The sun must be on me," said the muffled voice. " I 'm 
very warm." 
" Wait till that sunbeam creeps down the pine at your 
left. Look at it. Cat. See how it lights the bark." 
She put her arm closer over her eyes. 
" Do you think you could go home and get Bess ? " she 
asked him. 
Her voice had a sound of terror. Winterbourne thought 
he heard the prophecy of tears. But it at once became evi- 
dent to him that she was depending too entirely on Bess, 
and this was the matter. Take away her staff, and she would 
walk alone. 
"You don't want Bess," he said reprovingly, and yet in a 
kindly way, too, because he could not, in his heart, imagine 
how anybody who had known the ministrations of that calm 
strength could fail to call on her. 
" I do want her," Catherine cried. 
He scented hysteria the more nearly. 
" I 'm going to die, John. I 'm willing to die, but I hate 
the feeling of it. Call Bess, or you'll be sorry." 
 
The insistency of it did move him, as a woman, let her 
be demanding enough, is sure to move a man. He yields 
out of a large affectation of good-nature perhaps, out of 
chivalry, of boredom, he may tell himself; but the boy in 
him answers the mother in her and he gives way. 
"You're a silly. Cat," said he. Nevertheless he got on 
his feet. " I'll find her, but Bess'll tell you you 're a 
silly." 
At the edge of the clearing he stopped. She had called 
him back. She was sitting up now, her eyes distraught, the 
color in her face disordered. 
" Let me go, too," she cried. " I can't be left here, John. 
I 'm afraid, afraid ! " 
Winterbourne returned to her. This, in a measure, he 
could understand. He took her wrists, drew her up, and 
kept one hand within his arm. 
" Come on then," he said. " I know what you 're afraid 
of. I felt it myself once, by the sea, in a bright day when 
there was nobody in sight nor likely to be." 
But her teeth were chattering, and she shuddered while 
he led her out. It was nothing to her to know what she 
was afraid of, while the dreadful place loomed dark about 
her and the way through the lane stretched into imf)ossible 
miles. 
" It was Pan," Winterbourne's cheerful voice boomed 
against her ears, "the god Pan. He's in the stillness, you 
know. He makes himself manifest because we omit his wor- 
ship. But the fear's all he expects of us. That's recognition. 
That 's all he wants, old Pan." 
But naught heard Catherine save that words were beating 
at her ears, and she felt her feet drag heavily. Midway in 
the lane she stopped, and found a little voice. 
" It's over, John. I 'm dying." 
 
Wintcrbourne, recalled from Pan, got an arm about her, 
and looked down into her face. And then her knees really 
did give way, and the weight of her on his arm was the only 
sign of her being a creature still in this world. He looked 
at her distraught, but for a second only. The spring — he 
thought of that — was behind them. For an instant he con- 
sidered leaving her there by the pathside, and running home 
for Bess ; but if she was ever to wake she might wake 
frightened and that would be infernal. Pan might get her, 
after all. So he lifted her to his heart, and carrying her as 
he might have carried Tonty, for she was very light and he 
was strong, he strode homeward as fast as he could go, and 
once he put his cheek down to hers and then kissed the 
tangle of her hair. It was a pity Catherine could not have 
had the kiss in the days when kisses freely given would 
have beatified her; but perhaps then she would not have 
prized this kind at all, for it was pure, warm pity of some- 
thing he had hurt. And when he came out into the carrot- 
patch, there was Bess, as if their need had summoned her, 
standing like a sea-woman perhaps watching for her hus- 
band's boat, hand over her eyes in the attitude of those who 
look and wait. 
Winterbourne thought he had never been so glad to see 
any human creature. He felt like throwing Catherine at her 
and himself also into her arms — those kind arms, in the 
illusion of his need, seemed big enough — and blubbering 
like Tony on her breast. But all he did do was to stride on, 
and say in a monotone when he reached her, — 
" I vc killed her, Bess, I 've killed her." 
Bess turned, and, he noted, stepping over carrot-plumes 
with precision, went on with him. She took up Catherine's 
lax hand and held the wrist a moment. 
" I 've killed her, Bess," he said again ; and she answered 
 
him quite seriously, as if she had to believe every word he 
said, — 
" No, no, you didn't mean to." 
And then Winterbourne despaired indeed, and knew Bess 
also judged that Catherine was dead. He carried her into the 
sitting-room, as still now as it had been with its morning 
peace upon it, and laid her on the old hard sofa. Bess mean- 
time flew for brandy, for several things, he thought, for she 
came back with her hands full ; but before the brandy had 
fairly touched her lips, Catherine's eyes opened, and Winter- 
bourne, looking down upon her, gulped and said, " My 
God ! " He wanted to say it a great many times, knowing it 
would be a relief to him, but Bess gave him a quick frown 
and shook her head. He knew he must be derelict indeed 
for Bess to frown at him, and took it meekly. Catherine had 
things administered to her, and resumed her aspect of a hu- 
man creature with blood in her, and then what did she do 
but turn from Bess whom she had been crying out for, who 
was her rescuer, Winterbourne would fervently have sworn, 
her earthly hope and prop, to him who had dragged her from 
her bed and taken her out into the tree-solitudes to hear dis- 
sertations on Pan. She smiled even, and when she spoke 
there was a little undertone of pleasure in her voice. 
" Didn't we have a nice time, John ?" 
Winterbourne could only stare at her. Then he grinned 
a little. Catherine was game, he thought. 
" You help her upstairs," Bess commanded, with her air of 
giving not much attention to the present outward state of 
things, having so much to think about. 
So Winterbourne put his arms about his wife and lifted 
her again, though Catherine had been willing to take less of 
him, and carried her up in silence to her bed. 
When Bess came down, her kingdom being once more in 
 
security, he was waiting for her in the hall. His hand was 
closed upon an idle pipe. Not even that solace would he 
allow himself until he knew where he stood as criminal or 
sound citizen. 
" Going to hit me, Bess?" he inquired. "Going to turn 
your old father out of doors ? " 
But she had no questions to ask. There was too much to 
do in the world, and she had got out of the habit of curios- 
ity, save as it furthered deeds. 
" I guess she'll go right off to sleep," she said, " after she's 
had her milk and egg." 
He followed her to the kitchen. 
" What was it, Bess?" he insisted. 
" Why, she fainted away," said Bess, as if faints even were 
all in the day's work. " Here, you measure me a pint of 
milk while I beat these eggs. It 's time for Mrs. Ramsay's 
too." 
Hercules did it with precision, being used to chemistry in 
his youth. 
" Is her heart wrong ? " he suggested. " Don't you think 
she 'd better see a doctor ? " 
" She 's just give out, that 's all," said Bess, with one of her 
returns to the vernacular. " She's got no strength. That 's 
the way they are." 
" They ! " Who were they ? He pondered on it weakly 
and dared not ask. Had Catherine entered some classified 
estate never more to emerge to the vaguer limits of the mass ? 
But he had to inquire finally, or perish with the wonder 
of it. 
" Who 's they, Bess ? " he insisted, following her like a 
boy, tagging her while she went from kitchen to the stairs 
again with her two foaming beakers deftly carried. She was 
treating him like a boy, too. 
 
" Why, folks when they 've used themselves up,' she 
vouchsafed him, almost impatiently it seemed, because he 
didn't know. " They get just this way. Mrs. Ramsay's done 
it one way ; she has another. Men-folks do it, too. Some- 
times they drop dead when they 're making a speech. That 's 
because they 've wore their hearts out. Sometimes they get 
just like this." 
She was halfway up the stairs now, and he stood finger- 
ing the newel-post in a maze. 
" Then it 's getting worn out ? " he said. " Bess, hold on 
a minute. If it's getting worn out, how about you? I don't 
suppose the rig you 're running here, being nigger dog to 
everybody, — I don't suppose you think that 's going to wear 
you out, do you ? " 
She looked gravely down at him and made the answer he 
least expected. 
" It might, I s'pose, but I don't mean to let it." 
She went on, leaving him confounded. He had looked for 
some gay disclaimer, some bravado of youth flaunting its 
own strength, but the brief homely words opened his mind 
suddenly to the idea that she was fighting a fight and knew 
it. She was not only serving other people, but she had the 
