own sakes, and go together, they soon come to know 
each other, and then they are satisfied and their 
growth is at an end. What I conceive is that two 
people must lose themselves, and all thought of them- 
selves, in their common love for something higher 
for some great ideal, some purpose, some vision of 
perfection. And they seek this together, and they re- 
joice in finding it, each for the other; and so they have 
always progress and growth they stand for something 
new to each other every day of their lives. To such 
love there is no end, and no chance of weariness or 
satiety." 
"I had never thought of it just so," said the girl. 
"But surely there must be a personal love in the be- 
ginning." 
"I don't know," he responded. "I hadn't thought 
about that. I'm afraid I'm impersonal by nature." 
"Yes," she said, "that's what has puzzled me. Don't 
you love human beings?" 
"Not as a rule," he confessed. 
 
"But then what is it you are interested in? Your- 
self?" 
"People tell me that's the case. And there's a sense 
in which it's true I'm wrapped up in the thought of 
myself as an art-work. I've a certain vision of the 
possibilities of my own being, and I'm trying to realize 
it. And if I do, then I can write books and communi- 
cate it to other people, so that they can judge it, and 
see if it's any better than the vision they have. It is 
a higher kind of unselfishness, I think." 
"I see," said Corydon. "It's not easy to under- 
stand." 
"No one understands it," he replied. "People are 
taught that they must sacrifice themselves for others; 
and they do it, blindly and stupidly, and never ask if 
the other person is worthy of the sacrifice and still 
less if they themselves have anything worth sacrificing." 
Corydon had clenched her hands suddenly. "How 
I hate* the religion of self-saerifice !" she cried. 
"Mine is a religion of self-development," said 
Thyrsis. "I am sacrificing myself for what other 
people ought to be." 
4. THEY came back after a time, to the subject 
of love; and to the ideal of it which Thyrsis meant to 
set forth in the book. It was the duty of every soul 
to seek the highest potentiality of which it had vision ; 
and as one did that for himself, so he did it for the 
person he loved. There could be no higher love than 
this to treat the thing beloved as one's self, to be 
perpetually dissatisfied with it, to scourge it to new 
endeavor, to hold it in immortal discontent. 
This was a point about which they argued with eager 
excitement. To Thyrsis, love itself was a prize to be 
 
held before the loved one ; whereas Corydon argued that 
love must exist before such a union could be thought 
of. Her cheeks flushed and her eyes shone as she main- 
tained the thesis that the princess could not go with the 
minstrel unless his love was given to her irrevocably. 
"If you mean by love a sense of oneness in the pur- 
suit of an ideal, then I agree with you," said Thyrsis. 
"But if you mean what love generally means a mutual 
admiration, the worshipping of another personality 
then I don't." 
"And are lovers not even to be interesting to each 
other?" cried Corydon. 
But the poet did not shrink even from that. "I 
don't think a woman could be interesting to me ex- 
cept in so far as she was growing. And she must 
always know that if she stopped growing, she would 
cease to be interesting. That is not a matter of any- 
body's will, it seems to me it is a fact of soul-chem- 
istry." 
"I don't think you will find many women to love you 
on that basis," said Corydon. 
"I never expected to find but one," was Thyrsis' re- 
ply; "and I may not find even one." 
She sat watching him for a moment. "I had never 
realized the sublimity of your egotism," she said. "It 
would never occur to you to judge anyone else by your 
own standards, would it?" 
"That is very well put," laughed Thyrsis. "As a 
matter of fact, I have a maxim that I count all things 
lost in the world but my own soul." 
"Why is that?" 
"Because I can depend on my own soul ; and I have 
not yet met anything else in life of which I can say 
that." 
 
Again there was a pause. "You are as hard as 
iron !" exclaimed the girl. 
"I am harder than anything you can find for your 
simile," he answered. "I know simply that there is no 
force existing that can turn me from my task." 
"You might meet some woman who would fascinate 
you." 
"Perhaps," he replied. "I have done things I'm 
ashamed of, and I've a wholesome fear of doing more 
of them. But I know that that woman, whoever she 
might be, would wake up some morning and find me 
missing." 
Then for a while he sat staring at the eddies in the 
pool below. "I have a vision of another kind of woman," 
he said "a woman to whom my ideal would be the 
same compelling force that it is to me a living 
thing that would drive her, that she was both master 
of, and slave to, as I am. So that she would feel no 
fears, and ask no favors ! So that she would not want 
mercy, nor ask pledges but just give herself, as 
give myself, and take the chances of the game. Don't 
you think there may be just one such woman in the 
.world?" 
"Perhaps," was the reply. "But then mightn't a 
woman be sure of your ideal, but not of you?' 
"As to that," said Thyrsis, "she would have to know 
me." 
"As to that," said Corydon, "she would have to love 
you." 
And Thyrsis smiled. "As in most arguments," he 
said, "it's mainly a matter of definitions." 
5. AT this point there came a call from the dis- 
 
tance, and Corydon started. "There is mother," she 
exclaimed. "How the afternoon has flown !" 
"And must you go home now?" he asked. 
"I'm afraid so," she replied. "We have a long row." 
"I'm sorry," he said. "I wanted to advise you about 
books to read. You must let me help you to find what 
you are seeking." 
"Ah," said Corydon, "if you only will !" 
"I will do anything I can," he said. "I am ashamed 
of not having helped you before." 
They had risen and started towards the house. 
"Can't you come to-morrow, and we can talk it over," 
he said. 
"But I thought you were going to work," she ob- 
jected. 
"I can spare another day," he replied. "A rest 
won't hurt me, I know. And it's been a real pleasure 
to talk to you this afternoon." 
So they settled it; and Thyrsis saw them off in the 
boat, and then he went back to the little cabin. 
On the steps he stood still. "Corydon !" he muttered. 
"Little Corydon!" 
That was always the way he thought of her ; not only 
because he had known her when she was a child, but be- 
cause this expressed his conception of her she was so 
gentle and peaceable and meek. She was now eighteen, 
and he was only twenty, but he felt towards her as a 
grandfather might. But now had come this new revela- 
tion, that astonished him. She had been deeply stirred 
by his work she had loved it; and this was no affec- 
tation, it was out of her inmost heart. And she was 
not really contented at all she had quite a hunger 
for life in her ! 
It had been like an explosion ; the barriers had been 
 
destroyed between them, and he saw her as she really 
was. And he could hardly believe it all through the 
adventures that followed he would find himself stand- 
ing in the same kind of daze, whispering to himself 
"Corydon! Little Corydon!" 
He did not try to do any work that evening. He 
thought about her, and the problem of her life. She 
had stirred him strangely ; he saw her beautiful with 
a new kind of beauty. He resolved that he would put 
her upon the way to some of the joy she sought. 
She came early the next morning, and they sat by the 
lake-shore and talked. They talked about the things 
she needed to study, and how she should study them; 
about the books she had read and the books she was to 
read next. And from this they went on to a hundred 
questions of literature and philosophy and life. They 
became eager and excited ; their thoughts took wings, 
and they lost all sense of time and place. There were 
so many things to be discussed! 
Corydon, in spite of all her anti-clericalism, believed 
in immortality ; she laid claim to intuitions and illumina- 
tions concerning it. And to Thyrsis, on the other 
hand, the idea of immortality was the consummation of 
all unfaith. To him life was a bubble upon the stream 
of time, a shadow of clouds upon the mountains ; there 
was nothing about it that could be or should be im- 
mortal. 
"The act of faith," he cried, "is to give ourselves 
into the arms of life, to take it as it comes, to re- 
joice in its infinite unfoldment, the 'plastic dance of 
circumstance' ; to behold the budding flower and the 
new-born suns as equal expressions of the joy of be- 
coming. But people are weak, they love themselves, 
and they set themselves up as the centre of existence !" 
 
But Corydon was personal, and loved life; and she 
stood out that death was unthinkable that she had 
the sense of infinity within her. Thyrsis strove to make 
her see that one was to wreak one's hunger for infinity 
at each moment, and not put it off to any future age ; 
that life was a thing for itself, and needed no sequel 
to justify it. "It is a free gift, and we have no claim 
upon it ; we must take it on the terms of the giver." 
From that they came to religion. Thyrsis loved the 
forms of the old faiths, because of the poetry there was 
in them ; and so he wrestled with Corydon's paganism. 
He tried to show her how one could read "Paradise 
Lost" and the English prayer-book, precisely as one 
read Virgil and Homer ; to which Corydon answered 
that she had been to Sunday-school. 
"But you once believed in Santa Glaus !" he retorted. 
"And does that make you quarrel with him now? Every 
time you read a novel, don't you pretend to believe in 
people who never existed?" 
He went on to show her how much she lost of the 
sublime and inspiring things of the past. He took the 
story of Jesus. It mattered not in the least if it was 
fiction or fact it was there, as an achievement of the 
human spirit. He showed her the man of the gospels 
not the stained-glass god with royal robes and shin- 
ing crown, but the humble workingman, with his dream 
of a heaven nearby, and a father who loved his chil- 
dren without distinction. He went about among the 
poor and humble, the world's first revolutionist; teach- 
ing the supremacy of the soul a doctrine which was to 
be as dynamite beneath the pillars of all established in- 
stitutions. He lived as a tramp and an outcast, and he 
died the death of a criminal; and now those who had 
murdered him were using his doctrines to enslave the 
 
world ! All this was a new idea to Corydon, and she 
resolved forthwith that she would begin her readings 
with the New Testament. 
6. So it went, until Thyrsis looked up with a start, 
and saw that the shadows were falling. It was five 
o'clock, and they had not stopped to eat! Even so, 
they had no time to cook, but made a cold meal and 
talked all the time they were eating. 
Then Corydon said, "I must start for home." 
"You won't want any supper," said Thyrsis. "Let's 
see the sunset first." 
"But mother will be expecting me," she objected. 
"She'll know you're all right," he replied. 
So they climbed the hill, and sat and watched the 
sunset and the rising full moon. The air was clear, 
and the sky like opal, and the pale, pearly tints of the 
clouds were ravishing to behold. To Thyrsis it seemed 
that these colors were an image of the soul that w T as 
disclosed to him. He would have been at a loss for 
words to describe the extraordinary sense of purity that 
Corydon gave to him ; it was not simply her maiden- 
hood it was something far more rare than that. Here 
was an utterly perfect human soul ; a soul without speck 
or blemish without a base idea, with no trace of a 
vanity, unaware what a pretense might be. The joy 
and wonder of life welled spontaneously in her, she 
moved to a noble impulse as a cloud moves before the 
wind. She was like a creature from the skies they 
were watching. 
And here, in the silver moonlight, a memorable hour 
came to them. Thyrsis told her of his consecration, and 
why he lived his hermit-life. He had known for years 
that he was not as other men ; and now every hour it 
 
was becoming clearer to him. He shrunk from the 
word, because it had been desecrated by the world ; but 
it was Genius. More and more frequently there was 
coming to him this strange ecstasy, the source of which 
he could not guess ; it was like the giving way of flood- 
gates within him the pouring in of a tide of wonder 
and joy. It made him tremble like a leaf, it made him 
cry aloud and fall down upon the ground exhausted. 
And yet, whatever the strain might be, he never lost 
his grip upon himself; rather, all the powers of his 
mind seemed to be multiplied it seemed as if all exist- 
ence became one with his soul. 
Never before had he uttered a word of this to any- 
one. No one could understand the burden it had laid 
upon him. For this was the thing that all the world 
was seeking, for the lack of which the world was dying ; 
and it was his to give or to withhold, to lose or to save. 
He had to forge it and shape it, he had to embody it, to 
set it forth in images and symbols. And that meant 
a terrific labor, a feat of mental and emotional endur- 
ance quite indescribable. He must hold it, though it 
burned like fire ; he must clutch it to his bosom, though 
it tore at his heart-strings. 
"Sometimes," he said, "I fail and have to give up ; 
and then I have nothing but a memory without words 
or perhaps a few broken phrases that seem mere 
nonsense. Then I am like a man who has seen some 
loved one drowned or burned to death before his eyes. 
It is a thing so ineffable, so precious ; and some power 
seeks to tear it away from me, to bear it into oblivion 
forever. I can't know, of course it might come to 
some one else or it might never come again. The 
feeling I have is like that of a mother for an unborn 
child ; if I do not give it life, no one ever will. Ami 
 
don't you see compared with that, what does an} T thing 
else count? I would lie down and be crushed to pieces, 
if that would help ; truly, I would suffer less than I 
suffer in what I try to do. And so, the things that 
other men care for they simply don't exist for me. I 
must have a little money, because I have to have some- 
thing to eat, and a place to work in. But I don't want 
position or fame I don't shrink from any ridicule or 
humiliation. It seems like a mad thing to say, but I 
have nothing to do either with men's evil or with their 
good. I am not bound by any of their duties ; I can't 
have any country or any home, I can't have wife or 
children I can hardly even have any friends. Don't 
you see?" 
"Yes," whispered Corydon, deeply moved, "I see." 
"Look," he went on "see all the vice and misery 
in the world the cruelty and greed and hate. And 
see all the stupid and petty things, the narrow motives, 
the vanities and the jealousies! And all that is be- 
cause people haven't this thing that has come to me; 
they don't know the possibilities of life, they lack the 
sense of its preciousncss and sacredness. And they 
seek and seek and go astray ! Take drunkenness, for 
instance; that brings them joy, but it's a false scent, 
it leads them over a precipice, I've been down at the 
bottom of it you know why I have to go there, and 
what I've seen. And that is where the best of men's 
faculties go yes, it's literally true ! The men who are 
dull and plodding, they are contented ; it's the men who 
are adventurous and aspiring who come to that preci- 
pice. I walk down an avenue and see the lines of 
saloons with their gleaming lights, and that thought is 
like a scream of anguish in my soul ; there came a 
phrase to me once, that I wanted to cry out to people 
 
'the graveyards of your genius! the graveyards oi 
your genius !' 
Corydon was gazing at his uplifted face. She said, 
"That is how Jesus must have felt, when he wept o\er 
Jerusalem." 
"Yes," said Thyrsis. "It is a new religion trying 
to be born. Only nowadays they don't persecute you, 
they just ignore you. They don't hang you up on 
a cross and make you conspicuous and picturesque 
they ridicule you and let you starve. And that is what 
I face, you see. I've saved a hundred dollars just 
barely enough to buy me food until I've written the 
book !" 
"And other people have so much!" cried Corydon. 
"So much and no idea what to do with it. They 
just fling it away, in a drunken frenzy. And down 
below are the poor, who slave to make civilization pos- 
sible. Such lives as they have to live I can't ever get 
the thought out of my mind, not in any happiest mo- 
ment ! I feel as if I were a man who had escaped from 
a beleaguered city, and it all depended upon me to carry 
the tidings and bring relief. I'm their one hope, and 
if I fail them I'm a traitor, an accursed being! They 
are ignorant and helpless, and their cry comes to me 
like some great storm-wind of grief and despair. Oh, 
some day I mean to utter words that will reach them 
I can't fail ! I can't fail !" 
"No !" whispered Corydon. "You must not fail !" 
They sat in silence for a while. 
"How I wish that I could help you!" she said. 
"Who can tell?" he answered. "Perhaps you may. 
A true friend is a rare thing to find." 
"I would do anything in the world to share in such 
a work." 
 
"You really mean that? As hard as it is?" 
"I would bear anything," she said. "I would go to 
the ends of the earth for it. I would fling away the 
whole world just as you have done." 
"Ah, but are you strong enough? Could you stand 
it?" 
"I don't know that I'm only a child. But I wouldn't 
mind dying." 
And so it came. It came as the dawn comes, un- 
heralded, unheeded spreading wider, till the day is 
there. Months afterwards they talked about it, and 
Thyrsis asked, "When did I propose to you?" 
"I don't think you ever proposed to me," she an- 
swered. "It just came. It had to come there was 
no other way." 
"But when did I first kiss you?" he asked. 
"I don't know even that," she said, and pondered. 
"Did I kiss you that night when we sat on the hill?" 
he asked. 
"I wouldn't have known it if you had," said Corydon. 
"It was as natural for you to kiss me as it was for me 
to draw my breath." 
7. THE moon was high when they went down the 
hill, and he rowed her home. They were silent with the 
awe that was upon them. They found the people at 
home in a panic, but they scarcely knew this and they 
scarcely troubled to explain. 
Then Thyrsis went home, and spent half the night 
roaming about in excitement. And early in the morn- 
ing he was sitting on the edge of his canvas-cot, whis- 
pering to himself again, "Corydon ! Little Corydon !" 
He could not think of work that day, but set out to 
walk to the village by the lonely mountain-road; and 
THE SNARE 
half-way there he met the girl, coming in the other 
direction. There was a light of wonder in her eyes ; 
and also there was perplexity. For all that morning 
she had been whispering to herself, "Thyrsis ! Thyrsis !" 
They sat by the roadside to talk it over. 
"Corydon," he began, "I've been thinking about what 
we said last night, and it frightens me horribly. And 
I want to ask you please not to think about it any 
more. I could not take anyone else into my life before 
God, I couldn't be so cruel. I have been shuddering at 
the thought of it. Oh please, please, run away from 
me before it is too late !" 
"Is that the way it seems?" she asked. 
"Corydon !" he cried. "I am a tormented man ! 
There can't be any happiness in the world for me. And 
you are so beautiful and so pure and so good I simply 
dare not think of it ! You must be happy, Corydon !" 
"I have never yet been happy," she said. 
"Listen," he went on "there is a stanza of Walter 
Scott's that came to me this morning an outlaw "song. 
It seemed to sum up all my feeling about it: 
" 'Maiden ! a nameless life I lead, 
A nameless death I'll die; 
The fiend whose lantern lights the mead 
Were better mate than I !' 
Corydon sat staring ahead. "You can't frighten me 
away from you," she said, in a low voice. "It isn't 
worth your while to try. But let me tell you what I 
came to say. I'm so ignorant and so helpless I didn't 
see how I could be of any use to you. And so I wanted 
to tell you that you must do whatever seemed best to 
you just don't count me at all. You see what I mean 
 
I'm not afraid for myself, but just for you. I 
couldn't bear the thought that I might be in your way. 
I felt I had to come and tell you that, before you went 
back to your work." 
Now Thyrsis had set out with mighty battlements 
reared about him ; and not all the houris and the cour- 
tesans of all the ages could have found a way to breach 
them. But before those simple sentences of Corydon's, 
uttered in her gentle voice, and with her maiden's gaze 
of wonder the battlements crumbled and rocked. 
And that was always the way of it. There were 
endless new explanations and new attitudes, new excur- 
sions and discoveries. They would part with a certain 
understanding, but they never knew with what view they 
would meet in the morning. They were swung from one 
extreme to the other, from certitude to doubt, from joy 
to dismay and despair. And so, day after day they 
would sit and talk, for- uncounted hours. Corydon 
would come to the little cabin, or Thyrsis would come to 
the village, and they would wander about the roads or 
the woods, forgetting their meals, forgetting all the 
world. Once they wandered away into the mountains, 
and they sat until the dusk closed round them ; they 
were almost lost that night. 
"Of course," Thyrsis had been saying, "we should 
not be married like other men and women." 
"No," said Corydon, "of course not." 
"We should be brother and sister," he said. 
"Yes," she assented. 
"And it would not be real marriage I mean, it would 
be just for the world's eyes." 
"So I don't see how it could hinder you," Corydon 
added. "Whatever I did that was wrong, you would 
tell me. And then too, about money. I shouldn't be 
" 
" 
 
any burden ; for I have twenty-five dollars a month of 
my own." 
'I had no idea of that," said Thyrsis. 
'I've only had it for a year," said Corydon. "An 
aunt left me nearly four thousand dollars. I can't 
touch the principal until I'm thirty, but I have the in- 
come, and that will buy me everything I need. And 
so it would be just as if you didn't have me to think 
of." 
"I don't think the money side matters so much," was 
his reply. "It's only this summer, you see until I've 
finished the book." 
8. THE key to all the future was the book ; but 
alas, the book was not coming on. How could one 
write amid such excitement? This was a new kind of 
wine in Thyrsis' blood. This was reality ! And before 
it his dream-phantoms seemed to have dissolved into 
nothingness. 
They would make a compact for so many days, and 
he would start to work ; but he would find himself think- 
ing of Corydon, and new problems would arise, and 
he would take to writing her notes and finally realize 
in despair that he might as well go and see her. 
Meantime Corydon would be wrestling with tasks of 
her own. They had talked over her development, and 
agreed that what she needed was discipline. And be- 
cause Thyrsis had read her some of Goethe's lyrics, 
she had decided to begin with German. Thyrsis had 
wasted a great deal of time with German courses in 
college, and so he was able to tell her everything riot 
to do. He got her a little primer of grammar, just 
enough to make clear the language-structure ; and then 
he set her to acquiring a vocabulary. He had little books 
 
full of words that he had prepared for himself, and 
these she drilled into her brain, all day and nearly all 
night. She stopped for nothing but to eat in the 
woods when the weather was fair and in her room 
when it rained, she studied words, words, words ! And 
she made amazing' progress while Thyrsis was wrest- 
ling with his angels she read Grimm's fairy tales, and 
some of Heyse's "Novellen," and "Hermann and 
Dorothea," and "Wilhelm Tell." 
But these were children's tasks, and her pilgrimage 
was one of despair. Above were the heights where 
Thyrsis dwelt, inaccessible, almost invisible ; and how 
many years must she toil to reach them! She would 
come to him with tears in her eyes tears of shame for 
her ignorance and her stupidity. And then Thyrsis 
would kiss the tears away, and tell her how many 
brilliant and clever women he had met, who had the 
souls of dolls behind all their display of culture. 
So Corydon would escape that unhappiness but 
alas, only to fall into another kind. For she was a 
maiden, beautiful and tender, and ineffably precious to 
Thyrsis ; and when they met, their hands would come 
together it was as natural for them to embrace as for 
the flowers to grow. And this would lead to moods of 
weakness and satisfaction not to that divine discon- 
tent, that rage of impatience which Thyrsis craved. 
It seemed to him that Corydon grew more and more 
in love with him, and more willing to cling to him; 
and he was savage because of his own complaisance. 
They would spend hours, exchanging endearments and 
whispering youthful absurdities ; and then, the next 
day, he would write a note of protest, and Corydon 
would be wild with misery, and would tear up his love- 
notes, and vow in tears that he should never touch her 
 
hand again. Now and then he would try to suggest 
to her that what she needed for the fulfillment of her 
life was not a madman like himself, but a husband who 
would love her and cherish her, as other women were 
loved and cherished; and there was nothing in all the 
world that galled her quite so much as this. 
9. THERE came a time when all these happenings 
could no longer be hid from parents. This unthink- 
able "engagement" had to be announced, and the furies 
of grief and rage and despair unchained. No one could 
realize the change that had come over Corydon Cory- 
don, the meek and long-suffering, who now was turned 
to granite, and immovable as the everlasting hills. As 
for Thyrsis, all kinds of madness had come from him, 
and were expected from him. But even he was appalled 
at the devastation which this thunderbolt caused. 
"You have ruined your career ! You have ruined your 
career!" was the cry that rang in his ears all day. 
And he knew what the world meant by this. Young men 
of talent who wished to rise in the world did not burden 
themselves with wives at the age of twenty ; they waited 
until their careers were safe and meantime, if they 
felt the need, they satisfied their passions with the 
daughters of the poor. And it was for some such 
"eligible man" as this that the world had been prepar- 
ing Corydon; it was to save her for his coming that 
her sheltered life had been intended. Her beauty and 
tenderness would appeal to him, her innocence would 
bring a new thrill to his jaded passions; and when he 
offered his hand, there would be no whisper of what 
his past might have been, there would be no questions 
asked as to any vices or diseases he might bring with 
him. There would be trousseaus and flowers and wed- 
 
ding-cake, rice and white ribbons and a honeymoon- 
journey; and then an apartment in the city, or per- 
haps even a whole house, with a butler and a carriage 
-who could tell? With wealth pouring into the me- 
tropolis from North and West and South, such things 
fell often to beautiful and innocent maidens in sheltered 
homes. 
And here was this one, flinging herself away upon 
a penniless poet who could not support her, and did 
not even propose to try ! "Does he mean to get some 
work?" was the question ; and gently Corydon explained 
that they intended "to live as brother and sister." And 
that capped the climax that proved stark, raving 
madness, if it did not prove downright knavery and 
fraud. 
In the end, being utterly baffled and helpless with 
dismay, the mothers turned upon each other; for to 
each of them, the virtues of her own offspring being so 
apparent, it was clear that this hideous tragedy must 
have come from the machinations of the other. One 
day Thyrsis and his mother, walking down a road, met 
Corydon and her mother, upon a high hill where the 
winds blew wildly ; and here they poured out their grief, 
and hurled their impeachments against the storm. To 
Thyrsis they assumed heroic proportions, they towered 
like queens of tragedy ; in after-history this was known 
as the Meeting of the Mothers, and he likened it to the 
great contest in the Nibelungenlied between Brunhild 
and Kriemhild. 
Then, on top of it all, there came another calamity. 
In the boarding-house with Corydon lived some elderly 
ladies, who had a remarkable faculty for divining the 
evil deeds of other people. They had divined the evil 
deeds of Corydon and Thyrsis, and one of them was 
 
moved to come to Corydon's mother one day, and warn 
her lest others should divine them too. And so there 
was more agony ; the discovery was made that Corydon 
had become a social outcast to all the maids and matrons 
of the summer population a girl who went to visit 
a poet in his lonely cabin, and stayed until unknown 
hours of the night. And so there came to Thyrsis a 
note saying that Corydon must come no more to the 
cabin ; and later in the day came Corydon herself, to 
bring the tidings that a telejram had come from the 
city, and that she and her mother were to leave the 
place the next day. 
Thyrsis was aflame with anger, and was for going 
to the nearest parson and having the matter settled 
there and then. But Corydon dissuaded him from this. 
"I've been thinking it over," she said, "and it's best 
that I should go. You must finish the book every- 
thing depends upon that, and you know that if I came 
here now you couldn't do it. But if I go away, there'll 
be nothing to disturb you. I can study meantime; and 
when we meet in the city in the fall, everything will be 
clear before us." 
She came and put herself in his arms. "You know, 
dear heart," she said, "it won't be easy for me to go. 
But I'm sure it's for the best !" 
And Thyrsis saw that she was right, and so they 
settled it. She spent that day with him their last 
day ; and floods of tenderness welled up in their hearts, 
and the tears ran down their cheeks. It was only now 
that she was going that Thyrsis realized how precious 
she had become to him, and what a miracle of gentle- 
ness and trust she was. 
They agreed that here, and not in the village, was the 
place for their parting. So they poured out their 
 
love and devotion, and made their pledges for the future *, 
and towards sundown he kissed her good-bye, and put 
her in the boat, and stood watching until it was a mere 
speck down the lake. Then he went back to the house, 
with a great cavern of loneliness in his soul. 
And in spite of all resolves, he was up with the dawn 
next day, and walking to the village he must see her 
once again ! He went to the depot with her, and upon 
the platform they said another farewell; thereby put- 
ting a seal upon Corydon's damnation in the eyes of the 
maids and matrons of the summer population. 
They had opened a wooden box which lay beside 
them. 
"Ten years!" she said. "How they have faded!" 
"And the creases are tight" said he; "they will be 
hard to read." 
"Letters! letters!" she exclaimed "some of them 
sixty pages long! How much would they make?' 
"Perhaps a quarter of a million words," he said. 
"What is to be done about it?" 
"They must be selected, and then cut, and then 
trimmed and pruned." 
"And will that leave any idea of it?" 
He answered with a simile. "You wish to convey to 
i man how it -feels to pound stone for twelve hours in 
the sun. The only way you could really do it would be 
to take him and let him pound for twelve hours. But 
he wouldn't stand for that." 
"So you let him pound for one hour," said she, with 
a smile. 
"I will put up a sign," he said 
'HERE BEGINS THE STONE-POUNDING!' 
And then those who are interested will come in and try 
it; and the rest will peer through the fence and pass on" 
To which she responded, "I would make the sign read, 
'ADMISSION TO LOVERS ONLY !' " 
MY THYRSIS! 
Oh, if I might only stay in a convent until you are 
ready to take me ! Since I left you I find myself pos- 
sessed of cravings, which, if I indulged them, might 
bring me the fate of the Maid of Neidpath! 
Truly I have known some miserable moments. But 
I am trying very hard to cultivate a happy, confident 
activity. The people here are aggressive, and I am 
afraid I have been rude, which I never like to be. I 
just succeeded in getting away from a young man who 
wanted to walk to the village with me. Do you know, 
it would drive me absolutely mad to talk to anyone 
now! 
My soul has only one cry, and I could sometimes go 
out on the mountain-side and scream it aloud to the 
winds. I fear I shall be a trifle wild, in fact utterly in 
pieces, until you come, with that wonderful recipe of 
yours for binding me together, and making me com- 
plete. I think of you in your house, and wish to God 
I were there, or out in the desert even, if you were with 
me. 
When I passed through the city I felt exactly as 
if I were in Hades. The glaring lights and the fearful 
rattle, the lazy, lounging men I had dinner in a 
restaurant, in which all the people seemed to be feeding 
demons ! It has been distinctly shown me why so many 
people have thought you a rude unmannerly boy! I 
 
don't know what people would think, if I had to be 
amongst them long. 
I have begun so many letters to you in my mind, and 
oh, the times I have told myself how much I loved you ! 
I have read your letters and slept with them under my 
pillow, like the veriest love-lorn maiden. But all my 
happy thoughts are gone at present. It is distracting 
to me to have to come into such close contact with 
people. 
Oh, tell me, dearest one, what I shall have to do to 
control myself and preserve the peace of my soul, until 
I go to you forever? I must not long to see you, it 
prevents me from studying. If you might only come 
to me at one moment in the day, and give me one kiss, 
and then go away! You see, I am conducting myself 
in a very unwise manner and it is necessary I should 
study! I should love to have an indomitable capacity 
for work, and eat only two meals a day, and never have 
to think about my body. 
I want to tell you what I feel, how utterly and ab- 
solutely I am yours, and how any image that comes 
between you and me enrages me. If only you knew how 
I give myself up to you in thought, word, and deed ! 
My one reason for acting now, is that I may show you 
something I have done, my one thought is to be what 
you would wish me. No one, no one understands, or 
ever will, what is in your heart and in mine to be 
locked there for ages. There I have placed all my 
power of love and religion and hope of the life that 
is to be. To you I give all my trust, all my worship, 
you are the one link that binds me to myself and to 
God. Without you I feel now that I should be a poor 
wanderer. 
You give me my feeling of wholeness, of the possi- 
bility of completion, that I never had before. In my 
best and truest moments I know that with you I can 
be what I have hoped. With you before my eyes I have 
a grim resolution to conquer or die. The one thing I 
am sure of always is my love for you. It might be 
possible for you to stop loving me ; but I, now that I 
have begun, shall continue to love you to the day I 
die and after, I hope. I do not love you for what 
you can give me, I love you because you are you, I 
must love you now no matter what you are. I believe 
Shakespeare was right when he said that "love is not 
love which alters, when it alteration finds." I do not 
believe that a person can really love more than once. 
I must go to my German again and leave you. 
Do you love me? Do you love me? Do you love me? 
MY DEAREST CORYDON: 
I received a letter from you before dinner, and as 
usual had one of my flights of emotion, and thought 
of many things to write to you. Now I am up on the 
mountain-side, trying to recall them. Dearest, you 
are, as always, more precious to me. I am glad to 
see that you are suffering some, and I think that it is 
well that you have to be away from me for awhile, to 
fight some of your own soul's battles. You see that 
I am in my stern humor ; as convinced as ever that 
the soul is to be deepened only by effort, and that the 
great glory of life cannot be bought or stolen, or even 
given for love, but must be earned. 
I will tell you what I have been doing since you left. 
I spent three whole days in the most unimaginable 
 
wretchedness ; I had no hindrances like yours only the 
most fearful burden of dullness and sloth, that had 
crept upon me and mastered me, during all the weeks 
that I had let myself be so upset and delayed. I can- 
not picture what I go through when I lose my self- 
command in that way, but it is like one who is tied down 
upon a railroad track and hears a train coming. He 
gets just as desperate as he pleases, and suffers any- 
thing you can imagine but he does not get free. And 
always the book would be hanging before me, a kind 
of external conscience, to show me what I ought to have 
been. 
Now I have gotten myself out of that, by an effort 
that has quite worn me out. When I found myself at 
work again, I felt a kind of savage joy of effort, a 
greater power than I ever knew before. In the reck- 
less mood that I had got to, it seemed to me that I could 
keep so forever. 
Now dearest, you must get the same unity in your 
life ; you must concentrate all your faculties upon that 
get for yourself that precious habit of being "instant 
in prayer", and "strenuous for the bright reward". 
As Wordsworth has it, "Brook no continuance of weak- 
mindedness!" Let it come to you with a pang that 
hurts you, that for one minute you have been idle, that 
you have admitted to yourself that life is a thing of 
no consequence, and that you do not care for it. 
