reflection helped him somewhat with his dinner, which needed a fillip or
two.

In his faultless dinner jacket he sauntered out after the evening meal;
and the idea which possessed and even thrilled him aided him to forget
what he had eaten.

The lagoon glimmered mysteriously in the starlight; the royal palms
bordering it rustled high in the night breeze from the sea. Perfume from
oleander hedges smote softly the olfactories of Brown; the southern
whip-poor-wills' hurried whisper thrilled the darkness with a deeper
mystery.

Here was the place to study woman. There could be no doubt about that.
Here, untrammelled, uninterrupted, unvexed by the jarring of the world,
he could place his model, turn her loose, and observe her.

To concentrate all his powers of analytical observation upon a single
specimen of woman was his plan. Painters and sculptors used models. He
meant to use one, too.

It would be simple. First, he must discover what he wanted. This
accomplished, he had decided to make a plain business proposition to
her. She was to go about her own affairs and her pleasure without
embarrassment or self-consciousness--behave naturally; do whatever it
pleased her to do. But he was to be permitted to observe her, follow
her, make what notes he chose; and, as a resumé of each day, they were
to meet in some quiet spot in order that he might question her as he
chose, concerning whatever interested him, or whatever in her movements
or behaviour had seemed to him involved or inexplicable.

Thus and thus only, he had decided, could light be shed upon the
mysterious twilight veiling the inner woman! Thus only might carefully
concealed motives be detected, cause and effect co-ordinated, the very
source of all feminine logic, reason, and emotion be laid bare and
dissected at leisure.

Never had anybody written such a novel as he would be equipped to write.
The ultimate word concerning woman was about to be written.

Inwardly excited, outwardly calm, he had seated himself on the coquina
wall which ran along the lagoon under the Royal Palms. He was about to
study his subject as the great masters studied, coolly, impersonally,
with clear and merciless intelligence, setting down with calm simplicity
nothing except facts.

All that was worthy and unworthy should be recorded--the good with the
evil--nothing should be too ephemeral, too minute, to escape his
searching analysis.

And all the while, though Brown was not aware of it, the memory of a
face he had seen in the dining-room grew vaguely and faded, waxing and
waning alternately, like a phantom illustration accompanying his
thoughts.

As for the model he should choose to study, she ought to be thoroughly
feminine, he thought; young, probably blonde, well formed, not very
deeply experienced, and with every human capacity for good and bad
alike.

He would approach her frankly, tell her what he required, offer her the
pay of an artist's model, three dollars a day; and, if she accepted, she
could have her head and do what she liked. All that concerned him was to
make his observations and record them.

In the blue starlight people passed and re-passed like ghosts along the
shell-road--the white summer gowns of young girls were constantly
appearing in the dusk, taking vague shape, vanishing. On the lagoon, a
guitar sounded very far away. The suave scent of oleander grew sweeter.

Spectral groups passed in clinging lingerie; here and there a ghost
lingered to lean over the coquina wall, her lost gaze faintly accented
by some level star. One of these, a slender young thing, paused near to
Brown, resting gracefully against the wall.

All around her the whip-poor-wills were calling breathlessly; the
perfume of oleander grew sweeter.

As for the girl herself, she resembled the tenth muse. Brown had never
attempted to visualise his mistress; it had been enough for him that she
was Thalomene, daughter of Zeus, and divinely fair.

But now, as he recognised the face he had noticed that evening in the
dining-room, somehow he thought of his muse for the first time,
concretely. Perhaps because the girl by the coquina wall was young,
slim, golden haired, and Greek.

His impulse, without bothering to reason, was to hop from the wall and
go over to where she was standing.

She looked around calmly as he approached, gave him a little nod in
recognition of his lifted hat.

"I'm John Brown, 4th," he said. "I'm stopping at the Villa Hibiscus. Do
you mind my saying so?"

"No, I don't mind," she said.

"There is a vast amount of nonsense in formality and convention," said
Brown. "If you don't mind ignoring such details, I have something
important to say to you."

She looked at him unsmilingly. Probably it was the starlight in her
eyes that made them glimmer as though with hidden laughter.

"I am," said Brown, pleasantly, "an author."

"Really," she said.

"When I say that I am an author," continued Brown seriously, "I mean in
the higher sense."

"Oh. What is the higher sense, Mr. Brown?" she asked.

"The higher sense does not necessarily imply authorship. I do not mean
that I am a mere writer. I have written very little."

"Oh," she said.

"Very little," repeated Brown combatively. "You will look in vain among
the crowded counters piled high with contemporary fiction for anything
from my pen."

"Then perhaps I had better not look," she said so simply that Brown was
a trifle disappointed in her.

"Some day, however," he said, "you may search, and, perhaps, not wholly
in vain."

"Oh, you are writing a book!"

"Yes," he said, "I am, so to speak, at work on a novel."

"Might one, with discretion, make further inquiry concerning your novel,
Mr. Brown?"

"You may."

"Thank you," she said, apparently a trifle disconcerted by the privilege
so promptly granted.

"You may," repeated Brown. "Shall I explain why?"

"Please."

"You will not mistake me, I am sure. Will you?"

She turned her pretty face toward him.

"I don't think so," she said after a moment. The starlight was meddling
with her eyes again.




XIV


So Brown told her about his theory; how he desired to employ a model,
how he desired to study her; what were his ideas of the terms suitable.

He talked fluently, earnestly, and agreeably; and his pretty audience
listened with so much apparent intelligence and good taste that her very
attitude subtly exhilarated Brown, until he became slightly aware that
he was expressing himself eloquently.

He had, it seemed, much to say concerning the profession and practice of
good literature. It seemed, too, that he knew a great deal about it,
both theoretically and practically. His esteem and reverence for it were
unmistakable; his enthusiasm worthy of his courage.

He talked for a long while, partly about literature, partly about
himself. And he was at intervals a trifle surprised that he had so much
to say, and wondered at the valuable accumulations of which he was
unburdening himself with such vast content.

The girl had turned her back to the lagoon and stood leaning against the
coquina wall, facing him, her slender hands resting on the coping.

Never had he had such a listener. At the clubs and cafés other literary
men always wanted to talk. But here under the great southern stars
nobody interrupted the limpid flow of his long dammed eloquence. And he
ended leisurely, as he had begun, yet auto-intoxicated, thrillingly
conscious of the spell which he had laid upon himself, upon his young
listener--conscious, too, of the spell that the soft air and the perfume
and the stars had spun over a world grown suddenly and incredibly lovely
and young.

She said in a low voice: "I need the money very much.... And I don't
mind your studying me."

"Do you really mean it?" he exclaimed, enchanted.

"Yes. But there is one trouble."

"What is it?" he asked apprehensively.

"I must have my mornings to myself."

He said: "Under the terms I must be permitted to ask you any questions I
choose. You understand that, don't you?"

"Yes," she said.

"Then--why must you have your mornings to yourself?"

"I have work to do."

"What work? What are you?"

She flushed a trifle, then, accepting the rules of the game, smiled at
Brown.

"I am a school-teacher," she said. "Ill health from overwork drove me
South to convalesce. I am trying to support myself here by working in
the mornings."

"I am sorry," he said gently. Then, aware of his concession to a very
human weakness, he added with businesslike decision: "What is the nature
of your morning's work?"

"I--write," she admitted.

"Stories?"

"Yes."

"Fiction?"

"Anything, Mr. Brown. I send notes to fashion papers, concerning the
costumes at the Hotel Verbena; I write for various household papers
special articles which would not interest you at all. I write little
stories for the women's and children's columns in various newspapers.
You see what I do is not literature, and could not interest you."

"If you are to act for me in the capacity of a model," he said firmly,
"I am absolutely bound to study every phase of you, every minutest
detail."

"Oh."

"Not one minute of the day must pass without my observing you," he said.
"Unless you are broad-minded enough to comprehend me you may think my
close and unremitting observation impertinent."

"You don't mean to be impertinent, I am sure," she faltered, already
surprised, apprehensive, and abashed by the prospect.

"Of course I don't mean to be impertinent," he said smilingly, "but all
great observers pursue their studies unremittingly day and night----"

"You couldn't do that!" she exclaimed.

"No," he admitted, troubled, "that would not be feasible. You require,
of course, a certain amount of slumber."

"Naturally," she said.

"I ought," he said thoughtfully, "to study that phase of you, also."

"What phase, Mr. Brown?"

"When you are sleeping."

"But that is impossible!"

"Convention," he said disdainfully, "makes it so. A literary student is
fettered.

"But it is perfectly possible for you to imagine what I look like when
I'm asleep, Mr. Brown."

"Imagination is to play no part in my literary work," he said coldly.
"What I set down are facts."

"But is that art?"

"There is more art in facts than there are facts in art," he said.

"I don't quite know what you mean."

He didn't, either, when he came to analyse what he had said; and he
turned very red and admitted it.

"I mean to be honest and truthful," he said. "What I just said sounded
clever, but meant nothing. I admit it. I mean to be perfectly pitiless
with myself. Anything tainted with imagination; anything hinting of
romance; any weak concession to prejudice, convention, good taste, I
refuse to be guilty of. Realism is what I aim at; raw facts, however
unpleasant!"

"I don't believe you will find anything very unpleasant about me," she
said.

"No, I don't think I shall. But I mean to detect every imperfection,
every weakness, every secret vanity, every unworthy impulse. That is why
I desire to study you so implacably. Are you willing to submit?"

She bit her lip and looked thoughtfully at the stars.

"You know," she said, "that while it may be all very well for you to say
'anything for art's sake,' I can't say it. I can't do it, either."

"Why not?"

"Because I can't. You know perfectly well that you can't follow me about
taking notes every minute of the twenty-four hours."

He said very earnestly: "Sir John Lubbock sat up day and night, never
taking his eyes off the little colony of ants which he had under
observation in a glass box!"

"Do you propose to sit up day and night to keep me under observation?"
she asked, flushed and astounded.

"Not at first. But as my studies advance, and you become accustomed to
the perfectly respectful but coldly impersonal nature of my
observations, your mind, I trust, will become so broadened that you will
find nothing objectionable in what at first might scare you. An artist's
model, for example----"

"But I am not an artist's model!" she exclaimed, with a slight shiver.

"To be a proper model at all," he said, "you must concede all for art,
and remain sublimely unconscious of self. You do not matter. I do
not matter. Only my work counts. And that must be honest, truthful,
accurate, minute, exact--a perfect record of a woman's mind and
personality."

For a few moments they both remained silent. And after a little the
starlight began to play tricks with her eyes again, so that they seemed
sparkling with hidden laughter. But her face was grave.

She said: "I really do need the money. I will do what I can.... And if
in spite of my courage I ever shrink--our contract shall terminate at
once."

"And what shall I do then?" inquired Brown.

The starlight glimmered in her eyes. She said very gravely:

"In case the demands of your realism and your art are too much for my
courage, Mr. Brown--you will have to find another model to study."

"But another model might prove as conventional as you!"

"In that case," she said, while her sensitive lower lip trembled, and
the starlight in her eyes grew softly brilliant, "in that case, Mr.
Brown, I am afraid that there would be only one course to pursue with
that other model."

"What course is that?" he asked, deeply interested.

"I'm afraid you'd have to marry her."

"Good Lord!" he said. "I can't marry every girl I mean to study!"

"Oh! Do you mean to study very many?"

"I have my entire life and career before me."

"Yes. That is true. But--women are much alike. One model, thoroughly
studied, might serve for them all--with a little imagination."

"I have no use for imagination in fiction," said Brown firmly. After a
moment's silence, he added: "Is it settled, then?"

"About our--contract?"

"Yes."

She considered for a long while, then, looking up, she nodded.

"That's fine!" exclaimed Brown, with enthusiasm.

They walked back to the Villa Hibiscus together, slowly, through the
blue starlight. Brown asked her name, and she told him.

"No," he said gaily, "your name is Thalomene, and you are the tenth
muse. For truly I think I have never before been so thoroughly inspired
by a talk with anyone."

She laughed. He had done almost all the talking. And he continued it,
very happily, as by common consent they seated themselves on the
veranda.




XV


The inhabitants of the Villa Hibiscus retired. But Brown talked on,
quite unconscious that the low-voiced questions and softly modulated
replies were magic which incited him to a perfect ecstasy of
self-revelation.

Perhaps he thought he was studying her--for the compact by mutual
consent was already in force--and certainly his eyes were constantly
upon her, taking, as no doubt he supposed, a cold and impersonal measure
of her symmetry. Calmly, and with utter detachment, he measured her
slender waist, her soft little hands; noting the fresh, sweet lips, the
clear, prettily shaped eyes, the delicate throat, the perfect little
Greek head with its thick, golden hair.

And all the while he held forth about literature and its true purpose;
about what art really is; about his own art, his own literature, and
his own self.

And the girl was really fascinated.

She had seen, at a distance, such men. When Brown had named himself to
her, she had recognised the name with awe, as a fashionable and wealthy
name known to Gotham.

Yet, had Brown known it, neither his eloquence nor his theories, nor his
aims, were what fascinated her. But it was his boyish enthusiasm, his
boyish intolerance, his immaturity, his happy certainty of the
importance of what concerned himself.

He was so much a boy, so much a man, such a candid, unreasonable, eager,
selfish, impulsive, portentous, and delightfully illogical mixture of
boy and man that the combination fascinated every atom of womanhood in
her--and at moments as the night wore on, she found herself listening
perilously close to the very point of sympathy.

He appeared to pay no heed to the flight of time. The big stars frosted
Heaven; the lagoon was silvered by them; night winds stirred the orange
bloom; oleanders exhaled a bewitching perfume.

As he lay there in his rocking chair beside her, it seemed to him that
he had known her intimately for years--so wonderfully does the charm of
self-revelation act upon human reason. For she had said almost nothing
about herself. Yet, it was becoming plainer to him every moment that
never in all his life had he known any woman as he already knew this
young girl.

"It is wonderful," he said, lying back in his chair and looking up at
the stars, "how subtle is sympathy, and how I recognise yours. I think I
understand you perfectly already."

"Do you?" she said.

"Yes, I feel sure I do. Somehow, I know that secretly and in your own
heart you are in full tide of sympathy with me and with my life's work."

"I thought you had no imagination," she said.

"I haven't. Do you mean that I only imagine that you are in sympathy
with me?"

"No," she said. "I am."

After a few moments she laughed deliciously. He never knew why. Nor was
she ever perfectly sure why she had laughed, though they discussed the
matter very gravely.

A new youth seemed to have invaded her, an exquisite sense of lightness,
of power. Vaguely she was conscious of ability, of a wonderful and
undreamed of capacity. Within her heart she seemed to feel the subtle
stir of a new courage, a certainty of the future, of indefinable but
splendid things.

The manuscript of the novel which she had sent North two weeks ago
seemed to her a winged thing soaring to certain victory in the empyrean.
Suddenly, by some magic, doubt, fear, distress, were allayed--and it was
like surcease from a steady pain, with all the blessed and heavenly
languor relaxing her mind and body.

And all the while Brown talked on.

Lying there in her chair she listened to him while the thoughts in her
eased mind moved in delicate accompaniment.

Somehow she understood that never in her life had she been so
happy--with this boy babbling beside her, and her own thoughts
responding almost tenderly to his youth, his inconsistencies, to the
arrogance typical of his sex. He was so wrong!--so far from the track,
so utterly astray, so pitiably confident! Who but she should know, who
had worked and studied and failed and searched, always writing,
however--which is the only way in the world to learn how to write--or to
learn that there is no use in writing.

Her hand lay along the flat arm of her rocking-chair; and once, when he
had earnestly sustained a perfectly untenable theory concerning success
in literature, unconsciously she laid her fresh, smooth hand on his arm
in impulsive protest.

"No," she said, "don't think that way. You are quite wrong. That is the
road to failure!"

It was her first expression of disagreement, and he looked at her
amazed.

"I am afraid you think I don't know anything about real literature and
realism," she said, "but I do know a little."

"Every man must work out his salvation in his own way," he insisted,
still surprised at her dissent.

"Yes, but one should be equipped by long practice in the art before
definitely choosing one's final course."

"I am practiced."

"I don't mean theoretically," she murmured.

He laughed: "Oh, you mean mere writing," he said, gaily confident.
"That, according to my theory, is not necessary to real experience.
Literature is something loftier."

In her feminine heart every instinct of womanhood was aroused--pity for
the youth of him, sympathy for his obtuseness, solicitude for his
obstinacy, tenderness for the fascinating combination of boy and man,
which might call itself by any name it chose--even "author"--and go
blundering along without a helping hand amid shrugs and smiles to a goal
marked "Failure."

"I wonder," she said almost timidly, "whether you could ever listen to
me."

"Always," he said, bending nearer to see her expression. Which having
seen, he perhaps forgot to note in his little booklet, for he continued
to look at her.

"I haven't very much to say," she said. "Only--to learn any art or trade
or profession it is necessary to work at it unremittingly. But to
discuss it never helped anybody."

"My dear child," he said, "I know that what you say was the old idea.
But," he shrugged, "I do not agree with it."

"I am so sorry," she said.

"Sorry? Why are you sorry?"

"I don't know.... Perhaps because I like you."

It was not very much to say--not a very significant declaration; but the
simplicity and sweetness of it--her voice--the head bent a little in the
starlight--all fixed Brown's attention. He sat very still there in the
luminous dusk of the white veranda; the dew dripped steadily like rain;
the lagoon glittered.

Then, subtly, taking Brown unawares, his most treacherous enemy crept
upon him with a stealth incredible, and, before Brown knew it, was in
full possession of his brain. The enemy was Imagination.

Minute after minute slipped away in the scented dusk, and found Brown's
position unchanged, where he lay in his chair looking at her.

The girl also was very silent.

With what wonderful attributes his enemy, Imagination, was busily
endowing the girl beside him in the starlight, there is no knowing. His
muse was Thalomene, slim daughter of Zeus; and whether she was really
still on Olympus or here beside him he scarcely knew, so perfectly did
this young girl inspire him, so exquisitely did she fill the bill.

"It is odd," he said, after a long while, "that merely a few hours with
you should inspire me more than I have ever been inspired in all my
life."

"That," she said unsteadily, "is your imagination."

At the hateful word, imagination, Brown seemed to awake from the spell.
Then he sat up straight, rather abruptly.

"The thing to do," he said, still confused by his awakening, "is to
consider you impersonally and make notes of everything." And he fumbled
for pencil and note-book, and, rising, stepped across to the front door,
where a light was burning.

Standing under it he resolutely composed his thoughts; but to save his
life he could remember nothing of which to make a memorandum.

This worried him, and finally alarmed him. And so long did he stand
there, note-book open, pencil poised, and a sickly expression of dismay
imprinted upon his otherwise agreeable features, that the girl rose at
last from her chair, glanced in through the door at him, and then came
forward.

"What is the matter?" she asked.

"The matter is," said Brown, "that I don't seem to have anything to
write about."

"You are tired," she said. "I think we both are a little tired."

"I am not. Anyway, I have something to write about now. Wait a moment
till I make a note of how you walk--the easy, graceful, flowing motion,
so exquisitely light and----"

"But I don't walk like that!" she said, laughing.

"--Graciously as a youthful goddess," muttered Brown, scribbling away
busily in his note-book. "Tell me; what motive had you just now in
rising and coming to ask me what was the matter--with such a sweetly
apprehensive expression in your eyes?"

"My--my motive?" she repeated, astonished.

"Yes. You had one, hadn't you?"

"Why--I don't know. You looked worried; so I came."

"The motive," said Brown, "was feminine solicitude--an emotion natural
to nice women. Thank you." And he made a note of it.

"But motives and emotions are different things," she said timidly. "I
had no motive for coming to ask you why you seemed troubled."

"Wasn't your motive to learn why?"

"Y-yes, I suppose so."

He laid his head on one side and inspected her critically.

"And if anything had been amiss with me you would have been sorry,
wouldn't you?"

"Yes."

"Why?"

"Why? Because--one is sorry when a friend--when anyone----"

"I am your friend," he said. "So why not say it?"

"And I am yours--if you wish," she said.

"Yes, I do." He began to write: "It's rather odd how friendship begins.
We both seem to want to be friends." And to her he said: "How does it
make you feel--the idea of our being friends? What emotions does it
arouse in you?"

She looked at him in sorrowful surprise. "I thought it was real
friendship you meant," she murmured, "not the sort to make a note
about."

"But I've got to make notes of everything. Don't you see? Certainly our
friendship is real enough--but I've got to study it minutely and make
notes concerning it. It's necessary to make records of everything--how
you walk, stand, speak, look, how you go upstairs----"

"I am going now," she said.

He followed, scribbling furiously; and it is difficult to go upstairs,
watch a lady go upstairs, and write about the way she does it all at the
same time.

"Good-night," she said, opening her door.

"Good-night," he said, absently, and so intent on his scribbling that he
followed her through the door into her room.




XVI


"She goes upstairs as though she were floating up," he wrote, with
enthusiasm; "her lovely figure, poised on tip-toe, seems to soar upward,
ascending as naturally and gracefully as the immortals ascended the
golden stairs of Jacob----"

In full flood of his treacherous imagination he seated himself on a
chair beside her bed, rested the note-book on his knees, and scribbled
madly, utterly oblivious to her. And it was only when he had finished,
for sheer lack of material, that he recollected himself, looked up, saw
how she had shrunk away from him against the wall--how the scarlet had
dyed her face to her temples.

"Why--why do you come--into my bedroom?" she faltered. "Does our
friendship count for no more than that with you?"

"What?" he said, bewildered.

"That you do what you have no right to do. Art--art is not enough
to--to--excuse--disrespect----"

Suddenly the tears sprang to her eyes, and she covered her flushed face
with both hands.

For a moment Brown stood petrified. Then a deeper flush than hers
settled heavily over his features.

"I'm sorry," he said.

She made no response.

"I didn't mean to hurt you. I do respect you," he said.

No response.

Brown gazed at her, gazed at his note-book.

Then he hurled the note-book across the room and walked over to her as
she lifted her lovely head, startled and tearful.

"You are right," he said, swallowing nothing very desperately. "You can
not be studied this way. Will you--marry me?"

"What!"

"Will you marry me?"

"Why?" she gasped.

"Because I--want to study you."

"No!" she said, looking him straight in the eyes.

Brown thought hard for a full minute.

"Would you marry me because I love you?" he asked timidly.

The question seemed to be more than she could answer. Besides, the tears
sprang to her blue eyes again, and her under lip began to tremble, and
she covered her face with both hands. Which made it impossible for him
to kiss her.

"Isn't it wonderful?" he said earnestly, trembling from head to foot.
"Isn't it wonderful, dear?"

"Yes," she whispered. The word, uttered against his shoulder, was
stifled. He bent his head nearer, murmuring:

"Thalomene--Thalomene--embodiment of Truth! How wonderful it is to me
that at last I find in you that absolute Truth I worship."

"I am--the embodiment--of your--imagination," she said. "But you will
never, never believe it--most adorable of boys--dearest--dearest of
men."

And, lifting her stately and divine young head, she looked innocently at
Brown while he imprinted his first and most chaste kiss upon the fresh,
sweet lips of the tenth muse, Thalomene, daughter of Zeus.

       

"Athalie," said the youthful novelist more in sorrow than in anger,
"you are making game of everything I hold most important."

"Provide yourself with newer and truer gods, dear child," said the girl,
laughing. "After you've worshipped them long enough somebody will also
poke fun at them. Whereupon, if you are fortunate enough to be one of
those who continues to mature until he matures himself into the
Ewigkeit, you will instantly quit those same over-mauled and worn out
gods for newer and truer ones."

"And so on indefinitely," I added.

"In literature," began the novelist, "the great masters must stand as
parents for us in our first infantile steps----"

"No," said the girl, "all worthy aspirants enter the field of literature
as orphans. Opportunity and Fates alone stand for them in loco
parentis. And the child of these is known as Destiny."

"No cubist could beat that, Athalie," remarked Duane. "I'm ashamed of
you--or proud--I don't know which."

"Dear child," she said, "you will never know the true inwardness of any
sentiment you entertain concerning me until I explain it to you."

"Smitten again hip and thigh," said Stafford. "Fair lady, I am far too
wary to tell you what I think of the art of incoherence as practised
occasionally by the prettiest Priestess in the Temple."

Athalie looked at me as the sweetmeat melted on her tongue.

"You promised me a dog," she remarked.

"I've picked him out. He'll be weaned in another week."

"What species of pup is he?" inquired Duane.

"An Iceland terrier," I answered. "They use them for digging out walrus
and seals."

"Thank you," said Duane pleasantly.

"After all," observed the girl, lifting her glass of water, "it does not
concern Mr. Duane what sort of a dog you have chosen for me."

She sipped it leisurely, looking over the delicate crystal rim at Duane.

"You are young," she said. "'L'enfance est le sommeil de la raison.'"

"How would you like to have an Angora kitten?" he asked, reddening
slightly.

"But infancy," she added, "is always adorable.... I think I might like a
white one with blue eyes."

"Puppies, kittens, children," remarked Stafford--"they're all tolerable
while they're young."

