"Spiders!" said he. "Spinning a goblin veil for you!"
"I wish the veil of Fate were as transparent," said she.
"Would you see behind it if you could?"
She said under her breath:
"I sometimes dream I see behind it now."
"What do you see?" he asked.
She shook her head; but we all begged her to disclose her dreams,
saying laughingly that as dreams were the most important things in the
lives of all Indians, our close association with them had rendered us
credulous.
"Come, Lanette," urged Boyd, "tell us what it is you see in dreams
behind the veil."
She hesitated, shuddered:
"Flames--always flames. And a man in black with leaden buttons, whose
face is always hidden in his cloak. But, oh! I know--I seem to know
that he has no face at all, but is like a skull under his black cloak."
"A merry dream," said Boyd, laughing.
"Is there more to it?" asked Lois seriously.
"Yes.... Lieutenant Boyd is there, and he makes a sign--like this----"
"What!" exclaimed Boyd, sitting up, astounded. "Where did you learn
that sign?"
"In my dream. What does it mean?"
"Make it no more, Lana," he said, in a curiously disturbed voice. "For
wherever you have learned it--if truly from a dream, or from some
careless fellow--of my own----" He hesitated, glanced at me. "You are
not a Mason, Loskiel. And Lana has just given the Masonic signal of
distress--having seen me give it in a dream. It is odd." He sat very
silent for a moment, then lay down again at Lana's feet; and for a
little while they conversed in whispers, as though forgetting that we
were there at all, his handsome head resting against her knees, and her
hand touching the hair on his forehead lightly at intervals.
After a few moments I rose and, with Lois, walked forward toward our
picket line, from where we could see very plainly the great cattle herd
among the trees along the river.
She said in a low and troubled voice:
"It has come so far, then, that Lana makes no longer a disguise of her
sentiments before you and me. It seems as though they had bewitched
each other--and find scant happiness in the mutual infatuation."
I said nothing.
"Is he not free to marry her?" asked Lois.
"Why, yes--I suppose he is--if she will have him," I said, startled by
the direct question. "Why not?"
"I don't know. Once, at Otsego Camp I overheard bitter words between
them--not from him, for he only laughed at what she said. It was in the
dusk, close to our tent; and either they were careless or thought I
slept.... And I heard her say that he was neither free nor fit to speak
of marriage. And he laughed and vowed that he was as free and fit as
was any man. 'No,' says she, 'there are other men like Euan Loskiel in
the world.' 'Exceptions prove the case,' says he, laughing; and there
was a great sob in her voice as she answered that such men as he were
born to damn women. And he retorted coolly that it was such women as
she who ever furnished the provocation, but that only women could lose
their own souls, and that it was the same with men; but neither of 'em
could or ever had contributed one iota toward the destruction of any
soul except their own.... Then Lana came into our tent and stood
looking down at me where I lay; and dimly through my lashes I could
perceive the shadow of Boyd behind her on the tent wall, wavering,
gigantic, towering to the ridge-pole as he set the camp-torch in its
socket on the flooring." She passed her slim hand across her eyes. "It
was like an unreal scene--a fevered vision of two phantoms in the
smoky, lurid lustre of the torch. Boyd stood there dark against the
light, edged with flickering flame as with a mantle, figure and visage
scintilant with Lucifer's own beauty--and Lana, her proud head
drooping, and her sad, young eyes fixed on me--Oh, Euan!" She stood
pressing down both eyelids with her fingers, motionless; then, with a
quick-drawn breath and a brusque gesture, flung her arms wide and let
them drop to her sides. "How can men follow what they call their
'fortune,' headlong, unheeding, ranging through the world as a
hot-jowled hound ranges for rabbits? Are they never satiated? Are they
never done with the ruthless madness? Does the endless chase with its
intervals of killing never pall?"
"Hounds are hounds," I said slowly. "And the hound will chase his
thousandth hare with all the unslaked eagerness that thrilled him when
his first quarry fled before him."
"Why?"
But I shook my head in silence.
"Are you that way?"
"I have not been."
"The instinct then is not within you?"
"Yes, the instinct is.... But some hounds are trained to range only as
far as their mistress, Old Dame Reason, permits. Others slip leash and
take to the runways to range uncontrolled and mastered only by a dark
and second self, urging them ever forward.... There are but two kinds
of men, Lois--the self-disciplined, and the unbroken. But the raw
nature of the two differed nothing at their birth."
She stood looking down at the distant cattle along the river for a
while without speaking; then her hand, which hung beside her, sought
mine and softly rested within my clasp.
"It is wonderful," she murmured, "that it has been God's pleasure I
should come to you unblemished--after all that I have lived to learn
and see. But more wonderful and blessed still it is to me to find you
what you are amid this restless, lawless, ruthless world of
soldiery--upright and pure in heart.... It seems almost, with us, as
though our mothers had truly made of us two Hidden Children, white and
mysterious within the enchanted husks, which only our own hands may
strip from us, and reveal ourselves unsullied as God made us, each to
the other--on our wedding morn."
I lifted her little hand and laid my lips to it, touching the ring.
Then she bent timidly and kissed the rough gold circlet where my lips
had rested. Somehow, a shaft of sunlight had penetrated the green roof
above, and slanted across her hair, so that the lovely contour of her
head was delicately edged with light.
* "Nene-nea-wen-ne, Lois!" I whispered passionately.
[* "This thing shall happen, Lois!"]
* "Nen-ya-wen-ne, O Loskiel! Teni-non-wes."
[* "It shall happen, O Loskiel! We love, thou and I."]
We stood yet a while together there, and I saw her lift her eyes and
gaze straight ahead of us beyond our picket line, and remain so, gazing
as though her regard could penetrate those dim and silent forest aisles
to the red altar far beyond in unseen Catharines-town.
"When must you go?" she asked under her breath.
"The army is making ready today."
"To march into the Indian country?"
I nodded.
"When does it march?"
"On Friday. But that is not to be known at present."
"I understand. By what route do you go?"
"By Chemung."
"And then?"
"At Chemung we leave the army, Boyd and I. You heard."
"Yes, Euan."
I said, forcing myself to speak lightly:
"You are not to be afraid for us, Little Rosy Pigeon of the Forest.
Follow me with your swift-winged thoughts and no harm shall come to me."
"Must you go?"
I laughed: * "Ka-teri-oseres, Lois."
[* "I am going to this war, Lois."]
* "Wa-ka-ton-te-tsihon," she said calmly. "Wa-ka-ta-tiats-kon."
[* "I understand perfectly. I am resigned."]
Then I gave way to my increasing surprise:
"Wonder-child!" I exclaimed. "When and where have you learned to
understand and answer me in the tongue of the Long House?"
* "Kio-ten-se," she said with a faint smile.
[* "I am working for somebody."]
"For whom?"
"For my mother, Euan. Did you suppose I could neglect anything that
might be useful in my life's quest? Who knows when I might need the
tongue I am slowly learning to speak?... Oh, and I know so little, yet.
Something of Algonquin the Mohican taught me; and with it a little of
the Huron tongue. And now for nearly a month every day I have learned a
little from the Oneidas at Otsego--from the Oneida girl whose bridal
dress you bought to give to me. Do you remember her? The maid called
Drooping Wings?"
"Yes--but--I do not understand. To what end is all this? When and where
is your knowledge of the Iroquois tongue likely to aid you?"
She gave me a curious, veiled look--then turned her face away.
"You do not dream of following our army, do you?" I demanded. "Not one
woman would be permitted to go. It is utterly useless for you to expect
it, folly to dream of such a thing.... You and Lana are to go to Easton
as soon as the heavier artillery is sent down the river, which will be
the day we start--Friday. This frontier gypsying is ended--all this
coquetting with danger is over now. The fort here is no place for you
and Lana. Your visit, brief as it has been, is rash and unwarranted.
And I tell you very plainly, Lois, that I shall never rest until you
are at Easton, which is a stone town and within the borders of
civilization. The artillery will be sent down by boat, and all the
women and children are to go also. Neither Boyd nor I have told this to
you and Lana, but----" I glanced over my shoulder. "I think he is
telling her now."
Lois slowly turned and looked toward them. Evidently they no longer
cared what others saw or thought, for Lana's cheek lay pressed against
his shoulder, and his arm encircled her body.
We walked back, all together, to the fort, and left Lois and Lana at
the postern; then Boyd and I continued on to my bush-hut, the Indians
following.
Muffled drums of a regiment were passing, and an escort with reversed
arms, to bury poor Kimball, Captain in Colonel Cilly's command, shot
this morning through the heart by the accidental discharge of a musket
in the careless hands of one of his own men.
We stood at salute while the slow cortege passed.
Said Boyd thoughtfully:
"Well, Kimball's done with all earthly worries. There are those who
might envy him."
"You are not one," I said bluntly.
"I? No. I have not yet played hard enough in the jolly blind man's
buff--which others call the game of life. I wear the bandage still, and
still my hands clutch at the empty air, and in my ears the world's
sweet laughter rings----" He smiled, then shrugged. "The charm of
Fortune's bag is not what you pull from it, but what remains within."
"Boyd," I said abruptly. "Who is that handsome wench that followed us
from Otsego?"
"Dolly Glenn?"
"That is her name."
"Lord, how she pesters me!" he said fretfully. "I chanced upon her at
the Middle Fort one evening--down by the river. And what are our
wenches coming to," he exclaimed impatiently, "that a kiss on a
summer's night should mean to them more than a kiss on a night in
summer!"
"She is a laundress, is she not?"
"How do I know? A tailoress, too, I believe, for she has patched and
mended for me; and she madded me because she would take no pay. There
are times," he added, "when sentiment is inconvenient----"
"Poor thing," I said.
"My God, why? When I slipped my arm around her she put up her face to
be kissed. It was give and take, and no harm done--and the moon
a-laughing at us both. And why the devil she should look at me
reproachfully is more than I can comprehend."
"It seems a cruel business," said I.
"Cruel!"
"Aye--to awake a heart and pass your way a-whistling."
"Now, Loskiel," he began, plainly vexed, "I am not cruel by nature, and
you know it well enough. Men kiss and go their way----"
"But women linger still."
"Not those I've known."
"Yet, here is one----"
"A silly fancy that will pass with her. Lord! Do you think a gentleman
accountable to every pretty chit of a girl he notices on his way
through life?"
"Some dare believe so."
He stared at me, then laughed.
"You are different to other men, of course," he said gaily. "We all
understand that. So let it go----"
"One moment, Boyd. There is a matter I must speak of--because
friendship and loyalty to a childhood friend both warrant it. Can you
tell me why Lana Helmer is unhappy?"
A dark red flush surged up to the roots of his hair, and the muscles in
his jaw tightened. He remained a moment mute and motionless, staring at
me. But if my question, for the first moment, had enraged him, that
quickly died out; and into his eyes there came a haggard look such as I
had never seen there.
He said slowly:
"Were you not the man you are, Loskiel, I had answered in a manner you
might scarcely relish. Now, I answer you that if Lana is unhappy I am
more so. And that our unhappiness is totally unnecessary--if she would
but listen to what I say to her."
"And what is it that you say to her?" I inquired as coolly as though
his answer might not very easily be a slap with his fringed sleeve
across my face.
"I have asked her to marry me," he said. "Do you understand why I tell
you this?"
I shook my head.
"To avoid killing you at twenty paces across the river.... I had rather
tell you than do that."
"So that you have told me," said I, "the reason for your telling
matters nothing. And my business with you ends with your answer....
Only--she is my friend, Boyd--a playmate of pleasant days. And if you
can efface that wretchedness from her face--brighten the quenched
sparkle of her eyes, paint her cheeks with rose again--do it, in God's
name, and make of me a friend for life."
"Shall I tell you what has gone amiss--from the very first there at
Otsego?"
"No--that concerns not me----"
"Yes, I shall tell you! It's that she knew about--the wench here--Dolly
Glenn."
"Is that why she refuses you and elects to remain unhappy?" I said
incredulously.
"Yes--I can say no more.... You are right, Loskiel, and such men as I
are wrong--utterly and wretchedly wrong. Sooner or later comes the bolt
of lightning. Hell! To think that wench should hurl it!"
"But what bolt had she to hurl?" said I, astonished.
He reddened, bit his lip savagely, made as though to speak, then, with
a violent gesture, turned away.
A few moments later a cannon shot sounded. It was the signal for
striking tents and packing up; and in every regiment hurry and
confusion reigned and the whole camp swarmed with busy soldiery.
But toward evening orders came to unpack and pitch tents again; and
whether it had been an exercise to test the quickness of our army for
marching, or whether some accident postponed the advance, I do not know.
All that evening, being on duty with my Indians to watch the
cattle-guard, I did not see Lois.
The next day I was ordered to take the Indians a mile or two toward
Chemung and lie there till relieved; so we went very early and remained
near the creek on observation, seeing nothing, until evening, when the
relief came with Hanierri and three Stockbridges. These gave us an
account that another soldier had been shot in camp by the accidental
discharge of a musket, and that the Light Troops had marched out of
their old encampment and had pitched tents one hundred rods in advance.
Also, they informed us that the flying hospital and stores had been
removed to the fort, and that Colonel Shreve had taken over the command
of that place.
By reason of the darkness, we were late in getting into camp, so again
that day I saw nothing of Lois.
On Wednesday it rained heavily about eleven o'clock, and the troops
made no movement. Some Oneidas came in and went to headquarters. My
Indians did not seem to know them.
I was on duty all day at headquarters, translating into Iroquois for
the General a speech which he meant to deliver to the Tuscaroras on his
return through Easton. The rain ceased late in the afternoon. Later, an
express came through from Fort Pitt; and before evening orders had gone
out that the entire army was to march at eight o'clock in the morning.
Morning came with a booming of cannon. We did not stir.
Toward eleven, however, the army began to march out as though departing
in earnest; but as Major Parr remained with the Rifles, I knew
something had gone amiss.
Yet, the other regiments, including my own, marched away gaily enough,
with music sounding and colours displayed; and the garrison, boatmen,
artillerymen, and all the civil servants and women and children waved
them adieu from the parapets of the fort.
But high water at Tioga ford, a mile or two above, soon checked them,
and there they remained that night. As I was again on duty with
Hanierri and the Dominie, I saw not Lois that day.
Friday was fair and sunny, and the ground dried out. And all the
morning I was with Dominie Kirkland and Hanierri, translating,
transcribing, and writing out the various speeches and addresses left
for me by General Sullivan.
Runners came in toward noon with news that our main forces had encamped
at the pass before Chemung, and were there awaiting us.
Murphy, the rifleman, came saying that our detail was packing up at the
fort, that Major Parr had sent word for Lieutenant Boyd to strike tents
and pull foot, and that the boats were now making ready to drop down
the river with the non-combatants.
My pack, and those of my Indians, had been prepared for days, and there
was little for me to do to make ready. Some batt-men carried my
military chest to the fort, where it was bestowed with the officers'
baggage until we returned.
Then I hastened away to the fort and discovered our twenty riflemen
paraded there, and Boyd inspecting them and their packs. His face
seemed very haggard under its dark coat of sunburn, but he returned my
salute with a smile, and presently came over to where I stood, saying
coolly enough:
"I have made my adieux to the ladies. They are at the landing place
expecting you. Best not linger. We should reach Chemung by dusk."
"My Indians are ready," said I.
"Very well," he said absently, and returned to his men, continuing his
careful inspection.
As I passed the log bridge, I saw Dolly Glenn standing there with a
frightened look on her face, but she paid no heed to me, and I went on
still haunted by the girl's expression.
A throng of people--civilians and soldiers--were at the landing. The
redoubtable Mrs. Sabin was bustling about a batteau, terrorizing its
crew and bullying the servants, who were stowing away her property.
Looking about me, I finally discovered Lois and Lana standing on the
shore a little way down stream, and hastened to them.
Lana was as white as a ghost, but to my surprise Lois seemed cheerful
and in gayest spirits, and laughed when I saluted her hand. And it
relieved me greatly to find her so animated and full of confidence that
all would be well with us, and the parting but a brief one.
"I know in my heart it will be brief," she said smilingly, and
permitting both her hands to remain in mine. "Soon, very soon, we shall
be again together, Euan, and this interrupted fairy tale, so prettily
begun by you and me, shall be once more resumed."
"To no fairy finish," I said, "but in sober reality."
She looked at Lana, laughing:
"What a lad is this, dear! How can a fairy tale be ever real? Yet, he
is a magician like Okwencha, this tall young Ensign of mine, and I make
no doubt that his wizardry can change fancy to fact in the twinkling of
an eye. Indeed, I think I, too, am something of a witch. Shall I make
magic for you, Euan? What most of anything on earth would you care to
see tonight?"
"You, Lois."
"Hai-e! That is easy. I will some night send to you my spirit, and it
shall be so like me and so vivid nay, so warm and breathing--that you
shall think to even touch it.... Shall I do this with a spell?"
"I only have to close my eyes and see you. Make it that I can also
touch you."
"It shall be done."
We both were smiling, and I for one was forcing my gay spirits, for now
that the moment had arrived, I knew that chance might well make of our
gay adieux an endless separation.
Lana had wandered a little way apart; I glanced at Lois, then turned
and joined her. She laid her hand on my arm, as though her knees could
scarcely prop her, and turned to me a deathly face.
"Euan," she breathed, "I have said adieu to him. Somehow, I know that
he and I shall never meet again.... Tell him I pray for him--for his
soul.... And mine.... And that before he goes he shall do the thing I
bid him do.... And if he will not--tell him I ask God's mercy on
him.... Tell him that, Euan."
"Yes," I said, awed.
She stood resting her arm on mine to support her, closed her eyes for a
moment, then opened them and looked at me. And in her eyes I saw her
heart was breaking as she stood there.
"Lana! Lanette! Little comrade! What is this dreadful thing that
crushes you? Could you not tell me?" I whispered.
"Ask him, Euan."
"Lana, why will you not marry him, if you love him so?"
She shuddered and closed her eyes.
Neither of us spoke again. Lois, watching us, came slowly toward us,
and linked her arm in Lana's.
"Our batteau is waiting," she said quietly.
I continued to preserve my spirits as we walked together down to the
shore where Mrs. Sabin stood glaring at me, then turned her broad back
and waddled across the planks.
Lana followed; Lois clung a second to my hands, smiling still; then I
released her and she sprang lightly aboard.
And now batteau after batteau swung out into the stream, and all in
line dropped slowly down the river, pole and paddle flashing, kerchiefs
fluttering.
For a long way I could see the boat that carried Lois gliding in the
channel close along shore, and the escort following along the bank
above, with the sunshine glancing on their slanting rifles. Then a bend
in the river hid them; and I turned away and walked slowly toward the
fort.
By the gate my Indians were waiting. The Sagamore had my pack and rifle
for me. On the rifle-platform above, the soldiers of the garrison stood
looking down at us.
And now I heard the short, ringing word of command, and out of the gate
marched our twenty riflemen, Boyd striding lightly ahead.
Then, as he set foot on the log bridge, I saw Dolly Glenn standing
there, confronting him, blocking his way, her arms extended and her
eyes fixed on him.
"Are you mad?" he said curtly.
"If you go," she retorted unsteadily, "leaving me behind you
here--unwedded--God will punish you."
The column had came to a halt. There was a dead silence on parapet and
parade while three hundred pair of eyes watched those two there on the
bridge of logs.
"Dolly, you are mad!" he said, with the angry colour flashing in his
face and staining throat and brow.
"Will you do me justice before you go?"
"Will you stand aside?" he said between his teeth.
"Yes--I will stand aside.... And may you remember me when you burn at
the last reckoning with God!"
"'Tention! Trail arms! By the left flank--march!" he cried, his voice
trembling with rage.
The shuffling velvet tread of his riflemen fell on the bridge; and they
passed, rifles at a trail, and fringes blowing in the freshening breeze.
Without a word I fell in behind. After me loped my Indians in perfect
silence.
CHAPTER XVII
THE BATTLE OF CHEMUNG
Toward sundown we hailed our bullock guard below the ruins of Old
Chemung, and passed forward through the army to the throat of the pass,
where the Rifles lay.
The artillery was already in a sorry mess, nine guns stalled and an
ammunition wagon overturned in the ford. And I heard the infantry
cursing the drivers and saying that we had lost thousands of
cartridges. Stewart's bullock-guard was in a plight, too, forty head
having strayed.
At the outlet to the pass Major Parr met us, cautioning silence. No
fires burned and the woods were very still, so that we could hear in
front of us the distant movement of men; and supposed that the enemy
had come down to Chemung in force. But Major Parr told us that our
scouts could make nothing of these incessant noises, reporting only a
boatload of Sir John Johnson's green-coated soldiers on the river, and
a few Indians in two canoes; and that he had no knowledge whether Sir
John, the two Butlers, McDonald, and Brant lay truly in front of us, or
whether these people were only a mixed scalping party of blue-eyed
Indians, Senecas, and other ragamuffin marauders bent on a more distant
foray, and now merely lingering along our front over night to spy out
what we might be about.
Also, he informed us that a little way ahead, on the Great Warrior
trail, lay an Indian town which our scouts reported to be abandoned;
and said that he had desired to post our pickets there, but that orders
from General Hand had prevented that precaution until the General
commanding arrived at the front.
Some few minutes after our appearance in camp, and while we were eating
supper, there came a ruddy glimmer of torches from behind us, lighting
up the leaves overhead; and Generals Sullivan, Clinton, Hand, and Poor
rode up and drew bridle beside Major Parr, listening intently to the
ominous sounds in front of us.
And, "What the devil do you make of it, Major?" says Sullivan, in a low
voice. "It sounds like a log-rolling in March."
"My scouts give me no explanation," says Parr grimly. "I think the
rascals are terrified."
"Send Boyd and that young interpreter," said Sullivan curtly.
So, as nobody could understand exactly what these noises indicated, and
as headquarters' scouts could obtain no information, Lieutenant Boyd
and I, with my Indians, left our supper of fresh roast corn and beans
and went forward at once. We moved out of the defile with every
precaution, passing the throat of the rocky pass and wading the little
trout-brook over which our trail led, the Chemung River now lying
almost south of us. Low mountains rose to the north and west, very dark
and clear against the stars; and directly ahead of us we saw the small
Indian town surrounded by corn fields; and found it utterly deserted,
save for bats and owls; and not even an Indian dog a-prowling there.
A little way beyond it we crossed another brook close to where it
entered the river, opposite an island. Here the Chemung makes a great
bend, flowing in more than half a circle; and there are little hills to
the north, around which we crept, hearing always the stirring and
movements of men ahead of us, and utterly unable to comprehend what
they were so busily about.
Just beyond the island another and larger creek enters the river; and
here, no longer daring to follow the Seneca trail, we turned southwest,
slinking across the river flats, through the high Indian grass, until
we came to a hardwood ridge, from whence some of these sounds proceeded.
We heard voices very plainly, the splintering of saplings, and a
heavier, thumping sound, which the Mohican whispered to us was like
hewn logs being dragged over the ground and then piled up. A few
moments later, Tahoontowhee, who had crept on ahead, glided up to us
and whispered that there was a high breastwork of logs on the ridge,
and that many men were cutting bushes, sharpening the stems, and
planting them to screen this breastwork so that it could not be seen
from the Seneca trail north of us, along which lay our army's line of
march. A pretty ambuscade, in truth! But Braddock's breed had passed.
Silently, stealthily, scarcely breathing, we got out of that dangerous
place, recrossed the grassy flats, and took to the river willows the
entire way back. At the mouth of the pass, where my battalion lay
asleep, we found Major Parr anxiously awaiting us. He sent Captain
Simpson back with the information.
Before I could unlace my shirt, drag my pack under my head, and compose
myself to sleep, Boyd, who had stretched himself out beside me, touched
my arm.
"Are you minded to sleep, Loskiel?"
"I own that I am somewhat inclined that way," said I.
"As you please."
"Why? Are you unwell?"
He lay silent for a few moments, then:
"What a mortifying business was that at the Tioga fort," he said under
his breath. "The entire garrison saw it, did they not, Loskiel? Colonel
Shreve and all?"
"Yes, I fear so,"
"It will be common gossip tomorrow," he said bitterly. "What a
miserable affair to happen to an officer of Morgan's!"
"A sad affair," I said.
"It will come to her ears, no doubt. Shreve's batt-men will carry it
down the river."
I was silent.
"Rumour runs the woods like lightning," he said. "She will surely hear
of this disgraceful scene. She will hear of it at Easton.... Strange,"
he muttered, "strange how the old truths hold!... Our sins shall find
us out.... I never before believed that, Loskiel--not in a wilderness,
anyway.... I had rather be here dead and scalped than have had that
happen and know that she must hear of it one day."
He lay motionless for a while, then turned heavily on his side, facing
me across the heap of dead leaves.
"Somehow or other," he said, "she heard of that miserable
business--heard of it even at Otsego.... That is why she would not
marry me, Loskiel. Did you ever hear the like! That a man must be so
utterly and hopelessly damned for a moment's careless folly--lose
everything in the world for a thoughtless moonlight frolic! Where lies
the justice in such a judgment?"
"It is not the world that judges you severely. The world cares little
what a man's way may be with a maid."
"But--Lana cares. It has ended everything for her."
I said in a low voice:
"You ended everything for Dolly Glenn."
"How was I to know she was no light o' love--this camp tailoress--this
silly little wench who--but let it go! Had she but whimpered, and
seemed abashed and unfamiliar with a kiss---- Well, let it go.... But I
could cut my tongue out that I ever spoke to her. God! How lightly
steps a man into a trap of his own contriving!... And here I lie
tonight, caring not whether I live or die in tomorrow's battle already
dawning on the Chemung. And yonder, south of us, in the black
starlight, drift the batteaux, dropping down to Easton under the very
sky that shines above us here.... If Lana be asleep at this moment I do
not know.... She tells me I have broke her heart--but yet will have
none of me.... Tells me my duty lies elsewhere; that I shall make
amends. How can a man make amends when his heart lies not in the
deed?... Am I then to be fettered to a passing whim for all eternity?
Does an instant's idle folly entail endless responsibility? Do I merit
punishment everlasting for a silly amourette that lasted no longer than
the July moon? Tell me, Loskiel, you who are called among us blameless
and unstained, is there no hope for a guilty man to shrive himself and
walk henceforward upright?"
"I can not answer you," I said dully. "Nor do I know how, of such a
business, a man may be shriven, or what should be his amends.... It all
seems pitiful and sad to me--a matter perplexing, unhappy, and far
beyond my solving.... I know it is the fashion of the times to regard
such affairs lightly, making of them nothing.... Much I have heard,
little learned, save that the old lessons seem to be the truest; the
old laws the best. And that our cynical and modern disregard of them
make one's salvation none the surer, one's happiness none the safer."
I heard Boyd sigh heavily, where he lay; but he said nothing more that
I heard; for I slept soon afterward, and was awakened only at dawn.
Everywhere in the rocky pass the yawning riflemen were falling in and
calling off; a detail of surly Jersey men, carrying ropes, passed us,
cursing the artillery which, it appeared, was in a sorry plight again,
the nine guns all stalled behind us, and an entire New Jersey brigade
detailed to pull them out o' the mud and over the rocks of the
narrowing defile.
Boyd shared my breakfast, seeming to have recovered something of his
old-time spirits. And if the camp that night had gossiped concerning
what took place at Tioga Fort, it seemed to make no difference to his
friends, who one and all greeted him with the same fellowship and
affection that he had ever inspired among fighting men. No man, I
think, was more beloved and admired in this Western army, by officers
and men alike; for in him were naturally combined all those brilliant
qualities of daring, fearlessness, and gaiety in the face of peril,
which endear, and which men strive to emulate. In no enterprise had he
ever failed to perform the part allotted him; never had he faltered in
the hundred battles fought by Morgan's veteran corps; never had he
seemed dismayed. And if sometimes he did a little more than he was
asked to do, his superior officers forgave this handsome, impetuous
young man--the more readily, perhaps, because, so far, no disaster had
befallen when he exceeded the orders given him.
My Indians had eaten, and were touching up their paint when Major Parr
came up, wearing a magnificent new suit of fringed buckskins, and
ordered us to guide the rifle battalion. A moment later our conch-horn
boomed out its thrilling and melodious warning. Far in the rear I heard
the drums and bugle-horns of the light infantry sounding the general.
As we went forward in the early daylight, the nature of the ambuscade
prepared for us became very plain to me; and I pointed out to Major
Parr where the unseen enemy rested, his right flank protected by the
river, his left extending north along the hog-bank, so that his lines
enveloped the trail on which we marched, threatening our entire army in
a most cunning and evil manner. Truly there was no fox like Butler in
the Northland!
All was very still about us as we marched; the river mist hung along
the woods; a few birds sang; the tops of the Indian corn rustled.
Toward eight o'clock the conch-horn blew; our riflemen halted and
deployed in perfect silence, facing the unseen works on the wooded
ridge ahead. Another division of troops swung to the left, continuing
the movement to the river in splendid order, where they also halted and
formed a line of battle, facing north. And still the unseen enemy gave
no sign; birds sang; the mist drifted up through the trees.
From where we lay we could see our artillery horses straining,
plunging, stumbling up a high knoll in the centre of our line, while
Maxwell's division halted and extended behind our riflemen to support
the artillery, and Clinton's four splendid New York regiments hurried
forward on a double, regiment after regiment dropping their packs
behind our lines and running north through the open woods, their
officers all finely mounted and cantering ahead, swords drawn.
A few moments later, General Sullivan passed along our front on
horseback, and drew bridle for a moment where Boyd and I were standing
at salute.
"Now is your opportunity, young gentlemen," he said in a low voice. "If
you would gain Catharines-town and destroy Amochol before we drive this
motley Tory army headlong through it, you should start immediately. And
have a care; Butler's entire army and Brant's Mohawks are now
intrenched in front of us; and it is a pitched battle we're facing--God
be thanked!"
He spurred forward with a friendly gesture toward us, as we saluted;
and his staff officers followed him at a canter while our riflemen
turned their heads curiously to watch the brilliant cavalcade.
"Where the devil are their log works?" demanded Major Parr, using his
field glasses. "I can see naught but green on that ridge ahead."
Boyd painted at the crest; but our Major could see nothing; and I
called to Timothy Murphy and Dave Elerson to climb trees and spy out if
the works were still occupied.
Murphy came down presently from the dizzy top of a huge black-walnut
tree, reporting that he had been able to see into the river angle of
their works; had for a while distinguished nothing, but presently
discovered Indians, crouched motionless, the brilliancy of their paint,
which at first he had mistaken for patches of autumn leaves, betraying
them when they moved.
"Now, God be praised!" said Major Parr grimly. "For we shall this day
furnish these Western-Gate Keepers with material for a Condolence Feast
such as no Seneca ever dreamed of. And if you gentlemen can surprise
and destroy Amochol, it will be a most blessed day for our unhappy
country."
General Hand, in his patched and faded uniform of blue and buff, drew
his long, heavy sword and walked his horse over to Major Parr.
"Well, sir," he said, "we must amuse them, I suppose, until the New
Yorkers gain their left. Push your men forward and draw their fire,
Major."
There came a low order; the soft shuffle of many mocassined feet;
silence. Presently, ahead of us, a single rifle-shot shattered the
stillness.
Instantly a mighty roar of Tory musketry filled the forest; and their
Indians, realizing that the ambuscade had been discovered, came leaping
down the wooded ridge, yelling and firing all along our front; and our
rifles began to speak quicker and quicker from every rock and tuft and
fallen log.
"Are we to miss this?" said Boyd, restlessly. "Listen to that firing!
The devil take this fellow Amochol and his Eries! I wish we were yonder
with our own people. I wish at least that I could see what our New
Yorkers are about!"
Behind us, Boyd's twenty riflemen stood craning their sunburnt necks;
and my Indians, terribly excited, fairly quivered where they crouched
beside us. But all we could see was the rifle smoke sifting through the
trees, and early sunshine slanting on the misty river.
The fierce yelling of the unseen Mohawks and Senecas on the wooded
ridge above us had become one continuous and hideous scream, shrill and
piercing above the racket of musketry and rifle fire; sometimes the
dreadful volume of sound surged nearer as though they were charging, or
showing themselves in order to draw us into a frontal attack on their
pits and log breastworks; but always after a little while the yelping
tumult receded, and our rifle fire slackened while the musketry from
the breastworks grew more furious, crashing out volley on volley, while
the entire ridge steamed like a volcano in action. Further to the north
we heard more musketry break out, as our New York regiments passed
rapidly toward Butler's left flank. And by the running fire we could
follow their hurried progress.
"Hell!" said Boyd, furiously, flinging his rifle to his shoulder. "Come
on, Loskiel, or we'll miss this accursed Amochol also." And he gave the
signal to march.
As we skirted the high knoll where our artillery was planted, the first
howitzer shot shook the forest, and my Indians cringed as they ran
beside me. High towering rose the shell, screaming like a living thing,
and plunged with a shriek into the woods on the ridge, exploding there
with a most infernal bang.
Up through the trees gushed a very fountain of smoke, through which we
could dimly see dark objects falling; but whether these were the limbs
of trees or of men we could not tell.
Crash! A howitzer hurled its five and a half inch shell high into the
sunshine. Boom! Another shot from a three-pounder. Bang! The little
cohorn added its miniature bellow to the bigger guns, which now began
to thunder regularly, one after another, shaking the ground we trod.
The ridge was ruddy with the red lightning of exploding shells. Very
far away in the forest we could hear entire regiments, as they climbed
the slopes, cheering above the continuous racket of musketry; the
yelling of the Senecas and Mohawks grew wavering, becoming ragged and
thinner.
It was hard for us all, I think, to turn our backs on the first real
battle we had seen in months--hard for Boyd, for me, and for our twenty
riflemen; harder, perhaps, for our Indians, who could hear the yells of
their most deadly enemies, and who knew that they were within striking
distance at last.
As we marched in single file, I leading with my Indians, I said aloud,
in the Iroquois tongue:
"If in this Battle of the Chemung the Mountain Snake be left writhing,
yet unless we crush his head at Catharines-town, the serpent will live
to strike again. For though a hundred arrows stick in the Western
Serpent's body, his poison lies in his fangs; his fangs are rooted in
his head; and the head still hisses at God and man from the shaggy
depths of Catharines-town. It is for us of the elect to slay him
there--for us few and chosen ones honoured by this mandate from our
commander. Why, then, should the thunder of Proctor's guns arouse in us
envy for those who join in battle? Let the iron guns do their part; let
the men of New York, of Jersey, of Virginia, of New Hampshire, of
Pennsylvania, do the great part allotted them. Let us in our hearts
pray God to speed them. For if we do our part as worthily, only then
shall their labour be not in vain. Their true title to glory is in our
keeping, locked inevitably with our own. If we fail, they have failed.
Judge, therefore, O Sagamore, judge, you Yellow Moth, and you
Oneidas--Grey-Feather, with your war-chief's feather and your Sachem's
ensign, Tahoontowhee, chieftain to be--judge, all of you, where the
real glory lies--whether behind us in the rifle smoke or before us in
the red glare of Amochol's accursed altar!"
They had been listening to every word as I walked beside them. The
Mohican made answer first:
"It was hard for us to leave the Chemung, O Loskiel, my brother--with
the dog-yelps at the Sinako and Mowawaks insulting our ears. But it was
wiser. I, a Sagamore, say it!"
"It is God's will," said the Yellow Moth. But his eyes were still red
with his fierce excitement; and the distant cannonade steadily
continued as we marched.
"I am Roya-neh!" said the Grey-Feather. "What wisdom counsels I
understand, He who would wear the scaly girdle must first know where
the fangs lie buried.... But to hear the Antouhonoran scalp-yelp, and
to turn one's back, is very hard, O my friend, Loskiel."
The Night-Hawk controlled his youthful features, forcing a merry smile
as my eye fell on him.
"Koue!" he exclaimed softly. "I have made promise to my thirsty
hatchet, O Loskiel! Else it might have leaped from its sheath and
bitten some one."
"A good hatchet and a good dog bite only under orders," I said. "My
younger brother's hatchet has acquired glory; now it is acquiring
wisdom."
Boyd came up along the line, his deerskin shirt open to the breastbone,
the green fringe blowing in the hill wind.
Far below us in the river valley sounded the uproar of the battle--a
dull, confused, and distant thunder--for now we could no longer hear
the musketry and rifle fire, only the boom-booming of the guns and the
endless roar of echoes.
Here on a high hill's spur, with a brisk wind blowing in our faces, the
heavy rumble of forest warfare became deadened; and we looked out over
the naked ridge of rock, across the forests of this broken country,
into a sea of green which stretched from horizon to horizon, accented
only by the silver glimmer of lakes and the low mountain peaks east,
west, and south of us.
Below us lay a creek, its glittering thread visible here and there. The
Great Warrior trail crossed it somewhere in that ravine.
I drew the Mohican aside.
"Sagamore," said I, "now is your time come. Now we depend on you. If it
lay with us, not one white man here, not one Indian, could take us
straight to Catharines-town; for the Great Warrior trail runs not
thither. Are you, then, confident that you know the way?"
"I know the way, Loskiel."
"Is there then a trail that leads from the Great Warrior trail below?"
"There are many."
"And you know the right one?"
"I have spoken, brother."
"I am satisfied. But we must clearly mark the trail for our surveyors
and for the army."
"We will mark it," he said meaningly, "so that no Seneca dog can ever
mistake which way we passed."
I did not exactly understand him, but I nodded to Boyd and he gave the
signal, and we began the descent through the warm twilight of an open
forest that sloped to the creek a thousand feet below us.
Down and down we went, partly sliding, and plowing up the moss and
leaves knee-deep, careless how we left our trail, as there was none to
follow, save the debris of a flying army or the flanking scouts of a
victorious one.
Below us the foaming rifles of the creek showed white in the woodland
gloom, and presently we heard its windy voice amid rocks and fallen
trees, soughing all alone through leafy solitudes; and its cool, damp
breath mounted to us as we descended.
The Indians dropped prone to slake their thirst; the riflemen squatted
and used their cups of bark or leather, pouring the sweet, icy water
over their cropped heads and wrists.
"Off packs!" said Boyd quietly, and drew a bit of bread and meat from
his beaded wallet. And so the Mohican and I left them all eating by the
stream, and crossed to the western bank. Here the Sagamore pointed to
the opposite slope; I gave a low whistle, and Boyd looked across the
water at me.
Then I drew my hatchet and notched a tree so that he saw what I did; he
nodded comprehension; we went on, notching trees at intervals, and so
ascended the slope ahead until we arrived at the top.
Here the forest lay flat beyond, and the Great Warrior trail ran
through it--a narrow path fifteen inches wide, perhaps, and worn nearly
a foot deep, and patted as hard as rock by the light feet of
generations--men and wild beasts--which had traversed it for centuries.
North and south the deeply graven war trail ran straight through the
wilderness. The Mohican bent low above it, scrutinizing it in the
subdued light, then stepped lightly into it, and I behind him.
For a little way we followed it, seeing other and narrower trails
branching from it right and left, running I knew not whither--the
narrow, delicate lanes made by game--deer and bear, fox and hare--all
spreading out into the dusk of the unknown forest.
Presently we came to a trail which seemed wet, as though swampy land
were not far away; and into this the Mohican turned, slashing a great
scar on the nearest tree as he entered it.
There was a mossy stream ahead, and the banks of it were dark and soft.
Here we rested high and dry on the huge roots of an oak, and ate our
midday meal.
In a little while the remainder of our party came gliding through the
trees, Boyd ahead.
"Is this the Catharines-town trail?" he asked. "By God, they'll never
get their artillery through here. Mark it, all the same," he added
indifferently, and seated himself beside me, dropping his rifle across
his knees with a gesture of weariness.
"Are you tired?" I asked.
He looked up at me with a wan smile.
"Weary of myself, Loskiel, and of a life lived too lightly and now nigh
ended."
"Nigh ended!" I repeated.
"I go not back again," he said, sombrely.
I glanced sharply at him, where he sat brooding over his rifle; and
there was in his face an expression such as I had never before seen
