then discreetly, almost atiptoe, she descended.
As the tapestry fell again, instantly there returned to Leilah the
sense of evil and impending ill. The brilliant room seemed full of
terrors. In each bright corner a danger lurked. So strong was the
impression that she felt it must be she was being warned, that she
was being visited by those obscure phenomena which occultists call
impacts from the astral, and that these were urging her to go, to meet
Verplank without, in the garden, in the street, anywhere except in this
fastidiousness.
Coerced by the impression, she entered an adjoining room, got there
a fichu which she put on her head, a light wrap which she drew about
her. Excited as she was, unaided as well, it took several minutes
before she could find these accouterments. When, at last equipped, she
re-entered the sitting room, she started.
Before her, his hat on, one side of his face medallioned with
courtplaster, stood Verplank.
At sight of Leilah, he removed his hat which he tossed on the sofa and
said at once and simply enough:
“That story of yours is false as Judas.”
“Gulian!” At the moment it was all she found, but then fancy a blind
man dazzled.
Verplank nodded. “Yes. The letters you received at Coronado--there were
three of them, were there not? three written on gray paper each signed
Effingham Verplank?--well, my father wrote them, that’s true enough,
but he wrote them to your aunt, your mother’s sister, Hilda Hemingway.
Did you never hear that the governor had an affair with her? Did you?”
Leilah’s face spoke for her. From the bewilderment there, it was
obvious that of it all she was ignorant.
With an uplift of the chin Verplank considered her.
“That’s odd, girls generally only hear what they ought not to. However,
Hemingway became suspicious--for very good reasons, no doubt, or, if
you prefer, for very bad ones--the result being that his wife turned
the letters over for safe keeping to your mother. When she died your
father found them. He did not stop there, he showed them to my mother.
My mother knew the facts, but she said your father was so convinced of
your mother’s infidelity that it seemed a pity to disabuse him. Those
were her very words to me to-day.”
“Gulian!” Still Leilah found but that. Visibly the light was there. As
yet she could not credit it.
Again, but now appreciatively, Verplank nodded. “Yes. I know. It does
seem queer. But then my mother is not the ordinary woman. She thought
the governor so created to conquer that it no more occurred to her to
sit in judgment on his victims than it occurred to her to sit on him.
In the true spirit of Christian charity she overlooked it all.”
Verplank paused, opened and closed a hand. “It was not matrimony
perhaps, but it was magnificent,” he obliging resumed, forgetting
wholly that it was not in him to do likewise.
“Come,” he added. From the start, Leilah’s apparel, the fichu and wrap,
had made him fancy that she was as ready to go as he was to take her
and it all seemed very simple. “Come. Let’s be off. I have a cab for
you.”
But at the suggestion which was a command she undid the lace, loosened
the cloak.
“Gulian, I cannot.”
“Cannot!” he angrily repeated. “Why can’t you? Have you not heard what
I said. You are not my sister, you are my wife. Come.”
“Gulian! You do not know what you ask!”
“I know perfectly well. If you hesitate it is because you do not
believe me. But would I urge you if that malignity were true? Would I?”
“Gulian, no, you would not.”
“There! You see! You have to believe me.”
“It is not that.”
“It is the divorce then! But you are no more married to that dismal
cad than I am to one of your maids. Except in Nevada the decree has no
effect whatever. But without bothering to have it set aside, come with
me and let this saurian get another.”
“Gulian, yes, but for the moment surely you can see that this is
impossible.”
“Impossible! There is nothing impossible. Why do you say so? Why do
you make so many objections? You should not make any. You hear a
cock-and-bull story, take it for gospel, run away, get a divorce, marry
a damned scoundrel and, when you find the story is a brutal lie, stick
like a leech to him.”
“Gulian, if you but knew. My position is horrible----”
She wanted to tell him that she was in a prison replete with tortures,
one from which she was as eager to go as he was to take her, yet one
from which she could not escape through the open door of sinning.
He gave her no time. Instantly he interrupted her.
“I know your position, it is all of your own making, too. By God, you
can make up your mind to one thing. You’ll come, if I have to take you.”
As he spoke he looked so brutal that she shrank.
“Gulian, you will kill me. I thought so before. I know it now.”
“It is only what you deserve.”
“Gulian! And you said you loved me!”
“Yes, but you make me doubt it.”
The wrap which previously she had loosened she let fall on a chair
beside her and put the fichu on the table.
“Gulian, you must give me time.”
The words were simple, plaintively uttered, but her action with the
cloak and lace, gave them an emphasis which added to his irritation.
“Nonsense,” he retorted. “You have had time enough. Now you must act.”
Roughly he considered her. “Anyone else might think you cared for
that----”
“Gulian, in all the world you know I love but you.”
Verplank raised the cloak, reached for the fichu.
“Put these on, then, and come.”
But Leilah, with a gesture that was less of resistance than of appeal,
motioned them from her. The gesture infuriated him. He threw the cloak
about her.
“By God! You shall put them on. What’s more, you will come whether or
not you want to.”
As he spoke he seized her, lifted her.
To Leilah it seemed as though she were about to be carried off
violently, like a prey. Unresistingly she raised her face to his.
“Gulian, kill me. It will be better; it will end it all.”
Something, the words, the tone in which they were uttered, the
helplessness of them and of her; but, more than anything else perhaps,
the fact that as he held her he felt her tremble, stayed him. He put
her down. His arms fell from her.
Catching again at the chair she steadied herself, and added:
“But if I am to live and love you, be patient. Gulian, if you would
stop to think, to realise, you would be patient, you----”
He started from her. “You don’t mean----”
At the question and its insinuation, hotly she flushed. Verplank saw
but the flush. The day previous she had told him that she had taken
Barouffski to serve as a barricade between them. Since then he had
cajoled his imagination with the idea that the creature stood to her
as husbands do on the stage, show entities who, the rôle performed,
cease otherwise to be husbands. Now the idea seemed to him hideously
naïf. The flush refuted it. It did more. It revealed not only other
relations but the result of them. Instantly he divined that it was for
this that she refused to go. At once within him waked the primitive,
the aboriginal self that lurks always and, save in the high crises of
the emotions, sleeps always within us all. He was in that condition in
which men slay with bare hands and afterward consider them marvelingly,
wondering at whose command they could have worked. Perspiration came to
his forehead, started about his nose and mouth. With the fichu which
he held he wiped them, but on the table from which he had taken it was
a layer of dust and ashes, the refuse of the cendrier which Violet had
overturned. It streaked his face, griming him with a mask comic and
sinister.
With that mask, he called at her.
“Then may you be forever damned.”
The malediction passed from him, reached her, shook her. She held to
the chair for support. Then indignantly she protested.
“Gulian!”
He did not hear. An idea had come to him, one that had visited him in
Melbourne, again in New York, to desist from further effort, to leave
her where she was, behind the barriers she had raised. At the moment he
believed he desired her no longer, loved her no more, had never loved
her at all. Occupied with the idea he looked at this woman who had
ruined her life, ruined his own.
She had been saying something, what he did not know nor, self-centered
in his anger, did he care.
In his pocket was a revolver. He felt of it and infuriatedly cried:
“You ought to be shot.”
“Gulian!”
“You are on a par with the beast you took up with.”
“I took his name, Gulian, his name alone.”
It was her turn to be angry. The flush had gone, she was pale again and
she had abandoned the chair’s support. She stood upright, confronting
him with that purity which was hers.
“I have no more been his wife than I was yours.”
“What!”
This time he heard. But her words, conflicting with his thoughts,
rolled over together. In this mental confusion he stared.
“What!”
“It is as I tell you.”
“You swear it?”
“Do I need to?”
Still he stared. Truth which acts on us and in us like a chemical
precipitate was disclosing to him her whiteness and its own.
“Do I?” she repeated.
“No, by God, you don’t. I believe you. I can’t help myself. It is in
your eyes.”
He paused and awkwardly added:
“Forgive me.”
Faintly and sadly she smiled.
“Will you?” he asked.
“Kiss me.”
In the unique syllables of the words, which in a woman’s mouth are so
fluid, there was a forgiveness so entire and a love so great that in
passionate contrition he drew her to him. Longly their lips met. She
closed her eyes, opened them, disengaged herself, moved back a step and
looked at him. For the first time she noticed the grime on his face.
It did not astonish. It seemed natural after what they had both been
through and it occurred to her that her own appearance might be equally
bizarre.
Briefly then, in this lull in the storm, she told him what Violet had
suggested--the buying and divorce of Barouffski.
“That will take time,” he objected. “The shortest way ’round is the
quickest way out. If you had not interfered in the garden----”
A gesture completed the sentence.
“No matter,” he grimly added. “I haven’t done with him yet.”
In speaking he had crossed the room, now he recrossed it.
Imploringly Leilah approached him.
“Gulian, not that, not that! Don’t fight with him again. Don’t, I
beseech you. It is not alone that anything of the kind is so horrible
but he is one of the trickiest swordsmen here. Think what that means!
Think what would become of me if--if----”
From the pocket of his coat Verplank had taken the revolver. He looked
at it, looked at her, replaced it.
“I am a trifle interested in the matter myself. Besides, there are
other weapons than the foil. If I can shoot pigeons--and I believe I
can--I ought to be able to land a buzzard.”
At sight of the revolver Leilah had winced. Now she cried:
“Give it to me!”
Verplank, amused at her simplicity, smiled.
“That isn’t a dueling pistol.”
“But you never carried one before.”
“In the States I did not need to. Here, in Paris, particularly at
night, the streets are seldom sure. I have this thing for protection.”
“Promise me then----”
Verplank looked her over.
“Don’t be a fool.”
But as he looked, suddenly she started and he saw that she was
trembling.
“What the deuce is the matter?”
Trembling still, peeringly now she had turned to the portières.
“What is it?” he repeated.
“I am so frightened.”
“Frightened? What at?”
Uncertainly, her head drawn back as a deer’s is when surprised, she
glanced about her. Slowly then her eyes returned to his.
“I am so frightened!”
“Yes, but at what?”
She motioned at the room. “Before you came there seemed to be something
here, something around me and just now----”
“Well?”
“I heard something.”
“Your maid probably.”
With an intake of the breath she raised a finger and for a moment both
were silent.
“There is no one,” he presently told her. “And what if there were!”
At the idea, he laughed.
The laugh, succeeding the silence, while intended to reassure her, did
not wholly succeed. She turned to him anew and in a low voice, said:
“You must go. To-morrow come to Violet’s.”
“I dine there to-night.”
“Yes, I know. Tell her that to-morrow, say at three, we will both be
with her. Then she can tell us----”
But Verplank had drawn her to him. Again her eyes closed.
“Go,” she said at last.
On the sofa was his hat. He reached for it. While he did so, she moved
to the tapestry, raised it, disclosing the stair up which he had come.
“To-morrow, then,” he said, as he entered there.
She nodded at him. “At three!”
Dropping the tapestry she turned, but very quickly, for again she heard
or thought she heard a noise.
Across the room the portières were parting. Through them Barouffski
appeared.
“I might have known it,” she told herself, and realising that he had
been listening, she realised also that the opportunity was as good as
another for making an offer which she had in mind.
These ideas, instantaneous at sight of him, were for the moment stayed.
On turning she had seen but the man. Now hastening toward her was a
creature with an expression so venomous that instinctively, in search
of help, with the idea of calling to Verplank, she turned to the
tapestry again.
Quicker than she, he caught and tossed her spinning on the sofa. Then,
running to the open window, he shouted from it:
“Emmanuel! The dogs!”
Leilah, falling backward on the lounge, was too stunned to hear. But
she steadied herself, recovered, got to her feet and making again for
the stair, called at Barouffski:
“Free me from you and you shall have half of what I have.”
“Half!” he repeated. At once he was upon her. “All,” he cried. “I want
it all, all of yours and all of his.”
As he spoke he struck her, shoved her aside, raised the tapestry and
vanished. For a second she heard him hastening down, while at once from
without came the barking of dogs, the jar of oaths, the sound of cries.
What it meant she did not know. Her head was whirling. The fall, the
blow, the indignity of both clouded and confused her. From without the
uproar mounted and suddenly, the uproar prompting, into the turmoil
that was her mind, a gleam of understanding shot. At the apperception
of it she shrieked, ran to the window where she shrieked again. The
loosened dogs had sprung at Verplank, who, overwhelmed had fallen.
Again she shrieked. Answering the shriek, mingling with it, were
snarls, the gnashing of fangs, the din of great hounds ferociously
struggling for blood, tearing vehemently at flesh, at a flesh, though,
that rebelled.
Verplank rose up between them. With a kick he sent one of them
sprawling. But, in the recoil, torn at by the other hound, he stumbled.
The dog was at his throat. In protection he held his left arm against
it. With his right hand he got at the revolver in his pocket, and,
through the pocket, fired twice into the brute. Gnashing still, it
rolled away.
But now, from the other side, the second hound was on him. He saw its
eyes, felt its breath, felt its fangs. Again he fired. As he did so,
his hand relaxed. He heard a woman shrieking, the sound of hurrying
feet. The wall before him mounted. His senses scattered into night.
Suddenly the garden was filled with people. Through the gate, two
sergents de ville had come. These, forms furtive and uncertain
followed. From the house, led by Barouffski, the footmen ran. Above,
from the window, still there issued a woman’s shrieks.
Barouffski stopped, and turned. He looked up at the window. He smiled.
With one hand he tapped his breast, with the other he pointed at
Verplank. Then, in French, reassuringly, he called:
“My dear! See! You may be tranquil. I, I am unharmed. It is the robber.”
At the ignominy of that flouting jeer, Leilah, impelled by the impulse
to do something, though it were but to beat her head against a wall,
rushed from the window, and, strangling with spasms, fled out of the
room and down the stair, where horror so suffocatingly enveloped her
that in it her brain tipped, and she fell.
XI
In the golden half light of the Opéra, a chorus, soprano voices on one
side of the stage alternating with contralto on the other, vaporised
the subtle sensuality of the scene.
Violet Silverstairs, turning to her husband, who was seated behind her,
remarked:
“How much better the Italian school is than the French.”
Silverstairs, ignorant of either, and indifferent to both, promenaded
his glass about the house.
“I wonder why Tempest doesn’t show up? There is Marie de Fresnoy! I saw
de Fresnoy to-day for the first time since his duel with Barouffski.
What a ridiculous affair that was! I suppose one of these days he will
have another with d’Arcy.”
Violet turned to him again.
“Because of Marie? How absurd you are! D’Arcy doesn’t interest her. No
man could unless he drove at her with a four-in-hand, and d’Arcy has
nothing.”
Silverstairs, still promenading his glass, exclaimed:
“There he is now!”
“Who? D’Arcy?”
“Yes, with the Helley-Quetgens, in that box between the columns. Isn’t
that your friend Leilah whom he is talking to? By Jove, it is, and
Barouffski is there, also.”
Violet, who had also been promenading her glass, put it down.
“Well, he ought to be. I do think she has acted scandalously. What is
said at the club?”
“About Verplank? It is forgotten already. Barouffski, you know, claimed
that it was a mistake, and as it appears that Verplank agreed with him,
as from neither the one nor the other any charge was forthcoming, the
police could do nothing but get Verplank back to the Ritz.”
Impatiently Violet unfurled her fan.
“Yes, where she has been every day; every day, that is, when she has
not been with d’Arcy.”
The statement was inexact. Leilah had indeed been at the Ritz but
d’Arcy she had seen but once, momentarily, by accident--if there
be such a thing, in any event through one of those seeming hazards
which, however fortuitous at first, afterward appear to have been
designed. It was a little, though, before Leilah took that view of
things. Meanwhile, when, on recovering from her swoon, she learned
that Verplank had also recovered she realised with thanksgiving that
Destiny which has its tyrannies has its mercies as well. So soon then
as she could get from the bed into which the horrors of the midspring
nightmare had thrown her, she went to the Ritz where she found Verplank
amply attended, abundantly bandaged, severely but not dangerously hurt.
“One of the brutes nearly chewed my arm off,” he told her. “If the
other omitted to eat me entirely, it was not because he did not try. I
did for them, though,” he added, and smiled as he said it. After the
manner of man, he took comfort in the feat.
“But not for the worst brute,” Leilah answered wishing in spite of
herself, wishing instinctively and even ungrammatically that some good
fate might.
From beneath a bandage, Verplank laughed:
“Bah! I’ll do for him, too.”
But Leilah did not hear. She was speaking to the surgeon, whom--with
a bravery which in itself was a little defiant, and which in any
event might have been more discreet--thereafter, daily and openly,
she supplied with that which every surgeon wants, a nurse obedient,
attentive, skilful, alert, and who, in addition ministers for love.
Presently, Verplank was able to be up. The surgeon said that in a day
he would be able to be out. Verplank, who knew as much without being
told, asked Leilah to go with him on the morrow.
Leilah refused. Verplank, for an invalid, became then surprisingly
demoniac. The demonism of him affected her less than a conception,
feminine perhaps but erroneous, of her own selfishness. If she went,
she knew beforehand that irremissibly she would be dishonoured. But
she knew also that any sense of dishonour must, if it is to ashame,
come not from without but from within. If she went, her conscience,
she thought, would acquit her. She thought that she would not feel
dishonoured, though she knew that she would be disgraced. To refuse on
that account seemed to her selfish. As a result finally she consented.
Yet in consenting she made one stipulation. Characteristic in itself,
it was that there must be nothing clandestine, that he must come for
her in the rue de la Pompe, and that from there, her boxes put on
whatever vehicle he brought, they would leave for darkness by daylight.
The plan pleased Verplank. He agreed at once. He told her that he
would come the next day.
When he had, she added: “To-night I go to the Opéra; the Helley-Quetgens
have asked me. It is my last look at this world.”
Then, shortly, the arrangements for the evasion completed, she left the
hotel.
Without, her motor waited. She told the groom to have it follow
her. The air tempted, though the sky was dirty. She thought of the
California glare, the eager glitter of New York. She wondered would
they go back there. Perhaps, she told herself, we shall at last see
Bora-Bora.
Her walk took her through the arcades of the rue de Rivoli to the
fountains of the Place de la Concorde. From there she was about to
enter the Champs Elysées when she became conscious of being accosted.
“Chère madame,” some one was saying, “I precipitate myself to renew the
expression of my homage.”
D’Arcy, hat in hand, was before her. At once, with a view to what the
French agreeably describe as the placing of landmarks--pour poser des
jalons--he asked to be permitted to accompany her.
Leilah smiled.
“Not for the world!”
She motioned at the motor. Then, with that graciousness which is
natural to the mondaine, with perhaps the desire also to attenuate
whatever there were of brusqueness in her reply, she added, as she got
in the car:
“I shall be at the Opéra with the Helley-Quetgens to-night. Could you
not look in?”
D’Arcy, habituated to the abruptest victories, accustomed to inflame,
with but a glance, by the mere exhibition of his Olympian good looks,
and, therefore, indifferent when not bored by the celerity of his
successes, but piqued by the tranquil air with which this woman had
always regarded him, thanked her, assured her that he would not fail to
be there, and replaced his hat.
Immediately he raised it again, straight from the head, high in the
air. Looking with brilliant eyes from a brilliant brougham, Violet
Silverstairs was dashing by.
Coincidentally, unobserved but observant, Barouffski was also passing
that way.
Leilah’s motor flew off and she sank back, wondering at herself,
wondering rather what influence, malign and unhallowed, could possibly
have prompted her to ask this man, whom she disliked as--in spite of a
theory to the contrary--honest women do dislike a man of his type. But
though, at the time, she could not understand what impelled her, later
it seemed to her that it must have been fate.
Barouffski had a different interpretation. At the Joyeuses he had
seen Leilah and d’Arcy together. Now, here they were again. The
circumstance, of which the fortuitousness was unknown to him, irritated
him for that very cause. But he could imagine and did. At once it was
clear to him that the brute was after the blue eyes of her bankbook.
The deduction, however erroneous, was easy. He was viewing the matter,
not, as he fancied, from d’Arcy’s standpoint, but from his own. In
spite of which, or rather precisely on that account, he told himself
that d’Arcy was a damned scoundrel. The humour of this quite escaped
him. But that perhaps was in the order of things.
Since the night at the Joyeuses, he had been measuring himself solely
against Verplank. Twice he had failed with him, but he knew that soon
they would be at each other again and for the next bout he had in view
a coup which, he felt, would do for him definitely. Meanwhile, if in
regard to Leilah he had been led into certain vivacities, he felt that
with time, which is the great emollient, her memory of these vivacities
would pass. Even otherwise, the law was with him. He proposed to see
to it that she was also--she and with her her purse. The one menace to
both had been Verplank. Here, now, apparently, was another. Here was
d’Arcy with his pseudo-Pheidian air, that famous yet false appearance
of a young and dissolute Olympian which made imbeciles turn and stare.
Ragingly Barouffski reflected that canaille though d’Arcy were, he
carried a great many guns, almost as many as Verplank, who, worse
luck, had, in addition, the signal advantage of being Leilah’s first
love--that love to which it is said one always returns.
But even as he sounded the stupidity of that aphorism, vaguely, for a
dim second, he intercepted a gleam refracted from truth. The danger
with which he had to contend, Verplank did not personify or d’Arcy
either, it was himself. When the golden six was tossed him, had he but
then known how to secure the box, there would now be no danger at all.
But truth, when it does not console, confounds. Barouffski put it from
him. It was too exasperating. “Bah!” he told himself, “if her attitude
does not change, a sojourn in the solitudes of Lithuania may alter it.”
Angrily he nodded. Things more surprising have occurred there.
On this day it was Leilah who surprised him.
Since he had called to her from the garden, she had encountered him
only in the hazards of entrances and halls. On such occasions she had
passed with an air of being unaware that there were anything save
chairs and tables about.
In part, it was this attitude which he thought certain solitudes might
change. Oddly enough, Leilah herself wished it altered. But to want
to do one thing and to do something else, happens to all of us, even
to the best. She despised Barouffski and yet in despising him knew
that the one contemptible thing is contempt. For what he had done,
she felt that no punishment could be too severe, yet in so feeling
she knew that he was only the embodiment of past misdeeds of her own.
Physically he had struck her. Spiritually, it was her own hand that had
dealt the blow. He had loosed the dogs on Verplank and she had judged
and condemned him for it, though she knew that not only she should not
judge at all, but that never perhaps do useless events occur. Clearly
these events were evil, but were not those which she planned evil too?
In this dilemma there was some slight consolation for her in the
knowledge that it was not her fault, at least not her present fault,
that she had been born with a nature so problematic. But the Vidyâ,
in teaching her that whatever we suffer is derived from our past; that
the people who wrong us--or seem to--are mere puppets come to claim
karmic debts which we owe; the Vidyâ, in teaching her that taught
her also that every life we lead here is but a day in school. Her
schooling, she felt, had as yet been insufficient. No doubt she would
know better when she came here again.
The thin gilt hope of that fortified her a little on this day when, to
Barouffski’s surprise, she sent for him and then, her head raised, said
distantly:
“The Helley-Quetgens have asked us to the Opéra. I am going. You are
free to do as you like.”
Here, obviously, was something new. At it and at her Barouffski looked
with shifting eyes. Uncertainly he rubbed his hands.
“But how then! I am at your orders. It is a festival to be where you
are.”
But as he did nothing without an object, he wondered what hers was.
Obviously, there was a reason. Yet, what? Could it be an olive branch?
He was too adroit to ask. Even otherwise, he lacked the opportunity.
Leilah had gone from the room.
It was in these circumstances that, on this night, she appeared at the
Opéra where Violet was complaining at having seen her with d’Arcy.
At the complaint, Silverstairs pulled at his moustache.
“I did not know that she had taken up with him.”
“I don’t know that she has either. But she was with him to-day in the
Champs Elysées.”
“Oh, come now! Things haven’t got to such a pass that a woman can’t be
seen with a man----”
“No, but no honest woman can be seen alone with d’Arcy. Leilah ought to
know better. She ought to know better too than to go to the Ritz. As
she does not appear to, I propose to tell her.”
“Do as you like,” replied Silverstairs who would have said the same
thing no matter what his wife had suggested. The lady had not entirely
Americanised this Englishman but she had at least made him realise the
futility of argument.
“Do as you like,” he repeated. “There are the Orlonnas. There are the
Zubaroffs.”
At once to the quick click of an ouvreuse’s key, the door opened and
Tempest appeared, a foulard showing above his coat.
While he removed these things Violet called at him:
“You’re late.”
Silverstairs laughed. “He always is. At Christ Church he was known as
the late Lord Howard.”
Tempest moved forward and sat down between them.
But now, to the volatile sweetmeats of the score, the curtain was
falling. In the stalls there was a movement. Men stood up, put their
hats on, turned their back to the stage or set forth for a chat with
the vestals in the green room.
Silverstairs also stood up.
Violet turned to him:
“I do wish you would look in on the Helley-Quetgens, and ask Leilah to
come to luncheon to-morrow. Say I have a bone to pick with her. That
may fetch her, if nothing else will.”
Tempest ran a hand through his vivid hair.
“A bone over what, if I may ask? You may not know it, but I greatly
admire Madame Barouffska.”
Violet smiled.
“She’s a dear. But I saw her to-day with d’Arcy, and I propose to scold
her for it.”
Tempest showed his teeth.
“D’Arcy is not a man’s man, though he certainly is a woman’s. Yet, when
you come to that, not such a woman as Madame Barouffska. What an odd
thing that was about her first husband!”
“You mean about the dogs?”
“Yes. I never got the rights of it. What was he doing there? Is she
living in the past?”
Violet raised her opera-glass.
“She would be very lucky if she could be; living in the present is so
expensive, don’t you think?”
Again there was a quick click. The door opened. Silverstairs, filling
the entrance with his tall stature, reappeared.
“Violet,” he began, “the Helley-Quetgens are going on to some dance
in the Faubourg, and Leilah wants the three of us to sup with her at
Paillard’s. What do you say?”
Violet laughed. “I say it will be just my chance.” She turned to
Tempest. “You will come?”
“Thanks, yes. Isn’t that de Fresnoy with the Zubaroffs?”
Silverstairs, without sitting down, raised his glass.
“Yes, and I was just saying, this is the first time since his duel that
I have seen him. But what an asinine affair that was! He lunged at
Barouffski’s neck, Barouffski knocked the foil up and pricked himself
on the chin with it. Then Barouffski’s surgeon stopped the fight on
the ground that it might interfere with his breathing. Fancy that!
Afterward, in the account given to the press, the surgeon described
the prick as an incisive wound in the hyoïdian region, accompanied by
a notable flow of blood. Anyone who did not know would have thought
that Barouffski had been nearly done for. But that’s a French duel for
you--a funeral at which everybody giggles.”
Tempest looked gravely up at his friend. “What did you have for dinner?”
Suspiciously, Silverstairs considered him.
“Why do you ask?”
“You are so expansive and brilliant.”
On the stage, the drama continued, poignantly, beatifically, in a
unison of violins and voices that was interrupted at last by the
usual stir in the stalls and boxes, by the haste to be going, to be
elsewhere, and a defile began; a procession of silken robes, gorgeous
cloaks, jeweled headgear, black coats, white ties; a procession that
presently filled the subscribers’ rotunda, from which, at sight of it,
grooms fled, then hurried back, touching their hats, eager and zealous.
Between the columns groups loitered, regarding each other with
indulgence, with indifference, at times with a loftiness that put
isolating zones about them; and women assumed that attitude which
women alone can assume, that attitude of being not only apart from the
crowd, but of being unaware of the crowd’s existence.
In the centre, Mme. Orlonna, an Italian princess, with a slight
moustache and an ancestry that extended to the super-Neronian days
of Heliogabalus, stood, laughing and talking, lisping Bonthoirs to
everybody.
Another princess, a Russian, Mme. Zubaroff, with a young girl at her
side, and an escort of blond giants, passed, inclining her head to the
left, to the right, bowing with a grace mechanical, but sovereign.
Beyond, Leilah appeared, d’Arcy on one side, Barouffski on the other.
Her face, ordinarily pale, was flushed, and her manner, usually
subdued, was animated. She was laughing, not loudly, but noticeably.
Violet, accompanied by Tempest and Silverstairs, approached. As the
men, after saluting the women, greeted each other, Violet tapped Leilah
with her fan.
“My dear, I have a bone to pick with you.”
Leilah, with a levity that was rare with her, interrupted:
“It is just for that we are going to supper. How will you have it,
grilled or deviled?”
“Her ladyship’s carriage is at the door,” a groom announced, in English.
Another added, in French: “The motor of madame la comtesse is advanced.”
“Yes,” Violet retorted. “But my bone belongs to a different kettle of
fish. Now, you come with me.” With a smile, she turned to the others.
“We will go in the brougham, and you take the motor.”
Stooping, she lifted her train, and the two women, accompanied by the
men, followed the groom to the carriage.
There, after seeing them in, Barouffski called:
“To Paillard’s, Chaussée d’Antin.”
XII
At the glass door, which a chasseur opened, Barouffski stopped, spoke
to the man, gave him an order. As the others, conducted by a maître
d’hôtel, approached a table, a fat woman in a pulpit charged them,
before they were seated, with the use of the silver and the cloth.
Beyond, a band of Bohemians, costumed in crimson, were loosing, with
nervous and dirty fingers, whirlwinds of notes. The atmosphere, filled
with vibrations, fevered by the fury of the violins, dripped with
the scent of flowers, with the bouquet of burgundies, the smell of
champagne, the odour of tobacco and food.
At adjacent tables were demi-reps and foreigners, mondaines and
clubmen, a sprinkle of the cream of the venal, the exotic and the
ultra-chic, whom omnibuses and waiters, marshaled by maîtres d’hôtel,
served with the same deference and zeal.
For the Barouffski party, these latter had turned two tables into one,
at which Violet Silverstairs occupied one end, Leilah the other. Violet
had Barouffski at her right, Tempest at her left, while Leilah had
Silverstairs at her left and d’Arcy at her right, a disposition natural
enough and otherwise fortuitous which placed Tempest next to d’Arcy,
with Barouffski and Silverstairs opposite.
In the rising storm of the music, Leilah turned to d’Arcy. What she was
saying the others could not hear and all, save Silverstairs, who was
munching a hors d’œuvre, addressed themselves to Violet.
Presently, in a lull of the gale, Tempest would have tried to talk
to this woman who, in abandoning her Madonna air had now the merit
of suggesting both the Chimera and the Sphinx, but something in her
attitude to d’Arcy prevented. It was not, to employ a vulgarism, that
she was making eyes at the man, but she was obviously permitting him to
make eyes at her.
D’Arcy was seated, his arms on the table, talking in her face. His
plate was empty. A chaudfroid had been served. He had refused it. A
mousse had followed. He had refused that also. Over the glasses at his
side he had put a hand. It seemed a pose of his not to eat or to drink
that he might do nothing but talk.
Leilah herself had not eaten. But as soon as champagne was served she
had drunk of it, she had drunk since and in her manner, in the way
she held herself, in the inflection of her voice, there had entered a
trace of the excessive which the mondaine avoids. It was this that had
deterred Tempest. Moreover she had been laughing and that surprised
Violet who, except a little earlier in the rotunda, never, since Leilah
reached Paris, had seen her laugh before.
Now, her head drawn back, her eyes half closed, she was gratifying
d’Arcy with that look with which a woman can appear not to listen
merely but to drink the words, the appearance even, of the man by
whom she is addressed. While perhaps flattering to him, it was too
marked for good taste. The others noticed it, but, as is usual in such
circumstances, they acted as though they had not.
Barouffski conscious of the impression produced, conscious also of the
impressions of the afternoon, leaned forward and said in French:
“But, my dear! You eat nothing!”
Silverstairs, tugging at his moustache, laughed inanely and addressing
himself to both Leilah and d’Arcy, threw in:
“If this is a private conversation----”
“What nonsense!” Leilah threw back.
“I was about to say,” Silverstairs resumed, “that if it is a private
conversation, I’d like to hear it. If it is not, never mind.”
Barouffski, still leaning forward, continued:
“I pray you take a bit of the chaudfroid.”
With a movement of impatience, yet otherwise ignoring him completely,
Leilah turned again to d’Arcy.
Barouffski was not in a mood to be ignored. The sight of d’Arcy in the
afternoon, the man’s unawaited advent at the Opéra, his demeanour to
Leilah, her attitude to him, the hazards which both seemed to suggest;
yet chiefly the precariousness of his own position, the constant effort
to appear other than what he was, the consciousness of danger ever
present, the obligation to cover irritation with calm, anxiety with
banter, these things and the tension of them, fevered and enraged.
At the moment he felt like a fiend and looked it. A moment only.
Reacting at once, he compressed his lips, parted them and summoning his
ambiguous smile, called out:
“If the chaudfroid says nothing to you, will you not try the mousse?”
Leilah was raising a glass to her lips. She looked over it at him and,
much as though he were a servant, said:
“Do me the favour to attend to your own affairs.”
Barouffski’s smile evaporated. A man with no sense of honour and
some sense of humour may go far, provided that he keep his temper.
Barouffski knew it but forgot it. With a tone of authority which in the
rue de la Pompe he would have ordinarily avoided, angrily he replied:
“Then do me the favour not to drink any more.”
Leilah, the glass at her lips, paused, looked over it again, and very
gently, almost sweetly, with the pretty air of a spoiled child, nodded
at him.
“Only one sip.”
She touched the glass with her lips, for a moment held it there, then,
offering it to d’Arcy, rather languorously she said:
“Beau sire, will you drink the rest?”
Instantly Violet intervened. “Leilah! Behave yourself!”
“But with delight,” d’Arcy was saying.
From Leilah’s extended hand he took the glass, raised it, drained it,
put it down, looked at her.
Barouffski was looking at him. Quietly, without emphasis, he asked:
“Will you drink mine, too?”
Half rising as he spoke, he had taken his own glass in his hand and
with a gesture which, even as he made it, he regretted, a gesture
incited by vibrations which he was unable to resist, he flung the
contents at him.
“Barouffski!” Violet indignantly exclaimed.
She glanced about her. At her elbow an omnibus, a lad undersized
but stout, stood gaping. Beyond, the Bohemians were storming. At
the adjacent table were demi-reps and South Americans. They had not
noticed. At this table, Tempest, his teeth visible, was contemplating
his host. Silverstairs, tugging at his moustache, was considering
Leilah. The latter was looking--and with what a look!--at Barouffski.
But no one spoke. A spell seemed to have settled on all. With the idea
of doing or of saying something that would break it, Violet turned to
d’Arcy.
Delicately, with a coroneted handkerchief, he had wiped his face and
was then mopping at his shirt.
Interrupting the operation, he looked up and laughed. “Oh, la, la!
The dangers that may be avoided in remaining at home! These are the
accidents of restaurant life!”
He laughed again. The laugh humanised and deformed the Pheidian beauty
of his face. He bowed to Leilah, bowed to Violet and collectively
added:
“Mesdames, I have ceased to be presentable. A thousand pardons. You
will permit me?”
In a moment, after another bow, circular this time, a bow which while
managing to omit Barouffski, included the rest of the table, he had
gone.
“He looks like Keats,” said Silverstairs animated by an unconscious
desire to second his wife and break the spell which still persisted.
Ordinarily he would have taken her and gone. The assault had been as
much of an affront to her as it had been to d’Arcy. But to have left
the table would have been a reproof to Leilah, whom, in the ridiculous
way in which society is organized, he was unable to disassociate from
Barouffski.
“Keats!” Tempest, coming to his aid, exclaimed. “I’ll lay a guinea you
would not know his picture if you saw it.”
Amiably Silverstairs tugged at his moustache. “Well, perhaps not. What
I meant was that he looks like a poet.”
“I don’t agree with you,” Tempest retorted. “To begin with, there are
not any. Besides, latterly there have been but two--Hugo, who looked
like a green-grocer, and Swinburne who looked like a bookseller’s
assistant. Moreover I hate poets, though, as someone said somewhere,
an inability to write in verse can hardly be regarded as constituting a
special talent. No, d’Arcy does not look like a poet, he looks like a
poet’s creation.”
“Excuse me,” Silverstairs with affected meekness threw out. “And thanks
for the lecture.”
Tempest nodded. “You’re entirely welcome.”
He turned to Violet. She was looking at Leilah who was looking at
Barouffski. The latter was looking at the fingers of his right hand
against which his thumb passed and repassed mechanically. But now,
aroused from his reflections by the entire cessation of talk, he
glanced about him, summoned a waiter, settled the score. The Bohemians
who momentarily had been silent, abruptly striped the air with spangles
from their bows.
Violet and Leilah stood up, resumed their wraps, passed on. The men,
buttoning their coats, putting their gloves on, followed.
At the door were the eager grooms. As one of them touched his hat to
Leilah, Violet turned to her.
“My dear, I cannot thank you for a very pleasant evening. But I will
look in on you to-morrow. That bone isn’t picked and what’s more, now
I’ve got sauce for it.”
With Silverstairs and Tempest at her heels, she went to her brougham.
Leilah entered the motor.
At the door of the latter Barouffski stood. He raised his hat. Leilah
looked at him. She had had, she thought, her last glimpse of the world
and this was her last glimpse of him. The sight was so repugnant that
she almost sickened and the nausea which she felt, her face expressed.
Barouffski tried to smile but the unconcealed candour of her abhorrence
made his lips twitch. Now, though, the motor was starting. As it
whirred away, he drew his coat closely about him, turned up the collar
and stuck his hands deep in the pockets. There had come to him that
odd sensation which homely fancy attributes to someone walking on your
grave.
XIII
The next day, Violet, entering the brilliant room, gazed first about it
and then at Leilah.
“Aurelia is not here? That’s odd. She is simply horrid but so reliable.
You don’t mind my having told her to meet me?”
Leilah sighed. “I am getting so that soon I shan’t mind anything.”
Violet, seating herself, nodded vivaciously.
“I call that very fine. But there is something finer. Never mind
anybody. Silverstairs now----” and as the lady spoke she summoned a
smile feline and Cheshire--“he fancied I would be a good, obedient
little wife. Instead of which he is a good, obedient big husband.”
In entire self-appreciation she exhibited the tip of her tongue and
moistened her lips with it. “It takes us, doesn’t it? But forgive me,
dear, us is perhaps an exaggeration. I am afraid you have made rather a
mess of things. Now what are you going to do?”
Without replying, Leilah looked away. During the night she had barely
slept. The incident in the restaurant, events that had preceded it,
anterior complications, subsequent developments, these things, like
the Bohemians at Paillard’s, had stormed at her, attacked her fibres,
wrenched her nerves, striating the darkness of her room with variations
on the tragedy of her life.
In what manner the affair in the restaurant had terminated, she had
no one to inform her but she could readily fancy that shortly d’Arcy
and Barouffski would go somewhere and fight, or pretend to, and then
return, none the worse and none the better, but with honour satisfied
and their names in print.
The entire episode was shameful. But though provoked by her she had not
premeditated it. In offering d’Arcy her glass, she had wished solely to
display her independence. Subsequently, in going over the matter, she
had realised that the wish, while human, had not been nice. Then, a bit
conscience-stricken, she had wondered how she could have behaved as she
had.
“I did it without thinking,” was her immediate excuse. But that,
she told herself was untrue. Ever since the duel and the blow and
the nightmare that followed, some such wish had been fermenting in
her. The wish, reasonable in itself, though in her case unreasoned,
persisted, as in certain natures a wish will persist, until, after
the fashion of a constantly recurring idea, the individual becomes so
saturated with it that, given the impulse, given less than that, given
