of admiration. 
Eight children ought to have taught me some- 
thing,” with an amused gleam in her eyes. 
She might not have been so indulgently dis- 
posed if she had witnessed Laurel’s reception. 
“ She did not have any candy for you,” Laurel 
announced innocently. 
‘'Lai, you didn’t say / sent you?” in a sharp 
tone. 
“ Why — when Muver ast me,” hesitating and 
feeling that something was wrong. 
“You’re a — a — what they put in ’sylums; I 
can’t just think of the name. An’ you’ll go there 
some day, an’ you’ll be shut up ” 
“ Won’t go to ’sylum, needer ! An’ you told me 
to ast. You’re a — a ” Lai was not redundant 
in epithets. 
“ Just take that ! And now you sha’n’t come to 
my tea.” 
“ That ” was a slap on the shoulder. Laurel 
began to cry. 
“ Oh, you great cry-calf ! I didn’t hurt you a 
bit. You shouldn’t have been so close. Stop cry- 
ing an’ I’ll let you come.” 
Laurel sniffed a little, and then said, “ I’m go- 
ing to put Dolly in the closet, an’ I’ll ast Cap for 
a whole piece of cake. I won’t come to your old 
tea, so there! ” 
Christmas Dolly had come out of her hiding- 
place when the playroom was finished, but Rhoda 
had strict orders not to take it without Laurel’s 
permission. 
“ Oh, no. Laurel, stay here. I was just funnin’ 
bout the ’sylum. You wouldn’t be sent there. 
But you’re not reel smart, you know, and you can’t 
truly read nor do sums. Yes, le’s go on with the 
tea an’ play Mr. Evans came. He is so nice, you 
know.” 
Laurel hesitated with her hand on Dolly’s chair. 
She was quite easily mollified. Rhoda did not 
want to risk an appeal to her mother, so presently 
they sat down in a friendly fashion, and when 
they were summoned to dinner Rhoda was in a 
most affable mood. 
Afterward the elders had a delightful time go- 
ing over the photographs and hearing about fa- 
mous places and old houses that dated back to the 
War of the Revolution. 
‘‘ We ought to have a nice large portfolio and go 
on making a collection,” said Chan. “ They have 
a fine one at the Bradleys’.” 
‘‘ That’s a good idea,” said his father. “ I’ll 
look up one.” 
It will keep them out of the dust and busy lit- 
tle fingers,” added the mother. “ And now we 
must retire early. We were up very late last 
night.” 
I’ll go out and look at the cloud,” said Rilla. 
Linn followed. It was dark as midnight, and 
the wind seemed running a mad race. 
“ It will storm before morning,” predicted their 
father. 
Oh, Mother, aren’t you glad there is some one 
in the little old house, and that Tabby is housed 
and warm ? ” exclaimed Amaryllis as she kissed 
her mother good-night. 
A regular March snowstorm set in. The wind 
whirled the snow around in drifts. Toward 
morning the wind fell and it kept on snowing, 
though the air grew warmer. And now it clung 
to the tree branches and the posts and one side of 
the barn. It was really beautiful. Next door 
at the Greers’ there was a tremendous drift, and 
quite a large one over their snow man, a monu- 
ment for him. Prim said. 
The next morning was magnificent. Linn said 
he must go to school, he could not afford to lose a 
day. The children were well wrapped up and 
went out to help clear away the snow. Dan went 
around with a stick to dislodge it from the 
trees. 
‘‘ Why, I thought it would help keep them 
warm,” exclaimed Prim. 
But it is wet and heavy. And I don’t want 
the peach trees to break; they are tender. And 
the freezing and thawing injures the shrubbery.” 
By noon it was a fine spring day, with a balmi- 
ness in the air that was really fragrant. The hens 
caroled their lays and cackled their labor well- 
done. In spite of the white blankets of snow, one 
wanted to say the winter was over. 
And surely it was. The snowbanks dropped 
down and down. Birds came and sang, and 
Easter was only two weeks away. 
The first week in April was a holiday; then the 
new term began. Mr. and Mrs. Mann went over 
to the school one afternoon, and were most gra- 
ciously received by the principal, who spoke very 
highly of Linn, and thought he was quite sure to 
go into the graduating class in autumn. They 
were much pleased with the girls’ department, and 
decided to send all three. There was only a year 
and a half between Marigold and Primrose, and 
the latter was so well-grown they seemed more like 
twins than Rhoda and Laurel. 
They visited Miss King’s room, and Chan 
glanced up with shining eyes. How pretty his 
mother was, and his father looked so jolly and 
happy. 
He is one of my best boys,” Miss King said 
with a smile. I suppose being hurt and out of 
school put him back, but he will make it all up next 
year.” 
They were all so busy holiday week. Crocuses 
and tulips and hyacinths sprang up as if by magic, 
and each morning there were violets at their 
mother’s place. The lettuce and radishes in the 
hotbed grew apace. Linn went down to the city 
with his father for three days, and their mother 
went to do some shopping, for the girls had to 
have spring suits. Mr. Evans had set his heart 
on having Chan sing the beautiful solo in the an- 
them, and he was there with Miss Raynor prac- 
ticing it. His voice sounded clear and fine in 
the empty church. 
'' You won’t feel afraid, Chan,” the clergyman 
said. '' All you have to do is to sing just as natu- 
rally as you do now.” 
Oh, no. I shall think of the host bringing 
their glad tidings. Why, it will be just as if they 
were marching along. It looks so in the clouds 
sometimes, don’t you know? ” 
Mr. Evans gave him a tender embrace. 
And then came a lovely surprise to Chan. He 
sat at the piano late one afternoon, his favorite 
time for practice, when he heard his father let him- 
self in at the hall door, and he was speaking to 
some one. He turned round, and then rose, meet- 
ing a tall, fine-looking man who smiled upon him. 
This is my boy Chandler,” began Mr. Mann, 
“ and this, Chan, is Mr. Collamore, little Arthur’s 
father.” 
Oh ! ” Chan hesitated a moment, then held 
out both hands, exclaiming, I am glad to see 
you.” 
I have had it in my mind for some time to 
look you up, but the last three months I have 
spent on the Pacific Coast and in Alaska. I went 
to the Children’s Hospital on my return, and had 
a long talk with Nurse Jane. I owe them a good 
deal for their lovely care of Arthur. Then I 
thought I would ask your father to spare you to 
me for a day, but he said you were very much en- 
grossed with some Easter music, and was so 
friendly as to invite me up to dinner, and I 
thought I should like to see you all.” 
The heartiness of his voice won Chan and 
neutralized the old feeling. “ You did love 
Arthur,” he said wistfully. 
‘‘ Oh, my boy, I loved him very much, more, 
perhaps, because he was so afflicted, and we knew 
his life would be brief. My business calls me 
away from home a good deal. He had everything 
money could procure, and for two years an ad- 
mirable nurse, who married then. The next one 
was rather rigid in her mode of treatment, and 
he did not like her. The next one was an in- 
dulgent person, but I was afraid she did not give 
him the care he needed. We knew that he was 
losing ground daily. Then I went to the hospital 
and was much interested. I had to go abroad, and 
I felt he would be happier there than in a lonely 
house with servants. And I have been very glad 
I sent him. He liked it so much — and your com- 
ing. I can’t thank you for caring, and all the 
pleasure you gave him. I have his little notes 
that Nurse Jane wrote for him, and in one he said : 
' I have found a singing-bird who charms away 
my headache and tells me of the little nest where 
his merry brothers and sisters live.’ ” 
And we had planned that if he improved — 
and I surely thought he would, for some days he 
was so bright and hopeful — that he could come to 
see us. We had such a little bit of a house, but 
mother would have known how to make him com- 
fortable. We would all have helped.” 
Mr. Collamore was touched by the generous 
spirit and the absolute trust in the mother’s good- 
ness. 
Mr. Mann had gone upstairs to announce the 
visitor to his wife. 
He went up two steps at a time, smiling to think 
of the freedom to ask an unexpected guest. In 
the fifteen years before he could never have done 
such a thing. 
Bessy glanced up from her sewing with a sweet 
welcome. 
“ Fve brought home a stranger to see all the 
children. That Mr. Collamore came in to-day. I 
fancied he had forgotten about Chan; men of 
such wide business relations have their minds full 
of various matters, mines and railroads and stocks 
and bonds,” smiling a little. “ He wanted me to 
bring Chan down to-morrow and let him have the 
boy for a day to go pleasuring, but I knew that 
would not do just now, Chan is so engrossed with 
the singing. Mr. Collamore goes up into Canada 
next week. He thought it odd that I should adopt 
so many children, so I asked him to come up and 
look at them. I really like him very much.” 
‘‘ You are so good to them all,” and there was 
a tremble in Bessy’s voice. Then she smiled with 
housewifely thought. 
“ What do you suppose we are to have for 
dinner? ” 
Oh, there will be enough. Trust Cap for 
that.” 
'' A very country dish, chicken pot-pie.” 
And it will be good. A man who lives largely 
at hotels and restaurants enjoys such a meal, I 
can tell you. And, Bessy, put on that pretty gray 
dress. I like it so much.” 
Bessy summoned the girls from their room, and 
sent Prim for the twins, while Mr. Mann went to 
announce the visitor to Mrs. Alden and capture 
Tip. 
Meanwhile Mr. Collamore and Chan were hav- 
ing a delightful confidence. The quaint frankness 
of the boy and the sweet interest were new to the 
man. And Chan learned that Arthur’s mother 
had died in his infancy, and that he was a bright, 
pretty child, but one day the nurse, coming up- 
stairs with him in her arms, stumbled and fell, and 
though he did not seem seriously harmed, infantile 
paralysis had set in, and he was a long time re- 
covering from it, but presently he could run about, 
and they thought him well, but after a while the 
deformity began to show itself, and they found 
the spine had been fatally injured, and there was 
very little hope. Meanwhile, Mr. Collamore had 
married again, and there were other children, but 
Arthur had everything he wanted, a nurse and a 
pony-carriage, and books, as he was a great 
reader. He grew weaker and steadily worse, and 
when Mr. Collamore had to go abroad the hos- 
pital was chosen. 
Chan was glad to know that Mr. Collamore had 
been so tender to the poor little boy, and given 
him a true love. 
And it will always be a pleasure to recall that 
he found you, and that you ministered to him. 
He had to suffer a great deal, and now he is at 
rest, poor little lad.” 
There were tears in Chan’s eyes, but he was glad 
he had known Arthur, and contributed even a ' 
little to his happiness. 
Then Mr. Mann brought in his wife and the 
throng of rosy children, and they were all pre- 
sented, down to the twins. 
“ Well, this is a household a man may well be 
proud of,” said Mr. Collamore. “ I don’t know 
who is most to be congratulated. I think I must 
apologize to you, Mrs. Mann, for coming in so 
unceremoniously. I will confess to some curi- 
osity. One would be willing to take a longer pil- 
grimage to see such a sight. Do they ever get 
mislaid? ” 
Oh, you hear from them,” returned Mr. 
Mann with a merry accent. “ So far none of 
them have shown a disposition to run away.” 
I should think not,” glancing around. Yet 
there must be a grand secret somewhere.” 
“ I think it is due to natural living. They do 
not have enough of anything to tire them, and 
they are not restricted enough to make them long 
to jump over fences. They have to find their own 
amusement largely, and help one another. It may 
be because there are so many, but there isn’t one to 
give away.” 
It would be difficult to make a choice if you 
offered me one, though my dead boy’s friend has 
a warm place in my heart.” 
He was my first love,” returned Mr. Mann, 
placing his arm over the boy’s shoulder. “ Then I 
wanted a girl and couldn’t decide which to take. 
Children, which one of you would like to be given 
away ? ” 
There was a merry twinkle in his eye, and the 
dimple deepened. 
They stared at each other in alarm, and the 
silence was funny. 
I wouldn’t,” exclaimed Tip. I like it here, 
and I think fathers are nice. I like Dan and 
Bonnie, and I'm learning to drive.” 
Which one can yon spare best ? ” 
Tip looked grave and considered. Then he said 
in a very deliberate fashion : 
If you did give one of us away, Mother, I 
think it had better be Rhoda.” 
“ I just sha’n’t be given away,” protested the 
child indignantly. 
Mr. Collamore laughed. Well, as I have to 
go to Canada, we will leave it for further con- 
sideration. I’d like to have you all up to my 
place some time. I have three little ones, and one 
big son.” 
Are any of them girls?” asked Prim. 
Two. One is a mere baby of three ; the other, 
five.” 
They did not interest her, but she said, I 
should have liked to see Arthur. We used to talk 
it over, that if he had lived and could have come ” 
— then she paused and blushed. “ Maybe he 
would not have thought it nice — the house was so 
little and plain — we were poor then ” 
I think he would have liked you all, and not 
minded about the house,” was the quick reply. 
Then they were summoned to dinner. The chil- 
dren were merry, but never rude; the serving was 
quiet and done in a hospitable fashion, as if the 
guest were an old friend instead of a stranger. 
They talked a little of the responsibility of placing 
boys where they could use their best efforts. 
My son will be seventeen in the winter, and 
for the last two years has been at a school that is 
not satisfactory to me. He has too much atten- 
tion, and there are too many ways of spending 
money. I shall take him over to the Continent, 
where a friend has two sons at Vevay, who are be- 
ing trained on useful lines. The sons of rich men 
get indulged too much here, and their heads are 
turned. I hope you will have much satisfaction 
with your boys.’' 
“ They will not be overburdened with money,” 
in a rather mirthful tone. “ I want them to have 
a good education, and the pleasantest home I can 
make for them.” 
And homes are so much. But when business 
exigencies take one away, you have to trust to 
others. Money is not the greatest good, but when 
you are once in the race it is hard to step out. I 
am not sure but you are to be envied, my friend.” 
What a delightful meal it was ! No one seemed 
held in check, and the spontaneity was charming. 
After they returned to the parlor, Mr. Colla- 
more begged Chan to sing. 
“ I know some nice things now,” he said in a 
quiet way. Arthur liked that about the birds 
and where there were no words, so I sang just as 
it came into my mind.” 
The visitor listened in charmed surprise. Ah, 
no wonder a voice like that could exorcise pain. 
Mr. Mann, that child has an unusual voice ; 
perhaps you do not realize it. He is worthy of the 
best musical education. Why, in the city he 
would be a star ! ” Mr. Collamore exclaimed 
earnestly. 
I shall do my best for them all. I can’t spare 
him to any city now. When you have longed for 
children of your own to love and care for, and 
been denied, and then have them come to you al- 
most like a miracle, you cannot relinquish them at 
once. Mr. Howard Gwynne, the composer, has 
taken a peculiar interest in him — if he has not for- 
gotten about him in the press of other matters.” 
Gwynne ! He has been doing some excellent 
work abroad. No, he will not forget a voice like 
that. Oh, Mr. Mann, give him a free hand.” 
A voice is a rather uncertain thing. I want 
them all to be well and happy, to have enough joy 
to brighten their after-lives.” 
You are a man out of a thousand,” and Mr. 
Collamore pressed his host’s hand warmly. 
But presently he had to say good-night to their 
charming hospitality, and he begged to make an 
arrangement that sometime later on, when he was 
in the city, he should have them all for a day’s 
pleasure. But he took an especial leave of Chand- 
ler, and carried away a picture of the pretty room 
that seemed sacred to Arthur’s memory. 
Mr. Mann drove him down to the station. 
Your . eldest boy looks like a bright business 
lad, Mr. Mann,” he said. When you have given 
him his education, if I can be of any service plac- 
ing him anywhere — and I do meet with fine oppor- 
tunities now and then for worthy young men — 
I shall be most happy to be of service. I want to 
keep an interest in you all. I cannot tell you how 
much I have enjoyed this delightful hospitality of 
yours. Why, you are doing a most excellent 
work. I hardly think you are aware of it.” 
A work of love,” returned Adonijah Mann. 
I wish more people understood that.” 
They parted with a fervent esteem for each 
other. 
Chan was waiting for him. Oh, Father,” he 
exclaimed, I like him so much, because he did 
love little Arthur, and it was so sad not to have 
any mother.” 
CHAPTER XVI 
A JOYOUS EASTER 
Saturday morning they were all out in the 
garden planning and working, disputing and agree- 
ing, and talking, of course, about Mr. Collamore, 
who had charmed them all. 
“ And I'm so glad he really did love little 
Arthur. You know, we thought it dreadful he 
should go away and let him die alone in a hospital. 
And don’t you remember how once, when Mr. 
Mann didn’t come for ever so long, we thought he 
had forgotten us? He wasn’t really anything to 
us then, you know,” and Rilla colored. So you 
can’t always tell until you hear both sides. You 
have to wait and see.” 
That is what patience is for,” said their 
mother. And fair dealing.” 
Then an expressman stopped and lifted out care- 
fully two slatted boxes that showed their contents. 
Oh, flowers ! ” exclaimed Goldie. Dan, 
come quick.” 
Flowers, sure enough. Eight lovely roses all 
in different shades and a pink and a red azalea. 
And there was a note from Mr. Collamore, who 
thought he should like to see them on Easter Day, 
and hear Chan sing his anthem, but as it could not 
be, they must give him a kindly thought and en- 
joy the roses as much as he had enjoyed his visit 
with them. 
They are just glorious!’’ cried Prim rap- 
turously. “ And each one is labeled so we can’t 
dispute. Oh, this lovely white one is for Chan, 
and this royal pink one for me. Why, I feel as 
if I could dance clear down to the end of the lot.” 
“ And the playroom will be grand.” 
We must not put them in there first,” said 
Amaryllis. They must be around in the other 
rooms, where we can see them every time we pass. 
Oh, won’t the boys be surprised? ” 
Surprised, indeed, they were, and delighted be- 
yond measure; and when their father came home 
he was really touched at the beauty and simplicity 
of the remembrance. 
After luncheon their mother called them into the 
library and took a cover off the table, at which 
Rhoda almost screamed with delight. 
Children,” she began, “ you know I said you 
could have nothing more until next Christmas. 
Your father and I have talked the matter over, and 
settled upon a plan. At Christmas and Easter 
there will be gifts, and you are not to expect the 
pleasure at any other time, nor torment any one 
by wishing for them. And as there are so many 
birthdays, ten in all, it would keep one much of 
the time studying what to give, so, instead of that, 
we will have a special little feast for each child, 
and no regular gifts to be expected. We want you 
all to be very happy, and I think the lovely home 
and all the indulgences you have ought to satisfy 
any household.” 
“ Oh, Mother ! Oh, Mother ! ” and they all 
thronged around her, almost smothering her with 
kisses. 
After a little she put away the caressing hands, 
and began the distribution of gifts. There was 
the long-wished-for doll and the carriage, also one 
for Laurel, and a box of dishes. 
Now, children, you both have the same things, 
and I hope there will be no more disputes.” 
“ In course I sha’n’t want Labs doll. Mine’s 
newer, and her frock isn’t wrinkled up.” 
“ Then be satisfied that you have the best.” 
Lai caught her mother’s dress and said in en- 
dearing tones, “ I love you. Mommy.” 
I love her just as good,” said Rhoda. 
Linn had his wish, a nice portable desk, sub- 
stantial and fitted up with all needed articles. 
Chan’s was a fine bound volume of music, with 
many of the hymns he was learning, and his name 
on the cover. Amaryllis had a pretty inlaid 
glove-box with half a dozen pairs of gloves, and 
the younger girls, initialed satchels. Tip had 
some garden tools, and a wonderful top that could 
display a variety of devices. Mrs. Alden was re- 
membered as well, to her surprise. 
“ But- you really are one of the family,” said 
Mrs. Mann. 
And you can’t have anything again till next 
Christmas,” appended Tip, at which they all 
laughed. Then Rilla and Linn brought out their 
gift for the elders. They were the only ones who 
had a weekly allowance. Marigold had crocheted 
some mats; Prim had made a pretty catch-all 
bag. 
Prim, what is matter ? ” asked Linn. 
You haven’t said splendacious or supersplacious, 
or any drawn-out adjective.” 
“ I was overcome by the magnificent adjustment 
of sublunary things, and the fragrance of good 
deeds, for it is said they smell sweet. I forgot 
my holiday language.” 
It’s the roses that are sweet,” said Tip. “ Are 
roses truly alive ? For they die ” 
They must be very much alive. For they 
grow and bloom.” 
“ And if they could talk! ” 
Oh, dear I ” cried their mother, if everything 
talked we should be set crazy.” 
“ I want my rose in the playroom,” began 
Rhoda. “ And my doll shall sit alongside of it. 
Oh, dear, she hasn’t any chair, and Lai’s has.” 
Mr. Mann looked grave, but the mother 
laughed. You only asked for the doll and the 
carriage. Now you must wait until Christmas.” 
Rhoda sniffed a little. Goldie and Prim were 
full of delight, their gifts were so much of a sur- 
prise. They counted the buds on their roses, 
and declared that it was almost equal to Christ- 
mas. 
Mr. Evans said Chan must go to bed early,” 
announced Linn. 
And I shall be glad to,” said the boy. “ I am 
tired.” 
“ If I only did have a chair ! My doll will have 
to sit in the cradle. But I give her a long, beau- 
tiful name, and yours hasn’t any name yet,” she 
said as they went upstairs. 
Easter Sunday dawned as if it were, indeed, the 
bridal of earth and sky. Everything seemed to 
have grown in the night. The sweet violets were 
out, and Rilla laid them around the plates of her 
mother and father. They looked lovely on the 
white tablecloth. All the house was sweet with 
rose fragrance. 
“ Oh, Chan,” his mother said, “ you will not 
be overcome by a sudden fear when you see all the 
people ? ” And there was an anxiety in her sweet 
voice. 
“ Oh, Mother, I shall only think of the ‘ glad 
tidings.’ I want to do it to praise God for all he 
has given us, and that I am not lame, and we have 
this beautiful home. Do you know, if father had 
not sent me to the hospital, no one might have 
thought about my voice. It will be a kind of 
Thanksgiving.” 
The twins went to church for the first time, 
Rhoda extremely important, but they behaved very 
well. 
It was truly a resurrection morning. The tree 
buds were showing faint colors, the grass wore the 
exquisite green of early spring, and the air was 
sweet with mingled fragrances. 
It was a plain little church, only the chapel part 
really, but it was crowned with flowers; a simple 
and devout service, the music having been selected 
for its fitness for the place as well as for the 
season ; an admirable sermon, and, while the offer- 
tory was being taken up, there was always an an- 
them sung. 
The choir began with the first part. Miss 
Marsh, the soprano, was generally the soloist, but 
now a sweet child’s voice took up the exquisite 
words that seemed to render the very air rever- 
ential; not a tremble as it swelled upward, until 
it was a wave of melody, a sound of love and wor- 
ship. There was a breath of dissent when the 
choir repeated the strain. Then once more the 
sweet voice swelled out : 
''How beautiful ufon the mountains. 
Are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings. 
That fublisheth peace. 
That saiih unto Zion, 'Thy God reignethi" 
Then the choir took up the triumphant chorus, 
but the sweet sound lingered through it. After 
that, the reverent prayers, the greater benediction. 
Miss Marsh took both of the child’s hands in 
hers. 
“ It was splendidly done. I fairly held my 
breath for you. Why, your voice is wonderful ! ” 
“ It truly was praise to the Lord,” added the 
tenor. “ The beautiful unconsciousness of a 
child. Miss Raynor, we are all indebted to you.” 
It was Mr. Evans’s discovery and persuasion. 
I do not think the child realizes how truly ex- 
quisite his voice is,” in a low tone. 
Chan had a sort of rapt feeling as if he did 
not want any one to talk to him about it. So he 
remained in the vestry-room while the service was 
being finished. 
Mrs. Mann would have been glad to escape from 
the compliments, but Mr. Mann was justly proud. 
This was his boy, and he gave thanks that he had 
been led to the little old red house. 
Grafton people were certainly very cordial this 
morning. The eight children were not so very 
detrimental, after all. The Bradleys admired 
them, and had them to tea. Then Mrs. Brenner, 
who ran over to London every summer in the sea- 
son, and considered herself an authority on some 
of the higher arts, gave her a most cordial greet- 
ing and said she should be glad to come in and call 
on them, and congratulated her heartily. 
“ She is really a sweet, modest little woman,” 
she said to Mr. Brenner. “ And the children seem 
to be up to the mark, and are well-mannered. I 
wanted to see a woman who could capture a man 
and make him adopt eight children. But if they 
are going to turn out prodigies! And that child 
has a wonderful voice. I want to see him.” 
One and another paused to congratulate the 
 
mother with the children clustering about her. 
Then Mrs. Greer, their next-door neighbor, who 
had gone on, was waiting on her sidewalk. 
“ Mrs. Mann, your little boy has given us such 
a treat ! I thought first it must be some one from 
the city. It was wonderful how he carried that 
fine solo. Mr. Greer and I have been coming in 
this ever so long, but there have been so many 
things to prevent. But we shall try to do it this 
very week.” 
Mr. Mann had been waiting in the vestry with 
Chan, but he was almost jealous when Mr. Evans 
came in and held the boy to his heart without a 
word. 
It’s the finest service I’ve had yet,” in a deep, 
heartfelt tone. Oh, Chan, every sound of your 
blessed voice went to my heart. You were truly 
singing unto the Lord. I could almost see the 
host with good tidings,” he said after the silence 
of a few moments. Mr. Mann, I almost envy 
you. Oh, do you know what such a voice is 
worth? What it may be to him ? ” 
“ He is only a little lad, and musical prodigies 
do not always fulfill expectations. Still, I am glad 
he could do this for you.” 
They walked a little way together. The crowd 
had dispersed, but there was a rustle of birds in 
the trees, and their calls to each other. Had the 
world ever been so full of joy! 
“ Oh, Chan ! and Marigold’s arms were around 
his neck, ‘‘ it was so beautiful it brought the tears 
to my eyes. Didn’t you feel afraid?” 
“ Mr. Evans doesn’t feel afraid to stand up be- 
fore all the people and worship God. I was glad 
I could do it. No one could really see me, the 
curtain was so high. Only — I wish they wouldn’t 
talk about it.” 
“ I don’t see how they could help it,” was the 
earnest reply. 
His mother kissed him, but said not a 
word. 
He shrank a little from going to Sunday-school, 
and wondered how it would seem to him if some 
other boy had sung. The Firth children had not 
been much in the tide-winds of vanity. 
It was almost like the Sunday we went to 
Denby,” said Prim afterward. “ They all 
thronged about us, and Mr. Carter said such lovely 
things to Chan. If I could sing that way I’d want 
people to praise me. And it’s queer, but you 
didn’t sing that way at Denby.” 
“ Well, there wasn’t anything so beautiful to 
sing. It was as if their coming helped. I seemed 
to see them.” 
Prim looked mystified. 
But Chan somehow felt tired in the evening, and 
sat on the sofa leaning his head on the shoulder 
of his father, who kept answering Tip’s wonder- 
ing questions and shielding the boy. 
The next morning was fine, and the children 
were out gardening. Mrs. Greer waved her hand 
in a neighborly fashion. 
May’s time enough to plant flower seeds,” 
said Dan, “ except sweet peas and some hardy 
things.” 
‘‘ Oh, dear, it is so long to wait,” complained 
Primrose. 
“ Pm going to plant potatoes now, and 
radishes,” said Tip in great earnest. 
Oh, don’t put them in this little space. Why, 
we are all going to have pretty flowers. Those 
things belong to the real garden.” 
“ And this is going to be a real garden.” 
But they’ll grow so big, and there’ll be potato 
bugs. Oh, Dan, can he go farther down? ” 
You couldn’t raise many potatoes there,” said 
Dan. ‘‘ And you couldn’t hoe them.” 
But Cap said she’d buy them. I want bushels. 
And she gave me these. I want to grow real big 
ones. 
You must cut them up. And you’d better 
come down to the real garden. Your father said 
these were to be flower-beds.” 
“ I don’t want them cut up.” 
‘‘ But you must. They would grow nothing 
but vines. You don’t want more than two 
eyes ” 
“ Do they have to see to grow ? And they’ll be 
in the dark ground.” 
The eye sprouts,” explained Prim. “ I don’t 
just know why they call it an eye.” 
Tip stood unconvinced. He had half a dozen 
large potatoes in a pan. 
“ Oh, who is that ! ” cried Marigold. A rough 
old country wagon stopped at the gate. Why, 
it’s Mr. Pine, and there’s something all bundled 
up in shawls. I wonder if it is Mrs. Pine.” 
The three girls went down the path. The 
bundle was lifted out and placed on the sidewalk; 
something swathed in a blanket shawl, with the 
head tied up, and that seemed to have difliculty 
standing on its feet. 
“ Land o’ massy ! ” shrieked a voice, clutching 
at the veil. “ You’re the Firth young ones, but I 
can’t tell t’other from which. ’Tain’t summer, 
an’ I wropped up, for I’ve had a cold ’most all 
winter.” 
“ Oh, it’s Granny Keen ! I’m Marigold, and 
this is Prim. Will you walk in?” 
“ Certin’, certin’. That’s what I come for, and 
I’ve been ’most joggled to pieces. Seems to me 
you’ve growed, ’r else your frocks are made longer. 
I hope your mother puts tucks in them so’s they 
kin be let down. I can tell you two by your red 
and yeller hair.” 
“ Howdy ! howdy ! The old lady wanted so to 
come. I knowed the springs didn’t spring much, 
but she was bound, so sez I, ' Come along, then.’ 
I’ll be back in about an hour. I’ve got to see a 
man, so I’ll take a peek at the place when I come 
back. I heard it was mighty fine, but I must be 
off now,” and he climbed up into the wagon. 
“ I’ll run ’round and open the door, and tell 
mother,” said Prim. 
Marigold assisted the old lady round to the 
porch, where she dropped down on the step out 
of breath, and fought to free herself from the 
heavy shawl. She had a cloak underneath. 
Then, with Goldie’s help, she crossed the porch 
and stood still to stare around. 
CHAPTER XVII 
GRANNY KEEN 
‘‘Well, if this ain’t the beatin’est! Why, you 
just struck a palace! Do let me look around a 
minnit. What a great big piazzy! Them’s the 
twins, I suppose,” Laurel and Rhoda having just 
meandered around. “ Why, they don’t look a bit 
alike. I’ve heerd of twins so like that you couldn’t 
tell t’other from which. It was curis they should 
live, an’ you so poor, when rich people’s often die. 
I’ve been so housed up all winter I ’most don’t 
know anybody. Ain’t your ma home ? ” 
“ Oh, yes. Please walk in.” 
She stopped short and stared around again. 
“ Lord ’a’ massy! Well, you have got a house! 
Big enough for a tavern or summer boarders. 
Keep it all yourself ? ” 
“ There are enough of us to fill it,” laughed 
Prim. 
Mrs. Mann was coming down the stairs, and 
greeted Mrs. Keen cordially. “ Are you pretty 
well ? ” she asked. 
“No, I jest ain’t. I’ve had colds and rheumatiz 
all winter. And Pine’s old wagon hain’t any 
springs to speak of an’ jounces turrible. I feel as 
if my hips and my spine was unjinted. But beg- 
gars can’t be choosers. He stopped to see Joe and 
mentioned that he was cornin’ over to Ridgewood, 
so I jest begged a chance. I wanted to see with 
my own eyes if ’twas true what they said. Bessy 
Firth, you’ve struck ile this time, if ther’s enough 
to last. You can’t alwers tell ’bout a man. Some 
are awful brags. An’ sometimes another wife 
comes to hand and there’s a big row. Don’t you 
feel afraid? ” 
She dropped her shawl and was taking off her 
coat, and now sank breathless into a chair. 
Bessy flushed and said with dignity, “ He is a 
well-known business man in New York, and has 
lived there all his life.” 
“ And you didn’t have to put the twins in some 
of them charity homes! I guess some of the 
women were awful riled to think it wasn’t their 
chance. Queer now, wasn’t it? Is he reel good 
to the children?” 
“ He is an excellent husband and father,” was 
the dignified reply. 
“ Well, I ain’t one to be eat up with envy over 
other folks’s good fortune. But the way of Provi- 
dence is mysterious, and when onlikely things hap- 
pen you can’t find ’em out. One of them Terry 
gals was in, an’ she said Cap was livin’ here an’ 
thought she was in clover. An’ she said that there 
was a sort of overseer, besides. It does beat all ! ” 
“ Yes, we like Cap very much.” 
Old man Terry used to growl ’bout havin’ so 
many gals, an’ now he’s kinder mad that they’re 
goin’ off. The one at the creamery is goin’ to be 
married an’ savin’ up her money for herself. An’ 
Cap’s got a beau. Then there’s some of the Denby 
