" 'Ah, but there is!' I exclaimed. 'You admit 
that I have "charm" — dozens of other men ad- 
mitted it. And so it ought to count for something 
if I declare that I know it's not an honest thing — 
that it depends upon trickery, and appeals to the 
worst quallties in a man. For instance, his 
vanity. "Flatter him," Lady Dee used to say. 
"He'll swallow it." And he will — I never knew a 
man to refuse a compliment in my life. His love 
of domination. "If you want anything, make 
hiTTi think that he wants it!" His egotism. She 
 
had a bitter saying — I can hear the very tones of 
her voice: "When in doubt, talk about him." 
That is what is called "charm"!' 
" 'I don't seem to feel it,' he said. 
" 'No, because now you are behind the scenes. 
But when you were in front, you felt it, you can't 
deny. And you would feel it again, any time I 
chose to use it. But I want to know if there is 
not some honest way a woman can interest a 
man. The question really comes to this — Can 
a man love a woman for what she really is? ' 
" 'I should say,' he said, 'that it depends upon 
the woman.' 
"I admitted this was a plausible answer. 'But 
you loved me, when I made myself a mystery to 
you. But now that I am honest with you, you 
have made it clear that you don't like it, that 
you won't have it. And that is the problem that 
women have to face. It is a fact that the women 
of our family have always ruled the men; but 
they've done it by indirection — nobody ever 
thought seriously of "women's rights" in Castle- 
man County. But you see, women have rights; 
and somehow or other they will fool the men, or 
else the men must give up the idea that they are 
the superior sex, and have the right, or the 
abihty, to rule women.' 
"Then I saw how httle he had followed me. 
'There has to be a head to the family,' he said. 
"I answered, 'There have been cases in history 
of a king and queen ruling together, and getting 
along very well. Why not the same thing in a 
family?' 
 
" 'That's all right, so far as the things of the 
family are concerned. But such affairs as business 
and politics are in the sphere of men; and women 
cannot meddle in them without losing their best 
quallties as women.' 
"And so there we were. I won't repeat his 
arguments, for doubtless you have read enough 
anti-suffrage hterature. The thing I noticed was 
that if I was very tactful and patient, I could 
apparently carry him along with me; but when 
the matter came up again, I would discover that 
he was back where he had been before. A woman 
must accept the guidance of a man; she must 
take the man's word for the things that he under- 
stands. 'But suppose the man is wrong?' I said; 
and there we stopped — there we shall stop always, 
I begin to fear. I agree with him that woman 
should obey man — so long as man is right!" 
 
 
Her letters did not all deal with this problem. 
In spite of the sewiag, she found time to read a 
number of books, and we argued about these. 
Then, too, she had been probing her young 
doctor, and had made interesting discoveries 
about him. For one thing, he was full of awe 
and admiration for her; and her awakening mind 
foimd material for speculation in this. 
"Here is this young man; he thinks he is a 
scientist, he rather prides himself upon being 
cold-blooded; yet a cunning woman could twist 
him roimd her finger. He had an imhappy love- 
affair when he was young, so he confided to me; 
and now, in his need and loneliness, a beautiful 
woman is transformed into something super- 
natural in his imagiaation — she is like a shimmer- 
ing soap-bubble, that he blows with his own 
breath. I know that I could never get him to 
see the real truth about me; I might tell him that 
I have let myseK be tied up in a golden net — but 
he would only marvel at my spirituality. Oh, 
the women I have seen trading upon the cred- 
uhty of men! And when I think how I did this 
myself! If men were wise, they would give us 
the vote, and a share in the world's work — any- 
thing that would bring us out into the light of 
day, and break the spell of mystery that hangs 
round us! 
 
 
"By the way," she wrote in another letter, 
"there will be trouble if you come down here. 
I was telling Dr. Perrin about you, and your 
ideas about fasting, and mental healing, and the 
rest of your fads. He got very much excited. 
It seems that he takes his diploma seriously, and 
he's not willing to be taught by amateur experi- 
ments. He wanted me to take some pills, and 
I refused, and I think now he blames you for it. 
He has found a bond of sympathy with my hus- 
band, who proves his respect for authority by 
taking whatever he is told to take. Dr. Perrin 
got his medical training here in the South, and I 
imagine he's ten or twenty years behind the rest 
of the medical world. Douglas picked him out 
because he'd met him socially. It makes no 
difference to me — because I don't mean to have 
any doctoring done to me!" 
Then, on top of these things, would come a cry 
from her soul. "Mary, what will you do if some 
day you get a letter from me confessing that I 
am not happy? I dare not say a word to my 
own people. I am supposed to be at the apex of 
human triumph, and I have to play that rdle to 
keep from hurting them. I know that if my 
dear old father got an inkling of the truth, it 
would kill him. My one real solid consolation is 
that I have helped Imn, that I have lifted a 
money-burden from his life: I have done that, I 
tell myself, over and over; but then I wonder, 
have I done anything but put the reckoning off? 
I have given all his other children a new excuse 
 
for extravagance, an impulse towards worldliness 
which they did not need. 
"There is my sister Celeste, for example. I 
don't think I have told you about her. She 
made her cUbut last fall, and was coming up to 
New York to stay with me this winter. She had 
it all arranged in her mind to make a rich mar- 
riage; I was to give her the entree — and now I 
have been selfish, and thought of my own desires, 
and gone away. Can I say to her, 'Be warned 
by me, I have made a great match, and it has not 
brought me happiness?' She would not under- 
stand, she would say I was foolish. She wovild 
say, 'If I had your luck, I would be happy.' 
And the worst of it is, it would be true. 
"You see the position I am in with the rest of 
the children. I cannot say, 'You are spending 
too much of Papa's money, it is wrong for you to 
sign checks and trust to his carelessness.' I 
have had my share of the money, I have lined my 
ovm nest. All I can do is to buy dresses and hats 
for Celeste; and know that she will use these to 
fill her girl-friends with envy, and make scores of 
other families live beyond their means." 
 
 
STiiViA's pregnancy was moving to its 
appointed end. She wrote me beautifully about 
it, much more frankly and simply than she could 
have brought herself to talk. She recalled to me 
my own raptures, and also, my own heartbreak. 
"Mary! Mary! I felt the child today! Such 
a sensation, I could not have credited it if anyone 
had told me. I almost fainted. There is some- 
thing in me that wants to turn back, that is 
afraid to go on with such experiences. I do not 
wish to be seized in spite of myself, and made to 
feel things beyond my control. I wander off 
down the beach, and hide myself, and cry and 
cry. I think I could almost pray again." 
And then again, "I am in ecstasy, because I 
am to bear a child, a child of my own ! Oh, won- 
derful, wonderful! But suddenly my ecstasy is 
shot through with terror, because the father of 
this child is a man I do not love. There is no use 
trying to deceive myseK — nor you! I must have 
one human soul with whom I can talk about it 
as it really is. I do not love him, I never did 
love him, I never shall love him! 
"Oh, how could they have all been so mis- 
taken? Here is Aunt Varina — one of those who 
helped to persuade me into this marriage. She 
told me that love woidd come; it seemed to be 
her idea — my mother had it too — that you had 
 
only to submit yourseK to a man, to follow and 
obey him, and love would take possession of your 
heart. I tried it credulously and it did not 
happen as they promised. And now, I am to 
bear him a child; and that will bind us together 
forever! 
"Oh, the despair of it — I do not love the 
father of my child! I say, The child will be 
partly his, perhaps more his than mine. It will 
be like him — it will have this quality and that, 
the very qualities, perhaps, that are a source of 
distress to me in the father. So I shall have 
these things before me day and night, all the rest 
of my life; I shall have to see them growing and 
hardening; it will be a perpetual crucifixion of 
my mother-love. I seek to comfort myself by 
saying, 'The child can be trained differently, so 
that he will not have these quahties.' But then 
I think. No, you cannot train him as you wish. 
Your husband will have rights to the child, rights 
superior to your own. Then I foresee the most 
dreadful strife between us. 
"A shrewd girl-friend once told me that I 
ought to be better or worse; I ought not to see 
people's faults as I do, or else I ought to love 
people less. And I can see that I ought to have 
been too good to make this marriage, or else not 
too good to make the best of it. I know that I 
might be happy as Mrs. Douglas van Tuiver, if 
I could think of the worldly advantages, and the 
fact that my child will inherit them. But instead, 
I see them as a trap, in which not only ourselves 
 
but the child is caught, and from which I canaot 
save us. Oh, what a mistake a woman makes 
when she marries a man with the idea that she 
is going to change him! He will not change, he 
will not have the need of change suggested to 
him. He wants peace in his home — which means 
that he wants to be what he is. 
"Sometimes I can study the situation quite 
coolly, and as if it didn't concern me at all. He 
has required me to subject my mind to his. But 
he will not be content with a geaieral capitulation; 
he must have a surrender from each individual 
soldier, from every rebel hidden in the hills. He 
tracks them out (my poor, straggling, feeble 
ideas) and either they take the oath of allegiance, 
or they are buried where they lie. The process is 
like the spoiling of a child, I find; the more you 
give him, the more he wants. And if any little 
thing is refused, then you see him set out upon a 
regular campaign to break you down and get it." 
A month or more later she wrote : "Poor Douglas 
is getting restless.  He has caught every kind of 
fish there is to catch, and hunted every kind of 
animal and bird, in and out of season. Harley 
has gone home, and so have our other guests; it 
would be embarrassing to me to have company 
now. So Douglas has no one but the doctor and 
myself and my poor aunt. He has spoken sev- 
eral times of our going away; but I do not want 
to go, and I think I ought to consider my own 
health at this critical time. It is hot here, but 
I simply thrive in it — I never felt in better health. 
 
So I asked him to go up to New York, or visit 
somewhere for a while, and let me stay here until 
my baby is bom. Does that seem so very imrea- 
sonable? It does not to me; but poor Aunt 
Varkia is in agony about it — I am letting my 
husband drift away from me! 
"I speculate about my lot as a woman; I see 
the bitterness and the sorrow of my sex through 
the ages. I have become physically misshapen, 
so that I am no longer attractive to him. I am 
no longer active and free, I can no longer go about 
with him; on the contrary, I am a burden, and 
he is a man who never tolerated a burden before. 
What this means is that I have lost the mac 
hold of sex. 
"As a woman it was my business to exert all 
my energies to maintain it. And I know how I 
could restore it now; there is young Dr. Per- 
rin! He does not find me a burden, he would 
tolerate any deficiencies. And I can see my 
husband on the alert in an instant, if I become 
too much absorbed in discussing your health- 
theories with my handsome yoimg guardian! 
"This is one of the recognized methods of 
keeping yoiu" husband; I learned from Lady Dee 
all there is to know about it. But I would find 
the method impossible now, even if my happiness 
were dependent upon retaining my husband's 
love. I should think of the rights of my friend 
the little doctor. That is one point to note for 
the 'new' woman, is it not? You may mention 
it in your next suffrage-speech! 
 
"There are other methods, of coxirse. I have 
a mind, and I might turn its powers to entertain- 
ing him, iQstead of trying to solve the problems 
of the universe. But to do this, I should have to 
believe that it was the one thing ia the world for 
me to do; and I have permitted a doubt of that 
to gain entrance to my brain! My poor aunt's 
exhortations inspire me to efforts to regain the 
faith of my mothers, but I simply cannot — I 
cannot ! She sits by me with the terror of all the 
women of all the ages in her eyes. I am losing 
a man! 
"I don't know if you have ever set out to hold 
a man — deliberately, I mean. Probably you 
haven't. That bitter maxim of Lady Dee's is 
the literal truth of it — 'When in doubt, talk 
about him!' If you will tactfully and shrewdly 
keep a man talking about himself, his tastes, his 
ideas, his work and the importance of it, there is 
never the least possibillty of your boring him. You 
must not just tamely agree with him, of com-se; if 
you hint a difference now and then, and make him 
convince you, he will find that stimulating; I or 
if you can manage not to be quite convinced, but 
sweetly open to conviction, he will surely call 
again. 'Keep him busy every minute,' Lady 
Dee used to say. 'Run away with him now and 
then — like a spirited horse!' And she would 
add, 'But don't let him drop the reins!' 
"You can have no idea how many women there 
are in the world deliberately playing such parts. 
Some of them admit it; others just do the thing 
 
that is easiest, and would die of horror if they 
were told what it is. It is the whole of the life 
of a successful society-woman, yoimg or old. 
Pleasing a man! Waiting upon his moods, 
piquing Mm, flattering him, feeding his vanity — 
'charming' him! That is what Aunt Varina 
wants me to do now; if I am not too crude in 
my description of the process, she has no hesita- 
tion in admitting the truth. It is what she tried 
to do, it is what almost every woman has done 
who has held a family together and made a home. 
I was reading 'Jane Eyre' the other day. There is 
your woman's ideal of an imperious and im- 
petuous lover! Listen to him when his mood is 
on him: — 
" 'I am disposed to be gregarious and communi- 
cative tonight; and that is why I sent for you; the 
fire and the chandeher were not sufficient company 
for me; nor would Pilot have been, for none of 
these can talk. Tonight I am resolved to be at 
ease; to dismiss what importunes and recall what 
pleases. It would please me now to draw you out 
— to learn more of you — therefore speak!' " 
 
 
It was now May, and Sylvia's time was little 
more than a month off. She had been urging me 
to come and visit her, but I had refused, knowing 
that my presence must necessarily be distm-bing 
to both her husband and her aunt. But now she 
wrote that her husband was going back to New 
York. "He was staying out of a sense of duty to 
me," she said. "But his discontent was so ap- 
parent that I had to point out to him that he was 
doing harm to me as well as to himself. 
"I doubt if you will want to come here now. 
The last of the winter visitors have left. It is 
really hot, so hot that you cannot get cool by 
going into the water. Yet I am revelling in it; 
I wear almost nothing, and that white; and even 
the suspicious Dr. Perrin cannot but admit that 
I am thriving; his references to pills are purely 
formal. 
"Lately I have not permitted myself to think 
much about the situation between my husband 
and myself. I cannot blame him, and I cannot 
blame myself, and I am trying to keep my peace 
of mind till my baby is bom. I have found myself 
following haK-instinctively the procedure you told 
me about; I talk to my own subconscious mind, 
and to the baby — I command them to be well. 
I whisper to them things that are not so very far 
from praying; but I don't think my poor dear 
 
Mamma would recognize it in its new scientific 
dress! 
"But sometimes I can't help thinking of the 
child and its future, and then all of a sudden my 
heart is ready to break with pity for the child's 
father! I have the consciousness that I do not 
love him, and that he has always known it — and 
that makes me remorseful. But I told him the 
truth before we married — he promised to be 
patient with me till I had learned to love him! 
Now I want to burst iuto tears and cry aloud, 
'Oh, why did you do it? Why did I let myself 
be persuaded into this marriage?' 
"I tried to have a talk with him last night, 
after he had decided to go away. I was full of 
pity, and a desire to help. I said I wanted him 
to know that no matter how much we might 
disagree about some things, I meant to learn to 
live happily with him. We must find some sort 
of compromise, for the sake of the child, if not 
for ourselves; we must not let the child suffer. 
He answered coldly that there would be no need 
for the child to suffer, the child would have the 
best the world could afford. I suggested that 
there might arise some question as to just what 
the best was; but to that he said nothing. He 
went on to rebuke my discontent; had he not 
given me everything a woman could want? he 
asked. He was too polite to mention money, 
but he said that I had leisure and entire freedom 
from care. I was persisting in assuming cares, 
while he was doing all in his power to prevent it. 
 
"And that was as far as we got. I gave up the 
discussion, for we should only have gone the old 
round over again. 
" Douglas has taken up a sajdng that my coiisin 
brought with him: 'What you don't know won't 
hurt you!' I think tha»fc before he left, Harley 
had begun to suspect that all was not well between 
my husband and myself, and he felt it necessary 
to give me a little friendly counsel. He was 
tactful, and politely vague, but I imderstood 
him — my worldly-wise yoimg cousin! I think 
that sajong of his sums up the philosophy that 
he would teach to all women — 'What you don't 
know won't hiut you!' " 
 
 
A WEEK or so later Sylvia wrote me that her 
husband was in New York. And I waited another 
week, for good measiu-e, and then one morning 
dropped in for a call upon Claire Lepage. Why 
did I do it? you ask. I had no definite purpose — 
only a general opposition to the philosophy 
of Cousin Harley. 
I was xishered into Claire's boudoir, which was 
still littered with last evening's apparel. She sat 
in a dressing-gown with resplendent red roses on 
it, and brushed the hair out of her eyes, and 
apologized for not being ready for callers. 
"I've just had a talking to from Larry," she 
explained. 
"Larry?" said I, inquiriily; for Claire had 
always informed me elaborately that van Tuiver 
had been her one departure from propriety, and 
always would be. 
Apparently she had now reached a stage in her 
career where pretenses were too much trouble. 
"I've come to the conclusion that I don't know 
how to manage men," she said. "I never can 
get along with one for any time." 
I remarked that I had had the same experience; 
though of course I had only tried it once. "Tell 
me," I said, "who's Larry?" 
"There's his picture." She reached into a 
drawer of her dresser. 
 
I saw a handsome blond gentleman, who looked 
old enough to know better. "He doesn't seem 
especially forbidding," I said. 
"That's just the trouble — you can never tell 
about men!" 
I noted a date on the picture. " He seems to be 
an old friend. You never told me about him." 
"He doesn't like being told about. He has a 
troublesome wife." 
I winced inwardly, but all I said was, "I see." 
"He's a stock-broker; and he got 'squeezed', 
so he says, and it's made him cross — and careful 
with his money, too. That's trying, in a stock- 
broker, you must admit." She laughed. "And 
still he's just as particular — wants to have his 
own way in everything, wants to say whom I shall 
know and where I shall go. I said, ' I have all the 
inconveniences of matrimony, and none of the 
advantages.' " 
I made some remark upon the subject of the 
emancipation of woman ; and Claire, who was now 
leaning back in her chair, combing out her long 
black tresses, smiled at me out of half-closed 
eyelids. "Guess whom he's objecting to!" she 
said. And when I pronounced it impossible, she 
looked portentous. "There are bigger fish in the 
sea than Larry Edgewater!" 
"And you've hooked one?" I asked, innocently. 
"Well, I don't mean to give up all my friends." 
I went on casually to talk about my plans for 
the summer; and a few minutes later, after a 
lull — "By the way," remarked Claire, "Douglas 
van Tuiver is in town." 
 
"How do you know?" 
"I've seen him." 
"Indeed! Where?" 
"I got Jack Taylor to invite me again. You 
see, when Douglas fell in love with his peerless 
Southern beauty, Jack predicted he'd get over 
it even more quickly. Now he's interested in 
proving he was right." 
I waited a moment, and then asked, carelessly, 
"Is he having any success?" 
"I said, 'Douglas, why don't you come to see 
me?' He was in a playful mood. 'What do you 
want? A new automobile?' I answered, 'I 
haven't any automobile, new or old, and you know 
it. What I want is you. I always loved you — 
siu-ely I proved that to you.' — ' What you proved 
to me was that you were a sort of wild-cat. I'm 
afraid of you. And anyway, I'm tired of women, 
I'll never trust another one.' " 
"About the same conclusion as you've come to 
regarding men," I remarked. 
" 'Douglas,' I said, 'come and see me, and we'll 
talk over old times. You may trust me, I swear 
I'll not tell a living soul.' 'You've been consoling 
yourself with someone else,' he said. But I knew 
he was only guessiug. He was seeking for some- 
thing that woiild worry me, and he said; 'You're 
drinking too much. People that drink can't be 
trusted.' — 'You know,' I replied, 'I didn't 
drink too much when I was with you. I'm not 
drinking as much as you are, right now.' He 
answered, 'I've been off on a desert island for God 
 
knows how many months, and I'm celebrating 
my escape.' — 'Well,' I answered, 'let me help 
celebrate!' " 
"What did he say to that?" 
Claire resumed the combing of her silken hair, 
and smiled a slow smile at me. " 'You may trust 
me, Douglas,' I said. ' I swear I'll not tell a lying 
soul!' " 
"Of coxirse," I remarked, appreciatively, "that 
means he said he'd come!" 
"I haven't told you!" was the reply. 
 
 
I Baraw that I had only to wait for Claire to 
tell me the rest of the story. But her mind went 
off on another tack. "Sylvia's going to have a 
baby," she remarked, suddenly. 
"That ought to please her husband," I said. 
"You can see him beginning to swell with 
paternal pride! — so Jack said. He sent for a 
bottle of some famous kind of champagne that he 
ha, to celebrate the new 'millionaire baby.' 
(They used to call Douglas that, once upon a time.) 
Before they got through, they had made it triplets. 
Jack says Douglas is the one man in New York 
who can afford them." 
"Your friend Jack seems to be what they call 
a wag," I commented. 
"It isn't everybody that Douglas will let carry 
on with him like that. He takes himself seriously, 
as a rule. And he expects to take the new baby 
seriously." 
"It generally binds a man tighter to his wife, 
don't you think?" 
I watched her closely, and saw her smile at my 
nawetL "No," she said, "I don't. It leaves 
them restless. It's a bore all roimd." 
I did not dispute her authority; she ought to 
know her husbands, I thought. 
She was facing the mirror, putting up her hair; 
and in the midst of the operation she laughed. 
 
 
"All that evening, while we were having a jolly 
time at Jack Taylor's, Larry was here waiting." 
"Then no wonder you had a row!" I said. 
"He hadn't told me he was coming. And was 
I to sit here all night alone? It's always the same 
— I never knew a man who really in his heart was 
willing for you to have any friends, or any sort 
of good time without him." 
"Perhaps," I replied, "he's afraid you mightn't 
be true to him." I meant this for a jest, of the sort 
that Claire and her friends would appreciate. 
Little did I foresee where it was to lead us. I 
remember how once on the farm my husband 
had a lot of dynamite, blasting out stumps; and 
my emotions when I discovered the children 
innocently playing with a stick of it. Something 
like these children I seem now to myself, looking 
back on this visit to Claire, and our talk. 
"You know," she observed, without smiling, 
" Larry's got a bee in his hat. I've seen men who 
were jealous, and kept watch over women, but 
never one who was obsessed like him." 
"What's it about?" 
"He's been reading a book about diseases, and 
he tells me tales about what may happen to me, 
and what may happen to him. When you've 
listened a while, you can see microbes crawling 
all over the walls of the room." 
"Well " I began. 
"I was sick of his lecturing, so I said, 'Larry, 
you'll have to do like me — have everything there 
is, and get over it, and then you won't need to 
worry.' " 
 
I sat still, staring at her; I think I must have 
stopped breathing. At the end of an eternity, 
I said, "You've not really had any of these diseases, 
Claire?" 
"Who hasn't?" she countered. 
Again there was a pause. "You know," I 
observed, "some of them are dangerous." 
"Oh, of com-se," she answered, Ughtly. 
"There's one that makes your nose fall in and 
yoiir hair fall out — but you haven't seen anything 
like that happening to me!" 
"But there's another," I hinted — "one that's 
much more common." And when she did not 
take the hint, I continued, "Also, it's more serious 
then people generally reahze." 
She shrugged her shoulders. "What of it? 
Men bring you these things, and it's part of the 
game. So what's the use of bothering?" 
 
 
Theke was a long silence; I had to have time 
to decide what course to take. There was so 
much that I wanted to get from her — and so much 
that I wanted to hide from her! 
"I don't want to bore you, Claire," I began, 
finally. ' ' But really this is a matter of importance 
to you. You see, I've been reading up on the 
subject, as well as Larry. The doctors have been 
making new discoveries. They used to think 
this was just a local infection, like a cold, but now 
they find it's a blood disease, and has the gravest 
consequences. For one thing, it causes most of 
the surgical operations that have to be performed 
on women." 
"Maybe so," she said, still indifferent. "I've 
had two operations. But it's ancient history 
now." 
"You mayn't have reached the end yet," I 
persisted. "People suppose they are cured of 
gonorrhea, when really it's only suppressed, and 
is Uable to break out again at any time." 
"Yes, I know. That's some of the information 
Larry had been making love to me with." 
"It may get into the joints and cause rheuma- 
tism; it may cause neuralgia; it's been known to 
affect the heart. Also, it causes two-thirds of all 
the blindness in infants " 
And suddenly Claire laughed. "That's Sylvia 
Castleman's lookout, it seems to me!" 
 
"Oh! Oh!" I whispered, losing my self-control. 
"What's the matter?" she asked; and I noticed 
that her voice had become sharp. 
"You really mean what you've just implied?" 
"That Mrs. Douglas van Tuiver may have to 
pay something for what she has done to me? Well, 
what of it?" And suddenly Claire flew into a 
passion — as she always did when our talk came to 
her rival. "Why shouldn't she take chances, 
the same as the rest of us? Why should I have it, 
and she get off?" 
I fought for my composiu-e. After a pause, I 
said, "It's not a thing we want anybody to have, 
Claire. We don't want anybody to take such a 
chance. The girl ought to have been told." 
"Told? Do you imagine she would have given 
up her great catch?" 
"She might have — how can you be sure? Any- 
how, she should have had the chance." 
There was a long silence. I was so shaken that 
it was hard for me to find words. "As a matter 
of fact," said Claire, grimly, "I thought of warning 
her myself. There'd have been some excitement 
at least! You remember — when they came out 
of the church? You helped to stop me." 
"It would have been too late then," I heard 
myself saying. 
"Well," she exclaimed, with fresh excitement, 
"it's Miss Sylvia's turn now! We'll see if she's 
such a grand lady that she can't get my diseases!" 
I could no longer contain myself. "Claire," 
I cried, "you are talking like a devil!" 
 
She picked up a powder-puff, and began to use 
it diligently. "I know," she said — and I saw 
her burning eyes in the glass — "you can't fool me. 
You've tried to be kind, but you despise me in 
your heart. You think I'm as bad as any woman 
of the street. Very well, then, I speak for my 
class. And I tell you, this is where we prove 
our humanity. They throw us out — but you see, 
we get back in!" 
"My dear woman," I said, "you don't under- 
stand. You'd not feel as you do, if you knew that 
the person to pay the penalty might be an innocent 
little child." 
" Their child ! Yes, it's too bad if there has to be 
anything the matter with the little prince! But 
I might as well tell you the truth — I've had that 
in mind all along. I didn't know just what would 
happen, or how — I don't believe anybody does, 
the doctors who pretend to are just faking you. 
But I knew Douglas was rotten, and maybe his 
children would be rotten, and they'd all of them 
suffer. That was one of the things that kept me 
from interfering and smashing him up." 
I was speechless now, and Claire, watching me, 
laughed. "You look as if you'd had no idea of 
it. Don't you know that I told you — at the time?" 
"You told me at the time!" 
"I suppose you didn't understand. I'm apt 
to talk French when I'm excited. We have a 
saying, 'The wedding present which the mistress 
leaves in the basket of the bride.' That was 
pretty near telling, wasn't it? " 
 
"Yes," I said, in a low voice. 
And the other, after watching me for a moment 
more, went on: "You think I'm revengeful, 
don't you? Well, I used to reproach myself with 
this, and I tried to fight it down; but the time 
comes when you want people to pay for what 
they take from you. Let me Jell you something 
that I never told to any one, that I never expected 
to tell. You see me drinking and going to the 
devil; you hear me talking the care-free talk of 
my world. But in the beginning I was really in 
love with Douglas van Tuiver, and I wanted his 
child. I wanted it so that it was an ache to me. 
And yet, what chance did I have? I'd have been 
the joke of his set forever if I'd breathed it; I'd 
have been laughed out of town. I even tried at 
one time to trap him — to get his child ia spite of 
him. But I found that the surgeons had cut me 
up, and I could never have a child. So I have 
to make the best of it — I have to agree with my 
friends, that it's a good thing, it saves me trouble! 
But she comes along, and she has what I wanted, 
and all the world thinks it's wonderful and sub- 
lime. She's a beautiful young mother! What's 
she ever done ia her hfe, that she has everything, 
and I go without? You may spend your time 
shedding tears over her, and what may happen 
to her; but for my part, I say this — let her take 
her chances! Let her take her chances with the 
other women in the world — the women she's too 
good and too pure to know anything about!" 
 
I CAME out of Claire's house, sick with horror. 
Not since the time when I had read my poor 
nephew's letter had I been so shaken. "Why had 
I not thout long ago of questioning Claire about 
these matters? How could I have left Sylvia all 
this time exp(»ed to peril? 
The greatest danger was to her child at the time 
of birth. I figured up, acc(miing to the last letter 
I had received; there was about ten days yet, 
and so I felt some relief. I thought first of send- 
ing a tel-am, but reflected that it would be 
difficult, not merely to tell her what to do in a 
teliram, but to explain to her afterwards why 
I had chosen this extraordinary method. I 
recollected that in her last letter she had men- 
tioned the name of the surgeon who was coming 
from New York to attend her during her confine- 
ment. Obviously the thing for me to do was to 
see this surgeon. 
"Well, madam?" he said, when I was seated 
in his inner office. He was a tall, elderly man, 
immaculately groomed, and formal and precise 
in his manner. 
"Dr. Overton," I began, "my friend Mrs. 
Douglas van Tuiver writes me that you are going 
to Florida shortly." 
"That is correct," he said. 
" I have come to see you about a delicate matter. 
 
I presume I need hardly say that I am relying 
upon the seal of professional secrecy." 
I saw his gaze become suddenly fixed. "Cer- 
tainly, madam," he said. 
"I am taking this course because Mrs. van 
Tuiver is a very dear friend of mine, and I am 
concerned about her welfare. It has recently 
come to my knowledge that she has been exposed 
to infection by a venereal disease." 
He would hardly have started more if I had 
struck him. "Hey?" he cried, forgetting his 
manners. 
"It would not help you any," I said, "if I were 
to go into details about this imfortimate matter. 
Suffice it to say that my information is positive 
and precise — that it coiild hardly be more so." 
There was a long silence. He sat with eyes 
riveted upon me. "What is this disease?" he 
demanded, at last. 
I named it; and then again there was a paiise. 
"How long has this — this possibihty of infection 
existed?" 
"Ever since her marriage, nearly eighteen 
months ago." 
That told him a good part of the story. I felt 
his look boring me through. Was I a mad- 
woman? Or some new kind of blackmailer? 
Or was I, possibly, a Claire? I was grateful 
for my forty-cent bonnet and my forty-seven 
years. 
"Naturally," he said, at length, "this informa- 
