"No, Mr. Killigrew."

"You know where my club is, don't you?"

"Yes."

"Well, be there at seven for dinner.  Tell the butler and the
housekeeper.  Mr. Crawford has a box to the fight to-night, and he
thought perhaps you'd like to go along with us."

"A boxing-match?"

"Ten rounds, light-weights; and fast boys, too.  Both Irish."

"Really, I shall be glad to go."

"Webb?"

"Yes."

"Never use that word 'really' to me.  It's un-Irish."

Thomas heard a chuckle before the receiver at the other end clicked on
the hook.  What a father this hearty, kindly, humorous Irishman would
have made for a son!

In London Thomas' amusements had been divided into three classes.
During the season he went to the opera twice, to the music-halls once a
month, to a boxing-match whenever he could spare the shillings.  He
belonged to a workingmen's club not far from where he lived; an empty
warehouse, converted into a hall, with a platform in the center, from
which the fervid (and often misinformed) socialists harangued; and in
one corner was a fair gymnasium.  Every fortnight, for the sum of a
crown a head, three or four amateur bouts were arranged.  Thomas rarely
missed these exhibitions; he seriously considered it a part of his
self-acquired education.  What Englishman lives who does not?  Brains
and brawn make a man (or a country) invincible.

At seven promptly Thomas called at the club and asked for Mr.
Killigrew.  He was shown into the grill, where he was pleasantly
greeted by his host and Crawford and introduced to a young man about
his own age, a Mr. Forbes.  Thomas, dressed in his new stag-coat, felt
that he was getting along famously.  He had some doubt in regard to his
straw hat, however, till, after dinner, he saw that his companions were
wearing their Panamas.

Forbes, the artist, had reached that blasé period when, only upon rare
occasions, did he feel disposed to enlarge his acquaintance.  But this
fresh-skinned young Britisher went to his heart at once, a kindred
soul, and he adopted him forthwith.  He and Thomas paired off and
talked "fight" all the way to the boxing club.

There was a great crowd pressing about the entrance.  There were eddies
of turbulent spirits.  A crowd in America is unlike any other.  It is
full of meanness, rowdyism, petty malice.  A big fellow, smelling of
bad whisky, shouldered Killigrew aside, roughly.  Killigrew's Irish
blood flamed.

"Here!  Look where you're going!" he cried.

The man reached back and jammed Killigrew's hat down over his eyes.
Killigrew stumbled and fell, and Crawford and Forbes surged to his
rescue from the trampling feet.  Thomas, however, caught the ruffian's
right wrist, jammed it scientifically against the man's chest, took him
by the throat and bore him back, savagely and relentlessly.  The crowd,
packed as it was, gave ground.  With an oath the man struck.  Thomas
struck back, accurately.  Instantly the circle widened.  A fight
outside was always more interesting than one inside the ropes.  A blow
ripped open Thomas' shirt.  It became a slam-bang affair.  Thomas
knocked his man down just as a burly policeman arrived.  Naturally, he
caught hold of Thomas and called for assistance.  The wrong man first
is the invariable rule of the New York police.

"Milligan!" shouted Killigrew, as he sighted one of the club's
promoters.

Milligan recognized his millionaire patron and pushed to his side.

After due explanations, Thomas was liberated and the real culprit was
forced swearing through the press toward the patrol-wagon, always near
on such nights.  Eventually the four gained Crawford's box.  Aside from
a cut lip and a torn shirt, Thomas was uninjured.  If his
fairy-godmother had prearranged this fisticuff, she could not have done
anything better so far as Killigrew was concerned.

"Thomas," he said, as the main bout was being staged, the chairs and
water-pails and paraphernalia changed to fresh corners, "I'll remember
that turn.  If you're not Irish, it's no fault of yours.  I wish you
knew something about coffee."

"I enjoy drinking it," Thomas replied, smiling humorously.

Ever after the merchant-prince treated Thomas like a son; the kind of a
boy he had always wanted and could not have.  And only once again did
he doubt; and he longed to throttle the man who brought into light what
appeared to be the most damnable evidence of Thomas' perfidy.




CHAPTER XV

We chaps who write have magic carpets.

Whiz!

A marble balcony, overlooking the sea, which shimmered under the light
of the summer moon.  Lord Henry Monckton and Kitty leaned over the
baluster and silently watched the rush of the rollers landward and the
slink of them back to the sea.

For three days Kitty had wondered whether she liked or disliked Lord
Monckton.  The fact that he was the man who had bumped into Thomas that
night at the theater may have had something to do with her doddering.
He might at least have helped Thomas in recovering his hat.  Dark,
full-bearded, slender, with hands like a woman's, quiet of manner yet
affable, he was the most picturesque person at the cottage.  But there
was always something smoldering in those sleepy eyes of his that
suggested to Kitty a mockery.  It was not that recognizable mockery of
all those visiting Englishmen who held themselves complacently superior
to their generous American hosts.  It was as though he were silently
laughing at all he saw, at all which happened about him, as if he stood
in the midst of some huge joke which he alone was capable of
understanding: so Kitty weighed him.

He did not seem to care particularly for women; he never hovered about
them, offering little favors and courtesies; rather, he let them come
to him.  Nor did he care for dancing.  But he was always ready to make
up a table at bridge; and a shrewd capable player he was, too.

The music in the ballroom stopped.

"Will you be so good, Miss Killigrew, as to tell me why you Americans
call a palace like this--a cottage?"  Lord Monckton's voice was
pleasing, with only a slight accent.

"I'm sure I do not know.  If it were mine, I'd call it a villa."

"Quite properly."

"Do you like Americans?"

"I have no preference for any people.  I prefer individuals.  I had
much rather talk to an enlightened Chinaman than to an unenlightened
white man."

"I am afraid you are what they call blasé."

"Perhaps I am not quite at ease yet.  I was buffeted about a deal in
the old days."

Lord Monckton dropped back into the wicker chair, in the deep shadow.
Kitty did not move.  She wondered what Thomas was doing.  (Thomas was
rubbing ointment on his raw knuckles.)

"I am very fond of the sea," remarked Lord Monckton.  "I have seen some
odd parts of it.  Every man has his Odyssey, his Aeneid."

Aeneid.  It seemed to Kitty that her body had turned that instant into
marble as cold as that under her palms.

The coal of the man's cigar glowed intermittently.  She could see
nothing else.

Aeneid--Enid.




CHAPTER XVI

Thomas slammed the ball with a force which carried it far over the wire
backstop.

"You must not drive them so hard, Mr. Webb; at least, not up.  Drive
them down.  Try it again."

Tennis looked so easy from the sidelines that Thomas believed all he
had to do was to hit the ball whenever he saw it within reach; but
after a few experiments he accepted the fact that every game required a
certain talent, quite as distinct as that needed to sell green neckties
(old stock) when the prevailing fashion was polka-dot blue.  How he
loathed Thomas Webb.  How he loathed the impulse which had catapulted
him into this mad whirligig!  Why had not fate left him in peace; if
not satisfied with his lot, at least resigned?  And now must come this
confrontation, the inevitable!  No poor rat in a trap could have felt
more harassed.  Mentally, he went round and round in circles, but he
could find no exit.  There is no file to saw the bars of circumstance.

That the lithe young figure on the other side of the net, here, there,
backward and forward, alert, accurate, bubbling with energy . . .
Once, a mad rollicking impulse seized and urged him to vault the net
and take her in his arms and hold her still for a moment.  But he knew.
She was using him as an athlete uses a trainer before a real contest.

There was something more behind his stroke than mere awkwardness.  It
was downright savagery.  Generally when a man is in anger or despair he
longs to smash things; and these inoffensive tennis-balls were to
Thomas a gift of the gods.  Each time one sailed away over the
backstop, it was like the pop of a safety-valve; it averted an
explosion.

"That will be enough!" cried Kitty, as the last of a dozen balls sailed
toward the distant stables.

The tennis-courts were sunken and round them ran a parapet of lawn,
crisp and green, with marble benches opposite the posts, generally used
as judges' stands.  Upon one of these Kitty sat down and began to fan
herself.  Thomas walked over and sat down beside her.  The slight
gesture of her hand had been a command.

It was early morning, before breakfast; still and warm and breathless,
a forerunner of a long hot summer day.  A few hundred yards to the
south lay the sea, shimmering as it sprawled lazily upon the tawny
sands.

The propinquity of a pretty girl and a lonely young man has founded
more than one story.

"You'll be enjoying the game, once you learn it."

"Do you think I ever will?" asked Thomas.  He bent forward and began
tapping the clay with his racket.  How to run away!

Kitty, as she looked down at his head, knew that there were a dozen
absurd wishes in her heart, none of which could possibly ever become
facts.  He was so different from the self-assertive young men she knew,
with their silly flirtations, their inane small-talk, their capacity
for Scotch whisky and long hours.  For days she had studied him as
through microscopic lenses; his guilelessness was real.  It just simply
could not be; her ears had deceived her that memorable foggy night in
London.  And yet, always in the dark his voice was that of one of the
two men who had talked near her cab.  Who was he?  Not a single corner
of the veil had he yet lifted, and here it was, the middle of August;
and except for the week at Bar Harbor she had been with him day by day,
laid she knew not how many traps, over which he had stepped serenely,
warily or unconsciously she could not tell which.  It made her heart
ache; for, manly and simple as he appeared, honest as he seemed, he was
either a rogue or the dupe of one, which was almost as bad.  But to-day
she was determined to learn which he was.

"What have you done with the romance?"

"I have put it away in the bottom of my trunk.  The seventh rejection
convinces me that I am not a story-teller."

He had a desperate longing to tell her all, then and there.  It was too
late.  He would be arrested as a smuggler, turned out of the house as
an impostor.

"Don't give up so easily.  There are still ninety-three other editors
waiting to read it."

"I have my doubts.  Still, it was a pleasant pastime."  He sat back and
stared at the sea.  He must go this day; he must invent some way of
leaving.

Then came the Machiavellian way; only, he managed as usual to execute
it in his blundering English style.  Without warning he dropped his
racket, caught Kitty in his arms tightly and roughly, kissed her cheek,
rose, and strode swiftly across the courts, into the villa.  It was
done.  He could go now; he knew very well he had to go.

His subsequent actions were methodical enough; a shower, a thorough
rub-down, and then into his workaday clothes.  He packed his trunk and
hand-luggage, overlooked nothing that was his, and went down into the
living-room where he knew he would find Killigrew with the morning
papers.  He felt oddly light-headed; but he had no time to analyze the
cause.

"Good morning, Thomas," greeted the master of the house cordially.

"I am leaving, Mr. Killigrew.  Will you be kind enough to let me have
the use of the motor to the station?"

"Leaving!  What's happened?  What's the matter?  Young man, what the
devil's this about?"

"I am sorry, sir, but I have insulted Miss Killigrew."

"Insulted Kitty?"  Killigrew sprang up.

"Just a moment, sir," warned Thomas.  The tense, short but powerful
figure of Kitty's father was not at that moment an agreeable thing to
look at; and Thomas knew that those knotted hands were rising toward
his throat.  "Do not misinterpret me, sir.  I took Miss Kitty in my
arms and kissed her."

"You--kissed--Kitty?"  Killigrew fell back into his chair, limp.  For a
moment there had been black murder in his heart; now he wondered
whether to weep or laugh.  The reaction was too sudden to admit of
coherent thought.  "You kissed Kitty?" he repeated mechanically.

"Yes, sir."

"What did she do?"

"I did not wait to learn, sir."

Killigrew got up and walked the length of the room several times, his
chin in his collar, his hands clasped behind his back, under his
coat-tails.  The fifth passage carried him out on to the veranda.  He
kept on going and disappeared among the lilac hedges.

Thomas thought he understood this action, that his inference was
perfectly logical; Killigrew, rather than strike the man who had so
gratuitously insulted his daughter, had preferred to run away.  (I
know; for a long time I, too, believed Thomas the most colossal ass
since Dobson.)  Thomas gazed mournfully about the room.  It was all
over.  He had burned his bridges.  It had been so pleasant, so
homelike; and he had begun to love these unpretentious people as if
they had been his very own.

Except that which had been expended on clothes, Thomas had most of his
salary.  It would carry him along till he found something else to do.
To get away, immediately, was the main idea; he had found a door to the
trap.  (The chamois-bag lay in his trunk, forgotten.)

"Your breakfast is ready, sir," announced the grave butler.

So Thomas ate his chops and potatoes and toast and drank his tea, alone.

And Killigrew, blinking tears, leaned against the stout branches of the
lilacs and buried his teeth in his coat-sleeve.  He was as near
apoplexy as he was ever to come.




CHAPTER XVII

Meantime Kitty sat on the bench, stunned.  Never before in all her life
had such a thing happened.  True, young men had at times attempted to
kiss her, but not in this fashion.  A rough embrace, a kiss on her cheek,
and he had gone.  Not a word, not a sign of apology.  She could not have
been more astounded had a thunder-bolt struck at her feet, nor more
bereft of action.  She must have sat there fully ten minutes without
movement.  From Thomas, the guileless, this!  What did it mean?  She
could not understand.  Had he instantly begged forgiveness, had he made
protestations of sentiment, a glimmering would have been hers.  Nothing;
he had kissed her and walked away: as he might have kissed Celeste, and
had, for all she knew!

When the numbing sense of astonishment passed away, it left her cold with
anger.  Kitty was a dignified young lady, and she would not tolerate such
an affront from any man alive.  It was more than an affront; it was a
dire catastrophe.  What should she do now?  What would become of all her
wonderfully maneuvered plans?

She went directly to her room and flung herself upon the bed, bewildered
and unhappy.  And there Killigrew found her.  He was a wise old man,
deeply versed in humanity, having passed his way up through all sorts and
conditions of it to his present peaceful state.

"Kittibudget, what the deuce is all this about? . . .  You've been
crying!"

"Supposing I have?"--came muffled from the pillows.

"What have you been doing to Thomas?"

"I?" she shot back, sitting up, her eyes blazing.  "He kissed me, dad, as
he probably kisses his English barmaids."

"Kitty, girl, you're as pretty as a primrose.  I don't think Thomas was
really accountable."

"Are you defending him?"--blankly.

"No.  The strange part of it is, I don't think Thomas wants to be
defended.  A few minutes ago he came to me and told me what he had done.
He is leaving."

The anger went out of her eyes, snuffed--candle-wise.  "Leaving?"

"Leaving.  He asked me for the motor to the station."

"Leaving!  Well, that's about the only possible thing he could do, under
the circumstances.  He has a good excuse."  Excuse!  Kitty's nimble mind
reached out and touched Thomas' Machiavellian inspiration.

"Hang it, Kitty, I had to run out into the lilacs to laugh!  Can't this
be smoothed over some way?  I like that boy; I don't care if he is a
Britisher and sometimes as simple as a fool.  When I think of the other
light-headed duffers who call themselves gentlemen . . .  Pah!  They
drink my whiskies, smoke my cigars, and dub me an old Mick behind my
back.  They run around with silly chorus-girls and play poker till
sun-up, and never do an honest day's work.  It takes a brave man to come
to me and frankly say that he has insulted my daughter."

"He said that?"  Behind her lips Kitty was already smiling.  "You are
acting very strangely, dad."

"I know.  Ordinarily I'd have taken him by the collar and hustled him
into the road.  And if it had been one of those young bachelors who are
coming down to-night, I'd have done it.  I like Thomas; and I don't think
he kissed you either to affront or to insult you."

"Indeed!"--icily.

"I dare say I stole a kiss or two in my day."

"Does mother know it?"

"Back in the old country, when I was a lad.  It's a normal impulse.
There isn't a young man alive who can look upon a pretty girl's face
without wishing to kiss it.  I don't believe Thomas will repeat the
offense.  The trouble, girl, is this--you've been living in a false
atmosphere, where people hide all their generous impulses because to be
natural is not fashionable."

"I marvel at you more and more.  Is it generous, then, to kiss a girl
without so much as by your leave?  If he had been sorry, if he had
apologized, I might overlook the deed.  But he kissed me and walked away.
Do you realize what such an action means to any young woman with pride?
Very well, if he apologizes he may stay; but no longer on the basis of
friendship.  It must be purely business.  When my guests arrive I shall
not consider it necessary to ask him to join any of our amusements."

"Poor devil!  He'll have to pay for that kiss."

"Next, I suppose you'll be wanting me to marry him!" Kitty volleyed.  But
she wasn't half so angry as she pretended.

"What?  Thomas?"

"Ah, that's different, isn't it?  There, there; I've promised to overlook
the offense on condition that he apologize and keep his place.  I have
always said that you'd rather have a man about than me."

"Well, perhaps I could understand a man better."

"Go down to breakfast.  I hear mother moving about.  I'll ring for what I
need.  I must bathe and dress.  Some of the people will motor in for
lunch."

Killigrew, subdued and mystified, went in search of Thomas and discovered
him in almost the exact spot he had left him; for Thomas, having
breakfasted, had returned to the living-room to await the motor.

"Thomas, when Kitty comes down, apologize.  And remember this, that you
can't kiss a pretty girl just because you happen to want to."

"But, Mr. Killigrew, I didn't want to!" said Thomas.

"Well, I'll be tinker-dammed!"

"I mean . . .  Really, sir, it is better that I should return at once to
the city.  I'm a rotter."

"Don't be a fool!  Take your grips back to your room, and don't let's
have any more nonsense.  Finish up that report from Brazil; and if you
handle it right, I'll take you into the office where you'll be away from
the women folks."

Thomas' heart went down in despair.

"Mrs. Killigrew can find another secretary for the bureau.  I shan't say
a word to her, and I'll see that Kitty doesn't.  You've had your
breakfast.  Go and finish up that report.  Williams," Killigrew called to
the second man, "take Mr. Webb's grips up to his rooms.  I'll see you
later, Thomas," and Killigrew made off for the breakfast-room, where he
chuckled at odd times, much to his wife's curiosity.  But he shook his
head when she quizzed him.

"You agree with me, Molly, don't you, that Kitty shall marry when and
where she pleases?"

"Certainly, Daniel.  I don't believe in ready-made matches."

"No more do I.  Molly, old girl, I've slathers of money.  I could quit
now; but I'm healthy and can't play all day.  Got to work some of the
time.  Every one around here shall do as they please.  And,"--slyly--"if
Kitty should want to marry Thomas . . ."

"Thomas?"

"Anything against the idea?"

"But Thomas couldn't take care of Kitty."

"H'm."

"And Kitty wouldn't marry a man who couldn't."

"Some truth In that.  At present Thomas couldn't support an idea.  But
there's makings in the boy, give a man time and nothing else to do.
There's one thing, though; Thomas seems to have the gift of picking out
the chaff when it comes to men.  A man who can spot a man is worth
something to somebody.  Where Thomas' niche is, however, I can't tell to
date.  He'll never get on socially; he has too much regard for other
people's feelings."

"And no tact."

"A poor man needs a good deal of that."  Killigrew began paring his
fourth chop-bone.  He hadn't enjoyed himself so much in months.  Thomas
had kissed Kitty and hadn't wanted to!

It would take a philosopher to dig up the reason for that; or rather a
clairvoyant, since philosophers dealt only with logical sequences, and
there was nothing logical to Killigrew's mind in Thomas kissing Kitty
when he hadn't wanted to!




CHAPTER XVIII

Sugar, coffee and spices.  Thomas dipped his pen into the inkwell and
went to work.  Were all American fathers mad?  To condone an affront
like this!  He could not understand these Americans.  He had approached
Killigrew with far more courage than the latter suspected.  Thomas had
read that here men still shot each other on slight provocation.  Sugar,
coffee and spices. . . .  Sao Paulo and valorization committee . . .
10,000,000 bags.  What should he do?  Whither should he turn?  To have
offered that affront . . . for nothing!  Kitty, whom he revered above
all women save one, his mother! . . .  Sugar, coffee and spices.  Rio
number seven, 7 1/2 to 13 1/2 cents.  Leaks in the roasting
business. . . .  Apologize?  On his knees, if need be.  Caught like a
rat in a trap; done for; at the end of his rope.  Why hadn't he taken
to his heels when he had had the chance?  Gone at once to New York and
sent for his belongings? . . .  Sugar, coffee and spices. . . .  The
pen slipped from his fingers, and he laid his head on his arms.
Monumental ass!

Up suddenly, alert eyed.  There was a telephone-booth in the hall.
This he sought noiselessly.  He remained hidden in the booth for as
long as twenty minutes.  Then he emerged, wiping the perspiration from
his forehead.  For the time being he was saved.  But he was very
miserable.

Sugar, coffee and spices again.  Doggedly he recommenced the
transcription, adding, deducting, comparing.  He heard a slight noise
by the portière, and raised his eyes.  Kitty stood there like a picture
in a frame; pale, calm of eye.

He was on his feet quickly.  "Miss Killigrew, I apologize for my
unwarranted rudeness.  I did not mean it as you thought I did"--which
would have made any other woman furious.

"I know it," said Kitty to herself.  "You wanted an excuse to run away.
All my conjectures are true.  I believe I have you, Mr. Thomas, right
in the hollow of my hand."  To Thomas, however, she was a presentiment
of cold and silent indignation.

He blundered on.  "You have all been so kind to me . . .  I am sorry.
I am also quite ready to stay or go, whichever you say."

"We shall say no more about it," she replied coldly; turned on her trim
little heels and went out into the rose gardens, where she found fault
with the head gardener; and on to the stables, where she rated the head
groom for not exercising her favorite mount; and back to the villa,
where she upset the cook by ordering a hearty breakfast which she could
not eat; and all the time striving to smother her generous impulses and
the queer little thrills which stirred in her heart.

Guests began to arrive a little before luncheon.  A handsome yacht
joined Killigrew's in the offing.  Laughter and music began to be heard
about the villa.

Thomas took his documents and retired to his room, hoping they would
forget all about him.  He had luncheon there.  About four o'clock he
looked out of the window toward the beach.  They were in bathing; half
a dozen young men and women.  The diving-raft bobbed up and down.  Only
yesterday she had tried to teach him how to swim.  After all, he was
only a bally haberdasher's clerk; he would never be anything more than
that.

More guests for dinner, which Thomas also had in his room, despite
Killigrew's protests.  The villa would be filled for a whole week, and
a merry dance he would have to avoid the guests.  At nine, just as he
was on the point of going to bed, the second man knocked for admittance.

"Miss Killigrew wishes you to come aboard the visiting yacht at ten,
sir."

"Offer Miss Killigrew my excuses.  I am very tired."

"Miss Killigrew was decided, sir.  Her father's orders.  He wishes you
to meet his resident partner in Rio Janeiro.  Mr. Killigrew and Mr.
Savage will be in the smoke-room forward, sir."

"Very well.  Tell Miss Killigrew that I shall come aboard."

"Thank you, sir.  The motor-boat will be at the jetty at nine-thirty,
sir."  The servants about the Killigrew home understood Thomas'
position.  They had known young honorables who had served as private
secretaries.

A formal command.  There was no way of avoiding it.  Resignedly Thomas
got into his evening clothes.  They might smile at his pumps, the hang
of his coat, but there would be no question over the correctness of his
collar and cravat.  He was very bitter against the world, and more
especially against Thomas Webb, late of Hodman, Pelt and Company,
"haberdashers to H. H. the Duke of" and so forth and so on.

All the way down to the motor-boat his new pumps sang "Fool-fool!
Rotter-rotter!"  He climbed the yacht's ladder and ran into Kitty and
her guests, exactly as she had arranged he should.

"Mr. Webb," she said; and immediately began introducing him, leaving
Lord Henry Monckton until the last.  A cluster of lights made the spot
as bright as day.

Thomas bowed politely and Lord Monckton smiled amiably.

"Mr. Killigrew is in the smoking-room?" Thomas inquired.

"Yes."

Thomas bowed again, indirectly toward the guests and walked away.  Lord
Monckton commented on the beauty of the night.

And Kitty caught the gasp between her teeth, lest it should be heard.
Fog!




CHAPTER XIX

"Rather hot for this time of day," volunteered Lord Monckton, sliding
into the Morris chair at the side of Thomas' desk and dangling his legs
over the arm.

"Yes, it is," agreed Thomas, folding a sheet of paper and placing the
little ivory elephant paper-weight upon it.

"Rippin' doubles this morning.  You ought to go into the game.  Do you
a lot of good."

"I didn't know you played."

"Don't.  Watch."

Thomas' gaze was level and steady.

Lord Monckton laughed easily and sought his monocle.  He fumbled about
the front of his coat and shirt.  "By jove!  Lost my glass; wonder I
can see anything."

Outside, on the veranda, the two men could see the cluster of women of
which Kitty was the most animated flower.  Voices carried easily.

"Ah--what do you think of these--ah--Americans?" asked Lord Monckton,
as one compatriot to another, leaning toward the desk.

"I think them very kindly, very generous people; at least, those I have
met.  Have you not found them so?"

"Quite so.  I am enjoying myself immensely."  Lord Monckton swung about
in the chair, his back to the veranda.

Thomas loosened his negligee linen-collar.

"Ah, really!" drifted into the room.  Lord Monckton sleepily eying
Thomas, only heard the voice; he did not see, as Thomas did, the action
and gesture which accompanied the phrase.  Kitty had put something into
her eye, squinted, and twisted an imaginary something a few inches
below her dimpled chin.  It was a hoydenish trick, but Kitty had
enacted it for Lord Monckton's benefit.  The women shouted with
laughter.  Lord Monckton turned in time to see them troop into the
gardens.  He turned again to Thomas, to find a grin upon that
gentleman's face.



"Miss Killigrew is rather an unusual young person," was his comment.

"Uncommon," replied Thomas, scrutinizing the point of his pen.

"For my part, I prefer 'em clinging."  Lord Monckton rose.

"Rotter!" breathed Thomas.  He rearranged his papers, crackling them
suggestively.

"Picnic this afternoon; going along?" asked Lord Monckton, pausing by
the portières.

"Really, I am not a guest here; I am only private secretary to Mrs.
Killigrew.  If they treat me as a human being it is because they
believe that charity should not play in grooves."

"Ah!  We are all open to a little charity."

"That's true enough.  Good morning."

"Beggar!" murmured Lord Monckton as he let the portières fall behind
him.

"Blighter!" muttered Thomas, staring malevolently at the empty doorway.
He would be glad when Mr. and Mrs. Crawford and the artist came down.
Forbes was a chap you could get along with anywhere, under any
conditions.

Some time later Kitty came in.  She crossed immediately to the desk.
As Thomas looked up, she smiled at him.  It was the first smile of the
kind he had witnessed, coming in his direction, since before that
blunder on the tennis-courts.

"I found Lord Monckton's monocle, Mr. Webb.  Will you be so kind as to
give it to him?"

"Yes, Miss Killigrew."  Absently he raised the monocle and squinted
through it.  "Why, it's plain glass!" he exclaimed.

"So it is," replied Kitty, with a crooked smile.  "And I dare say so
are most of the monocles we see.  A silly affectation, don't you think
so?"

He was instantly up in arms.  The monocle was a British institution,
and he would as soon have denied the divine right of kings as question
an Englishman's right to wear what he pleased in his eye.

"It was originally designed for a man whose left eye was weaker than
the right.  Besides, we don't notice them over there."

"I have often wondered what the wearers do when their noses itch."

"Doubtless they scratch them."

Kitty's laughter bubbled.  It subsided instantly.  Her hand reached
out, then dropped.  She had almost said: "Thomas, what have you done
with my sapphires?"  Urgent as the impulse was, she crushed it back.
For deep in her heart she wanted to believe in Thomas; wanted to
believe that it was only a mad wager such as Englishmen propose, accept
and see to the end.  There was not the slightest doubt in her mind that
Thomas and Lord Monckton were the two men who had stood on the curb
that foggy night in London.  One had taken the necklace and the other
had wagered he would carry it six months in America before returning it
to its owner.  The Nana Sahib's ruby she attributed to a real thief,
who had known Crawford in former days and, conscience-stricken, had
returned it.

Great Britain was an empire of wagerers she knew; they wagered for and
against every conceivable thing which had its dependence on chance.

That first night on board the Celtic, when Thomas came to her cabin in
the dark, she had recognized his voice.  In the light the activity of
the eye had dulled the keenness of the ear; but in the dark the ear had
found the chord.  For days she had been subconsciously waiting to hear
one or the other of those voices; and Thomas' had come with a shock.
The words "Aeneid" and "Enid" had so little variation in sound between
them that Kitty had found her second man in Lord Monckton.  Sooner or
later she would trap them.

"Would you like to go to the picnic this afternoon?"--with a spirit
which was wholly kind.

"Very much indeed; but I can't"--indicating the stack of papers on his
desk.

"Oh," listlessly.

"I am very poor, Miss Killigrew, and perhaps I am ambitious."

Her lips parted expectantly.

"Your father has promised to give me a chance on his coffee plantations
in Brazil this autumn, and I wish to show him that I know how to grind.
Plug, isn't that the American for it?"  He smiled across the desk.  "I
wish to prove to you all that I am grateful.  Your father, who knows
something of men, says there is one hidden away in me somewhere, if
only I'll take the trouble to dig it out.  I should like to be with you
and your guests all the time.  I like play, and I have been very lonely
all my life."  He fingered the papers irresolutely.  "My place is here,
not with your guests; there's the width of the poles between us.  I
ought not to know anything about the pleasures of idleness till the day
comes when I can afford to."

"Perhaps you are right," she admitted.  What an agreeable voice he had!
Perhaps neither of them was a rogue; only a wild pair of Englishmen
embarked on a dangerous frolic.  "Don't forget to give Lord Monckton
his monocle."

"I shan't."

Kitty departed, smiling.  Her thought was: he had kissed her and hadn't
wanted to!  (Ah, but he had; and not till long hours after did he
realize that there had been as much Thomas as Machiavelli in that
futile inspiration!)

Report 47, on the difference between the shipments to Europe and
America.  Very dry, very dull; what with the glorious sunshine outside
and the chance to play, Report 47 was damnable.  A bird-like peck at
the inkwell, and the pen began to scratch-scratch-scratch.  He was
twenty-four; by the time he was thirty he ought to . . .

"Beg pardon, sir!"

Lord Monckton's valet stood before the desk.  Thomas did not like this
man, with his soundless approaches, his thin nervous fingers, his
brilliant roving eyes.  Where had he been picked up?  A perfect
servant, yes; but it seemed to Thomas that the man was always expecting
some one to come up behind him.  Those quick cat-like glances over his
shoulder were not reassuring.  Dark, swarthy; and yet that odd white
scar in the scalp above his ear.  That ought to have been dark,
logically.

