"You said once, anybody can weep for 
friend and country. Few avenge either. I 
am happy to be among the few." 
He nodded. After a moment he said: 
"I'll bet you something. My country is all 
right, but it's sick. It's got a nauseous dose 
of verbiage to spew up something it's swal 
lowed something about being too proud to 
fight. . . . My brother and I couldn't stand 
it, so we came to France. . . . He was in the 
photo air service. He was in mufti and 
about two miles up, I believe. Six Huns went 
for him. . . . And winged him. He had to 
land behind their lines. ... In mufti. . . . 
"Well I've never found courage to hear the 
details. I can't stand them yet." 
"Your brother is dead, monsieur?" she 
asked timidly. 
"Oh, yes. "With circumstances. "Well, then 
after that, from an ordinary, commonplace 
man I became a machine for the extermination 
of vermin. That's all I am an animated maga 
zine of Persian powder or I do it in any 
handy way. It's not a sporting proposition, 
you see, just get rid of them any old way. 
You don't understand, do you?" 
"A little." 
"But it's slow work slow work," he mut 
tered vaguely, " and the world is crawling 
crawling with them. But if God guides my 
 
bomb this time and if I hit one of their gas 
cylinders that ought to be worth while." 
In the starlight his features became tense 
and terrible; she shivered in her threadbare 
jacket. 
After a few moments silence he went away 
up the steps to put on his German uniform. 
When he descended again she had a troubled 
question for him to answer: 
"But how shall you account for me, a French 
girl, monsieur, if they come to the belfry f" 
A heavy flush darkened his face: 
"Little mistress of the bells, I shall pretend 
to be what the Huns are. Do you know how 
they treat French women?" 
"I have heard," she said faintly. 
"Then if they come and find you here as 
my prisoner they will think they under 
stand." 
The colour flamed in her face and she bowed 
it, resting her elbows on the keyboard. 
"Come," he said, "don't be distressed. Does 
it matter what a Hun thinks? Come; let's 
be cheerful. Can you hum for me La Bra- 
bangonne ?" 
She did not reply. 
"Well, never mind," he said. "But it's a 
grand battle anthem. . . . We Americans have 
one. . . . It's out of fashion. And after all, 
I had rather hear La Brabangonne when the 
time comes. . . . What a terrible admission! 
But what Americans have done to my country 
is far more terrible. The nation's sick sick! 
... I prefer La Brabangonne for the time 
being." 
The Prussians entered Nivelle a little be 
fore dawn. The airman had been watching 
the street below. Down there in the slight 
glow from the cinders of what once had been 
a cottage a cat had been squatting, staring 
at the bed of coals, as though she were once 
more installed upon the family hearthstone. 
Then something unseen as yet by the air 
man attracted the animal's attention. Alert, 
crouching, she stared down the vista of dark, 
deserted houses, then turned and fled like a 
ghost. 
For a long while the airman perceived 
nothing. Suddenly close to the house facades 
 
on either side of the street, shadowy forms 
came gliding forward. 
They passed the glowing embers and went 
on toward Sainte-Lesse ; jagers, with knap 
sacks on back and rifles trailing; and on their 
heads oddly shaped pot helmets with battered 
looking visors. 
One or two motorcyclists followed, whiz 
zing through the desolate street and into the 
country beyond. 
After a few minutes, out of the throat of 
the darkness emerged a solid column of infan 
try. In a moment, beneath the bell tower, the 
ground was swarming with Huns; every inch 
of the earth became infested with them ; fields, 
hedges, alleys crawled alive with Germans. 
They overran every road, every street, every 
inch of open country; their wagons choked the 
main thoroughfare, they were already estab 
lishing themselves in the redoubt below, in the 
trench, running in and out of dugouts and all 
over scarp, counter-scarp, parades and para 
pet, ant-like in energy, busy with machine gun, 
trench mortar, installing telephones, search 
lights, periscopes, machine guns. 
Automobiles arrived two armoured cars 
and grey passenger machines in which there 
were officers. 
The airman laid his hand on Maryette's arm. 
"Little bell-mistress," he said, "German offi 
cers are coming into the tower. I want them 
to find you in my arms when they come up 
into this belfry. Understand me, and forgive 
me." 
"I understand," she whispered. 
"Play your part bravely. "Will you?" 
"Yes." 
He put his arms around her; they stood 
rigid, listening. 
"Now!" he whispered, and drew her close, 
kissing her. 
Spurred boots clattered on the stone floor: 
"Herr Je!" exclaimed an astonished voice. 
Somebody laughed. But the airman coolly 
pushed the girl aside, and as the faint grey 
light of dawn fell on his field uniform bearing 
the ribbon of the iron cross, two pairs of 
spurred heels hastily clinked together and two 
hands flew to the oddly shaped helmet visors. 
"Also!" exclaimed the airman in a mincing 
Berlin accent. "When I require a corps of 
observers I usually send my aide. That being 
now quite perfectly understood, you gentlemen 
will give yourselves the trouble to descend 
as you have come. Further, you will place a 
sentry at the tower door, and inform enquirers 
that General Count von Gierdorff and his 
staff are occupying the Nivelle belfry for pur 
poses of observation." 
The astounded officers saluted steadily; and 
if they imagined that the mythical staff of this 
general officer was clustered aloft somewhere 
up there where the bells hung it was impossi 
ble to tell by the strained expressions on their 
wooden countenances. 
However, it was evidently perfectly plain 
to them what the high Excellent was about in 
this vaulted room where wires led aloft to 
an unseen carillon on the landing in the bel 
fry above. 
The airman nodded; they went. And when 
their clattering steps echoed far below on the 
spiral stone stairs, the airman motioned to 
the little bell-mistress. She followed him up 
the short flight to where the bells hung. 
"We're in for it now," he said. "If High 
Command conies into this place to investigate 
then I shall have to hold those stairs. . . . 
It's growing quite light in the east. Which 
way is the wind?" 
"North," she said in a steady voice. She 
was terribly pale. 
He went to the parapet and looked over, 
half wondering, perhaps, whether he would 
receive a rifle shot through the head. 
Far below at the foot of the bell-tower 
the dimly discerned Nivelle redoubt, swarming 
with men, was being armed; and, to the south, 
wired he thought, but could not see dis 
tinctly. 
Then, as the dusk of early dawn grew 
greyer, the first rifle shots rattled out in 
the west. The French salient was saluting 
the wire-stringers. 
Back under shelter they tumbled; whistles 
sounded distantly; a trench mortar crashed; 
then the accentless tattoo of machine guns 
broke from every emplacement. 
"The east is turning a little yellow," he said 
calmly. "I believe this matter is going through. 
Toss some dust into the air. Which way?" 
"North," said the girl. 
"Good. I think they're placing their cylin 
ders. I think I can see them laying their coils. 
I'm certain of it. What luck!" 
The airman was becoming excited and his 
voice trembled a little with the effort to con 
trol it. 
"It's growing pink in the east. Try a hand 
ful of dust again," he suggested almost gaily. 
"North," she said briefly, watching the dust 
aloft. 
"Luck's with us! Look at the east! If 
their High Command keeps his nose out of 
this place! if he does I Look at the east, lit 
tle bell-mistress ! It's all gold ! There's pink 
up higher. I can see a faint tinge of blue, 
too. Can you?" 
"I think so." 
A minute dragged like a year in prison. 
Then: 
"Try the wind again," he said in a strained 
voice. 
"North." 
"Oh, luck ! Luck !" he muttered, slinging his 
sack of bombs over his shoulder. "We've 
got them! We've certainly got them! What's 
that! An airplane! Look, little girl one of 
our planes is up. There's another! Which 
way is the wind?" 
"North." 
"Got em!" he snapped between his teeth. 
"Bun over to the stairs. Listen! Is anybody 
coming up?" 
"I can hear nothing." 
"Stand there and listen. Never mind the 
row the guns are making; listen for some 
body on the stairs. Look how light it's get- 
ting! The sun will push up before many 
minutes. We've got em! Got em! W^et 
your finger and try the wind!" 
"North." 
"North here, too. What do you know about 
that! Luck! Luck's with us! And we've got 
em !" he lifted his clenched hand and 
laughed at her. "Like that!" he said, his blue 
eyes blazing. "They're getting ready to gas 
below. Look at em! Glory to God! I can 
see two cylinders directly under me. They remanning the nozzles ! Every man is masking 
 
at Ms post! Anybody on the stairs! Any 
sound!" 
"None." 
"Are you certain!" 
"It is as still as death below." 
"Try the dust. The wind's changing, I 
think. Quick! Which way?" 
"West." 
"Oh, glory! Glory to God! They feel it 
below! They know. The wind has changed. 
Off came their respirators. No gas this morn 
ing, eh! Yes, by God, there will be gas enough 
for all !" 
He caught up a bomb, leaned over the para 
pet, held it aloft, poised, aiming steadily for 
one second of concentrated coordination of 
mind and muscle. Then straight down he 
launched it. The cylinder beneath him was 
shattered and a green geyser of gas burst from 
it deluging the trench. 
Already a second bomb followed the first, 
then another, and then a third; and with the 
last report another cylinder in the trench be 
low burst into thick green billows of death and 
flowed over the ground, west. 
Two more bombs whirled down, bursting on 
a machine gun; then the airman turned with a 
cry of triumph, and at the same instant the 
sun rose above the hills and flung a golden 
ray straight across his face. 
To Maryette the man stood transfigured, 
like the Blazing Guardian of the Flaming 
Sword. 
"King out your Brabanc.onne !" he cried. 
"Let the Huns hear the war song of the land 
they've trampled! Now! Little bell-mistress, 
arm your white hands with your wooden gloves 
and make this old carillon speak in brass and 
iron !" 
He caught her by the arm; they ran down 
the short flight of steps; she drew on her 
wooden gloves and sprang to the keyboard. 
"I'll hold the stairs!" he cried. "I can 
hold these stairs for an hour against the 
whole world in arms. Now, then! The Bra 
banc.onne !" 
Above the roaring confusion and the explo 
sions far below, from high up in the sky a 
clear bell note floated as though out of 
Heaven itself another, others, crystalline 
BRABANCONNE 
clear, imperious, filling all the sky with their 
amazing and terrible beauty. 
The mistress of the bells struck the key 
board with armoured hands beautiful, slen 
der, avenging hands; the bells above her 
crashed out into the battle-song of Flanders, 
filling sky and earth with its splendid defi 
ance of the Hun. 
The airman, bomb in hand, stood at the 
head of the stone stairs; the ancient tower 
rocked with the fiercely magnificent anthem 
of revolt the war cry of a devastated land 
the land that died to save the world the 
martyr, Belgium, still prone in the deathly 
trance awaiting her certain resurrection. 
The rising sun struck the tower where 
three score ancient bells poured from metal 
throats their heavenly summons to battle! 
The Hun heard it, tumbling, clawing, stran 
gling below in the hellish vapours of his own 
death-fog; and now, from the rear his sky- 
guns hurled shrapnel at the carillon in the 
belfry of Nivelle. 
Clouds possessed the tower soft, white, 
fleecy clouds rolling, unfolding, floating about 
the ancient buttresses and gargoyles. An iron 
hail rained on slate and parapet and resound 
ing bell-metal. But the bells pealed and pealed 
in clear-voiced beauty, and Clovis, the great 
iron giant, hung, scarcely sonorous under the 
shrapnel rain. 
Suddenly there were bayonets on the stairs 
the clatter of heavy feet alien faces on the 
threshold. Then a bomb flew, and the terrible 
crash cleared the stairs. 
Twice more the clatter came with the clank 
of bayonets and guttural cries; but both died 
out in the infernal roar of the grenades explod 
ing inside that stony spiral. And no more 
bayonets flickered on the stairs. 
The airman, frozen to a statue, listened. 
Again and again he thought he could hear 
bugles, but the roar from below blotted out 
the distant call. 
"Little bell-mistress !" 
She turned her head, her hands still striking 
the keyboard. He spoke through the confu 
sion of the place: 
"Sound the tocsin!" 
Then Clovis thundered from the belfry like 
LA BRABAN^ONNE" 
a great gun fired, booming out over the world. 
Around the iron colossus shrapnel swept in 
gusts; Clovis thundered on, annihilating all 
sound except his own tremendous voice, heed 
less of shell and bullet, disdainful of the hell's 
shambles below, where masked French infantry 
were already leaping the parapets of Nivelle 
Redoubt into the squirming masses below. 
The airman shouted at her through the 
tumult : 
"They murdered my brother. Did I tell 
you? They hacked him to slivers with their 
bayonets. I've settled the reckoning down in 
the gas there their own green gas, damn 
them! You don't understand what I say, do 
you? He was my brother " 
A frightful explosion blew in the oubliette; 
the room rattled and clattered with shrapnel. 
The airman swayed where he stood in the 
swirling smoke, lurched up against the stone 
coping, slid down to his knees. 
When his eyes opened the little bell-mistress 
was bending over him. 
"They got me," he gasped. All the front of 
his tunic was sopping red. 
"They said it meant the cross if I made 
good. . . . Are you hurt?" 
"Oh, no!" she whispered. "But you 
"Go on and play!" he whispered with a ter 
rible effort. 
"But you " 
"The Brabangonne ! Quick!" 
She went, whimpering. Standing before the 
keyboard she pulled on her wooden gloves and 
struck the keys. 
Out over the infernal uproar below pealed 
the bells ; the morning sky rang with the noble 
summons to all brave men. Once more the 
ancient tower trembled with the mighty out- 
crash of the battle hymn. 
With the last note she turned and looked 
down at him where he lay against the wpU. He 
opened his glazing eyes and tried to smile at 
her. 
"Bully," he whispered. "Could you recite 
the words to me just so I could hear them 
on my way West?" 
She left the keyboard, came and dropped 
on her knees beside him; and closing her eyes 
to check the tears sang in a low, tremulous, 
 
girlish voice, De Lonlay's words, to the battle 
anthem of revolution. 
"Bully," he sighed. And spoke no more on 
earth. 
But the little mistress of the bells did not 
know his soul had passed. 
And the French officer who came leaping up 
the stairs, pistol lifted, halted in astonishment 
to see a dead man lying beside a sack of 
bombs and a young girl on her knees beside 
him, weeping and tremblingly intoning "La 
Brabangonne." 
CHAPTER XXI 
THE GAEDENER 
A week later, toward noon, as usual, the 
two American muleteers, Smith and Glenn, 
sauntered over from their corral to the White 
Doe Tavern where, it being a meatless day, 
they ate largely of potato soup and of a 
tench, smoking hot. 
The tench had been caught that morning off 
the back doorstep, which was an ancient and 
mossy slab of limestone let into the coping of 
the river wall. 
Jean Courtray, the crippled inn-keeper, 
caught it. All that morning he had sat there 
in the sun on the river wall, half dozing, open 
ing his dim eyes at intervals to gaze at his 
painted quill afloat among the water weeds of 
the little river Lesse. At intervals, too, he 
turned his head with that peculiar movement 
of the old, and peered at his daughter, Mary- 
ette, and the Belgian gardener who were work 
ing among the potatoes in the garden. 
And at last he had hooked his fish and the 
emaciated young Belgian dropped his hoe and 
came over and released it from the hook where 
it lay flopping and quivering and glittering 
among the wild grasses on the river bank. And 
that was how Kid Glenn and Sticky Smith, 
American muleteers on duty at Saint Lesse, 
came to lunch on freshly caught tench at the 
Inn of the White Doe. 
After luncheon, agreeably satiated, they rose 
from the table in the little dining room and 
strolled out to the garden in the rear of the 
inn, their Mexican spurs clanking. Maryette 
heard them; they tipped their caps to her; 
she acknowledged their salute gravely and con 
tinued to cultivate her garden with a hoe, the 
blond, consumptive Belgian trundling a rickety 
cultivator at her heels. 
"Look, Stick," drawled Glenn. "Maryette's 
got her decoration on." 
From where they lounged by the river wall 
they could see the cross of the Legion pinned 
to the girl's blouse. 
Both muleteers had been present at the in 
vestment the day before, when a general officer 
arrived from Paris and the entire garrison of 
Sainte Lesse had been paraded an impressive 
total of three dozen men six gendarmes and 
a brigadier; one remount sub-lieutenant and 
twenty troopers ; a veterinary, two white Amer 
ican muleteers, and five American negro hos 
tlers from Baton Eouge. 
The girl had nearly died of shyness during 
the ceremony, had endured the accolade with 
crimson cheeks, had stammered a whispered 
response to the congratulations of neighbors 
who had gathered to see the little bell-mistress 
of Sainte Lesse honoured by the country which 
she had served in the belfry of Nivelle. 
As she came past Smith and Glenn, trailing 
her hoe, the latter now sufficiently proficient 
in French, said gaily: 
"Have you heard from Jack again, Mam- 
zelle Maryettef 
The girl blushed: 
 
"I hear from Djack by every mail," she 
said, with all the transparent honesty that 
characterized her. 
Smith grinned: 
"Just like that! Well, tell him from me 
to quit fooling away his time in a hospital 
and come and get you or somebody is going 
to steal you." 
The girl was very happy; she stood there 
in the September sunshine leaning on her hoe 
and gazing half shyly, half humorously down 
the river where a string of American mules 
was being watered. 
Mellow Ethiopian laughter sounded from the 
distance as the Baton Eouge negroes ex 
changed pleasantries in limited French with 
a couple of gendarmes on the bank above them. 
And there, in the sunshine of the little garden 
by the river, war and death seemed very far 
away. Only at intervals the veering breeze 
brought to Sainte Lesse the immense vibra 
tion of the cannonade; only at intervals the 
high sky-clatter of an airplane reminded the 
village that the front was only a little north 
of Nivelle, and that what had been Nivelle 
was not so very far away. 
"If you were my girl, Maryette," remarked 
Smith, "I'd die of worry in that hospital." 
"You might have reason to, Monsieur," re.- 
torted the girl demurely. "But you see it's 
Djack who is convalescing, not you." 
She had become accustomed to the ceaseless 
banter of Burley's two comrades a banter 
entirely American, and which at first she was 
unable to understand. But now all things 
American, including accent and odd, perverted 
humour, had become very dear to her. The 
clink-clank of the muleteer's big spurs always 
set her heart beating; the sight of an arriving 
convoy from the Channel port thrilled her, 
and to her the trample of mules, the shouts 
of foreign negroes, the drawling, broken French 
spoken by the white muleteers made heavenly 
real to her the dream which love had so sud 
denly invaded, and into which, as suddenly, 
strode Death, clutching at Love. 
She had beaten him off she had or God 
had routed Death, driven him from the dream. 
 
For it was a dream to her still, and she thought 
she could never be able to comprehend the 
magic reality of it, even when at last her 
man, "Djack," came back to prove the blessed 
miracle which held her in the magic of its 
thrall. 
"Who's the guy with the wheelbarrow?" in 
quired Sticky Smith, rolling a cigarette. 
"Karl, his name is," she answered; " a 
Belgian refugee." 
"He looks like a Hun to me," remarked 
Glenn, bluntly. 
"He has his papers," said the girl. 
Glenn shrugged. 
"With his little pink eyes of a pig and his 
whitish hair and eyebrows well, maybe they 
make em like that in Belgium." 
"Papers," added Smith, "can be swiped." 
The girl shook her head: 
"He's an invalid student from Ypres. He 
looks quite ill, I think." 
"He looks the lunger, all right. But Huns 
have it, too. What does he do wander about 
town at will?" 
"He works for us, monsieur. Your suspi 
cions are harsh. Karl is quite harmless, poor 
boy." 
"What does he do after hours ?" demanded 
Sticky Smith, watching the manoeuvres of the 
sickly blond youth and the wheelbarrow. 
"Monsieur Smith, if you knew how innocent 
is his pastime!" she exclaimed, laughing. "He 
collects and studies moths and butterflies. Is 
there, if you please, a mania more harmless in 
the world? . . . And now I must return to my 
work, messieurs." 
As the two muleteers strode clanking away 
toward the canal in the meadow, the blond 
youth turned his head and looked after them 
out of eyes which were naturally pale and 
small, and which, as he watched the two Amer 
icans, seemed to grow paler and smaller yet. 
That afternoon old Courtray, swathed in a 
shawl, sat on the mossy doorstep and fished 
among the water weeds of the river. The sun 
was low; work in the garden had ended. 
Maryette had gone up into her beflfry to 
play the sunset hymn on the noble old carillon. 
Through the sunset sky the lovely bell-notes 
 
floated far and wide, exquisitely chaste and 
aloof as the high-showering ecstasy of a sky 
lark. 
As always the little village looked upward 
and listened, pausing in its humble duties as 
long as their little bell-mistress remained iii 
her tower. 
After the hymn she played "Myn hart is vol 
yerlangen" and "Het Lied der Vlamingen," 
and ended with the delicate, bewitching little 
folk-song, "Myn Vryer," by Hasselt. 
Then in the red glow of the setting sun the 
girl laid aside her wooden gloves, rose from 
the ancient keyboard, wound up the drum, and, 
her duty done for the evening, came down out 
of the tower among the transparent evening 
shadows of the tree-lined village street. 
The sun hung over Nivelle hills, which had 
turned to amethyst. Sunbeams laced the little 
river in a red net through which old Cour- 
tray's quill stemmed the ripples. He still 
clutched his fishing pole, but his eyes were 
closed, his chin resting on his chest. 
Maryette came silently into the garden and 
looked at her father looked at the blond Karl 
sea-ted on the river wall beside the dozing 
angler. The blond youth had a box on his 
knees into which he was intently peering. 
The girl came to the river wall and seated 
herself at her father's feet. The Belgian refu 
gee student had already risen to attention, his 
heels together, but Maryette signed him to be 
seated again. 
"What have you found now, Karl?" she in 
quired in a cautiously modulated voice. 
"Ah, mademoiselle, fancy! I haff by chance 
with my cultivator among your potatoes already 
twenty pupae of the magnificent moth, Sphinx 
Atropos, upturned ! See ! Regard them, made 
moiselle! What lucky chance! What fortune 
for me, an entomologist, this wonderful sphinx 
moth to discover encased within its chrysalis I" 
The girl smiled at his enthusiasm: 
"But, Karl, those funny, smooth brown 
things which resemble little polished evergreen- 
cones are not rare in my garden. Often, when 
spading or hoeing among the potato vines, I 
uncover them." 
"Mademoiselle, the caterpillar which makes 
this chrysalis feeds by night on the leaves of 
 
the potato, and, when ready to transform, bur 
rows into the earth to become a chryalis or 
pupa, as we call it. That iss why mademoiselle 
has often disinterred the pupae of this largest 
and strangest of our native sphinx-moths." 
Maryette leaned over and looked into the 
wooden box, where lay the chrysalides. 
"What kind of moth do they make?" she 
asked. 
He blinked his small, pale eyes: 
"The Death's Head," he said, complacently. 
The girl recoiled involuntarily: 
"Oh!" she exclaimed under her breath, 
" that creature!" 
For everywhere in France the great moth, 
with its strange and ominous markings, is per 
fectly well known. To the superstitious it is 
a creature of evil omen in its fulvous, black 
and lead-coloured livery of death. For the 
broad, furry thorax bears a skull, and the big, 
mousy body the yellow ribs of a skeleton. 
Measuring often more than five inches across 
the expanded wings, its formidable size alone 
might be sufficient to inspire alarm, but in ad 
dition it possesses a horrid attribute unknown 
among other moths and butterflies; it can 
utter a cry a tiny shrill, shuddering com 
plaint. Small wonder, perhaps, that the peas 
ant holds it in horror this sleek, furry, pow 
erfully winged creature marked with skull and 
bones, which whirrs through the night and 
comes thudding against the window, and 
shrieks horridly when touched by a human 
hand. 
"So that is what turns into the Death's Head 
moth," said the girl in a low voice as though 
to herself. "I never knew it. I thought those 
things were legless cock-chafers when I dug 
them out of potato hills. Karl, why do you 
keep them?" 
"Ah, mademoiselle! To study them. To 
breed from them the moth. The Death's Head 
is magnificent." 
"God made it," admitted the girl with a 
faint shudder, "but I am afraid I could not 
love it. "When do they hatch out?" 
"It is time now. It is not like others of the 
sphinx family. Incubation requires but a few 
weeks. These are nearly ready to emerge, 
mademoiselle." 
 
"Oh. And then what do they do?" 
"They mate." 
She was silent. 
"The males seek the females," he said in his 
pedantic, monotonous voice. "And so ardent 
are the lovers that although there be no female 
moth within five, eight, perhaps ten miles, yet 
will her lover surely search through the night 
for her and find her." 
Maryette shuddered again in spite of her 
self. The thought of this creature marked 
with the emblems of death and possessed of 
ardour, too, was distasteful. 
"Amour macabre -what an unpleasant 
thought, Karl. I do not care for your Death's 
Head and for the history of their amours." 
She turned and gently laid her head on her 
father's knees. The young man regarded her 
with a pallid sneer. 
Addressing her back, still holding his box 
ful of pupae on his bony knees, he said with 
the sneer quite audible in his voice: 
"Your famous savant, Fabre, first inspired 
me to study tha sex habits of the Death's 
Head." 
She made no reply, her cheek resting on her 
father's knees. 
"It was because of his wonderful experi 
ments with the Great Peacock moth and with 
others of the genus that I have studied to 
acquaint myself concerning the amours of the 
Death's Head. And I have discovered that he 
will find the female even if she be miles and 
miles away" 
The man was grinning now in the dusk 
grinning like a skull; but the girl's back was 
still turned and she merely found something 
in his voice not quite agreeable. 
"I think," she said in a low, quiet voice, 
"that I have now heard sufficient about the 
Death's Head moth." 
"Ah have I offended mademoiselle? I ask 
a thousand pardons " 
Old Courtray awoke in the dusk. 
"My quill, Maryette," he muttered, " see if 
it floats yet?" 
The girl bent over the water and strained 
her eyes. Her father tested the line with shaky 
hands. There was no fish on the hook. 
"Voyons! The asticot also is gone. Some 
 
robber fish has been nibbling!" exclaimed the 
girl cheerfully, reeling in the line. "Father, 
one cannot fish and doze at the same time." 
"Eternal vigilance is the price of success in 
peace as well as in war," said Karl, the stu 
dent, as he aided Maryette to raise her father 
from the chair. 
"Vigilance," repeated the girl. "Yes, al 
ways now in France. Because always the 
enemy is listening." . . . Her strong young 
arm around her father, she traversed the gar 
den slowly toward the house. A pleasant 
odour came from the kitchen of the White Doe, 
where an old peasant woman was cooking. 
CHAPTER XXII 
 
That night she wrote to her lover at the 
great hospital in the south, where he lay slowly 
growing well: 
MY : 
Today has been very beautiful, made so for me 
by my thoughts of you and by a warm September 
sun which makes for human happiness, too. 
I am wearing my ribbon of the Legion. Ah, 
my Djack, it belongs more rightly to you, who would 
not let me go alone to Nivelle that dreadful day. 
Why do they not give you the cross ? They must be 
very stupid in Paris. 
All day my happy thoughts have been with you, 
my Djack. It all seems a blessed dream that we 
love each other. And I oh, how could I have been 
so ignorant, so silly, not to know it sooner than I did ! 
I don't know; I thought it was friendship. And 
that was so wonderful to me that I never dreamed 
any other miracle possible ! 
Allans, my Djack. Come and instruct me quickly, 
 
because my desire for further knowledge is very 
ardent. 
The news? Cher ami, there is little. Always 
the far thunder beyond Nivelle in ruins; sometimes 
a battle-plane high in the blue; a convoy of your 
beloved mules arriving from the coast; nothing more 
exciting. 
Monsieur Smeet and Monsieur Glenn inquire al 
ways concerning you. They are brave and kind; 
their odd jests amuse me. 
My father caught a tench in the Lesse this morn 
ing. 
My gardener, Karl, collected many unpleasant 
creatures while hoeing our potatoes. Poor lad, he 
seems unhealthy. I am glad I could offer him em 
ployment. 
My Djack, there could not possibly be any mis 
take about him, could there? His papers are en 
regie. He is what he pretends, a Belgian student 
from Ypres in distress and ill health, is he not? 
But how can you answer me, you who lie there all 
alone in a hospital at Nice? Also, I am ashamed of 
myself for doubting the unfortunate young man. I 
am too happy to doubt anybody, perhaps. 
And so good night, my Djack. Sleep sweetly, 
guarded by powerful angels. 
Thy devoted, 
MARYETTE. 
She had been writing in the deserted cafe. 
Now she took a candle and went slowly up- 
277. 
stairs. On the white plaster wall of her bed 
room was a Death's Head moth. 
The girl, startled for an instant, stood still; 
an unfeigned shiver of displeasure passed over 
her. Not that the Death's Head was an un 
familiar or terrifying sight to her; in late 
summer she usually saw one or two which had 
flown through some lighted window. 
But it was the amorous history of this crea 
ture which the student Karl had related that 
now repelled her. This night creature with 
the skull on its neck, once scarcely noticed, had 
now become a trifle repulsive. 
She went nearer, lifting the lighted candle. 
The thing crouched there with slanted wings. 
It was newly hatched, its sleek body still wet 
