"It looks like a fish. But it can't be. It looks like a tiny, silver
minnow. But it can't be. Why, if it resembles a minnow in size at this
distance--what can be its actual dimensions?"
"Let me look," he said.
Unwillingly I raised my head from the mask and yielded him my place.
A long silence followed. The western mountain-tops reddened under the
rising sun; the sky grew faintly bluer. Yet, there was not a bird-note in
that still place, not a flash of wings, nothing stirring.
Here and there along the lake shore I noticed unusual-looking trees--very
odd-looking trees indeed, for their trunks seemed bleached and dead, and
as though no bark covered them, yet every stark limb was covered with
foliage--a thick foliage so dark in colour that it seemed black to me.
I glanced at my motionless companion where he knelt with his face in the
mask, then I unslung my field-glasses and focussed them on the nearest of
the curious trees.
At first I could not quite make out what I was looking at; then, to my
astonishment, I saw that these stark, gray trees were indeed lifeless,
and that what I had mistaken for dark foliage were velvety clusters of
bats hanging there asleep--thousands of them thickly infesting and
clotting the dead branches with a sombre and horrid effect of foliage.
I don't mind bats in ordinary numbers. But in such soft, motionless
masses they slightly sickened me. There must have been literally tons
of them hanging to the dead trees.
"This is pleasant," I said. "Look at those bats, Brown."
When Brown spoke without lifting his head, his voice was so shaken, so
altered, that the mere sound of it scared me:
"Smith," he said, "there is a fish in here, shaped exactly like a brook
minnow. And I should judge, by the depth it is swimming in, that it is
about as long as an ordinary Pullman car."
His voice shook, but his words were calm to the point of commonplace.
Which made the effect of his statement all the more terrific.
"A--a minnow--as big as a Pullman car?" I repeated, dazed.
"Larger, I think.... It looks to me through the hydroscope, at
this distance, exactly like a tiny, silvery minnow. It's half a mile
down.... Swimming about.... I can see its eyes; they must be about ten
feet in diameter. I can see its fins moving. And there are about a dozen
others, much deeper, swimming around.... This is easily the most
overwhelming contribution made to science since the discovery of the
purple-spotted dingle-bock, Bukkus dinglii.... We've got to catch one
of those gigantic fish!"
"How?" I gasped. "How are we going to catch a minnow as large as a
sleeping car?"
"I don't know, but we've got to do it. We've got to manage it, somehow."
"It would require a steel cable to hold such a fish and a donkey engine
to reel him in! And what about a hook? And if we had hook, line,
steam-winch, and everything else, what about bait?"
He knelt for some time longer, watching the fish, before he resigned the
hydroscope to me. Then I watched it; but it came no nearer, seeming
contented to swim about at the depth of a little more than half a mile.
Deep under this fish I could see others glittering as they sailed or
darted to and fro.
Presently I raised my head and sat thinking. The sun now gilded the
water; a little breeze ruffled it here and there where dainty cat's-paws
played over the surface.
"What on earth do you suppose those gigantic fish feed on?" asked Brown
under his breath.
I thought a moment longer, then it came to me in a flash of
understanding, and I pointed at the dead trees.
"Bats!" I muttered. "They feed on bats as other fish feed on the little,
gauzy-winged flies which dance over ponds! You saw those bats flying over
the pond last night, didn't you? That explains the whole thing! Don't you
understand? Why, what we saw were these gigantic fish leaping like trout
after the bats. It was their feeding time!"
I do not imagine that two more excited scientists ever existed than Brown
and I. The joy of discovery transfigured us. Here we had discovered a
lake in the Thunder Mountains which was the deepest lake in the world;
and it was inhabited by a few gigantic fish of the minnow species, the
existence of which, hitherto, had never even been dreamed of by science.
"Kitten," I said, my voice broken by emotion, "which will you have named
after you, the lake or the fish? Shall it be Lake Kitten Brown, or shall
it be Minnius kittenii? Speak!"
"What about that old party whose name you said had already been given to
the lake?" he asked piteously.
"Who? Mrs. Batt? Do you think I'd name such an important lake after
her? Anyway, she has declined the honour."
"Very well," he said, "I'll accept it. And the fish shall be known as
Minnius Smithii!"
Too deeply moved to speak, we bent over and shook hands with each other.
In that solemn and holy moment, surcharged with ecstatic emotion, a deep,
distant reverberation came across the water to our ears. It was the heavy
artillery, snoring.
Never can I forget that scene; sunshine glittering on the pond, the
silent forests and towering peaks, the blue sky overhead, the dead trees
where thousands of bats hung in nauseating clusters, thicker than the
leaves in Valembrosa--and Kitten Brown and I, cross-legged upon our
pneumatic raft, hands clasped in pledge of deathless devotion to science
and a fraternity unending.
"And how about that girl?" he asked.
"What girl?"
"Angelica White?"
"Well," said I, "what about her?"
"Does she go with the lake or with the fish?"
"What do you mean?" I asked coldly, withdrawing my hand from his clasp.
"I mean, which of us gets the first chance to win her?" he said,
blushing. "There's no use denying that we both have been bowled over
by her; is there?"
I pondered for several moments.
"She is an extremely intelligent girl," I said, stalling.
"Yes, and then some."
After a few minutes' further thought, I said:
"Possibly I am in error, but at moments it has seemed to me that my
marked attentions to Miss White are not wholly displeasing to her. I may
be mistaken--"
"I think you are, Smith."
"Why?"
"Because--well, because I seem to think so."
I said coldly:
"Because she happened to faint away in your arms last night is no symptom
that she prefers you. Is it?"
"No."
"Then why do you seem to think that tactful, delicate, and assiduous
attentions on my part may prove not entirely unwelcome to this unusually
intelligent--"
"Smith!"
"What?"
"Miss White is not only a trained nurse, but she also is about to receive
her diploma as a physician."
"How do you know?"
"She told me."
"When?"
"When you were building the fire last night. Also, she informed me that
she had relentlessly dedicated herself to a eugenic marriage."
"When did she tell you that?"
"While you were bringing in a bucket of water from the lake last night.
And furthermore, she told me that I was perfectly suited for a eugenic
marriage."
"When did she tell you that?" I demanded.
"When she had--fainted--in my arms."
"How the devil did she come to say a thing like that?"
He became conspicuously red about the ears:
"Well, I had just told her that I had fallen in love with her--"
"Damn!" I said. And that's all I said; and seizing a paddle I made
furiously for shore. Behind me I heard the whirr of the piano wire as
Brown started the electric reel. Later I heard him clamping the hood on
the hydroscope; but I was too disgusted for any further words, and I dug
away at the water with my paddle.
In various and weird stages of morning déshabillé the heavy artillery
came down to the shore for morning ablutions, all a-row like a file of
ducks.
They glared at me as I leaped ashore:
"I want my breakfast!" snapped Mrs. Batt. "Do you hear what I say, guide?
And I don't wish to be kept waiting for it either! I desire to get out of
this place as soon as possible."
"I'm sorry," I said, "but I intend to stay here for some time."
"What!" bawled the heavy artillery in booming unison.
But my temper had been sorely tried, and I was in a mood to tell the
truth and make short work of it, too.
"Ladies," I said, "I'll not mince matters. Mr. Brown and I are not
guides; we are scientists from Bronx Park, and we don't know a bally
thing about this wilderness we're in!"
"Swindler!" shouted Mrs. Batt, in an enraged voice. "I knew very well
that the United States Government would never have named that puddle of
water after me!"
"Don't worry, madam! I've named it after Mr. Brown. And the new species
of gigantic fish which I discovered in this lake I have named after
myself. As for leaving this spot until I have concluded my scientific
study of these fish, I simply won't. I intend to observe their habits and
to capture one of them if it requires the remainder of my natural life to
do so. I shall be sorry to detain you here during such a period, but it
can't be helped. And now you know what the situation is, and you are at
liberty to think it over after you have washed your countenances in Lake
Kitten Brown."
Rage possessed the heavy artillery, and a fury indescribable seized them
when they discovered that Indians had raided their half ton of feminine
perquisites. I went up a tree.
When the tumult had calmed sufficiently for them to distinguish what I
said, I made a speech to them. From the higher branches of a neighboring
tree Kitten Brown applauded and cried, "Hear! Hear!"
"Ladies," I said, "you know the worst, now. If you keep me up this tree
and starve me to death it will be murder. Also, you don't know enough to
get out of these forests, but I can guide you back the way you came. I'll
do it if you cease your dangerous demonstrations and permit Mr. Brown and
myself to remain here and study these giant fish for a week or two."
[Illustration: "'If you keep me up this tree and starve me to death
it will be murder.'"]
They now seemed disposed to consider the idea. There was nothing else for
them to do. So after an hour or two, Brown and I ventured to descend from
our trees, and we went among them to placate them and ingratiate
ourselves as best we might.
"Think," I argued, "what a matchless opportunity for you to be among the
first discoverers of a totally new and undescribed species of giant fish!
Think what a legacy it will be to leave such a record to posterity! Think
how proud and happy your descendants will be to know that their ancestors
assisted at the discovery of Minnius Smithii!"
"Why can't they be named after me?" demanded Mrs. Batt.
"Because," I explained patiently, "they have already been named after
me!"
"Couldn't something be named after me?" inquired that fearsome lady.
"The bats," suggested Brown politely, "we could name a bat after you with
pleasure--"
I thought for a moment she meant to swing on him. He thought so, too, and
ducked.
"A bat!" she shouted. "Name a bat after me!"
"Many a celebrated scientist has been honoured by having his name
conferred upon humbler fauna," I explained.
But she remained dangerous, so I went and built the fire, and squatted
there, frying bacon, while on the other side of the fire, sitting side
by side, Kitten Brown and Angelica White gazed upon each other with
enraptured eyes. It was slightly sickening--but let that pass. I was
beginning to understand that science is a jealous mistress and that any
contemplated infidelity of mine stood every chance of being squelched.
No; evidently I had not been fashioned for the joys of legal domesticity.
Science, the wanton jade, had not yet finished her dance with me.
Apparently my maxixe with her was to be external. Fides servanda est.
       
That afternoon the heavy artillery held a council of war, and evidently
came to a conclusion to make the best of the situation, for toward
sundown they accosted me with a request for the raft, explaining that
they desired to picnic aboard and afterward row about the lake and
indulge in song.
So Brown and I put aboard the craft a substantial cold supper; and the
heavy artillery embarked, taking aboard a guitar to be worked by Miss
Dingleheimer, and knitting for the others.
It was a lovely evening. Brown and I had been discussing a plan to
dynamite the lake and stun the fish, that method appealing to us as the
only possible way to secure a specimen of the stupendous minnows which
inhabited the depths. In fact, it was our only hope of possessing one of
these creatures--fishing with a donkey engine, steel cable, and a hook
baited with a bat being too uncertain and far more laborious and
expensive.
I was still smoking my pipe, seated at the foot of the big pine-tree,
watching the water turn from gold to pink: Brown sat higher up the slope,
his arm around Angelica White. I carefully kept my back toward them.
On the lake the heavy artillery were revelling loudly, banqueting,
singing, strumming the guitar, and trailing their hands overboard across
the sunset-tinted water.
I was thinking of nothing in particular as I now remember, except that I
noticed the bats beginning to flit over the lake; when Brown called to me
from the slope above, asking whether it was perfectly safe for the heavy
artillery to remain out so late.
"Why?" I demanded.
"Suppose," he shouted, "that those fish should begin to jump and feed on
the bats again?"
I had never thought of that.
I rose and hurried nervously down to the shore, and, making a megaphone
of my hands, I shouted:
"Come in! It isn't safe to remain out any longer!"
Scornful laughter from the artillery answered my appeal.
"You'd better come in!" I called. "You can't tell what might happen if
any of those fish should jump."
"Mind your business!" retorted Mrs. Batt. "We've had enough of your
prevarications--"
Then, suddenly, without the faintest shadow of warning, from the centre
of the lake a vast geyser of water towered a hundred feet in the air.
For one dreadful second I saw the raft hurled skyward, balanced on the
crest of the stupendous fountain, spilling ladies, supper, guitars, and
knitting in every direction.
Then a horrible thing occurred; fish after fish shot up out of the storm
of water and foam, seizing, as they fell, ladies, luncheon, and knitting
in mid-air, falling back with a crashing shock which seemed to rock the
very mountains.
"Help!" I screamed. And fainted dead away.
       
Is it necessary to proceed? Literature nods; Science shakes her head. No,
nothing but literature lies beyond the ripples which splashed musically
upon the shore, terminating forever the last vibration from that
immeasurable catastrophe.
Why should I go on? The newspapers of the nation have recorded the last
scenes of the tragedy.
We know that tons of dynamite are being forwarded to that solitary lake.
We know that it is the determination of the Government to rid the world
of those gigantic minnows.
And yet, somehow, it seems to me as I sit writing here in my office, amid
the verdure of Bronx Park, that the destruction of these enormous fish is
a mistake.
What more splendid sarcophagus could the ladies of the lake desire than
these huge, silvery, itinerant and living tombs?
What reward more sumptuous could anybody wish for than to rest at last
within the interior dimness of an absolutely new species of anything?
For me, such a final repose as this would represent the highest pinnacle
of sublimity, the uttermost zenith of mortal dignity.
       
So what more is there for me to say?
As for Angelica--but no matter. I hope she may be comparatively happy
with Kitten Brown. Yet, as I have said before, handsome men never last.
But she should have thought of that in time.
I absolve myself of all responsibility. She had her chance.
ONE OVER
I
Professor Farrago had remarked to me that morning:
"The city of New York always reminds me of a slovenly, fat woman with her
dress unbuttoned behind."
I nodded.
"New York's architecture," said I, "--or what popularly passes for
it--is all in front. The minute you get to the rear a pitiable condition
is exposed."
He said: "Professor Jane Bottomly is all façade; the remainder of her is
merely an occiputal backyard full of theoretical tin cans and broken
bottles. I think we all had better resign."
It was a fearsome description. I trembled as I lighted an inexpensive
cigar.
The sentimental feminist movement in America was clearly at the bottom of
the Bottomly affair.
Long ago, in a reactionary burst of hysteria, the North enfranchised the
Ethiopian. In a similar sentimental explosion of dementia, some sixty
years later, the United States wept violently over the immemorial wrongs
perpetrated upon the restless sex, opened the front and back doors of
opportunity, and sobbed out, "Go to it, ladies!"
They are still going.
Professor Jane Bottomly was wished on us out of a pleasant April sky. She
fell like a meteoric mass of molten metal upon the Bronx Park Zoölogical
Society splashing her excoriating personality over everybody until
everybody writhed.
I had not yet seen the lady. I did not care to. Sooner or later I'd be
obliged to meet her but I was not impatient.
Now the Field Expeditionary Force of the Bronx Park Zoölogical Society
is, perhaps, the most important arm of the service. Professor Bottomly
had just been appointed official head of all field work. Why? Nobody
knew. It is true that she had written several combination nature and love
romances. In these popular volumes trees, flowers, butterflies, birds,
animals, dialect, sobs, and sun-bonnets were stirred up together into a
saccharine mess eagerly gulped down by a provincial reading public, which
immediately protruded its tongue for more.
The news of her impending arrival among us was an awful blow to everybody
at the Bronx. Professor Farrago fainted in the arms of his pretty
stenographer; Professor Cornelius Lezard of the Batrachian Department ran
around his desk all day long in narrowing circles and was discovered on
his stomach still feebly squirming like an expiring top; Dr. Hans Fooss,
our beloved Professor of Pachydermatology sat for hours weeping into his
noodle soup. As for me, I was both furious and frightened, for, within
the hearing of several people, Professor Bottomly had remarked in a very
clear voice to her new assistant, Dr. Daisy Delmour, that she intended to
get rid of me for the good of the Bronx because of my reputation for
indiscreet gallantry among the feminine employees of the Bronx Society.
Professor Lezard overhead that outrageous remark and he hastened to
repeat it to me.
I was lunching at the time in my private office in the Administration
Building with Dr. Hans Fooss--he and I being too busy dissecting an
unusually fine specimen of Dingue to go to the Rolling Stone Inn for
luncheon--when Professor Lezard rushed in with the scandalous libel still
sizzling in his ears.
"Everybody heard her say it!" he went on, wringing his hands. "It was a
most unfortunate thing for anybody to say about you before all those
young ladies. Every stenographer and typewriter there turned pale and
then red."
"What!" I exclaimed, conscious that my own ears were growing large and
hot. "Did that outrageous woman have the bad taste to say such a thing
before all those sensitive girls!"
"She did. She glared at them when she said it. Several blondes and one
brunette began to cry."
"I hope," said I, a trifle tremulously, "that no typewriter so far forgot
herself as to admit noticing playfulness on my part."
"They all were tearfully unanimous in declaring you to be a perfect
gentleman!"
"I am," I said. "I am also a married man--irrevocably wedded to science.
I desire no other spouse. I am ineligible; and everybody knows it. If at
times a purely scientific curiosity leads me into a detached and
impersonally psychological investigation of certain--ah--feminine
idiosyncrasies--"
"Certainly," said Lezard. "To investigate the feminine is more than a
science; it is a duty!"
"Of a surety!" nodded Dr. Fooss.
I looked proudly upon my two loyal friends and bit into my cheese
sandwich. Only men know men. A jury of my peers had exonerated me. What
did I care for Professor Bottomly!
"All the same," added Lezard, "you'd better be careful or Professor
Bottomly will put one over on you yet."
"I am always careful," I said with dignity.
"All men should be. It is the only protection of a defenseless coast
line," nodded Lezard.
"Und neffer, neffer commid nodding to paper," added Dr. Fooss. "Don'd
neffer write it, 'I lofe you like I was going to blow up alretty!' Ach,
nein! Don'd you write down somedings. Effery man he iss entitled to
protection; und so iss it he iss protected."
Stein in hand he beamed upon us benevolently over his knifeful of
sauerfisch, then he fed himself and rammed it down with a hearty draught
of Pilsner. We gazed with reverence upon Kultur as embodied in this great
Teuton.
"That woman," remarked Lezard to me, "certainly means to get rid of you.
It seems to me that there are only two possible ways for you to hold down
your job at the Bronx. You know it, don't you?"
I nodded. "Yes," I said; "either I must pay marked masculine attention to
Professor Bottomly or I must manage to put one over on her."
"Of course," said Lezard, "the first method is the easier for you--"
"Not for a minute!" I said, hastily; "I simply couldn't become frolicsome
with her. You say she's got a voice like a drill-sergeant and she
goose-steps when she walks; and I don't mind admitting she has me badly
scared already. No; she must be scientifically ruined. It is the only
method which makes her elimination certain."
"But if her popular nature books didn't ruin her scientifically, how can
we hope to lead her astray?" inquired Lezard.
"There is," I said, thoughtfully, "only one thing that can really ruin a
scientist. Ridicule! I have braved it many a time, taking my scientific
life in my hands in pursuit of unknown specimens which might have proved
only imaginary. Public ridicule would have ended my scientific career in
such an event. I know of no better way to end Professor Bottomly's
scientific career and capability for mischief than to start her out after
something which doesn't exist, inform the newspapers, and let her suffer
the agonising consequences."
Dr. Fooss began to shout:
"The idea iss schön! colossal! prachtvol! ausgezeichnet! wunderbar!
wunderschön! gemütlich--" A large, tough noodle checked him. While he
labored with Teutonic imperturbability to master it Lezard and I
exchanged suggestions regarding the proposed annihilation of this
fearsome woman who had come ravening among us amid the peaceful and
soporific environment of Bronx Park.
It was a dreadful thing for us to have our balmy Lotus-eaters' paradise
so startlingly invaded by a large, loquacious, loud-voiced lady who had
already stirred us all out of our agreeable, traditional and leisurely
inertia. Inertia begets cogitation, and cogitation begets ideas, and
ideas beget reflexion, and profound reflexion is the fundamental
cornerstone of that immortal temple in which the goddess Science sits
asleep between her dozing sisters, Custom and Religion.
This thought seemed to me so unusually beautiful that I wrote it with a
pencil upon my cuff.
While I was writing it, quietly happy in the deep pleasure that my
intellectual allegory afforded me, Dr. Fooss swabbed the last morsel of
nourishment from his plate with a wad of rye bread, then bolting the
bread and wiping his beard with his fingers and his fingers on his
waistcoat, he made several guttural observations too profoundly German
to be immediately intelligible, and lighted his porcelain pipe.
"Ach wass!" he remarked in ruminative fashion. "Dot Frauenzimmer she iss
to raise hell alretty determined. Von Pachydermatology she knows nodding.
Maybe she leaves me alone, maybe it is to be 'raus mit me. I' weis' ni'!
It iss aber besser one over on dat lady to put, yess?"
"It certainly is advisable," replied Lezard.
"Let us try to think of something sufficiently disastrous to terminate
her scientific career," said I. And I bowed my rather striking head and
rested the point of my forefinger upon my forehead. Thought crystallises
more quickly for me when I assume this attitude.
Out of the corner of my eye I saw Lezard fold his arms and sit frowning
at infinity.
Dr. Fooss lay back in a big, deeply padded armchair and closed his
prominent eyes. His pipe went out presently, and now and then he made
long-drawn nasal remarks, in German, too complicated for either Lezard or
for me to entirely comprehend.
"We must try to get her as far away from here as possible," mused Lezard.
"Is Oyster Bay too far and too cruel?"
I pondered darkly upon the suggestion. But it seemed unpleasantly like
murder.
"Lezard," said I, "come, let us reason together. Now what is woman's
besetting emotion?"
"Curiosity?"
"Very well; assuming that to be true, what--ah--quality particularly
characterizes woman when so beset."
"Ruthless determination."
"Then," said I, "we ought to begin my exciting the curiosity of Professor
Bottomly; and her ruthless determination to satisfy that curiosity should
logically follow."
"How," he asked, "are we to arouse her curiosity?"
"By pretending that we have knowledge of something hitherto undiscovered,
the discovery of which would redound to our scientific glory."
"I see. She'd want the glory for herself. She'd swipe it."
"She would," said I.
"Tee--hee!" he giggled; "Wouldn't it be funny to plant something phony on
her--"
I waved my arms rather gracefully in my excitement:
"That is the germ of an idea!" I said. "If we could plant
something--something--far away from here--very far away--if we could
bury something--like the Cardiff Giant--"
"Hundreds and hundreds of miles away!"
"Thousands!" I insisted, enthusiastically.
"Tee-hee! In Tasmania, for example! Maybe a Tasmanian Devil might acquire
her!"
"There exists a gnat," said I, "in Borneo--Gnatus soporificus--and
when this tiny gnat stings people they never entirely wake up. It's
really rather a pleasurable catastrophe, I understand. Life becomes
one endless cat-nap--one delightful siesta, with intervals for light
nourishment.... She--ah--could sit very comfortably in some pleasant
retreat and rock in a rocking-chair and doze quite happily through the
years to come.... And from your description of her I should say that
the Soldiers' Home might receive her."
"It won't do," he said, gloomily.
"Why? Is it too much like crime?"
"Oh not at all. Only if she went to Borneo she'd be sure to take a
mosquito-bar with her."
In the depressed silence which ensued Dr. Fooss suddenly made several
Futurist observations through his nose with monotonous but authoritative
regularity. I tried to catch his meaning and his eye. The one remained
cryptic, the other shut.
Lezard sat thinking very hard. And as I fidgetted in my chair, fiddling
nervously with various objects lying on my desk I chanced to pick up a
letter from the pile of still unopened mail at my elbow.
Still pondering on Professor Bottomly's proposed destruction, I turned
the letter over idly and my preoccupied gaze rested on the postmark.
After a moment I leaned forward and examined it more attentively. The
letter directed to me was postmarked Fort Carcajou, Cook's Peninsula,
Baffin Land; and now I recalled the handwriting, having already seen it
three or four times within the last month or so.
"Lezard," I said, "that lunatic trapper from Baffin Land has written to
me again. What do you suppose is the matter with him? Is he just plain
crazy or does he think he can be funny with me?"
Lezard gazed at me absently. Then, all at once a gleam of savage interest
lighted his somewhat solemn features.
"Read the letter to me," he said, with an evil smile which instantly
animated my own latent imagination. And immediately it occurred to me
that perhaps, in the humble letter from the wilds of Baffin Land, which I
was now opening with eager and unsteady fingers, might lie concealed the
professional undoing of Professor Jane Bottomly, and the only hope of my
own ultimate and scientific salvation.
The room became hideously still as I unfolded the pencil-scrawled sheets
of cheap, ruled letter paper.
Dr. Fooss opened his eyes, looked at me, made porcine sounds indicative
of personal well-being, relighted his pipe, and disposed himself to
listen. But just as I was about to begin, Lezard suddenly laid his
forefinger across his lips conjuring us to densest silence.
For a moment or two I heard nothing except the buzzing of flies. Then
I stole a startled glance at my door. It was opening slowly, almost
imperceptibly.
But it did not open very far--just a crack remained. Then, listening with
all our might, we heard the cautiously suppressed breathing of somebody
in the hallway just outside of my door.
Lezard turned and cast at me a glance of horrified intelligence. In dumb
pantomime he outlined in the air, with one hand, the large and feminine
amplification of his own person, conveying to us the certainty of his
suspicions concerning the unseen eavesdropper.
We nodded. We understood perfectly that she was out there prepared to
listen to every word we uttered.
A flicker of ferocious joy disturbed Lezard's otherwise innocuous
features; he winked horribly at Dr. Fooss and at me, and uttered a faint
click with his teeth and tongue like the snap of a closing trap.
"Gentlemen," he said, in the guarded yet excited voice of a man who is
confident of not being overheard, "the matter under discussion admits of
only one interpretation: a discovery--perhaps the most vitally important
discovery of all the centuries--is imminent.
"Secrecy is imperative; the scientific glory is to be shared by us alone,
and there is enough of glory to go around.
"Mr. Chairman, I move that epoch-making letter be read aloud!"
"I second dot motion!" said Dr. Fooss, winking so violently at me that
his glasses wabbled.
"Gentlemen," said I, "it has been moved and seconded that this
epoch-making letter be read aloud. All those in favor will kindly
say 'aye.'"
"Aye! Aye!" they exclaimed, fairly wriggling in their furtive joy.
"The contrary-minded will kindly emit the usual negation," I went
on.... "It seems to be carried.... It is carried. The chairman will
proceed to the reading of the epoch-making letter."
I quietly lighted a five-cent cigar, unfolded the letter and read aloud:
  "Joneses Shack,
  Golden Glacier,
  Cook's Peninsula, Baffin Land,
  March 15, 1915.
  "Professor, Dear Sir:
  "I already wrote you three times no answer having been rec'd perhaps
  you think I'm kiddin' you're a dam' liar I ain't.
  "Hoping to tempt you to come I will hereby tell you more'n I told you
  in my other letters, the terminal moraine of this here Golden Glacier
  finishes into a marsh, nothing to see for miles excep' frozen tussock
  and mud and all flat as hell for fifty miles which is where I am
  trappin' it for mink and otter and now ready to go back to Fort
  Carcajou. i told you what I seen stickin' in under this here marsh,
  where anything sticks out the wolves have eat it, but most of them
  there ellerphants is in under the ice and mud too far for the wolves to
  git 'em.
  "i ain't kiddin' you, there is a whole herd of furry ellerphants in the
  marsh like as they were stuck there and all lay down and was drownded
  like. Some has tusks and some hasn't. Two ellerphants stuck out of the
  ice, I eat onto one, the meat was good and sweet and joosy, the damn
  wolves eat it up that night, I had cut stakes and rost for three months
  though and am eating off it yet.
  "Thinking as how ellerphants and all like that is your graft, I being
  a keeper in the Mouse House once in the Bronx and seein' you nosin'
  around like you was full of scientific thinks, it comes to me to write
  you and put you next.
  "If you say so I'll wait here and help you with them ellerphants.
  Livin' wages is all I ask also eleven thousand dollars for tippin' you
  wise. I won't tell nobody till I hear from you. I'm hones' you can
  trus' me. Write me to Fort Carcajou if you mean bizness. So no more
  respectfully,
  James Skaw."
When I finished reading I cautiously glanced at the door, and, finding it
still on the crack, turned and smiled subtly upon Lezard and Fooss.
In their slowly spreading grins I saw they agreed with me that somebody,
signing himself James Skaw, was still trying to hoax the Great Zoölogical
Society of Bronx Park.
"Gentlemen," I said aloud, injecting innocent enthusiasm into my voice,
"this secret expedition to Baffin Land which we three are about to
organise is destined to be without doubt the most scientifically prolific
field expedition ever organised by man.
"Imagine an entire herd of mammoths preserved in mud and ice through all
these thousands of years!
"Gentlemen, no discovery ever made has even remotely approached in
importance the discovery made by this simple, illiterate trapper, James
Skaw."
"I thought," protested Lezard, "that we are to be announced as the
discoverers."
"We are," said I, "the discoverers of James Skaw, which makes
us technically the finders of the ice-preserved herd of
mammoths--technically, you understand. A few thousand dollars,"
I added, carelessly, "ought to satiate James Skaw."
"We could name dot glacier after him," suggested Dr. Fooss.
"Certainly--the Skaw Glacier. That ought to be enough glory for him. It
ought to satisfy him and prevent any indiscreet remarks," nodded Lezard.
"Gentlemen," said I, "there is only one detail that really troubles me.
Ought we to notify our honoured and respected Chief of Division
concerning this discovery?"
"Do you mean, should we tell that accomplished and fascinating lady,
Professor Bottomly, about this herd of mammoths?" I asked in a loud,
clear voice. And immediately answered my own question: "No," I said, "no,
dear friends. Professor Bottomly already has too much responsibility
weighing upon her distinguished mind. No, dear brothers in science, we
should steal away unobserved as though setting out upon an ordinary field
expedition. And when we return with fresh and immortal laurels such as no
man before has ever worn, no doubt that our generous-minded Chief of
Division will weave for us further wreaths to crown our brows--the
priceless garlands of professional approval!" And I made a horrible face
at my co-conspirators.
Before I finished Lezard had taken his own face in his hands for the
purpose of stifling raucous and untimely mirth. As for Dr. Fooss, his
small, porcine eyes snapped and twinkled madly behind his spectacles, but
he seemed rather inclined to approve my flowers of rhetoric.
"Ja," said he, "so iss it besser oursellufs dot gefrozenss herd von
elephanten to discover, und, by and by, die elephanten bei der Pronx Bark
home yet again once more to bring. We shall therefore much praise thereby
bekommen. Ach wass!"
"Gentlemen," said I, distinctly, "it is decided, then, that we shall say
nothing concerning the true object of this expedition to Professor
Bottomly."
Lezard and Fooss nodded assent. Then, in the silence, we all strained our
ears to listen. And presently we detected the scarcely heard sound of
cautiously retreating footsteps down the corridor.
When it was safe to do so I arose and closed my door.
"I think," said I, with a sort of infernal cheerfulness in my tones,
"that we are about to do something jocose to Jane Bottomly."
"A few," said Professor Lezard. He rose and silently executed a
complicated ballet-step.
"I shall laff," said Dr. Fooss, earnestly, "und I shall laff, und I shall
laff--ach Gott how I shall laff my pally head off!"
I folded my arms and turned romanesquely toward the direction in which
Professor Bottomly had retreated.
"Viper!" I said. "The Bronx shall nourish you in its bosom no more! Fade
away, Ophidian!"
The sentiment was applauded by all. There chanced to be in my desk a
bottle marked: "That's all!" On the label somebody had written: "Do it
now!" We did.
III
It was given out at the Bronx that our field expedition to Baffin
Land was to be undertaken solely for the purpose of bringing back
living specimens of the five-spotted Arctic woodcock--Philohela
quinquemaculata--in order to add to our onomatology and our glossary
of onomatopoeia an ontogenesis of this important but hitherto unstudied
sub-species.
I trust I make myself clear. Scientific statements should be as clear as
the Spuyten Duyvil. Sola in stagno salus!
But two things immediately occurred which worried us; Professor Bottomly
sent us official notification that she approved our expedition to Baffin
Land, designated the steamer we were to take, and enclosed tickets. That
scared us. Then to add to our perplexity Professor Bottomly disappeared,
leaving Dr. Daisy Delmour in charge of her department during what she
announced might be "a somewhat prolonged absence on business."
And during the four feverish weeks of our pretended preparations for
Baffin Land not one word did we hear from Jane Bottomly, which caused us
painful inquietude as the hour approached for our departure.
Was this formidable woman actually intending to let us depart alone
for the Golden Glacier? Was she too lazy to rob us of the secretly
contemplated glory which we had pretended awaited us?
We had been so absolutely convinced that she would forbid our expedition,
pack us off elsewhere, and take charge herself of an exploring party to
Baffin Land, that, as the time for our leaving drew near we became first
uneasy, and then really alarmed.
It would be a dreadful jest on us if she made us swallow our own
concoction; if she revealed to our colleagues our pretended knowledge of
the Golden Glacier and James Skaw and the supposedly ice-imbedded herd of
mammoths, and then publicly forced us to investigate this hoax.
More horrible still would it be if she informed the newspapers and gave
them a hint to make merry over the three wise men of the Bronx who went
to Baffin Land in a boat.
"What do you suppose that devious and secretive female is up to?"
inquired Lezard who, within the last few days, had grown thin with worry.
"Is it possible that she is sufficiently degraded to suspect us of trying
to put one over on her? Is that what she is now doing to us?"
"Terminus est--it is the limit!" said I.
He turned a morbid eye upon me. "She is making a monkey of us. That's
what!"
"Suspendenda omnia naso," I nodded; "tarde sed tute. When I think
aloud in Latin it means that I am deeply troubled. Suum quemque scelus
agitat. Do you get me, Professor? I'm sorry I attempted to be sportive
with this terrible woman. The curse of my scientific career has been
periodical excesses of frivolity. See where this frolicsome impulse
has landed me!--super abyssum ambulans. Trahit sua quemque voluptas;
transeat in exemplum! She means to let us go to our destruction on this
mammoth frappé affair."
But Dr. Fooss was optimistic:
"I tink she iss alretty herselluf by dot Baffin Land ge-gone," he said.
"I tink she has der bait ge-swallowed. Ve vait; ve see; und so iss it ve
know."
"But why hasn't she stopped our preparations?" I demanded. "If she wants
all the glory herself why does she permit us to incur this expense in
getting ready?"
"No mans can to know der vorkings of der mental brocess by a
Frauenzimmer," said Dr. Fooss, wagging his head.
The suspense became nerve-racking; we were obliged to pack our camping
kits; and it began to look as though we would have either to sail the
next morning or to resign from the Bronx Park Zoölogical Society, because
all the evening papers had the story in big type--the details and objects
of the expedition, the discovery of the herd of mammoths in cold storage,
the prompt organization of an expedition to secure this unparalleled
deposit of prehistoric mammalia--everything was there staring at us in
violent print, excepting only the name of the discoverer and the names of
those composing the field expedition.
"She means to betray us after we have sailed," said Lezard, greatly
depressed. "We might just as well resign now before this hoax explodes
and bespatters us. We can take our chances in vaudeville or as lecturing
professors with the movies."
I thought so, too, in point of fact we all had gathered in my study to
write out our resignations, when there came a knock at the door and Dr.
Daisy Delmour walked in.
Oddly enough I had not before met Dr. Delmour personally; only formal
written communications had hitherto passed between us. My idea of her
had doubtless been inspired by the physical and intellectual aberrations
of her chief; I naturally supposed her to be either impossible and
corporeally redundant, or intellectually and otherwise as weazened as
last year's Li-che nut.
I was criminally mistaken. And why Lezard, who knew her, had never set me
right I could not then understand. I comprehended later.
For the feminine assistant of Professor Jane Bottomly, who sauntered into
my study and announced herself, had the features of Athene, the smile of
Aphrodite, and the figure of Psyche. I believe I do not exaggerate these
scientific details, although it has been said of me that any pretty girl
distorts my vision and my intellectual balance to the detriment of my
calmer reason and my differentiating ability.
"Gentlemen," said Dr. Delmour, while we stood in a respectful semi-circle
before her, modestly conscious of our worth, our toes turned out, and
each man's features wreathed with that politely unnatural smirk which
masculine features assume when confronted by feminine beauty. "Gentlemen,
on the eve of your proposed departure for Baffin Land in quest of living
specimens of the five-spotted Philohela quinquemaculata, I have been
instructed by Professor Bottomly to announce to you a great good fortune
for her, for you, for the Bronx, for America, for the entire civilized
world.
"It has come to Professor Bottomly's knowledge, recently I believe, that
an entire herd of mammoths lie encased in the mud and ice of the vast
flat marshes which lie south of the terminal moraine of the Golden
Glacier in that part of Baffin Land known as Dr. Cook's Peninsula.
"The credit of this epoch-making discovery is Professor Bottomly's
entirely. How it happened, she did not inform me. One month ago today she
sailed in great haste for Baffin Land. At this very hour she is doubtless
standing all alone upon the frozen surface of that wondrous marsh,
contemplating with reverence and awe and similar holy emotions the fruits
of her own unsurpassed discovery!"
Dr. Delmour's lovely features became delicately suffused and transfigured
as she spoke; her exquisite voice thrilled with generous emotion; she
clasped her snowy hands and gazed, enraptured, at the picture of Dr.
Bottomly which her mind was so charmingly evoking.
"Perhaps," she whispered, "perhaps at this very instant, in the midst of
that vast and flat and solemn desolation the only protuberance visible
for miles and miles is Professor Bottomly. Perhaps the pallid Arctic sun
is setting behind the majestic figure of Professor Bottomly, radiating a
blinding glory to the zenith, illuminating the crowning act of her career
with its unearthly aura!"
She gazed at us out of dimmed and violet eyes.
"Gentlemen," she said, "I am ordered to take command of this expedition
of yours; I am ordered to sail with you tomorrow morning on the Labrador
and Baffin Line steamer Dr. Cook.
"The object of your expedition, therefore, is not to be the quest of
Philohela quinquemaculata; your duty now is to corroborate the almost
miraculous discovery of Professor Bottomly, and to disinter for her the
vast herd of frozen mammoths, pack and pickle them, and get them to the
Bronx.
"Tomorrow's morning papers will have the entire story: the credit and
responsibility for the discovery and the expedition belong to Professor
Bottomly, and will be given to her by the press and the populace of our
great republic.
"It is her wish that no other names be mentioned. Which is right. To the
discoverer belongs the glory. Therefore, the marsh is to be named
Bottomly's Marsh, and the Glacier, Bottomly's Glacier.
"Yours and mine is to be the glory of laboring incognito under the
direction of the towering scientific intellect of the age, Professor
Bottomly.
"And the most precious legacy you can leave your children--if you get
married and have any--is that you once wielded the humble pick and shovel
for Jane Bottomly on the bottomless marsh which bears her name!"
       
After a moment's silence we three men ventured to look sideways at
each other. We had certainly killed Professor Bottomly, scientifically
speaking. The lady was practically dead. The morning papers would
consummate the murder. We didn't know whether we wanted to laugh or not.
She was now virtually done for; that seemed certain. So greedily had this
egotistical female swallowed the silly bait we offered, so arrogantly had
she planned to eliminate everybody excepting herself from the credit of
the discovery, that there seemed now nothing left for us to do except to
watch her hurdling deliriously toward destruction. Should we burst into
hellish laughter?
We looked hard at Dr. Delmour and we decided not to--yet.
Said I: "To assist at the final apotheosis of Professor Bottomly makes us
very, very happy. We are happy to remain incognito, mere ciphers blotted
out by the fierce white light which is about to beat upon Professor
Bottomly, fore and aft. We are happy that our participation in this
astonishing affair shall never be known to science.
"But, happiest of all are we, dear Dr. Delmour, in the knowledge that
you are to be with us and of us, incognito on this voyage now imminent;
that you are to be our revered and beloved leader.
"And I, for one, promise you personally the undivided devotion of a man
whose entire and austere career has been dedicated to science--in all
its branches."
I stepped forward rather gracefully and raised her little hand to my lips
to let her see that even the science of gallantry had not been neglected
by me.
Dr. Daisy Delmour blushed.
"Therefore," said I, "considering the fact that our names are not to
figure in this expedition; and, furthermore, in consideration of the fact
that you are going, we shall be very, very happy to accompany you, Dr.
Delmour." I again saluted her hand, and again Dr. Delmour blushed and
looked sideways at Professor Lezard.
IV
It was, to be accurate, exactly twenty-three days later that our voyage
by sea and land ended one Monday morning upon the gigantic terminal
moraine of the Golden Glacier, Cook's Peninsula, Baffin Land.
Four pack-mules carried our luggage, four more bore our persons; an
arctic dicky-bird sat on a bowlder and said, "Pilly-willy-willy! Tweet!
