Where details varied was in the number of ships in the fleet, the number
and grouping of sails, sea birds flying, of waves, and of clouds—when
there were any of the latter—the number of little white or blue or pink
blossoms in the grass, the height of the sun above the horizon line and
the number and size of its rays.
There was always at least one ship—never more than a dozen; he had
counted twenty white blossoms on some posters; varying numbers on
others, of white, of blue, or of pink, but never less than three of any
one color. Sometimes there were no sea birds.
As for the sun, sometimes it hung well above the ocean, often its yellow
circle dipped into it, and then again only the rays spread fanlike above
the horizon line.
And concerning the nymph, her pose and costume did not seem to vary at
all in the various poster specimens which he had seen; the wind was
always blowing her red hair and white, transparent scarf; she always sat
gazing laughingly seaward, one hand resting on the grass, the other
clutching a cake of soap to her bosom.
Still examining the sheet of paper, he counted the white flowers
scattered over the grass around the seated nymph.  There were ten of
them.
"Sister Eila," he said carelessly, "how many kilometers is it to the
next town south of us?  I mean by the military road."
"To Rosières-sous-Bois?"
"Yes."
"About ten kilometers by the military road."
He nodded and counted the ships.  There were three.
"Is there more than one road which runs to Rosières-sous-Bois?" he
asked.
"Yes.  One may go by this road, or cross the bridge by the quarries and
go by the river road, or there is still a better and shorter highway
which runs west of Saïs."
"Then there are three main roads to Rosières-sous-Bois?"
"Yes.  The road to the west is shorter.  It is not more than seven miles
that way."
Halkett casually counted the sea gulls.  Seven gulls were flying around
one of the ships; thirteen around another.
"And the river road, Sister?" he inquired.
"By the quarry bridge?  Oh, that is longer—perhaps twelve or thirteen
kilometers."
"I see....  Rosières-sous-Bois is not a garrison town?"
"No.  There are only a few gendarmes there."
Halkett examined the picture attentively.  The sun appeared to be about
three hours high above the horizon.
"The nearest military post must be about three hours’ journey from
here," he ventured.
Sister Eila thought a moment, then nodded:
"Yes, about three hours.  You mean the fort above the Pass of the
Falcons?  That is the nearest."
He counted the rays of the sun.  There were three long ones and two
short ones.
"I suppose there are three or four battalions garrisoned there," he
remarked.
"Three, I think.  And a company of engineers and one company of Alpine
chasseurs."
All the time, with a detached air, the young Englishman was examining
the colored poster, searching it minutely for variations from other
posters of the same sort which he had recently investigated.
There remained in his mind little or no doubt that the number and
position of the groups of pointed wavelets signified something
important; that the number of sails set on the ships, which varied in
every poster, contained further information; that the sky, cloudless in
some posters, dotted with clouds in others, was destined to convey
topographical particulars to somebody.
These colored advertisements of a soap made in Cologne by Bauermann and
Company, and plastered over the landscape of Northern and Eastern
Belgium and France, concealed a wealth of secret information for anybody
who possessed the key to the messages so clearly and craftily expressed
in pictograph and cipher code.
The sinister significance of the sheet in his hand was becoming more
apparent every minute.  He had made a study of these posters—was just
beginning to find them interesting, when he had been ordered to America.
Now, all his interest in them returned.
Sister Eila had seated herself at her desk, and, while he was still
examining the poster, she continued serenely to correct the pile of inky
copybooks.
He watched her for a while, where she bent above the scrawled pages, her
pen poised, her lovely face framed in the snowy wimple under the pale
shadow of her wide-winged coiffe.
"Sister Eila?"
She turned her head tranquilly.
"You are English, you tell me?"
"Irish."  She smiled.
"It’s the same.  Tell me, have you had enough experience in your world
of duty and of unhappiness to know an honest man when you encounter
him?"
Sister Eila laid aside her pen and turned toward him.
"I don’t think I understand," she said.
"I mean, could you make up your mind about—well—about such a man as I
am—merely by inspecting me and hearing me speak?"
Sister Eila laughed:
"I think I could very easily."
"Have you already done so?"
"Why, yes, I suppose so."
"Do you think I am honest enough to be trusted?"
Sister Eila laughed again, deliciously.
"Yes, I think so," she said.
He remained silent and his face, already grave, grew more serious.
Sister Eila’s smile faded as she watched him.  It was becoming very
plain to her that here was a man in trouble.
Silent there together in the cool stillness of the schoolroom, they
heard the distant clatter of little feet, the vigorous voice of command
from Sister Félicité; and a moment later a double file of chattering
children passed in the sunshine outside the window, led toward their
noonday playground by Sister Félicité accompanied by Warner.
"What is on your mind, Mr. Halkett?" asked Sister Eila, still watching
him.
"If I tell you," he said, "will you ask me no more than I offer to tell
you?"
She flushed:
"Naturally, Monsieur——"
"You don’t quite understand, Sister.  What I have to say I wish you to
write down for me in the form of a letter of information to the French
Government."
"You wish me to write it?"
"Please.  And that is what I mean.  Naturally, you might ask me why I do
not write it myself....  Don’t ask me, Sister....  If you really do
trust me."
He turned, met her gaze, saw two clear, sweet eyes unspoiled and
unsaddened by the wisdom she had learned in dark and wretched places;
saw in them only a little wonder, a faintly questioning surprise.
"What is your answer, Sister?" he asked.
"My answer is—I—I do trust you....  What am I to write?"
She took a few loose leaves of paper from the desk, and sat looking at
him, pen lifted.
He said:
"Write to the chief of the general staff at the Ministry of War in
Paris."
And when she had properly addressed the personage in question, he
dictated his letter very slowly in English; and Sister Eila, her
expressionless young face bent above the letter paper, translated into
French as he dictated, and wrote down the exact meaning of every word he
uttered:
"Information has come to me that the advertisements of Bauermann and
Company, of Cologne, Prussia, which are posted everywhere throughout
Belgium and Northern and Eastern France, conceal military and
topographical details concerning the vicinity where these advertisements
are displayed.
"Such information could be of use only to a prowling spy or an invading
enemy.
"Therefore, acting upon the incomplete information offered me, I deem it
my duty to bring this matter to the notice of the Government.
"It would appear that:
"1st.  Secret information is contained in the details of the picture
which embellishes this advertisement, a sample of which I inclose
herewith.
"2nd.  These details vary in every poster.  Presumably their number,
color, groupings, and general distribution constitute a secret code
which is calculated to convey information to the enemies of France.
"3rd.  In the sample which is inclosed with this letter, the number of
ships probably represents the number of highways leading from Saïs to
Rosières-sous-Bois; the sea gulls flying above two of the ships give the
distance in kilometers; the ten white flowers give the distance by the
military road.
"The sun, in the picture, appears to be about three hours high above the
horizon; and it is three hours’ journey from here to the nearest
French fortified post, the Pass of the Falcons in the Vosges.
"The rays of the sun are five in number, three long ones and two short
ones; and there are three battalions of the line guarding the fort at
the pass, and two companies, one of engineers, one of Alpine infantry.
"My informant, who desires to remain anonymous, further declares it to
be his belief that an exhaustive study of this and similar posters would
reveal perfectly clear messages in every detail of color, drawing, and
letter-press; and that it is his firm conviction that these posters,
representing a German firm which manufactures soap, have been placed
throughout Belgium and France for the convenience of an invading army.
"Immediate removal of these advertisements seems advisable in the
opinion of my informant.
"(Signed), SISTER EILA,
"Of the Daughters of St. Vincent de Paul at Saïs."
When she had finished the letter and had unhesitatingly signed it, she
lifted her clear eyes to him in silence.  Her breath came a trifle
unevenly; the tint of excitement grew and waned in her cheeks.
"At least," he said, "you will understand that I am a friend to France."
"Yes, that is evident."
"Will you direct and seal the packet and give it to the postman?"
"Yes."
"And, Sister Eila, if they send gendarmes or other officials to question
you?"
She looked straight into his eyes, deeply, so that her gaze seemed to
plunge into the depths of his very soul.
Then, lifting the cross from the rosary at her girdle, she slipped out
of her chair and knelt down beside her desk, her young head bent low
over the crucifix which she held between the palms of her joined hands.
Halkett, head also lowered, stood motionless.
After a few moments she rose lightly from her knees.
"It is a vow, now," she said.  "I have bound myself to silence
concerning the source of my information—" her untroubled eyes rested
again on his—"because I believe in you, Monsieur."
He started to speak, but seemed to find no word to utter.  A bright
color mounted to his brow; he turned abruptly from the desk and stepped
toward the open door.
And the instant he appeared there, framed by the doorway, a shot rang
out, knocking a cloud of stucco and plaster from the wall beside him.
                              *CHAPTER IX*
He shrank back flat against the wall, edged along it, and slipped
swiftly inside the house. A thick veil of lime dust hung across the open
doorway, gilded by the sunlight.  Crumbs of plaster and mortar still
fell to the schoolroom floor.
Through the heated silence of early afternoon he could hear the distant
cries of the children from their playground; there was no other sound;
nothing stirred; nobody came.
If Warner had noticed the shot at all, no doubt he supposed it to be the
premature report of some piece. To the gaunt, furtive Vosges poacher no
close season exists.  If it did exist, he would cease to.
Halkett slowly turned his head and saw Sister Eila behind him.  She had
risen from her chair at the desk; now she came slowly forward, her deep,
grey eyes fixed on him.  But before she could take another step he laid
his hand firmly on her wide, blue sleeve and forced her back into the
room.
"Keep away from that door," he said quietly.
"Did somebody try to kill you?" she asked.  Her voice was curious, but
perfectly calm.
"I think so....  Don’t show yourself near that door.  They might not be
able to distinguish their target at such a range."
"They?  Who are ’they’?"
"Whoever fired....  I must ask you again to please keep out of range of
that doorway——"
"The shot came from the river willows across the fields, did it not?"
she interrupted.
"I’m very sure of it.  You need not feel any anxiety for the children,
Sister; I am going.  There’ll be no more shots."
"There is a door at the back by the kitchen yard, Mr. Halkett.  They
will not see you if you leave that way."
He stood thinking for a while; then:
"On your account, and on the children’s, I’ll have to show myself again
when I leave the house, so that there’ll be no mistake about my
identity.  Don’t move until after I have gone some distance along the
road. And please say to Mr. Warner that I’ve returned to the inn for
luncheon——"
"There is a door in the rear!  You must not show yourself——"
"Indeed, I must.  Otherwise, they might mistake you or Sister Félicité
or one of the children for me——"
"Mr. Halkett!"  He had already started.
"Yes?" he replied, halting and glancing back; and found her already at
his elbow.
"Why were you shot at?" she asked.  "I desire to know."
He looked her straight in the eyes:
"I can’t tell you why, Sister."
"You say you are English, and that you are a friend to France.  If that
is true, then tell me who shot at you!  Do you know?"
"In a general way, I suppose I do know."
"Do you not trust a French Sister of Charity sufficiently to tell her?"
"What man would not trust a daughter of St. Vincent de Paul?" he said
pleasantly.
"Then tell me.  Perhaps I already guess.  Has it to do with your
knowledge of German advertisements?"
He was silent.
"You are evidently a British agent."  Her deep, grey eyes grew more
earnest.  "You are more!" she said, clasping her hands with sudden
conviction.  "I suspected it the first time I saw you——"
"Please do not say to anybody what it is that you suspect——"
"You are a British officer!" she exclaimed.
"Sister Eila; you could do me much harm by mentioning to others this
belief of yours, or anything concerning this affair.  And—do you
remember that you once said you trusted me?"
"I said it—yes."
"Do you still have confidence in me?"
Their eyes met steadily.
"Yes," she said.  "I believe you to be a friend to France, and to me."
A slight flush edged the snowy wimple which framed the lovely oval of
her face.
"I am your friend; and I am a friend to France—I say as much as that
to you.  I say it because of what you are, and because—you are you.
But ask me no more, Sister.  For men of my profession there are
confessionals as secret and as absolute in authority as those which
shrive the soul."
He hesitated, his eyes shifted from her to the fresh flowers on the
desk, which they had both gathered; he reached over and drew a white
blossom from the glass.
"May I take it with me?"
She bent her head in silence.
Then he turned to go through the deadly doorway, carrying his flower in
his hand; but, as he walked out into the sunshine, Sister Eila stepped
swiftly in front of him, turned on the doorstep, screening him with
extended arms.
"This is the best way," she said.  "They ought to see quite clearly that
I am a Sister of Charity, and they won’t fire at me——"
But he tried to push her aside and spring past her:
"Stand clear of me, for God’s sake!" he said.
"Wait——"
"Sister!  Are you insane?"
"You must be, Mr. Halkett——"
"Keep away, I tell you——"
"Please don’t be rough with me——"
He tried to avoid her, but her strong, young hands had caught both his
wrists.
"They won’t shoot at a Sister of Charity!" she repeated.  "—And I shall
not permit them to murder you!  Be reasonable!  I am not afraid."
She held on to his wrists, keeping always between him and the distant
glimmer of the river:
"I shall walk to the road with you this way; don’t try to shake me off;
I am strong, I warn you!"  She was even laughing now.  "Please do not
wriggle!  Only schoolboys wriggle.  Do you suppose I am afraid? Since
when, Monsieur, have Sisters of Charity taken cover from the enemies of
France?"
"This is shameful for me——"
"You behave, as I have said, like a very bad schoolboy, Mr. Halkett——"
He tried vainly to place himself between her and the river, but could
not disengage her grasp without hurting her.  Then, over his shoulder,
he saw three men come out of the river willows.
"You shall not take this risk——" he insisted.
"Please listen——"
"I take no risk worth mentioning.  It was you who would have walked out
to face their fire—with that smile on your lips and a flower in your
hand!  Did you think that a Grey Sister would permit that? Soyez
convenable, Monsieur.  They will not fire while I am walking beside
you."  She looked over her shoulder. One of the men by the willows was
raising a rifle.
They reached the highway at the same moment, and the roadside bank
sheltered them.  Here she released his arm.
"I beg you to be a little reasonable," she said. "You must leave Saïs at
once.  Promise me, Mr. Halkett——"
"I cannot."
"Why?"
"Sister, if I am really a soldier, as you suppose me to be, perhaps I
have—orders—to remain at Saïs."
"Have you?" she asked frankly.
He turned and looked at her:
"Yes, little comrade."
"That is really serious."
"It must not cause you any anxiety.  I shall ’wriggle’—as you say—out of
this mess when the time comes. I may start tonight."
"For London?  Do you wriggle as far as that?"
He said gravely:
"You know more about me now from my own lips than I would admit, even
prompted by a firing squad. I trusted you even before you faced death
for me on that doorstep a moment ago.  Did you see that man come out of
the willows and level his rifle at us?"
She said tranquilly:
"We daughters of St. Vincent de Paul never heed such things."
"I know you don’t; I know what are your traditions. Many a Sister of
your Order has fallen under rifle and shell fire on the battlefields of
the world; many have died of the pest in hospitals; many have succumbed
to exposure.  The history of modern war is the history of the Grey
Sisters.  What you have just done, as a matter of course, is already
part of that history.  And so—" he looked down at her crucifix and
rosary—"and so, Sister, and comrade, I shall tell you what it would not
be possible for me to admit to any other living soul in France.  Yes; I
am a British officer on special and secret duty.  I left the United
States two weeks ago.  Trouble began in Holland.  I am now on my way to
London.  Orders came today halting me at Saïs.  Enemies of France are
annoying me—people who are becoming more desperate and more determined
as the hours pass and the moment approaches swiftly when they can no
longer hope to interfere with me. That moment will come when war is
declared.  It will be declared.  I shall be very glad to arrive in
England.  Now I have told you almost everything, Sister Eila.  My honor
is in your keeping; my devotion is for my own country, for France—and
for you."
"I have made one vow of silence," she said simply. "I shall make
another—never to breathe one word of this."
"You need not.  Just say to me that you will not speak."
Her lovely face became as solemn as a child’s:
"I shall not speak, Mr. Halkett."
"That settles it," he said.  "If it lay with me, I’d trust you with
every secret in our War Office!"  He checked himself, hesitated, then:
"Sister Eila, if anything happens to me, go to Mr. Warner and ask him
for that envelope.  There are sure to be British soldiers in France
before very long.  Give that envelope to some British officer."
After a moment she laughed:
"Englishmen are odd—odd!  They are just boys. They are delightful.  I
shall do what you ask.... And there is your inn....  Am I tired?  I?
Vous plaisantez, Monsieur!  But, Mr. Halkett, what would be the object
in your walking back with me?  I should only have to walk back here
again with you!  It would continue ad infinitum."
They both laughed.
"When trouble finally comes, and if I am hit, I pray I may lie in your
ward," he said gayly.
Her smile faded:
"I shall pray so, too," she said.
"I’d feel like a little boy safe in his own nursery," he added, still
smiling.
"I am—happy—to have you think of me in that way."  Her smile glimmered
anew in her eyes.  "I should be a devoted nurse."  She made him a
friendly little signal of adieu and turned away.
Hat in hand, he stood looking after the grey-blue figure under the snowy
headdress.
At the turn of the road she looked back, saw him, still standing there;
and again, from the distance, she made him a pretty gesture of caution
and of farewell. Then the grassy bank hid her from view.
At the Inn of the Golden Peach, Warner’s Harem was already lunching.
Through the open windows of the dining-room came a discreet clatter of
tableware and crockery, and a breezy, cheery tumult like the chatter in
an aviary.
Halkett, not fancying it, went around the house to the quiet garden.
Here he wandered to and fro among the trees or stood about aimlessly,
looking down at the flower beds where, kneeling beside Sister Eila, he
had aided her to fill her ozier basket.
Later Warner found him seated under the arbor with Ariadne on his knee;
and a few moments afterward the maid, Linette, served their luncheon.
Neither of the young men was very communicative, but after the dishes
and cloth had been removed, and when Halkett, musing over his cigarette
and coffee, still exhibited no initiative toward conversation, Warner
broke the silence:
"What about that shot?" he asked bluntly.
"What shot?"
"Don’t you want to talk about it?"
Halkett glanced up, amused:
"Well, I suppose there was no hiding that bullet hole and the plaster
dust from Sister Félicité."
"Of course not.  The bullet ripped out the lathing. Who was it fired at
the school?  Or was it at you they let go?"
"Didn’t you ask Sister Eila?"
"I did.  She absolutely refused to discuss it, and referred us both to
you.  It was no accident, was it?"
"No."
"Somebody tried to get you?"
"It rather looked that way."
"Our friends in the grey car, of course!" concluded Warner.
"Not necessarily.  They have other friends who might be equally
attentive to me.  I don’t know who shot at me.  There were three of them
over by the river."
"Well, Halkett, don’t you think you had better remain indoors for a
while?"
"I’d better, I suppose."  He laughed.  "Honestly, I’m sick of being shot
at.  One of these days they’ll hit me, if they’re not very careful."
But Warner did not smile.
"Do you promise to stay indoors?" he insisted.
"I’ll see.  Perhaps."
"Don’t you think it advisable for you to carry some sort of a
firearm—one of my automatics, for example?"
"Thanks, old fellow.  I think I’ll do that, if you can spare a section
of your artillery for a day or two."
Warner promptly fished an automatic out of his hip pocket, and Halkett
took it and examined it.
"So I’m to do the Wild West business after all," he said gayly.  "Right
you are, old chap.  I know how it’s done; I’ve read about it in your
novels.  You wait till your enemy takes a drop, then you get the drop!"
He laughed at his British joke.  And, having no hip pocket, he stowed
away the lumpy bluish weapon in a side pocket of his coat.
"Now, don’t let me interfere with your daily routine," he continued.  "I
shall do very well here in the arbor while you lead your Harem toward
the Olympian heights."
"Sometimes I feel like pushing ’em off those cliffs," muttered Warner.
"All right; I fancy you’ll be snug enough in the garden, here with
Ariadne, till I return. We shall have the whole house to ourselves after
dinner.  The Harem migrates to Ausone for overnight to do street
sketches tomorrow, and returns the next morning for a general criticism.
So if you’ll amuse yourself——"
"I shall be quite comfortable, thanks.  If anybody climbs the wall to
pot me, we’ll turn loose on ’em, this time—won’t we, old
girl?"—caressing Ariadne, who had returned to his knee.
Half an hour afterward Warner went away in the wake of the Harem; and at
the end of the second hour he gave them a final criticism before they
started for Ausone.
Much good it did them; but they adored it; they even adored his
sarcasms.  For the Harem truly worshiped this young man—a fact of which
he remained uncomfortably conscious, timidly aware that warier men than
he had been landed by maidens less adept than they.
So it was with his usual sense of deep relief that he saluted the Harem,
picked up his own kit and canvases, and wandered at hazard through a
little poplar grove and out of it on the other edge.
A wild meadow, deep with tasseled grasses and field flowers, stretched
away before him, where swallows sailed and soared and skimmed—where blue
lupin, bouton d’or, meadowsweet, and slender, silvery stems crowned
with queen’s lace grew tall, and the heliotrope perfume of hidden
hawkweed scented every fitful little wind.
But what immediately fixed his attention was a distant figure wading
waist-deep amid the grasses—a slim, brilliant shape, which became oddly
familiar as it drew nearer, moving forward with light and boyish grace,
stirring within him vaguely agreeable recollections.
Then, in spite of her peasant’s dress, he recognized her; and he walked
swiftly forward to meet her.  The figure out there in the sunshine saw
him coming and lifted one arm in distant recognition and salute.
They met in mid-meadow, Warner and the girl Philippa.
Her short skirt and low peasant bodice had faded to a rose-geranium
tint; her white chemisette, laced with black, was open wide below the
throat.  Black velvet straps crossed it on the shoulders and around the
cuffs.  Her hair was tied with a big black silk bow.
"How in the world did you come to be here?" he asked, not yet releasing
the eager, warm little hands so frankly clasped between both of his.
Philippa laughed with sheerest happiness:
"Figurez-vous, Monsieur.  I have been punting since early morning; and
when I found myself so near to Saïs I was ready to drop with heat and
fatigue: ’Mais, n’importe!  Allons!’ I said to myself.  ’Courage, little
one!  Very soon you shall see Mr. Warner painting a noble picture by the
river!’  Et puis——"  She tightened her clasp on his hands with an
adorable laugh, "Nous voici enfin ensemble—tous les deux—vous et moi!
Et je suis bien content et bien fatiguée."
"But, Philippa—how in the world do you propose to get back to Ausone
tonight?"
She shrugged, looked up as though protesting to the very skies:
"I have this instant arrived, and his first inquiry is concerning my
departure!  That is not a very friendly welcome."
"Philippa, I am glad to see you——"
"It is time you said so——"
"I thought you understood——"
The girl laughed:
"I understand how glad I am to see you!"  She looked about her in the
sunshine, and touched a tall blossom of queen’s lace with outstretched
fingers.
"How heavenly beautiful is this world of God!" she said with that
charming lack of self-consciousness which the skies of France seem to
germinate even in aliens.  "I am very glad to see you," she repeated
abruptly, "and I am awaiting the expression of your sentiments."
"Of course I am glad to see you, Philippa——"
"That makes me quite happy."  She smiled on him and then looked
curiously at his painting kit.  "If you will choose your picture," she
added, "I shall sit beside you and watch you at your painting.  It will
be agreeable.  We can converse."
So he chose a ferny spot at the wood’s edge, pitched his field easel and
camp stool, and opened his color box; and Philippa seated herself
cross-legged on the short grass beside him, gathering both slim ankles
into her hands.
While he was fussing with his canvas, she sang to herself blithely,
radiantly contented, rocking herself to and fro to the rhythm of her
song:
    "’Hussar en vedette,
    What do you see?
      The sun has set
    And a voice is calling me
    Across the Récollette,
    Where the scented rushes fret
    In the May wind’s breath—
      Et garde à vous, Hussar!
    ’Tis the voice of Death!
      ’Hussar en vedette,
    What do you see?
      The moon has set
    And a white shape beckons me
    Across the Récollette,
    Where the scented rushes fret
    In the night wind’s breath—
      Et garde à vous, Hussar!
    ’Tis the shape of Death!’"
Singing away with the serene unconsciousness of a bird, rocking her
lithe young body, and watching his every movement out of wide grey eyes,
Philippa assisted at the artistic preparations with great content,
missing nothing.
"To squeeze color from tubes must be amusing," she remarked.  "I like to
squeeze out tooth paste."
"I am very sure," said Warner, "that you accomplish more charming
results with your tooth paste than I do with my colors."
The girl laughed, showing her snowy teeth:
"Do you find them pretty, Monsieur?"
"Quite perfect, and therefore in keeping with the remainder of you,
Philippa."
"He really seems to mean it," she said, addressing a grasshopper which
had alighted on her knee.  And to Warner: "Is my face sufficiently
scrubbed to suit you?"
He glanced down at her:
"You have kept your word, haven’t you?"
"Ma foi!  My word is my word....  Listen; I came to Saïs to see you; and
partly because I have something to show you.  It concerns your friend, I
think."
"Mr. Halkett?"
"Yes.  After the fight in our cabaret there was much excitement, but
when you had disappeared, and before the agents de police and the
gendarmes arrived, I found on the floor under the overturned table a
portfolio. In that portfolio was part of an unfinished letter.  It is
written in German.  I could not read it; but, studying it, I recognized
Mr. Halkett’s name written several times.  So I said nothing to anybody,
but I have brought it.  Here it is."
She drew from her bosom a small leather pocketbook.
"Before you examine it," she continued, "I ought to tell you what really
happened at the cabaret.  Those men who attacked Mr. Halkett were in the
employment of Monsieur Wildresse."
"What!" exclaimed Warner.
"It is true.  I was furious when I noticed them creeping up behind him.
I realized instantly what they meant to do, and I cried out—too late.
You ought to be told about this.  Therefore, I came here to tell you.
"And I desire to tell you more.  The three men who were seated across
the hall, and who attempted to pick a quarrel with Mr. Halkett, were
’provocative agents’—Germans.
"The patron knew them and interfered.  Besides, he had his own ideas
and his own ends to serve just then.
"But I saw those three German agents whisper to a fourth—a stranger.
And that man came and seated himself with three other men directly
behind Mr. Halkett, where he stood while you were talking to me——"
"Philippa," he interrupted with blunt impatience, "I don’t understand
all this that you are saying to me. Give me that letter if it concerns
Mr. Halkett."
The girl colored painfully.
"Please don’t speak rudely to me," she said.  "I am trying to behave
honestly——"
"I’m sorry.  I didn’t mean to speak roughly.  Please continue."
"Yes; it is better you should know what happened before you read this
letter.  Well, then, the men who attacked Mr. Halkett naturally got
away; the patron attended to that.  Naturally, also, he desired to have
people believe that the German agents were responsible for the fight,
and they were, therefore, detained by Monsieur Wildresse and were asked
for an explanation. Then they declared that Mr. Halkett was a British
spy, and that they were Belgian police agents with full authority to
arrest him in France.  Which was a lie, of course, but it served its
purpose by increasing the tumult."
"Did they say that they were Belgians?"
"Yes.  I heard them.  They lied.  There was much confusion and
shouting—everybody crowding around and disputing.  The three Germans
pushed their way toward the door; nobody knew whether or not to stop
them."  She shrugged.  "They were gone before people could make up their
minds.  And, as usual, the police came in too late.  Now you know all
there is to tell about what happened after you left the cabaret."
Warner laid aside his brushes, looked curiously at the portfolio which
she held out to him, hesitated, then opened it and drew out three pages
of a letter in German, but written in English script.  Evidently it was
an unfinished fragment of a letter.  He translated it rather freely and
without any great difficulty:
—were followed from New York by this man, Halkett, and a companion of
his named Gray.  Disembarking at Antwerp and going immediately to room
No. 23 in the Hôtel St. Antoine, according to instructions, we walked
directly into a trap, prepared for us, no doubt, by a wireless message
sent from the steamer by the individual, Halkett.  Schmidt was knocked
flat on his back and lay unconscious; me they hurled violently on the
bed; my face was covered with a pillow, my legs and arms held as in a
vise, while they ripped my clothing from me and then literally tore it
to shreds in their search for the papers I carried.
In the lining of my vest they found the information and drawings which
we had been at such pains and danger to secure from the Yankee War
Department.  And now the Yankee Government will find out who has been
robbing it.
Unless we can overtake these individuals, Halkett and Gray, the loss to
us must be irreparable, as we dared not study the plans and formula on
board ship, nor even venture to trust in the security of our stateroom,
believing that British agents might be on board and watching.  God knows
they were.
I regret deeply that we did not suspect Halkett and Gray.
Also, the ship’s officers, crew, stewards, wireless operator—all
evidently were our enemies and in willing collusion with these two
Englishmen.
Gray, on his motor cycle, left Antwerp for Brussels. We shall watch him
and prevent his meeting Halkett in France.  We fear they have divided
the papers between them.
Our orders are to use our own discretion.  Therefore, I repeat that Gray
shall not live to meet Halkett.
As for Halkett, he undoubtedly has some of the papers on his person.  We
missed him in Holland by accident; we unfortunately failed in the city
of Luxembourg, because he was too crafty to cross the viaduct, but slept
that night in a water mill under the walls in the lower city.
We traced him to Diekirch, but missed him again, twice, although
Schmidt, who was posted further along on the narrow-gauge line, fired at
him as a last resort.  For, as you point out, it is better that France
should come into possession of the Harkness shell than that the British
Admiralty should control it.  The very existence of our fleet is now at
stake.  France is slow to accept foreign inventions; but England is
quick as lightning.
So, if necessary, we shall take extreme measures in regard to Halkett
and Gray, and stand the chances that we may secure their papers and get
back to Berlin before the French police interfere.
And if we fail to get away, well, at least England shall not profit by
the Harkness shell.
Meier and Hoffman are following Gray; we are now leaving for Ausone, and
hope to find Halkett somewhere in that vicinity.
I am writing this with difficulty, as the road is not what it ought to
be, and the wind is disconcerting.  Esser is acting as chauffeur——
And there the letter ended.
                              *CHAPTER X*
Philippa was plaiting grass stems when he finished his examination of
the letter.  And while she deftly braided boutons d’or among the green
blades, she continued under her breath the song of the Vidette, casting
an occasional side glance upward at him, where he sat on his camp stool
studying the written fragments.
At length, seeing that he had finished, she tossed aside the flowering
rope of grass, set her elbows on her knees, her rounded chin on her
hands, and regarded him inquiringly, as though, for the moment, she had
done with childish things.
"It is a letter which urgently concerns Mr. Halkett," he nodded coolly.
"Shall I give it to him?"
"Please."
He pocketed the portfolio, hesitated, glanced at his watch, then, with
an absent-minded air, began to pack up his painting kit.  As he unhooked
his toile he looked around at her.
"Philippa," he said, "if you are going to punt back to Ausone, isn’t it
nearly time you started?"
"Aren’t you going to paint any more?" she asked, smiling.
"No.  I think I had better find Mr. Halkett and show him this letter."
"But—I have come all the way from Ausone to pay you a visit!" explained
the girl in hurt surprise. "Didn’t you want to see me?"
"Certainly I want to see you," he replied smilingly. "But to punt up
stream to Ausone this afternoon is going to take you quite a long
while——"
"As for that," she remarked, "it need not concern us. I am not going
back to Ausone."
"Not going back!"
"Listen, please.  Monsieur Wildresse and I have had a disagreement——"
"Nonsense!"
"No, a serious disagreement.  I am not going back to Ausone.  Shall I
tell you all about it?"
"Yes, but listen to me, Philippa.  You can’t run away from your home
merely because you have had a disagreement with your Patron and
guardian."
"Shall I tell you why we disagreed?"
"If you choose.  But that doesn’t justify you in running away from your
home."
The girl shook her head:
"You don’t yet understand.  In our café the French Government compels us
to spy on certain strangers and to report whatever we can discover.
Always it disgusted me to do such a thing.  Now I shall not be obliged
to do it any more, because I am never going back to the Cabaret de
Biribi."
"Do you mean to say that you and Monsieur Wildresse are in the secret
service of your Government?" he asked, astonished.
"That is too dignified an explanation.  I have been an informer since I
was seventeen."
"A—a paid informer?"
"I don’t know whether the Government pays Monsieur Wildresse."
"But he doesn’t do such things for the pleasure of doing them."
"Pleasure?  It is an abominable profession!  It is unclean."
"Then why do you do it?" he demanded, amazed.
"I am not perfectly sure why.  I know that the Patron is afraid of the
Government.  That, I suppose, is why we have been obliged to take orders
from them."
"Afraid?  Why?"
"It’s partly on Jacques’ account—his son’s.  If we do what they ask of
us they say that they won’t send him to New Caledonia.  But I believe it
is all blague."  She looked up at Warner out of her troubled grey
eyes. "Espionage—that has been my metier since I was taken out of
school—to listen in the cabaret, to learn to keep my eyes open, to
relate to the Patron whatever I saw or heard concerning any client the
Government desired him to watch....  Do you think that is a very
pleasant life for a young girl?"
His face became expressionless.
"Not very," he said.  "Go on."
She said thoughtfully:
"It is a horrible profession, Mr. Warner.  Why should I continue it?
Are there no police?  Why should I, Philippa Wildresse, do their dirty
work? Can you explain?  Alors, I have asked myself that many, many
times.  Today, at last, I have answered my own question: I shall never
again play the spy for anybody!  C’est fini!  Voilà!"
Warner remained silent.
"Why, it is revolting!" she exclaimed.  "Figurez-vous, Monsieur!  I was
even signaled to spy upon you! Can you conceive such a thing?"
"On me?" he repeated, bewildered and angry.
"Certainly.  That is why I danced with you.  I am permitted to dance
only with clients under observation."
Her unflattering candor sent a flush to his face.  His latent vanity had
been rather rudely surprised.
"Afterward," she continued, "I knew you could not be the man they
wanted——"
"What man did they want?"
"Somebody who had stolen documents in America, I believe.  But I was
sure that you were honest."
"Why?"
Philippa lifted her grey eyes:
"Because you were honest with me."
"How, honest?"
"You did not make love to me.  Dishonest men always regard women as a
pastime.  To make advances is the first thing I expect from them.  I am
never disappointed.  All men are more or less dishonest—excepting you."
"This is a sorry school you have been brought up in," he said grimly.
"Do you mean that I have had my schooling by observing life?"
"Yes—a life in a cabaret full of rastaoqueres and cocottes—a rather
limited and sordid outlook, Philippa.  The world lies outside."
"Still—it is life.  Even a cocotte is part of life."
"So is disease.  But it isn’t all there is in life."
"Nor is life in a cabaret all corruption.  A cabaret is merely the world
in miniature; all types pass in and out; they come and go as souls are
born and go: the door opens and closes; one sees a new face, one loses
it.  It is much like birth and death."
She made an unconsciously graceful gesture toward the white clouds
overhead.
"A cabaret," she went on seriously, "is a republic governed by the
patron, audited by the caissière, policed by waiters.  Everybody goes
there—even you, Monsieur.  All languages are spoken there, all questions
discussed, all theories aired, all passions ventilated. Every trait of
human nature is to be observed there; the germ of every comedy; the
motive of every tragedy.... Yet, as you say, it is a saddening
school.... Wisdom is too early acquired there.  One learns too quickly
and too completely in such a school.  Such an education means precocity.
It foreshadows the early death of youth, Monsieur....  If I remain
there, all that is still young in me will die, now, very quickly."
"You poor child!"
She shrugged her shoulders.
"Therefore," she said, "I am leaving.  Now do you understand?"
He sat looking at her, wondering uneasily at her intelligence and her
ability to express herself.  Here was a maturity of mind unexpected in
this girl.  So far it had not visibly altered the youth of her, nor
impaired her sweetness and honesty.
In spite of the appalling surroundings amid which she had matured, her
mind and heart still remained young.
Biting a tasselled grass stem reflectively, she sat thinking for a few
moments, then she reverted to the subject of Wildresse and his son.
"I am convinced that it is all blague," she repeated, "—this threat of
Noumea.  Unless Jacques misbehaves very seriously in Biribi, nobody can
send him to La Nouvelle.  Besides, if his father chooses to oblige the
Government, what does it matter about me?  No; I have had enough of
degradation.  An hour on the river with you was enough to settle it."
"But what do you intend to do, Philippa?" he inquired.
She looked up at him with her winning smile:
"I came to ask you that.  Please tell me what I am to do."
"You must not ask me——"
"Of course.  You are the first man who ever pleased me.  You please me
more and more.  Why should I not come to you in my perplexity and say,
’What am I to do, my friend?’"
He reddened at that; found nothing to answer.  The sudden and grotesque
responsibility which this young girl was so lightly placing upon his
shoulders might have amused if it had not disconcerted him.  But it did
not disconcert her.
"What am I to do, Mr. Warner?" she repeated with a smile of perfect
confidence.
"Why, I don’t know, Philippa.  What can you do down here at Saïs?"
"Tell me!" she insisted with undisturbed serenity.
"You couldn’t very well remain here.  You will have to go back to Ausone
and consider this matter more seriously——"
"Ah, ça—non!  I shall not go back!"
"What do you propose to do?"
She bit her grass stem:
"I don’t know.  I have my trunk in the punt——"
"What!"
"Certainly, I brought my effects!  I have some money—not very much.  I
shall go to the inn and remain there until you have decided what it is
best for me to do."
