enjoying. He had kept his eyes fixed on the game that ensures mere
luxury, and he had let Esther go out into the market and buy for them
both the only sort of happiness her eyes could see. He loved this
dancing rout. He envied these boys and girls their passion and facility.
They were, the most ignorant of them, of another stripe from arid New
Englanders encased in their temperamental calm, the women, in a
laughable self-satisfaction, leading the intellectual life and their men
set on "making good". The poorest child of the East and South had an
inheritance that made him responsive, fluent, even while it left him
hot-headed and even froward. There was something, he saw, in this idea
of the melting-pot, if only the mingling could be managed by gods that
saw the future. You couldn't make a wonder of a bell if you poured your
metal into an imperfect mould. The mould must be flawless and the metal
cunningly mixed; and then how clear the tone, how resonant! It wasn't
the tarantella only that led him this long wandering. It was the quality
of the dancers; and through all the changing steps and measures Anne and
Lydia, too, were moving, Lydia a joyous leader in the temperamental rush
and swing.
Mrs. Choate, stately in dark silk and lace and quite unlike the
revolutionary matron who had lain in bed and let her soul loose with the
"Mysteries of Paris," sat between her son and daughter and was silent
though she grew bright-eyed. Mary whispered to her:
"Anne looks very sweet, doesn't she? but not at all like a dancer."
"Sweet," said the mother.
"Anne doesn't belong there, does she?" said Alston.
"No," said the mother. "Lydia does."
"Yes."
Alston, too, was moved by the spectacle, but he thought dove-like Anne
far finer in the rout than gipsy Lydia. His mother followed his thoughts
exactly, but while she placidly agreed, it was Lydia she inwardly
envied, Lydia who had youth and a hot heart and not too much scruple to
keep her from giving each their way.
When it was over, Jeff waited for Anne and Lydia, to carry home their
parcels. He stood for a moment beside Andrea, and Andrea regarded him
with that absurd devotion he exuded for The Prisoner. Jeff smiled at him
even affectionately, though quizzically. He wished he knew what picture
of him was under Andrea's skull. A sudden impulse seized him to make the
man his confidant.
"Andrea," said he, "I want you fellows to act plays with me."
Andrea looked enchanted.
"What play?" he asked.
"Shakespeare," said Jeff. "In English. That's your language, Andrea, if
you're going to live here."
Andrea's face died into a dull denial. A sort of glaze even seemed to
settle over the surface of his eyes. He gave a perfunctory grunt, and
Jeff caught him up on it.
"Won't she allow it?" he hazarded. "Madame Beattie?"
Andrea was really caught and quite evidently relieved, too, if Jeff
understood so well. He smiled again. His eyes took on their wonted
shining. Jeff, relying on Anne's and Lydia's delay, stayed not an
instant, but ran out of the side door and along to the front where
Madame Beattie, he knew, was making a stately progress, accepting
greetings in a magnificent calm. He got to the door as she did, and she
gave him the same royal recognition. She was dressed in black, her head
draped with lace, and she really did look a distinguished personage. But
Jeff was not to be put off with a mere greeting. He called her name.
"You may take me home," she said.
"I can't," said Jeff ruthlessly, when he had got her out of earshot.
"I'm going to carry things for Anne."
"No, you're not." She put her hand through his arm and leaned heavily
and luxuriously. "Good Lord, Jeff, why can't New Englanders dance like
those shoemakers' daughters? What is it in this climate that dries up
the blood?"
"Madame Beattie," said Jeff, "you've got to give away the game. You've
got to tell me how you've hypnotised every man Jack of those people
there to-night so they won't do a reasonable thing I ask 'em unless
they've had your permission."
"What do you want to do?" But she was pleased. There was somebody under
her foot.
"I want to rehearse some plays in English. And I gather from the leader
of the clan--"
"Andrea?"
"Yes, Andrea. They won't do it unless you tell them to."
"Of course they won't," said Madame Beattie.
"Then why won't they? What's your infernal spell?"
"It's the spell of the East. And you can't tempt them with anything that
comes out of the West."
"Their food comes out of the West," said Jeff, smarting.
"Oh, that! Well, that's about all you can give them. That's what they
come for."
"All of them? Good God!"
"Not good God at all. Don't you know what a man is led by? His belly.
But they don't all come for that. Some come for--" She laughed, a rather
cackling laugh.
"What?" Jeff asked her sternly. He shook her arm involuntarily.
"Freedom. That's talked about still. And a lot of demagogues like your
Weedon Moore get hold of 'em and debauch 'em and make 'em drunk."
"Drunk?"
"No, no. Not on liquor. Better if they did. But they tell 'em they're
gods and all they've got to do is to climb up on a throne and crown
themselves."
"Then why won't you," said Jeff, in wrath, "let me knock something else
into their heads. You can't do it by facts. There aren't many facts
just now that aren't shameful. Why can't you let me do it by poetry?"
Madame Beattie stopped in the street and gazed up at the bright heaven.
She was remembering how the stars looked in Italy when she was young and
sure her voice would sound quite over the world. She seldom challenged
the stars now, they moved her so, in an almost terrible way. What had
she made of life, they austerely asked her, she who had been driven by
them to love and all the excellencies of youth? But then, in answer, she
would ask them what they had done for her.
"Jeff," said she, "you couldn't do it in a million years. They'll do
anything for me, because I bring their own homes to them, but they
couldn't make themselves over, even for me."
"They like me," said Jeff, "for some mysterious reason."
"They like you because I've told them to."
"I don't believe it." But in his heart he did.
"Jeff," said she, "life isn't a matter of fact, it's a matter of
feeling. You can't persuade men and women born in Italy and Greece and
Syria and Russia that they're happy in this little bare town. It doesn't
smell right to them. Their hearts are somewhere else. And they want
nothing so much in the world as to get a breath from there or hear a
story or see somebody that's lived there. Lived--not stayed in a
pension."
"Do they feel so when they've seen their sisters and cousins and aunts
carved up into little pieces there?" Jeff asked scoffingly. But she was
hypnotising him, too. He could believe they did.
"What have you to offer 'em, Jeff, besides wages and a prospect of not
being assassinated? That's something, but by God! it isn't everything."
She swore quite simply because out in the night even in the straight
street of a New England town she felt like it and was carelessly willing
to abide by the chance of God's objecting.
"But I don't see," said Jeff, "why you won't let me have my try at it."
He was waiting for her to signify her readiness to go on, and now she
did.
"Because now, Jeff, they do think you're a god. If they saw you trying
to produce the Merchant of Venice they'd be bored and they wouldn't
think so any more."
"Have you any objection," said Jeff, "to my trying to produce the
Merchant of Venice with English-speaking children of foreigners?"
"Not a grain," said Madame Beattie cordially. "There's your chance. Or
you can get up a pageant, if you like-, another summer. But you'll have
to let these people act their own historic events in their own way. And,
Jeff, don't be a fool." They were standing before her door and Esther at
the darkened window above was looking down on them. Esther had not gone
to the dances because she knew who would be there. She told herself she
was afraid of seeing Jeff and because she had said it often enough she
believed it. "Tell Lydia to come to see me to-morrow," said Madame
Beattie. Sophy had opened the door. It came open quite easily now since
the night Madame Beattie had called Esther's name aloud in the street.
Jeff took off his hat and turned away. He did not mean to tell Lydia.
She saw enough of Madame Beattie, without instigation.
XXVIII
Lydia needed no reminder to go to Madame Beattie. The next day, in the
early afternoon, she was taking her unabashed course by the back stairs
to Madame Beattie's bedchamber. She would not allow herself to be
embarrassed or ashamed. If Esther treated Madame Beattie with a proper
hospitality, she reasoned when her mind misgave her, it would not be
necessary to enter by a furtive way. Madame Beattie was dressed and in a
high state of exhilaration. She beckoned Lydia to her where she sat by a
window commanding the street, and laid a hand upon her wrist.
"I've actually done it," said she. "I've got on her nerves. She's going
away."
The clouds over Lydia seemed to lift. Yet it was incredible that Esther,
this charming sinister figure always in the background or else blocking
everybody's natural movements, should really take herself elsewhere.
"It's only to New York," said Madame Beattie. "She tells me that much.
But she's going because I've ransacked her room till she sees I'm bound
to find the necklace."
Lydia was tired from the night before; her vitality was low enough to
waken in her the involuntary rebuttal, "I don't believe there is any
necklace." But she only passed a hand over her forehead and pushed up
her hair and then drew a little chair to Madame Beattie's side.
"So you think she'll come back?" she asked drearily.
"Of course. She's only going for a couple of days. You don't suppose
she'd leave me here to conspire with Susan? She'll put the necklace into
a safe. That's all."
"But you mustn't let her, must you?"
"Oh, I sha'n't let her. Of course I sha'n't."
"What shall you do?"
"She's not going till night. She takes Sophy, of course."
"But what can you do?"
"I shall consult that dirty little man. He's a lawyer and he's not in
love with her."
"Mr. Moore? You haven't much time, Madame Beattie. She'll be going."
"That's why I'm dressed," said Madame Beattie. "I shall go in a minute.
He can give me a warrant or something to search her things."
Lydia went at once, with a noiseless foot. She felt a sudden distaste
for the accomplished fact of Esther face to face with justice. Yet she
did not flinch in her certainty that nemesis must be obeyed and even
aided. Only the secrecy of it led her to a hatred of her own silent ways
in the house, and as she often did, she turned to her right instead of
to her left and walked to the front stairs. There at her hand was
Esther's room, the door wide open. Downstairs she could hear her voice
in colloquy with Sophy. Rhoda's voice, on this floor, made some curt
remark. Everybody was accounted for. Lydia's heart was choking her, but
she stepped softly into Esther's room. It seemed to her, in her
quickened feeling, that she could see clairvoyantly through the matter
that kept her from her quest. A travelling bag, open, stood on the
floor. There was a hand-bag on the bed, and Lydia, as if taking a
predestined step, went to it, slipped the clasp and looked. A purse was
there, a tiny mirror, a book that might have been an address book, and
in the bottom a roll of tissue paper. Nothing could have stopped her
now. She had to know what was in the roll. It was a lumpy parcel, thrown
together in haste as if, perhaps, Esther had thought of making it look
as if it were of no account. She tore it open and found, with no
surprise, as if this were an old dream, the hard brightness of the
jewels.
"There it is," she whispered to herself, with the scant breath her
choking heart would lend her. "Oh, there it is!"
She rolled the necklace in its paper and closed the bag. With no
precaution she walked out of the room and down the stairs. The voices
still went on, Esther's and Sophy's from the library, and she did not
know whether Madame Beattie had already left the house. But opening the
front door, still with no precaution, she closed it sharply behind her
and walked along the street in sunshine that hurt her eyes.
Lydia went straight home, not thinking at all about what she had done,
but wondering what she should do now. Suddenly she felt the
unfriendliness of the world. Madame Beattie, her ally up to this moment,
was now a foe. For whether justly or not, Madame Beattie would claim the
necklace, and how could Lydia know Jeff had not already paid her for it?
And Anne, soft, sweet Anne, what would she do if Lydia threw it in her
lap and said, "Look! I took it out of Esther's bag." She was thinking
very clearly, it seemed to her, and the solution that looked most like a
high business sagacity made it likely that she ought to carry it to
Alston Choate. He was her lawyer. And yet indeed he was not, for he did
nothing for her. He was only playing with her, to please Anne. But all
the while she was debating her feet carried her to the only person she
had known they would inevitably seek. She went directly upstairs to
Jeffrey's room where he might be writing at that hour.
He was there. His day's work had gone well. He was beginning to have the
sense the writer sometimes has, in a fortunate hour, of divine intention
in his task. Jeff was enjoying an egoistic interlude of feeling that the
things which had happened to him had been personally intended to bring
him to a certain deed. The richness of the world was crowding on him,
the bigness of it, the dangers. He could scarcely choose, among such
diversities, what to say. And dominating everything he had to say in the
compass of this one book was the sense of life, life at its full, and
the stupidity of calling such a world bare of wonders. And to him in his
half creative, half exulting dream came Lydia, her face drawn to an
extremity of what looked like apprehension. Or was it triumph? She might
have been under the influence of a drug that had induced in her a wild
excitement and at the same time strung her nerves to highest pitch.
Jeff, looking up at her, pushed his papers back.
"What is it?" he asked.
Lydia, for answer, moved up to his table and placed the parcel there
before him. It was the more shapeless and disordered from the warm
clutch of her despairing hand. He took it up and carelessly unrolled it.
The paper lay open in his palm; he saw and dropped the necklace to the
table. There it lay, glittering up at him. Lydia might have expected
some wondering or tragic exclamation; but she did not get it. He was
astonished. He said quite simply:
"Aunt Patricia's necklace." Then he looked up at her, and their eyes
met, hers with desperate expectation and his holding her gaze in an
unmoved questioning. "Did she give it to you?" he asked, and she shook
her head with a negation almost imperceptible. "No," said Jeffrey to
himself. "She didn't have it. Who did have it?"
He let it lie on the table before him and gazed at the bauble in a
strong distaste. Here it was again, a nothingness coming between him and
his vision of the real things of the earth. It seemed singularly trivial
to him, and yet powerful, too, because he knew how it had moved men's
minds.
"Where did you get it?" he asked, looking up at Lydia.
Something inside her throat had swollen. She swallowed over it with
difficulty before she spoke. But she did speak.
"I took it."
"Took it?"
He got up, and, with a belated courtesy, pulled forward a chair. But
Lydia did not see it. Her eyes were fixed on his face, as if in its
changes would lie her destiny.
"You mean you found it."
"No. I didn't find it. I took it."
"You must have found it first."
"I looked for it," said Lydia.
"Where?"
"In Esther's bag."
Jeffrey stood staring at her, and Lydia unwinkingly stared at him. She
was conscious of but one desire: that he would not scowl so. And yet she
knew it was the effort of attention and no hostile sign. He spoke now,
and gently because he saw how great a strain she was under.
"You'll have to tell me about it, Lydia. Where was the bag?"
"It was on her bed," said Lydia. "I went into the room and saw it there.
Madame Beattie told me she was going to New York--"
"That Madame Beattie was?"
"No. Esther. To hide the necklace. So Madame Beattie shouldn't get it.
And I saw the bag. And I knew the necklace must be in it. So I took it."
By this time her hands were shaking and her lips chattered piteously.
Jeffrey was wholly perplexed, but bitterly sorry for her.
"What made you bring it here, dear?" said he.
Lydia caught at the endearing word, and something like a spasm moved her
face.
"I had to," said she. "It has made all the trouble."
"But I don't want it," said Jeffrey. "Whatever trouble it made is over
and done with. However this came into Esther's hands--"
"Oh, I know how that was," said Lydia. "She stole it. Madame Beattie
says so."
"And whatever she is going to do with it now--that isn't a matter for me
to meddle with."
"Don't you care?" said Lydia, in a passionate outcry. "Now you've got it
in your hand, don't you care?"
"Why," said Jeff, "what could I do with it?"
"If you know it's Madame Beattie's, you can take it to her and tell her
she can go back to Europe and stop hounding you for money."
"How do you know she's hounded me?"
"She says so. She wants you to get into politics and into business and
pay her back."
"But that's what you've wanted me to do yourself."
"Oh," said Lydia, in a great breath of despairing love, "I want you to
do what you want to. I want you to sit here at this table and write.
Because then you look happy. And you don't look so any other time."
Jeff stood gazing at her in a compassion that brought a smart to his
eyes. This, a sad certainty told him, was love, the love that is
unthinking. She was suffocated by the pure desire to give the earth to
him and herself with it. What disaster might come from it to her or to
the earth, her lulled brain did not consider. The self-immolation of
passion had benumbed her. And now she looked at him beseechingly, as if
to beg him only not to scorn her gift. Her emotion transferred itself to
him. He must be the one to act; but disappointingly, he knew, with the
mind coming in to school disastrous feeling and warn it not again to
scale such heights or drop into such depths.
"Lydia," said he, "you must leave this thing here with me."
His hand indicated by a motion the hateful bauble that lay there
glittering at them.
"Why, yes," said she. "I've left it with you."
"I mean you must leave it altogether, the decision what to do with it,
even the fact of your having had anything whatever to do with it
yourself."
Lydia nodded, watching him. It had not occurred to her that there need
be any concealment. She had meant to indicate that to herself when she
walked so boldly down the front stairs and clanged the door and went
along the street with the parcel plainly in her hand. If there was a
slight drop in her expectation now, she did not show it. What she had
indeed believed was that Jeff would greet the necklace with an
incredulous joy and flaunt it in the face of Esther who had stolen it,
while he gave it back to Madame Beattie, who had preyed on him.
"Do you understand?" said he. "You mustn't speak of it."
"I shall have to tell," said Lydia, "if anybody asks me. If I didn't it
would be--queer."
"It's a great deal more than queer," said Jeff.
He smiled now, and she drew a happy breath. And he was amused, in a grim
way. He had been, for a long time, calling himself plain thief, and
taking no credit because his theft was what might have seemed a crime of
passion of a sort. He had put himself "outside ", and now this child had
committed a crime of passion and she was outside, too. Her ignorant
daring frightened him. At any instant she might declare her guilt. She
needed to be brought face to face, for her own safety, with the names of
things.
"Lydia," said he, "you know what it would be called--this taking
something out of another woman's bag?"
"No," said Lydia.
"Theft," said he. He meant to have no mercy on her until he had roused
her dormant caution. "If you take what is not yours you are a thief."
"But," said Lydia, "I took it from Esther and it wasn't hers, either."
She was unshaken in her candour, but he noted the trembling of her lip
and he could go no further.
"Leave it with me," he said. "And promise me one thing. Don't speak to
anybody about it."
"Unless they ask me," said Lydia.
"Not even if they ask you. Go to your room and shut yourself in. And
don't talk to anybody till I see you again."
She turned obediently, and her slender back moved him with a compassion
it would have been madness to recognise. The plain man in him was in
physical rebellion against the rules of life that made it criminal to
take a sweet creature like this into your arms to comfort her when she
most needed it and pour out upon her your gratitude and adoration.
Jeff took the necklace and its bed of crumpled paper with it, wrapped it
up and, holding it in his hand as Lydia had done, walked downstairs, got
his hat and went off to Esther's. What he could do there he did not
fully know, save to fulfil the immediate need of putting the jewels into
some hand more ready for them than his own. He had no slightest wish to
settle the rights of the case in any way whatever. "Then," his mind was
saying in spite of him, "Esther did have the necklace." But even that he
was horribly unwilling to face. There was no Esther now; but he hated,
from a species of decency, to drag out the bright dream that had been
Esther and smear it over with these blackening certainties. "Let be,"
his young self cried to him. "She was at least a part of youth, and
youth was dear." Why should she be pilloried since youth must stand
fettered with her for the old wrongs that were a part of the old
imagined sweetness? The sweetnesses and the wrongs had grown together
like roots inextricably mingled. To tear out the weeds you would rend
also the roots they twined among.
In a stern musing he was at Esther's door before he had decided what to
say, had knocked and Sophy, large-eyed and shaken out of her specious
calm, had admitted him. She did not question him nor did Jeffrey even
ask for Esther. With the opening of the door he heard voices, and now
the sound of an angry crying, and Sophy herself had the air of an
unwilling servitor at a strange occasion. Jeffrey, standing in the
doorway of the library, faced the group there. Esther was seated on a
low chair, her face crumpled and red, as if she had just wiped it free
of tears. The handkerchief, clutched into a ball in her angry fist, gave
further evidence. Madame Beattie, enormously amused, sat in the handsome
straight-backed chair that became her most, and unaffectedly and broadly
smiled. And Alston Choate, rather pale in a sternness of judicial
consideration, stood, hands in his pockets, and regarded them. At
Jeffrey's entrance they looked up at him and Esther instantly sprang to
her feet and retreated to a position at the right of Choate, where he
might be conceived of as standing in the position of tacitly protecting
her. Jeff, the little parcel in his hand, advanced upon them.
"Here is the necklace," said he, in a perfectly commonplace tone. "I
suppose that's what you are talking about."
Esther's eyes, by the burning force he felt in them, seemed to draw his,
and he looked at her, as if to inquire what was to be done with it now
it was here. Esther did not wait for any one to put that question. She
spoke sharply, as if the words leaped to utterance.
"The necklace was stolen. It was taken out of this house. Who took it?"
Jeffrey had not for a moment wondered whether he might be asked. But now
he saw Lydia as he had left her, in her childish misery, and answered
instantly: "I took it."
Alston Choate gave a little exclamation, of amazement, of disgust. Then
he drew the matter into his own judicial hands. "Where did you take it
from?" he asked.
Jeffrey looked at him in a grave consideration. Alston Choate seemed to
him a negligible quantity; so did Esther and so did Madame Beattie. All
he wanted was to clear the slender shoulders of poor savage, wretched
Lydia at home.
"Do you mind telling me, Jeffrey?" Alston was asking, in quite a human
way considering that he embodied the majesty of the law. "You couldn't
have walked into this house and taken a thing which didn't belong to you
and carried it away."
His tone was rather a chaffing one, a recall to the intercourse of
everyday life. "Be advised," it said. "Don't carry a dull joke too far."
"Certainly I took it," said Jeffrey, smiling at Alston broadly. He was
amused now, little more. He saw how his background of wholesale thievery
would serve him in the general eye. Not old Alston's. He did not think
for a moment Alston would believe him, but it seemed more or less of a
grim joke to ask him to. "Don't you know," he said, "I'm an ex-convict?
Once a jailbird, always a jailbird. Remember your novels, Choate. You
know more about 'em than you do about law anyway."
Then he saw, with a shock, that Alston really did believe him. He also
knew at the same instant why. Esther was pouring the unspoken flood of
her persuasion upon him. Jeff could almost feel the whiff and wind of
the temperamental rush. He knew how Esther's belief set upon you like an
army with banners when she wanted you also to believe. And still he held
the little crumpled packet in his hand.
"Will you open it?" Alston asked him, with a gentleness of courtesy that
indicated he was sorry indeed, and Jeffrey laid it on the table,
unrolled the paper and let the bauble lie there drinking in the light
and throwing it off again a million times enhanced. Alston advanced to
it and gravely looked down upon it without touching it. Madame Beattie
turned upon it a cursory gaze, and gave a nod that seemed to accept its
identity. But Esther did not look at all. She put her hand on the table
to sustain herself, and her burning eyes never once left Alston's face.
He looked round at her.
"Is this it?" he asked.
She nodded.
"Are you sure?"
"Of course I'm sure," said Esther.
She seemed to ask how a woman could doubt the identity of a trinket she
had clasped about her neck a thousand times, and pored over while it lay
in some hidden nest.
"Ask her," said Madame Beattie, in her tiniest lisp, "if the necklace is
hers."
There flashed into Alston Choate's mind the picture of Lydia, as she
came to his office that day in the early summer, to bring her childish
accusation against Esther. The incident had been neatly pigeonholed, but
only as it affected Anne. It could not affect Esther, he had known then,
with a leap at certainty measured by his belief in her. The belief had
been big enough to offset all possible evidence.
"Ask her," said Madame Beattie, with relish, "where she got it."
When Esther had cried a little at the beginning of the interview, the
low lamenting had moved him beyond hope of endurance, and he had
wondered what he could do if she kept on crying. But now she drew
herself up and looked, not at him, but at Madame Beattie.
"How dare you?" she said, in a low tone, not convincingly to the ears of
those who had heard it said better on the stage, yet with a reproving
passion adequate to the case.
But Alston asked no further questions. Madame Beattie went amicably on.
"Mr. Choate, this matter of the necklace is a family affair. Why don't
you run away and let Jeffrey and his wife--and me, you know--let us
settle it?"
Alston, dismissed, forgot he had been summoned and that Esther might be
still depending on him. He turned about to the door, but she recalled
him.
"Don't go," she said. The words were all in one breath. "Don't go far. I
am afraid."
He hesitated, and Jeffrey said equably but still with a grim amusement:
"I think you'd better go."
So he went out of the room and Esther was left between her two
inquisitors.
XXIX
That she did look upon Jeff as her tormentor he could see. She took a
darting step to the door, but he was closing it.
"Wait a minute," he said. "There are one or two things we've got to get
at. Where did you find the necklace?"
She met his look immovably, in the softest obstinacy. It smote him like
a blow. There was something implacable in it, too, an aversion almost as
fierce as hate.
"This is the necklace," he went on. "It was lost, you know. Where did
you find it, Esther?"
But suddenly Esther remembered she had a counter charge to make.
"You have broken into this house," she said, "and taken it. If it is
Aunt Patricia's, you have taken it from her."
"No," said Aunt Patricia easily, "it isn't altogether mine. Jeff made me
a payment on it a good many years ago."
Esther turned upon her.
"He paid you for it? When?"
"He paid me something," said Madame Beattie. "Not the value of the
necklace. That was when you stole it, Esther. He meant to pay me the
full value. He will, in time. But he paid me what he could to keep you
from being found out. Hush money, Esther."
Queer things were going on in Jeff's mind. The necklace, no matter what
its market price, seemed to him of no value whatever in itself. There
it lay, a glittering gaud; but he had seen a piece of glass that threw
out colours as divinely. Certainly the dew was brighter. But as
evidence, it was very important indeed. The world was a place, he
realised, where we play with counters such as this. They enable us to
speak a language. When Esther had stolen it, the loss had not been so
much the loss of the gems as of his large trust in her. When Madame
Beattie had threatened him with exposing her he had not paid her what he
could because the gems were priceless, but that Esther's reputation was.
And so he had learned that Madame Beattie was unscrupulous. What was he
learning now? Nothing new about Madame Beattie, but something astounding
about Esther. The first upheaval of his faith had merely caused him to
adjust himself to a new sort of Esther, though only to the old idea of
women as most other men had had the sense to take them: children,
destitute of moral sense and its practical applications, immature
mammals desperately in love with enhancing baubles. He had not believed
then that Esther lied to him. She had, he was too sure for questioning,
actually lost the thing. But she had not lost it. She had hidden it,
with an inexplicable purpose, for all these years.
"Esther!" he said. She lifted her head slightly, but gave no other sign
of hearing. "We'll give this back to Madame Beattie."
"No, you won't, Jeff," said Madame Beattie. "I'd rather have the money
for it. Just as soon as you get into the swing again, you'll pay me a
little on the transaction."
"Sell the damned thing then, if you don't want it and do want money,"
said Jeff. "You've got it back."
"I can't sell it." She had half closed her eyes, and her lips gave an
unctious little relish to the words.
"Why can't you?"
"My dear Jeffrey, because, when the Royal Personage who gave it to me
was married, I signed certain papers in connection with this necklace
and I can't sell it, either as a whole or piecemeal. I assure you I
can't."
"Very well," said Jeff. "That's probably poppycock, invented for the
occasion. But you've got your necklace. There it is. Make the most of
it. I never shall pay you another cent."
"Oh, yes, you will," said Madame Beattie. She was unclasping and
clasping a bracelet on her small wrist, and she looked up at him idly
and in a perfect enjoyment of the scene. "Don't you want to pay me for
not continuing my reminiscences in that horrid little man's paper?
Here's the second chapter of the necklace. It was stolen. You come
walking in here and say you've stolen it again. But where from? Out of
Esther's hand-bag. Do you want the dirty little man to print that?
Necklace found in Mrs. Jeffrey Blake's hand-bag?"
Jeff was looking at her sharply.
"I never said I took it from a hand-bag," he rejoined.
Madame Beattie broke down and laughed. She gave the bracelet a final
snap.
"You're quite a clever boy," said she. "Alston Choate wouldn't have seen
that if he'd hammered at it a week. Yes, it was in Esther's bag. I don't
care much how it got out. The question is, how did it get in? How are
you going to shield Esther?"
He was aware that Esther was looking at him in a breathless waiting. The
hatred, he knew, must have gone out of her face. She was the abject
human animal beseeching mercy from the stronger. That she could ask him
whom she had repudiated to stand by her in her distress, hurt him like a
personal degradation. But he was sorry for her, and he would fight. He
answered roughly, at a venture, and he felt her start. Yet the roughness
was not for her.
"No. I shall do nothing whatever," he said, and heard her little cry and
Madame Beattie's assured tone following it, with an uncertainty whether
he had done well.
"You're quite decided?" Madame Beattie was giving him one more chance.
"You're going to let Esther serve her time in the dirty little man's
paper? It'll be something more than publicity here. My word! Her name
will fly over the globe."
He heard Esther's quick breathing nearer and nearer, and then he felt
her hand on his arm. She had crept closer, involuntarily, he could
believe, but drawn by the instinct to be saved. He felt his own heart
beating thickly, with sorrow for her, an agonising ruth that she should
have to sue to him. But he spoke sharply, not looking at her, his eyes
on Madame Beattie's.
"I shall not assume the slightest responsibility in the matter. I have
told you I took the necklace. You can say that in Weedon Moore's paper
till you are both of you--" he paused.
The hand was resting on his arm, and Esther's breathing presence choked
him with a sense of the strangeness of things and the poignant suffering
in mere life.
"I sha'n't mention you," said Madame Beattie. "I know who took the
necklace."
"What?"
His movement must have shaken the touch on his arm, for Esther's hand
fell.
"You don't suppose I'm a fool, do you?" inquired Madame Beattie. "I knew
it was going to happen. I saw the whole thing."
"Then," said Esther, slipping away from him a pace, "you didn't do it
after all."
If he had not been so shaken by Madame Beattie's words he could have
laughed with the grim humour of it. Esther was sorry he had not done it.
"So," said Madame Beattie, "you'd better think twice about it. I'll give
you time. But I shall assuredly publish the name of the person who took
the necklace out of Esther's bag, as well as the fact that it had to be
in Esther's bag or it couldn't have been taken out. Two thieves, Jeff.
You'd better think twice."
"Yes," said Jeff. "I will think. Is it understood?" He walked over to
her and stood there looking down at her.
She glanced pleasantly up at him.
"Of course, my dear boy," she said. "I shouldn't dream of saying a
word--till you've thought twice. But you must think quick, Jeff. I can't
wait forever."
"I swear," said Jeff, "you are--" Neither words nor breath failed him,
but he was afraid of his own passion.
Madame Beattie laughed.
"Jeff," said she, "I've no visible means of support. If I had I should
be as mild--you can't think!"
He turned and, without a look at Esther, strode out of the room. Esther
hardly waited for the door to close behind him before she fell upon
Madame Beattie.
"Who did it?" she cried. "That woman?"
Madame Beattie was exploring a little box for a tablet, which she took
composedly.
"What woman?" she asked.
"That woman upstairs."
"Rhoda Knox? God bless me, no! Rhoda Knox wouldn't steal a button. She's
New England to the bone."
"Sophy?"
"Esther, you're a fool. Why don't you let me manage Jeff in my own way?
You won't manage him yourself." She got up with a clashing of little
chains and yawned broadly. "Don't forget Alston Choate sitting in the
dining-room waiting like a messenger boy."
"In the dining-room?"
"Yes. Did you think he'd go? He's waiting there to hear Jeff assault
you, and come to the rescue. You told him you were afraid." She was on
her way to the door, but she turned. "I may as well take this," she said
idly, and swept the necklace into her hand. She held it up and shook it
in the light, and Esther's eyes, as she knew they would, dwelt on it
with a hungry passion.
"You are taking it away," said Esther. "You've no right to. He said he
had paid you money on it when it was lost. If he did, it belongs to him.
And I'm his wife."
"I might as well take it with me," said Madame Beattie. "You don't act
as if you were his wife."
A quick madness shot into Esther's brain and overwhelmed it, anger, or
fright, she could not tell what. She did not cry out because she knew
Alston Choate was in the next room, but she spoke sobbingly:
"He did take it out of my bag. You have planned it between you to get it
back into your hands."
Madame Beattie laughed pleasantly and went upstairs. And Esther crossed
the little hall and stood in the dining-room door looking at Alston
Choate. As she looked, her heart rose, for she saw conquest easy, in his
bowed head, his frowning glance. He had not wanted to stay, his attitude
told her; he was even yet raging against staying. But he could not leave
her. Passion in him was fighting side by side with feminine
implacability in her against the better part of him. She went forward
and stood before him droopingly, a most engaging picture of the purely
feminine. But he did not look at her, and she had to throw what argument
she might into her voice.
"You were so good to stay," she said, with a little tired sigh. "They've
gone. Come back into the other room."
He rose heavily and followed her, but in the library he did not sit
down. Esther sank into a low chair, leaned back in it and closed her
eyes. She really needed to give way a little. Her nerves were trembling
from the shock of more than one attack on them; fear, anger, these were
what her husband and Madame Beattie had roused in her. Jeffrey was
refusing to help her, and she hated him. But here was another man deftly
moved to her proximity by the ever careful hand of providence that had
made the creatures for her.
Alston stood by the mantel, leaning one elbow on it, with a strange
implication of wanting to put his head down and hide his face.
"Esther!" said he. There was no pretence now of being on terms too
distant to let him use her name.
She looked up at him, softly and appealingly, though he was not looking
at her. But Esther, if she had played Othello, would have blacked
herself all over. Alston began again in a voice of what sounded like an
extreme of irritation.
"For God's sake, tell me about this thing."
"You know all I do," she said brokenly.
"I don't know anything," said Choate. "You tell me your husband----"
"Don't call him that," she entreated.
"Your husband entered this house and took the necklace. I want to know
where he took it from."
"She told you," said Esther scornfully.
He gained a little courage now and ventured to look at her. If she could
repel Madame Beattie's insinuation, it must mean she had something on
her side. And when he looked he wondered, in a rush of pity, how he
could have felt anything for that crushed figure but ruth and love. So
when he spoke again his voice was gentler, and Esther's courage leaped
to meet it.
"I am told the necklace was in your bag. How did it get there?"
"I don't know," said Esther, in a perfect clarity.
His new formed hope crumbled. He could hear inexorably, like a counter
cry, Lydia's voice, saying, "She stole it." Had Esther stolen it? But
Esther did not know Lydia had said it, or that it had ever been said to
him at all, and she was daring more than she would have dared if she had
known of that antagonist.
"It is a plot between them," she said boldly.
"Between whom?"
"Aunt Patricia and him."
"What is the plot?"
"I don't know."
"If you think there was a plot, you must have made up your mind what the
plot was and what they were to gain by it. What do you believe the plot
to have been?"
This was all very stupid, Esther felt, when he might be assuring her of
his unchanged and practical devotion.
"Oh, I don't know," she said irritably. "How should I know?"
"You wouldn't think there was a plot without having some idea of what it
was," he was insisting, in what she thought his stupid way. "What is
your idea it was?"
This was really, she saw, the same question over again, which was
another instance of his heavy literalness. She had to answer, she knew
now, unless she was to dismiss him, disaffected.
"She put the necklace in my bag," she ventured, with uncertainty as to
the value of the statement and yet no diminution of boldness in making
it.
"What for?"
"To have him steal it, I suppose."
"To have him steal her own necklace? Couldn't she have given it to him?"
"Oh, I don't know," said Esther. "She is half crazy. Don't you see she
is? She might have had a hundred reasons. She might have thought if he
tried to steal it he'd get caught, and she could blackmail him."
"But how was he to know she had put it in the bag?"
"I don't know." Esther was settling into the stolidity of the obstinate
when they are crowded too far; yet she still remembered she must not
cease to be engaging.
"Why was it better to have him find it in your bag than anywhere else in
the house?" he was hammering on.
"I don't know," said Esther again, and now she gave a little sigh.
That, she thought, should have recalled him to his male responsibility
not to trap and torture. But she had begun to wonder how she could
escape when the door opened and Jeff came in. Alston turned to meet him,
and, with Esther, was amazed at his altered look. Jeff was like a man
who had had a rage and got over it, who had even heard good news, or had
in some way been recalled. And he had. On the way home, when he had
nearly reached there, in haste to find Lydia and tell her the necklace
was back in Madame Beattie's hands, he had suddenly remembered that he
was a prisoner and that all men were prisoners until they knew they
were, and it became at once imperative to get back to Esther and see if
he could let her out. And the effect of this was to make his face to
shine as that of one who was already released from bondage. To Esther
he looked young, like the Jeff she used to know.
"Don't go, Choate," he said, when Alston picked himself up from the
mantel and straightened, as if his next move might be to walk away. "I
wanted to see Esther, but I'd rather see you both. I've been thinking
about this infernal necklace, and I realise it's of no value at all."
Choate's mind leaped at once to the jewels in Maupassant's story, and
Madame Beattie's quick disclaimer when he ventured to hint the necklace
might be paste. Did Jeff know it was actually of no value?
Jeff began to walk about the room, expressing himself eagerly as if it
were difficult to do it at all and it certainly could not be done if he
sat.
"I mean," said he, "the only value of anything tangible is to help you
get at something that isn't tangible. The necklace, in itself, isn't
worth anything. It glitters. But if we were blind we shouldn't see it
glitter."
"We could sell it," said Choate drily, "or its owner could, to help us
live and support being blind."
Esther looked from one to the other. Jeffrey seemed to her quite mad.
She had known him to talk in erratic ways before he went into business
and had no time to talk, but that had been a wildness incident to youth.
But Choate was meeting him in some sort of understanding, and she
decided she could only listen attentively and see what Choate might find
in him.
"It's almost impossible to say what I want to," said Jeff. The sweat
broke out on his forehead and he plunged his hands in his pockets and
stood in an obstinate wrestling with his thought. "I mean, this
necklace, as an object, is of no more importance, really, than that
doorstone out there. But the infernal thing has captured us. It's made
us prisoner. And we've got to free ourselves."
Now Esther was entirely certain he was mad. Being mad, she did not see
that he could say anything she need combat. But her own name arrested
her and sent the blood up into her face.
"Esther," said he, "you're a prisoner to it because you've fallen in
love with its glitter, and you think if you wore it you'd be lovelier.
So it's made you a prisoner to the female instinct for adornment."
Alston was watching him sharply now. He was wondering whether Jeff was
going to accuse her of appropriating it in the beginning.
"Choate is a prisoner," said Jeff earnestly and with such simplicity
that even Choate, with his fastidious hatred of familiarity, could not
resent it. "He's a prisoner to your charm. But here's where the necklace
comes in again. If he could find out you'd done unworthy things to get
it your charm would be broken and he'd be free."
This was so true that Choate could only stare at him and wish he would
either give over or brutally tell him whether he was to be free.
"Madame Beattie uses the necklace as a means of livelihood," said Jeff.
He was growing quite happy in the way his mind was leading him, because
it did seem to be getting him somewhere, where all the links would hold.
"Because she can get more out of it, in some mysterious way I haven't
fathomed, than by selling it. And so she's prisoner to it, too."
"I shall be able to tell what the reason is," said Choate, "before long,
I fancy. I've sent for the history of the Beattie necklace. I know a man
in Paris who is getting it for me."
"Good!" said Jeff. "Now I propose we all escape from the necklace. We're
prisoners, and let's be free."
"How are you a prisoner?" Alston asked him.
Jeff smiled at him.
"Why," said he, "if, as I told you, I took the necklace from this house,
I'm a criminal, and the necklace has laid me by the heels. Who's got it
now?"
This he asked of Esther and she returned bitterly:
"Aunt Patricia's got it. She walked out of the room with it, shaking it
in the sun."
"Good!" said Jeff again. "Let her have it. Let her shake it in the sun.
But we three can escape. Have we escaped? Choate, have you?"
He looked at Choate so seriously that Choate had to take it with an
equal gravity. He knew how ridiculous the situation could be made by a
word or two. But Jeff was making it entirely sane and even epic.
"We know perfectly well," said Jeff, "that the law wouldn't have much to
do if all offenders and all witnesses told the truth. They don't,
because they're prisoners--prisoners to fear and prisoners to
selfishness and hunger. But if we three told each other the truth--and
ourselves, too--we could be free this instant. You, Esther, if you would
tell Choate here how you've loved that necklace and what you've done for
it, why, you'd free him."
Esther cried out here, a little sharp cry of rage against him.
"I see," said she, "it's only an attack on me. That's where all your
talk is leading."
"No, no," said Jeff earnestly. "I assure you it isn't. But if you owned
that, Esther, you'd be ashamed to want glittering things. And Choate
