position in Ilse Dumont's stateroom as she lifted her pistol and
coolly made good her boast as a dead-shot. But he forced himself to
take it lightly.
"Good Lord!" he thought to himself. "Was ever a man in such a hellish
position, except in melodrama? And what a movie that would have
made! And what a shot that girl proved herself to be! Certainly she
could have killed me there at Brookhollow! She could have riddled me
before I ducked, even with that nickel-plated affair about which I was
ass enough to taunt her!"
Lying in his chair, cheek on arm, he continued to ponder on what had
happened, until the monotonous vibration no longer interfered with his
inclination for a nap. On the contrary, the slight, rhythmic jolting
soothed him and gradually induced slumber; and he slept there on the
rushing train, his feet crossed and resting on the olive-wood box.
                 
A hand on his arm aroused him; the sea wind blowing through the open
doors of the mail-van dashed in his face like a splash of cool water
as he sat up and looked around him.
As he descended from the van an officer of the freight packet greeted
him by name; a sailor piled his luggage on a barrow; and Neeland
walked through the vista of covered docks to the pier.
There was a lively wind whipping that notoriously bad-mannered streak
of water known as the English Channel. Possibly, had it been
christened the French Channel its manners might have been more polite.
But there was now nothing visible about it to justify its sentimental
pseudonym of Silver Streak.
It was a dirty colour, ominous of ill-temper beyond the great
breakwater to the northward; and it fretted and fumed inshore and made
white and ghastly faces from the open sea.
But Neeland, dining from a tray in a portholed pit consecrated to the
use of a casual supercargo, rejoiced because he adored the sea, inland
lubber that he had been born and where the tides of fate had stranded
him. For, to a New Yorker, the sea seems far away--as far as it seems
to the Parisian. And only when chance business takes him to the
Battery does a New Yorker realise the nearness of the ocean to that
vast volume of ceaseless dissonance called New York.
                 
Neeland ate cold meat and bread and cheese, and washed it down with
bitters.
He was nearly asleep on his sofa when the packet cast off.
He was sound asleep when, somewhere in the raging darkness of the
Channel, he was hurled from the sofa against the bunk opposite--into
which he presently crawled and lay, still half asleep, mechanically
rubbing a maltreated shin.
Twice more the bad-mannered British Channel was violently rude to him;
each time he crawled back to stick like a limpet in the depths of his
bunk.
Except when the Channel was too discourteous, he slept as a sea bird
sleeps afloat, tossing outside thundering combers which batter basalt
rocks.
Even in his deep, refreshing sea sleep, the subtle sense of
exhilaration--of well-being--which contact with the sea always brought
to him, possessed him. And, deep within him, the drop of Irish seethed
and purred as a kettle purrs through the watches of the night over a
banked but steady fire.
CHAPTER XXIV
THE ROAD TO PARIS
Over the drenched sea wall gulls whirled and eddied above the spouting
spray; the grey breakwater was smothered under exploding combers;
quai, docks, white-washed lighthouse, swept with spindrift, appeared
and disappeared through the stormy obscurity as the tender from the
Channel packet fought its way shoreward with Neeland's luggage lashed
in the cabin, and Neeland himself sticking to the deck like a fly to a
frantic mustang, enchanted with the whole business.
For the sea, at last, was satisfying this young man; he savoured now
what he had longed for as a little boy, guiding a home-made raft on
the waters of Neeland's mill pond in the teeth of a summer breeze.
Before he had ever seen the ocean he wanted all it had to give short
of shipwreck and early decease. He had experienced it on the Channel
during the night.
There was only one other passenger aboard--a tall, lean, immaculately
dressed man with a ghastly pallor, a fox face, and ratty eyes, who
looked like an American and who had been dreadfully sick. Not caring
for his appearance, Neeland did not speak to him. Besides, he was
having too good a time to pay attention to anybody or anything except
the sea.
A sailor had lent Neeland some oilskins and a sou'-wester; and he
hated to put them off--hated the calmer waters inside the basin where
the tender now lay rocking; longed for the gale and the heavy seas
again, sorry the crossing was ended.
He cast a last glance of regret at the white fury raging beyond the
breakwater as he disembarked among a crowd of porters, gendarmes,
soldiers, and assorted officials; then, following his porter to the
customs, he prepared to submit to the unvarying indignities incident
to luggage examination in France.
He had leisure, while awaiting his turn, to buy a novel, "Les
Bizarettes," of Maurice Bertrand; time, also, to telegraph to the
Princess Mistchenka. The fox-faced man, who looked like an American,
was now speaking French like one to a perplexed official, inquiring
where the Paris train was to be found. Neeland listened to the fluent
information on his own account, then returned to the customs bench.
But the unusually minute search among his effects did not trouble him;
the papers from the olive-wood box were buttoned in his breast pocket;
and after a while the customs officials let him go to the train which
stood beside an uncovered concrete platform beyond the quai, and
toward which the fox-faced American had preceded him on legs that
still wobbled with seasickness.
There were no Pullmans attached to the train, only the usual first,
second, and third class carriages with compartments; and a new style
corridor car with central aisle and lettered doors to compartments
holding four.
Into one of these compartments Neeland stepped, hoping for seclusion,
but backed out again, the place being full of artillery officers
playing cards.
In vain he bribed the guard, who offered to do his best; but the human
contents of a Channel passenger steamer had unwillingly spent the
night in the quaint French port, and the Paris-bound train was already
full.
The best Neeland could do was to find a seat in a compartment where he
interrupted conversation between three men who turned sullen heads to
look at him, resenting in silence the intrusion. One of them was the
fox-faced man he had already noticed on the packet, tender, and
customs dock.
But Neeland, whose sojourn in a raw and mannerless metropolis had not
blotted out all memory of gentler cosmopolitan conventions, lifted his
hat and smilingly excused his intrusion in the fluent and agreeable
French of student days, before he noticed that he had to do with men
of his own race.
None of the men returned his salute; one of them merely emitted an
irritated grunt; and Neeland recognised that they all must be his own
delightful country-men--for even the British are more dignified in
their stolidity.
A second glance satisfied him that all three were undoubtedly
Americans; the cut of their straw hats and apparel distinguished them
as such; the nameless grace of Mart, Haffner and Sharx marked the
tailoring of the three; only Honest Werner could have manufactured
such headgear; only New York such footwear.
And Neeland looked at them once more and understood that Broadway
itself sat there in front of him, pasty, close-shaven, furtive,
sullen-eyed, the New York Paris Herald in its seal-ringed fingers;
its fancy waistcoat pockets bulging with cigars.
"Sports," he thought to himself; and decided to maintain incognito and
pass as a Frenchman, if necessary, to escape conversation with the
three tired-eyed ones.
So he hung up his hat, opened his novel, and settled back to endure
the trip through the rain, now beginning to fall from a low-sagging
cloud of watery grey.
After a few minutes the train moved. Later the guard passed and
accomplished his duties. Neeland inquired politely of him in French
whether there was any political news, and the guard replied politely
that he knew of none. But he looked very serious when he said it.
Half an hour from the coast the rain dwindled to a rainbow and ceased;
and presently a hot sun was gilding wet green fields and hedges and
glistening roofs which steamed vapour from every wet tile.
Without asking anybody's opinion, one of the men opposite raised the
window. But Neeland did not object; the rain-washed air was
deliciously fragrant; and he leaned his elbow on his chair arm and
looked out across the loveliest land in Europe.
"Say, friend," said an East Side voice at his elbow, "does smoking
go?"
He glanced back over his shoulder at the speaker--a little, pallid,
sour-faced man with the features of a sick circus clown and eyes like
two holes burnt in a lump of dough.
"Pardon, monsieur?" he said politely.
"Can't you even pick a Frenchman, Ben?" sneered one of the men
opposite--a square, smoothly shaven man with slow, heavy-lidded eyes
of a greenish tinge.
The fox-faced man said:
"He had me fooled, too, Eddie. If Ben Stull didn't get his number it
don't surprise me none, becuz he was on the damn boat I crossed in,
and I certainly picked him for New York."
"Aw," said the pasty-faced little man referred to as Ben Stull, "Eddie
knows it all. He never makes no breaks, of course. You make 'em, Doc,
but he doesn't. That's why me and him and you is travelling here--this
minute--because the great Eddie Brandes never makes no breaks----"
"Go on and smoke and shut up," said Brandes, with a slow, sidewise
glance at Neeland, whose eyes remained fastened on the pages of "Les
Bizarettes," but whose ears were now very wide open.
"Smoke," repeated Stull, "when this here Frenchman may make a
holler?"
"Wait till I ask him," said the man addressed as Doc, with dignity.
And to Neeland:
"Pardong, musseer, permitty vous moi de fumy ung cigar?"
"Mais comment, donc, monsieur! Je vous en prie----"
"He says politely," translated Doc, "that we can smoke and be damned
to us."
They lighted three obese cigars; Neeland, his eyes on his page,
listened attentively and stole a glance at the man they called
Brandes.
So this was the scoundrel who had attempted to deceive the young girl
who had come to him that night in his studio, bewildered with what she
believed to be her hopeless disgrace!
This was the man--this short, square, round-faced individual with his
minutely shaven face and slow greenish eyes, and his hair combed back
and still reeking with perfumed tonic--this shiny, scented, and
overgroomed sport with rings on his fat, blunt fingers and the silk
laces on his tan oxfords as fastidiously tied as though a valet had
done it!
Ben Stull began to speak; and presently Neeland discovered that the
fox-faced man's name was Doc Curfoot; that he had just arrived from
London on receipt of a telegram from them; and that they themselves
had landed the night before from a transatlantic liner to await him
here.
Doc Curfoot checked the conversation, which was becoming general now,
saying that they'd better be very sure that the man opposite
understood no English before they became careless.
"Musseer," he added suavely to Neeland, who looked up with a polite
smile, "parly voo Anglay?"
"Je parle Français, monsieur."
"I get him," said Stull, sourly. "I knew it anyway. He's got the sissy
manners of a Frenchy, even if he don't look the part. No white man
tips his lid to nobody except a swell skirt."
"I seen two dudes do it to each other on Fifth Avenue," remarked
Curfoot, and spat from the window.
Brandes, imperturbable, rolled his cigar into the corner of his mouth
and screwed his greenish eyes to narrow slits.
"You got our wire, Doc?"
"Why am I here if I didn't!"
"Sure. Have an easy passage?"
Doc Curfoot's foxy visage still wore traces of the greenish pallor; he
looked pityingly at Brandes--self-pityingly:
"Say, Eddie, that was the worst I ever seen. A freight boat, too. God!
I was that sick I hoped she'd turn turtle! And nab it from me; if you
hadn't wired me S O S, I'd have waited over for the steamer train and
the regular boat!"
"Well, it's S O S all right, Doc. I got a cable from Quint this
morning saying our place in Paris is ready, and we're to be there and
open up tonight----"
"What place?" demanded Curfoot.
"Sure, I forgot. You don't know anything yet, do you?"
"Eddie," interrupted Stull, "let me do the talking this time, if
you please."
And, to Curfoot:
"Listen, Doc. We was up against it. You heard. Every little thing has
went wrong since Eddie done what he done--every damn thing! Look
what's happened since Maxy Venem got sore and he and Minna started out
to get him! Morris Stein takes away the Silhouette Theatre from us and
we can't get no time for 'Lilith' on Broadway. We go on the road and
bust. All our Saratoga winnings goes, also what we got invested with
Parson Smawley when the bulls pulled Quint's----!"
"Ah, f'r the lov' o' Mike!" began Brandes. "Can that stuff!"
"All right, Eddie. I'm tellin' Doc, that's all. I ain't aiming to be
no crape-hanger; I only want you both to listen to me this time. If
you'd listened to me before, we'd have been in Saratoga today in our
own machines. But no; you done what you done--God! Did anyone ever
hear of such a thing!--taking chances with that little rube from
Brookhollow--that freckled-faced mill-hand--that yap-skirt! And Minna
and Max having you watched all the time! You big boob! No--don't
interrupt! Listen to me! Where are you now? You had good money; you
had a theaytre, you had backing! Quint was doing elegant; Doc and
Parson and you and me had it all our way and comin' faster every day.
Wait, I tell you! This ain't a autopsy. This is business. I'm tellin'
you two guys all this becuz I want you to realise that what Eddie done
was against my advice. Come on, now; wasn't it?"
"It sure was," admitted Curfoot, removing his cigar from his lean,
pointed visage of a greyhound, and squinting thoughtfully at the smoke
eddying in the draught from the open window.
"Am I right, Eddie?" demanded Stull, fixing his black, smeary eyes on
Brandes.
"Well, go on," returned the latter between thin lips that scarcely
moved.
"All right, then. Here's the situation, Doc. We're broke. If Quint
hadn't staked us to this here new game we're playin', where'd we be, I
ask you?
"We got no income now. Quint's is shut up; Maxy Venem and Minna Minti
fixed us at Saratoga so we can't go back there for a while. They won't
let us touch a card on the liners. Every pug is leery of us since
Eddie flimflammed that Battling Smoke; and I told you he'd holler,
too! Didn't I?" turning on Brandes, who merely let his slow eyes rest
on him without replying.
"Go on, Ben," said Curfoot.
"I'm going on. We guys gotta do something----"
"We ought to have fixed Max Venem," said Curfoot coolly.
There was a silence; all three men glanced stealthily at Neeland, who
quietly turned the page of his book as though absorbed in his story.
"That squealer, Max," continued Curfoot with placid ferocity blazing
in his eyes, "ought to have been put away. Quint and Parson wanted us
to have it done. Was it any stunt to get that dirty little shyster in
some roadhouse last May?"
Brandes said:
"I'm not mixing with any gunmen after the Rosenthal business."
"Becuz a lot of squealers done a amateur job like that, does it say
that a honest job can't be pulled?" demanded Curfoot. "Did Quint and
me ask you to go to Dopey or Clabber or Pete the Wop, or any of them
cheap gangsters?"
"Ah, can the gun-stuff," said Brandes. "I'm not for it. It's punk."
"What's punk?"
"Gun-play."
"Didn't you pull a pop on Maxy Venem the night him and Hyman Adams and
Minna beat you up in front of the Knickerbocker?"
"Eddie was stalling," interrupted Stull, as Brandes' face turned a
dull beef-red. "You talk like a bad actor, Doc. There's other ways of
getting Max in wrong. Guns ain't what they was once. Gun-play is old
stuff. But listen, now. Quint has staked us and we gotta make good.
And this is a big thing, though it looks like it was out of our
line."
"Go on; what's the idea?" inquired Curfoot, interested.
Brandes, the dull red still staining his heavy face, watched the
flying landscape from the open window.
Stull leaned forward; Curfoot bent his lean, narrow head nearer;
Neeland, staring fixedly at his open book, pricked up his ears.
"Now," said Stull in a low voice, "I'll tell you guys all Eddie and I
know about this here business of Captain Quint's. It's like this,
Doc: Some big feller comes to Quint after they close him up--he won't
tell who--and puts up this here proposition: Quint is to open a
elegant place in Paris on the Q. T. In fact, it's ready now. There'll
be all the backing Quint needs. He's to send over three men he can
trust--three men who can shoot at a pinch! He picks us three and
stakes us. Get me?"
Doc nodded.
Brandes said in his narrow-eyed, sleepy way:
"There was a time when they called us gunmen--Ben and me. But, so help
me God, Doc, we never did any work like that ourselves. We never fired
a shot to croak any living guy. Did we, Ben?"
"All right," said Stull impatiently. And, to Curfoot: "Eddie and I
know what we're to do. If it's on the cards that we shoot--well, then,
we'll shoot. The place is to be small, select, private, and first
class. Doc, you act as capper. You deal, too. Eddie sets 'em up. I
deal or spin. All right. We three guys attend to anything American
that blows our way. Get that?"
Curfoot nodded.
"Then for the foreigners, there's to be a guy called Karl Breslau."
Neeland managed to repress a start, but the blood tingled in his
cheeks, and he turned his head a trifle as though seeking better light
on the open pages in his hands.
"This here man Breslau," continued Stull, "speaks all kinds of
languages. He is to have two friends with him, a fellow named Kestner
and one called Weishelm. They trim the foreigners, they do; and----"
"Well, I don't see nothing new about this----" began Curfoot; but
Stull interrupted:
"Wait, can't you! This ain't the usual. We run a place for Quint. The
place is like Quint's. We trim guys same as he does--or did. But
there's more to it."
He let his eyes rest on Neeland, obliquely, for a full minute. The
others watched him, too. Presently the young man cut another page of
his book with his pen-knife and turned it with eager impatience, as
though the story absorbed him.
"Don't worry about Frenchy," murmured Brandes with a shrug. "Go ahead,
Ben."
Stull laid one hand on Curfoot's shoulder, drawing that gentleman a
trifle nearer and sinking his voice:
"Here's the new stuff, Doc," he said. "And it's brand new to us, too.
There's big money into it. Quint swore we'd get ours. And as we was on
our uppers we went in. It's like this: We lay for Americans from the
Embassy or from any of the Consulates. They are our special game. It
ain't so much that we trim them; we also get next to them; we make 'em
talk right out in church. Any political dope they have we try to get.
We get it any way we can. If they'll accelerate we accelerate 'em; if
not, we dope 'em and take their papers. The main idee is to get a holt
on 'em!
"That's what Quint wants; that's what he's payin' for and gettin' paid
for--inside information from the Embassy and Consulates----"
"What does Quint want of that?" demanded Curfoot, astonished.
"How do I know? Blackmail? Graft? I can't call the dope. But listen
here! Don't forget that it ain't Quint who wants it. It's the big
feller behind him who's backin' him. It's some swell guy higher up
who's payin' Quint. And Quint, he pays us. So where's the squeal
coming?"
"Yes, but----"
"Where's the holler?" insisted Stull.
"I ain't hollerin', am I? Only this here is new stuff to me----"
"Listen, Doc. I don't know what it is, but all these here European
kings is settin' watchin' one another like toms in a back alley. I
think that some foreign political high-upper wants dope on what our
people are finding out over here. Like this, he says to himself: 'I
hear this Kink is building ten sooper ferry boats. If that's right, I
oughta know. And I hear that the Queen of Marmora has ordered a
million new nifty fifty-shot bean-shooters for the boy scouts! That is
indeed serious news!' So he goes to his broker, who goes to a big
feller, who goes to Quint, who goes to us. Flag me?"
"Sure."
"That's all. There's nothing to it, Doc. Says Quint to us: 'Trim a few
guys for me and get their letters,' says Quint; 'and there's somethin'
in it for me and you!' And that's the new stuff, Doc."
"You mean we're spies?"
"Spies? I don't know. We're on a salary. We get a big bonus for every
letter we find on the carpet----" He winked at Curfoot and relighted
his cigar.
"Say," said the latter, "it's like a creeping joint. It's a panel
game, Ben----"
"It's politics like they play 'em in Albany, only it's ambassadors and
kinks we trim, not corporations."
"We can't do it! What the hell do we know about kinks and
attachés?"
"No; Weishelm, Breslau and Kestner do that. We lay for the attachés or
spin or deal or act handy at the bar and buffet with homesick
Americans. No; the fine work--the high-up stuff, is done by Breslau
and Weishelm. And I guess there's some fancy skirts somewhere in the
game. But they're silent partners; and anyway Weishelm manages that
part."
Curfoot, one lank knee over the other, swung his foot thoughtfully to
and fro, his ratty eyes lost in dreamy revery. Brandes tossed his
half-consumed cigar out of the open window and set fire to another.
Stull waited for Curfoot to make up his mind. After several minutes
the latter looked up from his cunning abstraction:
"Well, Ben, put it any way you like, but we're just plain political
spies. And what the hell do they hand us over here if we're pinched?"
"I don't know. What of it?"
"Nothing. If there's good money in it, I'll take a chance."
"There is. Quint backs us. When we get 'em coming----"
"Ah," said Doc with a wry face, "that's all right for the cards or the
wheel. But this pocket picking----"
"Say; that ain't what I mean. It's like this: Young Fitznoodle of the
Embassy staff gets soused and starts out lookin' for a quiet game. We
furnish the game. We don't go through his pockets; we just pick up
whatever falls out and take shorthand copies. Then back go the letters
into Fitznoodle's pocket----"
"Yes. Who reads 'em first?"
"Breslau. Or some skirt, maybe."
"What's Breslau?"
"Search me. He's a Dutchman or a Rooshian or some sort of Dodo. What
do you care?"
"I don't. All right, Ben. You've got to show me; that's all."
"Show you what?"
"Spot cash!"
"You're in when you handle it?"
"If you show me real money--yes."
"You're on. I'll cash a cheque of Quint's for you at Monroe's soon as
we hit the asphalt! And when you finish counting out your gold nickels
put 'em in your pants and play the game! Is that right?"
"Yes."
They exchanged a wary handshake; then, one after another, they leaned
back in their seats with the air of honest men who had done their
day's work.
Curfoot blinked at Brandes, at his excessively groomed person, at his
rings.
"You look prosperous, Eddie."
"It's his business to," remarked Stull.
Brandes yawned:
"It would be a raw deal if there's a war over here," he said
listlessly.
"Ah," said Curfoot, "there won't be none."
"Why?"
"The Jews and bankers won't let these kinks mix it."
"That's right, too," nodded Brandes.
But Stull said nothing and his sour, pasty visage turned sourer. It
was the one possibility that disturbed him--the only fly in the
amber--the only mote that troubled his clairvoyance. Also, he was the
only man among the three who didn't think a thing was certain to
happen merely because he wanted it to happen.
There was another matter, too, which troubled him. Brandes was
unreliable. And who but little Stull should know how unreliable?
For Brandes had always been that. And now Stull knew him to be more
than that--knew him to be treacherous.
Whatever in Brandes had been decent, or had, blindly perhaps, aspired
toward decency, was now in abeyance. Something within him had gone to
smash since Minna Minti had struck him that night in the frightened
presence of Rue Carew.
And from that night, when he had lost the only woman who had ever
stirred in him the faintest aspiration to better things, the man had
gradually changed. Whatever in his nature had been unreliable became
treacherous; his stolidity became sullenness. A slow ferocity burned
within him; embers of a rage which no brooding ever quenched slumbered
red in his brain until his endless meditation became a monomania. And
his monomania was the ruin of this woman who had taken from him in the
very moment of consummation all that he had ever really loved in the
world--a thin, awkward, freckled, red-haired country girl, in whom,
for the first and only time in all his life, he saw the vague and
phantom promise of that trinity which he had never known--a wife, a
child, and a home.
He sat there by the car window glaring out of his dull green eyes at
the pleasant countryside, his thin lips tightening and relaxing on his
cigar.
Curfoot, still pondering over the "new stuff" offered him, brooded
silently in his corner, watching the others out of his tiny, bright
eyes.
"Do anything in London?" inquired Stull.
"No."
"Who was you working for?"
"A jock and a swell skirt. But Scotland Yard got next and chased the
main guy over the water."
"What was your lay?"
"Same thing. I dealt for the jock and the skirt trimmed the squabs."
"Anybody holler?"
"Aw--the kind we squeezed was too high up to holler. Them young lords
take their medicine like they wanted it. They ain't like the home
bunch that is named after swell hotels."
After a silence he looked up at Brandes:
"What ever become of Minna Minti?" he asked.
Brandes' heavy features remained stolid.
"She got her divorce, didn't she?" insisted Curfoot.
"Yes."
"Alimony?"
"No. She didn't ask any."
"How about Venem?"
Brandes remained silent, but Stull said:
"I guess she chucked him. She wouldn't stand for that snake. I got to
hand it to her; she ain't that kind."
"What kind is she?"
"I tell you I got to hand it to her. I can't complain of her. She
acted white all right until Venem stirred her up. Eddie's got himself
to blame; he got in wrong and Venem had him followed and showed him up
to Minna."
"You got tired of her, didn't you?" said Curfoot to Brandes. But Stull
answered for him again:
"Like any man, Eddie needed a vacation now and then. But no skirt
understands."
Brandes said slowly:
"I'll live to fix Minna yet."
"What fixed you," snapped Stull, "was that there Brookhollow
stuff----"
"Can it!" retorted Brandes, turning a deep red.
"Aw--don't hand me the true-love stuff, Eddie! If you'd meant it with
that little haymaker you'd have respected her----"
Brandes' large face became crimson with rage:
"You say another word about her and I'll push your block off--you
little dough-faced kike!"
Stull shrugged and presently whispered to Curfoot:
"That's the play he always makes. I've waited two years, but he won't
ring down on the love stuff. I guess he was hit hard that trip. It
took a little red-headed, freckled country girl to stop him. But it
was comin' to Eddie Brandes, and it certainly looks like it was there
to stay a while."
"He's still stuck on her?"
"I guess she's still the fly paper," nodded Stull.
Suddenly Brandes turned on Stull such a look of concentrated hatred
that the little gambler's pallid features stiffened with surprise:
"Ben," said Brandes in a low voice, which was too indistinct for
Neeland to catch, "I'll tell you something now that you don't know. I
saw Quint alone; I talked with him. Do you know who is handling the
big stuff in this deal?"
"Who?" asked Stull, amazed.
"The Turkish Embassy in Paris. And do you know who plays the fine
Italian hand for that bunch of Turks?"
"No."
"Minna!"
"You're crazy!"
Brandes took no notice, but went on with a sort of hushed ferocity
that silenced both Stull and Curfoot:
"That's why I went in. To get Minna. And I'll get her if it costs
every cent I've got or ever hope to get. That's why I'm in this deal;
that's why I came; that's why I'm here telling you this. I'm in it to
get Minna, not for the money, not for anything in all God's world
except to get the woman who has done what Minna did to me."
Neeland listened in vain to the murmuring voice; he could not catch a
word.
Stull whispered:
"Aw, f'r God's sake, Eddie, that ain't the game. Do you want to
double-cross Quint?"
"I have double-crossed him."
"What! Do you mean to sell him out?"
"I have sold him out."
"Jesus! Who to?"
"To the British Secret Service. And there's to be one hundred thousand
dollars in it, Doc, for you and me to divide. And fifty thousand more
when we put the French bulls on to Minna and Breslau. Now, how does
one hundred and fifty thousand dollars against five thousand apiece
strike you two poor, cheap guys?"
But the magnitude of Brandes' treachery and the splendour of the deal
left the two gamblers stunned.
Only by their expressions could Neeland judge that they were
discussing matters of vital importance to themselves and probably to
him. He listened; he could not hear what they were whispering. And
only at intervals he dared glance over his book in their direction.
"Well," said Brandes under his breath, "go on. Spit it out. What's the
squeal?"
"My God!" whispered Stull. "Quint will kill you."
Brandes laughed unpleasantly:
"Not me, Ben. I've got that geezer where I want him on a dirty deal he
pulled off with the police."
Curfoot turned his pointed muzzle toward the window and sneered at the
sunny landscape.
A few minutes later, far across the rolling plain set with villas and
farms, and green with hedgerows, gardens, bouquets of trees and
cultivated fields, he caught sight of a fairy structure outlined
against the sky. Turning to Brandes:
"There's the Eiffel Tower," remarked Curfoot. "Where are we stopping,
Eddie?"
"Caffy des Bulgars."
"Where's that?"
"It's where we go to work--Roo Vilna."
Stull's smile was ghastly, but Curfoot winked at Brandes.
Neeland listened, his eyes following the printed pages of his book.
CHAPTER XXV
CUP AND LIP
Through the crowded Paris terminal Neeland pushed his way, carrying
the olive-wood box in his hand and keeping an eye on his porter, who
preceded him carrying the remainder of his luggage and repeating:
"Place, s'il vous plaît, m'sieu', dames!"
To Neeland it was like a homecoming after many years' exile; the
subtle but perfectly specific odour of Paris assailed his nostrils
once again; the rapid, emphatic, lively language of France sounded
once more delightfully in his eager ears; vivacity and intelligence
sparkled in every eye that met his own. It was a throng of rapid
movement, of animated speech, of gesticulation. And, as it was in the
beginning when he first arrived there as a student, he fell in love
with it at first sight and contact.
All around him moved porters, passengers, railroad officials; the red
képis of soldiers dotted the crowd; a priest or two in shovel hat
and buckled shoes, a Sister of Charity from the Rue de Bac lent graver
accents to the throng; and everywhere were the pretty bourgeois women
of the capital gathered to welcome relatives or friends, or themselves
starting on some brief summer voyage so dear to those who seldom find
it in their hearts to leave Paris for longer than a fortnight at a
time.
As he pressed onward he witnessed characteristic reunions between
voyagers and friends who awaited them--animated, cordial, gay scenes
complicated by many embraces on both cheeks.
And, of a sudden, he noticed the prettiest girl he had ever seen in
his life. She was in white, with a black straw hat, and her face and
figure were lovely beyond words. Evidently she was awaiting friends;
there was a charming expectancy on her fresh young face, a slight
forward inclination of her body, as though expectancy and happy
impatience alone controlled her.
Her beauty almost took his breath away.
"Lord!" he thought to himself. "If such a girl as that ever stood
waiting for me----"
At the same moment her golden-grey eyes, sweeping the passing crowd,
met his; a sharp thrill of amazement passed through him as she held
out both gloved hands with a soft exclamation of recognition:
"Jim! Jim Neeland!"
"Rue Carew!" He could scarcely credit his eyesight, where he stood,
hat in hand, holding both her little hands in one of his.
No, there was no use in trying to disguise his astonishment. He looked
into the face of this tall young girl, searched it for familiar
features, recognised a lovely paraphrase of the freckled face and thin
figure he remembered, and remained dumb before this radiant
reincarnation of that other unhappy, shabby, and meagre child he had
known two years ago.
Ruhannah, laughing and flushed, withdrew her hands.
"Have I changed? You haven't. And I always thought you the most
wonderful and ornamental young man on this planet. I knew you at once,
Jim Neeland. Would you have passed without recognising me?"
"Perhaps I wouldn't have passed after seeing you----"
"Jim Neeland! What a remark!" She laughed. "Anyway, it's nice to
believe myself attractive enough to be noticed. And I'm so glad to
see you. Naïa is here, somewhere, watching for you"--turning her
pretty, eager head to search for the Princess Mistchenka. "Oh, there
she is! She doesn't see us----"
They made their way between the passing ranks of passengers and
porters; the Princess caught sight of them, came hastily toward them.
"Jim! It's nice to see you. Thank you for coming! So you, found him,
Rue? How are you, Jim? And where is the olive-wood box?"
"I'm well, and there's that devilish box!" he replied, laughing and
lifting it in his hand to exhibit it. "Naïa, the next time you want
it, send an escort of artillery and two battleships!"
"Did you have trouble?"
"Trouble? I had the time of my life. No moving picture can ever again
excite me; no best seller. I've been both since I had your cable to
get this box and bring it to you."
He laughed as he spoke, but the Princess continued to regard him very
seriously, and Rue Carew's smile came and waned like sunlight in a
wood, for she was not quite sure whether he had really encountered any
dangers on this mission which he had fulfilled so well.
"Our car is waiting outside," said the Princess. "Where is your
porter, Jim?"
Neeland glanced about him, discovered the porter, made a sign for him
to follow, and they moved together toward the entrance to the huge
terminal.
"I haven't decided where to stop yet," began Neeland, but the Princess
checked him with a pretty gesture:
"You stop with us, Jim."
"Thank you so much, but----"
"Please. Must I beg of you?"
"Do you really wish it?"
"Certainly," she replied absently, glancing about her. She added: "I
don't see my car. I don't see my footman. I told him to wait here.
Rue, do you see him anywhere?"
"No, I don't," said the girl.
"How annoying!" said the Princess. "He's a new man. My own footman was
set upon and almost killed by Apaches a week ago. So I had to find a
substitute. How stupid of him! Where on earth can he be waiting?"
They traversed the court of the terminal. Many automobiles were parked
there or just leaving; liveried footmen stood awaiting masters and
mistresses; but nowhere was the car of the Princess Mistchenka in
sight.
They stood there, Neeland's porter behind with his suitcase and
luggage, not knowing whether to wait longer or summon a taxicab.
"I don't understand," repeated the Princess impatiently. "I explained
very carefully what I desired. That new groom is stupid. Caron, my
chauffeur, would never have made a mistake unless that idiot groom
misunderstood his instructions."
"Let me go and make some inquiries," said Neeland. "Do you mind
waiting here? I'll not be long----"
He went off, carrying the olive-wood box, which his grasp never
quitted now; and presently the Princess and Ruhannah saw him disappear
among the ranks of automobiles and cabs.
"I don't like it, Rue," repeated the Princess in a low voice. "I
neither understand nor relish this situation."
"Have you any idea----"
"Hush, child! I don't know. That new groom, Verdier, was recommended
by the Russian Embassy. I don't know what to think of this."
"It can't be anything--queer, can it, dear?" asked Rue.
"Anything can have happened. Nothing is likely to have occurred,
however--unless--unless those Apaches were----"
"Naïa!"
"It's possible, I suppose. They may have attacked Picard as part of a
conspiracy. The Russian Embassy may have been deceived in Verdier. All
this may be part of a plan. But--I scarcely believe it.... All the
same, I dislike to take a taxicab----"
She caught sight of Neeland returning; both women moved forward to
meet him.
"I've solved the mystery," he said. "Naïa, your car was run into
outside the station a few minutes after you left it. And I'm sorry to
say that your chauffeur was badly enough hurt to require an
ambulance."
"Where on earth did you learn that?"
"The official at the taxicab control told me. I went to him because
that is where one is likely to receive information."
"Caron hurt!" murmured the Princess. "What a shame! Where did they
take him, Jim?"
"To the Charité."
"I'll go this afternoon. But where is that imbecile groom of mine?"
"It appears that he and a policeman went to a garage on the repair
truck that took your car."
"Was he arrested?"
"I believe so."
"What a contretemps!" exclaimed the Princess Mistchenka. "We shall
have to take a taxicab after all!"
"I've ordered one from the control. There it comes now," said Neeland,
as a brand new taxicab, which looked like a private car, drew up at
the curb, and a smiling and very spick and span chauffeur saluted.
Neeland's porter hoisted trunk and suitcase on top; the Princess
stepped into the limousine, followed by Rue and Neeland; the chauffeur
took the order, started his car, wheeled out into the square, circled
the traffic policeman, and whizzed away into the depths of the most
beautiful city in the world.
Neeland, seated with his back to the driver, laid the olive-wood box
on his knees, unlocked it, drew from his breast pocket the papers he
carried; locked them in the box once more, and looked up laughingly at
the Princess and Ruhannah as he placed it at his feet.
"There you are!" he said. "Thank heaven my task and your affair have
been accomplished. All the papers are there--and," to Ruhannah, "that
pretty gentleman you call the Yellow Devil is inside, along with some
assorted firearms, drawing instruments, and photographs. The whole
business is here, intact--and so am I--if that irrelevant detail
should interest you."
Rue smiled her answer; the Princess scrutinised him keenly:
"Did you have trouble, Jim?"
"Yes, I did."
"Serious trouble?"
"I tell you it was like a movie in five reels. Never before did I
believe such things happened outside a Yonkers studio. But they do,
Naïa. And I've learned that the world is full of more excitingly
melodramatic possibilities than any novel or scenario ever
contained."
"You're not serious, of course," began Rue Carew, watching the varying
expressions on his animated features; but the Princess Mistchenka
said, unsmiling:
"A film melodrama is a crude and tawdry thing compared to the real
drama so many of us play in every moment of our lives."
Neeland said to Rue, lightly:
"That is true as far as I have been concerned with that amazing box.
It's full of the very devil--of that Yellow Devil! When I pick it up
now I seem to feel a premonitory tingling all over me--not entirely
disagreeable," he added to the Princess, "but the sort of half-scared
exhilaration a man feels who takes a chance and is quite sure he'll
not have another chance if he loses. Do you understand what I mean?"
"Yes," said the Princess unsmilingly, her clear, pleasant eyes fixed
on him.
In her tranquil, indefinite expression there was something which made
him wonder how many such chances this pretty woman had taken in her
life of intellectual pleasure and bodily ease.
And now he remembered that Ilse Dumont apparently knew about
her--about Ruhannah, too. And Ilse Dumont was the agent of a foreign
government.
Was the Princess Mistchenka, patron and amateur of the arts, another
such agent? If not, why had he taken this journey for her with this
box of papers?
The passage of the Boulevard was slow; at every square traffic was
halted; all Paris crowded the streets in the early afternoon sunshine,
and the taxicab in which they sat made little speed until the Place de
la Concorde opened out and the great Arc--a tiny phantom of lavender
and pearl--spanned the vanishing point of a fairy perspective between
parallel and endless ramparts of tender green.
"There was a lot of war talk on the Volhynia," said Neeland, "but I
haven't heard any since I landed, nor have I seen a paper. I suppose
the Chancelleries have come to some agreement."
"No," said the Princess.
"You don't expect trouble, do you? I mean a general European
free-for-all fight?"
"I don't know, Jim."
"Haven't you," he asked blandly, "any means of acquiring inside
information?"
She did not even pretend to evade the good-humoured malice of his
smile and question:
"Yes; I have sources of private information. I have learned nothing,
so far."
He looked at Rue, but the smile had faded from her face and she
returned his questioning gaze gravely.
"There is great anxiety in Europe," she said in a low voice, "and the
tension is increasing. When we arrive home we shall have a chance to
converse more freely." She made the slightest gesture with her head
toward the chauffeur--a silent reminder and a caution.
The Princess nodded slightly:
"One never knows," she remarked. "We shall have much to say to one
another when we are safely home."
But Neeland could not take it very seriously here in the sunshine,
with two pretty women facing him--here speeding up the Champs Elysées
between the endless green of chestnut trees and the exquisite
silvery-grey façades of the wealthy--with motors flashing by on every
side and the cool, leafy alleys thronged with children and
nurse-maids, and Monsieur Guignol squeaking and drumming in his
red-curtained box!
How could a young man believe in a sequel to the almost incredible
melodrama in which he had figured, with such a sane and delightful
setting, here in the familiar company of two charming women he had
known?
Besides, all Paris and her police were at his elbow; the olive-wood
box stood between his knees; a smartly respectable taxi and its driver
drove them with the quiet éclat and precision of a private
employé; the Arc de Triomphe already rose splendidly above them, and
everything that had once been familiar and reassuring and delightful
lay under his grateful eyes on every side.
And now the taxicab turned into the rue Soleil d'Or--a new street to
Neeland, opened since his student days, and only one square long, with
a fountain in the middle and young chestnut trees already thickly
crowned with foliage lining both sides of the street.
But although the rue Soleil d'Or was a new street to him, Paris
construction is also a rapid affair. The street was faced by charming
