in fact just claimed it and felt it brightly con 
ferred, along with a fond mother's blessing, by 
the grand girl herself it was under instruction 
to greet him in this character that he knew Perry 
to have been pushed into his arms; and what 
with the lapse of the next minute had come to 
hand in the balance was whether or no that youth, 
the head of the family but also the fool of it, and 
with some rude art of his own the will of it, would 
stand out for his right not to have been passed 
over by the offhand transaction. He was a gentle- 
  
man to stand out for his rights up to any point 
at which he shouldn't get bewildered about them; 
for he was also a gentleman to get bewildered, 
that is easily to be determined in such a sense, 
on any ground not absolutely to be felt by the 
shuffle of his feet. In saying to him with fine 
gaiety "I want to commend myself all round, and 
quite understand that I must before the last 
word is said so that you must give me time for 
it a bit, please:" in saying, in risking, he verily 
felt, as much as this he would have been conscious 
of more felicity had he not seen the very next 
instant that gaiety might well be too fine to please 
in the difficult relation; to which it would thus 
appear that his kinsman could only contribute 
in highest measure a mistrust of any semblance 
of manner, or at least of such manner as a glib 
adventurer from overseas might have brought 
with him. He was probably formed not to "like" 
manner, or to understand it, whether kept up or 
kept down, damn him; for if Ralph, with his 
own splendid sense for rising again to the surface 
after deep submersions, could take the quickest 
conceivable note of this, so there hung in his 
eye at the same time the lively truth, which 
fairly jerked out arms and legs like those of a 
toy harlequin worked by a string, that manner 
was essentially and by an extraordinary law to 
be his constant resort and weapon and of con 
sistent application to every aspect of his case. 
  
It wouldn't of course always be the same, nor 
would he wish it to, since that would represent 
the really mad grimace; but the vision of it was 
precious in proportion as he felt how, so remark 
ably, in fact so unaccountably, he should need 
always to work from behind something some 
thing that, look as it would, he must object to 
Perry's staring at in return as if it were a coun 
terfeit coin or a card from up his sleeve. 
Let us frankly plead, for that matter, that he 
found himself affected before this passage lapsed 
as by the suddenest vision of a possibility of his 
having to appeal from the imputation, as who 
should say, of cheating, cheating in that sense 
which his above-mentioned love of the game, 
exactly, might expose him to suspicion of; this 
for all the world as if he were seated with the 
house of Midmore, not to speak of other com 
pany too, at a green table and between tall brave 
candle-sticks which would at a given moment 
somehow perversely light the exchange of queer 
glances from partner to partner at his expense. 
So odd an apprehension could cast of course but 
the briefest shade: breath after breath and hint 
after hint though whence directed who should 
say ? so spending themselves upon the surface 
of his sensibility that impressions, as we have 
already seen, were successively effaced and noth 
ing persisted but the force of derived motion. 
As soon as he had heard his affianced bride, for 
  
instance, take up with infinite spirit the words 
of accommodation just addressed by him to her 
brother he seemed to see a shining clearance and 
to measure the span by which the three of them 
together, he and she and her mother, would be 
cleverer than any home criticism. "What puts 
it into your head, please, that if Pm quite con 
tent, and bold enough into the bargain to say 
as much to whomever it may concern, what puts 
it into your head that he may have a case against 
you that need give you the least trouble?'   She 
spoke that out like her mother's daughter, whether 
like her brother's sister or no, blooming with 
still greater beauty and so attracting and hold 
ing Perry's eyes in consequence that when he 
turned them back again they reflected some 
thing of her pride. 
"There's not a gentleman too grand for her 
anywhere," her brother observed to Ralph; "but 
I suppose you think yourself quite one of our 
selves; which I don't say you're not," he added 
with due caution, "if you really please her and 
please my mother, to say nothing " 
"To say nothing of my pleasing you, of course" 
Ralph took him up with the address that, 
however it might turn, he would so assuredly 
have to make the best of. "Yes, that's of course, 
but I won't pretend I don't draw a great con 
fidence from their favour: I've felt them on the 
spot just as wise as they are kind. Just as kind 
  
as they are handsome too," he went on, looking 
at his kinsman ever so much harder and harder 
which he somehow found that, though it wasn't 
at all what he wanted, he couldn't in the least 
help. It made him drive his address home, and 
this was, in the oddest way, as if he had his host 
by the body in a sort of intimate combat and 
were trying him and squeezing him for a fall. 
Perry would have to take him, and to show that 
he had taken him this was the tug; only the 
more he conveyed that, even if he wreathed it, 
so to say, in flowers and the more he thereby in 
sisted on a relation, if not on the one, the more 
he seemed to give his man an opportunity the 
other aspect of which was that it was for himself 
a form of exposure. Why he should be exposed, 
and what, above all, exposed to, was more than 
he could have said wondering as he did at this 
even while a passion urged and an instinct warned 
him. There it was, in any case: he couldn't 
help sounding Perry, even in the presence of the 
women; which was what brought upon him, 
through concentration of the visual sense, the 
challenge he seemed positively to advance into 
the enemy's country in order to invite. It was 
the rate at which he drew intelligence out of the 
dull that made him uneasy when it ought to have 
made him, by every presumption, feel it as wind 
in his sails. Violating nature, as might fairly 
seem, in the face before him, what was such a 
  
glimmer intelligence o? this he asked himself 
while he watched it grow and while, into the 
bargain, he might have marvelled at the oddity 
of one's wanting to be impressive without want 
ing to be understood. To be understood simply 
as impressive it was this that would best con 
sort; but what the devil wouldn't requiring such 
a creature to be more penetrable perhaps rep 
resent in the way of teaching it tricks it might 
use against one ? In the act of impressing, Ralph 
felt, he encouraged familiarity which was what 
people had been known to do at their cost and 
to the provocation of bad accident by putting 
primitive natures in a false position. False in 
deed would be the position when Perry should 
begin, say, to know more about Ralph Pendrel 
than this lover of life knew about himself. It 
may be added that if these considerations did 
lurk in the expression of countenance bent by 
Ralph upon his host with general ingenious in 
tent, even a Midmore stuffed with a single pre 
judice might well have picked from the bunch 
some hint of a sinister menace to that monot 
ony. 
"You don't mean to say you're struck with 
my appearance I know it's not my strong 
point!" Perry said goodhumouredly enough, 
after all, and with a laugh which put that quan 
tity at once in a better light. "But I like, as 
much as you please, to be praised for what I 
  
am" he added "if you'll give me time to show 
that; for I suppose you've already noticed that 
in this country we take time for our affairs, and 
perhaps no people among us all more than we 
of this family; which has gone on for ever so 
long, you know, at its own pace and never al 
lowed itself to be driven. We probably don't 
look to you, however, as if you could lash us up 
out of breath even as you may perhaps be 
with your errand; and that's all the appearance 
I pretend to make to anyone. What I leave to 
my mother I do leave to her," the young man 
further declared more and more articulate, 
clearly, on rinding himself so well listened to; 
"and of course she and Miss Midmore are as 
clever as they're handsome, if that's what you 
want." After achieving, with some unexpected 
ness for Ralph, this effort of propriety, he looked 
as in recovered self-possession from Mrs. Mid- 
more to Molly, and then again very hard at his 
sister and back at his mother, so that it shouldn't 
be his fault, obviously, if they didn't trust his 
tact. He showed himself in short the man of 
sense and of consequence, though while speaking 
he had stared straight before him, not resting 
his eyes on Ralph, who, none the less, at once 
and cordially welcomed his remarks. 
"I hear you with the greatest interest, but 
even if we don't always take time enough in 
America for what we do, I'm not going to grant 
you that I haven't thoroughly thought of what 
I'm about in coming to you. And if you care to 
know it," Ralph continued, "it has taken but 
four days of old England to convince me that 
you're the happiest people in the most convenient 
country. I've been since I landed more pleased 
and amused than I can tell you." With which 
our young man again smiled and smiled. 
"Oh you've seen nothing as yet compared to 
what you will," Mrs. Midmore impatiently broke 
in "and I know," she said, "that what Perry 
would like to say to you is that you'll have no 
idea of anything till you've seen and admired 
Drydown. That you shall do in good time it's 
a place I shall make it my care that you shall 
get to love, for that's where we're at home, where 
we're what we are, if you understand; and where, 
as I see Perry desires to assure you, you shall 
have a horse of your own to ride, and the best 
home-grown victual that you'll anywhere find to 
eat, and a capital neighbourhood to receive civility 
from, to say nothing of one of the very finest 
views in England spread out before you." 
"You shall have any horse that you can ride,' 
Perry concurred, his clue to amiability now quite 
grasped, with this fine example of it given; 
"though it isn't when they're most to my taste, 
I grant, that they're apt to be most to other 
men's. That's what I say to my friends" and 
he improved his theme, not to speak of his him- 
  
self improving with it: "I tell 'em they're wel 
come to any mount that suits 'em, and I don't 
think I find it in general a freedom from which 
my animals suffer. Unless it be," he pursued, 
appealing again with his flushed but comparatively 
directed deliberation to his sister, "unless it be 
that I provide better still for Molly's liking 
since I must make him understand, you know," 
he kept on, "how straight he has to follow if he's 
so bold as to allow you a lead." 
"I'm sure I hope he'll be bold enough to ride 
with his wife!" the girl splendidly laughed 
"or, if you think I put it too forwardly, with a 
young lady whom he has in half an hour inspired 
with such kindness that she wouldn't for the 
world do him a mite of harm." There was that 
in her free archness which struck again for Ralph 
the note of he could scarce have said what old- 
time breadth of the pleasant address and the 
frolic challenge; so that, sounded out in this 
way before the others, it made him pant a little 
as if he were in fact engaged in "following" and 
needed all his effort not to be left behind. He 
felt in comparison, before such a force of fresh 
ness, almost disembodied, and didn't know for 
a moment what he mightn't have said if she 
hadn't, still lighting the way for him with her 
great confident eyes, seemed to wish to give him 
all sorts of assurance in the single charge: "You're 
not to be afraid, you're not to be afraid !" 
  
"I hope to heaven I shan't let you see it if I 
am !" he interrupted. "And you and your brother 
must remember at any rate that though the 
natives of Mexico and Peru, when first discovered 
by the Spaniards, had never seen a horse and 
thought them very terrible, we have long ago 
got over that in our part of the country, and in 
deed, I think, are not much in fear of anything 
or anyone unless it be perhaps of finer ladies 
than our simple society and our homely manners 
have yet taught us to deal with. I pray the 
powers," he went on to his kinsman, for whom 
once more, despite his desire to the contrary, he 
felt himself "figure" all too unavoidably and 
confoundingly, "I pray the powers I mayn't 
want either for wit or for any other sort of cool 
ness when it's a question of your fine gentlemen 
by which I mean of my enjoying their notice 
and letting them not doubt of mine. But of 
course my very errand shows you how marked 
I am for the full ravage of female loveliness and 
for the advantage that it gains from the perfect 
gentility waiting upon it among you here. It 
must clearly do what it will with me, you see, 
and if the best it can do is likely to be to kill me 
why I'll at least go merrily to my death." 
Perry Midmore, listening to this, kept his face 
half averted, but his eye was now more judiciously 
watchful and he turned it askance in his atten 
tion. He would weigh things and be wise they 
  
might help to make him so, when his visitor ut 
tered them, if they couldn't always make him 
ready; all of which inward comment the visitor 
had again the vexed consciousness of not being 
able to keep him from suspecting. He had taught 
him within five minutes that there was, that 
there could be, such a thing, and its pointing it 
self at him, whatever its sense, was the new and 
the disquieting fact. Ralph laid a hand on his 
shoulder with a singular sudden impulse to prove 
that even if one's thought was at play, since this 
was on occasion of the perverse nature of thought, 
the letting it take its full course would really 
bring it round to a point, in fact to a succession 
of points, where another would recognise it as 
positively working for him; and the gesture did 
after an instant so far operate as that the other's 
queer little glare abated and he stood as stifHy 
passive as if, whatever this should mean, the least 
movement might perhaps precipitate some further 
complication. 
Mrs. Midmore meanwhile, Ralph saw, had so 
completely measured his own bright promise that, 
quite at her ease about it, her anxiety was all for 
her son's somehow interfering with the prospect; 
which she at the same time mightn't be able to 
take him up upon by reason of something divin- 
ably new and strange, something perhaps even 
beyond his usual show of shyness and that pro 
voked wonder at the cause of it. Ralph had in 
  
fact in this connection another of his sublime 
instants, as we may fairly call them, with this 
particular one possibly the most sublime since 
her next motion, though but a momentary look 
at him, of the supremely searchingest, played 
straight out of her desire to side with him, as it 
were, against any hindrance to a right under 
standing and a convenient, an elegant smoothness 
that her boy should stupidly offer. Wasn't there 
in her face during the moment a dim glimmer of 
inquiry? something like "What on earth is it, 
yes, that you're doing to him, what was it, yes, 
a few minutes ago, when if I hadn't been watching 
him he would have shuddered like a frightened 
horse who sniffs in the air the nearness of some 
creature of a sort he has never seen ? " The whole 
mother would have been in that, Ralph was after 
wards to make out, the mother deeply engaged 
for her daughter's benefit and pleasure, as well 
as for anything to the advantage of the race in . 
general that could be picked up by a sufficiently 
dignified long arm, and at the same time so rich 
in instincts that had for their centre the prior 
consequence of the head of the house, that she 
could almost know alarm in the midst of jubila 
tion, and at any rate seemed to turn upon the 
hero of the occasion, for the five seconds, the 
chill of a special quite tremendous suggestion. 
She wanted right resolutely to like and to further 
him it would be so good for them all, and if he 
  
was destined in any degree to counter this it 
wouldn't be by an effect upon her directly pro 
duced, but literally through her fond attention to 
Perry and even should that attention amount to 
impatience of Perry's attitude. He would but 
have to show personal fear, so to call it, or per 
haps to do no more than show that he was afraid 
in advance of knowing it, for that question of 
what might be the matter with him to lead to 
the other and the finer. Such might be taken 
then as the way in which the last wonder about 
the American cousin would doubtless usher itself 
in. It was, however, so far from having yet won 
an inch of the ground, or having indeed really 
foreshadowed its power to do this, that all Ralph 
knew, to the effect of joy, within the minute, was 
that she was just putting Perry as right as possi 
ble again by the renewed wealth of her tone. 
"Don't turn it upon us that we take you for a 
savage," she laughed to her visitor, "when you 
talk about killing and dying among us as if we 
were Red Men on the war-path ! If we're going 
to kill and eat you at any rate isn't that what 
your cannibals do ? we shall at least fatten you 
first for the table, and you needn't fear but that 
you'll enjoy that as much as you may suppose 
us to enjoy, as good judges, the next stage of the 
affair. I'm an excellent judge myself, please be 
lieve, and I shall decline to have you despatched 
before you're in perfect condition. Meanwhile 
  
therefore," she nobly continued, "we shall live 
upon you in this pleasant way and with Molly's 
good right to be helped to you first, always first, 
entirely understood by us. The only thing is 
that I'm not sure we're quite eager to share you 
at once with a hundred other people." 
Perry it was, rather remarkably, who spoke in 
answer to these fine words before Ralph had time 
to meet them obliged as the latter always was, 
after all, to select a little among the resources of 
his wit. "Shan't you have a good bit to share 
him with my sister Nan at least ? you, I mean," 
he said to his mother, his hands in his pockets 
now and with the effect from it of a hunch up of 
his shoulders which at once established somehow 
his air of more conscious intention. " I don't say 
it for Molly, of whom I shouldn't expect it, and 
who of course will tear her sister's eyes out if 
Nan takes too much for granted. But you're 
kinder to Nan than Molly is," he continued 
" and it's I," he still went on, with a turn now to 
their visitor, "it's I, among the three of us, that 
she can look to most. Oh yes," he persisted as 
for the benefit of the ladies, "you want him to 
know all about it, so I'm just telling him, don't 
you see ? And it's what you yourself want to 
know, I take it, cousin though I don't doubt of 
you as one for finding out." 
He had grown of a sudden extraordinarily more 
assured, and Ralph, quite directly faced by him 
  
with it, felt at once how the interest of him was 
quickened. Catching the air of their faces he 
could note as well that Mrs. Midmore and Molly 
were not differently affected; which perception 
and the two women exchanged at the moment a 
pair of quite confirmatory glances renewed his 
sense that something unprecedented had within 
the ten minutes happened to Perry, and was in 
deed continuing to happen, just as he himself con 
tinued to have to recognise that he was, no com 
fort of responsibility, the author of it. Not only 
was this there, moreover, to strain further than 
would have in advance seemed possible the all- 
engaging smile into which he kept falling back for 
refuge, but it was also salient in the scene that 
however one might interpret such an exhibited 
phenomenon the character showing it was him 
self getting used to it; so that what had in truth 
most acutely taken place was that the worthy in 
question had of a sudden almost jumped to a 
vision of not suffering, or at any rate of not los 
ing, by it. Whatever it might be, in fine, there 
was something to be done with it as for instance 
that he should thrust it straight at Ralph in this 
account of embarrassing matters. Wasn't the 
point that he would make them embarrassing, 
damn him, if he could, and that, detected by his 
mother and sister, he was at the very stroke of 
trying it on ? If the ladies would help the embar 
rassment not to act, Ralph inwardly remarked, 
  
the case would still have more of amusement than 
anything else to give out; only there was the be 
trayal he seemed to catch they might, for all 
one knew, presently find themselves not able to: 
which was perhaps exactly what had been meant 
by that tacit communication between them. 
"Nan is at Drydown, where I left her yesterday," 
Perry meanwhile went on to mention, " and would 
have liked beyond anything in life coming up to 
pay you her respects. But if you notice her delay 
in waiting on you my mother will explain with 
pleasure how many obligations she has at home 
though I'll be hanged if I believe in them 
enough, ma'am, not to be sorry I didn't bring her 
to town, even if I had to put her up behind me 
on Rouser. She's not a girl who either mopes 
or rebels," he added for Ralph's benefit before his 
mother, taken by surprise, could meet these sud 
den freedoms; "but no more is she a household 
drudge or a mere milkmaid, and you're not to 
think that if she's kept at a distance it's because 
she's not fit to be seen. She's not a great toast 
like Molly, but she's much handsomer than I am, 
don't you think, ma'am ?" and with this he fairly 
advanced upon his mother, who still more mark 
edly flushed at the style of his address. "If our 
cousin's to make our fortune," he wound up, 
"let him see as soon as possible how many he'll 
have to provide for." 
"You've broken out into such cleverness, my 
  
lad, that you should certainly now be trusted 
to make your own !" Mrs. Midmore returned, the 
brightness of her dignity suffering a little, Ralph 
could see, yet being put to no great pains to carry 
itself off as untouched. "Should you wish to see 
poor Nan at once," she remarked to her visitor, 
"we can easily send for her by the coach, and 
then you can judge of what she costs me at least 
to keep!" 
"Why don't you rather propose that he shall 
take the coach himself if it's such a cruelty to 
them to wait ?" Molly asked of her mother, but 
rolling her fine eyes at Ralph in a manner that 
helped for the moment to make him feel more 
astray than any challenge to his perception had 
yet succeeded in doing. "So near a relation 
needn't fear any gossip, so that if you pay her a 
visit there it isn't I, sir," she laughed, "who shall 
feel a penny the worse. What in the world 
should my little sister be but his little sister too ? 
making it a new big brother, for herself, who 
may strike her indeed as a better fortune, not to 
call it even a better brother, than any she now can 
boast of. If you really want to go at once," she 
kept on to Ralph, and dropping him the smartest 
curtsey with it, "I'll trust you to come back to 
me in time in time to marry me, I mean," she 
cried; "and I don't mind telling you that if you 
shouldn't I'd make no scruple of going to bring 
you. Nan is the nicest little body, and, with the 
  
gardener's wife to help, would make you, I think, 
comfortable enough." 
On which extravagant dazzle of pleasantries she 
paused a moment, Ralph feeling the while that 
their being to such a tune mutually and, as he 
might have put it, crudely astare signified some 
thing that had not as yet come up between them. 
Oh they had been making and taking a prodigious 
amount of affectionate assurance, but didn't Ralph 
know on the spot, hadn't he in fact been advised 
for the last three minutes, that here was matter 
of intimacy beyond any token they had exchanged 
and a different sort of business altogether from 
even the sharpest need yet resting on him to 
patch up a sense ? There had been none he 
didn't patch up with that effect as of a quick 
bright triumph over difficulty so that we have 
repeatedly seen how the challenge to his aware 
ness, when pressed, set that awareness on its feet 
in time, never failing after this fashion to save 
his confidence. What had now taken place was 
that unexpectedly his need seemed to betray in 
stead of helping him: every blest reference save 
the present had in other words found him ready 
and not just ready to show he knew, but ready 
quite to know; only this question of an identity 
thrust at him to which he couldn't rise and which 
didn't, like all the others, breathe on him after 
an instant the secret of the means of rising, only 
this one left him to direct at Molly (which came 
  
indeed to saying at their companions too) a smile 
which would turn really to sickness should it 
have to last but a moment longer. Stranger than 
anything yet for our young man was what now 
occurred: his getting as in the glimmer of a flash 
the measure of the wonders he had achieved, and 
getting it through this chill of the facility stayed. 
What made it a chill was the felt danger, drawn 
from her look, of Molly's speaking his case out 
at him before he could prevent her. "Why you 
don't know, truly you don't know, therefore what 
are you talking about ?" that was in her face or 
was on the point of being, and the great pang was 
that he minded it himself still more than she and 
the others certainly would if they should fairly 
detect it. He didn't know, he hadn't known, and 
he wasn't going to or it would have come by this 
time: there wasn't in him the first faint possibility 
of an "Oh yes, your sister Nan of course, who is 
of such-and-such an age and such-and-such a fig 
ure and such-and-such a connection with the 
grand image of you that we've had at home!" 
There was no grand image, nor even any scantest, 
of a nice little body, as Molly had put it, lurking 
in the family background and as to whom, by the 
same magic of wanting to enough which had con 
stantly served him, he could be sure he was pas 
sably provided. The possibility of sickness was 
in the fall from such a proved independence of 
the baseness, as who should say, of pretending. 
  
Two or three times, yes, it might have appeared 
he should have to pretend, some gap in his inspi 
ration remaining too distinctly unbridged; but 
with that villainy always averted since positively 
it wore the villain's face by its having become 
in the very nick the mere mistake of his fear. He 
had thus again and again escaped being too super 
ficial, and with this gain of certitude of how little 
he was there to be so at all had come each time 
the sense of luxury in his renewals of recognition. 
That there would be no luxury in not recognising, 
his failure of vision in respect to a second daugh 
ter of the house instantly taught him, but even 
while it did so no repair of the lapse arrived. 
What Molly saw, and what in ten seconds more 
she would make the others see, was the fact of 
the lapse unrelieved the queerness of which for 
her was indeed already out with her asking him 
what was the matter and why in the world he 
looked at the mention of the dear thing at Dry- 
down as if he were going to be ill. The extraordi 
nary point of which withal was that she was her 
self ready the instant after to jump into detection 
verily, but detection of what wasn't not at all 
of what was. His so helplessly hanging fire rep 
resented clearly, to her freshened perception, and 
thereby his own still sharper embarrassment, that 
he had been thinking more of poor Nan than of 
the rest of them put together; though of course 
when she brought her large irony to bear on this 
  
he could luckily snatch at his obvious retort and 
make his flushed laugh invite their companions 
to see how it righted him. "Did it strike you, 
my dear, that when I asked you a while since to 
take up with me for life I was really but express 
ing my interest in another person ? If that was 
the case," he said to Mrs. Midmore and Perry, 
"I mean if I wasn't addressing her as an honest 
man which she accuses me of how could she 
guess it and yet at the same time make me such 
a blissfully happy one?" The question wasn't 
indeed in strictness for them to answer, and Molly, 
whatever they might have said, met it to her own 
sufficiency by another of her wondrous freedoms. 
"I could love you for a wretch, cousin, I think, 
as well as I could love you for a saint !" she cried; 
and it gave him at once, he seemed to feel, the 
luckiest chance for putting in his most vital plea. 
"I don't care what you love me for if it's only 
as your very truest and don't you see that when 
you doubt of my being so you deny by the same 
stroke that I'm the honest man I pretend ?" 
"Just listen to him, mother was there ever 
anything grander than such a speech and such an 
air?" Her appeal was of the promptest, and if 
she addressed her parent her eyes took note but 
of her lover, whom, with her head inclined to one 
side, she might almost have been regarding in the 
light of a splendid picture. "I don't care, I don't 
care it sets you off so to let me torment you. 
  
It's when I doubt of you," she said, "that you'll 
find me most adoring; and if you should ever 
dream I'm cold just draw me on to abuse you." 
She gave him at this moment and for the first 
time the oddest impression of studying him she 
had only hugged him before, with sentiment and 
sense there had been no pondering; and he could 
have wished now she would straighten her head, 
her carriage of which had an effect on his nerves. 
It didn't matter that he believed her not really 
to intend this when she wound up with a repeti 
tion of her idea that they must have his portrait, 
that they must make sure of it before that first 
bloom of his expression, as she curiously called it, 
should have died down; a particular need of his 
own came to a head under her scrutiny quite as 
much as if he feared probing. "I'm an honest 
man, I'm an honest man !" he said it twice over, 
strongly and simply, conscious of a sudden that 
he enormously wanted to, wanted to with an 
inward sharpness of which he had not yet felt 
the touch. It was a pressure from within that 
thus spoke, a pressure quite other than the driv 
ing force that had carried him so far and that he 
had known but by its effects, so rapidly multi 
plied, and somehow as dissociated from their 
starting-point or first producing cause as if that 
origin had been a spring pressed in somebody else. 
It was in himself, deep down somewhere, that his 
motion of protest had begun, and it really eased 
  
him to give it repeated voice even if when he 
had made the point, that of his honesty, four 
times over, he had come rather to resemble the 
lady in the play of whom it was remarked there 
that she protested too much. He felt himself 
verily colour with his emphasis, and that was not 
at once corrected by his having to face the ques 
tion straightway put by Perry, who on his side 
repeated the word once more. " ' Honest ' ? Pray 
who in the world, here, cousin, has rudely said 
you're not?" that was what he should have had 
in consequence decently to answer weren't it that 
his wish to clear himself to himself helped him to 
laugh, with whatever small flurry, at the challenge. 
"It isn't your rudeness, it's your extravagant 
flattery, you dear people, that makes me want to 
warn you that you may find me, on seeing more 
of me, less possessed of every virtue than you're 
so good as to insist." He looked with his becom 
ing blush from one of them to the other becom 
ing we call it because his act of difficulty and 
thereby of caution appeared to provoke in each 
of the women after all but a new, quite a brighter 
and fresher shade of interest. Were they going to 
like him uncertain better still than they had liked 
him certain, and if so to what should he look, 
besmothered as that must surely make him feel, 
for the comfort of knowing where he was for him 
self? Where he was for Molly, and by the same 
token for her mother, was told him by this pleasure 
  
they took in seeing how he had found, to his 
slight embarrassment, that there was something 
to explain. That it was that seemed to set him 
off in their eyes, which were so agreeably, if so 
oddly, affected by almost any trustful touch of 
nature or unexpectedness of truth in him. If he 
had hoped to please by intention, so he might 
perhaps have liked even better to please in spite 
of himself; notwithstanding which this last lia 
bility did to a degree contribute ease, or even, it 
might be, rather compromise dignity. He might 
for all the world have been growing, growing 
hard, growing fast; it had begun with the minute 
of his entering the house, and especially that room 
so that without knowing what at such a rate 
one might really grow to, one should not yield to 
the imputation of being finally measured. There 
was a singular space of time during which, while 
this consideration on the part of the two women 
so approved him, approved him verily as against 
himself, approved him almost as if their soft 
hands had stroked him for their pleasure, there 
hovered before him the wonder of what they 
would have done had he been ugly, what they 
would in fact do should he become so, in any 
manner or form this idea of his full free range 
suddenly indulging in a glance at that mode of 
reaction. What it all represented was doubtless 
but his need to express himself over the felt .shock 
of his ignorance, since if it amounted to a shock 
  
the last way to treat it was to pretend he didn't 
mind it. He minded it, he found, very much, and 
if he couldiVt pretend to himself he wouldn't pre 
tend to the ladies, however they might want him 
confused for the enjoyment of smoothing it away. 
"You have then another daughter whom I hear 
of for the first time?" he asked of Mrs. Mid- 
more and indeed wellnigh in the tone of defying 
her to smooth that. 
"I'm not in the least ashamed of her or aware 
of having at any time tried to conceal her exist 
ence!" his hostess said with spirit, yet with no 
show of resentment. "And I don't see really 
what it signifies if you have simply forgotten her 
yourself." 
Ralph lifted a pair of finger-tips and, with 
thoughtful eyes on her, applied them for a mo 
ment in no mere humorous fashion withal as 
to a helpful rubbing of his head. There was some 
thing he so wished to make sure of. "No, I don't 
think I forget. I remember when once I know. 
If I don't remember I haven't known. So there 
it is," he said for himself even more than for his 
relatives. "Somehow it does signify ! "-after 
which, however, he threw the matter off with a 
laugh. "Better late than never, at any rate." 
"I'm glad you grant us that," Mrs. Midmore 
returned, "for you mustn't have the appearance, 
you know, of wanting to cut us down. We're 
not after all such a big handful." 
  
He gave a pacifying stroke to his disturbed 
crop. "No, I mustn't have any appearance that 
doesn't fit my understanding. But suppose I 
should understand," he put to her the next in 
stant, "something or other that doesn't fit my 
appearance ? " 
"Lord, mother," Molly laughed out on this, 
"what on earth does the clever creature mean?" 
Mrs. Midmore looked at him harder, as if she 
herself would have liked to know, but Perry had 
intervened before she could make that remark, 
addressing his observation, however, to herself. 
"I'll be hanged if I see how, if he didn't hear of 
sweet Nan, he could have learnt so much about 
the rest of us." 
"Mercy, brother, what a stupid speech!" 
Molly impatiently exclaimed. "Does it depend 
so on sweet Nan that anyone should take an 
interest ?" She went on to her brother, 
but looking with this, in her rich way, at their 
kinsman and giving that gentleman thus any 
number of her frankest reminders. "How was 
he not to take in the news that letters asked for 
and that letters gave? and how at all events, 
for my part, am I not to be quite content that he 
makes no stranger of me ? " 
"Yes, my dear," Ralph at once declared, "it 
certainly can't be said that I've made any stranger 
of you ! " He took her reminders and gave her 
back for them proportionate vows in spite of 
  
which what she seemed most to have passed on 
to him was the name she herself had taken from 
her brother. Thus it was that, incongruously 
enough, it broke from his lips too. " 'Sweet 
Nan, sweet Nan ! ' how could a fellow not be 
taken by a thing as charming as that ? Sweet 
Nan, sweet Nan!" he obeyed the oddest im 
pulse to say it over and over. With which then, 
none the less, as if for avoidance of his turning 
silly, he addressed to his companion such a vague 
extenuating smile as he knew he would have 
taken, had it been addressed to himself, for a 
positive grin of aggravation. 
"If you make so much of it as that," Miss 
