She turned again to Ben. " You said you had money," 
she began. " Where did you get it? " 
Ben was silent and looked immovably obstinate. 
" There's no need of going into that," said Hugh 
hastily. " I understand about it, mother." 
Mary turned to the door, and stood by it a moment, 
leaning against the casement. 
" Don't be afraid" said Hugh, his mind flashing back 
with hers to the struggle on the knoll. The pain of his 
arm was likely to remind him of it for a long time to come. 
" We won't scrap again, mum." 
" I don't care if you do," said something in Mary 
Neale's heart. " You may kill him if you like." 
Actually she did not say it, but she always believed 
she did, and shuddered back from the memory. That 
one thought it was that taught her what it is to commit 
 
the sudden great sins : for she always confessed to herself 
that she had done murder in her heart, — the murder 
of her son. The eating knowledge of it was so present to 
her that she bound herself then to a perfection of love 
toward Ben : the love of remorse that is like undying fire. 
She opened the door and went across the hall to her hus- 
band's room and shut herself in with him. All her mem- 
ories of his impervious silence went down once more before 
the certainty that he was her natural refuge. She was 
blind with tears, and she crossed the room and fell on her 
knees and buried her face in the clothes beside him. She 
knelt there and sobbed, and after a moment he moved 
slightly and she believed his hand had touched her hair. 
The renewed wonder of it was enough to stiD her crying. 
She had not, in her heart, expected anything but to put 
her wet cheek against the rock of his endurance. She 
gathered herself together, with a long breath, and got 
up, but first taking the kind hand that had slipped from 
her hair and passionately kissing it. 
" It's nothing," she said. " Only I'm foolish. Hugh's 
coming back and all — and thinking you're lying 
here." 
This last she added to clench his belief that nothing 
actually was the matter. She could not have him suspect- 
ing ill and lie there raging over his infirmity. Then she 
went out and again into the room across the way, where 
Hugh stood looking from the window and Ben lay on the 
sofa, his eyes fixed on the ceiling, his hands clasped under 
his head. Mary judged they had not spoken. Ben 
sprang up, and Hugh turned quickly to her. They saw 
the tears on her face, and both remembered they had never 
seen her cry. 
" Ben," she said, " about that money. Tell me where 
you got it." 
 
" I gave it to him," said Hugh instantly. " I told you, 
mum." 
You're standing up for him," said Mary. " I want 
him to tell me himself. Ben, you didnH take your father's 
money? " 
Ben did not answer. He was as resentful at being ac- 
cused of the one offense as if he had committed none. 
" Truly," said Hugh. " It was some of Aunt Tab's." 
Mary looked from one son to the other. She believed it 
now, but they could not interpret her face. 
" Your money," she said, " the money you were going 
away with ! " There was no reproach in the words, but 
they had an edge. " Ben, you must forgive me for what 
I said." 
He did not know what it was, — the murderous speech 
she uttered in her heart — but he was ashamed at her 
humility. He went to her and would have put his arm 
impetuously about her; but in spite of her remorse she 
drew away from him. 
" No," she said, " no ! " Then her sorrow over him 
broke out and she ended : " But don't lie to me." 
Ben, repulsed, half turned from her. Again he had his 
feeling of being the criminal at the bar where everybody 
else was impeccable. 
" I don't expect to lie," he said, " any more than any- 
body else. We all lie when we've got to." Then an im- 
pulse he hated himself for put the words into his mouth. 
" Anyway so I s'posed that time when you did — when 
you told father — " But there he stopped and, at a lit- 
tle muttered sound from Hugh, walked out of the room. 
" Well," said Mary, smiling a little at Hugh, in a way 
that made him turn his eyes from her, not to see the 
piteousness of her face, " I deserved that. It's my punish- 
ment." 
xxxn 
That afternoon Mary Neale had perhaps the strangest 
half-hour of her life. Out of the wreck of circumstance, 
she knew one thing must be saved. That was Gris- 
sie. Hugh and Aunt Tab and she had their noon din- 
ner together. Ben had vanished, where she did not 
know at the time, though it afterward appeared he had 
gone ofF with Trueman and came home late and asked 
Hannah to give him a bite in the kitchen. At dinner 
Mary could not eat for looking at Hugh, sitting there 
opposite her, bronzed, erect, hard as iron, the marks of 
thought and action on his face, though it was so young, 
but in his eyes the ecstatic light Ellen had called there 
and that had not for a moment gone away. All through 
the meal they talked about the things he had seen, and 
both women tremulously accepted his curt fiat that he was 
going back. Aunt Tab, who also left her plate untasted, 
sat with brilliant, staring eyes fixed upon him, and once or 
twice she opened her lips and did not speak. Mary did 
not ask about the fiddle. She was afraid it would recall 
the anguish of his giving it up, when he had been drawn 
into this splendor of willing death. But Hugh would have 
laughed and told her, as he told Aunt Tab, there was nQ 
anguish. He had tried to make it his voice while he 
was still inarticulate; but now he knew what his word 
was going to be. He and Payson, in their time of pro- 
bation and training, had gone mad together over the 
written line that called louder to them than the roar 
of guns, and Hugh had in his pocket at that moment 
some verse that he might possibly show Larry. Payson 
 
 
had said he " loved " it. Hugh felt superbly open- 
minded about it : only he had learned that the world is, in 
ways unexplored as yet, so large and rich a place that, 
if you don't get a chance to speak in one way, you very 
likely will in another. But when they rose from the 
table, Mary had a word to say to him. 
" Hugh," said she, after Aunt Tab had gone into the 
kitchen to see if Hannah did not think it " the crowner " 
to have Hugh back again, " I don't want you to go over 
to Ellen's till I've found time to go with you." 
Hugh looked at her in an immovable gayety of stubborn 
resolution : 
" Do you mean I'm not to see Ellen alone? " he asked. 
" Why, mum, of course I shall. I'm going over there 
straight off." 
" No," said Mary. " I'm going myself, to carry her a 
plate of dinner. And if she's there, and not down 
to Larry Greene's, I want you to go to Larry's yourself 
and stay the rest of this afternoon. And by that time I 
shall know what to do. But I don't want you to see 
Ellen." 
" Mother," said Hugh, " I've got about a week to see 
Ellen in. After that, it's a toss-up. I mightn't come 
back. Don't look like that. I believe I shall. But I 
mightn't, you know. And I'm going to see Ellen every 
minute she'll let me. I §hould be a fool if I didn't. I've 
got to make up — " 
There he stopped and shut his lips hard, and Mary saw 
she had a man to deal with, one who had, too, the suffer- 
ing of a boy to remember, and that suffering, her jealous 
heart told her, she had never known. But she insisted. 
" Wait," said she, " just this one afternoon. I don't 
know what can be done — " 
" I do," said Hugh. " Ellen is going with me." 
 
" Hugh," said Mary faintly, " that's against the law." 
" Law or no law," said Hugh grimly. 
" But," said Mary, " I'm sure of one thing. If she 
won't live with your brother, she can't live with you. And 
somehow, Hugh, whatever happens afterwards, we've got 
to do the right thing now. You can do that. Even if 
it's foolish, you'll do it. It's for her, you see. Peo- 
ple are going to make a great handle of all this some- 
time. And they mustn't blame Ellen. If you love her, 
you'll be the first to say so." 
In the end, after a good deal of obstinate demur, he 
promised, and then Mary filled a tray with food and set 
out with it for the little house, and Hugh followed her 
and took it from her and carried it across the orchard. 
At Ellen's door he gave it to her and then, without a 
word, turned back home again. Mary set down her tray 
and tried the door. It was locked, and before she could 
call, Ellen's voice within asked who was there. Mary 
had never heard her speak in such a voice. It was 
full and in a strange way exultant, as if something rich 
brinmied up in her. Whatever complications there were 
before them all, it was evident Ellen wasn't dwelling on 
them. Then she undid the door and Mary saw that the 
radiance of her look had lasted as Hugh's had done, and 
instantly, from the quick inquiry and fall of the brows 
that Ellen had expected Hugh to be with her. But she 
took the tray, with remorseful thanks, and Mary followed 
her in. 
" I locked the door," said Ellen, flushing as she made 
this which seemed to her a silly plea. " I didn't know — " 
There she stopped and Mary said: 
" You were afraid it would be Ben. I think you'd bet- 
ter not see either of my sons, Ellen, at present." 
Her voice sounded so proud that Ellen was suddenly 
 
aghast and seemed to know what she had done. She 
turned cold, and stood looking at Mary forlornly. Mary 
was instantly compassionate; but she was tried with her, 
too. It seemed so unnecessarily stupid and loose-at-ends 
to marry a man to find out you couldn't live with him. 
But she was not going to console her at present. It was 
healthy, she thought, to suffer for a moment. 
" I have asked Hugh," said she, " not to see you alone. 
I think he'll remember. But if he doesn't, I tell you the 
same. If he comes here, you're not to let him in." 
Ellen, like Hugh, straightway looked obstinate, and 
Mary inwardly lost patience. What was the matter with 
them, she wondered, man and woman grown, seeing no 
further than their own wild wishes? And as Ellen con- 
tinued to gaze at her in this heart-broken, imploring 
fashion, she had to speak, because they seemed to be slip- 
ping desperately off the rim of common-sense. " Ellen," 
said she, " you can't act that way. You're married to 
Ben. Don't you know you are? " 
" But I told him," said Ellen, " I never'd live with him 
in all the world. And I never will. And now Hugh's 
come home, I see — I know — " 
The strange exasperating look of radiance flew back 
into her face. 
" Ellen ! " said Mary Neale. She spoke patiently, as 
if she wanted to get her attention and keep it in this dif- 
ficult matter of common-sense. " It isn't as if Hugh was 
a stranger to you. You've known him all your life. You 
must be carried away by his being in the war and all." 
" Oh," said Ellen, " I'm not carried away. Yes, I am, 
but not the way you mean. Mrs. Neale, I've dreamed of 
him." 
Mary was impressed, in spite of herself, there was such 
conviction, even awe, in the girl's voice. 
 
" Well," said she, " what if you have? There's nothing 
more natural than dreaming about anybody you used to 
see every day or two, as you did Hugh." 
" Oh, but that wasn't it," said Ellen eagerly. " It was 
different. It was somebody that came from 'way off, and 
he loved me and was beautiful. I dreamed of him when 
Hugh was here, too. Though then I thought Hugh was 
nothing but a boy. And when Ben began to be so nice to 
me, the dream stopped coming. And when Hugh came in 
to-day, I knew. He was the one. I'd called him the 
stranger, but he wasn't the stranger. He was Hugh." 
She was so white, so passionately moved and sure of her 
ground, that Mary instantly believed as she did. It threw 
her back to that old time when the earth itself was smaller 
to her than the significance of one man, when she did not 
question or look beyond the circlet of the bond containing 
them. And, unconfessed, she capitulated. Mother jecd- 
ousy went down before the force of passion unashamed, 
and she rejoiced that there was such a fire in the world, 
and warmed her hands at it. 
" Well," said she, " I don't know what's going to come 
of it all. But your dinner's cold." 
I don't care," said Ellen. 
No, I s'pose you don't. I'm going home now, and you 
can lock the door behind me. And 'long the last of the 
afternoon some of us'll come over." 
She got to the door, and saw that Ellen was watching 
her, a wary yet longing look, ready to fly to her if Mary 
held out a hand. But Mary perversely would not do it. 
She had lost that gritty ingredient of mother jealousy out 
of the pure water of life, but she couldn't quite take to her 
heart the bride she had kissed last night in the bridal 
chamber. Then she went home across the orchard and 
found Hugh waiting to see her and say he was going 
down to Larry Greene's for an hour. But he hoped — 
he said it impressively — when he came home his mother 
would realize he must go over to Ellen's. Mary said 
nothing. She watched him away, the tall upright figure 
that had never looked like this a year ago, and felt she 
would have some ado to keep it from marching along 
wherever it wished. And then she took her parasol from 
the hall and went down the path and into the road. She 
dared not go into her husband's room lest he should, in 
some form, insist on her staying, and she knew Hannah 
and Trueman were at hand. She walked thoughtfully 
down to Grissie's, past Deacon Mendell's, where a flock of 
little Gleasons were digging dandelions; and Grissie, sit- 
ting on the front steps, her elbows on her knees, her chin 
in her hands, taking an interval of peace with the little 
Gleasons away, saw her and, in a sudden alarm, ran to 
meet her. Something, Grissie thought, must have hap- 
pened to bring Mary Neale that way. Mary was tre- 
mendously relieved. She could not talk before the other 
Gleasons, and she had foreseen no means of getting rid of 
them. Grissie looked to her much like the little girl 
Grissie she used to know, only that she was irreproach- 
ably tidy. She had taken off her delicate dress and put 
on a short-sleeved apron that covered her from shoulder 
to heel, and her bare arms were milk-white and her thin 
neck a loveliness. How could they, she and Ellen, Mary 
thought impatiently, be so much their childish selves and 
yet create such havoc of accepted rules? 
"I'll turn round," she said, "and you walk a piece 
with me." 
So they went back along the road by which she had 
come, and when they reached the bars to what was known 
 
as the " old sullar," on the Gleason land, she added! 
" What if we should poke in here a minute and sit down? 
We can talk better outdoors." 
Grissie let down the bars for her and they walked in and 
then went round to what had been the back door of the 
house and sat down on the great door-stone. The rasp- 
berry bushes had grown up in the cellar and, with birch 
and wild cherries, made a screen. Mary furled her para- 
sol and laid it on the grass. 
" Grissie," said she, " I want you to tell me over again 
just how it was." 
Grissie instantly began and told it quite eagerly though
in an anxious way, and to Mary, listening, it was like an 
incredible dream that what seemed the child Grissie should 
have such a tale to telL And that it concerned one of her 
sons whom it was easy to see as a little boy, just as Grissie 
was a little girl, was more incredible yet. 
" He said he'd got a big bill, and he didn't know how to 
get it changed in Beckenham," began Grissie. " He 
thought they'd wonder where he got it and it would be all 
over town. So he was going to a hotel and pay his bill 
with it." 
" But he was going to a hotel anyway," said Mary, 
" the one Larry goes to." 
" No, he didn't," said Grissie. " He came to the house 
where I was. And next day we were out walking and look- 
ing in windows and we saw trips advertised and one was 
down south and I was crazy to go. So he said, " Let's 
go.' And I said I would." 
Mary looked at her, the little eager thing who seemed 
quite untouched by the defacing enemies of life, and won- 
dered at her. 
" But, Grissie," said she, " how could you say you 
 
iTirould? Didn't you know how strange it was, how — why, 
Grissie, didn't you know you couldn't? " 
That was the only way Mary found to put it. She 
/couldn't ask this bright-colored butterfly if she didn't 
Know it was wicked. That would be absurd — to a but- 
terfly. She couldn't accuse her of doing a vulgar or dis- 
graceful thing. Grissie, even in the days when her skirt 
and waist didn't meet, was never vulgar. The Gleasons, 
out of pocket and out at heel, were, Mary knew, of the 
best blood in the county, and somehow she couldn't affront 
this soulless Grissie. 
" But," said Grissie, " Ben didn't know anybody in 
Boston, and I didn't either, except the people in the board- 
ing-house. And they didn't know. We didn't mean any 
harm, Mrs. Neale. Truly we didn't." 
"Well!" said Mary. "And so you went? But you 
didn't keep your own names." 
"No," said Grissie. "Ben said we couldn't. I saw 
that, too. 'Course we couldn't. And when we were think- 
ing what we'd do, it came to us all at once — I don't know 
which of us thought of it first — and we laughed so we 
could hardly walk along. And we stopped and looked into 
a shop window till we got over it, people stared at us so. 
And they laughed, too." 
" Yes," said Mary drily. " You called yourselves Mr. 
and Mrs. Peleg Simpson. That was what you laughed 
at." 
Grissie had picked a raspberry leaf from the bush near 
her, and she was rolling it carefully in her little hand. 
And suddenly her absorbed face creased up and she began 
to laugh, and so delightfully, with a shrill abandon, that 
even Mary Neale, who was not given to irresponsible 
mirth, felt the relaxing of her own mouth and was sur- 
 
prised beyond all understanding to think she might easily 
laugh, too. But this Grissie happily did not know. 
" It was funny," she went on. She threw away the 
bruised raspberry leaf and began rolling another, with 
the same absorption. " You know, every time we said it 
or wrote it — we had to write it at the hotel — we could 
see just how they'd look, Peleg and Ardelia, if they were 
on their trip; and sometimes, when we were going sig-ht- 
seeing and nobody *d notice us, we'd pretend and act just 
like 'em. And Ben's awful funny." 
Mary's mouth had lost all mirthful tendency. This 
was her son, indignant pride told her, a man who, at a 
time of tragic choice, considered it funny to act the part 
of Peleg Simpson. She hardly knew how to put Grissie 
to the last tests of all. Had the child been what Mary 
in her soul named wicked, and was she afraid of the outward 
disgrace that lay in what the country voice called 
being "in trouble"? But she could see no way to ask 
her. Grissie looked so untouched in her maiden delicacy, 
that it seemed polluting to suggest a further tragedy 
than she unrolled. 
" Grissie," said Mary Neale, " what made you come to 
me? the other day, too. What made you come? " 
Grissie turned on her a look of hurt surprise. 
" Why, Mrs. Neale," she said, " Ben wouldn't answer 
me. I felt dreadfully about it. Don't you see how any- 
body would? " 
" But if you'd been off with him and done a foolish 
thing," said Mary, trying her way, for still she did not 
dare call it a wicked thing, " you didn't deserve to have 
him answer you. I don't mean he wasn't to blame. Only, 
if girls make themselves cheap, they can't be surprised 
whatever happens to them." 
 
" But Mrs. Neale ! '' said Grissie. She, too, found it 
difficult to go on. Yet she was laboring in no shame or 
confusion. She was simply finding there were other 
points of view, and it puzzled her. " Ben and I — why, 
we'd gone on the trip together and we played it was our 
wedding trip, and of course he couldn't go and marry 
another girL That's why I've been working to pay off 
Mr. Luce. I found he liked me, and 'course I couldn't 
have it : for there was Ben." 
" Grissie," said Mary Neale, " did Ben persuade you 
to do the thing you did? " 
"Why, no," said Grissie, "nor I him. We just went, 
that was all." 
" And when did you begin to think it was wrong? " 
" I didn't think it was wrong," said Grissie, with spirit. 
" I didn't think anything about it till he wouldn't write 
to me." 
" But you think now it was wrong," said Mary. If she 
once had that confession, it seemed to her she could make 
a theory of Grissie and find out what to do for her. Gris- 
sie was answering, patiently, as we instruct those whom 
we have answered many times before. 
" Why, no, Mrs. Neale, I don't. Only I know it's 
wrong for him to marry Ellen. And I don't see how he 
can live with her. I don't believe the lawyers would let 
him, if they knew. For there's me." 
She was looking at Mary, trouble in her eyes and her 
delicate brows drawn together, and as Mary returned the 
look, she thought she had never seen anything more jewel- 
like than the limpidity of Grissie's eyes. They were dif- 
ferent from what they used to be. They had changed, all 
in a little time, to a softer brilliance, a truly appealing 
wonder. 
 
" Grisisie," said she, leaving moralities and leaping to 
the main issue of nature, which Grissie might understand, 
" you love him, don't you? You love Ben? " 
For a moment Grissie's eyes did not falter. They 
seemed to be putting questions of their own. Then the 
blood ran up into her face and flushed it exquisitely. 
"I never thought. I don't know," she said breath- 
lessly. " I didn't have to think, we had such a good time. 
But now-:— it's different now. Why, he can't marry 
Ellen. For there's me." 
And as the flush had come, tears followed, in a sudden 
flood, and seemed to surprise her as much as they did 
Mary, who had all Grissie's life seen her laughing but had 
never seen her cry. But it made her human, less like a 
little soulless thing who answered nature gayly and forgot 
the law. Grissie put her hands before her face and wept, 
and Mary passed her a handkerchief and then looked out 
across what was the back lot of the old house at the fring- 
ing woods beyond and thought of her. Mary did not 
formulate things definitely to herself; but her mind was 
the sort that penetrates, like a ray of light, to the heart 
of circumstance, and illuminates there what she might 
never be able to explain or classify. She saw Grissie, not 
as the child she had been, all outward swagger and careless 
satisfaction in the sun, but a Grissie where something had 
come awake, some seed of moral ardor planted by the old 
Gleasons who were moralists of an unbending code and 
would have judged this little light heart as bitterly as a 
willful Magdalen. Grissie was not judging herself; she 
was revolting against herself. The old Gleason spirit 
within her was condemning her, and she could not be 
happy because she did not feel the same. She had gone 
to the well with the vessel of her rapturous content, 
and it had been broken. The knowledge of good and 
 
evil had come to her, without convincing her that her 
unthinking choice had indeed been evil; and she was dif- 
feroit. She was, in a vague sense, undone. And Mary 
had a wondering admiration for her, almost an awe. 6ris- 
sie, even under the stain of her wanton act, seemed deli- 
cately unspoiled, like the beauty of her skin and her 
lustrous eyes. She had stopped crying as suddenly as she 
began, and fluttered out Mary's handkerchief in the breeze, 
to dry it from her tears. And she laughed a little, as if 
she apologized for being so unexpected as to cry. 
" Shall you go back? '' Mary asked her. 
" Yes," said Grissie soberly. " I must, to-night. IVe 
got quite a lot of work. I don't know how I got it. But 
I've promised it. And besides I want to pay off Elmer 
Luce. I didn't know he was — that kind." 
Mary thought, looking at the delicate grace of her, that 
she knew how she had got the work. When Grissie piped, 
to whatever tune, you wanted to follow. 
They got up and stood there, looking off at the fring- 
ing woods. 
" Well," said Mary, " I haven't said anything, have I? 
And I don't know what we're any of us going to do. 
What I should like, would be to have you leave it all right 
here where it is." 
" Yes," said Grissie unexpectedly, " I will. I've got to, 
I guess. Only he can't live with Ellen. Nor she wouldn't 
want him to." 
Mary frowned, standing there In her perplexity, looking 
at the waving woods. She and Grissie were just where 
they were in the beginning, only she had seen, for a mo- 
ment, a beautiful Grissie she would never forget. They 
turned and walked back to the bars, and Mary, reverting 
to her vague soise of the old Gleasons and their morality, 
said absently : 
" You know it was some of your folks that lived in the 
old house, the one that was burnt. I believe it was the 
last minister — there was a whole line of ministers — the 
one that shut up his daughter in a dark closet because 
he caught her reading a story book." 
"Did he?" asked Grissie idly. "He must have been 
the limit." 
She let down the bars and put them up again when they 
had gone through, and then she turned to Mary, in a 
child's confusion. 
" You asked me," she said, and broke off to amend it : 
" You know what you asked me? " 
No, Mary could not remember which thing she meant. 
"If I — well," said Grissie, "if I loved him. It's 
awfully silly to say. But I do. Why, of course I do. 
That's it I You don't s'pose I should go off that way 
with him if I didn't!" 
And she turned and ran, a figure of flying grace, along 
the road toward home. 
Hugh spent two uneasy hours with Larry, talking hard 
of war, — grimly, for this was after the seventh of May 
— and not a word of Ellen. And because Hugh, with no 
background but his unfed hopes, going straight, with that 
chaotic interval, from " clouds of glory " to a world where 
the colossal and the horrible reigned in gigantic over- 
throw — because he had cast himself into the war to be 
molded by it while his atomic force molded in turn — 
the particle of granite in the cliff against the menacing 
tide — he became to Larry the spirit of the war, young 
manhood that had paltered with no hesitancies before it 
descended from the heaven of dreams to righteous con- 
flict. The Hugh that had been, foaming with discon- 
tent, was gone. He was to be envied, Larry thought, 
thrown, with all his strength upon him, into this un- 
thought-of world where the framework of a great neces- 
sity was the commonplace of life. It was a world where 
the trivial, the merely personal, had ceased to be. So 
the gods work out good in the face of evil and mold 
men. 
In this uneasy talk they were both at fever heat because 
their minds were elsewhere. Larry questioned and Hugh 
answered in a stark literalness. At first, Larry felt as if 
he had to dig facts out of him. But he opened out grad- 
ually, perhaps getting Ellen to the back of his mind where 
she was not so obstructive, and unrolled the colossal 
pageant as he had seen it, not in any spirit of false 
bravado, as being a moving atom in the throng, but with 
 
the vast simple common-sense soldiers learn when they are 
in the midst of their practical job and know it has got to 
be finished before the world can clear up its devastation. 
But suddenly Hugh got to his feet as if he could bear this 
diverted interest no longer — the vision of Ellen had some- 
how pressed to the front again — and said he must go 
home. Larry said he would go with him, really because 
he couldn't lose him out of his sight; and they went 
through the woods together, talking now not of war but 
of Payson. And here Hugh proved to have his concep- 
tion of the hero. 
It would be unproductive talking about Payson in this 
book, because he was killed later, and the world awoke to 
him and gave him all the laurels his young manhood could 
sustain. At the time Hugh knew him he was a pioneer, 
an adventurer into the realms of light he saw as poetry. 
He was going about the earth, learning it by heart before 
he put it into the verse flickering before him like the 
bravery of banners. He had done verse already, of an 
unclarified richness; but like Rupert Brooke and Alan 
Seeger he had to die actually unproven, because his tem- 
perate best was to come. He had made a tremendous 
impression on Hugh, translated his emotions for him, and 
called out from him a flow of energy that was, to anything 
Hugh had felt before, like the vibration of light. What 
Payson was doing, putting the world into poetry, seemed 
to Hugh easy enough. Words came to him in ordered SC" 
quence, pursued him, and would not leave him. Rhythm 
beat at his ears even when he was doing his great common- 
sense job of helping clear up the world. It was so siniple 
to him that he didn't see how important it really was, as 
he would have seen it in the old boyish days if he had 
fiddled the universe into being as he captured it now with 
only words. While they were talking about Payson he 
brought out a sheaf of his friend's verse and stopped there 
in the woods to read it aloud to Larry, with a warmth that 
flushed his forehead and dimmed his voice. It was beauti- 
ful, Larry saw, the youth of it, the embossing of imagery, 
the layer on layer of the forms of life. But when he had 
finished Larry asked: "Where's your own?'' and with 
no hesitation Hugh brought out another sheaf, a slender 
yield. And while Larry read, Hugh stood looking into 
the tree spaces and thought now not of poetry but of 
Ellen and how he was to steal her to himself. Larry fin- 
ished and took his turn of looking off into the woods, 
because his eyes were hot. 
" It's good stuff," he said. " Let me keep it over 
night." 
" Oh, yes," Hugh said indifferently. " I can remember 
it, anyway. And Payson's got a copy." 
He was in a hurry now to go on to Ellen. Larry 
hadn't told him exactly how the verses struck him. Per- 
haps he couldn't in the unreadiness of the moment. They 
seemed to him first the most impulsive things he had 
ever read — they were simple in the extreme, of the 
clarity of New England air. But they had caught the 
universe as even Payson, who had gone about unveiling 
her face, had never done. Hugh was writing like a child, 
naively, almost as unconscious that other men had written 
as if he had never steeped himself in English foimts. He 
might have been a young shepherd at the dawn of letters 
in England, singing the world. Larry, who didn't know 
much about Mary Neale, except her fine decorum, won- 
dered afterward, the sweetness and the melody were so 
amazing to him, if they had come out of Mary Neale's 
unlettered marriage song. He had seen her as a bride. 
He remembered the look on her face, the rapt, misty 
adoration she turned toward Neale, who, having got her. 
 
bent his mind to earning the place he coveted, denying 
her the bread of life. Was Hugh singing his mother's 
marriage song and accomplishing one of those divine 
compensations where our bitter waste springs up in lar- 
gess? But Larry only told him it was good stuff and 
went on with him, enormously exhilarated. 
When they went up through the lane they turned to the 
little house. Its windows were open, the doors were 
closed ; Larry had an idea Hugh would find them locked. 
But he had not seen Ellen since Hugh (iame, and no one 
had told him she was not merely rebellious but also en- 
tirely happy. At that moment Ellen was sitting in her 
father's chair by the hearth, saying over and over to her- 
self that he had come. " He " did not mean merely that 
Hugh had come home from the war. It meant that the 
lover who had made her so much trouble had come without 
doubt ; and so strong was his hold on her that she did not 
at that instant think of Ben. The fact of her clarified 
consciousness was enough. It obliterated the hard steps 
that led to the clearing of the path. Mary was standing 
at her own door, waiting; and Larry, seeing her, decided 
he should only be in the way, and left Hugh hastily. 
Whatever the family could do about the family turmoil 
they wouldn't, he thought, want him. And he went on and 
up the hill to Squire Greene's. He had suddenly felt up- 
lifted, breathed full of a keener air, alive to the vitality of 
every aspect of life. Hugh had brought him the tonic air. 
He had shown him the war in his little glass, through the 
pinhole of his insight, and it was as nobly worth the blood 
spent in defending it as Larry had known. And he 
had brought the fruit of his own extraordinary flowering 
of life. Larry felt equal to anything. He had one of 
those times when he felt lifted above the too brilliantly 
 
containing sky, and he sang, as he went on, though not a 
warlike stave, and laughed a little, too, as he thought 
again he hadn't much to give the war, but he would give 
Brother Abial. There was a carriage at Abial's gate. 
Well he knew it, Sally Wheeler's chaise and Henry, neck 
stretched long and nose to the ground, reflecting. Por a 
moment he paused, wondering if he had better go in, and 
then decided he would. However old Sally had come, 
whether in diplomatic neighborliness or to obliterate Abial 
under a pillow and sit on it while she picked his pockets, 
there would, Larry knew, be drama in the clash of wills. 
He walked into the house, according to custom, the 
kitchen a lovely place in its conventional order, and 
through to the sitting-room. There he halted in the 
doorway, not only to give decent greeting but to laugh 
within himself at the significant picture. Sally Wheeler 
had come to make a call. That was the little group pre- 
sented: Sally, upright, more disordered in her dress than 
Herrick's maiden but yet so patently a gentlewoman, 
Clara, eager, ingratiating, because, though she knew 
Sally Wheeler as she did the old lilac bushes in her front 
yard, it was an honor to receive a call from her, and Abial 
holding his head higher and essaying the English he 
would use at the Capital. When Larry, not very scrupu- 
lous of costume, for he had had a disordering day, ap- 
peared at the door, cap in hand, they looked up at him 
and Sally Wheeler's face flickered slightly, as if a smile 
had started and she forbade it. But Abial and Clara were 
distinctly annoyed, he with a sense of the unfit and even 
dangerous, and she in a tolerant way, judging that Larry 
was so odd, so droll she called him in her really admiring 
moments, that you could never know where social inter-i 
course would get if he took the reins into his hands. 
 
Larry sat down at once. He wasn't sure of being asked, 
and Abial looked at him unwinkingly and tried to frown 
him into decency. 
" I'm on my rounds, you see," said Sally Wheeler, 
" collecting. Old linen, clothes, a little of everything — 
but chiefly money. Whatever I don't get, money I must 
have." 
" You couldn't have come to a better place," said Larry. 
" Abial's the soul of liberality. 'Bial, I believe you've 
got all the family virtues as well as the family cash. 
You're like the old Greene in Revolutionary times. Do 
you remember, Sally? I showed you those entries in the 
town accounts. How he took on himself the expenses of 
the town poor for that year — no, it was for three years 
— and handed over his cash-box besides, and came out of 
the war broke and couldn't buy himself shoes to go to 
Washington. But they would have sent him, all the same, 
if he had lived." 
" Yes," said Sally Wheeler, " they'd have sent him. 
He was a great patriot. I don't wonder you're so proud 
of him." 
Abial's face had flushed slightly. It was not from 
emotional warmth so much as the physical response to 
praise. 
" That's a different matter," said he. " 'Twas our 
own war, when all's said an' done." 
Sally Wheeler leaped to the argument. 
" Ah, but this is your own war, too, Abial. This is a 
chance to show what a big American can do. Morgan — 
J. P. Morgan, you know — was ready at the start to fur- 
nish cash. He wasn't allowed, I understand; but it 
never'll be forgotten of him. These things are not for- 
gotten." 
" 'Bial knows that," said Larry slowly. He looked at 
 
his feet and pondered. It was true that Abial was the 
only thing he had to give ; but how could he make Abial 
see it? "I wrote it out last night, 'Bial," said he, rais- 
ing his eyes and looking at his brother, " the story I told 
you. It's the story of father's money and the story of 
the lot. And then I said to myself I'd wait a day. And 
if I got a warranty deed from Brother 'Bial before — 
we'll say — Thursday night, I'd tear up what I'd written 
and I'd never write it. again. That's all, Sally," said he, 
turning to her, with one of the smiles Abial hated, really 
because he never could see what there was in life to make 
anybody smile so unreservedly. " I mustn't interrupt 
your call. But it's all right about the money. 'Bial's 
going to plank down handsomely, and we're arranging it 
through a dicker of land. He'll be remembered all right, 
along with the old Revolutionary chap. I shall put it 
down in the history." 
He shpped so quickly out of the room that although 
Sally Wheeler called after him, "Wait and I'll go 
along with you," he did not seem to have heard, and 
it was the squire who went out with her and helped her 
waken Henry and reason him into the belief that it was 
he who was responsible for the chaise getting home. She 
had said good-by with a ceremonious courtesy to Clara 
and left her in quite a twitter, as if an honor had been 
done her, and she talked to Abial all the way down the 
drive about the beauty and dignity of the place and the 
glory of his name. He stood and looked absently after 
her while the chaise went wavering along the road. Ac- 
tually he was thinking neither of her nor of Larry whom 
he cotdd have cursed, but no more warmly than he cursed 
him every day for being a vagabond of a man, desirous 
of neither power nor place. Something had waked in him, 
not the love of good or the repudiation of ill. It was 
 
something that took back to the men of an elder time 
andy standing there in the sunlight, he was afraid. Not 
of God. His god was a cast-iron deity who resided in 
the Old Testament and was appropriately interpreted to 
him by the Reverend John Peterson who saw heaven and 
hell like charted maps. But he was, for that minute, 
afraid of his father who had told him to share with Larry, 
and he was afraid of the story of Tabbie's lot. 
When Hugh came up to his mother, waiting for him, he 
smiled into her eyes a little grimly, perhaps meaningly 
too, in a way that made her feel he was taking the right to 
challenge her decisive wisdom, and asked: 
Mum, don't you think we're plain silly? " 
Why? " asked Mary, though she knew. 
" Building a fence round Ellen, when I've got less than 
a week to see her in." 
" Hugh," said she, bent, though despairingly, on forc- 
ing him back with her to the safe, decent standards, 
" don't you realize Ellen was married yesterday? " 
" Well, no," said Hugh, " I don't suppose I do. Any- 
how, it's grotesque. It's a silly piece of business. It 
can't stand. It isn't going to." 
"Anyway you can't go and make love to her," said 
Mary, plucking up spirit to combat her clever boy who 
now, with words pat to their purpose, was bewilderingly 
dififerent and hard to cope with. 
"I hadn't thought about that particularly," said 
Hugh. " There are quite a lot of things besides making 
love. But I'd like to feel I was sitting in the same room 
with her. Come on over, mother, if it's going to dis- 
tress you to have me go alone. Let's go and sit in the 
same room with Ellen." 
Mary yielded helplessly. What could she do, her ador- 
ing mind asked her, with a son who could argue her down 
and, when that failed, charm her into following? Ellen 
saw them coming, and met them at the door. She had 
 
ideas about taking them into the sitting-room where Ar- 
delia had kissed Peleg, and if she led them through to the 
kitchen that would be queer. 
" Let's go into the orchard,'' said she. " The old 
seat's there still, Hugh." 
He smiled at her, and she smiled back, with the same 
thought : that he had been gone so long things might have 
changed or been swept away. When they hadn't, it wsls 
wonderful. She came down the steps, and they went 
across to the orchard, Mary leading and the two behind 
her hand in hand. Mary was bewildered by the audacity 
of their assumption that the path was clear before them 
or that it could be made clear. She was angry, too, in 
