henceforth claim to serve him. What person 
met by him during his thirty hours in American 
air was "such" again as any other partaker of 
contact had appeared or proved, no matter where, 
before his entering it ? What person had not at 
once so struck him in the light of violent repudia- 
tion of type, as he might save for his sensibility 
have imputed type, that nothing else in the case 
seemed predicable? He might have seen Miss 
Mumby, he was presently to recognise, in the 
light of a youngish mother perhaps, a sister, a 
cousin, a friend, even a possible bride, for these 
were aspects independent of type and bound- 
lessly free of range; but a "trained nurse" was 
a trained nurse, and that was a category of the 
most evolved — in spite of which what category 
in all the world could have lifted its head in Miss 
Mumby's aura ? 
Still, she might have been a pleasant cousin, 
a first cousin, the very first a man had ever had 
and not in any degree "removed," while she 
thus proclaimed the cheerful ease of everything 
and everyone, her own above all, and made him 
yield on the spot to her lightest intimation. He 
couldn't possibly have held off from her in any 
 
way, and if this was in part because he always 
collapsed at a touch before nurses, it was at the 
same time not at all the nurse in her that now so 
afFected him, but the incalculable other force, 
of which he had had no experience and which 
was apparently that of the familiar in tone and 
manner. He had known, of a truth, familiarity 
greater— much greater, but only with greater oc- 
casions and supports for it; whereas on Miss 
Mumby's part it seemed independent of any or 
of every motive. He could scarce have said in 
fine, as he followed her to their repast, at which 
he foresaw in an instant that they were both to 
sit down, whether it more alarmed or just more 
coolingly enveloped him; his slight first bewilder- 
ment at any rate had dropped — he had already 
forgotten the moment wasted two or three hours 
before in wondering, with his sense of having 
known Nurses who gloried in their title, how his 
dear second father, for instance, would in his 
final extremity have liked the ministrations of a 
Miss, f By those he himself presently enjoyed in 
such different conditions, that is from across the 
table, bare and polished and ever so delicately 
charged, of the big dusky, yet just a little breezy 
dining-room, by those in short under which every 
association he had ever had with anything crashed 
down to pile itself as so much more tinklingly 
shivered glass at Miss Mumby's feet, that sort 
of question was left far behind — and doubtless 
 
would have been so even if the appeal of the 
particular refection served to them had alone" 
had the case in hand. i'Trn going to make you 
like our food, so you might as well begin at once," 
his companion had announced; and he felt it on 
the spot as scarce less than delicious that this 
element too should play, and with such fineness, 
into that harmony of the amusingly exotic which 
was, under his benediction, working its will on 
him. "Oh yes," she rejoiced in answer to his 
exhibition of the degree in which what was be- 
fore him did stir again to sweetness a chord of 
memory, "oh yes, food's a great tie, it's like 
language — you can always understand your own, 
whereas in Europe I had to learn about six 
others." 
Miss Mumby had been to Europe, and he saw 
soon enough how there was nowhere one could 
say she hadn't gone and nothing one could say 
she hadn't done — one's perception could bear 
only on what she hadn't become; so that, as he 
thus perceived, though she might have affected 
Europe even as she was now affecting him, she 
was a pure negation of its having affected herself, 
unless perhaps by adding to her power to make 
him feel how little he could impose on her. She 
knew all about his references while he only missed 
hers, and that gave her a tremendous advantage 
— or would have done so hadn't she been too 
much his cousin to take it. He at any rate recog- 
 
nised in a moment that the so many things she 
had had to learn to understand over there were 
not forms of speech but alimentary systems — as 
to which view he quite agreed with her that the 
element of the native was equally rooted in both 
supports of life. This gave her of course her op- 
portunity of remarking that she had indeed made 
for the assimilation of "his" cookery— which- 
ever of the varieties his had most been — scarce 
less an effort than she must confess now to making 
for that of his terms of utterance; where she had 
at once again the triumph that he was nowhere, 
by his own reasoning, if he pretended to an affinity 
with the nice things they were now eating and 
yet stood off from the other ground. "Oh I 
understand you, which appears to be so much 
more than you do me!" he laughed; "but am 
I really committed to everything because I'm 
committed, in the degree you see me, oh yes, to 
waffles and maple syrup, followed, and on such 
a scale, by melons and ice-cream ? You see in 
the one case I have but to take in, and in the 
other have to give out: so can't I have, in a quiet 
way the American palate without emitting the 
American sounds?" Thus was he on the 
straightest flattest level with Miss Mumby— it 
stretched, to his imagination, without a break, 
a rise or a fall, a perte de vue; and thus was it 
already attested that the Miss Mumbys (for it 
was evident there would be thousands of them) 
 
were in society, or were, at any rate, not out of 
it, society thereby becoming clearly colossal. 
What was it, moreover, but the best society — 
as who should say anywhere — when his com- 
panion made the bright point that if anything 
had to -do with sounds the palate did ? returning 
with it also to the one already made, her due 
warning that she wasn't going to have him not 
like everything. "But I do, I do, I do," he de- 
clared, with his mouth full of a seasoned and 
sweetened, a soft, substantial coldness and rich- 
ness that were at once the revelation of a world 
and the consecration of a fate; "I revel in every- 
thing, I already wallow, behold: I move as in a 
dream, I assure you, and I only fear to wake up." 
"Well, I don't know as I want you to wallow, 
and I certainly don't want you to fear — though 
you'll wake up soon enough, I guess," his enter- 
tainer continued, "whatever you do. You'll 
wake up to some of our realities, and — well, we 
won't want anything better for you: will we, 
Doctor ? " Miss Mumby freely proceeded on their 
being joined for a moment by the friendly phy- 
sician who had greeted our young man, on his 
uncle's behalf, at his hour of arrival, and who, 
having been again for awhile with their interest- 
ing host, had left the second nurse in charge and 
was about to be off to other cares  "I'm saying 
to Mr. Fielder that he's got to wake up to some 
pretty big things," she explained to Doctor Hatch, 
 
whom it struck Gray she addressed rather as he 
had heard doctors address nurses than nurses 
doctors; a fact contributing offhand to his aware- 
ness, already definite, that everyone addressed 
everyone as he had nowhere yet heard the ad- 
dress perpetrated, and that so, evidently, there 
were questions connected with it that must yet 
wait over. It was pertinently to be felt further- 
more that Doctor Hatch's own freedom, which 
also had quite its own rare freshness of note, 
shared in the general property of the whole ap- 
peal to him, the appeal of the very form of the 
great sideboard, the very "school," though yet 
unrecognised by him, of the pictures hung about, 
the very look and dress, the apparently odd 
identity, of the selected and arrayed volumes in 
a bookcase charged with ornament and occupying 
the place of highest dignity in the room, to take 
his situation for guaranteed as it was surely not 
common for earthly situations to be. This he 
could feel, however, without knowing, to any 
great purpose, what it really meant; and he was 
afterwards even scarce to know what had further 
taken place, under Doctor Hatch's blessing, be- 
fore he passed out of the house to the verandah 
and the grounds, as their limitations of reach 
didn't prevent their being called, and gave him- 
self up to inquiries now permittedly direct. 
Doctor Hatch's message or momentary act of 
quaint bright presence came to him thus, on/the 
 
verandah, while shining expanses opened, as an 
invitation to some extraordinary confidence, some 
flight of optimism without a precedent, as a posi- 
tive hint in fine that it depended on himself alone 
to step straight into the chariot of the sun, which 
on his mere nod would conveniently descend 
there to the edge of the piazza, and whirl away 
for increase of acquaintance with the time, as it 
was obviously going to be, of his life. This was 
but his reading indeed of the funny terms in 
which the delightful man put it to him that he 
seemed by his happy advent to have brought on 
for his uncle a prospect, a rise of pitch, not dis- 
similar from that sort of vision; by so high a tide 
of ease had the sick room above been flooded, 
and such a lot of good would clearly await the 
patient from seeing him after a little and at the 
perfect proper moment. It was to be that of 
Mr. Betterman's competent choice: he lay there 
as just for the foretaste of it, which was wholly 
tranquillising, and could be trusted — what else 
did doctor and nurse engage for? — to know the 
psychological hour on its striking and then, to 
complete felicity, have his visitor introduced. 
His present mere assurance of the visitor was in 
short so agreeable to him, and by the same 
token to Doctor Hatch himself— which was above 
all what the latter had conveyed — that the im- 
plication of the agreeable to Graham in return 
might fairly have been some imponderable yet 
 
ever so sensible tissue, voluminous interwoven 
gold and silver, flung as a mantle over his 
shoulders while he went. Gray had never felt 
around him any like envelope whatever; so that 
on his looking forth at all the candid clearness — 
which struck him too, ever so amusingly, as even 
more candid when occasionally and aggressively, 
that is residentially, obstructed than when not — 
what he inwardly and fantastically compared it 
to was some presented quarto page, vast and 
fair, ever so distinctly printed and ever so un- 
expectedly vignetted, of a volume of which the 
leaves would be turned for him one by one and 
with no more trouble on his own part than when 
a friendly service beside him at the piano, where 
he so often sat, relieved him, from sheet to sheet, 
of touching his score. 
Wasn't he thus now again "playing," as it had 
been a lifelong resource to him to play in that 
other posture? — a question promoted by the 
way the composition suddenly broke into the 
vividest illustrational figure, that of a little man 
encountered on one of his turns of the verandah 
and who, affecting him at first as a small waiting 
and watching, an almost crouching gnome, the 
neat domestic goblin of some old Germanic, some 
harmonised, familiarised legend, sat and stared 
at him from the depths of an arrested rocking- 
chair after a fashion nothing up to then had led 
him to preconceive. This was a different note 
 
from any yet, a queer, sharp, hard particle in 
all the softness; and it was sensible too, oddly 
enough, that the small force of their concussion 
but grew with its coming over him the next mo- 
ment that he simply had before him Rosanna 
Gaw's prodigious parent. Of course it was Mr. 
Gaw, whom he had never seen, and of whom 
Rosanna in the old time had so little talked; her 
mother alone had talked of him in those days, 
and to his own mother only — with whom Gray 
had indeed himself afterwards talked not a little; 
but the intensity of the certitude came not so 
much by any plain as by quite the most round- 
about presumption, the fact of his always having 
felt that she required some strange accounting 
for, and that here was the requirement met by 
just the ripest revelation. She had been in- 
volved in something, produced by something, 
intimately pressing upon her and yet as different 
as possible from herself; and here was the con- 
centrated difference-r-which showed him too, with 
each lapsing second, its quality of pressure. Abel 
Gaw struck him in this light as very finely 
blanched, as somehow squeezed together by the 
operation of an inward energy or necessity, and 
as animated at the same time by the conviction 
that, should he sit there long enough and still 
enough, the young man from Europe, known to 
be on the premises, might finally reward his 
curiosity. Mr. Gaw was curiosity embodied — 
 
Gray was by the end of the minute entirely as- 
sured of that; it in fact quite seemed to him that 
he had never yet in all his life caught the prying 
passion so shamelessly in the act. Shamelessly, 
he was afterwards to remember having explained 
to himself, because his sense of the reach of the 
sharp eyes in the small white face, and of their 
not giving way for a moment before his own, 
suggested to him, even if he" could scarce have 
said why to that extent, the act of listening at 
the door, at the very keyhole, of a room, com- 
bined with the attempt to make it good under 
sudden detection. 
So it was, at any rate, that our speculative 
friend, the impression of the next turn of the 
case aiding, figured the extension, without forms, 
without the shade of a form, of their unmitigated 
mutual glare. The initiation of this exchange by 
the little old gentleman in the chair, who gave 
for so long no sign of moving or speaking, couldn't 
but practically determine in Graham's own face 
some resistance to the purpose exhibited and for 
which it was clear no apology impended. By the 
time he had recognised that his presence was in 
question for Mr. Gaw with such an intensity as 
it had never otherwise, he felt, had the benefit 
of, however briefly, save under some offered gage 
or bribe, he had also made out that no "form" 
would survive for twenty seconds in any close 
relation with the personage, and that if ever he 
 
had himself known curiosity as to what might 
happen when manners were consistently enough 
ignored it was a point on which he should at once 
be enlightened. His fellow-visitor, of whose be- 
ing there Doctor Hatch and Miss Mumby were 
presumably unaware, continued to ignore every- 
thing but the opportunity he enjoyed and the 
certainty that Graham would contribute to it — 
which certainty made in fact his profit. The 
profit, that is, couldn't possibly fail unless Gray 
should turn his back and walk off"; which was 
of course possible, but would then saddle Gray 
himself with the repudiation of forms: so that — 
yes, infallibly — in proportion as the young man 
had to be commonly civil would Mr. Gaw's per- 
haps unholy satisfaction of it be able to prevail. 
The young man had taken it home that he couldn't 
simply stare long enough for successful defence 
by the time that, presently moving nearer, he 
uttered his adversary's name with no intimation 
of a doubt. Mr. Gaw failed, Gray was afterwards 
to inform Rosanna, "to so much as take this 
up"; he was left with everything on his hands 
but the character of his identity, the indications 
of his face, the betrayals he should so much less 
succeed in suppressing than his adversary would 
succeed in reading them. The figure presented 
hadn't stirred from his posture otherwise than 
by a motion of eye just perceptible as Graham 
moved; it was drinking him in, our hero felt, 
 
and by this treatment of the full cup, continuously 
applied to the lips, stillness was of course imposed. 
It didn't again so much as recognise, by any sign 
given, Graham's remark that an acquaintance 
with Miss Gaw from of old involved naturally 
their acquaintance: there was no question of 
Miss Gaw, her friend found himself after another 
minute divining, as there was none of objects 
or appearances immediately there about them; 
the question was of something a thousand times 
more relevant and present, of something the in- 
terloper's silence, far more than breathed words 
could have done, represented the fond hope of 
mastering. 
Graham thus held already, by the old man's 
conviction, a secret of high value, yet which, 
with the occasion stretched a little, would prac- 
tically be at his service — so much as that at least, 
with the passage of another moment, he had con- 
cluded to; and all the while, in the absurdest 
way, without his guessing, without his at all 
measuring, his secret himself. Mr. Gaw fairly 
made him want to — want, that is, as a prelim- 
inary or a stopgap, to guess what it had best, 
most desirably and most effectively, become; for 
shouldn't he positively like to have something of 
the sort in order just to disoblige this gentleman ? 
Strange enough how it came to him at once as a 
result of the father's refusal of attention to any 
connection he might have glanced at with the 
 
daughter, strange enough how it came to him, 
under the first flush of heat he had known since 
his arrival, that two could play at such a game 
and that if Rosanna's interests were to be so 
slighted her relative himself should miss even the 
minimum of application as one of them. "He 
must have wanted to know, he must have wanted 
to know !" this young woman was on a later 
day to have begun to explain; without going on, 
however, since by that time Gray had rather 
made out, the still greater rush of his impressions 
helping, the truth of Mr. Gaw's desire. It bore, 
that appetite, upon a single point and, daughter 
or no daughter, on nothing else in the world — 
the question of what Gray's "interest," in the 
light of his uncle's intentions, might size up to; 
those intentions having, to the Gaw imagination, 
been of course apprehensible on the spot, and 
within the few hours that had lapsed, by a nephew 
even of but rudimentary mind. At the present 
hour meanwhile, short of the miracle which our 
friend's counter-scrutiny alone could have brought 
about, there worked for this young intelligence, 
and with no small sharpness, the fact itself of 
such a revealed relation to the ebb of their host's 
life — upon which was thrust the appearance of 
its being, watch in hand, all impatiently, or in 
other words all offensively, timed. The very air 
at this instant tasted to Gray, quite as if some- 
thing under his tongue had suddenly turned from 
 
the sweet to the appreciably sour, of an assump- 
tion diffused through it in respect to the rudi- 
ments of mind. He was afterwards to date the 
breaking-in upon him of the general measure of 
the smallest vision of business a young man might 
self-respectingly confess to from Mr. Gaw's ex- 
traordinary tacit "Oh come, you can't fool me: 
don't I know you know what I want to know — 
don't I know what it must mean for you to have 
been here since six o'clock this morning with 
nothing whatever else to do than just to take it 
in?" 
That was it — Gray was to have taken in the 
more or less definite value involved for him in 
his uncle's supposedly near extinction, and was 
to be capable, if not of expressing it on the spot 
in the only terms in which a value of any sort 
could exist for this worthy, yet still at least of 
liability to such a betrayal as would yield him 
something to conclude upon. It was only after- 
wards, once more, that our young man was to 
master the logic of the conclusive as it prevailed 
for Mr. Gaw; what concerned his curiosity was 
to settle whether or no they were in presence 
together of a really big fact — distinguishing as 
the Gaw mind did among such dimensions and 
addressed as it essentially was to a special ques- 
tion — a question as yet unrecognised by Gray. 
He was subsequently to have his friend's word 
to go upon — when, in the extraordinary light of 
 
Rosanna's explication, he read clear what he had 
been able on the verandah but half to glimmer 
out: the queer truth of Mr. Gaw's hunger to 
learn to what extent he had anciently, to what 
degree he had irremediably, ruined his whilom 
associate. He didn't know— .so strange was it, 
at the time and since, that, thanks to the way 
Mr. Betterman had himself fixed things, he 
couldn't be sure; but what he wanted, and what 
he hung about so displeasingly to sniff up the 
least stray sign of, was a confirmation of his 
belief that Doctor Hatch's and Miss Mumby's 
patient had never really recovered from the 
wound of years before. They were nursing him 
now for another complaint altogether, this one 
admittedly such as must, with but the scantest 
further reprieve, dispose of him; whereas doubts 
were deep, as Mr. Gaw at least entertained them, 
as to whether the damage he supposed his own 
just resentment to have inflicted when propriety 
and opportunity combined to inspire him was 
amenable even to nursing the most expert or to 
medication the most subtle. These mysteries of 
calculation were of course impenetrable to Gray 
during the moments at which we see him so al- 
most indescribably exposed at once and rein- 
forced; but the effect of the sharper and sharper 
sense as of a spring pressed by his companion was 
that a whole consciousness suddenly welled up in 
him and that within a few more seconds he had 
 
become aware of a need absolutely adverse to 
any trap that might be laid for his candour. He 
could as little have then said why as he could 
vividly have phrased it under the knowledge to 
come, but that his mute interlocutor desired some- 
how their association in a judgment of what his 
uncle was "worth," a judgment from which a 
comparatively conceited nephew might receive an 
incidental lesson, played through him as a certi- 
tude and produced quite another inclination. 
That recognition of the pleasant on which he had 
been floating affirmed itself as in the very face 
of so embodied a pretension to affirm the direct 
opposite, to thrust up at him in fine a horrid con- 
tradiction — a contradiction which he next heard 
himself take, after the happiest fashion, the 
straightest way to rebut. 
"I'm sure you'll be glad to know that I seem 
to be doing my uncle a tremendous lot of good. 
They tell me I'm really bringing him round" — 
and Graham smiled down at little blanched Mr. 
Gaw. "I don't despair at all of his getting much 
better." 
It was on this that for the first time Mr. Gaw 
became articulate. "Better ?" he strangely 
quavered, and as if his very eyes questioned such 
conscious flippancy. 
"Why yes — through cheering him up. He 
takes, I gather," Gray went on, " as much pleasure 
as I do — — !" His assurance, however, had 
 
within the minute dropped a little — the effect of 
it might really reach, he apprehended, beyond 
his idea. The old man had been odd enough, 
but now of a sudden he looked sick, and that 
one couldn't desire. 
"'Pleasure' ?" he was nevertheless able 
to echo; while it struck Gray that no sound so 
weak had ever been so sharp, or none so sharp 
ever so weak. "Pleasure in dying; — > — ?" Mr. 
Gaw asked in this flatness of doubt. 
"But my dear sir," said Gray, his impulse to 
be jaunty still nevertheless holding out a little, 
"but, my dear sir, if, as it strikes me, he isn't 
dying ?" 
"Oh twaddle!" snapped Mr. Gaw with the 
emphasis of his glare — shifted a moment, Gray 
next saw, to a new object in range. Gray felt 
himself even before turning for it rejoined by 
Miss Mumby, who, rounding the corner of the 
house, had paused as in presence of an odd con- 
junction; not made the less odd moreover by 
Mr. Gaw's instant appeal to her. "You think 
he ain't then going to ? " 
He had to leave it at that, but Miss Mumby 
supplied, with the loudest confidence, what ap- 
peared to be wanted. "He ain't going to get 
better? Oh we hope so!" she declared to Gra- 
ham's delight. 
It helped him to contribute in his own way. 
"Mr. Gaw's surprise seems for his holding out !" 
 
"Oh I guess he'll hold out," Miss Mumby was 
pleased to say. 
"Then if he ain't dying what's the fuss about?" 
Mr. Gaw wanted to know. 
"Why there ain't any fuss — but what you 
seem to make," Miss Mumby could quite assure 
him. 
"Oh well, if you answer for it !" He got 
up on this, though with an alertness that, to 
Gray's sense, didn't work quite truly, and stood 
an instant looking from one of his companions 
to the other, while our young man's eyes, for 
their part, put a question to Miss Mumby 's — 
a question which, articulated, would have had 
the sense of "What on earth's the matter with 
him ? " There seemed no knowing how Mr. 
Gaw would take things — as Miss Mumby, for 
that matter, appeared also at once to reflect. 
"We're sure enough not to want to have you 
sick too," she declared indeed with more cheer 
than apprehension; to which she added, however, 
to cover all the ground, "You just leave Mr. 
Betterman to us and take care of yourself. We 
never say die and we won't have you say it — 
either about him or anyone else, Mr. Gaw." 
This gentleman, so addressed, straightened and 
cleared himself in such a manner as to show that 
he saw, for the moment, Miss Mumby's point; 
which he then, a wondrous small concentration 
of studied blankness — studied, that is, his com- 
 
panions were afterwards both to show they had 
felt— commemorated his appreciation of in a tiny, 
yet triumphant, "Well, that's all right!" 
"It ain't so right but what I'm going to see 
you home," Miss Mumby returned with au- 
thority; adding, however, for Graham's benefit, 
that she had come down to tell him his uncle 
was now ready. "You just go right up — you'll 
find Miss Goodenough there. And you'll see for 
yourself," she said, "how fresh he is!" 
"Thanks — that will be beautiful!" Gray 
brightly responded; but with his eyes on Mr. 
Gaw, whom of a sudden, somehow, he didn't 
like to leave. 
It at any rate determined on the little man's 
part a surprised inquiry. "Then you haven't 
seen him yet — with your grand account of him ?" 
"No — but the account," Gray smiled, "has 
an authority beyond mine. Besides," he kept on 
after this gallant reference, "I feel what I shall 
do for him." 
"Oh they'll have great times !" — Miss Mumby, 
with an arm at the old man's service, bravely 
guaranteed it. But she also admonished Graham: 
"Dqn't keep him waiting, and mind what Miss 
Goodenough tells you ! So now, Mr. Gaw — you're 
to mind me\" she concluded; while this subject 
of her more extemporised attention so far com- 
plied as slowly to face with her in the direction 
of the other house. Gray wondered about him, 
 
but immensely trusted Miss Mumby, and only 
watched till he saw them step off together to the 
lawn, Mr. Gaw independent of support, with 
something in his consciously stiffened even if not 
painfully assumed little air, as noted thus from 
behind, that quite warranted his protectress. 
Seen that way, yes, he was a tremendous little 
person; and Gray, excited, immensely readvised 
and turning accordingly to his own business, felt 
the assault of impressions fairly shake him as he 
went — shake him though it apparently seemed 
most capable of doing but to the effect of hilarity. 
II 
Whether or no by its so different appearance 
from that of Mr. Gaw, the figure propped on 
pillows in the vast cool room and lighted in such 
a way that the clear deepening west seemed to 
flush toward it, through a wide high window, in 
the interest of its full effect, impressed our young 
man as massive and expansive, as of a beautiful 
bland dignity indeed — though emulating Rosan- 
na's relative, he was at first to gather, by a 
perfect readiness to stare rather than speak. 
Miss Goodenough had hovered a little, for full 
assurance, but then had thrown off with a timbre 
of voice never yet used for Gray's own ear in any 
sick room, "Well, I guess you won't come to 
blows!" and had left them face to face — besides 
leaving the air quickened by the freedom of her 
humour. They were face to face for the time 
across an interval which, to do her justice, she 
had not taken upon herself to deal with directly; 
this in spite of Gray's apprehension at the end 
Of a minute that she might, by the touch of her 
hand or the pitch of her spirit, push him further 
forward than he had immediately judged decent 
to advance. He had stopped at a certain dis- 
tance from the great grave bed, stopped really 
for consideratipn and deference, or through the 
 
instinct of submitting himself first of all to ap- 
proval, or at least to encouragement; the space, 
not great enough for reluctance and not small 
enough for presumption, showed him ready to 
obey any sign his uncle should make. Mr. Bet- 
terman struck him, in this high quietude of con- 
templation, much less as formidable than as 
mildly and touchingly august; he had not sup- 
posed him, he became suddenly aware, so great 
a person — a presence like that of some weary 
veteran of affairs, one of the admittedly eminent 
whose last words would be expected to figure in 
history. The large fair face, rather square than 
heavy, was neither clouded nor ravaged, but 
finely serene; the silver-coloured hair seemed to 
bind the broad high brow as with a band of splen- 
did silk, while the eyes rested on Gray with an 
air of acceptance beyond attestation by the mere 
play of cheer or the comparative gloom of re- 
lief. 
"Ah le beau type, le beau type!" was during 
these instants the visitor's inward comment 
breaking into one of the strange tongues that 
experience had appointed him privately to use, 
in many a case, for the appropriation of aspects 
and appearances. It was not till afterwards that 
he happened to learn how his uncle had been 
capable, two or three hours before seeing him, 
of offering cheek and chin to the deft ministra- 
tion of a barber, a fact highly illuminating, though 
ioo 
 
by that time the gathered lights were thick. 
What the patient owed on the spot to the sacri- 
fice, he easily made out, was that look as of the 
last refinement of preparation, that positive 
splendour of the immaculate, which was really, 
on one's taking it all in, but part of an earnest 
recognition of his guest's own dignity. The grave 
beauty of the personal presence, the vague an- 
ticipation as of something that might go on to 
be commemorated for its example, the great 
pure fragrant room, bathed in the tempered 
glow of the afternoon's end, the general lucidity 
and tranquillity and security of the whole pre- 
sented case, begot in fine, on our young friend's 
part, an extraordinary sense that as he himself 
was important enough to be on show, so these 
peculiar perfections that met him were but so 
many virtual honours rendered and signs of the 
high level to which he had mounted. On show, 
yes — that was it, and more wonderfully than 
could be said: Gray was sure after a little of 
how right he was to stand off" as yet in any in- 
terest of his own significance that might be in- 
volved. There was clearly something his uncle 
so wanted him to be that he should run no pos- 
sible danger of being it to excess, and that if he 
might only there and then grasp it he would ask 
but to proceed, for decency's sake, according to 
his lights: just as so short a time before a like 
force of suggestion had played upon him from 
IOI 
 
Mr. Gaw— each of these appeals clothing him 
in its own way with such an oddity of pertinence, 
such a bristling set of attributes. This wait of 
the parties to the present one for articulate ex- 
pression, on either side, of whatever it was that 
might most concern them together, promised also 
to last as the tension had lasted down on the 
verandah, and would perhaps indeed have drawn 
itself further out if Gray hadn't broken where he 
stood into a cry of admiration — since it could 
scarcely be called less — that blew to the winds 
every fear of overstepping. 
"It's really worth one's coming so far, uncle, 
if you don't mind my saying so — it's really worth 
a great pilgrimage to see anything so splendid." 
The old man heard, clearly, as by some process 
that was still deeply active; and then after a 
pause that represented, Gray was sure, no failure 
at all of perception, but only the wide embrace 
of a possibility of pleasure, sounded bravely back: 
"Does it come up to what you've seen?" 
It was Gray rather who was for a moment 
mystified— though only to further spontaneity 
when he had caught the sense of the question. 
"Oh, you come up to everything — by which I 
mean, if I may, that nothing comes up to you ! 
I mean, if I may," he smiled, "that you yourself, 
uncle, affect me as the biggest and most native 
American impression that I can possibly be ex- 
posed to." 
 
"Well," said Mr. Betterman, and again as with 
a fond deliberation, "what I'm going to like, I 
see, is to listen to the way you talk. That," he 
added with his soft distinctness, a singleness of 
note somehow for the many things meant, "that, 
I guess, is about what I most wanted you to come 
for. Unless it be to look at you too. I like to 
look right at you." 
"Well," Gray harmoniously laughed again, "if 
even that can give you pleasure !" He stood 
as for inspection, easily awkward, pleasantly loose, 
holding up his head as if to make the most of no 
great stature. "I've never been so sorry that 
there isn't more of me." 
The fine old eyes on the pillow kept steadily 
taking him in; he could quite see that he hap- 
pened to be, as he might have called it, right; 
and though he had never felt himself, within his 
years, extraordinarily or excitingly wrong, so that 
this felicity might have turned rather flat for 
him, there was still matter for emotion, for the 
immediate throb and thrill, in finding success so 
crown him. He had been spared, thank goodness, 
any positive shame, but had never known his 
brow brushed or so much as tickled by the laurel 
or the bay. "Does it mean," he might have 
murmured to himself, "the strangest shift of 
standards?" — but his uncle had meanwhile 
spoken. "Well, there's all of you I'm going to 
want. And there must be more of you than I 
 
see. Because you are different," Mr. Better- 
man considered. 
"But different from what?" Truly was Gray 
interested to know. 
It took Mr. Betterman a moment to say, but 
he seemed to convey that it might have been 
guessed. "From what you'd have been if you 
had come." 
The young man was indeed drawn in. "If 
I had come years ago? Well, perhaps," he so 
far happily agreed — "for I've often thought of 
that myself. Only, you see," he laughed, "I'm 
different from that too. I mean from what I was 
when I didn't come." 
Mr. Betterman looked at it quietly. "You're 
different in the sense that you're older — and you 
seem to me rather older than I supposed. All 
the better, all the better," he continued to make 
out. "You're the same person I didn't tempt, 
the same person I couldn't — that time when I 
tried. I see you are, I see what you are." 
"You see terribly much, sir, for the few min- 
utes!" smiled Gray. 
"Oh when I want to see 1" the old man 
comfortably enough sighed. "I take you in, I 
take you in; though I grant that I don't quite 
see how you can understand. Still," he pursued, 
"there are things for you to tell me. You're 
different from anything, and if we had time for 
particulars I should like to know a little how 
 
you've kept so. I was afraid you wouldn't turn 
out perhaps so thoroughly the sort of thing I 
liked to think — for I hadn't much more to go 
upon than what she said, you know. However," 
Mr. Betterman wound up as with due comfort, 
"it's by what she says that I've gone — and I 
want her to know that I don't feel fooled." 
If Gray's wonderment could have been said to 
rest anywhere, hour after hour, long enough to 
be detected in the act, the detaining question 
would have been more than any other perhaps 
that of whether Miss Gaw would "come up." 
Now that she did so however, in this quiet way, 
it had no strangeness that his being at once glad 
couldn't make but a mouthful of; and the recent 
interest of what she had lately written to him 
was as nothing to the interest of her becoming 
personally his uncle's theme. With which, at 
the same time, it was pleasanter to him than any- 
