“You’re the girl from Royall’s, ain’t you?”

The colour rose in Charity’s face. “I’m Charity Royall,” she said, as
if asserting her right to the name in the very place where it might have
been most open to question.

The woman did not seem to notice. “You kin stay,” she merely said;
then she turned away and stooped over a dish in which she was stirring
something.

Harney and Charity sat down on a bench made of a board resting on two
starch boxes. They faced a door hanging on a broken hinge, and through
the crack they saw the eyes of the tow-headed boy and of a pale little
girl with a scar across her cheek. Charity smiled, and signed to the
children to come in; but as soon as they saw they were discovered they
slipped away on bare feet. It occurred to her that they were afraid of
rousing the sleeping man; and probably the woman shared their fear, for
she moved about as noiselessly and avoided going near the stove.

The rain continued to beat against the house, and in one or two places
it sent a stream through the patched panes and ran into pools on the
floor. Every now and then the kitten mewed and struggled down, and the
old woman stooped and caught it, holding it tight in her bony hands; and
once or twice the man on the barrel half woke, changed his position
and dozed again, his head falling forward on his hairy breast. As the
minutes passed, and the rain still streamed against the windows, a
loathing of the place and the people came over Charity. The sight of
the weak-minded old woman, of the cowed children, and the ragged man
sleeping off his liquor, made the setting of her own life seem a vision
of peace and plenty. She thought of the kitchen at Mr. Royall’s, with
its scrubbed floor and dresser full of china, and the peculiar smell of
yeast and coffee and soft-soap that she had always hated, but that now
seemed the very symbol of household order. She saw Mr. Royall’s room,
with the high-backed horsehair chair, the faded rag carpet, the row of
books on a shelf, the engraving of “The Surrender of Burgoyne” over
the stove, and the mat with a brown and white spaniel on a moss-green
border. And then her mind travelled to Miss Hatchard’s house, where all
was freshness, purity and fragrance, and compared to which the red house
had always seemed so poor and plain.

“This is where I belong--this is where I belong,” she kept repeating to
herself; but the words had no meaning for her. Every instinct and habit
made her a stranger among these poor swamp-people living like vermin in
their lair. With all her soul she wished she had not yielded to Harney’s
curiosity, and brought him there.

The rain had drenched her, and she began to shiver under the thin folds
of her dress. The younger woman must have noticed it, for she went out
of the room and came back with a broken tea-cup which she offered to
Charity. It was half full of whiskey, and Charity shook her head; but
Harney took the cup and put his lips to it. When he had set it down
Charity saw him feel in his pocket and draw out a dollar; he hesitated
a moment, and then put it back, and she guessed that he did not wish her
to see him offering money to people she had spoken of as being her kin.

The sleeping man stirred, lifted his head and opened his eyes. They
rested vacantly for a moment on Charity and Harney, and then closed
again, and his head drooped; but a look of anxiety came into the woman’s
face. She glanced out of the window and then came up to Harney. “I guess
you better go along now,” she said. The young man understood and got to
his feet. “Thank you,” he said, holding out his hand. She seemed not to
notice the gesture, and turned away as they opened the door.

The rain was still coming down, but they hardly noticed it: the pure air
was like balm in their faces. The clouds were rising and breaking, and
between their edges the light streamed down from remote blue hollows.
Harney untied the horse, and they drove off through the diminishing
rain, which was already beaded with sunlight.

For a while Charity was silent, and her companion did not speak. She
looked timidly at his profile: it was graver than usual, as though he
too were oppressed by what they had seen. Then she broke out abruptly:
“Those people back there are the kind of folks I come from. They may be
my relations, for all I know.” She did not want him to think that she
regretted having told him her story.

“Poor creatures,” he rejoined. “I wonder why they came down to that
fever-hole.”

She laughed ironically. “To better themselves! It’s worse up on the
Mountain. Bash Hyatt married the daughter of the farmer that used to own
the brown house. That was him by the stove, I suppose.”

Harney seemed to find nothing to say and she went on: “I saw you take
out a dollar to give to that poor woman. Why did you put it back?”

He reddened, and leaned forward to flick a swamp-fly from the horse’s
neck. “I wasn’t sure----”

“Was it because you knew they were my folks, and thought I’d be ashamed
to see you give them money?”

He turned to her with eyes full of reproach. “Oh, Charity----” It was
the first time he had ever called her by her name. Her misery welled
over.

“I ain’t--I ain’t ashamed. They’re my people, and I ain’t ashamed of
them,” she sobbed.

“My dear...” he murmured, putting his arm about her; and she leaned
against him and wept out her pain.

It was too late to go around to Hamblin, and all the stars were out in a
clear sky when they reached the North Dormer valley and drove up to the
red house.




VII


SINCE her reinstatement in Miss Hatchard’s favour Charity had not dared
to curtail by a moment her hours of attendance at the library. She
even made a point of arriving before the time, and showed a laudable
indignation when the youngest Targatt girl, who had been engaged to help
in the cleaning and rearranging of the books, came trailing in late
and neglected her task to peer through the window at the Sollas boy.
Nevertheless, “library days” seemed more than ever irksome to Charity
after her vivid hours of liberty; and she would have found it hard to
set a good example to her subordinate if Lucius Harney had not been
commissioned, before Miss Hatchard’s departure, to examine with the
local carpenter the best means of ventilating the “Memorial.”

He was careful to prosecute this inquiry on the days when the library
was open to the public; and Charity was therefore sure of spending part
of the afternoon in his company. The Targatt girl’s presence, and the
risk of being interrupted by some passer-by suddenly smitten with a
thirst for letters, restricted their intercourse to the exchange of
commonplaces; but there was a fascination to Charity in the contrast
between these public civilities and their secret intimacy.

The day after their drive to the brown house was “library day,” and
she sat at her desk working at the revised catalogue, while the Targatt
girl, one eye on the window, chanted out the titles of a pile of books.
Charity’s thoughts were far away, in the dismal house by the swamp, and
under the twilight sky during the long drive home, when Lucius Harney
had consoled her with endearing words. That day, for the first time
since he had been boarding with them, he had failed to appear as usual
at the midday meal. No message had come to explain his absence, and Mr.
Royall, who was more than usually taciturn, had betrayed no surprise,
and made no comment. In itself this indifference was not particularly
significant, for Mr. Royall, in common with most of his fellow-citizens,
had a way of accepting events passively, as if he had long since come
to the conclusion that no one who lived in North Dormer could hope to
modify them. But to Charity, in the reaction from her mood of passionate
exaltation, there was something disquieting in his silence. It was
almost as if Lucius Harney had never had a part in their lives: Mr.
Royall’s imperturbable indifference seemed to relegate him to the domain
of unreality.

As she sat at work, she tried to shake off her disappointment at
Harney’s non-appearing. Some trifling incident had probably kept him
from joining them at midday; but she was sure he must be eager to see
her again, and that he would not want to wait till they met at supper,
between Mr. Royall and Verena. She was wondering what his first words
would be, and trying to devise a way of getting rid of the Targatt girl
before he came, when she heard steps outside, and he walked up the path
with Mr. Miles.

The clergyman from Hepburn seldom came to North Dormer except when he
drove over to officiate at the old white church which, by an unusual
chance, happened to belong to the Episcopal communion. He was a brisk
affable man, eager to make the most of the fact that a little nucleus of
“church-people” had survived in the sectarian wilderness, and resolved
to undermine the influence of the ginger-bread-coloured Baptist chapel
at the other end of the village; but he was kept busy by parochial work
at Hepburn, where there were paper-mills and saloons, and it was not
often that he could spare time for North Dormer.

Charity, who went to the white church (like all the best people in North
Dormer), admired Mr. Miles, and had even, during the memorable trip to
Nettleton, imagined herself married to a man who had such a straight
nose and such a beautiful way of speaking, and who lived in a
brown-stone rectory covered with Virginia creeper. It had been a shock
to discover that the privilege was already enjoyed by a lady with
crimped hair and a large baby; but the arrival of Lucius Harney had long
since banished Mr. Miles from Charity’s dreams, and as he walked up the
path at Harney’s side she saw him as he really was: a fat middle-aged
man with a baldness showing under his clerical hat, and spectacles on
his Grecian nose. She wondered what had called him to North Dormer on a
weekday, and felt a little hurt that Harney should have brought him to
the library.

It presently appeared that his presence there was due to Miss Hatchard.
He had been spending a few days at Springfield, to fill a friend’s
pulpit, and had been consulted by Miss Hatchard as to young Harney’s
plan for ventilating the “Memorial.” To lay hands on the Hatchard ark
was a grave matter, and Miss Hatchard, always full of scruples about her
scruples (it was Harney’s phrase), wished to have Mr. Miles’s opinion
before deciding.

“I couldn’t,” Mr. Miles explained, “quite make out from your cousin what
changes you wanted to make, and as the other trustees did not understand
either I thought I had better drive over and take a look--though I’m
sure,” he added, turning his friendly spectacles on the young man, “that
no one could be more competent--but of course this spot has its peculiar
sanctity!”

“I hope a little fresh air won’t desecrate it,” Harney laughingly
rejoined; and they walked to the other end of the library while he set
forth his idea to the Rector.

Mr. Miles had greeted the two girls with his usual friendliness, but
Charity saw that he was occupied with other things, and she presently
became aware, by the scraps of conversation drifting over to her, that
he was still under the charm of his visit to Springfield, which appeared
to have been full of agreeable incidents.

“Ah, the Coopersons... yes, you know them, of course,” she heard. “That’s
a fine old house! And Ned Cooperson has collected some really remarkable
impressionist pictures....” The names he cited were unknown to Charity.
“Yes; yes; the Schaefer quartette played at Lyric Hall on Saturday
evening; and on Monday I had the privilege of hearing them again at the
Towers. Beautifully done... Bach and Beethoven... a lawn-party
first... I saw Miss Balch several times, by the way... looking extremely
handsome....”

Charity dropped her pencil and forgot to listen to the Targatt girl’s
sing-song. Why had Mr. Miles suddenly brought up Annabel Balch’s name?

“Oh, really?” she heard Harney rejoin; and, raising his stick, he
pursued: “You see, my plan is to move these shelves away, and open a
round window in this wall, on the axis of the one under the pediment.”

“I suppose she’ll be coming up here later to stay with Miss Hatchard?”
 Mr. Miles went on, following on his train of thought; then, spinning
about and tilting his head back: “Yes, yes, I see--I understand: that
will give a draught without materially altering the look of things. I
can see no objection.”

The discussion went on for some minutes, and gradually the two men moved
back toward the desk. Mr. Miles stopped again and looked thoughtfully at
Charity. “Aren’t you a little pale, my dear? Not overworking? Mr. Harney
tells me you and Mamie are giving the library a thorough overhauling.”
 He was always careful to remember his parishioners’ Christian names,
and at the right moment he bent his benignant spectacles on the Targatt
girl.

Then he turned to Charity. “Don’t take things hard, my dear; don’t take
things hard. Come down and see Mrs. Miles and me some day at Hepburn,”
 he said, pressing her hand and waving a farewell to Mamie Targatt. He
went out of the library, and Harney followed him.

Charity thought she detected a look of constraint in Harney’s eyes. She
fancied he did not want to be alone with her; and with a sudden pang she
wondered if he repented the tender things he had said to her the night
before. His words had been more fraternal than lover-like; but she had
lost their exact sense in the caressing warmth of his voice. He had made
her feel that the fact of her being a waif from the Mountain was only
another reason for holding her close and soothing her with consolatory
murmurs; and when the drive was over, and she got out of the buggy,
tired, cold, and aching with emotion, she stepped as if the ground were
a sunlit wave and she the spray on its crest.

Why, then, had his manner suddenly changed, and why did he leave the
library with Mr. Miles? Her restless imagination fastened on the name
of Annabel Balch: from the moment it had been mentioned she fancied
that Harney’s expression had altered. Annabel Balch at a garden-party at
Springfield, looking “extremely handsome”... perhaps Mr. Miles had seen
her there at the very moment when Charity and Harney were sitting in the
Hyatts’ hovel, between a drunkard and a half-witted old woman! Charity
did not know exactly what a garden-party was, but her glimpse of the
flower-edged lawns of Nettleton helped her to visualize the scene, and
envious recollections of the “old things” which Miss Balch avowedly
“wore out” when she came to North Dormer made it only too easy to
picture her in her splendour. Charity understood what associations the
name must have called up, and felt the uselessness of struggling against
the unseen influences in Harney’s life.

When she came down from her room for supper he was not there; and while
she waited in the porch she recalled the tone in which Mr. Royall had
commented the day before on their early start. Mr. Royall sat at her
side, his chair tilted back, his broad black boots with side-elastics
resting against the lower bar of the railings. His rumpled grey hair
stood up above his forehead like the crest of an angry bird, and the
leather-brown of his veined cheeks was blotched with red. Charity knew
that those red spots were the signs of a coming explosion.

Suddenly he said: “Where’s supper? Has Verena Marsh slipped up again on
her soda-biscuits?”

Charity threw a startled glance at him. “I presume she’s waiting for Mr.
Harney.”

“Mr. Harney, is she? She’d better dish up, then. He ain’t coming.” He
stood up, walked to the door, and called out, in the pitch necessary to
penetrate the old woman’s tympanum: “Get along with the supper, Verena.”

Charity was trembling with apprehension. Something had happened--she was
sure of it now--and Mr. Royall knew what it was. But not for the world
would she have gratified him by showing her anxiety. She took her usual
place, and he seated himself opposite, and poured out a strong cup of
tea before passing her the tea-pot. Verena brought some scrambled eggs,
and he piled his plate with them. “Ain’t you going to take any?” he
asked. Charity roused herself and began to eat.

The tone with which Mr. Royall had said “He’s not coming” seemed to her
full of an ominous satisfaction. She saw that he had suddenly begun to
hate Lucius Harney, and guessed herself to be the cause of this change
of feeling. But she had no means of finding out whether some act of
hostility on his part had made the young man stay away, or whether he
simply wished to avoid seeing her again after their drive back from the
brown house. She ate her supper with a studied show of indifference, but
she knew that Mr. Royall was watching her and that her agitation did not
escape him.

After supper she went up to her room. She heard Mr. Royall cross the
passage, and presently the sounds below her window showed that he
had returned to the porch. She seated herself on her bed and began to
struggle against the desire to go down and ask him what had happened.
“I’d rather die than do it,” she muttered to herself. With a word he
could have relieved her uncertainty: but never would she gratify him by
saying it.

She rose and leaned out of the window. The twilight had deepened into
night, and she watched the frail curve of the young moon dropping to
the edge of the hills. Through the darkness she saw one or two figures
moving down the road; but the evening was too cold for loitering, and
presently the strollers disappeared. Lamps were beginning to show here
and there in the windows. A bar of light brought out the whiteness of a
clump of lilies in the Hawes’s yard: and farther down the street Carrick
Fry’s Rochester lamp cast its bold illumination on the rustic flower-tub
in the middle of his grass-plot.

For a long time she continued to lean in the window. But a fever of
unrest consumed her, and finally she went downstairs, took her hat
from its hook, and swung out of the house. Mr. Royall sat in the porch,
Verena beside him, her old hands crossed on her patched skirt. As
Charity went down the steps Mr. Royall called after her: “Where you
going?” She could easily have answered: “To Orma’s,” or “Down to the
Targatts’”; and either answer might have been true, for she had no
purpose. But she swept on in silence, determined not to recognize his
right to question her.

At the gate she paused and looked up and down the road. The darkness
drew her, and she thought of climbing the hill and plunging into
the depths of the larch-wood above the pasture. Then she glanced
irresolutely along the street, and as she did so a gleam appeared
through the spruces at Miss Hatchard’s gate. Lucius Harney was there,
then--he had not gone down to Hepburn with Mr. Miles, as she had at
first imagined. But where had he taken his evening meal, and what had
caused him to stay away from Mr. Royall’s? The light was positive proof
of his presence, for Miss Hatchard’s servants were away on a holiday,
and her farmer’s wife came only in the mornings, to make the young man’s
bed and prepare his coffee. Beside that lamp he was doubtless sitting at
this moment. To know the truth Charity had only to walk half the length
of the village, and knock at the lighted window. She hesitated a minute
or two longer, and then turned toward Miss Hatchard’s.

She walked quickly, straining her eyes to detect anyone who might be
coming along the street; and before reaching the Frys’ she crossed over
to avoid the light from their window. Whenever she was unhappy she
felt herself at bay against a pitiless world, and a kind of animal
secretiveness possessed her. But the street was empty, and she passed
unnoticed through the gate and up the path to the house. Its white front
glimmered indistinctly through the trees, showing only one oblong of
light on the lower floor. She had supposed that the lamp was in Miss
Hatchard’s sitting-room; but she now saw that it shone through a window
at the farther corner of the house. She did not know the room to which
this window belonged, and she paused under the trees, checked by a sense
of strangeness. Then she moved on, treading softly on the short grass,
and keeping so close to the house that whoever was in the room, even if
roused by her approach, would not be able to see her.

The window opened on a narrow verandah with a trellised arch. She leaned
close to the trellis, and parting the sprays of clematis that covered it
looked into a corner of the room. She saw the foot of a mahogany bed,
an engraving on the wall, a wash-stand on which a towel had been tossed,
and one end of the green-covered table which held the lamp. Half of
the lampshade projected into her field of vision, and just under it two
smooth sunburnt hands, one holding a pencil and the other a ruler, were
moving to and fro over a drawing-board.

Her heart jumped and then stood still. He was there, a few feet away;
and while her soul was tossing on seas of woe he had been quietly
sitting at his drawing-board. The sight of those two hands, moving with
their usual skill and precision, woke her out of her dream. Her eyes
were opened to the disproportion between what she had felt and the cause
of her agitation; and she was turning away from the window when one hand
abruptly pushed aside the drawing-board and the other flung down the
pencil.

Charity had often noticed Harney’s loving care of his drawings, and the
neatness and method with which he carried on and concluded each task.
The impatient sweeping aside of the drawing-board seemed to reveal a new
mood. The gesture suggested sudden discouragement, or distaste for his
work and she wondered if he too were agitated by secret perplexities.
Her impulse of flight was checked; she stepped up on the verandah and
looked into the room.

Harney had put his elbows on the table and was resting his chin on his
locked hands. He had taken off his coat and waistcoat, and unbuttoned
the low collar of his flannel shirt; she saw the vigorous lines of his
young throat, and the root of the muscles where they joined the
chest. He sat staring straight ahead of him, a look of weariness and
self-disgust on his face: it was almost as if he had been gazing at a
distorted reflection of his own features. For a moment Charity looked at
him with a kind of terror, as if he had been a stranger under familiar
lineaments; then she glanced past him and saw on the floor an open
portmanteau half full of clothes. She understood that he was preparing
to leave, and that he had probably decided to go without seeing her. She
saw that the decision, from whatever cause it was taken, had disturbed
him deeply; and she immediately concluded that his change of plan was
due to some surreptitious interference of Mr. Royall’s. All her old
resentments and rebellions flamed up, confusedly mingled with the
yearning roused by Harney’s nearness. Only a few hours earlier she
had felt secure in his comprehending pity; now she was flung back on
herself, doubly alone after that moment of communion.

Harney was still unaware of her presence. He sat without moving, moodily
staring before him at the same spot in the wall-paper. He had not even
had the energy to finish his packing, and his clothes and papers lay on
the floor about the portmanteau. Presently he unlocked his clasped hands
and stood up; and Charity, drawing back hastily, sank down on the step
of the verandah. The night was so dark that there was not much chance
of his seeing her unless he opened the window and before that she would
have time to slip away and be lost in the shadow of the trees. He stood
for a minute or two looking around the room with the same expression of
self-disgust, as if he hated himself and everything about him; then
he sat down again at the table, drew a few more strokes, and threw
his pencil aside. Finally he walked across the floor, kicking the
portmanteau out of his way, and lay down on the bed, folding his arms
under his head, and staring up morosely at the ceiling. Just so, Charity
had seen him at her side on the grass or the pine-needles, his eyes
fixed on the sky, and pleasure flashing over his face like the flickers
of sun the branches shed on it. But now the face was so changed that she
hardly knew it; and grief at his grief gathered in her throat, rose to
her eyes and ran over.

She continued to crouch on the steps, holding her breath and stiffening
herself into complete immobility. One motion of her hand, one tap on
the pane, and she could picture the sudden change in his face. In every
pulse of her rigid body she was aware of the welcome his eyes and lips
would give her; but something kept her from moving. It was not the
fear of any sanction, human or heavenly; she had never in her life been
afraid. It was simply that she had suddenly understood what would happen
if she went in. It was the thing that did happen between young men and
girls, and that North Dormer ignored in public and snickered over on the
sly. It was what Miss Hatchard was still ignorant of, but every girl
of Charity’s class knew about before she left school. It was what had
happened to Ally Hawes’s sister Julia, and had ended in her going to
Nettleton, and in people’s never mentioning her name.

It did not, of course, always end so sensationally; nor, perhaps, on the
whole, so untragically. Charity had always suspected that the shunned
Julia’s fate might have its compensations. There were others, worse
endings that the village knew of, mean, miserable, unconfessed; other
lives that went on drearily, without visible change, in the same cramped
setting of hypocrisy. But these were not the reasons that held her
back. Since the day before, she had known exactly what she would feel
if Harney should take her in his arms: the melting of palm into palm and
mouth on mouth, and the long flame burning her from head to foot. But
mixed with this feeling was another: the wondering pride in his liking
for her, the startled softness that his sympathy had put into her heart.
Sometimes, when her youth flushed up in her, she had imagined yielding
like other girls to furtive caresses in the twilight; but she could not
so cheapen herself to Harney. She did not know why he was going; but
since he was going she felt she must do nothing to deface the image of
her that he carried away. If he wanted her he must seek her: he must not
be surprised into taking her as girls like Julia Hawes were taken....

No sound came from the sleeping village, and in the deep darkness of
the garden she heard now and then a secret rustle of branches, as though
some night-bird brushed them. Once a footfall passed the gate, and
she shrank back into her corner; but the steps died away and left a
profounder quiet. Her eyes were still on Harney’s tormented face: she
felt she could not move till he moved. But she was beginning to grow
numb from her constrained position, and at times her thoughts were so
indistinct that she seemed to be held there only by a vague weight of
weariness.

A long time passed in this strange vigil. Harney still lay on the bed,
motionless and with fixed eyes, as though following his vision to its
bitter end. At last he stirred and changed his attitude slightly, and
Charity’s heart began to tremble. But he only flung out his arms and
sank back into his former position. With a deep sigh he tossed the hair
from his forehead; then his whole body relaxed, his head turned
sideways on the pillow, and she saw that he had fallen asleep. The sweet
expression came back to his lips, and the haggardness faded from his
face, leaving it as fresh as a boy’s.

She rose and crept away.




VIII


SHE had lost the sense of time, and did not know how late it was till
she came out into the street and saw that all the windows were dark
between Miss Hatchard’s and the Royall house.

As she passed from under the black pall of the Norway spruces she
fancied she saw two figures in the shade about the duck-pond. She drew
back and watched; but nothing moved, and she had stared so long into the
lamp-lit room that the darkness confused her, and she thought she must
have been mistaken.

She walked on, wondering whether Mr. Royall was still in the porch. In
her exalted mood she did not greatly care whether he was waiting for her
or not: she seemed to be floating high over life, on a great cloud of
misery beneath which every-day realities had dwindled to mere specks in
space. But the porch was empty, Mr. Royall’s hat hung on its peg in the
passage, and the kitchen lamp had been left to light her to bed. She
took it and went up.

The morning hours of the next day dragged by without incident. Charity
had imagined that, in some way or other, she would learn whether Harney
had already left; but Verena’s deafness prevented her being a source of
news, and no one came to the house who could bring enlightenment.

Mr. Royall went out early, and did not return till Verena had set the
table for the midday meal. When he came in he went straight to the
kitchen and shouted to the old woman: “Ready for dinner----” then he
turned into the dining-room, where Charity was already seated. Harney’s
plate was in its usual place, but Mr. Royall offered no explanation
of his absence, and Charity asked none. The feverish exaltation of the
night before had dropped, and she said to herself that he had gone away,
indifferently, almost callously, and that now her life would lapse again
into the narrow rut out of which he had lifted it. For a moment she was
inclined to sneer at herself for not having used the arts that might
have kept him.

She sat at table till the meal was over, lest Mr. Royall should remark
on her leaving; but when he stood up she rose also, without waiting to
help Verena. She had her foot on the stairs when he called to her to
come back.

“I’ve got a headache. I’m going up to lie down.”

“I want you should come in here first; I’ve got something to say to
you.”

She was sure from his tone that in a moment she would learn what every
nerve in her ached to know; but as she turned back she made a last
effort of indifference.

Mr. Royall stood in the middle of the office, his thick eyebrows
beetling, his lower jaw trembling a little. At first she thought he had
been drinking; then she saw that he was sober, but stirred by a deep and
stern emotion totally unlike his usual transient angers. And suddenly
she understood that, until then, she had never really noticed him or
thought about him. Except on the occasion of his one offense he had been
to her merely the person who is always there, the unquestioned central
fact of life, as inevitable but as uninteresting as North Dormer itself,
or any of the other conditions fate had laid on her. Even then she had
regarded him only in relation to herself, and had never speculated as
to his own feelings, beyond instinctively concluding that he would not
trouble her again in the same way. But now she began to wonder what he
was really like.

He had grasped the back of his chair with both hands, and stood looking
hard at her. At length he said: “Charity, for once let’s you and me talk
together like friends.”

Instantly she felt that something had happened, and that he held her in
his hand.

“Where is Mr. Harney? Why hasn’t he come back? Have you sent him away?”
 she broke out, without knowing what she was saying.

The change in Mr. Royall frightened her. All the blood seemed to leave
his veins and against his swarthy pallor the deep lines in his face
looked black.

“Didn’t he have time to answer some of those questions last night? You
was with him long enough!” he said.

Charity stood speechless. The taunt was so unrelated to what had been
happening in her soul that she hardly understood it. But the instinct of
self-defense awoke in her.

“Who says I was with him last night?”

“The whole place is saying it by now.”

“Then it was you that put the lie into their mouths.--Oh, how I’ve
always hated you!” she cried.

She had expected a retort in kind, and it startled her to hear her
exclamation sounding on through silence.

“Yes, I know,” Mr. Royall said slowly. “But that ain’t going to help us
much now.”

“It helps me not to care a straw what lies you tell about me!”

“If they’re lies, they’re not my lies: my Bible oath on that, Charity. I
didn’t know where you were: I wasn’t out of this house last night.”

She made no answer and he went on: “Is it a lie that you were seen
coming out of Miss Hatchard’s nigh onto midnight?”

She straightened herself with a laugh, all her reckless insolence
recovered. “I didn’t look to see what time it was.”

“You lost girl... you... you.... Oh, my God, why did you tell me?” he
broke out, dropping into his chair, his head bowed down like an old
man’s.

Charity’s self-possession had returned with the sense of her danger. “Do
you suppose I’d take the trouble to lie to YOU? Who are you, anyhow, to
ask me where I go to when I go out at night?”

Mr. Royall lifted his head and looked at her. His face had grown quiet
and almost gentle, as she remembered seeing it sometimes when she was a
little girl, before Mrs. Royall died.

“Don’t let’s go on like this, Charity. It can’t do any good to either of
us. You were seen going into that fellow’s house... you were seen coming
out of it.... I’ve watched this thing coming, and I’ve tried to stop it.
As God sees me, I have....”

“Ah, it WAS you, then? I knew it was you that sent him away!”

He looked at her in surprise. “Didn’t he tell you so? I thought he
understood.” He spoke slowly, with difficult pauses, “I didn’t name
you to him: I’d have cut my hand off sooner. I just told him I couldn’t
spare the horse any longer; and that the cooking was getting too heavy
for Verena. I guess he’s the kind that’s heard the same thing before.
Anyhow, he took it quietly enough. He said his job here was about done,
anyhow; and there didn’t another word pass between us.... If he told you
otherwise he told you an untruth.”

Charity listened in a cold trance of anger. It was nothing to her what
the village said... but all this fingering of her dreams!

“I’ve told you he didn’t tell me anything. I didn’t speak with him last
night.”

“You didn’t speak with him?”

“No.... It’s not that I care what any of you say... but you may as well
know. Things ain’t between us the way you think... and the other people
in this place. He was kind to me; he was my friend; and all of a sudden
he stopped coming, and I knew it was you that done it--YOU!” All her
unreconciled memory of the past flamed out at him. “So I went there last
night to find out what you’d said to him: that’s all.”

Mr. Royall drew a heavy breath. “But, then--if he wasn’t there, what
were you doing there all that time?--Charity, for pity’s sake, tell me.
I’ve got to know, to stop their talking.”

This pathetic abdication of all authority over her did not move her: she
could feel only the outrage of his interference.

“Can’t you see that I don’t care what anybody says? It’s true I went
there to see him; and he was in his room, and I stood outside for ever
so long and watched him; but I dursn’t go in for fear he’d think I’d
come after him....” She felt her voice breaking, and gathered it up in a
last defiance. “As long as I live I’ll never forgive you!” she cried.

Mr. Royall made no answer. He sat and pondered with sunken head, his
veined hands clasped about the arms of his chair. Age seemed to have
come down on him as winter comes on the hills after a storm. At length
he looked up.

“Charity, you say you don’t care; but you’re the proudest girl I know,
and the last to want people to talk against you. You know there’s always
eyes watching you: you’re handsomer and smarter than the rest, and
that’s enough. But till lately you’ve never given them a chance. Now
they’ve got it, and they’re going to use it. I believe what you say, but
they won’t.... It was Mrs. Tom Fry seen you going in... and two or three
of them watched for you to come out again.... You’ve been with the fellow
all day long every day since he come here... and I’m a lawyer, and I know
how hard slander dies.” He paused, but she stood motionless, without
giving him any sign of acquiescence or even of attention. “He’s a
pleasant fellow to talk to--I liked having him here myself. The young
men up here ain’t had his chances. But there’s one thing as old as the
hills and as plain as daylight: if he’d wanted you the right way he’d
have said so.”

Charity did not speak. It seemed to her that nothing could exceed the
bitterness of hearing such words from such lips.

Mr. Royall rose from his seat. “See here, Charity Royall: I had a
shameful thought once, and you’ve made me pay for it. Isn’t that score
pretty near wiped out?... There’s a streak in me I ain’t always master
of; but I’ve always acted straight to you but that once. And you’ve
known I would--you’ve trusted me. For all your sneers and your mockery
you’ve always known I loved you the way a man loves a decent woman. I’m
a good many years older than you, but I’m head and shoulders above this
place and everybody in it, and you know that too. I slipped up once, but
that’s no reason for not starting again. If you’ll come with me I’ll
do it. If you’ll marry me we’ll leave here and settle in some big town,
where there’s men, and business, and things doing. It’s not too late for
me to find an opening.... I can see it by the way folks treat me when I
go down to Hepburn or Nettleton....”

Charity made no movement. Nothing in his appeal reached her heart, and
she thought only of words to wound and wither. But a growing lassitude
restrained her. What did anything matter that he was saying? She saw the
old life closing in on her, and hardly heeded his fanciful picture of
renewal.

“Charity--Charity--say you’ll do it,” she heard him urge, all his lost
years and wasted passion in his voice.

“Oh, what’s the use of all this? When I leave here it won’t be with
you.”

She moved toward the door as she spoke, and he stood up and placed
himself between her and the threshold. He seemed suddenly tall and
strong, as though the extremity of his humiliation had given him new
vigour.

“That’s all, is it? It’s not much.” He leaned against the door, so
towering and powerful that he seemed to fill the narrow room. “Well,
then look here.... You’re right: I’ve no claim on you--why should you
look at a broken man like me? You want the other fellow... and I don’t
blame you. You picked out the best when you seen it... well, that was
always my way.” He fixed his stern eyes on her, and she had the sense
that the struggle within him was at its highest. “Do you want him to
marry you?” he asked.

They stood and looked at each other for a long moment, eye to eye, with
the terrible equality of courage that sometimes made her feel as if she
had his blood in her veins.

“Do you want him to--say? I’ll have him here in an hour if you do. I
ain’t been in the law thirty years for nothing. He’s hired Carrick Fry’s
team to take him to Hepburn, but he ain’t going to start for another
hour. And I can put things to him so he won’t be long deciding.... He’s
soft: I could see that. I don’t say you won’t be sorry afterward--but,
by God, I’ll give you the chance to be, if you say so.”

She heard him out in silence, too remote from all he was feeling and
saying for any sally of scorn to relieve her. As she listened, there
flitted through her mind the vision of Liff Hyatt’s muddy boot coming
down on the white bramble-flowers. The same thing had happened now;
something transient and exquisite had flowered in her, and she had stood
by and seen it trampled to earth. While the thought passed through
her she was aware of Mr. Royall, still leaning against the door, but
crestfallen, diminished, as though her silence were the answer he most
dreaded.

“I don’t want any chance you can give me: I’m glad he’s going away,” she
said.

He kept his place a moment longer, his hand on the door-knob. “Charity!”
 he pleaded. She made no answer, and he turned the knob and went out. She
heard him fumble with the latch of the front door, and saw him walk
down the steps. He passed out of the gate, and his figure, stooping and
heavy, receded slowly up the street.

For a while she remained where he had left her. She was still trembling
with the humiliation of his last words, which rang so loud in her ears
that it seemed as though they must echo through the village, proclaiming
her a creature to lend herself to such vile suggestions. Her shame
weighed on her like a physical oppression: the roof and walls seemed
to be closing in on her, and she was seized by the impulse to get away,
under the open sky, where there would be room to breathe. She went to
the front door, and as she did so Lucius Harney opened it.

He looked graver and less confident than usual, and for a moment or two
neither of them spoke. Then he held out his hand. “Are you going out?”
 he asked. “May I come in?”

Her heart was beating so violently that she was afraid to speak, and
stood looking at him with tear-dilated eyes; then she became aware of
what her silence must betray, and said quickly: “Yes: come in.”

She led the way into the dining-room, and they sat down on opposite
sides of the table, the cruet-stand and japanned bread-basket between
them. Harney had laid his straw hat on the table, and as he sat there,
in his easy-looking summer clothes, a brown tie knotted under his
flannel collar, and his smooth brown hair brushed back from his
forehead, she pictured him, as she had seen him the night before, lying
on his bed, with the tossed locks falling into his eyes, and his bare
throat rising out of his unbuttoned shirt. He had never seemed so remote
as at the moment when that vision flashed through her mind.

“I’m so sorry it’s good-bye: I suppose you know I’m leaving,” he began,
abruptly and awkwardly; she guessed that he was wondering how much she
knew of his reasons for going.

“I presume you found your work was over quicker than what you expected,”
 she said.

“Well, yes--that is, no: there are plenty of things I should have liked
to do. But my holiday’s limited; and now that Mr. Royall needs the horse
for himself it’s rather difficult to find means of getting about.”

“There ain’t any too many teams for hire around here,” she acquiesced;
and there was another silence.

“These days here have been--awfully pleasant: I wanted to thank you for
making them so,” he continued, his colour rising.

She could not think of any reply, and he went on: “You’ve been
wonderfully kind to me, and I wanted to tell you.... I wish I could think
of you as happier, less lonely.... Things are sure to change for you by
and by....”

“Things don’t change at North Dormer: people just get used to them.”

The answer seemed to break up the order of his prearranged consolations,
and he sat looking at her uncertainly. Then he said, with his sweet
