her face. " Joe, ye can have no idea of the feelin's that 
have got hold of me just now. I'm ready to do something 
desperate ; ye'd best be leavin' me alone, Joe ! " 
 
" I think I understand, Mary. I would hardly blame 
you for anything you did." 
She took up his words eagerly. "Wouldn't ye, Joe? 
Ye're sure ? Then what I want is to get the truth from 
ye. I want ye to talk it out fair ! " 
" All right, Mary. What is it ? " 
But her defiance had vanished suddenly. Her eyes 
dropped, and he saw her fingers picking nervously at a 
fold of her dress. " About us, Joe," she said. " I've 
thought sometimes ye cared for me. I've thought ye liked 
to be with me — not just because ye were sorry for me, 
but because of me. I've not been sure, but I can't help 
thinkin' it's so. Is it ? " 
" Yes, it is," he said, a little uncertainly. " I do care 
for you." 
" Then is it that ye don't care for that other girl all the 
time?" 
" No," he said, " it's not that." 
" Ye can care for two girls at the same time ? " 
He did not know what to say. " It would seem that 
I can, Mary." 
She raised her eyes again and studied his face. " Ye 
told me about that other girl, and I been wonderin', was 
it only to put me off ? Maybe it's me own fault, but I 
can't make meself believe in that other girl, Joe ! " 
"You're mistaken, Mary," he answered, quickly. 
" What I told you was true." 
" Well, maybe so," she said, but there was no conviction 
in her tone. "Ye come away from her, and ye never 
go where she is or see her — it's hard to believe ye'd 
do that way if ye were very close to her. I just don't 
think ye love her as much as ye might. And ye say you 
do care some for me. So I've thought — I've won- 
dered — " 
She stopped, forcing herself to meet his gaze : " I been 
tryin' to work it out ! I know ye're too good a man for 
me, Joe. Ye come from a better place in life, ye've a 
right to expect more in a woman — " 
" It's not that, Mary ! " 
But she cut him short. " I know that's true ! Ye're 
only tryin' to save my feelin's. I know ye're better than 
me ! I've tried hard to hold me head up, I've tried a long 
time not to let meself go to pieces. I've even tried to keep 
cheerful, telling meself I'd not want to be like Mrs. Zam- 
boni, forever complainin'. But 'tis no use tellin' yourself 
lies ! * I been up to the church, and heard the Keverend 
Spragg tell the people that the rich and poor are the same 
in the sight of the Lord. And maybe 'tis so, but I'm not 
the Lord, and I'll never pretend I'm not ashamed to be 
livin' in a place like this." 
"I'm sure the Lord has no interest in keeping you 
here — " he began. 
But she broke in, " What makes it so hard to bear is 
knowin' there's so many wonderful things in the world, 
and ye can never have them ! 'Tis as if ye had to see them 
through a pane of glass, like in the window of a store. 
Just think, Joe Smith — once, in a church in Sheridan, I 
heard a lady sing beautiful music ; once in my whole life- 
time ! Can ye guess what it meant to me ? " 
"Yes, Mary, I can." 
"But I had that all out with meself — years ago. I 
knew the price a workin' girl has to pay for such things, 
and I said, I'll not let meself think about them. IVe 
hated this place, I've wanted to get away — but there's 
only one way to go, to let some man take ye! So I've 
stayed; I've kept straight, Joe. I want ye to believe 
that." 
" Of course, Mary ! " 
" No ! It's not been ' of course ' ! It means ye have to 
fight with temptations. It's many a time Fve looked at 
 
Jeff Cotton, and thought about the things I need! And 
I've done without! But now comes the thing a woman 
wants more than all the other things in the world ! " 
She paused, but only for a moment. " They tell ye to 
love a man of your own class. Me old mother said that to 
me, before she died. But suppose ye didn't happen to? 
Suppose ye'd stopped and thought what it meant, havin' 
one baby after another, till ye're worn out and drop — 
like me old mother did i Suppose ye knew good manners 
when ye see them — ye knew interestin' talk when ye 
heard it ! " She clasped her hands suddenly before her, 
exclaiming, "Ah, 'tis something different ye are, Joe — 
so different from anything around here! The way ye 
talk, the way ye move, the gay look in your eyes! No 
miner ever had that happy look, Joe ; me heart stops beatin' 
almost when ye look at me ! " She stopped with a sharp 
catching of her breath, and he saw that she was struggling 
for self-control. After a moment she exclaimed, de- 
fiantly : " But they'd tell ye, be careful, ye daren't love 
th^t kind of man ; ye'd only have your heart broken ! " 
There was silence. For this problem the amateur so- 
ciologist had no solution at hand — whether for the ab- 
stract question, or for its concrete application! 
 Mary forced herself to go on. " This is how 
I've worked it out, Joe ! I said to meself , ' Ye love this 
man; and it's his love ye want — nothin' else! If he's 
got a place in the world, ye'd only hold him back — and 
ye'd not want to do that. Ye don't want his name, or his 
friends, or any of those things — ye want him I ' Have 
ye ever heard of such a thing as that ? " 
Her cheeks wfere flaming, but she continued to meet his 
gaze. "Yes, I've heard of it," he answered, in a low 
voice. 
" What would ye say to it ? Is it honest ? The Rev- 
erend Spragg would say 'twas the devil, no doubt ; Father 
O'Gorman, down in Pedro, would call it mortal sin ; and 
maybe they know — but I don't! I only know I can't 
stand it any more ! " 
Tears sprang to her eyes, and she cried out suddenly, 
" Oh, take me away from here ! Take me away and give 
me a chance, Joe ! I'll ask nothing, I'll never stand in 
your way; I'll work for ye, I'll cook and wash and do 
everything for ye, I'll wear my fingers to the bone ! Or 
I'll go out and work at some job, and earn my share. And 
I'll make ye this promise — if ever ye get tired and want 
to leave me, ye'll not hear a word of complaint ! " 
She made no conscious appeal to his senses; she sat 
gazing at him honestly through her tears, and that made 
it all the harder to answer her. 
What could he say? He felt the old dangerous im- 
pulse — to take the girl in his arms and comfort her. 
When finally he spoke it was with an effort to keep his 
voice calm. " I'd say yes, Mary, if I thought it would 
work." 
" It would work ! It would, Joe ! Ye can quit when 
ye want to. I mean it ! " 
" There's no woman lives who can be happy on such 
terms, Mary. She wants her man, and she wants him to 
herself, and she wants him always; she's only deluding 
herself if she believes anything else. You're over-wrought 
now, what you've seen in the last few days has made you 
wild — " 
" No ! " she exclaimed. " 'Tis not only that ! I been 
thinkin' about it for weeks." 
" I know. You've been thinking, but you wouldn't 
have spoken if it hadn't been for this horror." He paused 
for a moment, to renew his own self-possession. " It 
won't do, Mary," he declared. " I've seen it tried more 
than once, and I'm not so old either. My own brother 
tried it once, and ruined himself." 
 
" Ah, ye're afraid to trust me, Joe ! " 
" No, it's not that ; what I mean is — he ruined his own 
heart, he made himself selfish. He took everything, and 
gave nothing. He's much older than I, so I've had a 
chance to see its effect on him. He's cold, he has no faith, 
even in his own nature ; when you talk to him about mak- 
ing the world better he tells you you're a fool." 
" It's another way of bein' afraid of me," she insisted. 
" Afraid you'd ought to marry me ! " 
" But, Mary — there's the other girl. I really love her, 
and I'm promised to her. What can I do ? " 
" 'Tis that I've never believed you loved her," she said, 
in a whisper. Her eyes fell and she began picking nerv- 
ously again at the faded blue dress, which was smutted 
and grease-stained, perhaps from her recent effort with 
Mrs. Zamboni's brood. Several times Hal thought she 
was going to speak, but she shut her lips tightly again; 
he watched her, his heart aching. 
When finally she spoke, it was still in a whisper, and 
there was a note of humility he had never heard from her 
before. " Ye'll not be wantin' to speak to me, Joe, after 
what I've said." 
"Oh, Mary!" he exclaimed, and caught her hand, 
" don't say I've made you more unhappy ! I want to help 
you ! Won't you let me be your friend — your real, true 
friend ? Let me help you to get out of this trap ; you'll 
have a chance to look about, you'll find a way to be happy 
— the whole world will seem different to you then, and 
you'll laugh at the idea that you ever wanted me ! " 
 The two of them went back to the pit-mouth. It 
had been two days since the disaster, and still the fan had 
not been started, and there was no sign of its being started. 
The hysteria of the women was growing, and there was a 
tension in the crowds. Jeff Cotton had brought in a force 
 
of men to assist him in keeping order. They had built 
a fence of barbed wire about the pit-mouth and its ap- 
proaches, and behind this wire they walked — hard-look- 
ing citizens with policemen's " billies ' and the bulge of 
revolvers plainly visible on their hips. 
During this long period of waiting, Hal had talks with 
members of his check-weighman group. They told what 
had happened while he was in jail, and this reminded him 
of something which had been driven from his mind by the 
explosion. Poor old John Edstrom was down in Pedro, 
perhaps in dire need. Hal went to the old Swede's cabin 
that night, climbed through a window, and dug up the 
buried money. There were five five-dollar bills, and he 
put them in an envelope, addressed them in care of General 
Delivery, Pedro, and had Mary Burke take them to the 
post office and register them. 
The hours dragged on, and still there was no sign of 
the pit-mouth being opened. There began to be secret 
gatherings of the miners and their wives to complain at 
the conduct of the company ; and it was natural that HaPs 
friends who had started the check-weighman movement, 
should take the lead in these. They were among the most 
intelligent of the workers, and saw farther into the mean- 
ing of events. They thought, not merely of the men who 
were trapped under ground at this moment, but of thou- 
sands of others who would be trapped through years to 
come. Hal, especially, was pondering how he could ac- 
complish something definite before he left the camp; for 
of course he would have to leave soon — Jeff Cotton would 
remember him, and carry out his threat to get rid of him. 
Newspapers had come in, with accounts of the disaster, 
and Hal and his friends read these. It was evident that 
the company had been at pains to have the accounts writ- 
ten from its own point of view. There existed some public 
sensitiveness on the subject of mine-disasters in this state. 
The death-rate from accidents was seen to be mounting 
 
steadily; the reports of the state mine inspector showed 
six per thousand in one year, eight and a half in the next, 
and twenty-one and a half in the next. When fifty or a 
hundred men were killed in a single accident, and when 
such accidents kept happening, one on the heels of an- 
other, even the most callous public could not help asking 
questions. So in this case the " G. F. C." had been care- 
ful to minimise the loss of life, and to make excuses. The 
accident had been owing to no fault of the company's ; the 
mine had been regularly sprinkled, both with water and 
adobe dust, and so the cause of the explosion must have 
been the carelessness of the men in handling powder. 
In Jack David's cabin one night there arose a discussion 
as to the number of men entombed in the mine. The com- 
pany's estimate of the number was forty, but Minetti and 
Olson and David agreed that this was absurd. Any man 
who went about in the crowds could satisfy himself that 
there were two or three times as many unaccounted for. 
And this falsification was deliberate, for the company had 
a checking system, whereby it knew the name of every man 
in the mine. But most of these names were unpronounce- 
able Slavish, and the owners of the names had no friends 
to mention them — at least not in any language under- 
stood by American newspaper editors. 
It was all a part of the system, declared Jack David: 
its purpose and effect being to enable the company to go 
on killing men without paying for them, either in money 
or in prestige. It occurred to Hal that it might be worth 
while to contradict these false statements — almost as 
worth while as to save the men who were at this moment 
entombed. Any one who came forward to make such a 
contradiction would of course be giving himself up to the 
black-list; but then, Hal regarded himself as a man al- 
ready condemned to that penalty. 
Tom Olson spoke up. " What would you do with your 
contradiction ? " 
 
" Give it to the papers ' Hal answered. 
" But what papers would print it ? " 
" There are two rival papers in Pedro, aren't there i " 
" One owned by Alf Raymond, the sheriff-emperor, and 
the other by Vagleman, counsel for the ' G. F. C Which 
one would you try ? " 
"Well then, the outside papers — those in Western 
City. There are reporters here now, and some one of 
them would surely take it." 
Olson answered, declaring that they would not get any 
but labour and Socialist papers to print such news. But 
even that was well worth doing. And Jack David, who 
was strong for unions and all their activities, put in, " The 
thing to do is to take a regular census, so as to know exactly 
how many are in the mine." 
The suggestion struck fire, and they agreed to set to 
work that same evening. It would be a relief to do some- 
thing, to have something in their minds but despair. They 
passed the word to Mary Burke, to Rovetta, Klowoski, 
and others; and at eleven o'clock the next morning they 
met again, and the lists were put together, and it was found 
that no less than a hundred and seven men and boys were 
positively known to be inside Number One. 
 As it happened, however, discussion of this list 
and the method of giving it to the world was cut short 
by a more urgent matter. Jack David came in with news 
of fresh trouble at the pit-mouth. The new fan was being 
put in place ; but they were slow about it, so slow that some 
people had become convinced that they did not mean to 
start the fan at all, but were keeping the mine sealed to 
prevent the fire from spreading. A group of such mal- 
contents had presumed to go to Mr. Carmichael, the deputy 
state mine-inspector, to urge him to take some action ; and 
the leader of these protestants, Huszar, the Austrian, who 
.  
had been one of Hal's check-weighman group, had been 
taken into custody and marched at double-quick to the 
gate of the stockade ! 
Jack David declared furthermore that he knew a car- 
penter who was working in the fan-house, and who said 
that no haste whatever was being made. All the men at 
the fan-house shared that opinion; the mine was sealed, 
and would stay sealed until the company was sure the fire 
was out. 
" But," argued Hal, " if they were to open it, the fire 
would spread ; and wouldn't that prevent rescue work ? " 
" Not at all," declared " Big Jack." He explained that 
by reversing the fan they could draw the smoke up through 
the air-course, which would clear the main passages for a 
time. " But, you see, some coal might catch fire, and some 
timbers ; there might be falls of rock so they couldn't work 
some of the rooms again." 
" How long will they keep the mine sealed ? " cried Hal, 
in consternation. 
" Nobody can say. In a big mine like that, a fire might 
smoulder for a week." 
" Everybody be dead ! " cried Kosa Minetti, wringing 
her hands in a sudden access of grief. 
Hal turned to Olson. " Would they possibly do such a 
thing?" 
"It's been done — more than once," was the organiser's 
reply. 
" Did you never hear about Cherry, Illinois ? " asked 
David. " They did it there, and more than three hundred 
people lost their lives." He went on to tell that dreadful 
story, known to every coal-miner. They had sealed the 
mine, while women fainted and men tore their clothes in 
frenzy — some going insane. They had kept it sealed 
for two weeks, and when they opened it, there were twenty- 
one men still alive ! 
 They did the same thing in Diamondvttle, Wyoming," 
added Olson. " They built up a barrier, and when they 
took it away they found a heap of dead men, who had 
crawled to it and torn their fingers to the bone trying to 
break through." 
" My God ! " cried Hal, springing to his feet. " And 
this man Carmichael — would he stand for that ? " 
" He'd tell you they were doing their best," said " Big 
Jack." " And maybe he thinks they are. But you'll see 
— something'll keep happening; they'll drag on from day 
to day, and they'll not start the fan till they're ready." 
" Why, it's murder ! " cried Hal. 
" It's business," said Tom Olson, quietly. 
Hal looked from one to another of the faces of these 
working people. Not one but had friends in that trap; 
not one but might be in the same trap to-morrow ! 
" You have to stand it ! " he exclaimed, half to himself. 
" Don't you see the guards at the pit-mouth ? " answered 
David. "Don't you see the guns sticking out of their 
pockets ? " 
" They bring in more guards this morning," put in 
Jerry Minetti. " Eosa, she see them get off." 
" They know what they doin' ! " said Eosa. " They 
only f raid we find it out ! They told Mrs. Zamboni she 
keep away or they send her out of camp. And old Mrs. 
Jonotch — her husband and three sons inside ! " 
" They're getting rougher and rougher," declared Mrs. 
David. " That big fellow they call Pete, that came up 
from Pedro — 'the way he's handling the women is a 
shame ! " 
"I know hjjqa^put in Olson; "Pete Hanun. They 
had him in S tfafnn when the union first opened head- 
quarters. Qrfmrcbed one of our organisers in the mouth 
and broke j&lfQym his teeth. They say he has a jail- 
record." - *' 
All through the previous year at college Hal had lis- 
tened to lectures upon political economy, filled with the 
 
praises of a thing called "Private Ownership." This 
Private Ownership developed initiative and economy; it 
kept the wheels of industry a-roll, it kept fat the pay-rolls 
of college faculties ; it accorded itself with the sacred laws 
of supply and demand, it was the basis of the progress and 
prosperity wherewith America had been blessed. And 
here suddenly Hal found himself face to face with the 
reality of it ; he saw its wolfish eyes glaring into his own, 
he felt its smoking hot breath in his face, he saw its gleam- 
ing fangs and claw-like fingers, dripping with the blood 
of men and women and children. Private Ownership of 
coal-mines! Private Ownership of sealed-up entrances 
and non-existent escape-ways ! Private Ownership of fans 
which did not start, of sprinklers which did not sprinkle. 
Private Ownership of clubs and revolvers, and of thugs 
and ex-convicts to use them, driving away rescuers and 
shutting up agonised widows and orphans in their homes ! 
Oh, the serene and well-fed priests of Private Ownership, 
Chanting in academic halls the praises of the bloody 
Demon ! 
Suddenly Hal stopped still. Something had risen in 
him, the existence of which he had never suspected. There 
was a new look upon his face, his voice was deep as a 
strong man's when he spoke : " I am going to make them 
open that mine ! " 
They looked at him. They were all of them close to the 
border of hysteria, but they caught the strange note in his 
utterance. " I am going to make them open th$tt mine! ' 
" How ? " asked Olson. 
" The public doesn't know about this thing. If the 
story got out, there'd be such a clamour, it couldn't go on ! " 
" But how will you get it out ? " 
" I'll give it to the newspapers ! They can't suppress 
such a thing — I don't care how prejudiced they are ! " 
" But do you think they'd believe what a miner's buddy 
tells them ? " asked Mrs. David. 
  
 
" I'll find a way to make them believe me," said HaL 
" I'm going to mate them open that mine ! " 
 In the course of his wanderings about the camp, 
Hal had observed several wide-awake looking young men 
with notebooks in their hands. He could see that these 
young men were being made guests of the company, chat- 
ting with the bosses upon friendly terms ; nevertheless, he 
believed that among them he might find one who had a con- 
science — or at any rate who would yield to the tempta- 
tion of a " scoop." So, leaving the gathering at Mrs. 
David's, Hal went to the pit-mouth, watching out for one 
of these reporters ; when he found him, he followed him for 
a while, desiring to get him where no company " spotter " 
might interfere. At the first chance, he stepped up, and ,* 
politely asked the reporter to come into a side street, where T» 
they might converse undisturbed. 
The reporter obeyed the request; and Hal, concealing 
the intensity of his feelings, so as not to repel the other, 
let it be known that he had worked in North Valley for 
some months, and could tell much about conditions in the 
camp. There was the matter of adobe-dust, for example. 
Explosions in dry mines could be prevented by spraying 
the walls with this material. Did the reporter happen to 
know that the company's claim to have used it was en- 
tirely false ? 
No, the reporter answered, he did not know this. He 
seemed interested, and asked Hal's name and occupation. 
Hal told him " Joe Smith," a " buddy," who had recently 
been chosen as check-weighman. The reporter, a lean and 
keen-faced young man, asked many questions — intelli- 
gent questions ; incidentally he mentioned that he was the 
local correspondent of the great press association whose 
stories of the disaster were sent to every corner of the 
country. This seemed to Hal an extraordinary piece of 
 
good fortune, and he proceeded to tell this Mr. Graham 
about the census which some of the workers had taken; 
they were able to give the names of a hundred and seven 
men and boys who were inside the mine. The list was at 
Mr. Graham's disposal if he cared to see it. Mr. Graham 
seemed more interested than ever, and made notes in his 
book. 
Another thing, more important yet, Hal continued ; the 
matter of the delay in getting the fan started. It had been 
three days since the explosion, but there had been no at- 
tempt at entering the mine. Had Mr. Graham seen the 
disturbance at the pit-mouth that morning ? Did he real- 
ise that a man had been thrown out of camp merely because 
he had appealed to the deputy state mine-inspector . Hal 
told what so many had come to believe — that the company 
was saving property at the expense of life. He went on 
to point out the human meaning of this — he told about 
old Mrs. Rafferty, with her failing health and her eight 
children ; about Mrs. Zamboni, with eleven children ; about 
Mrs. Jonotch, with a husband and three sons in the mine. 
Led on by the reporter's interest, Hal began to show some 
of his feeling. These were human beings, not animals; 
they loved and suffered, even though they were poor and 
humble ! 
" Most certainly ! " said Mr. Graham. " You're right, 
and you may rest assured I'll look into this." 
" There's one thing more ' said Hal. " If my name is 
mentioned, I'll be fired, you know." 
" I won't mention it," said the other. 
" Of course, if you can't publish the story without giv- 
ing its source — " 
"I'm the source," said the reporter, with a smile. 
" Tour name would not add anything." 
He spoke with quiet assurance; he seemed to know so 
completely both the situation and his own duty in regard 
 
to it, that Hal felt a thrill of triumph. It was as if a 
strong wind had come blowing from the outside world, 
dispelling the miasma which hung over this coal-camp. 
Yes, this reporter was the outside world! He was the 
power of public opinion, making itself felt in this place 
of knavery and fear! He was the voice of truth, the 
courage and rectitude of a great organisation of publicity, 
independent of secret influences, lifted above corruption! 
" I'm indebted to you," said Mr. Graham, at the end, 
and Hal's sense of victory was complete. What an ex- 
traordinary chance — that he should have run into the 
agent of the great press association I The story would go 
out to the great world of industry, which depended upon 
coal as its life-blood. The men in the factories, the wheels 
of which were turned by coal — the travellers on trains 
which were moved by coal — they would hear at last of 
the sufferings of those who toiled in the bowels of the earth 
for them ! Even the ladies, reclining upon the decks of 
palatial steamships in gleaming tropic seas — so marvel- 
lous was the power of modern news-spreading agencies, 
that these ladies too might hear the cry for help of these 
toilers, and of their wives and little ones ! And from this 
great world would come an answer, a universal shout of 
horror, of execration, that would force even old Peter 
Harrigan to give way! So Hal mused — for he was 
young, and this was his first crusade. 
He was so happy that he was able to think of himself 
again, and to realise that he had not eaten that day. It 
was noon-time, and he went into Keminitsky's, and was 
about half through with the first course of Keminitsky's 
two-course banquet, when his cruel disillusioning fell upon 
him! 
He looked up and saw Jeff Cotton striding into the 
dining-room, making straight for him. There was blood 
in the marshal's eye, and Hal saw it, and rose, instinctively. 
 
" Come ! " said Cotton, and took him by the coat-sleeve 
and marched him out, almost before the rest of the diners 
had time to catch their breath. 
Hal had no opportunity now to display his " tea-party 
manners " to the camp-marshal. As they walked, Cotton 
expressed his opinion of him, that he was a skunk, a puppy, 
a person of undesirable ancestry; and when Hal endeav- 
oured to ask a question — which he did quite genuinely, 
not grasping at once the meaning of what was happening 
— the marshal -bade him " shut his face," and emphasised 
the command by a twist at his coat-collar. At the same 
time two of the huskiest mine-guards, who had been wait- 
ing at the dining-room door, took him, one by each arm, 
and assisted his progress. 
They went down the street and past Jeff Cotton's office, 
not stopping this time. Their destination was the rail- 
road-station, and when Hal got there, he saw a train stand- 
ing. The three men marched him to it, not releasing him 
till they had jammed him down into a seat. 
"Now, young fellow," said Cotton, "we'll see who's 
running this camp ! " 
By this time Hal had regained a part of his self-pos- 
session. " Do I need a ticket ? " he asked. 
" I'll see to that," said the marshal. 
" And do I get my things ? " 
" You save some questions for your college professors," 
snapped the marshal. 
So Hal waited; and a minute or two later a man ar- 
rived on the run with his scanty belongings, rolled into a 
bundle and tied with a piece of twine. Hal noted that this 
man was big and ugly, and was addressed by the camp- 
marshal as " Pete." 
The conductor shouted, " All aboard ! " And at the 
same time Jeff Cotton leaned over towards Hal and spoke 
in a menacing whisper : " Take this from me, young f el- 
low; don't stop in Pedro, move on in a hurry, or some- 
thing will happen to you on a dark night." 
After which he strode down the aisle, and jumped off 
the moving train. But Hal noticed that Pete Hanun, the 
breaker of teeth, stayed on the car a few seats behind him. 
 It was Hal's intention to get to Western City as 
quickly as possible to call upon the newspaper editors. 
But first he must have money to travel, and the best way 
he could think of to get it was to find John Edstrom. He 
left the train, followed by Pete Hanun; after some in- 
quiry, he came upon the undertaker who had buried Ed- 
strom's wife, and who told him where the old Swede was 
staying, in the home of a labouring-man nearby. 
Edstrom greeted him with eager questions: Who had 
been killed ? What was the situation ? Hal told in brief 
sentences what had happened. When he mentioned his 
need of money, Edstrom answered that he had a little, and 
would lend it, but it was not enough for a ticket to Western 
City. Hal asked about the twenty-five dollars which Mary 
Burke had sent by registered mail ; the old man had heard 
nothing about it, he had not been to the post-office. " Let's 
go now! " said Hal, at once; but as they were starting 
downstairs, a fresh difficulty occurred to him. Pete 
Hanun was on the street outside, and it was likely that he 
had heard about this money from Jeff Cotton; he might 
hold Edstrom up and take it away. 
" Let me suggest something," put in the old man. 
" Come and see my friend Ed MacKellar. He may be 
able to give us some advice — even to think of some way 
to get the mine open." Edstrom explained that MacKel- 
lar, an old Scotchman, had been a miner, but was now 
crippled, and held some petty office in Pedro. He was a 
persistent opponent of "Alf " Raymond's machine, and 
they had almost killed him on one occasion. His home 
was not far away, and it would take little time to consult 
him. 
 
" All right," said Hal, and they set out at once. Pete 
Hanun followed them, not more than a dozen yards behind, 
but did not interfere, and they turned in at the gate of a 
little cottage. A woman opened the door for them, and 
asked them into the dining-room where MacKellar was 
sitting — a grey-haired old man, twisted up with rheuma- 
tism and obliged to go about on crutches. 
Hal told his story. As the Scotchman had been brought 
up in the mines, it was not necessary to go into details 
about the situation. When Hal told his idea of appealing 
to the newspapers, the other responded at once, " You 
won't have to go to Western City. There's a man right 
here who'll do the business for you; Keating, of the 
Gazette.' 
"The Western City Gazette?" exclaimed Hal. He 
knew this paper ; an evening journal selling for a cent, and 
read by working-men. Persons of culture who referred to 
it disposed of it with the adjective " yellow." 
" I know," said MacKellar, noting Hal's tone. " But 
it's the only paper that will publish your story anyway." 
"Where is this Keating?" 
"He's been up at the mine. It's too bad you didn't 
meet him." 
" Can we get hold of him now ? " 
" He might be in Pedro. Try the American Hotel." 
Hal went to the telephone, and in a minute was hearing 
for the first time the cheery voice of his friend and lieu- 
tenant-to-be, " Billy " Keating. In a couple of minutes 
more the owner of the voice was at MacKellar's door, 
wiping the perspiration from his half-bald forehead. He 
was round-faced, like a full moon, and as jolly as Falstaff ; 
when you got to know him better, you discovered that he 
was loyal as a Newfoundland dog. For all his bulk, 
Keating was a newspaper man, every inch of him " on the 
job." 
He started to question the young miner as soon as he 
was introduced, and it quickly became clear to Hal that 
here was the man he was looking for, Keating knew ex- 
actly what questions to ask, and had the whole story in 
a few minutes. " By thunder ! " he cried. " My last 
edition ! " And he pulled out his watch, and sprang to 
the telephone. " Long distance," he called ; then, " I want 
the city editor of the Western City Gazette. And, oper- 
ator, please see if you can't rush it through. It's very 
urgent, and last time I had to wait nearly half an hour." 
He turned back to Hal, and proceeded to ask more ques- 
tions, at the same time pulling a bunch of copy-paper from 
his pocket and making notes. He got all Hal's statements 
about the lack of sprinkling, the absence of escape-ways, 
the delay in starting the fan, the concealing of the number 
of men in the mine. " I knew things were crooked up 
there ! " he exclaimed. " But I couldn't get a lead ! 
They kept a man with me every minute of the time. You 
know a fellow named Predovich ? " 
" I do," said Hal. " The company store-clerk ; he once 
went through my pockets." 
Keating made a face of disgust. " Well, he was my 
chaperon. Imagine trying to get the miners to talk to 
you with that sneak at your heels ! I said to the superin- 
tendent, 'I don't need anybody to I escort me around your 
place.' And he looked at me with a nasty little smile. 
' We wouldn't want anything to happen to you while you're 
in this camp, Mr. Keating.' You don't consider it neces- 
sary to protect the lives of the other reporters,' I said. 
 No,' said he ; l but the Gazette has made a great many 
enemies, you know.' ' Drop your fooling, Mr. Cart- 
wright,' I said. ' You propose to have me shadowed while 
I'm working on this assignment ? ' ' You can put it that 
way,' he answered, ' if you think it'll please the readers 
of the Gazette  " 
" Too bad we didn't meet ! " said Hal. " Or if you'd 
run into any of our check-weighman crowd ! " 
 
" Oh ! You know about that check-weighman busi- 
ness ! " exclaimed the reporter. " I got a hint of it — 
that's how I happened to be down here to-day. I heard 
there was a man named Edstrom, who'd been shut out 
for making trouble ; and I thought if I could find him, I 
might get a lead." 
Hal and MacKellar looked at the old Swede, and the 
three of them began to laugh. " Here's your man ! " said 
MacKellar. 
" And here's your check-weighman ! " added Edstrom, 
pointing to Hal. 
Instantly the reporter was on his job again; he began 
to fire another series of questions. He would use that 
check-weighman story as a " follow-up " for the next day, 
to keep the subject of North Valley alive. The story had 
a direct bearing on the disaster, because it showed what 
the North Valley bosses were doing when they should have 
been looking after the safety of their mine. " I'll write 
it out this afternoon and send it by mail," said Keating; 
he added, with a smile, " That's one advantage of handling 
news the other papers won't touch — you don't have to 
worry about losing your ' scoops ' ! " 
 Keating went to the telephone again, to worry 
"long distance"; then, grumbling about his last edition, 
he came back to ask more questions about Hal's experi- 
ences. Before long he drew out the story of the young 
man's first effort in the publicity game ; at which he sank 
back in his chair, and laughed until he shook, as the 
nursery-rhyme describes it, " like a bowlful of jelly." 
" Graham ! " he exclaimed. " Fancy, MacKellar, he 
took that story to Graham ! " 
The Scotchman seemed to find it equally funny; to- 
gether they explained that Graham was the political re- 
porter of the Eagle, the paper in Pedro which was owned 
 
by the Sheriff-emperor. One might call him Alf Ray- 
mond's journalistic jackal; there was no job too dirty for 
him. 
" But," cried Hal, " he told me he was correspondent 
for the Western press association ! " 
" He's that, too," replied Billy. 
" But does the press association employ spies for the 
<G. F. C?" 
The reporter answered, drily, "When you understand 
the news game better, you'll realise that the one thing the 
press association cares about in a correspondent is that he 
should have respect for property. If respect for prop- 
erty is the back-bone of his being, he can learn what news 
is, and the right way to handle it." 
Keating turned to the Scotchman. " Do you happen 
to have a typewriter in the house, Mr. MacKellar ? " 
" An old one," said the other — " lame, like myself." 
" I'll make out with it. I'd ask this young man over to 
my hotel, but I think he'd better keep off the streets as 
much as possible." 
" You're right. If you take my advice, you'll take the 
typewriter upstairs, where there's no chance of a shot 
through the window." 
" Great heavens ! " exclaimed Hal. " Is this America, 
or mediaeval Italy ? " 
"It's the Empire of Raymond," replied MacKellar. 
" They shot my friend Tom Burton dead while he stood 
on the steps of his home. He was opposing the machine, 
and had evidence about ballot-frauds he was going to put 
before the Grand Jury." 
While Keating continued to fret with " long distance," 
the old Scotchman went on trying to impress upon Hal the 
danger of his position. Quite recently an organiser of the 
miners' union had been beaten up in broad day-light and 
left insensible on the sidewalk; MacKellar had watched 
the trial and acquittal of the two thugs who had committed 
 
this crime — the foreman of the jury being a saloon-keeper, 
one of Raymond's heelers, and the other jurymen being 
Mexicans, unable to comprehend a word of the court pro- 
ceedings. 
"Exactly such a jury as Jeff Cotton promised me!" 
remarked Hal, with a feeble attempt at a smile. 
" Yes," answered the other ; " and don't make any mis- 
take about it, if they want to put you away, they can do it. 
They run the whole machine here. I know how it is, for 
I had a political job myself, until they found they couldn't 
use me." 
The old Scotchman went on to explain that he had been 
elected justice of peace, and had tried to break up the 
business of policemen taking money from the women of the 
town; he had been forced to resign, and his enemies had 
made his life a torment. Recently he had been candidate 
for district judge on the Progressive ticket, and told of his 
efforts to carry on a campaign in the coal-camps — how his 
circulars had been confiscated, his posters torn down, his 
supporters " kangarooed." It was exactly as Alec Stone, 
the pit-boss, had explained to Hal. In some of the camps 
the meeting-halls belonged to the company ; in others they 
belonged to saloon-keepers whose credit depended upon 
Alf Raymond. In the few places where there were halls 
that could be hired, the machine had gone to the extreme 
of sending in rival entertainments, furnishing free music 
and free beer in order to keep the crowds away from 
MacKellar. 
All this time Billy Keating had been chafing and scold- 
ing at " long distance." Now at last he managed to get 
his call, and silence fell in the room. "Hello, Pringle, 
that you ? This is Keating. Got a big story on the North 
Valley disaster. Last edition put to bed yet ? Put Jim 
on the wire. Hello, Jim ! Got your book ? " And then 
Billy, evidently talking to a stenographer, began to tell 
the story he had got from Hal. Now and then he would 
 
stop to repeat or spell a word ; once or twice Hal corrected 
him on details. So, in about a quarter of an hour, they 
put the job through ; and Keating turned to Hal. 
" There you are, son," said he. " Your story'll be on 
the street in Western City in a little over an hour ; it'll be 
down here as soon thereafter as they can get telephone con- 
nections. And take my advice, if you want to keep a 
whole skin, you'll be out of Pedro when that happens ! " 
 When Hal spoke, he did not answer Billy Keat- 
ing's last remark. He had been listening to a retelling of 
the North V alley disaster over the telephone ; so he was not 
thinking about his skin, but about a hundred and seven 
men and boys buried inside a mine. 
" Mr. Keating ' said he, " are you sure the Gazette 
will print that story ? " 
" Good Lord ! " exclaimed the other. " What am I 
here for ? " 
" Well, I've been disappointed once, you know." 
" Yes, but you got into the wrong camp. We're a poor 
man's paper, and this is what we live on." 
" There's no chance of its being l toned down ' ? " 
" Not the slightest, I assure you." 
" There's no chance of Peter Harrigan's suppressing 
it?" 
" Peter Harrigan made his attempts on the Gazette long 
ago, my boy." 
" Well," said Hal, " and now tell me this — will it do 
the work ? " 
" In what way ? " 
" I mean — in making them open the mine." 
Keating considered for a moment. " I'm afraid it won't 
do much." 
Hal looked at him blankly. He had taken it for granted 
that the publication of the facts would force the company 
 
to move. But Keating explained that the Gazette was 
read mainly by working-people, and so had comparatively 
little influence. " We're an afternoon paper," he said ; 
