if some American woman writer with a public, and 
who was capable through long practice in story writing, of selecting and composing facts in conformance 
with the economic and dramatic laws of fiction, would 
go over and study the work of the Frenchwomen at 
first hand, and, discarding generalities, present specific 
instances of their work and their attitude, the result, 
could not fail to give the intelligent American woman 
a different opinion of her French sister and enlist her 
sympathy. 
I had been ill or I should have gone to England 
soon after the outbreak of the war and worked with 
my friends, for I have always looked upon England 
as my second home, and I have as many friends there 
as here. If it had not been for Mr. Johnson and Mr. 
Warren, no doubt I should have gone to England 
within the next two or three months. But their representations aroused my enthusiasm and I determined 
to go to France first, at all events. 
My original intention was to remain in France for 
a month, gathering my material as quickly as possible, 
and then cross to England. It seemed to me that if 
I wrote a book that might be of some service to France 
I should do the same thing for a country to which I 
was not only far more deeply attached but far more 
deeply indebted. 
I remained three months and a third in France — 
from May 9th, 1916, to August 19th — and I did not 
go to England for two reasons. I found that it was 
more of an ordeal to get to London from Paris than 
to return to New York and sail again; and I heard 
that Mrs. Ward was writing a book about the women 
of England. For me to write another would be what 
is somewhat gracelessly called a work of supererogation. 
I remained in France so long because I was never 
so vitally interested in my life. I could not tear myself away, although I found it impossible to put my 
material into shape there. Not only was I on the go 
all day long, seeing this and that ceuvre, having personal interviews with heads of important organizations, taken about by the kind and interested friends 
my own interest made for me, but when night came I 
was too tired to do more than enter all the information I had accumulated during the day in a notebook, 
and then go to bed. I have seldom taken notes, but I 
was determined that whatever else my book might 
be it should at least be accurate, and I also collected 
all the literature (leaflets, pamphlets, etc.) of the 
various ceuvres (as all these war relief organizations 
are called) and packed them into carefully super- 
scribed large brown envelopes with a meticulousness 
that is, alas, quite foreign to my native disposition. 
When, by the way, I opened my trunk to pack it 
and saw those dozen or more large square brown envelopes I was appalled. They looked so important, so 
sinister, they seemed to mutter of State secrets, war 
maps, spy data. I knew that trunks were often 
searched at Bordeaux, and I knew that if mine were 
those envelopes never would leave France. I should 
be fortunate to sail away myself. 
But I must have my notes. To remember all that 
I had from day to day gathered was an impossibility. 
I have too good a memory not to distrust it when it 
comes to a mass of rapidly accumulated information; 
combined with imagination and enthusiasm it is sure 
to play tricks. 
But I had an inspiration. The Ministry of War 
had been exceedingly kind to me. Convinced that I 
was a "Friend of France," they had permitted me to 
go three times into the War Zone, the last time sending me in a military automobile and providing an 
escort. I had been over to the War Office very often 
and had made friends of several of the politest men 
on earth. 
I went out and bought the largest envelope to be 
found in Paris. Into this I packed all those other big 
brown envelopes and drove over to the Ministere de la 
Guerre. I explained my predicament. Would they 
seal it with the formidable seal of the War Office and 
write Propagande across it? Of course if they wished 
I would leave my garnerings for a systematic search. 
They merely laughed at this unusual evidence on my 
part of humble patience and submission. The French 
are the acutest people in the world. By this time these 
preternaturally keen men in the War Office knew me 
better than I knew myself. If I had, however unconsciously and in my deepest recesses, harbored a treacherous impulse toward the country I so professed to 
admire and to desire to serve, or if my ego had been 
capable of sudden tricks and perversions, they would 
long since have had these lamentable deformities, my 
spiritual hare-lip, ticketed and docketed with the rest 
of my dossier. 
As it was they complied with my .request at once, 
gave me their blessing, and escorted me to the head 
of the stair — no elevators in this great Ministere de 
la Guerre and the Service de Sante is at the top of 
the building. I went away quite happy, more devoted 
to their cause than ever, and easy in my mind about 
Bordeaux— where, by the way, my trunks were not 
opened. 
Therefore, that remarkable experience in France 
is altogether still so vivid to me that to write about 
it Teportorially, with the personal equation left out, 
would be quite as impossible as it is for me to refrain 
from execrating the Germans. When I add that dur- 
ing that visit I grew to love the French people (whom, 
in spite of many visits to France, I merely had admired coolly and impersonally) as much as I abominate the enemies of the human race, I feel that the 
last word has been said, and that my apology for 
writing what may read like a memoir, a chronicle of 
personal reminiscences, will be understood and forgiven. G. A. 
ONE of the most striking results of the Great 
War has been the quickening in thousands of. 
European women of qualities so long dormant that 
they practically were unsuspected. As I shall tell in 
a more general article, the Frenchwomen of the middle and lower bourgeoisie and of the farms stepped 
automatically into the shoes of the men called to the 
colors in August, 1914, and it was, in their case, 
merely the wearing of two pairs of shoes instead of 
one, and both of equal fit. The women of those clearly defined classes are their husbands' partners and co-workers, and although physically they may find it 
more wearing to do the work of two than of one, it 
entails no particular strain on their mental faculties 
or change in their habits of life. Moreover, France 
since the dawn of her history has been a military nation, and generation after generation her women have 
 
been called upon to play their important role in war, 
although never on so vast a scale as now. 
Contrary to the prevailing estimate of the French — 
an estimate formed mainly from sensational novels 
and plays, or during brief visits to the shops and 
boulevards of Paris — the French are a stolid, stoical, 
practical race, abnormally acute, without illusions, and 
whose famous ebullience is all in the top stratum. 
There is even a certain melancholy at the root of their 
temperament, for, gay and pleasure loving as they are 
on the surface, they are a very ancient and a very wise 
people. Impatient and impulsive, they are capable of 
a patience and tenacity, a deep deliberation and cau- 
tion, which, combined with an unparalleled mental 
alertness, brilliancy without recklessness, bravery 
without bravado, spiritual exaltation without senti- 
mentality (which is merely perverted animalism), a 
curious sensitiveness of mind and body due to over- 
breeding, and a white flame of patriotism as steady 
and dazzling as an arc-light, has given them a glor- 
ious history, and makes them, by universal consent, 
preeminent among the warring nations to-day. 
They are intensely conservative and their mental 
suppleness is quite as remarkable. Economy is one 
of the motive powers of their existence, the solid 
pillars upon which their wealth and power are built; 
and yet Paris has been not only the home and the 
patron of the arts for centuries, but the arbiter of 
fashion for women, a byword for extravagance, and 
a forcing-house for a thousand varieties of pleasure. 
No race is so paradoxical, but then France is the 
genius among nations. Antiquity, and many invasions 
of her soil have given her an inviolable solidity, and 
the temperamental gaiety and keen intelligence which 
pervades all classes have kept her eternally young. 
She is as far from decadence as the crudest community in the United States of America. 
To the student of French history and character 
nothing the French have done in this war is surprising; nevertheless it seemed to me that I had a fresh 
revelation every day during my sojourn in France in 
the summer of 1916. Every woman of every class 
(with a few notable exceptions seen for the most 
part in the Ritz Hotel) was working at something or 
other: either in self-support, to relieve distress, or to 
supplement the efforts and expenditures of the Government (two billion francs a month) ; and it seemed 
that I never should see the last of those relief organizations of infinite variety known as "oeuvres." 
Some of this work is positively creative, much is 
original, and all is practical and indispensable. As 
the most interesting of it centers in and radiates from 
certain personalities whom I had the good fortune to 
meet and to know as well as their days and mine 
would permit, it has seemed to me that the surest way 
of vivifying any account of the work itself is to make 
its pivot the central figure of the story. So I will 
begin with Madame Balli. 
 
To be strictly accurate, Madame Balli was born in 
Smyrna, of Greek blood; but Paris can show no purer 
type of Parisian, and she has never willingly passed 
a day out of France. During her childhood her 
brother (who must have been many years older than 
herself) was sent to Paris as Minister from Greece, 
filling the post for thirty years; and his mother followed with her family. Madame Balli not only was 
brought up in France, but has spent only five hours 
of her life in Greece; after her marriage she expressed a wish to see the land of her ancestors, and 
her husband — who was an Anglo-Greek — amiably 
took her to a hotel while the steamer on which they 
were journeying to Constantinople was detained in 
the harbor of Athens. 
Up to the outbreak of the war she was a woman 
of the world, a woman of fashion to her finger-tips, 
a reigning beauty always dressed with a costly and 
exquisite simplicity. Some idea of the personal loveliness which, united to her intelligence and charm, 
made her one of the conspicuous figures of the capital, may be inferred from the fact that her British 
husband, an art connoisseur and notable collector, was 
currently reported deliberately to have picked out the 
most beautiful girl in Europe to adorn his various 
mansions. 
Madame Balli has black eyes and hair, a white skin, 
a classic profile, and a smile of singular sweetness and 
charm. Until the war came she was far too absorbed 
in the delights of the world — the Paris world, which 
has more votaries than all the capitals of all the world 
— the changing fashions and her social popularity, to 
have heard so much as a murmur of the serious tides 
of her nature. Although no one disputed her intelligence — a social^ asset in France, odd as that may ap- 
pear to Americans — she was generally put down as a 
mere femme du monde, self-indulgent, pleasure-lov- 
ing, dependent — what our more strident feminists call 
parasitic. It is doubtful if she belonged to charitable 
organizations, although, generous by nature, it is safe 
to say that she gave freely. 
In that terrible September week of 1914 when the 
Germans were driving like a hurricane on Paris and 
its inhabitants were fleeing in droves to the South, 
Madame Balli's husband was in England; her sister- 
in-law, an infirmiere major (nurse major) of the 
First Division of the Red Cross, had been ordered 
to the front the day war broke out; a brother-in-law 
had his hands full ; and Madame Balli was practically 
alone in Paris. Terrified of the struggling hordes 
about the railway stations even more than of the advancing Germans, deprived of her motor cars, which 
had been commandeered by the Government, she did 
not know which way to turn or even how to get into 
communication with her one possible protector. 
But her brother-in-law suddenly bethought himself 
of this too lovely creature who would be exposed to 
the final horrors of recrudescent barbarism if the Germans entered Paris; he determined to put public de- 
mands aside for the moment and take her to Dinard, 
"whence she could, if necessary, cross to England. 
He called her on the telephone and told her to be 
ready at a certain hour that afternoon, and with as 
little luggage as possible, as they must travel by automobile. "And mark you," he added, "no dogs!" 
Madame Balli had seven little Pekinese to which she 
was devoted (her only child was at school in England). She protested bitterly at leaving her pets behind, but her brother was inexorable, and when he 
called for her it was with the understanding that all 
seven were yelping in the rear, at the mercy of the 
concierge. 
There were seven passengers in the automobile, 
however, of which the anxious driver, feeling his way 
through the crowded streets and apprehensive that 
his car might be impressed at any moment, had not a 
suspicion. They were in hat boxes, hastily perforated 
portmanteaux, up the coat sleeves of Madame Balli 
and her maid, and they did not begin to yelp until so 
far on the road to the north that it was not worth 
while to throw them out. 
 
At Dinard, where wounded soldiers were brought 
in on every train, Madame Balli was turned over to 
friends, and in a day or two, being bored and lonely, 
she concluded to go with these friends to the hospitals 
 
and take cigarettes and smiles into the barren wards. 
From that day until I left Paris on the seventeenth 
of August, 1916, Madame Balli had labored unceasingly; she is known to the Government as one of its 
most valuable and resourceful aids; and she works 
until two in the morning, during the quieter hours, 
with her correspondence and books (the police descend at frequent and irregular intervals to examine 
the books of all ceuvres, and one mistake means being 
haled to court), and she had not up to that time taken 
a day's rest. I have seen her so tired she could hardly 
go on, and she said once quite pathetically, "I am not 
even well-groomed any more." I frequently straightened her dress in the back, for her maids work almost 
as hard as she does. When her husband died, a year 
after the war broke out, and she found herself no 
longer a rich woman, her maids offered to stay with 
her on reduced wages and work for her ceuvres, being 
so deeply attached to her that they would have remained for no wages at all if she had really been 
poor. I used to beg her to go to Vichy for a fort- 
night, but she would not hear of it. Certain things 
depended upon her alone, and she must remain at her 
post unless she broke down utterly. 
One of her friends said to me : "Helene must really 
be a tremendously strong woman. Before the war we 
all thought her a semi-invalid who pulled herself together at night for the opera, or dinners, or balls. 
She is still hard at work, June, 1917. 
 
But we didn't know her then, and sometimes we feel 
as if we knew her still less now." 
It was Madame Balli who invented the "comfort 
package" which other organizations have since developed into the "comfort bag," and founded the ceuvre 
known as "Reconfort du Soldat." Her committee 
consists of Mrs. Frederick H. Allen of New York, 
who has a home in Paris and is identified with many 
war charities; Mrs. Edward Tuck, who has lived in 
and given munificently to France for thirty years; 
Madame Paul Dupuy, who was Helen Brown of New 
York and has her own ceuvre for supplying war- 
surgeons with rubber, oil-cloth, invalid chairs, etc.; 
the Marquise de Noialles, President of a large ceuvre 
somewhat similar to Madame Dupuy's; the Comtesse 
de Fels, Madame Brun, and Mr. Holman-Black, an 
American who has lived the greater part of his life in 
France. Mrs. Willard sends her supplies from New 
York by every steamer. 
Madame Balli also has a long list of contributors 
to this and her other ceuvres, who sometimes pay their 
promised dues and sometimes do not, so that she is 
obliged to call on her committee (who have a hundred 
other demands) or pay the deficit out of her own 
pocket. A certain number of American contributors 
send her things regularly through Mrs. Allen or Mrs. 
Willard, and occasionally some generous outsider 
gives her a donation. I was told that the Greek Colony in Paris had been most generous ; and while I was 
there she published in one of the newspapers an appeal 
for a hundred pillows for a hospital in which she was 
interested, and received in the course of the next three 
days over four hundred. 
IV 
I went with her one day to one of the eclope stations and to the Depot des Isoles, outside of Paris, to 
help her distribute comfort packages — which, by the 
way, covered the top of the automobile and were piled 
so high inside that we disposed ourselves with some 
difficulty. These packages, all neatly tied, and of 
varying sizes, were in the nature of surprise bags of 
an extremely practical order. Tobacco, pipes, cigarettes, chocolate, toothbrushes, soap, pocket-knives, 
combs, safety-pins, handkerchiefs, needles-and-thread, 
buttons, pocket mirrors, post-cards, pencils, are a few 
of the articles I recall. The members of the Committee meet at her house twice a week to do up the 
hundles, and her servants, also, do a great deal of the 
practical work. 
It was a long drive through Paris and to the depots 
beyond. A year before we should have been held up 
at the point of the bayonet every few yards, but in 
1916 we rolled on unhindered. Paris is no longer in 
the War Zone, although as we passed the fortifications 
we saw men standing beside the upward pointing 
guns, and I was told that this vigilance does not relax 
day or night: 
Later, I shall have much to say about the eclopes, 
but it is enough to explain here that "eclope," in the 
new adaptation of the word, stands for a man who is 
not wounded, or ill enough for a military hospital, but 
for whom a brief rest in comfortable quarters is imperative. The stations provided for them, principally- 
through the instrumentality of another remarkable 
Frenchwoman, Mile. Javal, now number about one 
hundred and thirty, and are either behind the lines or 
in the neighborhood of Paris or other large cities. 
The one we visited, Le Bourget, is among the largest 
and most important, and the Commandant, M. de 
L'Horme, is as interested as a father in his children. 
The yard when we arrived was full of soldiers, some 
about to march out and entrain for the front, others 
still loafing, and M. de L'Horme seemed to know each 
by name. 
The comfort packages are always given to the men 
returning to their regiments on that particular day. 
They are piled high on a long table at one side of the 
barrack yard, and behind it on the day of my visit 
stood Madame Balli, Mrs. Allen, Mr. Holman-Black 
and myself, and we handed out packages with a 
"Bonne chance" as the men filed by. Some were sullen and unresponsive, but many more looked as 
pleased as children and' no doubt were as excited over 
their "grabs," which they were not to open until in 
the train. They would face death on the morrow, 
but for the moment at least they were personal and 
titillated. 
Close by was a small munition factory, and a large 
loft had been turned into a rest-room for such of the 
eclopes as it was thought advisable to put to bed for 
a few days under medical supervision. To each of 
these we gave several of the black cigarettes dear to 
the tobacco-proof heart of the Frenchman, a piece of 
soap, three picture post-cards, and chocolate. I think 
they were as glad of the visits as of the presents, for 
most of them were too far from home to receive any 
personal attention from family or friends. The beds 
looked comfortable and all the windows were open. 
From there we went to the Depot des Isoles, an 
immense enclosure where men from shattered regiments are sent for a day or two until they can be 
returned to the front to fill gaps in other regiments. 
Nowhere, not even in the War Zone, did war show to 
me a grimmer face than here. As these men are in 
good health and tarry barely forty-eight hours, little 
is done for their comfort. Soldiers in good condition 
are not encouraged to expect comforts in war time, 
and no doubt the discipline is good for them — although, heaven knows, the French as a race know 
little about comfort at any time. 
There were cots in some of the barracks, but there 
were also large spaces covered with straw, and here 
men had flung themselves down as they entered, without unstrapping the heavy loads they carried on their 
backs. They were sleeping soundly. Every bed was 
occupied by a sprawling figure in his stained, faded, 
muddy uniform. I saw one superb and turbaned Algerian sitting upright in an attitude of extreme dignity, and as oblivious to war and angels of mercy as 
a dead man in the trenches. 
Two English girls, the Miss Grades, had opened a 
cantine at this depot. Women have these cantines in 
all the eclope and isole stations where permission of the 
War Office can be obtained, and not only give freely 
of hot coffee and cocoa, bread, cakes and lemonade, to 
those weary men as they come in, but also have made 
their little sheds look gaily hospitable with flags and 
pictures. The Miss Gracies had even induced some 
one to build an open air theater in the great barrack 
yard where the men could amuse themselves and one 
another if they felt inclined. A more practical gift 
by Mrs. Allen was a bath house in which were six 
showers and soap and towels. 
It was a dirty yard we stood in this time, handing 
out gifts, and when I saw Mrs. Allen buying a whole 
wheelbarrow-load of golden-looking doughnuts, 
brought by a woman of the village close by, I wondered with some apprehension if she were meaning to 
reward us for our excessive virtue. But they were 
an impromptu treat for the soldiers standing in the 
yard — some already lined up to march — and the way 
they disappeared down those brown throats made me 
feel blasee and over-civilized. 
I did not hand out during this little fete, my place 
being taken by Mrs. Thayer of Boston, so I was better 
able to appreciate the picture. All the women were 
pretty, and I wondered if Madame Balli had chosen 
them as much for their esthetic appeal to the exacting 
 
French mind as for their willingness to help. It was 
a strange sight, that line of charming women with 
kind bright eyes, and, although simply dressed, 
stamped with the world they moved in, while standing 
and lying about were the tired and dirty poilus — even 
those that stood were slouching as if resting their backs 
while they could — with their uniforms of horizon blue 
faded to an ugly gray, streaked and patched. They 
had not seen a decent woman for months, possibly 
not a woman at all, and it was no wonder they followed every movement of these smiling benefactresses 
with wondering, adoring, or cynical eyes. 
But, I repeat, to me it was an ill-favored scene, and 
the fact that it was a warm and peaceful day, with a 
radiant blue sky above, merely added to the irony. 
Although later I visited the War Zone three times and 
saw towns crowded with soldiers off duty, or as empty 
as old gray shells, nothing induced in me the same 
vicious stab of hatred for war as this scene. There 
is only one thing more abominable than war and that 
is the pacificist doctrine of non-resistance when duty 
and honor call. Every country, no doubt, has its 
putrescent spots caused by premature senility, but no 
country so far has shown itself as wholly crumbling 
in an age where the world is still young. 
A few days later I went with Madame Balli and 
Mr. Holman-Black to the military hospital, Chaptal, 
devoted to the men whose faces had been mutilated. 
The first room was an immense apartment with an 
open space beyond the beds filled to-day with men 
who crowded about Madame Balli, as much to get 
that personal word and smile from her, which the 
French soldier so pathetically places above all gifts, 
as to have the first choice of a pipe or knife. 
After I had distributed the usual little presents of 
cigarettes, chocolate, soap, and post-cards among the 
few still in bed, I sat on the outside of Madame Balli's 
mob and talked to one of the infirmieres. She was a 
Frenchwoman married to an Irishman who was serv- 
ing in the British jiavy, and her sons were in the 
trenches. She made a remark to me that I was destined to hear very often : 
"Oh, yes, we work hard, and we are only too glad 
to do what we can for France; but, my God! what 
would become of us if we remained idle and let our 
minds dwell upon our men at the Front? We should 
go mad. As it is, we are so tired at night that we 
sleep, and the moment we awaken we are on duty 
again. I can assure you the harder we have to work 
the more grateful we are." 
She looked very young and pretty in her infirmiere 
uniform of white linen with a veil of the same stiff 
material and the red cross on her breast, and it was 
odd to hear that sons of hers were in the trenches. 
After that nearly all the men in the different wards 
we visited were in bed, and each room was worse than 
the last, until it was almost a relief to come to the one 
 
where the men had just been operated on and were so 
bandaged that any features they may have had left 
were indistinguishable. 
For the uncovered faces were horrible. I was ill 
all night, not only from the memory of the sickening 
sights with which I had remained several hours in a 
certain intimacy — for I went to assist Madame Balli 
and took the little gifts to every bedside — but from 
rage against the devilish powers that unloosed this 
horror upon the world. One of the grim ironies of 
this war is that the Hohenzollerns and the junkers are 
so constituted mentally that they never will be haunted 
with awful visions like those that visited the more 
plastic conscience of Charles IX after St. Bartholomew ; but at least it will be some compensation to picture them rending the air with lamentations over their 
own downfall and hurling curses at their childish folly. 
It is the bursting of shrapnel that causes the face 
mutilations, and although the first room we visited at 
Chaptal was a witness to the marvelous restorative 
work the surgeons are able to accomplish — sometimes 
— many weeks and even months must elapse while the 
face is not only red and swollen, but twisted, the 
mouth almost parallel with the nose — and often there 
is no nose — a whole cheek missing, an eye gone, or 
both ; sometimes the whole mouth and chin have been 
blown away; and I saw one face that had nothing on 
its flat surface but a pipe inserted where the nose had 
been. Another was so terrible that I did not dare to 
take a second look, and I have only a vague and 
 
mercifully fading impression of a hideousness never 
before seen in this world. 
On the other hand I saw a man propped up in bed, 
with one entire side of his face bandaged, his mouth 
twisted almost into his right ear, and a mere remnant 
of nose, reading a newspaper with his remaining eye 
and apparently quite happy. 
The infirmiere told me that sometimes the poor fellows would cry — they are almost all very young — and 
lament that no girl would have them now; but she 
always consoled them by the assurance that men would 
be so scarce after the war that girls would take anything they could get. 
In one of the wards a young soldier was sitting 
on the edge of his cot, receiving his family, two women of middle age and a girl of about seventeen. His 
face was bandaged down to the bridge of his nose, 
but the lower part was uninjured. He may or may 
not have been permanently blind. The two older 
women — his mother and aunt, no doubt — looked 
stolid, as women of that class always do, but the girl 
sat staring straight before her with an expression of 
bitter resentment I shall never forget. She looked as 
if she were giving up every youthful illusion, and 
realized that Life is the enemy of man, and more particularly of woman. Possibly her own lover Was in 
the trenches. Or perhaps this mutilated boy beside her 
was the first lover of her youth. One feels far too impersonal for curiosity in these hospitals and it did not 
occur to me to ask. 
Madame Balli had also brought several boxes of 
delicacies for the private kitchen of the infirmieres, 
where fine dishes may be concocted for appetites still 
too weak to be tempted by ordinary hospital fare: 
soup extract, jellies, compotes, cocoa, preserves, etc. 
Mr. Holman-Black came staggering after us with one 
of these boxes, I remember, down the long corridor 
that led to the private quarters of the nurses. One 
walks miles in these hospitals. 
A number of American men in Paris are working 
untiringly for Paris, notably those in our War Relief 
Clearing House — H. O. Beatty, Randolph Mordecai, 
James R. Barbour, M. P. Peixotto, Ralph Preston, 
Whitney Warren, Hugh R. Griffen, James Hazen 
Hyde, Walter Abbott, Charles R. Scott, J. J. Hoff, 
Rev. Dr. S. N. Watson, George Munroe, Charles Carroll, J. Ridgeley Carter, H. Herman Harges — but I 
never received from any the same sense of consecration, of absolute selflessness as I did from Mr. Holman-Black. He and his brother have a beautiful little 
hotel, and for many years before the war were among 
the most brilliant contributors to the musical life of 
the great capital ; but there has been no entertaining in 
those charming rooms since August, 1914. Mr. Hol- 
man-Black is parrain (godfather) to three hundred 
and twenty soldiers at the Front, not only providing 
them with winter and summer underclothing, bedding, 
sleeping-suits, socks, and all the lighter articles they 
have the privilege of asking for, but also writing from 
fifteen to twenty letters to his filleuls daily. He, too, 
has not taken a day's vacation since the outbreak of 
the war, nor read a book. He wears the uniform of 
a Red Cross officer, and is associated with several of 
Madame Balli's ceuvres. 
VI 
A few days later Madame Balli took me to another 
hospital — Hopital Militaire Villemin — where she gives 
a concert once a week. Practically all the men that 
gathered in the large room to hear the music, or 
crowded before the windows, were well and would 
leave shortly for the front, but a few were brought in 
on stretchers and lay just below the platform. This 
hospital seemed less dreary to me than most of those 
I had visited, and the yard was full of fine trees. It 
was also an extremely cheerful afternoon, for not 
only was the sun shining, but the four artists Madame 
Balli had brought gave of their best and their efforts 
to amuse were greeted with shouts of laughter. 
Lyse Berty — the most distinguished vaudeville artist in France and who is certainly funnier than any 
woman on earth — had got herself up in horizon blue, 
and was the hit of the afternoon. The men forgot 
war and the horrors of war and surrendered to her 
art and her selections with an abandon which betrayed 
their superior intelligence, for she is a very plain 
woman. Miss O'Brien, an Irish girl who has spent 
her life in Paris and looks like the pictures in some 
old Book of Beauty — immense blue eyes, tiny regular 
 
features, small oval face, chestnut hair, pink-and- 
white skin, and a tall "willowy" figure — was second 
in their critical esteem, because she did not relieve 
their monotonous life with fun, but sang, instead, 
sweet or stirring songs in a really beautiful voice. 
The other two, young entertainers of the vaudeville 
stage, were not so accomplished but were applauded 
politely, and as they possessed a liberal share of the 
grace and charm of the Frenchwoman and were exquisitely dressed, no doubt men still recall them on 
dreary nights in trenches. 
I sat on the platform and watched at close range 
the faces of these soldiers of France. They were all 
from the people, of course, but there was not a face 
that was not alive with quick intelligence, and it struck 
me anew — as it always did when I had an oppor- 
tunity to see a large number of Frenchmen together 
at close range — how little one face resembled the 
other. The French are a race of individuals. There is no type. It occurred to me that if during my life- 
time the reins of all the Governments, my own included, were seized by the people, I should move over 
and trust my destinies to the proletariat of France. 
Their lively minds and quick sympathies would make 
their rule tolerable at least. As I have said before, the 
race has genius. 
After we had distributed the usual gifts, I con- 
cluded to drive home in the car of the youngest of the 
vaudeville artists, as taxis in that region were non- 
existent, and Madame Balli and Mr. Holman-Black 
 
would be detained for another hour. Mademoiselle 
Berty was with us, and in the midst of the rapid conversation — which never slackened! — she made some 
allusion to the son of this little artist, and I exclaimed 
involuntarily : 
"You married? I never should have imagined it." 
Why on earth I ever made such a banal remark to a 
French vaudevilliste, whose clothes, jewels, and automobile represented an income as incompatible with 
fixed salaries as with war time, I cannot imagine. 
Automatic Americanism, no doubt. 
Mile. Berty lost no time correcting me. "Oh, Hortense is not married," she merely remarked. "But 
she has a splendid son — twelve years old." 
Being the only embarrassed member of the party, I 
hastened to assure the girl that I had thought she was 
about eighteen and was astonished to hear that she 
had a child of any age. But twelve! She turned to 
me with a gentle and deprecatory smile. 
"I loved very young," she explained. 
VII 
Chaptal and Villemin are only two of Madame 
Balli's hospitals. I believe she visits others, carrying 
gifts to both the men and the kitchens, but the only 
other of her works that I came into personal contact 
with was an ceuvre she had organized to teach convalescent soldiers, mutilated or otherwise, how to 
 
make bead necklaces. These are really beautiful and 
are another of her own inventions. 
Up in the front bedroom of her charming home in 
the Avenue Henri Martin is a table covered with 
boxes filled with glass beads of every color. Here 
Madame Balli, with a group of friends, sits during all 
her spare hours and begins the necklaces which the 
soldiers come for and take back to the hospital to 
finish. I sat in the background and watched the men 
come in — many of them with the Croix de Guerre, 
the Croix de la Legion d'Honneur, or the Medaille 
Militaire pinned on their faded jackets. I listened to 
brief definite instructions of Madame Balli, who may 
have the sweetest smile in the world, but who knows 
what she wants people to do and invariably makes 
them do it. I saw no evidence of stupidity or slackness in these young soldiers; they might have been 
doing bead-work all their lives, they combined the 
different colors and sizes so deftly and with such true 
artistic feeling. 
Madame Balli has sold hundreds of these neck- 
laces. She has a case at the Ritz Hotel, and she has 
constant orders from friends and their friends, and 
even from dressmakers; for these trinkets are as 
nearly works of art as anything so light may be. The 
men receive a certain percentage of the profits and 
will have an ample purse when they leave the hospital. 
Another portion goes to buy delicacies for their less 
fortunate comrades — and this idea appeals to them 
immensely — the rest goes to buy more beads at the 
 
glittering shops on the Rue du Rivoli. The necklaces 
bring from five to eight or ten dollars. The soldiers 
in many of the hospitals are doing flat beadwork, 
which is ingenious and pretty; but nothing compares 
with these necklaces of Madame Balli, and some of 
the best dressed American women in Paris are wearing them. 
VIII 
On the twentieth of July (1916) Le Figaro devoted 
an article to Madame Balli's Reconfort du Soldat, and 
stated that it was distributing about six hundred packages a week to soldiers in hospitals and eclope depots, 
and that during the month of January alone nine thousand six hundred packages were distributed both behind the lines and among the soldiers at the Front. 
This may go on for years or it may come to an abrupt 
end ; but, like all the Frenchwomen to whom I talked, 
and who when they plunged into work expected a 
short war, she is determined to do her part as long as 
the soldiers do theirs, even if the war marches with 
the term of her natural life. She not only has given 
a great amount of practical help, but has done her 
share in keeping up the morale of the men, who, buoyant by nature as they are, and passionately devoted to 
their country, must have many discouraged moments 
in their hospitals and depots. 
Once or twice when swamped with work — she is 
also a marraine (godmother) and writes regularly to 
her filleuls — Madame Balli has sent the weekly gifts 
 
by friends; but the protest was so decided, the men 
declaring that her personal sympathy meant more to 
them than cigarettes and soap, that she was forced to 
adjust her affairs in such a manner that no visit to a 
hospital at least should be missed. 
It is doubtful if any of these men who survive and 
live to tell tales of the Great War in their old age will 
ever omit to recall the gracious presence and lovely 
face of Madame Balli, who came so often to make 
them forget the sad monotony of their lives, even the 
pain in their mutilated limbs, the agony behind their 
disfigured faces, during those long months they spent 
in the hospitals of Paris. And although her beauty 
has always been a pleasure to the eye, perhaps it is 
now for the first time paying its great debt to Nature. 
II 
THE SILENT ARMY 
MADAME PAQUIN, the famous French dress- 
maker, told me casually an incident that 
epitomizes the mental inheritance of the women of a 
military nation once more plunged abruptly into war. 
Her home is in Neuilly, one of the beautiful suburbs 
of Paris, and for years when awake early in the 
morning it had been her habit to listen for the heavy 
creaking of the great wagons that passed her house 
on their way from the gardens and orchards of the 
open country to the markets of Paris. Sometimes she 
would arise and look at them, those immense heavy 
trucks loaded high above their walls with the luscious 
produce of the fertile soil of France. On the seats 
were always three or four sturdy men: the farmer, 
and the sons who would help him unload at the 
"Halles." 
All these men, of course, were reservists. Mobilization took place on Sunday. On Monday morning 
Madame Paquin, like many others in that anxious 
city, was tossing restlessly on her bed when she heard 
the familiar creaking of the market wagons which 
for so many years had done their share in feeding 
the hungry and fastidious people of Paris. Knowing that every able-bodied man had disappeared from 
his usual haunts within a few hours after the Mobilization Order was posted, she sprang out of bed and 
looked through her blinds. 
There in the dull gray mist of the early morning 
she saw the familiar procession. There were the big 
trucks drawn by the heavily built cart horses and 
piled high with the abundant but precisely picked and 
packed produce of the market gardens. Paris was to 
be fed as usual. People must eat, war or no war. In 
spite of the summons which had excited the 
brains and depressed the hearts of a continent those 
trucks were playing their part in human destiny, not 
even claiming the right to be five minutes late. The 
only difference was that the seats on this gloomy 
August morning of 1914 were occupied by large stolid 
peasant women, the wives and sisters and sweethearts 
of the men called to the colors. They had mobilized 
themselves as automatically as the Government had 
ordered out its army when the German war god deflowered our lady of peace. 
These women may have carried heavy hearts under 
their bright coifs and cotton blouses, but their weather- 
beaten faces betrayed nothing but the stoical determination to get their supplies to the Halles at the 
usual hour. And they have gone by every morning 
since. Coifs and blouses have turned black, but the 
 
hard brown faces betray nothing, and they are never 
late. 
Up in the Champagne district, although many 
of the vineyards were in valleys between the two contending armies, the women undertook to care for the 
vines when the time came, risking their lives rather 
than sacrifice the next year's vintage. Captain Sweeney 
of the Foreign Legion told me that when the French 
soldiers were not firing they amused themselves watching these women pruning and trimming as fatalistically 
as if guns were not thundering east and west of them, 
shells singing overhead. For the most part they were 
safe enough, and nerves had apparently been left out 
of them ; but once in a while the Germans would amuse 
themselves raking the valley with the guns. Then the 
women would simply throw themselves flat and remain 
motionless — sometimes for hours — until "Les Bodies" 
concluded to waste no more ammunition. 
In Rheims the women have never closed their shops. 
They have covered their windows with sandbags, and 
by the light of lamp or candle do a thriving business 
while the big guns thunder. The soldiers, both British 
and French, like their trinkets and post-cards, to say 
nothing of more practical objects, and, admiring their 
inveterate pluck, not only patronize them liberally but 
sit in their coverts and gossip or flirt with the pretty 
girls for whom shells bursting in the street are too 
old a story for terror. 
 
 
Many of the women of the industrial classes who 
have been accustomed all their hard dry lives to live 
on the daily wage of father or husband have refused 
to work since the war began, preferring to scrape 
along on the Government allocation (allowance) of 
one- franc-twenty-five a day for the wives of soldiers, 
plus fifty centimes for each child (seventy-five in 
Paris). These notable exceptions will be dealt with 
later. France, like all nations, contains every variety 
of human nature, and, with its absence of illusions 
and its habit of looking facts almost cynically in the 
face, would be the last to claim perfection or even 
to conceal its infirmities. But the right side of its 
shield is very bright indeed, and the hands of many 
millions of women, delicate and toil-hardened, have 
labored to make it shine once more in history. 
The Mayoress of a small town near Paris told me 
of three instances that came within her personal observation, and expressed no surprise at one or the 
other. She probably would not have thought them 
worth mentioning if she had not been asked expressly 
to meet me and give me certain information. One 
was of a woman whose husband had been a wage- 
earner, and, with six or eight children, had been able 
to save nothing.' The allocation was not declared at 
once and this woman lost no time bewailing her fate 
or looking about for charitable groups of ladies to feed 
her with soup. She simply continued to run her husband's estaminet (wine-shop), and, as the patronage 
was necessarily diminished, was one of the first to 
apply when munition factories invited women to fill 
