can see you have some theory concerning Clelia—some idea.  Haven’t you?"
"Yes, I have."
"Would you care to share it with me?"
"Yes.  But I can’t."
"Could you tell me why you can’t?"
"I think I may tell you that much.  The King of Italy requested me to
maintain silence in the possible event of my discovering the identity of
Thusis and Clelia.  I am here on the King’s service, with certain
definite orders.  I shall scrupulously observe these orders.  Among
these is his request concerning the identity of these two charming young
girls."
"Just one thing, then.  Have you discovered the identity of Thusis?"
"No."
"Of Clelia?"
He reddened.  "Yes, I have," he said.  "Or rather she has confirmed what
I had begun to suspect."
"Clelia has told you who she is!" I exclaimed.
"She has."
"Isn’t that disobedience of orders?"
"She told me before I could stop her.  I never dreamed she was going to
tell me.  It came out—like a bolt of lightning—while I—I was—slipping
over her finger that ring I used to wear——"
"She wears it!"
"Yes.  She was glorious.  She——"
"And she’s going to marry you?"
"Yes, God bless her."
So I wrung his hand in silence and strove hard not to let any comparison
of his situation and mine taint with the slightest trace of bitterness
my happiness in his good fortune and my cordial recognition of it now.
Thusis was not mentioned between us.  He didn’t say "buck up, old chap,"
or "go in and win," or any insincere thing of that sort, for I felt that
he believed my case to be hopeless.
Presently he returned to his room and closed the door.  And I sat down
at my table and produced pen and paper with a view to further poetry—my
only form of relief from grief.
But rhymes evaded me; and finally I gave it up and rested my head on
both hands, unhappy, unsatisfied, feeling that I was a failure, and
always had been one.
After all what could such a glorious young thing as Thusis see in an
interior decorator from New York?—a profession into which had minced all
the lady-like young men and lisping sissies in Manhattan!
Perhaps, after all, the profession was all right, but the people who
practiced it were weird and incompetent.  And as for me I was perfectly
aware that I had no taste, no color sense, no glimmering idea of
composition.
Doubtless my artistic and financial success had been due to my utter
incapacity.
I proceeded to masticate the cud of bitterness.
I had been masticating longer than I realized for the light in the room
was already growing less when a knock came at my door; and I shoved my
unuttered verses into the drawer and grunted out, "Come in!"
It was Thusis, transfigured, sparkling, mischievous, audacious.  And she
was the most beautiful thing I ever saw.
Her magnificent ruddy hair, unloosened, framed her face, its upcurled,
burnished ends falling to her waist.
Otherwise she was an exquisite French doll in knee-skirts and sash and
all over pale blue ribbons.
"I’m going to have a good time if I do murder to-morrow, Michael.  Do
you like my costume? Really?  That is so sweet of you!  You always are
the most satisfactory of men!  And you should see Clelia!  She’s like me
only her ribbons and sash are primrose.  She is really charming."
"Thusis," said I, "you and Clelia shall sit at table and Smith and I are
going to turn waiters!  No!" as she exclaimed in protest, "let’s be
logical in our grotesqueries!  This little world of ours here in
Schwindlewald is already absurd enough with you and Clelia waiting on
table.  Let’s turn it completely upside down and stand it on its head."
She finally consented, forced by my gay ardour, and, I think,
mischievously pleased at the prospect of protest from the Queen.
All over the house, now, I could hear snatches of loud laughter as my
Teutonic guests began to gather and visit one another in their costumes.
Thusis fled; and I opened the door and broke the news to Smith.
"Get into your evening duds," I added, "and announce dinner.  We’re all
going stark mad and I’m glad of it."
So I dressed, and found him ready when I was; and we went downstairs
into the large lounging room where Raoul was fitting disks into the
music-box.
He laughed when we told him our intentions, and then we went into the
kitchen and informed Josephine Vannis.  That stately Juno condescended
to smile on us.  She was rather tremendously imposing as a baby with
bonnet and stick-out skirts—as though somebody had decked out a
masterpiece of Praxiteles.
Retiring, Smith murmured: "Only the Parthenon possesses such
awe-inspiring symmetry; only the Acropolis could vie with her.  Did you
ever see such superb underpinning in all your life?"
Stunned by such stupendous symmetry I admitted that I never had.  And we
went away to announce dinner.
But it was not until the noisy company were gathered in the dining-room
that the Queen perceived the two empty chairs and began to realize my
intentions. And she came to me and made angry representations, refusing
to be seated on the right of a servant, or, indeed, to suffer servants
at all at table, and saying that if she chose to admit my waitresses to
the dancing hall, it was because such privileges sometimes were
graciously permitted to the peasantry who never misunderstood such
condescension.
"Madame," said I, "my housekeeper, Thusis, sits in my place at table
this evening.  And if, madame, you are so deeply concerned about it,
comfort yourself with the explanation that in my housekeeper you behold
your host; she is my vice-reine, or vice-roy, or vice-regent—whatever
you like best, madame! She represents me!  In her you see embodied the
inviolable authority of the master of this house wherein you are a
guest!  However, madame, if you prefer to be served alone in the bar, I
will have a table set there for you——"
She almost spat at me; and Thusis entered, her hand linked in Clelia’s.
I think the royal circus was stupefied by the beauty of these two young
girls.  A rather frightful silence reigned for a moment; then the
Countess Manntrapp clapped her jeweled hands and sang out in her clear,
soprano voice: "Brava!  Bravissima! They are beautiful, our little
waitresses!"
Eddin Bey removed his red fez and, swinging it by the tassel, gave three
hochs.
Then, instantly, the cheers broke out everywhere: I gave Thusis my arm;
Smith offered his to Clelia; and we seated them amid shouts and the
waving of napkins, the queen’s eyes glittering like twin daggers all the
while.
Such an uproar as Smith and I served the soup! Gurgles, gulps, scraping,
sucking sounds arose from feeding Teutons.  The fish produced a
frightful clatter of knives and forks, and the Princess Pudelstoff cut
her lip with her knife but stuck a patch on it and joyously immersed it
in gravy.
They—the kings and admirals and generals were drinking too much; I
noticed that in the din.  And toward the wrecked climax of the dinner
when everybody was offering everybody else tinsel bon-bons, and people
were pulling snapping-crackers with one another, I sent Raoul out to
start the music-box; and Josephine Vannis emerged all clean and fresh
and scented to join the revelry.
Her appearance awed us all; again I felt that innate reverence for the
prodigiously beautiful, that awe for things superbly Greek.  Her effect
upon the two kings, however, was pronounced.  The wild-pig eyes of
Ferdinand became fixed and vitreous for a full minute; King
Constantine’s orbs bulged.  Both made straight for her when Thusis gave
the signal to rise; and I saw the exasperated Queen staring at her
spouse and fingering a large, sharp, jeweled pin.
But I went into the dancing room and took command without loss of time;
and Smith followed with a bottle of wine and a roast chicken—our own
dinner which we intended to discuss while supervising this party and
keeping the music-box busy.
"Silence!" said I, hammering on the glass lampshade with my fork.  "The
party begins, like all children’s parties, with children’s games.
’Going to Jerusalem’ will be the first game played!"
"How is that played?" demanded several at once.
I instructed them, gravely; and presently Smith and I, eating our dinner
beside the music-box, beheld our guests in their baby costumes marching
around and around a row of chairs and, at a given signal, falling into
the unoccupied seats with squeals and shrieks and bellows of laughter.
They tired of that, presently, and I laid aside my chicken and glass of
claret and, rising, instructed them in the game called
"Oats-peas-beans."  They listened attentively, but Thusis and Clelia
appeared much disconcerted when further revelations on my part disclosed
that it was a "kissing" game; and they both withdrew, firmly declining
to play it, much to the dissatisfaction of Eddin Bey and Tino.
So Thusis and Clelia came over to where Smith and I were installed, and,
while we resumed our dinner, they cranked the music-box in which I had
inserted a disk containing the immemorial air of "Oats-peas-beans."
We then became pleased observers of royalty and nobility in baby
clothes, hands joined, walking very seriously in a circle in the center
of which stood the Princess Pudelstoff, and singing in unison and with
all their might:
    "Oats-peas-beans
    And barley grow,
    Though you and I and nobody knows
    Where oats-peas-beans
    And barley grow!"
    "Thus the farmer sows his seed!
    (All made motions of scattering something.)
    Thus he stands and takes his ease!
    (All with hands on hips.)
    Stamps his foot,
    (All stamp)
    And claps his hand,
    (All clap.)
    And turns around to view the land,
    (All turn.)
    While waiting for a partner!
    While waiting for a partner!
    So open the ring
    And choose one in
    And kiss him when you get him in!"
The singing ceased; the Princess Pudelstoff giggled; then, to his
dismay, she pounced upon Eddin Bey, almost throttled that handsome
Moslem in her enthusiasm, and gave him a resounding smack amid screams
of laughter and roars of approval.
And then the game waxed fast and furious: Eddin Bey chose the Countess
Manntrapp and kissed her delicately and courteously; she chose King
Constantine, but merely saluted his cheek, much to his exasperation.
Then Tino held the ring, waggish, jocose, bantering everybody with their
expectations.  But though the queen eyed him commandingly, furiously, he
swaggered over to Josephine Vannis and soundly kissed that classic
memorial in animated Grecian marble.
The Teutons behaved rather grossly; King Ferdinand ranged the ring like
a liberated wild hog and presently charged the object of his osculatory
intentions—Josephine.
Probably nobody dared kiss the queen, but such respectful abstention
seemed to please her none the more, for presently she hissed something
into Tino’s ear, and he chose her into the ring with an agility born of
terror.
Once there she glared at everybody and then, with a sneer, selected Tino
again, and the game, promising to become a monotony and a deadlock, I
rose and, waving a leg of the chicken to impose silence, proclaimed that
the games had ended and that dancing would now begin.
Raoul inserted a fox-trot of sorts; and the next instant everybody was
footing it.
"Raoul," I said in a guarded voice, "did you souse those Bolsheviki in
sheep-dip?"
"I did, sir."
"What did they do?"
"They made an agonizing noise, Monsieur.  I fear it was, perhaps, their
first bath."
"Go up and dip ’em again."
"All Bolshevikdom will shriek," he said, grinning.
"Let it for a change.  It’s set all the world scratching.  Let Bolshevik
Russia do a little shrieking, now that she feels the boche biting her
worse than her native cooties!  Get some more sheep-dip and de-louse
that pair of things upstairs."
He went away, laughing.
                                *XXIII*
                                *THUSIS*
For a while the dancing was lively and good-humored hilarity reigned.
The Tzar of all the Bulgars had imbibed enough wine to dull, if not to
obliterate that continual desire of his to slink into corners and peep
out at a hostile world bent on his assassination. Only when somebody
spoke to him too abruptly behind his back did the customary symptoms
blanch his face and set his wild eyes roving and his big nose wrinkling
like a boar which winds an enemy.
He was having as good a time as such a person can ever have; and toward
supper time his exhilaration incited him to attempt a waddling sort of
Bulgarian dance with the Countess Manntrapp—an amazing exhibition of
mammoth movements on his part; and a sort of infernal and fascinating
grace on the part of the lithe Countess.
Dancing with Thusis, I hastily led her out of their way, and everybody
else stood in the circle, the center of which was pervaded by Ferdinand
and his lively vis-à-vis.
Which performance presently stirred Admiral Lauterlaus from a somewhat
beer-sodden lethargy, and he emitted raucous sounds of protest.  But
Baron Bummelzug began to snap his fingers and stamp and caper in
imitation of the schuplattl of the Bavarian peasantry; and all the
boche except the Queen, imitated him and seized partners.
Eddin Bey came to ask Thusis, and he was so faultlessly polite and so
gay and graceful that she cast a saucy glance of dismissal at me and
accepted him.
It was quite all right, of course, but it depressed me a little,
particularly because Clelia had inexorably refused everybody except
Smith.
Now there is a very beautiful Grecian dance supposed to be the
triumphant dance executed by the Ten Thousand when they caught sight of
the sea; and it is called "The Sea-dance."
Tino, rather drunk, climbed on a chair, shouted for attention, and
informed the company that he was about to perform this celebrated dance.
But when we all gave him room he jigged around a while like an
intoxicated soldier’s drab, and, remarking jauntily that he had
forgotten it, offered ten thousand drachma to anybody present who could
dance the Sea-dance of the Ten Thousand.
He was rather vulgar about it, too, digging into his pockets and pulling
out fistfuls of hun gold, and loudly demanding that somebody should
attempt to win it.
I glanced instinctively toward Thusis who, her dance with Eddin
interrupted, stood in the circle opposite me.
Her gray eyes were brilliant, her cheeks delicately flushed, and the
shock of thick ruddy hair fairly glittered, every silky thread afire
with the gleam of molten gold.
She looked at me with the sweet, reckless audacity of a spoiled child;
then she laughed and said something to Clelia.  I saw the latter go to
the music box, select a record, start it; and the haunting air called
The Sea-dance floated out.
Then Thusis seemed suddenly to melt into motion; her slim feet scarcely
touched the floor; head, arms, slender body, were all part of a single
and exquisite motion flowing from one soft curve to another.
You could have heard a pin drop in the room; and I did hear one—a big
jeweled affair, that clattered to my feet.
As I stooped to recover it the queen said hoarsely in my ear:
"Who is that girl?"
I turned; she snatched the jewel and dug it into her hair.
"That girl, madame, is Thusis, my housekeeper."
"Fiddle," retorted the queen.  "She’s something else, too,—or once was.
The first time I noticed her it occurred to me that I’d seen her
somewhere. What was she—a celebrated dancer?—before she became your
housekeeper?"
The queen’s nasty insolence froze me.
"I am not," said I, "as familiar with celebrated dancers as your husband
is—and the various men of your immediate family."
That I had penetrated her incognito did not appear to disturb her as
much as my inferences concerning Tino and the Kaiser and that degenerate
nest of reptiles, her nephews.
A white, pinched expression came into her frosty face and her eyes
flamed.
"I thought you were a Yankee," she said.
"A Yankee from Chile," said I, bowing.
She looked clean through me at Thusis.
"I’ve seen that woman somewhere," she said without emotion.  "I’ll
recollect where, presently."
But my eyes and attention were now focussed on the lovely Thusis and I
paid no further heed to this bad-tempered Hohenzollern.
Never have I seen such an exquisite dance, such grace, such loveliness.
As for the boches, when Thusis ended her Dance of the Sea, they were
like a herd of cattle galloping around her and bellowing their
satisfaction.
Tino, drunk and prodigal, began to throw handfuls of gold at Thusis,
and, enraged, I caught him by the collar and jerked him onto a chair.
"Where the devil do you think you are—in the Coulisse of the Opera?" I
cried in his partly deafened ear.
But he only grinned and wagged his head and attempted to fish more gold
out of his pockets.  But now his thrifty wife interfered and she ordered
Secretary Gizzler to pick up every coin.  Then she hissed something into
Tino’s car which seemed to galvanize that partly soused monarch so that
he found his feet with alacrity and suffered himself to be led aside by
his tight-lipped spouse.
From time to time during the festivities I had heard distant significant
noises indicating that upstairs the Bolsheviki were not enduring
sheep-dip and imprisonment with resignation.
Once I had slipped away to the corridor outside their quarters, but,
when I made my presence known, Raoul from within calmly assured me that
the delousing was progressing successfully and that he did not require
my assistance.
Russia, forcibly scrubbed, had put forth agonized howls; and now, Russia
imprisoned, was battering at its door and yelling murder.
Now and then, a hun noticed the noise and inquired concerning its
origin, but I always turned on more music and they soon forgot in the
din of the dance.
Thusis had resumed her dance with Eddin Bey; Smith and Clelia were
dancing.  I said to Raoul, who was starting to crank the music-machine:
"I’ll just step up and quiet those Bolsheviki."
They were raining blows upon their door when I arrived.  I rapped
sharply.
"What do you want?" said I.
They gibbered at me in Russian.
"Speak English!" I insisted.
Perhaps Puppsky was so excited or so demoralized by his first bath that
he forgot he could speak English.
I tried them in Italian: "Whata da mat’?" I inquired pleasantly.  They
chattered back at me like lunatic squirrels.
"What the devilovitch is the matsky?" I shouted, incensed at their
stupidity.  "You listen to me! Your clothes are being boiled and you’ve
got to stay where you are!  Stop your noise, Puppsky!"
And off I went to inspect the big wash boiler in the kitchen where,
lifting the lid which had been the queen’s shield, I was gratified to
observe the garments of the Bolsheviki simmering nicely.
"It is not the only vermin that Germania’s shield covers," said I.  And
much pleased with my jeu d’esprit, I poured in another bottle of
sheep-dip and returned to the dance salon where supper was now being
served at little tables.
As soon as I entered the room I felt trouble brewing. The inevitable
hunnish reaction had set in.  A tired boche is an ugly one; an
intoxicated hun may become either offensively sentimental or surly and
ingeniously bestial.  And now they were about to become surfeited huns,
heavy with wine, heavier with food.  I did not fancy the looks of things
very much.
The queen alone appeared to be perfectly sober; the others were engaged
in that sort of half insolent raillery always provocative of a row,
shouting German pleasantries at one another from table to table, lifting
slopping glasses, cheering, singing and leering at the ladies.
Bummelzug demanded that the music-box play "Deutschland über Alles," but
the disk was non-existent.
Von Dungheim, who exhibited an inclination to weep at any mention of
Germany, asked in a hoarsely saturated voice for a folk-song.  And Raoul
turned on two; and the huns sang first "Du bist wie eine Blume," which
shattered them sentimentally so that loud sobs punctuated the
"Lorelei" which, of course, followed.
Then Ferdinand, one arm around the Princess Pudelstoff, and a chicken
wing in the other hand, lifted a voice choked with food and attempted a
Bulgarian folk-song—something about the "Kara Dagh" and "Slivnitza"—but
presently lost all recollection of what he was doing and challenged
everybody to extemporaneous rhymes in praise of his native land.
Nobody obliged.
"Too stupid!" he remarked thickly.  "Nobody clever enough to rhyme
’Bulgarian’—eh, mine host?" looking around at me where I sat shielding
Thusis from the playful attentions of King Constantine who was
attempting to pinch her.
"Of course," said I, "’Bulgarian’ rhymes with ’vulgarian’; but that’s
obvious."  And I smiled at the Tzar of all the Bulgars and offered
Thusis a bon-bon.
She looked at Ferdinand, at Tino, at the queen: suddenly she threw back
her head, and that lovely, childlike, silvery laughter rippled through
the Teutonic din.
There was no scorn in her laughter, only the delicious, irresistible
gaiety of a young girl face to face with the excruciating.  And there is
nothing on earth more innocently insolent.
Every Teuton head was turned toward her in stupefied displeasure; fishy,
fixed, pig-like eyes stared at this young girl who dared condone an
insult to Bulgaria with her fresh, impulsive laughter.
Suddenly behind me there was a brusque movement; I heard Tino protest
that his foot had been trodden on; and, turning, I saw the queen
excitedly rising from her place.
"I know who that woman is now!" she said in a voice as sharp as a blade.
She pointed at Thusis like a vixen from the markets:
"That’s The Laughing Girl!" she cried.  "Look at her!  Anybody can
recognize her now from her photographs!"
Thusis colored crimson and shrank from the brutal publicity against my
shoulder, staring wide-eyed at the hatefully sneering visage of the
queen.
"The celebrated Laughing Girl!" repeated the queen mockingly; "Mr.
O’Ryan’s housekeeper, gentlemen—and our guest at dinner!  And what
does our German chivalry and nobility think of that insult launched at
us by a Yankee inn-keeper?"
"Be silent, madame!" I said sharply.  "If you don’t know how to conduct
yourself I shall request your husband to remove you!"
Then it came, the boche deluge!—a herd of huddling swine on their feet,
all grunting at me, enraged, clamoring, waving their arms.  And in the
midst of the guttural uproar a thin, high voice pierced all sound and
dominated it—the sniffling whine of Secretary Gizzler.
Possessed by a sort of cringing exaltation, he rose to his thin, splay
feet, and pointed a meager finger almost in the shocked face of Thusis.
"That is the Duchess of Naxos!" he squealed.
At that Thusis was on her feet, white as a slim sword-blade, and her
gray eye charged with lightning.
I rose, too, incredulous, astounded.
"Thusis, Duchess of Naxos!" piped the excited voice of Secretary
Gizzler.  "She and The Laughing Girl are one!  I know!  I was in the
Intelligence! I procured that photograph so that if this woman ever gave
our fatherland any trouble she could be easily recognized wherever she
might be!"  He beat his temples and glared at Thusis: "Stupid! Stupid!"
he squealed; "why did I not recognize her at once!  Why did not a single
German present recognize the chief mischief-maker in Greece!—the
instigator of revolt!—the pupil of Venizelos!—the enemy of their
majesties King Constantine and Queen Sophia!—the plotter who aided in
their downfall!—Thusis, Duchess of Naxos!"
The huns seemed thunderstruck; Thusis, very pale, swept them with
insolent cool eyes.
All at once King Ferdinand got to his feet and loomed up like a bad
dream.
"Naxos!  Where is Naxos?" he demanded.
And when Secretary Gizzler would have answered him: "The man’s mad," he
said heavily; "there’s no such place."
At that I saw Thusis’s face flame; but the boche all around her burst
into a roar of ironic laughter.
"Let the fatherland tremble!" bellowed General Count von Dungheim.
"Naxos declares war!"
"Look sharp!" shouted Admiral Lauterlaus, "or we’ll have Andorra
invading us."
"And Monaco, too!" growled Bummelzug.  "Gott in Himmel!  If Naxos
defies us through her Duchess we’re as good as lost!"
"I tell you!" shrieked Secretary Gizzler, "that it’s no laughing matter!
That girl is the Duchess of Naxos!  And the other—her sister—look well
at her, gentlemen!—she is Duchess of Tenedos!"
"That belongs to my country!" cried Eddin Bey, laughing, "the island of
Tenedos.  I sincerely hope the Cyclades are not in revolt!  But if they
are I’m very glad so charming a lady is to own one of them."
But his attempt at a good natured diversion made no impression on the
huns; and Gizzler, venomous and quivering, held the floor and kept his
weak, vicious eyes on Thusis.
"It was the Ægean League that exiled the King and Queen of Greece!" he
said.  "She made that league!—that woman standing there—Thusis, Duchess
of Naxos!"
"It isn’t a Duchy!" cried the queen, choking with fury; "it’s a Greek
Island!"
"It’s a Venetian Duchy and belongs to Italy, madame," I said
calmly—having read up on it in the Encyclopedia since I had fallen in
love with one of its inhabitants.
At that the queen turned on me like a fury.
"You lie!" she said.
I tried to control myself:
"Naxos is a Venetian Duchy, belonging to Italy," I repeated.  "I am
happy and proud of the privilege of acknowledging the restoration of
Naxos to Italy—and I salute its ruler—Thusis, Duchess of Naxos!"
And I lifted the white hand of Thusis and touched it with my lips.
"There’s conspiracy here!" shouted Tino, very drunk, and vainly
attempting to stand up.  "We’re all tangled up in treason here!  We’re
in the web of the Ægean League!  What are these people doing here,
anyway!—all these Yankees and Duchesses running about underfoot——"
A hiccough terminated his activities and he slid up against his spouse
who shoved him away, her eyes flashing.
"That lying Yankee," she began, almost beside herself, "has set a trap
for us here!"
At the word "trap," King Ferdinand, drunk as he was, got up hastily and
started toward the door.
"You’d better defend yourselves!" he shouted. "I’ve got pistols in my
room——"
His voice ceased: Raoul blocked his way:
"Stay where you are," he said, smiling and cool. And placing a powerful
hand on King Ferdinand’s chest he shoved him backward onto a chair.
Then, to my surprise, Raoul slipped a pair of automatic pistols from his
side pockets and cast a merry glance around him at the company.
"The first man that moves," he remarked, "is not likely to continue the
movement."
The dead silence which fell over everybody was startling.  Raoul,
resting gracefully on a table with one leg on the floor, looked about
him as though immensely amused.  Then, as we awaited further
developments, his countenance assumed a thoughtful expression—and he
absent-mindedly hummed aloud his favorite air:
    "Crack-brain-cripple-arm
    You have done a heap of harm——"
                                 *XXIV*
                                *RAOUL*
Raoul looked up, thoughtfully, playing with his pistols, and said to
King Constantine in an unaccented and conversational tone:
"After all, who were you to rule Naxos?—you cheap, treacherous, yellow
dog!"
That partly cleared the king’s muddy mind and he lurched to an upright
position and began to take notice.
"You sold Greece to the boche," continued Raoul in his serene, even
voice, toying idly with his pistols.  "What else you did—what else you
are—is a trifle too vile to repeat aloud——"
He turned and looked at the Tzar of all the Bulgars whose ungainly bulk
as he sat on his chair was now agitated by visible tremors:
"Murderer and coward," mused Raoul aloud. "Every time you hire your
gun-men to kill an enemy you hurry away to establish an alibi, don’t
you? You cheap peddler of duped people—you made a rotten bargain this
time, didn’t you?  When your treacherous pal, Tino, betrayed Serbia, you
swindled your own people, didn’t you?"
He shrugged, dangled his pistols, glanced at Gizzler,—or rather
through Gizzler as though, the wretched creature were not there,—and
his eyes encountered the interested jet black orbs of Eddin Bey.
Both smiled, Eddin in the face of death; Raoul with the generous grin of
a man who recognizes in his enemy a peer.
"Eddin Bey," he said, still smiling, "the Osmanli fight fairly.  Ask the
British Tommy....  And your fool of a Sultan is dead.  And what do you
think of affairs at present?"
"They are not any too gay," replied Eddin Bey, laughing, "especially in
the Alps."
The half smile on Raoul’s face flickered and faded:
"You’re about done for, you Turks," he said quietly.  "You bet on the
wrong horse, too.  And now Enver Pasha keeps running to Berlin to ask
why the all-highest doesn’t make him Khedive of Egypt as he promised.
And Taalat is scared, and the butcher Djavid is in the dumps.  Oh, I
know it was not you Osmanli that set the Kurds and Bashi-Bazouks on the
Armenians.  That butchery of a million souls, men, women, children,
babies, was conceived by the Berlin government and superintended from
the Yldiz Palace."
Raoul turned and looked contemptuously at the Germans:
"You square-heads," he said, "have achieved one thing, anyway.  Never
before in history has a nation been indicted, and it was supposed it
could not be done.  But it has been done in your case.  And for the
first time also in history an entire race is spoken of and known to
civilization only by a revolting nick-name—boche!
"Do you know what it means?  There have been disputes concerning the
origin of the term boche. The French say it means a stupid fellow—a
clown; the Belgians think that it is a vulgar term for ’blockhead.’  But
I shall tell you what it really does mean: it means, in South African
Dutch, an unclean and degraded species of wart-hog; and it has been in
use for fifty years!"
He lifted one pistol and sat idly twirling it around his fore-finger.
"I know why you came here to Schwindlewald," he said, "to put that
back on the throne of Greece!"—he nodded toward Tino.
"In Berne you live luxuriously and wastefully in the midst of famine.
You eat as usual; your bread is white; there are no restrictions for you
in the matter of food amid a hungry people.  You maintain a court there
with flunkies, stables, motor-cars—every necessity and luxury which is
now forbidden by Swiss law and by the law of decency you violate daily!"
He looked at the queen:
"Your effrontery, madame, is of course, in keeping with Hohenzollern
tradition.  But things are happening now—now, madame,—at this very
moment! And I’m wondering just how long the Swiss are likely to endure
your behavior in Berne."
He sat silent after that for a little while, twirling his pistols and
whistling softly to himself:
    "Crack-brain-cripple-arm——"
Suddenly Eddin made a quick motion and Raoul shot the leg off his chair
letting him down with a crash.
The startling crash of the pistol-shot brought them to their feet.
"Sit down!" said Raoul sharply, "or it will be a living leg next time;
and the time after that a wooden head!"  He sat watching Eddin getting
to his feet with a shame-faced laugh:
"No use," said Raoul in a friendly voice, "it can’t be done, Colonel."
"I notice it can’t," remarked Eddin, laughing. "Well sir, you have
entertained us very pleasantly with your historical inappropos.  Is
there to be a denouément perhaps?"
"Did you expect one?"
Eddin shrugged: "A firing-squad, possibly.  But of course I don’t
insist."
Raoul shook his curly head: "No, Colonel Eddin; no firing-squad.  No
Turkish atrocities, no Bulgarian murders, no boche bestialities."  He
turned contemptuously on Constantine:
"You laid plans in Berne to entrap the leaders of the Ægean League.  You
forged instructions sent to me by Monsieur Venizelos.  You attempted to
foment an uprising in Naxos because you foresaw the trouble it would
bring between two of the Allied powers—between Italy and Greece!
"Also you conceived and encouraged a plot to attempt the capture of
yourself and your wife because you believed that Greece, although now
rid of you, would resent such an attempt; and that chivalrous America
would be shocked at the kidnaping of a woman—even such a notorious one
as your Hohenzollern wife."
He eyed him for a moment: "You are the cheapest back-stairs scullion
who ever grafted, Tino," he said.  "But remember this little couplet the
next time you go gaily grafting:
    "’Grecian gift and Spanish fig
    Help the fool his grave to dig!’"
"That’s the motto of the Ægean League!" burst out the queen in a white
hot fury.
"It is, madame," returned Raoul, pleasantly.
Then he placed the other foot on the floor and got up leisurely from his
seat on the table.
"You’re all free to go," he said carelessly.
A moment of suspense, then the boche herd scrambled to its feet and
rushed for the nearest exit.  And Raoul came over to where I stood
beside Thusis with Smith and Clelia beside me.
"All their weapons are locked up in the cellar," he said, laughing; "let
them look for them.  Also I have all their documents packed up.  We’re
through with them," he added, smiling at Thusis.
But there was a thunder cloud on her white brow:
"Are we not going to secure and crate the kings, Raoul?" she demanded.
"Do you and Josephine fail me, now?"
"Duchess," he said smilingly, "news came to-night—a real communication
from Monsieur Venizelos."
"How could it come?" I asked.
"The Pass is open," he replied serenely.  "And," turning to Thusis, "so
is the road to France.  And we should travel it this night unless we
wish to see our papers taken from us and our persons subjected to arrest
by these somewhat singular Swiss gendarmes."
"What did Monsieur Venizelos say?" insisted Thusis, tears of
disappointment and vexation shining in her gray eyes.
"The letter is here,"—Raoul touched his breast pocket—"at the disposal
of her grace the Duchess of Naxos——"
"Tell me!" cried Thusis, angrily, "and let my ’grace’ go to the
devil!"
"Monsieur Venizelos warns us of Tino’s forgery. We are not to touch
these kings: we are not to proclaim Naxos an Italian Duchy and you its
hereditary ruler."
There was a painful silence.
Very slowly Thusis turned and looked at me.  And I remembered then what
I had said to her about the purity and unselfishness of justifiable
revolutions.
And now I realized that part of this revolution in Naxos was the
restoration of an ancient Duchy and of a family as ancient, embodied in
this young girl before me.
At that moment Tino came lurching into the room followed by the queen,
and presently by the majority of the huns in the house-party.
"Somebody has been through my luggage!" he barked.  "Now I’m damned if I
put up with that——"
Raoul still held one of his pistols in his hand and Tino’s bloodshot
eyes fell on it.
"Oh, very well," he said, turning on his heel.
The queen, pallid and ghastly with fury, faced us a moment:
"You’ll all pay this reckoning!" she whispered,—"every one of you!"
"Madame," said Raoul gaily, "the Pass is open. And really very wonderful
news has come through. But I’m afraid you don’t like Yankees, and it
won’t interest you to hear that the Yankee General Pershing has wiped
out the St. Mihiel salient, and the guns of Metz are saluting the
event."
"Lies!" she retorted; "Yankee lies!"  She bit her lip, glared at us all,
turned her Hohenzollern back on us.  Behind her stood the huddled huns,
sullen, enraged, baffled in their headlong rush to find weapons for
avenging Prussian "honor."
They were quite helpless although outnumbering us; and they seemed to
realize it.
Raoul, watching them, passed his pistols to me and walking coolly in
among them and shoving the Admiral and Von Dungheim out of his way, went
to the kitchen.  Josephine had wrung out the disinfected garments of the
Bolsheviki.  But they were still steaming when Raoul unlocked their door
and flinging the clothing at them, bade them dress and depart.
"The Pass is open," he said.  "It’s a summer night and you won’t take
cold.  Get into those things and get out of this house!  And," he added,
"you ought to be obliged for what I’ve done to you."
When Raoul came back the huns had retired to their several apartments;
Smith and Clelia stood by the window whispering together; Thusis was
absently looking over the letter from Monsieur Venizelos; and I leaned
in the doorway gazing out at the high stars above the disfigured Bec de
l’Empereur.
"Nature pulled his nose and twisted it, too," murmured Raoul, passing
me.  Then he said aloud:
"It really is not healthy for us here any longer. The Swiss gendarmes
will arrive in the morning. I have held the wagon that penetrated the
Pass. It’s waiting for us.  So if you’ll be kind enough to pack your
luggage——"
"Are you going?" I asked, appalled.
"We must," said Raoul gaily.  "And I regret to say that I think you and
Mr. Smith had better come with us."
I shrugged my shoulders.
"It’s too bad to have done this to you," said Raoul, "but we couldn’t
very well avoid it.  You had better cross with us into France until this
blows over.  The boche are sure to raise a terrific row; and the Swiss
are mortally afraid of invasion.  So if you remain you’ll be
annoyed—held for examination—possibly imprisoned.  But they won’t
confiscate your estate: you know too much about the Swiss Government’s
cognizance of these hun conspirators, and their use of neutral soil."
I scarcely heard him; I was looking at Thusis who stood bending over the
music-box and studying the disks lying there.
"Could I help you to pack up?" insisted Raoul.
"Thanks; I shall remain here," said I quietly.
At that moment the door burst open and Puppsky, his clothing still
steaming in spots, rushed in upon us followed by Wildkatz in similar and
vaporous attire:
"I been robbed!" yelled Puppsky.  "All my papers und evertings it bass
been robbed me alretty!"
Raoul shot a contemptuous glance at the chattering pair of Reds: "I
haven’t bothered about your papers," he said.
"Did I say you done it!  No, I did not say you done!" shouted Puppsky.
"I see this here Countess hanging around by the room of comrade
Wildkatz. What for iss she in this, I ask it?  She iss who, perhaps?  I
think she got my papers also comrade Wildkatz he also believes it——"
"Go and ask her!" said Raoul bluntly.
When they were gone Smith turned from the window where he had been
whispering with Clelia:
"It’s quite en règle," he said coolly.  "The Countess Manntrapp is in
the employment of the Siberian government.  She came here to get what
she wanted and report on these Reds.  She left for the Pass an hour ago,
on foot."
The unseen web in the center of which I had unwittingly stood for so
long suddenly became partly visible to me.
Raoul laughed.  "It’s really a pity," he remarked to me, "that we can’t
catch and box up these kings and take them along with us.  But Venizelos
says no; and he’s always right.  So we had all better pack up and be on
our way."
He went off whistling the "Crack-brain" song. Presently, without
noticing me, Thusis turned from the music-box and walked over to where
her sister was standing; and I heard her say something about dressing.
I turned away and went silently upstairs to my room, and, closing the
door, seated myself.
The baby-party indeed was ended.
                                 *XXV*
                         *THE DUCHESS OF NAXOS*
I was still sitting there when somebody knocked, and, supposing it to be
Smith, I said, "come in."
Thusis entered, and I rose.  We looked at each other in silence, then I
set a chair for her by my table and she dropped onto it as though tired.
She wore a dark hat and a dark gown which I had never seen.  Also she
was gloved, another phase hitherto unfamiliar to me.  And her beauty
almost hurt me.
"You are not going with us?" she asked in a low voice.
"No."
"Why not?"
"There is no reason why I should go."
"You are not afraid to remain?"
I forced a smile.
"You choose to stay here in this house all alone with these huns?" she
persisted.
"What else is there to do?  Besides, they’ll leave to-morrow."
"And then you’ll be utterly alone here."
I nodded, smiling.
"Won’t you come with us as far as France?"
I thanked her.
"Why won’t you?"
"I think I’d be rather lonelier in France," I said lightly, "than I
might be here."
"Will you be lonely?"
I did not answer.
"When I glanced across the table at her again she had unpinned her hat.
I waited; but she tossed it from her onto my bed.
"Why do you do that?" I asked.
"I shall not leave unless you do," she said serenely.
"That’s nonsense!  I am in no danger!"
"I should be, if I left you alone here."
"In what danger?"
"In danger—of falling a prey to—grief—Michael."
My heart almost stopped: she was looking down at the gloves which she
was slowly stripping from her wrists:
"Danger of grief," she repeated, "of lifelong sorrow—for leaving
you—here—alone....  Because, once, I gave my heart to you...."
"You were only Thusis, then," I said, steadying my voice and senses with
an effort.
"Am I less, now, in your eyes?"  She lifted her head and looked at me.
"You are the Duchess of Naxos."
She smiled faintly: "What was it you once said to me about
revolutions?—about the necessity for purity of motive and absolute
unselfishness for those who revolted against tyranny?"
I was silent.
"Michael?"
"Yes."
"How can I incite my people to revolt unless my motives are entirely
free from selfish interest?"
"Are they not?"
"Why do you ask me?  You know that I would be Duchess of Naxos if my
country regains its freedom under the Italian crown."
"Has that influenced you?"
Her candid, sweet gaze met mine: "I think it has."
And, as I said nothing, "I hadn’t quite considered it in that light,"
she said.  "I thought my motives were pure.  Besides, I really am
hereditary Duchess of Naxos—if ever there is to be such a Duchy again."
She laughed a little.  "A phantom ruler in a phantom realm.  It must
amuse you, Michael."
"It may all come to pass," said I.
"No."
"Why not?"
"Monsieur Venizelos does not wish it.  Nor does the King of Italy.  Also
I am afraid that Naxos is really quite contented under the Greek flag,
now that Constantino is exiled and because, moreover, that same flag
flies beside the flags of England, France, and Italy....  No, Michael,
there will be no revolution now in Naxos; no Duchy, no Duchess.... And,"
she rose and looked at me, and stretched out one fair hand, "come into
France with me, Michael.... I can’t leave my heart here with you unless
I stay here, too....  I can’t become disembodied and float off to France
leaving heart and mind and body and soul here—in your arms—in the arms
of the man I—love....  Can I, dear Michael?—Can I my dear lover?—my
dearest—my beloved——"
Her fragrant, flushed face was close against mine when we heard Smith’s
trunk banging in his room and Raoul’s voice: "Easy, mon vieux!  Mon
dieu, but it’s heavy, your Norwegian-American luggage."
"Darling!" she exclaimed in consternation, "you’re not packed up!
Quick, Michael!  I’ll help you——"
"Thusis, I don’t want this junk!  Do you know what I am going to take
with me?"
"What, darling?"
"My poems to you; the portrait of the Admiral; and my photograph of The
Laughing Girl.... And nothing else whatever."
I picked up the photograph from my dresser as I spoke and slipped it
into my breast pocket.
"Are we to start housekeeping with the portrait of the Admiral and your
heavenly poems of which I never before heard?" she exclaimed, enchanted.
"Not housekeeping," I said smiling, and drawing her into my arms.
"Aren’t we going to keep house, Michael?" she asked, her surprised eyes
uplifted to mine.
"After the war," said I.
For a full minute she stood gazing at me.  Then:
"I understand."  And she offered her lips for the first time to any man.
And for the first time I kissed her.
"Yes," said I gaily, "I join Pershing.  Or the Legion, if the Yankees
won’t take a Chilean——"
Smith rapped loudly on my door:
"Is Thusis there?"
"She is," said I.
"Did she persuade you to come with us?"
"She did."
"Good business!" cried Smith.  "Is your luggage ready?"
