subtle messages which highly sophisticated people know how to 
give and to catch entirely over the heads of Socialist machin- 
ists from Leesville, U. S. A. To the Honourable Beatrice the 
message conveyed, "How perfectly delicious !" To His Majesty 
it conveyed, "I knew you'd enjoy it!" 
Jimmie's mind was of course occupied entirely with the 
idea of propaganda. He must make the most of this strange 
opportunity! "Things is goin' to be changed after this here 
war !" said he. "Fer the workin' people, I mean." 
"They'll be changed for all of us," said His Majesty. "The 
dullest of us know that." 
"The workin' people got to get what they earn!" persisted 
Jimmie. "Why, Mr. King back home where I come from a 
feller could work twelve hours a day all his life, an' not have 
enough saved up to bury himself with. An' they say it was 
worse here in England." 
"We have had terrible poverty," admitted His Majesty. 
"We shall have to find some way of getting rid of it." 
"There ain't no way but Socialism !" cried Jimmie. "Look 
into it, an' you'll see ! We gotter get rid o' the profit-system. 
The feller that does the work has gotter get what he produces." 
"Well," said His Majesty, "you'll agree with me this far at 
least we must beat the Germans first." And then he turned 
to the Honourable Beatrice. "We shall learn much from our 
American visitors," he said, and flashed her another of those 
subtle messages, which indicated that perhaps it was not a good 
thing for patients in hospitals to become excited over Socialist 
propaganda! So the Honourable Beatrice turned to the man 
in the other bed, and His Majesty turned also; he ascertained 
that the man's name was Deakin, and that he came from Cape 
Cod. His Majesty remarked how badly England needed good 
Yankee gun-pointers, and how grateful he was to those who came 
to help the British navy. Jimmie listened, just a tiny bit jealous 
not for himself, of course, but because he knew that Socialism 
was so much more important than gun-pointing ! 
At the foot of the bed there stood a military officer. He had 
been there for some time, but Jimmie did not notice him till the 
king arose and moved away. The officer was just the sort of 
hand-made aristocrat that Jimmie imagined all officers to be; 
smooth-shaven, except for a little toy moustache, with serene, im- 
passive features, a dapper and immaculate uniform, and a queer 
little fancy stick in his hand, to show that he never did anything 
resembling work. He was eyeing the machinist, with what the 
machinist suspected to be a superior air. "Well, my good man," 
said he, "you had a talk with the king !" 
That seemed obvious enough. "Sure !" said Jimmie. 
"Generally," continued the officer, "wFen one talks with the 
king, one addresses him as 'Your Majesty' not as 'Mr. King." 
Jimmie was tired now, and not looking for controversy; so 
he did not bridle as he might otherwise have done. "Nobody 
told me' said he. 
"Also," continued the other, "one is not supposed to volunteer 
opinions. One waits for the king to ask a question, and then one 
answers." 
Jimmie's eyes were closed, and he only half opened them as 
he answered. "They been tellin' me this here is a war for 
Democracy !" said he. 
THEY gave Jimmie Higgins a couple of days to lie about on 
 the grounds of the hospital, and make the acquaintance and 
hear the experiences of men who had lost arms and legs in bat- 
tle, or had been burned by flame-throwers, or ruined for life by 
poison-gases. Strange as it might seem, Jimmie found among 
these men not a few with whom he could talk, whose point of 
view was close to his own. These Britishers had been through 
the mill ; they knew. None of the glory stuff for them ! Leave 
that for the newspaper scribblers, the bloody rascals who stayed 
at home and beat on tomtoms, driving other men to march in 
and die. You went and got yourself battered up, ruined for 
life and then what would they do for you? It was a hard 
world to a man who was crippled and helpless. Yes, said 
Jimmie; the same hard world that it was to a Socialist, a 
dreamer of justice. 
But there was the old dilemma, from which he had never 
been able to find escape, whether in Leesville, U. S. A., or on 
the high seas, or here in old England. What were you going to 
do about the Huns? To hold out your hand to them was like 
putting it into a tiger's cage. No, by God, you had to fight 
them, you had to lick them, cost what it might! And the 
speaker would go on and tell of things he had seen : a Prussian 
officer who had shot a British surgeon in the back, after this 
surgeon had bound up his wounds; a commandant of a prison- 
camp who had withdrawn all medical aid in a typhus-epidemic, 
and allowed his charges to perish like rats. 
So, hell though it was, you had to go through with it ; if you 
were a man, you had to set your teeth and grip your hands and 
take your share of the horror, whatever it might be. And 
Jimmie, being something of a little man in his way, would set 
his teeth and grip his hands and take, in imagination, the share 
of the particular human wreck who happened to be talking to 
him. So Jimmie Higgins was battered back and forth, like a 
tennis-ball between the two forces of Militarism and Eevolution. 
Just now was another crisis the Huns had begun a furious 
drive in Flanders, the third battle of Ypres, and the British 
were falling back, not in rout, but in retreat which might be- 
come rout at any hour. The bulletins came in several times 
a day, and people on the streets would stop and read them, their 
faces full of fear. When the wind was right you could hear 
the guns across the channel; Jimmie would lie at night and 
listen to the dull, incessant thunder a terrific, man-made storm, 
in which showers of steel were raining down upon the heads of 
soldiers hiding in shell-holes and hastily dug trenches. The 
war seemed very near indeed when the wind was right ! 
Still, a fellow has to live. Jimmie was in a foreign land 
for the first time in his life, and when they turned him loose, 
he and a couple of other American chaps went wandering about 
the streets, staring at the sights of this town, which had been a 
small harbour before the war, but now was a vast centre of the 
world's commerce, one of the routes by which large sections of 
Britain were moved across the channel every day. 
You saw on the streets no men out of uniform, except a few 
old ones ; you saw nobody at all idle, except the young children. 
The women were driving the trucks, and operating the street- 
cars, which were called "trams," and the elevators, which were 
called "lifts." Everybody's face was sober and drawn, but they 
lightened up when they saw the Americans, who had come so 
far to help them in their trouble. In the cake-shops, and the 
queer little "pubs" where rosy-cheeked girls sold very thin beer, 
they could not be polite enough to the visitors from over-seas; 
even the haughtiest-looking "bobby" would stop to tell you the 
way about the streets. "First to the roight, third to the left," he 
would say, very fast ; and when you looked bewildered, he would 
say it again, as fast as ever. 
But they needed motor-cycles so badly in the new American 
armies that they didn't give Jimmie much time to be a hero; 
he got his orders, and a new outfit, and bade farewell to the 
 
Honourable Beatrice, promising to write to her now and then, 
and not to be too hard on the aristocracy. He crossed the chan- 
nel, alive with boats like the Hudson River with its ferries, 
and came to another and still bigger port, which the Americans 
had taken and made over new for the war. Long vistas of docks 
had been built since the fighting began ; Jimmie saw huge cranes 
that dipped down into the hold of a ship, and pulled out whole 
locomotives, or maybe half a dozen automobile trucks in one 
swoop. Behind these docks was a tangle of railroad-yards and 
tracks, and miles upon miles of sheds, piled to the top with 
stores of every sort you could imagine. A whole encampment- 
city covered the surrounding hills, crowned by an old, creaking, 
moss-grown windmill the Middle Ages looking in dismay upon 
these modern times. 
Nobody took the trouble to invite Jimmie to inspect these 
marvels, but he got glimpses here and there, and men with 
whom he chatted told him more. One man had been directing 
the unloading of canned tomatoes; for six months he had seen 
nothing but crates upon crates and car-loads upon car-loads of 
canned tomatoes, coming into one end of a shed and going out 
at the other. Somewhere in the higher regions dwelt a mar- 
vellous tomato-brain, which knew exactly how many cans a 
division of dough-boys in a training-camp would consume each 
day, how many would be needed by patients in hospitals, by 
lumbermen in French forests, by revellers in Y. M. C. A. huts. 
Every now and then a ship brought another supply, and the 
man who told Jimmie about it bossed a gang of negroes who 
piled the crates on trucks. 
And then Jimmie met a Frenchman, who had been a waiter 
in a Chicago hotel, and now was bossing a gang of wire-haired 
Korean labourers. Jimmie had thought he knew all the races 
of the earth in the shops and mills and mines of America; but 
here he heard of new kinds of men Annamese and Siamese, 
Paythans and Sikhs, Madagascans and Abyssinians and Alge- 
rians. All the British empire was here, and all the French 
colonies. There were Portuguese and Brazilians and West In- 
dians, bushmen from Australia and Zulus from South Africa; 
and these not having proven enough; America was now pouring 
out the partly melted contents of her pot Hawaiians and Porto 
Ricans, Filipinos and "spiggoties," Esquimaux from Alaska, 
Chinamen from San Francisco, Sioux from Dakota, and plain 
black plantation niggers from Louisiana and Alabama ! Jimmie 
saw a gang of these latter mending a track which had been blown 
out of place by a bomb from an aeroplane ; their black skins shin- 
ing with sweat, their white teeth shining with good-nature as 
they swung their heavy crow-bars, a long row of them moving 
like a machine, chanting to keep in unison. "Altogether- 
heave!" the officer would call, and the line would swing intc 
motion 
"Get a mule 
An' a jack! 
No slow, 
No slack! 
Put the hump 
In yo' back " 
III 
For nearly four years Jimmie had been reading about 
France, and now he was here, and could see the sights with his 
own eyes. People with wooden shoes, for example! It was 
worth coming across the seas to see women and kids going 
clatter, clatter along the cobbled streets. And the funny little 
railroad-coaches, with rows of doors like rabbit-pens. It was 
a satisfaction to notice that the train had a real man-sized engine, 
with U. S. A. painted thereon. Jimmie owned a share in that 
engine, and experienced socialistic thrills as he rode behind it. 
He had got separated from his "unit," thanks to the sub- 
marine and the sojourn in the hospital. They had given him 
a pass, with orders to proceed to a certain town, travelling on a 
certain train. Now Jimmie sat looking out of the window, as 
happy as a boy out of school. A beautiful country, the fresh 
green glory of spring everywhere upon it; broad, straight mili- 
tary highways lined with poplars, and stone houses with queer 
steep roofs, and old men and women and children toiling in the 
fields. 
Jimmie chattered with the men in the compartment, sol- 
diers and workers, each a cog in the big machine, each bound 
upon some important errand. Each had news to tell tales 
of the fighting, or of the progress of preparation. For more than 
a year now America had been getting ready, and here, in the 
most desperate crisis of the war, what was she going to do? 
Everybody was on tip-toe with excitement, with impatience to 
 
get into the scrap, to make good in the work upon which his 
soul was set. Every man knew that the "dough-boys" would 
show themselves the masters of "Fritz" ; they knew it as religious 
people know there is a God in Heaven only, unlike most re- 
ligious people, they were anxious to get to this heaven and meet 
this God at the earliest possible moment. Next to Jimmie sat a 
Wisconsin farmer-boy, German in features, in name, even in 
accent; yet he was ready to fight the soldiers of the Kaiser 
and quite sure he could lick them! Had he not lived since 
childhood in a free country, and been to an American public- 
school ? 
Everybody had funny stories to tell about the adventures 
of soldiers in a foreign land. The French were all right, of 
course, especially the girls; but the shop-keepers were frugal, 
and you had better count your change, and bite the coins they 
offered you. As for their language holy smoke! Why did a 
civilised people want to talk a lingo that made you grunt like 
a pig or like a penf ul of pigs of all sizes ? Across the way sat 
a Chicago street-car conductor with a little lesson-book, and now 
and then he would read something out loud. An, in, on, un, 
that many different sizes of pigs ! When you wanted bread, you 
asked for a pain, and when you wanted a dish of eggs, you asked 
for a cat-roof omelette. How was this for a tongue-twister 
Bay five hundred and fifty-five francs in French ! 
Fortunately, you didn't have to say that many not on the 
pay of a dough-boy, put in a plumber from up-state in New 
York. For his part, he did not bother to grunt he would make 
drinking motions or eating motions, and they would bring him 
things till they found what he wanted. One time he had met a 
girl that he thought was all right, and he wanted to blow her to 
a feed, so he drew a picture of a chicken, thinking he would 
get it roasted. She had chattered away to the waiter, and he 
had come back with two soft-boiled eggs. That was the French 
notion of taking a girl out to dinner ! 
IV 
They loaded Jimmie into a motor-lorry and whirled him 
away. You knew you were going to war then, by heck; there 
were two almost solid processions of wagons and trucks, loaded 
with French soldiers and materials going, and damaged French 
soldiers returning. It was like Broadway at the most crowded 
hour ; only here everything went by in a whirl of dust you got 
quick glimpses of drivers with tense faces and blood-shot eyes. 
Now and then there would be a blockade, and men would swear 
and fume in mixed languages ; staff-cars in an extra hurry would 
go off the road and bump along across country, while gangs of 
negro labourers, French colonials, seized the opportunity to fill 
up the ruts worn in the highway. 
They put Jimmie off at a village where his motor-unit was 
located, in a long shed made of corrugated iron, the sort of shed 
which the army threw up over night. Here were a score of 
men working at repairs, and Jimmie stopped for no formalities, 
but took off his coat and pitched in. There was plenty of 
work, he could see; the machines came, sometimes whole truck- 
loads of them, damaged in every way he had ever seen before, 
and in new ways not dreamed of in Kumme's bicycle-shop tires 
torn to shreds by fragments of shrapnel, frames twisted out of 
shape by explosions, and nasty splotches of blood completing the 
story. 
It was one of the many places where American units had 
been taken to plug the damaged French lines. There was a 
reserve battalion nearby, and outside this village a group of men 
at work, putting up tents for a hospital. Some thirty miles 
ahead was the front, and you heard the guns off and on, a low 
sullen roar, punctuated with hammer-strokes of big fellows. 
Millions of dollars every hour were being blown to nothingness 
in that fearful inferno; a gigantic meat-mill that was grinding 
up the bodies of men, and had never ceased day or night for 
nearly four years. You could be a violent pacifist in sound of 
those guns, or you could be a violent militarist, but you could not 
be indifferent to the war, you could not be of two minds about it. 
And yet Jimmie Higgins was of two minds! He wanted 
to beat back the Huns, who had made all this fearful mess ; but 
also he wanted to beat the profiteers who were making messes 
at home. It happened that Jimmie had reached the army at a 
trying moment, when there were no American big guns, and 
when promises of machine-guns and aeroplanes had failed. 
There was wild excitement in the home papers, and not a little 
grumbling in the army. It was graft and politics, men said; 
and Jimmie caught eagerly at this idea. He pointed out how 
the profiteers at home were intrenching themselves, making 
 
ready to exploit the soldiers returning without jobs. That was 
a line of talk the men were ready for, and the little machinist 
rejoiced to see the grim look that come upon their faces. They 
would attend to it, never fear; and Jimmie would go on to tell 
them exactly how to attend to it ! 
But that was only now and then, when the wind was the 
other way, and you did not hear the guns. For the most part 
Jimmie's thoughts were drawn irresistibly to the front; about 
him were thousands of other men, all their thoughts at the 
front, their hands clenched, their teeth set, their beings centred 
upon the job of holding the Beast at bay. Jimmie saw the grey 
ambulances come in, and the wounded lifted out on stretchers, 
their heads bandaged, their bodies covered with sheets, their 
faces a ghastly waxen colour. He saw the poilus, fresh from the 
trenches, after God alone knew what siege of terror. They came 
staggering, bent double under a burden of equipment. The first 
time Jimmie saw them was a day of ceaseless rain, when the dust 
ground up by the big lorries was turned into ankle-deep mud; 
the Frenchmen were plastered with it from head to foot ; you saw 
under their steel helmets only a mud-spattered beard, and the 
end of a nose, and a pair of deep-sunken eyes. They stopped to 
rest not far from the place where Jimmie worked; they sank 
down in the wet, they fell asleep in pools of water, where not 
even beasts could have slept. You did not have to know any 
French to understand what these men had been through. Good 
God ! Was that what was going on up there ? 
Jimmie thanked his stars he was no nearer. But that 
coward's comfort did not last him long, for Jimmie was not a 
coward, he was not used to letting other men struggle and 
suffer for him. His conscience began to gnaw at him. If that 
was what it cost to beat down the Beast, to make the world safe 
for democracy, why should he be escaping? Why should he be 
warm and dry and well fed, while workingmen of France lay out 
in the trenches in the rain ? 
Jimmie went back and worked overtime without extra pay 
something that old man Granitch had never got out of him, 
you bet, nor old man Kumme either. For three whole days 
he stayed a militarist, forgetting his life-long training in re- 
bellion. But then he got into an argument with a red-headed 
Orangeman in his unit, who expressed the opinion that every 
Socialist was a traitor at heart, and that after the war the army 
should be used to make an end of them all. Jimmie in his rage 
went farther than he really meant, and again got a "calling 
down" from his superior officer: so for several days his pro- 
letarian feelings blazed, he wanted the revolution right away, 
Huns or no Huns. 
VI 
But most of the time now the spirit of the herd mastered 
Jimmie; he wanted what all the men about him wanted to 
hold back the Beast from these fair French fields and quaint 
old villages, and these American hospitals and rest-camps and 
Y. M. C. A. huts to say nothing of motor-cycle repair-sheds 
with Jimmie Higgins in them! And the trouble was that the 
Beast was not being held back; he was coming nearer and 
nearer one bull rush after another ! Jimmie's village was near 
the valley of the Marne, and that was the road to Paris; the 
Beast wanted to get to Paris, he really expected to get to Paris ! 
The sound of guns grew louder and louder, and rumour 
flew wild-eyed and wild-tongued about the country. The traffic 
in the roads grew denser, but moving more slowly now, for the 
Germans were shelling the road ahead, and blockades were fre- 
quent; one huge missile had fallen into a French artillery-train 
only a couple of miles away. "They'll be moving us back, if 
this keeps up," said Jimmie's sergeant ; and Jimmie wondered : 
suppose they didn't move them ! Suppose they forgot all about 
it! Was there any person whose particular duty it was to 
remember to see that motor-cycle units got moved in the precise 
nick of time ? And what if the Germans were to break through 
and sweep over all calculations? This was a little more than 
Jimmie Higgins had bargained for when he entered the re- 
cruiting-office in Leesville, IT. S. A. ! 
They gave out gas-masks to every one in Jimmie's unit, 
and put an alarm-bell in the shed, and made everybody practise 
putting on the masks in a hurry. Jimmie was so scared that 
he thought seriously of running away ; but such is the perversity 
of human nature what he did was to run in the opposite direc- 
tion! His officer in command came into the shed and demanded, 
"Can any of you men ride?" And imagine any fel- 
low who worked at repairing motor-cycles admitting that he 
couldn't ride! "I can!" said Jimmie. "I can!" said every 
other workman in the place. 
"What is it?" asked Jimmie always of the forward and 
pushing sort. 
"The French ask for half a dozen men in a rush. They've 
had several motor-cycle units wiped out or captured." 
"Gee!" said Jimmie. "I'll go!" 
"And me!" said another. "And me!" "And me!" 
"All right," said the officer, and told them off: "You and 
you and you. And you, Cullen, take command. Eeport to 
French headquarters at Chatty Terry. You know where it is !" 
"Sure Mike !" said Cullen. "I been there." Jimmie hadn't 
been to "Chatty Terry," but he knew it was somewheres across 
the Marne. The officer gave him a map, showing the villages 
through which he would go. Jimmie and his companions 
named these villages, using sensible language, without conces- 
sion to the fool notions of the natives. Wipers, Eeems, Ver- 
doon, Devil Wood, Arm-in-tears, Saint Meal all these Jimmie 
had heard about ; also a place where the Americans had won their 
first glorious victory a week ago, and which they called, some- 
times Cantinny, sometimes Tincanny. And now Jimmie was 
going to "Chatty Terry," in charge of a red-headed Orange- 
man who a few days ago had expressed the opinion that all 
Socialists were traitors and should be shot! 
The officer gave them passes, one for each man, in case they 
got separated, and they started towards the place where the new 
machines were lined up. On the way Jimmie had a moment of 
utter panic. What was this he was getting himself in for, 
idiot that he was ? Going up there where the shells were falling, 
wiping out motor-cycle units! And shells that were full of 
poison gases, most of them! Of all the fool things he had 
done in his life, this was the crown and climax! His knees 
began to shake, he turned sick inside. But then he glanced 
about, and caught Pat Cullen's menacing blue eye; Jimmie re- 
turned the glare, and the spirit of battle flamed up in him, he 
laid hold of the handles of a motor-cycle and strode towards the 
door. Was any Irish mick going to catch him in a funk, and 
"bawl him out" before this crowd, and put the Socialist move- 
ment to shame? Not much! 
six motor-cyclists leaped onto their machines and went 
chugging down the road. Of course they raced one another ; 
all motor-cyclists always race and here was the best of all 
possible excuses, the French army in dire need of them, several 
of its precious cycle-units wiped out or captured! They tore 
along, dodging in and out between trucks and automobiles, 
ambulances and artillery caissons, horse-wagons ajnd mule- 
wagons, achieving again and again those hair's-breadth escapes 
which are the joy in life of every normal motor-cyclist. Now 
and then, when things were too slow, they would try a crawl 
in the ditches, or push their machines over the ploughed fields. 
So it happened that Jimmie found himself competing with his 
red-headed Irish enemy; there was a narrow opening between 
two stalled vehicles, and Jimmie made it by the width of his 
hand, and vaulted onto his machine and darted away, free and 
exulting his own boss ! He shoved in the juice and made time, 
you bet; no "mick" was going to catch up and shout orders at 
him! 
There were long trains of refugees streaming back from the 
battle-fields; pitiful peasant-people with horse-carts and dog- 
carts and even wheel-barrows, toothless old men and women 
trudging alongside, children and babies stuck in amidst bed- 
ding and furniture and sauce-pans and bird-cages. This was 
war, as the common people saw it; but Jimmie could not stop 
now to think about it Jimmie was on his way to the front. 
There were big observation balloons up over his head, looking 
like huge grey elephants with broad ears; there were aeroplanes 
whirring about, performing incredible acrobatic feats, and spray- 
ing each other with showers of steel; but Jimmie had no time 
for a single glance at these marvels Jimmie was on his way 
to the front! 
He swept around a curve, and there directly in front of 
him was a hole in the middle of the road, as big as if a steam- 
shovel had been working for a week. Jimmie clapped on the 
brakes, and swerved side-ways, missing a tree and plunging into 
a cabbage-patch. He got off and said, Gee! once or twice; 
and suddenly it was as if he were whacked on the side of the 
ear with a twelve-inch board the whole world about him turned 
into a vast roar of sound, and a mountain of grey smoke leaped 
into being in front of him. Jimmie stared, and saw out of a 
little clump of bushes a long black object thrust itself out, like the 
snout of a gigantic tapir from some prehistoric age. It was a 
ten-inch gun, coming back from its recoil; and Jimmie, smell- 
ing its fumes, struggled back to the road with his machine, 
before the monster should speak again and stifle him entirely. 
There was a frame house in the distance, and in front of it 
a barnyard, and sheds with thatched roofs. There came a 
scream, exactly like the siren of Hook and Ladder Company 
Number One that used to go tearing about the streets in Lees- 
ville, U. S. A.; a light flashed in one of the sheds, and every- 
thing disappeared in a burst of smoke, which spread itself in 
the air like a huge duster made from turkey-feathers. There 
came another shriek, a little nearer, and the ground rose in a 
huge black mushroom, which boiled and writhed like the clouds 
of an advancing thunderstorm. Boom ! Boom ! Two vast, all- 
pervading roars came to Jimmie's ears; and his knees began to 
quake. By heck ! He was under fire ! He looked ahead ; there 
must be Germans just up there ! Was a fellow supposed to ride 
on without knowing? 
There was a big battle on, that much, was certain ; but the 
uproar was so distributed that one could hardly tell whether it 
was in front or behind. However, the transport was steadily 
advancing horse-wagons, mule-wagons, motor-wagons, all plod- 
ding patiently, paying no heed to the shellbursts. And then 
Jimmie took a look behind, and saw that infernal red-headed 
Orangeman! He imagined a raucous voice, shouting: "C'mon 
here! Whatcher waiten' fer?" Jimmie bounced onto his ma- 
chine and turned her loose ! 
He came to a place where something had hit a load of am- 
munition, and there were pieces of a wagon and a driver 
scattered about; it was a horrible mess, but Jimmie passed it 
without much emotion his whole soul was centred on beating 
Pat Cullen into "Chatty Terry" ! He came to the outskirts of a 
village, and there was a peasant's cottage with the roof blown 
off, and a smell fresh out of the infernal regions, and a terrified 
old woman standing by the road-side with two terrified chil- 
dren clinging to her skirts. Jimmie stopped his machine and 
shouted : "Chatty Terry ?" When the old woman did not answer 
quickly, he shouted again: "Chatty Terry? Chatty Terry? 
Don't you understand French ? Chatty Terry ?" The old wom- 
an apparently did not understand French. 
He rode up the street of the village, and came to a military 
policeman directing traffic at a crossing. This fellow under- 
stood English, and said : "Chatty Terry ? Eet ees taken !" And 
when Jimmie stood dismayed, wondering what he was to do 
now, the policeman told him that headquarters had been shifted 
to this village it was in the chateau; he did not say "chatty' 
so Jimmie did not understand his kind of English. But Jimmie 
rode as directed, and came to a place with iron gates in front, 
and a big garden, and a sentry in front, and a bustle of coming 
and going, so he knew that he had reached his destination, and 
had beaten his Irish enemy ! 
II 
Jimmie's pass was in duplicate French and English, so the 
sentry could read it, and signed him to pass in. At the door 
of the chateau he showed the paper again, and a French officer 
in the hall-way espied him, and exclaimed, "A cyclist? Mon 
dieu !" He half ran Jimmie into another room, where another 
officer sat at a big table with a chart spread out on it, and 
innumerable filing cabinets on the walls. "Un courier Aineri- 
cain !" he exclaimed. 
"Only one ?" asked the officer, in English. 
"Five more's comin'," said Jimmie quickly. He hated Pat 
Cullen like the devil, but he wouldn't have any French officer 
think that Pat would lie down on his job. "The road's cut 
up, an' there's lots o' traffic. I come as fast " 
"See !" interrupted the officer not quite as polite as French- 
men are supposed to be. "This packet contains maps, which 
we make from aeroplane-photographs you comprehend? It is 
for the artillerist " 
The officer paused for a moment; there came a deafening 
crash outside, and the window of the room collapsed, and 
something grazed Jimmie's face. 
"Viola!" remarked the officer. "The enemy draws nearer. 
Our wires are cut; we send couriers, but they perhaps do not 
arrive ; it needs that we send many what you say ? duplicates. 
You comprehend ?" 
"Sure!" said Jimmie. 
"It is most urgent ; the battle depends upon it the war, it 
may be. You comprehend?" 
"Sure !" said Jimmie again. 
"You are brave, mon garc,on?" 
Jimmie did not reply so promptly to that; but the officer 
was too tactful to wait. Instead he asked, "You know French ?" 
And when Jimmie shook his head: "It needs that you learn. 
Say this: Botteree Normb Cott. Try it, if it pleases you: 
Botteree Normb Cott." 
Jimmie, stammering like a schoolboy, tried : the officer 
made him repeat the sounds, assuring him gravely that he need 
have no doubts whatever ; if he would make those precise sounds, 
any Frenchmen would know what he was looking for. He was 
to take the main road east from the village and ride till he 
came to a fork; then he was to bear to the right, and when he 
came to the edge of a dense wood, he was to take the path to 
the left, and then say to everybody he met: "Botteree Normb 
Cott!" 
"Is it that you have a weapon ?" inquired the officer ; and 
when Jimmie answered no, he pressed a button, and spoke 
quick words to an orderly, who came running with an automatic 
revolver and a belt, which Jimmie proceeded to strap upon him, 
with thrills, half of delighted pride and half of anguished ter- 
ror. "You will say to the men of the botteree that the Ameri- 
cans come soon to the rescue. You will find them, my brave 
American?" The officer spoke as if to a son whom he dearly 
loved; and Jimmie, who had never received an order in that 
tone of voice, reciprocated the affection, and clenched his hands 
suddenly and answered, "Fll do my best, sir." He turned to 
leave the room, when whom should he see coming in Mike 
Cullen ! Jimmie gave him a wink and a grin, and hustled out- 
side and leaped upon his machine. 
And now here was the little machinist from Leesville, U. S. 
A., flying down the battered street of this French village with 
something like a mid-western cyclone going on in his head. 
They say that a drowning man remembers everything that ever 
happened in his life ; perhaps that was not trne of Jimmie, but 
certainly he remembered every pacifist argument he had ever 
heard in his life. For the love of Mike, what was this he had let 
himself in for? Bound for the spot where the whole German 
army was trying to break through upon an errand the most 
dangerous of any in the war ! How in the name of Karl Marx 
and the whole revolutionary hierarchy had he managed to get 
himself into such a pickle? He, Jimmie Higgins, Bolshevik 
and wobbly! 
And he was going through with it ! He was going to throw 
his life away just because he had started because he had 
pledged himself because he was carrying maps which might 
enable a "botteree" to win the war! Did he really care that 
much about this infernal capitalist war? So cried out the 
proletarian demons in the soul of Jimmie Higgins; and mean- 
time the engine hammered and chugged, and a miraculous power 
in the depths of his subconsciousness moved the handle-bars so 
that he dodged shell-holes and grazed automobiles. 
The air was full of the scream of shells and the clatter of 
their bursting, an infernal din out of which he could hardly 
pick individual sounds. The road ahead was less crowded; the 
vehicles had left it, spreading out to one side or the other. How 
much farther ahead was that fork ? And suppose the Germans 
had got there, and had captured "Botteree Normb Cott" was 
he going to present them with a brand new motor-cycle in addi- 
tion? There were other tff botterees" which he passed; why 
couldn't he give them the maps? Jimmie rode on, raging in- 
wardly. If he had been a despatch-rider he would have known 
all about this, but he was only a repair-man, and they had had 
no business to put such a job off on him ! 
There were woods about him now, the trees smashed up by 
shells, and Jimmie considered it the part of prudence to get off 
his machine and steal forward and peer out to see if there were 
Germans in the opening beyond. And suddenly his knees gave 
way, because of the fright he was in, with all this deadly racket. 
 
He became violently sick at his stomach, and began to act as 
he had acted on the first three days of his ocean passage from 
New York. At the same time all the other functions of his 
body began to operate. A group of Frenchmen passing by burst 
into hilarious laughter; it was ridiculous and humiliating, but 
Jimmie was powerless to help it he wasn't cut out for a soldier, 
he hadn't agreed to be a soldier, they had had no business 
sending him up here where vast craters of shell-holes were open- 
ing in the ground, and whole trees were being lifted out of the 
earth, and the air was full of a stink which might require a gas- 
mask or might not how was poor Jimmie to tell? 
He mastered the awful trembling of his knees and the 
grotesque efforts of his body to get rid of everything inside him, 
and got on his machine again and stole ahead. He could only 
go a few rods at a time, because the road was so cut up. Should 
he leave the machine and run for it ? Or should he go back and 
tell them their infernal maps were all wrong, there was no fork 
in the road? No for there at last was the fork, and after 
Jimmie had ridden and run a hundred yards farther, there was 
a wheat-field and a line of woods, and at the edge of it four 
guns belching flame and smoke and racket. Jimmie stood his 
machine in a ditch and went tearing across the fields, wild with 
relief> because he had found his "Botteree Normb Cott," and 
could hand over his precious packet and get out of this mess as 
fast as two wheels would take him. 
But to his dismay he found that it wasn't the French battery, 
it was an American battery; the French battery was farther 
ahead, and a little to the right; the officer gave directions, tak- 
ing it entirely for granted that Jimmie would go on to his goal. 
But then came another officer. "What have you got there ?" 
And when Jimmie answered maps, he demanded them; he 
seemed as greedy for maps as a child for his gifts on Christmas 
morning. He ripped open the packet what is called "cutting 
red tape" in the army and spread out the papers and began 
to call out figures to another officer who sat on a camp-stool at 
a little folding table, with many sheets of figures in front of 
him. This officer went on noting down the information and 
the men at the guns went on shoving in shells and stepping back 
while the screaming messengers were hurled upon their way. 
In the rear were other men, wheeling up ammunition, unloading 
one of the big camions which Jimmie had been dodging on 
the roads. It was a regular factory, set up there in the middle 
of the fields, despatching destruction to the unseen foe. 
"We're having the hell of a time," remarked the officer, as 
he folded up the maps again and handed them to Jimmie. "Our 
wires have been cut three times in the last half hour, and we 
have to shoot blind." 
"Where are the Germans?" asked Jimmie. 
"Somewhere up ahead there." 
"Have you seen them ?" 
"Good Lord, no ! We hope to move before they're thaT; 
near!" 
Jimmie felt a bit reassured by the quiet, business-like de- 
meanour of all the men in this death-factory. If they could 
stand the racket, no doubt he could; only, they were all to- 
gether, while he had to go off by himself. Jimmie wished he 
had enlisted in the artillery ! 
He shoved the maps into the inside pocket of his jacket, 
and chased back to his machine and set out. He took a side- 
path as directed, and then a wood-road and then he got lost. 
That was all there was to it he was hopelessly lost ! The path 
didn't behave at all as the one he was looking for. It went 
through a long stretch of woods with shattered trees lying this 
way and that; then it crossed a field of grain, and then it 
plunged down into a ravine, and climbed to the other side, and 
up a ridge and down again. "Hell!" said Jimmie to himself. 
And if you could imagine all the noises in all the boiler-fac- 
tories in America, you would have something less than the racket 
in that woods through which Jimmie was wandering, saying 
"Hell!" to himself. 
He got to the top of the ridge, puffing and panting and 
dripping perspiration; and there suddenly he jumped from his 
machine and ran with it behind a tree-trunk and stood anxiously 
peering out. There were men ahead; and what sort of men? 
Jimmie tried to remember the pictures of Germans he had 
seen, and did they look like this? The air was full of smoke, 
 
which made it hard to decide; but gradually Jimmie made out 
one group, dragging a machine-gun on wheels; they placed it 
behind a ridge of ground, and began to shoot in the direction 
of Germany. So Jimmie advanced, but with hesitation, not 
wanting to interfere with the aiming of the gun, which was mak- 
ing a noise like a rivetting machine, only faster and louder. 
It had a big round cylinder for a barrel, and the men were feed- 
ing it long strips of cartridges out of a box, and were so intent 
on the process that they paid no attention whatever to Jimmie. 
He stood and stared, spell-bound. For these creatures seemed 
not men, but hairy monsters out of caves ragged, plastered 
with mud, grimed and smoke-blackened, with their faces drawn, 
their teeth shining like the teeth of angry dogs. Jimmie for- 
got all about the enemy, he saw only this roaring, flame-vomit- 
ing machine, and the men who were a part of it. 
Suddenly one of the men leaped up, a little hairier and a 
little blacker than the rest, and shouted, "Ah derry-air! Ah 
derry-air!" And the gun stopped roaring and vomiting flame, 
and the men laid hold and began to tug and strain to draw it 
back. The leader continued exhorting them; until suddenly 
an amazing thing happened right in the midst of his shouting, 
the whole of his mouth and lower jaw disappeared. You did not 
see what became of it it just vanished into nothingness, and 
there in the place of it was a red cavern, running blood. The 
man stood with his startled eyes shining white in his black and 
hairy face, and gurgling noises coming out as if he thought 
he was still shouting, or could if he tried harder. 
The others paid not the least attention to this episode; they 
continued tugging at the gun. And would you believe it, the 
man with no mouth and jaw fell to helping again ! The wheels 
struck a rise in the ground, and he waved his hands in im- 
potent excitement, and then rushed at Jimmie, exposing to the 
horrified little machinist the full ghastliness of that red cavern 
running blood. 
Jimmie tried his magic formula: "Botteree Normb Cott." 
But the man waved his hands frantically and grabbed Jimmie 
by the arm the very incarnation of that Monster of Militarism 
which the little machinist had been dodging for four years! 
He pushed Jimmie towards the gun, and the other men shouted : 
"Asseestay!" So of course there was nothing for Jimmie to 
do but lay hold and tug with the rest. 
Presently they got the wheels to moving, and rolled the thing 
up the ridge. A wagon came bumping through the woods, and 
the men at the gun gave a gasp which was meant to be a cheer, 
and one of them laid hold of Jimmie again, crying: "Portay! 
Portay !" He dragged out a heavy box and loaded it into Jim- 
mie's arms, and carried another himself, and so in a few moments 
the machine-gun was drumming, and Jimmie went on carrying 
boxes. The men who were driving the wagon leaped upon the 
horses and drove away; and still Jimmie carried boxes, blindly, 
desperately. Was it because he was afraid of the little French 
demon who was shouting at him ? No, not exactly, because when 
he went back with a box he saw the little demon suddenly double 
up like a jack-knife and fall forward. He did not make a 
eound, he did not even kick ; he lay with his face in the dirt and 
leaves and Jimmie ran back for another box. 
VI 
He did it because he understood that the Germans were com- 
ing. He had not seen them; but when the gun fell silent he 
heard whining sounds in the air, as if from a litter of elephan- 
tine puppies. Sometimes the twigs of trees fell on him, the 
dirt in front of him flew up into his face ; and always, of course, 
everywhere about him was that roar of bursting shells which 
he had come to accept as a natural part of life. And suddenly 
another man went down, and another there were only two left, 
and one of them signalled to Jimmie what to do, and Jimmie 
did not say a word, he just went to work and learned to run a 
machine-gun by the method favoured by modern educators 
by doing. 
Presently the man who was aiming the gun clapped his hand 
to his forehead and fell backwards. Jimmie was at his side, and 
the gun was shooting so what more natural than for Jimmie 
to move into position and look along the sights ? It was a fact 
that he had never aimed any sort of gun in his life before; 
but he was apt with machinery and disposed to meddle into 
things, as we know. 
Jimmie looked along the sights; and suddenly it seemed as 
if the line of distant woods leaped into life, the bushes vomit- 
ing grey figures which ran forward, and fell down, and then 
leaped up and ran and fell down again. "Eel vienn!" hissed 
 
the man at Jimmie's side. So Jimmie moved the gun here and 
there, pointing it wherever he saw the grey figures. 
Did he kill any Germans? He was never entirely sure in 
his own mind; always the idea pursued him that maybe he had 
been making a fool of himself, shooting bullets into the ground 
or up into the air and the poilus at his side thinking he must 
know all about it, because he was one of those wonderful Ameri- 
cans who had come across the seas to save la belle France ! The 
Germans kept falling, but that proved, nothing, for that was the 
method of their advance anyway, and Jimmie had no time to 
count and see how many fell and how many got up again. All 
he knew was that they kept coming more and more of them, 
and nearer and nearer, and the Frenchmen muttered curses, and 
the gun hammered and roared, until the barrel grew so hot that 
it burned. And then suddenly it stopped dead ! 
"Sockray I" cried the two Frenchmen, and began frantically 
working to take the gun to pieces ; but before they had worked 
a minute one of them clapped his hand to his side and fell back 
with a cry, and a second later Jimmie felt a frightful blow on 
his left arm, and when he tried to lift it and see what was 
wrong, half of it hung loose, and blood ran out of his sleeve ! 
VII 
That was too much for the remaining Frenchman. He 
caught Jimmie by the other arm, exclaiming, "Vennay! Ven- 
nay I" Apparently that meant to run away ; Jimmie didn't want 
to run away, but the Frenchman chattered so fast, and tugged 
so hard, and Jimmie was half dazed anyhow with pain, so he 
let himself be dragged back. And presently they came to a 
dead soldier lying with a gun by his side, and the Frenchman 
grabbed the gun and unstrapped the cartridge-belt, and then 
threw himself down behind a big rock. Jimmie remembered 
the automatic which he had strapped at his waist; he held it 
out to the Frenchman, shaking his head and saying, "No savvy ! 
No work !" as if he thought the Frenchman would understand 
bad English better than good English! But the Frenchman 
understood the head-shaking, and showed Jimmie how to move 
the little catch which released the trigger for firing. With 
hasty fingers he tore off the sleeve of Jimmie's shirt, and bound 
up his arm tightly with a bandage from his kit; then he raised 
up over the rock, and cursed the sockray Bosh and began to fire. 
Jimmie got up the nerve to peer out, and there were the 
grey figures, much nearer now, and he knew they were Germans 
because they were like the pictures he had seen. They were 
running at him, firing as they came, and Jimmie fired his re- 
volver, shutting his eyes because he was scared of it. But then, 
