     scientist.
     "Germany escaped this poison by signing the armistice before
     all the resources of the United States were turned upon her.
     "Ten airplanes carrying 'Lewisite' would have wiped out, it is
     said, every vestige of life--animal and vegetable--in Berlin. A
     single day's output would snuff out the millions of lives on
     Manhattan Island. A drop poured in the palm of the hand would
     penetrate to the blood, reach the heart and kill the victim in
     agony.
     "What was coming to Germany may be imagined by the fact that
     when the armistice was signed 'Lewisite' was being manufactured
     at the rate of ten tons a day. Three thousand tons of this most
     terrible instrument ever conceived for killing would have been
     ready for business on the American front in France on November 1.
     "'Lewisite' is another of the big secrets of the war just
     leaking out. It was developed in the Bureau of Mines by
     Professor W. Lee Lewis, of Northwestern University, Evanston,
     Ill., who took a commission as a captain in the army.
     "The poison was manufactured in a specially built plant near
     Cleveland, called the 'Mouse Trap,' because every workman who
     entered the stockade went under an agreement not to leave the
     eleven-acre space until the war was won. The object of this, of
     course, was to protect the secret.
     "Work on the plant was started eighteen days after the Bureau
     of Mines had completed its experiments.
     "Experts are certain that no one will want to steal the sample.
     Everybody at the Exposition, which shows what Secretary Lane's
     department is doing, keeps as far away from it as possible."
When Cleves had finished reading, he raised his eyes in silence.
"That vial was stolen a week ago," said Recklow gravely, "by a young man
who killed one guard and fatally wounded the other."
"Was there any ante-mortem statement?"
"Yes. I've followed the man. I lost all trace of him at Palm Beach, but
I picked it up again at Ormond. And now I'm here, Cleves."
"You don't mean you've traced him here!" exclaimed Cleves under his
breath.
"He's here on the St. Johns River, somewhere. He came up in a
motor-boat, but left it east of Orchard Cove. Benton knows this country.
He's covering the motor-boat. And I--came here to see how you are
getting on."
"And to warn us," added Cleves quietly.
"Well--yes. He's got that stuff. It's deadlier than the newspaper
suspects. And I guess--I guess, Cleves, he's one of those damned Yezidee
witch-doctors--or sorcerers, as they call them;--one of that sect of
Assassins sent over here to work havoc on feeble minds and do murder on
the side."
"Why do you think so?"
"Because the dirty beast lugs his shroud around with him--a bed-sheet
stolen from the New Willard in Washington.
"We were so close to him in Jacksonville that we got it, and his
luggage. But we didn't get him, the rat! God knows how he knew we were
waiting for him in his room. He never came back to get his luggage.
"But he stole a bed-sheet from his hotel in St. Augustine, and that is
how we picked him up again. Then, at Palm Beach, we lost the beggar, but
somehow or other I felt it in my bones that he was after you--you and
your wife. So I sent Benton to Ormond and I went to Palatka. Benton
picked up his trail. It led toward you--toward the St. Johns. And the
reptile has been here forty-eight hours, trying to nose you out, I
suppose----"
Tressa came into the room. Both men looked at her.
Cleves said in a guarded voice:
"To-day, on the golf links at Orchard Cove, there was a young man in
white flannels--very polite and courteous to us--but--Tressa thought she
saw him slinking through the woods as though following and watching us."
"My man, probably," said Recklow. He turned quietly to Tressa and
sketched for her the substance of what he had just told Cleves.
"The man in white flannels on the golf links," said Cleves, "was well
built and rather handsome, and not more than twenty-five. I thought he
was a Jew."
"I thought so too," said Tressa, calmly, "until I saw him in the woods.
And then--and then--suddenly it came to me that his smile was the smile
of a treacherous Shaman sorcerer.
"... And the idea haunts me--the memory of those smooth-faced, smiling
men in white--men who smile only when they slay--when they slay body and
soul under the iris skies of Yian!--O God, merciful, long suffering,"
she whispered, staring into the East, "deliver our souls from Satan who
was stoned, and our bodies from the snare of the Yezidee!"
CHAPTER IX
THE WEST WIND
The night grew sweet with the scent of orange bloom, and all the
perfumed darkness was vibrant with the feathery whirr of hawk-moths'
wings.
Tressa had taken her moon-lute to the hammock, but her fingers rested
motionless on the strings.
Cleves and Recklow, shoulder to shoulder, paced the moonlit path along
the hedges of oleander and hibiscus which divided garden from jungle.
And they moved cautiously on the white-shell road, not too near the
shadow line. For in the cypress swamp the bloated grey death was awake
and watching under the moon; and in the scrub palmetto the
diamond-dotted death moved lithely.
And somewhere within the dark evil of the jungle a man in white might be
watching.
So Recklow's pistol swung lightly in his right hand and Cleves' weapon
lay in his side-pocket, and they strolled leisurely around the drive and
up and down the white-shell walks, passing Tressa at regular intervals,
where she sat in her hammock with the moon-lute across her knees.
Once Cleves paused to place two pink hibiscus blossoms in her hair above
her ears; and the girl smiled gravely at him in the light.
Again, pausing beside her hammock on one of their tours of the garden,
Recklow said in a low voice: "If the beast would only show himself, Mrs.
Cleves, we'd not miss him. Have you caught a glimpse of anything white
in the woods?"
"Only the night mist rising from the branch and a white ibis stealing
through it."
Cleves came nearer: "Do you think the Yezidee is in the woods watching
us, Tressa?"
"Yes, he is there," she said calmly.
"You know it?"
"Yes."
Recklow stared at the woods. "We can't go in to hunt for him," he said.
"That fellow would get us with his Lewisite gas before we could discover
and destroy him."
"Suppose he waits for a west wind and squirts his gas in this
direction?" whispered Cleves.
"There is no wind," said Tressa tranquilly. "He has been waiting for it,
I think. The Yezidee is very patient. And he is a Shaman sorcerer."
"My God!" breathed Recklow. "What sort of hellish things has the Old
World been dumping into America for the last fifty years? An ordinary
anarchist is bad enough, but this new breed of devil--these
Yezidees--this sect of Assassins----"
"Hush!" whispered Tressa.
All three listened to the great cat-owl howling from the jungle. But
Tressa had heard another sound--the vague stir of leaves in the
live-oaks. Was it a passing breeze? Was a night wind rising? She
listened. But heard no brittle clatter from the palm-fronds.
"Victor," she said.
"Yes, Tressa."
"If a wind comes, we must hunt him. That will be necessary."
"Either we hunt him and get him, or he kills us here with his gas," said
Recklow quietly.
"If the night wind comes," said Tressa, "we must hunt the darkness for
the Yezidee." She spoke coolly.
"If he'd only show himself," muttered Recklow, staring into the
darkness.
The girl picked up her lute, caught Cleves' worried eyes fixed on her,
suddenly comprehended that his anxiety was on her account, and blushed
brightly in the moonlight. And he saw her teeth catch at her underlip;
saw her look up again at him, confused.
"If I dared leave you," he said, "I'd go into the hammock and start that
reptile. This won't do--this standing pat while he comes to some deadly
decision in the woods there."
"What else is there to do?" growled Recklow.
"Watch," said the girl. "Out-watch the Yezidee. If there is no
night-wind he may tire of waiting. Then you must shoot fast--very, very
fast and straight. But if the night-wind comes, then we must hunt him in
darkness."
Recklow, pistol in hand, stood straight and sturdy in the moonlight,
gazing fixedly at the forest. Cleves sat down at his wife's feet.
She touched her moon-lute tranquilly and sang in her childish voice:
    "Ring, ring, Buddha bells,
    Gilded gods are listening.
    Swing, swing, lily bells,
    In my garden glistening.
    Now I hear the Shaman drum;
    Now the scarlet horsemen come;
        Ding-dong!
        Ding-dong!
    Through the chanting of the throng
    Thunders now the temple gong.
        Boom-boom!
        Ding-dong!
    "Let the gold gods listen!
    In my garden; what care I
    Where my lily bells hang mute!
      Snowy-sweet they glisten
    Where I'm singing to my lute.
    In my garden; what care I
      Who is dead and who shall die?
    Let the gold gods save or slay
    Scented lilies bloom in May.
      Boom, boom, temple gong!
        Ding-dong!
        Ding-dong!"
"What are you singing?" whispered Cleves.
"'The Bells of Yian.'"
"Is it old?"
"Of the 13th century. There were few Buddhist bells in Yian then. It is
Lamaism that has destroyed the Mongols and that has permitted the creed
of the Assassins to spread--the devil worship of Erlik."
He looked at her, not understanding. And she, pale, slim prophetess, in
the moonlight, gazed at him out of lost eyes--eyes which saw, perhaps,
the bloody age of men when mankind took the devil by the throat and all
Mount Alamout went up in smoking ruin; and the Eight Towers were dark as
death and as silent before the blast of the silver clarions of Ghenghis
Khan.
"Something is stirring in the forest," whispered Tressa, her fingers on
her lips.
"Damnation," muttered Recklow, "it's the wind!"
They listened. Far in the forest they heard the clatter of palm-fronds.
They waited. The ominous warning grew faint, then rose again,--a long,
low rattle of palm-fronds which became a steady monotone.
"We hunt," said Recklow bluntly. "Come on!"
But the girl sprang from the hammock and caught her husband's arm and
drew Recklow back from the hibiscus hedge.
"Use me," she said. "You could never find the Yezidee. Let me do the
hunting; and then shoot very, very fast."
"We've got to take her," said Recklow. "We dare not leave her."
"I can't let her lead the way into those black woods," muttered Cleves.
"The wind is blowing in my face," insisted Recklow. "We'd better hurry."
Tressa laid one hand on her husband's arm.
"I can find the Yezidee, I think. You never could find him before he
finds you! Victor, let me use my own knowledge! Let me find the way.
Please let me lead! Please, Victor. Because, if you don't, I'm afraid
we'll all die here in the garden where we stand."
Cleves cast a haggard glance at Recklow, then looked at his wife.
"All right," he said.
The girl opened the hedge gate. Both men followed with pistols lifted.
The moon silvered the forest. There was no mist, but a night-wind blew
mournfully through palm and cypress, carrying with it the strange,
disturbing pungency of the jungle--wild, unfamiliar perfumes,--the acrid
aroma of swamp and rotting mould.
"What about snakes?" muttered Recklow, knee deep in wild phlox.
But there was a deadlier snake to find and destroy, somewhere in the
blotched shadows of the forest.
The first sentinel trees were very near, now; and Tressa was running
across a ghostly tangle, where once had been an orange grove, and where
aged and dying citrus stumps rose stark amid the riot of encroaching
jungle.
"She's circling to get the wind at our backs," breathed Recklow, running
forward beside Cleves. "That's our only chance to kill the dirty
rat--catch him with the wind at our backs!"
Once, traversing a dry hammock where streaks of moonlight alternated
with velvet-black shadow a rattlesnake sprang his goblin alarm.
They could not locate the reptile. They shrank together and moved
warily, chilled with fear.
Once, too, clear in the moonlight, the Grey Death reared up from bloated
folds and stood swaying rhythmically in a horrible shadow dance before
them. And Cleves threw one arm around his wife and crept past, giving
death a wide berth there in the checkered moonlight.
Now, under foot, the dry hammock lay everywhere and the night wind blew
on their backs.
Then Tressa turned and halted the two men with a gesture. And went to
her husband where he stood in the palm forest, and laid her hands on his
shoulders, looking him very wistfully in the eyes.
Under her searching gaze he seemed oddly to comprehend her appeal.
"You are going to use--to use your knowledge," he said mechanically.
"You are going to find the man in white."
"Yes."
"You are going to find him in a way we don't understand," he continued,
dully.
"Yes.... You will not hold me in--in horror--will you?"
Recklow came up, making no sound on the spongy palm litter underfoot.
"Can you find this devil?" he whispered.
"I--think so."
"Does your super-instinct--finer sense--knowledge--whatever it is--give
you any inkling as to his whereabouts, Mrs. Cleves?"
"I think he is here in this hammock. Only----" she turned again, with
swift impulse, to her husband, "--only if you--if you do not hold
me in--in horror--because of what I do----"
There was a silence; then:
"What are you about to do?" he asked hoarsely.
"Slay this man."
"We'll do that," said Cleves with a shudder. "Only show him to us and
we'll shoot the dirty reptile to slivers----"
"Suppose we hit the jar of gas," said Recklow.
After a silence, Tressa said:
"I have got to give him back to Satan. There is no other way. I
understood that from the first. He can not die by your pistols, though
you shoot very fast and straight. No!"
After another silence, Recklow said:
"You had better find him before the wind changes. We hunt down wind
or--we die here together."
She looked at her husband.
"Show him to us in your own way," he said, "and deal with him as he must
be dealt with."
A gleam passed across her pale face and she tried to smile at her
husband.
Then, turning down the hammock to the east, she walked noiselessly
forward over the fibrous litter, the men on either side of her, their
pistols poised.
They had halted on the edge of an open glade, ringed with young pines in
fullest plumage.
Tressa was standing very straight and still in a strange, supple,
agonised attitude, her left forearm across her eyes, her right hand
clenched, her slender body slightly twisted to the left.
The men gazed pallidly at her with tense, set faces, knowing that the
girl was in terrible mental conflict against another mind--a powerful,
sinister mind which was seeking to grasp her thoughts and control them.
Minute after minute sped: the girl never moved, locked in her psychic
duel with this other brutal mind,--beating back its terrible
thought-waves which were attacking her, fighting for mental supremacy,
struggling in silence with an unseen adversary whose mental dominance
meant death.
Suddenly her cry rang out sharply in the moonlight, and then, all at
once, a man in white stood there in the lustre of the moon--a young,
graceful man dressed in white flannels and carrying on his right arm
what seemed to be a long white cloak.
Instantly the girl was transformed from a living statue into a lithe,
supple, lightly moving thing that passed swiftly to the west of the
glade, keeping the young man in white facing the wind, which was blowing
and tossing the plumy young pines.
"So it is you, young man, with whom I have been wrestling here under
the moon of the only God!" she said in a strange little voice, all
vibrant and metallic with menacing laughter.
"It is I, Keuke Mongol," replied the young man in white, tranquilly; yet
his words came as though he were tired and out of breath, and the hand
he raised to touch his small black moustache trembled as if from
physical exhaustion.
"Yarghouz!" she exclaimed. "Why did I not know you there on the golf
links, Assassin of the Seventh Tower? And why do you come here with your
shroud over your arm and hidden under it, in your right hand, a flask
full of death?"
He said, smiling:
"I come because you are to die, Heavenly-Azure Eyes. I bring you your
shroud." And he moved warily westward around the open circle of young
pines.
Instantly the girl flung her right arm straight upward.
"Yarghouz!"
"I hear thee, Heavenly Azure."
"Another step to the west and I shatter thy flask of gas."
"With what?" he demanded; but stood discreetly motionless.
"With what I grasp in an empty palm. Thou knowest, Yarghouz."
"I have heard," he said with smiling uncertainty, "but to hear of force
that can be hurled out of an empty palm is one thing, and to see it and
feel it is another. I think you lie, Heavenly Azure."
"So thought Gutchlug. And died of a yellow snake."
The young man seemed to reflect. Then he looked up at her in his frank,
smiling way.
"Wilt thou listen, Heavenly Eyes?"
"I hear thee, Yarghouz."
"Listen then, Keuke Mongol. Take life from us as we offer it. Life is
sweet. Erlik, like a spider, waits in darkness for lost souls that
flutter to his net."
"You think my soul was lost there in the temple, Yarghouz?"
"Unutterably lost, little temple girl of Yian. Therefore, live. Take
life as a gift!"
"Whose gift?"
"Sanang's."
"It is written," she said gravely, "that we belong to God and we return
to him. Now then, Yezidee, do your duty as I do mine! Kai!"
At the sound of the formula always uttered by the sect of Assassins when
about to do murder, the young man started and shrank back. The west wind
blew fresh in his startled eyes.
"Sorceress," he said less firmly, "you leave your Yiort to come all
alone into this forest and seek me. Why then have you come, if not to
submit!--if not to take the gift of life--if not to turn away from your
seducers who are hunting me, and who have corrupted you?"
"Yarghouz, I come to slay you," she said quietly.
Suddenly the man snarled at her, flung the shroud at her feet, and crept
deliberately to the left.
"Be careful!" she cried sharply; "look what you're about! Stand still,
son of a dog! May your mother bewail your death!"
Yarghouz edged toward the west, clasping in his right hand the flask of
gas.
"Sorceress," he laughed, "a witch of Thibet prophesied with a drum that
the three purities, the nine perfections, and the nine times nine
felicities shall be lodged in him who slays the treacherous temple girl,
Keuke Mongol! There is more magic in this bottle which I grasp than in
thy mind and body. Heavenly Eyes! I pray God to be merciful to this soul
I send to Erlik!"
All the time he was advancing, edging cautiously around the circle of
little plumy pines; and already the wind struck his left cheek.
"Yarghouz Khan!" cried the girl in her clear voice. "Take up your shroud
and repeat the fatha!"
"Backward!" laughed the young man, "--as do you, Keuke Mongol!"
"Heretic!" she retorted. "Do you also refuse to name the ten Imaums in
your prayers? Dog! Toad! Spittle of Erlik! May all your cattle die and
all your horses take the glanders and all your dogs the mange!"
"Silence, sorceress!" he shouted, pale with fear and fury. "Witch! Mud
worm! May Erlik seize you! May your skin be covered with putrefying
sores! May all the demons torment you! May God remember you in hell!"
"Yarghouz! Stand still!"
"Is your word then the Rampart of Gog and Magog, you young witch of
Yian, that a Khan of the Seventh Tower need fear you!" he sneered,
stealing stealthily westward through the feathery pines.
"I give thee thy last chance, Yarghouz Khan," she said in an excited
voice that trembled. "Recite thy prayer naming the ten, because with
their holy names upon thy lips thou mayest escape damnation. For I am
here to slay thee, Yarghouz! Take up thy shroud and pray!"
The young man felt the west wind at the back of his left ear. Then he
began to laugh.
"Heavenly Eyes," he said, "thy end is come--together with the two police
who hide in the pines yonder behind thee! Behold the bottle magic of
Yarghouz Khan!"
And he lifted the glass flask in the moonlight as though he were about
to smash it at her feet.
Then a terrible thing occurred. The entire flask glowed red hot in his
grasp; and the man screamed and strove convulsively to fling the bottle;
but it stuck to his hand, melted into the smoking flesh.
Then he screamed again--or tried to--but his entire lower jaw came off
and he stood there with the awful orifice gaping in the
moonlight--stood, reeled a moment--and then--and then--his whole face
slid off, leaving nothing but a bony mask out of which burst shriek
after shriek----
Keuke Mongol had fainted dead away. Cleves took her into his arms.
Recklow, trembling and deathly white, went over to the thing that lay
among the young pines and forced himself to bend over it.
The glass flask still stuck to one charred hand, but it was no longer
hot. And Recklow rolled the unspeakable thing into the white shroud and
pushed it into the swamp.
An evil ooze took it, slowly sucked it under and engulfed it. A few
stinking bubbles broke.
Recklow went back to the little glade among the pines.
A young girl lay sobbing convulsively in her husband's arms, asking
God's pardon and his for the justice she had done upon an enemy of all
mankind.
CHAPTER X
AT THE RITZ
When Victor Cleves telegraphed from St. Augustine to Washington that he
and his wife were on their way North, and that they desired to see John
Recklow as soon as they arrived, John Recklow remarked that he knew of
no place as private as a public one. And he came on to New York and
established himself at the Ritz, rather regally.
To dine with him that evening were two volunteer agents of the United
States Secret Service, ZB-303, otherwise James Benton, a fashionable
architect; and XYL-371, Alexander Selden, sometime junior partner in
the house of Milwin, Selden & Co.
A single lamp was burning in the white-and-rose rococo room. Under its
veiled glow these three men sat conversing in guarded voices over coffee
and cigars, awaiting the advent of 53-6-26, otherwise Victor Cleves,
recently Professor of Ornithology at Cambridge; and his young wife,
Tressa, known officially as V-69.
"Did the trip South do Mrs. Cleves any good?" inquired Benton.
"Some," said Recklow. "When Selden and I saw her she was getting
better."
"I suppose that affair of Yarghouz upset her pretty thoroughly."
"Yes." Recklow tossed his cigar into the fireplace and produced a pipe.
"Victor Cleves upsets her more," he remarked.
"Why?" asked Benton, astonished.
"She's beginning to fall in love with him and doesn't know what's the
matter with her," replied the elder man drily. "Selden noticed it, too."
Benton looked immensely surprised. "I supposed," he said, "that she and
Cleves considered the marriage to be merely a temporary necessity. I
didn't imagine that they cared for each other."
"I don't suppose they did at first," said Selden. "But I think she's
interested in Victor. And I don't see how he can help falling in love
with her, because she's a very beautiful thing to gaze on, and a most
engaging one to talk to."
"She's about the prettiest girl I ever saw," admitted Benton, "and about
the cleverest. All the same----"
"All the same--what?"
"Well, Mrs. Cleves has her drawbacks, you know--as a real wife, I mean."
Recklow said: "There is a fixed idea in Cleves's head that Tressa Norne
married him as a last resort, which is true. But he'll never believe
she's changed her ideas in regard to him unless she herself enlightens
him. And the girl is too shy to do that. Besides, she believes the same
thing of him. There's a mess for you!"
Recklow filled his pipe carefully.
"In addition," he went on, "Mrs. Cleves has another and very terrible
fixed idea in her charming head, and that is that she really did lose
her soul among those damned Yezidees. She believes that Cleves, though
kind to her, considers her merely as something uncanny--something to
endure until this Yezidee campaign is ended and she is safe from
assassination."
Benton said: "After all, and in spite of all her loveliness, I myself
should not feel entirely comfortable with such a girl for a real wife."
"Why?" demanded Recklow.
"Well--good heavens, John!--those uncanny things she does--her rather
terrifying psychic knowledge and ability--make a man more or less
uneasy." He laughed without mirth.
"For example," he added, "I never was nervous in any physical crisis;
but since I've met Tressa Norne--to be frank--I'm not any too
comfortable in my mind when I remember Gutchlug and Sanang and Albert
Feke and that dirty reptile Yarghouz--and when I recollect how that
girl dealt with them! Good God, John, I'm not a coward, I hope, but
that sort of thing worries me!"
Recklow lighted his pipe. He said: "In the Government's campaign against
these eight foreigners who have begun a psychic campaign against the
unsuspicious people of this decent Republic, with the purpose of
surprising, overpowering and enslaving the minds of mankind by a misuse
of psychic power, we agents of the Secret Service are slowly gaining the
upper hand.
"In this battle of minds we are gaining a victory. But we are winning
solely and alone through the psychic ability and the loyalty and courage
of a young girl who, through tragedy of circumstances, spent the years
of her girlhood in the infamous Yezidee temple at Yian, and who learned
from the devil-worshipers themselves not only this so-called magic of
the Mongol sorcerers, but also how to meet its psychic menace and defeat
it."
He looked at Benton, shrugged:
"If you and if Cleves really feel the slightest repugnance toward the
strange psychic ability of this brave and generous girl, I for one do
not share it."
Benton reddened: "It isn't exactly repugnance----" But Recklow
interrupted sharply:
"Do you realise, Benton, what she's already accomplished for us in our
secret battle against Bolshevism?--against the very powers of hell
itself, led by these Mongol sorcerers?
"Of the Eight Assassins--or Sheiks-el-Djebel--who came to the United
States to wield the dreadful weapon of psychic power against the minds
of our people, and to pervert them and destroy all civilisation,--of the
Eight Chief Assassins of the Eight Towers, this girl already has
discovered and identified four,--Sanang, Gutchlug, Albert Feke, and
Yarghouz; and she has destroyed the last three."
He sat calmly enjoying his pipe for a few moments' silence, then:
"Five of this sect of Assassins remain--five sly, murderous, psychic
adepts who call themselves sorcerers. Except for Prince Sanang, I do not
know who these other four men may be. I haven't a notion. Nor have you.
Nor do I believe that with all the resources of the United States Secret
Service we ever should be able to discover these four Sheiks-el-Djebel
except for the astounding spiritual courage and psychic experience of
the young wife of Victor Cleves."
After a moment Selden nodded. "That is quite true," he said simply. "We
are utterly helpless against unknown psychic forces. And I, for one,
feel no repugnance toward what Mrs. Cleves has done for all mankind and
in the name of God."
"She's a brave girl," muttered Benton, "but it's terrible to possess
such knowledge and horrible to use it."
Recklow said: "The horror of it nearly killed the girl herself. Have you
any idea how she must suffer by being forced to employ such terrific
knowledge? by being driven to use it to combat this menace of hell? Can
you imagine what this charming, sensitive, tragic young creature must
feel when, with powers natural to her but unfamiliar to us, she destroys
with her own mind and will-power demons in human shape who are about to
destroy her?
"Talk of nerve! Talk of abnegation! Talk of perfect loyalty and courage!
There is more than these in Tressa Cleves. There is that dauntless
bravery which faces worse than physical death. Because the child still
believes that her soul is damned for whatever happened to her in the
Yezidee temple; and that when these Yezidees succeed in killing her
body, Erlik will surely seize the soul that leaves it."
There was a knocking at the door. Benton got up and opened it. Victor
Cleves came in with his young wife.
       *       *       *       *       *
Tressa Cleves seemed to have grown since she had been away. Taller, a
trifle paler, yet without even the subtlest hint of that charming
maturity which the young and happily married woman invariably wears, her
virginal allure now verged vaguely on the delicate edges of austerity.
Cleves, sunburnt and vigorous, looked older, somehow--far less
boyish--and he seemed more silent than when, nearly seven months before,
he had been assigned to the case of Tressa Norne.
Recklow, Selden and Benton greeted them warmly; to each in turn Tressa
gave her narrow, sun-tanned hand. Recklow led her to a seat. A servant
came with iced fruit juice and little cakes and cigarettes.
Conversation, aimless and general, fulfilling formalities, gradually
ceased.
A full June moon stared through the open windows--searching for the
traditional bride, perhaps--and its light silvered a pale and lovely
figure that might possibly have passed for the pretty ghost of a bride,
but not for any girl who had married because she was loved.
Recklow broke the momentary silence, bluntly:
"Have you anything to report, Cleves?"
The young fellow hesitated:
"My wife has, I believe."
The others turned to her. She seemed, for a moment, to shrink back in
her chair, and, as her eyes involuntarily sought her husband, there was
in them a vague and troubled appeal.
Cleves said in a sombre voice: "I need scarcely remind you how deeply
distasteful this entire and accursed business is to my wife. But she is
going to see it through, whatever the cost. And we four men understand
something of what it has cost her--is costing her--in violence to her
every instinct."
"We honour her the more," said Recklow quietly.
"We couldn't honour her too much," said Cleves.
A slight colour came into Tressa's face; she bent her head, but Recklow
saw her eyes steal sideways toward her husband.
Still bowed a little in her chair, she seemed to reflect for a while
concerning what she had to say; then, looking up at John Recklow:
"I saw Sanang."
"Good heavens! Where?" he demanded.
"I--don't--know."
Cleves, flushing with embarrassment, explained: "She saw him
clairvoyantly. She was lying in the hammock. You remember I had a
trained nurse for her after--what happened in Orchid Lodge."
Tressa looked miserably at Recklow,--dumbly, for a moment. Then her lips
unclosed.
"I saw Prince Sanang," she repeated. "He was near the sea. There were
rocks--cottages on cliffs--and very brilliant flowers in tiny,
pocket-like gardens.
"Sanang was walking on the cliffs with another man. There were forests,
inland."
"Do you know who the other man was?" asked Recklow gently.
"Yes. He was one of the Eight. I recognised him. When I was a girl he
came once to the Temple of Yian, all alone, and spread his shroud on the
pink marble steps. And we temple girls mocked him and threw stemless
roses on the shroud, telling him they were human heads with which to
grease his toug."
She became excited and sat up straighter in her chair, and her strange
little laughter rippled like a rill among pebbles.
"I threw a big rose without a stem upon the shroud," she exclaimed, "and
I cried out, 'Niaz!' which means, 'Courage,' and I mocked him, saying,
'Djamouk Khagan,' when he was only a Khan, of course; and I laughed and
rubbed one finger against the other, crying out, 'Toug ia glachakho!'
which means, 'The toug is anointed.' And which was very impudent of me,
because Djamouk was a Sheik-el-Djebel and Khan of the Fifth Tower, and
entitled to a toug and to eight men and a Toughtchi. And it is a grave
offence to mock at the anointing of a toug."
She paused, breathless, her splendid azure eyes sparkling with the
memory of that girlish mischief. Then their brilliancy faded; she bit
her lip and stole an uncertain glance at her husband.
And after a pause she explained in a very subdued voice that the "Iagla
michi," or action of "greasing the toug," or standard, was done when a
severed human head taken in battle was cast at the foot of the lance
shaft stuck upright in the ground.
"You see," she said sadly, "we temple girls, being already damned, cared
little what we said, even to such a terrible man as Djamouk Khan. And
even had the ghost of old Tchinguiz Khagan himself come to the temple
and looked at us out of his tawny eyes, I think we might have done
something saucy."
Tressa's pretty face was spiritless, now; she leaned back in her
armchair and they heard an unconscious sigh escape her.
"Ai-ya! Ai-ya!" she murmured to herself, "what crazy things we did on
the rose-marble steps, Yulun and I, so long--so long ago."
Cleves got up and went over to stand beside his wife's chair.
"What happened is this," he said heavily. "During my wife's
convalescence after that Yarghouz affair, she found herself, at a
certain moment, clairvoyant. And she thought she saw--she did
see--Sanang, and an Asiatic she recognised as being one of the chiefs of
the Assassins sect, whose name is Djamouk.
"But, except that it was somewhere near the sea--some summer colony
probably on the Atlantic coast--she does not know where this pair of
jailbirds roost. And this is what we have come here to report."
Benton, politely appalled, tried not to look incredulous. But it was
evident that Selden and Recklow had no doubts.
"Of course," said Recklow calmly, "the thing to do is for you and your
wife to try to find this place she saw."
"Make a tour of all such ocean-side resorts until Mrs. Cleves recognises
the place she saw," added Selden. And to Recklow he added: "I believe
there are several perfectly genuine cases on record where clairvoyants
have aided the police."
"Several authentic cases," said Recklow quietly. But Benton's face was a
study.
Tressa looked up at her husband. He dropped his hand reassuringly on her
shoulder and nodded with a slight smile.
"There--there was something else," she said with considerable
hesitation--"something not quite in line of duty--perhaps----"
"It seems to concern Benton," added Cleves, smiling.
"What is it?" inquired Selden, smiling also as Benton's features froze
to a mask.
"Let me tell you, first," interrupted Cleves, "that my wife's psychic
ability and skill can make me visualise and actually see scenes and
people which, God knows, I never before laid eyes upon, but which she
has both seen and known.
"And one morning, in Florida, I asked her to do something
strange--something of that sort to amuse me--and we were sitting on the
steps of our cottage--you know, the old club-house at Orchid!--and the
first I knew I saw, in the mist on the St. Johns, a Chinese bridge
humped up over that very commonplace stream, and thousands of people
passing over it,--and a city beyond--the town of Yian, Tressa tells
me,--and I heard the Buddhist bells and the big temple gong and the
noises in streets and on the water----"
He was becoming considerably excited at the memory, and his lean face
reddened and he gesticulated as he spoke:
"It was astounding, Recklow! There was that bridge, and all those people
moving over it; and the city beyond, and the boats and shipping, and the
vast murmur of multitudes.... And then, there on the bridge crossing
toward Yian, I saw a young girl, who turned and looked back at my wife
and laughed."
"And I told him it was Yulun," said Tressa, simply.
"A playfellow of my wife's in Yian," explained Cleves. "But if she were
really Chinese she didn't look like what are my own notions of a Chinese
girl."
"Yulun came from Black China," said Mrs. Cleves. "I taught her English.
I loved her dearly. I was her most intimate friend in Yian."
There ensued a silence, broken presently by Benton; and:
"Where do I appear in this?" he asked stiffly.
Tressa's smile was odd; she looked at Selden and said:
"When I was convalescent I was lonely.... I made the effort one
evening. And I found Yulun. And again she was on a bridge. But she was
dressed as I am. And the bridge was one of those great, horrible steel
monsters that sprawl across the East River. And I was astonished, and I
said, 'Yulun, darling, are you really here in America and in New York,
or has a demon tangled the threads of thought to mock my mind in
illness?'
"Then Yulun looked very sorrowfully at me and wrote in Arabic
characters, in the air, the name of our enemy who once came to the Lake
of Ghosts for love of her--Yaddin-ed-Din, Tougtchi to Djamouk the
Fox.... And who went his way again amid our scornful laughter.... He is
a demon. And he was tangling my thread of thought!"
Tressa became exceedingly animated once more. She rose and came swiftly
to where Benton was standing.
"And what do you think!" she said eagerly. "I said to her, 'Yulun!
Yulun! Will you make the effort and come to me if I make the effort?
Will you come to me, beloved?' And Yulun made 'Yes,' with her lips."
After a silence: "But--where do I come in?" inquired Benton, stiffly
fearful of such matters.
"You came in."
"I don't understand."
"You came in the door while Yulun and I were talking."
"When?"
"When you came to see me after I was better, and you and Mr. Selden were
going North with Mr. Recklow. Don't you remember; I was lying in the
hammock in the moonlight, and Victor told you I was asleep?"
"Yes, of course----"
"I was not asleep. I had made the effort and I was with Yulun.... I
did not know you were standing beside my hammock in the moonlight until
Yulun told me.... And that is what I am to tell you; Yulun saw you....
And Yulun has written it in Chinese, in Eighur characters and in
Arabic,--tracing them with her forefinger in the air--that Yulun,
loveliest in Yian, flame-slender and very white, has seen her heart,
like a pink pearl afire, burning between your august hands."
"My hands!" exclaimed Benton, very red.
There fell an odd silence. Nobody laughed.
Tressa came nearer to Benton, wistful, uncertain, shy.
"Would you care to see Yulun?" she asked.
"Well--no," he said, startled. "I--I shall not deny that such things
worry me a lot, Mrs. Cleves. I'm a--an Episcopalian."
The tension released, Selden was the first to laugh.
"There's no use blinking the truth," he said; "we're up against
something absolutely new. Of course, it isn't magic. It can, of course,
be explained by natural laws about which we happen to know nothing at
present."
Recklow nodded. "What do we know about the human mind? It has been
proven that no thought can originate within that mass of convoluted
physical matter called the brain. It has been proven that something
outside the brain originates thought and uses the brain as a vehicle to
incubate it. What do we know about thought?"
Selden, much interested, sat cogitating and looking at Mrs. Cleves. But
Benton, still flushed and evidently nervous, sat staring out of the
window at the full moon, and twisting an unlighted cigarette to shreds.
"Why didn't you tell Benton when the thing occurred down there at Orchid
Lodge, the night we called to say good-bye?" asked Selden, curiously.
Tressa gave him a distressed smile: "I was afraid he wouldn't believe
me. And I was afraid that you and Mr. Recklow, even if you believed it,
might not like--like me any the better for--for being clairvoyant."
Recklow came over, bent his handsome grey head, and kissed her hand.
"I never liked any woman better, nor respected any woman as deeply," he
said. And, lifting his head, he saw tears sparkling in her eyes.
"My dear," he said in a low voice, and his firm hand closed over the
slim fingers he had kissed.
Benton got up from his chair, went to the window, turned shortly and
came over to Tressa.
"You're braver than I ever could learn to be," he said shortly. "I ask
your pardon if I seem sceptical. I'm more worried than incredulous.
There's something born in me--part of me--that shrinks from anything
that upsets my orthodox belief in the future life. But--if you wish me
to see this--this girl--Yulun--it's quite all right."
She said softly, and with gentle wonder: "I know of nothing that could
upset your belief, Mr. Benton. There is only one God. And if Mahomet be
His prophet, or if he be Lord Buddha, or if your Lord Christ be
vice-regent to the Most High, I do not know. All I know is that God is
God, and that He prevailed over Satan who was stoned. And that in
Paradise is eternal life, and in hell demons hide where dwells Erlik,
Prince of Darkness."
Benton, silent and secretly aghast at her theology, said nothing.
Recklow pleasantly but seriously denied that Satan and his demons were
actual and concrete creatures.
Again Cleves's hand fell lightly on his wife's shoulder, in a careless
gesture of reassurance. And, to Benton, "No soul is ever lost," he said,
calmly. "I don't exactly know how that agrees with your orthodoxy,
Benton. But it is surely so."
"I don't know myself," said Benton. "I hope it's so." He looked at
Tressa a moment and then blurted out: "Anyway, if ever there was a soul
in God's keeping and guarded by His angels, it's your wife's!"
"That also is true," said Cleves quietly.
"By the way," remarked Recklow carelessly, "I've arranged to have you
stop at the Ritz while you're in town, Mrs. Cleves. You and your husband
are to occupy the apartment adjoining this. Where is your luggage,
Victor?"
"In our apartment."
"That won't do," said Recklow decisively. "Telephone for it."
Cleves went to the telephone, but Recklow took the instrument out of his
hand and called the number. The voice of one of his own agents answered.
Cleves was standing alone by the open window when Recklow hung up the
telephone. Tressa, on the sofa, had been whispering with Benton. Selden,
looking over the evening paper by the rose-shaded lamp, glanced up as
Recklow went over to Cleves.
"Victor," he said, "your man has been murdered. His throat was cut; his
head was severed completely. Your luggage has been ransacked and so has
your apartment. Three of my men are in possession, and the local police
seem to comprehend the necessity of keeping the matter out of the
newspapers. What was in your baggage?"
"Nothing," said Cleves, ghastly pale.
"All right. We'll have your effects packed up again and brought over
here. Are you going to tell your wife?"
Cleves, still deathly pale, cast a swift glance toward her. She sat on
the sofa in animated conversation with Benton. She laughed once, and
Benton smiled at what she was saying.
"Is there any need to tell her, Recklow?"
"Not for a while, anyway."
"All right. I suppose the Yezidees are responsible for this horrible
business."
"Certainly. Your poor servant's head lay at the foot of a curtain-pole
which had been placed upright between two chairs. On the pole were tied
three tufts of hair from the dead man's head. The pole had been rubbed
with blood."
"That's Mongol custom," muttered Cleves. "They made a toug and 'greased'
it!--the murderous devils!"
"They did more. They left at the foot of your bed and at the foot of
your wife's bed two white sheets. And a knife lay in the centre of each
sheet. That, of course, is the symbol of the Sect of Assassins."
Cleves nodded. His body, as he leaned there on the window sill in the
moonlight, trembled. But his face had grown dark with rage.
"If I could--could only get my hands on one of them," he whispered
hoarsely.
"Be careful. Don't wear a face like that. Your wife is looking at us,"
murmured Recklow.
With an effort Cleves raised his head and smiled across the room at his
wife.
"Our luggage will be sent over shortly," he said. "If you're tired,
we'll say good-night."
So she rose and the three men came to make their adieux and pay their
compliments and devoirs. Then, with a smile that seemed almost happy,
she went into her own apartment on her husband's arm.
Cleves and his wife had connecting bedrooms and a sitting-room between.
Here they paused for a moment before the always formal ceremony of
leave-taking at night. There were roses on the centre table. Tressa
dropped one hand on the table and bent over the flowers.
"They seem so friendly," she said under her breath.
He thought she meant that she found even in flowers a refuge from the
solitude of a loveless marriage.
He said quietly: "I think you will find the world very friendly, if you
wish." But she shook her head, looking at the roses.
Finally he said good-night and she extended her hand, and he took it
formally.
Then their hands fell away. Tressa turned and went toward her bedroom.
At the door she stopped, turned slowly.
"What shall I do about Yulun?" she asked.
"What is there to do? Yulun is in China."
"Yes, her body is."
