the time being, it was very appetising. For the present, it did very
well. On the other hand, Margaret Austen represented a succession of
courses which, in addition to being appetising, would lift him to a
parity with the super-rich.
It was certainly perplexing. But it is a long turning that has no lane.
He was a decent whip and a string made up of Margaret and Cassy was one
that, let him alone for it, he could handle.
But now the car had stopped. Abandoning perplexity, he went on and up.
XXII
"Here you are! Bright and late as usual!"
In her fluted voice, with her agreeable smile, Mrs. Austen greeted him.
The lady was attired in a manner that left her glitteringly and
splendidly bare. With her, in the cluttered drawing-room, were Margaret,
Kate Schermerhorn, Poppet Bleecker, Verelst, Cantillon and Ogston.
"Will you take my daughter out?" Mrs. Austen, with that smile,
continued. "Oh!" she interrupted herself to remark. "You have not
congratulated Mr. Cantillon. Has no little bird told you? It's this dear
child Kate. Just now--don't you think?--engagements, like lilacs, are in
the air." She turned to Verelst. "Grey deceiver!"
Verelst crooked his arm. "However much I tried to deceive, I got grey
before I could."
"What are you laughing at?" Mrs. Austen with her tireless smile enquired
of Paliser, who, after speaking to the girls, had said something to
Cantillon.
"Somersaults being a specialty of his, I was telling him that now is the
time for a triple one."
Paliser turned to Margaret. She had said nothing. She was very pale.
Mute, white, blonde, she was a vision.
At table, Verelst, addressing him, asked: "How is your father?"
"Thank you. Enjoying his usual poor health." He turned again to
Margaret. "No one could mistake my father for an auctioneer. He has so
few admirations. But he knew your father and admired him greatly."
Margaret made no reply. She was thinking of the land of Splendours and
Terrors, where the princess sat in chains. Margaret envied her. Over the
hill the true knight was hastening and Margaret knew, as we all know,
what happened then. It is a very pretty story, but it can be equally sad
to a sorrowing girl who has no true knight, or who had one, and who
found that he was neither knightly nor true.
Paliser misconstrued her silence. About her eyes and mouth was an
expression that is displayed by those who have suffered from some long
malady or from some perilous constraint. That also he misconstrued. He
had been told she had washed her hands of Lennox and had washed them
with the soap of indifference, which is the most effective of all. He
was not credulous but he had believed it. The idea that her throat was
choked and her heart a haunt of regret, did not occur to this subtle
young man. He attributed both her silence and her expression to
neuralgia. The latter did not disturb him. But her loveliness did. It
inundated him. The gallery of his memory was hung with fair faces. Her
face exceeded them all.
The dinner proceeded. Presently, Kate Schermerhorn called over at him.
"Who was the damsel I saw you making up to in the Park the other day?"
Paliser turned to her. "I have forgotten."
"I don't wonder. You seemed to have lost your head."
"Probably then because it wasn't you."
"Fiddlesticks! You looked as though you could cut your throat for her.
Didn't you feel that way? I am sure you did."
"You must be thinking of Cantillon. That's the way he looks at you. If
he didn't, he wouldn't have any feeling at all. One might even say he
was quite heartless."
Kate was laughing. In laughing she showed her red mouth and her teeth,
small, white, a trifle uneven, and, though she continued to show them,
her laughter ceased. With her red mouth open, she stared. That mouth
closed, opened again. She was saying something.
Everybody was exclaiming. All were hurriedly getting up.
Paliser turned to Margaret. She had gone.
Verelst now was between him and her chair. He was bending over. Bending
also was Mrs. Austen. On the other side were Cantillon, Ogston and Miss
Bleecker.
Then, as the surprise of it lifted Paliser, he saw that they were
lifting her.
"Brandy!" said Verelst. "Tell the man."
"Permit me!" Without officiousness, without noticeable shoves, Paliser
got among them and got on his knees beside the girl whom Verelst and
Mrs. Austen were supporting.
Mrs. Austen wanted to wink at him. Instead, she made way. He took her
place, took the girl in his arms and thought he would like to keep her
there--though not, of course, forever. But he said: "The other room,
perhaps."
Margaret's head was on his shoulder. She raised it. Her eyes had opened.
She looked at him, at the arms that were about her. A shudder shook her.
Verelst stretched a hand, Ogston another. With them, but otherwise
without effort, she stood up.
Cantillon exclaimed at her. "Right as rain again! I say, Miss Austen,
you did give us a start!"
Yet at once, and so endearingly, with the air of an elder sister, Mrs.
Austen resumed the maternal functions. "Dearest child, you have been
overdoing it!"
Kate patted the girl. "Margaret! I nearly fainted too. I was looking at
you. You went over like that!"
"Sorry," said Margaret evenly. Her hands had gone to the back of her
head. She dropped them and added: "If you will excuse me."
Lovingly her mother dismissed her. "The smelling-salts! You will find
them somewhere." The lady looked about. "Shall we have coffee in the
other room? You men can smoke there if you like, or here if you prefer."
It was quite modern. But Verelst was old, therefore old-fashioned. He
preferred the dining-room. Already the girls had followed Margaret. Mrs.
Austen passed out. Verelst sat down. So also did Cantillon and Ogston.
But Paliser, who had nothing to say to them, accompanied Mrs. Austen.
"It never happened to her before," she told him. "Where shall you sit?
Here, by me?" In speaking she made room on the sofa and with amiable
suspicion eyed him. "You hadn't said anything to her, had you?"
Paliser shook his handsome head. "I wanted to."
Pleasantly she invited it. "Yes?"
"I wanted to ask her to marry me."
There he was dangling, and what a fish! The dear woman licked her chops,
not vulgarly, of course, but mentally.
Paliser, who knew perfectly well what she was at, smiled tantalisingly.
"It is beastly to boast, but I am an epicure."
What in the world does he mean? the dear woman wondered. But she said:
"Of course you are."
Paliser, who was enjoying himself hugely, resumed: "An epicure, you
know, postpones the finest pleasures. He does so sometimes because of
the enchantment of distance and again because he can't help himself.
That has been my case."
It was fully a moment before Mrs. Austen got it. Then she said: "But I
told you, didn't I? Mr. Lennox is dead and buried."
It was quick work. Paliser, admiring her agility, laughed. "So recently
though! The immortelles have not had time to fade."
That would have made a saint swear! Not being a saint, Mrs. Austen
contented herself with virtuous surprise. "But there were none! I told
you that. I told you that any attraction he may have had for my child,
he shocked straight out of her. Not deliberately. Dear me, I would not
have you fancy such a thing for a moment. Nor would I misjudge him. I
hope I am too conscientious. But such interest as the child had in
him--an interest I need hardly say that was girlish and immature--he
destroyed."
The picture, bold but crude, had its defects. To remedy them, Mrs.
Austen applied the brush. "That singing-girl! You know whom I mean. I
saw you with her the night we went to the Bazaar."
Paliser nodded. He knew indeed! He knew too that, for a moment, he had
fancied that Cassy was in love with Lennox. But that idea he had long
since abandoned and what she could now be doing in this galley intrigued
him.
With a free hand Mrs. Austen laid on the colours. "You will hardly
credit it, but we as good as caught him with her. As good or as bad. It
is a matter of taste. For me it was very painful. A woman should be
spared such an experience. As for Margaret, while the child certainly
did not understand--how could she?--yet, even in her innocence, she
realised--well--that he is just what you said."
It was a bit thick and Paliser began to laugh.
Mrs. Austen saw that he did not believe her. The fact annoyed and in
vexation she piled it on. "Afterward, in this very room, I taxed him
with it and he admitted it."
What a lie! thought Paliser, who specialised in that article. But, a
second thought prompting, he wondered whether it were a lie. His
knowledge of Cassy refuted it. At the same time, where women are
concerned, you never know. One thing, however, he did know. In his
quality of expert he knew that there are statements which, whether true
or false, may come in handy and, comfortably, he smiled.
"So that was the reason why the engagement was broken."
"What more would you have?" replied the candid creature, who now felt
that he had swallowed it.
Quite as comfortably, Paliser returned to his muttons. "I may cease then
to be an epicure?"
There was the fish again, but how to land him? The glittering fisherlady
could not bind and gag the bait and drop her into his mouth. At any such
attempt, the bait would pack and go, might even go without packing. Yet
there was the fish, eager, willing, the gills awiggle. Barring a few
gold-fish in Bradstreet, in Burke and in Lemprière, this fish was the
pick of the basket. To see him glide away, and for no other earthly
reason than because the bait refused to be hooked, was simply inhuman.
Flesh and blood could not stand it. No, nor ingenuity either. Instantly
the angler saw that in default of bait, a net may do the trick and, with
the ease of a prestidigitateur, she produced one.
"You have my blessing!"
Paliser laughed and bowed. He was in it, it was where he wanted to be
and he liked it. But in view of existing domestic arrangements, he was
in it a bit too soon and, wriggling through a mesh, he stopped laughing
and looked solemn.
"You are very good. But beforehand my father will expect to be consulted
and, just at present, that is impossible. The physicians would forbid
it."
"The poor dear old man! You don't mean----"
Paliser half raised a hand. The gesture was slight but expressive. One
never knew!
But so much the better, thought Mrs. Austen. Pending the delay she could
so bombard the bait, bombard her day in, day out, and the whole night
through, that, like Liège and Namur, her resistance would crumble, and
meanwhile he would come in for everything, or nearly everything, she
reflected, and the reflection prompting, she affected concern.
"Has your sister been informed?"
"I cabled her to-day," said Paliser, who had done nothing of the kind.
With the same concern, Mrs. Austen lied as freely. "It is too sad for
words." But at once the air of the sympathiser departed, replaced by
that of the hostess. Through one door the men were entering. Through
another came the girls.
Kate Schermerhorn approached. "Dear Mrs. Austen, Margaret's all right,
but she has a headache." As she spoke, she threw a glance at Cantillon.
Poppet Bleecker also approached. "It is too bad, Margaret is such a
dear! I would like to stop on but they tell me my maid is here. Thank
you so much, dear Mrs. Austen."
The lady stood up. "But you are not all going!" They all were though.
She knew it and was glad of it. The object of the dinner was achieved
and achievement, however satisfactory, is fatiguing. "You too!" she
successively exclaimed at Ogston and Cantillon. "And you also!" she
exclaimed at Paliser, to whom, dropping her voice, she added: "If
possible, remember me to him."
As they went, Verelst surveyed her. He stood against the mantel, his
back to the empty grate.
Turning she saw him. "Well, what now?"
Verelst, adjusting his glasses, said, and distantly enough: "What now?
No, what next?"
Mrs. Austen sat down. "Peter, if you ever loved me, don't adopt that
tone."
"It is not the tone, it is the tune and the tune is yours."
"Tune? What tune? What on earth are you talking about?"
"The tune to which the dinner was set. I heard it. Margaret heard it. It
knocked her out."
She raised her eyes to him, made them pathetic. "Peter, I haven't a
penny."
"You have twenty thousand a year."
"Nineteen, not a dollar more, and that is genteel poverty and there's
nothing genteel in poverty now."
Verelst tugged at his moustache. "Tell me this. Is she to marry him?"
In affected surprise, she started. "How you do jump at conclusions."
Angrily he nodded. "I appear to have jumped at the correct one."
But his anger had gained her. She faced him. "Heavens and earth! What
have you against him? What have you all against him? My eyes are as good
as any one's. I can't see it."
"You might feel it then."
"Feel what?"
Verelst tugged again at his moustache. He had never heard of elementals
and, if he had heard, he would not have believed in them. He knew
nothing of auræ--which photography has captured. He was very old fogy.
But he knew an honest man when he saw one and a gentleman before he
opened his mouth.
"Feel what?" Mrs. Austen repeated.
Verelst, thrashing about, could not get it, but he said: "I can't
describe it, but it's something. His father had it. He----"
"His father is at death's door."
"Ah! Is he? Well, I'm sorry for that. M. P. used to be no better than
the law allows--and the law is very lenient."
"You were too."
"I daresay. But M. P. has got over it. Without boasting, I think I have
also. But that is neither here nor there. In the old days, I have seen
people shrink from him."
"Nonsense! Precious little shrinking I ever did."
"Timidity was never one of your many virtues."
"Don't be coarse, Peter, and if possible don't be stupid. If you know
anything against Monty, say it I may find it in his favour."
Impatiently Verelst motioned. "Decent men avoid him."
"And you!" Mrs. Austen retorted. "What do you call yourself? You are
always civil to him."
Verelst showed his teeth. "One of the few things life has taught me is
to be civil to everybody."
"Except to me. Now do sit down and make yourself uncomfortable. You have
made me uncomfortable enough. Any one might think you a country parson."
But Verelst, scowling at the dial which the legs of the nymph upheld,
removed his glasses. "I am going." He moved to the door, stopped, half
turned, motioned again. "Tell Margaret I would rather see her in her
coffin."
Angrily she started. "I'll tell her nothing of the kind."
It was his back that she addressed. She saw him go, saw too her anger go
with him. The outer door had not closed before the tune of which he had
spoken was dispersing it.
But was it a tune? It seemed something far rarer. In it was a whisper of
waters, the lap of waves, the muffled voice of a river, which, winding
from hill to sea, was pierced by a note very high, very clear, entirely
limpid, a note that had in it the gaiety of a sunbeam, a note that
mounted in loops of light, expanding as it mounted, until, bursting into
jets of fire, it drew from the stream's deepest depths the sonority and
glare of its riches.
The ripple of it ran down the spine of this woman, who at heart was a
Hun and to whom the harmonies disclosed, not the mythical gleam of the
Rheingold, but the real radiance of the Paliser wealth.
At the glow of it she rubbed her hands.
XXIII
In the club window, on the following afternoon, Jones was airing copy.
"Capua must have been packed with yawns. It is the malediction of
mortals to want what they lack until they get it, when they want it no
more. Epicurus said that or, if he did not, Lucretius said it for him.
'Surgit amari aliquid.' But here I am running into quotations when the
only ones that interest anybody are those in the Street. Conditions here
are revolting. Nowhere at any time has there been a metropolis that so
stank to heaven. The papers drip with stocks and scandals and over
there, before the massed artillery, the troops are wheeling down to
death. But wheeling is perhaps poetic. The Marne was the last battle in
the grand style."
"I don't see what that has to do with Capua," said Verelst.
"Nor I," Jones replied. "But, come to think of it, there is a
connection. In Capua everybody yawned their heads off. In Flanders and
Champagne they are shot off. Life swings like a pendulum between boredom
and pain. When the world is not anæmic, it is delirious. If ever again
its pulse registers normal, sensible people will go back to Epicurus,
whose existence was one long lesson in mental tranquillity. By the Lord
Harry, the more I consider it, the more convinced I become that there is
nothing else worth having. Niente, nada, rien. Nothing whatever."
Verelst smiled. "In that case it is hardly worth while getting excited
over it." He raised the lapel of his coat. There were violets in it. He
took a whiff and added: "Has Lennox been here to-day?"
But Jones did not know.
Regretfully, Verelst continued: "He goes to Mineola to-morrow and soon
he will be over the top."
Jones lit a cigarette. "Assuming that he gets back, the women will be
mad about him. Some of them at any rate."
Verelst rolled an enquiring eye.
"Of course they will," Jones resumed. "Times have changed precious
little since Victor Hugo.
    'Les belles out le goût des héros. Le sabreur
    Effroyable, trainant après lui tant d'horreur
    Qu'il ferait reculer jusqu'à la sombre Hécate,
    Charme la plus timide et la plus delicate.
    Sur ce, battez tambours! Ce qui plait à la bouche
    De la blonde aux yeux doux, c'est le baiser farouche.
    La femme se fait faire avec joie un enfant,
    Par l'homme qui tua, sinistre et triomphant.
    Et c'est la volupté de toutes ces colombes
    D'ouvrir leur lit à ceux qui font ouvrir les tombes.'
"What rhythm! What music! The score is Napoleonic but----"
"Hello!" Verelst interrupted. Before the window a car had passed. He was
looking at it. On the back seat was a man in a high hat and an overcoat.
"M. P.!" he exclaimed.
"What of it?" Jones asked.
Verelst removed his glasses and looked distrustfully at them. It was as
though he doubted their vision. Then, after a moment he said: "Last
night I heard he was dying."
"Which," Jones remarked, "is the aim, the object and the purpose of
life. But apparently he has not achieved it yet. Apparently also you are
a futurist. The Napoleonic score did not interest you."
Verelst, resuming his glasses, replied: "It would not interest Lennox,
if that is what you mean. He has been hit too hard."
Jones nodded. He knew all about it. It had even suggested a story, a
famous story; one that was told in Babylon and has been retold ever
since; the story of lovers vilely parted in the beginning and virtuously
united at the end. It is a highly original story, to which anybody can
give a fresh twist and Jones had planned to have the hero killed at the
front and the heroine marry the villain, but only to divorce the latter
before the hero--whose death had been falsely gazetted--limps in.
But Jones knew his trade. He knew that the reader always balks unless
the hero gets the heroine firsthand and he had thought of making the
villain an invalid. Yet at that too he knew the reader would balk. The
reader is so nice-minded!
Now, the plot recurring, he said to Verelst: "Your knowledge of women
has, I am sure, made you indulgent."
"Not in the least."
"But----"
"Look here," Verelst interrupted. "When I was young and consequently
very experienced, I was indulgent. But monsters change you. Last night I
dined with one."
"Enviable mortal!"
"You remember Abraham?" Verelst continued. "His name was Abraham--wasn't
it?--that benevolent old man in the Bible who made the sacrifice of
sacrificing an animal instead of his son? Well, last night it seemed to
me that there are women Abrahams, only less benevolent. The altar was
veiled, the knife was concealed, but the victim was there--a girl for
whom, at your age, I would have died, or offered to die, which amounts
to the same thing. What is more to the point, at your age, or no, for
you are much older than your conversation would lead one to believe, but
in my careless days I offered to die for her mother. I swore I could not
live without her. That is always a mistake. It is too flattering,
besides being untrue. Perhaps she so regarded it. In any event another
man fared better or worse. Afterward, time and again, he said to me:
'Peter, for God's sake, run away with her.' Am I boring you?"
"Enormously."
"Well, he was very gentlemanly about it. Without making a fuss at home,
he went away and died in a hospital. She was very grateful to him for
that. But her gratitude waned when she came in for his money. It was
adequate but not opulent, the result being that she tried to train her
daughter for the great matrimonial steeplechase. Just here the plot
thickens. Recently the filly shied, took the bit in her teeth
and--hurrah, boys!--she was off on her own, until her mother jockied her
up to a hurdle that she could not take and the filly came a cropper. But
her mother was still one too many for her. She had her up in a jiffy and
now she is heading her straight for the sweepstakes."
"Excuse me," Jones with affected meekness put in. "I assume that the
sacrificial victim and the filly are one and the same."
"Your perspicacity does you much credit."
Jones laughed. "I have my little talents. But you! The wizardry with
which you mix metaphors is beautiful. You produce a dinner-table and
transform it into an altar which instantly becomes a racecourse. That is
what I call genius. But to an every-day sort of chap like me, would you
mind being less cryptic?"
"Can you keep a secret?"
"Yes."
"So can I."
Again Jones laughed. "Not in my neighbourhood. You were talking of
Lennox and drifted from him into the Bible. Your thoughts of the one
recalled studies of the other and at once you had Abraham's daughter
downed on the racecourse. Well, she won't be."
"Why do you say that?"
"Because it is my business to see things before they occur. Miss
Austen----"
"I never mentioned her," Verelst heatedly exclaimed. "You have no right
to----"
"I admit it. But because of Lennox the whole matter has preoccupied me
and quite as much, I daresay, as it has distressed you."
"I don't see at all what you have to do with it."
"Perhaps not. But preoccupation may lead to crystal-gazing. Now I will
wager a red pippin that I can tell what you said at the steeplechase to
the steeplestakes. You asked after his father."
Verelst stared. A man of the world and, as such, at his ease in any
circumstances, none the less he was startled. "How in God's name did you
get that?"
"It is very simple. Five minutes ago his father sailed by. You made a
remark about him. The remark suggested a train of thought which landed
you at the racecourse where you saw, or intimated that you saw, the
steeplestakes. But what visible sweepstakes are there except M. P.'s
son? You and M. P. are friends. It is only natural that you should ask
about him."
Verelst turned uneasily. "I don't yet see how you got it. The only thing
I said is that I heard he was dying."
"And five minutes ago you exclaimed at his resurrection. There is a
discrepancy there that is very suggestive."
"It is none of my making then."
"It is none the less suggestive. The death-bed was invented."
"M. P. may have recovered."
"Yes, men of his age make a practice of jumping into their death-bed and
then jumping out. It is good for them. It keeps them in training."
"Oh, rubbish!" Verelst resentfully exclaimed.
"No," Jones pursued. "The story was invented and the invention had a
reason. If you like, you may ask what it is."
"You seem to be very good at invention yourself. I shall ask nothing of
the kind."
"But you would like to know and I will tell you. It was invented to
delay a possible announcement. It could have had no other object."
"I said nothing of any announcement," Verelst angrily protested. "What
announcement are you talking about?"
"The heading of the filly for the sweepstakes. The expression--very
graphic by the way--is your own."
"Graphic or not I wish you would drop it. Besides----"
"Besides what?"
"Why, confound it, admitting the engagement, which I ought not to admit
for it is not out yet, why should he play for delay?"
"Ha!" exclaimed Jones, whom the spectacle of Paliser and Cassy sailing
up the Riverside had supplied with an impression or two. "I thought I
would interest you. He played for delay because he feared that if it
were known, a pitcher of ice-water might come dashing over it."
"Why do you say that?" asked Verelst, eager and anxious enough for a
spoke--if spoke there could be--to shove in a certain lady's wheels.
"Given the man and the deduction is easy."
The spoke was receding. Verelst, swallowing his disappointment,
retorted: "Incoherence is easy too."
"Well, you are right there," Jones, lighting another cigarette, replied.
"But there is nothing incoherent in the fact that fear is magnetic. What
we dread, we attract. If our winning young friend fears the pitcher, the
pitcher will probably land on him. That is the reason why, to vary your
various metaphors, I declared that there would be no downing on the
racecourse. On the contrary and look here. I will wager you not one
pippin or two pippins, I will go so far as to lay a whole basket that
Miss Austen becomes Mrs. Lennox."
Verelst sniffed. "You don't know her mother."
"No. I have not that honour. But I enjoy a bowing acquaintance with
logic."
"Do you, now? I wonder if it bows back. I'll book your bet."
"Very good. Make it fancy pippins."
Verelst stood up. "Fancy is the only term that could be applied them."
"And of such is the Kingdom of Heaven," Jones told himself as the old
man moved away.
He looked about. The great room had filled. Stocks, money, war, the
odour of alcohol, the smell of cigars, the rustling of evening papers,
the sound of animated talk about nothing whatever, the usual atmosphere
had reassembled itself.
From it he turned to the window, to the westering sun, to the motors,
the smart gowns and the women who looked so delightful and of whom all
had their secrets--secrets trivial, momentous, perverse or merely
horrible.
Again he turned. Lennox, who had approached, was addressing him. "You
were at the law school. I have to make a will. Will you help me?"
Serviceably Jones sprang up. "Come to my shop. It is just around the
corner."
XXIV
Among the old brocades with which the room was fitted and which,
together with the silver bed and the enamelled faïence, gave it an
earlier century air, Cassy stood before a cheval-glass.
She was properly dressed. Her costume, light cloth, faintly blue, was
exquisitely embroidered. Beneath it was lingerie of the kind which, it
is said, may be drawn through a ring. Behind and between was Cassy, on
whose docked hair sat a hat that was very unbecoming and therefore
equally smart.
A moment before she had thanked and dismissed Emma. Emma was the maid.
With a slant of the eye, that said and suppressed many things, Emma had
gone.
Through the open windows came the call of birds, the smell of fresh
turf. A patch of sky was visible. It was tenderly blue. There was a
patch too of grass that showed an asparagus green.
From the mirror Cassy went to a table and, from a jade platter, took a
ring. It was made of six little hoops each set with small stones. She
put it on. The platter held other rings. There was a sapphire,
inch-long, deep and dark. She put that on. There was also an Australian
opal and an Asian emerald, the latter greener than the grass. She put
these on. Together with the wedding-ring they made quite a show. Too
much of a show, she thought.
Like the costume, the hat, like other costumes, more hats and box after
box of lingerie, they had all surprisingly dumped themselves, there, at
her feet, the day after the wedding. The bundle, which she had brought
with her, she had found very useless and so awkward that she would have
given it to Emma, had it not seemed unsuited to a young person
manifestly so fine. Since then it had been tucked away in a cupboard,
safely out of sight.
That was just five days ago, a brief eternity, during which life seemed
to be driving her headlong to some unimagined goal. Until the evening
previous she had had barely a moment. But on that evening, Paliser, who
was dining at the Austens', had given her a few hours to herself.
Now, on this afternoon, he was again in town.
The air was very still. Afar, a train bellowed, rumbled, died away. From
the garage came the bark of a dog, caught up and repeated on the
hillside beyond. On the lawn, a man in an apron was at work. Otherwise
the air was still, fragrant, freighted with spring.
Cassy, turning from the table, went to the mirror again and tilted the
hat. However unbecoming, it was certainly smart, and Cassy wondered what
her father would think of Mrs. Monty Paliser.
In the spaciousness of the name, momentarily she lost herself. It is
appalling to be a snob. But there are attributes that pour balm all over
you. In the deference of the bored yet gracious young women who, with
robes et manteaux, had come all the way from Fifth Avenue, there had
been a flagon or two of that balm. In the invariable "Thank you, mem's"
of the Paliser personnel there had been more. It is appalling to be a
snob. There are perfumes that appeal.
Then also, particularly after Harlem, the great, grave, silent house had
a charm that was enveloping, almost enchanted. Apparently uncommanded,
it ran itself, noiselessly, in ordered grooves. Cassy fancied that
somewhere about there must be a majordomo who competently saw to
everything and kept out of the way. But she did not know. In her own
rooms she was now at home, as she was also at home in the state chambers
on the floor below. In regard to the latter, she had an idea--entirely
correct, by the way--that at Lisbon, the royal palace--when there was
one--could not have been more suave. But the rest of the house was as
yet unexplored, though in regard to the upper storey she had another
idea, that there was a room there close-barred, packed with coffins.
The idea delighted her. In this Palace of the White Cat it was the note
macabre, the proper note, the note that synchronised the circumambient
enchantments. In the historical nights of which Perrault told, the
princess had but a gesture to make, the offender sank dead. At once a
bier was produced, the corpse was hurried away, and the veils of charm
restored fell languorously.
Yet, in that historical epoch, there subsisted--perhaps as a reminder of
the vanities even of fairyland--the rose-leaf suggestively crumpled. The
crumple affected Cassy but far less than she had expected. Paliser had
been very gentlemanly. He had deferred to her in all things, agreed with
her about everything, and though none the less he always had his own
way, yet the pedestal was so obvious that if she had not known otherwise
she might have thought herself continuously upon it.
The crumple was not there, or at least only such crumple as she had
naturally awaited. The discomfort of the leaf consisted in the fact that
married she was not mated, that she did not love him, and probably never
could.
Now, as she tilted her hat, the spaciousness of the name recurred to
her. Its potentialities she had considered before she accepted it, but
only because of her father. The idea that it would lift him out of the
walk-up, out of Harlem and cold veal, was the one excuse for her voyage
to Cytherea. The voyage had been eminently respectable. Undertaken with
full ecclesiastical sanction, Aphrodite and her free airs had had
nothing to do with it. None the less it was to Cytherea that she had
gone--and to Lampsacus also, for all she and her geography knew to the
contrary.
Now, though, in tilting her hat, the disreputable beauty of the land was
forgotten. She was in another and a fairer realm. A modern garden of the
Hesperides lay about her. She saw herself distributing the golden fruit.
The mirror showed her a red-crossed Lady Bountiful in an ambulance, in
two ambulances, in a herd of ambulances, at the front. There was no end
to the golden fruit, no end to his father's money, no end to the good he
might allow her to do.
The picture so delighted her that she flushed and in the emotion of it
two tears sprang to her eyes that were not of the crying kind.
She dried them, telling herself that if he framed the picture, she could
love him, and she would.
It would be all so perfect, not the loving, but the giving, the joy of
giving, the joy of always giving, of giving with both hands, of just
shovelling it out and keeping at it, of never saying "No," of saying,
"Yes, and here is more and here is more," of saying, too, "Don't thank
me, it is for me to thank you." What joy ever was there, or ever will
be, that can compare to that!
Why, I'm crazy, she thought, and thought also, he never will but he
might, he could and if he should----
Then at once the Paliser of the Savile Row clothes and the St. James's
Street boots, the Paliser of the looking-glass hair and the Oxford
voice, assumed the hue and stature of a deva. Love him! It would be
something higher. It would be worship!
She made a face. It was sheer nonsense. He had an allowance which,
obviously, was very liberal and with which he was liberal enough. Unlike
many rich men he was not close. But to fancy him beneficent was
laughable. Cassy could not imagine him in the rôle of Lord Bountiful.
Then too there was something queer about him. He hated to be alone.
There are people who kill silence and he was one of them. He was always
talking. Cassy could not understand it. To be silent with any one
procures an intimacy which talk cannot supply. Moreover solitude was as
necessary to her and as refreshing as her bath. Silence and solitude he
could not endure. She tilted her nose and went to the window.
That night they were to go to the opera. But in a moment she was to
motor in and see her father. Since she put Harlem behind her, she had
wondered and worried about him. The condition of his heart was hazardous
and she had been told that any excitement might be fatal. She had
worried over that, over his sudden rages at tradespeople, and she had
been fearful lest Mrs. Yallum, the janitress, who spoke no known tongue,
had, instead of being of use, only enraged him further.
She would see to it, though. It was for that she was going in. As yet
she had no money. But there were the rings and one more or one less,
what did it matter? Of the lot she preferred the string of hoops. It was
quaint, there was nothing philistine about it and probably it had not
cost so very much. The emerald was different. It was a stone that would
please any woman with plenty of money and a modicum of taste. Probably
it had cost a thousand on Fifth Avenue, in which case it would fetch a
hundred on Broadway. Or if not, then the sapphire would. Either or both
she would hock very willingly. But not the hoop-ring and not the opal,
unless she had to, and if Paliser, who apparently noticed nothing and
saw everything, asked concerning them, why then she would out with it.
Her father was a beggar! Did he expect her to let him starve? But what
on earth do you suppose I married you for? For yourself? Take a walk. I
sold myself for bread--and butter, and you can fork them over.
At the possibility of any such conversation--and of such language!--she
flushed afresh and again called herself a fool. There could be no such
conversation. Paliser would never question. He was too indifferent The
consciousness comforted, precisely as, a moment before, the picture of
herself shovelling gold had moved her to tears.
Then absently she found herself looking in the garden where the aproned
man was at work. But it was Lennox that she saw. Again and again since
the wedding-evening, when Paliser had told her of the unscrambled eggs,
she had wondered about the broken engagement. On that evening she had
felt that she had taken the wrong road and had lost her way. The feeling
was momentary. If Lennox had never been engaged, the result would have
been the same. Not once had he so much as said boo! He had not even
looked it. At table, on the wedding-evening, the unscrambled eggs had
not tasted very good, but reflection had salted them and since then, in
reviewing the matter, it had occurred to her that it was none of her
business.
Now as she looked out on the garden she wondered whether he had cared
very greatly for this girl, for if he had, what then did she mean by
throwing over a man who was too good for her, too good for anybody?
She sighed and absently looked again at the gardener. He was bending
down, occupied in planting something. Since she had first noticed him he
had half-circled a parterre and she was about to telephone and ask if
the car were ready when he straightened, turned, extracted a pipe and
attempted to light it.
The air was very still, there was no breeze, but the match was
ineffective. On his trousers, with a backward movement, he struck
another match and raised it to the bowl. The flame, faintly blue,
mounted and, with it, a curl of smoke. But it was not Cassy or, more
exactly, it was not her objective self, that saw it. It was her
subjective self that registered and afterward reproduced that momentary
and entirely commonplace incident. What the objective Cassy saw was not
the flame or the smoke or the pipe, but the hand that held the match. It
was thumbless. Many hands are. From the hand she looked at the man's
face and gave a little scream, instantly suppressed.
But her mouth twitched, she tried to swallow and she experienced, what
was new to her, an odd sensation in the epiglottis. She did not remember
that she had ever been what is called sick at the stomach, none the less
she realised that she was on the point of becoming so. Like the little
scream, she choked it back. But the immanence of nausea stifled her, and
she sat down on a brocade-covered chair.
Her hand had gone to her throat and though almost at once the sensation
subsided, she held it there. The gold bands of the rings that were
pressed against her throat cooled it, but the palm of the hand was wet.
Unconscious of that, she was unaware that she could not think. A crack
on the head makes you dizzy and into her dizziness a somnolence had
entered. The somnolence dulled all the cells of the brain save one and
that one cell, vehemently active, was inciting her to some effort,
though to what she did not know.
"I must get up," she presently told herself and told it once more.
In the repetition of the words there was the effect of a spray. The
irritability of the one active cell subsided, that of the others was
aroused. Somnambulism ceased. The entire brain awoke. But the truth had
not yet fully permeated all the cerebral convolutions and the fact that
it had not, manifested itself in the melodramatic phrase which, a week
previous, Lennox had uttered, which all have uttered, all at least
before whom the unforseen has sprung.
"It is impossible!"
She got up, went to the window, looked again. There was no impossibility
there, no doubt even, or the peradventure of one. There was only the
ineluctable truth. The aproned man disclosed it. His thumbless hand had
held the book. From his mouth, in which there was a pipe, had come the
benediction. He was Dr. Grantly. That was the ineluctable truth, the
truth which already perhaps she had intercepted in the land of Beauty
and Horror.
The first sight of it had sickened. Now the physical effect had gone.
But the nausea in passing had been replaced by another sensation,
deadlier, equally human, that made her red and hot, blurred her eyes,
set her quivering, shook her, put her thoughts on fire, vitriolised her
with hate.
Nietzsche said that a woman's ability to hate is in proportion to her
inability to charm. The brute omitted to add that a woman's ability to
charm corresponds to her evolution.
There was nothing evolved about Cassy then. She had lapsed back into the
primitive. Like Armide, she could have burned the palace that enchanted
her. None the less, she did nothing. To do nothing may be very
important. The inactivity saved her. During it, the vitriol vaporised;
the hate fell by. She was still trembling, her hands were unsteady, but
the fever was departing, the crisis had passed, the primitive had slunk
back into the cellars of the subconscious, and, in the chair, to which
without knowing it she had returned, she faced it.
Without, some one knocked and, getting no answer, accepted the
invitation as most people do.
"Beg pardon, Mrs. Paliser. The car is at the door."
Cassy half turned. "What?"
Emma reconstructed it. "Whenever you are ready, mem, the car will be
waiting."
Cassy turned away. "That will do."
"Thank you, mem."
With that air which servants assume, Emma pursed her lips, reopened
them, thought better of it, closed them and closed too the door.
Facing it still, Cassy sat in the brocaded chair. Anger had shaken her
and gone, taking with it its spawn which hatred is. What inhabited her
then was disgust.
I am in a nice mess, she told herself. But she told it without surprise,
as though all along it was something which she might have known, could
have avoided, but into which she had put her foot. A momentary vision of
the red-crossed Lady Bountiful returned and she even smiled at it. It
was a sad little smile though.
Abstractedly, she had been turning and twisting the rings. The motion
aroused her. It drew her attention to them. They also had something to
say. Something which they had been saying ever since the smoke curled
from the pipe. She had not heard it then. There had been too many things
tumbling about her. But now she did hear. She took them off, stood up
and dropped them on the table where they fell between gold-backed
brushes and a vase, gorgeous in delicacy, the colour of ox-blood.
From a cupboard she took the rowdy frock, the tam, the basilica
underwear and, for a moment, searched and searched vainly for a pair of
stockings. In hunting for them she unearthed the bundle, and that
together with the other things, she threw on the bed, which was not
brocaded, or even daised. It was silver. A few days before, when she had
first seen it, she had clapped her hands. The vase too she had
applauded. Now the lovely room, that had seemed so lovely, a curl of
smoke had turned into a lupanar.
Quickly, one after another, the modish hat, the delicious frock, the
things that could be drawn through a ring, were removed and replaced. In
the mirror she looked, stopped, looked again, adjusted the tam and was
going to the bed for the bundle when she heard a horn. Head-drawn, she
listened.
She would have so much preferred to leave without seeing him or speaking
to him. If she could, she would have gone without a word, silently, in
the only dignified manner that was possible. But, apparently, matters
had arranged themselves otherwise. She went to the bed, took the bundle,
moved back to the table and waited.
She did not wait long. Paliser, with the pretence of a knock and a smile
on his lips walked in--but not far. That frock, that bundle, the sight
of her there, sufficed. He knew. With an awkwardness that was unusual
with him, he closed the door and twisted his hat. The smile had gone
from his lips. They were dry.
Then as he looked at her and she looked at him--and with what a
look!--words seemed such poor things. It was as though already
everything had been said, as perhaps in the silent temples of their
being, everything, accusations, recriminations, all the futilities of
speech had been uttered, impotently, a moment since. A moment earlier
she had said her say. As he looked at her he knew that she had and knew
too, that before he entered the room, already she had heard his replies.
The consciousness of this, equally shared by both, was so intense that,
for a second, Cassy felt that everything happening then had happened
ages ago, that she was taking part in a drama rehearsed on a stage that
memory cannot reconstruct but which stood, and, it may be, still stands,
back of those doors that close behind our birth.
The hallucination, if it be one, and which, given certain crises of the
emotions, is common enough, vanished abruptly as it had come. But two
seconds had gone since Paliser entered the room, yet, in those seconds,
both recognised that eternity had begun between them.
With his hat, a hat studiously selected, made to order, Paliser motioned
and with the same studiousness, selecting a platitude, he produced it.
"I was going to take you out."
"After taking me in," Cassy in reviewing the situation subsequently
commented. But at the time she said nothing. She merely looked. Her rage
was gone, her anger spent. Only disgust remained. It was that which her
face expressed. It was withering.
Paliser, steadying himself and, as was perhaps only natural, hedging
still, resumed: "But apparently you have other intentions."
What a cad that blackguard is! thought Cassy who still said nothing.
"May I ask what they are?"
Cassy threw up her chin. "My intentions are to leave----"
"But why?"
"Don't presume to interrupt me. My intentions are to leave your
assignation-house and have you horsewhipped."
Paliser had been served with strong drink before, but none ever as
strong as that. It steadied him. He had expected that when it got to
her, as eventually it must, there would be the passionate upbraidings,
the burst of sobs, the Oh! Oh's!, the What will become of me?, the usual
run up and down the scale and the usual remedies which a bank account
supplies. He had expected all that. He had prescribed for it often.
There was not a symptom for which he did not know the proper dose and
just when to administer it. But barely had he crossed the threshold
before he realised that all his science would be in default.
Cassy presented an entirely new case, but, fortunately, in the drink
which she had served, he saw or thought he saw how to treat it.
He gestured again. "I never cared for scenes. But this house, which it
has pleased you to describe from your knowledge of other establishments,
is----"
Whatever he may have intended to add, was interrupted. Cassy, previously
inexorable as fate, but converted then into a fury, dropped the bundle
and caught up the vase. Missing him, it hit the door, where musically it
crashed and shattered.
He turned, looked at it, looked at her, at the table. Barring the
gold-backed brushes, the jade platter and that bundle, there was nothing
that she could conveniently shy, and, in his Oxford voice, but civilly
enough, he gave it to her.
"Allow me. There is no necessity whatever for your acting in this
manner. The situation, such as it is, it had been my intention to
remedy. It had been my intention, I say. But yesterday it came to my
knowledge that it is because of your relations with Lennox that his
engagement is broken."
Take that, he mentally added and continued aloud: "I might not have
believed the story, but I was told that Lennox admitted it." Take that,
too, he mentally resumed. I shall be treated to tears in a minute and in
no time it will be "Kamerad!"
Sidewise he looked at the ruin of the vase, on which Daughters of Heaven
and an ablated dynasty may have warmed their eyes. It affronted his own.
Insult, yes, that could be tossed about, but not art, not at least the
relatively unique.
With a crease in his lips which now were dry no longer, he looked at
Cassy. The awaited tears were not yet visible. But the blood-madness
that had seized her, must have let her go, routed, as hæmatomania may
be, by the trivial and, in this instance, by a lie. That lie suffocated
her. It was as though, suddenly, she had been garroted.
The condition was only momentary, but, during it, a curtain fell on this
vulgar drama, which was to affect so many lives. Before the girl a
