listen, the fearless smile playing over her face.

"Mount!" cried many voices at once. "The Reds!"

Palla flung herself astride her saddle; Ilse galloped beside her,
freeing her pistols; everywhere in the starlight the riders of the
Wild Division came galloping, loosening their long lances as they
checked their horses in close formation.

Then, with scarcely a sound in the unbroken snow, they filed away
eastward at a gentle trot, under the pale lustre of the stars.




THE CRIMSON TIDE

CHAPTER I


On the 7th of November, 1917, the Premier of the Russian Revolutionary
Government was a hunted fugitive, his ministers in prison, his troops
scattered or dead. Three weeks later, the irresponsible Reds had begun
their shameful career of treachery, counselled by a pallid, black-eyed
man with a muzzle like a mouse--one L. D. Bronstein, called Trotzky;
and by two others--one a bald, smooth-shaven, rotund little man with
an expression that made men hesitate, and features not trusted by
animals and children.

The Red Parliament called him Vladimir Ulianov, and that's what he
called himself. He had proved to be reticent, secretive, deceitful,
diligent, and utterly unhuman. His lower lip was shaped as though
something dripped from it. Blood, perhaps. His eyes were brown and not
entirely unattractive. But God makes the eyes; the mouth is fashioned
by one's self.

The world knew him as Lenine.

The third man squinted. He wore a patch of sparse cat-hairs on his
chin and upper lip.

His head was too big; his legs too short, but they were always in a
hurry, always in motion. He had a persuasive and ardent tongue, and
practically no mind. The few ideas he possessed inclined him to
violence--always the substitute for reason in this sort of agitator.
It was this ever latent violence that proved persuasive. His name was
Krylenko. His smile was a grin.

These three men betrayed Christ on March 3d, 1918.

On the Finland Road, outside of Petrograd, the Red ragamuffins held a
perpetual carmagnole, and all fugitives danced to their piping, and
many paid for the music.

But though White Guards and Red now operated in respectively hostile
gangs everywhere throughout the land, and the treacherous hun armies
were now in full tide of their Baltic invasion, there still remained
ways and means of escape--inconspicuous highways and unguarded roads
still open that led out of that white hell to the icy but friendly
seas clashing against the northward coasts.

Diplomats were inelegantly "beating it." A kindly but futile
Ambassador shook the snow of Petrograd from his galoshes and solemnly
and laboriously vanished. Mixed bands of attachés, consular personnel,
casuals, emissaries, newspaper men, and mission specialists scattered
into unfeigned flight toward those several and distant sections of
"God's Country," divided among civilised nations and lying far away
somewhere in the outer sunshine.

Sometimes White Guards caught these fugitives; sometimes Red Guards;
and sometimes the hun nabbed them on the general hunnish principle
that whatever is running away is fair game for a pot shot.

Even the American Red Cross was "suspect"--treachery being alleged in
its relations with Roumania; and hun and Bolshevik became very
troublesome--so troublesome, in fact, that Estridge, for example, was
having an impossible time of it, arrested every few days, wriggling
out of it, only to be collared again and detained.

Sometimes they questioned him concerning gun-running into Roumania;
sometimes in regard to his part in conducting the American girl, Miss
Dumont, to the convent where the imperial family had been detained.

That the de facto government had requested him to undertake this
mission and to employ an American Red Cross ambulance in the affair
seemed to make no difference.

He continued to be dogged, spied on, arrested, detained, badgered,
until one evening, leaving the Smolny, he encountered an American--a
slim, short man who smiled amiably upon him through his glasses,
removed a cigar from his lips, and asked Estridge what was the nature
of his evident and visible trouble.

So they walked back to the hotel together and settled on a course of
action during the long walk. What this friend in need did and how he
did it, Estridge never learned; but that same evening he was
instructed to pack up, take a train, and descend at a certain station
a few hours later.

Estridge followed instructions, encountered no interference, got off
at the station designated, and waited there all day, drinking boiling
tea.

Toward evening a train from Petrograd stopped at the station, and from
the open door of a compartment Estridge saw his chance acquaintance of
the previous day making signs to him to get aboard.

Nobody interfered. They had a long, cold, unpleasant night journey,
wedged in between two soldiers wearing arm-bands, who glowered at a
Russian general officer opposite, and continued to mutter to each
other about imperialists, bourgeoisie, and cadets.

At every stop they were inspected by lantern light, their papers
examined, and sometimes their luggage opened. But these examinations
seemed to be perfunctory, and nobody was detained.

In the grey of morning the train stopped and some soldiers with red
arm-bands looked in and insulted the general officer, but offered no
violence. The officer gave them a stony glance and closed his cold,
puffy eyes in disdain. He was blond and looked like a German.

                  *       *       *       *       *

At the next stop Estridge received a careless nod from his chance
acquaintance, gathered up his luggage and descended to the frosty
platform.

Nobody bothered to open their bags; their papers were merely glanced
at. They had some steaming tea and some sour bread together.

A little later a large sleigh drove up behind the station; their light
baggage was stowed aboard, they climbed in under the furs.

"Now," remarked his calm companion to Estridge, "we're all right if
the Reds, the Whites and the boches don't shoot us up."

"What are the chances?" inquired Estridge.

"Excellent, excellent," said his companion cheerily, "I should say we
have about one chance in ten to get out of this alive. I'll take
either end--ten to one we don't get out--ten to two we're shot up and
not killed--ten to three we are arrested but not killed--one to ten we
pull through with whole skins."

Estridge smiled. They remained silent, probably preoccupied with the
hazards of their respective fortunes. It grew colder toward noon.

The young man seated beside Estridge in the sleigh smoked continually.

He was attached to one of the American missions sent into Russia by an
optimistic administration--a mission, as a whole, foredoomed to
political failure.

In every detail, too, it had already failed, excepting only in that
particular part played by this young man, whose name was Brisson.

He, however, had gone about his occult business in a most amazing
manner--the manner of a Yankee who knows what he wants and what his
country ought to want if it knew enough to know it wanted it.

He was the last American to leave Petrograd: he had taken his time; he
left only when he was quite ready to leave.

And this was the man, now seated beside Estridge, who had coolly and
cleverly taken his sporting chance in remaining till the eleventh hour
and the fifty-ninth minute in the service of his country. Then, as the
twelfth hour began to strike, he bluffed his way through.

                  *       *       *       *       *

During the first two or three days of sleigh travel, Brisson learned
all he desired to know about Estridge, and Estridge learned almost
nothing about Brisson except that he possessed a most unholy genius
for wriggling out of trouble.

Nothing, nobody, seemed able to block this young man's progress. He
bluffed his way through White Guards and Red; he squirmed affably out
of the clutches of wandering Cossacks; he jollied officials of all
shades of political opinion; but he always continued his journey from
one étape to the next. Also, he was continually lighting one large
cigar after another. Buttoned snugly into his New York-made arctic
clothing, and far more comfortable at thirty below zero than was
Estridge in Russian costume, he smoked comfortably in the teeth of the
icy gale or conversed soundly on any topic chosen. And the range was
wide.

But about himself and his mission in Russia he never conversed except
to remark, once, that he could buy better Russian clothing in New York
than in Petrograd.

Indeed, his only concession to the customs of the country was in the
fur cap he wore. But it was the galoshes of Manhattan that saved his
feet from freezing. He had two pair and gave one to Estridge.

During several hundreds of miles in sleighs, Brisson's constant regret
was the absence of ferocious wolves. He desired to enjoy the whole
show as depicted by the geographies. He complained to Estridge quite
seriously concerning the lack of enterprise among the wolves.

But there seemed to be no wolves in Russia sufficiently polite to
oblige him; so he comforted himself by patting his stomach where,
sewed inside his outer underclothing, reposed documents destined to
electrify the civilised world with proof infernal of the treachery of
those three men who belong in history and in hell to the fraternity
which includes Benedict Arnold and Judas.

                  *       *       *       *       *

One late afternoon, while smoking his large cigar and hopefully
inspecting the neighbouring forest for wolves, this able young man
beheld a sotnia of Ural Cossacks galloping across the snow toward the
flying sleigh, where he and Estridge sat so snugly ensconced.

There was, of course, only one thing to do, and that was to halt.
Kaledines had blown his brains out, but his riders rode as swiftly as
ever. So the sleigh stopped.

And now these matchless horsemen of the Wild Division came galloping
up around the sleigh. Brilliant little slanting eyes glittered under
shaggy head-gear; broad, thick-lipped mouths split into grins at sight
of the two little American flags fluttering so gaily on the sleigh.

Then two booted and furred riders climbed out of their saddles, and,
under their sheepskin caps, Brisson saw the delicate features of two
young women, one a big, superb, blue-eyed girl; the other slim,
dark-eyed, and ivory-pale.

The latter said in English: "Could you help us? We saw the flags on
your sleigh. We are trying to leave the country. I am American. My
name is Palla Dumont. My friend is Swedish and her name is Ilse
Westgard."

"Get in, any way," said Brisson briskly. "We can't be in a worse mess
than we are. I imagine it's the same case with you. So if we're all
going to smash, it's pleasanter, I think, to go together."

At that the Swedish girl laughed and aided her companion to enter the
sleigh.

"Good-bye!" she called in her clear, gay voice to the Cossacks. "When
we come back again we shall ride with you from Vladivostok to Moscow
and never see an enemy!"

When the young women were comfortably ensconced in the sleigh, the
riders of the Wild Division crowded their horses around them and
shook hands with them English fashion.

"When you come back," they cried, "you shall find us riding through
Petrograd behind Korniloff!" And to Brisson and Estridge, in a
friendly manner: "Come also, comrades. We will show you a monument
made out of heads and higher than the Kremlin. That would be a funny
joke and worth coming back to see."

Brisson said pleasantly that such an exquisite jest would be well
worth their return to Russia.

Everybody seemed pleased; the Cossacks wheeled their shaggy mounts and
trotted away into the woods, singing. The sleigh drove on.

"This is very jolly," said Brisson cheerfully. "Wherever we're bound
for, now, we'll all go together."

"Is not America the destination of your long journey?" inquired the
big, blue-eyed girl.

Brisson chuckled: "Yes," he said, "but bullets sometimes shorten
routes and alter destinations. I think you ought to know the worst."

"If that's the worst, it's nothing to frighten one," said the Swedish
girl. And her crystalline laughter filled the icy air.

She put one persuasive arm around her slender, dark-eyed comrade:

"To meet God unexpectedly is nothing to scare one, is it, Palla?" she
urged coaxingly.

The other reddened and her eyes flashed: "What God do you mean?" she
retorted. "If I have anything to say about my destination after death
I shall go wherever love is. And it does not dwell with the God or in
the Heaven that we have been taught to desire and hope for."

The Swedish girl patted her shoulder and smiled in good humoured
deprecation at Brisson and Estridge.

"God let her dearest friend die under the rifles of the Reds," she
explained cheerfully, "and my little comrade can not reconcile this
sad affair with her faith in Divine justice. So she concludes there
isn't any such thing. And no Divinity." She shrugged: "That is what
shakes the faith in youth--the seeming indifference of the Most
High."

Palla Dumont sat silent. The colour had died out in her cheeks, her
dark, indifferent eyes became fixed.

Estridge opened the fur collar of his coat and pulled back his fur
cap.

"Do you remember me?" he said to Ilse Westgard.

The girl laughed: "Yes, I remember you, now!"

To Palla Dumont he said: "And do you remember?"

At that she looked up incuriously; leaned forward slowly; gazed
intently at him; then she caught both his hands in hers with a swift,
sobbing intake of breath.

"You are John Estridge," she said. "You took me to her in your
ambulance!" She pressed his hands almost convulsively, and he felt her
trembling under the fur robe.

"Is it true," he said, "--that ghastly tragedy?"

"Yes."

"All died?"

"All."

Estridge turned to Brisson: "Miss Dumont was companion to the Grand
Duchess Marie," he said in brief explanation.

Brisson nodded, biting his cigar.

The Swedish girl-soldier said: "They were devoted--the little Grand
Duchess and Palla.... It was horrible, there in the convent
cellar--those young girls----" She gazed out across the snow; then,

"The Reds who did it had already made me prisoner.... They arrested me
in uniform after the decree disbanding us.... I was on my way to join
Kaledines' Cossacks--a rendezvous.... Well, the Reds left me outside
the convent and went in to do their bloody work. And I gnawed the rope
and ran into the chapel to hide among the nuns. And there I saw a
White Nun--quite crazed with grief----"

"I had heard the volley that killed her," said Palla, in explanation,
to nobody in particular. She sat staring out across the snow with dry,
bright eyes.

Brisson looked askance at her, looked significantly at the Swedish
girl, Ilse Westgard: "And what happened then?" he inquired, with the
pleasant, impersonal manner of a physician.

Ilse said: "Palla had already begun her novitiate. But what happened
in those terrible moments changed her utterly.... I think she went mad
at the moment.... Then the Superior came to me and begged me to hide
Palla because the Bolsheviki had promised to return and cut her throat
when they had finished their bloody business in the crypt.... So I
caught her up in my arms and I ran out into the convent grounds. And
at that very moment, God be thanked, a sotnia of the Wild Division
rode up looking for me. And they had led horses with them. And we were
in the saddle and riding like maniacs before I could think. That is
all, except, an hour ago we saw your sleigh."

"You have been hiding with the Cossacks ever since!" exclaimed
Estridge to Palla.

"That is her history," replied Ilse, "and mine. And," she added
cheerfully but tenderly, "my little comrade, here, is very, very
homesick, very weary, very deeply and profoundly unhappy in the loss
of her closest friend... and perhaps in the loss of her faith in
God."

"I am tranquil and I am not unhappy,"--said Palla. "And if I ever win
free of this murderous country I shall, for the first time in my life,
understand what the meaning of life really is. And shall know how to
live."

"You thought you knew how to live when you took the white veil," said
Ilse cheerfully. "Perhaps, after all, you may make other errors before
you learn the truth about it all. Who knows? You might even care to
take the veil again----"

"Never!" cried Palla in a clear, hard little voice, tinged with the
scorn and anger of that hot revolt which sometimes shakes youth to the
very source of its vitality.

Ilse said very calmly to Estridge: "With me it is my reason and not
mere hope that convinces me of God's existence. I try to reason with
Palla because one is indeed to be pitied who has lost belief in
God----"

"You are mistaken," said Palla drily; "--one merely becomes one's self
when once the belief in that sort of God is ended."

Ilse turned to Brisson: "That," she said, "is what seems so impossible
for some to accept--so terrible--the apparent indifference, the lack
of explanation--God's dreadful reticence in this thunderous whirlwind
of prayer that storms skyward day and night from our martyred world."

Palla, listening, sat forward and said to Brisson: "There is only one
religion and it has only two precepts--love and give! The rest--the
forms, observances, creeds, ceremonies, threats, promises, are
man-made trash!

"If man's man-made God pleases him, let him worship him. That kind of
deity does not please me. I no longer care whether He pleases me or
not. He no longer exists as far as I am concerned."

Brisson, much interested, asked Palla whether the void left by
discredited Divinity did not bewilder her.

"There is no void," said the girl. "It is already filled with my own
kind of God, with millions of Gods--my own fellow creatures."

"Your fellow beings?"

"Yes."

"You think your fellow creatures can fill that void?"

"They have filled it."

Brisson nodded reflectively: "I see," he said politely, "you intend to
devote your life to the cult of your fellow creatures."

"No, I do not," said the girl tranquilly, "but I intend to love them
and live my life that way unhampered." She added almost fiercely: "And
I shall love them the more because of their ignorant faith in an
all-seeing and tender and just Providence which does not exist! I
shall love them because of their tragic deception and their
helplessness and their heart-breaking unconsciousness of it all."

Ilse Westgard smiled and patted Palla's cheeks: "All roads lead
ultimately to God," she said, "and yours is a direct route though you
do not know it."

"I tell you I have nothing in common with the God you mean," flashed
out the girl.

Brisson, though interested, kept one grey eye on duty, ever hopeful of
wolves. It was snowing hard now--a perfect geography scene, lacking
only the wolves; but the étape was only half finished. There might be
hope.

The rather amazing conversation in the sleigh also appealed to him,
arousing all his instincts of a veteran newspaper man, as well as his
deathless curiosity--that perpetual flame which alone makes any
intelligence vital.

Also, his passion for all documents--those sewed under his underclothes,
as well as these two specimens of human documents--were now keeping
his lively interest in life unimpaired.

"Loss of faith," he said to Palla, and inclined toward further debate,
"must be a very serious thing for any woman, I imagine."

"I haven't lost faith in love," she said, smilingly aware that he was
encouraging discussion.

"But you say you have lost faith in spiritual love--"

"I did not say so. I did not mean the other kind of love when I said
that love is sufficient religion for me."

"But spiritual love means Deity----"

"It does not! Can you imagine the all-powerful father watching his
child die, horribly--and never lifting a finger! Is that love? Is that
power? Is that Deity?"

"To penetrate the Divine mind and its motives for not intervening is
impossible for us----"

"That is priest's prattle! Also, I care nothing now about Divine
motives. Motives are human, not divine. So is policy. That is why the
present Pope is unworthy of respect. He let his flock die. He deserted
his Cardinal. He let the hun go unrebuked. He betrayed Christ. I care
nothing about any mind weak enough, politic enough, powerless enough,
to ignore love for motives!

"One loves, or one does not love. Loving is giving--" The girl sat up
in the sleigh and the thickening snowflakes drove into her flushed
face. "Loving is giving," she repeated, "--giving life to love; giving
up life for love--giving! giving! always giving!--always
forgiving! That is love! That is the only God!--the indestructible,
divine God within each one of us!"

Brisson appraised her with keen and scholarly eyes. "Yet," he said
pleasantly, "you do not forgive God for the death of your friend.
Don't you practise your faith?"

The girl seemed nonplussed; then a brighter tint stained her cheeks
under the ragged sheepskin cap.

"Forgive God!" she cried. "If there really existed that sort of God,
what would be the use of forgiving what He does? He'd only do it
again. That is His record!" she added fiercely, "--indifference to
human agony, utter silence amid lamentations, stone deaf, stone dumb,
motionless. It is not in me to fawn and lick the feet of such an
image. No! It is not in me to believe it alive, either. And I do not!
But I know that love lives: and if there be any gods at all, it must
be that they are without number, and that their substance is of that
immortality born inside us, and which we call love! Otherwise, to me,
now, symbols, signs, saints, rituals, vows--these things, in my mind,
are all scrapped together as junk. Only, in me, the warm faith
remains--that within me there lives a god of sorts--perhaps that
immortal essence called a soul--and that its only name is love. And it
has given us only one law to live by--the Law of Love!"

Brisson's cigar had gone out. He examined it attentively and found it
would be worth relighting when opportunity offered.

Then he smiled amiably at Palla Dumont:

"What you say is very interesting," he remarked. But he was too polite
to add that it had been equally interesting to numberless generations
through the many, many centuries during which it all had been said
before, in various ways and by many, many people.

Lying back in his furs reflectively, and deriving a rather cold
satisfaction from his cigar butt, he let his mind wander back through
the history of theocracy and of mundane philosophy, mildly amused to
recognize an ancient theory resurrected and made passionately original
once more on the red lips of this young girl.

But the Law of Love is not destined to be solved so easily; nor had it
ever been solved in centuries dead by Egyptian, Mongol, or Greek--by
priest or princess, prophet or singer, or by any vestal or acolyte of
love, sacred or profane.

No philosophy had solved the problem of human woe; no theory
convinced. And Brisson, searching leisurely the forgotten corridors of
treasured lore, became interested to realise that in all the history
of time only the deeds and example of one man had invested the human
theory of divinity with any real vitality--and that, oddly enough,
what this girl preached--what she demanded of divinity--had been both
preached and practised by that one man alone--Jesus Christ.

Turning involuntarily toward Palla, he said: "Can't you believe in
Him, either?"

She said: "He was one of the Gods. But He was no more divine than any
in whom love lives. Had He been more so, then He would still
intervene to-day! He is powerless. He lets things happen. And we
ourselves must make it up to the world by love. There is no other
divinity to intervene except only our own hearts."

But that was not, as the young girl supposed, her fixed faith,
definite, ripened, unshakable. It was a phase already in process of
fading into other phases, each less stable, less definite, and more
dangerous than the other, leaving her and her ardent mind and heart
always unconsciously drifting toward the simple, primitive and natural
goal for which all healthy bodies are created and destined--the
instinct of the human being to protect and perpetuate the race by the
great Law of Love.

Brisson's not unkindly cynicism had left his lips edged with a slight
smile. Presently he leaned back beside Estridge and said in a low
voice:

"Purely pathological. Ardent religious instinct astray and running
wild in consequence of nervous dislocations due to shock. Merely
over-storage of superb physical energy. Intellectual and spiritual
wires overcrowded. Too many volts.... That girl ought to have been
married early. Only a lot of children can keep her properly occupied.
Only outlet for her kind. Interesting case. Contrast to the Swedish
girl. Fine, handsome, normal animal that. She could pick me up between
thumb and finger. Great girl, Estridge."

"She is really beautiful," whispered Estridge, glancing at Ilse.

"Yes. So is Mont Blanc. That sort of beauty--the super-sort. But it's
the other who is pathologically interesting because her wires are
crossed and there's a short circuit somewhere. Who comes in contact
with her had better look out."

"She's wonderfully attractive."

"She is. But if she doesn't disentangle her wires and straighten out
she'll burn out.... What's that ahead? A wolf!"

It was the rest house at the end of the étape--a tiny, distant speck
on the snowy plain.

Brisson leaned over and caught Palla's eye. Both smiled.

"Well," he said, "for a girl who doesn't believe in anything, you seem
cheerful enough."

"I am cheerful because I do believe in everything and in everybody."

Brisson laughed: "You shouldn't," he said. "Great mistake. Trust in
God and believe nobody--that's the idea. Then get married and close
your eyes and see what God will send you!"

The girl threw back her pretty head and laughed.

"Marriage and priests are of no consequence," she said, "but I adore
little children!"




CHAPTER II


They were a weary, half-starved and travel-stained quartette when the
Red Guards stopped them for the last time in Russia and passed them
through, warning them that the White Guards would surely do murder if
they caught them.

The next day the White Guards halted them, but finally passed them
through, counselling them to keep out of the way of the Red Guards if
they wished to escape being shot at sight.

In the neat, shiny, carefully scrubbed little city of Helsingfors they
avoided the huns by some miracle--one of Brisson's customary
miracles--but another little company of Americans and English was
halted and detained, and one harmless Yankee among them was arrested
and packed off to a hun prison.

Also, a large and nervous party of fugitives of mixed nationalities
and professions--consuls, chargés, attachés, and innocent, agitated
citizens--was summarily grabbed and ordered into indefinite limbo.

But Brisson's daily miracles continued to materialise, even in the
land of the Finn. By train, by sleigh, by boat, his quartette
floundered along toward safety, and finally emerged from the white
hell of the Red people into the sub-arctic sun--Estridge with
painfully scanty luggage, Palla Dumont with none at all, Ilse
Westgard carrying only her Cossack saddle-bags, and Brisson with his
damning papers still sewed inside his clothes, and owing Estridge ten
dollars for not getting murdered.

They all had become excellent comrades during those anxious days of
hunger, fatigue and common peril, but they were also a little tired of
one another, as becomes all friends when subjected to compulsory
companionship for an unreasonable period.

And even when one is beginning to fall in love, one can become
surfeited with the beloved under such circumstances.

Besides, Estridge's budding sentiment for Ilse Westgard, and her
wholesome and girlish inclination for him, suffered an early chill.
For the poor child had acquired trench pets from the Cossacks, and had
passed on a few to Estridge, with whom she had been constantly seated
on the front seat.

Being the frankest thing in Russia, she told him with tears in her
blue eyes; and they had a most horrid time of it before they came
finally to a sanitary plant erected to attend to such matters.

Episodes of that sort discourage sentiment; so does cold, hunger and
discomfort incident on sardine-like promiscuousness.

Nobody in the party desired to know more than they already knew
concerning anybody else. In fact, there was little more to know,
privacy being impossible. And the ever instinctive hostility of the
two sexes, always and irrevocably latent, became vaguely apparent at
moments.

Common danger swept it away at times; but reaction gradually revealed
again what is born under the human skin--the paradox called
sex-antipathy. And yet the men in the party would not have hesitated
to sacrifice their lives in defence of these women, nor would the
women have faltered under the same test.

Brisson was the philosophical stoic of the quartette. Estridge groused
sometimes. Palla, when she thought herself unnoticed, camouflaged her
face in her furs and cried now and then. And occasionally Ilse
Westgard tried the patience of the others by her healthy capacity for
unfeigned laughter--sometimes during danger-laden and inopportune
moments, and once in the shocking imminence of death itself.

As, for example, in a vile little village, full of vermin and typhus,
some hunger-crazed peasants, armed with stolen rifles and ammunition,
awoke them where they lay on the straw of a stable, cursed them for
aristocrats, and marched them outside to a convenient wall, at the
foot of which sprawled half a dozen blood-soaked, bayoneted and
bullet-riddled landlords and land owners of the district.

And things had assumed a terribly serious aspect when, to their
foolish consternation, the peasants discovered that their purloined
cartridges did not fit their guns.

Then, in the very teeth of death, Ilse threw back her blond head and
laughed. And there was no mistaking the genuineness of the girl's
laughter.

Some of their would-be executioners laughed too;--the hilarity spread.
It was all over; they couldn't shoot a girl who laughed that way. So
somebody brought a samovar; tea was boiled; and they all went back to
the barn and sat there drinking tea and swapping gossip and singing
until nearly morning.

That was a sample of their narrow escapes. But Brisson's only comment
before he went to sleep was that Estridge would probably owe him a
dollar within the next twenty-four hours.

They had a hair-raising time in Helsingfors. On one occasion, German
officers forced Palla's door at night, and the girl became ill with
fear while soldiers searched the room, ordering her out of bed and
pushing her into a corner while they ripped up carpets and tore the
place to pieces in a swinishly ferocious search for "information."

But they did nothing worse to her, and, for some reason, left the
hotel without disturbing Brisson, whose room adjoined and who sat on
the edge of his bed with an automatic in each hand--a dangerous
opportunist awaiting events and calmly determined to do some
recruiting for hell if the huns harmed Palla.

She never knew that. And the worst was over now, and the Scandinavian
border not far away. And in twenty-four hours they were over--Brisson
impatient to get his papers to Washington and planning to start for
England on a wretched little packet-boat, in utter contempt of mines,
U-boats, and the icy menace of the North Sea.

As for the others, Estridge decided to cable and await orders in
Copenhagen; Palla, to sail for home on the first available Danish
steamer; Ilse, to go to Stockholm and eventually decide whether to
volunteer once more as a soldier of the proletariat or to turn
propagandist and carry the true gospel to America, where, she had
heard, the ancient liberties of the great Democracy were becoming
imperilled.

The day before they parted company, these four people, so oddly thrown
together out of the boiling cauldron of the Russian Terror, arranged
to dine together for the last time.

Theirs were the appetites of healthy wolves; theirs was the thirst of
the marooned on waterless islands; and theirs, too, was the feverish
gaiety of those who had escaped great peril by land and sea; and who
were still physically and morally demoralized by the glare and the
roar of the hellish conflagration which was still burning up the world
around them.

So they met in a private dining room of the hotel for dinner on the
eve of separation.

Brisson and Estridge had resurrected from their luggage the remains of
their evening attire; Ilse and Palla had shopped; and they now
included in a limited wardrobe two simple dinner gowns, among more
vital purchases.

There were flowers on the table, no great variety of food but plenty
of champagne to make up--a singular innovation in apology for short
rations conceived by the hotel proprietor.

There was a victrola in the corner, too, and this they kept going to
stimulate their nerves, which already were sufficiently on edge
without the added fillip of music and champagne.

"As for me," said Brisson, "I'm in sight of nervous dissolution
already;--I'm going back to my wife and children, thank God--" he
smiled at Palla. "I'm grateful to the God you don't believe in, dear
little lady. And if He is willing, I'll report for duty in two weeks."
He turned to Estridge:

"What about you?"

"I've cabled for orders but I have none yet. If they're through with
me I shall go back to New York and back to the medical school I came
from. I hate the idea, too. Lord, how I detest it!"

"Why?" asked Palla nervously.

"I've had too much excitement. You have too--and so have Ilse and
Brisson. I'm not keen for the usual again. It bores me to contemplate
it. The thought of Fifth Avenue--the very idea of going back to all
that familiar routine, social and business, makes me positively ill.
What a dull place this world will be when we're all at peace again!"

"We won't be at peace for a long, long while," said Ilse, smiling. She
lifted a goblet in her big, beautifully shaped hand and drained it
with the vigorous grace of a Viking's daughter.

"You think the war is going to last for years?" asked Estridge.

"Oh, no; not this war. But the other," she explained cheerfully.

"What other?"

"Why, the greatest conflict in the world; the social war. It's going
to take many years and many battles. I shall enlist."

"Nonsense," said Brisson, "you're not a Red!"

The girl laughed and showed her snowy teeth: "I'm one kind of Red--not
the kind that sold Russia to the boche--but I'm very, very red."

"Everybody with a brain and a heart is more or less red in these
days," nodded Palla. "Everybody knows that the old order is
ended--done for. Without liberty and equal opportunity civilisation is
a farce. Everybody knows it except the stupid. And they'll have to be
instructed."

"Very well," said Brisson briskly, "here's to the universal but
bloodless revolution! An acre for everybody and a mule to plough it!
Back to the soil and to hell with the counting house!"

They all laughed, but their brimming glasses went up; then Estridge
rose to re-wind the victrola. Palla's slim foot tapped the parquet in
time with the American fox-trot; she glanced across the table at
Estridge, lifted her head interrogatively, then sprang up and slid
into his arms, delighted.

While they danced he said: "Better go light on that champagne, Miss
Dumont."

