whispered to the master of ceremonies. They unfastened Duggan, and
broke the grip of his arms about the tree, and dumped him down
beside Glikas.
Next came the turn of Donald Gordon, the Socialist Quaker, which
brought a bit of cheap drama. Donald took his religion seriously; he
was always shouting his anti-war sentiments in the name of Jesus,
which made him especially obnoxious. Now he saw a chance to get off
one of his theatrical stunts; he raised his two manacled hands into
the air as if he were praying, and shouted in piercing tones:
“Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do!”
A murmur started in the crowd; you could hear it mounting to a roar.
“Blasphemy!” they cried. “Stop his dirty mouth!” It was the same
mouth that had been heard on a hundred platforms, denouncing the war
and those who made money out of the war. They were here now, the men
who had been denounced, the younger members of the Chamber of
Commerce and the Merchants’ and Manufacturers’ Association, the best
people of the city, those who were saving the country, and charging
no more than the service was worth. So they roared with fury at this
sacreligious upstart. A man whose mask was a joke, because he was so
burly and hearty that everybody in the crowd knew him, took up the
bloody whip. It was Billy Nash, secretary of the “Improve America
League,” and the crowd shouted, “Go to it, Billy! Good eye, old
boy!” Donald Gordon might tell God that Billy Nash didn’t know what
he was doing, but Billy thought that he knew, and he meant before he
got thru to convince Donald that he knew. It didn’t take very long,
because there was nothing much to the young Quaker but voice, and he
fainted at the fourth or fifth stroke, and after the twentieth
stroke the doctor interfered.
Then came the turn of Grady, secretary of the I. W. W., and here a
terrible thing happened. Grady, watching this scene from one of the
cars, had grown desperate, and when they loosed the handcuffs to get
off his coat, he gave a sudden wrench and broke free, striking down
one man after another. He had been brought up in the lumber country,
and his strength was amazing, and before the crowd quite realized
it, he was leaping between two of the cars. A dozen men sprang upon
him from a dozen directions, and he went down in the midst of a wild
melee. They pinned him with his face mashed into the dirt, and from
the crowd there rose a roar as from wild beasts in the night-time,
“String him up! String him up!” One man came running with a rope,
shouting, “Hang him!”
The master of ceremonies tried to protest thru his megaphone, but
the instrument was knocked out of his hands, and he was hauled to
one side, and presently there was a man climbing up the pine tree
and hanging the rope over a limb. You could not see Grady for the
jostling throng about him, but suddenly there was a yell from the
crowd, and you saw him quite plainly--he shot high up into the air,
with the rope about his neck and his feet kicking wildly.
Underneath, men danced about and yelled and waved their hats in the
air, and one man leaped up and caught one of the kicking feet and
hung onto it.
Then, above all the din, a voice was heard thru the megaphone, “Let
him down a bit! Let me get at him!” And those who held the rope gave
way, and the body came down toward the ground, still kicking, and a
man took out a clasp-knife, and cut the clothing away from the body,
and cut off something from the body; there was another yell from the
crowd, and the men in the automobiles slapped their knees and
shrieked with satisfaction. Those in the car with Peter whispered
that it was Ogden, son of the president of the Chamber of Commerce;
and all over town next day and for weeks thereafter men would nudge
one another, and whisper about what Bob Ogden had done to the body
of Shawn Grady, secretary of the “damned wobblies.” And every one
who nudged and whispered about it felt certain that by this means
the Red Terror had been forever suppressed, and 100% Americanism
vindicated, and a peaceful solution of the problem of capital and
labor made certain.
Strange as it might seem, there was one member of the I. W. W. who
agreed with them. One of the victims of that night had learned his
lesson! When Tom Duggan was able to sit up again, which was six
weeks later, he wrote an article about his experience, which was
published in an I. W. W. paper, and afterwards in pamphlet form was
read by many hundreds of thousands of workingmen. In it the poet
said:
“The preamble of the I. W. W. opens with the statement that the
employing class and the working class have nothing in common; but on
this occasion I learned that the preamble is mistaken. On this
occasion I saw one thing in common between the employing class and
the working class, and that thing was a black-snake whip. The butt
end of the whip was in the hands of the employing class, and the
lash of the whip was on the backs of the working class, and thus to
all eternity was symbolized the truth about the relationship of the
classes!”
Section 61
Peter awoke next morning with a vivid sense of the pain and terror
of life. He had been clamoring to have those Reds punished; but
somehow or other he had thought of this punishment in an abstract
way, a thing you could attend to by a wave of the hand. He hadn’t
quite realized the physical side of it, what a messy and bloody job
it would prove. Two hours and more he had listened to the thud of a
whip on human flesh, and each separate stroke had been a blow upon
his own nerves. Peter had an overdose of vengeance; and now, the
morning after, his conscience was gnawing at him. He had known every
one of those boys, and their faces rose up to haunt him. What had
any of them done to deserve such treatment? Could he say that he had
ever known a single one of them to do anything as violent as the
thing they had all suffered?
But more than anything else Peter was troubled by fear. Peter, the
ant, perceived the conflict of the giants becoming more ferocious,
and realized the precariousness of his position under the giants’
feet. The passions of both sides were mounting, and the fiercer
their hate became, the greater the chance of Peter’s being
discovered, the more dreadful his fate if he were discovered. It was
all very well for McGivney to assure him that only four of Guffey’s
men knew the truth, and that all these might be trusted to the
death. Peter remembered a remark he had heard Shawn Grady make, and
which had caused him to lose his appetite for more than one meal.
“They’ve got spies among us,” the young Irishman had said. “Well,
sooner or later we’ll do a bit of spying of our own!”
And now these words came back to Peter like a voice from the grave.
Suppose one of the Reds who had money were to hire somebody to get a
job in Guffey’s office! Suppose some Red girl were to try Peter’s
device, and seduce one of Guffey’s men--by no means a difficult
task! The man mightn’t even mean to reveal that Peter Gudge was a
secret agent; he might just let it slip, as little Jennie had let
slip the truth about Jack Ibbetts! Thus Mac would know who had
framed him up; and what would Mac do to Peter when he got out on
bail? When Peter thought of things like that he realized what it
meant to go to war; he saw that he had gained nothing by staying at
home, he might as well have been in the front-line trenches! After
all, this was war, class-war; and in all war the penalty for spying
is death.
Also Peter was worried about Nell. She had been in her new position
for nearly a week, and he hadn’t heard a word from her. She had
forbidden him to write, for fear he might write something
injudicious. Let him just wait, Edythe Eustace would know how to
take care of herself. And that was all right, Peter had no doubt
about the ability of Edythe Eustace to take care of herself. What
troubled him was the knowledge that she was working on another
“frame-up,” and he stood in fear of the exuberance of her
imagination. The last time that imagination had been pregnant, it
had presented him with a suit-case full of dynamite. What it might
bring forth next time he did not know, and was afraid to think. Nell
might cause him to be found out by Guffey; and that would be nearly
as horrible as to be found out by Mac!
Peter got his morning “Times,” and found a whole page about the
whipping of the Reds, portraying the job as a patriotic duty
heroically performed; and that naturally cheered Peter up
considerably. He turned to the editorial page, and read a two column
“leader” that was one whoop of exultation. It served still more to
cure Peter’s ache of conscience; and when he read on and found a
series of interviews with leading citizens, giving cordial
endorsement to the acts of the “vigilantes,” Peter became ashamed of
his weakness, and glad that he had not revealed it to anyone. Peter
was trying his best to become a real “he-man,” a 100% red-blooded
American, and he had the “Times” twice each day, morning and
evening, to guide, sustain and inspire him.
Peter had been told by McGivney to fix himself up and pose as one of
the martyrs of the night’s affair, and this appealed to his sense of
humor. He cut off the hair from a part of his head, and stuck some
raw cotton on top, and plastered it over with surgical tape. He
stuck another big wad of surgical tape across his forehead, and a
criss-cross of it on his cheek, and tied up his wrist in an
excellent imitation of a sprain. Thus rigged out he repaired to the
American House, and McGivney rewarded him with a hearty laugh, and
then proceeded to give some instructions which, entirely restored
Peter’s usual freshness of soul. Peter was going up on Mount Olympus
again!
The rat-faced man explained in detail. There was a lady of great
wealth--indeed, she was said to be several times a millionaire--who
was an openly avowed Red, a pacifist of the most malignant variety.
Since the arrest of young Lackman she had come forward and put up
funds to finance the “People’s Council,” and the “Anti-Conscription
League,” and all the other activities which for the sake of
convenience were described by the term “pro-German.” The only
trouble was this lady was so extremely wealthy it was hard to do
anything to her. Her husband was a director in a couple of Nelse
Ackerman’s banks, and had other powerful connections. The husband
was a violent, anti-Socialist, and a buyer of liberty bonds; he
quarrelled with his wife, but nevertheless he did not want to see
her in jail, and this made an embarrassing situation for the police
and the district attorney’s office, and even for the Federal
authorities, who naturally did not want to trouble one of the
courtiers of the king of American City. “But something’s got to be
done,” said McGivney. “This camouflaged German propaganda can’t go
on.” So Peter was to try to draw Mrs. Godd into some kind of “overt
action.”
“Mrs. Godd?” said Peter. It seemed to him a singular coincidence
that one of the dwellers on Mount Olympus should bear that name. The
great lady lived on a hilltop out in the suburbs, not so far from
the hilltop of Nelse Ackerman. One of the adventures looked forward
to by Reds and pacifists in distress was to make a pilgrimage to
this palace and obtain some long, green plasters to put over their
wounds. Now was the time at all times for Peter to go, said
McGivney. Peter had many wounds to be plastered, and Mrs. Godd would
be indignant at the proceedings of last night, and would no doubt
express herself without restraint.
Section 62
Peter hadn’t been so excited since the time when he had waited to
meet young Lackman. He had never quite forgiven himself for this
costly failure, and now he was to have another chance. He took a
trolley ride out into the country, and walked a couple of miles to
the palace on the hilltop, and mounted thru a grove of trees and
magnificent Italian gardens. According to McGivney’s injunctions, he
summoned his courage, and went to the front door of the stately
mansion and rang the bell.
Peter was hot and dusty from his long walk, the sweat had made
streaks down his face and marred the pristine whiteness of his
plasters. He was never a distinguished-looking person at best, and
now, holding his damaged straw hat in his hands, he looked not so
far from a hobo. However, the French maid who came to the door was
evidently accustomed to strange-looking visitors. She didn’t order
Peter to the servant’s entrance, nor threaten him with the dogs; she
merely said, “Be seated, please. I will tell madame”--putting the
accent on the second syllable, where Peter had never heard it
before.
And presently here came Mrs. Godd in her cloud of Olympian
beneficence; a large and ample lady, especially built for the role
of divinity. Peter felt suddenly awe-stricken. How had he dared come
here? Neither in the Hotel de Soto, with its many divinities, nor in
the palace of Nelse Ackerman, the king, had he felt such a sense of
his own lowliness as the sight of this calm, slow-moving great lady
inspired. She was the embodiment of opulence, she was “the real
thing.” Despite the look of kindliness in her wide-open blue eyes,
she impressed him with a feeling of her overwhelming superiority. He
did not know it was his duty as a gentleman to rise from his chair
when a lady entered, but some instinct brought him to his feet and
caused him to stand blinking as she crossed to him from the opposite
end of the big room.
“How do you do?” she said in a low, full voice, gazing at him
steadily out of the kind, wide-open blue eyes. Peter stammered, “How
d-dy do, M--Mrs. Godd.”
In truth, Peter was almost dumb with bewilderment. Could it really,
possibly be that this grand personage was a Red? One of the things
that had most offended him about all radicals was their noisiness,
their aggressiveness; but here was a grand serenity of looks and
manner, a soft, slow voice--here was beauty, too, a skin unlined,
despite middle years, and glowing with health and a fine cleanness.
Nell Doolin had had a glowing complexion, but there was always a lot
of powder stuck on, and when you investigated closely, as Peter had
done, you discovered muddy spots in the edges of her hair and on her
throat. But Mrs. Godd’s skin shone just as the skin of a goddess
would be expected to shine, and everything about her was of a divine
and compelling opulence. Peter could not have explained just what it
was that gave this last impression so overwhelmingly. It was not
that she wore many jewels, or large ones, for Mrs. James had beaten
her at that; it was not her delicate perfume, for Nell Doolin
scattered more sweetness on the air; yet somehow even poor, ignorant
Peter felt the difference--it seemed to him that none of Mrs. Godd’s
costly garments had ever been worn before, that the costly rugs on
the floor had never been stepped on before, the very chair on which
he sat had never been sat on before!
Little Ada Ruth had called Mrs. Godd “the mother of all the world;”
 and now suddenly she became the mother of Peter Gudge. She had read
the papers that morning, she had received a half dozen telephone
calls from horrified and indignant Reds, and so a few words sufficed
to explain to her the meaning of Peter’s bandages and plasters. She
held out to him a beautiful cool hand, and quite without warning,
tears sprang into the great blue eyes.
“Oh, you are one of those poor boys! Thank God they did not kill
you!” And she led him to a soft couch and made him lie down amid
silken pillows. Peter’s dream of Mount Olympus had come literally
true! It occurred to him that if Mrs. Godd were willing to play
permanently the role of mother to Peter Gudge, he would be willing
to give up his role of anti-Red agent with its perils and its
nervous strains; he would forget duty, forget the world’s strife and
care; he would join the lotus-eaters, the sippers of nectar on Mount
Olympus!
She sat and talked to him in the soft, gentle voice, and the kind
blue eyes watched him, and Peter thought that never in all his life
had he encountered such heavenly emotions. To be sure, when he had
gone to see Miriam Yankovich, old Mrs. Yankovich had been just as
kind, and tears of sympathy had come into her eyes just the same.
But then, Mrs. Yankovich was nothing but a fat old Jewess, who lived
in a tenement and smelt of laundry soap and partly completed
washing; her hands had been hot and slimy, and so Peter had not been
in the least grateful for her kindness. But to encounter tender
emotions in these celestial regions, to be talked to maternally and
confidentially by this wonderful Mrs. Godd in soft white chiffons
just out of a band-box this was quite another matter!
Section 63
Peter did not want to set traps for this mother of Mount Olympus, he
didn’t want to worm any secrets from her. And as it happened, he
found that he did not have to, because she told him everything right
away, and without the slightest hesitation. She talked just as the
“wobblies” had talked in their headquarters; and Peter, when he
thought it over, realized that there are two kinds of people who can
afford to be frank in their utterance--those who have nothing to
lose, and those who have so much to lose that they cannot possibly
lose it.
Mrs. Godd said that what had been done to those men last night was a
crime, and it ought to be punished if ever a crime was punished, and
that she would like to engage detectives and get evidence against
the guilty ones. She said furthermore that she sympathized with the
Reds of the very reddest shade, and if there were any color redder
than Red she would be of that color. She said all this in her quiet,
soft voice. Tears came into her eyes now and then, but they were
well-behaved tears, they disappeared of their own accord, and
without any injury to Mrs. Godd’s complexion, or any apparent effect
upon her self-possession.
Mrs. Godd said that she didn’t see how anybody could fail to be a
Red who thought about the injustices of present-day society. Only a
few days before she had been in to see the district attorney, and
had tried to make a Red out of him! Then she told Peter how there
had come to see her a man who had pretended to be a radical, but she
had realized that he didn’t know anything about radicalism, and had
told him she was sure he was a government agent. The man had finally
admitted it, and showed her his gold star--and then Mrs. Godd had
set to work to convert him! She had argued with him for an hour or
two, and then had invited him to go to the opera with her. “And do
you know,” said Mrs. Godd, in an injured tone, “he wouldn’t go! They
don’t want to be converted, those men; they don’t want to listen to
reason. I believe the man was actually afraid I might influence
him.”
“I shouldn’t wonder,” put in Peter, sympathetically; for he was a
tiny bit afraid himself.
“I said to him, `Here I live in this palace, and back in the
industrial quarter of the city are several thousand men and women
who slave at machines for me all day, and now, since the war, all
night too. I get the profits of these peoples’ toil--and what have I
done to earn it? Absolutely nothing! I never did a stroke of useful
work in my life.’ And he said to me, `Suppose the dividends were to
stop, what would you do?’ ‘I don’t know what I’d do,’ I answered,
`I’d be miserable, of course, because I hate poverty, I couldn’t
stand it, it’s terrible to think of--not to have comfort and
cleanliness and security. I don’t see how the working-class stand
it--that’s exactly why I’m a Red, I know it’s wrong for anyone to be
poor, and there’s no excuse for it. So I shall help to overthrow the
capitalist system, even if it means I have to take in washing for my
living!”
Peter sat watching her in the crisp freshness of her snowy chiffons.
The words brought a horrible image to his mind; he suddenly found
himself back in the tenement kitchen, where fat and steaming Mrs.
Yankovich was laboring elbow deep in soap-suds. It was on the tip of
Peter’s tongue to say: “If you really had done a day’s washing, Mrs.
Godd, you wouldn’t talk like that!”
But he remembered that he must play the game, so he said, “They’re
terrible fellows, them Federal agents. It was two of them pounded me
over the head last night.” And then he looked faint and pitiful, and
Mrs. Godd was sympathetic again, and moved to more recklessness of
utterance.
“It’s because of this hideous war!” she declared. “We’ve gone to war
to make the world safe for democracy, and meantime we have to
sacrifice every bit of democracy at home. They tell you that you
must hold your peace while they murder one another, but they may try
all they please, they’ll never be able to silence me! I know that
the Allies are just as much to blame as the Germans, I know that
this is a war of profiteers and bankers; they may take my sons and
force them into the army, but they cannot take my convictions and
force them into their army. I am a pacifist, and I am an
internationalist; I want to see the workers arise and turn out of
office these capitalist governments, and put an end to this hideous
slaughter of human beings. I intend to go on saying that so long as
I live.” There sat Mrs. Godd, with her lovely firm white hands
clasped as if in prayer, one large diamond ring on the left fourth
finger shining defiance, and a look of calm, child-like conviction
upon her face, confronting in her imagination all the federal agents
and district attorneys and capitalist judges and statesmen and
generals and drill sergeants in the civilized world.
She went on to tell how she had attended the trial of three pacifist
clergymen a week or two previously. How atrocious that Christians in
a Christian country should be sent to prison for trying to repeat
the words of Christ! “I was so indignant,” declared Mrs. Godd, “that
I wrote a letter to the judge. My husband said I would be committing
contempt of court by writing to a judge during the trial, but I
answered that my contempt for that court was beyond anything I could
put into writing. Wait--”
And Mrs. Godd rose gravely from her chair and went over to a desk by
the wall, and got a copy of the letter. “I’ll read it to you,” she
said, and Peter listened to a manifesto of Olympian Bolshevism--
To His Honor:
As I entered the sanctuary, I gazed upward to the stained glass
dome, upon which were inscribed four words: Peace. Justice. Truth.
Law--and I felt hopeful. Before me were men who had violated no
constitutional right, who had not the slightest criminal tendency,
who, were opposed to violence of every kind.
The trial proceeded. I looked again at the beautiful stained glass
dome, and whispered to myself those majestic-sounding words: “Peace.
Justice. Truth. Law.” I listened to the prosecutors; the Law in
their hands was a hard, sharp, cruel blade, seeking insistently,
relentlessly for a weak spot in the armor of its victims. I listened
to their Truth, and it was Falsehood. Their Peace was a cruel and
bloody War. Their justice was a net to catch the victims at any
cost--at the cost of all things but the glory of the Prosecutor’s
office.
I grew sick at heart. I can only ask myself the old, old question:
What can we, the people do? How can we bring Peace, justice, Truth
and Law to the world? Must we go on bended knees and ask our public
servants to see that justice is done to the defenceless, rather than
this eternal prosecuting of the world’s noblest souls! You will find
these men guilty, and sentence them to be shut behind iron
bars--which should never be for human beings, no matter what their
crime, unless you want to make beasts of them. Is that your object,
sir? It would seem so; and so I say that we must overturn the system
that is brutalizing, rather than helping and uplifting mankind.
Yours for Peace..Justice..Truth..Law--
Mary Angelica Godd.
What were you going to do with such a woman? Peter could understand
the bewilderment of His Honor, and of the district attorney’s
office, and of the secret service department of the Traction
Trust--as well as of Mrs. Godd’s husband! Peter was bewildered
himself; what was the use of his coming out here to get more
information, when Mrs. Godd had already committed contempt of court
in writing, and had given all the information there was to give to a
Federal agent? She had told this man that she had contributed
several thousand dollars to the Peoples’ Council, and that she
intended to contribute more. She had put up bail for a whole bunch
of Reds and Pacifists, and she intended to put up bail for McCormick
and his friends, just as soon as the corrupt capitalist courts had
been forced to admit them to bail. “I know McCormick well, and he’s
a lovely boy,” she said. “I don’t believe he had anything more to do
with dynamite bombs than I have.”
Now all this time Peter had sat there, entirely under the spell of
Mrs. Godd’s opulence. Peter was dwelling among the lotus-eaters, and
forgetting the world’s strife and care; he was reclining on a silken
couch, sipping nectar with the shining ones of Mount Olympus. But
now suddenly, Peter was brought back to duty, as one wakes from a
dream to the sound of an alarm-clock. Mrs. Godd was a friend of
Mac’s, Mrs. Godd proposed to get Mac out on bail! Mac, the most
dangerous Red of them all! Peter saw that he must get something on
this woman at once!
Section 64
Peter sat up suddenly among his silken cushions, and began to tell
Mrs. Godd about the new plan of the Anti-conscription League, to
prepare a set of instructions for young conscientious objectors.
Peter represented the purpose of these instructions to be the
advising of young men as to their legal and constitutional rights.
But it was McGivney’s idea that Peter should slip into the
instructions some phrase advising the young men to refuse military
duty; if this were printed and circulated, it would render every
member of the Anti-conscription League liable to a sentence of ten
or twenty years in jail. McGivney had warned Peter to be very
cautious about this, but again Peter found that there was no need of
caution. Mrs. Godd was perfectly willing to advise young men to
refuse military service. She had advised many such, she said,
including her own sons, who unfortunately agreed with their father
in being blood-thirsty.
It came to be lunch-time, and Mrs. Godd asked if Peter could sit at
table--and Peter’s curiosity got the better of all caution. He
wanted to see the Godd family sipping their nectar out of golden
cups. He wondered, would the disapproving husband and the
blood-thirsty sons be present?
There was nobody present but an elderly woman companion, and Peter
did not see any golden cups. But he saw some fine china, so fragile
that he was afraid to touch it, and he saw a row of silver
implements, so heavy that it gave him a surprise each time he picked
one up. Also, he saw foods prepared in strange and complicated ways,
so chopped up and covered with sauces that it was literally true he
couldn’t give the name of a single thing he had eaten, except the
buttered toast.
He was inwardly quaking with embarrassment during this meal, but he
saved himself by Mrs. James’s formula, to watch and see what the
others were doing and then do likewise. Each time a new course was
brought, Peter would wait, and when he saw Mrs. Godd pick up a
certain fork or a certain spoon, he would pick up the same one, or
as near to it as he could guess. He could put his whole mind on
this, because he didn’t have to do any talking; Mrs. Godd poured out
a steady stream of sedition and high treason, and all Peter had to
do was to listen and nod. Mrs. Godd would understand that his mouth
was too full for utterance.
After the luncheon they went out on the broad veranda which
overlooked a magnificent landscape. The hostess got Peter settled in
a soft porch chair with many cushions, and then waved her hand
toward the view of the city with its haze of thick black smoke.
“That’s where my wage slaves toil to earn my dividends,” said she.
“They’re supposed to stay there--in their `place,’ as it’s called,
and I stay here in my place. If they want to change places, it’s
called `revolution,’ and that is `violence.’ What I marvel at is
that they use so little violence, and feel so little. Look at those
men being tortured in jail! Could anyone blame them if they used
violence? Or if they made an effort to escape?”
That suggested a swift, stabbing idea to Peter. Suppose Mrs. Godd
could be induced to help in a jail delivery!
“It might be possible to help them to escape,” he suggested.
“Do you think so?” asked Mrs. Godd, showing excitement for the
first time during that interview.
“It might be,” said Peter. “Those jailors are not above taking
bribes, you know. I met nearly all of them while I was in that jail,
and I think I might get in touch with one or two that could be paid.
Would you like me to try it?”
“Well, I don’t know--” began the lady, hesitatingly. “Do you really
think--”
“You know they never ought to have been put in at all!” Peter
interjected.
“That’s certainly true!” declared Mrs. Godd.
“And if they could escape without hurting anyone, if they didn’t
have to fight the jailors, it wouldn’t do any real harm--”
That was as far as Peter got with his impromptu conspiracy. Suddenly
he heard a voice behind him: “What does this mean?” It was a male
voice, fierce and trembling with anger; and Peter started from his
silken cushions, and glanced around, thrusting up one arm with the
defensive gesture of a person who has been beaten since earliest
childhood.
Bearing down on him was a man; possibly he was not an abnormally big
man, but certainly he looked so to Peter. His smooth-shaven face was
pink with anger, his brows gathered in a terrible frown, and his
hands clenched with deadly significance. “You dirty little skunk!”
 he hissed. “You infernal young sneak!”
“John!” cried Mrs. Godd, imperiously; but she might as well have
cried to an advancing thunder-storm. The man made a leap upon Peter,
and Peter, who had dodged many hundreds of blows in his lifetime,
rolled off the lounging chair, and leaped to his feet, and started
for the stairs of the veranda. The man was right behind him, and as
Peter reached the first stair the man’s foot shot out, and caught
Peter fairly in the seat of his trousers, and the first stair was
the only one of the ten or twelve stairs of the veranda that Peter
touched in his descent.
Landing at the bottom, he did not stop even for a glance; he could
hear the snorting of Mr. Godd, it seemed right behind his ear, and
Peter ran down the driveway as he had seldom run in his life before.
Every now and then Mr. Godd would shoot out another kick, but he had
to stop slightly to do this, and Peter gained just enough to keep
the kicks from reaching him. So at last the pursuer gave up, and
Peter dashed thru the gates of the Godd estate and onto the main
highway.
Then he looked over his shoulder, and seeing that Mr. Godd was a
safe distance away, he stopped and turned and shook his clenched
fist with the menace of a street-rat, shrieking, “Damn you! Damn
you!” A whirlwind of impotent rage laid hold upon him. He shouted
more curses and menaces, and among them some strange, some almost
incredible words. “Yes, I’m a Red, damn your soul, and I’ll stay a
Red!”
Yes, Peter Gudge, the friend of law and order, Peter Gudge, the
little brother to the rich, shouted, “I’m a Red, and what’s more,
we’ll blow you up some day for this--Mac and me’ll put a bomb under
you!” Mr. Godd turned and stalked with contemptuous dignity back to
his own private domestic controversy.
Peter walked off down the road, rubbing his sore trousers and
sobbing to himself. Yes, Peter understood now exactly how the Reds
felt. Here were these rich parasites, exploiting the labor of
working men and living off in palaces by themselves--and what had
they done to earn it? What would they ever do for the poor man,
except to despise him, and to kick him in the seat of his trousers?
They were a set of wilful brutes! Peter suddenly saw the happenings
of last night from a new angle, and wished he had all the younger
members of the Chamber of Commerce and the Merchants’ and
Manufacturers’ Association right there along with Mr. Godd, so that
he could bundle them all off to the devil at once.
And that was no passing mood either. The seat of Peter’s trousers
hurt so that he could hardly endure the trolley ride home, and all
the way Peter was plotting how he could punish Mr. Godd. He
remembered suddenly that Mr. Godd was an associate of Nelse
Ackerman; and Peter now had a spy in Nelse Ackerman’s home, and was
preparing some kind of a “frame-up!” Peter would see if he couldn’t
find some way to start a dynamite conspiracy against Mr. Godd! He
would start a campaign against Mr. Godd in the radical movement, and
maybe he could find some way to get a bunch of the “wobblies” to
carry him off and tie him up and beat him with a black-snake whip!
Section 65
With these reflections Peter went back to the American House, where
McGivney had promised to meet him that evening. Peter went to Room
427, and being tired after the previous night’s excitement, he lay
down and fell fast asleep. And when again he opened his eyes, he
wasn’t sure whether it was a nightmare, or whether he had died in
his sleep and gone to hell with Mr. Godd. Somebody was shaking him,
and bidding him in a gruff voice, “Wake up!” Peter opened his eyes,
and saw that it was McGivney; and that was all right, it was natural
that McGivney should be waking him up. But what was this? McGivney’s
voice was angry, McGivney’s face was dark and glowering, and--most
incredible circumstance of all--McGivney had a revolver in his hand,
and was pointing it into Peter’s face!
It really made it much harder for Peter to get awake, because he
couldn’t believe that he was awake; also it made it harder for
McGivney to get any sense out of him, because his jaw hung down, and
he stared with terrified eyes into the muzzle of the revolver.
“M-m-my God, Mr. McGivney! w-w-what’s the matter?”
“Get up here!” hissed the rat-faced man, and he added a vile name.
He gripped Peter by the lapel of his coat and half jerked him to his
feet, still keeping the muzzle of the revolver in Peter’s face. And
poor Peter, trying desperately to get his wits together, thought of
half a dozen wild guesses one after another. Could it be that
McGivney had heard him denouncing Mr. Godd and proclaiming himself a
Red? Could it be that some of the Reds had framed up something on
Peter? Could it be that McGivney had gone just plain crazy; that
Peter was in the room with a maniac armed with a revolver?
“Where did you put that money I gave you the other day;” demanded
McGivney, and added some more vile names.
Instantly, of course, Peter was on the defensive. No matter how
frightened he might be, Peter would never fail to hang on to his
money.
“I-I s-s-spent it, Mr. McGivney.”
“You’re lying to me!”
“N-n-no.”
“Tell me where you put that money!” insisted the man, and his face
was ugly with anger, and the muzzle of the revolver seemed to be
trembling with anger. Peter started to insist that he had spent
every cent. “Make him cough up, Hammett!” said McGivney; and Peter
for the first time realized that there was another man in the room.
His eyes had been so fascinated by the muzzle of the revolver that
he hadn’t taken a glance about.
Hammett was a big fellow, and he strode up to Peter and grabbed one
of Peter’s arms, and twisted it around behind Peter’s back and up
between Peter’s shoulders. When Peter started to scream, Hammett
clapped his other hand over his mouth, and so Peter knew that it was
all up. He could not hold on to money at that cost. When McGivney
asked him, “Will you tell me where it is?” Peter nodded, and tried
to answer thru his nose.
So Hammett took his hand from his mouth. “Where is it?” And Peter
replied, “In my right shoe.”
Hammett unlaced the shoe and took it off, and pulled out the inside
sole, and underneath was a little flat package wrapped in tissue
paper, and inside the tissue paper was the thousand dollars that
McGivney had given Peter, and also the three hundred dollars which
Peter had saved from Nelse Ackerman’s present, and two hundred
dollars which he had saved from his salary. Hammett counted the
money, and McGivney stuck it into his pocket, and then he commanded
Peter to put on his shoe again. Peter obeyed with his trembling
fingers, meantime keeping his eye in part on the revolver and in
part on the face of the rat.
“W-w-what’s the matter, Mr. McGivney?”
“You’ll find out in time,” was the answer. “Now, you march
downstairs, and remember, I’ve got this gun on you, and there’s
eight bullets in it, and if you move a finger I’ll put them all into
you.”
So Peter and McGivney and Hammett went down in the elevator of the
hotel, and out of doors, and into an automobile. Hammett drove, and
Peter sat in the rear seat with McGivney, who had the revolver in
his coat pocket, his finger always on the trigger and the muzzle
always pointed into Peter’s middle. So Peter obeyed all orders
promptly, and stopped asking questions because he found he could get
no answers.
Meantime he was using his terrified wits on the problem. The best
guess he could make was that Guffey had decided to believe Joe
Angell’s story instead of Peter’s. But then, why all this gun-play,
this movie stuff? Peter gave up in despair; and it was just as well,
for what had happened lay entirely beyond the guessing power of
Peter’s mind or any other mind.
Section 66
They went to the office of the secret service department of the
Traction Trust, a place where Peter had never been allowed to come
hitherto. It was on the fourteenth floor of the Merchant’s Trust
Building, and the sign on the door read: “The American City Land &
Investment Company. Walk In.” When you walked in, you saw a
conventional real estate office, and it was only when you had
penetrated several doors that you came to the secret rooms where
Guffey and his staff conducted the espionage work of the big
business interests of the city.
Peter was hustled into one of these rooms, and there stood Guffey;
and the instant Guffey saw him, he bore down upon him, shaking his
fist. “You stinking puppy!” he exclaimed. “You miserable little
whelp! You dirty, sneaking hound!” He added a number of other
descriptive phrases taken from the vocabulary of the kennel.
Peter’s knees were shaking, his teeth were chattering, and he
watched every motion of Guffey’s angry fingers, and every grimace of
Guffey’s angry features. Peter had been fully prepared for the most
horrible torture he had experienced yet; but gradually he realized
that he wasn’t going to be tortured, he was only going to be scolded
and raged at, and no words could describe the wave of relief in his
soul. In the course of his street-rat’s life Peter had been called
more names than Guffey could think of if he spent the next month
trying. If all Guffey was going to do was to pace up and down the
room, and shake his fist under Peter’s nose every time he passed
him, and compare him with every kind of a domestic animal, Peter
could stand it all night without a murmur.
He stopped trying to find out what it was that had happened, because
he saw that this only drove Guffey to fresh fits of exasperation.
Guffey didn’t want to talk to Peter, he didn’t want to hear the
sound of Peter’s whining gutter-pup’s voice. All he wanted was to
pour out his rage, and have Peter listen in abject abasement, and
this Peter did. But meantime, of course, Peter’s wits were working
at high speed, he was trying to pick up hints as to what the devil
it could mean. One thing was quite clear--the damage, whatever it
was, was done; the jig was up, it was all over but the funeral. They
had taken Peter’s money to pay for the funeral, and that was all
they hoped to get out of him.
Gradually came other hints. “So you thought you were going into
business on your own!” snarled Guffey, and his fist, which was under
Peter’s nose, gave an upward poke that almost dislocated Peter’s
neck.
“Aha!” thought Peter. “Nelse Ackerman has given me away!”
“You thought you were going to make your fortune and retire for life
on your income!”
Yes, that was it, surely! But what could Nelse Ackerman have told
that was so very bad?
“You were going to have a spy of your own, set up your own bureau,
and kick me out, perhaps!”
“My God!” thought Peter. “Who told that?”
Then suddenly Guffey stopped in front of him. “Was that what you
thought?” he demanded. He repeated the question, and it appeared
that he really wanted an answer, and so Peter stammered, “N-n-no,
sir.” But evidently the answer didn’t suit Guffey, for he grabbed
Peter’s nose and gave it a tweak that brought the tears into his
eyes.
“What was it then?” A nasty sneer came on the head detective’s
face, and he laughed at Peter with a laugh of venomous contempt. “I
suppose you thought she really loved you! Was it that? You thought
she really loved you?” And McGivney and Hammett and Guffey ha-ha-ed
together, and to Peter it seemed like the mockery of demons in the
undermost pit of hell. Those words brought every pillar of Peter’s
dream castle tumbling in ruins about his ears. Guffey had found out
about Nell!
Again and again on the automobile ride to Guffey’s office Peter had
reminded himself of Nell’s command, “Stick it out, Peter! Stick it
out!” He had meant to stick it out in spite of everything; but now
in a flash he saw that all was lost. How could he stick it out when
they knew about Nell, and when Nell, herself, was no longer sticking
it out?
Guffey saw these thoughts plainly written in Peter’s face, and his
sneer turned into a snarl. “So you think you’ll tell me the truth
now, do you? Well, it happens there’s nothing left to tell!”
Again he turned and began pacing up and down the room. The pressure
of rage inside him was so great that it took still more time to work
it off. But finally the head detective sat down at his desk, and
opened the drawer and took out a paper. “I see you’re sitting there,
trying to think up some new lie to tell me,” said he. And Peter did
not try to deny it, because any kind of denial only caused a fresh
access of rage. “All right,” Guffey said, “I’ll read you this, and
you can see just where you stand, and just how many kinds of a boob
you are.”
So he started to read the letter; and before Peter had heard one
sentence, he knew this was a letter from Nell, and he knew that the
castle of his dreams was flat in the dust forever. The ruins of
Sargon and Nineveh were not more hopelessly flat!
“Dear Mr. Guffey,” read the letter, “I am sorry to throw you down,
but fifty thousand dollars is a lot of money, and we all get tired
of work and need a rest. This is to tell you that Ted Crothers has
just broke into Nelse Ackerman’s safe in his home, and we have got
some liberty bonds and some jewels which we guess to be worth fifty
thousand dollars, and you know Ted is a good judge of jewels.
“Now of course you will find out that I was working in Mr.
Ackerman’s home and you will be after me hot-foot, so I might as
well tell you about it, and tell you it won’t do you any good to
catch us, because we have got all the inside dope on the Goober
frame-up, and everything else your bureau has been pulling off in
American City for the last year. You can ask Peter Gudge and he’ll
tell you. It was Peter and me that fixed up that dynamite
conspiracy, but you mustn’t blame Peter, because he only did what I
told him to do. He hasn’t got sense enough to be really dangerous,
and he will make you a perfectly good agent if you treat him kind
and keep him away from the women. You can do that easy enough if you
don’t let him get any money, because of course he’s nothing much on
looks, and the women would never bother with him if you didn’t pay
him too much.
“Now Peter will tell you how we framed up that dynamite job, and of
course you wouldn’t want that to get known to the Reds, and you may
be sure that if Ted and me get pinched, we’ll find some way to let
the Reds know all about it. If you keep quiet we’ll never say a
word, and you’ve got a perfectly good dynamite conspiracy, with all
the evidence you need to put the Reds out of business, and you can
just figure it cost you fifty thousand dollars, and it was cheap at
the price, because Nelse Ackerman has paid a whole lot more for your
work, and you never got anything half as big as this. I know you’ll
be mad when you read this, but think it over and keep your shirt on.
I send it to you by messenger so you can get hold of Nelse Ackerman
right quick, and have him not say anything to the police; because
you know how it is--if those babies find it out, it will get to the
Reds and the newspapers, and it’ll be all over town and do a lot of
harm to your frame-up. And you know after those Reds have got beaten
up and Shawn Grady lynched, you wouldn’t like to have any rumor get
out that that dynamite was planted by your own people. Ted and me
will keep out of sight, and we won’t sell the jewels for a while,
and everything will be all right.
“Yours respectfully,
“Edythe.
“P. S. It really ain’t Peter’s fault that he’s silly about women,
and he would have worked for you all right if it hadn’t been for my
good looks!”
Section 67
So there it was. When Peter had heard this letter, he understood
that there was no more to be said, and he said it. His own weight
had suddenly become more than he could support, and he saw a chair
nearby and slipped into it, and sat with eyes of abject misery
roaming from Guffey to McGivney, and from McGivney to Hammett, and
then back to Guffey again.
The head detective, for all his anger, was a practical man; he could
not have managed the very important and confidential work of the
Traction Trust if he had not been. So now he proceeded to get down
to business. Peter would please tell him everything about that
dynamite frame-up; just how they had managed it and just who knew
about it. And Peter, being also a practical man, knew that there was
no use trying to hide anything. He told the story from beginning to
end, taking particular pains to make clear that he and Nell alone
were in the secret---except that beyond doubt Nell had told her
lover, Ted Crothers. It was probably Crothers that got the dynamite.
From the conversation that ensued Peter gathered that this young man
with the face of a bull-dog was one of the very fanciest
safecrackers in the country, and no doubt he was the real brains of
the conspiracy; he had put Nell up to it, and managed every step.
Suddenly Peter remembered all the kisses which Nell had given him in
the park, and he found a blush of shame stealing over him. Yes,
there was no doubt about it, he was a boob where women were
concerned!
Peter began to plead for himself, Really it wasn’t his fault because
Nell had got a hold on him. In the Temple of Jimjambo, when he was
only a kid, he had been desperately in love with her. She was not
only beautiful, she was so smart; she was the smartest woman he had
ever known. McGivney remarked that she had been playing with Peter
even then--she had been in Guffey’s pay at that time, collecting
evidence to put Pashtian el Kalandra in jail and break up the cult
of Eleutherinian Exoticism. She had done many such jobs for the
secret service of the Traction Trust, while Peter was still
traveling around with Pericles Priam selling patent medicine. Nell
had been used by Guffey to seduce a prominent labor leader in
American City; she had got him caught in a hotel room with her, and
thus had broken the back of the biggest labor strike ever known in
the city’s history.
Peter felt suddenly that he had a good defense. Of course a woman
like that had been too much for him! It was Guffey’s own fault if he
hired people like that and turned them loose! It suddenly dawned on
Peter--Nell must have found out that he, Peter, was going to meet
young Lackman in the Hotel de Soto, and she must have gone there
deliberately to ensnare him. When McGivney admitted that that was
possibly true, Peter felt that he had a case, and proceeded to urge
it with eloquence. He had been a fool, of course, every kind of fool
there was, and he hadn’t a word to say for himself; but he had
learned his lesson and learned it thoroughly. No more women for him,
and no more high life, and if Mr. Guffey would give him another
chance--
Guffey, of course, snorted at him. He wouldn’t have a pudding-head
like Peter Gudge within ten miles of his office! But Peter only
pleaded the more abjectly. He really did know the Reds thoroughly,
and where could Mr. Guffey find anybody that knew them as well? The
