     it has so far reached.)
And now let us consider the process of industrial evolution. We shall
find it to be exactly the same thing, reproducing the changes in another
field of activity. You may picture two gigantic waves sweeping over the
ocean. In some places the waves are far apart, and in other places they
are closer together; for a time they may mingle, and perhaps their bases
always mingle. It would be easy for a critic to point out how political
affairs play a leading part in industrial evolution, and vice versa; it
would be easy to argue that property rules the political state, or
again, that the main function of the political state is to protect
property. As I have said, man has to fight his enemies, and he has to
seek food, and often he has to do the two things at the same time; but
nevertheless, broadly speaking, we observe two great waves, sweeping
over human society, and most of the time these waves are clearly
separated and easily distinguished.
Industry in a savage tribe is, like government, simple and uniform; all
the members of the tribe get their living in the same way. One may be a
little more expert as a fisherman, another as a gatherer of cocoanuts,
but the fisherman gathers cocoanuts and the cocoanut-gatherer fishes. In
the days of primitive communism there is little economic strife and
little change; but as slavery comes in, and the private property system,
there begins industrial war--the members of the tribe trade with one
another, and argue over prices, and gradually some get the better of
others, they accumulate slaves and goods, and later on they appropriate
the land to their private use. Of course, the men who do this are often
the rulers of the tribe, and so politics and industry are mixed; but
even assuming that the state never interfered, assuming that the
government allowed business affairs to work themselves out in their own
way, the tendency of competition is always to end in monopoly. The big
fish eat the little fish, the strong gain advantage over the weak, the
rich grow richer, and the poor grow relatively poorer. As the amount of
trading increases, and men specialize in the arts of bargaining, we see
again and again how money concentrates in the hands of a few. It does
this, even when the political state tries to prevent it; as, for
example, when the princes and dukes of the Middle Ages would torture the
Jewish money-lenders and take away their treasure, but the Jews never
failed to grow rich again.
It is when political evolution has completed itself, and a republic has
been set up, that a free field is given to economic forces to work
themselves out to their logical end. We have seen this in the United
States, where we all started pretty much on the same economic level, and
where political tyranny has had little hold. Our civilization is a
civilization of the trader--the business man, as we call him; and we see
how big business absorbs little business, and grows constantly larger
and more powerful. We are familiar with what we call "graft," the use by
business men of the powers of government to get trade advantage for
themselves, and we have a school of old-time thinkers, calling
themselves "Jeffersonian Democrats," who insist that if only there had
never been any government favors, economic equality and democracy would
have endured forever in our country. But it is my opinion that
government has done far more to prevent monopoly and special privilege
in business than to favor it; and nevertheless, monopoly has grown.
In other words, the tendency toward concentration in business, the
absorption of the small business by the big business, is an irresistible
natural process, which neither can be nor should be hindered. The
condition of competition, whether in politics or in industry, is never a
permanent one, and can never be made permanent; it is a struggle which
automatically brings itself to an end. Large-scale production and
distribution is more economical than small-scale, and big business has
irresistible advantages of credit and permanence over little business.
As we shall presently show, the blind and indiscriminate production of
goods under the competitive system leads to the glutting of markets and
to industrial crises. At such times the weaker concerns are weeded out
and the strong ones take their trade; and as a result, we have the
modern great corporation, the most powerful machine of production yet
devised by man, and which corresponds in every aspect to the monarchy in
political society.
We are accustomed to speak of our "captains of industry," our "coal
kings," and "beef barons" and "lords of steel," and we think we are
using metaphors; but the universality of these metaphors points to a
fundamental truth in them. As a matter of fact, our modern captain of
industry fills in the economic world exactly the same functions as were
filled in ancient days by the head of a feudal state. He has won his
power in a similar struggle, and he holds it by similar methods. He
rules over an organization of human beings, arranged, economically
speaking, in grades and classes, with their authorities and privileges
and duties precisely determined, as under the "ancient régime." And just
as King Louis said, "I am the state," so Mr. Armour considers that he is
Armour & Co., and Mr. Morgan considers that he is the house of Morgan,
and that the business exists for him and is controlled by him under
divine authority.
If I am correct in my analysis of the situation, this process of
industrial evolution is destined to complete itself, as in the case of
the political state. The subject populations of industry are becoming
more and more discontented with their servitude, more and more resentful
of that authority which compels them to labor while others reap the
benefit. They are organizing themselves, and preparing for a social
transformation which will parallel in every detail the revolution by
which our ancestors overthrew the authority of King George III over the
American colonies, and made inhabitants of those colonies no longer
subjects of a king, but free and equal citizens of a republic. I expect
to see a change throughout the world, which will take the great
instruments of production which we call corporations and trusts, out of
the hands of their present private owners, and make them the property,
either of the entire community, or of those who do the work in them.
This change is the "social revolution," and when it has completed
itself, we shall have in that society an Industrial Republic, a form of
business management which constitutes economic democracy.
The history of the world's political revolutions has been written almost
exclusively by aristocratic or bourgeois historians; that is to say, by
men who, whatever their attitude toward political democracy, have no
conception of industrial democracy, and believe that industrial strife
and enslavement are the normal conditions of life. If, however, you will
read Kropotkin's "Great French Revolution," you will be interested to
discover how important a part was played in this revolution by economic
forces. Underneath the political discontent of the merchants and middle
classes lay a vast mass of social discontent of the peasants and
workers. It was the masses of the people who made the revolution, but it
was the middle classes who seized it and turned it to their own ends,
putting down attempts toward economic equality, and confining the
changes, so far as possible, to the political field.
And everywhere throughout history, if you study revolutions, you find
that same thing happening. You find, for example, Martin Luther fighting
for the right to preach the word of God without consulting the Pope; but
when the peasants of Germany rose and sought to set themselves free from
feudal landlords, Luther turned against them, and called upon the
princes to shoot them down. "The ass needs to be beaten, and the
populace needs to be controlled with a strong hand." The landlords and
propertied classes of England were willing to restrict the power of the
king, and to give the vote to the educated and well-to-do; but from the
time of Jack Cade to our own they shoot down the poor.
But meantime, the industrial process continues; the modern factory
system brings the workers together in larger and larger groups, and
teaches them the lesson of class consciousness. So the time of the
workers draws near. The first attempt in modern times to accomplish the
social revolution and set up industrial democracy was in the Paris
Commune. When the French empire collapsed, after the war with Germany in
1871, the workers of Paris seized control. They were massacred, some
50,000 of them, and the propertied classes of France established the
present bourgeois republic, which has now become the bulwark of reaction
throughout the Continent of Europe.
Next came the Russian revolution of 1905, and this was an interesting
illustration of the relation between the two waves of social progress.
Russia was a backward country industrially, and according to theory not
at all prepared for the social revolution. But nowadays the thoughts of
men circulate all over the world, and the exiles from Russia had
absorbed Marxian ideas, and were not prepared to accept a purely
political freedom. So in 1905, after the Japanese war, when the people
rose and forced the Czar to grant a parliament, the extremists made an
effort to accomplish the social revolution at the same time. The
peasants began to demand the land, and the workers the factories;
whereupon the capitalists and middle classes, who wanted a parliament,
but did not want Socialism, went over to the side of reaction, and both
the political and social revolutions were crushed.
But then came the great war, for which Russia with her incompetent
government and her undeveloped industry was unprepared. The strain of it
broke her down long before the other Allies, and in the universal
suffering and ruin the Russian people were again forced to rise. The
political revolution was accomplished, the Czar was imprisoned, and the
Douma reigned supreme. Middle class liberalism throughout the world gave
its blessings to this revolution, and hastened to welcome a new
political democracy to the society of nations. But then occurred what to
orthodox democratic opinion has been the most terrifying spectacle in
human history. The Russian people had been driven too far towards
starvation and despair; the masses had been too embittered, and they
rose again, overthrowing not only their Czar and their grand dukes, but
their capitalists and land-owners. For the first time in history the
social revolution established itself, and the workers were in control of
a great state. Ever since then we have seen exactly what we saw in
Europe from 1789 onward, when the first political republic was
established, and all the monarchies and empires of the world banded
themselves together to stamp it out. We have witnessed a campaign of
war, blockade, intrigue and propaganda against the Soviet government of
Russia, all pretending to be carried on in the name of the Russian
people, and for the purpose of saving them from suffering--but all
obviously based upon one consideration and one alone, the fear that an
effort at industrial self-government might possibly prove to be a
success.
Whether or not the Soviets will prove permanent, no one can say. But
this much is certain; just as the French revolution sent a thrill around
the world, and planted in the hearts of the common people the wonderful
dream of freedom from kings and ruling classes, just so the Russian
revolution has brought to the working masses the dream of freedom from
masters and landlords. Everywhere in capitalist society this ferment is
working, and in one country after another we see the first pangs of the
new birth. Also we see capitalists and landlords, who once found
"democracy," "free speech" and "equality before the law" useful formulas
to break down the power of kings and aristocrats, now repudiating their
old-time beliefs, and going back to the frankest reaction. We see, in
our own "land of the free," the government refusing to reprint the
Declaration of Independence during the war, and arresting men for
quoting from it and circulating it; we even see the Department of
Justice refusing to allow people to reprint the Sermon on the Mount!
CHAPTER LIV
THE CLASS STRUGGLE
     (Discusses history as a battle-ground between ruling and subject
     classes, and the method and outcome of this struggle.)
There is a theory of social development, sometimes called the
materialistic interpretation of history, and sometimes the economic
interpretation of history. It is one of the contributions to our thought
which we owe to Karl Marx, and like all the rest of Marxian theory, it
is a subject of embittered controversy, not merely between Socialists
and orthodox economists, but between various schools of revolutionary
doctrine. For my part, I have never been a great hand for doctrine,
whether ancient or modern; I am not much more concerned with what Marx
taught than I am with what St. Paul taught, or what Martin Luther
taught. My advice is to look at life with your own eyes, and to state in
simple language the conclusions of your own thinking.
Man is an eating animal; he has also been described as a tool-making
animal, and might be described as an ideal-making animal. There is a
tendency on the part of those who specialize in the making of ideals to
repudiate the eating and the tool-making sides of man; which accounts
for the quarrel between the Marxians and the moralists. All through
history you find new efforts of man to develop his emotional and
spiritual nature, and to escape from the humiliating limitations of the
flesh. These efforts have many of them been animated by desperate
sincerity, but none of them have changed the fundamental fact that man
is an eating animal, an animal insufficiently provided by nature against
cold, and with an intense repugnance to having streams of cold water run
down back of his neck. The religious teachers go out with empty purse,
and "take no thought for the morrow"; but the forces of nature press
insistently upon them, and little by little they make compromises, they
take to shelter while they are preaching, they consent to live in
houses, and even to own houses, and to keep a bank account. So they make
terms with the powers of this world, and the powers of this world,
which are subtle, and awake to their own interests, find ways to twist
the new doctrine to their ends.
So the new religion becomes simply another form of the old hypocrisy;
and it comes to us as a breath of fresh air in a room full of corruption
when some one says, "Let us have done with aged shams and false
idealisms. Let us face the facts of life, and admit that man is a
physical animal, and cannot do any sane and constructive thinking until
he has food and shelter provided. Let us look at history with unblinking
eyes, and realize that food and shelter, the material means of life, are
what men have been seeking all through history, and will continue to
seek, until we put production and distribution upon a basis of justice,
instead of a basis of force."
Such is, as simply as I can phrase it, the materialistic interpretation
of history. Put into its dress of scientific language it reads: the
dominant method of production and exchange in any society determines the
institutions and forms of that society. I do not think I exaggerate in
saying that this formula, applied with judgment and discrimination, is a
key to the understanding of human societies.
Wherever man has moved into the stage of slavery and private property
there has been some group which has held power and sought to maintain
and increase it. This group has set the standards of behavior and belief
for the community, and if you wish to understand the government and
religion, the manners and morals, the philosophy and literature and art
of that community, the first thing you have to do is to understand the
dominant group and its methods of keeping itself on top. This statement
applies, not merely to those cultural forms which are established and
ordained by the ruling class; it applies equally well to the
revolutionary forms, the behavior and beliefs of those who oppose the
ruling class. For men do not revolt in a vacuum, they revolt against
certain conditions, and the form of their revolt is determined by the
conditions. Take, for example, primitive Christianity, which was
certainly an effort to be unworldly, if ever such an effort was made by
man. But you cannot understand anything about primitive Christianity
unless you see it as a new form of slave revolt against Roman
imperialism and capitalism.
The theory of the class struggle is the master key to the bewilderments
and confusions of history. Always there is a dominant class, holding
the power of the state, and always there are subject classes; and sooner
or later the subject classes begin protesting and struggling for wider
rights. When they think they are strong enough, they attempt a revolt,
and sometimes they succeed. If they do, they write the histories of the
revolt, and their leaders become heroes and statesmen. If they fail, the
histories are written by their oppressors, and the rebels are portrayed
as criminals.
One of the commonest of popular assumptions is that if the rebels have
justice on their side, they are bound to succeed in the long run; but
this is merely the sentimental nonsense that is made out of history. It
is perfectly possible for a just revolt to be crushed, and to be crushed
again and again; just as it is possible for a child which is ready to be
born to fail to be born, and to perish miserably. The fact that the
Huguenots had most of the virtue and industry and intelligence of France
did not keep them from being slaughtered by Catholic bigots, and
reaction riveted upon the French people for a couple of hundred years.
The fact that the Moors had most of the industry of Spain did not keep
them from being driven into exile by the Inquisition, and the
intellectual life of the Spanish people strangled for three hundred or
four hundred years.
Some eight hundred years ago our ancestors in England brought a cruel
and despotic king to battle, and conquered him, and on the field of
Runnymede forced him to sign a grant of rights to Englishmen. That
document is known as Magna Carta, or the Great Charter, and everyone who
writes political history today recognizes it as one of the greatest of
man's achievements, the beginning of a process which we hope will bring
freedom and equality before the law to every human being on earth.
And now we have come to the stage in our industrial affairs, when the
organized workers seek to bring the monarchs of industry into the
council chamber, and force them to sign a similar Great Charter, which
will grant freedom and self-government to the workers. Just as King John
was forced to admit that the power to tax and spend the public revenue
belonged to the people of England, and not to the ruler; just so the
workers will establish the principle that the finances of industry are a
public concern, that the books are to be opened, and prices fixed and
wages paid by the democratic vote of the citizens of industry. If that
change is accomplished, the historian of the future will recognize it
as another momentous step in progress; and he will heed the protests of
the lords of industry, that they are being deprived of their freedom to
do business, and of their sacred legal rights to their profits, as
little as he heeded the protests of King John against the "treason" and
"usurpation" and infringement of "divine right" by the rebellious
barons.
CHAPTER LV
THE CAPITALIST SYSTEM
     (Shows how wealth is produced in modern society, and the effect of
     this system upon the minds of the workers.)
In the beginning man got his living by hunting and fishing. Then he took
to keeping flocks and herds, and later by slow stages he settled down to
agriculture. With the introduction of slavery and the ownership of the
land by ruling classes, there came to be a subject class of workers, who
toiled on the land from dawn to dark, year in and year out, and got, if
they were fortunate, an existence for themselves and their families.
Whether these workers were called slaves or serfs or peasants, whether
their product was taken from them in the form of taxes by the king, or
of rent by the landlord, made no difference; the workers were bound to
the soil, like the beasts with which they lived in intimate contact.
They were drafted into armies, and made to fight for their lords and
masters; they suffered pestilence and famine, fire and slaughter; but
with infinite patience they would rebuild their huts, and dig and plant
again, whether for the old master or for a new one.
In the early days these workers made their own crude tools and weapons;
but very early there must have been some who specialized in such arts,
and with the growth of towns and communications came a new kind of
labor, based upon a new system. Some enterprising man would buy slaves,
or hire labor, and obtain a supply of raw material, and manufacture
goods to be bartered or sold. He would pay his workers enough to draw
them from the land, and would sell the product for what he could get,
and the difference would be his profit. That was capitalism, and at
first it was a thing of no importance, and the men who engaged in it had
no social standing. But princes and lords needed weapons and supplies
for their armies, and the men who could furnish these things became more
and more necessary, and the states which encouraged them were the ones
which rose to power. Merchants and sea-traders became the intimates of
kings, and by the time of the Roman empire, capitalism was a great
world power, dominating the state, using the armies of the state for its
purposes. It went down with the rest of Roman civilization, but in the
Middle Ages it began once more to revive, and by the end of the
eighteenth century the merchants and money lenders of France, with their
retainers, the lawyers and journalists, were powerful enough to take the
control of society.
Then, in the beginning of the nineteenth century, came the invention of
machinery and of the power process. Capitalism began to grow like a
young giant among pygmies. In the course of a century it has ousted all
other methods of production, and all other forms of social activity. A
hundred years ago the British House of Commons was a parliament of
landlords; today it is a Merchants' and Manufacturers' Association. Out
of the 707 members of the British House of Commons, 361 are members of
the "Federation of British Industries," the labor-smashing organization
of British "big business." And the same is true of every other
parliament and congress in the modern capitalist state. Practically all
the wealth of the world today is produced by the capitalist method, and
distributed under capitalist supervision, and therefore capitalist ideas
prevail in our society, to the practical exclusion of all other ideas. I
have shown in "The Profits of Religion" how these ideas dominate the
modern church, and in "The Brass Check" how they dominate the modern
press. I plan to write two books, to show how they dominate education
and literature.
A hundred years ago an industry consisted of a half a dozen or a dozen
men, working under the personal supervision of an owner, and using crude
hand tools. Today it consists of a gigantic trust, owning and managing
scores and perhaps hundreds of mills and factories, each employing
thousands of workers. A corporation like the Steel Trust owns enough of
the sources of its raw material to give it practical monopoly; it owns a
fleet of vessels especially designed for ore-carrying; it owns its
private railroads, to deliver the ore to the mills. Through its system
of dummy directorates it has practical control of the main railroads
over which it distributes its products; also of banks and trust
companies and insurance companies, to gather the money of the public to
finance its undertakings. It owns huge office buildings, and vast
tracts of land upon which the homes of its workers are built. It has a
private army for the defense of its property--a complete army of
cavalry, infantry and artillery, including a large and highly efficient
secret service department, with a host of informers and spies. It has
newspapers for the purpose of propaganda, and it controls the government
of every village, town and city in which it has important interests. If
you will take the trouble to visit a "steel town," and make inquiries
among public officials, newspaper men, and others who are "on the
inside," you will discover that those in authority consider it necessary
and proper that "steel" should control, and are unable to conceive any
other condition of affairs. If you go to other parts of the country,
where other great industries are located, you find it taken for granted
that "copper" should control, or "lumber," or "coal," or "oil," or
whatever it may be.
Under the system of large scale capitalism, labor is a commodity, bought
and sold in the market like any other commodity. Some years ago Congress
was requested to pass a law contradicting this fundamental fact of world
capitalism. Congress passed a law, very carefully worded so that no one
could be sure what it meant, and a few years later the Supreme Court
nullified the law. But all through this political and legal controversy
the status of labor remained exactly the same; there was a "labor
market," consisting of those members of the community who, in the
formula of Marx, had nothing but their labor power to sell. These
competed for recognition at the factory gates, and highly skilled
foremen selected those who offered the largest quantity of labor power
for the stated wage.
So entirely impersonal is this process that there are great industries
in America in which ninety per cent of the common labor force is hired
and fired all over again in the course of a year. These men are put to
work in gangs, under a system which enables one picked man to set the
pace, and compel all the others to keep up with him, under penalty of
being discharged. This process is known as "speeding up," and its
purpose is to obtain from each worker the greatest quantity of energy in
exchange for his daily wage. In the steel industry men work twelve hours
a day for six days in the week, and then finish with a twenty-four-hour
day. If they do not work so long in other industries, it is because
experience has proven that the greatest quantity of energy can be
obtained from them in a shorter time. There are very few men who can
stand this pace for long. Those who are not crippled or killed in
accidents are broken down at forty, and all the great corporations
recognize this fact. Their foremen pick out the younger men, and
practically all concerns have an age rule, and never hire men above
forty or forty-five.
I shall not in this book go into details concerning the fate of the
worker under the profit system. I have written two novels, "The Jungle"
and "King Coal," in which the facts are portrayed in detail, and it
seems the part of common sense to refer the reader to these text-books.
It will suffice here to set forth the main outlines of the situation. In
every capitalist country of the world the masses of the people are
herded into industries, in whose profits they have no share, and in
whose welfare they have no interest. They do not know the people for
whom they work; they have no human relationship, either with their work
or with their employers. They see the surplus of their product drawn off
to maintain a class of idlers, whose activities they know only through
the scandals of the divorce courts and the luxury-love of the moving
picture screen. They compete with one another for jobs, and bid down one
another's wages; and if they attempt to organize and end this
competition, their efforts are broken by newspaper propaganda and
policemen's clubs. At the same time they know that monopoly, open or
secret, prevails in the fixing of prices, and so they find the struggle
to "get ahead" a losing one. In America it used to be possible for the
young and energetic to "go West"; but now the wave of capitalism has
reached the Pacific coast and been thrown back, and there is no more
frontier.
The man who works on the land has been through all the ages a solitary
man. He is better friends with his horse and his cow than with his
fellow humans. He is brutalized by incessant toil, he lives amid dirt
and the filth of animals, he is, in the words of Edwin Markham:
    "A thing that grieves not and that never hopes,
     Stunted and stunned, a brother to the ox."
He is a victim of natural forces which he does not understand, and
inevitably therefore he is superstitious. Being alone, he is helpless
against his masters, and only utter desperation drives him to revolt.
But consider the capitalist system--how different the conditions of its
workers! Here they are gathered into city slums, and their wits are
sharpened by continual contact with their fellows. The printing press
makes cheap the spread of information, and the soap-box makes it even
cheaper. Any man with a grievance can shout aloud, and be sure of an
audience to listen, and he can get a great deal said before the company
watchman or the policeman can throttle him. Moreover, the modern worker
is not struggling with drought and tempest and hail; he does not see his
labors wiped out by volcanic eruption or lightning stroke; he is dealing
with machinery, something that he himself has made, and that he fully
understands. If a machine gets out of order, he does not fall down upon
his knees and pray to God to fix it. All the training of his life
teaches him the relationship of cause and effect, the adjustment of
means to ends. So the modern worker, as a necessary consequence of his
daily work, is practical, skeptical, and unsentimental in his
psychology. And what is more, he is making all the rest of society of
the same temperament. He is building roads out into the country, and
building machines to roll over them; he is running telephone lines and
sending newspapers and magazines and moving picture shows to the peasant
and the farmer; so the young peasants and farmers hunger for the city,
and they learn to fix machinery instead of praying to God.
Such is the psychology of the modern working class; and the supreme
achievement of their sharpened wits is an understanding of the
capitalist process. As a matter of fact they did not make this discovery
for themselves; it was made for them by middle-class men, lawyers and
teachers and writers--Fourier, Owen, Marx, Lassalle. The modern doctrine
is called by various names: Socialism, Communism, Anarchism, Bolshevism,
Syndicalism, Collectivism. Later on I shall define these various terms,
and point out the distinctions between them. For the moment I emphasize
the factor they all have in common, and which is fundamental: they wish
to break the power of class ownership and control of the instruments and
means of production; they wish to replace private capitalism by some
system under which the instruments and means of production are
collectively owned and operated; and they look to the non-owning class,
the proletarian, as the motive power by which this change is to be
compelled. I shall in future refer to this as the "social revolutionary"
doctrine; taking pains to explain that the word "revolutionary" is to be
divested of its popular meaning of physical violence. It is perfectly
conceivable that the change may be brought about peaceably, and I shall
try to show before long that in modern capitalist states the decision as
to whether it is brought about peaceably or by violence rests with the
present masters of industry.
CHAPTER LVI
THE CAPITALIST PROCESS
     (How profits are made under the present industrial system and what
     becomes of them.)
We have next to examine the structure of the capitalist order, basing
our argument on facts which are admitted by everyone, including the most
ardent defenders of the present system.
All men have to have certain material things which we describe as goods.
As these goods do not produce themselves, it is necessary that some
should work. The workers must have tools; also they must have access to
the land and the sources of raw materials. These means of production are
owned by some individuals in the community, and this ownership gives
them power to direct the work of the rest. Those who own the land and
the natural sources of wealth we call capitalists, or business men, and
those who do not own these things, or whose share in them is
insignificant, are the proletariat, or working class.
If you state to the average American that there is a capitalist class
and a proletariat in this country, he will point out that many who are
now members of the capitalist class were originally members of the
proletariat; they have worked hard and saved, and accumulated property.
But this is merely confusing the issue. The fact that some proletarians
turn into capitalists and some capitalists into proletarians is
important to the individuals concerned, but it does not alter the fact
that there are two classes, capitalist and proletarian. Consider, by way
of illustrating, a field with trees growing on it; we have earth, and we
have trees, and the distinction between them is unmistakable. The roots
of the trees go down into the earth, and take up portions of the earth
and turn it into tree. The leaves and the dead branches fall, and in the
course of time are turned once more to earth. There are all sorts of
stages between earth and tree, and between tree and earth; but you would
not therefore say that the word "earth" and the word "tree" are
misnomers.
The working men go to the business man and apply for work. The business
man gives them work, and takes their product, and offers it in the
market at a price which allows him a profit above cost. If he can sell
at a profit, he repeats the process, and the worker has a job. If he
cannot sell at a profit, the worker is out of a job. Here and there may
be a benevolent business man who, rather than turn his workers out of a
job, will sell his goods at cost, or even for a short time at a loss;
but if he keeps the factory going simply for the benefit of his workers,
and with no expectation of ever making a profit, that is a form of
charity, and not the common system under which our business is now
carried on.
So it appears that the worker is dependent for his wages upon the
ability of the business man to make a profit. The worker's life is
inextricably bound up with the profit of the capitalist--no profit for
the capitalist, no life for the worker. The capitalist, going out to
look for markets for his goods, is seeking, not merely profit for
himself, but life for his workers.
Now, the business man pays a certain percentage of his total receipts
for labor, another percentage for raw materials, another percentage for
his overhead charges, and the rest is profit in various forms, rent to
the landlord, interest to the bondholder, dividends to the stockholder.
All this total sum goes to human individuals, and each has thus a
certain amount of money to spend. They pay it over to other individuals
for goods or services, and so the money keeps circulating, and business
keeps going. That is as deep as the average mind probes into the
process.
But let us probe a little deeper. It is evident that, in the course of
all this exchanging of goods, some individuals get a larger share than
other individuals. Our government collects an income tax, and thus we
have statistics representing what people are willing to admit about the
share they get. In 1917 it appeared that, speaking roughly, one family
out of six had an income of over $1,000 a year, and one family out of
twelve had an income of over $2,000. But there were 19,000 families
which admitted incomes of over $50,000 a year, and 300 with over
$1,000,000 a year.
Now the families that get less than a thousand dollars a year obviously
have to spend the greater part of their income upon their immediate
living expenses. But the families that get $50,000 a year do not need
to spend everything, and most of them take the greater part of their
income and reinvest it--that is, they spend it upon the creating of new
machinery of production, railroads, mills, factories, office buildings,
the whole elaborate structure of capitalist industry.
Exactly what proportion of the total product of industry is thus taken
and reinvested no one can say; but this we know, our cities are growing
at an enormous rate, our manufacturing power is increasing by leaps and
bounds, we are perfecting processes which enable one man to do the work
of a hundred men, which increase the product of one man's labor a
hundredfold. All this goes on blindly, automatically; a Niagara of goods
of all sorts is poured out, and we call it "prosperity."
But then suddenly a strange and bewildering thing happens. All at once,
and without warning, orders fall off, values begin to drop, business
collapses, factories are shut down, and millions of men are thrown out
of jobs. Merchants look at one another with blanched faces; each one has
been counting on paying his bills with the profits he was going to make,
and now his profits are gone, and he can't pay. The newspapers and
magazines keep insisting that it can't be true, that business is going
to revive next week, that prosperity is just ahead. But the factories
stay shut, and the millions of men stay idle.
This is the condition in which we find ourselves as I write this book.
It has been happening regularly in our history every ten years or so,
ever since America started; we have had a hundred years to reflect upon
it and to probe into the causes of it, and such is business intelligence
in the most enlightened country in the world, you may search the pages
of our newspapers from the first column of millionaire divorce suits to
the last column of "situations wanted," and nowhere can you find one
word to explain this mysterious calamity of "hard times"--how it comes
to happen to our social system, or what could be done to prevent it! To
supply this deficiency in present day thinking is our next task.
CHAPTER LVII
HARD TIMES
     (Explains why capitalist prosperity is a spasmodic thing, and why
     abundant production brings distress instead of plenty.)
Let us picture a small island inhabited by six men. One of these men
fishes, another hunts, another gathers cocoanuts, another raises goats
for clothing, and so on. The six men among them produce by their labor
all the necessities of their lives, and they exchange their products
with one another. The island is productive, and each of the men is free,
and makes his exchanges on equal terms; on that basis the industry of
the island can continue indefinitely, and there will never be any
trouble. There may sometimes be over-production, but it will not cause
anyone to starve. If the fisherman is unusually lucky one day, he will
be able to take a vacation for a few days, living on his fish and the
products he exchanges for his fish. For the sake of convenience in
future reference, I will describe this happy island as a "free" society;
meaning that each of the members of this society has access on equal
terms to the sources of wealth, and each owns the product of his own
labor, without paying tribute to any one else for the right to labor, or
to exchange his products.
But now let us suppose that one of the men on the island is strong and
aggressive; he takes a club and knocks down the other five men, and
compels them to sign a piece of paper agreeing that hereafter he is the
president of the land development company of the island, the chief
stockholder in the goat-raising company, and owner of the fishing
concession and the cocoanut grove; also, that hereafter goods shall not
be bartered in kind, but shall be exchanged for money, and that he is
the banker, and also the government, with the right to issue money. In
this society you will find that the real work, the actually productive
work, is done by five men, instead of by six, and these five do not get
the full value of their labor. The fisherman will fish, but his product
will no longer belong to himself; he will get part of it as wages, while
the "business man" takes charge of the balance. So when there is a
lucky day, there will be prosperity in the fishing industry, but this
prosperity will not benefit the fisherman; he will have only his wage,
and when he has caught too many fish, he will not have a few days'
vacation, but will be out of a job.
And exactly the same thing will happen to the goat-herd. He will
probably have work all the year round, because goats have to be tended,
but he will get barely enough to keep him alive, and the surplus skins
and milk will go to the owner of the no-longer-happy island. Perhaps it
will occur to the owner that the man who raises cocoanuts might also
keep an eye on the goats, and so the goat-herd will be permanently out
of a job, and will turn into what is called a tramp, or vagrant.
Inasmuch as everything to eat on the island belongs to the owner, the
ex-goat-herd will be tempted to become a criminal, and so it will be
necessary for the owner to arm the cocoanut man with a club and make him
into a policeman; or perhaps he will organize the fisherman and the
hunter into a militia for the preservation of law and order. They will
be glad to serve him, because, owing to the extreme productivity of the
island, they will be out of jobs a great part of the time, and but for
the generosity of the business man, would have no way of earning a
living.
But suppose that the cocoanut man should invent a machine for gathering
a year's supply of nuts in a week; suppose the fisherman should devise a
scheme to fill his boat with fish in a few minutes; and suppose that as
a result of these inventions the business man got so rich that he moved
to Paris, and no longer saw his workers, or even knew their names. Under
these conditions you can see that overproduction and unemployment might
increase on the island; and also the business man might seem less human
and lovable to his wage slaves, and might need a larger police force. It
might even happen that he would discover the need of a propaganda
department, in order to keep his police force loyal, and a secret
service to make sure that agitators did not get into the schools.
The five islanders, having filled all the barns and storehouses, would
be turned out to starve; and when they asked the reason, they would be
told it was because they had produced a surplus of food. This may sound
grotesque, but it is what is being said to 5,000,000 men in America as I
write. There are clothing-workers who are going about in rags, and they
are told it is because they have produced too much clothing. There are
shoe-workers whose shoes are falling off their feet, and they are told
it is because they have produced too many shoes. There are carpenters
who have no homes, and they are told that a great many homes are needed,
but unfortunately it doesn't pay the builders to go ahead just now. This
may sound like a caricature, but it happens to be the most prominent
single fact in the consciousness of 5,000,000 Americans at the close of
the year 1921. No wonder they are discontented with the present order.
The solution of the mystery is so simple that the 5,000,000 unemployed
cannot be kept permanently from understanding it. The reason the five
men on the island are starving is because one man owns the island and
the others own nothing. If the island were community property, the five
men would each own a share of the contents of the barns and storehouses,
and would not be starving. If the 100,000,000 people of America owned
the productive machinery of America, then instantly the unemployment
crisis would pass like an evil dream. The farm-workers who need shoes
would exchange their food with the starving shoe-workers, and the
starving shoe-workers would have jobs. They would want clothing, and so
the clothing-makers would start to work; and so on all the way down the
line. There is only one thing necessary to make this possible, and that
is the thing which we have agreed to call the social revolution.
CHAPTER LVIII
THE IRON RING
     (Analyzes further the profit system, which strangles production,
     and makes true prosperity impossible.)
We have seen that in an exploiting society there is a surplus which is
taken by the exploiter; and that under the modern system this surplus
must be sold at a profit before production can continue. The vital fact
in such a society is that the worker has not the money to buy back all
that he produces; therefore it is inevitable that a surplus product
should accumulate. When this happens, production must be cut down, and
during that period the worker is without a job, and without means of
living. The fact that he needs the product does not help him; the point
is that he has not the money to buy it. In such a society the productive
machinery is never used to the full. The machinery is controlled by a
profit-seeking interest, seeking an opportunity to make sales, and
restricting production according to the prospect of sales. So the actual
product bears no relationship to the possible product, and people who
live in an exploiting society can form no conception of true prosperity.
For, you see, the market is limited by the competitive wage system. We
have seen that in our own rich, prosperous country only one family out
of six has more than $1,000 a year income; only one family out of twelve
has $2,000 a year. It does not make any difference that the warehouses
are bursting with goods; a family constitutes a market of so many
dollars a year, and then, so far as the profit system is concerned, that
family is non-existent; that family stops consuming, and the productive
machinery is halted to that extent.
I have been accustomed to portray the profit system under the simile of
an iron ring riveted about the body of a baby. That ring would cause the
baby some discomfort at the beginning, but it would not be serious, and
the baby would get used to it. But as the baby grew the trouble caused
by the ring would increase, and finally there would come a time when
the baby would be suffering from a whole complication of troubles, and
for each of these troubles there would be but one remedy--break the
ring. Does the baby cry all the time? Break the ring! Is its digestion
defective? Break the ring! Is it threatened with convulsions or with
blood poisoning? Break the ring!
Here is our industrial society, growing at a rate never equalled by any
human baby; and here is this iron ring riveted about its middle. Here is
poverty, here is unemployment, here is graft, here is crime, here is war
and plague and famine; and for all these evils there is but one cause,
and but one remedy. Break the ring! Set production free from the
strangulation of the profit system.
I will admit that there may have been a time in the history of the
social infant when this ring was necessary. I admit that if the great
industrial machine was to be constructed, it was necessary that the mass
of the people should consume only part of what they produced, and should
allow the balance to be reinvested as capital. But now it has been done,
and the process is complete. We have a machine capable of producing many
times more than we can consume; shall we still go on building that
machine? Shall we go on starving ourselves, to save the money, to
multiply over and over again the products, in order that we may be
thrown out of work, and be starved even more completely?
A few generations ago we had in colonial America a society that in part
at least was "free." In that society everybody got the necessities of
life. They did not have the modern Sunday supplement and the moving
picture show, but they had bread and meat and good substantial clothing,
and furniture so well made that we still preserve it. The children in
those days grew up to be strong and sturdy men and women, who would have
seen nothing to envy in the bodies or minds of the slum population of
New York and Chicago. In short, they had all the true necessities of
life; and yet their work was done by hand, the power process was unknown
and undreamed of.
Now comes modern machinery, and multiplies the productive power of the
hand laborer by five, by ten, sometimes by a hundred. Here, for example,
is the "Appeal to Reason" selling millions of cheap books for ten cents
apiece, and making a profit on it; installing a gigantic press which
takes paper, sheet after sheet, prints 128 pages of a book at one
impression, and folds and stitches and binds the books, all in one
process, and turns them out complete at the rate of 10,000 copies per
hour. Here is a factory which turns out 100,000 automobiles a month.
Here is a mill which turns out many millions of yards of cloth a month.
If our colonial ancestors had been told about these marvels, they would
have said instantly: "Then, of course, everybody in that society will
have all the books they want, and all the clothing they want, and all
the automobiles. Everybody in that society will have five or ten or one
hundred times as much goods as we have."
Imagine the bewilderment of our colonial ancestor if he had been told:
"The majority of the people in that society will not have so much of the
real necessities of life as you have. They will have a few cheap
trinkets, designed to tickle their senses; they will have cheap
newspapers, carefully contrived to keep their minds vacant and to keep
them contented with their lot; they will have moving picture shows
constructed for the same purpose; but all their material things will be
flimsy, put together for show and not for permanence; their food will be
adulterated, their clothing will be shoddy, everything they have will be
made, not for their service, but for the profit of some one who lives by
selling to them. The average wage earned by those who do the work of
this new machine civilization will be less than half the amount
necessary to purchase the necessities of a decent life, and one-tenth of
the total population will be living in such poverty that they are unable
to maintain physical fitness, or to rear their children into full sized
men and women."
CHAPTER LIX
FOREIGN MARKETS
     (Considers the efforts of capitalism to save itself by marketing
     its surplus products abroad, and what results from these efforts.)
If our analysis of present-day society is correct, we have the enormous
populations of the modern industrial countries, living always on the
verge of starvation, their chance for survival depending at all times
upon the ability of their employers to find a profitable market for a
surplus of goods. At first the employer seeks that market at home; but
when the home markets are glutted, he goes abroad; and so develops the
phenomenon of foreign trade and rivalry for foreign trade, as the basic
fact of capitalism, and the fundamental cause of modern war.
Let us get clear a simple distinction concerning foreign trade. There is
a kind of trade which is normal, and would thrive in a "free" society.
In the United States we can produce nearly all the necessities of life,
but there are a few which we cannot produce--rubber, for example, and
bananas, and good music. These things we wish to import. We buy them
from other countries, and incur a debt, which we pay with products which
the other countries need from us; wheat, for example, and copper, and
moving pictures with cowboys in them. This is equal exchange, and a
natural phenomenon. A "free" society would produce such surplus goods as
were necessary to procure the foreign products that it desired. When it
had produced that much, the workers would stop and take a vacation until
they wanted more foreign products.
But under capitalism we have an entirely different condition--we produce
a surplus of goods which we have to sell in order to keep our
factories running, and to keep our working population from starving. And
note that it does not help us to get back an equal quantity of foreign
goods in exchange. We must have what we call "a favorable balance"; that
is, we must have other people going into debt to us, so that we can be
continually shipping out more goods than we take back; continually
piling up credits which we can "negotiate," or turn into cash, so that
we can go on and repeat the process of making more goods, selling them
for more profits, and putting the surplus into the form of more
machinery, to make still more goods and still more profits.
And then, after a while, we come upon this embarrassing phenomenon;
nations which buy and do not sell must either do it by sending us gold,
or by our giving them credit. The sending of gold cannot go on
indefinitely, because then we should have all the gold, and if other
nations had none that would destroy their credit. On the other hand,
business cannot be done by credit indefinitely; for the very essence of
