were the only jewels she had brought to France and she 
always wore them. She sighed as she looked at the vision 
in the mirror. For Kirkpatriek! But she was used to 
the irony of life. 
 
CHAPTER IX 
He arrived promptly at half -past four and in his 
 capacious hands were three packages which arrested her eyes at once. He presented them one by one. 
' ' Sugar. Loaf of white bread. Candy — I 'm also solid 
with one of the doctors." 
' ' I feel like pinching myself. White bread ! — I 've only 
tasted it twice in two years — both times at the Crillon. 
And cEindy — not a sight of it for more than that. I 
don't like the heavy French chocolates, which were all 
one could get when one could get anything. I shall eat 
at least half and take the other half back to Gora. ' ' 
"Miss Dwight? She's done good work, I'll bet. Just 
in her line. Somehow, I don't see you — What did you 
do?" 
He watched her hungrily as she made the tea, sitting 
in a gilt and brocaded chair, whose high tarnished back 
seemed to frame her dark head. 
"Oh, Lord! "he sighed. 
"What is it?" 
"Don't ask me. What've you been doing? Yes, I'll 
drink tea to please you." 
"I nursed at first — as an auxiliary, of course — what 
is the matter?" 
"Can't bear to think of it. I hope you've not been 
doin' that for four years!" 
' ' Oh, no. I 've been at work with a war-relief organization in Paris most of the time. That was too monot- 
onous to talk about, and, thank heaven, this will probably end my connection with it. I am much more interested to know, how the war has affected you. Are you 
still a socialist ? ' ' 
"Ain't I!" 
' ' Not going Bolshevik, I hope. ' ' 
"Not so's you'd notice it. I want changes all right 
and more'n ever, but I've had enough of blood and fury 
 
and mix-ups without copying them murdering skally- 
wags. That's eill they are. Just out for loot and revenge and not sense enough to know that to-morrow 
there'll be no loot, and revenge'll come from the oppo- 
site direction. I may have been in hell but my head's 
screwed on in the same place." 
"I wondered ... I've heard so many stories about 
the grievances of the soldiers. ' ' 
"Every last one of 'em got a grievance. Hate their 
officers, and often reason enough. Hate the discipline. 
Hate the food. Hate the neglect in hospital when the 
flu is raging. Hate gettin' no letters, and as like as not 
no pay and no tobacco. Hate bein' gouged by the 
French like they were by the good Americans when they 
were in camp on the other side. Hate every last thing a 
man just naturally would hate when he is livin' in a 
filthy trench, or even camp, and homesick in the bar- 
gain. . . . But as for mass-dissatisfaction — not a bit of 
it. Loyal as they make 'em. Laugh at Bolshevik propaganda just like they laughed at Hun propaganda. They 
just naturally seem to hate every other race, allied or 
enemy, and that makes them so all-fired American they 're 
fit to bust. Of course there's plenty of skallywags — 
caught in the draft— and just waitin' to get home and 
turn loose on the community. But in the good old 
style: burglars, highwaymen, yeggs. Not a new frill. 
Europe hasn't a thing on the good old American criminal brand. They fought well, too. Any man does who 's 
a man at all. But Lord ! they'll cut loose when they get 
back. Every wild bad trait they was born with multiplied by one hundred and fifty . . . before I go any 
further I want to warn you that I 'm liable to break out 
into bad language any minute. It gets to be a kind of 
habit in the army to swear every other word like. ' ' 
" Don 't mind me, " said Alexina dryly. ' ' After I was 
put out of my hotel I managed to get a room in one of 
the hotels on the Rue de Rivoli for two nights before I 
found my pension in Passy. The walls were thin. The 
room next to mine was occupied by two American officers 
and the one beyond by two more. They talked back and 
forth with apparently no thought of the possibility of 
 
being overheard. Such language ! And not only swear 
words — although one of these to two of any. Such adventures as they related ! Such frankness ! Such plain 
undiluted Anglo-Saxon ! Fancy a girl with all her illusions fresh, and worshiping some heroic figure in khaki, 
listening to such a revelation of the nether side of man's 
life!" 
' ' Men are hogs, all right. I don 't like the idea of your 
having heard such things." Kirkpatrick scowled heavily. 
"Nor did I. But I had no cotton to put in my ears. 
I couldn't sleep in the street. Nor could I ask them to 
keep quiet and admit I had heard them." 
"Well, I guess you can forget anything you have a 
mind to. You couldn't look like you do— a kind of 
princess out of a fairy tale and an angel mixed, if you 
couldn't." 
"A black-haired angel! And all the princesses of 
legend had golden hair. ' ' 
"Well, that's just another way you're different." He 
changed the subject abruptly. "What you goin' to do 
now?" 
"I wish I knew." 
"Goin' back to California?" 
"If I knew I would tell you. But I don't. You see 
. . . Well, I shall not live with Mr. Dwight again. We 
had been really separated a long while before I left — 
and then he has done nothing for the war. That is only 
one reason. What should I do there ? I had thought of 
going into business before I left. But I shall have a 
good income, and what right have I to go into business 
and use my large connection to get customers away from 
those that need the money for their actual bread ? ' ' 
"Not the ghost of an excuse. Farce, I call it. As 
long as the present system lasts women of your class better be ornamental and satisfied with that than take the 
bread out of mouths that need it." 
"I could not settle down to the old life. It isn't that 
I'm in love with work. For that matter I'm only too 
grateful to be able to rest. But I must fill in, some way. 
Possibly I could do that better in France or England, 
where vital subjects are always being discussed — and 
 
happening! — where I would not only be interested but 
possibly useful in many ways. I should feel rather a 
brute, knowing the conditions of Europe as I do, to go 
back and settle down on the smiling abundance of California. And bored to death." 
"Then you think you'll stay? . . . You'd be wasted 
there — at present — sure enough." 
' ' Sometimes I think I'll buy this house. I could for a 
song. Heavens! How I have longed for solitude in the 
last four years! I could have it here with my books, 
and go to Paris as often as I wished. It would be an 
ideal life. I could afford a car, and to make this house 
very livable. And that garden . . . between those gray 
high walls . . . ia there . . . that would ..." 
She had forgotten Kirkpatrick and was staring 
through the long windows at the dripping trees and the 
riot of green. ' ' There is something about the old world 
... in its byways like this . . . not in its hateful capitals ..." 
"Do you mean there's something you want to forget? 
That this place would be consolin ' like ? ' ' 
She met Kirkpatrick 's sharp dilated eyes with smiling 
composure. ' ' This war, and much that has happened — 
incidental to it; yes." 
"You could forget it easier in California." 
"I should forget too much." 
"It's awful to think of you not comin' back, though I 
understand well enough. Europe suits you all right. 
But . . . but . . ." 
He rose abruptly almost overturning his fragile chair. 
"Good-by, and as I guess it is good-by I'll tell you 
something I wouldn't if there was any chance of my 
seein' you like I used to. It's this: If I'm more of a 
socialist than ever it's because of you! If my class 
hatred's blacker than ever you're the cause! You'd 
have made me a socialist if I wasn't one before. Jesus 
Christ! When I think what I might have had if we'd all 
been born alike ! Had the same chances ! If you hadn't 
been born at the top and I down at the bottom . . . 
common . . . not even educated except by myself after 
I was too old to get what a boy gets that goes to school 
 
long enough. I wouldn't mind bein' bom ugly. There's 
plenty of men at the top that 's ugly enough, God knows. 
But just one generation with money irons out the commonness. That's it! I'm common! Common! Com- 
mon. Democracy! Oh, God!" 
He caught up his cap and rushed out of the room. 
Alexina ran after him and caught him at the garden 
door. Like all beautiful women who have listened to 
many declarations of love (or avoided them) she was inclined to be cruel to men that roused no response in her. 
But she felt only pity for Kirkpatrick. 
She had intended merely to insist upon shaking hands 
with him, but when she saw his contorted face she slipped 
her arm round his neck and kissed him warmly on the 
cheek. 
Then she pushed him gently through the door and 
locked it. 
CHAPTER X 
ALEXINA had finished giving tea to two officers, a 
surgeon and a medecin major, and, enchanted almost as much by the sugar and the white bread as by 
their hostess, refreshingly beautiful and elegant in her 
velvet gown of pervenehe blue, they had lingered until 
nearly six. As the concierge had gone out on an errand 
of her own Alexina had opened the garden door for 
them, and after they disappeared she stood looking at 
the street, which always fascinated her. 
It was very narrow and crooked and gray. Her house 
was the only one with a garden in front; the others 
rose perpendicularly from the narrow pavement, tall 
and close and rather imposing. Each was heavily shuttered, the shutters as gray as the walls. The town had 
been evacuated during the first Battle of the Mame and 
only the poor had returned. The weU-to-do provincials 
in this street had had homes elsewhere, perhaps a flat in 
 
Paris; or they had established themselves in the south. 
The street had an intensely secretive air, brooding, 
waiting. Soon all these houses would be reopened, the 
dull calm life of a provincial town would flow again, the 
only difference being that the women who went in and 
out of those narrow doors and down this long and twisted 
street would wear black; but for the most part they 
would sit in their gardens behind, secluded from every 
eye, as indifferent to their neighbors as of old, with that 
ingrained unchangeable bourgeois suspicion and exclusiveness; and the fagades, the street itself, would look 
little less secretive than now. 
Nowhere could she find such seclusion if she wished for 
it. This house was the only one in the street that belonged to a member of the noblesse, and the bourgeoisie 
had as little "use" for the noblesse as the noblesse for 
the bourgeoisie. 
For the moment Alexina felt that the house was hers, 
and the street itself. She was literally its only inhabitant. As she stood looking up and down its misty grayness she felt more peaceful than she had felt for many 
days. There were certain fierce terrible emotions that 
she never wanted to feel again, and one of them was ruthlessness. She had done much good in the past four 
years ; she had been, for the most part, high-minded, self- 
sacrificing, indifferent to the petty things of life, even 
to discomfort, and it had given her a sense of elevation 
— when she had had time to think about it. It was only 
certain extraordinary circumstances that brought other 
qualities as inherent as life itself surging to the top. It 
was demoralizing even to fight them, for that involved 
recognition. Better that she protect herself from their 
assaults. True, she was young, but she had had her fill 
of drama. All her old cravings, never satisfied in the 
old days of peace without and insurgence within, had 
been surfeited by this close personal contact with the 
greatest drama in history. 
Why return to Paris at all? "Why not settle down. 
 
here at once, live a life of thought and study, and give 
abundant help where help was needed ? There were villages within a few miles where the inhabitants were living in the ruins. (The Germans in their first retreat had 
been too hard pressed to linger long enough to set fire to 
this large town and they had not been able to reach it 
during their second drive.) 
That had been a last flicker of romance at the em- 
bassy ... a last resurgence of the evil the war had done 
her, as she sat in her cold room ... a last blaze of sheer 
femininity when she discovered that Gora had come to 
Paris in search of Gathbroke 
She felt as if she had escaped from a bottomless pit. 
. . . Assuredly she had the will and the character to 
make hferself now into whatever she chose to be . . . let 
Gora have him if she could find him and keep him. . . . 
Better that than hating herself for the rest of her life 
. . . love, far from being ennobling, seemed to her the 
most demoralizing of the passions . . . there had been 
something ennobling, expanding, soul-stirring in hating 
the brutal mediaeval race that had davastated Prance 
. . . but in the reaction from her fierce registered vow to 
snatch a man from a forlorn unhappy woman no matter 
what her claims and have him for hor own, she had 
shrunk from this new revelation of her depths in horror. 
. . . One could not live with that . . . 
lA. man in khaki was walking quickly down the long 
crooked street. As he approached she saw the red on 
his collar. He was a British officer. In another moment 
she was shaking hands with Gathbroke. 
She was far more composed than he, although she felt 
as if the world had turned over, and there was a roar in 
her ears like the sound of distant guns. She had a vague 
impression that the war had begun again. 
"You are the last person I should have expected to 
meet here. There is no British " 
"I came here to see you. I got your address from 
Madame de Morsigny. I saw her last night at a reception and recognized her. She was at that ball in San 
Francisco. I introduced myself at once and asked her 
if you were in Paris. I was sure it was you . . . 
that night ..." 
"Will you come in?" 
He followed her into the salon, softly lit by candles. 
She felt that fate for once had been kind. It was difficult to imagine surroundings or conditions in which she 
would look lovelier, be seen to greater advantage. But 
her hands were cold. 
"It is too late for tea but perhaps you will share my 
frugal supper.". 
"If it won't inconvenience you too much. Thanks." 
She sat down in the wide brocaded chair with its tarnished back. He stood looking at her for a moment, then 
took a turn up and down the long room. ' 
Certainly she could not object to him to-day on the' 
score of youth and freshness. His hair had lost its 
brightness. His face was very brown and thin and the 
lines if not deep were visible even in the candle light. 
His nose and mouth had the hard determination that life, 
more especially life in war time, develops; it was no 
casual trick of Nature with him. His eyes were still the 
same bright golden hazel, but their expression was keen 
and alert, and commanding. She fancied they could look 
as hard as those features more susceptible to modeling. 
IV 
"Smoke if you like." 
' ' Thanks. I don 't want to smoke. ' ' 
Finally when Alexina was gripping the arms of the 
chair he began to speak. 
"I feel rather an ass. I hardly know how to begin. 
I 'm no longer twenty-three. I 've lived several lifetimes 
since this war began, and made up my mind twice that I 
was going out. I should feel ninety. Somehow I don't 
feel vastly different from that day when I grabbed you 
like a brute because I wanted you more than anything 
on earth. . . . 
"I don't pretend that I've thought of you ever since. 
 
I 've forgotten you for years at a time. But there have 
been moments when you have simply projected yourself 
into me and been closer than any mortal has ever been. 
You were there ! 
"I felt there was some meaning inthose sudden secret 
 wonderful visits of your soul to mine — I hate to say what 
sounds like sentimental rotting, but that exactly expresses it. They belonged to some other plane of con- 
sciousness. It takes war to shift a man over the border 
if only for a moment. It kept me — lately — from . . . 
never mind that now. When I saw your eyes above that 
tiny yellow flame ... it wasn't only that your eyes are 
not to be matched anywhere ... it seemed to me that 
I saw myself in them. They came as close as that! 
Laugh if you like." 
He stood defiantly in front of her. 
' ' God ! You look as if you never had had an emotion, 
never could have one. But you had once, if only for a 
moment ! " 
' ' I have never had one since — for any one, that is. I 
hear the concierge. I'll tell her to set a place for you." 
She left the room and he stared after her. Her words 
had been full of meaning but her voice had been even and 
cold. 
She returned and asked: "Are you in any way committed to Gora Dwight?" 
"No . . . yes . . . that is . . . why do you ask me 
that?" 
"Are you engaged to her?" 
' ' I am not. But I came very close — that is, of course 
if she would have had me. She nursed me after I was 
wounded and gassed. She was a wonderful nurse and 
there was something almost romantic in meeting her 
again ... as if she had come straight out of the past. 
"We had an extraordinary experience as you know. I 
was not in the least drawn to her at that time. You 
filled, possessed me." 
He hesitated, But it was a barrier he bad not anticipated and it must go down. Moreover, it was evident 
that she wouldn't talk, and he was too excited for silence 
on his own part. 
"She was there . . . when a man is weakest . . . 
when he values tenderness above all things . . . when he 
does little thinking on either the past or the future. 
"She has a queer odd kind of fascination too, and any 
man must admire a woman so clever and capable and altogether fine. Several times I almost proposed to her. 
But there is no privacy in wards. I was sent ba'ck to 
England and went to my brother's house in Hertford- 
shire. It was then that you began to haunt me. She 
had rejuvenated that California period in my mind — resuscitated it . . . but both express what I am trying to 
Bay. We had often talked about California and the fire. 
She alluded to you, casually, of course, more than once ; 
but as I looked back I gathered that your marriage had 
been a mistake and that you had known it for a long 
time. 
' ' She did not come to England until four months later, 
and then she was in charge of a hospital. I took her 
out occasionally — she was very much confined. I liked 
her as much as ever. But I didn't want her. It seemed 
tragic. There was one chance in a million that I should 
ever meet you again. Once I deliberately drew her on 
to talk of you and asked why you did not divorce your 
husband. She commented satirically upon the intense 
conservatism of your family and of your own inflexible 
pride. She added that you were the only beautiful 
woman she had ever known who seemed to be quite indif- 
ferent to men — sexless, she meant ! But no woman knows 
anything about other women. I knew better ! 
"As I said it was rather tragic. To be haunted by a 
chimera! I liked her so much. Admired her. "Who 
wouldn't? If she had been able to take me home, to 
remain with me, there is no doubt in the world that I 
should have married her if she would have had me, . . . 
I prefer now to believe that she wouldn't. Why should 
she, with a great career in front of her ? 
"No doubt I should have loved her — with what little 
love I had to give. But those months had taught me that 
 
I could do without her, although I enjoyed her letters. 
Even so . . . 
"It was after she came to London that I felt I had to 
talk to some one and I went down to the country to see 
Lady Viek — Elton Gwynne's mother. She had founded 
a hospital and run it, and was resting, worn out. She is 
a hard nut, empty, withered, arid. Nothing left in her 
but noblesse oblige. But there is little she doesn't know. 
She was smoking a black cigar that would have knocked 
me down and looked like an old sibyL I told her the 
whole story — all of it, that is that was not too sacred. 
She puffed such a cloud of smoke that I could see nothing 
but her hard, bright, wise, old eyes. 'Go after her,' she 
said. 'Find her. Divorce her. Marry her. That's 
where you men have the adavntage. You can stalk 
straight out into the open and demand what you want 
point blank. No scheming, plotting, deceit, being one 
thing and pretending another, in other words ice when 
you are fire. Beastly role, woman's ' I interrupted 
to remind her that it was twelve years since I had seen 
you; that you had thrown me down as hard as a man 
ever got it and married another man. There was no 
more reason to believe that I could win you now. Then 
she asked me what I had come to see her and bore her 
to death for when she was trying to rest. ' If you want 
a thing go for it and get it, or if you can't get it at least 
find out that you can't. Also see her again and find out 
whether you want her or not, instead of mooniag like a 
silly ass.' 
"The upshot was I made up my mind to go to California as soon as I could obtain my discharge. It never 
occurred to me that you were in Paris. Then I was sent 
to Paris with the Commission. I have certain expert 
knowledge. . . . For some reason I didn't tell Miss 
Dwight. ... I wrote her a hurried note saying that I 
was obliged to go to Paris for a few weeks. 
"The night after I arrived I saw you at the Embassy. 
That finished it. If I hadn't been sent back to England 
for some papers — twice — I'd have found you before 
this." 
 
CHAPTER XI 
THE concierge announced supper. Alexina had 
brought food with her and the little meal was good 
if not abundant. The dining-room was very dreary, although warmed by the petrol stove. It was a long dark 
room, paneled to the ceiling, and the two candles on the 
table did little more to define their lineaments to each, 
other than the flames of briquet and match. 
The concierge served and they talked of the Peace Conference and of the general pessimism that prevailed. 
Same old diplomacy. Same old diplomatists. Same old 
ambitions. Same old European policies. An idealist 
had about as much chance with those astute conventionalized brains dyed in the diplomatic wiles and methods 
of the centuries as an unarmed man on foot with a pack 
of wolves. ... At the moment all the other Commissions were cursing Italy. . . . She might be the stumbling block t& ultimate peace. ... As for the League Qf 
Nations, as well ask for the millenium at once. Human 
nature probably inspired the creed: "As it was in the 
beginning, is now, and ever shall be," etc. "What we 
want" (this, Gathbroke), "is an alliance between Great 
Britain and the United States. They could rule the 
world. Let the rest of everlastingly snarling Europe go 
hang." Elton Gwynne would work for that. He had 
already obtained his discharge and returned to America. 
He, Gathbroke, 'd work for it too. So would anybody 
else in the two countries that had any sense and no 
personal fish to fry. 
"When they returned to the salon he smoked. Alexina 
was thankful that it was cigarettes. Mortimer had made 
her hate cigars. If, like most Englishmen, he loved his 
pipe, he had the tact to keep it in his pocket. 
It was she who reopened the subject that filled him. 
 
"I feel sorry for Gora. Her life has been a tragedy 
in a way. Of course she has had her successes, her compensations. But it isn't quite everything to be the best 
of nurses, and J don't know that even writing could fill 
a woman's life. Not unless she'd had the other thing 
first. I am afraid she'll never be very popular anyhow. 
There are only small groups here and there in America 
than can stand intellect in fiction. ... It seems to me 
that she would make a great wife. I mean that. It is a 
great role and she could fill it greatly. I don't know, 
of course, whether she cares for you or not. I am not in 
her confidence. She is staying at my pension in Passy 
and I saw her constantly for ten days before I came here, 
but she did not mention your name. ... If she does 
she's the sort that would never marry any one else and 
her life would be spoilt. I don't mean to say she would 
give up, but she would just keep going. That seems to 
me the greatest tragedy of all. . . . 
"No! Why should there be any of this conventional 
subterfuge. I believe that she does care for you. I believed so long ago. I was jealous of her. I don't mean 
to say that I was in love with you. I — perhaps forced 
myself not to be. It seemed too siUy. Too utterly 
hopeless. . . . Besides I knew even then the danger of 
letting myself go ... of the unbridled imagination.. 
Probably love is all imagination anyhow. French marriages would seem to prove it. But we-your race and 
mine — have fallen into a sublime sort of error, and we 'll 
no more reason ourselves out of it than out of the sex 
tyranny itself. ... I don't see how I could be happy 
with the eternal knowledge that Gora was miserable — 
that she would be happy if I had remained in California. ..." 
"I have just told you that I should have gone to California as soon as I was free. ' ' 
The air between them quivered and their eyes were 
almost one. But he remained smoking in his chair and 
continued : 
 
"I marry you or no one. A man well and a man ill 
are two different beings. In illness sex is dormant, 
"When a man is well he wants a woman or he doesn't 
want her. It may be neither his fault nor hers. But if 
she hasn't the sex pull for him, doesn't make a powerful insistent demand upon his passion, there is nothing 
to build on. I haven't come out alive from that shrieking hell to be satisfied with second-claiss emotions. I lay 
one night under three dead bodies, not one over twenty- 
five. I knew them all. Each was deeply in love with a 
woman. . . . Well, I knew the value of life that night 
if I never did before. And life was given to us, when, 
we can hold on to it, for the highest happiness of which 
we are individually capable, no matter what else we are 
forced to put up with. Happiness at the highest pitch, 
not makeshifts. . . . The horrors, the obstacles, the very 
demons in our own characters were second thoughts on. 
the part of Life either to satisfy her own spite or to 
throw her highest purpose into stronger relief. I'll have 
the highest or nothing. " 
"But that is not everything. There must be other 
things to make it lasting. Gora would make a great 
companion." 
"Not half so great — to me — as you would and you 
know it. I hope you will understand that I dislike extremely to speak of Miss Dwight at all. If you had not 
brought her name into it I never should have done so. 
But now I feel I must have a complete understanding 
with you at any cost. ' ' 
He dropped his cigarette on the table. He left his 
chair swiftly and snatched her from her own. His face 
was dark and he was trembling even more than she was, 
"I'll have you . . . have you. . . ." 
She nodded. 
 
CHAPTER XII 
DORA entered her room at the pension, mechanically 
 lit the oil stove that Alexina had procured for her, 
threw her hat on the bed, sat down in the low chair 
and thrust her hands into the thick coils of hair piled as 
always on top of her head. As she did eo she caught 
sight of herself in the mirror and wondered absurdly 
why she should have kept all her hair and lost so much 
of her face. She looked more top-heavy than ever. Her 
face was a small oblong, her eyes out of all proportion. 
She thought herself hideous. 
She had heard two hours before that Gathbroke was 
in Paris attached to the British Commission. She had 
met an old acquaintance, a San Francisco newspaper 
man, who had taken her to lunch and spoken of him 
casually. Gathbroke had good-naturedly given him an 
interview when other members of the Commission had 
been inaccessible. 
Gathbroke had told her nothing of a definite object 
when he wrote her that he was off for Paris. Nor had 
he mentioned it in the note he had written her after his 
arrival. This had been merely to tell her that he was 
feeling as well as he ever had felt in his life and was 
enjoying himself. Polite admonition not to tire herself 
out. He was always hers gratefully and her devoted 
friend. 
' He had written the note at the Eitz Hotel, but when, 
assuming this was his address, she had called him 
up on her arrival, she had received the information that 
he was not stopping there, nor had been. 
Gora was very proud. But she was also very much in. 
love ; and she had been in love with Gathbroke for twelve 
years. For the greater part of that time she had believed it to be hopeless, but it had always been with her, 
a sad but not too painful undertone in her busy life. It 
had kept her from even a passing interest in another 
 
man. She had even felt a somewhat ironic gratitude to 
him and his indifference, for all the forces of her nature, 
deprived of their natural outlet, went into her literary- 
work, informing it with an arresting and a magnetic 
vitality. She had believed herself to be without hope, 
but in the remote feminine fastnesses of her nature she 
had hoped, even dreamed — when she had the time. That 
was not often. Her life, except when at her desk with 
her literary faculty turned loose, had been practical to 
excess. 
She would have offered her services in any case to one 
of the warring allies, no doubt of that; the tremendous 
adventure would have appealed to her quite aside from 
the natural desire to place her high accomplishment as a 
nurse at the disposal of tortured men. Nevertheless she 
was quite aware that she went to the British Army with 
the distinct hope of meeting Gathbroke again; quite as, 
under the cloak of travel, she would have gone to England long since had she not been swindled by Mortimer. 
Until she found him insensible, apparently at the point 
of death, after the terrible disaster of March, nineteen- 
eighteen, she had only heard of him once : when she read 
in the Times he had been awarded the D. S. 0. 
She knew then where he was and maneuvered to get 
back to France. She found him sooner than she had 
dared to hope. And she believed that she had saved 
his life. Not only by her accomplished nursing. Her 
powerful will had thrown out its grappling irons about 
his escaping ego and dragged it back and held it in its 
exhausted tenement. 
He had believed that also. He had an engaging spon- 
taneity of nature and he had felt and shown her a lively 
gratitude. He was restless and frankly unhappy when 
she was out of his sight. He had a charming way of 
Baying charming things to a woman and he said them to 
her. But he was also as full of ironic humor as in his 
letters and "ragged" her. And he talked to her eagerly 
when he was better and she had gone with him to a hospital far back of the lines. There were intervals when 
they could talk, and the other men would listen . . . 
and had taken things for granted. 
 
So had she. He had not made love to her. There 
was no privacy. Moreover, she guessed that his keen 
sense of the ridiculous would not permit him to make love 
to any woman when helpless under her hands. 
But how could there be other than one finale to such 
a story as theirs? "What was fiction but the reflection 
of life? If she had written a story with these obvious 
materials there could have been but one logical ending 
— unless, in a sudden spasm of reaction against romance, 
Bhe had killed him off. 
But he would leave ; and not be strong enough to return 
to the front for months . . . the war must be over by 
then. ... As for romance, well, she was in the romantic 
mood. It was a right of youth that she had missed, but 
a woman may be quite as romantic at thirty-four as at 
eighteen, if she has sealed her fountain instead of splashing it dry when she was too young to know its preciousness. Once before she had surrendered to romance, 
fleetingly: during the week that followed the night she 
had sat on Calvary with Gathbroke and watched a sea of 
flames. 
The mood descended .upon her, possessed her. She had 
other patients. There were the same old horrors, the 
same heart-rending duties ; but the mood stayed with her. 
And after he left for England. She knew there could 
be but one ending. Her imagination had surrendered to 
tradition. 
Moreover, she was tired of hard work. She wanted to 
settle down in a home. She wanted children. She must 
always write, of course. Writing was as natural to her 
as breathing. And she had already proved that a woman 
could do two things equally well. 
She never thought of trying to follow him back to 
England, to shirk the increasing terrible duties behind 
the reorganized but harassed armies. The wounded 
seemed to drop through the hospital roof like flies. 
Nevertheless when she was abruptly transferred to 
London she went without protest ! It was then that she 
 
began to have misgivings. She was given charge of a 
large hospital just outside of London and her duties 
vrere constant and confining. But she managed to go 
out to lunch -with him twice and once to dine; after 
which they drove hack to the hospital in a slow and battered old hansom. 
She returned a few weeks before the Armistice. She 
had not seen him for four months. He was well and 
expecting to be sent back to the front any day. At 
present they were making use of him in London. 
If anything he appeared to admire her more than ever, 
to be more solicitous for her health. He lamented personally her exacting duties. But it was the almost exuberant friendliness of one man for another, for a comrade, a good fellow; although he often paid her quick 
little diagnostic compliments. If she hadn't loved him 
she would have enjoyed his companionship. He had 
read and thought and lived. Before the war he had been 
in active public life. He had far greater plans for 
the future. 
He had been almost entirely impersonal. It had maddened her. Even the night they had driven through the 
dark streets of London out to her hospital, although he 
had talked more or less about himself, even encouraged 
her to talk about herself, there had not been one instant 
of correlation. 
But she had made excuses as women do, in self-defense. He assumed that he might easily go back to the 
front just in time to get himself killed, although the end 
of the war was in sight. . . . Her utter lack of experience with men in any sex relation had made her stiff, 
even in her letters; afraid of "giving herself away." 
She had no coquetry. If she had, pride would have 
forbidden her to use it. Her ideals were intensely old- 
fashioned. She wanted to be pursued, won. The man 
must do it all. Her writings had never been in the least 
romantic. "Well, she was, if romance meant having certain fixed ideals. 
One thing puzzled her. When she wrote she manipulated her men and women in their mutual relations with 
a master-hand. But she had not the least idea how to 
 
manage her own affair. What was genius? A rotten 
spot in the brain, a displacement of particles that operated independently of personality, of the inherited ego? 
Possession? Ancestors come to life for an hour in the 
subliminal depths? But what did she care for genius 
anyhow ! 
One thing she would have been willing to do as her 
part, aside from meeting him mentally at all points and 
showing a brisk frank pleasure in his society: give him 
every chance to woo and win her, to find her more and 
more indispensable to his happiness. But she was no 
woman of leisure. She could not receive him in charming toilettes in an equally seductive room. She had 
nothing for evening wear but an old black satin gown. 
After her arrival in London she had found time to buy 
a smart enough tailored coat and skirt, and a hat, but 
nothing more. 
And after the Armistice was declared she only saw 
him once. 
Then came his abrupt departure for Paris. His non- 
committal note. Even then she refused to despair. It 
would be an utterly impossible end to such a story . . . 
after twelve years . . . not for a moment would she 
accept that. 
ni 
She applied for her discharge. During her long stay 
in the British service she had made influential friends. 
She had also made a high record not only for ability 
but for an untiring fidelity. Her vacations had been few 
and brief. She obtained her discharge and went to 
Paris. Her pride would permit her to telephone. What 
more natural ? Nothing would have surprised him more 
than if she had not. She had little doubt of his falling 
into the habit of daily companionship. He knew Paris 
and she did not. He would have seen her daily in London if she had been free. 
Something, no doubt of that, held him back. He was 
discouraged ... or not sure of himself. . . . She had 
assumed as a matter of course that he was at the Ritz. 
When she found that he was not, had not been, she 
 
Realized that he had omitted to give her an address. 
That might have been mere carelessness. . . . But to 
find him in Paris ! She had not visualized such swarms 
of people. She might almost have passed him on the 
street and not seen him. But not for a moment did she 
waver from her purpose. She held passionately to the 
telief that were they together day after day, hours on 
end . . . 
Unbelievable. 
IV 
She had telephoned an hour ago to the hotel where he 
"was staying with other members of the British Commission and been told that he was out of town, but might 
return any moment. 
There was nothing to do but write him a note and 
wait. She was not equal to the humiliation of telephoning a third time. She wrote it at the hotel where her 
English friends were staying and sent it by messenger, 
having heard of the idiosyncracies of the Paris post. 
Hastings, her newspaper friend, had been altogether a 
bird of ill omen. He had told her that the American 
market was glutted with "war stuff." The public was 
sick of it. Some of the magazines were advertising that 
they would read no more of it. She had told him that 
her material was magnificent and he had replied : ' ' Can 
it. Maybe a year or two from now — five, more likely. 
I'm told over here that the war fiction we've had wished 
on us by the ton resembles the real thing just about as 
much as maneuvers look like the first Battle of the Mame, 
say, when the Germans didn't know where they were at; 
went out quail hunting and struck a jungle full of 
tigers. . . . Why not ? When most of 'em were written 
by men of middle age snug beside a library fire with 
mattresses on the roof — in America not even a Zeppelin 
to warm up their blood. But that doesn't matter. The 
public took it all as gospel. Ate it up. Now it is fed 
up and wants something else." 
What irony! 
And what a future if he — but that she would not face. 
 
CHAPTER XII 
HE heard Janet Maynard, who had returned alone 
the day before from Nice, enter the next room. She 
kept very still ; she had no desire for conversation. But 
Janet tapped on her door in a moment and entered looking very important. 
"I've something to tell you," she announced. "You'd 
never guess in a thousand years. , Don't get up. I'll sit 
on the bed — used to any old place. Only too thankful 
it isn't a box, or to sit down at all. Try one of mine? 
Don't you feel well?" 
"I've a rotten headache." 
"Oh . . . mind my smoking?" 
' ' Not a bit. What did you have to tell me ? " 
"Well, 'way back in ancient times, b.w., nineteen hundred and six, a young Englishman named Gathbroka 
came to California after his sister, who was ill." She 
was blowing rings and did not see Gora's face. When 
she leveled her eyes Gora was unbuttoning her gaiters. 
' ' It seems she died some time during the fire and he had 
a perfectly horrid experience getting the body out to the 
cemetery. But that has nothing to do with the story. 
He met Olive and the rest of us— and Alexina — the night 
of the Hofer ball. I had forgotten the whole thing until 
Olive reminded me that we had joked Alex afterward 
about the way she had bowled him over. His eyes simply 
followed her, but Mortimer gave him no chance. 
"Then I remembered something else. Isabel Gwynne 
once told me that her husband was sure Gathbroke had 
proposed to Alex one day when he took him down to 
Eincona. He was in a simply awful state of nerves 
afterward. John thought he was going out of his mind. 
Now, here's the point. Night before last Olive was at a 
ball and who should come up to her and introduce himself but Gathbroke. He's changed a lot but she recognized him. Well, he hardly waited to finish the usual 
amenities before he asked her plump out if Alex was 
 
in Paris, said he was positive he had seen her at that 
embassy ball where all the lights went out and they expected a riot. He turned white when he did it, but he 
was as direct as chain lightning. He wanted her address. Of course he go't it. Olive was thrilled. It's 
safe to assume that he's with Alex at the present moment. At any rate Olive called him up this morning 
intending to ask him to dinner, and was told he was out 
of town. Now, isn't that romance for you?" 
"Rather." 
"Twelve years! Fancy a man being faithful all that 
time. Hadn't got what he wanted, that's probably why. 
Have you ever heard Alex speak of him? Think she'll 
divorce Mortimer?" 
"I asked her the other night why she didn't. She 
said it was against the traditions of the family. But — 
I recall — she said — it seemed to me there was a curious 
sort of meaning in her voice — that if she wanted to, 
marry a man nothing would stop her. ' ' 
"And it wouldn't. Nothing would stop Alexina if 
anything started her. The trouble always was to start 
'her. She's indolent and unsusceptible and fastidious. 
But deep and intense — Lord ! Mark my words, she saw 
ftiim at the Embassy. If she did and the thing's mutual 
she'll give poor old Maria such a shock that the war 
will look like ten cents." 
"Possibly." 
"You look really ill, Gora. No wonder you have 
headaches with that hair. It 's magnificent — but! Goto 
bed and I'll send up your dinner. Got any aspirin?" 
"Yes, thanks." 
"Au 'voir." 
CHAPTEE XIII 
I 
THE day was fine and Alexina took advantage of the 
brief mterval of grace and went for a walk. Gath- 
broke was in Paris but might come out any moment. She 
 
wore a coat and skirt of heavy white English tweed with 
a silk blouse of periwinkle blue. The same soft shade 
lined her black velvet hat. 
She had a number of notes changed at the bank and 
