length walked over to the register. Howard Taber. 
From his wallet he brought forth a yellow letter. 
Quickly he compared the Hs. They were so nearly 
alike that the difference would be due to a shaky 
hand. But for perfect satisfaction, he must take a 
peek into the bedroom. Humph. A crisis of 
some kind was toward. It might be that the boy 
had taken one drink too many, or someone had 
given him knock-out drops. The Oriental water- 
fronts were rank with the stuff. 
But that Chink, Ah Cum! O'Higgins chuckled 
as he passed into the hall and rested his hand on 
the newel-post of the staircase. He'd have some 
fun with that Chinaman before the morning was 
out. 
O'Higgins mounted the stairs, his step extraor- 
dinarily Kght for one so heavy. In the upper hall 
he paused to listen. There was absolute quiet. 
Boldly he turned the knob of a certain door and 
entered. The mock astonishment of his face im- 
mediately became genuine. 
The brilliant simshine poured through the window, 
effecting an oblong block of mote-swimming light. 
In the midst of this light stood a young woman. 
To O'Higgins — for all his sordid business he was 
not insensible to beauty — to O'Higgins she appeared 
to have entered the room with the light. Above 
her head was an aura of white fire. The sunshine 
broke across each shoulder, one lance striking the 
 
yellow face of a Chinaman  queueless and dressed 
in European clothes, the other lance falling squarely 
upon the face of the man he had journeyed thirteen 
thousand miles to find. He recognized the face 
instantly. 
There came to O'Higgins the discouraging knowl- 
edge that upon the heels of a wonderful chase — 
blindman's buflf in the dark — would come a stretch 
of dull inaction. He would have to sit down here 
in Canton and wait, perhaps for weeks. Certainly 
he could not move now other than to annoimce 
the fact that he had found his man. 
"I beg pardon," he said. "Got the rooms 
mixed." 
The yoimg woman laid a finger on her lips, caution- 
ing O'Higgins to silence. The detective backed 
out slowly and closed the door without soimd. 
Outside in the hall he paused and thoughtfully 
stroked his smooth blue chin. As he understood 
it, folks saw in two or three days all there was to 
see of Canton. After the sights he would have 
to twiddle his thumbs until the joints cracked. 
All at once he saw a way out of the threatening 
doldrums. Some trustworthy Chinaman to watch, 
for a small bribe, while he, James Boyle O'Higgins, 
enjoyed himself in Hong-Kong, seeing the spring 
races, the boxing matches, and hobnobbing with 
Yankee sailors. Canton was something like a 
blind alley; imless you were native, you couldn't 
get anywhere except by returning to Hong-Kong 
and starting afresh. 
Satisfied that he had solved his difficulty, he 
proceeded to his room. At nine-thirty he climbed 
into the chair and signified to Ah Cum that he was 
ready. 
"You speak English better than I do," said 
O'Higgins, as the coolies jogged across the bridge 
toward the gate. "Where did you pick it up?" 
"I believe I told you; at Yale." 
O'Higgins laughed. "I'd forgotten. But that 
explains everything." 
"Everything." It was not uttered interroga- 
tively; rather as though Ah Cum did not like the 
significance of the word and was turning it over and 
about in speculation. 
"Ye-ah," said O'Higgins, jovially. "Why you 
pretended not to recognize the photograph of the 
yoimg fellow you toted aroimd these diggings all 
day yesterday." 
Many wrinkles appeared at the comers of Ah 
Cum's slant eyes — as if the sim hurt —  but the rest 
of his face remained as passive as a graven Buddha's. 
CHAPTER X 
AH CUM was himself puzzled. Why hadn't 
he admitted that he recognized the photo- 
A m. graph? What instinct had impelled him 
swiftly to assume his Oriental mask? 
''Why?" asked O Higgins. "What's the par- 
ticular dope?" 
"If I told you, you would laugh," answered Ah 
Cum, gravely. 
"No; I don't think I'd laugh. You never saw him 
before yesterday. Why should you want to shield 
him?" 
"I really don't know." 
"Because he said he was a Yale man?" 
"That might be it." 
'' Treated you like a white man there, did they?" 
"Like a gentleman." 
 All right. I had that coming. I didn't think. 
But, holy smoke! — the Yale spirit in. . . ." 
"A Chinaman. I wonder. I spent many happy 
days there. Perhaps it was the recollection of those 
happy days. You are a detective?" 
"Yes. I have come thirteen thousand miles for 
this yoimg fellow; I'm ready to go galloping thirteen 
thousand more." 
 
You have extradition papers?" 
What sort of a detective do you think I am? 
countered O'Higgins. 
Then his case is hopeless. 
Absolutely. 
"I'm sorry. He does not look the criminal." 
"That's the way it goes. You never can tell." 
There was a pause. "They tell me over here that 
the average Chinaman is honest." 
Ah Cum shrugged. " Yes? " 
"And that when they give their word, they never 
break it." O'Higgins had an idea in regard to Ah 
Cum. 
"Your tone suggests something marvellous in the 
fact," replied Ah Cum, ironically. " Why shouldn't 
a Chinaman be honest? Ah, yes; I know. Most 
of you Americans pattern all Chinese upon those 
who fill a little comer in New York. In fiction you 
make the Chinese secretive, criminal, and terrible— 
or comic. I am an educated Chinese, and I resent the 
imputations against my race. You Americans laugh 
at our custom of honouring our ancestors, our many- 
times great grandfathers. On the other hand, you 
seldom revere your immediate grandfather, unless 
he has promised to leave you some money." 
"Bull's eye!" piped O'Higgins. 
"Of course, there is a criminal element, but the 
percentage is no larger than that in America or 
Europe. Why don't you try to find out how the 
 
every-day Chinese lives, how he treats his family, 
what his normal habits are, his hopes, his ambitions? 
Why don't you come to China as I went to America — 
with an open mind?" 
"You're on," said O'Higgins, briskly. "I'll en- 
gage you for four days. To-day is for the sights; the 
other three days —  lessons. How's that strike you? " 
''Very well, sir. At least I can give you a glim- 
mer." A smile broke the set of Ah Cum's lips. " I'll 
take you into a Chinese home. We are very poor, 
but manage to squeeze a little happiness out of each 
day." 
"And I promise that all you tell me and show me 
will sink in," replied O'Higgins, frankly interested. 
"I'm a detective; my ears and eyes have been trained 
to absorb all I see and all I hear. When I absorb a 
fact, my brain weighs the fact carefully and stores 
it away. You fooled me this morning; but I over- 
heard two old maids talking about you and the 
young man." 
"What has he done?" 
'' What did he have to drink over here last night?'' 
"Not even water. No doubt he has been drinking 
for days without eating substantially, and his heart 
gave out." 
"What happened?" 
Ah Cum recounted the story of the sing-song girl. 
"I had to give in to him. You know how stubborn 
they get." 
' Surest thing you know. Bought the freedom 
of a sing-song girl; and all the while you knew you'd 
have to tote the girl back. But the Yale spirit ! '' 
Ah Cum laughed. 
' IVe got a proposition to make ' said O'Higgins. 
' So long as it is open and above board." 
''It's that, but it interferes with the college spirit 
stu£P. Would a hundred dollars interest you? " 
'' Very much, if I can earn it without o£Pending my 
conscience. 
It won't. Here goes. I've come all these miles 
for this young fellow; but I don't cotton to the idea of 
lallygagging four weeks in this burg. I've an idea 
it'll be that long before the chap gets up. My pro- 
position is for you to keep an eye on him, and the 
moment he puts on his clothes to send me a telegram, 
care of the Hong-Kong Hotel. Understand me. 
Double-crossing wouldn't do any good. For all you 
might know, I might have someone watching you. 
This time he couldn't get far. He will have to return 
to Hong-Kong." 
"Not necessarily. There is a railroad." 
' He won't be taking that. The only safe place 
for him is at sea; and if he had kept to the sea, I 
shouldn't have found him so easily. Well, what about 
it?" 
"I accept." 
"As an honest Chinaman?" — taking out the offen- 
siveness of the query by smiling. 
 
''As an honest Chinaman." 
O'Higgins produced his wallet. "Fifty now and 
fifty when I return." 
"Agreed. Here are the jade carvers. Would you 
like to see them at work?" 
"Leadon,MacduflF!" 
Ah Cum raised the skirt of his fluttering blue silk 
robe and stored the bill away in a trouser wallet. It 
was the beginning and the end of the transaction. 
When he finally telegraphed his startling information 
to Hong-Kong, it was too late for O'Higgins to act. 
The quarry had passed out into the open sea. 
From the comatose state, Spurlock passed into 
that of the babbling fever; but that guarding in- 
stinct which is called subconsciousness held a stout 
leash on his secret. He uttered one word over and 
over, monotonously: 
"Fool! . . . Fool!" 
But invariably the touch of Ruth's hand quieted 
him, and his head would cease to roll from side to 
side. He hung precariously on the ragged edge, 
but he hung there. Three times he uttered a phrase: 
"A djinn m a blue-serge coat!" 
And each time he would follow it with a chuckle—' 
the chuckle of a soul in danmation. 
Neither the American Express nor Cook's had re- 
ceived mail for Howard Taber; he was not on either 
list. This was irregular. A man might be without 
relatives, but certainly he would not be without 
friends, that is to say, without letters. The a£Fair was 
thick with sinister suggestions. And yet, the doctor 
recalled an expression of the girl's: that it was not a 
dissipated face, only troubled. 
The whole affair interested him deeply. That was 
one of the compensations for having consigned him- 
self to this part of the world. Over here, there was 
generally some unusual twist to a case. He would 
pull this young fellow back; but later he knew that 
he would have to fight the boy's lack of will to live. 
When he recovered his mental faculties, he would lie 
there, neutral; they could save him or let him die, as 
they pleased; and the doctor knew that he would 
wear himself out forcing his own will to live into this 
neutrality. And probably the girl would wear her- 
self out, too. 
To fight inertia on the one hand and to study this 
queer girl on the other. Any financial return was 
inconsiderable against the promise of this psychologi- 
cal treat. The girl was like some north-country 
woodland pool, penetrated by a single shaft of sun- 
light —  beautifully clear in one spot and mysteriously 
obscured elsewhere. She would be elemental; there 
would be in her somewhere the sleeping tigress. The 
elemental woman was always close to the cat: as the 
elemental man was always but a point removed from 
the wolf. 
It was so arranged that Ruth went on duty after 
 
breakfast and remained until noon. The afternoon 
was her own; but from eight until midnight she sat 
beside the patient. At no time did she feel bodily 
or mental fatigue. Frequently she would doze in her 
chair; but the slightest movement on the bed aroused 
her. 
At luncheon, on the third day, a thick-set man 
with a blue jaw smiled across his table at her. She 
recogm'zed him as the man who had blundered into 
the wrong room. 
How is the patient?" he asked. 
He will live ' answered Ruth. 
That's fine ' said O'Higgins. "I suppose he'll 
be on his feet any day now." 
"No. It will take at least three weeks." 
"Well, so long as he gets on his feet in the end. 
You're a friend of the young man? " 
"K you mean did I know him before he became 
ill> no."   
"Ah." O'Higgins revolved this information 
about, but no angle emitted light. Basically a kindly 
man but made cynical and derisive by sordid con' 
tacts, O'Higgins had almost forgotten that there 
was such a thing as unselfishness. The man or 
woman who did something for nothing always ex- 
cited his suspicions; they were playing some kind of 
a game. "You mean you were just sorry for him?" 
"As I would be for any human being in pain." 
"Uh-huh." For the life of him, O'Higgins could 
not think of anything else to say. Just because she 
was sorry for that young fool! "Uh-huh ' he re- 
peated, rising and bowing as he passed Ruth's table. 
He wished he had the time to solve this riddle, for 
it was a riddle, and four-square besides. Back in 
the States young women did not o£Per to play the 
Good Samaritan to strange young fools whom Jawn 
D. Barleycorn had sent to the mat for the count of 
nine: unless the young fooFs daddy had a bundle of 
coin. Maybe the girl was telling the truth, and 
then again, maybe she wasn't. 
The situation bothered him considerably. Things 
happened frequently over here that wouldn't happen 
in the States once in a hundred years. Who could 
say that the two weren't in collusion? When a 
chap like Spurlock jumped the traces, cherchez la 
Jemme  every time. He hadn't gambled or played 
the horses or hit the booze back there in little old 
New York . . . 
"Aw, piffle!" he said, half aloud and rather dis- 
gustedly, as he stepped out into the sunshine. "My 
old coco is disintegrating. I've bumped into so much 
of the underside that I can't see clean any more. No 
girl with a face like that       . And yet, dang 
it! I've seen 'em just as innocent looking that were 
prime vipers. Let's get to Hong-Kong, James, and 
hit the high spots while there is time." 
He signalled to Ah Cum; and the two of them 
crossed on foot into the city. 
 
It was not until the morning of the fifth day that 
tlie constant vigil was broken. The patient fell 
into a natural and refreshing sleep. So Ruth found 
that for a while her eyes were free. She tiptoed to 
the stand and gathered up the manuscripts which 
she carried to a chair by the window. Since the dis- 
covery of them, she had been madly eager to read 
these typewritten tales. Treasure caves to explore! 
All through these trying days she had recurrently 
wondered what this strange young man would have 
to say that Dickens and Hugo had not already said. 
That was the true marvel of it. No matter how 
many books one read, each was di£Perent, as each 
human being was different. Some had the dignity 
and the aloofness of a rock in the sea; and others 
wereasthepolished pebbles on the sands — one saw the 
difference of pebble from pebble only by close scru- 
tiny. Ruth, without suspecting it, had fallen upon 
a fundamental truth: that each and every book fitted 
into the scheme of human moods and intelligence. 
Ruth was at that stage where the absorption of 
facts is great, but where the mental digestion is not 
quite equal to the task. She was acquiring truths, 
but in a series of shocks rather than by the process 
of analysis. 
There were seven tales in all — short stories —  a 
method of expression quite strange to her, after the 
immense canvases of Dickens and Hugo. When 
she had finished the first tale, there was a sense of 
disappointment. She had expected a love story; 
and love was totally absent. It was a tale of battle, 
murder, and sudden death on the New York water- 
front. Sordid; but that was not Ruth's term for it; 
she had no precise commentary to offer. 
From time to time she would come upon a line of 
singular beauty or a paragraph full of haunting 
music; and these would send her rushing on for 
something that never happened. Each manuscript 
was like the other: the same lovely treatment of an 
imlovely subject. Abruptly would come the end. 
It was as if she had come upon the beautiful marble 
facade of a fairy palace, was invited to enter, and 
behind the door —  nothing. 
She did not realize that she was offering criticisms. 
The word "criticism" had no concrete meaning to her 
then; no more than "compromise." Some innate 
sense of balance told her that something was wrong 
with these tales. She could not explain in words why 
they disappointed her or that she was disappointed. 
Two hours had come and gone during this tan- 
talizing occupation. At the least, the tales had the 
ability to make her forget where she was; which was 
something in their favour. 
"My coat!" 
Ruth did not move but stared astonishedly at the 
patient. 
"My coat!" he repeated, his glance burning into 
hers. 
CHAPTER XI 
THE second call energized her into action. 
She dropped the manuscripts and swiftly 
brought the coat to him, noting that a button 
hung loose. Later, she would sew it on. 
"What is it you want?'' she asked, as she held 
out the coat. 
"Fold it under the pillow." 
This she did carefully, but inwardly commenting 
that he was still in the realm of strange fancies. 
Wanting his coat, when he must have known that 
the pockets were empty ! But the effort to talk had 
cost him something. The performance over, he re- 
laxed and closed his eyes. Even as she watched, 
the sweat of weakness began to form on his forehead 
and under the nether lip. She wet some absorbent 
cotton with alcohol and refreshed his face and neck. 
This done, she waited at the side of the bed; but he 
gave no sign that he was conscious of her nearness. 
The poor boy, wanting his empty coat! The in- 
cident, however, caused her to review the recent 
events. It was now evident that he had not been 
normal that first day. Perhaps he had had money 
in the coat, back in Hong-Kong, and had been rob- 
bed without knowing it. Perhaps these few words 
were the first real conscious words he had uttered 
in days. His letter of credit; probably that was it; 
and, observing the strangeness of the room he was in, 
his first concern on returning to consciousness would 
naturally relate to his letter of credit. How would 
he act when he learned that it had vanished? 
She gathered up the manuscripts and restored 
them to the envelope. This she put into the trunk. 
She noticed that this trunk was not littered with 
hotel labels. These little squares of coloured paper 
interested her mightily —  hotel labels. She was for 
ever scanning luggage and finding her way about the 
world, via these miniature pictures. London, Paris, 
Rome! There were no hotel labels on the patient's 
trunk, but there were ship labels; and by these she 
was able to reconstruct the journey : from New York 
to Naples, thence to Alexandria; from Port Said to 
Colombo; from Colombo to Bombay; from Calcutta 
to Rangoon, thence down to Singapore; from Singa- 
pore to Hong-Kong. The great world outside ! 
She stood motionless beside the trunk, deep in 
speculation; and thus the doctor found her. 
"Well?'' he whispered. 
"I beheve he is conscious," she answered. "He 
just asked for his coat, which he wanted under his 
pillow." 
"Conscious; well, that's good news. He'll be 
able to help us a little now. I hope that some day 
he'll understand how much he owes you." 
 
 'Oh, that!" she said, with a deprecating gesture. 
''Miss Enschede, you're seven kinds of a brick!" 
"A brick?" 
He chuckled.   I forgot. That's slang, meaning 
you're splendid." 
"I begin to see that I shall have to learn English 
all over again." 
"You have always spoken it?" 
"Yes; except for some native. I wasn't taught 
that; I simply fell into it from contact." 
" I see. So he's come around, then? That's fine." 
He approached the bed and laid his palm on the 
patient's forehead, and nodded. Then he took the 
pulse. 
"He will pull through?" 
"Positively. But the big job for you is yet to 
come. When he begins to notice things, I want you 
to trap his interest, to amuse him, keep his thoughts 
from reverting to his misfortunes." 
"Then he has been unfortunate?" 
"That's patent enough. He's had a hard knock 
somewhere; and until he is strong enough to walk, 
we must keep his interest away from that thought. 
After that, we'll go our several ways." 
" What makes you think he has had a hard knock? " 
"I'm a doctor, young lady." 
"You're fine, too. I doubt if you will receive 
anything for your trouble." 
"Oh, yes I will. The satisfaction of cheating 
Death again. You've been a great help these five 
days; for he had to have attendance constantly, and 
neither Wu nor I could have given that. And yet, 
when you offered to help, it was what is to come 
that I had in mind ' 
"To make him forget the knock?" 
"Precisely. I'm going to be frank; we must have 
a clear understanding. Can you afford to give this 
time? There are your own affairs to think of.' 
There's no hurry.' 
And money? 
"I'll have plenty, if I'm careful." 
"It has done me a whole lot of good to meet you. 
Over here a man quickly loses faith, and I find my- 
self back on solid ground once more. Is there any- 
thing you'd like?" 
"Books." 
"What kind?" 
"Dickens, Hugo." 
"I'll bring you an armful this afternoon. I've 
a lot of old magazines, too. There are a thousand 
questions I'd like to ask you, but I sha'n't ask them." 
"Ask them, all of them, and I will gladly answer. 
I mystify you; I can see that. Well, whenever you 
say, I promise to do away with the mystery." 
"All right. I'll call for you this afternoon when 
Wu is on. I'll show you the Sha-mien; and we can 
talk all we want." 
"I was never going to tell anybody," she added. 
 
' But you are a good man, and you'll understand. 
I believed I was strong enough to go on in silence; 
but Tm human like everybody else. To tell some- 
one who is kind and who will understand ! " 
"There, there!'' he said. There was a hint of 
tears in her voice. "That's all right. We'll get 
together this afternoon; and you can pretend that I 
am your father." 
"No! I have run away from my father. I shall 
never go back to him; never, never!" 
Distressed, embarrassed beyond measure by this 
unexpected tragic revelation, the doctor puttered 
about among the bottles on the stand. 
"We're forgetting," he said. "We mustn't dis- 
tiwb the patient. I'll call for you after lunch." 
"I'm sorry." 
She began to prepare the room for Wu's coming, 
while the doctor went downstairs. As he was leav- 
ing the hotel. Ah Cum stepped up to his side. 
"HowisMr. Taber?" 
"Begained consciousness this morning." 
Ah Cum nodded. "That is good." 
"You are interested?" 
"In a way, naturally. We are both graduates of 
Yale." 
"Ah! Did he tell you anything about himself?" 
"Aside from that, no. When will he be up?" 
"That depends. Perhaps in two or three weeks. 
Did he talk a httle when you took him into the city ? " 
"No. He appeared to be strangely uncommuiii- 
cative, though I tried to draw him out. He spoke 
only when he saw the sing-song girl he wanted to 
buy.'' 
"Why didn't you head him oflF, explain that it 
couldn't be done by a white man?" 
Ah Cum shrugged. "You are a physician; you 
know the vagaries of men in liquor. He was a 
stranger. I did not know how he would act if I 
obstructed him." 
"We found all his pockets empty." 
"Then they were empty when he left," replied Ah 
Cum, with dignity. 
I was only commenting. Did he act to you that 
day as if he knew what he was doing? 
'' JL was uuiy uuimucutiug. ± iu uc 
" 
"Not all of the time." 
"A queer case;" and the doctor passed on. 
Ah Cum made a movement as though to follow, 
but reconsidered. The word of a Chinaman; he had 
given it, so he must abide. There was now no 
honest way of warning Taber that the net had been 
drawn. Of course, it was ridiculous, this inclina- 
tion to assist the fugitive, based as it was upon an 
intangible university idea. And yet, mulling it 
over, he began to understand why the white man 
was so powerful in the world : he was taught loyalty 
and fair play in his schools, and he carried this spirit 
into the world which his forebears had conquered. 
Suddenly Ah Cum laughed aloud. He, a China- 
 
# 
man, troubling himself over Occidental ideas ! With 
his hands in his sleeves, he proceeded on his way. 
Ruth and the doctor returned to the hotel at 
four. Both carried packages of books and maga- 
zines. There was an air of repressed gaiety in her 
actions : the sense of freedom had returned ; her heart 
was empty again. The burden of decision had been 
transferred. 
And because he knew it was a burden, there was 
no gaiety upon the doctor s face; neither was there 
speech on his tongue. He knew not how to act, 
urged as he was in two directions. It would be use- 
less to tell her to go back, even heartless; and yet he 
could not advise her to go on, blindly, not knowing 
whether her aunt was dead or alive. He was also 
aware that all his arguments would shatter them- 
selves against her resolutions. There was a strange 
quality of steel in this pretty creature. He under- 
stood now that it was a part of her inheritance. The 
father would be all steel. One point in her narra- 
tive stood out beyond all others. To an unthink- 
ing mind the episode would be ordinary, trivial; but 
to the doctor, who had had plenty of time to think 
during his sojourn in China, it was basic of the 
child's unhappiness. A dozen words, and he saw 
Enschede as clearly as though he stood hard by in 
the flesh. 
To preach a fine sermon every Sunday so that he 
would lose neither the art nor the impulse; and this 
child, in secret rebellion, taking it down in long hand 
during odd hours in the week! Preaching grandilo- 
quently before a few score natives who understood 
little beyond the gestures, for the single purpose of 
warding o£P disintegration ! It reminded the doctor 
of a stubborn retreat; from barricade, to barricade, 
grimly fighting to keep the enemy at bay, that in- 
sidious enemy of the white man in the South Seas — 
inertia. 
The drunken beachcombers; the one-sided edu- 
cation ; the utter lone ness of a white child without 
playfellows, human or animal, without fairy stories, 
who for days was left alone while the father visited 
neighbouring islands, these pictures sank far below 
their actual importance. He would always see the 
picture of the huge, raw-boned Dutchman, haran- 
guing and thundering the word of God into the dull 
ears of South Sea Islanders, who, an hour later, 
would be carrying fruit penitently to their wooden 
images. 
He now understood her interest in Taber, as he 
called himself: habit, a twice-told tale. A beach- 
comber in embryo, and she had lent a hand through 
habit as much as through pity. The grim mockery 
of it! — those South Sea loafers, taking advantage 
of Enschede's Christianity and imposing upon him, 
accepting his money and medicines and laughing 
behind his back! No doubt they made the name a 
 
byword and a subject for ribald jest in the water- 
front bars. And this clear-visioned child had com- 
prehended that only half the rogues were really ill. 
But Enschede took them as they came, without 
question. Charity for the ragtag and the bobtail 
of the Seven Seas, and none for his own flesh and 
blood. 
This started a thought moving. There must be 
something behind the missioner's actions, something 
of which the girl knew nothing nor suspected. It 
would not be possible otherwise to live in daily con- 
tact with this level-eyed, lovely girl without loving 
her. Something with iron resolve the father had 
kept hidden all these years in the lonely citadel of 
his heart. Teaching the word of God to the recent 
cannibal, caring for the sick, storming the strong- 
holds of the plague, adding his own private income 
to the pittance allowed him by the Society, and never 
seeing the angel that walked at his side! Some- 
thing the girl knew nothing about; else Enschede 
was unbelievable. 
It now came to him with an added thrill how well 
she had told her story; simply and directly, no skip- 
ping, no wandering hither and yon: from the first 
hour she could remember, to the night she had fled in 
the proa, a clear sustained narrative. And through 
it all, like a golden thread on a piece of tapestry, 
weaving in and out of the patterns, the unspoken 
longing for love. 
"Well,'' she said, as they reached the hotel por- 
tal, "what is your advice?" 
"Would you follow it?'' 
"Probably not. Still, I am curious." 
"I do not say that what you have done is wrong in 
any sense. I do not blame you for the act. There 
are human limitations, and no doubt you reached 
yours. For all that, it is folly. If you knew your 
aunt were alive, if she expected you, that would be 
different. But to plunge blindly into the unknown ! " 
"I had to! I had to!" 
She had told him only the first part of her story. 
She wondered if the second part would overcome 
his objections? Several times the words had rushed 
to her tongue, to find her tongue paralysed. To a 
woman she might have confided; but to this man, 
kindly as he was, it was unthinkable. How could 
she tell him of the evil that drew her and drew her, 
as a needle to the magnet? — the fascinating evil that 
even now, escaped as it was, went on distilling its 
poison in her mind? 
"Yes, yes!" said the doctor. "But if you do not 
find this aunt, what will you do? What can you do 
to protect yourself against hunger?" 
"ril find something." 
"But warn the aunt, prepare her, if she lives." 
"And have her warn my father! No. If I sur- 
prised her, if I saw her alone, I might make her un- 
derstand." 
 
He shook his head. '' There's only one way out of 
the muddle, that I can see." 
''And what is that?" 
''I have relatives not far from Hartford. I may 
prevail upon them to take you in until you are full- 
fledged, providing you do not find this aunt. You 
say you have twenty-four hundred in your letter of 
credit. It will not cost you more than six hundred 
to reach your destination. The pearls were really 
yours?" 
"They were left to me by my mother. I some- 
times laid away my father's clothes in his trunk. I 
saw the metal box a hundred times, but I never 
thought of opening it until the day I fled. I never 
even burrowed down into the trunk. I had no 
curiosity of that kind. I wanted something alive. ' 
She paused. 
"Go on." 
"Well, suddenly I knew that I must see the in- 
side of that box, which had a padlock. I wrenched 
this off, and in an envelope addressed to me in faded 
ink, I found the locket and the pearls. It is queer 
how ideas pop into one's head. Instantly I knew 
that I was going to run away that night before he 
returned from the neighbouring island. At the bot- 
tom of the trunk I found two of my mother's dresses. 
I packed them with the other few things I owned. 
Morgan the trader did not haggle over the pearls  
but gave me at once what he judged a fair price' 
You will wonder why he did not hold the peaxls 
until Father returned. I didn't understand then, 
but I do now. It was partly to pay a grudge he had 
against father." 
"And partly what else?" 
"I shall never tell anybody that." 
"I don't know," said the doctor, dubiously. 
"You're only twenty —  not legally of age." 
"I am here in Canton," she replied, simply. 
"Very welL I'll cable to-night, and in a few days 
we'll have some news. I'm a graybeard, an old 
bachelor; so I am accorded certain privileges. 
Sometimes I am frightfully busy; and then there 
will be periods of dullness. I have a few regular 
patients, and I take care of them in the morning. 
Every afternoon, from now on, I will teach you a 
little about life —  I mean the worldly points of view 
you're likely to meet. You are queerly educated; 
and it strikes me that your father had some definite 
purpose in thus educating you. I'll try to fill in 
the gaps." 
The girl's eyes filled. "I wonder if you will un- 
derstand what this kindness means to me? I am 
so terribly wise —  and so wofully ignorant!" 
CHAPTER Xn 
THE doctor shifted his books and magazines 
to the crook of his elbow. He had done this 
a dozen times on the way from his office. 
Books were always sliding and slipping, clumsy objects 
to hold. Looking at this girl, a sense of failure swept 
over him. He had not been successful as the world 
counted success; the fat bank-account, the filled 
waiting room of which he had once dreamed, had 
never materialized except in the smoke of his even- 
ing pipe. 
And yet he knew that his skill was equal to that of 
any fashionable practitioner in Hong-Kong. He 
wasn't quite hard enough to win worldly success; 
that was his fault. Anybody in pain had only to 
call to him. So, here he was, on the last lap of 
middle age, in China, having missed all the thrills 
in' life except one — the war against Death. It 
rather astonished him. He hadn't followed this 
angle of thought in ten years: what he might have 
been, with a little shrewd selfishness. This ex- 
traordinary child had opened up an old channel 
through which it was no longer safe to cruise. She 
was like an angel with one wing. The sinule started 
a laugh in his throat. 
"Why do you laugh?" she asked gravely. 
"At a thought. Of you — an angel with one wing." 
"Meaning that I don't belong anywhere, in 
heaven or on earth?" 
" Meaning that you must cut off the wing or grow 
another to mate it. Let's go up and see how the 
patient is doing. Wu may have news for us. We'll 
get those books into your room first. And I'll have 
supper with you." 
"If only . . . . " But she did not cx)mplete 
the thought aloud. If only this man had been her 
father! The world would have meant nothing; the 
island would have been wide enough. 
"You were saying ?" 
"I started to say something; that is all." 
"By the way, did you read those stories?" 
"Yes." 
"Worth anything?" 
"I don't know." 
"Silly love stories?" 
"No; love wasn't the theme. Supposing you 
take them and read them? You might be able to 
tell me why I felt disappointed." 
"All right. I'll take them back with me. Prob- 
ably he has something to say and can't say it, or he 
writes well about nothing." 
"Do you believe his failure caused . . . . " 
"What?" he barked. But he did not follow on 
with the thought. There was no need of sowing 
 
suspicion when he wasn't really certain there were 
grounds for it. "Well, you never can tell," he con- 
tinued, lamely. "These writer chaps are queer 
birds." 
  Queer birds." 
He laughed and followed her into the hotel. 
''More slang," he said. "I'll have to set you right 
on that, too." 
"I have heard sailors use words like that, but I 
never knew what they meant." 
Sailors, he thought; and most of them the dregs of 
the South Seas, casting their evil glances at this ex- 
quisite creature and trying to smirch with innuendo 
the crystal clearness of her mind. Perhaps there 
were experiences she would never confide to any 
man. Sudden indignation boiled up in him. The 
father was a madman. It did not matter that he 
wore the cloth; somethmg was wrong with him. He 
hadn't played fair. 
"Remember; we must keep the young fellow's 
thoughts away from himself. Tell him about the 
island, the coconut dance, the wooden tom-toms; 
read to him." 
"What made him buy that sing-song girl?" Re- 
garding this, Ruth had ideas of her own, but she 
wanted the doctor's point of view. 
"Maybe he realized that he was slipping fast and 
