went directly to Dr. Talbot's office. It was the 
most unpleasant duty she had ever undertaken, 
but she knew that Talbot would not doubt his 
wife's fidelity, and she was determined to save 
Madeleine. She had considered the alternative of going to Masters, but even her strong 
spirit quailed before the prospect of that interview. Besides, if he were as deeply in love 
with Madeleine as she believed him to be, it 
would do no good. She had little faith in 
the self-abnegation of men where their passions were concerned. 
Dr. Talbot was in his office and saw her at 
once, and they talked for an hour. His face 
 
was purple and she feared a stroke. But he 
heard her quietly, and told her she had proved 
her friendship by coming to him before it was 
too late. When she left him he sat for another 
hour, alone. 
XXIII 
IT WAS six o'clock. San Francisco was enjoying one of its rare heat waves and 
Madeleine had put on a frock of white lawn 
made with a low neck and short sleeves, and 
tied a soft blue sash round her waist. As the 
hour of her husband's reasonably prompt homing approached she seated herself at the piano. 
She could not trust herself to sing, and played 
the " Adelaide." The past three days had not 
been as unhappy as she had expected. She had 
visited Sibyl Forbes, living in lonely splendor, 
and listened enthralled to that rebellious young 
woman (who had received her with passionate 
gratitude) as she poured out humiliations, bitter resentment, and matrimonial felicity. 
Madeleine had consoled and rejoiced and 
promised to talk to the all-powerful Mrs. McLane. 
Twice she had gone to hear John Mc- 
Cullough at his new California Theatre, with 
another dutiful doctor's wife who lived in the 
 
hotel, and she had walked for three hours with 
Masters every afternoon. He had always 
found it easy to turn her mind into any channel he chose, and he had never exerted himself 
to be more entertaining even with her. 
Today he had been jubilant and had swept 
her with him on his high tide of anticipation 
and triumph. Another patriotic San Franciscan had come to the rescue and the himdred 
thousand dollars lay to Masters* credit in the 
Bank of California. He had taken his 
offices an hour after the deposit was made; his 
business manager was engaged, and every 
writer of ability on the other newspapers was 
his to command. " Masters' Newspaper '' had 
been the talk of the journalistic world for 
months. He had picked his staff and he now 
awaited only the presses he had ordered that 
morning from New York. 
Madeleine had sighed as she listened to him 
dilate upon an active brilliant future in which 
she had no place, but she was in tune with him 
always and she could only be happy with him 
now. Moreover, it was an additional safe- 
guard. He would be too busy for dreams and 
human longings. As for herself she would go 
 
along somehow. Tears, after all, were a wonderful solace. Fear had driven her down a 
light romantic by-way of her nature. Even if 
days passed without a glimpse of him she could 
dwell on the pleasant thought that he was not 
far away, and now and then they would take 
a long walk together. 
The door opened and Dr. Talbot entered. 
His face was no longer purple. It was sallow 
and drawn. Her hands trailed off the keys, 
her arms fell limply. Not even during an epidemic, when he found little time for sleep, 
had his roimd face lost its ruddy brightness, 
his black eyes their look of jovial good-fellow- 
ship, his mouth its amiable cynicism. 
" Something has happened," she said faintly. 
" What is it? " 
" Would you mind sitting here? " He fell 
heavily into a chair and motioned to one opposite. She left the shelter of the piano with 
dragging feet, her own face drained of its 
color. Ben Travers! She knew what was 
coming. 
His arms lay limply along the arms of his 
chain As she gazed at him fascinated it 
seemed to her that he grew older every minute. 
And she had never seen any one look as sad. 
 
" I have been a bad husband to you," he said. 
And the life had gone out of even his voice. 
" Oh! No! No! you have been the best, the 
kindest and most indulgent of husbands." 
" I have been worse than a bad husband," 
he went on in the same monotonous voice. " I 
have been a failure. I never tried to 
understand you. I didn't want to understand 
what might interfere with my own selfish life. 
You have a mind and I ordered you to feed it 
husks. You asked me for the companionship 
that was your right and I told you to go and 
amuse yourself as best you could. I fooled 
myself with the excuse that you were perfect 
as you were, but the bald truth was that I liked 
the society of men better, and hated any form 
of mental exertion unconnected with my profession. I plucked the rarest flower a good-for- 
nothing man ever found and I didn't even re- 
member to give it fresh water. It is a wonder 
you didn't wilt before you did. You were wilting — dying mentally — when Masters came 
along. You f oimd in him all that I had denied you. And now I have the punishment I 
deserve. You no longer love me. You love 
him." 
 
"Oh — Oh — " Madeleine twisted her 
hands in her lap and stared at them. " You — 
you — cannot help being what you are. I long 
since ceased to find fault with you — " 
" Yes, when you ceased to love me! When 
you found that we were hopelessly mismated. 
When you gave up." 
"I — I'm very fond of you still. How 
could I help it when you are so good to me? " 
" I have no doubt of your friendship — or 
of your fidelity. But you love Masters. Can 
you deny it? " 
« No." 
" Are you preparing to elope with him? " 
"Oh! No! No! How could you dream 
of such a thing? " 
" I am told that every one is expecting it." 
" I would no more elope than I would ask 
for a divorce. I may be sinful enough to love 
a man who is not my husband, but I am not 
bad enough for that. And people are very 
stupid. They know that Langdon Masters' 
future lies here. If I were as wicked a woman 
as that, at least he is not a fool. Why, only 
today he received the capital for his news- 
paper." 
 
"And do you know so little of men ana 
women as to imagine that you two could go on 
indefinitely content with the mere fact that you 
love each other? I may not have known my own 
wife because I chose to be blind, but a doctor 
knows as much about women in general as a 
father confessor. Men and women are not 
made like that! It seems that every one but 
myself has known for months that Masters is 
in love with youj and Masters is a man of 
strong passions and relentless will. He has 
used his will so far to curb his passions, principally, no doubt, on my account; he is my 
friend and a man of honor. But there are 
moments in life when honor as well as virtue 
goes overboard." 
" But — but — we have agreed never to see 
each other alone again — except out of doors.'' 
" That is all very well, but there are always 
imexpected moments of isolation. The devil 
sees to that. And while I have every confidence in your virtue — under normal conditions — I know the helpless yielding of women 
and. the ruthless passions of men. It would 
be only a question of time. I may have been a 
bad husband but I am mercifully permitted to 
save you, and I shall do so." 
 
He rose heavily from his chain " Do you 
know where I can find Masters? '' 
She sprang to her feet and for the first time 
in her life her voice was shrill. 
" You are not going to kill him? " 
" Oh, no. I am not going to kill him. There 
has been scandal enough already. And I have 
no desire to kill him. He has behaved very 
well, all things considered. I am almost as 
sorry for him as I am for you — and myself! 
Do you know where he is? '' 
" He is probably dining at the Union Club 
— or he may be at his new oflices. They are 
somewhere on Commercial Street." 
He went out and Madeleine sat staring at 
the door with wide eyes and parted lips. She 
felt no inclination to tears, nor even to faint, 
although her body could hardly have been 
colder in death. She felt suspended in a 
vacuum, awaiting something more dreadful 
than even this interview with her husband had 
 been. 
XXIV 
DR. TALBOT turned towaixl the stairs, 
but it occurred to him that Masters 
might still be in his rooms and he walked to 
the other end of the hall. A ringing voice 
answered his knock. He entered. Masters 
grasped him by the hand, exclaiming, " I was 
going to look you up tonight and tell you the 
good news. Has Madeleine told you? I have 
my capital! And I have just received a telegram from New York saying that my presses 
will start by freight tomorrow. That means 
we^U have our newspaper in threie weeks at 
the outside — But what is the matter, old 
chap? I never saw you look seedy before. 
Suppose we take a week off and go on a bear 
hunt? It's the last vacation I can have in a 
month of Sundays." 
" I have come to tell you that you must leave 
San Francisco." 
"Oh! " Masters' exuberance dropped like 
a shining cloak from a figure of steel. He 
 
walked to his dtadel, the hearth rug, and lit a 
cigarette. 
" I suppose you have been listening to the 
chatter of that infernal old gossip, Ben 
Travers." 
" Ben Travers knows me too well to bring 
any of his gossip to me. But he has carried 
his stories up and down the state j not only 
his — more recent discoveries, but evidence he 
appears to have been collecting for months. 
But he is only one of many. It seems the 
whole town has known for a year or more that 
you see Madeleine for three or four hours 
every day, that you have managed to have 
those hours together, no matter what her engagements, that you are desperately in love 
with each other. The gossip has been infernal. 
I do not deny that a good deal of the blame 
rests on my shoulders. I not only neglected 
her but I encouraged her to see you. But I 
thought her above scandal or even gossip, and 
I never dreamed it was in her to love — to 
lose her head over any man. She was sweet 
and affectionate but cold — my fault again. 
Any man who had the good f ortvme to be mar- 
ried to Madeleine could make her love him if 
 
he were not a selfish fool. Well, I have been 
punished 5 but if I have lost her I can save her 
— and her reputation. You must go. There 
is no other way." 
"That is nonsense. You exaggerate be- 
cause you are suffering from a shock. You 
know that I cannot leave San Francisco with 
this great newspaper about to be launched. If 
it is as bad as you make out I will give you my 
word not to see Madeleine again. And as I 
shall be too busy for Society it will quickly forget me.'' 
" Oh, no, it will not. It will say that you 
are both cleverer than you have been in the 
past. If you leave San Francisco — California 
— for good and all — it may forget youj not 
otherwise." 
"Do you know that you are asking me to 
give up my career? That I shall never have 
such an opportimity in my life again? My 
whole future — for usefulness as well as for 
the realization of my not ignoble ambitions — 
lies in San Francisco and nowhere else? " 
" Don't imagine I have not thought of that. 
And San Francisco can ill afford to spare you. 
You are one of the greatest assets this city ever 
 
had. But she will have to do without you even 
if you never can be replaced. I had the whole 
history of the affair from Mrs. McLane this 
afternoon. No one believes — yet — that 
things have reached a climax between you and 
Madeleine. On the contrary, they are expecting an elopement. But if you remain, nothing 
on God's earth can prevent an abominable scan- 
dal. Madeleine's name will be dragged 
through the mud. She will be cut, cast out of 
Society. Even I could not protect her; I 
should be regarded as a blind fool, or worse
for it will be known that Mrs. McLane warned 
me. No woman can keep her mouth shut. 
She and other powerful women — even that 
damned old cut-throat, Mrs. Abbott — are 
standing by Madeleine loyally, but they are all 
alert for a denouement nevertheless. If you 
go, that will satisfy them. Madeleine will be 
merely the heroine of an unhappy love-affair, 
and although nothing will stop their damned 
clacking tongues for a time, they will pity her 
and do their best to make her forget.'' 
" I cannot go. It is impossible. You are 
asking too much. And, I repeat, I'll never see 
her again. Mrs. McLane can be made to 
 
understand the truth. I'll leave the hotel to- 
morrow." 
" You love Madeleine, do you not? " 
" Yes — I do." 
" Then will you save her from ruin in the 
only way possible. It is not only her reputation that I fear. You know yourself, I fancy. 
You may avoid her, but you will hardly deny 
that if circumstances threw you together, alone, 
temptation would be irresistible — the more so 
as you would have ached for the mere sound of 
her voice every minute. I know now what it 
means to love Madeleine." 
Masters turned his back on Talbot and 
leaned his arms on the mantel-shelf. He saw 
hideous pictures in the empty grate. 
The doctc«- had not sat down. Not a muscle 
of his big strong body had moved as he stood 
and pronounced what was worse than a sentence 
of' death on Langdon Masters. He averted 
his dull inexorable eyes, for he dared not give 
way to sympathy. For the moment he wished 
himself dead — and for more reasons than 
one! But he was far too healthy and practical 
to contemplate a dramatic exit. No end would 
be served if he did. Madeleine's sensitive 
 
spirit would recoil in horror from a xmion 
haunted by the memory of the crime and 
anguish of the husband she had vowed to love 
and obey. Not Madeleine! His remorseless 
solution was the only one. 
Masters turned after a time and his face 
looked as old as Talbot's. 
" I'll go if you are quite sure it is necessary. 
If you have not spoken in the heat of the 
moment." 
" If I thought for a month it would make no 
difference. If you remain, no matter what 
your circumspection Madeleine will rank in the 
eyes of the world with those harlots over on 
Dupont Street. And be as much of an out- 
cast. You know this town. You've lived in 
it for a year and a half. It's not London, nor 
even New York. Nothing is hidden here. It 
lives on itself  it has nothing else to live on. 
It is almost fanatically loyal to its own until its 
loyalty is thrown in its face. Then it is bitterer 
than the wrath of God. You understand all 
this, don't you? " 
"Yes, I understand. But — couldn't you 
send Madeleine to her parents in Boston for 
six months — she has never paid them a visit 
 
— but no, I suppose the scandal would be 
worse — " 
" Far worse. It would look either as if she 
had run away from me or as if I had packed 
her off in disgrace. If I could leave my practice I'd take her abroad for two years, but I 
cannot. Nor — to be frank — do I see why 
I should be sacrificed f urther." 
"Oh, assuredly not." Masters* tones were 
even and excessively polite. 
" You will take the train tomorrow morning 
for New York? " 
" I cannot leave San Francisco until after the 
opening of the banks. The money must be refunded. Besides, I prefer to go by steamer. 
There is one lea\dng tomorrow, I believe. I 
want time to think before I arrive in New 
York.'' 
"And you will promise to have no correspondence with Madeleine whatever? " 
" You might leave us that much! " 
"The afFair shall end here and now. Do 
you promise? " 
"Very well. But I should like to see her 
once more." 
" That you shall not! I shall not leave her 
until you are outside the Golden Gate." 
 
"Very well. If that is all — '' 
" Good-by. You have behaved — well, as 
our code commands you to behave. I expected 
nothing less. Don't imagine I don't appreciate 
what this means to you. But you are a man 
of great ability. You will find as hospitable a 
field for your talents elsewhere. San Francisco is the chief loser. I wish you the best of 
luck." 
And he returned to Madeleine. 
XXV 
MADELEINE came of a brave race and 
she was a woman of intense pride. She 
spent a week at Congress Springs and she took 
her courage in her teeth and spent another at 
Rincona. There was a house party and they 
amused themselves in the somnolent way 
peculiar to Alta. Bret Harte was there, a 
dapper little man, whose shoes were always a 
size too small, but popular with women as he 
played an excellent game of croquet and talked 
as delightfully as he wrote. His good humor 
could be counted on if no one mentioned " The 
Heathen Chinee." He had always admired 
Madeleine and did his best to divert her. 
Both Mrs. McLane and Mrs. Abbott were 
disappointed that they were given no opportunity to condole with herj but althoug she gave a fair imitation of the old Madeleine 
Talbot, and even mentioned Masters' name 
with a casual indifference, no one was deceived 
for a moment. That her nerves were on the 
 
rack was as evident as that her watchful pride 
was in arms, and although it was obvious that 
she had foresworn the luxury of tears, her eyes 
had a curious habit of looking through and beyond these good ladies until they had the uncomfortable sensation that they were not there 
and some one else was. They wondered if 
Langdon Masters were dead and she saw his 
ghost. 
The summer was almost over. After a visit 
to Sally Abbott on Lake Merritt, she returned 
to town with the rest of the fashionable world. 
People had never been kinder to herj and if 
their persistent attentions were strongly diluted 
with curiosity, who shall blame them? It was 
not every day they had a blighted heroine of 
romance, who, moreover, looked as if she were 
going into a decline. She grew thinner every 
day. Her white skin was colorless and transparent. They might not have her for long, 
poor darling! How they pitied her! But 
they never wished they had let her alone. It 
was all for the best. And what woman ever 
had so devoted a husband? He went with her 
everywhere. He, too, looked as if he had been 
through the mill, poor dear, but at least he had 
 
won a close race, and he deserved and received 
the sympathy of his faithful friends. As for 
that ungrateful brute, Langdon Masters, he had 
not written a line to any one in San Francisco 
since he left. Not one had an idea what had 
become of him. Did he secretly correspond 
with Madeleine? (They would have per- 
mitted her that much.) Would he blow out 
his brains if she died of consumption? He was 
no philanderer. If he hadn't really loved her 
nothing would have torn him from San Francisco and his brilliant career of course. Duelling days were over, and the doctor was not the 
man to shoot another down in cold blood, with 
no better excuse than the poor things had given 
him. It was all very thrilling and romantic. 
Even the girls talked of little else, and regarded their complacent prosperous swains with 
disfavor. " The Long Long Weary Day ''
was their favorite song. They wished that 
Madeleine lived in a moated grange instead of 
the Occidental Hotel. 
Madeleine had had her own room from the 
beginning of her married life in San Francisco, 
as the doctor was frequently called out at night. 
When Howard had returned and told her that 
 
Masters would leave on the morrow and that 
she was not to see him again, she had walked 
quietly into her bedroom and locked the door 
that led to hisj and she had never turned the 
key since. 
Talbot made no protest. He had no spirit 
left where Madeleine was concemed, but it 
was his humble hope to win her back by unceasing devotion and consideration, aided by time. 
He not only never mentioned Masters^ name, 
but he wooed her in blundering male fashion. 
Not a day passed that he did not send her 
flowers. He bought her trinkets and several 
valuable jewels, and he presented her with a 
victoria, drawn by a fine sorrel mare, and a 
coachman in livery on the box. 
Madeleine treated him exactly as she treated 
her host at a dinner. She was as amiable as 
ever at the breakfast table, and when he deserted his club of an evening, she sat at her 
embroidery frame and told him the gossip of 
the day. 
XXVI 
ONE evening at the end of two long hours, 
when he had heroically suppressed his 
longing for a game of poker, he said hesitatingly, " I thought you were so fond of reading. I don't see any books about. All the 
women are reading a novel called ^ Quits.' I'll 
send it up to you in the morning if you haven't 
read it." 
For the first time since Masters' departure 
the blood rose in Madeleine's face, but she 
answered calmly: 
" Thanks. I have little time for reading, as 
I have developed quite a passion for embroidery and I practice a good deal. This is a 
handkerchief-case for Mrs. McLane. Of 
course I must read ^ Quits,' however, and also 
*The Initials.' One mustn't be behind the 
times. If you'll step into Beach's tomorrow 
and order them I'll be grateful." 
" Of course I will. Should — should — you 
like me to read to you? I'm a pretty bad 
reader, I guess, but I'll do my best." 
 
" Oh — is there ^ earthquake? " 
" No! But your nerves are in a bad state. 
I'll get you a glass of port wine.'' 
He went heavily over to the cupboard, but 
his hand was shaking as he poured out the wine. 
He drank a glass himself before retiuning to 
her. 
" Thanks. You take very good care of me." 
And she gave him the gracious smile of a grateful patient. 
" I don't think you'd better go out any more 
at night for a while. You are far from well, 
you know, and you're not picking up." 
" A call for you, I suppose. Too bad." 
There had been a peremptory knock on the 
door. A coachman stood without. Would Dr. 
Talbot come at once? A new San Franciscan 
was imminent via Mrs. Alexander Groome on 
Ballinger Hill. 
The doctor grumbled. 
" And raining cats and dogs. Why couldn't 
she wait until tomorrow? We'll probably get 
stuck in the mud. Damn women and their 
everlasting babies." 
She helped him into his overcoat and wished 
him a pleasant good-night. It was long since 
 
she had lifted her cheek for his old hasty kiss, 
and he made no protest. He had time oh his 
side. 
She did not return to her embroidery frame 
but stood for several moments looking at the 
chest near the fireplace. She had not opened 
it since Masters left. His library had been 
packed and sent after him by one of his friends, 
but no one had known of the books in her possession. Masters certainly had not thought of 
them and she was in no condition to remember 
them herself at the time. 
She had not dared to look at them! To- 
night, however, she moved slowly toward the 
chest. She looked like a sleep-walker. When 
she reached it she knelt down and opened it 
and gathered the books in her arms. When her 
husband returned two hours later she lay on the 
floor in a dead faint, the books scattered about 
her. 
XXVII 
IT WAS morning before he could revive her, 
and two days before she could leave her 
bed. Then she developed the hacking cough 
he dreaded. He took her to the Sandwich 
Islands and kept her there for a month. The 
even climate and the sea voyage seemed to 
relieve her, but when they returned to San 
Francisco she began to cough again. 
Do women go into a decline these days from 
corroding love and hope in ruins? If so, one 
never hears of it and the disease is unfashionable in modem fiction. But in that era woman 
was woman and little besides. If a woman of 
the fashionable world she had Society besides 
her family and housekeeping. She rarely 
travelled, certainly not from California, and if 
one of her band fell upon evil days and was 
forced to teach school, knit baby sacques, or 
keep a boarding-house, she was pitied but by 
no means emulated. Madeleine had neither 
house nor children, and more money than she 
could spend. She had nothing to ask of life 
but happiness and that was for ever denied her. 
Masters had never been out of her mind for a 
moment during her waking hours, and she had 
slept little. She ate still less, and kept herself 
up in Society with punch in the afternoon and 
champagne at night. Only in the solitude of 
her room did she give way briefly to excoriated 
nerves } but the source of her once ready tears 
seemed dry. There are more scientific terms 
for her condition these days, but she was 
poisoned by love and despair. Her collapse 
was only a matter of time. 
Dr. Talbot knew nothing about psychology 
but he knew a good deal about consumption. 
He had also arrested it in its earlier stages more 
than once. He plied Madeleine with the good 
old remedies: eggnog, a raw egg in a glass 
of sherry, port wine, mellow Bourbon whiskey 
and cream. She had no desire to recover and 
he stood over her while she drank his potions 
lest she pour them down the washstandj and 
some measure of her strength returned. She 
fainted no more and her cough disappeared. 
The stimulants gave her color and her figure 
began to fill out again. But her thoughts, save 
 
when muddled by her tonics, never wandered 
from Masters for a moment. 
The longing to hear from him grew uncontrollable with her returning vitality. She had 
hoped that he would break his promise and 
write to her once at least. He knew her too 
well not to measure the extent of her sufferings, and common humanity would have justified him. But his ship might have sunk with 
all on board for any sign he gave. Others had 
ceased to grumble at his silence; his name was 
rarely mentioned. 
If she had known his address she would have 
written to him and demanded one letter. She 
had given no promise. Her husband had commanded and she had obeyed. She had always 
obeyed him, as she had vowed at the altar. 
But she had her share of feminine guile, and 
if she had known where to address Masters 
she would have quieted her conscience with the 
assurance that a letter from him was a necessary 
part of her cure. She felt that the mere sight 
of his handwriting on an envelope addressed 
to herself would transport her back to that hour 
in Dolores, and if she could correspond with 
him life would no longer be imendurable. But 
 
although he had casually alluded to his club 
in New York she could not recall the name, if 
he had mentioned it. 
She went to the Mercantile Library one day 
and looked over files of magazines and reviews. 
His name appeared in none of them. It was 
useless to look over newspaper files, as editorials were not signed. But he must be writing for one of them. He had his immediate 
living to make. 
What should she do? 
As she groped her way down the dark stair- 
case of the library she remembered the news- 
paper friend, Ralph Holt, who had padded his 
books — so the chambermaid had informed her 
casually — and whom she had met once when 
walking with Masters. He, if any one, would 
know Masters' address. But how meet him? 
He<.did not go in Society, and she had never 
seen him since. She could think of no excuse 
to ask him to call. Nor was it possible — to 
her, at least — to write a note and ask him for 
information outright. 
But by this time she was desperate. See 
Holt she would, and after a few moments' 
hard thinking her feminine ingenuity flashed 
 
a beacon. Holt was one of the sub-editors of 
his newspaper and although he had been about 
to resign and join Masters, no doubt he was 
on the staff still. Madeleine remembered that 
Masters had often spoken of a French restaurant in the neighborhood of the Alta offices, 
patronized by newspaper men. The cooking 
was excellent. He often lunched there himself. 
She glanced at her watch. It was one o'clock. 
She walked quickly toward the restaurant. 
XXVIII 
SHE ENTERED in some trepidation. She 
had never visited a restaurant alone before. 
And this one was crowded with men, the atmosphere thick with smoke. She asked the 
fat little proprietor if she might have a table 
alone, and he conducted her to the end of the 
room, astonished but flattered. A few women 
came to the restaurant occasionally to lunch 
with " their boys,'' but no such lady of the hautton as this. A fashionable woman's caprice, no 
doubt. 
Her seat faced the room, and as she felt the 
men staring at her, she studied the menu carefully and did not raise her eyes until she gave 
her order. In spite of her mission and its tragic 
cause she experienced a fleeting satisfaction that 
she was well and becomingly dressed. She had 
intended dropping in informally on Sibyl 
Forbes, still an outcast, in spite of her intercession, and wore a gown of dove-colored cash- 
mere and a hat of the same shade with a long 
lilac feather. 
 
She summoned her courage and glanced 
about the room, her eyes casual and remote. 
Would it be possible to recognize any one in 
that smoke? But she saw Holt almost immediately. He sat at a table not far from her 
own. She bowed cordially and received as 
frigid a response as Mrs. Abbott would have 
bestowed on Sibyl Forbes. 
Madeleine colored and dropped her eyes 
again. Of course he knew her for the cause 
of Masters' desertion of the city that needed 
him, and the disappointment of his own hopes 
and ambitions. Moreover, she had inferred 
from his conversation the day they had all 
walked together for half an hour that he regarded Masters as little short of a god. He 
was several years younger, he was clever himself, and nothing like Masters had ever come 
his way. He had declared that the projected 
newspaper was to be the greatest in America. 
She had smiled at his boyish enthusiasm, but 
without it she would probably have forgotten 
him. She had resented his presence at the 
time. 
Of course he hated her. But she had come 
too far to fail. He passed her table a few 
moments later and she held out her hand with 
her sweetest smile. 
"Sit down a moment,' she said with her 
pretty air of command j and although his face 
did not relax he could do no less than obey. 
" I feel more comfortable," she said. " I 
had no idea I should be the only lady here. 
But Mr. Masters so often spoke to me of this 
restaurant that I have always meant to visit 
it." She did not flutter an eyelash as she 
uttered Masters' name, and her lovely eyes 
seemed wooing Holt to remain at her side. 
" Heartless, like all the rest of them," 
thought the young man wrathf uUy. " Well, 
I'll give her one straight." 
" Have you heard from him lately? " she 
asked, as the waiter placed the dishes on the 
table. " He hasn't written to one of his old 
friends since he left, and I've often wondered 
what hasf become of him." 
" He's gone to the devil ! " said Holt brutally. " And I guess you know where the blame 
lies — Oh ! — Drink this ! " He hastily 
poured out a glass of claret. " Here ! Drink 
it ! Brace up, for God's sake. Don't give 
yourself away before all these fellows."
Madeleine swallowed the claret but pushed 
back her chair. " Take me away quickly," she 
muttered. "I don't care what they think. 
Take me where you can tell me — " 
He drew her hand through his arm, for he 
was afraid she would fall, and as he led her 
down the room he remarked audibly, "No 
wonder you feel faint. There's no air in the 
place, and youVe probably never seen so much 
smoke in your life before." 
At the door he nodded to the anxious proprietor, and when they reached the sidewalk asked 
if he should take her home. 
" No. I must talk to you alone. There is 
a hack. Let us drive somewhere." 
He handed her into the hack, telling the man 
to drive where he liked as long as he avoided 
the Cliff House Road. Madeleine shrank into 
a comer and began to cry wildly. He regarded 
her with anxiety, and less hostility in his bright 
blue eyes. 
"I'm awfully sorry," he said. "I was a 
brute. But I thought you would know — I 
thought other things — " 
" I knew nothing, but I can't believe it is true. 
There must be some mistake. He is not like 
that." 
"That's what's happened. You see, his 
world went to smash. That was the opportunity of his life, and such opportunities don't 
come twice. He has no capital of his own, and 
he can't raise money in New York. Besides, 
he didn't want a newspaper anywhere else. 
And — and — of course, you know, newspaper 
men hear all the talk — he was terribly hard 
hit. I couldn't help feeling a little sorry for 
you when I heard you were ill and all the rest
but today you looked a^ if you had forgotten 
poor Masters had ever lived — just a Society 
butterfly and a coquette." 
"Oh, I'm not blaming you! Perhaps it 
is all my fault. I don't know! — But that! 
I can't believe it. I never knew a man with 
as strong a character. He — he — always 
could control himself. And he had too much 
pride and ambition." 
" I guess you don't know it, but he had a 
weak spot for liquor. That is the reason he 
drank less than the rest of us — and that did 
show strength of character: that he could drink 
at all. I only saw him half -seas over once. 
.He told me then he was always on the watch 
lest it get the best of him. His father drank 
 
himself to death after the war, and his grand- 
father from mere love of his cups. Nothing 
but a hopeless smash-up, though, would ever 
have let it get the best of him. . . . He was 
terribly high-strung imder all that fine repose 
of his, and although his mind was like 
polished metal in a way, it was full of 
quicksilver. When a man like that lets go — 
nothing left to hold on to — he goes down hill 
at ten times the pace of an ordinary chap. I — 
I — suppose I may as well tell you the whole 
truth. He never drew a sober breath on the 
steamer and he's been drunk more or less ever 
since he arrived in New York. Of course he 
writes — has to — but can't hold down any responsible position. They'd be glad to give him 
the best salary paid if he'd sober up, but he gets 
worse instead of better. He's been thrown off 
two papers already and it's only because he can 
write better drunk than most men sober that he 
sells an article now and again when he has to." 
Madeleine had torn her handkerchief to 
pieces. She no longer wept. Her eyes were 
wide with horror. He fancied he saw awful 
visions in them. Fearing she might faint or 
have hysterics, he hastily extracted a brandy 
flask from his pocket. 
" Do you mind? " he asked diffidently. 
" Sorry I haven't a glass, but this is the first 
time I've taken the cork out.'' 
She lifted the flask obediently and took a 
draught that commanded his respect. 
She smiled faintly as she met his wide-eyed 
regard. " My husband makes me live on this 
stuff. I was threatened with consumption. It 
affected me very little, but it helps me in more 
ways than one." 
" Well, don't let it help you too much. I 
suppose the doctor knows best — but — well, it 
gets a hold on you when you are down on your 
luck." 
" If it ever ^ gets a hold ' on me it will because I deliberately wish it to," she said 
haughtily. " If Langdon Masters — has gone 
as far as you say, I don't believe it is through 
any inherited weakness. He has done it deliberately." 
" I grant that. And I'm sorry if I offended 
-you — " 
" I am only grateful to you. I feel better 
now and can think a little. Something must be 
done. Surely he can be saved." 
