to do any thing, unless of serious importance. They have their
rights, as well, as we have, and it is just as wrong for us to
encroach upon their rights, as it is for them to encroach upon
ours."
"Never mind, mother, I will wait," the little girl said, cheerfully.
"But I thought, it was such a trifle, and would have taken her only
a minute."
"It is true, my dear, that is but a trifle. Still, even trifles of
this kind we should form the habit of avoiding; for they may
seriously annoy at a time when we dream not that they are thought of
for a moment. Think how, just as you had seated yourself at the
table, tired and hungry, you would like to be called away, your food
scarcely tasted, to perform some task, the urgency of which to you,
at least, was very questionable?"
"I was wrong I know, mother," the child replied, "and you are
right."
All this was new and strange doctrine to Helen Armitage, but she was
enabled to see, from the manner in which Mrs. Milnor represented the
subject, that it was true doctrine. As this became clear to her
mind, she saw with painful distinctness the error that had thrown
disorder into every part of her mother's household; and more than
this, she inwardly resolved, that, so far as her action was
concerned, a new order of things should take place. In this she was
in earnest--so much so, that she made some allusion to the
difference of things at home, to what they were at Mrs. Milnor's,
and frankly confessed that she had not acted upon the kind and
considerate principles that seemed to govern all in this
well-ordered family.
"My dear child!" Mrs. Milnor said to her, with affectionate
earnestness, in reply to this allusion--"depend upon it, four-fifths
of the bad domestics are made so by injudicious treatment. They are,
for the most part, ignorant of almost every thing, and too often,
particularly, of their duties in a family. Instead of being borne
with, instructed, and treated with consideration, they are scolded,
driven and found fault with. Kind words they too rarely receive; and
no one can well and cheerfully perform all that is required of her
as a domestic, if she is never spoken to kindly, never
considered--never borne with, patiently. It is in our power to make
a great deal of work for our servants that is altogether
unnecessary--and of course, in our power to save them many steps,
and many moments of time. If we are in the chambers, and wish a
servant for any thing, and she is down in the kitchen engaged, it is
always well to think twice before we ring for her once. It may be,
that we do not really want the attendance of any one, or can just as
well wait until some errand has brought her up stairs. Then, there
are various little things in which we can help ourselves and ought
to do it. It is unpardonable, I think, for a lady to ring for a
servant to come up one or two pairs of stairs merely to hand her a
drink, when all she has to do is to cross the room, and get it for
herself. Or for a young lady to require a servant to attend to all
her little wants, when she can and ought to help herself, even if it
takes her from the third story to the kitchen, half a dozen times a
day. Above all, domestics should never be scolded. If reproof is
necessary, let it be administered in a calm mild voice, and the
reasons shown why the act complained of is wrong. This is the only
way in which any good is done."
"I wish my mother could only learn that," said Helen, mentally, as
Mrs. Milnor ceased speaking. When she returned home, it was with a
deeply formed resolution never again to speak reprovingly to any of
her mother's domestics--never to order them to do any thing for
her,--and never to require them to wait upon her when she could just
as well help herself. In this she proved firm. The consequence was,
an entire change in Hannah's deportment towards her, and a cheerful
performance by her of every thing she asked her to do. This could
not but be observed by her mother, and it induced her to modify, to
some extent, her way of treating her servants. The result was
salutary, and now she has far less trouble with them than she ever
had in her life. All, she finds, are not so worthless as she had
deemed them.
CHAPTER XXXI.
A MOTHER'S DUTY.
I CLOSE my volume of rambling sketches, with a chapter more didactic
and serious. The duties of the housekeeper and mother, usually unite
in the same person; but difficult and perplexing as is the former
relation, how light and easy are all its claims compared with those
of the latter. Among my readers are many mothers--Let us for a
little while hold counsel together.
To the mind of a mother, who loves her children, no subject can have
so deep an interest as that which has respect to the well being of
her offspring. Young mothers, especially, feel the need, the great
need of the hints and helps to be derived from others' experience.
To them, the duty of rightly guiding, forming and developing the
young mind is altogether a new one; at every step they feel their
incompetence, and are troubled at their want of success. A young
married friend, the mother of two active little boys, said to me,
one day, earnestly,
"Oh! I think, sometimes, that I would give the world if I only could
see clearly what was my duty towards my children. I try to guide
them aright--I try to keep them from all improper influences--but
rank weeds continually spring up with the flowers I have planted.
How shall I extirpate these, without injuring the others?"
How many a young mother thus thinks and feels. It is indeed a great
responsibility that rests upon her. With the most constant and
careful attention, she will find the task of keeping out the weeds a
hard one; but let her not become weary or discouraged. The enemy is
ever seeking to sow tares amid her wheat, and he will do it if she
sleep at her post. Constant care, good precept, and, above all, good
example, will do much. The gardener whose eye is ever over, and
whose hand is ever busy in his garden, accomplishes much; the
measure of his success may be seen if the eye rest for but a moment
