"Luxury, namely?"
"Yes! it comes to that. Everybody is seeking happiness in his own way;
and when he has got it, then it is luxury."
Eleanor only looked at him; she did not say anything further, and
turned again to the contemplation of the scene they had in view. The
captain bustled off and was gone a few minutes.
"I wish you'd sing, sister Powle," said Mr. Amos in that interval.
"Do!" said his wife. "Please do!"
Whether Eleanor was precisely in a singing mood or no, she began as
desired. Mr. Amos joined her, in somewhat subdued tones, and Mrs. Amos
gave a still gentler seconding; while the rich notes of her own voice
filled the air; so mellow that their full power was scarcely
recognized; so powerful that the mellow sound seemed to fill the ship's
rigging. The sailors moved softly. They were accustomed to that music.
All the way out, on every Sunday service or any other that was held,
Eleanor had served for choir to the whole company, joined by here and
there a rough voice that broke in as it could, and just backed by Mr.
Amos's steady support. There was more than one in that ship's company
to whom memory would never cease to bring a reminder that 'there is
balm in Gilead;' for some reason or other that was one of Eleanor's
favourite songs. Now she gave another--sweet, clear, and wild;--the
furthest-off sailors stood still to hearken. They had heard it often
enough to know what the words were.
"O who's like Jesus! From sins and fears he frees us. He died for you,
He died for me, He died to set poor sinners free. O who's like Jesus!"
The chorus floated all over after each verse of the hymn was ended; it
went clear to the ship's bows; but Eleanor sat quite still in her old
position, clasping her hands fast on the rail and not moving her head.
During the singing the captain came back and stood behind them
listening; while people on the vessels that they passed, suspended
their work and looked up to hear. Just as the singing was finished, a
little boat was seen swiftly coming alongside; and in another minute
they were boarded by the gentleman who had been its solitary passenger.
The captain turned to meet him. He was a man rather under middle size,
black hair curling all round his head, eyes quick and bright, and whole
appearance handsome at once and business-like. He came forward briskly,
and so he spoke.
"Have you got anybody here that belongs to me?" he said. "Captain, is
there a Miss Powle on board of your ship?"
Captain Fox silently stepped on one side and made a motion of his hand
towards Eleanor. Eleanor hearing herself called, slowly rose and faced
the new-comer. There was a second's pause, as the two confronted each
other; then the gentleman bowed very low and advanced to touch the
lady's hand, which however when he touched he held.
"Is this Miss Powle? Miss Eleanor Powle?"
"Yes."
"I am honoured in having such a cousin! I hope you have heard somebody
speak of a Mr. Esthwaite in these parts?"
"I have heard Mrs. Caxton speak of Mr. Esthwaite--very often."
"All right!" said the gentleman letting go Eleanor's hand. "Identity
proved. Captain, I am going to take charge of this lady. Will you see
that her luggage, personal effects and so on, are brought on
deck?"--then turning to Eleanor with real deference and cordiality in
his manner, he went on,--"Mrs. Esthwaite is longing to see you. It is
such a pleasure to have a cousin come from England, as you can but
feebly appreciate; she hopes to learn the new fashions from you, and
all that sort of thing; and she has been dressing your room with
flowers, I believe, for these three months past. If you please, we will
not wait for the ship's slow motions, but I will carry you straight to
land in my boat; and glad you will be! Will you signify your assent to
this arrangement?--as I perceive the captain is a servant of yours and
will do nothing without you bid him."
"Thank you," said-Eleanor,--"I will go with you;--but what will be done
with all my boxes in the hold?" This enquiry was addressed to the
captain.
"Don't you fear anything," said Mr. Esthwaite, "now you have overcome
so many troubles and got to this haven of rest. We will take care of
your boxes. I suppose you have brought enough to stock the whole
Navigator's group--or Fiji, is it, you are going to? I would go to any
other one rather--but never mind; the boxes shall be stored; and maybe
you'll unpack them here after all. Captain, what about that luggage?--"
Eleanor went down to give directions, and presently came on deck again,
all ready to go ashore. There was a little delay on account of the
baggage; and meanwhile Mr. Esthwaite was introduced to Mr. and Mrs.
Amos.
"I am very much obliged to you for taking care of this cousin of mine,"
he said to them. "I am sure she is worth taking care of. And now I
should like to take care of you in turn. Will you go to my house, and
make us happy?"
They explained that they were going elsewhere.
"Well, come and see her then; for she will be wanting to see somebody.
We will do the best for her we can; but still--you know--absent friends
have the best claim. By the way! didn't I hear some sweet Methodist
singing as I came up? was it on this ship? You haven't got any
Methodists on board, captain; have you?"
"I've been one myself, this voyage!" said the captain.
"I wouldn't," said Mr. Esthwaite. "The Church service is the only one
to be used at sea. Every other sounds--I don't know how--incompatible.
There is something in the gentle swell of the rolling waves, and in the
grandeur of the horizon, that calls for the finest form of words
mortals could put together; and when you have got such a form, why not
use it?"
"You did not like the form of the singing then?" said Mr. Amos smiling.
"No," said Mr. Esthwaite drily,--"it struck me that if there had been a
cathedral roof over it, one of those voices would have lifted the
rafters and gone on; and that would not have been reverential, you
know. Now, my young cousin!--"
"Mr. Amos," said Eleanor aside to him and colouring deeply, "if there
are any letters for me at the house where you are going, or at the
post-office, will you send them to me?"
