them. It was wrong for you to pay six cents to be shaved; it's silly
and ridiculous, to say nothing of leaving the office for half an hour.
You did wrong, and you ought to acknowledge it."
"Mother, I'm tired of this kind of a life."
"So am I; but we cannot starve," replied the poor woman, bitterly. "It
is harder for me than for you, for I was brought up in plenty and
luxury, and never knew what it was to want for anything till your
father spent all my property, and then became a burden upon me. You
have been a good boy, Fitzherbert, and I hope you will not disappoint
me now."
"I shall do everything I can for you, mother, of course; but it is hard
to be ground down by that man, as I am."
The young gentleman said that man with an emphasis which meant
something.
"I cannot help it," sighed the mother.
"Yes, you can. In my opinion,--and I think I understand the matter as
well as any other man,--in my opinion, Mr. Checkynshaw owes you fifty
thousand dollars, and is keeping you out of your just due. That's what
galls me," added Fitz, rapping the table violently with his fist.
"It may be and it may not be. I don't know."
"I know! That man is not an honest man. I know something about his
affairs, and if he presumes to discharge me, I shall devote some of my
valuable time to the duty of ventilating them."
"Don't you do any such thing, Fitz."
"I will, mother! I will find out whether the money belongs to you or
not," added the young man, decidedly. "I have my private opinion about
the matter. I know enough about Checkynshaw to feel certain that he
wouldn't let fifty thousand dollars slip through his fingers, if by any
trickery he could hold on to it. If he has a daughter in France,
fifteen years old, as she must be, wouldn't she write to him? Wouldn't
he write to her? Wouldn't he go and see her? Wouldn't he send her
money? She don't do it; he don't do it. I do all the post-office
business for the firm, and no such letters go or come."
Mr. Wittleworth was very decided in his "private opinion;" but at last
he so far yielded to the entreaties of his mother as to consent to
return to the office, and if Mr. Checkynshaw wasn't savage, he would
apologize. This he regarded as a great concession, very humiliating,
and to be made only to please his mother.
CHAPTER III.
MR. CHECKYNSHAW IS VIOLENT.
MR. Fitzherbert Wittleworth walked slowly and nervously from his home
to the banking-house in State Street. The situation was just as far
from pleasant as it could be. He did not wish to deprive the family of
the necessaries of life, which were purchased with his meagre salary,
on the one hand, and it was almost impossible to endure the tyranny of
Mr. Checkynshaw on the other hand. To a young man with so high an
opinion of himself as the banker's clerk entertained, the greatest
privation to which he could be subjected was a want of appreciation of
his personal character and valuable services.
The banker had an utter contempt for him personally, and regarded his
salary as high at five dollars a week, which was indeed a high rate for
a young man of sixteen. Mr. Checkynshaw sat in his private office,
adjoining the banking-house, when Mr. Wittleworth presented himself. He
scowled savagely as the young man entered.
"You have concluded to come back--have you?" said he.
"Yes, sir," replied Fitz.
"Well, sir, you have only come to be discharged; for I will no longer
have a stupid and useless blockhead about. I was willing to tolerate
you for your mother's sake; but I won't submit to your impudence."
Stupid and useless blockhead! It was no use to attempt to effect a
reconciliation with a person who had, or professed to have, such an
opinion of him. Not even the strait to which his family was reduced
could justify him in submitting to such abuse.
"Mr. Checkynshaw, I don't allow any man to insult me," Fitz began. "I
have treated you like a gentleman, and I demand as much in return."
"Insult you? Impudent puppy!" gasped Mr. Checkynshaw. "What are we
coming to?"
"You insulted me in a public barber's shop. Not content with that, you
call me a stupid and useless blockhead--me, sir."
"No more of this! Take your pay, and be gone! There's five dollars, a
full week's salary for three days' service," added the banker, pushing
a five-dollar bill across the desk towards Fitz.
The young man was not too proud to take it.
"Go! Don't stop here another minute," said the wrathy banker, glancing
at the clock, which now indicated the time he had appointed for the
coming of Leo Maggimore.
"I am not ready to go just yet. I have a demand to make upon you. You
have defrauded my mother out of a fortune."
"That will do! Not another word," said Mr. Checkynshaw, turning red in
the face.
"My mother will take steps to obtain her rights."
"Will you go?" demanded the banker.
"No, sir. I will not till I have said what I have to say. You shall
either prove that your first daughter is alive, or you shall deliver to
my mother the property."
Mr. Checkynshaw could not endure such speech as this from any man, much
less from his discharged clerk. He rose from his chair, and rushed upon
the slender youth with a fury worthy a more stalwart foe. Grasping him
by the collar, he dragged him out of the private office, through the
long entry, to the street, and then pitched him far out upon the
sidewalk. As he passed through the entry, Leo Maggimore was going into
the banking-office. Not knowing the way, he inquired of a person he met
in the long hall.
Leo did not know the banker, and was not aware that the excited
gentleman he had seen was he; and he did not recognize Fitz in the
young man who was so violently hurried before him. He followed the
direction given him, and reached the private office of the banker.
Through an open window he saw the clerks and cashiers rushing to the
door to witness the extraordinary scene that was transpiring in the
street. Taking off his cap, he waited for the appearance of Mr.
