she thought Basil’s gray moustache distinguished. He had grown stouter;
he filled his double-breasted frock coat compactly, and from time to
time he had the buttons set forward; his hands were rounded up on the
backs, and he no longer wore his old number of gloves by two sizes; no
amount of powder or manipulation from the young lady in the shop would
induce them to go on. But this did not matter much now, for he seldom
wore gloves at all. He was glad that the fashion suffered him to spare
in that direction, for he was obliged to look somewhat carefully after
the out-goes. The insurance business was not what it had been, and
though Basil had comfortably established himself in it, he had not made
money. He sometimes thought that he might have done quite as well if he
had gone into literature; but it was now too late. They had not a very
large family: they had a boy of eleven, who took after his father, and a
girl of nine, who took after the boy; but with the American feeling
that their children must have the best of everything, they made it an
expensive family, and they spent nearly all Basil earned.
The narrowness of their means, as well as their household cares, had
kept them from taking many long journeys. They passed their winters in
Boston, and their summers on the South Shore, cheaper than the North
Shore, and near enough for Basil to go up and down every day for
business; but they promised themselves that some day they would revisit
certain points on their wedding journey, and perhaps somewhere find
their lost second-youth on the track. It was not that they cared to be
young, but they wished the children to see them as they used to be when
they thought themselves very old; and one lovely afternoon in June they
started for Niagara.
It had been very hot for several days, but that morning the east wind
came in, and crisped the air till it seemed to rustle like tinsel, and
the sky was as sincerely and solidly blue as if it had been chromoed.
They felt that they were really looking up into the roof of the world,
when they glanced at it; but when an old gentleman hastily kissed a
young woman, and commended her to the conductor as being one who was
going all the way to San Francisco alone, and then risked his life by
stepping off the moving train, the vastness of the great American fact
began to affect Isabel disagreeably. “Isn’t it too big, Basil?” she
pleaded, peering timidly out of the little municipal consciousness in
which she had been so long housed.--In that seclusion she had suffered
certain original tendencies to increase upon her; her nerves were more
sensitive and electrical; her apprehensions had multiplied quite beyond
the ratio of the dangers that beset her; and Basil had counted upon a
tonic effect of the change the journey would make in their daily lives.
She looked ruefully out of the window at the familiar suburbs whisking
out of sight, and the continental immensity that advanced devouringly
upon her. But they had the best section in the very centre of the
sleeping-car,--she drew what consolation she could from the fact,--and
the children’s premature demand for lunch helped her to forget her
anxieties; they began to be hungry as soon as the train started. She
found that she had not put up sandwiches enough; and when she told Basil
that he would have to get out somewhere and buy some cold chicken, he
asked her what in the world had become of that whole ham she had had
boiled. It seemed to him, he said, that there was enough of it to
subsist them to Niagara and back; and he went on as some men do, while
Somerville vanished, and even Tufts College, which assails the Bostonian
vision from every point of the compass, was shut out by the curve at the
foot of the Belmont hills.
They had chosen the Hoosac Tunnel route to Niagara, because, as Basil
said, their experience of travel had never yet included a very long
tunnel, and it would be a signal fact by which the children would always
remember the journey, if nothing else remarkable happened to impress it
upon them. Indeed, they were so much concerned in it that they began to
ask when they should come to this tunnel, even before they began to ask
for lunch; and the long time before they reached it was not perceptibly
shortened by Tom’s quarter-hourly consultations of his father’s watch.
It scarcely seemed to Basil and Isabel that their fellow-passengers were
so interesting as their fellow passengers used to be in their former
days of travel. They were soberly dressed, and were all of a middle-aged
sobriety of deportment, from which nothing salient offered itself for
conjecture or speculation; and there was little within the car to take
their minds from the brilliant young world that flashed and sang by them
outside. The belated spring had ripened, with its frequent rains, into
the perfection of early summer; the grass was thicker and the foliage
denser than they had ever seen it before; and when they had run out
into the hills beyond Fitchburg, they saw the laurel in bloom. It was
everywhere in the woods, lurking like drifts among the underbrush, and
overflowing the tops, and stealing down the hollows, of the railroad
embankments; a snow of blossom flushed with a mist of pink. Its shy,
wild beauty ceased whenever the train stopped, but the orioles made
up for its absence with their singing in the village trees about the
stations; and though Fitchburg and Ayer’s Junction and Athol are not
names that invoke historical or romantic associations, the hearts of
Basil and Isabel began to stir with the joy of travel before they had
passed these points. At the first Basil got out to buy the cold chicken
which had been commanded, and he recognized in the keeper of the
railroad restaurant their former conductor, who had been warned by the
spirits never to travel without a flower of some sort carried between
his lips, and who had preserved his own life and the lives of his
passengers for many years by this simple device. His presence lent the
sponge cake and rhubarb pie and baked beans a supernatural interest,
and reconciled Basil to the toughness of the athletic bird which the
mystical ex-partner of fate had sold him; he justly reflected that if
he had heard the story of the restaurateur’s superstition in a foreign
land, or another time, he would have found in it a certain poetry. It
was this willingness to find poetry in things around them that kept his
life and Isabel’s fresh, and they taught their children the secret of
their elixir. To be sure, it was only a genre poetry, but it was such
as has always inspired English art and song; and now the whole family
enjoyed, as if it had been a passage from Goldsmith or Wordsworth, the
flying sentiment of the railroad side. There was a simple interior at
one place,--a small shanty, showing through the open door a cook stove
surmounted by the evening coffee-pot, with a lazy cat outstretched upon
