up in the chimney-corner like a cat. And if the 
chimney ever smokes, it smokes when the wind 
sits in that quarter. The south-wind is full of 
longing and unrest, of effeminate suggestions of 
luxurious ease, and perhaps we might say of mod 
ern poetry, at any rate, modern poetry needs 
a change of air. I am not sure but the south is 
the most powerful of the winds, because of its 
sweet persuasiveness. Nothing so stirs the 
blood in spring, when it comes up out of the 
tropical latitude ; it makes men " longen to gon 
on pilgrimages." 
I did intend to insert here a little poenr (as it 
is quite proper to do in an essay) on the south- 
wind, composed by the Young Lady Staying 
With Us, beginning, 
" Out of a drifting southern cloud 
My soul heard the night-bird cry," 
but it never got any farther than this. The 
Young Lady said it was exceedingly difficult to 
write the next two lines, because not only rhyme 
but meaning had to be procured. And this is 
true ; anybody can write first lines, and that is 
probably the reason we have so many poems 
 
which seem to have been begun in just this way, 
that is, with a south-wind-longing without any 
thought in it, and it is very fortunate when there 
is not wind enough to finish them. This emo 
tional poem, if I may so call it, was begun after 
Herbert went away. I liked it, and thought it 
was what is called " suggestive " ; although I 
did not understand it, especially what the night- 
bird was ; and I am afraid I hurt the Young 
Lady's feelings by asking her if she meant Her 
bert by the " night-bird," a very absurd sug 
gestion about two unsentimental people. She 
said, " Nonsense " ; but she afterwards told the 
Mistress that there were emotions that one could 
never put into words without the danger of being 
ridiculous ; a profound truth. And yet I should 
not like to say that there is not a tender lone- 
someness in love that can get comfort out of a 
night-bird in a cloud, if there be such a thing. 
Analysis is the death of sentiment. 
But to return to the winds. Certain people 
impress us as the winds do. Mandeville never 
comes in that I do not feel a north-wind vigor and 
healthfumess in his cordial, sincere, hearty man- 
HO  
ner, and in his wholesome way of looking at 
things. The Parson, you would say, was the 
east-wind, and only his intimates know that his 
peevishness is only a querulous humor. In the 
fair west-wind I know the Mistress herself, full of 
hope, and always the first one to discover a bit of 
blue in a cloudy sky. It would not be just to 
apply what I have said of the south-wind to any 
of our visitors, but it did blow a little while 
Herbert was here. 
II. 
IN point of pure enjoyment, with an intellect 
ual sparkle in it, I suppose that no luxurious 
lounging on tropical isles set in tropical seas 
compares with the positive happiness one may 
have before a great wood fire (not two sticks laid 
crossways in a grate), with a veritable New 
England winter raging outside. In order to get 
the highest enjoyment, the faculties must be 
alert, and not be lulled into a mere recipient 
dulness. There are those who prefer a warm 
bath to a brisk walk in the inspiring air, where 
 Ill 
ten thousand keen influences minister to the 
sense of beauty and run along the excited nerves. 
There are, for instance, a sharpness of horizon 
outline and a delicacy of color on distant hills 
which are wanting in summer, and which convey 
to one rightly organized the keenest delight, and 
a refinement of enjoyment that is scarcely sen 
suous, not at all sentimental, and almost passing 
the intellectual line into the spiritual. 
I was speaking to Mandeville about this, and 
he said that I was drawing it altogether too fine ; 
that he experienced sensations of pleasure in 
being out in almost all weathers ; that he rather 
liked to breast a north-wind, and that there was 
a certain inspiration in sharp outlines and in a 
landscape in trim winter-quarters, with stripped 
trees, and, as it were, scudding through the 
season under bare poles ; but that he must say 
that he preferred the weather in which he could 
sit on the fence by the wood-lot, with the spring 
sun on his back, and hear the stir of the leaves 
and the birds beginning their housekeeping. 
A very pretty idea for Mandeville ; and I fear 
he is getting to have private thoughts about the 
Young Lady. Mandeville naturally likes the ro 
bustness and sparkle of winter, and it has been 
a little suspicious to hear him express the hope 
