muffled cackles. Time swept on, and presently one 
who was peeping through the briers said, with surprise: 
"Why, he hasn't come up yet !’  
The laughing stopped. 
"Boys, it’s a splendid dive," said one. 
"Never mind that," said another, " the joke on him 
is all the better for it." 
There was a remark or two more, and then a pause. 
Talking ceased, and all began to peer through the 
vines. Before long, the boys' faces began to look 
uneasy, then anxious, then terrified. Still there was 
no movement of the placid water. Hearts began to 
beat fast, and faces to turn pale. We all glided out 
silently, and stood on the bank, our horrified eyes 
wandering back and forth from each other's counte- 
nances to the water. 
"Somebody must go down and see !" 
Yes, that was plain ; but nobody wanted that grisly 
task. 
"Draw straws!" 
So we did — with hands which shook so that we 
hardly knew what we were about. The lot fell to me, 
and I went down. The water was so muddy I could 
not see anything, but I felt around among the hoop- 
poles, and presently grasped a limp wrist which gave 
me no response — and if it had I should not have 
known it, I let it go with such a frightened suddenness. 
The boy had been caught among the hoop-poles and 
entangled there, helplessly. I fled to the surface and 
told the awful news. Some of us knew that if the boy 
were dragged out at once he might possibly be 
resuscitated, but we never thought of that. We did not 
think of anything; we did not know what to do, so we 
did nothing — except that the smaller lads cried 
piteously, and we all struggled frantically into our 
clothes, putting on anybody's that came handy, and 
getting them wrong-side-out and upside-down, as a 
rule. Then we scurried away and gave the alarm, but 
none of us went back to see the end of the tragedy. 
We had a more important thing to attend to: we all 
flew home, and lost not a moment in getting ready to 
lead a better life. 
The night presently closed down. Then came on 
that tremendous and utterly unaccountable storm. I 
was perfectly dazed; I could not understand it. It 
seemed to me that there must be some mistake. The 
elements were turned loose, and they rattled and 
banged and blazed away in the most blind and frantic 
manner. All heart and hope went out of me, and the 
dismal thought kept floating through my brain, “ If a 
boy who knows three thousand verses by heart is not 
satisfactory, what chance is there for anybody else?” 
Of course I never questioned for a moment that the 
storm was on Dutchy’s account, or that he or any 
other inconsequential animal was worthy of such a 
majestic demonstration from on high ; the lesson of it 
was the only thing that troubled me ; for it convinced 
me that if Dutchy, with all his perfections, was not a 
delight, it would be vain for me to turn over a new 
leaf, for I must infallibly fall hopelessly short of that 
boy, no matter how hard I might try. Nevertheless I 
did turn it over — a highly educated fear compelled me 
to do that — but succeeding days of cheerfulness and 
sunshine came bothering around, and within a month I 
had so drifted backward that again I was as lost and 
comfortable as ever. 
Breakfast time approached while I mused these 
musings and called these ancient happenings back to 
mind ; so I got me back into the present and went 
down the hill. 
On my way through town to the hotel, I saw the 
house which was my home when I was a boy. At 
present rates, the people who now occupy it are of no 
more value than I am ; but in my time they would 
have been worth not less than five hundred dollars 
apiece. They are colored folk. 
After breakfast I went out alone again, intending to 
hunt up some of the Sunday-schools and see how this 
generation of pupils might compare with their pro- 
genitors who had sat with me in those places and had 
probably taken me as a model — though I do not re- 
member as to that now. By the public square there 
had been in my day a shabby little brick church called 
the “Old Ship of Zion,” which I had attended as a 
Sunday-school scholar; and I found the locality easily 
enough, but not the old church; it was gone, and a 
trig and rather hilarious new edifice was in its place. 
The pupils were better dressed and better looking than 
were those of my time; consequently they did not 
resemble their ancestors; and consequently there was 
nothing familiar to me in their faces. Still, I contem- 
plated them with a deep interest and a yearning wist- 
fulness, and if I had been a girl I would have cried ; 
for they were the offspring, and represented, and oc- 
cupied the places, of boys and girls some of whom I 
had loved to love, and some of whom I had loved to 
hate, but all of whom were dear to me for the one 
reason or the other, so many years gone by — and, 
Lord, where be they now ! 
I was mightily stirred, and would have been grateful 
