ninety-six, Le."
"Seventeen hundred and ninety-six," replied Leopold.
"That's just the amount I don't want. Of course when I say 'I,' my folks
is meant. Now, Le, your father wants money just as badly as my mother
does; and we will lend the seventeen hundred and ninety-six dollars to
him, taking his note on interest, just as Mr. Hamilton would give it.
But I would rather give you five hundred of the money."
"You can't give me a dollar; but if you will lend some of the money to
my father, I should like it first rate."
"I will--the whole of it," protested Stumpy.
"This is quite a sensible arrangement, my boys," said the merchant; "and
I have so much confidence in Mr. Bennington's integrity, that I will
indorse his note. But it strikes me that you are going rather too fast,
Stumpy."
"Why, sir?"
"Perhaps I have led you too rapidly over the ground. Whatever property
your father left--this money included--belongs to his family. I suppose
an administrator ought to be appointed."
"Creation! That would be Squire Moses!" exclaimed Stumpy, aghast.
"No; your mother may be appointed."
"My mother! Well, now I think of it, I believe she was appointed. I
didn't know much about such things at the time."
"Be that as it may, before you lend the money to Mr. Bennington, or give
any to Leopold, you had better see your mother. I will go to the house
with you, for I am really quite interested in this matter."
"Thank you, sir; you are very kind, and I am ever so much obliged to
you," answered Stumpy. "But I shouldn't feel right--administrator or
not--if Le's father wasn't helped out of trouble."
"I was not aware that Mr. Bennington was in difficulty."
"He is--up to his eyes; and I know very well that my grandfather--that's
Squire Moses--means to get the Sea Cliff House away from him, if he can,
and let Ethan Wormbury have it. This money must save him. He's been a
good friend to me, and I should be a hog if I didn't help him out.
Mother will do it, too, I know; for if it hadn't been for Le, we
shouldn't have seen this money."
"We will talk with your mother about it," replied Mr. Hamilton, as he
put the gold back into the shot-bag, and asked the watch-maker to keep
it in the safe till the next day, when he intended to dispose of it in
Rockland.
Stumpy placed the twelve hundred dollars in bills in his wallet, and put
it in his pocket; but he did not remove his hand from it till he
reached his mother's house. If the widow's son was almost crazy in the
whirl of remarkable events which so suddenly altered the fortunes of the
family, it was hardly to be wondered at; and doubtless the ardor and
fury with which he rushed into the house, with his hand still clutching
the wallet in his pocket, would have startled his mother, if she had not
been sadly occupied with an affair of her own. Squire Moses, Ethan, and
the village lawyer were with her, and were about to give the legal
notice of the foreclosure of the mortgage. The old man was afraid that
he should be cheated out of his prey if he waited any longer. Stumpy
rushed into the house, followed by Mr. Hamilton and Leopold.
"O, my son," exclaimed Mrs. Wormbury, "the house is to be taken from
us!"
"Not now," interposed Squire Moses. "I told you that you might stay here
till the first of August. I'm not a hard man, to turn you out without
any notice. I always mean to do what is just right."
"Of course. I have been expecting it, after what you said; but it comes
very hard to be turned out of house and home," sobbed Mrs. Wormbury.
"You shall not be turned out, mother," cried Stumpy, blubbered himself,
when he saw the tears in his mother's eyes; "neither now nor on the
first of August."
"Why Stumpfield, what do you mean?"
"Perhaps the boy means to pay the note of seven hundred dollars,"
sneered Squire Moses. "But I don't want any nonsense about this
business."
"That's just what I'm going to do, grandpa," shouted Stumpy, drawing the
wallet from his pocket, and taking from it the roll of bills.
Squire Moses turned round, amazed at the announcement of his grandson,
and for the first time discovered the presence of Mr. Hamilton.
"I'm glad to see you, Mr. Hamilton," said he, extending his withered
hand to the merchant. "This is disagreeable business."
"I should think it was--to turn your son's widow out of house and home,"
replied the ex-congressman, dryly.
"The mortgage note has been due for years," pleaded the squire. "Of
course the widow can't pay it, and--"
"Yes, she can!" yelled Stumpy. "She never did get any favors from you,
and she don't ask for any now. Here's the seven hundred dollars. My
mother wants the note, and a release of the mortgage."
Squire Moses actually turned pale, as much from anger as from the
failure of a profitable operation for the future.
"I don't understand this," said he.
"Here's your money, when you give my mother the papers," replied Stumpy.
"That's easy enough to understand--isn't it?"
"Where did you get the money, Stumpy?" demanded the squire.
"That don't make any difference," added Stumpy, shaking his head.
"I don't think it does," interposed Mr. Hamilton. "The young man's
position appears to be quite correct."
Squire Moses looked at the merchant, and immediately concluded that this
rich New Yorker had advanced the money. He bit his lips till they bled,
but finally went off with Ethan and the lawyer, to procure the necessary
papers to discharge the mortgage.
"I don't understand it any better than Squire Moses," said Mrs.
Wormbury, when the hard creditor had gone.
"You will pay off the note, mother, with money earned by father's own
hands," replied Stumpy, gently.
"What do you mean, my son?" asked the widow, trembling with emotion.
Stumpy explained what he meant. Mrs. Wormbury listened, and wept when
she realized that her husband had perished in the waves, not on the
Georges, but within sight of his own home. The story was hardly finished
before Squire Moses returned alone, with the note and release. Mr.
