"Should I, Woodley?" 
" Well, I guess not," said the young American. 
" Not even with my letter ?" asked Mrs. West- 
gate. 
" Ah, well, I haven 't got your letter yet ; I suppose I shall get it this evening. It was awfully 
kind of you to write." 
" So I said to Bessie," observed Mrs. Westgate. 
" Did she say so, Miss Alden ?" Lord Lambeth 
inquired. "I dare say you have been here a 
month." 
" We have been here three," said Mrs. West- 
gate. 
" Have you been here three months ?" the young 
man asked again of Bessie. 
" It seems a long time," Bessie answered. 
" I say, after that you had better not call me a 
humbug!" cried Lord Lambeth. "I have only 
been in town three weeks ; but you must have 
been hiding away ; I haven 't seen you any where." 
" Where should you have seen us where should 
we have gone ?" asked Mrs. Westgate. 
"You should have gone to Hurlingham," said 
Willie Woodley. 
" No ; let Lord Lambeth tell us," Mrs. Westgate 
insisted. 
" There are plenty of places to go to," said Lord 
Lambeth ; " each one stupider than the other. I 
mean people 's houses ; they send you cards." 
" No one has sent us cards," said Bessie. 
" We are very quiet," her sister declared. " We 
are here as travellers." 
" We have been to Madame Tussaud s," Bessio 
pursued. 
" Oh, I say !" cried Lord Lambeth. 
" We thought we should find your image there," 
said Mrs. Westgate " yours and Mr. Beaumont's." 
" In the Chamber of Horrors ?" laughed tho 
young man. 
" It did duty very well for a party," said Mrs. 
Westgate. " All the women were decolletecs, and 
  
many of the figures looked as if they could speak 
if they tried." 
" Upon my word," Lord Lambeth rejoined, " you 
see people at London parties that look as if they 
couldn 't speak if they tried." 
" Do you think Mr. Woodley could find us Mr. 
Beaumont ?" asked Mrs. Westgate. 
Lord Lambeth stared and looked round him. 
" I dare say he could. Beaumont often comes here. 
Don 't you think you could find him, Woodley ? 
Make a dive into the crowd." 
" Thank you ; I have had enough diving," said 
Willie Woodley. " I will wait till Mr. Beaumont 
comes to the surface." 
" I will bring him to see you," said Lord Lam 
beth ; " where are you staying ?" 
" You will find the address in my letter Jones 's 
Hotel." 
"Oh, one of those places just out of Picca 
dilly ? Beastly hole, isn't it ?" Lord Lambeth in 
quired. 
"I believe it 's the best hotel in London," said 
Mrs. Westgate. 
"But they give you awful rubbish to eat, don 't 
they ?" his lordship went on. 
" Yes," said Mrs. Westgate. 
" I always feel so sorry for the people that come 
up to town and go to live in those places," continned the young man. " They eat nothing but 
filth." 
" Oh, I say !" cried Willie Woodley. 
" Well, how do you like London, Miss Alden ?" 
Lord Lambeth asked, unperturbed by this ejaculation. 
" I think it 's grand," said Bessie Alden. 
"My sister likes it, in spite of the filth ! " Mrs. 
Westgate exclaimed. 
" I hope you are going to stay a long time." 
"As long as I can," said Bessie. 
"And where is Mr. Westgate ?" asked Lord 
Lambeth of this gentleman 's wife. 
" He 's where he always is in that tiresome Xew 
York." 
"He must be tremendously clever," said the 
young man. 
" I suppose he is," said Mrs. Westgate. 
Lord Lambeth sat for nearly an hour with his 
American friends ; but it is not our purpose to relate their conversation in full. He addressed a 
great many remarks to Bessie Alden, and finally 
turned toward her altogether, while Willie Woodley entertained Mrs. Westgate. Bessie herself said - 
very little ; she was on her guard, thinking of what 
her sister had said to her at lunch. Little by little, 
however, she interested herself in Lord Lambeth 
again, as she had done at Newport ; only it seem- 
  
ed to her that here he might become more interesting. He would be an unconscious part of the 
antiquity, the impressiveness, the picturesqueness, 
of England ; and poor Bessie Alden, like many 
a Yankee maiden, was terribly at the mercy of 
picturesqueness. 
" I have often wished I were at Newport again," 
