courage needed to bear our daily trials like good Christians." And the
smile changed to a sigh, for the excellent man knew the value of these
virtues, and their rarity.
"Yes, I know, sir; but it is so splendid to be a hero, and have the
world ring with one's glory, like Washington and Lafayette, or Perry,
Hull, and Lawrence," said Abby, winding the black ribbon so
energetically that it nearly broke; for her head was full of the brave
deeds performed in the wars of 1775 and 1812, the latter of which she
well remembered.
"Easy, my dear, easy!--remember that it was the faithful doing of small
things which fitted these men to do the grand deeds well, when the time
came. Heroes are not made in a minute, and we never know what we may be
called upon to live through. Train yourself now to be skilful, prompt,
courageous, and kind; then when the duty or the danger comes, you will
be prepared for it. 'Keep your spindle ready, and the Lord will send the
flax,' as the old proverb says."
"I will, father, and remember the other saying that you like and live up
to, 'Do right and leave the consequences to God,'" answered Abby, with
her arm about his neck, and a soft cheek against his, feeling that with
such an example before her she ought not to fail.
"That's my good girl! Come, now, begin at once. Here's a little thing to
do, a very homely one, but useful, and some honor may be gained by doing
it nicely; for, if you'll darn this bad rent in my new stocking, I'll
give you five dollars."
As he spoke, Mr. Lyon handed her a heavy silk stocking with a great
"barn-door" tear in the calf. He was rather proud of his handsome legs,
and dressed them with care, importing hose of unusual fineness for state
occasions; being one of the old-time gentlemen whose stately elegance
added dignity to any scene.
Abby groaned as she examined the hole torn by a nail, for it was a very
bad one, and she knew that if not well done, the costly stocking would
be ruined. She hated to darn, infinitely preferring to read, or study
Latin with her brother, instead of repairing old damask, muslin gowns,
and the family hose. But she did it well, excelling her elder sister in
this branch of needle-work; so she could not refuse, though the
sacrifice of time and taste would have been almost impossible for any
one but father.
"I'll try, sir, and you shall pay me with a kiss; five dollars is too
much for such a little thing," she said, smiling at him as she put the
stocking into the capacious pocket where girls kept housewife, scissors,
thimble, pin-ball, and a bit of lovage or flag-root in those days.
"I'm not so sure that you'll find it an easy job; but remember Bruce and
his spider, and don't be conquered by the 'little thing.' Now I must be
off. Good-by, my darling," and Mr. Lyon's dark eyes twinkled as he
thought of the task he had set her; for it seemed as if nothing short of
a miracle could restore his damaged stocking.
Abby forgot her heroics and ran to get his hat and cane, to receive his
morning kiss, and answer the salute he always paused at the street
corner to give her before he went away to the many cares and labors of
his own busy day. But while she put her little room in order, dusted the
parlor, and clapped laces for her mother, who, like most ladies long
ago, did up her own caps and turbans, Abby was thinking over the late
conversation, and wondering if strict attention to small affairs would
really lead to something good or glorious in the end.
When her other duties were done, she resolutely sat down to the detested
darn, although it would have been much pleasanter to help her sister cut
out green satin leaves and quill up pink ribbon into roses for a garland
to festoon the skirt of a new white dress.
Hour after hour she worked, slowly and carefully weaving the torn edges
together, stitch by stitch, till her eyes ached and the delicate needle
grew rusty in her warm hand. Her mother begged her to stop and rest,
sister Catharine called her to come and see how well the garland looked,
and a friend came to take her to drive. But she refused to stir, and
kept at her weaving, as patiently as King Robert's spider, picking out a
bit that puckered, turning the corner with breathless care, and rapping
it with her thimble on the wooden egg till it lay flat. Then she waited
till an iron was heated, and pressed it nicely, finishing in time to put
it on her father's bureau, where he would see it when he dressed for
dinner.
"Nearly four hours over that dreadful darn! But it's done now, and
hardly shows, so I do think I've earned my money. I shall buy that
work-box I have wanted so long. The inlaid one, with nice velvet beds
for the thimble, scissors, and bodkin, and a glass in the cover, and a
little drawer for my silk-reels. Father will like that, and I shall be
proud to show it."
These agreeable thoughts were passing through Abby's mind as she went
into the front yard for a breath of air, after her long task was over.
Tulips and hyacinths were blooming there, and, peeping through the bars
of the gate, stood a little girl wistfully watching the gay blossoms and
enjoying their perfume. Now, Abby was fond of her garden, and had been
hurrying the early flowers, that they might be ready for her father's
birthday nosegay; so her first impulse was to feign that she did not see
the child, for she did not want to give away a single tulip. But the
morning talk was fresh in her memory, and presently she thought:--
"Here is a little thing I can do;" and ashamed of the selfish impulse,
she gathered several of her finest flowers and offered them, saying
cordially:--
"I think you would like these. Please take them, and by and by when
there are more, you shall have prettier ones."
"Oh, thank you! I did want some for mamma. She is ill, and will be so
pleased," was the grateful answer, given with a little courtesy, and a
smile that made the wistful face a very happy one.
"Do you live near by?" asked Abby, seeing at once from the child's
speech and manner that she was both well-bred and grateful.
"Just around the corner. We are English, and papa is dead. Mamma kept
school in another place till she was too ill, and now I take care of her
and the children as well as I can."
The little girl of twelve, in her black frock, with a face far too old
and anxious for her years, was so innocently pathetic as she told the
sad story, that Abby's tender heart was touched, and an impetuous desire
