" That 's been my experience with him." 
They talked this aspect of the case over more 
fully, and Evans said : " Well, I wouldn't go back to 
such a place myself after I cl once had a glimpse of 
Boston, but I suppose it 's right to wish that Barker 
would. I hope his mother will come to visit him 
while he 's in the hotel. I would give a good deal 
to see her. Fancy her coming down in her bloomers, 
and the poor fellow being ashamed of her ? It would 
 
be a very good subject for a play. Does she wear a 
hat or a bonnet ? What sort of head-gear goes with 
that sleek odalisque style of dress ? A turban, I 
suppose." 
" Mrs. Barker," said the minister, unable to deny 
himself the fleeting comfort of the editor 's humorous 
view of the situation, " is as far from a sleek 
odalisque as any lady I J've  ever seen, in spite of her 
oriental costume. If I remember, her yashmak was 
not gathered at the ankles, but hung loose like 
occidental trousers ; and the day we met she wore 
simply her own hair. There was not much of it 
on top, and she had it cut short in the neck. She 
was rather a terrible figure. Her having ever been 
married would have been inconceivable, except for 
her son." 
"I should like to have seen her," said Evans, 
laughing back in his chair. 
" She was worth seeing as a survival of the super 
ficial fermentation of the period of our social history 
when it was believed that women could be like men 
if they chose, and ought to be if they ever meant to 
show their natural superiority. But she was not 
picturesque." 
" The son 's very handsome. I can see that the 
lady boarders think him so." 
" Do you find him at all remarkable otherwise ? 
What dismayed me more than his poetry even was 
that when he gave that up he seemed to have no 
particular direction." 
" Oh, he reads a good deal, and pretty serious 
 
books j and he goes to hear all the sermons and 
lectures in town." 
" I thought he came to mine only," sighed the 
minister, with a retrospective suffering. " Well, 
what can be done for him now ? I feel my complicity 
with Barker as poignantly as you could wish." 
" Ah, you see how the principle applies every 
where ! " cried the editor joyously. He added : " But 
I really think that for the present you can't do better 
than let Barker alone. He 's getting on very well at 
Mrs. Harmon s, and although the conditions at the 
St. Albans are more transitory than most sublunary 
things, Barker appears to be a fixture. Our little 
system has begun to revolve round him unconsciously ; 
he keeps us going." 
" Well," said Sewell, consenting to be a little com 
forted. He was about to go more particularly into 
the facts ; but Mrs. Sewell came in just then, and 
he obviously left the subject. 
Evans did not sit down again after rising to greet 
her ; and presently he said good night. 
She turned to her husband : " What were you 
talking about when I came in I " 
" When you came in ? " 
" Yes. You both had that look I can always tell 
it of having suddenly stopped." 
" Oh ! " said Sewell, pretending to arrange the 
tilings on his desk. " Evans had been suggesting 
the subject for a sermon." He paused a moment, and 
then he continued hardily, " And he'd been telling 
me about Barker. He 's turned up again." 
 
"Of course!" said Mrs. Sewell. What 's 
happened to him now ? " 
" Nothing, apparently, but some repeated strokes 
of prosperity. He has become clerk, elevator-boy, 
and head-waiter at the St. Albans." 
" And what are you going to do about him ? " 
"Evans advises me to do nothing." 
"Well, that 's sensible, at any rate," said Mrs. 
Sewell. " I really think you've  done quite enough, 
David, and now he can be left to manage for himself, 
especially as he seems to be doing well." 
" Oh, he 's doing as well as I could hope, and 
better. But I' m not sure that I shouldn't have per 
sonally preferred a continued course of calamity for 
him. I shall never be quite at peace about him till 
I get him back on his farm at Willoughby Pastures." 
" Well, that you will never do ; and you may as 
well rest easy about it." 
" I don't know as to never doing it," said Sewell. 
" All prosperity, especially the prosperity connected 
with Mrs. Harmon 's hotel, is transitory ; and I' may 
succeed yet." 
"Does everything go on there in the old way, 
does Mr. Evans say ? " Mrs. Sewell did not refer to 
any former knowledge of the St. Albans, but to a 
remote acquaintance with the character and methods 
