my young friend his low opinions if he renounces them for you.”
Cora, at this, started as with a glimpse of delight. “He won’t
renounce them! He shan’t!”
Her father appeared still to enjoy the ingenious way he had put it,
so that he had good humour to spare. “If you suggest that you’re
in political sympathy with him, you mean then that you’ll take him as
he is?”
“I won’t take him at all!” she protested with her head very high;
but she had no sooner uttered the words than the sound of the approach
of wheels caused her dignity to drop. “A fly?--it must be he!”
She turned right and left, for a retreat or an escape, but her father
had already caught her by the wrist. “Surely,” she pitifully
panted, “you don’t want me to bounce on him thus?”
Mr. Prodmore, as he held her, estimated the effect. “Your frock
won’t do--with what it cost me?”
“It’s not my frock, papa,--it’s his thinking I’ve come here for
him to see me!”
He let her go and, as she moved away, had another look for the social
value of the view of her stout back. It appeared to determine him, for,
with a touch of mercy, he passed his word. “He doesn’t think it,
and he shan’t know it.”
The girl had made for the door of the morning-room, before reaching
which she flirted breathlessly round. “But he knows you want me to
hook him!”
Mr. Prodmore was already in the parliamentary attitude the occasion
had suggested to him for the reception of his visitor. “The way
to ‘hook’ him will be not to be hopelessly vulgar. He doesn’t
know that you know anything.” The house-bell clinked, and he waved
his companion away. “Await us there with tea, and mind you toe the
mark!”
Chivers, at this moment, summoned by the bell, reappeared in the
morning-room doorway, and Cora’s dismay brushed him as he sidled past
her and off into the passage to the front. Then, from the threshold of
her refuge, she launched a last appeal. “Don’t kill me, father:
give me time!” With which she dashed into the room, closing the door
with a bang.
II
Mr. Prodmore, in Chivers’s absence, remained staring as if
at a sudden image of something rather fine. His child had left
with him the sense of a quick irradiation, and he failed to see
why, at the worst, such lightnings as she was thus able to dart
shouldn’t strike somewhere. If he had spoken to her of her best
manner perhaps that was her best manner. He heard steps and voices,
however, and immediately invited to his aid his own, which was simply
magnificent. Chivers, returning, announced solemnly “Captain Yule!”
and ushered in a tall young man in a darkish tweed suit and a red
necktie, attached in a sailor’s knot, who, as he entered, removed
a soft brown hat. Mr. Prodmore, at this, immediately saluted him by
uncovering. “Delighted at last to see you here!”
It was the young man who first, in his comparative simplicity,
put out a hand. “If I’ve not come before, Mr. Prodmore, it
was--very frankly speaking--from the dread of seeing you!”
His speech contradicted, to some extent, his gesture, but Clement
Yule’s was an aspect in which contradictions were rather remarkably
at home. Erect and slender, but as strong as he was straight, he was
set up, as the phrase is, like a soldier, and yet finished, in certain
details--matters of expression and suggestion only indeed--like a man
in whom sensibility had been recklessly cultivated. He was hard and
fine, just as he was sharp and gentle, just as he was frank and shy,
just as he was serious and young, just as he looked, though you could
never have imitated it, distinctly “kept up” and yet considerably
reduced. His features were thoroughly regular, but his complete
shaving might have been designed to show that they were, after all,
not absurd. The face Mr. Prodmore offered him fairly glowed, on this
new showing, with instant pride of possession, and there was that in
Captain Yule’s whole air which justified such a sentiment without
consciously rewarding it.
“Ah, surely,” said the elder man, “my presence is not without
a motive!”
“It’s just the motive,” Captain Yule returned, “that makes me
wince at it! Certainly I’ve no illusions,” he added, “about the
ground of our meeting. Your thorough knowledge of what you’re about
has placed me at your mercy--you hold me in the hollow of your hand.”
It was vivid in every inch that Mr. Prodmore’s was a nature to expand
in the warmth, or even in the chill, of any tribute to his financial
subtlety. “Well, I won’t, on my side, deny that when, in general,
I go in deep I don’t go in for nothing. I make it pay double!” he
smiled.
“You make it pay so well--‘double’ surely doesn’t do you
justice!--that, if I’ve understood you, you can do quite as you like
with this preposterous place. Haven’t you brought me down exactly
that I may see you do it?”
“I’ve certainly brought you down that you may open your eyes!”
This, apparently, however, was not what Mr. Prodmore himself had
arrived to do with his own. These fine points of expression literally
contracted with intensity. “Of course, you know, you can always clear
the property. You can pay off the mortgages.”
Captain Yule, by this time, had, as he had not done at first, looked
up and down, round about and well over the scene, taking in, though
at a mere glance, it might have seemed, more particularly, the row,
high up, of strenuous ancestors. But Mr. Prodmore’s last words rang
none the less on his ear, and he met them with mild amusement. “Pay
off----? What can I pay off with?”
“You can always raise money.”
“What can I raise it on?”
Mr. Prodmore looked massively gay. “On your great political
future.”
“Oh, I’ve not taken--for the short run at least--the lucrative
line,” the young man said, “and I know what you think of that.”
Mr. Prodmore’s blandness confessed, by its instant increase, to
