the great drought of '64, in which we lost all our cattle. We never
recovered from that, for we mortgaged our lands to the Americans to get
money to live on with,--everything was three prices then; and when the
time came they foreclosed, for we never had the money to pay. And we
were great gamblers, señorita, and so were the Americans--and far better
ones than we were. We were only made for pleasure and plenty, to live
the life of grandees who had little use for money, and scorned it. When
the time came for us to pit ourselves against sordid people, we crumbled
like old bones. Your father has been very fortunate: he had a clever man
to teach him to circumvent other clever men. Years ago, when I was
prouder than I am now, I put my pride in my pocket and wrote, asking him
for help. I wanted a small sum to pay off the mortgage on a ranchita,
upon which I might have ended my days in peace, for it was very
productive. He never answered. To-day I came to ask him for money to buy
bread. He roared at me like a bull, and vowed he'd blow my brains out if
I ever entered his house again. He looks like--" He paused abruptly.
There was much of the old-time courtliness in his manner.
"I--I--am so sorry. And I have little money to spend. If you will leave
me your name and address, I will send you something on the first of each
month; and if--if ever I have more I will take care of you--of all of
you. I suppose there are many others."
"There are indeed, señorita."
"Some day I will ask you for all of their names. And yours?"
He gave it. It was a name famous in the brief history of old
California,--a name which had stood for splendid hospitality, for state
and magnificence, for power and glory. It was the name of one of her
beloved heroes. She had written his youthful romance; she had described
the picturesque fervour of his wooing, the pomp of his wedding; of all
those heroes he had been the best beloved, the most splendid. And she
met him,--a broken-down old drunkard, in the dusty gloom of an old
maniac's wooden "palace," in the fashionable quarter of a city which had
never heard his name.
"O God!" she said. "O God!" and she was glad that she had burned her
manuscripts. She took the dollar from her pocket and gave it to him.
He accepted it eagerly. "God bless you, señorita!" he said. "And you can
always hear of me at the Yosemite Saloon, Castroville."
He passed out, neglecting to shut the door behind him, but Magdaléna did
not notice the unaccustomed rift of light. She sank into a chair against
the wall and wept heavily. They were the last tears she shed over her
fallen idols. When the wave had broken, she reflected that she was glad
to know of the distress of her people; it should be her lifework to help
them. When she came to her own she would buy them each a little ranch
and see that they passed the rest of their lives in comfort.
She leaned forward and listened intently. Loud mutterings proceeded from
her father's room. She wondered if there was a policeman in the street.
She and her mother were very unprotected. The only man in the house
besides her father was the Chinaman, and Chinamen are as indifferent to
the lives of others as to their own. Don Roberto had ordered the
telephone and messenger call removed years ago. The sounds rose to a
higher register. Magdaléna, straining her ears, heard, delivered in
rapid defiant tones, the familiar national cry, "Hip-hip-hooray!"
She went over softly, and put her ear to the thick door. The tones of
the old man's voice were broken, as if by muscular exertion, and
accompanied by a curious bumping. Magdaléna understood in a moment. He
was striding up and down the room, waving the American flag, and
shouting, "Hip-hip-hooray! Hip-hip-hooray! hooray! hooray!
hooray!"
She ran down the hall to summon Ah Kee and send him for a doctor, but
before she reached the bell she heard the front door close, and turned
swiftly. A man had entered.
She went forward in some indignation. So deep was the gloom of the hall
that she could distinguish nothing beyond the facts that the intruder
was tall and slight, and that he wore a light suit of clothes. When she
had approached within a few feet of him, she saw that he was Trennahan.
For the moment she thought it was the soul of the man, so ghostly he
looked in that dim light, in that large silence.
His first remark was reassuring: "I rang twice; but as no one came, and
the door was open, I walked in,--as you see."
"We have so few servants now. Won't you come and sit down?"
He followed her down to the reception-room. She jerked aside the
curtains, careless of the bad house-keeping the light would reveal. It
streamed in upon him. He was deeply tanned and indescribably improved.
They sat down opposite each other. Magdaléna, recalling her tears,
placed her chair against the light. "When did you get back?" she asked.
"The ship docked an hour ago."
"You look very well. Have you been enjoying yourself?"
"I have been occupied, and useful--I hope. At least, I have collected
some data and made some observations which may be new to the world of
Science. I found the old love very absorbing. And, you will hardly
credit it, I have lived quite an impersonal life."
"Have you come back to California again because you think it a good
place to die in?"
"I came back to California, because it is a good place to write my book
in, and because you are here."
"Ah!"
"Don't misunderstand me. I am not so conceited as to imagine that I can
have you for the asking. But--listen to me: I had a brief but very
genuine madness. When I recovered I knew what I had th--lost. I
argued--even during my convalescence--that I had been wholly right in
believing that you were the one woman for me to marry, and, that fact
established, you must believe it no less than I. But for a long time I
was ashamed to come back, or to write. Later, I went where it was
impossible. Moreover, in solitude a man comes into very close knowledge
of himself. After a few months of it I knew that I should never be
contented with mere existence again. I determined to take advantage of
what might be the last chance granted me to make anything of my life; I
had thrown away a good many chances. I also argued that if you loved me,
you would wait for me; that you were not the sort to marry for any
reason but one. At least, perhaps you will give me another trial."
"I shall marry you, I suppose; I have wanted to so long, and I never had
