informed her of the astounding discoveries she had made respecting the
governess.
She rang the bell.
"Janet," she said, "when the governess comes you may bring her up here
to me."
"Yes, ma'am."
"She's going to catch it--I wonder what for?" thought Janet, as she
noted the grim visage of her employer.
So when Florence entered the house she was told that Mrs. Leighton
wished to see her at once.
"I wonder what's the matter now?" she asked herself. "Has she heard of
my meeting her nephew in the car?"
When she entered the room she saw at once that something was wrong.
"You wished to see me, Mrs. Leighton?" she said.
"Yes," answered Mrs. Leighton, grimly. "Will you be seated?"
Florence sat down a few feet from her employer and waited for an
explanation.
She certainly was not prepared for Mrs. Leighton's first words:
"Miss Linden, where do you live?"
Florence started, and her face flushed.
"I live in the lower part of the city," she answered, with hesitation.
"That is not sufficiently definite."
"I live at No. 27 -- Street."
"I think that is east of the Bowery."
"You are right, madam."
"You lodge with an apple-woman, do you not?"
"I do," answered Florence, calmly.
"In a tenement house?"
"Yes, madam."
"And you actually come from such a squalid home to instruct my
daughter!" exclaimed Mrs. Leighton, indignantly. "It is a wonder you
have not brought some terrible disease into the house."
"There has been no case of disease in the humble dwelling in which I
make my home. I should be as sorry to expose your daughter to any
danger of that kind as you would be to have me."
"It is a merciful dispensation of Providence, for which I ought to be
truly thankful. But the idea of receiving in my house an inmate of a
tenement house! I am truly shocked. Is this apple-woman your mother?"
"I assure you that she is not," answered Florence, with a smile which
she could not repress.
"Or your aunt?"
"She is in no way related to me. She is an humble friend.
"Miss Linden, your tastes must be low to select such a home and such a
friend."
"The state of my purse had something to do with the selection, and the
kindness shown me by Mrs. O'Keefe, when I needed a friend, will
explain my location further."
"That is not all. You met in the Madison Avenue car yesterday my
nephew, Mr. Percy de Brabazon."
"It is coming," thought Florence. "Who could have seen us?" Then
aloud:
"Yes, madam."
"Was it by appointment?"
"Do you mean to insult me, Mrs. Leighton?" demanded Florence, rising
and looking at the lady with flashing eyes.
"I never insult anybody," replied Mrs. Leighton. "Pray, resume your
seat."
Florence did so.
"Then I may assume that it was accidental. You talked together with
the freedom of old friends?"
"You are correctly informed."
"You seem to make acquaintances very readily, Miss Linden. It seems
singular, to say the least, that after meeting my nephew for a single
evening, you should become such intimate friends."
"You will be surprised, Mrs. Leighton, when I say that Mr. de Brabazon
and I are old friends. We have met frequently."
"Where, in Heaven's name?" ejaculated Mrs. Leighton.
"At my residence."
"Good Heavens!" exclaimed the scandalized lady. "Does my nephew Percy
visit at the house of this apple-woman?"
"No, madam. He does not know where I live."
"Then you will explain your previous statement?" said Mrs. Leighton,
haughtily.
"I am at present suffering reversed circumstances. It is but a short
time since I was very differently situated."
"I won't inquire into your change of circumstances. I feel compelled
to perform an unpleasant duty."
Florence did not feel called upon to make any reply, but waited for
Mrs. Leighton to finish speaking.
"I shall be obliged to dispense with your services as my daughter's
governess. It is quite out of the question for me to employ a person
who lives in a tenement-house."
Florence bowed acquiescence, but she felt very sad. She had become
attached to her young charge, and it cost her a pang to part from her.
Besides, how was she to supply the income of which this would deprive
her?
"I bow to your decision, madam," she said, with proud humility.
"You will find here the sum that I owe you, with payment for an extra
week in lieu of notice."
"Thank you. May I bid Carrie good-by, Mrs. Leighton?"
"It is better not to do so, I think. The more quietly we dissolve our
unfortunate connection the better!"
Florence's heart swelled, and the tears came to her eyes, but she
could not press her request.
She was destined, however, to obtain the privilege which Mrs. Leighton
denied her. Carrie, who had become impatient, came downstairs and
burst into the room.
"What keeps you so long, Miss Linden?" she said. "Is mamma keeping
you?"
Florence was silent, leaving the explanations to Mrs. Leighton.
