"And why should you?"
I felt a trifle pushed. "I'll tell you some other time. And among the
ladies I except Mrs. Brissenden, with whom, as you may have noticed,
I've been having much talk."
"And will you tell me some other time about that too?" On which, as I
but amicably shook my head for no, he had his first dimness of
pleasantry. "I'll get it then from my wife."
"Never. She won't tell you."
"She has passed you her word? That won't alter the fact that she tells
me everything."
He really said it in a way that made me take refuge for an instant in
looking at my watch. "Are you going back to tea? If you are, I'll, in
spite of my desire to roam, walk twenty steps with you." I had already
again put my hand into his arm, and we strolled for a little till I
threw off that I was sure Mrs. Server was waiting for him. To this he
replied that if I wished to get rid of him he was as willing to take
that as anything else for granted--an observation that I, on my side,
answered with an inquiry, though an inquiry that had nothing to do with
it. "Do you also tell everything to Mrs. Brissenden?"
It brought him up shorter than I had expected. "Do you ask me that in
order that I shan't speak to her of this?"
I showed myself at a loss. "Of 'this'----?"
"Why, of what we've made out----"
"About Mrs. Server, you and I? You must act as to that, my dear fellow,
quite on your own discretion. All the more that what on earth have we
made out? I assure you I haven't a secret to confide to you about her,
except that I've never seen a person more unquenchably radiant."
He almost jumped at it. "Well, that's just it!"
"But just what?"
"Why, what they're all talking about. That she is so awfully radiant.
That she's so tremendously happy. It's the question," he explained, "of
what in the world she has to make her so."
I winced a little, but tried not to show it. "My dear man, how do I
know?"
"She thinks you know," he after a moment answered.
I could only stare. "Mrs. Server thinks I know what makes her happy?" I
the more easily represented such a conviction as monstrous in that it
truly had its surprise for me.
But Brissenden now was all with his own thought. "She isn't happy."
"You mean that that's what's the matter with her under her
appearance----? Then what makes the appearance so extraordinary?"
"Why, exactly what I mention--that one doesn't see anything whatever in
her to correspond to it."
I hesitated. "Do you mean in her circumstances?"
"Yes--or in her character. Her circumstances are nothing wonderful. She
has none too much money; she has had three children and lost them; and
nobody that belongs to her appears ever to have been particularly nice
to her."
I turned it over. "How you do get on with her!"
"Do you call it getting on with her to be the more bewildered the more I
see her?"
"Isn't to say you're bewildered only, on the whole, to say you're
charmed? That always--doesn't it?--describes more or less any engrossed
relation with a lovely lady."
"Well, I'm not sure I'm so charmed." He spoke as if he had thought this
particular question over for himself; he had his way of being lucid
without brightness. "I'm not at all easily charmed, you know," he the
next moment added; "and I'm not a fellow who goes about much after
women."
"Ah, that I never supposed! Why in the world should you? It's the last
thing!" I laughed. "But isn't this--quite (what shall one call it?)
innocently--rather a peculiar case?"
My question produced in him a little gesture of elation--a gesture
emphasised by a snap of his forefinger and thumb. "I knew you knew it
was special! I knew you've been thinking about it!"
"You certainly," I replied with assurance, "have, during the last five
minutes, made me do so with some sharpness. I don't pretend that I don't
now recognise that there must be something the matter. I only
desire--not unnaturally--that there should be, to put me in the right
for having thought, if, as you're so sure, such a freedom as that can be
brought home to me. If Mrs. Server is beautiful and gentle and
strange," I speciously went on, "what are those things but an
attraction?"
I saw how he had them, whatever they were, before him as he slowly shook
his head. "They're not an attraction. They're too queer."
I caught in an instant my way to fall in with him; and not the less that
I by this time felt myself committed, up to the intellectual eyes, to
ascertaining just how queer the person under discussion might be. "Oh,
of course I'm not speaking of her as a party to a silly flirtation, or
an object of any sort of trivial pursuit. But there are so many
different ways of being taken."
"For a fellow like you. But not for a fellow like me. For me there's
only one."
"To be, you mean, in love?"
He put it a little differently. "Well, to be thoroughly pleased."
"Ah, that's doubtless the best way and the firm ground. And you mean
you're not thoroughly pleased with Mrs. Server?"
"No--and yet I want to be kind to her. Therefore what's the matter?"
"Oh, if it's what's the matter with you you ask me, that extends the
question. If you want to be kind to her, you get on with her, as we were
saying, quite enough for my argument. And isn't the matter also, after
all," I demanded, "that you simply feel she desires you to be kind?"
"She does that." And he looked at me as with the sense of drawing from
me, for his relief, some greater help than I was as yet conscious of the
courage to offer. "It is that she desires me. She likes it. And the
extraordinary thing is that I like it."
"And why in the world shouldn't you?"
"Because she terrifies me. She has something to hide."
"But, my dear man," I asked with a gaiety singularly out of relation to
the small secret thrill produced in me by these words--"my dear man,
