the acquaintance of the petrel (having left a sea 
sick bed for the purpose), was of another mind. 
He had been alarmed, and, as it appeared in the 
private interview which he demanded of his mother, 
he had been scandalized. 
 
" It is bad enough the way Lottie is always going 
on with fellows. And now, if Ellen is going to 
begin!" 
"But, Boyne, child," Mrs. Kenton argued, in an 
equilibrium between the wish to laugh at her son 
and the wish to box his ears, "how could she help 
his catching her if he was to save her from pitch 
ing overboard?" 
"That 's just it! He will always think that she 
did it just so he would have to catch her." 
" I don 't believe any one would think that of 
Ellen," said Mrs. Kenton, gravely. 
"Momma! You don 't know what these Eastern 
fellows are. There are so few of them that they 're 
used to having girls throw themselves at them, and 
they will think anything, ministers and all. You 
ought to talk to Ellen, and caution her. Of course, 
she isn 't like Lottie; but if Lottie 's been behaving 
her way with Mr. Breckon, he must suppose the 
rest of the family is like her." 
" Boyne," said his mother, provisionally, " what 
sort of person is Mr. Breckon?" 
" Well, I think he 's kind of frivolous." 
"Do you, Boyne?" 
" I don 't suppose he means any harm by it, but 
I don 't like to see a minister laugh so much. I 
can 't hardly get him to talk seriously about any 
thing. And I just know he makes fun of Lottie. 
I don 't mean that he always makes fun with me. 
He didn 't that night at the vaudeville, where I 
first saw him." 
 
"What do you mean?" 
" Don 't you remember ? I told you about it last 
winter." 
"And was Mr. Breckon that gentleman?" 
"Yes; but he didn 't know who I was when we 
met here." 
" Well, upon my word, Boyne, I think you might 
have told us before," said his mother, in not very 
definite vexation. "Go along, now!" 
Boyne stood talking to his mother, with his 
hands, which he had not grown to, largely planted 
on the jambs of her state-room door. She was keep 
ing her berth, not so much because she was sea-sick 
as because it was the safest place in the unsteady 
ship to be in. "Do you want me to send Ellen 
to you?" 
"I will attend to Ellen, Boyne," his mother 
snubbed him. "How is Lottie?" 
" I can 't tell whether she 's sick or not. I went 
to see about her and she motioned me away, and 
fairly screamed when I told her she ought to keep 
out in the air. Well, I must be going up again 
myself, or " 
Before lunch, Boyne had experienced the alter 
native which he did not express, although his theory 
and practice of keeping in the open air ought to 
have rendered him immune. Breckon saw his shock 
of hair, and his large eyes, like Ellen 's in their 
present gloom, looking out of it on the pillow 
of the upper berth, when he went to their room 
to freshen himself for the luncheon, and found 
 
Boyne averse even to serious conversation. He 
went to lunch without him. None of the Kentons 
were at table, and he had made up his mind to 
lunch alone when Ellen appeared, and came waver 
ing down the aisle to the table. He stood up to 
help her, but seeing how securely she stayed her 
self from chair to chair he sank down again. 
"Poppa is sick, too, now," she replied, as if to 
account for being alone. 
" And you 're none the worse for your little prom 
enade?" The steward came to Breckon 's left shoul 
der with a dish, and after an effort to serve himself 
from it he said, with a slight gasp, " The other 
side, please." Ellen looked at him, but did not 
speak, and he made haste to say : " The doctor 
goes so far as to admit that it 's half a gale. I 
don 't know just what measure the first officer would 
have for it. But I congratulate you on a very 
typical little storm, Miss Kenton ; perfectly safe, but 
very decided. A great many people cross the At 
lantic without anything half as satisfactory. There 
is either too much or too little of this sort of thing." 
He went on talking about the weather, and had got 
such a distance from the point of beginning that 
he had cause to repent being brought back to it 
when she asked: 
"Did the doctor think you were hurt?" 
" Well, perhaps I ought to be more ashamed than 
I am," said Breckon. "But I thought I had bet 
ter make sure. And it 's only a bruise " 
