and hogs from its slatted stock-cars; and Ailsa was almost stifled
before her train at last moved heavily southward, saluted by
good-natured witticisms from the soldiers at the windows of the
stalled troop train.
Evening came, finding them somewhere in Delaware; the yellow stars
appeared, the air freshened a little.  Letty had fallen asleep; her
dark lashes rested quietly on her cheeks, but the car jolted her
head cruelly, and Ailsa gently drew it to her own shoulder and put
one arm around her.
A major of heavy artillery turned toward her from his seat and said:
"Are you a volunteer nurse, ma'am?"
"Yes," motioned Ailsa with her lips, glancing cautiously at Letty.
"Can I do anything for you at Wilmington?"
She thanked him, smiling.  He was disposed to be very friendly.
"You ladies arc the right stuff," he said.  "I've seen you aboard
those abominable transports, behaving like angels to the poor
sea-sick devils.  I saw you after Big Bethel, scraping the blood
and filth off of the wounded zouaves; I saw you in Washington after
Bull Run, doing acts of mercy that, by God, madam! would have
turned my stomach. . . .  Won't you let me do something for you.
You don't need any whisky for your sick boys, do you?"
Ailsa smiled and shook her head, saying they had not yet been
assigned to duty.
"I haven't anything else to offer you except tobacco," said the
Major ruefully, and subsided.
At Wilmington, however, he got out, and presently reappeared with
hard-boiled eggs and sandwiches, a big bottle of cold, sweet milk,
and a basket of fruit.  Letty awoke; realised that Ailsa had been
holding her in her arms; looked at her in confusion, then
impulsively bent and laid her lips against Ailsa's hands.
"Why--child--I didn't mind," faltered Ailsa, flushing in response
to Letty's swift emotion.  "See what this very kind officer has
brought us for dinner, dear!  Isn't it delicious?"
They were as hungry as two school children and ate everything; and
by and by the Major of heavy artillery came back and reversed the
seat he had been occupying, and arranged it so he could sit facing
them.  He was fat, red-faced, with a pair of terrific moustaches,
and a closely clipped head showing two scars.
"I've daughters older than you, ma'am," he said, in part
explanation of his friendliness.  "One's got a new baby.  He's a
devil!"
"W-what?" asked Ailsa.
"The right kind of devil, ma'am.  I've been to see him!  He wanted
my sword; he tried to chew off my shoulder straps; he almost
impaled himself on my spurs.  By heaven, ma'am, that's a boy for
you!"
Ailsa smiled.  She knew about babies; implanted in her had always
been a perfect madness to possess one.
She and the red-faced Major talked babies.  Letty, knowing nothing
about babies and not deeply interested, lay back in her seat,
watching Ailsa in the dim light of the ceiling lamps.  She seemed
never to have enough of Ailsa.  It had been so from the first.
In Baltimore dawn was breaking when Ailsa awoke at the summons of
the major; and he remained devoted to the two nurses of Sainte
Ursula, attending to their baggage and transfer across the city,
finding seats in the waiting-room already invaded by the officers
of several regiments in transit, and finally saw them safely aboard
the cars again.
"Good-bye, little ladies," he said cheerily.  "If I'm hit, God send
one of you to wash my face for me.  My card, ladies--if I may be
permitted the honour.  I'm to be at Fortress Monroe as soon as my
command leaves Baltimore."
After he had gone away, Ailsa looked at his card:
      A. J. DENISLOW
   MAJOR, ART., U. S. A.
"I thought he was a regular," she said, smiling at Letty.  "He's a
perfect old dear.  Shall we open the parcel and see what he has
left us for breakfast?"
There was more milk, more peaches and pears, more bread and butter,
and a cold roast chicken; and they made very merry over it, doing
the best they could without knife and fork.
They were nearing Washington now.  Every little while they passed
bodies of troops marching or encamped along the roads; and once
they saw a line of army waggons, drab coloured, with yellow canvas
tops, moving slowly in clouds of dust.
In the limpid morning light buzzards were already soaring over the
green fields; the fresh odour of wild flowers came blowing in at
the open car window; butterflies fluttered, wind-driven, helpless.
And now they were passing mounds of freshly turned red earth--long
stretches of hillocks banked high and squared at the ends.
Hundreds of negroes were at work sodding them; here and there a
flag fluttered and a bayonet gleamed.
"I believe all these little hills and ditches have something to do
with forts," said Ailsa.  "Certainly that great mound must be part
of a fort.  Do you see the cannon?"
Letty nodded, wide-eyed.  And now they were passing soldiers on
every road, at every bridge, along every creek bank.
Squads of them, muskets shining, marched briskly along beside the
railroad track; sentinels stood at every culvert, every flag house,
every water tank and local station past which they rolled without
stopping.  Acres of white tents flashed into view; houses and negro
cabins became thicker; brick houses, too, appeared at intervals,
then half-finished blocks fronting the dusty roads, then rows and
lines of dwellings, and street after street swarming with negroes
and whites.  And before they realised it they had arrived.
They descended from the car amid a pandemonium of porters, hackmen,
soldiers, newsboys, distracted fellow-passengers, locomotives
noisily blowing off steam, baggagemen trundling and slamming trunks
about; and stood irresolute and confused.
"Could you direct us to the offices of the Sanitary Commission?"
