Mrs. Hartley laid her hand against the child's 
cheek, with a feeling of uneasiness. Her children 
had often been sick with fevers ; but never, in the 
incipient stage of the disease, had she felt the pe- 
culiar sensation of uneasiness and oppression that 
followed the discovery that Lillian was really sick. 
In a little while the tea bell rung, and the family 
gathered around the table to partake of their even- 
ing meal. The father and mother felt no appetite  
and merely sipped their tea. Marien was silent 
from some cause. Henry and Fanny were the 
only ones who had any thing to say. On rising 
from the table, Mr. and Mrs. Hartley repaired to 
the chamber to look at Lillian again. The child's 
fever seemed higher, and she had become restless. 
She coughed occasionally, and there was much 
oppression on her chest. 
''' I think we had better call in the Doctor," said 
Mr. Hartley. 
" It may only be a temporary indisposition, 
that will subside before morning," remarked the 
mother. 
" Still, it is better to be frightened than hurt," 
returned Mr. Hartley. 
"True. But suppose we wait for an hour." 
At the expiration of an hour the child was no 
better. A physician was called in, who gave some 
simple medicine, and said he would call in the 
morning. The morning found the child very ill. 
What form the disease would ultimately assume, 
the doctor could not tell ; — it might be only a vio- 
lent catarrh, it might be some more malignant dis- 
ease. A sudden gloom fell over the whole house- 
hold, such as had never been felt before. The 
mother could not compose herself to do any thing 
— Marien sat by the child's bedside nearly all the 
time, and Mr. Hartley came home two or three 
times during the day. What alarmed them most 
of all was the constant com.plaints of Lillian that 
her throat pained her, and the admission of the 
doctor that it was highly inflamed. Even hours 
before the physician declared the disease to be 
scarlet fever, they were more than half assured that 
it was nothing else. 
On the third day, all their fears were con- 
firmed. The disease began to assume its worst 
type. The skin was red and tumefied, the throat 
badly ulcerated, and the face much swollen. — 
Breathing was exceedingly difficult, and there was 
 
an eruption of dark scarlet spots on the face, neck 
and chest. On the fifth day, the little sufferer be- 
came delirious— on the seventh day she was freed 
from her pain. Her pure spirit returned to llie 
God who gave it. 
Suddenly as this terrible affliction had fallen 
upon them, in the brief space that ensued between 
the ilhiess of tha child and her removal, the minds 
of the parents had become, in some degree, pre- 
pared for the result that followed. Still the blow 
stunned them, and it was not until called upon to 
take the last look at their little one, and to touch 
with their lips for the last time her snowy fore- 
head, that they realized the full consciousness of 
what they had lost. Ah ! who but they who love 
tenderly a sweet, innocent, affectionate child, can 
understand how deep was the anguish of their spirits 
at the moment when they turned away after taking 
their last, lingering look at the marble features of 
their departed Lillian. 
How desolate seemed every part of the house 
for days afterwards. Hard as tlie mother tried to 
bear up and to look up in this aflliction, she had 
not the power to dry her tears. For hours, some- 
times, she would sit in dreamy absent-mindedness, 
all interest in things surrounding her having totally 
subsided. 
 
" Dear Anna." her husband ventured to say to 
her one day, when he came home and found her 
in this state — '''' Time, the Restorer, cannot do his 
work for us, unless we do our part. You remem- 
ber Doctor T , in whose family we spent two 
pleasant weeks last summer. He had a son, just 
about the age of Clarence — perhaps two years 
older — who had just passed through his collegiate 
course with distinguished honors. The Doctor 
loved that boy with more than ordinary tenderness. 
' He was always a good boy,' he said to me, in 
alluding to his son. ' His love of truth was strong, 
and his sense of honor most acute. I not only 
loved him, but I was proud of him.' This son 
had not been home long, when he became ill, and 
died. ''I never had any thing in my whole life 
that gave me such anguish of spirit as the death 
of that boy,' he said, and his voice even then trem- 
bled. ' But, through the whole painful scene of 
sickness, death and burial, I never missed a pa- 
tient. I knew that there was only one thing that 
would sustain me in my affliction ; and that was, 
the steady and faithful performance of my regular 
duties in life. But for this, I sometimes think I 
could not have borne the weight that was then 
laid upon me.' Dear Anna ! Doctor T was a 
true philosoplier; for his was a high Christian 
 
philosophy, that sought relief from affliction in the 
performance of duty to others." 
Poor Mrs. Hartley wept bitterly while her hus- 
band was speaking. But his words sunk into her 
heart, and she felt that she was suffering severer 
pain than would have been her portion if she had 
acted hke Doctor T . From that time she 
strove, with a great effort, to arouse herself from 
the dreamy state into which she had fallen. It 
was difficult to perform all the duties — nay, she 
could not perform them all— that heretofore claim- 
ed her attention. For five years her daily thought 
and care had been for her youngest born, the 
nursling of the flock; and now she was taken 
