shall wax old like a garment ; — and it and all the works that 
are therein shall be burned up." 

As he spoke Ellen's fancy tried to follow, — to picture the 
ruin and desolation of all that stood so fair and seemed to 
stand so firm before her ; — but the sun shone on, the branches 
waved gently in the wind, the shadows lay still on the snow, 
and the blue heaven was fair and cloudless. Fancy was 
baffled. She turned from the window. 

" Do you believe it?" said John. 

" Yes," said Ellen, — " I know it ; but I think it is very 
disagreeable to think about it." 

" It would be, Ellie," said he, bringing her again to his 
side, — " very disagreeable — very miserable indeed, if we knew 
no more than that. But we know more — read here.'' 

Ellen took his little Bible and read at the open place. 

" ' Behold, I create new heavens and a new earth, and 
the former shall not be remembered, neither come into 
mind.' " 

" Why won't they be remembered ?" said Ellen ; — shall 
we forget all about them ?" 

No, I do not think that is meant. The new heavens and 
the new earth will be so much more lovely and pleasant that 
we shall not want to think of these." 

Ellen's eye sought the window again. 

" You are thinking that is hardly possible ?" said John 
with a smile. 

" I suppose it is possible," said Ellen, — " but — " 

" But lovely as this world is, Ellie, man has filled it with 
sin, and sin has everywhere brought its punishment, and 
under the weight of both the earth groans. There will be 
no sin there ; sorrow and sighing shall flee away ; love to 
each other and love to their blessed King will fill all hearts, 
and his presence will be with them. Don't you see that 
even if that world shall be in itself no better than this, it will 
yet be far, far more lovely than this can ever be with the 
shadow of sin upon it ?" 

" yes !" said Ellen. " I know whenever I feel wrong 
in any way nothing seems pretty or pleasant to me, or not 
half so much." 







" Very well," said John, — " I see you understand me. I 
like to think of that land, Ellen, — very much." 

" Mr. John," said Ellen, — " don't you think people will 
know each other again ?" 

" Those that love each other here ? — I have no doubt of it." 

Before either John or Ellen had broken the long musing fit 
that followed these words, they were joined by Alice. Her 
head was better ; and taking her place in the window-seat, 
the talk began again, between the brother and sister now ; 
Ellen too happy to sit with them and listen. They talked 
of that land again, of the happy company preparing for it ; 
of their dead mother, but not much of her ; of the glory of 
their King, and the joy of his service, even here ; — till thoughts 
grew too strong for words, and silence again stole upon the 
group. The short winter day came to an end ; the sunhght 
faded away into moonlight. Ko shadows lay now on the 
lawn ; and from where she sat Ellen could see the great 
hemlock all silvered with the moonlight which began to steal 
in at the window. It was very, very beautiful ; — yet she 
could think now without sorrow that all this should come to 
an end ; because of that new heaven and new earth wherein 
righteousness should dwell. 

" We have eaten up all your grapes, Ellie," said Alice, — 
or rather I have, for John didn't help me much. I think I 
never ate so sweet grapes in my life ; John said the reason 
was because eveiy one tasted of you." 

" I am very glad," said Ellen laughing. 

" There is no evil without some good," Alice went on ; — 
" except for my headache John would not have held my head 
by the hour as he did ; and you couldn't have given me the 
pleasure you did, Ellie. Oh Jack ! — there has been many a 
day lately when I would gladly have had a headache for the 
power of laying my head on your shoulder !" 

" And if mamma had not gone away I should never have 
known you," said Ellen. " I wish she never had gone, but 
I am very, very glad for this !" 

She had kneeled upon the window-seat and clasped Alice 
round the neck, just as they were called to tea. The conversation had banished every disagreeable feeling from Ellen's 
mind. She met her companions in the drawing-room almost 







forgetting that she had any cause of complaint against them. 
And this appeared when in the course of the evening it came 
in her way to perform some little office of pohteness for 
Marianne. It was done with the gracefulness that could 
only come from a spirit entirely free from ungraceful feelings. 
The children felt it, and for the time were shamed into better 
behavior. The evening passed pleasantly, and Ellen went 
