gilding. The sunshine was out of it ; and what was more, 
the sunshine was out of Ellen's heart too. She went to the 
window and opened it, but there was nothing to keep it 
open ; it slid down again as soon as she let it go. Baffled and 
sad, she stood leaning her elbows on the window-sill, looking 
out on the grass-plat that lay before the door, and the little 
gate that opened on the lane, and the smooth meadow, and 
rich broken country beyond. It was a very fair and pleasant 
scene in the soft sunlight of the last of October ; but the 
charm of it was gone for Ellen ; it was dreary. She looked 
without caring to look, or knowing what she was looking at ; 
she felt the tears rising to her eyes ; and sick of the window, 
turned away. Her eye fell on her trnnk ; her next thought 







was of her desk inside of it ; and suddenly her heart sprang ; 
— " I will write to mamma !" No sooner said than done. The 
trunk was quickly open, and hasty hands pulled out one thing 
after another till the desk was reached. 

" But what shall I do ?" thought she, — " there isn't a sign 
of a table. O what a place ! I'll shut my trunk and put it 
on that. But here are all these things to put back first." 

They were eagerly stowed away ; and then kneeling by 
the side of the trunk, with loving hands Ellen opened her 
desk. A sheet of paper was drawn from her store, and 
properly placed before her ; the pen dipped in the ink, and 
at first with a hurried, then with a trembling hand, she wrote, 
" My dear Mamma." But Ellen's heart had been swelling 
and swelling, with every letter of those three words, and 
scarcely was the last " a " finished, when the pen was dashed 
down, and flinging away from the desk, she threw herself on 
the floor in a passion of grief. It seemed as if she had her 
mother again in her arms, and was clinging with a death- 
grasp not to be parted from her. And then the feeling that 
she was parted ! — As much bitter sorrow as a little heart can 
know was in poor Ellen's now. In her childish despair she 
wished she could die, and almost thought she should. After 
a time, however, though not a short time, she rose from the 
floor and went to her writing again ; her heart a little eased 
by weeping, yet the tears kept coming all the time, and she 
could not quite keep her paper from being blotted. The first 
sheet was spoiled before she was aware ; she took another. 

" My Dearest Mamma, 

" It makes me so glad and so sorry to write to you, that I 
don't know what to do. I want to see you so much, mamma, 
that it seems to me sometimes as if my heart would break. 
0, mamma, if I could just kiss you once more, I would give 
anything in the whole world. I can't be happy as long as you 
are away, and I am afraid I can't be good either ; but I will 
try. I will try, mamma. I have so much to say to you 
that I don't know where to begin. I am sure my paper will 
never hold it all. You will want to know about my journey. 
The first day was on the steamboat, you know. I should 
have had a dreadful time that day, mamma, but for some- 
thing I'll tell you about. I was sitting up on the upper deck. 





thinking about you, and feeling very badly indeed, when a 
gentleman came and spoke to me, and asked me what was 
the matter. Mamma, I can't tell you how kind he was to me. 
He kept me with him the whole day. He took me all over 
the boat, and showed me all about a great many things, and 
he talked to me a great deal. 0, mamma, how he talked to 
me. He read in the Bible to me, and explained it, and he 
tried to make me be a Christian. And 0, mamma, when he 
was talking to me, how I wanted to do as he said, and I 
resolved I would. I did, mamma, and I have not forgotten 
it. I will try indeed, but I am afraid it will be very hard 
without you or him, or anybody else to help me. You 
couldn't have been kinder yourself, mamma ; he kissed me 
at night when I bid him good-bye, and I was very sorry 
indeed. I wish I could see him again. Mamma, I will 
always love that gentleman if I never see him again in the 
world. I wish there was somebody here that I could love, 
but there is not. You will want to know what sort of a person my aunt Fortune is. I think she is very good looking, 
or she would be if her nose was not quite so sharp : but, 
mamma, I can't tell you what sort of a feeling I have about 
her ; it seems to me as if she was sharp all over. I am sure 
her eyes are as sharp as two needles. And she don't walk 
like other people ; at least sometimes. She makes queer 
little jerks and starts and jumps, and flies about like T don't 
know what. I am afraid it is not right for me to write so about 
her ; but may I not tell you, mamma ? There's nobody else 
for me to talk to. I can't like aunt Fortune much yet, and 
I am sure she don't like me ; but I will try to make her. I 
have not forgotten what you said to me about that. 0, dear 
mamma, I will try to mind everything you "ever said to me 
in your life. I am afraid you won't like what I have written 
about aunt Fortune ; but indeed I have done nothing to displease her, and I will try not to. If you were only here, 
mamma, I should say it was the loveliest place I ever saw in 
my life. Perhaps, after all, I shall feel better, and be quite 
happy by-and-by ; but O, mamma, how glad I shall be when 
I get a letter from you. I shall begin to look for it soon, and 
I t\ .ink I shall go out of my wits with joy when it comes. I 
had the funniest ride down here from Thirlwall that you can 
think ; how do you guess I came ? In a cart drawn by oxen. 







They went so slow we were an age getting here ; but I liked 
it very much. There was a good-natured man driving the 
oxen, and he was kind to me ; but, mamma, what do you 
think ? he eats at the table. I know what you would tell 
me ; you would say I must not mind trifles. Well, I will 
