told, would not make mine. I have lived long enough to get a cool head
and understand something of the springs of action that lie in the human
heart. The best, at best, have little to be proud of, and much to
lament over, in the matter of high and honourable impulses. It is a far
easier thing to do wrong than right; far easier to be led away by our
evil passions than to compel ourselves always to regard justice and
judgment in our dealings with others. Test yourself by this rule. Would
your feelings for Marston be the same if he had only acted toward
another as he has acted toward you? Do not say 'yes' from a hasty
impulse. Reflect coolly about it. If not, then it is not so much a
regard to principle, as your regard to yourself, that causes you to be
so bitterly offended."

This plain language was not relished by the young man. It was touching
the very thing in him that Marston had offended--his self-love. He
replied, coldly--

"As for that, I am very well satisfied with my own reasons for being
displeased with Marston; and am perfectly willing to be responsible for
my own action in this case. I will change very much from my present
feelings, if I ever have any thing more to do with him."

"God give you a better mind then," replied Mr. Welford. "It is the best
wish I can express for you."

The two young men who were now at variance with each other had been
friends for many years. As they entered the world, the hereditary
character of each came more fully into external manifestation, and
revealed traits not before seen, and not always the most agreeable to
others. Edward Marston had his faults, and so had Herbert Arnest: the
latter quite as many as the former. There was a mutual observation of
these, and a mutual forbearance towards each other for a considerable
time, although each thought more than was necessary about things in the
other that ought to be corrected. A fault with Marston was quickness of
temper and a disposition to say unpleasant, cutting things, without due
reflection. But he had a forgiving disposition, and very many amiable
and excellent qualities. Arnest was also quick-tempered. His leading
defect of character was self-esteem, which made him exceedingly
sensitive in regard to the conduct of others as affecting the general
estimation of himself. He could not bear to have any freedom taken with
him, in company, even by his best friend. He felt it to be humiliating,
if not degrading. He, therefore, was a man of many dislikes, for one
and another were every now and then doing or saying something that hurt
more or less severely his self-esteem.

Marston had none of this peculiar weakness of his friend. He rarely
thought about the estimation in which he was held, and never let the
mere opinions of others influence him. But he was careful not to do any
thing that violated his own self-respect.

The breach between the young men occurred thus. The two friends were in
company with several others, and there was present a young lady in
whose eyes Arnest wished to appear in as favourable a light as
possible. He was relating an adventure in which he was the principal
hero, and, in doing so, exaggerated his own action so far as to amuse
Marston, who happened to know all about the circumstances, and provoke
from him some remarks that placed the whole affair in rather a
ridiculous light, and caused a laugh at Arnest's expense.

The young man's self-esteem was deeply wounded. Even the lady, for
whose ears the narrative had been more especially given, laughed
heartily, and made one or two light remarks; or, rather, heavy ones for
the ears of Arnest. He was deeply disturbed though at the time he
managed to conceal almost entirely what he felt.

Marston, however, saw that his thoughtless words had done more (sic)
than he had intended them to do, both upon the company and upon the
sensitive mind of his friend. He regretted having uttered them and
waited only until he should leave the company with Arnest, to express
his sorrow for what he had done. But his friend did not give him this
opportunity, for he managed to retire alone, thus expressing to Marston
the fact that he was seriously offended.

Early the next morning, Marston called at the residence of his friend,
in order to make an apology for having offended him; but he happened
not to be at home. On arriving at his office, he found a note from
Arnest, couched in the most offensive terms. The language was such as
to extinguish all desire or intention to apologize.

"Henceforth we are strangers," he said, as he thrust the note aside.

An hour afterward, they met on the street, looked coldly into each
other's face, and passed without even a nod. That act sealed the record
of estrangement.

Mr. Wellford was an old gentleman who was well acquainted with both of
the young men, and esteemed them for the good qualities they possessed.
When he heard of the occurrence just related, he was much grieved, and
sought to heal the breach that had been made; but without success.
Arnest's self-esteem had been sorely wounded, and he would not forgive
what he considered a wanton outrage. Marston felt himself deeply
insulted by the note he had received, and maintained that he would
forfeit his self-respect were he to hold any intercourse whatever with
a man who could, on so small a provocation, write such a scandalous
letter. Thus the matter stood; wounded self-esteem on one side, and
insulted self-respect on the other, not only maintaining the breach,
but widening it every day. Mr Wellford used his utmost influence with
his young friends to bend them from their anger, but he argued the
matter in vain. The voice of pride was stronger than the voice of
reason.

Months were suffered to go by, and even years to elapse, and still they
were as strangers. Circumstances threw them constantly together; they
met in places of business; they sat in full view of each other in
church on the holy Sabbath; they mingled in the same social circles;
the friends of one were the friends of the other; but they rarely
looked into each other's face, and never spoke. Did this make them
happier? No! For, "If ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither
will your heavenly Father forgive your trespasses." Did they feel
indifferent toward each other? Not by any means! Arnest still dwelt on
and magnified the provocation he had received, but thought that the
expression of his indignation had not been of a character to give as
great offence to Marston as it had done. And Marston, as time passed,
thought more and more lightly of the few jesting words he had spoken,
and considered them less and less provocation for the insulting note he
had received, which he still had, and sometimes turned up and read.

The old friends were forced to think of each other often, for both were
rising in the world, and rising into general esteem and respectability.
The name of the one was often mentioned with approbation in the
