early removal and reduction of expenses were settled, and, when
Wilkinson retired for the night, it was in a hopeful spirit. Light had
broken through a rift in the dark cloud which had so suddenly loomed
up; and he saw, clearly, the way of escape from the evil that
threatened to overwhelm him.
CHAPTER XII.
TWELVE o'clock of the day on which Ellis was to return the two hundred
dollars borrowed of Wilkinson came, and yet he did not appear at the
store of the latter, who had several payments to make, and depended on
receiving the amount due from his friend.
"Has Mr. Ellis been here?" asked Wilkinson of his clerk, coming in
about noon from a rather fruitless effort to obtain money.
The clerk replied in the negative.
"Nor sent over his check for two hundred dollars?"
"No, sir."
"Step down to his store, then, if you please, and say to him from me
that he mustn't forget the sum to be returned to-day, as I have two
notes yet in bank. Say also, that if he has any thing over, I shall be
glad to have the use of it."
The clerk departed on his errand. In due time he returned, but with no
money in his possession.
"Did you see Mr. Ellis?" asked Wilkinson.
"No, sir," was replied. "He hasn't been at the store to-day."
"Not to-day!"
"No, sir."
"What's the matter? Is he sick?"
"His clerk didn't say."
Taking up his hat, Wilkinson left his store hurriedly. In a few minutes
he entered that of his friend.
"Where is Mr. Ellis?" he inquired.
"I don't know, sir," was answered by the clerk.
"Has he been here this morning?"
"No, sir."
"He must be sick. Have you sent to his house to make inquiry?"
"Not yet. I have expected him all the morning."
"He was here yesterday?"
"Not until late in the afternoon."
"Indeed! Did he complain of not being well?"
"No, sir. But he didn't look very well."
There was something in the manner of the clerk which Wilkinson did not
understand clearly at first. But all at once it flashed upon his mind
that Ellis might, in consequence of some trouble with his wife, have
suddenly abandoned himself to drink. With this thought came the
remembrance of what had passed between them two days before; and this
but confirmed his first impression.
"If Mr. Ellis comes in," said he, after some moments of hurried
thought, "tell him that I would like to see him."
The clerk promised to do so.
"Hadn't you better send to his house?" suggested Wilkinson, as he
turned to leave the store. "He may be sick."
"I will do so," replied the clerk, and Wilkinson retired, feeling by no
means comfortable. By this time it was nearly one o'clock, and six or
seven hundred dollars were yet required to make him safe for that day's
payments. The failure of Ellis to keep his promise laid upon him an
additional burden, and gradually caused a feeling of despondency to
creep in upon him. Instead of making a new and more earnest effort to
raise the money, he went back to his store, and remained there for
nearly half an hour, in a brooding, disheartened state of mind. A
glance at the clock, with the minute-hand alarmingly near the figure 2,
startled him at length from his dreaming inactivity; and he went forth
again to raise, if possible, the money needed to keep his name from
commercial dishonour. He was successful; but there were only fifteen
minutes in his favour when the exact sum he needed was made up, and his
notes taken out of bank.
Two o'clock was Mr. Wilkinson's dinner hour, and he had always, before,
so arranged his bank business as to have his notes taken up long enough
before that time to be ready to leave promptly for home. But for the
failure of Ellis to keep his promise, it would have been so on this day.
"It's hardly worth while to go home now," said he, as he closed his
cash and bill books, after making some required entries therein. "Mary
has given me over long ago. And, besides, I don't feel in the mood of
mind to see her just now. I can't look cheerful, to save me; and I have
already called too many shadows to her face to darken it with any more.
By evening I will recover myself, and then can meet her with a brighter
countenance. No, I won't go home now. I'll stop around to Elder's, and
get a cut of roast beef."
Wilkinson had taken up his hat, and was moving down the store, when a
suggestion that came to his mind made him pause. It was this:
"But is not Mary waiting for me, and will not my absence for the whole
day cause her intense anxiety and alarm? I ought to go home."
And now began an argument in his thoughts. The fact was, a sense of
exhaustion of body and depression of spirits had followed the effort
and trouble of the day, and Wilkinson felt a much stronger desire for
something stimulating to drink than he did for food. Elder's was a
drinking as well as an eating-house; and in deciding to go there,
instead of returning home, the real influence, although he did not
perceive it to be so, was the craving felt for a glass of brandy. And
now came the conflict between appetite and an instinctive sense of what
was due both to himself and his wife.
"It will only put her to trouble if I go home now." Thus he sought to
justify himself in doing what his better sense clearly condemned as
wrong.
"It will rather relieve her from trouble," was quickly answered to this.
For a little while Wilkinson stood undecided, then slowly retired to a
remote part of the store, took off his hat, and sat down to debate the
point at issue in his mind more coolly.
"I will go home early," said he to himself.
"Why not go home now?" was instantly replied.
"It is too late; Mary has given me up long ago."
"She will be extremely anxious."
"I can explain all."
"Better do it now than two or three hours later: poor Mary has suffered
enough already."
This last suggestion caused the image of his wife to come up before the
mind of Wilkinson very distinctly. He saw, now, her smile of winning
love; now, the sad drooping of her countenance, as he turned to leave
her alone for an evening; now, the glance of anxiety and fear with
which she so often greeted his return; and now, her pale,
grief-stricken face, after some one of his too many lapses from the
right way. And, in imagination, his thoughts went to his home in the
present moment. What did he see? A waiting, anxious, troubled wife, now
sitting with fixed and dreamy eyes; now moving about with restless
steps; and now standing at the street-door, eagerly straining her eyes
to see in the distance his approaching form. With such images of his
wife came no repulsive thought to the mind of Wilkinson. Ever loving,
tender, patient, forbearing, and true-hearted had Mary been. Not once
in the whole of their married life had she jarred the chord that bound
them together, with a touch of discord. He could only think of her,
therefore, with love, and a feeling of attraction; and this it was that
saved him in the present hour. Starting up suddenly, he said, "I will
