thought, that he could work no more, and earn no more, for, perhaps, a
long, long time.
Yes, the period of severer trial had evidently come. She did not permit
herself even to hope that her husband when he returned would bring with
him enough money to pay the rent. She knew, too well, that he would
not; and she also knew, alas! too well that the man to whose tender
mercies they would then be exposed had no bowels of compassion.
Wet with many tears was the pillow upon which the mother's head reposed
that night. She was too weary in body and sorrowful in mind to sleep.
On the next morning a deep snow lay upon the ground. To some a sight of
the earth's pure white covering was pleasant, and they could look upon
the flakes still falling gracefully through the air with a feeling of
exhilaration. But they had food and fuel in store--they had warm
clothing--they had comfortable homes. There was no fear of cold and
hunger with them--no dread of being sent forth, shelterless, in the
chilling winter. It was different with Mrs. Foster when she looked from
her window at daylight.
George had been restless, and moaned a good deal through the night; but
now he slept soundly, and there was a bright flush upon his cheeks.
With what a feeling of tenderness and yearning pity did his mother bend
over him, and gaze into his fair face, fairer now than it had ever
looked to her. But she could not linger long over her sleeping boy.
With the daylight, unrefreshed as she was, came her "never ending,
still beginning" toil; and now she felt that she must toil harder and
longer, and without hope.
Though little Emma's offer to go and work in the mill in her brother's
place had passed from the thought of Mrs. Foster, yet the child had
been too much in earnest to forget it herself. Young as she was, the
very pressure of circumstances by which she was surrounded had made her
comprehend clearly the necessity that existed for George to go and work
daily in the mill. She knew that he earned a dollar and a half weekly;
and she understood very well, that without this income her mother would
be greatly distressed.
After she had eaten her breakfast of bread and milk, the child went up
stairs and got an old pair of stockings, which she drew on over her
shoes, that had long been so worn as to afford but little protection to
her feet; and then taking from a closet an old shawl, drew it over her
head. Thus attired, she waited at the head of the stairs until her
mother was out of the way, and then went quickly down. She managed to
leave the house without being seen by any one, and took her way,
through the deep and untracked snow, towards the mill, which was about
a quarter of a mile off. The air was bitter cold, and the storm still
continued; but the child plodded on, chilled to the very heart, as she
soon was, and, at length, almost frozen, reached the mill. The owner
had observed her approach from the window, and wondering who she was,
or what brought so small a child to the mill through the cold and
storm, went down to meet her.
"Bless me! little one!" he said, lifting her from the ground and
placing her within the door. "Who are you, and what do you want?"
"I'm George's sister, and I've come to work in his place till he gets
well," replied the child, as she stood, with shivering body and
chattering teeth, looking up earnestly into the man's face.
"George Foster's sister?"
"Yes, sir. His hand's hurt so he can't work, and I've come to work in
his place."
"You have! Who sent you, pray?"
"Nobody sent me."
"Does your mother know about your coming?"
"No, sir."
"Why do you want to work in George's place?"
"If I do, then you'll send mother a dollar and a half every week, won't
you?"
The owner of the mill was a kind-hearted man, and this little incident
touched his feelings.
"You are not big enough to work in the mill, my child," said he, kindly.
"I'm nine years old," replied Emma, quickly.
"Oh yes! I can work as well as anybody. Do let me come in George's
place! Won't you?"
Emma had not been gone very long before she was missed. Her mother had
become quite alarmed about her, when she heard sleigh-bells at the
door, and, looking out, saw the owner of the mill and her child.
Wondering what this could mean, she went out to meet them.
"This little runaway of yours," said the man, in a pleasant voice,
"came trudging over to the mill this morning, through the snow, and
wanted to take the place of George, who was so badly hurt yesterday, in
order that you might get, as she said, a dollar and a half every week."
"Why, Emma!" exclaimed her mother, as she lifted her from the sleigh.
"How could you do so? You are not old enough to work in your brother's
place."
"Besides," said the man, "there is no need of your doing so; for George
shall have his dollar and a half, the same as ever, until he is able to
go to work again. So then, my little one, set your heart at rest."
Emma understood this very well, and bounded away into the house to take
the good news to her brother, who was as much rejoiced as herself.
After inquiring about George, and repeating to Mrs. Foster what he had
said to Emma, he told her that he would pay the doctor for attending
the lad, so that the accident needn't prove a burden to her.
The heart of Mrs. Foster lifted itself, thankfully, as she went back
into the house.
"Don't scold her, mother," said George. "She thought she was doing
right."
This appeal, so earnestly made, quite broke down the feelings of Mrs.
Foster, and she went quickly into another room, and closing the door
after her, sat down by the bedside, and, burying her face in a pillow,
suffered her tears to flow freely. Scold the child! She felt more like
taking her in her arms, and hugging her passionately to her bosom.
To know that the small income her boy's labour had produced was not to
be cut off, proved a great relief to the mind of Mrs. Foster; but, in a
little while, her thoughts went back to the landlord's threat and the
real distress and hopelessness of their situation. To the period of her
husband's return she looked with no feeling of hope; but, rather, with
a painful certainty, that his appearance would be the signal for the
landlord to put his threat into execution.
Sadly the days went by, each one bringing nearer the time towards which
the unhappy woman now looked forward with a feeling of dread. That the
landlord would keep his promise, she did not, for an instant, doubt.
Without their cow, how could she, with all her exertions, feed her
children? No wonder that her heart was troubled.
At last the day before the opening year came.
"Papa will be home to-morrow," said Emma. "I wonder what he will bring
me for a New Year's gift."
"I wish he would bring me a book," said George.
"I'd like a pair of new shoes," remarked the little girl, more soberly,
looking down at her feet, upon which were tied, with coarse strings,
what were called shoes, but hardly retained their semblance. "And mamma
wants shoes, too," added the child. "Oh! I wish papa would bring her,
for a New Year's gift, a nice new pair of shoes."
The mother heard her children talking, and sighed to think how vain
were all their expectations.
"I wish we had a turkey for father's New Year's dinner," said Emma.
