double the amount to you, in order to make up for former years of
neglect. No--no--I tell you, mother, I cannot take your money. Nothing
would tempt me to do it. I will wait a little longer. Other
opportunities will soon offer."
It was in vain that Mrs. Peyton urged her son, until her distress of
mind became so great that he was almost forced to receive the money she
pushed upon him--although, in doing so, it was with the intention of
leaving it behind him when he returned to the city. But the deep
satisfaction evinced by his mother, on his consenting to take it, was
of a kind that he did not feel it would be right for him to do violence
to. When he did return to the city, he could not find it in his heart
to leave the money, just six hundred dollars, on the table in the
little room where he slept, as he had at first resolved to do. He took
it with him; but with the intention of investing it for her in some
safe security.
When he again met Merwin, he was urged so strongly to make an effort to
raise the capital requisite to become a partner in the business that
had been named to him, that after some severe struggles with himself,
he at last consented to use the money he had brought home with him. His
friend loaned him four hundred dollars to make up the required sum.
The business succeeded beyond his expectations. In a few years he was
able to marry, and live in a very comfortable style. He would hear none
of the objections urged by his mother against living with him, but shut
up her shop in spite of her remonstrances, and brought her to the city.
No one who saw her during the remaining ten years of her life would
have called her unhappy.
I know Peyton still. He is not now, by general reputation, "a fine,
generous fellow." But he is a good citizen, a good husband, and a good
father; and was a good son while his mother lived with him. He has won
the means of really benefiting others, and few are more willing than he
is to do it, when it can be done in the right way. He is "generous"
still--but wisely so.
TAKING IT FOR GRANTED.
MR. EVERTON was the editor and publisher of the ---- Journal, and, like
too many occupying his position, was not on the best terms in the world
with certain of his contemporaries of the same city. One morning, on
opening the paper from a rival office, he found an article therein,
which appeared as a communication, that pointed to him so directly as
to leave no room for mistake as to the allusions that were made.
Of course, Mr. Everton was considerably disturbed by the occurrence,
and thoughts of retaliation arose in his mind. The style was not that
of the editor, and so, though he felt incensed at that personage for
admitting the article, he went beyond him, and cast about in his mind
for some clue that would enable him to identify the writer. In this he
did not long find himself at a loss. He had a man in his employment who
possessed all the ability necessary to write the article, and upon
whom, for certain reasons, he soon fixed the origin of the attack.
"Have you seen that article in the Gazette?" asked an acquaintance, who
came into Everton's office while he sat with the paper referred to
still in his hand.
"I have," replied Everton, compressing his lips.
"Well, what do you think of it?"
"It'll do no harm, of course; but that doesn't touch the malice of the
writer."
"No."
"Nor make him any the less base at heart."
"Do you know the author?"
"I believe so."
"Who is he?"
"My impression is, that Ayres wrote it."
"Ayres?"
"Yes."
"Why, he is indebted to you for his bread!"
"I know he is, and that makes his act one of deeper baseness."
"What could have induced him to be guilty of such a thing?"
"That's just what I've been trying to study out, and I believe I
understand it all fully. Some six months ago, he asked me to sign a
recommendation for his appointment to a vacant clerkship in one of our
banks. I told him that I would do so with pleasure, only that my nephew
was an applicant, and I had already given him my name. He didn't appear
to like this, which I thought very unreasonable, to say the least of
it."
"Why, the man must be insane! How could he expect you to sign the
application of two men for the same place? Especially, how could he
expect you to give him a preference over your own nephew?"
"Some men are strangely unreasonable."
"We don't live long in this world ere becoming cognisant of that fact."
"And for this he has held a grudge against you, and now takes occasion
to revenge himself."
"So it would seem. I know of nothing else that he can have against me.
I have uniformly treated him with kindness and consideration."
"There must be something radically base in his character."
"I'm afraid there is."
"I wouldn't have such a man in my employment."
Everton shrugged his shoulders and elevated his eyebrows, but said
nothing.
"A man who attempts thus to injure you in your business by false
representations, will not hesitate to wrong you in other ways," said
the acquaintance.
"A very natural inference," replied Everton. "I'm sorry to have to
think so badly of Ayres; but, as you say, a man who would, in so base a
manner, attack another, would not hesitate to do him an injury if a
good opportunity offered."
"And it's well for you to think of that."
"True. However, I do not see that he has much chance to do me an
ill-turn where he is. So far, I must do him the justice to say that he
is faithful in the discharge of all his duties."
"He knows that his situation depends upon this."
"Of course. His own interest prompts him to do right here; but when an
opportunity to stab me in the dark offers, he embraces it. He did not,
probably, imagine that I would see the hand that held the dagger."
"No."
"But I am not so blind as he imagined. Well, such work must not be
permitted to go unpunished."
"It ought not to be. When a man indulges his ill-nature towards one
individual with entire impunity, he soon gains courage for extended
attacks, and others become sharers in the result of his vindictiveness.
It is a duty that a man owes the community to let all who maliciously
wrong him feel the consequences due to their acts."
"No doubt you are right; and, if I keep my present mind, I shall let my
particular friend Mr. Ayres feel that it is not always safe to stab
even in the dark."
The more Mr. Everton thought over the matter, the more fully satisfied
was he that Ayres had made the attack upon him. This person was engaged
as reporter and assistant editor of his newspaper, at a salary of ten
dollars a week. He had a family, consisting of a wife and four
children, the expense of whose maintenance rather exceeded than came
within his income, and small accumulations of debt were a natural
result.
Everton had felt some interest in this man, who possessed considerable
