"I see it all," cried Nina with animation. "There must be a school
in the village. Jennet shall be the teacher."

"If this can be done, it will be a great blessing," said Blanche.

"It shall be done. Let us go over to that sweet little cottage at
once and see Jennet."

The good Blanche Delebarre made no objection. In a little while they
entered the cottage. Every thing was homely, but neat and clean.
Jennet was busy at her reel when they entered. She knew the lady of
Castle Holbein, and arose up quickly and in some confusion. But she
soon recovered herself, and welcomed, with a low courtesy, the
visitors who had come to grace her humble abode. When the object of
this visit was made known, Jennet replied that the condition of the
village children had often pained her, and that she had more than
once prayed that some way would open by which they could receive
instruction. She readily accepted the proposal of Nina to become
their teacher, and wished to receive no more for the service than
what she could now earn by reeling silk.

It did not take long to get the proposed school in operation. The
parents were willing to send their children, the teacher was willing
to receive them, and the young lady patroness was willing to meet
the expenses.

Nina said nothing to her father of what she was doing. She wished to
surprise him some day, after every thing was going on prosperously.
But a matter of so much interest to the neighborhood could not
remain a secret. The school had not been in operation two days
before the baron heard all about it. But he said nothing to his
daughter. He wished to leave her the pleasure which he knew she
desired, that of telling him herself.

At the end of a month Nina presented her father with an account of
what she had done with the money he had placed in her hands. The
expenditure had been moderate enough, but the good done was far
beyond the baron's anticipations. Thirty children were receiving
daily instructions; nurses had been employed, and medicines bought
for the sick; needy persons, who had no employment, were set to work
in making up clothing for children, who, for want of such as was
suitable, could not attend the school. Besides, many other things
had been done. The account was looked over by the Baron Holbein, and
each item noted with sincere pleasure. He warmly commended Nina for
what she had done; he praised the prudence with which she had
managed what she had undertaken; and begged her to persevere in the
good work.

For the space of more than a year did Nina submit to her father, for
approval, every month an accurate statement of what she had done,
with a minute account of all the moneys expended. But after that
time she failed to render this account, although she received the
usual supply, and was as actively engaged as before in works of
benevolence among the poor peasantry. The father often wondered at
this, but did not inquire the cause. He had never asked an account:
to render it had been a voluntary act, and he could not, therefore,
ask why it was withheld. He noticed, however, a change in Nina. She
was more thoughtful, and conversed less openly than before. If he
looked at her intently, her eyes would sink to the floor, and the
color deepen on her cheek. She remained longer in her own room,
alone, than she had done since their removal to the castle. Every
day she went out, and almost always took the direction of Blanche
Delebarre's cottage, where she spent several hours.

Intelligence of his daughter's good deeds did not, so often as
before, reach the old baron's ears; and yet Nina drew as much money
as before, and had twice asked to have the sum doubled. The father
could not understand the meaning of all this. He did not believe
that any thing was wrong--he had too much confidence in Nina--but he
was puzzled. We will briefly apprise the reader of the cause of this
change.

One day--it was nearly a year from the time Nina had become a
constant visitor at Blanche Delebarre's--the young lady sat reading
a book in the matron's cottage. She was alone--Blanche having gone
out to visit a sick neighbor at Nina's request. A form suddenly
darkened the door, and some one entered hurriedly. Nina raised her
eyes, and met the gaze of a youthful strange, who had paused and
stood looking at her with surprise and admiration. With more
confusion, but with not less of wonder and admiration, did Nina
return the stranger's gaze.

"Is not this the cottage of Blanche Delebarre?" asked he, after a
moment's pause. His voice was low and musical.

"It is," replied Nina. "She has gone to visit a sick neighbor, but
will return shortly."

"Is my mother well?" asked the youth.

Nina rose to her feet. This, then, was Pierre Delebarre, of whom his
mother had so often spoke. The heart of the maiden fluttered.

"The good Blanche is well," was her simple reply. "I will go and say
to her that her son has come home. It will make her heart glad."

"My dear young lady, no!" said Pierre. "Do not disturb my mother in
her good work. Let her come home and meet me here--the surprise will
add to the pleasure. Sit down again. Pardon my rudeness--but are not
you the young lady from the castle, of whom my mother so often
writes to me as the good angel of the village? I am sure you must
be, or you would not be alone in my mother's cottage."

Nina's blushes deepened, but she answered without disguise that she
was from the castle.

A full half hour passed before Blanche returned. The young and
artless couple did not talk of love with their lips during that
time, but their eyes beamed with a mutual passion. When the mother
entered, so much were they interested in each other, that they did
not hear her approaching footstep. She surprised them leaning toward
each other in earnest conversation.

The joy of the mother's heart was great on meeting her son. He was
wonderfully improved since she last saw him--had grown several
inches, and had about him the air of one born of gentle blood,
rather than the air of a peasant. Nina staid only a very short time
after Blanche returned, and then hurried away from the cottage.

The brief interview held with young Pierre sealed the maiden's fate.
