
Both the gentlemen were smiling, though with very different
expression.

"Perhaps," said Mr. Carleton, "the writer was thinking of a
gentler and more diffusive flow of kind feeling, which,
however it may meet with barren ground and raise no fruit
there, is sure, in due time, to come back, heaven-refined, to
refresh and replenish its source."

"Perhaps so," said Fleda, with a very pleased answering look 
"I do not recollect how it is brought in  I may have answered
rather Mrs. Evelyn than Mr. Longfellow."

"But granting that it is an error," said Mr. Stackpole, "as
you understood it  what shows it to have been made by a man?"

"Its utter ignorance of the subject, Sir."

"You think they never waste their affections?" said he.

"By no means! but I think they rarely waste so much in any one
direction as to leave them quite impoverished."

"Mr. Carleton, how do you bear that, Sir?" said Mrs. Evelyn.
"Will you let such an assertion pass unchecked?"

"I would not, if I could help it, Mrs. Evelyn."

"That isn't saying much for yourself," said Constance; "but
Fleda, my dear, where did you get such an experience of waste
and desolation?"

"Oh, 'man is a microcosm,' you know," said Fleda, lightly.

"But you make it out that only one-half of mankind can
appropriate that axiom," said Mr. Stackpole. "How can a woman
know men's hearts so well?"

"On the principle that the whole is greater than a part?' said
Mr. Carleton, smiling.

"I'll sleep upon that, before I give my opinion," said Mr.
Stackpole. "Mrs. Evelyn, good evening!" 

"Well, Mr. Carleton!" said Constance, "you have said a great
deal for women's minds."

"Some women's minds," he said, with a smile.

"And some men's minds," said Fleda. "I was speaking only in
the general."

Her eye half unconsciously reiterated her meaning as she shook
hands with Mr. Carleton. And without speaking a word for other
people to hear, his look and smile in return were more than an
answer. Fleda sat for some time after he was gone, trying to
think what it was in eye and lip which had given her so much
pleasure. She could not make out anything but approbation 
the look of loving approbation that one gives to a good child;
but she thought it had also something of that quiet
intelligence  a silent communication of sympathy which the
others in company could not share.

She was roused from her reverie by Mrs. Evelyn.

"Fleda, my dear, I am writing to your aunt Lucy  have you any
message to send?"

"No, Mrs. Evelyn  I wrote myself to-day."

And she went back to her musings.

"I am writing about you, Fleda," said Mrs. Evelyn again, in a
few minutes.

"Giving a good account, I hope, ma'am," said Fleda, smiling.

"I shall tell her I think sea-breezes have an unfavourable
effect upon you," said Mrs. Evelyn  "that I am afraid you are
growing pale; and that you have clearly expressed yourself in
favour of a garden at Queechy, rather than any lot in the city
 or anywhere else  so she had better send for you home
immediately."

Fleda tried to find out what the lady really meant; but Mrs.
Evelyn's delighted amusement did not consist with making the
matter very plain. Fleda's questions did nothing but aggravate
the cause of them, to her own annoyance; so she was fain at
last to take her light and go to her own.

She looked at her flowers again with a renewal of the first
pleasure and of the quieting influence the giver of them had
exercised over her that evening; thought again how very kind
it was of him to send them, and to choose them so; how
strikingly he differed from other people; how glad she was to
have seen him again, and how more than glad that he was so
happily changed from his old self. And then from that change
and the cause of it, to those higher, more tranquillizing, and
sweetening influences that own no kindred with earth's dust,
and descend like the dew of heaven to lay and fertilize it.
And when she laid herself down to sleep, it was with a spirit
grave, but simply happy; every annoyance and unkindness as
unfelt now as ever the parching heat of a few hours before
when the stars are abroad.


CHAPTER X.


"A snake bedded himself under the threshold of a country
house."
L'ESTRANGE.


To Fleda's very great satisfaction Mr. Thorn was not seen
again for several days. It would have been to her very great
comfort, too, if he could have been permitted to die out of
mind as well as out of sight; but he was brought up before her
"lots of times," till poor Fleda almost felt as if she was
