dear husband, no! There are bright stars smiling above us in token of
his unerring return. We know that the morning cometh after a season of
darkness; and so, after our spirits have lingered awhile in the realm
of shadows, the light will break in from above. Has it not always been
so, Edward?"
"He has led us by a way which we knew not."
The sick man's eyes were closed as he murmured these words; and his
voice was slightly tremulous, yet expressive of a returning state of
confidence.
"Yet, how safely," replied Edith. "When our feet were in slippery
places, and we leaned on Him, did he not support us firmly? and when
the mire and clay were deep in our path, did He not keep us from
sinking therein?"
"He is goodness itself," said Claire, a calmer expression coming into
his face. "It is wrong so to let doubt, distrust, and fear creep in
and get possession of the heart; but, we are human--weakness and error
are born with us. When the way in which we are walking is suddenly
closed up before us, and we see the opening to no other way, how can
we keep the faint heart from sinking?"
"Only as Peter was saved from sinking. If we look to God, He will lift
our hearts above the yielding billows. If we stand still, hopefully
and trustingly, the high mountain before us will become as a plain, so
that we can walk on in a smooth way, joyful and rejoicing."
"And so this high mountain, which has risen up so suddenly, will
soon be cleft for us or levelled to a plain, if we wait patiently and
confidingly for its removal?"
"Oh! I am sure of it, Edward," replied Mrs. Claire, with a beautiful
enthusiasm. "We are His creatures, and He loves us with an infinite
love. When his children are disposed to trust too much to the arm of
flesh, He sometimes shows them their weakness in order that they may
feel His strength. Faithfully and unselfishly, my husband, have you
tried to meet the suddenly increased demand upon us: and this out of
love for one of God's children. In the trial, weakness has prevailed
over strength. Suddenly your hands have fallen to your side powerless.
God saw it all; and permitted it all; and, in His own good time, will
supply, from other sources, all that is really needed. We have the
promise--our bread shall be given, and our water sure--not only
the natural food that sustains outward life, but the true bread of
heavenly affections, and the waters of pure truth, which nourish and
sustain the spirit."
Edith ceased speaking. Her husband did not make an immediate reply;
but lay pondering her words, and letting his thoughts expand their
wings in the purer atmosphere into which she had lifted him.
After that they conversed together hopefully of the future; not that
they saw the way more clearly before them, but heavenly confidence had
taken the place of human distrust.
It was, perhaps, eleven o'clock in the day--the doctor had been there,
and pronounced the condition of his patient favourable, but enjoined
quiet and prolonged rest from either bodily or mental exertion--and
the mind of Claire was beginning to run again in a slightly troubled
channel.
"Here is a letter for you," said his wife, coming into the room, after
a brief absence. "A young man just left it at the door."
Claire took the letter, wondering as he did so who it could be from.
On breaking the seal, and unfolding it, he was greatly surprised to
find within a check to his order for one hundred and fifty dollars,
signed Leonard Jasper; and still more surprised to read the
accompanying note, which was in these words:
"Enclosed you will find one hundred and fifty dollars, the sum due
you for Fanny Elder's maintenance during the past and current quarter.
When convenient, I should be glad to see you. Seeing that the child
has remained with you so long, I don't know that it will be advisable
to make a change now, although I had other views in regard to her.
However, when you call, we can settle matters in regard to her
definitively."
"Better to us than all our fears," murmured Claire, as he handed the
letter to his wife, who read it with a truly thankful heart.
"Our way is smooth once more," she said, smiling through outpressing
tears--"the mountain has become a level plain. All the dark clouds
have been swept from our sky, and the sun is shining even more
brightly than of old."
It was more than a week before Claire was sufficiently recovered to
go out and attend to business as usual. At the first opportunity,
he called upon Mr. Jasper, who received him with marked kindness of
manner.
"I do not, now," said the merchant, "entertain the same views in
regard to my ward that I did some time ago. Your opposition to
my wishes then, fretted me a good deal; and I made up my mind,
decisively, that so soon as she was twelve years of age, you must give
her up. It was from this feeling that I acted when I refused to pay
your last order. Since then, I have reflected a good deal on the
subject; and reflection has modified, considerably, my feelings. I
can understand how strong must be the attachment of both yourself and
wife, and how painful the thought of separation from a long-cherished
object of affection."
"The dread of separation, Mr. Jasper," replied Claire, "has haunted us
during the last two years like an evil spirit."
"It need haunt you no more, Edward," was the kindly spoken reply. "If
you still wish to retain the care of this child, you are free to do
so."
"You have taken a mountain from my heart, Mr. Jasper," was the young
man's feeling response.
"It is settled, then, Edward, that she remains with you. And now I
must say a word about her education. I wish that to be thorough.
She must have good advantages; better than the sum now paid for her
maintenance will procure."
Claire made no reply, and Jasper continued--
"I have this to propose. The bulk of property left by her father is
contained in two moderate-sized houses, one of which is at this time
without a tenant. It is a very comfortable house for a small family.
Just the thing, I should say, for you. If you will move into this
house, you shall have it rent free, as a set-off to the increased
charge Fanny will be to you in future. The three hundred per annum
will be paid as usual. How will that do?"
"The compensation, I think, will be greater than the service," replied
Claire.
"Not at all. During the next five or six years, or until she gains
her majority, you will find the cost of clothing and education a
constantly increasing sum. I know more about these things than you
do. And I am very sure, since I understand your relation to her, that
twice this expenditure, could not gain for her what she will have
while in your care. As her guardian, I feel it my duty to provide
liberally for her comfort and education, and to this you, of course,
can have nothing to object."
And Claire did not object. In a few weeks from that time he removed
into one of the houses mentioned by Jasper--a larger and far more
comfortable one than that in which he had lived for several years.
Here, with a thankful heart, he gathered his wife and children
around him. How happy they all were! Not selfishly happy--if such
contradictory terms may be used--but happy in the warmth of mutual
