alone, in an old forsaken room of the gin-house, among 
pieces of broken machinery, piles of damaged cotton, and 
other rubbish which had there accumulated. 
The night was damp and close, and the thick air swarmed 
with myriads of mosquitos, which increased the restless 
torture of his wounds ; whilst a burning thirst a torture 
beyond all others filled up the uttermost measure of 
physical anguish. 
" good Lord ! Do look down give me the victory ! 
give me the victory over all!" prayed poor Tom, in his 
anguish. 
A footstep entered the room behind him, and the light of 
a lantern flashed on his eyes. 
" Who's there ? Oh, for the Lord's massy, please give 
me some water ! " 
The woman Gassy for it was she set down her lantern, 
and, pouring water from a bottle, raised his head, and gave 
him drink. Another and another cup were drained, with 
feverish eagerness. 
" Drink all ye want," she said ; " I knew how it would be. 
It isn't the first time I've been out in the night, carrying 
water to such as you." 
"Thank you, Missis," said Tom, when he had done 
drinking. 
" Don't call me missis ! I'm a miserable slave like yourself a lower one than you can ever be ! " said she bitterly. 
" But now," said she, going to the door ? and dragging in'a 
small palliasse, over which she had spread linen cloths wet 
with cold water, " try, my poor fellow, to roll yourself on to 
this." 
Stiff with wounds and bruises, Tom was a long time in 
accomplishing this movement; but when done, he felt a 
sensible relief from the cooling application to his wounds. 
The woman, whom long practice with the victims of bru- 
tality had made familiar with many healing arts, went on to 
make many applications to Tom's wounds, by means of 
which he was soon somewhat relieved. 
" Now," said the woman, when she had raised his head on 
a roll of damaged cotton, which served for a pillow, " there's 
the best I can do for you." 
Tom thanked her ; and the woman, sitting down on the 
floor, drew up her knees, and embracing them with her arms, 
looked fixedly before her, with a bitter and painful expres- 
sion of countenance. Her bonnet fell back, and long wavy 
streams of black hair fell around her singular and melancholy 
face. 
" It's no use, my poor fellow," she broke out, at last, "it's 
of no use, this you've been trying to do. You were a brave 
fellow you had the right on your side ; but it's all in vain, 
and out of the question, for you to struggle. You are in the 
devil's hands ; he is the strongest, and you must give up." 
Give up ! and had not human weakness and physical 
agony whispered that before ? Tom started ; for the bitter 
woman, with her wild eyes and melancholv voice, seemed to 
him an embodiment of the temptation with which he had 
been wrestling. 
" O Lord ! O Lord ! " he groaned, " how can I give up ? " 
"There's no use calling on the Lord he never hears," 
said the woman, steadily. " There isn't any God, I believe ; 
or, if there is, he's taken sides against us. All goes against 
us, heaven and earth. Everything is pushing us into hell. 
"Why shouldn't we go?" 
Tom closed his eyes, and shuddered at the dark, atheistic 
words. 
" You see," said the woman, " you don't know anything 
about it I do. I've been on this place five years, body and 
soul, under this man's foot, and I hate him as I do the devil ! 
Here you are, on a lone plantation, ten miles from any other, 
in the swamps ; not a white person here who could testify if 
you were burned alive if you were scalded, cut into inch- 
pieces, set up for the dogs to tear, or hung up and wm'pped 
to death. There's no law here, of God or man, that can do 
you or any one of us the least good ; and this man ! there's 
no earthly thing that he's too good to do. I could make 
any one's hair rise, and their teeth chatter, if I should only 
tell what I've seen and been knowing to here, and it's no 
use resisting ! Did I want to live with him ? Wasn't I a 
woman delicately bred ? and he God in heaven ! what was 
he, and is he ? And yet I've lived with him these five years, 
and cursed every moment of my life night and day ! And 
now he's got a new one a young thing, only fifteen ; and 
she brought up, she says, piously. Her good mistress 
taught her to read the Bible, and she's brought her Bible 
here to hell with her ! " And the woman laughed a wild 
and doleful laugh, that rang with a strange supernatural 
sound through the old ruined shed. 
Tom folded his hands ; all was darkness and horror. 
" O Jesus ! Lord Jesus ! have you quite forgot us poor 
critturs ? " burst forth, at last. " Help, Lord, I perish ! " 
The woman sternly continued : 
" And what are these miserable low dogs you work with, 
that you should suifer on their account ? Every one of 
them would turn against you the first time they got a chance. 
They are all of 'em as low and cruel to each other as they 
can be ; and there's no use in your suffering to keep from 
hurting them." 
"Poor critturs!" said Tom, "what made 'em cruel? 
And if I give out, I shall get used to't, and grow, little by 
little, just like 'em ! No, no, missis ! I've lost everything 
wife, and children, and home, and a kind mas'r and he 
would have set me free, if he'd only lived a week longer. 
I've lost everything in this world, and it's clean gone for 
ever and now I can't lose heaven, too j no, I can't get to 
be wicked, besides all ! " 
"Yes," said Tom ; "but that won't keep us from growing 
wicked. If I get to be as hard-hearted as that ar Sambo, 
and as wicked, it won't make much odds to me how I come 
.so ; it's the bein? so that ar's what I'm a dreadin'." 
The woman fixed a wild and startled look on Tom, as if 
a new thought had struck her ; and then, heavily groaning, 
said 
" God a' mercy ! you speak the truth ! Oh oh oh ! " 
And, with groans, she fell on the floor, like one crushed and 
writhing under the extremity of mental anguish. 
There was a silence awhile, in which the breathing of both 
parties could be heard, when Tom faintly said, " Oh, please, 
missis!" 
The woman suddenly rose up, with her face composed to 
its usual stern, melancholy expression. 
"Please, missis, I saw 'em throw my coat in that ar' 
corner, and in my coat-pocket is my Bible if missis would 
