  he be purchased from the heathen, the master is to bring them both
  into the covenant.
  But he that is in the house is entered on the eighth day; and he
  that is bought with money, on the day on which his master receives
  him, unless the slave be unwilling. For, if the master receive a
  grown slave, and he be unwilling, his master is to bear with him,
  to seek to win him over by instruction, and by love and kindness,
  for one year. After which, should he refuse so long, it is forbidden
  to keep him longer than a year. And the master must send him back to
  the strangers from whence he came. For the God of Jacob will not
  accept any other than the worship of a willing heart.—Maimon.
  Hilcoth Miloth, chap. I., sec. 8.
A sixth fundamental arrangement with regard to the Hebrew slave was that
he could never be sold. Concerning this Mr. Barnes remarks:
  A man, in certain circumstances, might be bought by a Hebrew; but
  when once bought, that was an end of the matter. There is not the
  slightest evidence that any Hebrew ever sold a slave; and any
  provision contemplating that was unknown to the constitution of the
  Commonwealth. It is said of Abraham that he had “servants bought
  with money;” but there is no record of his having ever sold one, nor
  is there any account of its ever having been done by Isaac or Jacob.
  The only instance of a sale of this kind among the patriarchs is
  that act of the brothers of Joseph, which is held up to so strong
  reprobation, by which they sold him to the Ishmaelites. Permission
  is given in the law of Moses to buy a servant, but none is given
  to sell him again; and the fact that no such permission is given
  is full proof that it was not contemplated. When he entered into
  that relation, it became certain that there could be no change,
  unless it was voluntary on his part (comp. Ex. 21:5,6), or unless
  his master gave him his freedom, until the not distant period fixed
  by law when he could be free. There is no arrangement in the law of
  Moses by which servants were to be taken in payment of their
  master’s debts, by which they were to be given as pledges, by which
  they were to be consigned to the keeping of others, or by which they
  were to be given away as presents. There are no instances occurring
  in the Jewish history in which any of these things were done. This
  law is positive in regard to the Hebrew servant, and the principle
  of the law would apply to all others. Lev. 25:42.—“They shall not be
  sold as bond men.” In all these respects there was a marked
  difference, and there was doubtless intended to be, between the
  estimate affixed to servants and to property.—Inquiry, &c., p.
  133–4.
As to the practical workings of this system, as they are developed in
the incidents of sacred history, they are precisely what we should
expect from such a system of laws. For instance, we find it mentioned
incidentally in the ninth chapter of the first book of Samuel, that when
Saul and his servant came to see Samuel, that Samuel, in anticipation of
his being crowned king, made a great feast for him; and in verse
twenty-second the history says: “And Samuel took Saul and his servant,
and brought them into the parlor, and made them sit in the chiefest
place.”
We read, also, in 2 Samuel 9:10, of a servant of Saul who had large
estates, and twenty servants of his own.
We find, in 1 Chron. 2:34, the following incident related: “Now, Sheshan
had no sons, but daughters. And Sheshan had a servant, an Egyptian,
whose name was Jarha. And Sheshan gave his daughter to Jarha, his
servant, to wife.”
Does this resemble American slavery?
We find, moreover, that this connection was not considered at all
disgraceful, for the son of this very daughter was enrolled among the
valiant men of David’s army.—1 Chron. 2:41.
In fine, we are not surprised to discover that the institutions of Moses
in effect so obliterated all the characteristics of slavery, that it had
ceased to exist among the Jews long before the time of Christ. Mr.
Barnes asks:
  On what evidence would a man rely to prove that slavery existed at
  all in the land in the time of the later prophets of the Maccabees,
  or when the Saviour appeared? There are abundant proofs, as we shall
  see, that it existed in Greece and Rome; but what is the evidence
  that it existed in Judea? So far as I have been able to ascertain,
  there are no declarations that it did to be found in the canonical
  books of the Old Testament, or in Josephus. There are no allusions
  to laws and customs which imply that it was prevalent. There are no
  coins or medals which suppose it. There are no facts which do not
  admit of an easy explanation on the supposition that slavery had
  ceased.—Inquiry, &c., p. 226.
Two objections have been urged to the interpretations which have been
given of two of the enactments before quoted.
1. It is said that the enactment, “Thou shalt not return to his master
the servant that has escaped,” &c., relates only to servants escaping
from heathen masters to the Jewish nation.
The following remarks on this passage are from Prof. Stowe’s lectures:
Deuteronomy 23:15,16.—These words make a statute which, like every other
statute, is to be strictly construed. There is nothing in the language
to limit its meaning; there is nothing in the connection in which it
stands to limit its meaning; nor is there anything in the history of the
Mosaic legislation to limit the application of this statute to the case
of servants escaping from foreign masters. The assumption that it is
thus limited is wholly gratuitous, and, so far as the Bible is
concerned, unsustained by any evidence whatever. It is said that it
would be absurd for Moses to enact such a law while servitude existed
among the Hebrews. It would indeed be absurd, were it the object of the
Mosaic legislation to sustain and perpetuate slavery; but, if it were
the object of Moses to limit and to restrain, and finally to extinguish
slavery, this statute was admirably adapted to his purpose. That it was
the object of Moses to extinguish, and not to perpetuate, slavery, is
perfectly clear from the whole course of his legislation on the subject.
Every slave was to have all the religious privileges and instruction to
which his master’s children were entitled. Every seventh year released
the Hebrew slave, and every fiftieth year produced universal
emancipation. If a master, by an accidental or an angry blow, deprived
the slave of a tooth, the slave, by that act, was forever free. And so,
by the statute in question, if the slave felt himself oppressed, he
could make his escape, and, though the master was not forbidden to
retake him if he could, every one was forbidden to aid his master in
doing it. This statute, in fact, made the servitude voluntary, and that
was what Moses intended.
Moses dealt with slavery precisely as he dealt with polygamy and with
war: without directly prohibiting, he so restricted as to destroy it;
instead of cutting down the poison-tree, he girdled it, and left it to
die of itself. There is a statute in regard to military expeditions
precisely analogous to this celebrated fugitive slave law. Had Moses
designed to perpetuate a warlike spirit among the Hebrews, the statute
would have been preëminently absurd; but, if it was his design to crush
it, and to render foreign wars almost impossible, the statute was
exactly adapted to his purpose. It rendered foreign military service, in
effect, entirely voluntary, just as the fugitive law rendered domestic
servitude, in effect, voluntary.
The law may be found at length in Deuteronomy 20:5–10; and let it be
carefully read and compared with the fugitive slave law already adverted
