foresaw defeat for Lynn; and although the admirable temper of the
argument was likely to continue to the end, he judged it best to keep
his gallantry in play, as a balance-wheel to his impetuosity. The
event did not disappoint his expectation. Lynn was game to the last,
but surrender or not, he was indubitably beaten. Mr. Lacy covered his
enemy's rout by a flattering tribute to his argumentative abilities,
and the two laughingly shook hands, as they arose from the board.
In the parlor, their undisputed court, the ladies received the
attention which had been diverted from them by the wordy war.
"To show that I bear no malice for old scores, I repeat the petition
that met with so obstinate a refusal," said Mr. Lacy, giving Ida his
arm. "Will you sing for me?"
  "'Say, what shall my song be to-night,
  And the strain at your bidding shall flow,'"
she replied, running her fingers over the keys.
"That I leave to you. I do not know what suits your voice or taste."
"'The Last Rose of Summer,'" prompted Charley; "afterwards, the
'Captive Knight.'"
Mr. Lacy laughed; supposing he intended a satire upon the
"miscellaneous" songsters, he had also thought of, when he objected to
making a selection; and Ida, slightly piqued at his want of confidence
in her powers of vocalization, sang both with inimitable skill
and expression. The gentlemen pressed around to ask, each, for his
favorite song. She complied readily and patiently. The natural compass
and strength of her voice had been increased by diligent practice,
yet music was with her, more a passion than an art; her songs,
spirit-utterances instead of the compositions of others, learned by
rote.
"She is actually beautiful!" said Mr. Dana, aside to his brother.
"Something above the order of puppets, nicknamed young ladies, with
which people ornament their parlors now-a-days," was the reply.
Removed from the gnome-like regards of Josephine, she was,
indeed, a different being. The presence of this girl was a mental
extinguisher--smothering the flame of feeling in fetid smoke--the
kindliness of the Danas, the generous oil feeding the exhausted lamp.
Years afterwards, when the purple flush had faded from life's morning,
the scene preceding her departure upon this evening, would recur, as
one of the proudest and happiest moments of her existence--John Dana,
standing in front of her, his grave features relaxed into a smile
of fatherly fondness, as he heard her defence of herself against an
accusation of Mr. Thornton's--Mrs. Dana, her hand upon her husband's
shoulder, listening and enjoying--Charley and Lynn, her allies and
counsellors, waiting to add their testimony--Mr. Lacy sitting beside
her, and drinking in her words with an avidity that brought the
blood tingling to her cheeks, and excited the meaning smiles of the
spectators. She was in her proper sphere; the centre and idol of a
home-circle. The praises lavished upon her were honestly won--too much
would have satiated, not spoiled--the utter absence of reward soured
her.
"I have had a happy, happy day, dear Mrs. Dana!" whispered she, at
going. "I shall write to Carry to-morrow, to apprise her how well you
fill her place."
Mr. Lacy attended her home. Curiosity had set for him the study of
her character. Her mien bespoke no ordinary soul; and the inuendoes
of Josephine, meant to deter him from prosecuting it, stimulated his
desire. They had been together repeatedly, previous to the party,
but always in the company of the Extinguisher. Her arch glance and
rejoinder to his thoughtless remark, while recalling Josephine's
insinuation of her hoydenish propensities, nevertheless fascinated
him. From being amused, he grew interested; he was working a mine of
thought, and unless the clue was false, there was a substratum of
feeling. The friendship of the Danas convinced him that the heart was
warm and true. He saw the frank girl amidst the friends in the studio,
and the accomplished woman in the coterie of the evening; and could
not say which was most attractive. "So much intelligence and so little
affectation are seldom seen in the same person;" he meditated. "She has
the materials for a noble character." Did he think to mould it!
CHAPTER XIII.
Our youthful debutantes were plunged into the maelstrom of a
fashionable season; a whirl which, in its outermost circles, was as
gratifying to the feverish energy of Ida as to the vanity of her more
grovelling-minded associate. The rapidly shortening days seemed longer
instead, so uneventful and wearisome were they. Life commenced when the
evening's thousand lamps were lit. The mingling perfumes; the crush
and flutter; the wave-like roar of the assembly-room, were delicious
excitement to the emancipated school-girl; and to the astonishment
of those who had known her then, the reserved student bloomed into
the dashing wit and belle; beauties and heiresses sitting, uncourted
by, while "eligibles" contended for the honor of her preference. Her
newness was a part of the secret. The spectacle of a wild Zingara,
unreined, and glorying in the fullness of its freedom, scorning bit
and spur, amongst a pack of jaded hackneys, who have been trotted and
paced and galloped, year after year, until their factitious animation
and oft-repeated gambols create pity and contempt, would cause a
sensation akin to that awakened by her appearance. Her lightest words
were jeux d'esprit; her laugh, a chime of silver wedding-bells;
(things by the way, of which every body talks, but nobody we have
questioned, ever heard,) her singing seraphic; her ballads lyric gems;
herself a Corinne. Josephine was latest to perceive, first to resent
this sudden accession of popularity. Rivalry from this source was
as unexpected as unbearable. Her glass showed her a form, airy as a
summer cloud; a set of features more delicate and regular than Ida's
characteristic-physiognomy; and in dress, she certainly bore off the
palm; her maid being invariably rung up an hour and a half before
Rachel's services were demanded. She fought, as long as she could, with
the conviction that this pre-eminence was as though it had not been to
the world; and when it made a violent entrance into her circumscribed
intellect, how was the milk of her nature curdled to vinegar! And how
like nitre to vinegar, were the happily-chosen congratulations of her
attendant beaux, upon her good fortune in inhabiting the same house
with "her charming friend, Miss Ross;" or, "Miss Ida even surpasses
herself to-night;" "A remarkable girl! such vivacity! and I hear, quite
as much profundity of mind; is this so, Miss Read?" And the writhing
dissembler had to assent, and corroborate, and smile, while the yeasty
waves frothed and bubbled furiously in their confinement. To expose her
envy would damage her prospects, hinged as they were, in part, upon her
sweetness of disposition.
It might have been a salvo to her wounded vanity had she guessed by
what a length of time her jealousy outlived the triumph which aroused
it; how the feast of adulation, so daintily spread, ceased to tempt,
then nauseated; how, from the jewelled robe of society the gloss
wore away, and threadbare tatters were all that remained of what was
cloth of gold; how prevarications and oaths refused longer to shelter
falsehood; and the garlands withered and shrank from manacles which
heated with the wearing; how the earth itself was a thin, hollow ball,
that one could puff away with a breath; how, ere the fire the revel
had infused into her veins cooled, the coronal was plucked from the
brow, the costly attire crushed petulantly, a worthless rag! And at
that window, the freezing air not chilling her heated blood--the envied
one wept blistering tears of self-abhorrence and despondency--and the
