And best distinguished as black, brown, or fair." 
It took Mrs. Jameson to set this matter forth in her Characteristics of Women; a book for which Shakspeare, if he 
could get up, ought to make her his best bow, especially as 
there are fine things ascribed to him there, which, I dare say, 
he never thought of, careless fellow that he was ! But, I take 
it, every true painter, poet, and artist is in some sense so far 
a prophet that his utterances convey more to other minds than 
he himself knows ; so that, doubtless, should all the old mas- 
ters rise from the dead, they might be edified by what poster- 
ity has found in their works. 
Some how or other, we found ourselves next talking about 
Sidney Smith ; and it was very pleasant to me, recalling the 
evenings when your father has read and we have laughed 
over him, to hear him spoken of as a living existence, by one 
who had known him. Still, I have always had a quarrel with 
Sidney, for the wicked use to which he put his wit, in abusing 
good old Dr. Carey, and the missionaries in India; nay, 
in some places he even stooped to be spiteful and vulgar. I 
could not help, therefore, saying, when Macaulay observed 
that he had the most agreeable wit of any literary man of his 
acquaintance, "Well, it was very agreeable, but it could not 
have been very agreeable to the people who came under the 
edge of it," and instanced his treatment of Dr. Carey. 
Some others who were present seemed to feel warmly on this 
subject, too, and Macaulay said, — 
"Ah, well, Sidney repented of that, afterwards." He 
seemed t<> cling to his memory, and to turn from every 
fault to his joviality, as a thing he could not enough delight 
to remember. 
Truly, wit, like charity, covers a multitude of sins. A man 
who has the faculty of raising a laugh in this sad, earnest 
world is remembered with indulgence and complacency, always. 
 
There were several other persons of note present at this 
breakfast, whose conversation I had not an opportunity of 
hearing, as they sat at a distance from me. There was Lord 
Glenelg, brother of Sir Robert Grant, governor of Bombay, 
whose beautiful hymns have rendered him familiar in America. 
The favorite one, commencing " When gathering clouds 
around I view," was from his pen.. Lord Glenelg, formerly Sir Charles Grant, himself has been the author of 
several pieces of poetry, which were in their time quite 
popular. 
The historian Hallam was also present, whose Constitutional History, you will remember, gave rise to one of Macaulay's finest reviews ; a quiet, retiring man, with a benignant, 
somewhat sad, expression of countenance. The loss of an 
only son has cast a shadow over his life. It was on this son 
that Tennyson wrote his " In Memoriam" 
Sir Robert H. Inglis was also present, and Mr. S. held 
considerable conversation with him. Knowing that he was 
both high tory and high church, it was an agreeable surprise 
to find him particularly gentle and bland in manners, earnest 
and devout in religious sentiment. I have heard him spoken 
of, even among dissenters, as a devout and earnest man. 
Another proof this of what mistakes we fall into when we 
judge the characters of persons at a distance, from what we 
suppose likely to be the effect of their sentiments. TVe often 
find the professed aristocrat gentle and condescending, and the 
professed supporter of forms spiritual. 
I think it very likely there may have been other celebrities 
present, whom I did not know. I am always finding out, a 
day or two after, that I have been with somebody very remarkable, and did not know it at the time. 
After breakfast we found, on consulting our list, that we 
were to lunch at Surrey parsonage. 
Of all the cities I was ever in, London is the most abso- 
lutely unmanageable, it takes so long to get any where ; wher- 
ever you want to go it seems to take you about two hours to 
get there. From the West End down into the city is a dis- 
tance that seems all but interminable. London is now more 
than ten miles long. And yet this monster city is stretching in 
all directions yearly, and where will be the end of it nobody 
knows. Southey says, " I began to study the map of London, 
though dismayed at its prodigious extent. The river is no 
assistance to a stranger in finding his way ; there is no street 
along its banks, and no eminence from whence you can look 
around and take your bearings." 
You may take these reflections as passing through my 
mind while we were driving through street after street, 
and going round corner after corner, towards the parson- 
age. 
Surrey Chapel and parsonage were the church and resi- 
dence of the celebrated Rowland Hill. At present the in- 
cumbent is the Rev. Mr. Sherman, well known to many of 
our American clergy by the kind hospitalities and attentions 
with which he has enriched their stay in London. The church 
maintains a medium rank between Congregationalism and 
Episcopacy, retaining part of the ritual, but being independent 
in its government. The kindness of Mr. Sherman had as- 
sembled here a very agreeable company, among whom were 
Farquhar Tupper, the artist Cruikshank, from whom I re- 
ceived a call the oilier morning, and Mr. Filatte, M. P. 
Cruikshank IS an old man with gray hair and eyebrows, 
Ptronly marked features, and keen eyes. He talked to me 
something about the promotion of temperance by a series of 
literary sketches illustrated by his pencil. 
I sat by a lady who was well acquainted with Kingsley, the 
author of Alton Locke, Hypatia, and other works, with whom 
I had some conversation with regard to the influence of his 
writings. 
She said that he had been instrumental in rescuing from 
infidelity many young men whose minds had become unsettled; 
that he was a devoted and laborious clergyman, exerting himself, without any cessation, for the good of his parish. 
After the company were gone I tried to get some rest, as 
my labors were not yet over, we being engaged to dine at 
Sir Edward Buxton's. This was our most dissipated day in 
London. We never tried the experiment again of going to 
three parties in one day, 
By the time I got to my third appointment I was entirely 
exhausted. I met here some, however, whom I was exceed- 
ingly interested to see ; among them Samuel Gurney, brother 
of Elizabeth Fry, with his wife and family. Lady Edward 
Buxton is one of his daughters. All had that air of benev- 
olent friendliness which is characteristic of the sect. 
Dr. Lushington, the companion and venerable associate of 
Wilberforce and Clarkson, was also present. He was a member of Parliament with Wilberforce forty or fifty years ago. 
He is now a judge of the admiralty court, that is to say, of 
the law relating to marine affairs. This is a branch of law 
which the nature of our government in America makes it impossible for us to have. He is exceedingly brilliant and an- 
imated in conversation. 
Dr. Cunningham, the author of World without Souls, was 
present. There was there also a master of Harrow School. 
 
