"Her father promised Mary, just at the last moment--solemnly promised
her--that, henceforth, he would never taste liquor. That was all her
trouble. That was the thorn in her dying pillow. But he plucked it out,
and she went to sleep, lying against his heart. Oh, gentlemen! it was
the most touching sight I ever saw."
All present seemed deeply moved.
"They are very poor and wretched." was said.
"Poor and miserable enough," answered Mrs.' Slade.
"We have just been taking up a collection for Mrs. Morgan. Here is the
money, Mrs. Slade--thirty dollars--we place it in your hands for her
benefit. Do with it, for her, as you may see best."
"Oh, gentlemen!" What a quick gleam went over the face of Mrs. Slade.
"I thank you, from my heart, in the name of that unhappy one, for this
act of true benevolence. To you the sacrifice has been small, to her
the benefit will be great indeed. A new life will, I trust be commenced
by her husband, and this timely aid will be something to rest upon,
until he can get into better employment than he now has. Oh, gentlemen!
let me urge on you, one and all, to make common cause in favor of Joe
Morgan. His purposes are good now, he means to keep his promise to his
dying child--means to reform his life. Let good impulses that led to
that act of relief further prompt you to watch over him and, if you see
him about going astray, to lead him kindly back into the right path.
Never--oh' never encourage him to drink, but rather take the glass from
his hand, if his own appetite lead him aside and by all the persuasive
influence you possess, induce him to go out from the place of
temptation.
"Pardon my boldness in saying so much" added Mrs. Slade, recollecting
herself and coloring deeply as she did so "My feelings have led me
away."
And she took the money from the table where it had been placed, and
retired toward the door.
"You have spoken well madam" was answered "And we thank you for
reminding us of our duty."
"One word more--and forgive the earnest heart from which it
comes"--said Mrs. Slade in a voice that trembled on the words she
uttered "I cannot help speaking, gentlemen! Think if some of you be not
entering the road wherein Joe Morgan has so long been walking. Save him
in heaven's name! but see that ye do not yourselves become castaways!"
As she said this she glided through the door and it closed after her.
"I don't know what her husband would say to that," was remarked after a
few moments of surprised silence.
"I don't care what HE would say, but I'll tell you what I will say"
spoke out a man whom I had several times noticed as a rather a free
tippler "The old lady has given us capital advice, and I mean to take
it, for one. I'm going to try to save Joe Morgan, and--myself too. I've
already entered the road she referred to; but I'm going to turn back.
So good-night to you all; and if Simon Slade gets no more of my
sixpences, he may thank his wife for it--God bless her!"
And the man drew his hat with a jerk over his forehead, and left
immediately.
This seemed the signal for dispersion, and all retired--not by way of
the bar-room, but out into the hall, and through the door leading upon
the porch that ran along in front of the house. Soon after the bar was
closed, and a dead silence reigned throughout the house. I saw no more
of Slade that night. Early in the morning, I left Cedarville; the
landlord looked very sober when he bade me good-bye through the
stage-door, and wished me a pleasant journey.
NIGHT THE FIFTH.
SOME OF THE CONSEQUENCES OF TAVERN-KEEPING.
Nearly five years glided away before business again called me to
Cedarville. I knew little of what passed there in the interval, except
that Simon Slade had actually been indicted for manslaughter, in
causing the death of Morgan's child. He did not stand a trial, however,
Judge Lyman having used his influence, successfully, in getting the
indictment quashed. The judge, some people said, interested himself in
Slade more than was just seemly--especially, as he had, on several
occasions, in the discharge of his official duties, displayed what
seemed an over-righteous indignation against individuals arraigned for
petty offences. The impression made upon me by Judge Lyman had not been
favorable. He seemed a cold, selfish, scheming man of the world. That
he was an unscrupulous politician, was plain to me, in a single
evening's observation of his sayings and doings among the common herd
of a village bar-room.
As the stage rolled, with a gay flourish of our driver's bugle, into
the village, I noted here and there familiar objects, and marked the
varied evidences of change. Our way was past the elegant residence and
grounds of Judge Hammond, the most beautiful and highly cultivated in
Cedarville. At least, such it was regarded at the time of my previous
visit. But, the moment my eyes rested upon the dwelling and its various
surroundings, I perceived an altered aspect. Was it the simple work of
time? or, had familiarity with other and more elegantly arranged
suburban homes, marred this in my eyes by involuntary contrast? Or had
the hand of cultivation really been stayed, and the marring fingers of
neglect suffered undisturbed to trace on every thing disfiguring
characters?
Such questions were in my thoughts, when I saw a man in the large
portico of the dwelling, the ample columns of which, capped in rich
Corinthian, gave the edifice the aspect of a Grecian temple. He stood
leaning against one of the columns--his hat off, and his long gray hair
thrown back and resting lightly on his neck and shoulders. His head was
bent down upon his breast, and he seemed in deep abstraction. Just as
the coach swept by, he looked up, and in the changed features I
recognized Judge Hammond. His complexion was still florid, but his face
had grown thin, and his eyes were sunken. Trouble was written in every
lineament. Trouble? How inadequately does the word express my meaning!
Ah! at a single glance, what a volume of suffering was opened to the
gazer's eye. Not lightly had the foot of time rested there, as if
treading on odorous flowers, but heavily, and with iron-shod heel. This
I saw at a glance; and then, only the image of the man was present to
my inner vision, for the swiftly rolling stage-coach had borne me
onward past the altered home of the wealthiest denizen of Cedarville.
In a few minutes our driver reined up before the "Sickle and Sheaf,"
and as I stepped to the ground, a rotund, coarse, red-faced man, whom I
failed to recognize as Simon Slade until he spoke, grasped my hand, and
pronounced my name. I could not but contrast, in thought, his
appearance with what it was when I first saw him, some six years
previously; nor help saying to myself:
"So much for tavern-keeping!"
As marked a change was visible everywhere in and around the "Sickle and
Sheaf." It, too, had grown larger by additions of wings and rooms; but
it had also grown coarser in growing larger. When built, all the doors
were painted white, and the shutters green, giving to the house a neat,
even tasteful appearance. But the white and green had given place to a
dark, dirty brown, that to my eyes was particularly unattractive. The
bar-room had been extended, and now a polished brass rod, or railing,
embellished the counter, and sundry ornamental attractions had been
given to the shelving behind the bar--such as mirrors, gilding, etc.
Pictures, too, were hung upon the walls, or more accurately speaking;
coarse colored lithographs, the subjects of which, if not really
obscene, were flashing, or vulgar. In the sitting-room, next to the
