sphere of the man, as its body would be if brought near to a noxious
plant that was filling the air with its poisonous vapours. And now,
dear Fanny,"--Mr. Allison took the maiden's hand in his, and spoke
in a most impressive voice--"think closely and earnestly on what I
have said. If I have taxed your mind with graver thoughts than are
altogether pleasant, it is because I desire most sincerely to do you
good. The world into which you are about stepping, is a false and
evil world, and along all its highways and byways are scattered the
sad remains of those who have perished ere half their years were
numbered; and of the crowd that pressed onward, even to the farthest
verge of natural life, how few escape the too common lot of
wretchedness! The danger that most threatens you, in the
fast-approaching future, is that which threatens every young maiden.
Your happiness or misery hangs nicely poised, and if you have not a
wise discrimination, the scale may take a wrong preponderance. Alas!
if it should be so!"
Mr. Allison paused a moment, and then said:
"Shall I go on?"
"Oh, yes! Speak freely. I am listening to your words as if they came
from the lips of my own father."
"An error in marriage is one of life's saddest errors, said Mr.
Allison.
"I believe that," was the maiden's calm remark; yet Mr. Allison saw
that her eyes grew instantly brighter, and the hue of her cheeks
warmer.
"In a true marriage, there must be good moral qualities. No
pure-minded woman can love a man for an instant after she discovers
that he is impure, selfish, and evil. It matters not how high his
rank, how brilliant his intellect, how attractive his exterior
person, how perfect his accomplishments. In her inmost spirit she
will shrink from him, and feel his presence as a sphere of
suffocation. Oh! can the thought imagine a sadder lot for a
true-hearted woman! And there is no way of escape. Her own hands
have wrought the chains that bind her in a most fearful bondage."
Again Mr. Allison paused, and regarded his young companion with a
look of intense interest.
"May heaven spare you from such a lot!" he said, in a low, subdued
voice.
Fanny made no reply. She sat with her eyes resting on the ground,
her lips slightly parted, and her cheeks of a paler hue.
"Can you see any truth in what I have been saying?" asked Mr.
Allison, breaking in upon a longer pause than he had meant should
follow his last remark.
"Oh, yes, yes; much truth. A new light seems to have broken suddenly
into my mind."
"Men bear about them a spiritual as well as a natural sphere of
their quality."
"If there is a spiritual form, there must be a spiritual quality,"
said Fanny, partly speaking to herself, as if seeking more fully to
grasp the truth she uttered.
"And spiritual senses, as well, by which qualities may be
perceived," added Mr. Allison.
"Yes,--yes." She still seemed lost in her own thoughts.
"As our bodily senses enable us to discern the quality of material
objects, and thus to appropriate what is good, and reject what is
evil; in like manner will our spiritual senses serve us, and in a
much higher degree, if we will but make the effort to use them."
"I see but darkly. Oh! that my vision were clearer!" exclaimed the
maiden, while a troubled expression slightly marred her beautiful
face.
"Ever, my dear young friend," said Mr. Allison, impressively, "be
true to your native instincts. They will quickly warn you, if evil
approaches. Oh! heed the warning. Give no favourable regard to the
man toward whom you feel an instinctive repulsion at the first
meeting. No matter what his station, connections, or personal
accomplishments--heed the significant warning. Do not let the
fascinations of a brilliant exterior, nor even ardent expressions of
regard, make you for a moment forget that, when he first came near
you, your spirit shrunk away, as from something that would do it
harm. If you observe such a man closely, weigh all that he does and
says, when ardent in the pursuit of some desired object, you will
not lack for more palpable evidences of his quality than the simple
impression which the sphere of his life made at your first meeting.
Guarded as men are, who make an exterior different from their real
quality, they are never able to assume a perfect disguise--no more
than a deformed person can so hide, by dress, the real shape, that
the attentive eye cannot discern its lack of symmetry. The eyes of
your spirit see truths, as your natural eyes see material objects;
and truths are real things. There are true principles, which, if
obeyed, lead to what is good; and there are false principles, which,
if followed, lead to evil. The one conducts to happiness, the other
to inevitable misery. The warning which another sense, corresponding
with the perception of odours in the body, gives you of evil in a
man, at his first approach, is intended to put you on your guard,
and lead to a closer observation of the person. The eyes of your
understanding, if kept clear, will soon give you evidence as to his
quality that cannot be gainsaid. And, believe me, Fanny, though a
slight acquaintance may seem to contradict the instinctive judgment,
in nine cases out of ten the warning indication will be verified in
the end. Do you understand me?"
"Oh, yes--yes," was the low, but earnest response. Yet the maiden's
eyes were not lifted from the ground.
"Will you try and remember what I have said, Fanny?"
"I can never forget it, Mr. Allison--never!" She seemed deeply
disturbed.
Both were silent for some time. Mr. Allison then said:
"But the day is waning, my dear young friend. It is time we were
both at home."
"True." And Fanny arose and walked by the old man's side, until
their ways diverged. Both of their residences were in sight and near
at hand.
"Do not think of me, Fanny," said Mr. Allison, when about parting
with his companion, "as one who would oppress you with thoughts too
serious for your years. I know the dangers that lie in your path of
life, and only seek to guard you from evil. Oh! keep your spirit
pure, and its vision clear. Remember what I have said, and trust in
the unerring instinct given to every innocent heart."
The old man had taken her hand, and was looking tenderly down upon
her sweet, young face. Suddenly her eyes were lifted to his. There
was a strong light in them.
"God bless you, sir!"
The energy with which these unexpected words were spoken, almost
startled Mr. Allison. Ere he had time for a response, Fanny had
turned from him, and was bounding away with fleet footsteps toward
her home.
CHAPTER X.
EARNESTLY as Fanny Markland strove to maintain a calm exterior
before her mother and aunt, the effort availed not; and so, as early
in the evening as she could retire from the family, without
attracting observation, she did so. And now she found herself in a
