"Shall we go through, Frank?"
"Ay; bend on sharp, and she will leap up like a fawn. Now for it!"
The Zephyrs applied all their strength to the oars, and the boat darted
up the rapids with no other detriment than taking in two or three
pailfuls of water.
The rest of the fleet followed, with the exception of the Lily, without
accident; and she, not having sufficient headway, was carried down
again. By the skill of her coxswain, however, she was saved from damage,
and her second attempt was successful.
The navigation was again tolerably safe, and for half a mile they
proceeded on their way without interruption.
"There's a bridge," said Charles, pointing ahead.
"And there is the Dip, with the red hoisted. Tony seems to have given
it up. He has made fast to the bridge."
On the shore was a crowd of men and boys, who were holding a parley with
the pilot of the expedition; but when they saw the squadron approaching
they seemed petrified with astonishment. The boys thrust their hands
deep in their trousers' pockets, and with mouths wide open stared in
speechless wonder. The arrival of Columbus on the shores of the new
world could not have been more astounding to the natives than was the
coming of the Wood Lake squadron to the boys of Oaklawn.
"Sheer off, Charley, to the port side of the river, and we will come
into line. The river is wide enough here, I believe. Up with the green!"
On dashed the boats in the rear till they came into the line. The river
widened into a kind of pond; but the line stretched clear across
it--making a very imposing appearance.
"Slowly; cease--rowing!" continued Frank. "Ready--up!" and the
sixty-eight oars of the fleet glittered in the sunshine before the
astonished Oaklawners, who were gathered in great numbers on the shore
and bridge.
"Well, Tony, the cruise is up," said Frank, when the Dip came into line.
"Yes," replied the pilot, pointing under the bridge, where the river
dashed its foaming waters down a long reach of half-exposed rocks. "We
can't get over those."
"No; and we may as well land and take a look at Oaklawn. Hoist the
orange. Ready--down!"
Each boat landed its crew at a convenient place, and they were then
marshaled into a procession. They were formed in sections of four, each
crew preceded by its coxswain, with one of the flags on each side of
him. The commodore marched at the head of the company, and in this order
they proceeded through the principal street of the village. Of course
their appearance excited a great deal of wonder, and not a little
admiration. Several of the principal citizens, unwilling that their
guests should depart unwelcomed, got up an impromptu reception, and
the clubs were invited to the Town Hall, where some very pretty speeches
were made by the chairman of the Selectmen, of the School Committee, the
representative to the General Court, and other distinguished
individuals; to whom the commodore replied with a great deal of dignity
and self-possession.
While the speeches were proceeding, the ladies were not idle; and the
boys were next invited to a collation on the green; after which they
marched back to the river and re-embarked. Three times three cheers were
given for the people of Oaklawn, and the word was given to pull for
home.
The boys of the village were not so ready to part with them, and some
twenty of them followed the boats, on the bank of the river.
"I say, Frank, these folks were very kind to us," Charles remarked.
"They were, indeed."
"And the boys seem to enjoy it."
"I suppose not many of them ever saw our boats before."
"Suppose we take them in; they will be very willing to walk home, say
from the grove where we dined, for the sake of the sail."
"Good! I didn't think of that before. Up with the orange!"
The boats landed, and the astonished Oaklawn boys were distributed among
them. They seemed to regard the favor as an unexpected condescension,
and their delight knew no bounds. As Little Paul expressed it, "they
were tickled half to death"; and when they reached the grove it was a
sad and bitter disappointment for them to get out and go home.
"I was thinking of something," said Charles, a little while after they
had landed their passengers.
"What was it, Charley?" replied the commodore.
"That we might invite the boys of Oaklawn to spend a day with us on the
lake."
"Capital!"
"We could give them a picnic on Center Island."
"We will do it; and now that we know the river we can easily come up as
far as the grove after them."
"Or up to the rapids; there is no danger this side of them."
This plan was discussed in all its details, and everything was agreed
upon by the time they reached the lake. The passage down the river had
been much quicker than the upward trip, and before sunset the boats were
all housed, and the clubs had separated.
On the following week the courtesies of the club were extended to the
boys of Oaklawn, as arranged by the commodore, and a very fine time they
had of it. Their guests, numbering over forty, were entertained in every
conceivable manner--the day's sports concluding with a grand race, in
which all the boats were entered, and in which the Butterfly won the
honors.
A new program was made up every week during the vacation. Lighthouses
were built, channels surveyed, shores charted; indeed, everything which
the ingenuity of the boys could devise was brought forward to add fresh
interest to the sports of the lake.
And thus the season passed away, and winter came again. The fleet was
laid up, and the useful and pleasant recreations of the club rooms were
substituted for the active excitement of boating. Lectures were given,
essays were read, debates held, every week; and the progress of the boys
out of school, as well as within, was highly satisfactory to all
concerned.
CHAPTER XXI.
CONCLUSION.
I suppose, as the present volume completes the history of the Boat Club,
that my young readers will wish to know something of the subsequent
fortunes of the prominent characters of the association. It gives me
pleasure to say that not one of them has been recreant to his
opportunities, or abandoned his high standard of character; that the
moral, mental, and physical discipline of the organization has proved
salutary in the highest degree. The members of the boat clubs are now
active members of society. Each is pulling an oar, or steering his bark,
on the great ocean of life. Some are in humble spheres, as in the little
Dip; others are in more extended fields, as in the majestic twelve-oar
boats.
Frank Sedley is a lawyer. His father has gone to enjoy his reward in the
world beyond the grave; and Frank, who was married a year ago to Mary
Weston, resides in the mansion by the lake. His brilliant talents and
unspotted integrity have elevated him to a respectable position, for one
so young, in the legal profession; and there is no doubt but that he
will arrive at eminence in due time.
Uncle Ben is still alive, and continues to dwell at the mansion of the
Sedleys. The boats are still in being, and are manned by the boys
belonging to the school--under the direction of the veteran.
