sitting round a centre table covered with notes of invitation, and all
the preliminary et cetera of a party, "what shall we have on Friday
night?--tea, coffee, lemonade, wine? of course not."
"And why not wine, mamma?" said the young ladies; "the people are
beginning to have it; they had wine at Mrs. A.'s and Mrs. B.'s."
"Well, your papa thinks it won't do,--the boys are members of the
temperance society,--and I don't think, girls, it will do myself."
There are many good sort of people, by the by, who always view moral
questions in this style of phraseology--not what is right, but what will
"do."
The girls made an appropriate reply to this view of the subject, by
showing that Mrs. A. and Mrs. B. had done the thing, and nobody seemed
to make any talk.
The boys, who thus far in the conversation had been thoughtfully rapping
their boots with their canes, now interposed, and said that they would
rather not have wine if it wouldn't look shabby.
"But it will look shabby," said Miss Fanny. "Lemons, you know, are
scarce to be got for any price, and as for lemonade made of sirup, it's
positively vulgar and detestable; it tastes just like cream of tartar
and spirits of turpentine."
"For my part," said Emma, "I never did see the harm of wine, even when
people were making the most fuss about it; to be sure rum and brandy and
all that are bad, but wine----"
"And so convenient to get," said Fanny; "and no decent young man ever
gets drunk at parties, so it can't do any harm; besides, one must have
something, and, as I said, it will look shabby not to have it."
Now, there is no imputation that young men are so much afraid of,
especially from the lips of ladies, as that of shabbiness; and as it
happened in this case as most others that the young ladies were the most
efficient talkers, the question was finally carried on their side.
Mrs. G. was a mild and a motherly woman, just the one fitted to inspire
young men with confidence and that home feeling which all men desire
to find somewhere. Her house was a free and easy ground, social for most
of the young people of her acquaintance, and Harry was a favorite and
domesticated visitor.
During the height of the temperance reform, fathers and brothers had
given it their open and decided support, and Mrs. G.--always easily
enlisted for any good movement--sympathized warmly in their endeavors.
The great fault was, that too often incident to the gentleness of
woman--a want of self-reliant principle. Her virtue was too much the
result of mere sympathy, too little of her own conviction. Hence, when
those she loved grew cold towards a good cause, they found no sustaining
power in her, and those who were relying on her judgment and opinions
insensibly controlled them. Notwithstanding, she was a woman that always
acquired a great influence over young men, and Harry had loved and
revered her with something of the same sentiment that he cherished
towards his own mother.
It was the most brilliant party of the season. Every thing was got up in
faultless taste, and Mrs. G. was in the very spirit of it. The girls
were looking beautifully; the rooms were splendid; there was enough and
not too much of light and warmth, and all were doing their best to
please and be cheerful. Harry was more brilliant than usual, and in fact
outdid himself. Wit and mind were the spirit of the hour.
"Just taste this tokay," said one of the sisters to him; "it has just
been sent us from Europe, and is said to be a genuine article."
"You know I'm not in that line," said Harry, laughing and coloring.
"Why not?" said another young lady, taking a glass.
"O, the temperance pledge, you know! I am one of the pillars of the
order, a very apostle; it will never do for me."
"Pshaw! those temperance pledges are like the proverb, 'something
musty,'" said a gay girl.
"Well, but you said you had a headache the beginning of the evening, and
you really look pale; you certainly need it as a medicine," said Fanny.
"I'll leave it to mamma;" and she turned to Mrs. G., who stood gayly
entertaining a group of young people.
"Nothing more likely," replied she, gayly; "I think, Harry, you have
looked pale lately; a glass of wine might do you good."
Had Mrs. G. known all of Harry's past history and temptations, and had
she not been in just the inconsiderate state that very good ladies
sometimes get into at a party, she would sooner have sacrificed her
right hand than to have thrown this observation into the scales; but she
did, and they turned the balance for him.
"You shall be my doctor," he said, as, laughing and coloring, he drank
the glass--and where was the harm? One glass of wine kills nobody; and
yet if a man falls, and knows that in that glass he sacrifices principle
and conscience, every drop may be poison to the soul and body.
Harry felt at that very time that a great internal barrier had given
way; nor was that glass the only one that evening; another, and another,
and another followed; his spirits rose with the wild and feverish gayety
incident to his excitable temperament, and what had been begun in the
society of ladies was completed late at night in the gentlemen's saloon.
Nobody ever knew, or thought, or recognized that that one party had
forever undone this young man; and yet so it was. From that night his
struggle of moral resistance was fatally impaired; not that he yielded
at once and without desperate efforts and struggles, but gradually each
struggle grew weaker, each reform shorter, each resolution more
inefficient; yet at the close of the evening all those friends, mother,
brother, and sister, flattered themselves that every thing had gone on
so well that the next week Mrs. H. thought that it would do to give wine
at the party because Mrs. G. had done it last week, and no harm had come
of it.
In about a year after, the G.'s began to notice and lament the habits of
their young friend, and all unconsciously to wonder how such a fine
young man should be so led astray.
Harry was of a decided and desperate nature; his affections and his
moral sense waged a fierce war with the terrible tyrant--the madness
that had possessed him; and when at last all hope died out, he
determined to avoid the anguish and shame of a drunkard's life by a
suicide's death. Then came to the trembling, heart-stricken mother and
beloved one a wild, incoherent letter of farewell, and he disappeared
from among the living.
In the same quiet parlor, where the sunshine still streams through
flickering leaves, it now rested on the polished sides and glittering
plate of a coffin; there at last lay the weary at rest, the soft,
shining gray hair was still gleaming as before, but deeper furrows on
the wan cheek, and a weary, heavy languor over the pale, peaceful face,
told that those gray hairs had been brought down in sorrow to the grave.
Sadder still was the story on the cloudless cheek and lips of the young
creature bending in quiet despair over her. Poor Ellen! her life's
thread, woven with these two beloved ones, was broken.
And may all this happen?--nay, does it not happen?--just such things
happen to young men among us every day. And do they not lead in a
thousand ways to sorrows just like these? And is there not a
responsibility on all who ought to be the guardians of the safety and
purity of the other sex, to avoid setting before them the temptation to
which so often and so fatally manhood has yielded? What is a paltry
consideration of fashion, compared to the safety of sons, brothers, and
husbands? The greatest fault of womanhood is slavery to custom; and yet
who but woman makes custom? Are not all the usages and fashions of
polite society more her work than that of man? And let every mother and
