splashed in the course of a few minutes. But Elizabeth did not
seem to heed or care for either; she was intent upon the great
problem of making her oar feel the water; and as gravely, if
not quite so coolly, as Winthrop's instructions were
delivered, she worked at her oar to follow them. A few random
strokes, which did not seem to discriminate very justly
between water and air, and then her oar had got hold of the
water and was telling, though irregularly and fitfully, upon
the boat. The difficulty was mastered; and she pulled with
might and main for half the rest of the way home; Winthrop
having nothing to do with his one oar but to keep the two
sides of the boat together, till her arm was tired.
"Next time I'll take both oars," she said with a face of great
satisfaction as she put herself back in her old seat. Asahel
thought it would cure her of wearing pale cheeks, but he did
not venture to make any remark.
Rose was waiting for them, sitting crouched discontentedly on
the rocks.
"It's eight o'clock!" -- said she, -- "and I'm as hungry as a
bear!"
"So am I," said Elizabeth springing ashore.
"What have you been doing? -- keeping breakfast waiting this
age?"
"I never saw any thing so delicious in all my life," said
Elizabeth emphatically, before condescending to say what.
"I shall tell Mr. Haye you are beginning a flirtation
already," whispered Miss Cadwallader laughing as they went up
to the house.
But the cheek of the other at that became like a thunder-
cloud. She turned her back upon her cousin and walked from her
to the house, with a step as fine and firm as that of the
Belvidere Apollo and a figure like a young pine tree. Rufus,
who met her at the door, was astounded with a salutation such
as a queen might bestow on a discarded courtier; but by the
time the little lady came to the table she had got back her
usual air.
"Well, how do you like boating before breakfast?" said Mr
Landholm.
"Very much," Elizabeth said.
"I don't like it very much," said he, "for I ought to have
mowed half an acre by this time, instead of being here at my
bread and butter."
"It was not my fault, sir."
"No, no; it's all right, I am glad you went. I should have
taken my breakfast and been off, long ago; but I waited out of
pure civility to you, to see how you did. 'Pon my word, I
think you have gained half a pound of flesh already."
"She looks a great deal better," said Asahel.
Elizabeth laughed a little, but entered into no discussion of
the subject.
After breakfast the trunks arrived and the young ladies were
busy; and two or three days passed quietly in getting wonted.
"Mr. Landholm," said Miss Cadwallader, a few mornings after,
"will you do one thing for me?"
"A great many, Miss Rose," he said, stopping with his hands on
his knees as he was about to leave the table, and looking at
her attentively.
"I want you to send somebody to shew me where the strawberries
are."
"Strawberries! Do you want to go and pick strawberries?"
"To be sure I do. That's what I came here for."
"Strawberries, eh," said Mr. Landholm. "Well, I guess you'll
have to wait a little. There aint a soul that can go with you
this morning. Besides, I don't believe there are any ripe
yet."
"O yes there are, papa!" said Asahel.
"I guess Bright Spot's full of them," said Mrs. Landholm.
"Bright Spot!" said the farmer. "Well, we must be all off to
the hay-field. You see, there's some grass, Miss Rose,
standing ready to be cut, that can't wait; so you'll have to."
"What if it wasn't cut?" said Miss Cadwallader pouting.
"What if it wasn't cut! -- then the cattle would have nothing
to eat next winter, and that would be worse than your wanting
strawberries. No -- I'll tell you, -- It'll be a fine afternoon;
and you keep yourself quiet, out of the sun, till it gets
towards evening; and I'll contrive to spare one of the boys to
go with you. The strawberries will be all the riper, and you
can get as many as you want in an hour or two."
So upon that the party scattered, and the house was deserted
to the 'women-folks;' with the exception of little Asahel; and
even he was despatched in a few hours to the field with the
dinner of his father and brothers. The girls betook themselves
to their room, and wore out the long day as they could.
It grew to the tempting time of the afternoon.
"Here they are!" said Rose who sat at the east window. "Now
for it! That farmer is a very good man. I really didn't expect
it."
"They?" said Elizabeth.
"Yes -- both the 'boys,' as the farmer calls them."
"I should think one might have been enough," said Elizabeth.
"Well, there's no harm in having two. Isn't the eldest one
handsome?"
"I don't know."
"You do know."
"I don't! for I haven't thought about it."
"Do you have to think before you can tell whether a person is
handsome?"
"Yes; -- before I can tell whether I think he is."
"Well, look at him, -- I tell you he has the most splendid
eyes."
"Rose Cadwallader!" said her cousin laying down her book,
"what is it to you or me if all the farmer's sons in the land
have splendid eyes?"
Elizabeth's eyebrows said it was very little to her.
"I like to look at a handsome face anywhere," said Rose
pouting. "Come -- will you."
Elizabeth did come, but with a very uncompromising set of the
said eyebrows.
It appeared that everybody was going strawberrying, except
Mrs. Landholm and Winthrop; at least the former had not her
bonnet on, and the latter was not in the company at all. The
children found this out and raised a cry of dismay, which was
changed into a cry of entreaty as Winthrop came in. Winthrop
was going after fish. But Winifred got hold of his hand, and
Asahel withstood him with arguments; and at last Mrs. Landholm
put in her gentle word, that strawberries would de just as
well as fish, and better. So Winthrop put up his fishing-rod
and shouldered the oars, and armed with baskets of all sizes
the whole party trooped after him.
In the boat Elizabeth might have had a good opportunity to act
