“I might take something less,” he ventured to say, in a low, hesitating
voice.
“It is too late now,” was Mr. Wilson’s prompt reply.
“Too late! How so?”
“We have procured a lot.”
“Mr. Wilson!” Poor Smith started to his feet in chagrin and
astonishment.
“Yes; we have taken one of Jones’s lots on the west side of the city. A
beautiful ten acre lot.”
“You have!” Smith was actually pale.
“We have; and the title deeds are now being made out.”
It was some time before Smith had sufficiently recovered from the
stunning effect of this unlooked-for intelligence, to make the inquiry,
“And pray how much did Jones ask for his ten acre lot.”
“He presented it to the city as a gift,” replied the councilman.
“A gift! What folly!”
“No, not folly--but true worldly wisdom; though I believe Jones did not
think of advantage to himself when he generously made the offer. He is
worth twenty thousand dollars more to-day than he was yesterday, in the
simple advanced value of his land for building lots. And I know of no
man in this town whose good fortune affects me with more pleasure.”
Smith stole back to his home with a mountain of disappointment on his
heart. In his cupidity he had entirely overreached himself, and he saw
that the consequences were to react upon all his future prosperity. The
public square at the west end of the town would draw improvements in
that direction, all the while increasing the wealth of Mr. Jones, while
lots at the north end would remain at present prices, or, it might be,
take a downward range.
And so it proved. In ten years, Jones was the richest man in the town,
while half of Smith’s property had been sold for taxes. The five acre
lot passed from his hands, under the hammer, in the foreclosure of a
mortgage, for one thousand dollars!
Thus it is that inordinate selfishness and cupidity overreach
themselves; while the liberal man deviseth liberal things, and is
sustained thereby.
THE SUNBEAM AND THE RAINDROP.
   A SUNBEAM and a raindrop met together in the sky
   One afternoon in sunny June, when earth was parched and dry;
   Each quarrelled for the precedence [‘twas so the story ran),
   And the golden sunbeam, warmly, the quarrel thus began:--
   “What were the earth without me? I come with beauty bright,
   She smiles to hail my presence, and rejoices in my light;
   I deck the hill and valley with many a lovely hue,
   I give the rose its blushes, and the violet its blue.
   “I steal within the window, and through the cottage door,
   And my presence like a blessing gilds with smiles the broad earth o’er;
   The brooks and streams flow dancing and sparkling in my ray,
   And the merry, happy children in the golden sunshine play.”
   Then the tearful raindrop answered--“Give praise where praise is due,
   The earth indeed were lonely without a smile from you;
   But without my visits, also, its beauty would decay,
   The flowers droop and wither, and the streamlets dry away.
   “I give the flowers their freshness, and you their colours gay,
   My jewels would not sparkle, without your sunny ray.
   Since each upon the other so closely must depend,
   Let us seek the earth together, and our common blessings blend.”
   The raindrops, and the sunbeams, came laughing down to earth,
   And it woke once more to beauty, and to myriad tones of mirth;
   The river and the streamlet went dancing on their way,
   And the raindrops brightly sparkled in the sunbeam’s golden ray.
   The drooping flowers looked brighter, there was fragrance in the air,
   The earth seemed new created, there was gladness everywhere;
   And above the dark clouds, gleaming on the clear blue arch of Heaven,
   The Rainbow, in its beauty, like a smile of love was given.
   ‘Twas a sweet and simple lesson, which the story told, I thought,
   Not alone and single-handed our kindliest deeds are wrought;
   Like the sunbeam and the raindrop, work together, while we may,
   And the bow of Heaven’s own promise shall smile upon our way.
A PLEA FOR SOFT WORDS.
STRANGE and subtle are the influences which affect the spirit and touch
the heart. Are there bodiless creatures around us, moulding our thoughts
into darkness or brightness, as they will? Whence, otherwise, come the
shadow and the sunshine, for which we can discern no mortal agency?
Oftener, As we grow older, come the shadows; less frequently the
sunshine. Ere I took up my pen, I was sitting with a pleasant company of
friends, listening to music, and speaking, with the rest, light words.
Suddenly, I knew not why, my heart was wrapt away in an atmosphere of
sorrow. A sense of weakness and unworthiness weighed me down, and I felt
the moisture gather to my eyes and my lips tremble, though they kept the
smile.
All my past life rose up before me, and all my short-comings--all, my
mistakes, and all my wilful wickedness, seemed pleading trumpet-tongued
against me.
I saw her before me whose feet trod with mine the green holts and
meadows, when the childish thought strayed not beyond the near or the
possible. I saw her through the long blue distances, clothed in the
white beauty of an angel; but, alas! she drew her golden hair across
her face to veil from her vision the sin-darkened creature whose eyes
dropped heavily to the hem of her robe!
O pure and beautiful one, taken to peace ere the weak temptation had
lifted itself up beyond thy stature, and compelled thee to listen, to
oppose thy weakness to its strength, and to fall--sometimes, at least,
let thy face shine on me from between the clouds. Fresh from the springs
of Paradise, shake from thy wings the dew against my forehead. We two
were coming up together through the sweet land of poesy and dreams,
where the senses believe what the heart hopes; our hands were full of
green boughs, and our laps of cowslips and violets, white and purple.
We were talking of that more beautiful world into which childhood was
opening out, when that spectre met us, feared and dreaded alike by the
strong man and the little child, and one was taken, and the other left.
One was caught away sinless to the bosom of the Good Shepherd, and one
was left to weep pitiless tears, to eat the bread of toil, and to think
the bitter thoughts of misery,--left “to clasp a phantom and to find it
air.” For often has the adversary pressed me sore, and out of my arms
has slid ever that which my soul pronounced good: slid out of my arms
and coiled about my feet like a serpent, dragging me back and holding me
down from all that is high and great.
Pity me, dear one, if thy sweet sympathies can come out of the glory, if
the lovelight of thy beautiful life can press through the cloud and the
evil, and fold me again as a garment; pity and plead for me with the
maiden mother whose arms in human sorrow and human love cradled our
blessed Redeemer.
She hath known our mortal pain and passion--our more than mortal
triumph--she hath heard the “blessed art thou among women.” My
unavailing prayers goldenly syllabled by her whose name sounds from the
manger through all the world, may find acceptance with Him who, though
our sins be as scarlet, can wash them white as wool.
Our hearts grew together as one, and along the headlands and the valleys
one shadow went before us, and one shadow followed us, till the grave
gaped hungry and terrible, and I was alone. Faltering in fear, but
