seven feet high, damask chairs and lounges, or any of 
the smart things which very rich and very proud city 
people consider absolutely necessary for their comfort. Her father had been a poor man, her husband 
had died a poor man, and her own life had been a 
struggle to keep the demons of poverty and want from 
invading her humble abode. 
Mr. Bright, her deceased husband, had been a day 
laborer in Riverdale. He never got more than a dol- 
lar a day, which was then considered very good wages 
in the country. He was a very honest, industrious 
man, and while he lived, his family did very well. 
Mrs. Bright was a careful, prudent woman, and helped 
him support the family. They never knew what it 
was to want for any thing. 
Poor people, as well as rich, have an ambition to be 
something which they are not, or to have something 
which they have not. Every person, who has anv 
 
energy of character, desires to get ahead in the world. 
Some merchants, who own big ships and big ware- 
houses by the dozen, desire to be what they consider 
rich. But their idea of wealth is very grand. They 
wish to count it in millions of dollars, in whole blocks 
of warehouses ; and they are even more discontented 
than the day laborer who has to earn his dinner before he can eat it. 
Bobby's father and mother had just such an ambition, only it was so modest that the merchant would 
have laughed at it. They wanted to own the little 
black house in which they resided, so that they could 
not only be sure of a home while they lived, but 
have the satisfaction of living in their own house. 
This was a very reasonable ideal, compared with that 
of the rich merchants I have mentioned ; but it was 
even more difficult for them to reach it, for the wages 
were small, and they had many mouths to feed. 
Mr. Bright had saved up fifty dollars ; and he 
thought a great deal more of this sum than many peo- 
ple do of a thousand dollars. He had had to work 
very hard and be very prudent in order to accumulate 
this sum, which made him value it all the more highly. 
 
With this sum of fifty dollars at his command, John 
Bright felt rich ; and>then, more than ever before, he 
wanted to own the little black house. He felt as 
grand as a lord ; and as soon as the forty-nine dollars 
had become fifty, he waited upon Mr. Hardhand, a 
little crusty old man, who owned the little black house, 
and proposed to purchase it. 
The landlord was a hard man. Every body in Riv- 
erdale said he was mean and stingy. Any generous- 
hearted man would have been willing to make an easy 
bargain with an honest, industrious, poor man, like 
John Bright, who wished to own the house in which 
he lived : but Mr. Hardhand, although he was rich, 
only thought how he could make more money. He 
asked the poor man four hundred dollars for the old 
house and the little lot of land on which it stood. 
It was a matter of great concern to John Bright. 
Four hundred dollars was a " mint of money," and 
he could not see how he should ever be able to save 
so much from his daily earnings. So he talked with 
Squire Lee about it, who told him that three hundred 
was all it was worth. John offered this for it, and 
after a month's hesitation, Mr. Hardhand accepted the 
 
offer, agreeing to take fifty dollars down, and the rest 
in semi-annual payments of twenty-five dollars each, 
until the whole was paid. 
I am thus particular in telling my readers about 
the bargain, because this debt which his father con- 
tracted was the means of making a man of Bobby, as 
will be seen in his subsequent history. 
John Bright paid the first fifty dollars ; but before 
the next instalment became due, the poor man was 
laid in his cold and silent grave. A malignant disease 
carried him off, and the hopes of the Bright family 
seemed to be blasted. 
Four children were left to the widow. The young- 
est was only three years old, and Bobby, the oldest, 
was nine, when his father died. Squire Lee, who had 
always been a good friend of John Bright, told the 
widow that she had better go to the poorhouse, and 
not attempt to struggle along with such a fearful odds 
against her. But the widow noblv refused to become 
a pauper, and to make paupers of her children, whom 
she loved quite as much as though she and they had 
been born in a ducal palace. She told the squire 
that she had two hands, and as long as she had her 
 
health, the town need not trouble itself about her sup- 
port. 
Squire Lee was filled with surprise and admiration 
at the noble resolution of the poor woman ; and when 
he returned to his house, he immediately sent her a 
cord of wood, ten bushels of potatoes, two bags of 
meal, and a firkin of salt pork. 
The widow was very grateful for these articles, and 
no false pride prevented her from accepting the gift 
of her rich and kind-hearted neighbor. 
Riverdale centre was largely engaged in the manu- 
facturing of boots and shoes, and this business gave 
employment to a large number of men and women. 
Mrs. Bright had for several years u closed " shoes 
which, my readers who do not live in " shoe towns " 
may not know, means sewing or stitching them. To 
this business she applied herself with renewed energy. 
There was a large hotel in Riverdale centre, where 
several families from Boston spent the summer. By 
the aid of Squire Lee, she obtained the washing of 
these families, which was more profitable than closing 
shoes. 
By these means she not only supported her family 
 
very comfortably, but was able to save a little money 
towards paying for the house. Mr. Hardhand, by the 
persuasions of Squire Lee, had consented to let the 
widow keep the house, and pay for it as she could. 
John Bright had been dead four years at the time 
we introduce Bobby to the reader. Mrs. Bright had 
paid another hundred dollars towards the house, with 
the interest; so there was now but one hundred due. 
