out that he did not come till the next morning, when 
the bounty of the stable boy had relieved them from 
the bitterness of want. The mother dropped a tear 
as she sooke of the wayward son ; and Harry had 
not the heart to press the inquiries he hf.d come to 
make. 
After speaking as well as he dared to speak of 
Edward, he took his leave, and hastened to the estab- 
lishment cf Wake and Wade, to applj for the vacant 
 
place. He had put on his best clothes, and hU 
appearance this time was very creditable. 
Entering the store, he inquired for Edward Flint ; 
tad that gentleman was summoned to receive him. 
" Hal.o, Harry West ! " said Edward, when k<s 
recognized his visitor. " I declare I forgot all about 
you." 
" I thought likely," replied Harry, willing to be 
very charitable to the delinquent. 
" The fact is, we have been so busy in the store, I 
uaven't had time to call on you, as I promised." 
" Never mind, now. Is the place filled ? " 
"No." 
" I am glad to hear that. Do you think there is 
any chance for me ? " 
" Well, I don't know. I will do what I can for 
you." 
" Thank you, Edward." 
" "Wait here a moment till I speak with one of 
the partners." 
The clerk left him, and was absent but a moment, 
wnen Harry was summoned to the private room of 
Mr "Wake. The gentleman questioned him for a 
few rromcnts, and seemed to be pleased with his 
address and his frankness. The result of the inter* 
\iew was, that our hero was engaged at a salary of 
three dollars a week, though it was objected to him 
that he had no parents residing in the city. 
" I thought I could fix it," said Edward, compla- 
cently, as they left the counting room. 
" I am much obliged to you, Edward," replied 
Harry, willing to humor his new friend. "Now I 
want to get a place to board." 
" That is easy enough." 
" Where do you board ? " 
" In Green Street." 
" How much do you pay a week ? " 
" Two dollars and a half." 
" I can't pay that." 
" Well, I suppose you can't." 
" I was thinking of something just now. Suppose 
wre should both board with your mother." 
Me?" 
" Yes." 
" What, in a ten- footer!" exclaimed Edward, start- 
ing back with astonishment and indignation at ths 
proposal. 
 
" Why not ? If it is good enough for your nutheij 
Isn't it good enough for you ? " 
" Humph ! I'll bet it won't suit me." 
" We can fix up a room to suit ourselves, you 
know. And it will be much cheaper for both of us." 
" That, indeed ; but the idea of boarding with the 
old man is not to be thought of." 
" I should think you would like to be with youl 
mother and your brother and sisters." 
" Not particular about it." 
" Better think of it, Edward." 
The clerk promised to think about it, but did not 
consider it very probable that he should ag/ee to the 
proposition. 
Harry returned to the stable, and immediately 
notified Major Phillips of his intention to leave his 
service As may be supposed, the stable keeper was 
Borry to lose him ; but he did not wish to stand in 
the way of his advancement. He paid him his wages, 
adding a gift of five dollars, and kindly permitted 
him to leave at once, as he desired to procure a place 
to board, and to acquaint himself with the localities 
of the city, so that he could discharge his duty tJw 
more acceptably to his new employers. 
Tne ostlers, too, were sorry to part with him-- 
particularly Joe Flint, whose admiration of our here 
was unbounded. In their rough and honest hearts 
they wished him well. They had often made fun of 
his good principles ; often laughed at him for re- 
fusing to pitch cents in the back yard on Sunday, 
and for going to church instead ; often ridiculed him 
under the name of " Little Pious ; " still they had a 
great respect for him. They who are " persecuted 
for righteousness' sake " — who are made fun of 
because they strive to do right — are always sure of 
Kke victory in the end. They may be often tried, but 
sooner or later they shall triumph. 
After dinner, he paid another visit to Mrs. Flint, 
in Avery Street. He opened his proposition to boanl 
in her family, to which she raised several objections, 
the chief of which was, that she had no room. The 
plan was more favorably received by Katy ; and she 
suggested that they could hire the little apartment 
up stairs, which was used as a kind of lumber room 
by the family in the other part of the house. 
Her mother finally consented to the arrangement, 
aud it became necessary to decide upon the teruis ' 
for Harry was a prudent manager, and left nothing to 
be settled afterwards. He then introduced the pro- 
ject he had mentioned to Edward ; and Mrs. Flint 
thought she could board them both for three dollars 
a week, if they could put up with humble fare. 
Harry declared that he was not " difficult," though 
he cou'd not speak for Edward. 
Our hero was delighted with the success of hia 
Bchrme, and only wished that Edward had consented 
to the arrangement; but the next time he saw him, 
somewhat to his surprise, the clerk withdrew hia 
objections, and entered heartily into the scheme. 
" You see, Harry, I shall make a dollar a week — - 
fifty-two dollars a year — by the arrangement," said 
Edward, after he had consented. 
