‘No, Mr. Burr, I know no language but my own.’
‘But you should learn French, my child,’ said Burr, with that gentle
dictatorship which he could at times so gracefully assume.
‘I should be delighted to learn,’ said Mary, ‘but have no opportunity.’
‘Yes,’ said Mrs. Scudder, ‘Mary has always had a taste for study, and
would be glad to improve in any way.’
‘Pardon me, madam, if I take the liberty of making a suggestion. There
is a most excellent man, the Abbé Léfon, now in Newport, driven here
by the political disturbances in France; he is anxious to obtain a few
scholars, and I am interested that he should succeed, for he is a most
worthy man.’
‘Is he a Roman Catholic?’
‘He is, madam; but there could be no manner of danger with a person so
admirably instructed as your daughter. If you please to see him, madam,
I will call with him some time.’
‘Mrs. Marvyn will, perhaps, join me,’ said Mary. ‘She has been studying
French by herself for some time, in order to read a treatise on
astronomy, which she found in that language. I will go over to-morrow
and see her about it.’
Before Colonel Burr departed, the doctor requested him to step a
moment with him into his study. Burr, who had had frequent occasions
during his life to experience the sort of paternal freedom which the
clergy of his country took with him in right of his clerical descent,
began to summon together his faculties of address for the avoidance
of a kind of conversation which he was not disposed to meet. He was
agreeably disappointed, however, when, taking a paper from the table,
and presenting it to him, the Doctor said,—
‘I feel myself, my dear sir, under a burden of obligation for
benefits received from your family, so that I never see a member of
it without casting about in my own mind how I may in some measure
express my good-will towards him. You are aware that the papers of
your distinguished grandfather have fallen into my hands, and from
them I have taken the liberty to make a copy of those maxims by which
he guided a life which was a blessing to his country and to the world.
May I ask the favour that you will read them with attention? and if you
find anything contrary to right reason or sober sense, I shall be happy
to hear of it on a future occasion.’
‘Thank you, Doctor,’ said Burr, bowing, ‘I shall always be sensible of
the kindness of the motive which has led you to take this trouble on my
account. Believe me, sir, I am truly obliged to you for it.’
And thus the interview terminated.
That night, the Doctor, before retiring, offered fervent prayers
for the grandson of his revered master and friend, praying that his
father’s and mother’s God might bless him and make him a living stone
in the Eternal Temple.
Meanwhile, the object of these prayers was sitting by a table in
dressing-gown and slippers, thinking over the events of the day.
The paper which Dr. H. had handed him contained the celebrated
‘Resolutions’ by which his ancestor led a life nobler than any mere
dogmas can possibly be. By its side lay a perfumed note from Madame
de Frontignac,—one of those womanly notes, so beautiful, so sacred in
themselves, but so mournful to a right-minded person who sees whither
they are tending. Burr opened and perused it,—laid it by,—opened the
document which the Doctor had given, and thoughtfully read the first of
the ‘Resolutions’:—
‘Resolved, That I will do whatsoever I think to be most to God’s glory,
and my own good profit and pleasure in the whole of my duration,
without any consideration of time, whether now or never so many myriad
ages hence.
‘Resolved, To do whatever I think to be my duty and most for the good
and advantage of mankind in general.
‘Resolved, To do this, whatsoever difficulties I meet with, and how
many and how great soever.’
Burr read the whole paper through attentively once or twice, and
paused thoughtfully over many parts of it. He sat for some time
after, lost in reflection; the paper dropped from his hand, and then
followed one of those long, deep seasons of fixed reverie, when the
soul thinks by pictures and goes over endless distances in moments.
In him, originally, every moral faculty and sensibility was as keenly
strung as in any member of that remarkable family from which he was
descended, and which has, whether in good or ill, borne no common
stamp. Two possible lives flashed before his mind at that moment,
rapidly as when a train sweeps by with flashing lamps in the night. The
life of worldly expediency, the life of eternal rectitude,—the life of
seventy years, and that life eternal in which the event of death is no
disturbance. Suddenly he roused himself up, picked up the paper, filed
and dated it carefully, and laid it by; and in that moment was renewed
again that governing purpose which sealed him, with all his beautiful
capabilities, as the slave of the fleeting and the temporary, which
sent him, at last, a shipwrecked man, to a nameless, dishonoured grave.
He took his pen and gave to a friend his own views of the events of the
day.
    ‘MY DEAR ——,
    ‘We are still in Newport, conjugating the verb s’ennuyer,
    which I, for one, have put through all the moods and tenses.
    Pour passer le temps, however, I have la belle Française
    and my sweet little Puritan. I visited there this morning.
    She lives with her mother, a little walk out toward the
    sea-side in a cottage quite prettily sequestered among
    blossoming apple-trees, and the great hierarch of modern
    theology, Dr. H., keeps guard over them. No chance here for
    any indiscretions, you see.
    ‘By-the-by, the good Doctor astonished our monde here on
    Sunday last, by treating us to a solemn onslaught on slavery
    and the slave-trade. He had all the chief captains and
    counsellors to hear him, and smote them hip and thigh, and
    pursued them even unto Shur.
    ‘He is one of those great, honest fellows, without the
    smallest notion of the world we live in, who think, in
    dealing with men, that you must go to work and prove the
    right and wrong of a matter; just as if anybody cared for
    that! Supposing he is right,—which appears very probable
    to me,—what is he going to do about it? No moral argument,
    since the world began, ever prevailed over twenty-five per
    cent. profit.
    ‘However, he is the spiritual director of la belle
    Puritaine, and was a resident in my grandfather’s family,
    so I did the agreeable with him as well as such an
    uncircumcised Ishmaelite could. I discoursed theology,—sat
    with the most docile air possible while he explained to
    me all the ins and outs in his system of the universe,
    past, present, and future,—heard him dilate calmly on the
    Millennium, and expound prophetic symbols, marching out
    before me his whole apocalyptic menagerie of beasts and
    dragons with heads and horns innumerable, to all which I
    gave edifying attention, taking occasion now and then to
    turn a compliment in favour of the ladies,—never lost, you
    know.
    ‘Really, he is a worthy old soul, and actually believes all
    these things with his whole heart, attaching unheard-of
