there was no telling from her manner. Certainly that kitchen was a
pleasant one to see. And she "followed," as she had said, wherever
Faith went and watched her whatever she did, conversation going on
meanwhile amusingly enough. Faith was making some cakes again; and then
concocting coffee, the Pattaquasset fête dish in ordinary; while Mrs.
Derrick broiled the chicken. With a great white apron enveloping her
brown stuff dress, and her arms bared, running about the kitchen and
dairy in her quick still way, Faith was a pretty contrast to the "blue
bird" who smiled on her and followed her and talked to her throughout.
Then the cakes were baking, and Faith came back to the sitting-room; to
set the table and cover it with all dainty things that farm materials
can produce. And if ever "Pet" had been affectionately served, she was
that night, and if ever a room was fresh and sweet and warm and
glowing, the fire-lit room where she went to sleep afterwards was such
a one.
But before that, when they had done tea, and talk and motion had
subsided a little, Miss Linden brought a low seat to Faith's side, and
taking that left hand in hers looked silently at the ring for a few
minutes,--then laid her cheek down upon it in Faith's lap. Faith's lip
trembled; but she only sat still as a statue till the cheek was lifted
up.
CHAPTER XXXVII.
In the early morning which Faith and her mother enjoyed next day
together, Mrs. Derrick was in a contemplative and abstracted state of
mind; assenting indeed to all Faith's words of pleasure and praise, but
evidently thinking of something else. At last the matter came out.
"Faith, how much money have we?--I mean, to last how long, suppose you
didn't do anything else but the butter?"
"Why, mother?"
"Why child, I've been thinking--do you know how much you've got to do
for yourself?--it won't do to put that off for Miss Bezac."
Faith's lips softly touched Mrs. Derrick's.
"Hush, mother, please!--Don't you think Dromy could find some
water-cress at the foot of the Savin hill?"
"Yes--like enough," said Mrs. Derrick,--"Reuben could if he was here.
And child, you may say 'hush,' but things won't hush, after all." With
which sentiment Mrs. Derrick gave attention to the tea-kettle, just
then a practical illustration of her remark.
About as bright and fresh and sweet as the morning Miss Linden looked
when she came down, but warmer and gentler than March in his best mood.
Her interest in everything about the house and its two tenants was
unbounded, and without being really like her brother, there was enough
family likeness in manner and voice to give a pleasant reminder now and
then. While they were at breakfast the man came from Pequot according
to order, but she went out alone to attend to him, coming back to the
table with a sort of gleeful face that spoke of pleasure or mischief in
prospect.
"Faith," she said, "we cannot touch those mantillas this morning."
"Can't we?" said Faith. "Which part of Pattaquasset shall we go to see?"
"Suppose we go up to my room and discuss matters."--
Faith was ready. Ready as a child, or as the "bird" she used to be
called, for any innocent play or work.
"My dear little sister," said Miss Linden as they ran up stairs, the
glee working out at the dainty finger ends that were on Faith's belt,
"don't you know that I promised you a 'message'? and don't you want to
have it?--O how lovely this room is! That trunk is not lovely, standing
just there. Dear Faith, you need not think all my baggage is coming
after it!"
"I wish it could,"--said Faith, looking after her "message."
"I want to shew you the key of this--it has something peculiar about
it," said Miss Linden searching in her bag. "Endecott said, Faith, that
as you and he had been together so much in a French atmosphere, you
must let him do one thing in the French style. To which message, as
well as to the trunk, you will find this the key."
Now attached to the key was a little card, on which was written simply
the word, "Trousseau."
Faith understood the word well enough, and it seemed to turn her into a
pretty petrifaction--with internal life at work indeed, as the rising
and falling colours witnessed. She stood with bended head looking at
the mysterious key; then making a swift transit to the window she
opened it and threw back the blinds and stood looking out, the key in
one hand giving little impatient or abstracted taps against the fingers
of the other. It was a pretty landscape certainly, but Faith had looked
at it often before.
Miss Linden on her part followed Faith to the window with her eyes and
a smile, then sat looking at the great leathern trunk in its travelling
cover, which it wore still. Once she made a motion to take this
off--then laid her hands back in their former position and waited for
Faith to come.
"Pet," said Faith presently,--"have you looked out of the window this
morning?" Which question brought two hands round her shoulders in no
time.
"Yes my dear, I have. What new beauties have you discovered?"
"It looks pretty in the spring light.--But I wasn't thinking of it,
either," said Faith blushing. And without raising her eyes, looking
distressed, she softly insinuated the key with its talismanic card back
into Miss Linden's hand.
"Well? what, dear Faith?"
"I don't know,"--said Faith softly. "You know."
"I know,"--said Miss Linden, "that Endecott locked the trunk and tied
the label to the key, and it is a great mistake to suppose that I will
unlock the one or take charge of the other. In the second place, I need
not even look on unless you wish. It can go to another room, or I will
leave you in undisturbed possession of this. So speak," she said,
kissing her.
Faith did not immediately. She wound her arms round her new sister and
hid her face in Miss Linden's neck, and stood so clasping her silently
for a few minutes. But when she raised her head she went straight to
the "trousseau" trunk; pulled off, business fashion, the travelling
cover; set the key in the lock, and lifted the lid.
"I should tell you, dear," said Miss Linden while this was doing--she
had seated herself a little way off from Faith and the trunk, "I should
tell you, that if it had been possible to get a pattern dress and so
forth, you would have found nothing here to do but look. As it is,
there is some work for your fingers, and I hope for mine." The lid was
now open, and between the two next protecting covers lay a letter. A
recognizing flash of eye greeted that; Faith put it out of sight and
lifted the second cover. From where she sat Miss Linden could see her
hand tremble.
There were two or three characteristics that applied to the whole
arrangement, choice, and filling of the "trousseau." The absence of
things useless was not more notable than the abundance of things
useful; and let not useful be understood to mean needful,--for of the
little extras which are so specially pleasant to those who never buy
them for themselves, there was also a full supply. The daintiness of
everything was great, but nothing was out of Faith's line: the stuffs
might be finer than she had always worn, but the colours were what she
had always liked, and in any one of those many dresses she might feel
at home in five minutes--they suited her so well. She could see, well
enough, that Mr. Linden not only remembered "her style" but loved
