the ebb tide set in against them. To add to this 
misfortune, the wind entirely died out, and they 
were forced to come to anchor, to prevent drifting 
down with the tide. With a good wind they 
were only two hours' sail from home ; but, as it 
was, there was a prospect of spending another 
night in the cabin of the Fawn — not a very un- 
pleasant alternative, John thought, especially as 
they had a lantern, and plenty of provisions on 
board. 
The cod and haddock had all been dressed, and 
there was nothing for the boys to do ; so Paul 
 
went into the cabin and stretched himself on his 
berth. He had placed two or three books on 
board for such an emergency as the present, and 
he was soon absorbed in the contents of one of 
them. He did not read longv for a hard day's 
work is not a good preparation for literary labors. 
The book fell from his hand, and to the music of 
the flapping sails he dropped asleep. 
It is a noticeable fact that fishermen can sleep 
twenty- four hours on a stretch. Many years ago, 
we went down a-fishing in one of the pinkey-stern 
schooners, which wpre much more common then 
in the waters of Massachusetts Bay than at the 
present time. The crew consisted of the skipper 
and three men, the former of whom was an old, 
weather-beaten fisherman, who had roughed it on 
the coast from his boyhood. We went down one 
night, intending to fish the next day, and return 
by sunset ; but unfortunately a heavy rain kept us 
at our anchorage off Spectacle Island for twenty-four 
hours. The old skipper got out of his berth and 
ate his breakfast about ten, and after going half way 
 
up the companion ladder, to smell the weather, 
turned in again, and slept till four, when he was 
called to partake of a greasy chowder. As soon 
as he had disposed of a reasonable allowance for 
four hearty men, be tumbled into his berth once 
more, and was not visible again till the next' morn- 
ing. The rest of the crew slept about two thirds 
of the time. They were the sleepiest men we ever 
encountered during their leisure; but even the old 
skipper su4denly joined the "wide-awakes" when 
we reached the fishing grounds. 
Paul had already contracted this fisherman's 
habit, and while the Fawn lay at anchor, he slept 
like a rock. After amusing himself for an hour 
on deck, John went below to take an observation, 
and to announce the prospect of "a breeze from 
the southward," for he had discovered a gentle 
ripple on the water at a distance. ' But when he 
saw that Paul was having his watch below," he 
quickly returned to the standing room, closing the 
cabin doors behind him. 
" There is a capfull of wind," said he to him- 
 
self, " and I will just show the skipper of the Fawn 
that I can handle her as well as he can." 
He waited till the breeze reached her, and then, 
with as little noise as possible, he weighed the 
anchor, and took his place at the helm. 
'' All right. Captain Duncan ; you can finish 
your snooze at your leisure," muttered he, con- 
gratulating himself upon the fact that he had got 
off without waking Paul. 
The wind freshened into a nice little breeze, 
and the Fawn, close-hauled, rippled merrily through 
the water. Still Paul slept on, unconscious of the 
progress she was making, while John was jubilant 
over the success of his trick. He was obliged to 
tack so as to go to the windward of Rock Island, 
but he twice accomplished this manoeuvre without 
disturbing the sleeper. 
The boat was now up with Rock Island, and 
John, who could never see why Paul always 
wanted to keep half a mile away from this dan- 
gerous reef, laid her course very near the rocks. 
" All right, my boy," said John, who had a 
 
bad habit of talking to himself when there was no 
one present to whom he could address his re- 
marks; "won't Captain Duncan be astonished 
when he comes out of the cabin ! " 
And Captain Duncan was astonished when he 
came out, for just as the rash first officer arrived 
to the conclusion that the boat had run clear of ail 
the dangers of the navigation in that quarter, — 
Bump ! went the Fawn on a hidden ledge. 
"What are you about?" cried Paul, angrily, as 
he rushed out of the cabin. 
" About got aground, I should say," replied 
John, a good deal more astonished than he had 
calculated Paul would be. 
" Let go your sheets ! Take the boat-hook, and 
let us push her off, if we can," cried Paul. 
Both the boys went to work, and after a few 
moments of hard labor, succeeded in pushing the 
Fawn off the ledge upon which she had struck. 
" I suppose this is a specimen of your manage- 
ment," said Paul, as he hauled the sheets home, 
and seated himself at the helm. 
 
"Rather bad management, I am willing to own," 
replied John, who felt that his reputation as a 
skilful navigator had departed in the twinkling 
of an eye. 
"Next time, when you undertake to sail the 
Fawn without me, don't you do it. You would 
be a pretty fellow to run the boat if I were away 
a week; there wouldn't be a board left on her 
ribs in three days." 
" It hasn't hurt her any, Paul." 
" I suppose it hasn't ; but it would have been 
just the same if it had been blowing a ten-knot 
breeze." 
But John felt that, if it hadn't hurt the Fawn 
any, it had hurt himself a great deal ; and he made 
