"I am in a bad way, then," said Mr. Linden with unmoved gravity.
"Because if I survive this trial of what I can bear, I intend to
advertise for the afore-named situation. Have you heard of any vacant
pole, Miss Faith?"

Faith looked at him with a grave, considering wonder, which gradually
broke into a sense of fun; and then she laughed, as she did not often
laugh.

Apparently Mr. Linden was well enough pleased with such answer to his
words, for he not only made no attempt to stop her, but even remarked
that it was good to be of a sympathizing disposition.

The day passed as usual; only of late it had got to be Faith's habit to
spend a good deal of time shut up in her room. It had never been her
habit before. But now, after going through her early household duties,
of which Faith had plenty, she used to be out of sight often for an
hour before dinner; unless when the dinner required just that hour of
her attention. Nothing was left behind her to call her down. Her dairy,
her bread and cake, her pies and cream-cheeses, her dinner
preparations--whatever the things might be--were all ready for the
day's wants; and then Faith was gone. After dinner it was still more
surely the same. Yet though all this was true, it was so quietly and
unobtrusively true that Mrs. Derrick had hardly observed it.

It happened this afternoon that Faith lingered upstairs,--not until
teatime, but until she heard her mother call. Reuben Taylor wanted to
see her. He was at the gate.

"I didn't want to disturb you, Miss Faith. I told Mrs. Derrick so. It's
only some clams,--which I thought maybe you'd like," said Reuben
modestly. "I left 'em in the kitchen."

"Thank you, Reuben--I like them very much. Do you feel better than you
did yesterday?"

"Yes, ma'am--" said Reuben rather slowly,--"I felt a great deal better
last night."

"And to-day--don't you?"

"Yes, ma'am," Reuben answered as before.

"But not so well as last night? What's the matter, Reuben?"

"Didn't you hear what they did last night, ma'am?"

"To be sure I did, but what has made you feel worse to-day?"

"Why you know, ma'am," said Reuben, "last night I forgot all about
everybody but Mr. Linden. But oh Miss Faith! I just wish you could have
been in school to-day for one minute!--when Mr. Linden came in! You
see," said Reuben, excitement conquering reserve, "the boys were all
there--there wasn't one of 'em late, and every one had a sprig of
basswood in his hat and in his buttonhole. And we all kept our hats on
till he got in, and stood up to meet him (though that we do always)
and then we took off our hats together and gave him such a shout!--You
know, Miss Faith," added Reuben with a smile both expressive and sweet,
"basswood's a kind of linden."

"And what did Mr. Linden do?" said Faith with a smile of her own that
very well reflected Reuben's.

"He didn't say much," said Reuben,--"he looked a good deal."

"Well, you foolish boy," said Faith gently, "don't you feel well now,
after all that? What's the matter?"

A heavy, shoe-leathery step came down the street--it was Squire Deacon.
Reuben knew who it was before the Squire came near, for he flushed up,
and for a moment stood with his back resolutely turned towards the
gate; then with an air as resolute, but different, he turned round and
bowed as courteously as he knew how--far more so than the Squire did to
him; for the combination of Faith and Reuben did not seem to fall
pleasantly upon Squire Deacon's organs of vision; nor indeed could he
have quite forgotten last night.

"Reuben, come in," said Faith touching his shoulder and smiling,--"I
want to speak to you. But first answer my question--why don't you feel
quite well now? You ought, Reuben."

"Yes, Miss Faith--I know I ought,--at least I oughtn't to feel just as
I do," Reuben answered. "Mr. Linden told me so to-day."

"Then why do you feel so?" Faith asked with increased earnestness.

Reuben coloured and hesitated.

"Folks vex me--" he said in a low voice. "And--and Mr. Linden says I
love him too well if I'm not willing to let him go when God pleases.
And I know it's true--but--" and Reuben followed Faith into the house
without another word.

"What do you mean about Mr. Linden's going?"

"Just that, ma'am," said Reuben simply. "Because we can't make
ourselves feel well by thinking things are going just as we want 'em
to--he says that's not strong enough ground to rest on."

"But does he talk of going away, Reuben?"

"O no! Miss Faith I never heard him,--he only talked so to me because
of what other folks said."

"Well," said Faith with a change of tone, "you're a foolish boy. You
come and see me whenever you get feeling bad again. Folks can't hurt
Mr. Linden. Now look here--Wait a minute, will you!"--

Faith ran upstairs; speedily came down again with a little blue-covered
book in her hand.

"Is this the arithmetic you study?" she said softly, coming close to
him.

Reuben took the book with some surprise in his face.

"Yes, ma'am, this is the one." And he looked up at her as if to ask,
what next.

"How far have you gone?"
