manner which had always commanded involuntary respect. He showed no
unseemly haste in dispossessing Mr. Dewey of his elegant home. Two
months after the title deeds had passed, I called in at Ivy Cottage, now
one of the sweetest, little places in S----, for Constance, who had
been passing the evening there. Not in any home, through all the region
round, into which it was my privilege to enter, was there radiant, like
a warm, enticing atmosphere that swelled your lungs with a new vitality,
and gave all your pulses a freer beat, such pure love--maternal and
conjugal--as pervaded this sanctuary of the heart. I say maternal,
as well as conjugal, for two dear babes had brought into this home
attendant angels from the higher heaven.
A soft astral lamp threw its mellow rays about the room. Mr. Wallingford
had a book open in his hand, from which he had been reading aloud to his
wife and Constance. He closed the volume as I entered, and rising, took
my hand, saying, with even more than his usual cordiality--
“Now our circle is complete.”
“Excuse me from rising, Doctor,” said Mrs. Wallingford, a smile of
welcome giving increased beauty to her countenance, as she offered the
hand that was free--the other held her babe, just three months old,
tenderly to her bosom.
“What have you been reading?” I asked, as I seated myself, and glanced
towards the volume which Mr. Wallingford had closed and laid upon the
table.
“A memorable relation of the Swedish Seer,” he replied, smiling.
“Touching marriage in heaven,” said I, smiling in return.
“Or, to speak more truly,” he replied, “the union of two souls in
heaven, into an eternal oneness. Yes, that was the subject, and it
always interests me deeply. Our life here is but a span, and our brief
union shadowed by care, pain, sickness, and the never-dying fear of
parting. The sky of our being is not unclouded long. And therefore I
cannot believe that the blessedness of married love dies forever at the
end of this struggle to come into perfect form and beauty. No, Doctor;
the end is not here. And so Blanche and I turn often with an eager
delight to these relations, feeling, as we read, that they are not mere
pictures of fancy, but heavenly verities. They teach us that if we
would be united in the next world, we must become purified in this.
That selfish love, which is of the person must give place to a love for
spiritual qualities. That we must grow in the likeness and image of God,
if we would make one angel in His heavenly kingdom.”
His eyes rested upon Blanche, as he closed the sentence, with a look
full of love; and she, as if she knew that the glance was coming, turned
and received it into her heart.
I did not question the faith that carried them over the bounds of time,
and gave them delicious foreshadowings of the blessedness beyond. As I
looked at them, and marked how they seemed to grow daily into a oneness
of spirit, could I doubt that there was for them an eternal union? No,
no. Such doubts would have been false to the instincts of my own soul,
and false to the instincts of every conscious being made to love and be
loved.
“The laying aside of this earthly investiture,” said Wallingford,
resuming, “the passage from mortal to immortal life, cannot change our
spirits, but only give to all their powers a freer and more perfect
development. Love is not a quality of the body, but of the spirit, and
will remain in full force, after the body is cast off like the shell of
a chrysalis. Still existing, it will seek its object. And shall it seek
forever and not find? God forbid! No! The love I bear my wife is not,
I trust, all of the earth, earthy; but instinct with a heavenly
perpetuity. And when we sleep the sleep of death, it will be in the
confident assurance of a speedy and more perfect conjunction of our
lives. On a subject of such deep concern, we are dissatisfied with the
vague and conjectural; and this is why the record of things seen and
heard in the spiritual world by Swedenborg--especially in what relates
to marriages in heaven--has for us such an absorbing interest.”
“Are you satisfied with the evidence?” I ventured to inquire, seeing him
so confident.
“Yes.”
He answered quietly, and with an assured manner.
“How do you reach a conclusion as to the truth of these things?”
“Something after the same way that you satisfy yourself that the sun
shines.”
“My eyes testify to me that fact. Seeing is believing,” I answered.
“The spirit of a man has eyes as well as his body,” said Wallingford.
“And seeing is believing in another sense than you intimate. Now
the bodily eyes see material objects, and the mind, receiving their
testimony, is in no doubt as to the existence, quality, and relation of
things in the outer world. The eyes of our spirits, on the other hand,
see immaterial objects or truths; and presenting them to the rational
and perceptive faculties, they are recognized as actual existences, and
their quality as surely determined as the quality of a stone or metal.
If you ask me how I know that this is quartz, or that iron; I answer, By
the testimony of my eyes. And so, if you ask how I satisfy myself as to
the truth of which I read in this book; I can only reply that I see it
all so clearly that conviction is a necessity. There is no trouble in
believing. To attempt disbelief, would be to illustrate the fable of
Sisyphus.”
He spoke calmly, like one whose mind had risen above doubt. I objected
nothing further; for that would have been useless. And why attempt to
throw questions into his mind? Was there anything evil in the faith
which he had adopted as exhibited in his life? I could not say yes. On
the contrary, taking his life as an illustration, good only was to be
inferred. I remembered very well when his mind diverged into this
new direction. Some years had intervened. I thought to see him
grow visionary or enthusiastic. Not so, however. There was a change
progressively visible; but it was in the direction of sound and rational
views of life. A broader humanity showed itself in his words and
actions. Then came the subtler vein of religious sentiments, running
like pure gold through all that appertained to him.
If, therefore, he was progressing towards a higher life, why should I
question as to the way being right for him? Why should I seek to turn
him into another path when there was such a broad light for his eyes on
the one he had chosen? “By their fruits ye shall know them.” And by his
fruits I knew him to be of that highest type of manhood, a Christian
gentleman.
I noticed, while Mr. Wallingford spoke so confidently of their reunion
in heaven, that his wife leaned towards, and looked at him, with eyes
through which her soul seemed going forth into his.
As the conversation flowed on, it gradually involved other themes, and
finally led to the question On my part, as to when they were going to
leave Ivy Cottage.
“That is quite uncertain,” replied Mr. Wallingford. “I shall not hurry
the present occupant. We have been so happy here, that we feel more
inclined to stay than to remove to a more ambitious home.”
“I hear that Mr. Dewey is going to build,” said I.
“Where?”
“He has been negotiating for the property on the elevation west of the
Allen House.”
“Ah!”
“Yes. The price of the ground, five acres, is ten thousand dollars.”
“The site is commanding and beautiful. The finest in S----, for one
who thinks mainly of attracting the attention of others,” said Mr.
