
“Would you?” said Debby, wondering. 

“Oh, yes,” said Jane: “we’ve got no- 
thing else in the whole world.” 

“And you think he loves you?” said 
Debby. 

“Why, I’m sure he does,” said Jane. 
“He wouldn’t have done so much for me 
if he didn’t. That’s what mother said yesterday, when Tim Ryan said he didn’t 
believe any such thing. Mother said, 
‘ Just read the Bible, and you’ll see it, 
Tim .’ v 

“I guess you’re a real little traveller, 
Jane,” said Debby. But why Debby 
sighed as she said it, she herself did not 
know. 


And now they had mounted the hill, 
and there, under the trees, was a long, 
white tent, and under the tent the feast 
was spread. How beautiful the tables 
looked ! — covered first with white cloths, 
and then with ever so many nice things. 

Of course, as it was a strawberry feast, 
there were more strawberries than any 
thing else, — some in dishes, and some in 
little baskets, and some in saucers, all 
ready to be eaten. Then there were dishes 




of cherries, and plates of cake, and flowers 
everywhere in great abundance. There 
was ice-cream, too, in a great pail over in 
one corner. So that Debby said it was 
almost as good as a fair. The teachers 
stood near the tables, and took care that 
all the children were well helped; and 
it was pretty to see the little things sitting 
about on the grass, eating their strawberries. Then they all sat together 
under the trees and sang; and after that, 
when the sun was nearly down, they 
went home. 

You would have been amused to see 
what a fancy Debby and Jane King took 
to each other. 


The first thing Debby said when she 
got home was, — 

“Oh, mother, I had a splendid time! 




And who do yon guess I walked with, up 
to Church Hill?” 

“How can I possibly guess?” said her 
mother, smiling. “Was it Tom Lane?” 

“Oh, no,” said Debby, “it wasn’t Tom; 
but it was somebody almost as good. It 
was areal little traveller, mother.” 

When Jane King got home, the first 
thing was to put her flowers in water; for 
Mrs. Singleton had given her a great bunch 
of roses and white lilies; and then Jane 
stood looking at them with much satisfaction. And no wonder; for they were the 
only pretty things in the room. Such a 
poor little room ! though it was very clean ; 
but with no carpet and no curtains, and 
only an old table and a 'stove and a few 
chairs. 

“Did you have a nice time, child?” I said 
her mother. 

“Oh, a very nice time,” said Jane; 



“and here’s some cake for you, mother 
And I walked with such a nice little girl in 
red shoes. They looked so pretty, mother, 
you can’t think!” 

Her mother looked down at Jane’s little 
bare feet, and said nothing. 



CHAPTER IV. 

It was the next day after the strawberry 
feast, and Debby Delaine and her mother 
sat at work in the front porch. Debby 
thought she was at work; but indeed it 
was only an apron for her doll; and, as 
the doll was very patient and willing to 
wait, there was really no hurry about it. 
So Debby sewed a little, and then she 
laid down the apron and played with the 
eat. And presently puss began to bite 
Debby ’s shoes. Debby watched her. The 
black shoes were on to-day, or, you may 
be sure, Debby would have stopped the 
cat’s sport quick enough. 

“Mother,” she said, suddenly, “I wish 
