"No, I ain't neither," said the literal Mrs. Kittridge, ignorant of the
cause of the amusement which she saw around her; "but you wa'n't no help
to me, you know; you was always off to sea, and the whole wear and tear
on't came on me."
"Well, well, Polly, all's well that ends well; don't you think so, Mr.
Sewell?"
"I haven't much experience in these matters," said Mr. Sewell, politely.
"No, indeed, that's what he hasn't, for he never will have a child round
the house that he don't turn everything topsy-turvy for them," said Miss
Emily.
"But I was going to remark," said Mr. Sewell, "that a friend of mine
said once, that the woman that had brought up six boys deserved a seat
among the martyrs; and that is rather my opinion."
"Wal', Polly, if you git up there, I hope you'll keep a seat for me."
"Cap'n Kittridge, what levity!" said his wife.
"I didn't begin it, anyhow," said the Captain.
Miss Emily interposed, and led the conversation back to the subject.
"What a pity it is," she said, "that this poor child's family can never
know anything about him. There may be those who would give all the world
to know what has become of him; and when he comes to grow up, how sad he
will feel to have no father and mother!"
"Sister," said Mr. Sewell, "you cannot think that a child brought up by
Captain Pennel and his wife would ever feel as without father and
mother."
"Why, no, brother, to be sure not. There's no doubt he will have
everything done for him that a child could. But then it's a loss to lose
one's real home."
"It may be a gracious deliverance," said Mr. Sewell--"who knows? We may
as well take a cheerful view, and think that some kind wave has drifted
the child away from an unfortunate destiny to a family where we are
quite sure he will be brought up industriously and soberly, and in the
fear of God."
"Well, I never thought of that," said Miss Roxy.
Miss Emily, looking at her brother, saw that he was speaking with a
suppressed vehemence, as if some inner fountain of recollection at the
moment were disturbed. But Miss Emily knew no more of the deeper parts
of her brother's nature than a little bird that dips its beak into the
sunny waters of some spring knows of its depths of coldness and shadow.
"Mis' Pennel was a-sayin' to me," said Mrs. Kittridge, "that I should
ask you what was to be done about the bracelet they found. We don't know
whether 'tis real gold and precious stones, or only glass and pinchbeck.
Cap'n Kittridge he thinks it's real; and if 'tis, why then the question
is, whether or no to try to sell it, or keep it for the boy agin he
grows up. It may help find out who and what he is."
"And why should he want to find out?" said Mr. Sewell. "Why should he
not grow up and think himself the son of Captain and Mrs. Pennel? What
better lot could a boy be born to?"
"That may be, brother, but it can't be kept from him. Everybody knows
how he was found, and you may be sure every bird of the air will tell
him, and he'll grow up restless and wanting to know. Mis' Kittridge,
have you got the bracelet handy?"
The fact was, little Miss Emily was just dying with curiosity to set her
dancing black eyes upon it.
"Here it is," said Mrs. Kittridge, taking it from a drawer.
It was a bracelet of hair, of some curious foreign workmanship. A green
enameled serpent, studded thickly with emeralds and with eyes of ruby,
was curled around the clasp. A crystal plate covered a wide flat braid
of hair, on which the letters "D.M." were curiously embroidered in a
cipher of seed pearls. The whole was in style and workmanship quite
different from any jewelry which ordinarily meets one's eye.
But what was remarkable was the expression in Mr. Sewell's face when
this bracelet was put into his hand. Miss Emily had risen from table and
brought it to him, leaning over him as she did so, and he turned his
head a little to hold it in the light from the window, so that only she
remarked the sudden expression of blank surprise and startled
recognition which fell upon it. He seemed like a man who chokes down an
exclamation; and rising hastily, he took the bracelet to the window, and
standing with his back to the company, seemed to examine it with the
minutest interest. After a few moments he turned and said, in a very
composed tone, as if the subject were of no particular interest,--
"It is a singular article, so far as workmanship is concerned. The value
of the gems in themselves is not great enough to make it worth while to
sell it. It will be worth more as a curiosity than anything else. It
will doubtless be an interesting relic to keep for the boy when he grows
up."
"Well, Mr. Sewell, you keep it," said Mrs. Kittridge; "the Pennels told
me to give it into your care."
"I shall commit it to Emily here; women have a native sympathy with
anything in the jewelry line. She'll be sure to lay it up so securely
that she won't even know where it is herself."
"Brother!"
"Come, Emily," said Mr. Sewell, "your hens will all go to roost on the
wrong perch if you are not at home to see to them; so, if the Captain
will set us across to Harpswell, I think we may as well be going."
"Why, what's your hurry?" said Mrs. Kittridge.
"Well," said Mr. Sewell, "firstly, there's the hens; secondly, the pigs;
and lastly, the cow. Besides I shouldn't wonder if some of Emily's
admirers should call on her this evening,--never any saying when Captain
Broad may come in."
"Now, brother, you are too bad," said Miss Emily, as she bustled about
her bonnet and shawl. "Now, that's all made up out of whole cloth.
Captain Broad called last week a Monday, to talk to you about the pews,
and hardly spoke a word to me. You oughtn't to say such things, 'cause
it raises reports."
"Ah, well, then, I won't again," said her brother. "I believe, after
all, it was Captain Badger that called twice."
"Brother!"
"And left you a basket of apples the second time."
"Brother, you know he only called to get some of my hoarhound for
Mehitable's cough."
"Oh, yes, I remember."
"If you don't take care," said Miss Emily, "I'll tell where you call."
"Come, Miss Emily, you must not mind him," said Miss Roxy; "we all know
his ways."
And now took place the grand leave-taking, which consisted first of the
three women's standing in a knot and all talking at once, as if their
very lives depended upon saying everything they could possibly think of
before they separated, while Mr. Sewell and Captain Kittridge stood
patiently waiting with the resigned air which the male sex commonly
assume on such occasions; and when, after two or three "Come, Emily's,"
the group broke up only to form again on the door-step, where they were
at it harder than ever, and a third occasion of the same sort took place
at the bottom of the steps, Mr. Sewell was at last obliged by main force
to drag his sister away in the middle of a sentence.
Miss Emily watched her brother shrewdly all the way home, but all traces
of any uncommon feeling had passed away; and yet, with the restlessness
of female curiosity, she felt quite sure that she had laid hold of the
end of some skein of mystery, could she only find skill enough to unwind
it.
She took up the bracelet, and held it in the fading evening light, and
