        Donet gerendi gratiam!
        "Christus nobis sit cibus,
        Potusque noster sit fides:
        Læti bibamus sobriam
        Ebrietatem spiritus!
        "Lætus dies hic transeat,
        Pudor sit ut diluculum,
        Fides velut meridies.
        Crepusculum mens nesciat!"[3]
        [3] Splendor of the Father's glory,
              Bringing light with cheering ray,
            Light of light and fount of brightness,
              Day, illuminating day!
            In our prayers we call thee Father,
              Father of eternal glory,
            Father of a mighty grace:
              Heal our errors, we implore thee!
            Form our struggling, vague desires;
              Power of spiteful spirits break;
            Help us in life's straits, and give us
              Grace to suffer for thy sake!
            Christ for us shall be our food;
              Faith in him our drink shall be;
            Hopeful, joyful, let us drink
              Soberness of ecstasy!
            Joyful shall our day go by,
              Purity its dawning light,
            Faith its fervid noontide glow,
              And for us shall be no night!
The hymn in every word well expressed the character and habitual pose
of mind of the singer, whose views of earthly matters were as different
from the views of ordinary working mortals as those of a bird, as he
flits and perches and sings, must be from those of the four-footed
ox who plods. The "sobriam ebrietatem spiritus" was with him first
constitutional, as a child of sunny skies, and then cultivated by every
employment and duty of the religious and artistic career to which from
childhood he had devoted himself. If perfect, unalloyed happiness has
ever existed in this weary, work-day world of ours, it has been in
the bosoms of some of those old religious artists of the Middle Ages,
whose thoughts grew and flowered in prayerful shadows, bursting into
thousands of quaint and fanciful blossoms on the pages of missal and
breviary. In them the fine life of color, form, and symmetry, which is
the gift of the Italian, formed a rich stock on which to graft the true
vine of religious faith, and rare and fervid were the blossoms.
For it must be remarked in justice of the Christian religion, that the
Italian people never rose to the honors of originality in the beautiful
arts till inspired by Christianity. The Art of ancient Rome was a
second-hand copy of the original and airy Greek,--often clever, but
never vivid and self-originating. It is to the religious Art of the
Middle Ages, to the Umbrian and Florentine schools particularly, that
we look for the peculiar and characteristic flowering of the Italian
mind. When the old Greek Art revived again in modern Europe, though at
first it seemed to add richness and grace to this peculiar development,
it smothered and killed it at last, as some brilliant tropical parasite
exhausts the life of the tree it seems at first to adorn. Raphael
and Michel Angelo mark both the perfected splendor and the commenced
decline of original Italian Art; and just in proportion as their ideas
grew less Christian and more Greek did the peculiar vividness and
intense flavor of Italian nationality pass away from them. They became
again like the ancient Romans, gigantic imitators and clever copyists,
instead of inspired kings and priests of a national development.
The tones of the monk's morning hymn awakened both Agnes and Elsie, and
the latter was on the alert instantly.
"Bless my soul!" she said, "brother Antonio has a marvelous power of
lungs; he is at it the first thing in the morning. It always used to be
so; when he was a boy, he would wake me up before daylight singing."
"He is happy, like the birds," said Agnes, "because he flies near
heaven."
"Like enough: he was always a pious boy; his prayers and his pencil
were ever uppermost: but he was a poor hand at work: he could draw you
an olive-tree on paper; but set him to dress it, and any fool would
have done better."
The morning rites of devotion and the simple repast being over, Elsie
prepared to go to her business. It had occurred to her that the visit
of her brother was an admirable pretext for withdrawing Agnes from the
scene of her daily traffic, and of course, as she fondly supposed,
keeping her from the sight of the suspected admirer.
Neither Agnes nor the monk had disturbed her serenity by recounting
the adventure of the evening before. Agnes had been silent from the
habitual reserve which a difference of nature ever placed between her
and her grandmother,--a difference which made confidence on her side
an utter impossibility. There are natures which ever must be silent to
other natures, because there is no common language between them. In the
same house, at the same board, sharing the same pillow even, are those
forever strangers and foreigners, whose whole stock of intercourse is
limited to a few brief phrases on the commonest material wants of life,
and who, as soon as they try to go farther, have no words that are
mutually understood.
"Agnes," said her grandmother, "I shall not need you at the stand
to-day. There is that new flax to be spun, and you may keep company
with your uncle. I'll warrant me, you'll be glad enough of that!"
"Certainly I shall," said Agnes, cheerfully. "Uncle's comings are my
holidays."
"I will show you somewhat further on my Breviary," said the monk.
"Praised be God, many new ideas sprang up in my mind last night, and
seemed to shoot forth in blossoms. Even my dreams have often been made
fruitful in this divine work."
"Many a good thought comes in dreams," said Elsie; "but, for my part, I
work too hard and sleep too sound to get much that way."
"Well, brother," said Elsie, after breakfast, "you must look well after
Agnes to-day; for there be plenty of wolves go round, hunting these
little lambs."
"Have no fear, sister," said the monk, tranquilly; "the angels have
her in charge. If our eyes were only clear-sighted, we should see that
Christ's little ones are never alone."
"All that is fine talk, brother; but I never found that the angels
attended to any of my affairs, unless I looked after them pretty sharp
myself; and as for girls, the dear Lord knows they need a legion apiece
to look after them. What with roystering fellows and smooth-tongued
gallants, and with silly, empty-headed hussies like that Giulietta, one
has much ado to keep the best of them straight. Agnes is one of the
best, too,--a well-brought up, pious, obedient girl, and industrious
as a bee. Happy is the husband who gets her. I would I knew a man good
enough for her."
This conversation took place while Agnes was in the garden picking
oranges and lemons, and filling the basket which her grandmother was to
take to the town. The silver ripple of a hymn that she was singing came
through the open door; it was part of a sacred ballad in honor of Saint
Agnes:--
        "Bring me no pearls to bind my hair,
