
And she vanished, warbling delicious roulades from a 
duet she had engaged to sing that evening with her betrothed. She showed herself np-stairs again, when she was rea 
dy for her ride and the carriage at the door very fair, very 
bright and very happy. She was exquisitely dressed, and 
called on her sister to admire her toilet and envy her her 
escort. 

Sarah listened to the cheerful exchange of cautions and 
promises between her mother and Philip, at the door beneath 
her open window, and to the rolling wheels that bore them 
away. 

Mrs. Hunt received none of her friends that day, being 
busy " getting things to rights ;" and for a like reason she 
absented herself from her child's sick-room, content with 
sending up Jeannie, now and then, to inquire how she was 




getting on. In the abject loneliness that oppressed her, 
when the first violence of passidns had spent itself, Sarah 
would have been relieved in some measure by the society of 
this pet sister, the sole object upon earth, besides her father, 
that had ever repaid her love with any thing like equal at 
tachment. But the child shrank, like most others of her 
age, from the quiet dark chamber of illness, and longed to 
follow her mother through the house, in her tour of observation and renovation. Sarah detected her restlessness and 
ill-concealed dislike of the confinement imposed upon her 
by compliance with her humble petition, 

" Please, Jeannie, stay a little while with your poor sister !" And her sensitive spirit turned upon itself, as a final 
stroke of torture, the conviction that here, also, love and 
care had been wasted. 

" Go, then !" she said, rather roughly, as Jeannie wavered, 
" and you need not come up again to-day. I know it is not 
pleasant for you to be here. Tell mother I want nothing 
but quiet." 

"I have had a splendid drive!" said Lucy, rustling her 
many flounces into the door at dusk. 

The figure upon the bed made no response by motion or 
word. 

"I do believe she is asleep !" added the intruder, lowering 
her voice. " I suppose she is tired and needs rest." And she 
went out on tiptoe. 

Sarah was awake a minute later, when her father came 
in to see her. She smiled at him, as he " hoped she was 
better," and asked whether she might not get up on the 
morrow. Mr. Hunt thought not. The doctor's opinion 
was that perfect repose might ward off the worse features 
of the disease. She had better keep her bed for a couple 
of days yet, even should she feel well enough to be about. 
He sent up her dinner to her room with his own hands ; and 





when she learned this, she strove to do some feeble justice 
to the viands, but without success. 

Philip dined with the family that day by special appointment ; and, shortly after his arrival, Lucy again presented 
herself in that small third-story bedroom. 

" Choose ! which hand will you take ?" she cried, hiding 
both behind her. 

Sarah would make no selection ; and, after a little more 
trifling, the elder sister brought into sight two elegant bouquets, and laid them beside the invalid. 

" This is Philip's present a fraternal remembrance, he 
told me to say. Here is his card. Doesn't he write a lovely hand ? The other, is from your admirer, Mr. Hammond. 
What a sly puss you were to make such a catch as he is, 
without dropping us a hint ! He is rather too sober for my 
notions ; but he is getting rich fast, they say. He left those 
flowers at the door himself, and insisted upon seeing father 
for a moment, to know exactly how you were. Cannot you 
hurry up somewhat, and let us have a double wedding ? I 
showed the bouquet to Philip, and told him of your con 
quest, and he was as much pleased at your prospects as I 
was. Did you ever see such magnificent roses ? your beau 
paid five dollars, at the lowest computation, for these flowers. 
I congratulate you upon these signs of liberality !" . 

Sarah had heard only a portion of this speech. Her eyes 
were fixed upon the card her sister had put into her hand : 
" Will Miss Sarah accept this trifling token of regard from 
one who is her stanch friend, and hopes, in time, to have a 
nearer claim upon her esteem ?" 

" Very neatly turned, is it not ?" said Lucy, satisfiedly. 
She had read it on her way up-stairs. " What shall I say to 
him from you ?" 

" Thank him, and explain that I am not able to write a 
reply." 



 



This meagre return of compliments assumed a tone both 
grateful and sisterly as Lucy rehearsed it to the donor of 
the fragrant offering. The barest phrase of civility came 
gracefully and meaningly from her tongue. Serene in mind 
and countenance, she seated herself at the piano, and, as 
Philip took his stand at her side, he wondered if the world 
held another couple more entirely adapted each to the peculiar soul-needs of the other, more perfectly happy in the 
knowledge of mutual affection. Like the generality of the orists, your student of human nature is prone to grievous 
error when he reduces his flawless system to practice. 

In one respect, the two certainly harmonized well. Both 
