if you desire it."
"I don't like the rule, sir."
"I think it is an excellent rule. But you waste my time. Your decision,
Grant."
"I should like to think of the matter, sir."
"Your decision at once," said the colonel; and Richard saw the sharp
eyes grow a shade sharper, and heard the deep voice grow a shade
sterner.
The recruit winced under the necessity thus laid upon him. The
principal could not be trifled with, and he must either submit, or take
the consequences, which were so indefinite to him that they seemed
sufficiently terrible.
"I will give up the money," said he, with a struggle, as he handed his
wallet to the colonel.
"I am glad to find you are a discreet and sensible youth," added the
colonel, as he wrote the receipt, and handed it, with the wallet, from
which he had taken the money, back to the owner. "If you wish to use
money for any proper purpose, you can draw on me, and your paper shall
be honored to the extent of the funds in my hands."
"I don't think I am likely to want money here," answered Richard,
gloomily.
"Every needed article will be furnished. Now, Grant, I am afraid you
have come here with an intention to resist our wholesome regulations.
If so, you must learn the meaning of "right about, face"--in its moral
application, I mean. Your father has told me all about you, and given
me explicit instructions to make a man of you. I understand your case
perfectly. If you are disposed to observe the rules of the Institute,
we shall treat you like a gentleman. The future is before you, young
man, and you must choose for yourself."
"I intend to obey the rules, sir," said Richard, rather crest-fallen
after what had happened.
"I am very glad to hear you say so. In a few days you will be provided
with the uniform worn by the pupils of the Institute. Here is a time
card for the fall term. Look it over carefully, for you will be
required to conform to it very strictly. To-morrow morning you will
take your place with the boys, and go through with the programme just
as though you had been here all your lifetime. We make no allowances
for beginners; they will have seasonable warning, and they must be on
the ground promptly at the moment. There will be a dress parade in a
few moments, and you can go out and witness it, if you choose," said
Colonel Brockridge, as he handed Richard the card. "After supper, Mr.
Gault will introduce you to the boys of your barrack."
Richard took the card, and left the room. As he passed out of the
building he descried the boys at play on the lawn. They were all
dressed in a uniform of gray cloth, though some wore a loose blouse,
and some, in the heat of play, had thrown off their jackets. The new
scholar walked over to the flagstaff, where the stars and stripes were
flying, and seated himself on a bench. The boys seemed to be having a
good time, in spite of the strictness of the discipline. As he listened
to the tremendous noise they made, and saw the rough-and-tumble games
in which they were engaged, he became convinced that the Institute was
not of the Blember style, and he began to have some hope that he should
survive the shock.
While he was waiting for the dress parade, he examined the time card
given him by the principal. To him it had a decidedly strait-jacket
odor, and he read it with a feeling of repugnance, not to say disgust.
It was as follows:--
    "TUNBROOK MILITARY INSTITUTE.
    FALL TERM.
    From Sept. 1 to Dec. 1.
     6     A. M.  Reveille.
     6.30    "    Study.
     7.30    "    Breakfast.
     8       "    Squad Drill.
     9       "    Study and Recitation.
    11       "    Battalion Drill.
     1     P. M.  Dinner.
     1.30    "    Recreation.
     3       "    Study and Recitation.
     5       "    Recreation.
     6       "    Dress Parade.
     6.30    "    Supper.
     7       "    Off Time.
     9       "    Retire.
    The 'Off Time' belongs to the student; but deficient lessons must
    be made up during these hours.
    Camp duty will be performed by all students for one week, in each
    term, except the winter term.
                             J. BROCKRIDGE,
                                   Principal."
Richard thought the time card was rather formidable, but he came to the
conclusion that he could stand it, if the rest of the boys could.
While he was musing upon the present and the future, the rattling drum
sounded, and the boys instantly suspended their play. In a moment the
whole crowd had disappeared within the buildings that flanked the lawn;
but presently the rattle of several drums was heard, and one company
after another marched upon the parade ground, and formed the line.
Every boy was dressed in full uniform now, the blouses and other
non-conforming garments having been thrown aside, and every one wore
white gloves.
Richard found that the teachers were not the officers of the companies,
or the battalion, as he had expected. Several of the instructors were
present, but they appeared to take no part in the proceedings. Every
thing was managed by the boys, apparently without any assistance from
the teachers. The captains, lieutenants, sergeants, and corporals were
all in appropriate uniform, with their rank designated as in the United
States army. The swords and muskets were genuine weapons, though not so
large and heavy as those used by older soldiers. The students varied in
age from fourteen to eighteen.
The various evolutions of the dress parade were regularly performed.
The adjutant announced to the major that the parade was formed; the
band, consisting of eight pieces, marched up and down the line; the
first sergeants reported "all present or accounted for," and the
company officers marched up to the commander of the battalion. The boys
were as rigid as statues when the order, "Parade--rest," was given. The
companies marched back to the armories, broke ranks, and were
dismissed.
Richard was delighted with this exhibition, and the Tunbrook Military
Institute went up many degrees in his estimation. He followed the boys
into the supper room, where, without much ceremony, he made the
acquaintance of several captains and lieutenants. He received a hearty
welcome from his new associates, and began to feel very much at home.
The supper was not exactly what he had been accustomed to at Woodville,
but it was plain wholesome food; and when he saw officers and privates,
from the major down to the drummers, partake of it with hearty relish,
he was not disposed to grumble.
After supper, the boys scattered in every direction. Some went out
doors, some to the barracks, some to the school rooms. It was
"off-time," and without much assistance from Mr. Gault, who attempted
to introduce him, he made the acquaintance of half the students in the
