them, and under them, for the earth shook. She raised her head again,
but only to shrink back the second time, when the lightning and the
thunder were repeated. This time her head was not raised again, and she
kept her hand covered over her eyes. Yet whenever the sound of the
thunder came, Eleanor's frame answered it by a start. She said nothing;
it was merely the involuntary answer of the nerves. The storm was a
severe one, and when the severity of it passed a little further off,
the torrents of rain still fell.
"You do not like thunder storms"--Mr. Rhys remarked, when the
lightnings had ceased to be so vivid or so near.
"Does anybody like them?"
"Yes. I like everything."
"You are happy"--said Eleanor.
"Why are not you?"
"I can't help it," said the girl, lifting up her head, though she did
not let her eyes go out of the window. "I cannot bear to see the
lightning. It is foolish, but I cannot help it."
"Are you sure it is foolish? Is there not some reason at the bottom of
it?"
"I think there is a reason, though still it is foolish. There was a man
killed by lightning just by our door, once--when I was a child. I saw
him--I never can forget it, never!"
And a sort of shudder ran over Eleanor's shoulders as she spoke.
"You want my armour," said her companion. The tone of voice was not
only grave but sympathising. Eleanor looked up at him.
"Your armour?"
"You charged me with wearing armour--and I confessed it," he said with
something of a smile. "It is a sort of armour that makes people safe in
all circumstances."
He looked so quiet, so grave, so cool, and his eye had such a light in
it, that Eleanor could not throw off his words. He looked like a man
in armour. But no mail of brass was to be seen.
"What do you mean?" she said.
"Did you never hear of the helmet of salvation?"
"I don't know," said Eleanor wonderingly. "I think I have heard the
words. I do not think I ever attached any meaning to them."
"Did you never feel," he said, speaking with a peculiar deliberation of
manner, "that you were exposed to danger--and to death--from which no
effort of yours could free you; and that after death, there is a great
white throne to meet, for which you are not ready?"
While he spoke slowly, his eyes were fixed upon Eleanor with a clear
piercing glance which she felt read her through and through; but she
was fascinated instead of angered, and submitted her own eyes to the
reading without wishing to turn them away. Carrying on two trains of
thought at the same time, as the mind will, her inward reflection was,
"I had no idea that you were so good-looking!"--the answer in words was
a sober, "I have felt so."
"Was the feeling a happy one?"
Eleanor's lip suddenly trembled; then she put down that involuntary
natural answer, and said evasively, looking out of the window, "I
suppose everybody has such feelings sometimes."
"Not with that helmet on"--said her companion.
With all the quietness of his speech, and it was very unimpassioned,
his accent had a clear ring to it, which came from some unsounded
spirit-depth of power; and Eleanor's heart for a moment sunk before it
in a secret convulsion of pain. She concealed this feeling, as she
thought, successfully; but that single ray of light had shewed her the
darkness; it was keen as an arrow, and the arrow rankled. And her
neighbour's next words made her feel that her heart lay bare; so
quietly they touched it.
"You feel that you want something, Miss Powle."
Eleanor's head drooped, as well as her heart. She wondered at herself;
but there was a spell of power upon her, and she could by no means lift
up either. It was not only that his words were true, but that he knew
them to be so.
"Do you know what you want?" her friend went on, in tons that were
tender, along with that deliberate utterance that carried so much force
with it. "You know yourself an offender before the Lord--and you want
the sense of forgiveness in your heart. You know yourself inclined to
be an offender again--and you want the renewing grace of God to make
your heart clean, and set it free from the power of sin. Then you want
also something to make you happy; and the love of Jesus alone can do
that."
"What is the use of telling over the things one has not got?"--said
Eleanor in somewhat smothered tones. The words of her companion came
again clear as a bell--
"Because you may have them if you want them."
Eleanor struggled with herself, for her self-possession was endangered,
and she was angry at herself for being such a fool; but she could not
help it; yet she would not let her agitation come any more to the
surface. She waited for clearness of voice, and then could not forbear
the question,
"How, Mr. Rhys?"
"Jesus said, 'If any man thirst, let him come unto me and drink.' There
is all fulness in him. Go to him for light--go to him for strength--go
to him for forgiveness, for healing, for sanctification. 'Whosoever
will, let him take of the water of life freely.'"
"'Go to him?'" repeated Eleanor vaguely.
"Ask him."
Ask Him! It was such a far-off, strange idea to her a heart, there
seemed such a universe of distance between, Eleanor's face grew visibly
shadowed with the thought. She? She could not. She did not know how.
She was silent a little while. The subject was getting unmanageable.
"I never had anybody talk to me so before, Mr. Rhys," she said,
thinking to let it pass.
"Perhaps you never will again," he said. "Hear it now. The Lord Jesus
is not far off--as you think--he is very near; he can hear the faintest
whisper of a petition that you send to him. It is his message I bring
you to-day--a message to you. I am his servant, and he has given me
this charge for you to-day--to tell you that he loves you--that he has
given his life for yours--and that he calls Eleanor Powle to give him
her heart, and then to give him her life, in all the obedience his
service may require."
Eleanor felt her heart strangely bowed, subdued, bent to his words. "I
will"--was the secret language of her thoughts--"but I must not let
this man see all I am feeling, if I can help it." She held herself
still, looking out of the window, where the rain fell in torrents yet,
though the thunder and the lightning were no longer near. So did he; he
added no more to his last words, and a silence lasted in the old ruined
window as if its chance occupants were gone again. As the silence
lasted, Eleanor felt it grow awkward. She was at a loss how to break
it. It was broken for her then.
"What will you do, Miss Powle?"
"I will think about it"--she answered, startled and hesitating.
"How long, before you decide?"
"How can I tell?" she said.
"You are shrinking from a decision already formed. The answer is given
in your secret thoughts, and something is rising up in the midst of
them to thwart it. Shall I tell my Master that his message is refused?"
"Mr. Rhys!" said Eleanor looking up, "I never heard any one talk so in
