"You think they have a quarrel for us?" repeated the doctor.
"I don't know, Dr. Sandford--" Daisy answered in a strangely tender and
sober voice. It was strange to her two hearers.
"But you believe in the white spirits, I suppose, as well as in the
other branch of the connection?"
"Papa," said Daisy, her feeling breaking a little through her composure
so much as to bring a sort of cry into her voice--"there is joy among
the angels of heaven whenever anybody grows good!--"
She had turned to her father as she spoke and threw her arms round his
neck, hiding her face, with a clinging action that told somewhat of that
which was at work in her mind. Mr. Randolph perhaps guessed at it. He
said nothing; he held her close to his breast; and the curtain drew at
that moment for the last tableau. Daisy did not see it, and Mr. Randolph
did not think of it; though people said it was very good, it was only
the head and shoulders of Theresa Stanfield as an old country
schoolmistress, seen behind a picture frame, with her uplifted finger
and a bundle of rods. Theresa was so transformed that nobody would have
known her; and while the company laughed and applauded, Daisy came back
to her usual self; and slid out of her father's arms when the show was
over, all ready for supper and Nora Dinwiddie.
There was a grand supper, and everybody was full of pleasure and
complimentary speeches and discussion and praise of the tableaux. That
was among the elder portion of the company. The four or five children
were not disposed to such absolute harmony. Grapes and ices and
numberless other good things were well enjoyed, no doubt; but amidst
them all a spirit of criticism was rife.
"Daisy, your wings didn't look a bit like real wings--" said Jane
Linwood.
"No," echoed Nora, "I guess they didn't. They were like--let me see what
they were like! They were like the wings of a windmill."
"No, they weren't!" said Ella. "I was in the drawing-room--and they
didn't look like a windmill a bit. They looked queer, but pretty."
"Queer, but pretty!" repeated Nora.
"Yes, they did," said Ella. "And you laughed when you were Red
Riding-hood, Nora Dinwiddie."
"I didn't laugh a bit!"
"It is no matter if you did laugh, Nora," said Daisy;--"you got grave
again, and the picture was very nice."
"I didn't laugh!" said Nora; "and if I did, everybody else did. I don't
think the pictures I saw were at all like pictures--they were just like
a parcel of people dressed up."
Some gay paper mottoes made a diversion and stopped the little mouths
for a time; and then the people went away.
"Well Daisy," said Mrs. Gary,--"how do you like this new entertainment?"
"The pictures? I think they were very pretty, aunt Gary."
"How happened it that somebody else wore my diamonds?" said her
mother,--"and not you. I thought you were to be dressed for Queen
Esther?"
"Yes, mamma, so I was at first; and then it was thought best--"
"Not by me," said Preston. "It was no doing of mine. Daisy was to have
been Esther, and she herself declared off--backed out of it, and left me
to do as best I could."
"What was that for, Daisy?" said Mrs. Gary. "You would have made an
excellent Esther."
"What was that for, Daisy?" said Mrs. Randolph. "Did you not like to be
Esther?"
"Yes, mamma--I liked it at one time."
"And why not at another time?"
"I found out that somebody else would like it too, mamma; and I
thought----"
Mrs. Randolph broke out with a contemptuous expression of displeasure.
"You thought you would put yourself in a corner! You were not manager,
Daisy; and you must remember something is due to the one that is. You
have no right to please yourself."
"Come here, Daisy," said her father, "and bid me good night. I dare say
you were trying to please somebody else. Tell mamma she must remember
the old fable, and excuse you."
"What fable, Mr. Randolph?" the lady inquired, as Daisy left the room.
"The one in which the old Grecian told the difficulty of pleasing more
people than one or two at once."
"Daisy is ruined!" said Mrs. Randolph.
"I do not see how it appears."
"She has not entered into this thing at all as we hoped she would--not
at all as a child should."
"She looked a hundred years old, in the Game of Life," said Mrs. Gary.
"I never saw such a representation in my life. You would have said she
was a real guardian angel of somebody, who was playing his game not to
please her."
"I am glad it is over!" said Mrs. Randolph. "I am tired of it all." And
she walked off. So did Mr. Randolph, but as he went he was thinking of
Daisy's voice and her words--"There is joy among the angels of heaven
whenever anybody grows good."
CHAPTER XIX.
It was growing late in the fall now. Mrs. Randolph began to talk of
moving to the city for the winter. Mr. Randolph more than half hinted
that he would like as well to stay where he was. But his wife said that
for Daisy's sake they must quit Melbourne, and try what new scenes, and
lessons, and dancing school would do for her. "Not improve the colour in
her cheeks, I am afraid," said Mr. Randolph; but however he did not
oppose, and Mrs. Randolph made her arrangements.
It was yet but a day or two after the tableaux, when something happened
to disturb her plans. Mr. Randolph was out riding with her, one fine
October morning, when his horse became unruly in consequence of a stone
hitting him; a chance stone thrown from a careless hand. The animal was
restive, took the stone very much in dudgeon, ran, and carrying his
rider under a tree, Mr. Randolph's forehead was struck by a low-lying
limb and he was thrown off. The blow was severe; he was stunned; and had
not yet recovered his senses when they brought him back to Melbourne.
Mrs. Randolph was in a state almost as much beyond self-management.
Daisy was out of the house. Mrs. Gary had left Melbourne; and till the
doctor arrived Mrs. Randolph was nearly distracted.
He came; and though his fine face took no gloom upon it and his blue eye
was as usual impenetrable, the eyes that anxiously watched him were not
satisfied. Dr. Sandford said nothing; and Mrs. Randolph had
self-control sufficient not to question him, while he made his
examinations and applied his remedies. But the remedies, though severe,
were a good while in bringing back any token of consciousness. It came
at last, faintly. The doctor summoned Mrs. Randolph out of the room then
and ordered that his patient should be kept in the most absolute and
profound quiet. No disturbance or excitement must be permitted to come
near him.
"How long, doctor?"
"I beg your pardon, Mrs. Randolph?--"
"How long will it be before he is better?"
"I cannot say that. Any excitement or disturbance would much delay it.
Let him hear nothing and see nothing--except you, and some attendant
that he is accustomed to."
"O doctor, can't you stay till he is better?"
"I will return again very soon, Mrs. Randolph. There is nothing to be
done at present for which I am needed."
