all the trees. It was certainly near dinner-time; the cool glittering
look of the light on the trees and shrubs could not be earlier than
that. What had become of the strawberry feast? It seemed like a dream.
Daisy shook off the remains of her sleep and hurried out by one of the
glass doors to go and see. She ran down to the bank where the table was
spread. It was a feast over. The company were gone, so were the baskets
of strawberries; yes, and the very bouquets of flowers had been taken
away. That was a sign of pleasure. Nothing was left but the disordered
table. Daisy hoped the people had had a good time, and slowly went back
towards the house. As she came near the library window she saw her
father, standing in it.
"Well, Daisy?"
"Well, papa."
"How has the feast gone off?"
"I don't know, papa. There's nothing left but the boards and the cups
and saucers."
Mr. Randolph sat down and drew his little daughter up to his side.
"Have you enjoyed it, Daisy?"
"Yes, papa--I have enjoyed it pretty well."
"Only pretty well!--for your birthday! Do you think now you made a good
choice, Daisy?"
"Yes, sir--I think I did."
"What has been wanting? I am afraid your ham did not figure on the
board, if it is so empty?"
Daisy did not answer, but her father watching her saw something in her
face which made him pursue the subject.
"Did it?"
"No, papa," said Daisy, colouring a little.
"How was that?"
"Joanna arranged everything that was to go on the table."
"And left the ham out of the question? It seems to me that was a
mistake, though I am not much of a housekeeper. Why was that?"
"Papa," said Daisy, "do you think I would make a wrong use of a ham?"
Mr. Randolph laughed. "Why Daisy, unless you are a finished economist,
that might be. Do you mean that I am not to know the particular use made
of this ham?"
"Papa, I wish you would not desire to know!"
But Daisy's face was too much in earnest. "I think I cannot grant that
request," said her father. "You must tell me."
Daisy looked distressed. But she dared not evade the order, though she
feared very much what might come of it.
"I didn't buy the ham for the party, papa."
"Then for what?"
"I bought it, papa, for a little girl who was going without her
breakfast. She came to Mr. Lamb's to buy ham, and she had no money, and
he wouldn't let her have any."
"And what became of your baskets?"
"O I got them, papa; I got cheaper ones; and Nora and I dressed them
with greens. I had money enough."
Mr. Randolph took his little daughter on his knee and softly put down
his lips to kiss her.
"But Daisy, after all, why did you not go to Crum Elbow yesterday
afternoon, as you meant to do?"
"Papa, this morning did better, for it was pleasanter."
"Do you call that an answer?" said Mr. Randolph, who was still softly
kissing her.
"Papa, if you would be so very good as not to ask me that?"
"I am not good at all, Daisy. I ask,--and I mean to know."
Daisy was in trouble. No entreaty was worth a straw after that. She was
puzzled how to answer.
"Papa," she ventured, "I don't like to tell you, because Ransom would
not like I should."
"Ransom's pleasure must give way to mine, Daisy."
"He wanted the pony-chaise," said Daisy, looking very downcast.
"And you gave it him?"
"No, sir."
"What then? Daisy," said Mr. Randolph bringing her head round to face
him, "tell me what I want to know without any more questions."
"He took the chaise, papa,--that was all,--so I went this morning."
"Ransom knew you wanted it?"
"Yes, sir."
"Then Daisy, tell me further, why you did not give me this information
when I asked about your drive this morning at breakfast?"
"Papa, I thought Ransom would not like to have it told."
"Were you afraid he would revenge himself in any way if you did?"
"O no, papa! not at all."
"Then what moved you to silence?"
"Why papa, I did not want to trouble Ransom. I was afraid you would be
displeased with him perhaps, if I told."
"Were you not displeased when he took the chaise?"
"Yes, papa," said Daisy softly.
"And had your displeasure all gone off by this morning?"
"Yes, sir."
Mr. Randolph was not quite satisfied. There was no doubting Daisy; but
he had reasons of his own for knowing that she had not said to him quite
all that she had confessed to her brother. He would have liked the whole
confession; but did not see how he could get at it just now. He took a
little gold piece out of his pocket and quietly slipped it into Daisy's
hand.
"Papa! what is this for?"
"For your poor woman, if you like. You can send it to her by Sam."
"O thank you, papa! But papa, she won't take it so--she will not take
the least thing without working to pay for it."
"How do you know?"
"She told me so, papa."
"Who told you so?"
"The poor woman--Mrs. Harbonner."
"Where did you see her?"
"I saw her at her house, papa."
"Why did you go to her house?"
"To take her the ham, sir."
"And she told you she wouldn't have anything without doing work for
it--eh?"
"Yes, papa--she wouldn't even take the ham any other way."
"What work did you engage her to do, Daisy?"
"I thought Joanna could find her some, papa."
"Well, let Joanna manage it. You must not go there again, nor into any
strange house, Daisy, without my leave. Now go and get ready for dinner,
and your part of your birthday."
Daisy went very soberly. To see Mrs. Harbonner and her daughter again,
and to do them all sorts of good, had been a dream of hers, ever since
the morning. Now this was shut off. She was very sorry. How were the
rich to do good to the poor, if they never come together? A question
which Daisy thought about while she was dressing. Then she doubted how
her feast had gone; and she had been obliged to tell of Ransom.
Altogether, Daisy felt that doing good was a somewhat difficult matter,
and she let June dress her in very sober silence. Daisy was elegantly
dressed for her birthday and the dinner. Her robe was a fine beautifully
embroidered muslin, looped with rose ribands on the shoulder and tied
with a broad rose-coloured sash round the waist. There was very little
