transpired, and the senator's patronizing offer, he saw 



Captain de Banyan enter the forward door of the cars, 
through which the gentleman who had taken so much 
pains to compliment the young officer had disappeared a 
short time before. The distinguished captain walked 
through the car directly to the seat of the lieutenant, 
who had not even yet ceased to blush under the praises 
which had been bestowed upon him. 

" Somers, your hand," said he, extending his own. " I 
have heard all about it, and am proud that our regiment 
has furnished so brave and devoted a man. Oh, don't 
blush, my dear fellow ! You are a modest man. I sym- 
pathize with you ; for I am a modest man myself. I 
didn't get over blushing for three weeks after his impe- 
rial majesty, the Emperor of France, complimented me 
for some little thing I did at the battle of Palestro." 

" I thought that was at Magenta," added Somers. 

o o 

"So it was. The fact is, I have been in a great many 
battles, and I get them mixed up a little sometimes. But 
you are in luck, Somers," continued the captain in a 



 

Ijwer tone, as he seated himself by the side of his fellow- 
officer. 

"Why so?" 

" They say she is the daughter of a senator." 

"What of that?" 

" What of that ! Why, my dear fellow, you are as 
innocent as a schoolgirl. Don't you see he can get you 
on some general's staff, and have you promoted every time 
there is a skirmish?" 

" I don't want to be promoted unless I earn it." 

" Of course you don't ; but every officer that earns it 
won't get it. By the way, Somers, can't you introduce 
.ne to the old gentleman ? ' 

" I never saw him before in my life." 

" No matter for that. I'll warrant you, he'll be glad to 
make all your friends his friends." 

"But I don't feel enough acquainted with him to in- 
troduce a gentleman whom I never saw in my life till 
two hours ago." 

" You are right, my dear fellow ; excuse me," replied 
Captain de Banyan, looking very much disappointed. 
" I dare say, if I should show him the autograph of the 

Emperor of France, he would be very glad to know me." 
" No doubt of it. At any rate, I recommend you to 

make the trial." 

" Yes ; but the mischief of it is, I have left all those 

papers at home." 



"That's unfortunate," added Lieutenant Somers, who 
had some serious doubts in regard to the existence of 
those papers. 

" So it is. If I had been lucky enough to have made 
the acquaintance of that young lady, as you have, I 
would not let my aspirations stop short of the stars of 
a major-general." 

" You need not as it is, if you do your duty." 

" Ah ! my dear fellow, you are as sentimental as a girl 
of sixteen. I am a modest man ; but, in my estimation, 
there are ten thousand men in the army as good as I am 
They can't all be major-generals, can they?" 

" Certainly not." 

"Then, if you live a few months longer, you will find 
out how good a thing it is to have a friend at court. You 
are a modest young man ; but I suppose you think there 
isn't another man in the army who is quite your equal, 
and that your merit and your bravery will make a briga- 
dier of you in less than a year. It's a good thing to 
think so ; but " 

" I don't think so. That would be modesty with a 
vensreance." 



" I was a sentimental boy like you once, and I was 
just as certain that I should be made a field-marshal, 
and have the command of the French army in the 
Crimea " 

" I thought you were in the English army in the Cri- 



 


