don't lie, my dear. At the end of three years the 
Doctor will be twelve hundred and fifty dollars in debt ! 
Think of that!" 
A troubled expression came into the fair young face 
of Lydia Guy, as she sat looking at her husband. She 
understood him perfectly, and saw, for the time, clear 
ly with his arithmetical eyes. The promise was not a 
good one for her young friend. There was misfor 
tune in the world for Lena, and the heart of Lydia was 
touched by it, in saddening anticipation. 
" Debt ! yes debt, that curse of a man's life ! " re 
sumed Guy, almost bitterly, as if he felt the fiend's 
grip on his arm. " They will be overridden by debt, 
as surely as the breath is in them ! Somebody's mon 
ey besides their own will have to go for their waste and 
extravagance. Whose shall it be ? Not mine, I can 
tell them. No, not a dollar of mine ! Adam Guy's 
hard earnings and careful savings shall never go to 
sustain the pride, self-indulgence, and wasteful extrava 
gance of such people. I'll burden nobody, and nobody 
shall burden me. I have the industry, patience, self- 
denial, and persistence needed for accumulation, and 
with it the nerve to keep what I gain. No man shall 
 
find in me a weak spirit of yielding. I can be iron 
and brass to importunity ; and I will." 
There was a tone in her husband's voice, and an ex 
pression on his face, that made the blood flow back in a 
chill from Lydia's heart. She had never seen him in 
just the light he now presented himself. 
" You haven't thrown that flower out of the win 
dow," he said, with more than half seriousness, a little 
while afterward, as they arose from the table, and his 
eyes glanced toward the geranium which his wife had 
bought in the morning. 
" No, nor have I any intention of doing so," replied 
Lydia. " That would be wantonly to destroy a thing 
of beauty." 
" There's no use in it," said Guy. 
" I'm not so sure of that. The sight of a flower re 
freshes my mind. If I am dull, a new life flows through 
my veins ; if I am sad, a cheerful spirit awakes. Don't 
condemn the flowers, Adam ; they have a mission for 
our hearts." 
" And that mission is, to teacli us how frail and per 
ishing is all ornament how valueless are flaunting 
color and mere exterior grace ! We spend our sub 
stance for naught, when we spend it for these. That is 
the lesson the flowers teach us, Lydia, if they teacli us 
anything." 
He took up the flower-pot, as he closed the last sen 
tence, and poising it in his hand said : 
" Let me throw it from the window." 
But Lydia sprung to his side, and catching his arm, 
cried 
 
" No ! no ! Don't do that ! " in such earnest re 
monstrance, that he desisted from his purpose. She 
felt that her husband was going too far, and anger 
blended with the feelings that made her heart beat more 
violently, and sent the hot blood to her face. Ere the 
flush of anger died, she said, with a sharpness that 
stung him : 
" Adam ! You are stepping a little beyond your pre 
rogative. If I care to have a flower, it is not for you 
to object." 
" It is for me to object to a foolish waste of money," 
he answered in a cold, firm voice ; " and I advertise 
you here, that I shall always do so." 
And saying this, Adam Guy took up his hat, and 
left the house. 
The day which had opened so unfavorably for their 
peace, gathered blackness as it advanced. Here was 
the first storm that had troubled their serene sky. 
Lydia stood, for some minutes, like one who had been 
stunned by a blow. Then she sat down not in tears, 
but with a pale, abstracted face, and brows knit gloom 
ily. Painfully the conviction forced itself upon her 
mind, that there had been a great error in her girlish 
estimate of Adam Guy's character ; that she had com 
prehended him only in part. The morning's troubled 
questionings were taking the shape of distinct percep 
tions. She saw him as she never had seen him before, 
and felt herself removed, as it were, to a distance from 
him. A sense of repulsion arose in her heart. The 
moral beauty, which had appeared as a fair garment 
clothing his spirit, seemed to fade and change to an 
 
unlovely vesture. If it was with him, as from this 
new revelation of himself, it appeared to be, the sweet 
idea she had formed of a marriage union, would prove 
to her like the airy fabric of a vision. Their minds 
could never grow into each other, by the attraction of 
similar tastes, feelings, affections and principles could 
never blend into harmonious oneness. All this and 
more, was seen and felt by Lydia, as she sat lost to ex 
ternal things for a long, long time, after the departure 
of her husband. 
Lydia Guy \vas alone in the world, so far as near rel 
atives were considered. Two years before her marriage, 
the death of her mother had left her without a home, 
or any means of support beyond the product of her own 
hands. From school, she passed to the work-room of 
a dress-maker, and in six months learned the art of con 
structing garments so skillfully, that she was able to 
support herself in independence. Not alone did her 
fair countenance, grace of form, sweetness of manner, 
and more than ordinary intelligence, attract the eyes 
and win the heart of Adam Guy. These would have 
allured him in vain, had there not appeared the more 
solid basis of thrift and industry. He saw that she 
would make a good wife, in another sense than is 
always considered ; that she would work and save, and 
help him to grow rich. He did not find in her the non 
sense, frivolity and want of thought that displayed itself 
in so many of the young ladies who came under his ob 
servation ; and he was especially pleased to note the 
fact that she had acquired a better estimate of money 
than is ordinarily held by her sex. The necessity of 
earning before spending, had produced this result. 
