have all the fun she wanted at aunt Sophy's, and be back by 
the time Mr. Gregory came." 

As for Mabel, she hardly dared take a comprehensive 
view of her own happiness until the house was quiet, and no 
curious eyes remained to come upon her suddenly at some 
defenceless moment. In the long days that followed she 
had plenty of time for thought. Her first feeling was one 
of surprise. Her own estimate of herself was lowly ; she 
wondered how a man, brilliant and talented as Philip 
Gregory, could have dreamed of choosing her. And then 
the life he had marked out for himself, could she ever 
become a fitting companion for such a man and such a 
destiny ? 

Her communings might have been more troubled than 
pleasant but for Richard. He smoothed out the tangled 
path of difficulty, restored the drooping courage, and was, 
as Mabel afterwards told Philip, a perfect Mr. Great Heart. 




He understood readily the charm such a pure nature held 
for a man of quick resolution, refined and enthusiastic, yet 
continually occupied and excited by human interest. Philip 
could mould it, with his force of character, into whatsoever 
shape he liked. She was gentle, but not weak ; yielding, 
yet not indolently passive. Her high, true faith, her gen- 
erosity, tempered by a fine sense of justice, would be excel- 
lent qualities in her new life. She also possessed that 
graceful dignity which was winning in itself, and demanded 
from others a certain respect. E\jen the very obtuse would 
not be likely to trample on her. 

During that brief separation she received two letters 
from Philip. With a delicacy only the highest mind could 
have evinced, he startled her with no rapturous declarations 
of love, and asked for no answers until he came himself. 
The weeks flew by rapidly. Indeed, she was hardly ready 
when the frank, electric voice greeted her, and the earnest 
eyes demanded their full meed of affection. 

They had one delightful day to themselves a day in 
which they sat under the old elm, and, as Philip said, " be- 
came acquainted with each other." It was an odd state for 
Mabel, who had never yet dreamed of a lover. 

" How little I thought, a few weeks ago, that, before I 
went back to college, two new and blessed hopes would be 
added to my life, that for years had looked so solitary," Philip 
said, musingly. " In Mr. Chaloner, I have found a more 
than friend a father. Mabel, I wish you could see 
that little nest among the hills ! The village proper is back 
a short distance from the river's edge, the old gray stone 
church and vine-embowered rectory forming a sort of con- 
necting link. To the right, all along the river, the scene is 
beautiful, and varied by numberless charming summer resi- 
dences some standing on hills with sloping lawns, some 
hidden among rocks and trees. There is scarcely anything 
in all Italy more lovely. Mr. Chaloner has been at Rothelan 
nine years, and the people love him devotedly. His long, 



 

white beard, and the flowing hair that clusters about his 
temples in loose waves, give him a benign, patriarchal ap- 
pearance. He is nearing seventy, yet he is earnest and 
vigorous in all good works, patient with poverty and ignor- 
ance, and O, so kind to the little ones ! Three years ago 
he lost his only son, who was shortly to take holy orders, 
and become his father's assistant." 

" How sad ! " Mabel returned, in a tone of truest pity. 

" Yes.; I wonder it did not entirely break him down. Hia 
faith and resignation are beautiful in the extreme. And 
now, my darling, I come to something that concerns you, or 
must at least have your assent." 

" Concerns me ? " was the wondering rejoinder. 

" Yes ; are you not linked in with every thought of my 
future life ? " and he drew the fair form nearer to him. 
" Before I left Mr. Chaloner, he made me an offer that was 
at once generous and affectionate. He will need an assist- 
ant ; indeed, he ought to have one now, but the place seems 
sacred to him, because it was destined for his son. Judge 
of my surprise when he asked me if I would be willing to 
come by and by." 

"And you will," she said, in a tone scarcely less sweet 
than the south wind that went whispering above them. 

" Would you like a country life ? Mr. Chaloner wishes to 
be rector at Rothelan while he is able to toil in the vineyard. 
He has a small income of his own, but, at best, the salary 
of the assistant would not be very large. Then the two 
families would have to make one at least, that is his idea. 
The rectory is roomy enough, and in addition to this, he 
gave me a word of advice, especially relating to you." 

Mubel colored, but looked incredulous. 

" He suggested I should marry, and bring my wife there ; ' ! 
and Philip raised the sweet face to note the effect of his 
communication. " I might do better, you know," he said, 
Kith a smile, " and you may prefer something grander." 

" Philip ! " The tone was tenderly reproachful. 

My darling ! " 



" It must be as you wish," she said, with quiet determina- 
tion. " If I trust 'you with my heart, can I not trust you 
with all things else : And Mr. Chaloner has been your 
