" I know you can't, and for that reason you had 
better submit with a good grace. If you will take 
your place in the wheel-house, Mr. Taylor will re- 
move the attachment." 
" Will he ? " 
" I will," replied Taylor. 
" And put everything where it was before ? " asked 
Lawry. 
" Of course I am to be captain, and Mr. Taylor is 
to have the boat to-day," added Ben. 
" Mr. Taylor can't have her to-day," said Lawry, 
firmly. " I engaged her to Mr. Sherwood, and if 
anybody has her to-day, he must. That's all I want 
to say about it now." 
The young pilot turned on his heel and walked 
away. His brother and the creditor were conspira- 
tors, and he wanted nothing to do with them. He 
might have been less resolute, if he had not seen Mr. 
Sherwood's carriage stop at the head of the wharf. 
" Are you all ready, Lawry ? " asked Mr. Sherwood. 
The poor boy could make no reply ; he burst into 
tears, and turned away from his kind friend. 
"What's the matter, Lawry?" demanded • Mr. 
Sherwood, greatly astonished at this singular demon- 
stration. 
" I suppose he feels bad, sir," interposed the sher- 
iff. " The boat has been attached for his father's 
debts." 
" For his father's debts ! " exclaimed the rich 
gentleman. 
The officer gave him a full explanation of the case. 
" This will never do," added Mr. Sherwood, indig- 
nantly. " This boat is Lawry's property in his own 
right." 
" I think not," added Taylor, who enjoyed the 
confusion of Lawry's powerful friend. " Here's my 
lawyer ; he can explain the matter to you." 
" No explanation is needed," replied Mr. Sherwood. 
" The boy is a minor," said the legal gentleman, 
who had been invited to join his client in the excur- 
sion in the Woodville, and was therefore one of the 
disappointed party. 
" He may need a guardian, nothing more, to enable 
him to hold the property." 
"Perhaps you are more familiar with the law than 
I am, Mr. Sherwood," said the legal gentleman, 
pompously. " You gave this boat to the boy." 
" I did." 
" While she lay at the bottom of the lake she was 
worth nothing. She was an abandoned wreck. If 
you had any property at all in her, it was subject to 
the salvage. Lawry Wilford raised her. I suppose 
you are willing to believe that the boy's father is 
entitled to his earnings ? " 
 
" I grant that." 
" Well, sir, whatever the boy earned in the way of 
salvage belongs to his father ; and we sue to recover 
that." 
" This is a ridiculous suit ! " exclaimed Mr. Sher- 
wood. 
" Perhaps it is, sir, but we shall hold the boat, 
subject to the decision of the coxirt." 
Mr. Sherwood was vexed and perplexed ; for, 
whether the claim could be substantiated or not, 
the Woodville could be held until a decision was 
reached. Lawry then took him aside, and told him 
what his brother had done, in order to make himself 
captain of the steamer. 
" Is that it, Lawry ? I'm more sorry for your 
brother's sake than I am for yours. I pity him, 
because he has been capable of doing so mean a 
thing. Don't distress yourself, my boy. We will 
make this all right in the course of ten minutes." 
" But they have taken the steamer away from me, 
and given her up to Ben, who is to take charge 
of her." 
" Never mind, Lawry. They shall give her back 
 
to yt)u," replied the rich man, as he walked up to 
the lawyer, " How much is your claim against 
Mr. Wilford?" 
" One thousand and sixty-four dollars," answered 
the legal gentleman. 
" Will you take my draft or check for the amount?" 
" No, sir." 
" I see you are not disposed to be accommodating." 
" We intend to have the first sail in this steamer," 
sneered Taylor. 
" I intend you shall not," said Mr. Sherwood. 
Unfortunately he had not money enough with him 
to discharge the claim against the ferryman, which, as 
it was a just debt, whatever might be said of the 
means taken to recover it, he had decided to pay, 
rather than give bonds for the steamer, and contest 
the attachment. He had invited several gentlemen to 
accompany him up the lake in the Woodville, who 
were now on the wharf, and from them he borrowed 
enough to make up the sum required. The money 
was given to Mrs. Wilford, with instructions to go to 
a certain lawyer in the village, and employ him to see 
that the mortgage on the house and land was properly 
cancelled. 
" When we get our money, the attachment on the 
boat can be dissolved, not before," said the lawyer. 
"Mr. Sheriff, the debt is not paid yet." 
" I will put the money in your hands, if you 
desire," added Mr. Sherwood to the sheriff. 
" I am satisfied. You may go where you please 
with the boat, and as soon as you please," replied the 
official, who was not disposed to cause any needless 
trouble. 
" She will not go till this claim is settled, Mr. 
Sheriff," remonstrated the legal gentleman. 
" She may go now," responded the officer. " Ben 
Wilford, your services will not be needed. Now, 
gentlemen, we will go up to the village and settle the 
bills." 
The lawyer protested that the attachment could 
not be removed till the debt had been paid ; but 
