the good man Manu that the flood was coming, and bade 
him build a ship and store it with all kinds of seeds. Then 
Brama took the form of a homed fish, and making the vessel 
fast to himself, he drew it about for a long, long time. At 
last landed it on the loftiest peak of Mount Himerat — in 
the Himalaya range. Then Manu was permitted to create 
a new race of men, who were called Manudsha, or ' bom of 
Manu.' That is the Hindoo story. Then when we come 
over to America, we find a new set of stories," 
" Where, uncle Sam ? " said I, wondering. 
"Among the North American Indians, Tiny— and the 
Mexicans, and the neighbouring nations. They have their 
traditions ; and the old nations of Europe had theirs." 
" The Greeks had a beautiful one," said Dan, " about 
Deucalion." 
" Let us have it, Dan. I don't like to do all the talking." 
"The first race of men were violent and wicked," Dan 
begaoy " and they were punished for their wickedness by a 
 
dreadful rain which flooded everything. But besides the 
rain, the water burst out from all parts of the earth Deucalion was a good man and was saved. He packed all his 
wives and children into a large chest which he had"— 
" It must have been very big ! " said Priscilla. 
— "And went in himself; and just as he was going in, 
came beasts and creeping things and all sorts of creatures 
running to him two by two. So he took them in, and 
Jupiter made them so good and peaceable that they made no 
disturbance, but behaved themselves together to the end of 
the voyage." 
" Well ! " said Priscilla ; " that was a most extraordinary 
chest!" 
" Deucalion's voyage lasted only nine days; then his chest 
came to land on the top of Mount Parnassus — that is a 
famous mountain in Greece, Tiny. Deucalion and his wife 
came out, and seeing the earth was left without inhabitants, 
they went to consult the oracle at Delphi as to what was to 
be done." 
" But what is an oracle ? " said I. 
"Tiny ought to read history," said LipL 
" The oracles were places where the gods were supposed 
to give answers to the questions of men," my uncle said; "or 
they were the answers themselves. There were many famous 
such places ; Delphi was one, where Apollo was consulted. 
There the answer was delivered through a priestess, who was 
thought to be inspired, and delivered the answer in a fit of 
raving. At other oracles the answers were differently given. 
Go on, Dan." 
" Deucalion and his wife Pyrrha consulted the oracle at 
Delphi, what should be done to repeople the earth; and 
they were told they must throw behind them the bones of 
their grandmother. At first that seemed a perplexing direction; but finally they guessed what it meant. The bones 
of their grandmother were the stones of the earth. So Deucalion and Pyrrha stood and threw stones over their shoulders ; and all he threw became men, and all she threw became women." 
"That is very ridiculous ? " exclaimed Priscilla. "Did 
people believe such stuff? " 
" It is hard to say what people will not believe, when they 
wander away from the truth," said my uncle. " Wise philosophers, of course, did not believe such a fable ; and they did 
not know what was truth ; but groped about in the dark for 
"it, after it had been lost. This legend, you know, belonged 
to the refined and cultivated Greek nation. A great philosopher of modem times had a desire to get to some region 
of the earth that was quite removed from all communication 
with these peoples of Europe and Asia, that may be supposed to have learned from each other. So he travelled off 
and wandered away, till he got among a tribe of savages on 
the banks of the Orinoco, in Western America. And there, 
where certainly the Jews and the Greeks had never taught 
anybody, he was told this story. Once there was a great 
flood that overwhelmed everything; and one man and his wife 
escaped to the top of a certain high mountain and were saved. 
Then, seeing that everybody else was dead, to supply the 
land with inhabitants, they threw over their heads date- 
stones, or the fruit of a palm-tree, which sprung up men and 
women. I suppose, after that, M. Von Humboldt concluded 
he could not get away from traditions of the deluge. 
" How very curious ! " said Dan. " That is good." 
" Humboldt says that the different Mexican nations have 
paintings representing the flood and Noah. There he is 
called Coxcox, and Tezpi, and Teocipactli ; and his wife is 
XochiquezatL And Colhuacen, one of the Mexican mountains, stands for Ararat. Coxcox was saved in a vessel or 
on a raft, they think, with his wife and children, some 
animals and grain. When the waters subsided, Coxcox sent 
out a vulture first, which found so many dead bodies floating about that it did not come back. Then he sent out some 
other birds, and a humming-bird brought him a green branch. 
80 Coxcox, or Tezpi, came out of his vessel. And even in 
the ilji islands there is a tradition of the flood. They say 
that eight persons were saved by the god of the carpenters 
and his head workmen, in two large double canoes ; and 
landed on one of their islands ; and the chiefs of that island 
are said for that reason to take particular honour to themselves. In times past, the story is, canoes used to be kept 
ready lest another deluge should come." 
"Uncle Sam," said I, " I think it is very strange all these 
people should have got the story so twisted.'' 
" I think it is strange they should have kept so near the 
truth," said Dan. 
" Perhaps you are both right," said nncle Sam. " Sometimes I wonder at the one thing, sometimes at the other. 
The Mexicans have a confused tradition of Babel mixed up 
with the flood. After the flood, they say, the men that 
were bom were bom dumb ; and in one of their paintings a 
dove from the top of a tree is seen giving them tongues. The 
tongues are represented as so many small commas." 
" How funny ! " said Priscilla. 
" But we have not got the tower of Babel yet," said I. 
"Yes," said uncle Sam. " We must go back to Noah." 
" Coxcox does not seem to have been Noah," said Dan. 
" But as to Tiny's wonder," uncle Sam went on, "there is 
this to be said. I think she is right. Consider that for 
almost one hundred years of Shem's life, he knew and talked 
with his grandfather Methuselah ; and Methuselah for nigh 
two hundred and fifty years of his life had seen and known 
Adam. All that Adam had to teach and tell, Methuselah 
had heard from his own lips ; and he could give it fresh from 
its fountain to his grandson Shem. Then remember how 
long Shem lived to tell it. He had learned from the man 
who had spoken with Adam ; and he himself lived to re- 
port what he knew, to all who would listen, until Abraham 
was come out of Haran — until nine years after Isaac was 
married. 
"Why, uncle Sam ! did he? " said Daniel 
" Certainly. So see how well the tmth must have been 
known for so long in the world's history after the flood. 
But — ' they did not like to retain God in their knowledge."
" They could not forget the flood entirely," said Dan. 
