and this occasion proved no exception. 
A DAY or two before Tom went back to 
college, the children were all sitting 
together one morning in Mrs. Breynton’s room, 
when their father came in from the post office 
with an open letter in his hand. 
“ Oh, I guess that 's a letter from my coal- 
man,” remarked Winnie, with the nonchalance 
of a business man of untold epistolary experi- 
ence. “ I ordered two tons and a pint tipped 
into my cellar, only Mrs. Winnie she said it 
wasn’t enough to keep the children warm, and 
then I tell you we got mad, and I just told her 
she wasn’t anything but a woman, and she kept 
still after that, sir ! ” 
“From Uncle George? ” asked Gypsy, look- 
ing up from her work. “ Oh, what did Joy 
do about those satin slippers, and what did he 
give her on her birthday?” — but then she 
stopped. She had seen, and every one else had 
seen by this time, the dark sternness of her 
father’s face. 
“ Thomas, I should like to have you read 
that.” 
Tom took the letter, read it, dropped it, grew 
very pale. 
It fell on the floor by Gypsy’s chair. She 
saw that it was a printed circular, so she picked 
it up and read : — 
David Breynton, Esq., Sir, — The bill 
of Mr. Thomas Breynton for the last collegiate 
term has not been paid. This notice is given 
in obedience to a law of the college, which 
provides that, “ If any student shall fail to pay, 
within two weeks after the close of any vaca- 
tion, his bills of the preceding term, it shall be 
the duty of the treasurer to give immediate 
notice thereof to the bondsman of such stu- 
dent, unless the latter shall have deposited with 
the treasurer a certificate from his bondsman 
or guardian that the means of payment have 
not been furnished him, or shall have presented 
to the treasurer a satisfactory reason for the 
delay.” 
Your obedient servant, 
Tr. 
“Well,” said Mr. Rreynton, “what have 
you to say for yourself? ” 
Tom had not a word to say for himself He 
sat with his eyes upon the ground, his face still 
very pale. 
“ I should like to know why your tuition was 
not paid,” insisted his father. Tom tried to 
whistle, failed miserably, put his hands in his 
pockets, and walked over to the window. 
“ Meant to pay it this term,” he said sulkily. 
“ My money got played out some way or other, 
I ’m sure I haven’t the fraction of an idea how, 
and I meant to start fresh when I went back, 
and pay it. I don’t know how I was to know 
that the old fellow must come and tell you.” 
“ So first you were guilty of a meanness both 
to your instructors and to me, and then you 
resorted to a deception to hide it.” 
“ There wasn’t any deception about it ! ” 
broke out Tom, angrily. “ I meant to pay it 
up honest, I say, and I didn’t tell you, because 
it was of no use to anybody that I see, and 
then I knew you would make such a — ” 
“Tom!” interrupted his mother’s sorrowful 
voice, and Tom stopped. When he had stopped, 
he saw Gypsy’s eyes, and his face flushed. 
“ You may come into the library, Thomas, 
and we will talk this over,” said his father, ex- 
citedly. They went out and shut the door. 
Winnie, who in the excitement had put his 
coal-basket on his head and forgotten to take it 
off, looked after them with his mouth open, and 
Gypsy and her mother looked at each other and 
never said a word. 
Tom was shut up with his father until dinner- 
time, and a violent headache, brought on by the 
excitement of the morning, kept Mrs. Breynton
in her room all day. Gypsy wandered 
mournfully about the house, shut herself upstairs 
and tried to cry a little, tried to play 
with Winnie, tried to make Tom talk, and, failing 
in all, went at last to Peace Maythorne. 
There, in the quiet room, in sight of the quiet 
eyes, the tears came, and comfort too. 
Yet, after all, there were very many boys 
much worse than Tom. He was thoughtless 
rather than vicious, — too much intent on being 
as well-dressed as anybody, on heading sub- 
scriptions, and patronising first-class clubs, 
and “treating” generously; over-desirous to 
be set down as “a good fellow; ” more anxious 
to be popular than to be a good scholar, like 
many another open-hearted, open-handed, merry 
boy; moreover, a little afraid to say No. Yet, 
as I said, by no means vicious. Faithful to his 
promise to Gypsy, he had left off all manner of 
sipping and pledging in brandies and wines, — 
had met question, laugh, and sneer, and met 
them like a man ; of his incipient gambling he 
had soon wearied ; his sense of honour was his 
'stronghold, and that was crossed by it sadly. 
As for the smoking, — though I am not including 
that very disagreeable habit among the 
viccs — angry as he had been about it, he had 
been cornered by his father’s command ; the 
discomfort of doing a thing, as he said, upon 
the sly,” was rather more than the cigars were 
worth. 
Extravagance and laziness were what ailed 
him now, — two rather treacherous covipagnons 
dc voyage for a college boy. Judging from the 
record of these two terms, what would they 
have done for him when the four years were 
over? Gypsy used to wonder sometimes, her 
