support. I am afraid she won’t get along very well, for her salary was
small, and now it is cut off altogether.”
It occurred to Helen that she could give the proceeds of her benefit to
Alice. She accordingly thanked Mr. Bowers, and accepted his proposal.
The week was a series of triumphs. Every evening the doors of the
theatre were besieged, and every evening hundreds were turned away.
Friday evening,—the evening of her benefit,—Helen found the house
fuller, if possible, than before, the manager had taken the opportunity,
in consequence of the great demand for seats, to raise temporarily the
price of admission. As he anticipated, this did not in the least
diminish the throngs who crowded for admittance.
On Saturday morning he handed Helen a check for five hundred dollars, as
her share of the proceeds.
Helen’s eyes sparkled with joy, as she thought of the happiness which
this sum would bring to the poor ballet girl.
She lost no time in seeking her out.
It was indeed a poor place, Helen would have been afraid of venturing
into such a locality if she had not been accompanied by Herbert Coleman.
Up a rickety staircase she climbed, and was shown, by an untidy woman,
into a room wholly destitute of comforts, where on a pallet reclined
Alice and her sister, both sick.
“Is that you, Miss Ford?” asked Alice, her face lighting up. “How very
kind you are to come and see me!”
“I am very sorry to find you so sick,” said Helen.
“I don’t think I am very sick,” said Alice. “But this is but a poor
place, and I cannot get any one to take care of my sister Jennie. She
has been an invalid for years.”
“There are better times in store,” said Helen, cheerfully, “First we
must have you moved to a better room. Next you must have a nurse.”
“But,” said Alice, hesitatingly, “we are very poor. I never had anything
but my salary to depend upon, and now that is cut off.”
Helen stooped and whispered a few words in her ear.
“Five hundred dollars!” repeated Alice, in astonishment, “that is a
fortune. Who has been so generous?”
“Never mind!” said Helen, smiling. “You see, then, that you are not so
poor as you imagined. Now do you think, if I sent a carriage for you in
the course of the afternoon, you can move?”
“Yes,” said Alice, in a tone of deep thankfulness. “No one can tell how
much I detest this horrible place. I think it will make me well only to
move.”
Over the wasted face of her sister there stole an expression of deep and
thankful joy.
“I think you are an angel,” she said, looking up into Helen’s beautiful
face, radiant with sympathy.
Helen blushed.
“How pleasant it is to be able to make others happy!” she said, softly,
to Herbert.
“Do you know, Helen,” said the young artist, “I am half tempted to agree
with your patient there.”
“Brother Herbert,” said Helen, quickly, “you must not speak so. I am
only doing what you would do in my place. I don’t like to be praised for
only doing what is pleasant to me.”
Before night Alice and her sister were installed in a
comfortably-furnished room, with a nurse in attendance, who was directed
to do whatever was needful for the comfort and relief of her patients.
                              CHAPTER XLV.
                              TO CONCLUDE.
Four years slipped by.
Let us note, briefly, the changes which they brought, and then farewell!
To Helen they were years of quiet happiness, of steady improvement.
There were many deficiencies in her education to be made up. With the
aid of private instructors, the best of their kind, she strove earnestly
to acquire the knowledge for which she had long thirsted. Her father was
unwilling to send her away to school, since this must deprive him of her
society, on which he had learned to depend. Nor was Helen less unwilling
to leave the father who had called forth from her so rare and beautiful
a devotion. Year by year her mind has expanded, while her rare
loveliness has, if possible, been enhanced. Helen, at nineteen, is even
more charming than at fifteen.
There are some who have found this out, and Helen has had repeated
offers of marriage. All these she has gently but firmly refused. Not one
has succeeded in touching her heart.
Among her suitors was one whom she treated with less ceremony. A young
man, who had nearly run through a large fortune, paid assiduous court to
Helen, whom he had met in society, and in spite of her coldness made a
declaration of love.
Helen looked up from the carpet on which her eyes had been fixed, and
said, quietly, “Do you remember, Mr. Grover, where we first met?”
“At Mrs. Grosvenor’s party,” answered the young man, somewhat surprised.
“You are mistaken. That was only three months since. Our first meeting
dates back four years.”
“Thank you for remembering it. Yet I can hardly believe you correct.
Your face is not one to be forgotten. Are you quite sure?”
“Yes, I remember you perfectly.”
There was something in Helen’s manner which the young man could not
quite fathom. It made him uneasy, for Helen’s grave tone rendered it
doubtful whether the recollection was a pleasant one.
“May I ask where, and under what circumstances, we met?” he inquired.
“I was, at that time, singing at the —— Theatre,” returned Helen,
composedly. “You followed me in the street when on my return home, and
sought to force your company upon me. But for the opportune arrival of a
friend, I should have been obliged to submit to the insult.”
“Good heavens!” ejaculated Albert Grover, “are you the young singer who
made such a sensation? I cannot understand it.”
“Fortunes have changed with me,” said Helen. “Otherwise, I can well
understand that you would never have honored me with your proposal of
this morning. I think, Mr. Grover, you will hardly require any other
answer.”
She left the room with dignity, leaving her suitor crestfallen, and
entirely satisfied of the hopelessness of his suit.
Meanwhile, where was Herbert Coleman?
Shortly after Mr. Ford’s accession to fortune, he sent for the young
artist at Helen’s instigation, and questioned him delicately as to his
plans and wishes. Herbert acknowledged frankly his conviction, that a
residence in Italy, the cradle of art, would be of inestimable advantage
to him in his professional career.
“I have thought of that,” said Mr. Ford, “and as Providence has blessed
me with abundant means I have determined to enable you to gratify your
desire. I do not wish to compromise your independence, and therefore I
will not offer to give you the requisite sum. I should be glad to have
copies of some of the masterpieces of Italian art. I am willing to
invest five thousand dollars in this way. I will give you the
commission. This will enable you to spend three years abroad. Here is a
check for a thousand dollars. The balance I authorize you to draw upon
me for as you need it.”
“Sir,” said Herbert, with joyful emotion, “your generosity overwhelms
me. I cannot express to you how happy you have made me. I hope that I
shall prove deserving of such kindness.”
“You must thank Helen,” said Mr. Ford. “She suggested this to me; though
I think she will do me the justice to acknowledge that she did not find
