There were several of them there waiting for the passengers. I should
think they might have some decent, comfortable horse-cars, the way they
do in other cities. I think it's very nice at Philadelphia. They come to
the dépôts at every train, and go down at every train. Father says the
horse-car arrangements are better in Philadelphia than they are in
Boston or New York.
"It seems very funny here, to be in a city that is under military rule.
There are a great many soldiers, and barracks where they sleep; and a
great many tents, too. There are forts, father says, all around the
city, and Monday we can see some of them. While we were riding up from
the dépôt I saw six soldiers marching along with a Rebel prisoner.
Father says they found him hanging around the Capitol, and that he was a
Rebel spy. He had on a ragged coat, and a great many black whiskers, and
he was swearing terribly. I didn't feel sorry for him a bit, and I hope
they'll hang him, or something; but father says he doesn't know.
"We are at Willard's Hotel. Father came here for the same reason he went
to the Brevoort—so we might see what it was like. It is very large,
and so many stairs! and such long dining-tables, and so many men eating
at them. We didn't have as nice a supper as we did in New York.
"It is late now, and the lamps are lighted in the streets. I can see
from the window the people hurrying by, and some soldiers, and one funny
little tired mule drawing a great wagon of something.
"There! he's stopped and won't move an inch, and the man is whipping him
awfully. The wicked old thing....
"I was just going to open the window and tell him to stop, but father
says I mustn't.
"As we rode up from the dépôt, I saw a great round dim thing away in
the dark. Father says it is the dome of the Capitol."
GYPSY'S JOURNAL.
"After Sundown, Sunday Night.
"Father says it isn't any harm to write a little about what we saw
to-day, because we haven't been anywhere except to church.
"The horrid old gong woke me up real early this morning. I should have
thought it very late at home, but they don't have breakfast in hotels
till eight o'clock hardly ever, and you can get up all along till
eleven, just as you like. This morning we were so tired that we didn't
want to get up a bit.
"There was a waiter at the table that tipped over a great plateful of
beefsteak and gravy right on to a lady's blue silk morning-dress. She
was a Senator's wife, and she jumped like anything. Joy said, 'What a
shame!' but I think it's real silly in people to wear blue silk
morning-dresses, because then you can't wear anything any nicer, and you
won't feel dressed up in the afternoon a bit.—Oh, I forgot! this isn't
Sunday!
"Well, we all went to church this morning to Dr. Gurley's church. Dr.
Gurley is a Presbyterian, father says. I don't care anything about that,
but I thought you might. That is the church President Lincoln goes to,
and we went there so as to see him.
"He sat clear up in front, and I couldn't see anything all through the
sermon but the back of his head. We sat 'most down by the door. Besides,
there was a little boy in the pew next ours that kept his father's
umbrella right over the top of the pew, and made me laugh. He was just
about as big as Winnie. Oh, they say slip here instead of pew, just as
they do in Boston. I don't see what's the use. Joy doesn't like it
because I keep saying pew. She says it's countrified. I think one is
just as good as another.
"Well, you see, we just waited, and father looked at the minister, and
Joy and I kept watching the President's kid gloves. They were black
because he's in mourning for his little boy, and he kept putting his
hand to his face a great deal. He moved round too, ever so much. I kept
thinking how tired he was, working away all the week, taking care of
those great armies, and being scolded when we got beaten, just as if it
were all his fault. I think it is real good in him to come to church
anyway. If I were President and had so much to do, and got so tired, I'd
stay at home Sundays and go to sleep,—if you'd let me. I think
President Lincoln must be a very good man. I'm sure he is, and I'll tell
you why.
"After church we waited so as to see him. There were ever so many
strangers sitting there together,—about fifty I should say, but father
laughed and said twenty. Well, we all stood up, and he began to walk
down the aisle with his wife, and I saw his face, and he isn't homely,
but he looks real kind, and oh, mother! so sober and sad! and I know
he's a good man, and that's why.
"Mrs. Lincoln was dressed all in black, with a long crape veil. She kind
of peeked out under it, but I couldn't see her very well, and I didn't
think much about her because I was looking at him.
"Well, then, you see there were some people in front of me, and I
couldn't see very well, so I just stepped up on a cricket so's to be
tall, and what do you think? When the President was opposite, just
opposite, and looked round at us, that old cricket had to tip over, and
down I went, flat, in the bottom of the pew!
"I guess my cheeks were as red as two beets when I got up; and the
President saw me, and he looked right at me,—right into my eyes and
laughed. He did now, really, and he looked as if he couldn't help it,
possibly.
"When he laughs it looks like a little sunbeam or something, running all
over his face.
"Father says we shan't probably see him again. They don't have any
receptions now at the White House, because they are in mourning.
"We went to a Quaker meeting this afternoon, but there isn't any time to
tell about it."
JOY'S JOURNAL.
"Monday, June 23.
"Oh dear me! We've seen so much to-day I can't remember half of it. I
shall write what I can, and Gypsy may write the rest.
"In the first place, we went to the Capitol. It's built of white marble,
and it's very large. There are quantities of long steps on different
sides of it, and so many doors, and passages, and rooms, and pillars. I
never could find my way out, in the world, alone. I wonder the Senators
don't get lost sometimes.
"About the first place you come into is a round room, called the
rotunda. Uncle says rotunda means round. There are some pictures there.
One of them is Washington crossing the Delaware, with great cakes of ice
beating up against the boat. One of the men has a flag in his hand.
Gypsy and I liked it ever so much.
"Oh!—the dome of the Capitol isn't quite finished. There is
scaffolding up there, and it doesn't look very pretty.
"Well, then we went upstairs, and I never saw such handsome stairs! They
are marble, and so wide! and the banisters are the most elegant
variegated marble,—a sort of dark brown, and they are so broad! Why,
I should think they were a foot and a half broad, but then I don't know
exactly how much a foot is.
"We went into two rooms that Gypsy and I both liked best of anything.
One is called the Marble Room, and the other the Fresco Room. The Marble
Room is all made of marble,—walls, floor, window-sills, everything but
the furniture. The marble is of different colors and patterns, and
just as beautiful! The furniture is covered with drab damask.
"The Fresco Room is all made of pictures. Frescoes are pictures painted
on the ceilings, Uncle says. He says Michael Angelo, the great sculptor
and artist, used to paint a great many, and that they are very
