


and la  it down on the cabin, table. On one occasion 
Antonio, while upon deck, observed .the captain pass, 
and ascertained by a swift glance that the ring was not 
upon his finger. He watched his opportunity, and slip- 
ping down into the cabin, found, as he anticipated, the 
ring upon the table. It was the work of a moment to 
snatch and conceal it in his pocket. 

He returned to the work in which' he had been en- 
gaged, and resumed it, supposing he had not been 
observed. 

In this he was mistaken. 

Bill Sturdy had had his eye upon him from the time 
of his difficulty with him. He could see Antonio's 
craftiness in his face, and the apparent affability and 
conciliatory manner of the latter afterwards had by no 
means deceived him. 

" Look out for. squalls," thought he. " He's too fair 
seeming to be trusted. I've no doubt he's hatching up 
something or other. I'll keep a sharp lookout for him." 

When Antonio made his stealthy visit to the cabin, as 
above described, the vigilant eye of Bill Sturdy was 
upon him and his movements. 

In a moment he reappeared. Bill saw it all out of 
the corner of his eye, though he appeared to be looking 
in just the opposite direction. 

"What's the fellow up to?" he thought. "Some 
mischief, I reckon. What business has he in the 
cabin? I must watch him." 

Of course, Antonio's object will be understood. He 
meant to place the ring in Charlie's chest, and when the 
loss should be discovered by the captain, he would sug- 


gest that a general searcb hould be instituted, the result 
of which must involve our young hero. 

Charlie was, of course, quite unconscious of the 
machinations which were being formed against him, 
and even Bill was not yet quite certain for what pur- 
pose Antonio had made his visit to the cabin. 

Antonio felt the necessity of doing quickly what he 
had in contemplation. 

Going below, he made his way to the chest belonging 
to our hero, and, lifting the cover, Jbr it was unlocked,' 
let the ring drop into one comer. 

Bill Sturdy saw his second disappearance from the 
deck. He could not ascertain precisely what he was 
doing, without following him, — a thing which he did 
not wish to do, since it would arouse Antonio's suspi- 
cions, and place him on on his guard. 

Antonio came up with an expression of malicious 
satisfaction, which Bill did not fail to notice. 

"I wish," he thought, "I knew exactly what the 
fellow has been doing." 

Bill was destined to learn ere long. 

The captain went below, and glanced carelessly at the 
place, where he remembered to have left the ring. To 
his surprise, it had disappeared. 

" What can have become of it? " he thought. 

He instituted a careful examination, but did not suc- 
ceed in finding the lost article. 

He prized it beyond its actual value, which was con- 
siderable, and began to feel alarmed. It occurred to 
him that he might have been mistaken about leaving it 
on the table. It might possibly have been dropped 
upon deck. 

Going on deck, he communicated his loss to the crew, 
and requesled a general search. 

" I think, Captain Brace," said Antonio, officiously, 
'' that I can guess where it is." ' 

"Where?" 

" I saw that boy have it," pointing to Charlie. 

" It's a lie ! " exclaimed Charlie, sui'prised and 
indignant. 

" We'll see about that," said the captain, with a sneer. 
" Do you know what he did with it, Antonio ? " 

" I think he may have hidden it in his chest." 

"Let his chest be brought on deck, and publicly 
examined. If he is found guilty, he shall be punished, 
as sure as my name is Brace." 



 

Charlie, at first taken by surprise when the charge 
of thefb was brought against him, now looked scornfully 
indignant. Ignorant of the ways of the world, and the 
wickedness of which some men are capable, he never, 
for a moment, feared the result of the investigation. As 
for the crew, they had already become interested in his 
