straightforward young gentleman did not exactly like.
"Am I?"
"Yes, you. Wouldn't you like a room in the after cabin?"
"Perhaps I would," answered Kendall, thoughtfully; and the place was
certainly very inviting to him.
"They say the after cabin is a perfect little palace."
"I dare say it is."
"You can just as well go in there, if you like."
"I don't see how that can be. I don't think I'm fit to be an officer. I
am from Cincinnati, and I never saw a ship till I came east three weeks
ago."
"None of the fellows know anything about a ship. All of us will have to
learn."
"Carnes knows all about one."
"No, he don't. He made one voyage, and knows just enough to talk salt.
He's a good fellow enough, but he isn't fit for captain. If you want to
be an officer, Kendall, and have a berth in the after cabin, you can,
just as well as not."
"Well, I would like such a place; I can't deny it; but I don't think the
fellows will go for me."
"They will, if you say so."
"If I say so! I'm not going to ask them to vote for me," replied
Kendall, warmly; for he was no politician and had a vein of modesty in
his composition.
"You needn't say a word to any one. If you will go for our ticket, it
will be all right. Half a dozen of us have talked this matter over, and
we have concluded that you would be the best fellow for second master."
"Have you?" asked Kendall, who could not help being gratified to learn
that even half a dozen of his companions had thought him worthy to be an
officer of so high a rank as second master. "I'm very much obliged to
you."
"All you have to do, is to go for our ticket."
"What do you mean by your ticket?" demanded Kendall, who was rather
confused by the technical terms of the wire-puller.
Wilton explained that his little party had selected a candidate for each
of the offices; and if all the fellows agreed to it, there would be
fifteen votes for their ticket, to begin with.
"Well, what is your ticket?" demanded Kendall, impatiently. "If they are
all good fellows, I will go for them. Of course you mean to vote for
Carnes for captain."
"Not exactly," replied Wilton, with evident disgust. "We shall put up a
better fellow than he is for captain."
"Why, all the boys are going for him," added Kendall, astonished to find
there were any who did not believe in Carnes.
"No, they are not."
"I thought they were."
"He will not be elected, and you need not throw your vote away upon him,
because, if you don't want a place in the after cabin, there are plenty
of fellows who do," added the wire-puller, with apparent indifference.
"But I do want it."
"Then all you have to do, is to go for our ticket."
"I think Carnes will make the best captain."
"Very well; if you think so, you have a right to your own opinion. I
haven't any mortgage on it."
"Whom are you going to run for captain?"
"It's no use to talk any more about it, if you are going for Carnes,"
replied Wilton, as he turned to move away.
The wire-puller was playing a part. Paul Kendall was a noble little
fellow, and was already a great favorite on board, not only with the
boys, but with the principal and the professors. Wilton knew that he had
a great deal of influence, and it was important to secure him for their
ticket. If he could tell others that Kendall was going for their men, it
would induce many to join their party. The "favorite," though he was an
honest, noble-hearted fellow, was still human, and a berth in the after
cabin was a strong temptation to him.
"I'm not going to say I'll vote for a fellow till I know who he is,"
added Kendall. "If he's the right person, perhaps I'll go for him,
though I wanted to see Carnes captain."
"Carnes can't be elected, I tell you. We are going against him."
"Whom are you going for, then?"
"For Bob Shuffles," replied Wilton, desperately, for he did not wish to
mention his candidate till he had won the assent of his companion.
"Shuffles!" exclaimed Kendall, with something like horror mingled with
his astonishment; "I shall not go for him, anyhow."
"Why not?"
"I don't think he is the right person for the place."
"I do; he's a first-rate fellow--none of your milk and water chaps, that
swallow camels and strain at gnats."
Kendall had some decided objections to Shuffles, and he positively
refused to vote for him, even to obtain the coveted position in the
after cabin. Wilton argued the matter with much skill and cunning; but
his logic and his eloquence were both wasted.
"Well, if you won't go for Shuffles, you must be content with your place
in the steerage," added Wilton.
"I won't go for him, any how," said Kendall, firmly.
"You are making a mistake."
"I don't think so. I'm bound to vote for the best fellow, and I'm sure
Shuffles isn't the right one."
"See here, Kendall; don't say a word to the others that I spoke to you
of this little matter. I thought you would go with us, or I shouldn't
have said anything to you."
"Not say anything? Why not?"
"Because it will be better to keep still."
"I shall not do anything of the kind. You have got up a plan to defeat
Carnes, by giving the offices to fellows who will vote against him. You
wish me to keep still, while you carry out your plan. I can see through
a cord of wood, when there's a hole big enough."
"I mentioned this thing to you in confidence."
"You didn't say a word about confidence; and I didn't promise to keep
still. I won't keep still. I think it is a mean trick to buy up the
votes of the fellows, and I'll blow the whole thing higher than a kite."
"You'll catch it if you do," said Wilton, in a threatening tone.
"Catch what?" demanded Kendall, with a very pretty exhibition of
dignity.
"Bob Shuffles will give it to you."
"Give what to me?"
"Give you the biggest licking you ever had in your life," answered
Wilton, angrily, "You are so stupid, you can't understand anything."
"I think I can understand the licking, when if comes. That's a game that
two can play at."
"What do you mean, you little bantam? Do you think you can whip Bob
Shuffles?"
"I had no idea of whipping him; and I have no idea of his whipping me,
either."
Kendall was spunky. Wilton could make nothing of him by threats or
persuasion; and he turned away from him to seek a more promising field
of labor. Kendall took off his cap, scratched his head as he reflected
upon the event which had just transpired, and made up his mind that it
was an insult to an independent elector to attempt to buy his vote with
the paltry consideration of an office. He was sorry that he had been
