Well, I would, if I couldn't afford anything 
nicer Of course, I 'd rather have an expensive 
and stylish thing; so would anybody; but I 
should feel degraded, I 'm sure I should, if I 
endangered my health all winter long rather 
than carry a squirrel muff ! " 
The girls had a liking, such as it was, for 
Jane Bruce ; she had a way of doing errands 
without grumbling, and curing their neuralgia, 
and being sorry for their headaches, a very 
quiet sort of way, to be sure, that nobody 
thought much about; but at any rate, they did 
not laugh at what she said. 
"Well, well," said Jo Courtis, "Jane doesn't 
care for the pomp and vanities, anyway, which 
makes a difference; do you, Jane?" 
The question was thoughtless, just like Jo. 
Gypsy glanced from her room-mate 's mourning 
dress to her face, on which a slight sadness had 
settled. Her good sense told her that Jane was 
right. It told her, moreover, that Gypsy 
Breynton was a little ashamed of herself. So 
she spoke up in her honest way, 
"Anybody want my sentiments on squirrel 
furs? Don t? What a pity! For you see, 
you 'll have to see me in them all winter. It 's 
either that, or worrying mother for fear I shall 
catch my death ; so you 'd better make up your 
minds to it. Jane, where 's the algebra lesson?" 
Jane was gone, as she was very apt to be ; 
and nobody thought any more about her. 
Not long after this, another matter came up, 
which troubled Gypsy more than anything of 
the kind had done before. 
One day three or four of the girls appeared 
with three or four little gold stars, all just alike, 
and all affixed by a tiny gold chain to their 
pins. They were inscribed with some mysteri 
ous hieroglyphics, which no one could decipher 
without coming to an impertinent nearness. 
"Why, what is it?" 
"Did you ever? 
" Where did they get them? " 
"What do they mean? " 
"What on earth do they keep it such a 
dreadful secret for?" 
So the whispers and the wonder buzzed 
around for a week, but the wearers kept their 
lips shut, and nobody was any the wiser. At 
last one day it was reported that the gold 
stars were the badges of a Secret Society, the 
Chapter of the Golden Crescent, solemnly 
founded in the trunk closet on the fifteenth 
of November, and solemnly to be handed 
down to posterity as long as time and Mrs. 
McMunn 's should endure. 
"Why, how splendid" said Gypsy. I 
doubt if Gypsy will ever outgrow her penchant 
for boy 's plays. 
Jo Courtis, Jacqueline Delancey, Mary Blunt, 
Lou Armstrong, and the Colchetts were the 
original members. There was a breathless sus 
pense in official circles. Would the illustri 
ous band enlarge itself? Who would be 
chosen next? 
One day Maude Clare walked into Shake 
speare, with the gold star hanging from her 
handsome lapis-lazuli pin. Maude Clare tried 
not to look important, and succeeded in looking 
it to perfection. 
As soon as the recitation was over, Gypsy 
flew after her, and begged leave to examine the 
badge. Upon one side was a cabalistic design, 
which might have been a toasting-fork, or a 
gravestone, or several other things. 
" Or a teaspoon, perhaps?" suggested Gypsy. 
"That 's telling," said Maude Clare. Upon 
the other side were the letters, 
handsomely engraved in German text. 
" E. S.? E. S.? What on earth does E. S 
stand for?" 
" Guess." 
" Well Everlasting Sinners? * 
" Guess again." 
Gypsy couldn't guess. 
" Evergreen Sisters." 
" Oh." 
" That is to say, that 's our public name. 
There is a private meaning, of course; we re 
on our oath not to tell that." 
Gypsy fingered the pretty trinket with wist 
ful eyes, but said nothing. 
In the afternoon Maude Clare came into 
her room with a very mysterious air; Jane 
Bruce, seeing that she was not wanted, went 
out. 
"You are elected, my dear," said Maude 
Clare, solemnly. 
"Elected?" 
" An Evergreen Sister. I am appointed a 
committee of one to notify you." 
Gypsy rose demurely from her chair, and 
jumped up and down three times, as hard as 
she could jump. 
"You had better go down town and order 
your badge this afternoon, I think," said Maude 
Clare. Gypsy stopped jumping. 
"How much does it cost? " she said, turning 
quickly round. 
" Oh, only five dollars." 
Only five dollars ! It might as well have 
been fifty. Gypsy walked over to the window. 
"Well?" said Maude Clare. 
Gypsy made no reply; perhaps she could 
not just then; she was bitterly disappointed, 
and stood with flushed cheeks, and one little 
pearl of a tooth biting sharply at her lip, think 
ing about it. She had five dollars in her purse, 
but it was nearly all owing to her washwoman. 
They would send her checks from home as 
