him is, that he won't interfere with any more men in 
this place ! I want every man to mind his own busi- 
ness here. And if I can't be master " 

"Not of souls, nor brains." 

" Brains ! A workman has no business with 'em ! 
Who wants him to think or to order? I can do that. 
All that is required of you is to work. That's what I 
hire you for. You've no right to come in here and 
make drawings. It's just as much robbery as if you 
put your hand in my pocket ! " 

A swarthy flush of passion crept over. Stephen Dane's 
face. 

"A man has a right to his own thoughts. You dis- 
dain to hire his brains, I believe." 

"I tell you, when he comes into this place, he's mine. 
My money buys every moment of his time and. energy. 
His thoughts should be on my work ; and if they are 
not, I say he defrauds me that he is a thief." 




 

The two men glared at each other. 

" Very well," Dane said, slowly. " My time ended 
this noon. An hour or two extra I will throw in, lest 
I may have unwittingly defrauded you some time. 
Now we are quits. The world' is wide, and there are 
more places in it than Tregony." 

Thomas Vennard caught his breath in utter amaze- 
ment. He had heard men bluster and swear ; he had 
seen them cower in sullen rage ; but this one did 
neither. Those fearless eyes why, if he should look 
long enough, they might even master him. And dis- 
charging himself! Taking the very words out of his 
mouth I 

He opened his pocket-book, and, snatching a bill 
therefrom, handed it to Stephen Dane. 

" There's your wages until to-night. Give me that 
paper." 

Instead Dane handed him a dollar in change. 

W I want no more than belongs to me," he said, 
proudly. " I have not robbed you of anything. There 
is your engine you have the means and the time to 
perfect it. Do it, if you can. And if some other man 
is before you, the law will protect him." 

"Dane, you shall rue this to the latest day of your 
life. If your improvement had been worth anything, 
I might have done something for you. As it is, I am 
your enemy." He hissed it through his dull, purple 
lips. "You'll find out what that means. No one ever 





yet thwarted me who didn't smart for it. I have 
money, and that gives a man a long arm. I can reach 
you in other places than Tregony. You'll see, blind, 
ignorant fool that you are ! " 

Stephen Dane gained a victory over himself when he 
made no reply. Recriminations were useless, and the 
threat seemed idle. He had a morbid antipathy to 
brawls and quarrels. He looked Mr. Vennard steadily 
in the eye a moment. That hard, narrow, sordid face ! 
Then he turned, and went down. 

Not into the large shop, but by a worn side stairway, 
that took him to the very spot where he had once stood 
with little Hope Vennard in his arms where she had 
kissed him. Would she ever know the bitterness of 
her father's tyranny? If she should love where he 
hated ! Ah, and a quick shiver passed over Stephen. 

He marched through the yard, hardly realizing the 
events of the last ten minutes. How strange the world 
looked ! 

An hour ago he was wild for leisure. Now there 
was plenty of it. He had nothing more to do in 
Tregony. 

And then he asked himself where there was anything 
for him to do. Leisure was a rich man's luxury, and 
he why, this ten dollars was about all he had in the 
world. He had always brought his money home, and 
put it in a little tin box in the cupboard. Every one 
went to it. The household expenses, the clothing, and 



 



his father's rum, came out of it. Frequently it was 
all gone before Saturday night. For the last month 
or two, he had meant to institute a new system ; but 
Joe had grown sulky when he undertook to explain 
economy. 

" If you know so well, why don't you manage your- 
self?" she had retorted, crossly. "May be you think 
I'm not honest." 

W O, no, Joe! " he had answered, with sudden pain. 
