"They are; of course she has my father's name."
I could not see why that followed, but I did not like to carry my
questions to the point of impudence.
"Is your father at home?"
"My father is dead," she answered, in a very sad tone.
"Excuse me if I ask who the lady is that stands on the pier."
"Mrs. Loraine."
"And not your mother?"
"No!"
"You seemed to be running away from her when I heard you screaming."
"I was; she was trying to catch me."
Perhaps Miss Kate Loraine thought I was very obtuse, but I could not
understand the relation between the parties, and I had not the faintest
idea why she was running away from Mrs. Loraine. I was not willing to
believe that a young miss like her intended to resort to such a
desperate remedy as suicide for any real or imaginary sufferings.
"What shall we do, Bob?" I asked, turning to my companion, completely
nonplussed by the circumstances.
"I don't know what to do. It seems to me we ought to return the young
lady to her friends," replied he.
"I have no friends," interposed Kate, and the tears started in her eyes;
"at least I have none in Cannondale."
"Don't you live at Mrs. Loraine's?" asked Bob.
"Yes; but I shall live there no longer."
"You say she is not your mother?" I added, returning to the point I had
twice left.
"She was my father's wife, but she is not my mother."
"She is your step-mother," I continued, as the light flooded my dull
brain.
"She is; I do not wish to speak ill of her, but I do wish to keep away
from her. She is not kind to me, to say the very least."
I pitied her, and I saw by Bob's looks that he was not at all behind me
in the outflow of his sympathy. I had read stories enough about "awful
step-mothers" to form an idea of Kate's situation, though I had no
prejudices against step-mothers, as such. Bob Hale's father had married
a second wife, but Bob and his sister would never have known from her
treatment of them, that she was not their own mother.
If Kate was not a very pretty girl, she was certainly a very interesting
one. Her form was grace itself, but her eyes were all that was pretty
about her face; and when I looked at her I was not willing to believe it
possible that any one, and especially one bearing her father's name,
could ill-treat her.
By this time the boat had gone to the farther corner of the lake, and it
was necessary to brace her up or come about. I went aft to take the
helm, and Kate followed me, taking a seat at my side. I put the tiller
hard down, and the Splash came about, heading towards Cannondale. Our
passenger was quick to discern the course, and became quite excited
again.
"You are taking me home again!" exclaimed she. "O, Ernest Thornton! you
will not do that. Let me land here, anywhere, even on that island, but
do not give me back to her."
"I don't know what to do, Miss Loraine; but I think you ought to have
dry clothes at once."
"Have pity upon me, and do not take me home," pleaded she.
She was so agitated that I became alarmed; and to pacify her, I came
about again, and steered for Parkville.
CHAPTER II.
IN WHICH ERNEST LISTENS TO THE STORY OF MISS KATE LORAINE.
FORTUNATELY the day was warm and the sun shining brightly, or our gentle
passenger must have suffered severely from the effects of her voluntary
bath. I do not know that I ever felt more embarrassed and perplexed than
I did when I sat in the Splash that day, with Miss Kate Loraine at my
side, her dress hanging "slinky" and dripping upon her. Certainly there
was nothing sentimental in the affair, for, though I was willing to
become a knight errant in a good cause, the situation was so awkward
that I could not enjoy it.
Bob Hale was as much in trouble as I was, and he could not tell what to
do any better than I could. Neither of us was willing to assume the
responsibility of taking the young lady from her home on the strength
of her own assertion that her step-mother abused her. There were two
sides to every question, and with the brighter example of Mrs. Hale
before us, we were not disposed to regard her as a monster without
giving her a hearing.
Kate was quite composed again when she found the boat was headed towards
Parkville, instead of Cannondale. One thing was very much in her favor;
she was not willing to speak evil of the lady who abused her. She had
told us no more than was necessary to explain her position. Her demeanor
did not indicate any thing malignant in her heart; on the contrary, her
conduct exhibited a degree of Christian forbearance which was hardly to
be expected of one who had been abused.
"I have heard all about you, Ernest Thornton," said Kate, as the Splash
stood over towards Parkville.
"Have you, indeed? I was not aware that I was celebrated enough to be
talked about," I laughingly replied.
"You are; and ever since you beat the Champion in the race with the
Adieno, I have looked upon you as a hero. I have often wished that I
might see you close to."
She was close enough to me now to make me shiver when I looked at her,
she was so wet and drabbled.
"Perhaps I am a kind of one-horse hero among the boys," I added, for the
sake of saying something.
"And among the girls, too," said she, promptly, if not boldly, though
there was a degree of simplicity in her manner which prevented me from
giving her words an unfavorable construction. "I have heard them in
Cannondale and Parkville tell what a bold, brave fellow you are."
"I am very much obliged to them and to you for the good opinion of me.
If you have confidence in me, that will answer my present purpose."
She looked curiously at me; and taking advantage of this favorable
current of sentiment, I put the Splash about on the other tack, so that
she was again headed towards Cannondale. Bob looked anxiously from Kate
to me, and from me to Kate again. He expected another storm of emotion
from her, and so did I; but I had decided upon my course, and was fully
determined to carry it out, even if it broke the heartstrings of my
fair passenger. I was sorry to be so ungallant as to resist the will of
a young lady, but my conscience would not let me interfere with the
domestic arrangements of Mrs. Loraine, without giving her a chance to
defend herself.
"They say you are a smart boy, Ernest Thornton," added she, apparently
without noticing the change in the course of the boat.
"Perhaps I am--I don't know," I replied; "I am afraid if I take you over
to Parkville, people will think I am smarter than I ever was before."
"Why?" asked she, bestowing a painfully anxious glance upon me.
"Don't you think it would be rather smart for Bob Hale and me to run
away with a young lady like you?"
"Run away with me!" exclaimed she, with a troubled look.
"What should we do with you after we had landed you?"
"O, I won't give you any trouble at all--not a bit."
"We don't mind the trouble, Miss Loraine; we were only thinking what
would become of you."
"I have an uncle in New York city--my father's brother. If I can only
