indifference to hoofs and wheels which one, after long 
residence in tranquil Venice, cannot acquire, in view 
of the furious Neapolitan driving. That old compre- 
hensive gig of Naples, with which many pens and 
pencils have familiarized the reader, is nearly as hard 
to find there now as the lazzaroni, who have gone out 
altogether. You may still see it in the remoter quar- 
ters of the city, with its complement of twelve pas- 
sengers to one horse, distributed, two on each thill, 
four on the top seats, one at each side, and two be- 
hind ; but in the Toledo it has given place to much 
finer vehicles. Slight buggies, which take you any- 
where for half a franc, are the favorite means of 
public conveyance, and the private turn-outs are of 
eveiy description and degree. Indeed, all the Nea- 
politans take to carriages, and the Strand in London 
at six o'clock in the evening is not a greater jam of 
wheels than the Toledo in the afternoon. Shopping 
feels the expansive influence of the out-of-doors life, 
and ladies do most of it as they sit in their open car- 
riages at the shop-doors, ministered to by the neat- 
handed shopmen. They are very languid ladies, as 
they recline upon their carriage cushions ; they are 
all black-eyed, and of an olive pallor, and have 
gloomy rings about their fine eyes, like the dark- 
faced dandies who bow to them. This Neapolitan 
look is very curious, and I have not seen it elsewhere 
in Italy ; it is a look of peculiar pensiveness, and 
comes, no doubt, from the peculiarly heavy growth 
of lashes which fringes the lower eyelid. Then there 
is the weariness in it of all peoples whose summers 
are fierce and long. 
As the Italians usually dress beyond their means, 
the dandies of Naples are very gorgeous. If it is 
now, say, four o'clock in the afternoon, they are all 
coming down the Toledo with the streams of car- 
riages bound for the long drive around the bay. But 
our foot-passers go to walk in the beautiful Villa 
Reale, between this course and the sea. The Villa 
is a slender strip of Paradise, a mile long ; it is rapt- 
ure to walk in it, and it comes, in description, to 
be a garden-grove, with feathery palms, Greekish 
temples, musical fountains, white statues of the gods, 
and groups of fair girls in spring silks. If I remem- 
ber aright, the sun is always setting on the bay, 
and you cannot tell whether this sunset is cooled 
by the water or the water is warmed by the golden 
light upon it, and upon the city, and upon all the 
soft mountain-heights around. 
WALKING westward through the whole length of 
the Villa Reale, and keeping with the crescent shore 
of the bay, you come, after a while, to the Grot of 
Posilippo, which is not a grotto but a tunnel cut for 
a carriage-way under the hill. It serves, however, 
the purpose of a grotto, if a grotto has any, and is 
of great length and dimness, and is all a-twinkle 
night and day with numberless lamps. Overlooking 
 
the street which passes into it is the tomb of Virgil, 
and it is this you have come to see. To reach it, 
you knock first at the door of a blacksmith, who 
calls a species of, custodian, and, when this latter has 
opened a gate in a wall, you follow him up-stairs into 
a market-garden. 
In one corner, and standing in a leafy and grassy 
shelter somewhat away from the vegetables, is the 
poet's tomb, which has a kind of claim to genuine- 
ness by virtue of its improbable appearance. It looks 
more like a bake-oven than even the Pompeian tombs ; 
the masonry is antique, and is at least in skillful imi- 
tation of the fine Roman work. The interior is a 
small chamber with vaulted or wagon-roof ceiling, 
under which a man may stand upright, and at the 
end next the street is a little stone commemorating 
the place as Virgil's tomb, which was placed there 
by the Queen of France in 1840, and said by the 
custodian (a singularly dull ass) to be an exact copy 
of the original, whatever the original may have been. 
This guide could tell us nothing more about it, and 
was too stupidly honest to pretend to know more. 
The laurel planted by Petrarch at the door of the 
tomb, and renewed in later times by Casimir Dela- 
vigne, has been succeeded by a third laurel. The 
present twig was so slender, and looked so friendless 
and unprotected, that even enthusiasm for the mem- 
ory of two poets could not be brought to rob it of 
one of its few leaves ; and we contented ourselves 
with plucking some of the grass and weeds that grew 
abundantly on the roof of the tomb. 
There was a dusty quiet within the tomb, and a 
grassy quiet without, that pleased exceedingly ; but 
though the memories of the place were so high and 
epic, it only suggested bucolic associations, and, sunken 
into that nook of hill-side verdure, made me think of a 
spring-house on some far-away Ohio farm ; a thought 
that, perhaps, would not have offended the poet, who 
loved and sang of humble country things, and, draw- 
ing wearily to his rest here, no doubt turned and 
remembered tenderly the rustic days before the ex- 
cellent veterans of Augustus came to exile him from 
his father's farm at Mantua, and banish him to mere 
glory. But I believe most travellers have much 
nobler sensations in Virgil's tomb, and there is a 
great deal of testimony borne to their lofty sentiments 
on every scribbleable inch of its walls. Valery re- 
minded me that Boccaccio, standing near it of old, 
first felt his fate decided for literature. Did he come 
there, I wonder, with poor Fiammetta, and enter the 
tomb with her tender hand in his, before ever he 
thought of that cruel absence she tells of? "O 
donne pietose ! " I hope so, and that this pilgrimage, 
half of love and half of letters, took place, " nel 
tempo nel quale la rivestita terra piu che tutto Faltro 
anno si mostra bella." 
If you ascend from the tomb and turn Naples- 
ward from the crest of the hill, you have the loveli- 
est view in the world of the sea and of the crescent 
beach, mightily jeweled at its further horn with the 
black Castel delP Ovo. Fishermen's children are 
playing all along the foamy border of the sea, and 
