Octavia to turn and smile at him with a wistful, friendly look that
warmed his heart? He met it with an answering glance, which thrilled her
strangely, for love, gratitude, and some mysterious intelligence met and
mingled in the brilliant yet soft expression which swiftly shone and
faded in her face. What it was she could not tell; she only felt that it
filled her with an indescribable emotion never experienced before. In an
instant it all passed, Lady Treherne spoke to her, and Blanche Talbot
addressed Maurice, wondering, as she did so, if the enchanting smile he
wore was meant for her.
“Mr. Annon having mercifully set me free, I came to try to cheer your
solitude; but you look as if solitude made you happier than society does
the rest of us,” she said without her usual affectation, for his manner
impressed her.
“You are very kind and very welcome. I do find pleasures to beguile my
loneliness, which gayer people would not enjoy, and it is well that I
can, else I should turn morose and tyrannical, and doom some unfortunate
to entertain me all day long.” He answered with a gentle courtesy which
was his chief attraction to womankind.
“Pray tell me some of your devices, I’m often alone in spirit, if not so
in the flesh, for Rose, though a dear girl, is not congenial, and I find
no kindred soul.”
A humorous glimmer came to Treherne’s eyes, as the sentimental damsel
beamed a soft sigh and drooped her long lashes effectively. Ignoring the
topic of “kindred souls,” he answered coldly, “My favorite amusement is
studying the people around me. It may be rude, but tied to my corner, I
cannot help watching the figures around me, and discovering their little
plots and plans. I’m getting very expert, and really surprise myself
sometimes by the depth of my researches.”
“I can believe it; your eyes look as if they possessed that gift.
Pray don’t study me.” And the girl shrank away with an air of
genuine alarm.
Treherne smiled involuntarily, for he had read the secret of that
shallow heart long ago, and was too generous to use the knowledge,
however flattering it might be to him. In a reassuring tone he said,
turning away the keen eyes she feared, “I give you my word I never will,
charming as it might be to study the white pages of a maidenly heart. I
find plenty of others to read, so rest tranquil, Miss Blanche.”
“Who interests you most just now?” asked the girl, coloring with
pleasure at his words. “Mrs. Snowdon looks like one who has a romance to
be read, if you have the skill.”
“I have read it. My lady is my study just now. I thought I knew her
well, but of late she puzzles me. Human minds are more full of
mysteries than any written book and more changeable than the cloud
shapes in the air.”
“A fine old lady, but I fear her so intensely I should never dare to try
to read her, as you say.” Blanche looked toward the object of discussion
as she spoke, and added, “Poor Tavia, how forlorn she seems. Let me ask
her to join us, may I?”
“With all my heart” was the quick reply.
Blanche glided away but did not return, for my lady kept her as well as
her daughter.
“That test satisfies me; well, I submit for a time, but I think I can
conquer my aunt yet.” And with a patient sigh Treherne turned to observe
Mrs. Snowdon.
She now stood by the fire talking with Sir Jasper, a handsome, reckless,
generous-hearted young gentleman, who very plainly showed his great
admiration for the lady. When he came, she suddenly woke up from her
listless mood and became as brilliantly gay as she had been unmistakably
melancholy before. As she chatted, she absently pushed to and fro a
small antique urn of bronze on the chimneypiece, and in doing so she
more than once gave Treherne a quick, significant glance, which he
answered at last by a somewhat haughty nod. Then, as if satisfied, she
ceased toying with the ornament and became absorbed in Sir Jasper’s
gallant badinage.
The instant her son approached Mrs. Snowdon, Madame Mère grew anxious,
and leaving Octavia to her friends and lover, she watched Jasper. But
her surveillance availed little, for she could neither see nor hear
anything amiss, yet could not rid herself of the feeling that some
mutual understanding existed between them. When the party broke up for
the night, she lingered till all were gone but her son and nephew.
“Well, Madame Ma Mère, what troubles you?” asked Sir Jasper, as she
looked anxiously into his face before bestowing her good-night kiss.
“I cannot tell, yet I feel ill at ease. Remember, my son, that you are
the pride of my heart, and any sin or shame of yours would kill me. Good
night, Maurice.” And with a stately bow she swept away.
Lounging with both elbows on the low chimneypiece, Sir Jasper smiled at
his mother’s fears, and said to his cousin, the instant they were alone,
“She is worried about E.S. Odd, isn’t it, what instinctive antipathies
women take to one another?”
“Why did you ask E.S. here?” demanded Treherne.
“My dear fellow, how could I help it? My mother wanted the general, my
father’s friend, and of course his wife must be asked also. I couldn’t
tell my mother that the lady had been a most arrant coquette, to put it
mildly, and had married the old man in a pet, because my cousin and I
declined to be ruined by her.”
“You could have told her what mischief she makes wherever she goes,
and for Octavia’s sake have deferred the general’s visit for a time. I
warn you, Jasper, harm will come of it.”
“To whom, you or me?”
“To both, perhaps, certainly to you. She was disappointed once when she
lost us both by wavering between your title and my supposed fortune. She
is miserable with the old man, and her only hope is in his death, for he
is very feeble. You are free, and doubly attractive now, so beware, or
she will entangle you before you know it.”
“Thanks, Mentor. I’ve no fear, and shall merely amuse myself for a
week--they stay no longer.” And with a careless laugh, Sir Jasper
strolled away.
“Much mischief may be done in a week, and this is the beginning of it,”
 muttered Treherne, as he raised himself to look under the bronze vase
for the note. It was gone!
Chapter III
WHO WAS IT?
Who had taken it? This question tormented Treherne all that sleepless
night. He suspected three persons, for only these had approached the
fire after the note was hidden. He had kept his eye on it, he thought,
till the stir of breaking up. In that moment it must have been removed
by the major, Frank Annon, or my lady; Sir Jasper was out of the
question, for he never touched an ornament in the drawing room since he
had awkwardly demolished a whole étagère of costly trifles, to
his mother’s and sister’s great grief. The major evidently suspected
something, Annon was jealous, and my lady would be glad of a pretext to
remove her daughter from his reach. Trusting to his skill in reading
faces, he waited impatiently for morning, resolving to say nothing to
anyone but Mrs. Snowdon, and from her merely to inquire what the note
contained.
Treherne usually was invisible till lunch, often till dinner; therefore,
fearing to excite suspicion by unwonted activity, he did not appear till
noon. The mailbag had just been opened, and everyone was busy over their
letters, but all looked up to exchange a word with the newcomer, and
Octavia impulsively turned to meet him, then checked herself and hid her
