earnestly and in good faith, yet very great good has already been done.
Doubtless the freed people have in many things been faulty. It would
be strange indeed if a whole race could in the twinkling of an eye,
put off the bad habits burned and ingrained into the very texture of
their bodies and minds, by a heavy tyranny of two centuries and a half.
Generations of freedom must pass before the evils can wholly disappear
that generations of slavery have systematically and powerfully
cultivated. But already, to a very great degree (to use the words of a
recent comprehensive summary of the history of the Bureau,) "labor has
been reorganized, justice has been secured, systems of education * * *
have been established, the transition period from slavery to liberty
has been safely passed, and the freed people have emerged from their
state of bondage into that of the liberty of American citizenship."
The operations of the Bureau and of the Commission which works in union
with it, as a sort of unofficial counterpart--a draught-horse hitched
on outside the thills--have sought four objects for the freedmen, in
the following order: 1. To provide for their temporal wants; for if
they had no food for to-day, and no clothes nor roofs to shelter them,
they would be out of the world before they could learn their letters,
earn a dollar, or learn to obey the law; 2. To promote justice; 3. To
reorganize labor; 4. To provide education.
In his difficult and laborious position, General Howard has had to act
without the help of any public funds, by using temporarily certain
species of abandoned property, and by means of details of officers and
men from the army, who have done their work in the Bureau as part of
their military duty, and without other than their usual pay. The good
accomplished has been rather by the use of influence, by forbearance,
by the exercise of the minimum of absolute authority. But in spite of
the good intentions of Congress, the help of the Government of the
United States, which, so far as its action upon the Freedmen's Bureau
is concerned, is exclusively the executive, has not in any complete
sense been given either to the freedmen themselves, in their toilsome
upward road, nor to those who have been striving to aid them in the
ascent; but it has rather been felt as a cold, sullen and grudging
sufferance, verging even into a pretty distinct manifestation of an
enmity like that of the worse class of unfriendly southern whites, and
showing more than one token of an intention to destroy the Bureau and
leave the freedmen helpless as soon as possible.
General Howard has done all that could be done, against these
obstacles. It is easy to see what constant exercise he must need, of
the Christian virtues of forbearance, patience, kindness, and the
overcoming of evil with good, as well as of the moral qualities of
honor and justice, and the soldierly attainments of order, promptitude
and industry. With some of these he must meet the angry tricks of
white enemies; with some, the pitiful faults--which are misfortunes
rather--faults of the freedmen themselves--idleness, falsehood,
dishonesty, disorder, incapacity, fickleness; with others still, the
inactive resistance of his superiors, and the cumbrous machinery of an
organization which the nature of the case prevents from coming into
good working shape.
In spite of all obstacles, the Missionary General and his Bureau
and the Commission have done much. Up to the first day of 1867,
fourteen hundred schools had been established, with sixteen hundred
and fifty-eight teachers and over ninety thousand pupils; besides
782 Sabbath Schools with over 70,000 pupils; and the freedmen were
then paying towards the support of these schools, out of their own
scanty earnings, after the rate of more than eleven thousand dollars
a month. Within one year, they had accumulated in their savings
bank, $616,802.54. Many of them have bought and possess homesteads
of their own. Their universal obedience to law would be remarkable
in any community in the world, and under such treatment as they have
experienced from their former masters since the war, would have been
simply impossible for the body of freemen in the most law-abiding of
the Northern States. And above all, they are with one accord most
zealous, most diligent and most successful, in laboring to obtain the
religious and intellectual culture which alone can fit them for their
new position, as self-governing citizens of a free country.
The views of intelligent army officers, of the task which General
Howard undertook in accepting this post and of his fitness for it, are
not without interest. Col. Bowman thus describes the work:
"He was placed at the head of a species of Poor Law Board, with vague
powers to define justice and execute loving kindness between four
millions of emancipated slaves and all the rest of mankind. He was to
be not exactly a military commander, nor yet a judge of a Court of
Chancery; but a sort of combination of the religious missionary and
school commissioner, with power to feed and instruct, and this for an
empire half as large as Europe. But few officers of the army would have
had the moral courage to accept such an appointment, and fewer still
were as well fitted to fill it and discharge one-half its complicated
and multifarious duties."
When General Howard, on accepting his new post, advised his old
commander by letter, General Sherman, in a friendly reply, thus wrote:
"I hardly know whether to congratulate you or not, but of one thing you
may rest assured, that you possess my entire confidence, and I cannot
imagine that matters that may involve the future of four millions of
souls could be put in more charitable and more conscientious hands. So
far as man can do, I believe you will, but I fear you have Hercules'
task. God has limited the power of man, and though, in the kindness of
your heart, you would alleviate all the ills of humanity, it is not in
your power; nor is it in your power to fulfill one-tenth part of the
expectations of those who framed the bureau for the freedmen, refugees
and abandoned estates. It is simply impracticable. Yet you can and will
do all the good one man may, and that is all you are called on as a man
and a Christian to do; and to that extent count on me as a friend and
fellow-soldier for counsel and assistance." General Sherman more than
once repeated to others similar testimonies of his faith in General
Howard.
General Howard has not the vast intellect and brilliant genius of
General Sherman, nor the massive strength and immense tenacious will
of General Grant. But he has qualities which are even loftier; namely,
those which are the sure basis for such respect and confidence as
General Sherman's; which alone have enabled him to accomplish what
he has in an enterprise wholly discouraging on any merely human
principles. Grant and Sherman, in what they have done, had at their
backs a people far more intelligent, resolute and wealthy, than those
against whom they warred; but a man like Howard, whose soul opens
upward and takes in the unselfish strength and love and faith of
Almighty God, can do great things for humanity irrespective of money
and majorities.
CHAPTER XVI.
WILLIAM ALFRED BUCKINGHAM.
  The Buckinghams an Original Puritan Family--Rev. Thomas Buckingham
    --Gov. Buckingham's Father and Mother--Lebanon, the Birthplace
    of Five Governors--Gov. Buckingham's Education--He Teaches
    School--His Natural Executive Tendency--His Business Career--
    His Extreme Punctuality in Payments--His Business and Religious
    Character--His Interest in the Churches and Schools--His
    Benefactions in those Directions--His Political Course--He
    Accepts Municipal but not Legislative Offices--A Member of the
    Peace Conference--He Himself Equips the First State Militia in
