My feather cost fifteen dollars! Fifteen dollars! Supposing I
had that to buy tulips with? or in case I had already tulips
enough, suppose I had it to buy print gowns for Christmas
presents to the women, which I had desired and could not
afford? Or that I had it to lay out in tea and sugar, that my
poor old friends might oftener have the one solace that was
left to them, or that more might share it? Fifteen dollars! It
was equal to one quarter and a half's allowance. My fund for
more than a third of the year would be doubled, if I could
turn that black feather into silver or gold again. And the
feather was of no particular use, that I could see. It made me
look like the heiress of Magnolia, my aunt said; but neither
could I see any use in that. Everybody knew, that is, all the
servants and friends of the family knew, that I was that
heiress; I needed no black feather to proclaim it. And now it
seemed to me as if my riding cap was heavy with undeveloped
bulbs, uncrystallised sugar, unweighed green tea. No
transformation of the feather was possible; it must wave over
my brow in its old fashion, whether it were a misguided
feather or not; but my thoughts, once set a going in this
train, found a great deal to do. Truth to tell, they have not
done it all yet.

"Aunt Gary," I said that same evening, musing over the things
in my boxes,  "does lace cost much?"

"That is like the countryman who asked me once, if it took
long to play a piece of music! Daisy, don't you know any more
about lace than to ask such a question?"

"I don't know what it costs, aunt Gary. I never bought any."

"Bought! No; hardly. You are hardly at the age to buy lace
yet. But you have worn a good deal of it."

"I cannot tell what it costs by looking at it," I answered.

"Well, I can. And you will, one day, I hope; if you ever do
anything like other people."

"Is it costly, ma'am?"

"Your lace is rather costly," my aunt said, with a tone which
I felt implied satisfaction.

"How much?" I asked.

"How much does it cost? Why it is the countryman's question
over again, Daisy. Lace is all sort of prices. But the lace
you wear, is, I judge, somewhere about three and five, and one
of your dresses, ten, dollars a yard. That is pretty rich lace
for a young lady of your years to wear."

I never wore it, I must explain, unless in small quantity,
except on state occasions when my mother dressed me as a part
of herself.

"No, I am wrong," my aunt added presently; "that dress I am
thinking of is richer than that; the lace on that robe was
never bought for ten dollars, or fifteen either. What do you
want to know about it for, Daisy?"

I mused a great deal. Three and five, and ten, and fifteen
dollars a yard, on lace trimmings for me, and no tea, no cups
and saucers, no soft bed, no gardens and flowers, for many,
who were near me. I began to fill the meshes of my lace with
responsibilities too heavy for the delicate fabric to bear.
Nobody liked the looks of it better than I did. I always had a
fancy for lace, though not for feathers; its rich, delicate,
soft falls, to my notion, suited my mother's form and style
better than anything else, and suited me. My taste found no
fault. But now that so much gold was wrought into its slight
web, and so much silver lay hidden in every embroidered
flower, the thing was changed. Graceful, and becoming, and
elegant, more than any other adornment; what then? My mother
and father had a great deal of money too, to spare; enough, I
thought, for lace and for the above tea and sugar too; what
then? And what if not enough? I pondered, till my aunt Gary
broke out upon me, that I would grow a wizened old woman if I
sat musing at that rate; and sent me to bed. It stopped my
pondering for that night; but not for all the years since that
night.

My preparations were quite made before my aunt got her
feathers adjusted to her satisfaction; and in the bright days
of autumn we went back again to Magnolia. This was a joyful
journey and a glad arriving, compared to last year; and the
welcome I got was something which puzzled my heart between joy
and sorrow many times during the first few days.

And now Miss Pinshon's reign fairly began. I was stronger in
health, accustomed to my circumstances; there was no longer
any reason that the multiplication table and I should be
parted. My governess was determined to make up for lost time;
and the days of that winter were spent by me between the study
table and fire. That is, when I think of that winter my memory
finds me there. Multiplication and its correlatives were the
staple of existence; and the old book room of my grandfather
was the place where my harvests of learning were sown and
reaped.

Somehow, I do not think the crops were heavy. I tried my best;
and Miss Pinshon certainly tried her best. I went through and
over immense fields of figures; but I fancy the soil did not
suit the growth. I know the fruits were not satisfactory to
myself, and indeed were not fruits at all, to my sense of them;
but rather dry husks and hard nut shells, with the most
tasteless of small kernels inside. Yet Miss Pinshon did not
seem unsatisfied; and indeed occasionally remarked that she
believed I meant to be a good child. Perhaps that was
something out of my governess' former experience; for it was
the only style of commendation I ever knew her indulge in, and
I always took it as a compliment.

It would not do to tell all my childish life that winter. I
should never get through. For a child has as many experiences
in her little world as people of fifty years old have in
theirs; and to her they are not little experiences. It was not
a small trial of mind and body to spend the long mornings in
the study over the curious matters Miss Pinshon found for my
