Brussels, a ride of about two hours from Bruges. It was half past nine
when they arrived at the capital of Belgium. The party were greeted by
Mr. Fluxion, who had been sent direct from Antwerp to make arrangements
for their stay over night. Captain Kendall, his officers and crew, were
sent to the Hôtel Royal in the Rue Fossé aux Loups. It was a small
hotel, but very nice and comfortable. Mr. Molenschot, the proprietor,
spoke English, but he appeared to be the only person in the house who
could do so. He was very polite and attentive to the students, and spoke
familiarly and pleasantly to them about "my hotel."
Mr. Fluxion himself had a faculty for keeping a hotel, and understood
precisely what tired travellers wanted when they came in late in the
evening; and he had ordered, in addition to the thé complet, the
bif-stek and pomme de terre. The boys were as hungry as wolves, and
the solid part of the entertainment was very inviting. Each dish of
beefsteak was covered over with nicely browned fried potatoes. In a few
moments there was hardly a vestige of the feast remaining on the table.
The Young America's ship's company were quartered at the Hôtel de
l'Univers, and the Hôtel de Suède, so that the party was separated; and
Paul was rather glad of it, because there were some belonging to the
ship who were not influenced by the motives which prevailed in the
Josephine. He could control his crew, even without the aid of Mr.
Fluxion, who, with several of the professors also lodged at the Royal.
They were a jolly party at the supper table; and as none of the waiters
spoke a word of English, there was a great deal of fun made in giving
their orders; but everybody was remarkably good-natured, including the
waiters themselves.
"Waiter," called Lynch, who, as a general rule, was not guilty of
knowing much about any of his studies, "bring me the bur."
The servant took no notice of him.
"Call him a garçon" said Grossbeck.
"Garçon!" shouted Lynch.
"Monsieur," replied the man.
"Bring me the bur."
"You might as well call for a Canada thistle," laughed Duncan, who was
one of the best French scholars in the Josephine.
"I want some butter; I have eaten up all the bif-stek, and all the
pomme de terres, and now I want some bread and butter. These fellows
don't understand their own language."
"M'apportez du beurre," added Duncan.
"Oui, oui, oui!" exclaimed the waiter, producing the required article.
"That's the idea," replied Lynch; "that man's improving. But this
beurre is so fresh I can't eat it; I want some salt."
"Call for it, then," laughed Duncan.
"I will; here's a go. Garçon, mapperty sellier!"
"Good!" roared Duncan. "If we had a saddle of mutton for supper, I
should suppose you would want what you called for."
"I want the salt."
"I thought you did; and that's the reason why you called for a saddler."
"I didn't call for any saddler. I said sellier."
"Precisely so; and that is a saddler."
"What shall I say?"
"Sel."
"Sel; sellier. Well, I knew there was a sell about it somewhere."
"Precisely; but you were sold. I advise you not to make any long
speeches in French."
"You may bet your life I shall not," replied Lynch.
"Just mention the thing you want in one word; then you won't confuse
garçon's intellect by flooding it with ideas."
"Garçon--sel," added Lynch, acting upon this excellent advice.
The waiter brought the sel, and nobody was sold this time.
"I think I shall pick up the French language in time," added Lynch,
encouraged by his success.
"Perhaps you will, but the Hôtel Royal will have crumbled to dust before
that happy event occurs."
There was any quantity of blunders made at the table, and some of the
students had nearly choked themselves to death with laughing at them,
and at the blank looks of the waiters when spoken to in a tongue which
Mr. Fluxion declared sounded more like Low Dutch than decent French. Mr.
Molenschot laughed too, and intimated that "my hotel" had never been so
lively before.
"What now, Captain Kendall?" said Mr. Fluxion, when the supper and the
blunders had ended.
"My officers and crew wish to take a little walk," replied Paul.
"What! to-night?. It is after ten o'clock."
"They wish to see how 'Belgium's capital' looks in the evening."
"Of course you can do as you think best; but I advise you to be cautious
with them. They may get into trouble in a strange city, or get lost. If
some of them can't speak French any better than they did at supper, they
will have to go to the watch-house, because they can't ask the way
back."
"They can say Hôtel Royal. None of my crew have ever got into trouble
since the ship's company was organized," added Paul, who wanted to go
out himself, and could not deny to others what he took himself.
The permission was given to walk till eleven o'clock, but the boys were
admonished to behave properly, and to return punctually. Lynch and
Grossbeck, who still clung together as fast friends, left the hotel in
company.
"This is jolly--isn't it?" said Lynch, as they passed out of the Rue
Fossé aux Loups into the Place de la Monnaie, a small square in front of
the Théâtre Royal.
"For less than an hour," added Grossbeck, gloomily.
"We don't understand French, and so we can't tell what time it is,"
laughed Lynch.
"That won't go down. We were told to be back at eleven."
"But if we don't know what time it is, we can't be tied to the
bell-rope."
"No use; the captain knows the boom from the bobstay, and if he isn't a
Knight of the Golden Fleece, you can't pull wool over his eyes. You know
he put McDougal through this morning."
"Well, come along. We'll have a good time while it does last," replied
Lynch, apparently appalled by recalling the summary treatment of his
shipmate.
"Everybody seems to be having a good time here," said Grossbeck, as they
passed a café, in front of which were a great number of small tables,
at which gentlemen were drinking, smoking, and carrying on noisy
conversation. "I don't see any reason why we should not. What are they
drinking there?"
"Beer, or wine, I suppose," answered Lynch, as he led the way he knew
not whither, turning to the left, because the street in that direction
looked more lively than the others.
There was nothing to be seen, as most of the shops were closed; but they
continued on their way till they came to a kind of arcade, a building
which contained a broad passage-way, opening from the street, with a
large number of little shops on either side.
The interior was brilliantly lighted, and most of the small stores were
devoted to fancy goods and other showy articles. The young seamen
entered the arcade, in which many people were promenading.
"They say this city is a second edition of Paris on a small scale,"
continued Lynch. "This is very well got up; but from what I have seen of
the town, it looks like a one-horse city. The streets are not much wider
