due to another woman." 
 
*She shall no longer stand between. I will tell her this 
very hour. If I have been weak in waiting " 
"You were weakest when you loved me. Listen while 
I say that I do not, cannot love you." 
" Because you think of my cousin, and the bond between, 
I did not know, when I drifted into that compact, that 
the world held such a glorious woman ; that I should see 
lier, hear her speak, clasp her soft fingers in such a tender 
touch." 
" This is a wild, unreasoning passion. It humbles me 
to be made the recipient of it. Let me go, Mr. Graham ! " 
"No; you shall not leave me until you have said one 
little word that I am dear to you. I can wait for love, 
I can earn forgiveness by devotion.'* 
If I had loved him, I must have yielded to that im- 
ploring face. But instead of a simple liking, I began to 
experience an aversion. 
"Shall I call for assistance? A guest in your own 
bouse ! " 
My tones were haughty, and I believe my eyes literally 
flashed fire. 
" My dnrling, you are cruel ; " and he stood apart, with 
folded arms. 
I passed out, meeting Ellen in the hall. 
" What is the matter? " she asked. " Your face is in a 
glow, and your hands are like ice. Where have you 
been?" 
Before I could answer, some one joined us. I was glad 
to see a movement among the guests fbr departure. We 
returned to the drawing-room, where General Graham was 
wishing a party good night. Mr. St. John stood by the 
mantel, an impassible statue. There could be no going to 
him for counsel. 
I saw no more of Hugh that night, but I took Ellen up 
to my room. 
 . 
"What a curious mood you are in," she said, presently ; 
"or do you always grow handsome at midnight, when 
other people begin to fade ? For you are so brilliant, you 
look quite uncanny." 
"Ellen," I began, "are you satisfied with having me 
here ? "Would you not be happier if we had never met?" 
She looked wonderingly at me an instant, then the soft 
eyes drooped. 
"No," she said; "do not think of that. If you will 
only let me love you. But you have such a strange, weird 
charm that I sometimes feel almost afraid." 
"How much do you love your cousin?" 
After I had asked the abrupt question, I felt abashed. 
" O," she said, with a little cry, " don't think of me. I 
guessed it all long ago. Our engagement was a childish 
affair better broken than kept. And if you can make 
him happier " 
" He has been mistaken," I returned, with a rising flush. 
" You may feel that I have led him on but to mock him at 
the last ; yet it is not so. J have tried to make him un- 
derstand that his attentions were not only wrong, but dis- 
tasteful to me. I have endeavored to lead him to think 
of you " 
"There is no reason, now," she said, almost joyfully. 
" Do not think I shall be heart-broken." 
" My dear Ellen, if you can comprehend," I exclaimed, 
impatiently, " I do not love your cousin." 
She looked blankly at me. I believe she suffered deeply 
for his disappointment. 
"Don't hate me," was my imploring petition. "If you 
could know how honorable I have tried to be, even if these 
black facts do stare me in the face. And I have not one 
friend to pity or comfort." 
She kissed me tenderly. I fancied there were some 
 
tears upon her face. Yet she was not throbbing nor trem- 
bling, as I did, in every pulse. 
" Dear," she said, " it is late, and you are over excited. 
Rest assured that I do not blame you. I had only hoped " 
and her pale lips quivered. 
" And you did not love him? Tell me that again." 
" I did not love him, though I should have spent my life 
in trying to make him happy." 
There was no mistaking that calm tone. 
"Ellen, do you know what love is?" 
I enclosed the little face suddenly with my hands, and 
turned it towards the light. It was a vivid crimson. 
Ashamed of having thus rudely wrested her secret from 
her, I let her go. We kissed again in silence, and parted. 
I hugged to my heart the consciousness that there was 
some real love in the world. But did it ever meet with 
a just reward? 
 
CHAPTER VIII. 
" We twain have met, like ships upon the sea, 
To hold an hour's converse, so short, so sweet. 
One little hour ! And then away they speed 
On lonely paths, through mist, and cloud, and foam, 
Perchance to meet no more." ALEX. SMITH. 
I SLEPT very little that night, and kept revolving the 
problem of destiny in my mind. How oddly we all get 
linked together and confused by a tangle of circumstances ! 
Could I have done differently, and would it have been 
best? Would Ellen have been happy in marrying her 
cousin ? 
I was still in bed when Thirza came, although the sun 
was shining in at every window. I felt languid and ap- 
prehensive, and wished I could be transported back to 
Laurelwood. Instead, I must go through not only this 
day, but one or two more, keeping my serenity undisturbed, 
outwardly, at least. 
I found Ellen waiting for me in the hall, and appreciated 
the act of delicacy on her part. We were the last to enter 
the breakfast-room. Hugh's color deepened as I gave him 
a furtive glance, but, the conversation being general, all 
awkwardness soon passed away. Our host was planning a 
drive for the morning's enjoyment, though Mrs. Graham 
insisted we had much better stay at home and rest. When 
I found the general had decided to take me in his party I 
was ready to go ; for at present I did not desire to risk 
another interview with Hugh. But this gave me no 
 
