director. "Here is the name;" and he pointed to the record.
The name indicated certainly was not "Checkynshaw," though it was as
near it as a Frenchman could be expected to write it. The letters
spelled "Chuckingham."
"Allow me to look at the book," said Mr. Checkynshaw.
"Certainly, sir; but I remember the case well. She was a little English
girl," added the director.
"This child was American," interposed the anxious father.
"We cannot tell the difference. She spoke only English."
"What is this?" asked Mr. Checkynshaw, pointing to another name.
"Marguerite Poulebah."
"That patient was discharged, cured."
"Do you translate English proper names?"
"Never!"
"What became of this patient?" asked Mr. Checkynshaw, deeply
interested.
"I don't know."
The banker was satisfied that "Marguerite Poulebah" was his daughter;
that the persons who had brought her to the hospital understood a
little English, and had translated his surname literally from "chicken"
and "pshaw." He investigated the matter for a week. The concierge of
the lodgings where he had resided assured him he had not given the name
as "Poulebah." At the end of the week he informed his wife that he had
obtained a clew to the child. She had been taken from the hospital by
the Sisters of Charity, and sent to Strasburg, that she might not have
a relapse. Mr. Checkynshaw went to Strasburg alone.
On his return he assured his wife that he had found Marguerite; that
she was happy with the Sisters, and cried when he spoke of taking her
away. The devoted ladies were very much attached to her, he said; and
he had concluded that it would be best to leave her there, at least
until they were ready to embark for home. Mrs. Checkynshaw did not
object. She had no love for the child, and though she had treated her
well from a sense of duty, was rather glad to get rid of her.
The family remained in Europe till the next spring. Mr. Checkynshaw
went to see his daughter again. The Sisters were educating her, and he
declared that Marguerite was so very happy with them, and begged so
hard not to be taken from them, that he had consented to let her remain
at their school. Mrs. Checkynshaw did not care; she thought it was
strange; but if the child's father deemed it best for her to remain
with the Sisters, it was not for her to say anything. She did not say
anything--Marguerite was not her own child.
When they returned to Boston, the friends of the Osbornes wished to
know what had become of the child. Mr. Checkynshaw had not informed any
one of the death of Marguerite when the intelligence came to him in his
wife's letter, though Mrs. Wittleworth had received it direct from the
same source. He had grieved deeply at the loss of the child. Yet his
sorrow was not alone for poor Marguerite; the block of stores, every
year increasing in value, must not pass out of his hands.
"The poor child had the cholera in Paris, and was sent to the
hospital," was his reply. "When she recovered, Mrs. Checkynshaw was
down with the disease, and the Sisters of Charity took her in charge.
They treated her as a mother treats her own child, and Marguerite loves
them better than she does my wife. I don't like to say anything about
it, and will not, except to most intimate friends; but Marguerite was
not Mrs. Checkynshaw's own daughter. They were not very fond of each
other, and--well, I think you ought to be able to understand the matter
without my saying anything more. The poor child is very happy where she
is, and I had not the heart to separate her from such dear friends."
Everybody inferred that Mrs. Checkynshaw did not treat the child well,
and no more questions were asked. The banking-house of Checkynshaw,
Hart, & Co. increased in wealth and importance, and had extensive
foreign connections in England. Every year or two the head of the house
crossed the ocean, partly, as he declared, to transact his business in
London, and partly to visit his child in France.
CHAPTER X.
THE WITTLEWORTH FAMILY.
While everything appeared to be well with the banker, into whose
exchequer the revenues of the block of stores flowed with
unintermitting regularity, the affairs of the other branch of the
Osborne family were in a far less hopeful condition. John Wittleworth
drank to excess, and did not attend to his business. It was said that
he gambled largely; but it was not necessary to add this vice to the
other in order to rob him of his property, and filch from him his good
name.
He failed in business, and was unable to reëstablish himself. He
obtained a situation as a clerk, but his intemperate habits unfitted
him for his duties. If he could not take care of his own affairs, much
less could he manage the affairs of another. He had become a confirmed
sot, had sacrificed everything, and given himself up to the demon of
the cup. He became a ragged, filthy drunkard; and as such, friends who
had formerly honored him refused to recognize him, or to permit him to
enter their counting-rooms. Just before the opening of our story, he
had been arrested as a common drunkard; and it was even a relief to his
poor wife to know that he was safely lodged in the House of Correction.
When Mrs. Wittleworth found she could no longer depend upon her natural
protector, she went to work with her own hands, like an heroic woman,
as she was. As soon as her son was old enough to be of any assistance
to her, a place was found for him in a lawyer's office, where he
received a couple of dollars a week. Her own health giving way under
the drudgery of toil, to which she had never been accustomed, she was
obliged to depend more and more upon Fitz, who, in the main, was not a
bad boy, though his notions were not suited to the station in which he
was compelled to walk. At last she was obliged to appeal to her
brother-in-law, who gave Fitz his situation.
Fitz was rather "airy." He had a better opinion of himself than anybody
else had--a vicious habit, which the world does not readily forgive. He
wanted to dress himself up, and "swell" round among bigger men than
himself. His mother was disappointed in him, and tried to teach him
better things; but he believed that his mother was only a woman, and
that he was wiser, and more skilful in worldly affairs, than she was.
He paid her three dollars a week out of his salary of five dollars, and
in doing this he believed that he discharged his whole duty to her.
Perhaps we ought again to apologize to Mr. Checkynshaw for leaving him
so long in such a disagreeable place as the poor home of his first
wife's sister; but he was seated before the cooking-stove, and the
contemplation of poverty would do him no harm; so we shall not beg his
pardon.
The banker looked around the room, at the meagre and mean furniture,
and then at the woman herself; her who had once been the belle of the
circle in which she moved, now clothed in the cheapest calico, her face
pale and hollow from hard work and ceaseless anxiety. Perhaps he found
it difficult to believe that she was the sister of his first wife.
"Where is Fitz?" asked he, in gruff accents.
"He has gone up in Summer Street. He will be back in a few minutes,"
replied Mrs. Wittleworth, as she seated herself opposite the banker,
still fearing that some new calamity was about to overtake her.
"I want to see him," added Mr. Checkynshaw, in the most uncompromising
tones.
"Fitz says you discharged him," continued the poor woman, heaving a
deep sigh.
