As good seamen, the young gentlemen understood that these careful
preparations did not indicate merely a change in the holding-ground of
the vessel. Everything about the Josephine seemed to be shrouded in
profound mystery. Peaks kept all hands at work till the strict order of
a man-of-war prevailed in every part of the deck and rigging. He did
not say anything, or do anything, which afforded the slightest hint in
regard to the destination of the consort. Mr. Fluxion planked the
quarter-deck, and did not manifest the least sign of an intention to go
to Italy. The movement was utterly incomprehensible, and the runaways
began to look very anxious.
After passing through the Goulet into the open sea, the fore and main
sheets were manned, the yards braced up, and the course changed to the
south-west. Off the Chaussée de Sein, the pilot was discharged, and the
Josephine sped on her way, with a fresh breeze a little forward of the
beam. Still the vice-principal planked the quarter-deck, and no one
said anything to solve the mystery. Peaks had caused everything to be
done which he could find to do, and all hands were "sogering" about the
deck.
"Mr. Peaks, pipe down the port watch," said Mr. Fluxion, at last, as
though every word cost him a month's salary, he was so chary of them.
The acting first officer obeyed the order, and the port watch were
dismissed from duty. Like old sailors, they went below, partly from the
force of habit, and partly to discuss the unaccountable movement of the
vessel. Perth and Herman were both in the starboard watch; but Little
and Ibbotson put their heads together as soon as they were in the
steerage.
"I don't understand it," said Ibbotson, shaking his head.
"Nor I either; but I think it will come out all right," replied Little,
who was always disposed to put the best face upon doubtful indications.
"Do you suppose we are homeward bound?"
"Of course not. Look at the tell-tale. We are running about south-west
by south."
"Perhaps that's the course on the great circle."
"Nonsense! We shall fetch up on the coast of South America, if we keep
this course long enough."
"I don't know about the course, but I have made up my mind that this is
about what it means. I'll bet all the bad marks I shall get for the
next quarter, that we are homeward bound."
"No such thing."
"I believe it," persisted Ibbotson. "Lowington did not know what to do
with us, while he is in Germany, and so he has sent us home."
"South-west by west won't take us home. Fluxion is only giving us an
airing for a day or two, just to see how we behave, and to give us a
little wholesome discipline. If we are good, he will return to port,
and start for Italy. What is Dr. Carboy here for, if we are bound
home?"
"What is he here for? Because Mr. Stout is not here. I suppose they
have changed places for a few weeks. The ship goes home next month."
"Don't you cry! In a day or two, if not before night, we shall be back
again in the harbor of Brest. I'm willing to bet all my bad marks
against all yours, that we get ashore in less than forty-eight hours."
"That's heavy betting, but it won't settle anything. There is Peaks;
suppose we ask him," suggested Ibbotson, as the old boatswain came down
the ladder.
"You can call up spirits from the vasty deep, but they won't come. You
can ask him, but you might as well put the question to the
anchor-stock."
"Where are we going, Mr. Peaks?" asked Ibbotson, as gently as though he
were addressing a lady.
"Going to sea," replied Peaks, gruffly, as he went on his way, deigning
no further answer.
"No use," said Little. "If we only wait, we shall know in a day or two.
In the mean time we must be as proper as the parson's lambs."
Still the Josephine sped on her way, and no one was the wiser.
CHAPTER XIII.
FROM STRASBURG TO CONSTANCE.
The party on board of the Young America were in the highest spirits on
the morning of their departure. All of them had now been decorated with
the white ribbon of the Order of the Faithful. Even Raymond and
Lindsley were entirely satisfied with the good faith and fairness of
the principal--better satisfied than they were with their own conduct.
What had before been regarded as defeat was now triumph, for a failure
to achieve success in doing wrong is actually victory, especially if
followed, as in this instance, by real regret, genuine penitence.
Grace Arbuckle, perhaps conscious that she had exerted a salutary
influence upon the students through the pleasantry of the Order of the
Faithful, was as happy as the young gentlemen themselves. She appeared
on deck at an early hour, and when the officers and seamen presented
themselves, in their best uniforms, wearing the white ribbon, she was
so delighted she could not help laughing heartily.
"Commodore Kendall, are you going to wear that ribbon to Paris?" she
asked, as Paul touched his cap to her.
"Certainly I am. I should as soon think of going without my coat as
without that," replied he.
"But how absurd!"
"Absurd? Vous ne pouvez pas faire un sifflet de la queue d'un cochon,"
added he, very seriously.
"C'est vrai; but what has that to do with the ribbon? Do you mean to
call that a pig's tail?"
"No; on the contrary, it is the wing of an angel--it was bestowed by
you. I only mean to say it would be quite impossible to go to Germany
without this ribbon. It is our talisman to keep us faithful to duty;
and I am afraid we should get into mischief if we went without it.
Every member will wear his decoration. But, Miss Arbuckle, I think you
ought to wear the white ribbon also."
"I!"
"Certainly. You are the Grand Protectress of the order. Do wear it,
Miss Arbuckle, with a rosette, to indicate your superior rank. It would
please all the members very much."
"I will, if you desire it," replied Grace, more seriously.
"We all desire it."
"It shall be done, if you wish it."
"Thanks."
Grace tripped lightly down the stairs to the cabin, but presently
returned, wearing the white ribbon, surmounted by a very tasty rosette,
composed of white, blue, and yellow ribbons, to denote the several
degrees of the order. Paul was in raptures, and when the ship's company
saw the decoration she wore, they saluted her with three rousing
cheers, which she gracefully acknowledged.
"We must perpetuate this order, Shuffles," said Paul, as they stood in
the presence of the Grand Protectress.
"I think we must," replied the captain.
"We will organize more systematically when we have time."
"And have a suitable emblem to distinguish the members."
"The white ribbon must not be discarded," protested Paul, glancing at
Grace.
"Certainly not; but we will have a gold anchor, say, from which the
ribbon shall be suspended," added Shuffles. "On the anchor shall be
engraved the single word FAITHFUL."
"And 'Vous ne pouvez pas faire,' &c.," laughed Paul. "I think we
