to the pretty little house awaiting them. Mrs. Mor- 
rison had to come and express her thanks in person. 
“ It was a perfect godsend to us. Poor Hugh 
was getting so discouraged. O Mrs. Alston, it is 
n’t every one who in prosperity remembers the poor. 
You ought to be proud indeed of Miss Kathie.” 
“ I am thankful to God for her, which is better,” 
Mrs. Alston returned, with a sweet smile. 
The carpets came down, and were soon fitted to 
their respective places. Kathie thought them love- 
lier than ever. Then quantities of furniture, until 
she almost wondered if they would ever find a 
place for it all. 
 
Latterly she had not gone to school, as it was so 
near vacation, and Uncle Robert was very fond of 
having her lor a companion. She was delighted 
now in watching the completion of their plans. 
Aunt Ruth’s room looked lovely. Kathie kept 
admiring every new article that was brought into 
it, and when the pictures came to be hung she 
declared it perfect. 
“ Haven’t you any curiosity to see yours ? ” 
Uncle Robert asked. 
“ Is it done yet ? ” 
“ Finished yesterday afternoon. Shall I conduct 
you to your realm of enchantment ? ” 
“ Oh ! ” and Kathie sprang up eagerly. 
Two steps at a time they went, laughing gayly 
Uncle Robert took the key out of his pocket. 
“ Open sesame ! ” 
It was like e fairy palace ! The daintiest flowered 
carpet, and a set of elegant enamelled furniture done 
in a tint of exquisite pearl, with lovely ornamentation. 
The bureau was broad and low, the mirror showing 
her more than half of herself, the shining golden 
curls and happy, beaming face. There was the white 
bed opposite, a little table with its vase of flowers, a 
 
low rocking-chair, and a pretty red and white willow 
workstand. And there, best of all, over the low 
mantel hung a picture of Uncle Robert. Kathie 
clasped her arms around his neck. 
“ Oh Uncle Robert ! ” and her voice trembled with 
emotion. “You are the best and dearest uncle in 
the world. And I ’m so glad to have you ! ” 
He kissed the rosy face many times. She was 
very dear indeed to him. 
“ It is so very beautiful,” she exclaimed, when she 
could command her voice. “ And I am very glad 
about the picture. I shall always think whose 
generous hand bestowed all these blessings. If I 
could only do something in return.” 
“ You can repay me for everything, Kathie, my 
darling. To see you growing into a noble and pure- 
hearted woman, intent upon making the world a 
little better for her presence, will make me feel that 
I have not placed all these blessings in your way 
vainly. The reward is not simply in being grateful 
to me, but in sharing your happiness with others, in 
proving a good daughter and sister, and a kind 
friend.” 
“ I am sometimes afraid that I never can be good 
 
enough, Uncle Robert,” Kathie answered, seri- 
ously. 
“ I can trust you while you keep so near to 
humility,” he said, in an encouraging tone. 
“ I feel like the Pilgrims when they reached the 
Palace Beautiful,” she returned, with a sweet smile. 
“ And the giants, — are they all dead ? ” 
“ I don’t know. I ’in so happy ^that nothing 
seems to trouble me. I wonder if it is quite right.” 
“ Yes,” he said, gayly. “ God means that we shall 
have some hours of satisfaction and content, es- 
pecially in childhood. I want you to enjoy life now. 
With years always come added cares.” 
Her two gifts from Mr. Meredith had been nicely 
hung. Indeed, it seemed as if nothing was wanting. 
“ In a few days we shall he ready for our removal,” 
Uncle Robert said. “ To-morrow mamma is to come 
over and unpack the dishes and settle the little odds 
and ends. As soon as the smell of paint is aired out 
Aunt Ruth can take up her abode. There will be a 
great deal to do afterward with the grounds and 
fences, but it will be pleasant to watch the improve- 
ments from our windows.” 
So they locked up the enchanted palace and walked 
 
slowly down the broad, shady avenue. Grand- 
mother Morrison stood out by the door of her little 
cottage. Hugh had improved it a great deal already. 
The straggling shrubbery had been trimmed, the 
grass cut short, and the falling vines trained over the 
lattice. 
“ Come in and see how we look, Miss Kathie,” 
grandmother said, with an old-fashioned courtesy. 
Kathie thought her cap and apron were even 
whiter than snow. 
They walked into the cheerful room. Mrs. Morri- 
son sprang up and placed some chairs for them. 
Jamie was dragging a wooden horse on wheels, 
and his little sister, who sat on the floor, clapped 
her hands and crowed, and occasionally delivered 
a speech in baby dialect. 
“Are you feeling at home?” Uncle Robert asked. 
“ O yes, wonderfully so,” returned Mrs. Morrison. 
“ I tell Hugh that we can never be grateful enough 
for our good fortune. I don’t know what we should 
have done, and I hope that he will please you ; I 
know he will try to do his best.” 
“ Kathie and I are not very unreasonable people, 
he answered, smilingly. 
 
Mrs. Morrison insisted that they should have a 
saucer of berries and cream, and then grandmother 
wanted her to go through the house. It looked 
so cosey and pretty, with a quaint, old-fashioned air, 
for much of the furniture had been the old lady’s 
when she first went to housekeeping. In the tall 
