" I take it t'other way," Miss Redwood observed. " It comes close, it does, some of the 
minister's talk ; but I always think, if I had a 
right to be better pleased with myself maybe 
other folks  onesidedness wouldn't worry me. 
I'll do as much for you, next time, Miss Letty," 
she said rising to take what that young lady 
had brought her. And therewith away she 
went. 

" Well, we have got off with our lives this 
time," said Mrs. Englefield. " Now, girls, let 
us have tea." 

" Mamma, I believe here they are this 
minute," said Matilda. " The omnibus is 
stopping." 

It was declared to be impossible ; but nevertheless found true. The omnibus was cer 
tainly at the door, backing down upon the 



 

sidewalk ; and two figures did get out of it 
and came through the little courtyard to the 
house. And then all doubts were resolved; 
Mrs. Candy was in the arms of her sister, and 
the cousins were looking at each other. 

That is, as soon as people could get their
wrappings off. Letty and Maria were assiduous in their endeavours to relieve Miss Clarissa 
of her hood and furs and the cloakings and 
mufflings which a night ride had rendered 
necessary ; while Anne waited upon her 
aunt; and impressions were forming and 
opinions taking ground, under all the confused chatter about the journey, the train, the 
omnibus, and the " City of Pride;" opinions 
and impressions which were likely enough 
to get turned topsy-turvy in another day 
or two; but for the present nobody knew 
that. 

" And here is somebody who says nothing ! " 
Mrs. Candy remarked, stooping down to touch 
Matilda's hair with a light finger. 

"Tilly does the thinking for the family," 



 

said Mrs. Englefield. " Now do come down 
and have some tea." 

"Down? Where are we going?" said 
Mrs. Candy. " Your house stands on the 
ground level, I noticed." 

" O, we have a very nice basement; and 
just for eating, you know, it does not make 
much difference where you are, and it'is so 
much more convenient, being near the 
kitchen." 

" In Germany we used to take our meals 
in the open air a great deal," Mrs. Candy went 
on, as the party filed down the narrow stairs. 

" In the open air ! Not at this season ? " 

" Well, not with the thermometer at zero," 
said Mrs. Candy laughing a little. " Nor at 
quite so high a temperature as you have 
here!" 

The room downstairs was bright enough, 
and looked cheerful, with its well spread table 
and tea urn ; but it was low, and full of close 
stove heat. The travellers got as far from the 
source of this as the limits of the table would 



 

let them, and presently begged for an open 
door. But Mrs. Englefield's tea was good ; 
and very soon the family talk began to move 
naturally. Mrs. Candy pleased her nieces. 
A fine looking and also a kind looking woman, 
with a good figure, well clothed in a handsome travelling dress ; a gold watch and chain ; 
and an easy, good humoured, and at the same 
time sensible air and way of talking. It was 
not difficult to get acquainted with her ; she 
met all advances more than half way; and 
her talk even that first evening was full of 
amusement and novelty for the young people. 
It was less easy to know what to think of 
Clarissa. Her cousins held a consultation 
about her that night before going to sleep. 
" She looks as old as Letty." 
" But she isn't. O, she don't, either." 
" She's well looking ; don't you think so ? " 
I'll tell you what I think," said Matilda. 
She's beau-ti-ful." 

I don't think so," said Letty ; " but she's 
an uncommon looking girl." 




How old is she?" 

" She is sixteen." 

" Well ! Maria's only half a year younger 
than that." 
