hear anything of Ada, the little Electra of Mycenæ.'
Electra was the daughter of Clytemnestra, in the Greek poem, who lived
to condemn her wicked mother, and to call on her brother to avenge the
father. There was in this mention of Electra more than meets the ear.
Many passages in Lord Byron's poetry show that he intended to make this
daughter a future partisan against her mother, and explain the awful
words he is stated in Lady Anne Barnard's diary to have used when
first he looked on his little girl,--'What an instrument of torture I
have gained in you!'
In a letter to Lord Blessington, April 6, 1823, he says, speaking of
Dr. Parr:[6]--
 'He did me the honour once to be a patron of mine, though a great
 friend of the other branch of the house of Atreus, and the Greek
 teacher, I believe, of my moral Clytemnestra. I say moral because
 it is true, and is so useful to the virtuous, that it enables them to
 do anything without the aid of an Ægistheus.'
[Footnote 6: Vol. vi. p. 22.]
If Lord Byron wrote this poem merely in a momentary fit of spleen, why
were there so many persons evidently quite familiar with his allusions
to it? and why was it preserved in Murray's hands? and why published
after his death? That Byron was in the habit of reposing documents in
the hands of Murray, to be used as occasion offered, is evident from
a part of a note written by him to Murray respecting some verses so
intrusted: 'Pray let not these versiculi go forth with my name except
to the initiated.'[7]
[Footnote 7: 'Byron's Miscellany', vol. ii. p. 358. London, 1853.]
Murray, in publishing this attack on his wife after Lord Byron's death,
showed that he believed in it, and, so believing, deemed Lady Byron a
woman whose widowed state deserved neither sympathy nor delicacy of
treatment. At a time when every sentiment in the heart of the most
deeply wronged woman would forbid her appearing to justify herself from
such cruel slander of a dead husband, an honest, kind-hearted, worthy
Englishman actually thought it right and proper to give these lines
to her eyes and the eyes of all the reading world. Nothing can show
more plainly what this poem was written for, and how thoroughly it did
its work! Considering Byron as a wronged man, Murray thought he was
contributing his mite towards doing him justice. His editor prefaced
the whole set of 'Domestic Pieces' with the following statements:--
 'They all refer to the unhappy separation, of which the precise causes
 are still a mystery, and which he declared to the last were never
 disclosed to himself. He admitted that pecuniary embarrassments,
 disordered health, and dislike to family restraints had aggravated his
 naturally violent temper, and driven him to excesses. He suspected
 that his mother-in-law had fomented the discord,--which Lady Byron
 denies,--and that more was due to the malignant offices of a female
 dependant, who is the subject of the bitterly satirical sketch.
        *       *       *       *       *
 'To these general statements can only be added the still vaguer
 allegations of Lady Byron, that she conceived his conduct to be the
 result of insanity,--that, the physician pronouncing him responsible
 for his actions, she could submit to them no longer, and that
 Dr. Lushington, her legal adviser, agreed that a reconciliation
 was neither proper nor possible. No weight can be attached to
 the opinions of an opposing counsel upon accusations made by one
 party behind the back of the other, who urgently demanded and was
 pertinaciously refused the least opportunity of denial or defence. He
 rejected the proposal for an amicable separation, but consented when
 threatened with a suit in Doctors' Commons.'[8]
[Footnote 8: The italics are mine.]
Neither John Murray nor any of Byron's partisans seem to have pondered
the admission in these last words.
Here, as appears, was a woman, driven to the last despair, standing
with her child in her arms, asking from English laws protection for
herself and child against her husband.
She had appealed to the first counsel in England, and was acting under
their direction.
Two of the greatest lawyers in England have pronounced that there
has been such a cause of offence on his part that a return to him is
neither proper nor possible, and that no alternative remains to her but
separation or divorce.
He asks her to state her charges against him. She, making answer
under advice of her counsel, says, 'That if he insists on the
specifications, he must receive them in open court in a suit for
divorce.'
What, now, ought to have been the conduct of any brave, honest man,
who believed that his wife was taking advantage of her reputation for
virtue to turn every one against him, who saw that she had turned on
her side even the lawyer he sought to retain on his;[9] that she was
an unscrupulous woman, who acquiesced in every and any thing to gain
her ends, while he stood before the public, as he says, 'accused of
every monstrous vice, by public rumour or private rancour'? When she,
under advice of her lawyers, made the alternative legal separation or
open investigation in court for divorce, what did he do?
[Footnote 9: Lord Byron says, in his observations on an article in
'Blackwood': 'I recollect being much hurt by Romilly's conduct:
he (having a general retainer for me) went over to the adversary,
alleging, on being reminded of his retainer, that he had forgotten it,
as his clerk had so many. I observed that some of those who were now so
eagerly laying the axe to my roof-tree might see their own shaken. His
fell and crushed him.'
In the first edition of Moore's Life of Lord Byron there was printed a
letter on Sir Samuel Romilly, so brutal that it was suppressed in the
subsequent editions. (See Part III.)]
HE SIGNED THE ACT OF SEPARATION AND LEFT ENGLAND.
Now, let any man who knows the legal mind of England,--let any lawyer
who knows the character of Sir Samuel Romilly and Dr. Lushington, ask
whether they were the men to take a case into court for a woman that
had no evidence but her own statements and impressions? Were they
men to go to trial without proofs? Did they not know that there were
artful, hysterical women in the world, and would they, of all people,
be the men to take a woman's story on her own side, and advise her in
the last issue to bring it into open court, without legal proof of
the strongest kind? Now, as long as Sir Samuel Romilly lived, this
statement of Byron's--that he was condemned unheard, and had no chance
of knowing whereof he was accused--never appeared in public.
It, however, was most actively circulated in private. That Byron was
in the habit of intrusting to different confidants articles of various
kinds to be shown to different circles as they could bear them, we have
already shown. We have recently come upon another instance of this
kind. In the late eagerness to exculpate Byron, a new document has
turned up, of which Mr. Murray, it appears, had never heard when, after
Byron's death, he published in the preface to his 'Domestic Pieces'
the sentence: 'He rejected the proposal for an amicable separation,
but consented when threatened with a suit in Doctors' Commons.' It
appears that, up to 1853, neither John Murray senior, nor the son who
now fills his place, had taken any notice of this newly found document,
which we are now informed 'was drawn up by Lord Byron in August 1817,
while Mr. Hobhouse was staying with him at La Mira, near Venice,
given to Mr. Matthew Gregory Lewis, for circulation among friends in
England, found in Mr. Lewis's papers after his death, and now in the
