
"You thrilled my very soul, father, with your words, and I shall never
forget them. I shall pray to God to save both you and me from the
horrors of intemperance."

"Philip, I have resolved most solemnly, a hundred times, to drink no
more; but I did not keep my promise even twenty-four hours."

"Is your mind so weak as that?"

"Mind! I have no mind, my son. I haven't a particle of strength, either
of body or mind."

"You must look to God for strength," said Mrs. Greenough, who had
listened in silence to our conversation.

"I have, madam; but he does not hear the prayer of such a wretch as I
am."

"You wrong him, Mr. Farringford," replied the widow, solemnly. "He
hears the prayers of the weakest and the humblest. You have no strength
of your own; seek strength of him. My husband was reduced as low as you
are. For ten years of his life he was a miserable drunkard; but he was
always kind to me. Hundreds of times he promised to drink no more, but
as often broke his promise. I became interested in religion, and then
I understood why he had always failed. I prayed with my husband, and
for him. He was moved, and wept like a child. Then he prayed with me,
and the strength of purpose he needed came from God. He was saved, but
he never ceased to pray. He redeemed himself, and never drank another
drop. Before he died, he had paid for this house, besides supporting us
very handsomely for ten years."

"That is hopeful, madam; but I am afraid I am too far gone. I have no
wife to pray with me," said my father, gloomily.

"I will pray with you."

Throwing herself upon her knees before a chair, she poured forth her
petition for the salvation of the drunkard with an unction that moved
both him and me. I heard my father sob, in his weakness and imbecility.
He was as a little child, and was moved and influenced like one.

"You must pray yourself, Mr. Farringford," said she, when she had
finished. "You must feel the need of help, and then seek it earnestly
and devoutly."

"I thank you, madam, for all your kindness. I will try to do better.
I will try to pray," said he. "Could you give me some more of the
medicine I took last night and this morning? It helped me very much."

"Certainly I can. I will do everything in the world for you, if you
will only stay here and try to get well."

She left the room, and went into the kitchen to prepare the soothing
drinks which the excited nerves of the patient demanded.

"I will reform, Philip. I will follow this good lady's advice. Give me
your hand, my son," said my father.

"O, if you only would, father! This world would be full of happiness
for us then. We could find my mother, and be reunited forever."

"God helping me, I will never drink another drop of liquor," said he,
solemnly lifting up his eyes, as I held his trembling hand.

Mrs. Greenough opportunely returned with the medicines, and with a
folded paper in her hand. As my father took his potion, she opened the
paper, which was a temperance pledge, on which was subscribed the name
of "Amos Greenough."

"This is the pledge my husband signed, with trembling hand, ten years
before his death. It was salvation to him here--and hereafter. Will you
add your name to it, Mr. Farringford?" said Mrs. Greenough.

"I will."

"Not unless you are solemnly resolved, with the help of God, to keep
your promise," she added. "Not unless you are willing to work, and
struggle, and pray for your own salvation."

  [Illustration: PHILS FATHER SIGNS THE PLEDGE. Page 193.]

"I am willing; and I feel a hope, even now, madam, that God has heard
your prayer for a poor wretch like me."

"Sign, then; and God bless you, and enable you to keep this solemn
covenant with him."

She took the writing materials from the bureau, and my father, with
trembling hand, wrote his name upon the pledge.

"May God enable me to keep it!" said he, fervently, as he completed the
flourish beneath the signature.

"Amen!" ejaculated Mrs. Greenough. "May you be as faithful as he was
whose name is on the paper with you."

"Stimulated by his example, and by your kindness, I trust I shall be,"
said my father.

Mrs. Greenough then provided a light supper for him, of which he
partook, and very soon retired. I told my kind landlady that I had
recovered my money, and should now be able to pay my father's board for
a time. She had not thought of that matter, and would be glad to take
care of him for nothing if she could only save him. As I went to bed I
could not but congratulate myself upon finding such a kind and devoted
friend as she had proved to be.




  CHAPTER XVII.

  IN WHICH PHIL MEETS THE LAST OF THE ROCKWOODS.


The next day my father was quite sick; but Mrs. Greenough was an angel
at his bedside, and I went to my work as usual. I was filled with hope
that the wanderer might yet be reclaimed. Though I longed intensely
to see my mother, I think if I had known she was in the city I should
