of commiseration. “Recollect that the consciousness of wasted love is
always harder to bear than what is commonly known as bereavement. If you
find her refractory, be patient and persuasive, instead of dictatorial.
Craft often effects what overt violence would attempt in vain.”
“Craft!” The word struck unpleasantly upon the Virginia lordling’s ear,
and he echoed it with a suspicion of a frown upon his brow. “I am not an
adept in chicanery!”
“But you are a born diplomatist!” seductively. “And because I am of the
same credulous sex as our mistaken little darling, you will not proceed
to open warfare with her, even should she be both to resign her lover?
It is the glory of the strong to show charity to the weak and erring.”
For her sake, then, our flattered diplomatist would try the effect of
guile, instead of brutality, upon the helpless girl, the balance of
whose fate was grasped by his shapely hand. For one base second, the
idea of attempting an imitation of his sister’s handwriting flashed
through his mind. But he was a gentleman, and forgery is not a
gentlemanly vice, any more than is counterfeiting bank-notes. Finally,
the author of craft--the subtle, refined virtue bepraised by his
bride-elect--the devil--came to his help.
Mabel, like most other girls, had a dainty and fantastic taste in
the matter of letter-paper and envelopes. She used none but French
stationery, stamped with her monogram--a curious device, wrought in two
colors--and at the top of each sheet stood out in bas-relief the
Aylett crest. With these harmless whimsies Frederic was, without doubt,
familiar. If his letter were returned to him, wrapped in a blank page,
taken from her papetiere and within one of her envelopes, it would not
signify so much whose handwriting was upon the exterior. Papetiere
and writing-desk were in Mabel’s bed-room, but she was in the parlor,
practising an instrumental duet with Rosa--a favorite with Miss
Dorrance. Winston had brought it south with him, and asked his sister
to learn it forthwith, in just the accent he used to employ when
prescribing what studies she should pursue at school. There was nothing
in his errand that he should be ashamed of, he reminded himself with
impatient severity, as he traversed the upper hall on tip-toe to the
western chamber. He had, on sundry previous occasions, sought, in the
receptacles he was about to ransack, for sealing-wax, pencils, and the
like trifles. Mabel was too wise a woman not to keep her secrets under
lock and key, and if there were private documents left in his way, he
was too honorable to pry into them.
Shutting the door cautiously, that the snap and blaze might not betray
him, he struck a wax match, warranted to burn a minute-and-a-half, and
raised the lid of the desk. His unseen but wily coadjutor had guided him
cunningly. In fingering a heap of envelopes in order to find one large
enough for his purpose, he brought to light one addressed to “Mr.
Frederic Chilton, Box 910, Philadelphia, Penn.”
Upon the reverse was a small blot that had condemned it in Mabel’s
sight, as unfit to be sent to her most valued correspondent, and which
she had not observed before writing the direction. Selecting another,
she had thrown this back carelessly into the desk, meaning to burn it
when it should be convenient, and forgotten all about it.
The livid dints were deep and restless in Winston’s nostrils, as seen by
the light of the tiny taper he raised to extinguish, when his prize was
secured. The devil supplied him with another crafty hint, as he was in
the act of folding one edge of Frederic’s letter that it might fit into
the new cover. Why not strip off the letter entirely, that it might seem
to have been opened, read, and then flung back upon the writer’s hands
with contumely? Half-way measures were unsafe and foolish. Stratagem,
to be efficient, should be not only deft, but thorough; else it was
bungling, not diplomacy. His hand did not shake in divesting the
closely-written sheet of its wrapping, but in one respect his behavior
was in consonance with the gentlemanly instincts he vaunted as a proof
of pure old blood. He averted his eyes lest he should see a line the
lover had penned to his mistress. The letter slipped smoothly into the
quarters prepared for it--smoothly as Satan’s mark usually goes on until
his tool has made his damnation sure.
“Well done?” said Diabolus.
“That was a clever hit!” chimed in his assistant, complacently, after
he had put the sealed envelope into his portfolio for safe-keeping, and
burned the torn one he had removed. “Nobody but an idiot or a madman
would persist in following a girl up after such a quietus.”
He replied to Frederic’s note to himself shortly and with disdain, using
the third person throughout, and informing Mr. Chilton with unmistakable
distinctness that Miss Aylett had offered no opposition whatever to
her brother’s will in this unfortunate affair. So far as he--Mr.
Aylett--could judge, her views coincided exactly with his own. Mr.
Chilton’s letters and presents should be returned to him at an early
day, and thus should be finished the closing chapter of a volume which
ought never to have been begun.
All this done to his mind, he set the door of his room ajar, and watched
for Mabel’s passage to hers.
He had not to wait long. The young ladies had fallen into habits of
early retiring of late--a marked change from their olden fashion of
singing and talking out the midnight hour. Himself unseen, Mr. Aylett
scrutinized the two mounting the stairs side by side--Rosa’s dark,
mobile face, arch with smiles, while she chattered over a bit of country
gossip she had heard that afternoon from a visitor, and the weary calm
of Mabel’s visage, the drooping eyelids, and, when appealed to directly
by her volatile comrade, the measured, not melancholy cadence of her
answer, The girl had had a sore fight, and won a Pyrrhian victory. She
was not vanquished, but she was worsted. Some men, upon appreciating
what this meant, and how her grief had been wrought, would have had
direful visitings of conscience, surrendered themselves to the mastery
of doubts as to the righteousness and humanity of stringent action such
as he had just consummated. He was not unmoved. He really loved his only
sister, as proud, selfish men love those of their own lineage who have
never disputed their supremacy, and derogated from their importance. He
said something under his breath before he called her, but the curse was
not upon himself.
“The low-bred hound!” he muttered. “This is his doing!”
Mabel halted at the stair-head, the blood suddenly and utterly forsaking
her cheeks when he spoke her name, although his address was purposely
kind, and, he thought, inviting.
“Can you spare me a moment?” he continued, smilingly, to win her
advance. “I will not detain you long. I know you are agonizing to have
your talk out, Miss Rosa.”
Rosa laughed, with a saucy retort, and turned into her chamber.
Mabel entered her brother’s, and without speaking, took the seat he
offered. She was to be sentenced, and she must reserve her forces to
sustain the pain without a groan.
“You saw Jenkyns--did you not?” began Mr. Aylett, with the manner of one
at peace with himself, and those of his fellow-men whose existence he
chose to acknowledge.
“I did. He made memoranda of your orders, and said all should be done as
you wished.”
“I ordered the masons, this evening, to begin the hall-chimney
to-morrow. While the work is going on, you had better occupy some other
bed-room. I shall hurry it forward, day and night, or it will not be
done in season for us when we return from our bridal-tour. The carpets
must be down, and the paper dry by the fifteenth at farthest. Clara
bought your dresses, and offers to have them made, if you will send
