
" Oh, if you will, Miss Jessie." 

Kathie took her seat and Miss Jessie overlooked 
her, making a suggestion pleasantly, here a little 
deeper shading, there more graceful and flowing lines, 
and soft touches that were such an improvement that 
Kathie was delighted. She was going on bravely 
when Eob came home. 

" What a short hour ! " she said, with a smile ; " and 
the rest have been so long." 

"And what a house without mother and Aunt 
Euth ! " Eob exclaimed. " As you have Miss Jessie, 
I think I 'll go off to the woods with the boys. Dun- 
can set a squirrel-trap this morning." 

" Eob, I hope they will not catch any. Don't 
you think it cruel, Miss Jessie ? " 

Eob laughed and called her chicken-hearted. It 
didn't hurt the squirrels a bit. 

" Boys seem to be very fond of the amusement," 
Miss Jessie replied. f " Charlie's pet squirrel was 
caught in the woods." 



 

" I don't see how he ever became so tame." 

"He was very shy and wild at first, but we all 
petted him a good deal. And yet it never appeared 
quite right to me to shut up such things in a cage." 

" But you let Dick run all over ! " 

" We do now. I hardly believe he would stay in 
the woods. He starts when he hears any of our 
voices." 

" I think I should like to have a pet," said Kathie, 
slowly. " Freddy's rabbits are very nice, but I have 
n't even a kitten." 

" How would you like a canary-bird ? ' 

" If one could tame him and teach him tricks, it 
would be charming. Your little Cherry is so cun- 
ning ! " 

" One of the young birds, Gypsy, is very wise 
and amusing. If you think you would like to have 
him, I will give him to you. But he will need at- 
tention every day." 

" I believe I should, Miss Jessie." 

Fred came thumping up the stairs. " dear ! " 
he said, " I 'm half starved ! " and with that his books 
went down on Kathie's table, spilling the water out 
of a vase of flowers. 



 

Kathie tried to check him, but it was too late. 
She wiped the water up with a towel, and gently re- 
minded Freddy that this was not the place for his 
books. 

" But I 'm so hungry ! " 

" And this is not the kitchen. Hannah will give 
you something to eat. Take your books with you 
and put them on the closet shelf." 

Freddy was gone about ten minutes. Then he 
wondered if they couldn't go to drive ? He was 
sure Eob wouldn't want the horses. 

" Will you, Miss Jessie ? " 

" Yes ; " it would be very pleasant, she fancied. 

So Kathie sent Fred to order the horses. She put 
away her drawing and made herself ready, but they 
waited moment after moment, and no Fred and no 
carriage. 



" If you don't mind I 'll go and see what has hap- 
pened " ; and Kathie ran down stairs. 

There seemed to be no stir of any kind around the 
carriage-house, so Kathie tied on her broad-brimmed 
sea-side and hurried to the Lodge, as she descried 
two small figures under a shady tree. 

" Oh," exclaimed Freddy, as she approached, " look 
at our windmills ! Hooray !  - with a long emphasis 
of enjoyment. 

The two children had some paper stars pinned 
loosely on a stick, so that when they ran against the 
wind the stars whirled round in a delightfully enter- 
taining fashion. Grandmother Morrison had made 


them for Jamie. 

Fred, did you do your errand ? ' ; 
Oh, I didn't want to go riding ; I 'd rather stay 
and play with windmills," returned Freddy, with 
supreme indifference. 
