"The strike would have been successful then. But you 
forget we did not ask for more only the same. We found 
it hard enough to manage on that ; at least the men with wives 
and children did." 
He turned partly away from her now. She ran her eyes 
briefly over the tall figure, so firm, supple, and graceful ; the 
purely-cut features, with their strength and beauty, that could 
never detract from vigor and force, for all the nose was so 
slender and sensitive, the skin fine and clear as a girl's, the 
hair silken soft. 
"No," he said, after a moment's perplexity ; "you do not 
know anything about it. The world, after all, is so great, 
though the little cycles may be much alike, so much that they 
deceive one. And we are all so strangely connected. A man 
raises his hand and puts a whole city in motion ; and his deed 
for good or evil reacts upon thousands. Our minds are so 
narrow, and there are many influences that we cannot grasp." 
She saw the dreamy eyes resting on the far blue mountains, 
with a look in them she could not fathom ; and aught that 
baffled her keen vision annoyed her. 
"Well," she went on, with a kind of bitter energy, "that 
part of your life has proved a failure. You'll turn a new leaf 
here. It is a mystery to me, though, how John Hurst came 
to put you at a trade. Was it your fancy ?" eyeing him sharply. 
"It was not my fancy no." 
"How then?" . 
"We were poor, of course. If we had been rich " with 
a vision of Doctor Trewartha before him. "And he did not 
 
exactly know what to do with me. It is hard to look into a 
soul so unlike your own " 
She thought of the contrast between him and John Hurst, 
and wanted to believe that the pride of a long line of ancestry 
had culminated in him : McRae blood, of course. 
" He did the best he knew. I shall always say that for him, 
now," fiercely, as if some one had challenged the statement. 
"I suppose I was wild, headstrong, unreasoning. The four 
years' discipline would be good for me, he thought. So I was 
put at something my whole soul loathed." 
She saw it in the distended nostrils, where the fine red veins 
came so suddenly to the surface ; in the firmly-set scarlet 
mou:h ; the little frown contracting the brows. 
"Well?" She was elated to have him tell the story of his 
life over to her, for he had hitherto been so reticent. 
"There were some good men in the shop, some who were 
low and ignorant ; but they made amends in brawn and skill. 
There was laughing, coarse jesting, songs, and treats. You 
gave your ten hours' work, amid smoke, and grime, and noise, 
and felt vilely unclean at night, at least I did : tired in brain 
and body. The offset to this was a good business at which 
you could get work when times were brisk and shops not 
over-crowded. I believe I hated the rabble." 
She always scouted the idea of aristocracy. The McRaes had 
been plain untitled people, and she was a thorough old demo 
crat ; yet she liked the flash of pride in the last of the McRaes, 
the heir of the broad lands. 
" I meant to go away when I was through." 
" Where ? What did you expect to do ?" 
" My mind was not quite clear. I had a friend there 
well," thrusting down the old phantoms "I could not leave 
him." Somehow he felt that he should stumble over the word 
"father" just now, with her hawk's eyes upon him. For 
though his face was partially turned away, he knew that she 
was minutely inspecting it. 
 
"You were a good son in that respect, and I think filial 
gratitude hardly one of the modern virtues. You will have 
your reward." 
"He cared for me in my infancy. It is simple payment 
I mean, not reward." 
She twisted the leaves of her book absently. Ready and 
straightforward, even to rudeness, as she often was, she hesitated 
a little here. 
He was thinking over the other miserable failure, the time 
he had fancied himself a genius, and the bitter awakening. 
"So when I could not have culture, refinement, time for 
study, and all that ; when I found my place was in the ranks 
with the others, I made a desperate strike for myself and them, 
and was worsted. That is all. I am ready to begin anew. I 
shall not soon quarrel with fate." 
She had a secret misgiving, from the repressed look in his 
face and the determined closing of the lips, that it was nol all. 
" I am ready for my work," in a low resolute tone. 
It was her turn now. She shut the book with an impatient 
force, as if it had offended her. 
"Victor Hurst," she began, clearing her throat and raising 
her neck out of the folds of lace that she always wore inside her 
dress, "I had a purpose in bringing you hither. I think your 
father made a mistake in choosing a distasteful occupation for 
you ; but we will not quarrel with that since it has made us 
friends, or at least been the means of drawing us together. I 
never had son or daughter, and I believe your mother and 
myself are the last of a long line." 
A dim fear seized upon Victor, and his heart beat almost to 
suffocation. 
" I ask you, therefore, to carry on the family name in this 
old place after I am sleeping down there in the graveyard of 
the McRaes. " 
His face flushed a deep and painful crimson, and there was 
a constriction in his throat, as if a serpent were winding its 
 
strangling coils around. A mad, desperate pang at his heart, 
a fiery heat in every pulse, and a sense of bitter, bitter loss by 
no fault of his own. 
She misread it for embarrassment, surprise, and gratitude. 
Rising she laid her hand upon his arm. 
" Yes," she exclaimed, with a touch of emotion, bowing her 
stately head a little, " be my son as well as hers. I am not 
given to the frequent asking of favors." 
She had not imagined anything like this. She was to be 
stately, impressive ; bestow her good gifts with the grandeur of 
a queen, and have him the grateful, humble recipient. Instead, 
a strange touch of longing, unfulfilled motherhood, that made 
her the suppliant as it were. 
For an instant a fierce, passionate tide swept over him a 
current so strong that he unconsciously bowed his head, while 
his face turned ashen gray. Oh, if he might take these honors, 
this home, that he had learned to love already. If there were 
no vile, hateful stain to mar the past. 
He thrust down the spasm of anguish with a fierce gesture. 
