trees and currant-bushes. These, indeed, were 
dwellings of an elder sort, and had clearly been 
inherited from a population now as extinct in that 
region as the Pequots, and they were not always 
careftdly cherished. On the border of the hamlet is 
to be seen an old farm-house of the poorer sort, built 
about the beginning of this century, and now thickly 
peopled by Dubliners. Its gate is thrown down, and 
the great wild-grown lilac hedge, no longer protected 
by a fence, shows skirts bedabbled by the familiarity 
of lawless poultry, as little like the steady-habited 
poultry of other times, as the people of the house 
are like the former inmates, long since dead or gone 
West. I offer the poor place a sentiment of regret 
as I pass, thinking of its better days. I think of its 
decorous, hard-working, cleanly, school-going, church- 
attending life, which was full of the pleasure of duty 
done, and was not without its own quaint beauty 
and grace. What long Sabbaths were kept in that 
old house, what scanty holidays ! Yet irom this and 
such as this came the dominion of the whole wild 
continent, the freedom of a race, the greatness of 
the greatest people. It may be that I regretted a 
little too exultantly, and that out of this particular 
house came only peddling of innumerable clocks 
and multitudinous tin-ware. But as yet, it is pretty 
certain that the general character of the population 
has not gained by the change. What is in the 
fiiture, let the prophets say ; any one can see that 
something not quite agreeable is in the present; 
something that takes the wrong side, as by instinct, 
in politics ; something that mainly helps to prop up 

tottering priestcraft among us ; something that one 
thinks of with dismay as destined to control so 
largely the civil and religious interests erf" the coun- 
try. This, however, is only the aggregate aspect. 
Mrs. Clannahan's kitchen, as it may be seen by the 
desperate philosopher when he goes to engage her 
for the spring house-cleaning, is a strong argument 
against his fears. If Mrs. Clannahan, lately of an 
Irish cabin, can show a kitchen so capably appointed 
and so neatly kept as that, the country may yet 
be an inch or two from the brink of ruin, and the 
race which we trust as little as we love may turn out 
no more spendthrift than most heirs. It is encour- 
aging, moreover, when any people can flatter them- 
selves upon a superior prosperity and virtue, and we 
may take heart from the fact that the French Cana- 
dians, many of whom have lodgings in Dublin, are 
not well seen by the higher classes of the citizens 
there. Mrs. Clannahan, whose house stands over 
against the main gate of the grave-yard, and who 
may, therefore, be considered as moving in the best 
Dublin society, hints, that though good Catholics, the 
French are not thought perfectly honest, — " things 
have been missed " since they came to blight with 
their crimes and vices the once happy seat of integ- 
rity. It is amusing to find Dublin fearful of the en- 
croachment of the French, as we, in our turn, dread 
the advance of the Irish. We must make a jest of 
our own alarms, and even smile — since we cannot 
help ourselves — at the spiritual desolation occasioned 
by the settlement of an Irish family in one of our 



 

suburban neighborhoods. The householders view 
with fear and jealousy the erection of any dwelling 
of less than a stated cost, as portending a possible 
advent of Irish ; and when the calamitous race 
actually appears, a mortal pang strikes to the bottom 
of every pocket. Values tremble throughout that 
neighborhood, to which the new-comers communicate 
a species of moral dry-rot. None but the Irish will 
build near the Irish ; and the infection of fear spreads 
to the elder Yankee homes about, and the owners 
prepare to abandon them, — not always, however, 
let us hope, without turning, at the expense of the 
invaders, a Parthian penny in their flight. In my 
walk from Dublin to North Charlesbridge, I saw 
more than one token of the encroachment of the 
Celtic army, which had here and there invested a 
Yankee house with besieging shanties on every side, 
and thus given to its essential and otherwise quite 
hopeless ugliness a touch of the poetry that attends 
failing fortunes, and hallows decayed gentility of 
however poor a sort originally. The fortunes of 
such a house are, of course, not to be retrieved. 
Where the Celt sets his foot, there the Yankee (and 
it is perhaps wholesome if not agreeable to know 
that the Irish citizen whom we do not always honor 
as our equal in civilization loves to speak of us scorn- 
fully as Yankees) rarely, if ever, returns. The 
place remains to the intruder and his heirs forever. 
We gracefully retire before him even in politics, as 
the metropolis — if it is the metropolis — can wit- 
ness ; and we wait with an anxious curiosity the 



 

encounter of the Irish and the Chinese, now rapidly 
approaching each other from opposite shores of the 
continent. Shall we be crushed in the collision of 
these superior races ? Every intelligence-ofSce will 
soon be ringing with the cries of combat, and all our 
kitchens strewn with pig-tails and bark chignons. 
As yet we have gay hopes of our Buddhistic breth- 
ren ; but how will it be when they begin to quarter 
the Dragon upon the Stars and Stripes, and buy up 
all the best sites for temples, and bum their joss- 
sticks, as it were, under our very noses ? Our grasp 
upon the great problem grows a little lax, perhaps ? 
Is it true that, when we look so anxiously for help 
from others, the virtue has gone out of ourselves ? 
I should hope not. 
