
" But I am going to get a tea-kettle and 
take it along with me ; to Lilac lane." 






" What for ? They'll send it if you want 
it." 

" I want it immediately ; and Mr. Forshew's 
boy is never there when he is wanted, you 
know." 

" You want the tea-kettle immediately. You 
are not going to make tea immediately, are 
you?" 

" Exactly that, Norton. That is one of the 
things I am going to do. And the poor old 
woman I am going to see, has no tea-kettle." 

" Then I don't believe she has tea." 

" O yes, but I know she has tea, Norton." 

And bread and butter ? " 

" Yes, and bread and butter too," said Ma 
tilda, nodding her little head positively. 
Norton looked at her with a perfectly grave 
face. 

" It must be a very odd house," said he, " I 
don't see how you can be so sure of things." 

Matilda began to walk on towards the 
corner. 

" Who took her tea and bread and butter ? " 



said Norton. " I suppose you know, if you 
know the rest." 

" Of course, somebody must have done it," 
said Matilda hesitating. 

" I wonder if there was a Pink anywhere 
among the things," said Norton. " Did you 
see anything of it ? " 

Matilda could not help laughing, and they 
both laughed; and so they went into Mr. 
Forshew's shop. It was a little low shop, 
just on the corner ; but to be sure, there was 
a great variety and a good collection of things 
there. All sorts of iron things, and a great 
many sorts of tin things ; with iron dust and 
street dust plentifully overlying the shop and 
everything in it. Stoves were there in variety ; 
chains and brooms and coalskuttles ; coffee- 
mills and axes and lamps ; tin pails and 
earthen batter jars ; screws and nails and 
hinges and locks ; and a telegraph operator 
was at work in a corner. Several customers 
were there too ; Matilda had to wait. 

" It is odd now," said Norton. " I suppose, 



if I wanted to spend money here, I should buy 
everything else in the world but a tea-kettle. 
That's what it is to be a girl." 

" Nonsense ! " said Matilda, and the set of 
her head was inimitable. Norton laughed. 

" That's what it is to be a Pink," ' he said. 
" I forgot. I don't believe there is another 
girl in town wants a tea-kettle but you. 
What else do you want, Pink ? " 

" A great deal," said Matilda ; " but I can't 
get all I want." 

" You don't want an axe, for instance ; nor 
a coffee-mill ; nor a tin pail, nor an iron chain, 
nor a dipper; nor screws, nor tacks; nor a 
lamp, do you ? nor a box of matches " 

" O yes, Norton ! O yes, that is just what 
I do want ; a box of matches. I never should 
have thought of it." 

" How about stoves, Pink ? Here are 
plenty." 

" She has a stove. Don't be ridiculous, 
Norton." 

And Mr. Forshew being just then at lei- 



 

sure, Matilda purchased a little tin tea-kettle 
and came out with it in triumph. 

Now is that all ? " said Norton. " How 
about the bread and butter ? Perhaps it has 
given out." 

" No, I think not. I guess there is enough. 
Perhaps we had better take another loaf of 
