which forbids a woman becoming an active 
partner in anything ? " 
Maverick assured her that there was nothing 
the matter with the law ; that the matter was 
entirely with the existing firm. Excepting,
indeed, some technicality, about which he could 
not, at the moment, be precise, which, he 
believed, would make formal partnerships 
impossible in the case of husband and wife. 
" But that case we are not considering," said 
Perley, quickly. " That case it will be time 
enough to consider when it occurs. As long as 
I am unmarried and independent, Maverick, I 
am very much in earnest in my wish to manage 
my mills myself. I do not like to think that a 
; I great many people may be affected by the use 
of my property in ways over which I can have no 
possible control. Of course, I don't know what 
else to do with my money, and if it must be, it 
must be," — Perley noticed with some wonder 
here an amused glance between father and son. 
" But I shall be very much disappointed ; and 
I am much, I am very much, in earnest." 
" I verily believe she is," said Maverick, with 
sudden conviction. " Now, I admire that ! It 
is ingenuous and refreshing." 
" Then why don't you take my part, Maverick, 
instead of laughing at me !" asked Perley, and 
was vexed at herself for asking immediately. 
" O, that," said Maverick, " is another matter. 
I may find myself entertained to the last degree 
by the piquancy, originality, esprit, of a lady, 
when I may be the last man upon earth to 
consent to going into business with my wife. 
Seriously, Perley," for Perley did not bear this well, 
" I don't see what has given you this kink, nor 
why you have become so suddenly reluctant to 
intrust the management of your property to me." 
" It is not my property," said Perley, in a low 
voice, " which I am reluctant to intrust to you." 
" What, then, may it be .? " 
" My people, — the people. Perhaps I have 
thought of them suddenly. But it may be better 
to remember a thing suddenly than never to 
remember it at all." 
" People ! O, the hands, the mill-people. 
A little Quixotic fancy there. Yes, I 
understand now ; and very pretty and feminine it is 
too. My dear Perley, you may set your kind 
heart at rest about the mill-people, — a well- 
paid, well-cared-for, happy set of laboring people 
as you could ask to see. You can go down into 
our mission school and take a class, if that is 
what you are troubled about." 
" Suppose I were to withdraw my share of the 
business," suggested Perley, abruptly. " Suppose, 
upon being refused this partnership for which I 
have asked this morning, I should prefer to
withdraw my interest in the mills ." " 
"We should regret it," said Mr. Hayle, 
courteously ; " but we should have nothing to do but 
to make the best of circumstances." 
" I see, I see now ! " Perley flushed as the eyes 
of the two gentlemen met again and again with 
suppressed amusement in them. " I ought to have 
said that before I told you that I didn't know 
what else to do with the money. Of course ! 
I see, I 've made a bad business blunder. I see 
that you think I should always make bad 
business blunders. Now, Maverick Hayle, I don't 
believe I should ! " 
"My dear Perley," said Maverick, wearily, 
"just listen to reason for reason's sake. A 
lady's patience and a gentleman's time are too 
valuable to throw away at this rate. Even if 
you possessed any other qualification, which you 
do not, or all other qualifications, which you 
cannot, for this ridiculous partnership, you lack an 
absolutely essential one, — the acquaintance of 
years with the business. Just reflect upon your 
acquaintance with the business ! " 
" I will acquire an acquaintance of years with 
the business," said Perley, firmly. 
" Begin at the spools, for example ? " 
" I will begin at the spools." 
" Or inspect the cotton .' " 
" Or inspect the cotton." 
" Wear a calico dress, and keep the books 
in a dingy office ? " 
" Wear a dozen calico dresses, and keep books 
in the dingiest office you have. I repeat, I am in 
earnest. I ask for the vacant partnership, or 
a chance to fit myself for a partnership, in Hayle 
and Kelso. Whatever my disqualifications, I am 
ready to remove them, any and all. If you refuse 
it to me, while I suppose we shall all go on and 
be very good-natured about it, I shall feel that 
you refuse it to me because I am a young lady, 
not because I do not stand ready to remove a 
young lady's disqualifications." 
" Really, Perley, this is becoming absurd, and 
the morning is half gone. If you won't take a 
gallant dismissal of a foolish subject, then I do 
refuse it to you because you are a young lady.'' 
" We must refuse it to you certainly, on whatever 
grounds," remarked the Senior, with politeness,
" however unpleasant it may be to refuse 
you even the gratification of an eccentric fancy." 
Perley's pursuing finger on the little gray 
squares thoughtfully traced the course of 
Maverick's retreating pencil on the green. Pencil- 
mark and finger-touch played faster now, as if in 
the nervous stages of a shortening game. 
" What do you do," asked the young lady,
irrelevantly, and still with her light fingers 
thoughtfully tracking the chess-board, and still watching 
the little gold pencil, which still retreated before 
it, " in your mills, when you have occasion to run 
extra time ? " 
" Run it," said Maverick, laconically. 
