heavily down to the street.” “O don’t--don’t, Basil,” said his wife, “it
seems like something wrong. I think you ought to have been ashamed.”
“Ashamed! I was heart broken. But it had to come to that. As I got
hopeful about you, the Muse became a sad bore; and more than once I
found myself smiling at her when her back was turned. The Muse doesn’t
like being laughed at any more than another woman would, and she would
have left me shortly. No, I couldn’t be a poet like our Morning-Street
friend. But see! the human wave is beginning to sprinkle the pavement
with cooks and second-girls.”
They were frowzy serving-maids and silent; each swept down her own door
steps and the pavement in front of her own house, and then knocked her
broom on the curbstone and vanished into the house, on which the hand of
change had already fallen. It was no longer a street solely devoted to
the domestic gods, but had been invaded at more than one point by the
bustling deities of business in such streets the irregular, inspired
doctors and doctresses come first with inordinate door-plates, then
a milliner filling the parlor window with new bonnets; here even a
publisher had hung his sign beside a door, through which the feet of
young ladies used to trip, and the feet of little children to patter.
Here and there stood groups of dwellings unmolested as yet outwardly;
but even these had a certain careworn and guilty air, as if they knew
themselves to be cheapish boarding-houses or furnished lodgings for
gentlemen, and were trying to hide it. To these belonged the frowzy
serving-women; to these the rows of ash-barrels, in which the decrepit
children and mothers of the streets were clawing for bits of coal.
By the time Basil and Isabel reached Broadway there were already some
omnibuses beginning their long day’s travel up and down the handsome,
tiresome length of that avenue; but for the most part it was empty.
There was, of course, a hurry of foot-passengers upon the sidewalks, but
these were sparse and uncharacteristic, for New York proper was still
fast asleep. The waiter at the restaurant into which our friends stepped
was so well aware of this, and so perfectly assured they were not of the
city, that he could not forbear a little patronage of them, which
they did not resent. He brought Basil what he had ordered in barbaric
abundance, and charged for it with barbaric splendor. It is all but
impossible not to wish to stand well with your waiter: I have myself
been often treated with conspicuous rudeness by the tribe, yet I have
never been able to withhold the ‘douceur’ that marked me for a gentleman
in their eyes, and entitled me to their dishonorable esteem. Basil was
not superior to this folly, and left the waiter with the conviction
that, if he was not a New Yorker, he was a high-bred man of the world at
any rate.
Vexed by a sense of his own pitifulness, this man of the world continued
his pilgrimage down Broadway, which even in that desert state was full
of a certain interest. Troops of laborers straggled along the pavements,
each with his dinner-pail in hand; and in many places the eternal
building up and pulling down was already going on; carts were struggling
up the slopes of vast cellars, with loads of distracting rubbish;
here stood the half-demolished walls of a house, with a sad variety of
wall-paper showing in the different rooms; there clinked the trowel upon
the brick, yonder the hammer on the stone; overhead swung and threatened
the marble block that the derrick was lifting to its place. As yet these
forces of demolition and construction had the business of the street
almost to themselves.
“Why, how shabby the street is!” said Isabel, at last. “When I landed,
after being abroad, I remember that Broadway impressed me with its
splendor.”
“Ah! but you were merely coming from Europe then; and now you arrive
from Burton, and are contrasting this poor Broadway with Washington
Street. Don’t be hard upon it, Isabel; every street can’t be a Boston
street, you know,” said Basil. Isabel, herself a Bostonian of great
intensity both by birth and conviction, believed her husband the only
man able to have thoroughly baffled the malignity of the stars in
causing him to be born out of Boston; yet he sometimes trifled with his
hardly achieved triumph, and even showed an indifference to it, with an
insincerity of which there can be no doubt whatever.
“O stuff!” she retorted, “as if I had any of that silly local pride!
Though you know well enough that Boston is the best place in the world.
But Basil! I suppose Broadway strikes us as so fine, on coming ashore
from Europe, because we hardly expect anything of America then.”
“Well, I don’t know. Perhaps the street has some positive grandeur of
its own, though it needs a multitude of people in it to bring out its
best effects. I’ll allow its disheartening shabbiness and meanness in
many ways; but to stand in front of Grace Church, on a clear day,--a day
of late September, say,--and look down the swarming length of Broadway,
on the movement and the numbers, while the Niagara roar swelled and
swelled from those human rapids, was always like strong new wine to me.
I don’t think the world affords such another sight; and for one moment,
at such times, I’d have been willing to be an Irish councilman, that I
might have some right to the pride I felt in the capital of the Irish
Republic. What a fine thing it must be for each victim of six centuries
of oppression to reflect that he owns at least a dozen Americans, and
that, with his fellows, he rules a hundred helpless millionaires!”
Like all daughters of a free country, Isabel knew nothing about
politics, and she felt that she was getting into deep water; she
answered buoyantly, but she was glad to make her weariness the occasion
of hailing a stage, and changing the conversation. The farther down town
they went the busier the street grew; and about the Astor House, where
they alighted, there was already a bustle that nothing but a fire could
have created at the same hour in Boston. A little farther on the steeple
of Trinity rose high into the scorching sunlight, while below, in the
shadow that was darker than it was cool, slumbered the old graves among
their flowers.
“How still they lie!” mused the happy wife, peering through the iron
fence in passing.
“Yes, their wedding-journeys are ended, poor things!” said Basil; and
through both their minds flashed the wonder if they should ever come to
something like that; but it appeared so impossible that they both smiled
at the absurdity.
“It’s too early yet for Leonard,” continued Basil; “what a pity the
church-yard is locked up. We could spend the time so delightfully in
it. But, never mind; let us go down to the Battery,--it’s not a
very pleasant place, but it’s near, and it’s historical, and it’s
open,--where these drowsy friends of ours used to take the air when
they were in the fashion, and had some occasion for the element in its
freshness. You can imagine--it’s cheap--how they used to see Mr. Burr
and Mr. Hamilton down there.”
All places that fashion has once loved and abandoned are very
melancholy; but of all such places, I think the Battery is the most
forlorn. Are there some sickly locust-trees there that cast a tremulous
and decrepit shade upon the mangy grass-plots? I believe so, but I do
not make sure; I am certain only of the mangy grass-plots, or rather the
spaces between the paths, thinly overgrown with some kind of refuse and
opprobrious weed, a stunted and pauper vegetation proper solely to the
New York Battery. At that hour of the summer morning when our friends,
with the aimlessness of strangers who are waiting to do something else,
saw the ancient promenade, a few scant and hungry-eyed little boys and
girls were wandering over this weedy growth, not playing, but moving
listlessly to and fro, fantastic in the wild inaptness of their
costumes. One of these little creatures wore, with an odd involuntary
