“I don’t mind,” said Tom. “It’ll be better than sleeping in the street.
Where do you live?”
“In Mulberry Street.”
“I guess I’ll get something to do to-morrow,” said Tom.
“What did you use to do?”
“Sweep the crossings sometimes. I won’t do that again. It’s too dirty.”
“It would sp’ile them nice clo’es of yours.”
“Yes,” said Tom. “Besides, I wouldn’t want Mrs. Merton, or Mary, to see
me doin’ that.”
“Who’s Mary?”
“It’s her child.”
“Did you like her?”
“No, I didn’t. She hated me too.”
“Well, I’m goin’ home. Come along, Tom.”
Tom got up from her seat with alacrity, and prepared to accompany Mike.
It was a great burden off her mind to think she was likely to have a
shelter for the night. Perhaps something would turn up for her the next
day. This thought brought back some of her old courage and confidence.
Mike Murphy’s home was neither elegant nor spacious. Mulberry Street is
not an aristocratic locality, and its residents do not in general move
in fashionable society. Mrs. Murphy was a retail merchant, being the
proprietor of an apple-stand on Nassau, near Spruce Street. Several
years’ exposure to the weather had made her face nearly as red as the
apples she dealt in, and a sedentary life had enlarged her proportions
till she weighed close upon two hundred pounds. In nearly all weathers
she was to be found at her post, sometimes sheltered by a huge cotton
umbrella, whose original color had been changed by the sun to a pale
brown. Though she had not yet been able to retire from trade upon a
competence, she had earned enough, with Mike’s assistance, to support a
family of six children,—in Mulberry Street style, to be sure, but they
had never been obliged to go to bed hungry, and the younger children had
been kept at the public school.
When Mike entered, his mother was already at home. She usually closed up
her business about five o’clock, and went home to get supper.
She looked up as Mike entered, and regarded his companion with some
surprise.
“What young leddy have you got with you, Mike?” asked Mrs. Murphy.
“She thinks you are a young lady, Tom,” said Mike, laughing.
“Don’t you know me, Mrs. Murphy?” asked Tom, who had known Mike’s mother
for several years.
“By the powers, if it aint Tom. Shure and you’ve had a rise in the
world, I’m thinkin’. Why, you’re dressed like a princess!”
“Maybe I am,” said Tom; “but if I was one I’d be richer’n I am now.”
“Tom was took up by a lady,” explained Mike; “but she’s sent her away,
and she’s got nothing barrin’ her clo’es. I told her you’d let her sleep
here to-night, mother.”
“To be sure I will,” said the kind-hearted woman. “It isn’t much of a
bed I can offer you, Tom, but it’s better than sleepin’ out.”
“I can lie on the floor,” said Tom. “I don’t mind that.”
“But why did the leddy turn you out?” inquired the apple-merchant.
Tom told her story, which Mrs. Murphy never thought of doubting.
“She’s a hard, cruel woman. I’ll say that for her, Tom dear,” said Mrs.
Murphy. “But never you mind. You’re welcome to stay here, though it’s a
poor place. We’re going to have some supper directly, and you must take
some with us.”
“I’ve eaten supper,” said Tom.
“What did you have?”
“Two apples.”
“I don’t say nothin’ ag’in’ apples, for it’s them I live by, but tay and
toast is better for supper. Biddy, toast the bread, and I’ll set the
table. When a body’s tired, a cup of tay goes to the right spot, and
you’ll find it so, Tom dear.”
The good-hearted woman bustled about, and set the table, while Biddy, a
girl of ten, toasted a large number of slices of bread, for the young
Murphys were all blessed with good appetites. The tea soon diffused a
fragrant aroma about the little room. Mrs. Murphy, humble as were her
means, indulged in one solitary extravagance. She always purchased the
best quality of “tay,” as she called it, no matter what might be the
price.
“It’s a dale chaper than whiskey,” she used to say, in extenuation of
her extravagance. “It’s mate and drink to me both, and warms me up
besides, when I’ve got chilled by rason of stayin’ out all day.”
There was a plate of cold meat placed on the table. This, with the tea
and toast, constituted Mrs. Murphy’s evening repast.
“You can sit by me, Tom dear,” she said, her face beaming with
hospitality. “It isn’t much I’ve got, but you are heartily welcome to
what there is. Children, set up to the table, all of you. Mike, see that
Tom has enough to ate. There’s one thing I can give you, and that’s a
cup of illigant tay, that a quane might not turn up her nose at.”
In spite of the two apples, Tom made room for a fair share of Mrs.
Murphy’s supper. Once more she felt that she had a home, humble enough,
to be sure, but made attractive by kindness.
“I wish I could stay here,” thought Tom; and it occurred to her that she
might be able to make such an arrangement with the old apple-woman, on
condition of paying a certain sum towards the family expenses.
                               CHAPTER XX
                        TOM SPECULATES IN GOLD.
During the evening some of the neighbors came in, and received a hearty
greeting from Mrs. Murphy.
“And who is this young leddy?” asked Mrs. O’Brien, looking at Tom.
“It’s a friend of mine,” said Mrs. Murphy.
“Don’t you know me?” asked Tom, who, in the days of her rags and
tatters, had known Mrs. O’Brien.
“Shure and it isn’t Tom?” said Mrs. O’Brien, in surprise.
“Did ye iver see such a change?” said Mrs. Murphy. “Shure and I didn’t
know her meself when she came in wid my Mike.”
“It’s mighty fine you’re dressed, Tom,” said Mrs. O’Brien. “Your granny
aint come into a fortun’, has she?”
“I don’t live with granny now,” answered Tom. “She’s a bad old woman,
and she isn’t my granny either.”
“It was only yesterday I saw her, and fine she was dressed too, wid a
nice shawl to her back, and quite the leddy, barrin’ a red nose. She
says she’s come into some money.”
Tom opened wide her eyes in astonishment. She had speculated more than
once on granny’s circumstances, but it had never entered her thoughts
that she had taken a step upwards in respectability.
“Where did you see her?” asked Tom.
“She was gettin’ out of a Third Avenue car. She said she had just come
from up town.”
“She was lookin’ after me, it’s likely,” said Tom.
“Where did she get her new clothes from?” Tom wondered.
“Maybe she’s been adopted by a rich family in Fifth Avenoo,” remarked
Mike,—a sally which nearly convulsed his mother with laughter.
“Shure, Mike, and you’ll be the death of me some time,” she said.
“She’d make an interestin’ young orphan,” continued Mike.
“Hadn’t you better marry her, Mike? and then you’d be my grandfather,”
suggested Tom.
“Such a beauty aint for the likes of me,” answered Mike. “Besides,
mother wouldn’t want her for a daughter-in-law. She’d likely get jealous
of her good looks.”
