Diet the gift of absolute power, which, in the hands of his son and
successor, Charles XII., nearly ruined the nation. Russia, Poland, and
Denmark combined to rob him of a considerable portion of his kingdom,
and Charles XII., at the age of sixteen, displayed an energy and a
skill far beyond his years. He conquered a peace with Denmark first,
and then turned his attention to the rest of his enemies, whom he
overwhelmed and subdued. With nine thousand men he defeated a Russian
army of forty thousand, under Peter the Great, at Narva. He vanquished
the armies of Poland and Saxony, and attempted the conquest of Russia,
but was utterly defeated in the battle of Pultowa, and escaped into
Turkish territory, where he remained for five years. Here he brought
about a war between Turkey and Russia, and the army of the former shut
up that of Peter the Great in the Crimea. The lady who was afterwards
Catharine I. bribed the grand vizier with all her jewels to allow the
Russians to escape, and this event utterly ruined the hopes of the
monarch of Sweden. Finally the Turks drove him from their country,
and, after various vicissitudes, he arrived in his own, and was
killed, in 1718, at Frederikhald, in Norway. While he was away, his
enemies had been appropriating his territory, and Sweden was reduced
to a second-class power.
"The Diet elected Ulrica Eleonora, sister of Charles, queen, who
resigned in favor of her husband, Fredrik I. Another war with Russia
followed, and Sweden lost more of her territory. Adolf Fredrik
succeeded to the throne in 1751, who was elected by the Diet. Still
another war with Russia was carried on during his reign. His son,
Gustaf III., with the aid of his soldiers, increased the powers of the
crown; but he was assassinated at a ball, in 1792, and his son, Gustaf
Adolf IV., came to the throne. His policy involved the nation in a
war with the allies, and he lost Finland and Pomerania. He was so
unpopular that he was compelled to abdicate, and his uncle, Charles
XIII., was raised to the throne in 1809. He had no children, and the
Prince of Holstein-Augustenburg was elected as his successor; but he
was assassinated, and one of Napoleon's generals, Bernadotte, was
chosen crown prince, and in 1818 he succeeded to the throne as Charles
XIV. His reign was a successful one, and his efforts to secure Norway
to his adopted country made him popular even before he was king. He
espoused the cause of the allies against Napoleon, and was well cared
for by them when the affairs of Europe were finally settled.
"His son Oscar was his heir, and came to the throne at the death of
his father in 1844. He was followed by his son, Charles XV., the
present king, in 1859.
"The army organization is similar to that of Denmark, and about one
hundred and fifty thousand men are available for service. The navy
contains four monitors on the American plan, which were invented by
John Ericsson, a Swede, two iron-clad gunboats, twenty-one steamers,
and sixteen sailing vessels, besides a great number of floating
batteries, and other stationary craft. Although only about six
thousand sailors are actually in the navy, nearly thirty thousand can
be had in case of war."
The professor finished his lecture, and the students hastened on deck,
to see more of the sights which surrounded them.
CHAPTER XIX.
THE CRUISE IN THE LITTLE STEAMER.
"What's the use, Stockwell?" said Sanford, as the absentees seated
themselves on the train for Malmö, under the charge of the head
steward. "Blaine got his despatch from the principal last night, but
he didn't say a word to us till this morning. He's playing a sharp
game."
"That's so," replied Stockwell. "He don't mean to trust us out of
sight again."
"Don't say a word to any fellow," whispered the coxswain. "You and I
will fight it out on our own hook."
"I understand. It is plain enough that Blaine regards us as runaways,
and I suppose the principal will do the same."
"Very likely; and when we get to Russia, all we shall have to do will
be to count our fingers in the steerage, while the rest of the fellows
are seeing the Russians," continued Sanford, who now appeared to
regard "the independent excursion without running away" as a failure.
"We shall not even see anything more of Stockholm. I don't like the
idea."
"Well, what are you going to do about it?" asked Stockwell.
"At the first chance we will leave this train, and make our way back
to Stockholm," whispered Sanford. "There is a steamer to St.
Petersburg twice a week, and we have money enough to carry us
through."
"Right; I am with you."
"We will take Ole, if you like, to do the talking for us."
"I don't object."
The train stopped at Katherineholm about half past nine. The boys had
taken nothing but the Swedish early breakfast of coffee and a biscuit,
and the head steward allowed them to have a more substantial meal,
each paying for himself. They entered the restaurant, where, on a
large table in the centre of the room, were great dishes of broiled
salmon and veal cutlets, with high piles of plates near them. Each
passenger helped himself at these dishes, and then seated himself at
one of the little tables. When he had finished his salmon, he helped
himself to veal cutlets; beer and coffee were served by the waiters.
Sanford and Stockwell hurried through the meal, and went to the
counter where the woman received payment. She asked them some question
and they were obliged to call Ole, to know what she said. She asked if
they had had beer or coffee, which was extra, the meal being one and a
half rix dalers. She gave them a tin check; for at this place they
seemed to be sharper than the Swedes usually are, and the check was to
enable them to get out of the restaurant. A man at the door received
it, and no one was allowed to pass without it; and thus none could
leave without paying for the meal.
"Finished your breakfast, Ole?" said Sanford, carelessly.
"Yes; and that salmon was very good."
"First rate. Come with us, Ole," added the coxswain, as he led the way
out of the restaurant.
The trio entered the station, and as no one followed them, they left
by the front door. Dodging behind the buildings, they soon cleared the
station. Taking the public road, they walked for half an hour at a
rapid pace, and then halted to consider the situation. The train had
gone, for they had heard its departure; but whether Mr. Blaine had
gone or not was an open question.
"What next?" said Sanford, as he seated himself at the side of the
road.
"Take the train back to Stockholm," replied Stockwell.
"Perhaps Blaine did not go on, after he missed us."
"Of course he did. But whether he did or not, the train has gone, and
he cannot take us to Copenhagen. If we find him at the station, why,
we took a little walk, and lost the train, you know."
"That's played out," replied Sanford. "We have missed the train too
many times, already. What time does the next one return to Stockholm?"
"I don't know. Let's go back to the station."
This course was adopted, and on their arrival they learned that they
could return to Stockholm at half past two in the afternoon. The man
in charge said that the gentleman with the young men had been looking
for them. Sanford replied, through Ole, that they had lost the train,
