are devoted to each school of painting. Not many of the students were
able to appreciate the treasures of art, and most of them preferred
the military and naval pictures in the Winter Palace. In the vast
numismatic collection are many very rare Greek coins. In the gem room
is a mechanical clock, which a poor woman drew in a lottery, and sold
for fifteen thousand dollars. It played overtures with all the effects
of the modern orchestrion, and was wound up for the gratification
of the visitors. In the gallery of Peter the Great, the party were
disposed to linger for a long time. It contains works of art and
industry in the time of the Czar whose name it bears, and the turning
lathes and carving tools he used himself. His spy-glasses, mathematical
instruments, books, canes, and other articles are exhibited. The gilded
chariot in which he occasionally rode, his dogs, and his war horse,
stuffed, and various casts and portraits of him, taken after death,
were examined with interest. A broken clock, with wonderful mechanical
movements, excited the attention of the boys. It consists of a peacock,
which, at the striking of the hour, expands his tail, while a rooster
flaps his wings, an owl rolls his eyes, and a grasshopper feeds on a
mushroom. Near it is a collection of snuff-boxes, which belonged to
various sovereigns of Europe. In this room, enclosed in cases, was a
great variety of curiosities, including articles which had belonged to
the members of the royal family.
On the lower floor are the galleries of ancient sculpture. In the
Kertch collection are medals and other articles proving the existence
of a Greek colony on the northern shores of the Black Sea six hundred
years before Christ. In 1820 a tomb was found at Kertch, which is at
the entrance to the Sea of Azof, containing a chamber of hewn stone,
in which were the remains of a Scythian prince, with his wife, his
horse, and his chief groom. His crown, weapons, ornaments, and golden
robes, with vases of bronze and other material containing the remains
of provisions, were found where they had lain for two thousand years,
and were conveyed to this museum. The tomb of a priestess of Ceres,
buried with her ornaments, and with four horses, was found in 1866. The
Scythian collection is equally rich in the treasures of a former race.
The students wandered during the forenoon through these numerous
apartments till most of them were very tired; for there is no harder
work for the human frame than that of exploring museums and galleries.
The party dined again at the Hotel Klée, and in the afternoon walked to
the Arsenal Museum, which contains specimens of arms and accoutrements
of many periods, and a vast quantity of historical curiosities. Among
the former are some curious guns, pistols, revolvers, and warlike
machines; and among the latter are many relics of Peter the Great, as
the hat and sword he wore at Pultowa; the leather coat in which he
worked at Saardam; the uniforms in which he passed through the several
military grades of private, captain, and colonel; and a cabriolet in
which he measured distances on the road by means of machinery like that
of a clock connected with the wheels. At the head of the staircase is
a Russian eagle, the body, neck, and legs made of gun-flints fixed on
the wall, the wings of sword blades, and the eyes formed by the muzzles
of a pair of pistols, in the same manner as the several objects in the
Tower of London are composed.
The Museum of Imperial Carriages was next visited. After passing
through several rooms in which some beautiful Gobelin tapestries
are exhibited, the students entered the large hall which contains
the vehicles. The first was the carriage presented by Frederick the
Great, of Prussia, to the Empress Elizabeth, in 1746, and in which
the Princess Dagmar rode into St. Petersburg with the empress. It is
gilded, with paintings on the panels and doors. There are a dozen of
these large, clumsy state carriages, glittering with gold, and rich
with silk, satin, and embroidery. Some of them are over a hundred
years old, and have been "restored" several times. Those used by the
various sovereigns, from Peter I. to the present time, were pointed
out. After the party had critically examined one of them, the only
interest the others had was the fact that Catharine II. had spread
herself in one, and Nicholas had sternly looked out from the windows of
another. Besides these state coaches, there were many modern vehicles
from different parts of Europe, and a number of sleighs, used by the
court in carnival time, some of which are very ingeniously constructed.
By all odds, the greatest curiosity in this collection is the sledge of
Peter the Great, in which he travelled, in winter, on his long journeys
to the distant parts of his vast empire. It is a kind of coach on
runners, and was entirely constructed by the Czar's own hands. Behind
it is a trunk in which he carried his clothes and provisions. Peter
made a journey in this sledge to Archangel, on the White Sea, and there
came a thaw which compelled him to return to his capital on wheels.
Alexander I. caused the sleigh to be brought to St. Petersburg. It is
placed in a large glass case, to protect it from injury. A sleigh in
the form of St. George and the Dragon is unique. A mechanical drosky,
invented by a Siberian peasant, has an apparatus which records the time
and distance travelled, besides playing several tunes. Near Peter's
sledge stand two or three diminutive carriages for the use of the royal
children.
In another room are kept the harnesses and trappings used for the
imperial state carriages, with liveries for eight hundred men. In one
set, each horse has to carry about one hundred and twenty pounds. The
carriages are all in the second story of the building, and there is
a kind of platform elevator, by which they are hoisted up. The state
coaches are used at the coronation of the emperors, and this ceremonial
always takes place at Moscow, whither they have to be transported,
though, since the railroad was completed, this is not so difficult a
matter as formerly.
The students walked on the quay to the vast Admiralty building, and
went into the Naval Museum, in which there are models of all kinds of
boats and vessels, which were full of interest to the nautical young
gentlemen. This completed the labors of the day, and the company
returned to Cronstadt in the steamer.
At the usual hour on the following morning they embarked again, and
were soon landed at Peterhoff, which is sometimes called the Versailles
of Russia, on account of the number and variety of the fountains in
the palace grounds. The place is on the south side of the broad bay
inside of Cronstadt, and about ten miles distant from it. It is a
favorite summer resort of the people from the capital, steamers plying
frequently between the two places. It has a great many attractions, the
principal of which is the palace, erected in 1720, under the direction
of Peter the Great, on an elevation of sixty feet,--a considerable hill
in Russia,--and the magnificent grounds, laid off in parks, lawns,
terraces, groves, and gardens. The buildings are extensive, but not
very elegant outside. The apartments contain a great many paintings,
including portraits of three hundred and sixty-eight beautiful young
girls, from fifty different provinces. The rooms for use contain the
usual gilded chairs, sofas, tables, and other furniture, which soon
become very tiresome to the traveller in Europe, for they are about the
same thing in all the palaces, and, to a republican, would have a cheap
look, if it were not for the silks, velvets, and brocade with which
they are upholstered.
The palace faces the sea, and the slope of the hill is cut into
terraces, which are adorned with fountains, waterfalls, and basins with
Neptunes, swans, nymphs, tritons, and other aquatic ornaments. Beneath
a fountain, which throws a jet eighty feet high, is a kind of canal,
extending five hundred yards down the slope to the bay, in which there
