himself everywhere talked of, till they were beset on all hands by the
inquiry, “Don’t you know young Endicott? why, I should think you would
want to have him visit here.”
After this had been played far enough, he suddenly showed himself one
evening at Mrs. Follingsbee’s, and apologized in an off-hand manner to
Lillie, when reminded of passing her in the park, that really he wasn’t
thinking of meeting her, and didn’t recognize her, she was so altered;
it had been so many years since they had met, &c. All in a tone of
cool and heartless civility, every word of which was a dagger’s thrust
not only into her vanity, but into the poor little bit of a real heart
which fashionable life had left to Lillie.
Every evening, after he had gone, came a long, confidential
conversation with Mrs. Follingsbee, in which every word and look
was discussed and turned, and all possible or probable inferences
therefrom reported; after which Lillie often laid a sleepless head
on a hot and tumbled pillow, poor, miserable child! suffering her
punishment, without even the grace to know whence it came, or what it
meant. Hitherto Lillie had been walking only in the limits of that
kind of permitted wickedness, which, although certainly the remotest
thing possible from the Christianity of Christ, finds a great deal
of tolerance and patronage among communicants of the altar. She had
lived a gay, vain, self-pleasing life, with no object or purpose but
the simple one to get each day as much pleasurable enjoyment out of
existence as possible. Mental and physical indolence and inordinate
vanity had been the key-notes of her life. She hated every thing that
required protracted thought, or that made trouble, and she longed
for excitement. The passion for praise and admiration had become
to her like the passion of the opium-eater for his drug, or of the
brandy-drinker for his dram. But now she was heedlessly steering to
what might prove a more palpable sin.
Harry the serf, once half despised for his slavish devotion, now stood
before her, proud and free, and tantalized her by the display he made
of his indifference, and preference for others. She put forth every
art and effort to recapture him. But the most dreadful stroke of fate
of all was, that Rose Ferguson had come to New York to make a winter
visit, and was much talked of in certain circles where Harry was quite
intimate; and he professed himself, indeed, an ardent admirer at her
shrine.
CHAPTER XX.
THE VAN ASTRACHANS.
THE Van Astrachans, a proud, rich old family, who took a certain
defined position in New-York life on account of some ancestral passages
in their family history, had invited Rose to spend a month or two with
them; and she was therefore moving as a star in a very high orbit.
Now, these Van Astrachans were one of those cold, glittering,
inaccessible pinnacles in Mrs. Follingsbee’s fashionable Alp-climbing
which she would spare no expense to reach if possible. It was one of
the families for whose sake she had Mrs. John Seymour under her roof;
and the advent of Rose, whom she was pleased to style one of Mrs.
Seymour’s most intimate friends, was an unhoped-for stroke of good
luck; because there was the necessity of calling on Rose, of taking her
out to drive in the park, and of making a party on her account, from
which, of course, the Van Astrachans could not stay away.
It will be seen here that our friend, Mrs. Follingsbee, like all
ladies whose watch-word is “Excelsior,” had a peculiar, difficult, and
slippery path to climb.
The Van Astrachans were good old Dutch-Reformed Christians,
unquestioning believers in the Bible in general, and the Ten
Commandments in particular,—persons whose moral constitutions had been
nourished on the great stocky beefsteaks and sirloins of plain old
truths which go to form English and Dutch nature. Theirs was a style
of character which rendered them utterly hopeless of comprehending
the etherealized species of holiness which obtained in the innermost
circles of the Follingsbee illuminati. Mr. Van Astrachan buttoned
under his coat not only many solid inches of what Carlyle calls “good
Christian fat,” but also a pocket-book through which millions of
dollars were passing daily in an easy and comfortable flow, to the
great advantage of many of his fellow-creatures no less than himself;
and somehow or other he was pig-headed in the idea that the Bible and
the Ten Commandments had something to do with that stability of things
which made this necessary flow easy and secure.
He was slow-moulded, accurate, and fond of security; and was of opinion
that nineteen centuries of Christianity ought to have settled a few
questions so that they could be taken for granted, and were not to be
kept open for discussion.
Moreover, Mr. Van Astrachan having read the accounts of the first
French revolution, and having remarked all the subsequent history of
that country, was confirmed in his idea, that pitching every thing into
pi once in fifty years was no way to get on in the affairs of this
world.
He had strong suspicions of every thing French, and a mind very ill
adapted to all those delicate reasonings and shadings and speculations
of which Mr. Charlie Ferrola was particularly fond, which made every
thing in morals and religion an open question.
He and his portly wife planted themselves, like two canons of the
sanctuary, every Sunday, in the tip-top highest-priced pew of the
most orthodox old church in New York; and if the worthy man sometimes
indulged in gentle slumbers in the high-padded walls of his slip, it
was because he was so well assured of the orthodoxy of his minister
that he felt that no interest of society would suffer while he was off
duty. But may Heaven grant us, in these days of dissolving views and
general undulation, large armies of these solid-planted artillery on
the walls of our Zion!
Blessed be the people whose strength is to sit still! Much needed are
they when the activity of free inquiry seems likely to chase us out of
house and home, and leave us, like the dove in the deluge, no rest for
the sole of our foot.
Let us thank God for those Dutch-Reformed churches; great solid
breakwaters, that stand as the dykes in their ancestral Holland to keep
out the muddy waves of that sea whose waters cast up mire and dirt.
But let us fancy with what quakings and shakings of heart Mrs.
Follingsbee must have sought the alliance of these tremendously solid
old Christians. They were precisely what she wanted to give an air of
solidity to the cobweb glitter of her state. And we can also see how
necessary it was that she should ostentatiously visit Charlie Ferrola’s
wife, and speak of her as a darling creature, her particular friend,
whom she was doing her very best to keep out of an early grave.
Charlie Ferrola said that the Van Astrachans were obtuse; and so, to
a certain degree, they were. In social matters they had a kind of
confiding simplicity. They were so much accustomed to regard positive
morals in the light of immutable laws of Nature, that it would not have
been easy to have made them understand that sliding scale of estimates
which is in use nowadays. They would probably have had but one word,
and that a very disagreeable one, to designate a married woman who was
in love with anybody but her husband. Consequently, they were the very
last people whom any gossip of this sort could ever reach, or to whose
ears it could have been made intelligible.
Mr. Van Astrachan considered Dick Follingsbee a swindler, whose proper
place was the State’s prison, and whose morals could only be mentioned
with those of Sodom and Gomorrah.
