undone. I passed forthwith into that cynical state of young manhood, in
which one learns for the first time what a mere unimportant drop his own
most terribly earnest and excited feelings may be in the tumbling ocean
of the existing world.
This is a valley of humiliation, which lies, in very many cases, just a
day's walk beyond the palace, beautiful with all its fascinations.
The moral geographer, John Bunyan, to whom we are indebted for much
wholesome information, tells us that while it is extremely difficult to
descend gracefully into this valley, and pilgrims generally accomplish
it at the expense of many a sore trip and stumble, yet when once they
are fairly down, it presents many advantages of climate and soil not
other where found.
The shivering to pieces of the first ideal, while it breaks ruthlessly
and scatters much that is really and honestly good and worthy, breaks
up no less a certain stock of unconscious self conceit, which young
people are none the worse for having lessened.
The very assumption, so common in the early days of life, that we have
feelings of a peculiar sacredness above the comprehension of the common
herd, and for which only the selectest sympathy is possible, is one
savoring a little too much of the unregenerate natural man, to be safely
let alone to grow and thrive.
Natures, in particular, where ideality is largely in the ascendant, are
apt to begin life with the scheme of building a high and thick stone
wall of reticence around themselves, and enthroning therein an idol,
whose rites and service are to be performed with a contemptuous
indifference to all the rest of mankind.
When this idol is suddenly disenchanted by some stroke of inevitable
reality, and we discern that the image which we had supposed to be the
shrine of a divinity, is only a very earthly doll, stuffed with
saw-dust, one's pinnacles and battlements--the whole temple in short,
that we have prided ourselves on, comes tumbling down about us like the
walls of Jericho, not without a certain sense of the ridiculous. Though,
like other afflictions, this is not for the present joyous, still the
space thus cleared in our mind may be so cultivated as afterwards to
bring forth peaceable fruits of righteousness.
In my case, my idol was utterly defaced and destroyed in my eyes,
because I could not conceal from myself that she was making a marriage
wholly without the one element that above all others marriage requires.
Miss Ellery was perfectly well aware of the mental inferiority of poor
Bill Marshall, and had listened unreprovingly to the half-contemptuous
pity with which it was customary among us to speak of him. I remembered
how patronizingly I had often talked of him to her, "Really not a bad
fellow--only a little weak, you see;" and the pretty, graceful drollery
in her eyes. I remembered things that these same eyes had looked at me,
when he blundered and miscalled words in conversation, and a thousand
sayings and intimations, each by itself indefinite as the boundary
between two tints of the rainbow, by which she showed a superior sense
of pleasure in my conversation and society.
And was all this acting and insincerity? I thought not. I was and am
fully convinced that had I only been possessed of the wealth of Bill
Marshall, Miss Ellery would infinitely have preferred me as a life
companion; and it was no very serious amount of youthful vanity to
imagine that I should have proved a more entertaining one. I can easily
imagine that she made the decision with some gentle regret at
first,--regret dried up like morning dew in the full sunlight of wedding
diamonds, and capable of being put completely to sleep upon a couch of
cashmere shawls.
With what indignant bitterness did I listen to all the details of the
impending wedding from fluent Jim Fellows, who, being from Portland and
well posted in all the gossip of the circle in which she moved,
enlightened our entry with daily and weekly bulletins of the grandeur
and splendors that were being, and to be.
"Boys, only think! Her wedding present from him is a set of diamonds
valued at twenty-five thousand dollars. Bob Rivers saw them on
exhibition at Tiffany's. Then she has three of the most splendid
cashmere shawls that ever were imported into Maine. Captain Sautelle got
them from an Indian Prince, and there's no saying what they would have
cost at usual rates. I tell you Bill is going it in style, and they are
going to be married with drums and trumpets, cymbals and dances; such a
wedding as will make old Portland stare; and then off they are going to
travel no end of time in Europe, and see all the kingdoms of the world,
and the glory of them."
Now, I suppose none of us doubted that could Miss Ellery have attained
the diamonds and the cashmeres and the fortune, with all its
possibilities of luxury and self-indulgence, without the addition of the
husband, nothing would have been wanting to complete her good fortune;
but it is a condition in the way of a woman's making a fortune by
marriage, as it was with Faust's compact with an unmentionable party,
that it can only be ratified by the sacrifice of herself--herself, and
for life! A sacrifice most awful and holy when made in pure love, and
most fearful when made for any other consideration. The fact that Miss
Ellery could make it was immediate and complete disenchantment to me.
Mine is not, I suppose, the only case where the ideal which has been
formed under the brooding influence of a noble mother is shattered by
the hand of a woman. Some woman, armed with the sacramental power of
beauty, enkindles the highest manliness of the youth, and is, in his
eyes, the incarnate form of purity and unworldly virtue, the high prize
and incitement to valor, patience, constancy and courage, in the great
life-battle.
But she sells herself before his eyes, for diamonds and laces, and
trinkets and perfumes; for the liberty of walking on soft carpets and
singing in gilded cages; and all the world laughs at his simplicity in
supposing that, a fair chance given, any woman would ever do otherwise.
Is not beauty woman's capital in trade, the price put into her hand to
get whatever she needs; and are not the most beautiful, as a matter of
course, destined prizes of the richest?
Miss Ellery's marriage was to me a great awakening, a coming out of a
life of pure ideas and sentiment into one of external realities.
Hitherto, I had lived only with people all whose measures and valuations
had been those relating to the character--the intellect and the heart.
Never in my father's house had I heard the gaining of money spoken of as
success in life, except as far as money was needed to advance education,
and education was a means for doing good. My father had his zeal, his
earnestness, his exultations, but they all related to things to be
done in his life-work; the saving of souls, the conversion of sinners,
the gathering of churches, the repression of intemperance and
immorality, the advancement of education. My elder brothers had
successfully entered the ministry under his influence, and in counsels
with them where to settle, I had never heard the question of salary or
worldly support even discussed. The first, the only question I ever
heard considered, was What work was needed to be done, and what
fitness for the doing of it; taking for granted the record, that where
the Kingdom of God and its righteousness were first sought, all things
would be added.
Thus all my visions of future life had in them something of the innocent
verdancy of the golden age, when noble men strove for the favor of fair
women, by pureness, by knowledge, by heroism,--and the bravest won the
crown from the hand of the most beautiful.
And suddenly to my awakened eyes the whole rushing cavalcade of
fashionable life swept by, bearing my princess, amid waving feathers and
