" So they did. Their pleasures were very expen- 
sive, though, and now all plainer ones look common. 
But if you would like to go, perhaps you had better 
 
get ready, and I will take you. Afterward we can 
ramble around and look at some pictures." 
Aunt Euth did not mind being left at home, so 
Jessie and her guest started out, taking the horse-cars 
for some distance. 
" The house is very pretty," said Kathie, ascending 
the high stone stoop. It didn't look as if they were 
very much reduced. 
Inside Kathie recognized some of the old furniture 
and pictures, though she missed the elegance of the 
other drawing-room. Mrs. Meredith came in rather 
flurried, but handsome in attire. 
" O Miss Kathie," she exclaimed, cordially, " how 
do you do ? Why, this is quite a surprise. How 
glad Ada will be to see you. I will send up word to 
her immediately." 
Katy was a long time in answering and a long 
time in doing her errand. And in the mean while 
Mrs. Meredith had gone through with some of her 
troubles. Florence had been sick all night with 
croup, the water-pipes had burst, they had been 
without a cook three days, and now had a misera- 
ble specimen, and the heater was so poor that you 
must either freeze up stairs or down stairs. 
 
" I have never been accustomed to such inefficient 
help,' she said, loftily. " First-class girls will not go 
out for low wages, but I begin to think thirty dollars 
a month would be cheaper for a good cook than twelve 
for a poor one." 
The door was opened slightly. 
" Would Miss Alston please to walk up stairs ? 
Miss Ada had a headache, and couldn't come down." 
" Katy, how many times have I told you not to 
open a door without knocking ! " exclaimed Mrs. 
Meredith, angrily. " You never can beat anything 
into their stupid brains." 
Indignant Katy slammed the door in much the 
same temper as her mistress. Then she was sum- 
moned again, and commanded to show the visitor to 
Miss Ada's room. 
She only went as far as the nursery door. " It is 
the front room up stairs," she said, sullenly. 
Kathie found it by herself, and tapped lightly. 
" Come," answered a faint voice. 
Kathie entered the room like a radiant little pic- 
ture. Her wine-colored suit, ermine muff and tippet, 
and white felt hat trimmed with velvet and feather 
the shade of her dress, were indescribably pretty and 
 
becoming. Her loose light curls were gathered in a 
knot at the back, with a few stray shorter ones around 
her face. Her eyes were bright, her cheeks blooming 
with a soft, peachy tint, and her skin pearly clear. 
A very pretty girl indeed ; but sweetest of all was 
the earnest, tender, soulful expression. Yet Ada was 
absolutely filled with envy, glad as she was to see 
her. 
The furniture and appointments of the room were 
pretty enough, but it had a comfortless look. The 
remnant of yesterday's fire was in the grate, while 
the fender was filled with ashes and bits of torn 
paper. The closet door was open, betraying the dis- 
order within. Over the cushioned easy-chair was 
thrown yesterday's dress and skirt, and at a little 
distance stood her walking-boots. The top of the 
bureau was in the utmost disorder. Collars, hand- 
kerchiefs, ribbons, and a plate of breakfast fragments, 
while from the side of the glass depended a net, a 
braid of hair, and two straggling, fuzzy curls. How 
different from the elegance in which Ada used to 
pride herself ! 
The girls kissed in unaffected cordiality. Kathie's 
generous heart was full of tenderest pity, the noble 
 
kind that wounds not by pretentious showing, and 
anything so warm and bright seemed grateful to Ada 
just then. 
" I am sorry to find you ill," Kathie said, gently. 
" I have such wretched headaches ! And the house 
has been as cold as a barn all the morning. Katy 
has not found time to make up my fire yet, nor put 
my room in order. How dreadful it looks ! Can you 
find a chair ? ' : Ada was wrapped in a shawl and 
pillowed up in bed. She glanced around in dismay. 
" Never mind," returned Kathie, pleasantly. " I 
am used to helping myself." 
" How well you do look ! It isn't strictly aristo- 
cratic to have so much color, but it brightens up a 
chilly day like this. And I feel so miserable ! 
Kathie, you don't know what it is to be poor and to 
be deprived of all your comforts." 
" Yes, I do," said Kathie, consolingly. " We were 
poor once, you know." "Much poorer than this," 
she felt like adding. 
" But you had never been rich. You could not 
miss the ease and luxury as you would now." 
" Mamma had," was her quiet response. 
" I am sure I don't know what people do. I can- 
 
not do anything. I went out to walk a little yester- 
day afternoon, but it tired me so. I haven't a bit 
of strength. If this forlorn winter were only over ! 
You have been to Washington, haven't you ? ' 
" Yes." Kathie was thinking it had been a very 
charming winter. 
" And your Aunt Euth is married. I did not sup- 
pose she ever would be. General Mackenzie is really 
your uncle. Did he introduce you to the elegant 
people he knows ? But I forgot you are not in 
society," with an air that only Ada could have used. 
" We went everywhere almost ; and I saw gen- 
erals and senators and beautiful ladies and the Presi- 
dent, and such hosts of things." 
" What a pity your Aunt Euth is lame ! " Ada said, 
by way of bringing a skeleton to the feast. 
