Meanwhile she was going down the stone steps. They landed her in a
cellar room; it was nothing but a cellar; and without the clean dry
paving of brick or stone which we have in the cellars of our houses.
The little old cooking stove was nearly all the furniture; two or three
chairs or stools were around, but not one of them whole; and in two
corners were heaps, of what? Matilda could not make out anything but
rags, except a token of straw in one place. There was a forlorn table
besides with a few specimens of broken crockery upon it. A woman was
there; very poor though not bad-looking; two bits of ragged boys; and
lastly Sarah herself, decent and grave, as she had just come from
Sunday school, sitting on a box with her lesson book in her hand. She
got up quickly and came forward with a surprised face, in which there
shone also that wintry gleam of pleasure that Matilda had seen in it
before. The pleasure was for the sight of Mr. Wharncliffe; perhaps
Sarah was shy of her other visiter. However, Mr. Wharncliffe took the
conversation upon himself, and left it to nobody to feel or shew
awkwardness; which both Matilda and Sarah were ready to do. He had
none; Matilda thought he never could have any, anywhere; so gracious,
so free, his words and manner were in this wretched place; so pleasant
and kind, without a trace of consciousness that he had ever been in a
better room than this. And yet his boot heels made prints in the damp
earth floor. The poor slatternly woman roused up a little to meet his
words of cheer and look of sympathy; and Sarah came and stood by his
shoulder. It was an angel's visit. Matilda saw it, as well as she knew
that she had been walking with one; he brought some warmth and light
even into that drear region; some brightness even into those faces;
though he staid but a few minutes. Giving then a hearty hand grasp, not
to his scholar only but to the poor woman her mother, whom Matilda
thought it must be very disagreeable to touch, he with his new scholar
came away.
Matilda's desire to talk or wish to hear talking had suddenly ended.
She threaded the streets in a maze; and Mr. Wharncliffe was silent;
till block after block was passed and gradually a region of comparative
order and beauty was opening to them. At last he looked down at his
little silent companion.
"This is a pleasanter part of the city, isn't it?"
"O Mr. Wharncliffe!" Matilda burst forth, "why do they live there?"
"Because they cannot live anywhere else."
"They are so poor as that?"
"So poor as that. And a great many other people are so poor as that."
"How much would it cost?"
"For them to move? Well, it would cost the rent of a better room; and
they haven't got it. The mother cannot earn much; and Sarah is the
chief stay of the family."
"Have they nothing to live upon, but the pennies she gets for sweeping
the crossing?"
"Not much else. The mother makes slops, I believe; but that brings in
only a few more coppers a week."
"How much would a better room cost, Mr. Wharncliffe?"
"A dollar a week, maybe; more or less, as the case might be."
There was silence again; until Mr. Wharncliffe and Matilda had come to
Blessington avenue and were walking down its clean and spacious sideway.
"Mr. Wharncliffe," said Matilda suddenly, "why are some people so rich
and other people so poor?"
"There are a great many reasons."
"What are some of them? can't I understand?"
"You can understand this; that people who are industrious, and careful,
and who have a talent for business, get on in the world better than
those who are idle or wasteful or self-indulgent or wanting in
cleverness."
"Yes; I can understand that."
"The first class of people make money, and their children, who maybe
are neither careful nor clever, inherit it; along with their business
friends, and their advantages and opportunities; while the children of
the idle and vicious inherit not merely the poverty but to some extent
the other disadvantages of their parents. So one set are naturally
growing richer and richer and the other naturally go on from poor to
poorer."
"Yes, I understand that," said Matilda, with a perplexed look. "But
some of these poor people are not bad nor idle?"
"Perhaps their parents have been. Or without business ability; and the
one thing often leads to another."
"But"--said Matilda, and stopped.
"What is it?"
"It puzzles me, sir. I was going to say, God could make it all better;
and why don't he?"
"He will do everything for us, Matilda," said her friend gravely,
"except those things he has given us to do. He will help us to do
those; but he will not prevent the consequences of our idleness or
disobedience. Those we must suffer; and others suffer with us, and
because of us."
"But then"--said Matilda looking up,--"the rich ought to take care of
the poor."
"That is what the Lord meant we should do. We ought to find them work,
and see that they get proper pay for it; and not let them die of hunger
or disease in the mean while."
"Well, why don't people do so?" said Matilda.
"Some try. But in general, people have not come yet to love their
neighbours as themselves."
"Thank you, Mr. Wharncliffe," Matilda said, as he stopped at the foot
of Mrs. Lloyd's steps.
He smiled, and inquired, "For what?"
"For taking me there."
"Why?" said he, growing grave.
But a little to his surprise the little girl hurried up the steps
without making him any answer.
In the house, she hurried in like manner up the first flight of stairs
and up the second flight. Then, reaching her own floor, where nobody
was apt to be at that time of Sunday afternoons, the child stopped and
stood still.
She did not even wait to open her own door; but clasping the rail of
the balusters she bent down her little head there and burst into a
passion of weeping. Was there such utter misery in the world, and near
her, and she could not relieve it? Was it possible that another child,
like herself, could be so unlike herself in all the comforts and helps
and hopes of life, and no remedy? Matilda could not accept the truth
which her eyes had seen. She recalled Sarah's gentle, grave face, and
sober looks, as she had seen her on her crossing, along with the gleam
of a smile that had come over them two or three times; and her heart
almost broke. She stood still, sobbing, thinking herself quite safe and
alone; so that she started fearfully when she suddenly heard a voice
close by her. It was David Bartholomew, come out of his room.
"What in the world's to pay?" said he. "What is the matter? You
needn't start as if I were a grisly bear! But what is the matter,
Tilly?"
Matilda was less afraid of him lately; and she would have answered, but
there was too much to say. The burden of her heart could not be put
into words at first. She only cried aloud,--
"Oh David!--Oh David!"
"What then?" said David. "What has Judy been doing?"
