drowsy and indolent with her ride through the keen air, and took
possession of Aunt Ruth's lounge; for she was in no mood to read or sew,
or even to take up her fancy crocheting.
"Did you have a nice visit?" asked her mother, at length.
That roused Kathie. "It was very peculiar, mamma, and I enjoyed it a
good deal. I like Sarah, although she is not--"
"Not much cultivated, I suppose," said Aunt Ruth.
"Mamma, why did not we, when we were very poor, grow careless? I don't
know as I can explain just what I mean," Kathie raised her face,
perplexed and rosy.
"I think I understand. It is not the result of a few years, or even of
poverty, but the lack of culture. Often a whole village or settlement,
where there is no particular ambition for education, will fall into
careless and rough habits of action and speech. Every one does the same,
and it is hardly remarked."
"But I suppose there has always been a school at Middleville,--and it
is so near Brookside and other towns."
"Many of these old country settlers are very sensitive. They think their
way as good as any one's, and, if a few families are particularly
refined, accuse them of holding themselves in high esteem, and being
above their neighbors. It often proves difficult to overcome old habits
of pronunciation and the manners and customs to which one has always
been used. It was different in our case. Aunt Ruth and I were brought up
in a city, and had the best advantages. I was not very likely to forget
what I had learned as a girl."
It did make some difference, then, whether a person was rich or poor;
and if one could not help his or her position--
"Mamma, wasn't it very hard to lose your fortune?"
"Yes, dear," Mrs. Alston answered, simply.
"But we might have been poorer still. There are all the Maybins--and the
Allens--and we had a very comfortable home."
"Yes. We owned our cottage, and had an income of just seventy dollars a
year. It was a great deal better than nothing, though many a stitch had
to be taken to provide for the rest of our needs."
Kathie remembered,--staying in the house to sew long simple seams for
mamma, doing errands, washing dishes, sweeping rooms, and wearing
dresses that were faded, shoes a little shabby, and never having more
than a few pennies to spend. How great the change was! And it did not
end with personal comforts merely. Nearly all the rich people in the
neighborhood came to visit them. Every one nodded to her as she drove
out in her pony-carriage. Yet, if she lost her fortune, would they let
her drop out of sight and out of mind? Ah, how very cruel it would be!
"It is a very delightful thing to have an abundance," Mrs. Alston went
on, as if she held the key to her daughter's thoughts. "Not that it ever
makes a person better, socially or morally, though the world, society,
generally gives the precedence to money. It affords you leisure for
cultivation; it frees you from a great many harassing cares, though it
may bring others in their stead, for no life is exempt. And it certainly
does add many new duties."
"It is right to have the cultivation, the pretty houses, the beautiful
furniture and pictures and--dresses?"
Kathie asked her question with a sort of hurried abruptness, as if a
definite answer was of the utmost importance to her, as if, indeed, she
longed for a fuller understanding of the subject.
"Yes," answered her mother, slowly. "All these things were given to us
to enjoy, to use, yet not abuse. But when we seek them selfishly, when
we think of nothing beyond our own personal needs, and of ministering to
our vanity and self-love, they do become a great snare and temptation."
"If one could tell just where the dividing line ought to be," Kathie
said, shyly.
"It is quite easily found if one searches in earnest: to think of others
rather than of one's self; to give as well as to receive, not merely
money or clothes, but sympathy, love, tender thoughts, little acts of
pleasure; to minister to the poor in spirit as well as the poor in
purse."
"And that brings me back to Sarah, mamma. Her father may be as rich
as--we are," rather hesitatingly. "At all events Mrs. Strong spent a
good deal at our table at the Fair, and never seemed to mind it a bit.
But their house has such a barren look. They have very few books or
pictures or pretty articles of any kind, yet I do believe Sarah would be
very fond of them. She has not been to school for nearly two years, so
she has had very little chance to improve. Her father is afraid that if
she should learn a great deal she will be ashamed of her home, and all
that. I do not see how she could like it very much, because there is so
little in it to please."
"Some old-fashioned people seem to be afraid of education, but I believe
it is from a lack of true appreciation of it. Whether rightly or not,
civilization has made our wants extend beyond the mere necessities of
life. We need some food for the soul as well as for the body."
"But if education should make Sarah discontented and unhappy?"
"We cannot always see what the result will be, but we are exhorted to
work, nevertheless."
"She asked me to write to her again, mamma. You do not think it will
be--" Kathie could hardly get hold of the right word to use.
"Injudicious, I suppose you mean? No, I do not. You may learn something
as well."
Kathie was glad that her mother looked upon it in that light, and yet
she smiled a little to herself, not exactly discerning her own lesson in
the matter.
"Our Saviour said, 'Freely ye have received, freely give'; and, my
little girl, it seems to me that we have received very generously. When
I was prosperous before, I am afraid that I did not think much of the
needs of those around me; but in my poverty I saw so often where a
little would have been of great assistance to me. I feel now as if God
had placed a great treasure in my hands to be accounted for to the
uttermost farthing at the last day. It will be good then to have other
lips speak for us."
Kathie understood. "Yes, it will, mamma." Then she lapsed into silence.
How all these things crowded upon one as the years went by! Fourteen
now; in three years she would be quite a young lady. Looking at it
caused her to shrink back to the cloisters of girlhood.
Afterward her heart wandered out with Uncle Robert on his lonesome
night-journey, and to the other face pictured still and white before
her. All she could do in this case was to pray.
They went to church on Sunday, and saw Miss Jessie, bright and smiling
as usual. Then she did not know! It actually startled Kathie a little.
"Where is your uncle?" Charlie asked, as they were standing together.
"He was called away upon some business," Mrs. Alston answered for
Kathie.
The telegram came on Monday. "Arrived safely," it said. "No change in
Mr. Meredith. Look for a letter to-morrow."
So they could still tell nothing about him. Kathie had grown so very
anxious that it appeared as if she could not wait. The day was a little
cloudy, and she made that an excuse for not driving out. Even her music
failed to interest. She just wanted to sit and wonder, never coming to
any definite conclusion.
The Tuesday letter was long, written at intervals, and contained the
whole story. Mr. Meredith was out with a scouting-party early in the
week before, when they were surprised by the enemy and made a desperate
resistance. But for his coolness and bravery none of them would have
