had been--he had stepped from the high plane of honor and truth. He was
utterly dissatisfied with himself; and all the more so because he
realized that his wife was worthy of all the sacrifice he could have
made for her sake. Tom Barkesdale reasoned from a different point of
view, and insisted that the matter was best as it was. Edward had done
right in marrying Sara, and it was quite proper to save Mr. Montague
from the pain and misery of a useless opposition.
Then came another letter from Mrs. Wayland, announcing her safe arrival
in New York and the illness of Mr. Medway.
"I must go to New York at once," said Edward.
"Don't you do it. You will undo everything that has been done, if you
do. Probably Mr. Medway has been seasick overmuch. He will be all right
in a few days. Wait till you hear again, at least."
He did wait, and the next letter informed him of the death of his
father-in-law, and that his remains had been sent to his friends in
Maine. Mrs. Wayland added that she should go to Camden at once, where a
letter from him would reach her.
"It is no use for you to go now, Ned," said Tom. "You can do no good."
"I ought to have gone before."
"As you didn't go before, it cannot be helped. Your father thinks you
are diligently reading law in the office of Colonel Bushnell, in New
Orleans. We can't help the past; but I advise you to deceive him no
longer."
"What do you mean?"
"Go into the office and read law with all your might. Then you will be
deceiving him no longer. You will be doing just what he thinks you are
doing," replied Tom, lightly.
"And not tell him of the past?"
"Certainly not."
Edward felt the need of some occupation, and he accepted the counsel of
his friend. He studied day and night, for he could not join in any of
the pleasures of the city, or go into the gay society which Tom
frequented. He wrote to Mrs. Wayland, enclosing a considerable sum of
money; but he forbade her writing to him, lest the fact of a letter to
him from Camden should connect him with the child. It was a groundless
fear; but he had now fully resolved not to disturb his father's peace by
acknowledging his own disobedience.
For four months he studied so diligently that his friend began to fear
he would impair his health. Every day found him more cheerful than the
last; and it was plain enough that youth and time were rapidly
conquering his grief. He began to go into society again, and the
presence of the ladies was not altogether repulsive to him. In June,
with Tom as his companion, he went home to spend the summer.
His father commented upon his altered appearance, but Tom insisted that
it was because he had studied so hard. He had not only read law, but had
learned the Spanish language, so that he could converse fluently in it.
The vacation wonderfully recruited his health, and in the autumn the
students returned to their southern home. Edward studied as diligently
as ever. Youth had wholly conquered his grief, and he was as before. He
sent money regularly to Mrs. Wayland; but he expressed no desire to see
his child, though he declared to Tom that the little one still had a
place in his heart, and that he intended at some future time to
acknowledge it.
Edward boarded with his friend's father, who had a daughter. She was but
sixteen when Edward first became a member of the family. She was
nineteen now, and the young northerner began to be tenderly impressed
towards her, though his attentions did not begin till his wife had been
dead over a year. The attraction was mutual, and Edward wrote to his
father about it. The old gentleman was pleased, and facetiously remarked
that he had all along supposed there was something or somebody in New
Orleans, besides Tom or the law, that had drawn him there for three
winters. He hadn't the slightest objection. Edward could now please
himself in that respect, as in every other. The "now" was heavily
underscored, and the son had no difficulty in understanding his meaning.
It was known that all the Medways were dead, and the Honorable Mr.
Montague could no longer object to any match his heir might choose to
make.
The marriage was deferred till the next year, when Edward's father and
mother made a winter tour to New Orleans. The great event was duly
chronicled in the newspapers, and the young couple made a bridal tour to
Europe, where they spent a year. On their return an elegant residence,
next to the Honorable Mr. Montague's, in one of the finest towns on
Penobscot Bay, awaited them.
Edward practised law in a mild way, but never made any great figure in
his profession. He was an officer in the war, has been to the state
legislature as a representative, and the honors of a senatorship are
still before him. Like the other distinguished men we have introduced,
he is the father of only one child by his second marriage, a pretty
daughter, who is the idol of both parents, and particularly of the
Honorable Mr. Montague.
Edward Montague has all of this world's goods which are required to make
a man happy, he has a beautiful and loving wife, a beautiful and
affectionate daughter, a kind and indulgent father still. All the world
regards him as a happy man; but he is not entirely so, for he cannot be
satisfied with his past life. He cannot help thinking of the deception
he practised upon his father, and still fears that some unexpected event
will disclose his misconduct. His wife shares his great secret, for,
before he married her, a sense of honor compelled him to make her his
confidante, which he did in the presence of her brother, who vouched for
the truth of all he said. He can never be entirely at peace while his
father lives.
Mrs. Wayland married again, but Edward continued to send her at the rate
of ten dollars a week for the care of his son, who still passes as her
own child. After this marriage of the nurse, the father of the boy was
vexed by a new fear. He saw that it was possible for her husband to
probe the secret through his letters and remittances; so he ceased to
write letters, or to send money by mail as before. Once a year, when Tom
Barkesdale came north to spend his summer vacation, he sent him with the
money to deliver into her own hands.
Strange as it may seem, Edward has not seen his boy since he parted with
him on board of the steamer at Havana. When he thinks of the little one
he cannot but reproach himself for the past. He feels that he has
wronged the boy, and fears that his own emotions might betray him in the
presence of the child. He is vexed by a score of fears which he cannot
define. The guide and standard of his life is honor rather than
religious principle, which is the only safe guide and standard. His
conscience reproaches him for what he has done and for what he has left
undone. He feels that he has dishonored the memory of his lost wife, and
that his conduct is a continued wrong to his child. Like thousands of
others, he shuns that which might lead him into the path of truth and
right. He pays liberally for the support of his boy, and tries to
persuade himself that he is doing all that honor requires of him.
All this is but the introduction to our story; and with the next chapter
we step over a period of more than a dozen years.
CHAPTER III.
LITTLE BOBTAIL.
"What have you done with it, Robert?" demanded Ezekiel Taylor, a coarse,
rough man of forty, who was partially intoxicated and very angry. "You
and your mother've hid that jug of rum."
Robert looked at Mrs. Taylor, who was making bread at the table, but he
