fight them off, but they stifled reason and conscience. 
 
Just at this critical moment I saw, with surprise, 
the face of old Jacobs the pressman at the door of 
the saloon. He was standing a little inside and 
looking about the room. At first I thought he had 
come in for a drink, but I saw by his countenance, 
so calm and serious, that another errand had brought 
him here. I had not seen him since the night he 
was taken out of "The Retreat" by brother Her 
itage. He did not look like the same man. The 
change in his appearance was marvelous to behold. 
As his eyes ranged about the room they rested 
on me. I had turned my head partly aside, hoping 
I would not be recognized. But he saw me, and 
coming over to where I was, said, 
"You know old .Wilson, who worked in the 
bindery?" 
I answered that I did. 
" Have you seen him here to-night ?" 
I said no. 
" Have you been here long ?" he then asked. 
" Half an hour," I replied. 
He stood for some moments, and then said, 
" Hiram, I 'd like to have a few words with you." 
Glad of the opportunity to escape from the tempter, 
who had me already half bound, I started up, saying, 
" I am at your service." 
I saw a heavy frown darken the face of the man 
with whom I had been talking. 
"You are not going?" he exclaimed in a tone of 
repressed anger and surprise. 
"Yes," I replied. "Good-evening;" and I went 
out with Jacobs, feeling a strange sense of relief and 
safety, like one escaped from imminent peril. We 
walked for a hundred yards or so in silence, I wait 
ing anxiously to hear what old Jacobs had to talk 
to me about. 
" Hiram," he said, at length, in a very serious but 
kind and almost confidential way, "I want you to 
help me." 
"To help you?" I returned, surprised at his 
speech. 
" Yes ; you can do it if you will." 
" Then I will !" was my strongly-uttered response 
"To help me do a good office for a weak fellow 
creature who has fallen among " 
He checked himself, not uttering the word that 
was on his tongue. 
" I have done, I fear, much harm in my time, Ja 
cobs," I replied, "and if you will now show me 
how I can do any good, I shall be glad of the oppor 
tunity." 
" Why, Hiram !" the old man exclaimed, stopping 
and turning round upon me. " Let me take your 
hand!" and he gave me a grip that almost made 
the bones snap. " The greater the sinner, the greater 
the saint, I 've heard said. You 've been an awful 
sinner, Hiram, for you sinned against light and 
knowledge. But if you have repented, just come 
over to our side, and we 'll put you high up in the 
calendar." 
 
I felt somehow stronger and safer for this speech 
of the old man. 
" I don 't  expect to get very high up," I made an 
swer. " Indeed, I 'd rather keep out of sight. But 
what is it you want me to do ?" 
"I'm after poor old Wilson," he said, "lie 's 
broken his pledge and gone off on a spree. I 've 
been looking for him in one saloon after another for 
an hour past, but can t find him. Joe 's out after him 
too." 
"Joe Wilson? His son?" 
"Yes. Joe 's a member of the Harvey-street 
League, and as fine and steady a fellow as you 'd wish 
to see. Hasn 't tasted liquor for over two months." 
" Glad from my heart to hear it," I replied, in all 
sincerity. 
" And I'm glad from my heart to hear you say so," 
returned the old man. " But we must find Wilson. 
He 's in some of these taverns, but there are so many 
of them that one might almost as well look for a 
needle in a haystack. Just two hundred within four 
or five squares !" 
I went into the old man 's service, promising to 
visit every tavern in a specified area, and to bring out 
Wilson if I came across him. I was to take him, if 
found, to the hall or meeting-room of the Harvey- 
street League, the direction of which Jacobs gave me. 
As I turned from the old pressman to commence 
my search, I was conscious of a new state of feeling 
and a sense of rest. Since I had come out of prison 
  
my soul had been like a ship tossed on troubled 
waters, and therefore this calm and restful state that 
fell so suddenly upon my spirit was something I 
could not but observe. With it came a feeling of 
concern for Wilson, who, but for his one great fail 
ing, was a man well esteemed by every one. 
Two hundred drinking-saloons within an area of 
four or five blocks ! Could that be possible ? I 
thought Jacobs must be in error, but ere I had been 
long in search of Wilson I began to realize how 
fully up to the truth had been his assertion. Into 
one after another I went, hurriedly looking through 
each for the man I was seeking, and as I went I saw 
with new eyes and from a new standpoint. So 
many young men, clerks and mechanics, the promise 
of our mercantile and industrial life ! And here they 
were side by side, and too often in free intercourse 
with the vicious and debased. I saw a fair-faced 
young man, the son of a well-known merchant, 
drinking with a notorious corner-lounger who had 
twice found it convenient to be absent from the city 
while certain police matters were being investigated. 
I saw another young man, clerk in a large Market- 
street house, laughing and talking familiarly with a 
miserable fellow who was bad and base enough for 
almost anything, and I saw them go out together, 
