order for removal, nothing was said about postponement 
on account of- weather ; and go the nuns must. 
And go they did ; the whole town shuddering at the 
impiety of it, but kept from any demonstration by the 
tempest. Carriages went round to the convent ; and 
the women were loaded into them, packed into them, 
carried and put in, if they were too infirm to go them- 
selves. They were driven away, cross and wet and be- 
draggled. They ibund their dwelling on the hill not 
  
half prepared for them, leaking and cold and cheerless. 
They experienced very rough treatment, if I can credit 
my informant, who says she hates the Government, and 
would not even look out of her lattice that day to see 
the carriages drive past. 
And when the Lady Superior was driven away from 
the gate, she said to the officials, and the few faithful 
attendants, prophesying in the midst of the rain that 
poured about her, — 
" The day will come shortly, when you will want rain, 
and shall not have it ; and you will pray for my return." 
And it did not rain, from that day for three years. 
And the simple people thought of the good Superior, 
whose departure had been in such a deluge, and who 
had taken away with her all the moisture of the land ; 
and they did pray for her return, and believed that the 
gates of heaven would be again opened if only the nun- 
nery were repeopled. But the Government could not 
see the connection between convents and the theory of 
storms, and the remnant of pious women was permitted 
to remain in their lodgings at Massa. Perhaps the 
Government thought they could, if they bore no malice, 
pray as effectually for rain there as anywhere. 
I do not know, said my informant, that the curse of 
the Lady Superior had any thing to do with the drought, 
but many think it had ; and those are the facts. 
 
THE common people of this region are nothing but 
children ; and ragged, dirty, and poor as they are, 
apparently as happy, to speak idiomatically, as the day 
is long. It takes very little to please them ; and their 
easily-excited mirth is contagious. It is very rare that 
one gets a surly return to a salutation ; and, if one shows 
the least good-nature, his greeting is met with the most 
jolly return. The boatman hauling in his net sings; 
the brown girl, whom we meet descending a steep path 
in the hills, with an enormous bag; or basket of orano-ea 
on her head, or a building-stone under which she stands 
as erect as a pillar, sings ; and, if she asks for something, 
there is a merry twinkle in her eye, that says she hardly 
expects money, but only puts in a " beg " at a venture, 
because it is the fashion ; the workmen clipping the 
olive-trees sing; the urchins, who dance about the 
foreigner in the street, vocalize their petitions for un po' 
di moneta in a tuneful manner, and beg more in a spirit 
of deviltry than with any expectation of gain. When 
I see how hard the peasants labor, what scraps and 
vegetable odds and ends they eat, and in what wretched, 
dark, and smoke-dried apartments they live, I wonder 
they are happy ; but I suppose it is the all-nourishing 
sun and the equable climate that do the business for 
them. They have few artificial wants, and no uneasy 
expectation, — bred by the reading of books and news- 
papers, — that any thing is going to happen in the 
world, or that any change is possible. Their fruit-trees 
 
  
yield abundantly year after year ; their little patches of 
rich earth, on the built-up terraces and in the crevices 
of the rocks, produce fourfold. The sun does it all. 
Every walk that we take here with open mind and 
cheerful heart is sure to be an adventure. Only yester- 
day, we were coming down a branch of the great gorge 
which splits the plain in two. On one side the path is 
a high wall, with garden trees overhanging. On the 
other, a stone parapet ; and below, in the bed of the 
ravine, an orange orchard. Beyond rises a precipice; 
and, at its foot, men and boys were quarrying stone, 
which workmen raised a couple of hundred feet to the 
platform above with a windlass. As we came along, a 
handsome girl on the height had just taken on her head 
a large block of stone, which I should not care to lift, 
to carry to a pile in the rear ; and she stopped to look 
at us. We stopped, and looked at her. This attracted 
the attention of the men and boys in the quarry below, 
who stopped work, and set up a cry for a little money. 
We laughed, and responded in English. The windlass 
ceased to turn. The workmen on the height joined in 
the conversation. A grizzly beggar hobbled up, and held 
out his greasy cap. We nonplussed him by extending 
our hats, and beseeching him for just a little something. 
Some passers on the road paused, and looked on, amused 
at the transaction. A boy appeared on the high wall, 
and began to beg. I threatened to shoot him with my 
walking-stick, whereat he ran nimbly along the wall in 
terror. The workmen shouted ; and this started up a 
couple of yellow dogs, which came to the edge of the 
wall, and barked violently. The girl, alone calm in the 
confusion, stood stock still under her enormous load, 
looking at us. We swung our hats, and hurrahed. The 
crowd replied from above, below, and around us ; shout- 
ing, laughing, singing, until the whole little valley was 
vocal with a gale of merriment, and all about nothing. 
The beggar whined ; the spectators around us laughed ; 
and the whole population was aroused into a jolly mood. 
 
  
Fancy such a merry hullaballoo in America. For ten 
minutes, wlaile the funny row was going on, the girl 
never moved, having forgotten to go a few steps, and 
deposit her load ; and, when we disappeared round a 
bend of the path, she was still watching us, smiling and 
statuesque. 
As we descend, we come upon a group of little chil- 
dren seated about a door-step, black-eyed, chubby little 
urchins, who are cutting oranges into little bits, and 
playing " party," as children do on the other side of the 
Atlantic. The instant we stop to speak to them, the 
skinny hand of an old woman is stretched out of a win- 
dow just above our heads, the wrinkled palm itching for 
