But with this the uncomfortable breakfast party broke up.
"Matilda," said Mrs. Laval when they had gone upstairs,--"I don't know
whether you have done good or harm."
"She's done no good, mamma," said Norton. "Just look at Davy. And I can
tell you, grandmamma is beginning to read the Bible to herself; I've
seen her at it."
"But I haven't done anything, mamma," said Matilda.
"Well, my dear, I don't know who has, then," Mrs. Laval replied.
And the subject was dropped. But certainly Mrs. Lloyd did begin after
that to ask Matilda now and then, when they were alone, to read to her;
and Matilda found that David did it constantly, by his grandmother's
desire, in her own room.
The weeks were few now to the time when the household would break up;
Mrs. Laval and her children to return to Briery Bank, Mrs. Bartholomew
and hers for a cottage at Newport. Mrs. Lloyd was accustomed to abide
generally with the latter. All the members of the family were busied
with their various preparations; and the unsettled feeling of coming
change was upon the whole household. Little else was thought of. So
when an invitation came from the mother of Esther Francis, that all the
young ones should join a party of pleasure that were going to spend the
day in Westchester, it was a very unlooked for variety in the general
course of things. Of course they would go. The young people were to eat
strawberries and do everything else that was pleasant, at General
Francis's place. Mrs. Francis was not yet ready to leave town; there
was nobody in possession but the servants; the widest liberty would be
the rule of the day.
"How nice that the boys are out of school!" said Matilda. "Term just
ended."
"Of course. Couldn't have the party without the people," said Judy.
"Will there be a great many, Norton?" Matilda asked.
"Don't know anything about it. You must ask somebody else. Esther
Francis isn't our cousin."
"How dry you are," said David. "I know no more about it, Matilda, than
he does."
"Esther said there would be twenty or thirty," said Judy. "How are we
going? that's what I want to know."
"Take the Harlem railroad to the station," said Norton, "and drive the
rest. That's the way you always go to General Francis's. Mamma! I'd
like to drive Pink out. It's only thirteen miles."
"I'm afraid, Norton. I think you had better all go together."
Norton grumbled a little; however, it was good enough even so.
The day was the first of June; fresh and sweet as the first of June
should be. The four were in the cars early; and as soon as the train
had got quit of the city, the sights and smells of the country roused
Matilda to the highest pitch of delight. Such green fields! such blue
sky! such delicious air! and such varieties of pleasant objects that
she had not seen for some time! The rush to the station was one whirl
of pleasure; then the pleasure grew greater, for they got into a
carriage to drive across the country. Every foot of the way, though it
was not through a very enchanting landscape, was joyous to Matilda's
vision; and when the grounds were reached of General Francis's villa,
there was nothing more left in this world to desire. For there were
plantations of trees, extending far and wide, with roads and paths cut
through them; over which the young fresh foliage cast the sweetest of
shadow. There were meadows, broad and fair, green and smooth, with a
little river winding along in them, and scattered trees here and there
for shade, and fringes of willows and alders to the sides of the
stream. And at a little distance stood the large old house, with groves
of trees encircling it and lawns before and on one side of it; and on
the side lawn, in the edge of the grove, long tables set and spread
with damask.
"Dinner already?" queried Norton. "I am hungry enough."
"Dinner at ten o' clock!" cried Judy. "Breakfast, you mean."
"Esther, is it breakfast?" asked Norton, as their little hostess came
to them.
"It is what you like, Mr. Laval," said the little lady; whose pink bows
were not more in style than her manners.
"Norton is hungry, Esther," David remarked.
"I hope you are, too."
"What are you going to give us, Esther?" said Judy eagerly. "We are all
like bears. Strawberries?"
"We must wait for another carriage. The Grandsons are coming."
"I wouldn't wait," said Judy. "What's the use? Ten o' clock  is late
enough for breakfast."
"But we shall not have the collation till three."
"What have you got for breakfast?"
"Coffee."
"And strawberries?"
"Haven't you had any strawberries this year?"
"Lots; but not in the country, you know, where they grow."
"And not with such yellow cream as we have got from our dairy."
"Will you have cream enough for all, Esther?" David asked, as coming
round the house they saw a small crowd of young people collected near
the tables. Esther smiled and bridled, and then there was no more
private talk, but a whole chorus of greetings and questions and
answers. And then another carriage drew up, with the missing Grandsons;
and the party went to breakfast.
It seemed to Matilda that to eat under the shadow of trees, and on the
carpet of the grass, and with the music of leaves and insects and
breezes, was the very most delightful thing that could be invented. She
was very hungry, no doubt; and Mrs. Francis's excellent cook had made
capital provision for her young mistress; but besides all that, how
pretty it was! The light flickered through the oak leaves upon the
white tablecloths, and gleamed from china and glass and silver in the
most cheery way; it gleamed upon the little river too and upon the
blades of grass on the lawn. Out there the sunshine was full; the eye
went across to the scattered trees and to the further woods on the
other side; a great promising playground it looked. And then the air
was so sweet and fresh. Matilda was not seated very well for her
pleasure; nobody near that she knew very well; nevertheless she eat her
strawberries and cream and devoured rolls and butter with a contented
appreciation of what she had, and an amused observation of what was
around her.
How were they to spend the day?
This question received earnest attention as soon as the business of
breakfast was off their hands.
"Day is pretty well gone already," said Norton consulting his watch.
"It is twelve o' clock. There is not time for anything else but to have
dinner and go home."
"We do not dine till four o' clock," Esther announced.
"Four hours," said somebody. "Time enough to get hungry again. I'll
take anybody that wants to go a row on the river; if somebody'll help
me row."
"Everybody do what everybody likes until three o' clock," said Esther.
"Suppose then, at three o' clock, we all gather in the pavilion and
have games?"
Unanimous acceptance of this proposal. Then a flutter and division and
scattering of the little crowd.
Matilda wondered what she would do, or be asked to do. She would have
liked the sail on the Bronx; but so would a good many more. The little
