“Then he must be a bad man. Why do you live with him?”
“He bought me from my father.”
“He bought you?” repeated Jimmy, puzzled.
“He hires him for so much money,” explained Paul.
“But why did your father let you go with a bad man?” asked Jimmy.
“He wanted the money,” said Phil. “He cared more for money than for me.”
What wonder that the boys sold into such cruel slavery should be
estranged from the fathers who for a few paltry ducats sell the liberty
and happiness of their children. Even where the contract is for a
limited terms of years, the boys in five cases out of ten are not
returned at the appointed time. A part, unable to bear the hardships and
privations of the life upon which they enter, are swept off by death,
while of those that survive, a part are weaned from their homes, or are
not permitted to go back.
“You must not ask too many questions, Jimmy.” said Mrs. Hoffman, fearing
that he might awaken sad thoughts in the little musician.
She was glad to see that Phil ate with a good appetite. In truth he
relished the supper, which was the best he remembered to have tasted for
many a long day.
“Is Italy like America?” asked Jimmy, whose curiosity was excited to
learn something of Phil’s birthplace.
“It is much nicer,” said Phil, with a natural love of country. “There
are olive trees and orange trees, and grapes--very many.”
“Are there really orange trees? Have you seen them grow?”
“I have picked them from the trees many times.”
“I should like that, but I don’t care for olives.”
“They are good, too.”
“I should like the grapes.”
“There are other things in Italy which you would like better, Jimmy,”
 said Paul.
“What do you mean, Paul?”
“The galleries of fine paintings.”
“Yes, I should like to see them. Have you seen them?”
Phil shook his head. The picture galleries are in the cities, and not in
the country district where he was born.
“Sometime, when I am rich, we will all go to Italy, Jimmy; then, if Phil
is at home, we will go and see him.”
“I should like that, Paul.”
Though Jimmy was not yet eight years old, he had already exhibited
a remarkable taste for drawing, and without having received any
instruction, could copy any ordinary picture with great exactness. It
was the little boy’s ambition to become an artist, and in this ambition
he was encouraged by Paul, who intended, as soon as he could afford it,
to engage an instructor for Jimmy.
CHAPTER V
ON THE FERRY BOAT
When supper was over, Phil bethought himself that his day’s work was not
yet over. He had still a considerable sum to obtain before he dared go
home, if such a name can be given to the miserable tenement in Crosby
Street where he herded with his companions. But before going he wished
to show his gratitude to Paul for his protection and the supper which he
had so much and so unexpectedly enjoyed.
“Shall I play for you?” he asked, taking his violin from the top of the
bureau, where Paul had placed it.
“Will you?” asked Jimmy, his eyes lighting up with pleasure.
“We should be very glad to hear you,” said Mrs. Hoffman.
Phil played his best, for he felt that he was playing for friends. After
a short prelude, he struck into an Italian song. Though the words were
unintelligible, the little party enjoyed the song.
“Bravo, Phil!” said Paul. “You sing almost as well as I do.”
Jimmy laughed.
“You sing about as well as you draw,” said the little boy.
“There you go again with your envy and jealousy,” said Paul, in an
injured tone. “Others appreciate me better.”
“Sing something, and we will judge of your merits,” said his mother.
“Not now,” said Paul, shaking his head. “My feelings are too deeply
injured. But if he has time, Phil will favor us with another song.”
So the little fiddler once more touched the strings of his violin, and
sang the hymn of Garibaldi.
“He has a beautiful voice,” said Mrs. Hoffman to Paul.
“Yes, Phil sings much better than most of his class. Shall I bring him
up here again?”
“Any time, Paul. We shall always be glad to see him.”
Here Phil took his cap and prepared to depart.
“Good-by,” he said in English. “I thank you all for your kindness.”
“Will you come again?” said Mrs. Hoffman. “We shall be glad to have
you.”
“Do come,” pleaded Jimmy, who had taken a fancy to the dark-eyed Italian
boy, whose brilliant brown complexion contrasted strongly with his own
pale face and blue eyes.
These words gave Phil a strange pleasure. Since his arrival in America
he had become accustomed to harsh words and blows; but words of kindness
were strangers to his ears. For an hour he forgot the street and his
uninviting home, and felt himself surrounded by a true home atmosphere.
He almost fancied himself in his Calabrian home, with his mother and
sisters about him--in his home as it was before cupidity entered his
father’s heart and impelled him to sell his own flesh and blood into
slavery in a foreign land. Phil could not analyze his own emotions,
but these were the feelings which rose in his heart, and filed it with
transient sadness.
“I thank you much,” he said. “I will come again some day.”
“Come soon, Phil,” said Paul. “You know where my necktie stand is. Come
there any afternoon between four and five, and I will take you home to
supper. Do you know the way out, or shall I go with you?”
“I know the way,” said Phil.
He went downstairs and once more found himself on the sidewalk. It was
but six o’clock, and five or six hours were still before him before he
could feel at liberty to go home. Should he return too early, he would
be punished for losing the possible gains of the hour he had lost, even
if the sum he brought home were otherwise satisfactory. So, whatever may
be his fatigue, or however inclement the weather, the poor Italian boy
is compelled to stay out till near midnight, before he is permitted to
return to the hard pallet on which only he can sleep off his fatigues.
Again in the street, Phil felt that he must make up for lost time. Now
six o’clock is not a very favorable time for street music; citizens who
do business downtown have mostly gone home to dinner. Those who have
not started are in haste, and little disposed to heed the appeal of
the young minstrel. Later the saloons will be well frequented, and not
seldom the young fiddlers may pick up a few, sometimes a considerable
number of pennies, by playing at the doors of these places, or within,
if they should be invited to enter; but at six there is not much to be
done.
After a little reflection, Phil determined to go down to Fulton Ferry
and got on board the Brooklyn steamboat. He might get a chance to play
to the passengers, and some, no doubt, would give him something. At any
rate, the investment would be small, since for one fare, or two cents,
he might ride back and forward several times, as long as he did not step
off the boat. He, therefore, directed his steps toward the ferry, and
arrived just in time to go on board the boat.
The boat was very full. So large a number of the people in Brooklyn are
