take the quicker plan of shooting 
like a dart down a shaft, on a 
small platform. It is like tumbling 
down through an empty steeple, feet 
first. AVhen you reach the bottom, 
you take a candle and tramp through 
drifts and tunnels where throngs of 
men are digging and blasting ; you 
watch them send up tubs full of great 
lumps of stone — silver ore ; you select 
choice specimens from the mass, as 
souvenirs ; you admire the world of 
skeleton timbering ; you reflect frequently that you are buried under a 
mountain, a thousand feet below daylight ; being in the bottom of the 
mine you climb from "gallery" to 
"gallery," up endless ladders that 
stand straight up and down ; when 
your legs fail you at last, you lie 
down in a small box-car in a cramped 
" incline " like a half-up-ended sewer 
and are dragged up to daylight feel- 
as if you are crawling through a coiSn 
that has no end to it. Arrived at the 
top, you find a busy crowd of men 
receiving the ascending cars and tubs 
and dumping the ore from an eleva- 
tion into long rows of bins capable of 
holding half a dozen tons each ; under the bins are rows of wagons 
loading from chutes and trap-doors in the bins, and down the long street is a 
procession of these wagons wending 
toward the silver mills with their 
rich freight. It is all " done," now, and there you are. You 
need never go down again, for yon have seen it all. If you 
have forgotten the process of reducing the ore in the mill and 
making the silver bars, you can go back and find it again in 
my Esmeralda chapters if so disposed. 
Of course these mines cave in, in places, occasionally, and 
then it is worth one's while to take the risk of descending into 
them and observing the crushing power exei'ted by the pressing 
weight of a settling mountain. I published such an experience 
in the Enterprise once, and from it I will take an extract : 
An Houk in the Caved Mines. — We journeyed down into the Ophir 
mine, yesterday, to see the earthquake. We could not go down the deep 
incline, because it still has a propensity to cave in places. Therefore we 
traveled through the long tunnel which enters the hill above the Ophir 
office, and then by means of a series of long ladders, climbed away down 
from the first to the fourth gallery. Traversing a drift, we came to the 
Spanish line, passed five sets of timbers still uninjured, and found the earth- 
quake. Here was as complete a chaos as ever was seen — vast masses of earth 
and splintered and broken timbers piled confusedly together, with scarcely 
an aperture left large enough for a cat to creep through. Rubbish was still 
falling at intervals from above, and one timber which had braced others ear- 
lier in the day, was nmo crushed down out of its former position, showing 
that the caving and settling of the tremendous mass was still going on. We 
were in that portion of the Ophir known as the "north mines." Returning 
to the surface, we entered a tunnel leading into the Central, for the pur- 
pose of getting into the main Ophir. Descending a long incline in this 
tunnel, we traversed a drift or so, and then went down a deep shaft from 
whence we proceeded into the fifth gallery of the Ophir. From a side-drift 
we crawled through a small hole and got Into the midst of the earthquake 
again — earth and broken timbers mingled together without regard to grace 
or symmetry. A large portion of the second, third and fourth galleries 
had caved in and gone to destruction — the two latter at seven o'clock on the 
previous evening. 
At the turn-table, near the northern extremity of the fifth gallery, two 
big piles of rubbish had forced their way through from the fifth gallery, 
and from the looks of the timbers, more was about to come. These beams 
are solid — eighteen inches square ; first, a great beam is laid on the floor, 
then upright ones, five feet high, stand on it, supporting another horizontal 
beam, and so on, square above square, like the framework of a window. The 
superincumbent weight was sufficient to mash the ends of those great up- 
right beams fairly into the solid wood of the horizontal ones three inches, 
compressing and bending the upright beam till it curved like a bow. Before 
the Spanish caved in, some of their twelve-inch horizontal timbers were 
compressed in this way until they were only five inches thick ! Imagine the 
power it must take to squeeze a solid log together in that way. Here, also, 
was a range of timbers, for a distance of twenty feet, tilted six inches out 
of the perpendicular by the weight resting upon them from the caved gal- 
leries above. You could hear things cracking and giving way, and it was 
not pleasant to know that the world overhead was slowly and silently sink- 
ing down upon you. The men down in the mine do not mind it, however. 
Esturning along the fifth gallery, we struck the safe part of the Ophir 
incline, and went down it to the sixth ; but we found ten inches of water 
there, and had to come back. In repairing the damage done to the incline, 
the pump had to be stopped for two hours, and in the meantime the water 
gained about a foot. However, the pump was at work again, and the flood- 
water was decreasing. We climbed up to the fifth gallery again and sought 
a deep shaft, whereby we might descend to another part of the sixth, out of 
reach of the water, but suffered disappointment, as the men had gone to din- 
ner, and there was no one to man the windlass. So, having seen the earth- 
quake, we climbed out at the Union incline and tunnel, and adjourned, all 
dripping with candle grease and perspiration, to lunch at the Ophir office. 
During the great flush year of 1863, ISTevada [clanns to 
liave] produced $25,000,000 in bullion — almost, if not quite, a 
round million to each thousand inhabitants, which is very 
well, considering that she was without agriculture and manu- 
factures.* Silver mining was her sole productive industry. 
* Since the above was in type, I learn from an official source that the 
above figure is too high, and that the yield for 1863 did not exceed $20,000,000. 
However, the day for large figures is approaching ; the Sutro Tunnel is to 
plow through the Comstock lode from end to end, at a depth of two thousand 
feet, and then mining will be easy and comparatively inexpensive ; and the 
momentous matters of drainage, and hoisting and hauling of ore will cease 
to be burdensome. This vast work will absorb many j'ears, and millions of 
dollars, in its completion ; but it will early yield money, for that desirable 
epoch will begin as soon as it strikes the first end of the vein. The tunnel 
will be some eight miles long, and will develop astonishing riches. Cars 
will carry the ore through the tunnel and dump it in the mills and thus do 
away with the present costly system of double handling and transportation 
by mule teams. The water from the tunnel will furnish the motive power 
for the mills. Mr. Sutro, the originator of this prodigious enterprise, is one 
of the few men in the world who is gifted with the pluck and perseverance 
necessary to follow up and hound such an undertaking to its completion. 
He has converted several obstinate Congresses to a deserved friendliness to- 
ward his important work, and has gone up and down and to and fro in Europe 
uatil he has enlisted a great moneyed interest in it there. 
CHAPTER LIII. 
EVERY now and then, in these days, the boys used to tell 
nie I ought to get one Jim Blaine to tell me the stir- 
ring story of his grandfather's old ram — but they always added 
