erty, and temptation. It did not seem a very 
good life when spread out in that presence, and 
I trembled as I proceeded ; but I plead youth, 
inexperience, and bad examples. 
" Have you bee'n accustomed," he said, after a 
time, rather sadly, " to break the Sabbath ? " 
I told him frankly that I had been rather lax 
in that matter, especially at college. I often 
went to sleep in the chapel on Sunday, when 
I was not reading some entertaining book. He 
then asked who the preacher was, and when I 
told him, he remarked that I was not so much 
to blame as he had supposed. 
" Have you," he went on, " ever stolen, or told 
any lie ? " 
I was able to say no, except admitting as to 
the first usual college " conveyances," and as to 
the last an occasional "blinder" to the profes 
sors. He was gracious enough to say that these. 
 
could be overlooked as incident to the occa 
sion. 
" Have you ever been dissipated, living riot 
ously and keeping late hours ? " 
" Yes." 
This also could be forgiven me as an incident 
of youth. 
" Did you ever," he went on, " commit the 
crime of using intoxicating drinks as a bever 
age ? " 
I answered that I had never been a habitual 
drinker, that I had never been what was called a 
" moderate drinker," that I had never gone to a 
bar and drank alone ; but that I had been ac 
customed, in company with other young men, on 
convivial occasions to taste the pleasures of the 
flowing bowl, sometimes to excess, but that I had 
also tasted the pains of it, and for months before 
my demise had refrained from liquor altogether. 
The holy man looked grave, but, after reflection, 
said this might also be overlooked in a young 
man. 
" What," continued he, in tones still more 
serious, " has been your conduct with regard 
to the other sex ? " 
 
I fell upon my knees in a tremor of fear. I 
pulled from my bosom a little book like the 
one Leperello exhibits in the opera of Don 
Giovanni. There, I said, was a record of my 
flirtation and inconstancy. I waited long for the 
decision, but it came in mercy. 
" Rise," he cried ; " young men will be young 
men, I suppose. We shall forgive this also to 
your youth and penitence." 
"Your examination is satisfactory," he in 
formed me, after a pause ; "you can now enter 
the abodes of the happy." 
Joy leaped within me. We approached the 
gate. The key turned in the lock. The gate 
swung noiselessly on its hinges a little open. 
Out flashed upon me unknown splendors. 
What I saw in that momentary gleam I shall 
never whisper in mortal ears. I stood upon 
the threshold, just about to enter. 
" Stop ! one moment/ exclaimed St. Peter, 
laying his hand on my shoulder ; "I have one 
more question to ask you." 
I turned toward him. 
" Young man, did you ever use tobacco f " 
 
" I both smoked and chewed in my lifetime," 
I faltered, "but " 
" THEN TO HELL WITH YOU ! " he shouted in 
a voice of thunder. 
Instantly the gate closed without noise, and I 
was flung, hurled, from the battlement, down ! 
down ! down ! Faster and faster I sank in a 
dizzy, sickening whirl into an unfathomable 
space of gloom. The light faded. Dampness 
and darkness were round about me. As before, 
for days and days I rose exultant in the light, 
so now forever I sank into thickening darkness, 
and yet not darkness, but a pale, ashy light 
more fearful. 
In the dimness, I at length discovered a wall 
before me. It ran up and down and on either 
hand endlessly into the night. It was solid, 
black, terrible in its frowning massiveness. 
Straightway I alighted at the gate, a dismal 
crevice hewn into the dripping rock. The gate 
was wide open, and there sat I knew him at 
once; who does not? the Arch Enemy of 
mankind. He cocked his eye at me in an im 
pudent, low, familiar manner that disgusted me. 
 
I saw that I was not to be treated like a gen 
tleman. 
"Well, young man," said he, rising, with a 
queer grin on his face, " what are you sent here 
for ? " 
" For using tobacco," I replied. 
" Ho ! " shouted he in a jolly manner, peculiar 
to devils, " that's what most of 'em are sent here 
for now." 
Without more ado, he called four lesser imps, 
who ushered me within. What a dreadful plain 
lay before me ! There was a vast city laid out 
in regular streets, biit there were no houses. 
Along the streets were places of torment and 
torture exceedingly ingenious and disagreeable. 
For miles and miles, it seemed, I followed my 
conductors through these horrors. Here was a 
deep vat of burning tar. Here were rows of fiery 
ovens. I noticed several immense caldron ket 
tles of boiling oil, upon the rims of which little 
devils sat, with pitchforks in hand, and poked 
down the helpless victims who floundered in the 
liquid. But I forbear to go into unseemly de 
tails. The whole scene is as vivid in my mind 
