in the roof admitted sufficient light, and was the only means of
ventilation; when the window was opened there was nothing to prevent the
rain coming in. The only means of heating being from the corridor, when
the door was ajar, the cell was chilly and at this time damp. It was
whitewashed and clean, but it had a slight jail odor; its only furniture
was a narrow iron bedstead, with a tick of straw and some blankets, not
too clean.

When Col. Sellers was conducted to this cell by the matron and looked
in, his emotions quite overcame him, the tears rolled down his cheeks
and his voice trembled so that he could hardly speak. Washington was
unable to say anything; he looked from Laura to the miserable creatures
who were walking in the corridor with unutterable disgust. Laura was
alone calm and self-contained, though she was not unmoved by the sight
of the grief of her friends.

“Are you comfortable, Laura?” was the first word the Colonel could get
out.

“You see,” she replied. “I can’t say it’s exactly comfortable.”

“Are you cold?”

“It is pretty chilly. The stone floor is like ice. It chills me through
to step on it. I have to sit on the bed.”

“Poor thing, poor thing. And can you eat any thing?”

“No, I am not hungry. I don’t know that I could eat any thing, I can’t
eat that.”

“Oh dear,” continued the Colonel, “it’s dreadful. But cheer up, dear,
cheer up;” and the Colonel broke down entirely.

“But,” he went on, “we’ll stand by you. We’ll do everything for you. I
know you couldn’t have meant to do it, it must have been insanity, you
know, or something of that sort. You never did anything of the sort
before.”

Laura smiled very faintly and said,

“Yes, it was something of that sort. It’s all a whirl. He was a villain;
you don’t know.”

“I’d rather have killed him myself, in a duel you know, all fair. I
wish I had. But don’t you be down. We’ll get you the best counsel, the
lawyers in New York can do anything; I’ve read of cases. But you must be
comfortable now. We’ve brought some of your clothes, at the hotel. What
else, can we get for you?”

Laura suggested that she would like some sheets for her bed, a piece
of carpet to step on, and her meals sent in; and some books and writing
materials if it was allowed. The Colonel and Washington promised to
procure all these things, and then took their sorrowful leave, a great
deal more affected than the criminal was, apparently, by her situation.

The colonel told the matron as he went away that if she would look to
Laura’s comfort a little it shouldn’t be the worse for her; and to the
turnkey who let them out he patronizingly said,

“You’ve got a big establishment here, a credit to the city. I’ve got a
friend in there--I shall see you again, sir.”

By the next day something more of Laura’s own story began to appear in
the newspapers, colored and heightened by reporters’ rhetoric. Some of
them cast a lurid light upon the Colonel’s career, and represented his
victim as a beautiful avenger of her murdered innocence; and others
pictured her as his willing paramour and pitiless slayer. Her
communications to the reporters were stopped by her lawyers as soon as
they were retained and visited her, but this fact did not prevent--it
may have facilitated--the appearance of casual paragraphs here and there
which were likely to beget popular sympathy for the poor girl.

The occasion did not pass without “improvement” by the leading journals;
and Philip preserved the editorial comments of three or four of them
which pleased him most. These he used to read aloud to his friends
afterwards and ask them to guess from which journal each of them had
been cut. One began in this simple manner:--

History never repeats itself, but the Kaleidoscopic combinations of
the pictured present often seem to be constructed out of the broken
fragments of antique legends. Washington is not Corinth, and Lais, the
beautiful daughter of Timandra, might not have been the prototype of
the ravishing Laura, daughter of the plebeian house of Hawkins; but the
orators add statesmen who were the purchasers of the favors of the one,
may have been as incorruptible as the Republican statesmen who learned
how to love and how to vote from the sweet lips of the Washington
lobbyist; and perhaps the modern Lais would never have departed from the
national Capital if there had been there even one republican Xenocrates
who resisted her blandishments. But here the parallel: fails. Lais,
wandering away with the youth Rippostratus, is slain by the women who
are jealous of her charms. Laura, straying into her Thessaly with the
youth Brierly, slays her other lover and becomes the champion of the
wrongs of her sex. Another journal began its editorial with less lyrical
beauty, but with equal force. It closed as follows:--

With Laura Hawkins, fair, fascinating and fatal, and with the dissolute
Colonel of a lost cause, who has reaped the harvest he sowed, we have
nothing to do. But as the curtain rises on this awful tragedy, we catch
a glimpse of the society at the capital under this Administration, which
we cannot contemplate without alarm for the fate of the Republic. A
third newspaper took up the subject in a different tone. It said:--

Our repeated predictions are verified. The pernicious doctrines which
we have announced as prevailing in American society have been again
illustrated. The name of the city is becoming a reproach. We may have
done something in averting its ruin in our resolute exposure of the
Great Frauds; we shall not be deterred from insisting that the outraged
laws for the protection of human life shall be vindicated now, so that a
person can walk the streets or enter the public houses, at least in
the day-time, without the risk of a bullet through his brain. A fourth
journal began its remarks as follows:--

The fullness with which we present our readers this morning the details
of the Selby-Hawkins homicide is a miracle of modern journalism.
Subsequent investigation can do little to fill out the picture. It
is the old story. A beautiful woman shoots her absconding lover in
cold-blood; and we shall doubtless learn in due time that if she was not
as mad as a hare in this month of March, she was at least laboring under
what is termed “momentary insanity.” It would not be too much to say
