foolish old eyes. After all, youth seems the time to be 
happy, and I can't help fancying that he has missed some 
of the sweetest. Maybe the Lord will make it up to him 
in the end." 
Mrs. Farrand was coming down the stairs just then, and 
Madge was thankful for the interruption. Her heart waa 
too full to take up indifferent topics ; so, as soon as she could 
politely, she bade the ladies adieu, in spite of their entrea- 
ties that she would remain to supper. 
Once out of sight of questioning eyes, she gave way to 
her long-repressed feelings. It was seldom that she allowed 
herself the luxury of tears, but now they flowed forth un- 
restrained, and were a relief. She understood and appre- 
ciated the delicacy that had led Charles Westlake to keep 
her name in the background. It was strange, indeed, that 
Miss Hetty's clear sight had been so led astray in the 
 
earlier days. Madge was doubly grateful now, for com- 
ment on this point would be the one thing she could not 
endu?e. 
If they thought of it at home, no one made any sign, un- 
less it was to be tenderer to Madge. And at this juncture 
there was so much to divide attention ! Philip was pre- 
paring for his college terra, and Jessie made daily journeys 
to the city, often taking Madge for a companion. The 
new house was being furnished, and Madge declared that 
she luxuriated in extravagance, enjoying every dollar that 
Jessie spent. Her fortune had been re-invested very prof- 
itably, but she felt there was no necessity for her to be 
adding to it, and it seemed, with all the abundance, that it 
was no more than right to share some of her blessings 
with the household. And in her home they were to be no 
strangers. Clement and Rose were to be chief house- 
holders at Home Nook. Nellie would be married and 
gone by another spring, in all probability, and dear mamma 
would be in demand at every home. 
"For I cannot imagine our forgetting and falling apart, 
as some households do," Jessie said, as she sat in her 
mother's room the evening before Philip's departure. " If 
it is our troubles, and sorrows, and struggles that have 
bound us so closely together, I am almost ready to welcome 
them, now that we have come to sunshine once more." 
" I am thankful that we have had these pleasant weeks 
with each other," Philip replied, " for I suppose it will 
never be quite the same again. But, mother dear, where 
you are will be the rally ing-point for us all. I am glad 
that Clement and Rose have so planned that it will alwaya 
be here." 
" Dear Clement," said the mother, fondly. " And yet 
each one of you has borne the burden and heat of the day. 
I cannot tell you, my dear children, how doubly sweet 
your sympathy and assistance have been. Amid the losses 
and perplexities, each one has won something for this 
%nd I trust for the life to come." 
" Sorrow may endure for a night, but joy does come in 
the morning, some morning when we are not looking 
for it," said Jessie. " And it has come blessedly to us." 
"Yes," returned Philip. "Our gains have not been 
small. God has given us beauty for ashes, and the oil of 
joy for mourning. I sometimes look over the path by which 
we have been led, and its lessons sink deeply into my soul, 
We have learned that no wrong or thoughtless act stops 
between God and our own conscience, but bears its fatal 
fruit wide spread." 
"And causes misery to many innocent souls," said Madge. 
" It is not true that he who sins always bears the heaviest 
punishment." 
" It seems to me that God desires to teach us by this 
one indisputable fact, that humanity is linked together 
from this brief life to the far-reaching one that is to come 
after, and that while we make any compromise with wrong, 
we are rendered just that far incapable of decisions which 
are pure and honest." 
"And yet it does seem hard to suffer from the faults of 
others. I cannot make out how far any one has a right;" 
and Madge paused, one of the old troubled looks crossing 
her face. 
" My dear," said her mother, " we are not asked to make 
it out. We puzzle our heads over judgments and punish- 
ments as if we could find out all of God's ways, when He 
simply asks us to bear something for His sake, to prove 
our love and devotion. He, being innocent, suffered for the 
many, and I think, besides the grand doctrine of the atone- 
ment, it was to teach us that lesson, also. Wherein we 
Lave suffered innocently, we have followed a little in His 
footsteps." 
"I had not thought of that." 
" And we become the more careful of our own actions. 
Every relation of life has its own responsibility. We may 
hurt and hinder others through some selfish aggrandize- 
ment of our purposes that may look fair enough to our- 
 
selves from the outside. But we are to go deeper than 
that. We are to sift our motives. For He reads those." 
" And to learn that charity comes to mean, in daily life, 
a wise, tender, and generous forbearance, a helpful heart 
and ready hand; that holiness is no mystic, far-fetched 
quality, but an ever-living power, penetrating both soul 
and body, bringing humility, righteousness, and faith in 
its train. For close to us all is this living presence of God. 
We have only to reach out and take." 
" But you have so much faith, Philip. You see things 
so clearly !" 
" I have left the darkness behind ! I remember the day 
I enlisted. I said, I am here to do whatever God wills. If 
He open no other door, I will walk in this path, fulfilling its 
duties to the uttermost. And when He set my feet on 
high, how could I help but believe and trust?" 
" And my happiness came through that," said Jessie 
with a sound of tremulous joy in her voice. 
They thought of another cloud that had brought ik, 
silver lining to the day. No one remembered it now with 
:my sense of wrong. Rose's tenderness would have shamed 
them all if they had. 
"And we have learned that duties and blessings abound 
in the lowly paths of life as well as the loftiest," said Mrs. 
Ashburton ; " that brothers and sisters, parents and chil- 
dren, can bring forth good fruit in the simplest of daily 
work. And you, my children, have done this. It is not 
only high heroic deeds that bring a sweet reward. And 
