presence and was talking to himself. He was 
sitting on the log, with his back against a large 
oak-tree, resting as though he was in an arm- 
chair. He said no more, and I strolled away 
for a moment, thinking that if he resumed the 
subject when I returned, I would gladly pursue 
it, but un willing to take advantage of what 
might have been an inadvertent utterance. I 
was absent several minutes, climbing down the 
bank to the spring to get a drink of water ; then 
I returned and took my place upon the log 
again. 
"  I suppose you often hear from your mother, 
captain ? ' I said. 
" He did not answer. I repeated the ques- 
tion ; no reply. I was perplexed. Could he 
have fallen into a brown study ? His eyes were 
open, and he appeared to be looking off through 
the forest. At length I touched his shoulder, but 
he did not move. I took his hand; he was dead ! 
Shot through the heart. The roaring of the 
brook, and the steep bank, had prevented my 
hearing the report ; but, as I sat there holding 
 
the dead hand, suddenly the woods seemed to 
grow alive with noise and light. Our camp had 
evidently been surprised by the enemy, and a 
sharp conflict began. I took poor Allan's note- 
book and watch, and, remembering his mother, I 
managed to cut off a lock of his curly hair; but, 
before I had gone far, I myself was struck by a 
stray bhot, and knew nothing more until I awoke 
in a border hospital two months afterwards, pale 
and weak, the very shadow of my former self. 
As memory came back, I thought of the captain. 
The relics had been preserved, and, as soon as I 
was able, I sent them to the poor mother, with a 
letter describing my last conversation with her 
boy, — his last words on earth. I supposed, of 
course, that she knew from other sources all the 
details of the attack, but I felt that I must also 
tell her what I knew ; possibly it would be some 
comfort to her. In about a week I received a 
letter written in a careful, old-fashioned hand- 
writing. The poor mother had known nothing 
all that long time save this : ' Captain 
A. Worthington reported missing.' Our regiment had 
suffered severely. The camp had been aban- 
doned, and the dead left on the field. The sus- 
pense had been dreadful, and she had prayed, for 
relief. It had come in the inward conviction 
that her boy was dead ; that he was not in the 
southern prisons or languishing in a hospital, but 
gone from earth forever. My letter brought her 
the first definite tidings, and my description of 
that la'st conversation, the first comfort. " I shall 
go to him though he shall not return to me,' 
wrote the afflicted mother ; and she gave me her 
blessing in such solemn, tender words, that I can 
never forget them. In the letter she enclosed a 
picture of Allan, sent home to her during the 
previous year ; and with it another, a picture of 
the one of whom Allan said, ' I want to see her ; 
I never knew how much until now.' " 
As Hugh finished reading, he took the photo- 
graphs from an envelope, and handed them to 
Aunt Faith. They were passed from hand to 
 
hand, with gentle comments, and some tear- 
dimmed eyes gazed on the pictured faces, — a 
resolute, grave 'young soldier, with earnest eyes, 
and a little, delicate, wistful maiden, as fair and 
simple as a wild -flower. 
" The war made many partings," said Aunt 
Faith, as she replaced the pictures in their envel- 
ope, and returned them to Mr. Leslie ; " but the 
lost ones are only gone before. There are no 
partings there." 
The gayety had subsided into a quiet thought- 
fulness, by common consent the reading was 
abandoned, and, as it was growing late, Aunt 
Faith led the way into the sitting-room, where 
the pretty supper-table soon aroused the vivacity 
of the young people. Youth is buoyant, and, as 
for Aunt Faith, she was never saddened by the 
thought of death. She had lost so many loved 
ones, that her home seemed more there than here. 
In a few moments all the company were talking 
and laughing as merrily as ever, and in the crowd 
around the table no one noticed that Rose Saxon 
 
had slipped away. If they noticed anything be- 
side themselves, it was the amount of chocolate- 
ice which Gideon Fish consumed ! 
Rose was in the parlor. The basket was still in 
its place, and she was looking over the remaining 
manuscripts. " ' Gideon Fish,' " she murmured, 
" no one wants to hear that ; ' Lida Powers', 
'William Mount,' 'Edith Chase,' — oh, here is 
something ! I know the handwriting, although 
there is no name. Let me see, — yes ; this is 
Hugh's. It is sure to be good, and I mean to 
have it read." So, just before the company broke 
up, Rose rapped on the table with her plump 
little fist. 
" Ladies and gentlemen," she began, in her 
merry voice, " I presume you all know Mr. Pete 
Trone, the distinguished terrier, w T hose accom- 
plishments and sagacity are in every mouth." 
" Oh, we know him! " answered the company ; 
" we know him well." " He is the celebrated 
dog of republican principles," — " who climbs 
trees ; " — " and walks the tight-rope ; " — " and 
dances the hornpipe ! " ^ 
 
" I perceive that you know him," said Rose, 
'' and therefore you will be pleased to hear an 
epic poem in his honor. Indeed, it is supposed 
that he wrote it himself. He speaks with mod- 
esty of his achievements, alludes with feeling to 
