indeed to see the wan and wasted faces, and hear the hollow death-cough,
of those who have been brought here too late. Yet, in hundreds of
instances, yes, in thousands, where one more severe Northern winter
would have fastened disease on the vitals, a winter in a Southern
climate has broken the spell. The climate of Florida is also of peculiar
advantage in all diseases attended by nervous excitability. The air is
peculiarly soothing and tranquillizing: it is the veritable
lotos-eater's paradise, full of quiet and repose. We have known cases
where the sleeplessness of years has given way, under this balmy
influence, to the most childlike habit of slumber.
For debility, and the complaints that spring from debility, Florida is
not so good a refuge, perhaps, as some more northern point, like Aiken.
The air here is soothing, but not particularly bracing. It builds up and
strengthens, not by any tonic effect in itself so much as by the
opportunity for constant open-air life and exercise which it affords.
For children, the climate cannot be too much praised. In our little
neighborhood are seven about as lively youngsters as could often be met
with; and the winter has been one long out-door play-spell. There has
not been a cough, nor a cold, nor an ailment of any kind, and scarce an
anxiety. All day long we hear their running and racing,--down to the
boat-wharves; in the boats, which they manage as dexterously as little
Sandwich-Islanders; fishing; catching crabs, or off after flowers in the
woods, with no trouble of hail, sleet, or wet feet. Truly it is a
child's Eden; and they grow and thrive accordingly.
Now as to malaria. That is a word requiring consideration to those who
expect to make Florida a permanent home, but having no terrors for
those who come to spend winters merely. There is no malaria in winter;
and Dr. C---- may be consoled in reflecting that frost always destroys
it: so that, when the thermometer is, as he says, at thirty-two degrees,
there is no danger, even though one be in the same State with forty
swamps. In fact, for ourselves, we prefer a cool winter such as this has
been. An October-like winter, when it is warm in the middle of the day,
and one can enjoy a bright fire on the hearth morning and night, is the
most favorable to out-door exercise and to health.
But merely to come to Florida, and idle away time at the St. James or
the St. Augustine Hotel, taking no regular exercise, and having no
employment for mind or body, is no way to improve by being here. It is
because the climate gives opportunity of open-air exercise that it is so
favorable; but, if one neglects all these opportunities, he may gain
very little.
It cannot be too often impressed on strangers coming here, that what
cold there is will be more keenly felt than in a Northern climate.
Persons should vary their clothing carefully to the varying temperature,
and be quite as careful to go warmly clad as in colder States. In our
furnace-heated houses at the North we generally wear thick woollen
dresses and under-flannels, and keep up a temperature of from seventy to
eighty degrees. In the South we move in a much lower temperature, and
have only the open fire upon the hearth. It is therefore important to go
warmly clad, and particularly to keep on flannels until the warm weather
of April becomes a settled thing.
In regard to the healthfulness of Florida, some things are to be borne
in mind. In a State that has the reputation of being an invalid's
asylum, many desperate cases necessarily take refuge, and, of course,
many die. Yet, notwithstanding the loss from these causes, the census
of 1860 showed that the number of deaths from pulmonary complaints is
less to the population than in any State of the Union. In Massachusetts,
the rate is one in two hundred and fifty-four; in California, one in
seven hundred and twenty-seven; in Florida, one in fourteen hundred and
forty-seven. Surgeon-Gen. Lawson of the United-States army, in his
report, asserts that "the ratio of deaths to the number of cases of
remittent fevers has been much less among the troops serving in Florida
than in other portions of the United States. In the middle division, the
proportion is one death to thirty-six cases of fever; in the northern,
one to fifty-two; in Texas, one to seventy-eight; in California, one in
a hundred and twenty-two; while in Florida it is one in two hundred and
eighty-seven."
Such statistics as these are more reliable than the limited observation
of any one individual. In regard to sudden changes of climate, Florida
is certainly not in all parts ideally perfect. There are, at times,
great and sudden changes there, but not by any means as much so as in
most other States of the Union.
Sudden changes from heat to cold are the besetting sin of this fallen
world. It is the staple subject for grumbling among the invalids who
visit Italy; and, in fact, it is probably one of the consequences of
Adam's fall, which we are not to be rid of till we get to the land of
pure delight. It may, however, comfort the hearts of visitors to Florida
to know, that, if the climate here is not in this respect just what they
would have it, it is about the best there is going.
All this will be made quite clear to any one who will study the tables
of observations on temperature contained in "The Guide to Florida,"
where they can see an accurate account of the range of the thermometer
for five successive years as compared with that in other States.
One thing cannot be too often reiterated to people who come to Florida;
and that is, that they must not expect at once to leave behind them all
sickness, sorrow, pain, inconvenience of any kind, and to enter at once
on the rest of paradise.
The happiness, after all, will have to be comparative; and the
inconveniences are to be borne by reflecting how much greater
inconveniences are avoided. For instance, when we have a three-days'
damp, drizzling rain-storm down here, we must reflect, that, at the
North, it is a driving snow-storm. When it is brisk, cold weather here,
it is an intolerable freeze there. The shadow and reflection of all
important changes at the North travel down to us in time. The
exceptionally cold winter at the North has put our season here back a
month behind its usual spring-time. The storms travel downward, coming
to us, generally, a little later, and in a modified form.
We cannot better illustrate this than by two experiences this year.
Easter morning we were waked by bird-singing; and it was a most heavenly
morning. We walked out in the calm, dewy freshness, to gather flowers to
dress our house,--the only church we have now in which to hold services.
In the low swamp-land near our home is a perfect field of blue iris,
whose bending leaves were all beaded with dew; and we walked in among
them, admiring the wonderful vividness of their coloring, and gathering
the choicest to fill a large vase. Then we cut verbenas, white, scarlet,
and crimson, rose-geraniums and myrtle, callas and roses; while already
on our tables were vases of yellow jessamine, gathered the night before.
The blue St. John's lay in misty bands of light and shade in the
distance; and the mocking-birds and red-birds were singing a loud Te
Deum.
Now for the North. A friend in Hartford writes, "I was awaked by the
patter of snow and sleet on the window-pane. Not a creature could go out
to church, the storm was so severe: even the Irish were obliged to keep
housed. With all we could do with a furnace and morning-glory stove, we
could not get the temperature of our house above fifty-five degrees."
In the latter part of the day, we at Mandarin had some rough, chilling
winds, which were the remains of the Northern Easter storm; but we were
wise enough to rejoice in the good we had, instead of fretting at the
shadow of evil.
  [Illustration]
SWAMPS AND ORANGE-TREES.
