of Mr. Wyllys' approval and friendship would ensure the success of a
débutante whose personal claims upon popular favor were far
inferior to yours, my sweet. I shall always cherish a grateful
recollection of his attentions to you, as my relative and friend. It
is a high compliment, as you would understand, were you better
acquainted with the materials and structure of our best society. His
influence in Hamilton is ex-tra-or-di-na-ry. I have promised to do
my best to fill his place while he is away, but I am painfully
conscious of my inability to prevent you from missing him
continually. He was averse to going, but said the necessity laid
upon him to do so was imperious. He was rather out of spirits, I
fancied--but it might be only a fancy. Doctor, dear! do let Mr.
Barnard come to the fire! The rooms are growing chilly, now that
they are so nearly empty."
"Empty!" The doctor turned amazed. "Where are all the people, Jane?"
Jessie did smile now, impolite as she feared it was, at the alacrity
with which the mild victim wriggled from the corner at the momentary
diversion of his jailor's notice, muttered apologetically to the
hostess, and got himself out of the apartment and house.
"As I was saying--" pursued the doctor, consulting his handkerchief
and collecting his wits--"my objection to Darwin's theory and to the
hypothesis advanced by Agassiz is one and the same. I maintain--"
"Dearest husband!" interposed his wife. "Since Mr. Barnard has
followed the rest of our friends, suppose we postpone the further
discussion of that point until to-morrow. Jessie and I are quite
exhausted by the excitement of the evening."
Jessie was sorry for him as he began, with a rueful visage, to
disentangle his cambric and his brains.
"I hope you have had a pleasant evening," she said, affectionately,
going up to bid him "good-night."
His eyes cleared at sound of the frank, sweet voice, and the sight
of her face. She had never been shy of him, had understood him
better and sooner than young girls did generally, and made herself
useful to him in many little ways. He caught himself dreaming,
sometimes, in looking at and listening to her, of what his life and
home might have been, if daughters of his own had graced and blessed
it. Jessie had taken very kindly, on her part, to the rustic,
eccentric scholar. Roy had made her acquainted with his excellences
as well as his peculiarities, and bespoken for him a worthy place in
her regard. He talked of "my young friend, Professor Fordham," to
her more frequently than he was aware of, won to communicativeness
by her deep and evident interest in the theme. She had not thought
it best, up to this time, to reveal her engagement to him or to his
talkative spouse, although Roy's last letter had gently advised her
to do so, at the first favorable opportunity. The doctor might let
slip the morceau of news in one of his tits of abstraction, while
"Cousin Jane" would, she was sure, be in a twitter of mysterious
importance, and desire to announce it formally and publicly. And
Jessie, being new to the fashionable world, shrank from having her
heart-history gossipped about. Her conscience was pricked slightly
now for her want of confidence in Roy's dear old co-laborer, as he
laid a hand on either shoulder, and gazed steadfastly at her, his
hard, Scotch lineaments softening into kindliness and paternal
affection.
"You are very handsome, my dear! Do you know it?"
Jessie blushed deeply, but she did not laugh or bridle, and her
answer was straightforward and unaffected as was the query.
"I have been told so, sir!"
"Very handsome, but somewhat wilful!" continuing his physiognomical
examination. "Undisciplined, too! A warm heart, but hasty judgment.
Loving and lovable. A nature powerful for good as for evil. My
daughter! when the crisis in your life shall arrive--for there is a
turning-point in every human life--hesitate long and pray earnestly
that you may be directed into the right path. If you take the wrong,
great woe will ensue to yourself and others."
Then, with the grave simplicity that sometimes invested the quaint
little man with dignity at which the most irreverent could not mock,
he laid his withered hand upon her head:
"The LORD bless thee and keep thee; make the light of His
countenance to shine upon thee, and give thee peace!"
After which he kissed her between the great, solemn eyes, and wished
her "sound slumbers and happy dreams."
"It seems a ridiculous thing when it is put into words, but it
reminded me of the way Roy used to say 'Good-night,' last summer, at
the close of our happiest evenings!" thought Jessie, on her way
upstairs, a mist between her and the glittering stair-rods. "Oh! I
ought to be a good woman!"
Too much excited by this little episode, or the other events of the
evening, to sleep, Jessie sat down by her chamber-fire, when she had
donned her dressing-gown, and unbound the hair that oppressed her
head by its weight of braids. She had kept up her Parsonage habit of
reading a portion of Scripture before retiring each night, and her
Bible lay upon her knee now--but unopened. She was heavy-hearted,
notwithstanding Mrs. Baxter's congratulations and predictions.
Was it home-sickness that painted the images of her father and
Eunice in the fiery bed of coals filling her grate? that showed her,
in the violet-tinted flames quivering above the ignited mass, her
chamber in the manse among the hills; her mother's portrait over the
white tent bedstead; her mother's escritoire, between the windows,
that contained Roy's letters? Was she already tired of the life that
had been so pleasant four hours ago? Was this dissatisfaction with
herself and those with whom she had talked and laughed within that
time, satiety or chagrin? She had enjoyed every moment of her visit
heretofore, with the avidity of a novice in the scenes to which her
cousin's kindness had introduced her; the rides with Mrs. Baxter;
the walks with Orrin, and the Hamilton girls who had extended to her
a hearty and generous welcome; the parties, lectures, and concerts
she had attended; the German and music lessons; the books she read
aloud to Mrs. Baxter, and those Orrin had read to them both on the
delightful stormy nights that kept other callers away; had caught
eagerly at Fanny Provost's offer to teach her billiards, and Orrin's
proposal that she should learn to skate. In fact, the day and
evening had been so crowded with occupation, recreation, and
incident, as to leave her scanty space for letters to Dundee, and
oblige her to steal hours from sleep that she might live her
enjoyments over in describing them to Roy. She had studied
faithfully, too, and successfully under Orrin's direction, and
spurred on by his encouragement. She was sure she could never learn
so rapidly and zestfully again. Life seemed such hard and dreary
labor.
She wished herself back in the quiet Parsonage, where the evening's
talk, music, or reading was seldom interrupted by neighbors or
strangers; where one day went by like every other, within doors;
where, on snowy afternoons, the ticking of the hall-clock could be
heard all through the house--by Patsey in the kitchen; by Mr. Kirke
in his study; by Eunice, sewing in her room overlooking the
church-yard; most distinctly by herself as she read, drew, or wrote
in her favorite oriel, or, in the twilight, walked up and down the
parlor, dreaming visions that put winter and gloom to flight--dreams
of Roy's return and their united lives. Wished herself back, if she
