
"I know three or four who want boats, but I am not sure the Juno would
suit either of them," replied the commodore.

The boat pulled to the shore, and no one asked any more questions about
the Juno, or her late owner. The members of the club on board of the
several yachts landed, and Donald was soon in earnest conversation with
Samuel Rodman.

"What does your father say?" he asked.

"He wants to see you," replied Samuel.

"Does he think I can't do the job?"

"He did not think so at first, but when I told him you would employ one
or two regular ship carpenters, he was satisfied, and I think he will
give you the job."

"I hope he will, and I am sure I can give him as good work as he can get
anywhere."

"I haven't any doubt of it, Don John. But the Sea Foam isn't doing so
well as she did the first day you had her out. The Skylark beats her
every time they sail."

"Ned Patterdale hasn't got the hang of her yet."

"Perhaps not."

"I should like to have Bob Montague sail her, and Ned the Skylark; I
think it would make a difference," added Donald. "Ned does very well,
but a skipper must get used to his boat; and he hasn't had much
experience in yachts as large as the Sea Foam. I spoke to you of a
change in the model for the Maud; and if I'm not greatly mistaken, she
will beat both the Sea Foam and the Skylark."

"I would give all my spending-money for a year, over and above the cost,
if she would do that," replied Rodman, with a snap of the eye.

"Of course I can't promise that she will do it, but I expect she will,"
said Donald.

The club assembled under the trees, and the members were called to order
by the commodore. The first business was to hear the report of the
Regatta Committee, which proved to be a very interesting document to the
yachtmen. The race was to take place the next Saturday, and was open to
all yachts exceeding twenty feet in length, duly entered before the
time. All were to sail in the same class; the first prize was a silver
vase, and the second a marine glass. The course was to be from the
judge's boat, in Belfast harbor, by Turtle Head, around the buoy on
Stubb's Point Ledge, leaving it on the port hand, and back to the
starting-point. The sailing regulations already adopted by the club were
to be in full force. The report was accepted, and the members looked
forward with eager anticipation to what they regarded as the greatest
event of the season. Other business was transacted, and Donald, who had
brought with him a measuring tape and plummet, measured all the yachts
of the club. Dinner was served on board of each craft, and the commodore
extended the hospitalities of the Skylark to Donald.

In the afternoon, the fleet made an excursion around Long Island,
returning to Belfast about six o'clock, Donald sailing the Juno, and
catching a mess of fish off Haddock Ledge. He moored her off the shop,
and was rather surprised to find that his own boat had not yet been
returned. After supper he hastened to the house of Mr. Rodman, with
whom he had a long talk in regard to the building of the Maud. The
gentleman had some doubts about the ability of the young boat-builder to
do so large a job, though he desired to encourage him.

"I am willing to give you the work, and to pay you the same price your
father had for the Sea Foam; but I don't like to pay out money till I
know that you are to succeed," said he.

"I don't ask you to do so, sir," replied Donald, warmly. "You need not
pay me a cent till you are perfectly satisfied."

"But I supposed you would want money to buy stock and pay your men, even
before you had set up your frame."

"No, sir; we have capital enough to make a beginning."

"I am satisfied then, and you shall have the job," added Mr. Rodman.

"Thank you, sir," replied Donald, delighted at his success.

"You may go to work as soon as you please; and the sooner the better,
for Samuel is in a great hurry for his yacht."

"I will go to work on Monday morning. The model, moulds, and drawings
are all ready, and there will be no delay, sir," answered the young
boat-builder, as he took his leave of his considerate patron.

Perhaps Mr. Rodman was not satisfied that the young man would succeed in
the undertaking, but he had not the heart to discourage one who was so
earnest. He determined to watch the progress of the work very closely,
and if he discovered that the enterprise was not likely to be
successful, he intended to stop it before much time or money had been
wasted. Donald had fully detailed the means at his command for doing the
job in a workman-like manner, and he was well known as an ingenious and
skilful mechanic. Mr. Rodman had strong hopes that the young man would
succeed in his undertaking.

Donald walked toward the house of Captain Shivernock, congratulating
himself on the happy issue of his interview with Mr. Rodman. As he
passed the book and periodical store, he saw Lawrence Kennedy, a ship
carpenter, who had formerly worked with Mr. Ramsay, standing at the
door, reading the weekly paper just from the press. This man was out of
work, and was talking of going to Bath to find employment. Donald had
already thought of him as one of his hands, for Kennedy was a capital
mechanic.

"What's the news?" asked Donald, rather to open the way to what he had
to say, than because he was interested in the latest intelligence.

"How are you, Donald?" replied the ship carpenter. "There's a bit of
news from Lincolnville, but I suppose you heard it; for all the town is
talking about it."

"I haven't heard it."

