diminish, the season was approaching its end, and Aunt Diana gathered
her strength for a final contest.
“We are not out of the wilderness yet, it seems,” said Sara to me, in
her mocking voice. “Mokes, the Captain, the Professor, and the
Knickerbocker, and nothing settled! How is this, my countrymen?”
Our last week came, and the Captain and Iris continued their murmured
conversations. In vain Aunt Diana, with the vigilance of a Seminole,
contested every inch of the ground; the Captain outgeneraled her, and
Iris, with her innocent little ways, aided and abetted him. Aunt Di
never made open warfare; she believed in strategy; through the whole she
never once said, “Iris, you must not,” or wavered for one moment in her
charming manner toward the Captain. But the pits she dug for that young
man, the barriers she erected, the obstructions she cast in his way,
would have astonished even Osceola himself. And all the time she had
Mokes to amuse, Mokes the surly, Mokes the wearing, Mokes who was even
beginning to talk: openly of going!--yes, absolutely going! One day it
came to pass that we all went up to the barracks, to attend a dress
parade. The sun was setting, the evening gun sounded across the inlet,
the flash of the light-house came back as if in answer, the flag was
slowly lowered, and the soldiers paraded in martial array--artillery,
“the poetry of the army,” as the romantic young ladies say--“the
red-legged branch of the service,” as the soldiers call it.
“What a splendid-looking set of officers!” exclaimed Iris, as the tall
figures in full uniform stood motionless in the sunset glow. “But who is
that other young officer?”
“The lieutenant,” said the “other young lady.”
“He is very handsome,” said Iris, slowly.
“Yes, very. But he is a provoking fellow. Nobody can do any thing with
him.”
“Can’t they?” said Iris, warming to the encounter. (Iris rather liked a
difficult subject.) Then, “Oh, I forgot we were going so soon,” she
added, with a little sigh. “But I wonder why the Captain never brought
him to call upon us?”
“Simply because he won’t be brought,” replied the “other young lady.”
“I will tell you what he is like, Iris,” I said, for I had noticed the
young soldier often. “He is like the old Indian description of the St.
Johns River: ‘It hath its own way, is alone, and contrary to every
other.’”
Review over, we went on to the post cemetery, beyond the barracks, the
Captain accompanying us, glittering in gold-lace.
“Were there any encounters in or near St. Augustine during the late
war?” began Aunt Di, in a determined voice. Time was short now, and she
had decided to cut the Gordian knot of Mokes; in the mean time the
Captain should not get to Iris unless it was over her dead body.
“No,” replied Antinous. “The nearest approach to it was an alarm, the
gunners under arms, and the woods shelled all night, the scouts in the
morning bringing in the mangled remains of the enemy--two Florida cows.”
“A charmingly retired life you must lead here,” pursued Aunt Di; “the
news from the outside world does not rush in to disturb your peaceful
calm.”
No, the Captain said, it did not rush much. Four weeks after President
Fillmore’s death they had received their orders to lower the flag and
fire funeral guns all day, which they did, to the edification of the
Minorcans, the Matanzas River, and the Florida beach generally.
The military cemetery was a shady, grassy place, well tended, peaceful,
and even pleasant. A handsome monument to all the soldiers and officers
who fell during the long, hard, harassing Seminole war stood on one
side, and near it were three low massive pyramids covering the remains
of Major Dade and one hundred and seven soldiers, massacred by Osceola’s
band.
“There is a dramatic occurrence connected with this story,” said Miss
Sharp, sentimentally. “It seems that this gallant Major Dade and the
other young officers attended a ball here in St. Augustine the evening
before the battle, dancing nearly all night, and then riding away at
dawn, with gay adieux and promises to return soon. That very morning,
before the sun was high in heaven, they were all dead men! So like the
‘Battle of Waterloo,’ you remember:
    ‘There was a sound of revelry by night,
     And Belgium’s capital had gathered then
     Her beauty and her chivalry.’
I do not think this incident is generally known, however.”
“No, I don’t think it is,” replied John; “for as Major Dade and his
command were coming up from Key West and Tampa Bay, on the west side of
the State, and had just reached the Withlacoochee River when they met
their fate, they must have traveled several hundred miles that night,
besides swimming the St. Johns twice, to attend the ball and return in
time for the battle. However,” he added, seeing the discomfiture of the
governess, “I have no doubt they would have been very glad to have
attended it had it been possible, and we will let it go as one of those
things that ‘might have been,’ as I said the other day to a young lady
who, having been quite romantic over the ‘Bravo’s Lane,’ was disgusted
to find that it had nothing at all to do with handsome operatic
scoundrels in slouch hats and feathers, but was so called after a worthy
family here named Bravo.”
The Professor now began to rehearse the Dade story; indeed, he gave us
an abstract of the whole Florida war. Aunt Diana professed herself much
interested, and leaned on the Captain’s arm all the time. Miss Sharp
took notes.
“Come,” whispered Sara, “let us go back and sit on the sea-wall.”
“Why?” I said, for I rather liked watching the Captain’s impalement.
“Martha Miles,” demanded Sara, “do you think--do you really think that I
am going either to stand or stand through another massacre?”
The next morning I was summoned to Aunt Di by a hasty three-cornered
note, and found her in a darkened room, with a handkerchief bound around
her head.
“A headache, Aunt Di?”
“Yes, Niece Martha, and worse--a heartache also,” replied a muffled
voice.
“What is the trouble?”
“Adrian Mokes has gone!”
“Gone?”
“Yes, this morning.”
“Off on that hunting expedition?”
“No,” replied Aunt Diana, sadly; “he has gone, never to return.”
I took a seat by the bedside, for I knew Aunt Di had a story to tell.
Now and then she did let out her troubles to me, and then seemed to feel
the better for it, and ready to go on for another six months. I was a
sort of safety-valve for the high pressure of her many plans.
“You know all I have done for Iris,” she began, “the care I have
bestowed upon her. Unhappy child! she has thrown aside a princely
fortune with that frivolity which she inherits from her father’s family.
My dear sister Clementina had no such traits.”
“Did she really refuse him, then?”
“No; even that comfort was denied to me,” said poor Aunt Di; “it would
have been something, at any rate. But no; her conduct has been such that
he simply announced to me that he had decided to take a leisurely trip
around the world, and afterward he might spend a year or so in England,
where the society was suited to his tastes--no shop-keepers, and that
sort of thing.”
“Happy England!” I said; but Aunt Di went on with her lamentations. “He
