opposite her, with his curiosity intensely excited by what he had
already heard.
"In the first place do you know whatever became of Harvey Barth's
diary?" Miss Liverage began.
"I haven't the least idea; but he said it was stolen from him, and he
was going to get it when he went to New York," replied Leopold, deeply
interested even in this matter.
"But he never found it, and I don't believe anybody stole it. I think it
is in this house now. Our first business is to find it."
"We couldn't find it in the time of it, and I don't believe we can now."
"We must find it, for that diary will tell us just where the money is
buried."
"You never will find the diary or the money."
"Don't be too fast. Harvey told me where the money was buried. It was
under the cliffs at High Rock," added Miss Liverage.
"The cliffs are about a mile long."
"The money was buried in the sand."
"The beach under High Rock is half a mile long, and it would be a
winter's job to dig it all over. But who hid the money there?"
"A man who was wrecked in the brig."
"Was it Harvey Barth?"
"No; the man was a passenger and called himself Wallbridge; but Harvey
thought this was not his real name."
"That was the name of the passenger as it was printed in the newspaper."
"Harvey wrote down all he knew about him in his diary. He buried his
money--twelve hundred dollars in gold--on the beach; and in the diary
the place is described. Harvey inquired about the passenger in Rockland;
but no one knew anything about him."
"Twelve hundred in gold," said Leopold, musingly.
"Yes; and I have agreed to give you nearly half of it."
"If we find it," added the young man, who considered the information
rather too indefinite for entire success.
"I think we can find it."
"Did Harvey Barth tell you just where the money was buried?"
"He said it was buried on the beach. He talked a great deal about it the
day before he died, and said, if he ever got well enough, he should go
and get it; and then he would pay me handsomely for all I had done for
him. I was a nurse in the hospital, you see, and was his only companion.
He felt very bad about the loss of his diary, and told me all about it.
He said he put it in the flue of the fireplace, because there was no
closet in the room. Now, if nobody stole it, the diary must be there
yet. I have looked into the flue, but I couldn't see anything of it; and
I have made up my mind that it dropped down somewhere."
"The room is directly over this parlor, and if it dropped into the
chimney, it must have come down into this fireplace," replied Leopold.
"I am sure nothing was ever seen of it."
They examined the flue of the Franklin stove, and Miss Liverage was
satisfied with the young man's statement in regard to its construction.
"Some one may have picked it up and put it away," suggested the nurse.
"There was a summer piece fastened into the front of this stove, which
was not taken down till I removed it to make the fire when you came. If
the diary had been there, I should have found it. But I will search the
whole house for it, though I am of Harvey Barth's opinion, that some one
stole the book. If any person saw him put it into the flue, as Harvey
thought the drummer did, he might have supposed it was something very
valuable. Why should he take so much pains to hide it, if it was not? If
the drummer did not take it himself, he may have told somebody else, who
did steal it. If he had left the diary on the table, nobody would have
touched it, I know. It was all because he hid it, that he lost it."
Miss Liverage was sure the diary was still in the house, and during that
and the next day, while the storm lasted, Leopold searched the hotel
from cellar to garret. He did not find the key to the hidden treasure of
High Rock. The nurse searched for herself, so far as she could do so
without exciting the suspicions of the hotel people; but she was no more
successful than her confidant in the secret. If the diary was in the
house, it could not be found. The structure of the chimney, in which the
flue of the fireplace was built, was carefully examined; and Leopold's
conclusion seemed to be fully verified. Miss Liverage was reluctantly
compelled to abandon all hope of finding the coveted volume.
The storm ended, and the sun shone again. The wind came fresh and cold
from the north-west. The nurse looked from the windows of the hotel upon
the waters of the river, which, sheltered from the force of the blast,
were as smooth as an inland pond though the waves rolled up white and
angry beyond the point. The guest at the Cliff House, though she had
given up all expectation of finding the diary, had not abandoned the
hope of obtaining the hidden treasure.
"Now, Leopold, we must go to the beach under High Rock," said she, after
the storm was over.
"What is the use of going there, if you don't know where the money is
hidden?" demanded the boatman.
"I think I can find the place," replied Miss Liverage. "Harvey told me
where it was; but I can't think of the names he used in telling me. I
was pretty sure I should find the diary, when I left New York."
"If you want to go to High Rock, I will take you down there in the
boat," added Leopold.
"I'm afraid of boats. Can't we go by land?"
"Not very well. My boat is as stiff as a man-of-war, and you can go a
great deal easier in her than you can climb over the rocks on the other
side of the river."
Miss Liverage considered the matter, and after dinner she decided to
undertake the hazardous trip, as she regarded it. She had an engagement
the next week in New York, and she could not remain in Rockhaven more
than a day or two longer. What she did must be done at once. Mr.
Bennington was astonished when he saw his son taking her out to sail on
such a chilly, blustering day; but he always allowed his guests to suit
themselves, and offered no objection to the expedition. Leopold seated
his timid passenger in the standing-room, and shoved off the boat. In
the river she made smooth sailing of it; but the instant she passed the
range of the high bluff on the north shore, the No-Name plunged into a
heavy sea, burying her bow deep in a foam-crested billow, whose dense
spray drenched the water-proof of Miss Liverage, and it seemed to her as
if the end of all things had come.
"Mercy on us!" screamed she, trying to rise from her seat, as the bow of
the boat was lifted far up by the wave.
"Sit down, Miss Liverage," said Leopold, pushing her back into her seat.
"We shall be drowned!" cried the terrified passenger.
"This is nothing; the boat is doing first rate," answered Leopold.
"I shall be wet to the skin," she added, as another cloud of spray was
dashed over her. The skipper went to the cuddy, forward, and brought
from it an old oil-cloth coat, which he spread over his passenger.
Though this garment protected her from the spray, the angry waves were
still a vivid terror to her, and the skipper vainly assured her there
was no danger. Letting off the main sheet, he put the boat before the
wind, and then she rolled, pitched, and floundered, till Miss Liverage
declared she was frightened out of her life.
"Don't be alarmed. There! you can see the ledges now where the Waldo
went to pieces," added Leopold, pointing to the black rocks, now in
sight, upon which the white foam broke at every surge of the sea.
"I can't see anything, Leopold," gasped Miss Liverage, holding on to the
washboard with both hands. "Do go back as fast as you can."
