a desperate fight to go to Lake George with 
some school-fellows." 

"It was fortunate that you did not, for you 
would have been ill in any event," answered 
mamma quietly. 

"Yes. How is everybody? And that Mr. 
Fairlie is married? Does Miss Churchill come 
as she used ? ' 

She was still among our best friends, we told 
him. Fanny was there spending the day. 

Presently papa returned and he was full of 
joy at the improvement. Why, it was almost 
like having a boy of one's very own ! I would 
not have believed that he could be so agreeable 
if I had not seen it, or else I wondered if we 
had not made a mistake last summer. 

There was supper and music after that, and 
Fan's return, and the next day papa invited him 
to go over the river with him, as he had a horse 


and wagon. Consequently I saw nothing of him 
until evening. Mamma asked me to take some 

grapes to a sick parishioner. 

" Allow me to accompany you ; " he said, get- 
ting his hat. 

It was very foolish but I could not help the 
color coming into my face as we walked down 
the path. He had such a grown-up, gentle- 
manly air; he opened the gate and closed it 
ao'ain, and took the outside of the walk and 


glanced at me in a kind of protecting fashion. 

" Do you know that you are very little ? ' he 
began presently. 

"Fully five feet." 

" But then I am getting to be such a great 
fellow ! " 

I looked at him and laughed. 

"What now?' and he colored suddenly.. 

" I was thinking- -of something so absurd! 
Fan used to accuse me of preaching - 

" And very good sermons they were. I may 
want you to preach again." 

" I should be afraid," glancing up at him. 

He laughed then. After a moment or two 
another expression crossed his face, and it grew 
more and more serious. 


"I believe the sermons saved me. There was 
a time when I should have hated to own such 
a thing and from a woman, too; so you may 
know how I have conquered myself." 

" The best of all victories." 

" Looking back at myself I wonder how you 
tolerated me last summer. I was ill and nerv- 
ous to the last degree, but I had a frightful 
temper. I was proud and sullen, and ungrate- 
ful." 

"Not always that." 

" I think I hated almost everybody. I did 
not want to be governed or counseled. And 
Stephen was so rigid and prompt. He treated 
me like a little boy " 

" Oh, hush ! ' I interrupted. 

" Some of it is true. He admits it. And 
when that awful affair happened I expected he 
would disown me. He is so proud, then he 
never did anything bad in all his life. So I felt 
that I had no mercy to expect from him." 

"But you were mistaken," I said eagerly. 

" I couldn't have gone there and in that way 
but for you. Perhaps he has told you " and 
and his eyes questioned mine. 

"No," I answered, glad that we had not dis- 
cussed it. 



"I went to him. I believe it was the first 
manly step of my life. But, oh, I felt so for- 
lorn and miserable I can't tell you! If he 
had been cold and cross I believe I should have 
gone and thrown myself in the river." 

" He was not." 

" Oh, Rose, it was like the story of the prod- 
igal son. c Fell upon his neck and kissed him.' 
I remember his kissing me the day father was 
buried, and I do not believe any one ever did 
since till then. It melted all my soul. Some- 
