been so lonely. Very few people can understand my sensitive nature, but
I trust you will be able to."
There was some other points not so congenial. When they came to these,
Florence's heart shrank a little.
For, if she chose Mrs. Osgood, the group at home must drop out of her
life completely. There could be no visiting, no corresponding.
Poor Florence! This was a cloud upon her bright visions.
"I shall write to your grandmother occasionally to let her know that
you are well; but, as my daughter, you will be in such an entirely
different sphere, that the slightest intimacy would be unwise."
What should she do? Would Granny think her cruel and ungrateful?
Mrs. Osgood proposed to take her back to Madison to spend a few days in
which to decide. As for her, it hardly appeared possible to her that
the child could hesitate. And now that she had enjoyed this little
taste of luxury, poverty would seem all the more repulsive.
They drove over one morning. Luckily, Granny was in very tolerable
order; but, oh the difference! She was so glad to see Florence, that
she kissed and cried over her a little.
"I want to have a talk with your grandmother," Mrs. Osgood said; and
Florence betook herself to the kitchen. How dreadfully poor and mean
every thing looked!
Mrs. Osgood went straight about the business in hand. She described
her offer in the most glowing terms, and held out all its advantages.
It would relieve Mrs. Kenneth from much care and anxiety, give her one
less to struggle for; and then Florence would have the position for
which Nature had fitted her. Not one thing was forgotten.
Granny listened like one in a dream. Flossy to be a rich lady's
daughter,--to ride in a carriage, to have a piano, and be dressed in
silk! Could it be true?
"But oh! I can't give her up," moaned Granny. "She was poor Joe's
first-born, and such a sweet, pretty baby! There never was one on 'em
that I could spare."
"I wish you would take counsel with some friend. I think this
opportunity for Florence is too good to be thrown away."
"I don't know, I'm sure. You are very kind and generous. But to part
with my poor darling."
The lady rose at length.
"I shall leave Florence here for three days," she said. "In the mean
while consider the subject well, and do not stand in the way of the
child's welfare."
Florence was very sorry to part with Mrs. Osgood. She walked out to the
gate, and lingered there, clinging to the slender hand, and at last
being kissed tenderly.
"Think earnestly of my proposal. On Saturday I shall come for my
answer," said Mrs. Osgood.
The lady had not much fear. She knew that money was all-potent in this
world; and it was quite absurd to suppose that a pretty girl would
prefer toil and poverty in this hovel, to luxury and ease with handsome
surroundings.
"Oh dear!" and Granny's arms were around Flossy's neck. "I can't let
you go away forever. And I am sure you don't want to," scanning the
fair face with her fond and eager eyes.
"Granny, I don't know what to say. I should so like to have an
education, and to be--oh! don't cry so. If every one thinks I ought not
to go,"--and Flossy's lip quivered.
"I am a foolish old body," sobbed Granny. "I'm not worth minding, my
dear."
"Fossy tum home. What 'ou ky?" said Dot, tugging at Granny's dress.
"If we could see you once in a while."
Florence felt the last to be an impossibility. She had a keen
perception of the difference in station, and the nameless something
that Granny could not be brought to see.
"You would hear about me," she said softly.
Granny went back to her ironing. Florence offered to help, and arranged
her own light table. But it was uncomfortable this hot summer day, and
her tender hand felt as if it was blistered. She consoled herself by
relating the experiences of the past month, and inwardly sighing for
the luxurious life. Granny was not so stupid but that she could see the
direction of the child's desires.
"I don't wonder that you liked it; and she couldn't help loving you,
even if I do say it. Why, a queen might be proud of you! If we knew
some one to ask."
"There is Mr. Howard," Florence suggested.
"Sure enough. He would see all sides of it. We'll go over after the
work is done;" and Granny tried to smile a little lightness into her
sad face.
Charlie had gone to pull weeds for a neighbor, Hal was out also, so
there was only Kit to dinner. After that was out of the way, and Dot
had her nap, they made themselves ready for their call.
Florence tried her best to make a lady out of Granny. A queer little
old woman she was, and would be to the end of the chapter. Her bonnet
was dreadfully old-fashioned, and her gingham dress too short for
modern requirements. Her wrinkled hands were as brown as berries, and
she never would wear gloves in the summer. Then, after she was all
ready, she surreptitiously tied on her black alpaca apron; at which
Flossy gave a sigh of despair.
The parsonage was a pretty little nest, half-covered with vines, and
shaded by a great sycamore. Dolly and Fred Howard were playing on the
grass, and Dot started for the small group instantly.
"O Mrs. Kenneth! how do you do? What a stranger you are! And here is
Florence, fresh as a rose! I heard that you had run away, my child.
Come and sit in the shade here: it is cooler than within doors. Mary,
here are some visitors."
Mrs. Howard gave them a cordial welcome, and insisted that Granny
should lay aside her bonnet. She inquired if Florence had enjoyed her
month at Seabury, and if she was not glad to get back again.
Granny twisted her apron-strings, and glanced at the young girl
uneasily. Of course she must begin somehow, but there was a great
sinking at her heart.
"Flossy's had a chance," she began; and then the strings were untied.
"We thought we'd come and ask a little advice. It's hard tellin' what's
for the best;" and Granny looked as if she might break down into a cry.
"A chance for an education?" asked Mrs. Howard.
"No: it's--to go for good. Flossy, you tell. I am not much of a hand at
getting things straight," murmured Granny.
Florence told the story in a very ladylike fashion, giving it the air
of a romance.
"Why, Florence, that is quite an adventure. And she wants to adopt
you?" Mrs. Howard exclaimed, much interested.
"Do you know any thing about this Mrs. Osgood?" asked Mr. Howard.
Florence used her limited knowledge to its fullest extent.
"Oh! I believe I know something about Mrs. Duncan. Dr. Carew was
attending the boy. I have heard him speak of them all. Isn't Mrs.
Osgood something of an invalid,--rather full of whims?"
"She is not very strong," Florence admitted.
"But it is a remarkable offer," rejoined Mrs. Howard. "And to have one
of the family so well provided for, seems like an especial providence."
"But to have her go away," said Granny. "To give her up, and never see
her again!"
"That does seem unkind. Perhaps it would not be quite as bad as that."
