"He is is more likely thinking up some great discovery," said Clapp,
sneering.  "You know he's a second Franklin."
"Thank you for the compliment," said our hero, good-humoredly, "but I
don't deserve it.  I don't expect to make any great discovery at
present."
"I suppose you expect to set the river on fire, some day," said
Clapp, sarcastically.
"I am afraid it wouldn't do much good to try," said Harry, who was
too sensible to take offence.  "It isn't so easily done."
"I suppose some day we shall be proud of having been in the same
office with so great a man," pursued Clapp.
"Really, Clapp, you're rather hard on our young friend," said
Ferguson.  "He doesn't put on any airs of superiority, or pretend to
anything uncommon."
"He's very kind--such an intellect as he's got, too!" said Clapp.
"I'm glad you found it out," said Harry.  "I haven't a very high idea
of my intellect yet.  I wish I had more reason to do so."
Finding that he had failed in his attempt to provoke Harry by his
ridicule, Clapp desisted, but he disliked him none the less.
The fact was, that Clapp was getting into a bad way.  He had no high
aim in life, and cared chiefly for the pleasure of the present
moment.  He had found Luke Harrison a congenial companion, and they
had been associated in more than one excess.  The morning previous,
Clapp had entered the printing office so evidently under the
influence of liquor, that he had been sharply reprimanded by Mr.
Anderson.
"I don't choose to interfere with your mode of life, unwise and
ruinous as I may consider it," he said, "as long as it does not
interfere with your discharge of duty.  But to-day you are clearly
incapacitated for labor, and I have a right to complain.  If it
happens again, I shall be obliged to look for another journeyman."
Clapp did not care to leave his place just at present, for he had no
money saved up, and was even somewhat in debt, and it might be some
time before he got another place.  So he rather sullenly agreed to be
more careful in future, and did not go to work till the afternoon.
But though circumstances compelled him to submit, it put him in bad
humor, and made him more disposed to sneer than ever.  He had an
unreasoning prejudice against Harry, which was stimulated by Luke
Harrison, who had this very sufficient reason for hating our hero,
that he had succeeded in injuring him.  As an old proverb has it "We
are slow to forgive those whom we have injured."
CHAPTER XV.
A LITERARY DEBUT.
Harry waited eagerly for the next issue of the "Weekly Standard." It
was received by Mr. Anderson in exchange for the "Centreville
Gazette," and usually came to hand on Saturday morning.  Harry was
likely to obtain the first chance of examining the paper, as he was
ordinarily sent to the post-office on the arrival of the morning mail.
His hands trembled as he unfolded the paper and hurriedly scanned the
contents.  But he looked in vain for his essay on Ambition.  There
was not even a reference to it.  He was disappointed, but he soon
became hopeful again.
"I couldn't expect it to appear so soon," he reflected.  "These city
weeklies have to be printed some days in advance.  It may appear yet."
So he was left in suspense another week, hopeful and doubtful by
turns of the success of his first offering for the press.  He was
rallied from time to time on his silence in the office, but he
continued to keep his secret.  If his contribution was slighted, no
one should know it but himself.
At last another Saturday morning came around and again he set out for
the post-office.  Again he opened the paper with trembling fingers,
and eagerly scanned the well-filled columns.  This time his search
was rewarded.  There, on the first column of the last page, in all
the glory of print, was his treasured essay!
A flash of pleasure tinged his cheek, and his heart beat rapidly, as
he read his first printed production.  It is a great event in the
life of a literary novice, when he first sees himself.  Even Byron
says,--
  "'Tis pleasant, sure, to see one's self in print."
To our young hero the essay read remarkably well--better than he had
expected; but then, very likely he was prejudiced in its favor.  He
read it through three times on his way back to the printing office,
and each time felt better satisfied.
"I wonder if any of the readers will think it was written by a boy?"
thought Harry.  Probably many did so suspect, for, as I have said,
though the thoughts were good and sensible, the article was only
moderately well expressed.  A practised critic would readily have
detected marks of immaturity, although it was a very creditable
production for a boy of sixteen.
"Shall I tell Ferguson?" thought Harry.
On the whole he concluded to remain silent just at present.  He knew
Ferguson took the paper, and waited to see if he would make any
remark about it.
"I should like to hear him speak of it, without knowing that I was
the writer," thought our hero.
Just before he reached the office, he discovered with satisfaction
the following editorial reference to his article:--
"We print in another column an essay on 'ambition' by a new
contributor.  It contains some good ideas, and we especially commend
it to the perusal of our young readers.  We hope to hear from
'Franklin' again."
"That's good," thought Harry.  "I am glad the editor likes it.  I
shall write again as soon as possible."
"What makes you look so bright, Harry?" asked Ferguson, as he
re-entered the office.  "Has any one left you a fortune?"
"Not that I know of," said Harry.  "Do I look happier than usual?"
"So it seems to me."
Harry was spared answering this question, for Clapp struck in,
grumbling, as usual: "I wish somebody'd leave me a fortune.  You
wouldn't see me here long."
"What would you do?" asked his fellow-workman.
"Cut work to begin with.  I'd go to Europe and have a jolly time."
"You can do that without a fortune."
"I should like to know how?"
"Be economical, and you can save enough in three years to pay for a
short trip.  Bayard Taylor was gone two years, and only spent five
hundred dollars."
"Oh, hang economy!" drawled Clapp.  "It don't suit me.  I should like
to know how a feller's going to economize on fifteen dollars a week."
"I could."
"Oh, no doubt," sneered Clapp, "but a man can't starve."
"Come round and take supper with me, some night," said Ferguson,
good-humoredly, "and you can judge for yourself whether I believe in
starving."
Clapp didn't reply to this invitation.  He would not have enjoyed a
quiet evening with his fellow-workman.  An evening at billiards or
cards, accompanied by bets on the games, would have been much more to
his mind.
"Who is Bayard Taylor, that made such a cheap tour in Europe?" asked
Harry, soon afterward.
