knelt his next neighbor had to pluck him by the 
skirt. Then he too knelt hastily, mechanically 
lifting his head, and glancing along the front of 
the Old Procuratie. His face had that weariness 
in it which his figure and movement had suggested, 
and it was very pale, but it was yet more singular 
for the troubled innocence which its traits ex 
pressed. 
"There," whispered Ferris, " that's what I call 
an uncommonly good face." 
Florida raised her hand to silence him, and the 
heavy gaze of the priest rested on them coldly at 
first. Then a light of recognition shot into his eyes 
and a flush suffused "his pallid visage, which seemed 
to grow the more haggard and desperate. His 
head fell again, and he dropped the candle from 
 
his hand. One of those beggars who went by the 
side of the procession, to gather the drippings of the 
tapers, restored it to him. 
" Why," said Ferris aloud, " it's Don Ippolito ! 
Did you know him at first ? " 
XIII. 
THE ladies were sitting on the terrace when Don 
Ippolito came next morning to say that he could 
not read with Miss Vervain that day nor for several 
days after, alleging in excuse some priestly duties 
proper to the time. Mrs. Vervain began to lament 
that she had not been able to go to the procession 
of the day before. " I meant to have kept a sharp 
lookout for you ; Florida saw you, and so did Mr. 
Ferris. But it isn 't  at all the same thing, you 
know. Florida has no faculty for describing ; and 
now I shall probably go away from Venice without 
seeing you in your real character once. 
Don Ippolito suffered this and more in meek 
silence. He waited his opportunity with unfailing 
politeness, and then with gentle punctilio took his 
leave. 
" Well, come again as soon as your duties will 
let you, Don Ippolito," cried Mrs. Vervain. " We 
shall miss you dreadfully, and I begrudge every one 
of your readings that Florida loses." 
The priest passed, with the sliding step which his 
impeding drapery imposed, down the garden walk, 
and was half-way to the gate, when Florida, who 
had stood watching hi, said to her mother, " I 
 
must speak to him again," and lightly descended 
the steps and swiftly glided in pursuit. 
"Don Ippolito ! " she called. 
He already had his hand upon the gate, but he 
turned, and rapidly went back to meet her. 
She stood in the walk where she had stopped 
when her voice arrested him, breathing quickly. 
Their eyes met ; a painful shadow overcast the face 
of the young girl, who seemed to be trying in vain 
to speak. 
Mrs. Vervain put on her glasses and peered 
down at the two with good-natured curiosity. 
" Well, madamigella," said the priest at last, 
" what do you command me ? " He gave a faint, 
patient sigh. 
The tears came into her eyes. " Oh," she be 
gan vehemently, " I wish there was some one who 
had the right to speak to you ! " 
" No one," answered Don Tppolito, " has so much 
the right as you. 
" I saw you yesterday," she began again, " and I 
thought of what you had told me, Don Ippolito." 
" Yes, I thought of it, too," answered the priest ; 
" I have thought of it ever since." 
" But haven 't you thought of any hope for your 
self ? Must you still go on as before ? How can 
you go back now to those things, and pretend to 
think them holy, and all the time have no heart or 
faith in them ? It's terrible ! " 
" What would you, madamigella?" demanded 
 
Don Ippolito, with a moody shrug. " It is my pro 
fession, my trade, you know. You might say to 
the prisoner," he added bitterly, " It is terrible to 
see you chained here. Yes, it is terrible. Oh, I 
don 't reject your compassion ! But what can I 
do?" 
" Sit down with me here," said Florida in her 
blunt, child-like way, and sank upon the stone seat 
beside the walk. She clasped her hands together 
in her lap with some strong, bashful emotion, while 
Don Ippolito, obeying her command, waited for her 
to speak. Her voice was scarcely more than a 
hoarse whisper when she began. 
" I don 't know how to begin what I want to say. 
I am not fit to advise any one. I am so young, and 
so very ignorant of the world." 
" I too know little of the world," said the priest, 
as much to himself as to her. 
"It may be all wrong, all wrong. Besides," she 
said abruptly, " how do I know that you are a good 
man, Don Ippolito? How do I know that you Ve 
been telling me the truth ? It may be all a kind 
of trap " 
He looked blankly at her. 
" This is in Venice ; and you may be leading me 
on to things to say you that will make trouble for 
my mother and me. You may be a spy " 
" Oh no, no, no ! " cried the priest, springing to 
his feet with a kind of moan, and a shudder, " God 
forbid ! " He swiftly touched her hand with the 
 
tips of his fingers, and then kissed them : an action 
of inexpressible humility. " Madamigella, I swear 
to you by everything you believe good that I would 
rather die than be false to you in a single breath 
or thought." 
" Oh, I know it, I know it," she murmured. " I 
don 't see how I could say such a cruel thing." 
" Not cruel ; no, madamigella, not cruel," softly 
pleaded Don Ippolito. 
" But but is there no escape for you ? " 
