any other case he would have said that it was not possible for him
to go. But the exigency and the peculiarly distressing circumstances
attending upon this made it next to impossible for him to refuse.
"At twelve o'clock, Mr. Voss, I have a delicate and difficult
operation to perform, and I have too short a time now for the
preparation I need. I am sure you can rely fully on my assistant,
Doctor Angler."
"No, no!" replied Mr. Voss, waving his hand almost impatiently. "I do
not want Doctor Angier. You must see Mrs. Voss yourself."
He was imperative, almost angry. What was the delicate and difficult
operation to him? What was anything or anybody that stood in the way
of succor for his imperiled wife? He could not pause to think of
others' needs or danger.
Doctor Hillhouse had to decide quickly, and his decision was on the
side where pressure was strongest. He could not deny Mr. Voss.
He found the poor distressed mother in a condition of utter
prostration. For a little while after coming out of the swoon into
which her first wild fears had thrown her, she had been able to
maintain a tolerably calm exterior. But the very effort to do this
was a draught on her strength, and in a few hours, under the
continued suspense of waiting and hearing nothing from her boy, the
overstrained nerves broke down again, and she sunk into a condition
of half-conscious suffering that was painful to see.
For such conditions medicine can do but little. All that Doctor
Hillhouse ventured to prescribe was a quieting draught. It was after
eleven o'clock when he got back to his office, where he found Mr.
Ridley waiting for him with a note from Doctor Ainsworth.
"Come for just a single moment," the note said. "There are marked
changes in her condition."
"I cannot! It is impossible!" exclaimed Doctor Hillhouse, with an
excitement of manner he could not repress. Doctor Ainsworth can do
all that it is in the power of medical skill to accomplish. It will
not help her for me to go again now, and another life is in my
hands. I am sorry, Mr. Ridley, but I cannot see your wife again
until this afternoon.
"Oh, doctor, doctor, don't say that!" cried the poor, distressed
husband, clasping his hands and looking at Doctor Hillhouse with a
pale, imploring face. "Just for single moment, doctor. Postpone your
operation. Ten minutes, or even an hour, can be of no consequence.
But life or death may depend on your seeing my wife at once. Come,
doctor! Come, for God's sake!"
Doctor Hillhouse looked at his watch again, stood in a bewildered,
uncertain way for a few moments, and then turned quickly toward the
door and went out, Mr. Ridley following.
"Get in," he said, waving his hand in the direction of his carriage,
which still remained in front of his office. Mr. Ridley obeyed.
Doctor Hillhouse gave the driver a hurried direction, and sprang in
after him. They rode in silence for the whole distance to Mr.
Ridley's dwelling.
One glance at the face of the sick woman was enough to show Doctor
Hillhouse that she was beyond the reach of professional skill. Her
disease, as he had before seen, had taken on its worst form, and was
running its fatal course with a malignant impetuosity it was
impossible to arrest. The wild fever of anxiety occasioned by her
husband's absence during that dreadful night, the cold to which, in
her delirium of fear, she had exposed herself, the great shock her
delicate organism had sustained at a time when even the slightest
disturbance might lead to serious consequences,--all these causes
combined had so broken down her vitality and poisoned her blood that
nature had no force strong enough to rally against the enemies of
her life.
A groan that sounded like a wail of desperation broke from Mr.
Ridley's lips as he came in with the doctor and looked at the
death-stricken countenance of his wife. The two physicians gazed at
each other with ominous faces, and stood silent and helpless at the
bedside.
When Doctor Hillhouse hurried away ten minutes afterward he knew
that he had looked for the last time upon his patient. Mr. Ridley
did not attempt to detain him. Hope had expired, and he sat bowed
and crushed, wishing that he could die.
The large quantity of opium which had been taken by Mrs. Ridley held
all her outward senses locked, and she passed away, soon after
Doctor Hillhouse retired, without giving her husband a parting word
or even a sign of recognition.
CHAPTER XVIII.
WHEN Doctor Hillhouse arrived at his office, it lacked only a
quarter of an hour to twelve, the time fixed for the operation on
Mrs. Carlton. He found Doctor Kline and Doctor Angier, who were to
assist him, both awaiting his return.
"I thought twelve o'clock the hour?" said Doctor Kline as he came in
hurriedly.
"So it is. But everything has seemed to work adversely this morning.
Mr. Ridley's wife is extremely ill--dying, in fact--and I have had
to see her too or three times. Other calls have been imperative, and
here I am within a quarter of an hour of the time fixed for a most
delicate operation, and my preparations not half completed."
Doctor Kline regarded him for a few moments, and then said:
"This is unfortunate, doctor, and I would advise a postponement
until to-morrow. You should have had a morning free from anything
but unimportant calls."
"Oh no. I cannot think of a postponement," Doctor Hillhouse replied.
"All the arrangements have been made at Mr. Carlton's, and my
patient is ready. To put it off for a single day might cause a
reaction in her feelings and produce an unfavorable condition. It
will have to be done to-day."
"You must not think of keeping your appointment to the hour," said
Doctor Kline, glancing at his watch. "Indeed, that would now be
impossible. Doctor Angier had better go and say that we will be
there within half an hour. Don't hurry yourself in the slightest
degree. Take all the time you need to make yourself ready. I will
remain and assist you as best I can."
A clear-seeing and controlling mind was just what Doctor Hillhouse
needed at that moment. He saw the value of Doctor Kline's
suggestion, and promptly accepted it. Doctor Angier was despatched
to the residence of Mr. Carlton to advise that gentleman of the
brief delay and to make needed preparations for the work that was to
be done.
The very necessity felt by Doctor Hillhouse for a speedy repression
of the excitement from which he was suffering helped to increase the
disturbance, and it was only after he had used a stimulant stronger
than he wished to take that he found his nerves becoming quiet and
the hand on whose steadiness so much depended growing firm.
At half-past twelve Doctor Hillhouse, in company with Doctor Kline,
arrived at Mr. Carlton's. The white face and scared look of the
female servant who admitted them showed how strongly fear and
sympathy were at work in the house. She directed them to the room
which had been set apart for their use. In the hall above Mr.
Carlton met them, and returned with a trembling hand and silent
pressure the salutation of the two physicians, who passed into a
chamber next to the one occupied by their patient and quickly began
