"I must insist on your telling me what you thought, Miss Angie."
"Oh, nothing, only this--that if I, who have had more education than
our Sunday-school scholars, can't read a card like that, why, they
could not. I'm quite sure that an inscription in plain modern letters
that I could read would have more effect upon my mind, and I am quite
sure it would on them."
"I thank you sincerely for your frankness, Miss Angie; your suggestion
is a valuable one."
"I think," said Angie, "that mediæval inscriptions, and Greek and
Latin mottoes, are interesting to educated, cultivated people. The
very fact of their being in another language gives a sort of piquancy
to them. The idea gets a new coloring from a new language; but to
people who absolutely don't understand a word, they say nothing, and
of course they do no good; so, at least, it seems to me."
"You are quite right, Miss Angie, and I shall immediately put my
inscription into the English of to-day. The fact is, Miss Angie,"
added St. John after a silent pause, "I feel more and more what a
misfortune it has been to me that I never had a sister. There are
so many things where a woman's mind sees so much more clearly than
a man's. I never had any intimate female friend." Here Mr. St. John
began assiduously tying up little bunches of the ground-pine in the
form which Angie needed for her cross, and laying them for her.
Now, if Angie had been a sophisticated young lady, familiar with
the tactics of flirtation, she might have had precisely the proper
thing at hand to answer this remark; as it was, she kept on tying her
bunches assiduously and feeling a little embarrassed.
It was a pity he should not have a sister, she thought. Poor man, it
must be lonesome for him; and Angie's face at this moment must have
expressed some commiseration or some emotion that emboldened the young
man to say, in a lower tone, as he laid down a bunch of green by her:
"If you, Miss Angie, would look on me as you do on your brothers, and
tell me sincerely your opinion of me, it might be a great help to me."
Now Mr. St. John was certainly as innocent and translucently ignorant
of life as Adam at the first hour of his creation, not to know that
the tone in which he was speaking and the impulse from which he spoke,
at that moment, was in fact that of man's deepest, most absorbing
feeling towards woman. He had made his scheme of life; and, as a set
purpose, had left love out of it, as something too terrestrial and
mundane to consist with the sacred vocation of a priest. But, from
the time he first came within the sphere of Angelique, a strange,
delicious atmosphere, vague and dreamy, yet delightful, had encircled
him, and so perplexed and dizzied his brain as to cause all sorts
of strange vibrations. At first, there was a sort of repulsion--a
vague alarm, a suspicion and repulsion singularly blended with an
attraction. He strove to disapprove of her; he resolved not to think
of her; he resolutely turned his head away from looking at her in her
place in Sunday-school and church, because he felt that his thoughts
were alarmingly drawn in that direction.
Then came his invitation into society, of which the hidden charm,
unacknowledged to himself, was that he should meet Angelique; and that
mingling in society had produced, inevitably, modifying effects, which
made him quite a different being from what he was in his recluse life
passed between the study and the altar.
It is not in man, certainly not in a man so finely fibered and strung
as St. John, to associate intimately with his fellows without feeling
their forces upon himself, and finding many things in himself of which
he had not dreamed.
But if there be in the circle some one female presence which all the
while is sending out an indefinite though powerful enchantment, the
developing force is still more marked.
St. John had never suspected himself of the ability to be so agreeable
as he found himself in the constant reunions which, for one cause
or another, were taking place in the little Henderson house. He
developed a talent for conversation, a vein of gentle humor, a turn
for versification, with a cast of thought rising into the sphere of
poetry, and then, with Dr. Campbell and Alice and Angie, he formed no
mean quartette in singing.
In all these ways he had been coming nearer and nearer to Angie,
without taking the alarm. He remembered appositely what Montalembert
in his history of the monks of the Middle Ages says of the female
friendships which always exerted such a modifying power in the lives
of celebrated saints; how St. Jerome had his Eudochia, and St.
Somebody-else had a sister, and so on. And as he saw more and more of
Angelique's character, and felt her practical efficiency in church
work, he thought it would be very lovely to have such a friend all to
himself. Now, friendship on the part of a young man of twenty-five for
a young saint with hazel eyes and golden hair, with white, twinkling
hands and a sweet voice, and an assemblage of varying glances, dimples
and blushes, is certainly a most interesting and delightful relation;
and Mr. St. John built it up and adorned it with all sorts of charming
allegories and figures and images, making a sort of semi-celestial
affair of it.
It is true, he had given up St. Jerome's love, and concluded that
it was not necessary that his "heart's elect" should be worn and
weary and wasted, or resemble a dying altar-fire; he had learned to
admire Angie's blooming color and elastic step, and even to take an
appreciative delight in the prettinesses of her toilette; and, one
evening, when she dropped a knot of peach-blow ribbons from her bosom,
the young divine had most unscrupulously appropriated the same, and,
taking it home, gloated over it as a holy relic, and yet he never
suspected that he was in love--oh, no! And, at this moment, when his
voice was vibrating with that strange revealing power that voices
sometimes have in moments of emotion, when the very tone is more than
the words, he, poor fellow, was ignorant that his voice had said to
Angie, "I love you with all my heart and soul."
But there is no girl so uninstructed and so inexperienced as not to be
able to interpret a tone like this at once, and Angie at this moment
felt a sort of bewildering astonishment at the revelation. All seemed
to go round and round in dizzy mazes--the greens, the red berries--she
seemed to herself to be walking in a dream, and Mr. St. John with her.
She looked up and their eyes met, and at that moment the veil
fell from between them. His great, deep, blue eyes had in them an
expression that could not be mistaken.
"Oh, Mr. St. John!" she said.
"Call me Arthur," he said, entreatingly.
"Arthur!" she said, still as in a dream.
"And may I call you Angelique, my good angel, my guide? Say so!" he
added, in a rapid, earnest whisper, "say so, dear, dearest Angie!"
"Yes, Arthur," she said, still wondering.
"And, oh, love me," he added, in a whisper; "a little, ever so
little! You cannot think how precious it will be to me!"
"Mr. St. John!" called the voice of Miss Gusher.
He started in a guilty way, and came out from behind the thick shadows
of the evergreen which had concealed this little tête-à-tête. He
was all of a sudden transformed to Mr. St. John, the rector--distant,
cold, reserved, and the least bit in the world dictatorial. In his
secret heart, Mr. St. John did not like Miss Gusher. It was a thing
for which he condemned himself, for she was a most zealous and
efficient daughter of the Church. She had worked and presented a most
elegant set of altar-cloths, and had made known to him her readiness
