be an excellent stomachic taken in the proportion of a teaspoonful to a
glass of iced water, and slightly sweetened.
It is very nice for flavoring the icing of orange cake.
VANILLA.
2 vanilla beans.
½ pint white whiskey.
Split the bean, and clip with your scissors into bits, scraping out the
seeds which possess the finest flavoring qualities. Put the seed and
husks into the bottom of a small bottle; fill up with the spirits, and
cork tightly. Shake it often for a few weeks, after which it will be
fit for use—and never spoil.
BITTER ALMOND.
½ pound of bitter almonds.
1 pint white whiskey.
Blanch the almonds, and shred (not pound them), using for this purpose
a sharp knife that will not bruise the kernels. Put them into a
wide-mouthed bottle; pour in the spirits, cork tightly; shake every
other day for a fortnight. It will then be fit for use. Strain it as
you have occasion to use it, through a bit of cloth held over the mouth
of the bottle.
      
I introduce these directions for the domestic manufacture of such
extracts as are most used in cooking:, chiefly, but not altogether for
the benefit of country readers. The land—town and country—is so deluged
now with makers and peddlers of “flavoring extracts,” that some, of
necessity, must be indifferent in quality, if not hurtful. I have
purchased from a respectable druggist in a large city, rose-water that
smelled like ditch-water, and tasted worse; essence of lemon that could
not be distinguished by the sense of taste or smell from varnish; and
vanilla that was like nothing I had ever tasted or smelled before—least
of all like heliotrope, new-mown hay, or vanilla-bean.
The answer to my complaint in each of these cases was the same. “I
cannot understand it, madam. The extract is of Our Own Make, and there
is no better in the American market!”
In country stores the risk of getting a poor article is of course
much greater. To this day, I recall with a creep of the flesh that
drives a cold moisture to the surface, the unspoken (at the moment)
agony with which I detected something wrong, and very far wrong in
some nice-looking custards, the manufacture of which I had myself
superintended, and that formed the staple of the dessert, to which I
set down a couple of unexpected guests. As the first spoonful touched
my tongue, I looked at John, and John looked (pityingly) at me! By
mutual consent, we began to press the fruit upon our friends, and I
hastened the entrance of the coffee-tray.
After dinner, we snatched a few words from one another, aside.
“The cook’s carelessness!” said he. “She got hold of the
liniment-bottle by mistake.”
“It was a fresh bottle of ‘pure vanilla!’” answered I solemnly. “I saw
her draw the cork!”
It was after this experience that I was assured there was “no better
article in the American market.”
PRESERVED FRUITS, CANDIES, ETC.
APPLE MARMALADE. +
2 or 3 dozen tart, juicy apples, pared, cored and sliced.
A little cold water.
¾ pound of sugar to every pint of juice.
Juice of 2 lemons.
Stew the apples until tender, in just enough cold water to cover them.
Drain off the juice through a cullender, and put into a porcelain or
enamel kettle; stirring into it three-quarters of a pound of sugar for
every pint of the liquid. Boil until it begins to jelly; strain the
lemon-juice into it; put in the apples and stew pretty fast, stirring
almost constantly, until the compote is thick and smooth. (If the
apples are not soft all through, you had better rub them through the
cullender before adding them to the boiling syrup.)
Put up the marmalade in small jars or cups, and paste paper covers over
them as you would jelly, having first fitted a round of tissue-paper,
dipped in brandy, upon the surface of the marmalade. Keep cool and dry.
The simple precaution of covering jellies, jams, and marmalade with
brandied tissue-paper, will save the housekeeper much annoyance and
inconvenience by protecting the conserve from mould. Should the fungus
form inside the upper cover, the inner will effectually shield the
precious sweet. I have seen the space left by the shrinking of the
cooled jelly between it and the metallic, or paper cover of the glass,
or jar, completely filled with blue-gray mould—a miniature forest that
might appear well under the microscope, but was hideous to housewifely
eyes. Yet, when the tissue-paper was carefully removed, the jelly was
seen to be bright, firm, and unharmed in flavor as in appearance.
PEAR AND QUINCE MARMALADE. +
2 dozen juicy pears.
10 fine, ripe quinces.
Juice of 3 lemons.
¾ pound of sugar to every pound of fruit after it is ready for cooking.
A little cold water.
Pare and core the fruit, and throw it into cold water while you stew
parings and cores in a little water to make the syrup. When they have
boiled to pieces strain off the liquid; when cold, put in the sliced
fruit and bring to a fast boil. It should be thick and smooth before
the sugar and lemon-juice go in. Cook steadily an hour longer, working
with a wooden spoon to a rich jelly. When done, put into small jars
while warm, but do not cover until cold.
ORANGE MARMALADE. +
18 sweet, ripe oranges.
6 pounds best white sugar.
Grate the peel from four oranges, and reserve it for the marmalade.
The rinds of the rest will not be needed. Pare the fruit carefully,
removing the inner white skin as well as the yellow. Slice the orange;
remove the seeds; put the fruit and grated peel in a porcelain or
enamel saucepan (if the latter, those made by Lalange and Grosjean are
the best), and boil steadily until the pulp is reduced to a smooth
mass. Take from the fire and rub quickly through a clean, bright
cullender, as the color is easily injured. Stir in the sugar, return
to the fire, and boil fast, stirring constantly half an hour, or until
thick. Put while warm into small jars, but do not cover until cold.
This is a handsome and delicious sweetmeat.
DUNDEE ORANGE MARMALADE.
12 fine, ripe oranges.
4 pounds white sugar—the best.
3 lemons—all the juice, and the rind of one lemon.
Cut the peel of four oranges into small dice, and the rind of one
lemon. Stew them in clear water until tender. Slice and seed the
oranges; put them into a preserving-kettle with the juice of the lemons
and cook until all are boiled down to a smooth pulp. Rub this through
a cullender; return to the saucepan with the sugar, and keep at a
fast boil until quite thick. Stir in the “dice” from which the water
has been drained; boil two minutes longer and pour into small jars.
Cover with brandied tissue-paper when quite cold, pressed close to the
surface of the marmalade, then, with metal or stout paper tops.
All marmalade should be stirred constantly after the sugar goes in.
Use loaf, or granulated sugar for making marmalade—not powdered. The
