no! 
All night she tossed about restlessly. It was very 
warm, and she missed her spacious room with its cool, 
fragrant breezes. More than all, the loving heart that 
had pillowed her, the fond lips that had kissed her be- 
tween snatches of sleep. Oh, what if the place could 
never be hers again ! 
"My child, you have worried yourself sadly," Mrs. 
Dawson said, looking at the haggard face. 
"Oh, Catherine, I do not know which way to turn ! 
Does it not seem to you that Mr. Tremaine might come ? 
Does he care whether I live or die ? " 
' ' Yes he might come ! " Catherine exclaimed bluntly. 
"It is cruel for him to stop away at such a time. 
Even if he believed that villain's story — " 
"The story is true, you know. He can hardly help 
believing that. And when he thinks that I am not his 
^nfe — perhaps never can be again — oh, it is horrible, 
is it not? The best thing would be for me to die, and 
yet I do not feel like dying, only dragging through a 
hopeless, miserable life. I do not know — maybe my 
notions are not very clear, but if he had commuted any 
crime, I should have clung to him ; at least, I should 
have been tender and wanted to comfort — " 
Her voice died away in a dreary sigh. 
" Suppose we were to write again — or even if I were 
to go to Woodlea? — " 
"No, Catherine, I could not be left alone. The 
letter might do. I think I will write by-and-by. I 
wish I had asked Jasper Cameron just what he told 
him. When he comes this morning I want to see him." 
"But the doctor— " 
" No matter. I might as well talk and injure my- 
self as to keep up an incessant worry ! Yes I must 
see him. Then I will decide what it is best to do." 
But Jasper Cameron did not come. He had more 
important matters on hand that morning. 
What if the whole thing was a hideous lie ! * If she 
could only think that she had been very ill and dreamed 
it! 
Jasper Cameron was much better prepared for the 
next interview. It was mid-afternoon when he made 
his appearance, in his usual easy, half insolent fashion. 
Dora's heart sank within her at once. 
" I hope you are improving?" he said with a great 
appearance of cordiality ; but the wan eyes and sunken 
face did not betoken much in the way of recovery. 
She gave him a sort of haughty glance, and did not 
reply immediately. He had formed plans for every 
conceivable emergency, which he could put into execu- 
tion with the rapidity of a thought, or pass by without 
the slightest feeling of disappointment, while her brain 
was in a weary tumult of fear and despair. Turn 
whichever way she would, she saw no hope. 
He gathered no encouragement from that stony face, 
but he followed out his role as exactly as if he expected 
it to be quite convincing. 
" Dora," he began almost plaintively, "I have been 
thinking this matter over continually since our last in- 
terview, and have discussed it with my frieiid, who is 
most anxious to try his powers of persuasion upon 
you. It all comes back to this fact — you are my legal 
wife. You cannot resume honorable relations with Mr. 
Tremaine at present ; Indeed, from what I have heard 
and seen, he is not the kind of man to risk any great 
scandal." 
"You told him!" Dora exclaimed fiercely. "You 
had no mercy, but struck that cruel blow to the soul of 
the best and tenderest of men ! " 
" I told him, certainly. Dora, could j'ou have gone 
on in your relations with him, knowing that I was still 
alive?" 
There was ah air of surprised and injured innocence 
about the man that nearly maddened Dora. She 
roused herself and sprang up from the pillow. 
" Oh," she said, her eyes flashing scornfulty, "you 
need not distress yourself about my morality ! As I 
told you, I entrusted the whole story to a friend for 
Mr. Tremaine, believing, as God is my witness, that 
you were dead. I should no more have married him 
with that between us, than I should have cut off my 
right hand. It is my misfortune and misery now that 
this, friend was not true to his trust. I have made but 
one fearful mistake, and that was not confessing imme- 
diately. I know what lies between us now, and you 
need not fear that I shall so forget my womanly honor 
as to take one step, either with you or him that any 
person might question. I shall not see you again 
except in the presence off a witness." 
There was a long silence. Dora realized how com 
pletely she was shut out from any claim upon Tre- 
maine. All this time she had been hoping — she knew 
not exactly what — but if Ralph would come, would 
forgive her unwitting deception, and look at the future 
with her, considering what was best to be done, her 
.burthen would seem so much lighter. She would be 
willing to abide by his decision. Even if they were 
parted forever by an inexorable fate, so long as she 
could think of him as a dear friend, sorrowing with 
herself, it would be such an heaventy comfort compared 
to this black despair. 
" You told him all? " Dora's voice was cold, though 
tremulous with anguish. 
" I told him the truth — explained to him that I had 
made attempts to send you word of my existence, and 
that — I loved you still." 
These last words were uttered with the very refine- 
ment of cruelty. 
"Jasper Cameron, you do not love me!" she re- 
plied with bitter emphasis. "You do not know the 
meaning of the word, you never did ! " 
He. bit his lip in a passion of anger, but it was not 
allowed to appear on his handsome face. Rising, he 
came to the bedside, and clasped his hands with a 
pathetic air. 
"Dora/* and his tone waa low, held in a powerful 
check. " Try me. I ask it humbly, sincerelj\ Give 
me a chance to vindicate myself, to be true and tender. 
My whole life shall be devoted to you. I will make 
amends for all that may have seemed neglectful in the 
