inmost self. Then, pale as the face before him, he 
approached the bed, and laid his trembling hand 
upon the heart. It was still beating. The boy slept. 
Calling the old half-breed to keep watch, John Jay 
rushed out into the night, climbed down the ladder, 
and rowed the boat swiftly across the bay toward 
the village. As the sun rose above the eastern woods 
he reached the beach cottage, and found the girl out- 
side. Without a word he took her hand and led her 
to the boat. She followed mutely, and in silence 
they took the journey together, nor paused until they 
stood in the presence of the sleeping boy. Then the 
man spoke. "He will die unless you love him, 
Martha." 
" I cannot," answered the girl, bowing her face upon 
her hands. 
 
" Then, at least let him love you ; that will suffice 
him, poor fellow ! " 
She did not speak. 
"Martha," said the gentleman, bending over her 
and drawing away her hands, "what I tell you is 
absolutely true. I have done my best, as far as skill 
and care can go ; but the boy no, he is a man 
now cannot live without you. Look at him. Will 
you let him die?" 
He drew her forward. Hand in hand they stood 
together and gazed upon the poor pinched face before 
them ; from long habit a tear even in sleep crept 
from under the closed lids. 
"We cannot do this thing, Martha," said the man 
in a low deep voice. He turned away a moment and 
left her there alone; then coming back to the bed- 
side, he lifted the sleeper, laid him in her arms, his 
head resting on her shoulder, and without a word 
went away into the wide world again, leaving Misery 
Landing behind him forever. 
Two weeks later he presented himself at the door 
of Francesca's opera-box in the Academy. Francesca 
was still beautiful, and still Francesca : no " Madame " 
graced her card. 
" Good evening, Mr. Jay," she said, smiling the same 
old beautiful smile. " You have been away just a year 
in the wilderness. I hope you have enjoyed yourself ? " 
" Immensely," answered John. 
 
EPILOGUE. 
Place, Fifth Avenue mansion. Scene, Dinner. Time, 7 P. M. 
MRS. JAY. " By the way, John, you have never told 
me about that Lake Superior hermitage of yours, 
Misery Landing, wasn't it ? I suppose you behaved 
very badly there." 
JOHN JAY. " Of course. I always do, you know. 
Hand me a peach, please. That claret-colored velvet 
becomes you admirably, Francesca." 
MRS. JAY. " Do you think so ? I am so glad. I 
made a real study of this trimming. But about Misery 
Landing, John ; you never told me " 
JOHN JAY. " And never shall, madame." 
SOLOMON. 
MIDWAY in the eastern part of Ohio lies the 
coal country; round-topped hills there begin 
to show themselves in the level plain, trending back 
from Lake Erie; afterwards rising higher and higher, 
they stretch away into Pennsylvania and are dignified 
by the name of AUeghany Mountains. But no names 
have they in their Ohio birthplace, and little do the 
people care for them, save as storehouses for fueL The 
roads lie along the slow-moving streams, and the farm- 
ers ride slowly over them in their broad-wheeled wag- 
ons, now and then passing dark holes in the bank from 
whence come little carts into the sunshine, and men, 
like silhouettes, walking behind them, with glow-worm 
lamps fastened in their hat-bands. Neither farmers 
nor miners glance up towards the hilltops ; no doubt 
they consider them useless mounds, and, were it not 
for the coal, they would envy their neighbors of the 
grain-country, whose broad, level fields stretch un- 
broken through Central Ohio ; as, however, the canal- 
boats go away full, and long lines of coal-cars go away 
full, and every man's coal-shed is full, and money 
conies back from the great iron-mills of Pittsburgh, 
Cincinnati, and Cleveland, the coal country, though 
unknown in a picturesque point of view, continues to 
grow rich and prosperous. 
Yet picturesque it is, and no part more so than the 
valley where stands the village of the quaint German 
Community on the banks of the slow-moving Tusca- 
rawas River. One October day we left the lake behind 
us and journeyed inland, following the water-courses 
and looking forward for the first glimpse of rising 
ground ; blue are the waters of Erie on a summer day, 
red and golden are its autumn sunsets, but so level, so 
deadly level are its shores that, at times, there comes 
a longing for the sight of distant hills. Hence our 
journey. Night found us still in the ""Western Re- 
serve." Ohio has some queer names of her own for 
portions of her territory, the " Fire Lands," the " Do- 
nation Grant," the "Salt Section," the "Refugee's 
Tract," and the "Western Reserve" are names well 
known, although not found on the maps. Two days 
more and we came into the coal country ; near by were 
the " Moravian Lands," and at the end of the last day's 
ride we crossed a yellow bridge over a stream called 
the "One-Leg Creek." 
" I have tried in vain to discover the origin of this 
name," I said, as we leaned out of the carriage to watch 
the red leaves float down the slow tide. 
 
" Create one, then. A one-legged soldier, a farmer's 
pretty daughter, an elopement in a flat-bottomed boat, 
and a home upon this stream which yields its stores of 
catfish for their support," suggested Erminia. 
" The original legend would be better than that if we 
could only find it, for real life is always better than 
fiction," I answered. 
" In real life we are all masked ; but in fiction the 
author shows the faces as they are, Dora." 
"I do not believe we are all masked, Erminia. I 
can read my friends like a printed page." 
