much better for him ! " 

" Let me see : why, this is the last of July ! Adelaide 
has not said a word as yet ; " and Dr. Kinnard looked at 
his wife in the utmost surprise. " I have spoken to Bailey, 
too gave him that plan of yours ; and he is to drop in 
some day to take dinner with us, and then view the 
premises. But I do hope Adelaide goes away." 

" You will speak of it, though? " 

' ' No. Why should I ? She will advance twenty good 
reasons why it should not be done ; and I shall have to 
combat each one singly, and the whole in a lump. I hate 
women's arguments ; " and a little frown settled between 
the doctor's eyes. 

" I am afraid she would think it And, if the furni 
ture was injured " 

' ' I wish every one of those things was out of the 
house!" cried the doctor testily. "Nelly, I am thank 
ful that you haven't any money, and can't buy so much as 
a salt-cup. I have heard about them all my life, and 
am likely to hear until I fall into my dotage unless I 
make a bonfire of them." 

" But that would be a matter of courtesy, speaking, 
I mean. Miss Grove is very choice of the parlor, and 
feels that she has a prior claim. She might suppose it 
my idea ; ' ' and Nelly paused in a flush of embarrass 
ment. 

"As if it wasn't!" said the doctor banteringly. 





" But you know, Nelly, how I hate fuss and long argu 
ments." 

He was evidently bent upon having his own way, and 
she said no more. If she had found a weak side to her 
husband, this was it. It was no real lack of moral cour 
age, but the putting-off of an evil day, a species of 
procrastination that peace-loving people indulge in fre 
quently. 

The first of August came in. Vacation began for the 
children, though it could hardly be called that. Aunt 
Adelaide was strict about the music practices, and ques 
tioned Bertie every night concerning the summer's les 
sons. During the past fortnight, he and Nelh r had made 
some very faint advances ; but Aunt Adelaide's eyes were 
sharp. Then the pony and a new phaeton came home, 
and he was promised a ride. 

And then happened a most unlucky contretemps. Mr. 
Bailey " dropped in," according to promise. Dr. Kinnard 
was expected home, but did not come ; and they sat down 
to dinner promptl}". If Nelly could have summoned 
sufficient courage to beg of him not to mention the altera 
tion ; but it seemed small and underhand. So she exerted 
herself, and was so entertaining, that she led the worthy 
man completely away from business until there was a 
lull during the dessert. 

"I am sorry the doctor stays so," he began suddenly. 
" You think he will be home presently, Mrs. Kinnard? I 
wanted to discuss his new project with him, and get to 
work next week. I liked that plan of yours ever so 
much ; for it strikes me those rooms are gloomy ; ' ' and 
he turned his head to take a survey. " But why not 
have a small room there at the back for flowers, instead 
of a bay-window merely? " 

Miss Grove fixed her eyes upon Nelly with a sort 
of astonished deliberation that called the color to the 
fair young face. 



 

"I don't know," she stammered rather hesitatingly. 
"As the doctor fancies." 

" Of course, of course ! we bow to his decision ; " and 
Mr. Bailey gave a cheerful smile. " I wonder that he 
never had folding-doors cut through there before. It 
looks so much more sociable, and is convenient in many 
cases ; such as a large company, for instance. Realty, 
Mrs. Kinnard, your coming will work a great change in 
the doctor. He was making quite a hermit of himself. 
Doesn't the good book say it is not good for man to be 
alone?" 

" Though it can hardly be said that Dr. Kinnard was 
alone," was Miss Grove's pointed rebuke. 

"Well, no not exactly;" and Mr. Bailey gave a 
rather uncomfortable laugh. "But then, you see, Miss 
Grove, no one is quite like a wife to a man." 

"Herbert!" cried Miss Grove sharply, "you are 
eating with jour spoon. Take your fork, sir ! " and she 
straightened up her tall figure with a severe air. 

Mr. Bailey pushed back his chair. "Yes," he con 
tinued, "I am right sorry the doctor is not here; but 
I suppose you can tell me the particulars all the same. 
A good wife and a good husband generally agree ; " with 
an effort at geniality. " If you wouldn't mind taking a 
survey of the rooms with me, and making any sugges 
tions. I shall be likely to come across the doctor in the 
village afterwards." 

Nelly rose, and marshalled him through. If it only 
had not happened in this manner ! 
