 answered Charlie, posing for the character with an assumption of languid
elegance which would have been very effective if his twinkling eyes had
not spoilt it.
“There are none but gentlemen in our family, I hope,” answered Rose,
with the proud air she always wore when anything was said derogatory to
the name of Campbell.
“Of course, of course. I should have said gentleman of leisure. You see
it is against my principles to slave as Archie does. What’s the use?
Don’t need the money, got plenty, so why not enjoy it and keep jolly
as long as possible? I’m sure cheerful people are public benefactors in
this world of woe.”
It was not easy to object to this proposition, especially when made by
a comely young man who looked the picture of health and happiness as he
sat on the arm of the sofa smiling at his cousin in the most engaging
manner. Rose knew very well that the Epicurean philosophy was not the
true one to begin life upon, but it was difficult to reason with Charlie
because he always dodged sober subjects and was so full of cheery
spirits, one hated to lessen the sort of sunshine which certainly is a
public benefactor.
“You have such a clever way of putting things that I don’t know how to
contradict you, though I still think I’m right,” she said gravely. “Mac
likes to idle as well as you, but he is not going to do it because he
knows it’s bad for him to fritter away his time. He is going to study
a profession like a wise boy, though he would much prefer to live among
his beloved books or ride his hobbies in peace.”
“That’s all very well for him, because he doesn’t care for society and
may as well be studying medicine as philandering about the woods
with his pockets full of musty philosophers and old-fashioned poets,”
 answered Charlie with a shrug which plainly expressed his opinion of
Mac.
“I wonder if musty philosophers, like Socrates and Aristotle, and
old-fashioned poets, like Shakespeare and Milton, are not safer company
for him to keep than some of the more modern friends you have?” said
Rose, remembering Jamie’s hints about wild oats, for she could be a
little sharp sometimes and had not lectured “the boys” for so long it
seemed unusually pleasant.
But Charlie changed the subject skillfully by exclaiming with an anxious
expression: “I do believe you are going to be like Aunt Jane, for that’s
just the way she comes down on me whenever she gets the chance!
Don’t take her for a model, I beg she is a good woman but a mighty
disagreeable one in my humble opinion.”
The fear of being disagreeable is a great bugbear to a girl, as this
artful young man well knew, and Rose fell into the trap at once, for
Aunt Jane was far from being her model, though she could not help
respecting her worth.
“Have you given up your painting?” she asked rather abruptly, turning to
a gilded Fra Angelico angel which leaned in the sofa corner.
“Sweetest face I ever saw, and very like you about the eyes, isn’t
it?” said Charlie, who seemed to have a Yankee trick of replying to one
question with another.
“I want an answer, not a compliment,” and Rose tried to look severe as
she put away the picture more quickly than she had taken it up.
“Have I given up painting? Oh, no! I daub a little in oils, slop a
little in watercolors, sketch now and then, and poke about the studios
when the artistic fit comes on.”
“How is the music?”
“More flourishing. I don’t practice much, but sing a good deal in
company. Set up a guitar last summer and went troubadouring round in
great style. The girls like it, and it’s jolly among the fellows.”
“Are you studying anything?”
“Well, I have some lawbooks on my table good, big, wise-looking chaps
and I take a turn at them semioccasionally when pleasure palls or
parents chide. But I doubt if I do more than learn what ‘a allybi’ is
this year,” and a sly laugh in Charlie’s eye suggested that he sometimes
availed himself of this bit of legal knowledge.
“What do you do then?”
“Fair catechist, I enjoy myself. Private theatricals have been the rage
of late, and I have won such laurels that I seriously think of adopting
the stage as my profession.”
“Really!” cried Rose, alarmed.
“Why not? If I must go to work, isn’t that as good as anything?”
“Not without more talent than I think you possess. With genius one can
do anything without it one had better let the stage alone.”
“There’s a quencher for the ‘star of the goodlie companie’ to which I
belong. Mac hasn’t a ray of genius for anything, yet you admire him for
trying to be an M.D.,” cried Charlie, rather nettled at her words.
“It is respectable, at all events, and I’d rather be a second-rate
doctor than a second-rate actor. But I know you don’t mean it, and only
say so to frighten me.”
“Exactly. I always bring it up when anyone begins to lecture and it
works wonders. Uncle Mac turns pale, the aunts hold up their hands in
holy horror, and a general panic ensues. Then I magnanimously promise
not to disgrace the family and in the first burst of gratitude the dear
souls agree to everything I ask, so peace is restored and I go on my way
rejoicing.”
“Just the way you used to threaten to run off to sea if your mother
objected to any of your whims. You are not changed in that respect,
though you are in others. You had great plans and projects once,
Charlie, and now you seem to be contented with being a ‘jack of all
trades and master of none’”.
“Boyish nonsense! Time has brought wisdom, and I don’t see the sense of
tying myself down to one particular thing and grinding away at it year
after year. People of one idea get so deucedly narrow and tame, I’ve
no patience with them. Culture is the thing, and the sort one gets by
ranging over a wide field is the easiest to acquire, the handiest to
have, and the most successful in the end. At any rate, it is the kind I
like and the only kind I intend to bother myself about.”
With this declaration, Charlie smoothed his brow, clasped his hands over
his head, and, leaning back, gently warbled the chorus of a college song
as if it expressed his views of life better than he could:
    “While our rosy fillets shed
    Blushes o’er each fervid head,
    With many a cup and many a smile
    The festal moments we beguile.”
“Some of my saints here were people of one idea, and though they were
not very successful from a worldly point of view while alive, they were
loved and canonized when dead,” said Rose, who had been turning over a
pile of photographs on the table and just then found her favorite, St.
Francis, among them.
“This is more to my taste. Those worn-out, cadaverous fellows give me
the blues, but here’s a gentlemanly saint who takes things easy and does
good as he goes along without howling over his own sins or making other
people miserable by telling them of theirs.” And Charlie laid a handsome
St. Martin beside the brown-frocked monk.
Rose looked at both and understood why her cousin preferred the
soldierly figure with the sword to the ascetic with his crucifix. One
was riding bravely through the world in purple and fine linen, with
horse and hound and squires at his back; and the other was in a
lazar-house, praying over the dead and dying. The contrast was a strong
one, and the girl’s eyes lingered longest on the knight, though she said
