mile Mr. said : 

" Mark, are you sick ? I never saw a man look 
so haggard and worn and absent-minded. Say 
something ; do ! " 

Drearily, without enthusiasm, I said : " Punch, 
brother, punch with care ! Punch in the presence 
of the passenjare ! " 

My friend eyed me blandly, looked perplexed, 
then said — 

" I do not think I get your drift, Mark. There 
does not seem to be any relevancy in what you 
have said, certainly nothing sad ; and yet — maybe 
it was the way you said the words — I never heard 
anything that sounded so pathetic. What is — " 

But I heard no more. I was already far away 
with my pitiless, heart-breaking " blue trip slip for 
an eight-cent fare, buff trip slip for a six-cent fare, 
pink trip slip for a three-cent fare ; punch in the 
presence of the passenjare." I do not know what 
occurred during the other nine miles. However, 

all of a sudden Mr. laid his hand on my 

shoulder and shouted — 

" Oh, wake up ! wake up ! wake up ! Don't 
sleep all day ! Here we are at the Tower, man ! I 
have talked myself deaf and dumb and blind, and 
never got a response. Just look at this magnificent 
autumn landscape ! Look at it ! look at it ! Feast 
your eyes on it ! You have travelled ; you have 
seen boasted landscapes elsewhere. Come now, 
deliver an honest opinion. What do you say to 
this ? " 

I sighed wearily, and murmured — 

" A buff trip slip for a six-cent fare, a pink trip 
slip for a three-cent fare ; punch in the presence of 
the passenger." 

Rev. Mr. stood there, very grave, full of 

concern, apparently, and looked long at me ; then 
he said : 

" Mark, there is something about this that I can- 
not understand. Those are about the same words 
you said before ; there does not seem to be anything 
in them, and yet they nearly break my heart when 
you say them. Punch in me — how is it they go ? '' 

I began at the beginning, and repeated all the 
lines. My friend's face lighted with interest. He 
said : 

" Why, what a captivating jingle it is ! It is 
almost music. It flows along so nicely. I have 
nearly caught the rhymes myself Say them over 
just once more, and then I 'll have them sure." 

I said them over. Then Mr. said them. He 
made one little mistake, which I corrected. The 
next time and the next he got them right. Now a 
great burden seemed to tumble from my shoulders. 
That torturing jingle depaj'ted out of my brain, and 
a grateful sense of rest and peace descended upon 
me. I was light-hearted enough to sing ; and I did 
sing for half an hour straight along as we went 
jogging homewards. Then my free tongue found 

blessed speech again, and the pent talk of many a 
weary hour began to gush and flow. It flowed on 
and on, joyously, jubilantly, until the fountain was 
empty and dry. As I wrung my friend's hand at 
parting, I said : 

" Haven't we had a royal good time ? But now 
I remember you haven't said a word for two hours. 
Come, come, out with something." 

The Rev. Mr. turned a lacklustre eye upon 

me, drew a deep sigh, and said, without animation, 
without apparent consciousness : 

" Punch, brother ! punch with care ! 
Punch in the presence of the passeniare !" 

A pang shot through me as I said to myself, 
" Poor fellow ! poor fellow ! he has got it now." 

I did not see Mr. for two or three days aftei 

that. Then, on Tuesday evening, he staggered into 
my presence and sank dejectedly into a seat. He 
was pale, worn ; he was a wreck. He lifted his 
faded eyes to my face and said, — 

" Ah, Mark, it was a ruinous investment that I 
made in those heartless rhymes. They have ridden 
me like a nightmare, day and night, hour after hour, 
to this very moment. Since I saw you I have suf- 
fered the torments of the lost. Saturday evening 
I had a sudden call, by telegraph, and took the 
night train for Boston. The occasion was the death 
of a valued old friend who had requested that I 
should preach his funeral sermon. I took my seat 
in the cars and set myself to framing the discourse. 

But I never got beyond the opening paragraph ; for 
then the train started and the car- wheels began their 
clack-clack-clack-clack ! clack-clack-clack-clack !
and right away those odious rhymes fitted them- 
selves to that accompaniment. For an hour I sat 
