'I don't see what he can do to me at present.'
'Self-confidence is not one of your undeveloped graces. But I wish 
you had bought that gore at the top of the Hollow, as I bade you.'
'Powder did not care about selling it, at one time; and latterly I 
have had my hands too full. Why do you wish that just now, 
Arthur?'
'Because Powder has sold it now. And if I remember, your lease of 
the water power has not long to run.' Wych Hazel was listening, 
intently, with a sparkle in her eyes at last.
'I have no lease of water power. What I own I own. But anybody 
above me on the stream could make me trouble. To whom has 
Powder sold?'
'Just what I cannot find out,' said the doctor, 'though I went to 
himself. 'It is no matter,' he said, 'so long as the property was not in 
the market.' But of course it is Charteris. Josephine's marriage 
makes that pretty sure.'
Rollo laid down his knife and fork for a moment and sat with his 
head leaning upon his hand.
'As the Lord will!' he said. 'But I will not give up until I know 
more. I do not believe my poor people and I are to be in that man's 
power. I will wait and see.'
But the interest of the dinner was gone for one member of the 
party; and the attention he gave to other people or things was a 
preoccupied and shadowed attention.
Wych Hazel stood it a little while, watching him, much wishing 
that there was nobody else to hear: then she could not bear it any 
longer. After all, Dr. Arthur was just his brother.
'Mr. Rollo,' she said timidly, 'what means do you think the Lord 
can use to prevent thisthat you fear?'
It was worth something, to get the look he flashed across the table 
to her; it was so brilliant with meaning and so sweet with 
confidence.
'A thousand things!' he said heartily; 'and you remind me that I am 
a fool to allow myself to be disturbed about it. I was thinking of 
those hundreds of families. And I half forgot for a moment that the 
Lord thinks of them too. I believe he will take care.'
'Would you like to know how?' said Wych Hazel. The tone was 
indescribably sweet, but the eyes had gone down before his.
'Would I like it?' said Dane watching her. 'Yes! I am afraid I am 
foolish enough still to like to know that, if I could. But I believe it 
anyhow, Hazel.'
'Governor Powder sold the land to me.'
'To you!' said Dane in great amazement. 'What did you buy it for?'
'I thought it was well it should be bought,' said Hazel demurely.
'When did you do that?'
'A good while ago. Before the sickness in the Hollow.'
She got another look, if she could see it, which it was also worth 
while to get. After which Dane remarked sedately,
'I am curious to know how Mr. Falkirk liked that investment.'
'Mr. Falkirk never knew. It is a great comfort sometimes,' she went 
on, the loveliest roses waking up now all over her face, 'to have a 
little independent power. And to be able to act without one's 
guardians. Mr. Falkirk was not consulted,any more than Mr. 
Rollo.'
Rollo's lips twitched and curved, but on the whole he maintained a 
decorous composure.
'We don't know our privileges, Arthur,' he remarked.
'No,' said his friend concisely. 'How ever in the world came 
Governor Powder to let the lady have the land? Why he has 
refused half the county!'
'I do not know,' said Wych Hazel. 'I think I made him.'
Listening to her, looking at her, Dr. Arthur thought that extremely 
likely.
'And did he tell you Charteris wanted it?' he said.
'O yes,and that, perhaps, Mr. Rollo might.'
'But he did not know that he was playing into my hands, in letting 
you have it?' Rollo enquired.
'Of course not! I merely told him I wanted it more than Mr. Rollo, 
and would give more than Mr. Charteris.'
'Witchcraft!when all's done,' said Dr. Arthur. 'Dane, when your 
independent power is in the market, let me know.'He followed 
them into the red room, and took a cup of coffee there, standing; 
but then went off at once to see some patient, promising to call for 
Rollo on his way home.
And for once Wych Hazel would have been quite willing to have 
him stay. 'What would her "other guardian" say to her, for such 
meddling in his affairs? such tampering with masculine business?' 
She retreated behind her salver, and sat there sugaring Mr. Rollo's 
empty cup, but not counting the lumps this time. Rollo however 
hardly justified her fears. He did come and sit own beside her, and 
he did relieve her hand of the sugar tongs and kiss it, and from 
there the kiss did come to her lips; but it was all done so gently and 
gracefully and deferentially, as if he had been a knight and she a 
lady of olden time.
'How am I going to thank you, Wych?' he said.
'There is never a good way of doing needless things.'
'No. But hardly anything at this moment could have given me 
equal satisfaction. The way is cleared for me to work without 
hindrance. I'll plant the banks with wych hazel!'
'You will have a grand clearing away again, if you do. Then you 
really are glad, Mr. Rollo?'
'You do not mean to say that you will pull up what I plant?'
'I said you would. See,' she said, not ready for repartee or 
discussion or much of anything else to-night, 'you have cut short 
your allowance of sugar, and quite prevented the cream. Give me 
the sugar tongs, please.'
Divining that it was in some sort a help to her, he quietly let her 
have her way; and did not tell her how fully creamed and sugared 
he tasted his cup to be that night.
'I have learnt a lesson,' he drily said after he had watched her. 
'Whenever I want to give you anything, I shall know henceforth 
that you would like nothing so well as power.'
She smiled a little bit, looking down at her folded hands, but she 
did not say a word. And Dane drank his coffee, for form's sake, 
without knowing whether there was either sugar or cream in it. 
And then he took Wych Hazel away from the table, and talked of 
things as far as possible from weddings and journeyings; till 
Arthur came again.
Dr. Arthur did not come in. But when his friend, in obedience to 
the summons, had reached the door of the red room, his progress 
was stayed. 
'Mr. Rollo,'came falteringly from the grave figure he had left 
standing by the fire,'could you stop one minute?'
It is needless to say that Rollo's steps paused and came back 
instantly.
'Nobody to speak but me, nobody to consult but him!' the girl 
thought as he approached her. It was rather hard, just now. But 
things had to be done.
'I will not detain you,' she said, hesitating over her words,'not 
long,but you did not tell mewill you tell mehow much time 
