
"No, but that is not all. Meredith is persuaded that he must make the
place a home for old women, and a refuge for sick people, and fill it
with loafers generally. Mamma and I will have to run away and be without
any home at all; and don't you think he owes something to us?"

"I have not decided upon anything, Mr. Murray," said Meredith smiling,
though he was very earnest. "I just wish I knew what I had best do."

"Pray for direction, and then watch for the answer."

"How would the answer come, Mr. Murray?" asked Flora.

"He will know when he gets it. Come, Meredith--read."

"About the man with the catechism?" said Maggie.

"If you like. It will be a change from the Saxon times," said Meredith.
And he wheeled about a little and reclined upon the rock, so as to turn
his face towards his hearers. "But what a delicious place to read and
talk, Mr. Murray!"

"Nothing can be better."

"This story begins with Pastor Harms's account of part of one of the
Mission festivals that used to be held at Hermannsburg every year."

"Will that be interesting?" said Flora.

"Listen and see. I pass over the account of the first day."




CHAPTER XIV.


"'The first day's celebration of our Mission festival was at an end. It
was then not early, but still on until late in the night the sounds of
the songs of praise and thankfulness were to be heard in the houses,
from the parsonage out to the furthest outlying houses of the peasants,
and so it was also in the surrounding villages; for the parish village
could by no means accommodate all the guests who had come to the
festival, albeit not only the chambers and dwelling-rooms, but also the
haylofts were made lodging-places for the sleepers. And that was a
blessed evening, when so many brethren and sisters from far and near
could refresh themselves with one another's company and pour out their
hearts together. I thank God that so many pastors and teachers were
come, too, and also our faithful superintendent was not wanting. It is
right that the heads of the Church should not be missing at such a
festival.

"'The next day--and we had prayed the Lord to give us good weather for
it--we were to go to a place in the midst of the lonely heath, called
Tiefenthal."'

"What does that mean?" Maggie interrupted.

"Tief means deep. Thal means valley."

"'Deep valley,'" said Maggie. "But I do not understand what a heath
is."

"Naturally. We do not have them in this country, that ever I heard of,"
said Meredith.

"Neither here nor in England," said Mr. Murray. "For miles and miles the
Lüneburger heath is an ocean of purple bloom; that is, in the time when
the heather is in blossom. But there are woods also in places, and in
other places lovely valleys break the spread of the purple heather,
where grass and trees and running water make lovely pictures. Sometimes
one comes to a hill covered with trees; and here and there you find
solitary houses and bits of farms, but scattered apart from each other,
so that great tracts of the heath are perfectly lonely and still. You
see nothing and hear nothing living, except perhaps some lapwings in the
air, and a lizard now and then, and humming beetles, and maybe here and
there some frogs where there happens to be a wet place, and perhaps a
landrail; elsewhere a general, soft, confused humming and buzzing of
creatures that you cannot see, and the purple waves of heather, only
interrupted here and there by a group of firs or a growth of bushes
along the edge of a ditch."

"O Uncle Eden!" cried Maggie, "have you been there? And do you know the
village, too?"

"The village? Pastor Harms's village--do you mean, Hermannsburg? Yes.
It is like many others. Two long lines of cottages, the little river
Oerze cutting it in two, beautiful old trees shading it,--that is the
village. The cottages are not near each other; gardens and fields lie
between; and at the gable of every house is a wooden horse or horse's
head; from the old Saxon times, you know. No dirt and no squalor and no
beggars nor misery to be seen in Hermannsburg. That, I suppose, is much
owing to Pastor Harms's influence."

"Thank you, Uncle Eden," said Maggie with a sigh of intense interest.
"Now you can go on, Ditto. They were going out into the heath. All the
people?"

"I suppose so. 'To a place in the midst of the heath solitudes called
Tiefenthal. Why? I had not told them that; I wanted to tell it to them
first of all on the spot. I had another reason besides, though; I wanted
to have the sun beat a little in African fashion on the heads of the
guests at our festival, so that our brethren in Africa might not be the
only ones hot. So at nine o'clock the next morning the great crowd of
those who were to make the pilgrimage with us from Hermannsburg, were
assembled at the Mission-house under the banner of the cross, which
fluttered joyously from the high flagstaff. It was hard for me not to be
able to walk with the rest, but I was only just recovered from a severe
illness. A pilgrimage is the pleasantest going on earth to me. One can
sing by the way so joyfully with the hosts that are moving along; one
can talk so cordially and so familiarly about the kingdom of God in the
crowd of the brethren; and now and then one gets a chance by a shallow
ditch to tumble one of one's fellow pilgrims over, especially one of the
children. I had to do without all that and get into a waggon. When I
came to the Mission-house, the procession set itself in motion towards
the high grounds of the heath. With sounding of trumpets and amid songs
of praise the crowds travelled on, for nearly two hours long, all the
while mounting higher and higher, and truly, for God had heard our
prayer, under a burning sunshine. Many a one had to sweat for it
soundly; even I in the waggon. It was a picturesque procession; a whole
