consisting of fourteen men, two of whom were 
slaughtered upon each of the stone-houses in the 
manner already described; that then cases of law 
were decided according to the ancient usage ; then 
the state of things between the Saxons and the 
Franks was considered; and at this opportunity 
Landolf, who as guest of the Billing had been present at all the discussions, begged to be permitted to 
speak, and asked for leave to preach Christianity 
in the country. Scarcely had he preferred his request, when threatening and distrustful looks were 
directed upon him from almost all present, and 
many a hand grasped to the war-axe; for at the 
word Christianity, men's thoughts at once flew to 
the Franks, those hitherto enemies of the Saxons, 
by whom after three and thirty years of fighting 
they had at last been subdued. The Billing immediately observed the excitement, and before any 
of it could get open expression he himself was upon 
his feet. He related that Landolf was no Frank, 
but an Eastphalian, and so of their own people and 
race ; that when a boy he had been taken prisoner 
by the Franks in the war and carried to the Franks' 



 

country, where he had been converted to Christianity and had been a pupil of the good Liudgar, 
who himself was a Saxon and known by report to 
all Saxons. That afterwards he had lived with this 
Liudgar in the country of their brethren the Westphalians ; and half a year before this time had come 
to him quite alone and become his guest. And as 
his guest he would protect the man, since he had 
done nothing contrary to the customs and usages 
of the Saxon people. In his own home he had permitted him to preach Christianity; and now here, 
in the assembly of the people, according to ancient 
law and usage, Landolf desired to ask whether he 
might be allowed to proclaim openly in the country the Gospel of the God of the Christians. This 
must now be regularly debated in the assembly of 
the people ; and he gave permission to Landolf that 
free and unmolested he might say out his wishes 
and tell exactly what the Christian belief was. 
Then every one might give his opinion. 

" ' Now Landolf rose up. His tall figure, his no 
ble presence, and the fearless, frank, spirited glance 
of his eye round the circle, made a deep impres 
sion; and in noiseless silence the assembly listened to his speech, the first preaching that ever 
was held in our country. This short, simple discourse has so grown into my heart and I like it 
so much, that I shall give it here.' Flora, are you 
listening?" 

"Of course." 

"I didn't know but you were too busy counting 



 

your stitches. I want you to hear this speech of 
Landolf ' s. It is very fine. 

" * " In the name of God, the Father, the Son, and 
the Holy Ghost, the only true God. Amen. Men 
and brethren hear my words. One hundred years 
ago " (A. D. 960, according to the chronicle), " came 
two pious Christian priests to you, to make known 
to your fathers the Gospel of Christ, the true God ; 
they were the dark and the fair Ewald. They were 
your own relations, they came from England ; they 
were your friends, they had left England and come 
over the sea for the love of you; they were your 
guests, they had been sheltered in your houses. 
They wanted to let you know that God has be 
come your Brother, that he might deliver you from 
your sins. You would not let them preach in your 
land ; you were free not to do that ; but you murdered them; here on these stones you slew them 
in honour of Woden; your brothers, your friends, 
your guests, you murdered, who had done you no 
evil. Since that time, the true God, the God of the 
Christians, has been angry with you. You number as many as the Franks do; you are just as 
brave as they. Yet Charlemagne, the Frank, has 
conquered and subdued you. How is that ? God 
fought with Charlemagne ; He loved him ; he is a 
Christian. God fought against you, for you have 
killed his priests ; you are murderers. You can kill 
me too. Do it ; I am not afraid of death ; I am the 
servant of God; if you kill me, God will take me 
up to heaven. God's anger will not depart from 



 

you, unless you become Christians. Why will you 
not become Christians? Your gods are good for 
nothing ; they cannot help you ; they have not been 
able to stand -before the Christian's God. Where 
is your Irrriensul? Charlemagne has broken it to 
pieces." (Irmensul was an idol image that stood at 
Hildesheim). " Where is your Wodensaak? Charle 
magne has cut it down." (This Woden's oak stood 
at Verden on the Aller). "Where is your Helawohrt ? Charlemagne has destroyed it." (The sa 
cred place of the goddess Hela was on the Aller, in 
what is now the suburb Heelen at Celle). "Where 
are your brave leaders, Wittekind and Albion ? 
They have become Charlemagne's friends and vassals; they are Christians. Do you think it was 
Charlemagne that subdued them? No, a greater 
One, the God of the Christians has subdued them. 
Charlemagne indeed often overthrew them; but 
the Christian's God has conquered them. Do you 
know how that came about? I have heard in 
Munster, and I will tell you. 

'"After the last battle they lost you know 
about that, your young men bled there too before 
peace was concluded, the brave Wittekind said to 
his brother in arms, Albion, ' Come, let us go ! we 
will pay a visit to Charlemagne in his fortress, and 
take a look at his power; for he is the greatest in 
the land.' So the bold heroes set forth; hiding 
