" Not that her husband was killed at Gettys 
burg?" 
" Why, no ! Killed at Gettysburg !" 
"Yes; and what makes the case sadder, his 
body could not be found. She will never know 
the place of his burial !" 
" Have you seen her ?" asked Mrs. Ellsworth. 
"No; my acquaintance was too slight to war 
rant intrusion. But you were an intimate friend, 
I think." 
"We have been quite intimate. Poor Mrs. 
Garland ! How does she bear this terrible afflic 
tion ?" 
"I have not happened to meet with any one 
who has visited her." 
Mi s. Ellsworth, who had been sitting in a Ian- 
 
guid attitude, almost too spiritless to move, loft 
her chair, and began walking about the room. A 
new interest had been awakened in her mind. 
The grief of a friend had for the moment over 
shadowed her own. 
"You will go and see her?" suggested the 
visitor. 
Mrs. Ellsworth stood still. She had not been 
out of her house scarcely out of her chamber 
since her daughter 's death. 
" The words of a very near friend give comfort 
in sorrow. The heart is sustained by sympathy," 
" We are near and dear friends ; her affliction 
is heavier than mine; I will go to her," said Mrs. 
Ellsworth. 
Temperaments are different, and so are the 
principles on which character is based. No two 
minds bear sorrow alike. The heart of Mrs. 
Ellsworth failed her as she crossed the threshold 
of her friend 's dwelling. She had come to offer 
the comfort of her presence not to deal in fruit 
less words and now she felt that even her pre- 
 
sence could only add gloom to the darkness in 
which Mrs. Garland was enshrouded. A few 
moments of waiting, and then a servant invited 
her up stairs. The chamber in which she found 
her friend was not in twilight shadows, but cheer 
ful with tempered light. As she entered, she met 
a pale, suffering face, and eyes running over. 
The face hid itself on her bosom. Tears mingled 
with tears, and sobs answered to sobs. 
" It was so kind in you to come," said Mrs. 
Garland, as they sat down together. "I have 
thought of you so many times, and wished to see 
you." 
A baby sat on the floor a baby ten months 
old. His nurse had gone down stairs. He was 
half alarmed at the presence of a stranger, and 
put up his hands to be taken. His mother lifted 
him into her arms, and he nestled his head close 
down against her bosom, but with his eyes on 
Mrs. Ellsworth 's face. 
" Dear baby !" said Mrs. Ellsworth, the mois 
ture glistening in her eyes. 
 
"Margaret loved him so! I never look at 
him that I do not think of Margaret," returned 
Mrs. Garland. "And he was so fond of her 
dear girl that she was ! I dreamed of her last 
night. She was standing in this very room, with 
Eddy in her arms. How plainly I can se 
her!" 
" Oh, I would give all I have in the world for 
just such a dream ! to see her, even in my sleep. 
Oh, yes, she loved Eddy. Come, darling." And 
Mrs. Ellsworth, in whose heart was born at that 
instant a tender yearning towards the child, held 
out her hands. The baby felt the new-born love, 
and responded by leaping into Mrs. Ellsworth 's 
arms, and laying his head down sweetly on her 
bosom. 
"Just so he would spring into Margaret 's 
arms," said the mother. 
"She loved all little children. A baby was 
her delight." And something of that very de 
light transfused itself through the soul of Mrs. 
Ellsworth. Since her own little ones lay on her 
 
breast, she had never perceived such beauty in a 
baby. 
And Margaret had loved this very baby so ten 
derly ! had so often held him in her arms, and 
fell his head against her bosom as she felt it now ! 
A thrill of strange pleasure ran along her nerves. 
She had an intimation of Margaret 's presence 
such as had not been given since the veil of death 
dropped down between them. 
" She so tenderly loved little children while in 
this world," said Mrs. Garland, "that, I doubt 
not, God has placed her in the midst of them. 
Their pure spirits are going upwards daily and 
hourly. Angels are gathering them, like fra 
grant harvests, from thousands of earthly homes, 
and garnering them in heaven. I have often pic 
tured Margaret to my thought, surrounded by ba 
bies and little children, in ministering to whom 
she found a purer and more unfailing delight 
than she ever knew upon the earth." 
The countenance of Mrs. Ellsworth lightened. 
Her eyes glanced upwards ; the close compression 
her quivering lips gave way to something like 
a smile. 
" While my thought has dwelt too often with 
the body in the grave," she answered, "even 
when it followed her across the dividing river, it 
realized no actual condition of life saw her in no 
congenial associations realized nothing. Dear 
friend ! you have put stones beneath my sinking 
feet. It may not be just as you have imagined ; 
but, one thing is plain to me now the pure and 
innocent loves of her heart will not flow forth to 
be lost like water in sand." 
