that it was impossible. 
The rambling path through the woods brought the party 
out at last upon a wild barren hillside, where stones and a 
rank growth of blackberry bushes were all that was to be 
seen. Only far off might be had the glimpse of other hills 
and of patches of cultivation on them ; the near landscape 
was all barrenness and blackberries. 
' But where are the rest of the people ? ' said Mrs. 
Reverdy with her faint laugh. ' Are we alone ? I don't see 
anybody.' 
'They are gone on they are picking,' Diana explained. 
' Hid in this scrubby forest of bushes,' said her brother. 
' Have we got to go into that forest too ? ' 
' If you want to pick berries.' 
'I think we'll sit here and let the rest do the picking,' 
said Mrs. Reverdy, looking with charming merriment at 
Gertrude. But Gertrude was not so minded. 
'No, I'm going after berries,' she said. ' Only, I don't 
see where they are. I see bushes, and that is all.' 
' Just here they have been picked,' said Diana. ' Further 
on there are plenty.' 
' Well, you lead and we'll follow,' said Mr. Knowlton. 
'You lead, Miss Starling, and we will keep close to you.' 
Diana plunged into the blackberry bushes, and striking 
off from the route she guessed the other pickers had taken, 
sought a part of the wilderness lower clown on the hill. 
There was no lack of blackberries very soon. Every bush 
hung black with them ; great, fat, juicy beauties, just ready 
to fall with ripeness. Blackberry stains spotted the whole 
 
party after they had gone a few yards, merely by the unavoidable crushing up against the bushes. Diana went to 
work upon this rich harvest, and occupied herself entirely 
with it ; bu-t berry picking never was so dreary to her. The 
very sound of the berries falling into her tin pail smote her 
with a sense of pain ; she thought of the day's work before 
her with revulsion. However, it was before her, and her 
ringers flew among the bushes, from berry to berry, gathering them with a deft skilfulness her companions could not 
emulate. Diana knew how they were getting on, without 
using her eyes to find out ; for all their experience was proclaimed aloud. How the ground was rough and the 
bushes thorny, how the berries blacked their lips and the 
prickles lacerated their fingers, and the stains of blackberry 
juice were spoiling gloves and dresses and all they had on. 
' I never imagined,' said Mrs. Reverdy with a gay laugh, 
'that picking blackberries was such a serious business. Oh 
dear ! and it's only just eleven o'clock now. And I am so 
hungry ! ' 
' Eat blackberries,' said Gertrude, who was doing it 
diligently. 
' But I want to carry some home.' 
' You can buy 'em. We came for fun,' was the cool 
answer. 
' Fun ? ' said Mrs. Reverdy with another echoing, softly 
echoing, laugh ; ' it's the fun of being torn and stained and 
scratched, and having one's hat pulled off one's hair, 
and the hair off one's head.' 
Diana heard it all, they were not far from her ; and 
she heard too Mr. Knowlton's little remarks, half gallant, 
half mocking, but very familiar she thought. No doubt; to 
his sister ; but how to Miss Masters too ? Yet they were ; 
and also, she noticed, he kept in close attendance upon 
 
the latter young lady ; picking into her basket, getting her 
out -of her numerous entanglements with the blackberry 
branches, flattering and laughing at her ; Gertrude was 
having what she would call a ' good time ; ' why not ? ' And 
why should I ? ' thought Diana to herself as she filled her 
pail. ' It is not in my line. What a goose I was, to fancy that this young man could take pleasure in being with 
me. He did; but then, he was just amusing himself ; it 
was not I ; it was the country and the fishing, and so on. 
What a goose I have been ! ' 
As fast as the blackberries dropped into the pail, so 
fell these reflections into Diana's heart ; and when the one 
was full so was the other. And as she set down her pail 
and began upon a fresh empty one, so she did with her 
thoughts ; they began all over again too. 
' Miss Starling, it is twelve o'clock,' cried Mrs. Revercly ; ' where are all the rest of the people ? Do you work 
all day without dinner ? I expected to see a great picnic 
out under the trees here.' 
' This is not the picnic place,' said Diana. ' We will go 
to it.' 
She went back first to the wagons ; put her berries in 
safe keeping and got out some of the lunch supplies. Mr. 
Knowlton loaded himself with a basket out of his wagon ; 
and the procession formed again in Indian file, everybody 
carrying something, and the two ladies grumbling and 
laughing in concert. Diana headed the line, feeling very 
much alone, and wishing sadly it were all over and she at 
home. How was she to play her part in the preparations 
at hand, where she had always been so welcome and so 
efficient ? All spring and life seemed to be taken out of 
her, for everything but the dull mechanical picking of berries. However, strength comes with necessity, she found. 
CHAPTER VIII. 
THE NEW RICHES OF THE OLD WORLD. 
THERE was quite a collection of people on Bear Hill today, as could be seen when they were all gathered together. 
The lunching place was high on the mountain, where there 
was a good outlook over the surrounding country ; and 
here in the edge of the woods the blackberry pickers were 
scattered about, lying and sitting on the ground in groups 
and pairs, chatting and watching the preparations going on 
before their eyes. Pretty and wild the preparations were. 
Under a big tree just at the border of the clearing a fire 
was kindled ; a stout spike driven into the trunk of the tree 
held a tea-kettle just over the blaze. Wreaths of blue 
and grey smoke curling up above the tea-kettle made their 
way through the tree branches into the upper air, taking 
hues and colours and irradiations from the sunlight in their 
way. The forest behind, the wilderness of blackberry 
bushes in front the wide view over the hills and vales 
without one spot of cultivation anywhere, or a trace of 
man's habitation ; the scene was wild enough. The soft curling smoke, grey and embrowned, gave a curious touch of 
homeliness to it. From two fires it went, curling up as 
comfortably as if it had been there always. The second 
fire was lit for the purpose of boiling green corn, which 
two or three people were busy getting ready, stripping the 
green husks off. Other hands were unloading baskets 
 
and distributing bread and butter and cups and unpacking 
ham and chickens. Meanwhile, till the fires should have 
done their work, most of the party were comfortably awaiting the moment of enjoyment and taking some other moments, as it seemed, by the way. Mrs. Carpenter in one 
place was surrounded by her large family of children ; all 
