in the atmosphere about him. He hated work, and he "got mad" easily;
but he did work, and he was always ashamed when he was over his fit of
passion. In short, you couldn't find a much better wicked boy than John.
When the "revival" came, therefore, one summer, John was in a quandary.
Sunday meeting and Sunday school he didn't mind; they were a part of
regular life, and only temporarily interrupted a boy's pleasures. But
when there began to be evening meetings at the different houses, a
new element came into affairs. There was a kind of solemnity over the
community, and a seriousness in all faces. At first these twilight
assemblies offered a little relief to the monotony of farm-life; and
John liked to meet the boys and girls, and to watch the older people
coming in, dressed in their second best. I think John's imagination
was worked upon by the sweet and mournful hymns that were discordantly
sung in the stiff old parlors. There was a suggestion of Sunday, and
sanctity too, in the odor of caraway-seed that pervaded the room. The
windows were wide open also, and the scent of June roses came in with
all the languishing sounds of a summer night. All the little boys had a
scared look, but the little girls were never so pretty and demure as in
this their susceptible seriousness. If John saw a boy who did not come
to the evening meeting, but was wandering off with his sling down the
meadow, looking for frogs, maybe, that boy seemed to him a monster of
wickedness.
After a time, as the meetings continued, John fell also under the
general impression of fright and seriousness. All the talk was
of "getting religion," and he heard over and over again that the
probability was, if he did not get it now he never would. The chance
did not come often, and, if this offer was not improved, John would
be given over to hardness of heart. His obstinacy would show that he
was not one of the elect. John fancied that he could feel his heart
hardening, and he began to look with a wistful anxiety into the faces
of the Christians to see what were the visible signs of being one of
the elect. John put on a good deal of a manner that he "didn't care,"
and he never admitted his disquiet by asking any questions or standing
up in meeting to be prayed for. But he did care. He heard all the time
that all he had to do was to repent and believe. But there was nothing
that he doubted, and he was perfectly willing to repent if he could
think of anything to repent of.
It was essential, he learned, that he should have a "conviction of
sin." This he earnestly tried to have. Other people, no better than
he, had it, and he wondered why he couldn't have it. Boys and girls
whom he knew were "under conviction," and John began to feel not only
panicky but lonesome. Cynthia Rudd had been anxious for days and days,
and not able to sleep at night, but now she had given herself up and
found peace. There was a kind of radiance in her face that struck John
with awe, and he felt that now there was a great gulf between him and
Cynthia. Everybody was going away from him, and his heart was getting
harder than ever. He couldn't feel wicked, all he could do. And there
was Ed Bates, his intimate friend, though older than he, a "whaling,"
noisy kind of boy, who was under conviction and sure he was going to be
lost. How John envied him! And, pretty soon, Ed "experienced religion."
John anxiously watched the change in Ed's face when he became one of
the elect. And a change there was. And John wondered about another
thing. Ed Bates used to go trout-fishing, with a tremendously long
pole, in a meadow-brook near the river; and when the trout didn't bite
right off Ed would "get mad," and as soon as one took hold he would
give an awful jerk, sending the fish more than three hundred feet into
the air and landing it in the bushes the other side of the meadow,
crying out, "Gul darn ye, I'll learn ye." And John wondered if Ed
would take the little trout out any more gently now.
John felt more and more lonesome as one after another of his playmates
came out and made a profession. Cynthia (she too was older than John)
sat on Sunday in the singers' seat; her voice, which was going to be a
contralto, had a wonderful pathos in it for him, and he heard it with
a heartache. "There she is," thought John, "singing away like an angel
in heaven, and I am left out." During all his after life a contralto
voice was to John one of his most bitter and heart-wringing pleasures.
It suggested the immaculate scornful, the melancholy unattainable.
If ever a boy honestly tried to work himself into a conviction of sin,
John tried. And what made him miserable was that he couldn't feel
miserable when everybody else was miserable. He even began to pretend
to be so. He put on a serious and anxious look like the others. He
pretended he didn't care for play; he refrained from chasing chipmunks
and snaring suckers; the songs of birds and the bright vivacity of
the summer time that used to make him turn hand-springs smote him as a
discordant levity. He was not a hypocrite at all, and he was getting
to be alarmed that he was not alarmed at himself. Every day and night
he heard that the spirit of the Lord would probably soon quit striving
with him, and leave him out. The phrase was that he would "grieve
away the Holy Spirit." John wondered if he was not doing it. He did
everything to put himself in the way of conviction, was constant at the
evening meetings, wore a grave face, refrained from play, and tried to
feel anxious. At length he concluded that he must do something.
One night as he walked home from a solemn meeting, at which several of
his little playmates had "come forward," he felt that he could force
the crisis. He was alone on the sandy road: it was an enchanting summer
night; the stars danced overhead, and by his side the broad and shallow
river ran over its stony bed with a loud but soothing murmur that
filled all the air with entreaty, John did not then know that it sang,
"But I go on forever," yet there was in it for him something of the
solemn flow of the eternal world. When he came in sight of the house,
he knelt down in the dust by a pile of rails and prayed. He prayed
that he might feel bad, and be distressed about himself. As he prayed
he heard distinctly, and yet not as a disturbance, the multitudinous
croaking of the frogs by the meadow-spring. It was not discordant with
his thoughts; it had in it a melancholy pathos, as if it were a kind of
call to the unconverted. What is there in this sound that suggests the
tenderness of spring, the despair of a summer night, the desolateness
of young love? Years after it happened to John to be at twilight at
a railway station on the edge of the Ravenna marshes. A little way
over the purple plain he saw the darkening towers and heard "the
sweet bells of Imola." The Holy Pontiff Pius IX. was born at Imola,
and passed his boyhood in that serene and moist region. As the train
waited, John heard from miles of marshes round about the evening song
of millions of frogs, louder and more melancholy and entreating than
the vesper call of the bells. And instantly his mind went back—for the
association of sound is as subtle as that of odor—to the prayer, years
ago, by the roadside and the plaintive appeal of the unheeded frogs,
and he wondered if the little Pope had not heard the like importunity,
and perhaps, when he thought of himself as a little Pope, associated
his conversion with this plaintive sound.
John prayed, but without feeling any worse, and then went desperately
into the house and told the family that he was in an anxious state of
mind. This was joyful news to the sweet and pious household, and the
little boy was urged to feel that he was a sinner, to repent, and to
become that night a Christian; he was prayed over, and told to read
the Bible, and put to bed with the injunction to repeat all the texts
of Scripture and hymns he could think of. John did this, and said
over and over the few texts he was master of, and tossed about in a
real discontent now, for he had a dim notion that he was playing the
hypocrite a little. But he was sincere enough in wanting to feel, as
