day ; but his coming home was extremely doubtful. Then 
Mr. Ross learned that they were going to close the works 
at the middle of December : he would take the fortnight 
for his wedding journey 
The engagement did get talked of, though we were very 
quiet about it. Miss Hudson considered Mr. Ross a 
foolish man to marry such a very young girl ; and Theo 
Durant, she had heard, was a good deal of a flii’t. She 
hoped they would be happy ; but there was so much dif- 
ference in their ages ! 
Yet there were many pleasant episodes in the calls, and 
merry confusion, and planning. Theo kept very gay, and 
was on her good beha\dor, she said. Certainly she was 
devoted to Mr. Ross, who now came in nearly every even- 
ing. Was she happ}-? 
If father could be in uncle Robert’s place. I used to 
think of it so often ! If Theo and I could have the leis- 
ure, the advantages of society and dressing, and five in 
that beautiful palace ; if we could draw around us a 
circle of cultivated and refined people, and, after having 
enjoyed a delightful youth, choose, or be chosen by, the 
one man whose soul might overshadow and fill ours with 
that perfect love casting out all fear ; if one need not 
study what would be best, need not balance a dependence 
on one side or the other with the feeling of urgency, but 
enter that large, serene, hopeful life, calm with the thought 
of an heavenly awaiting ! 
Ah, if they could but see, — these rich, fortunate souls, 
— learn to care less for the glitter or the hot race of out- 
stripping their neighbors ! That many of them are not 
happy, I know. But do we blame the beautiful garden 
and the tree of knowledge, because Eve sinned? 
We could have none of these advantages : so we must 
make the best of what came to us ; choose between com- 
parative elements, not from the very highest and best. 
For the wedding, Theo decided to be married in church. 
Mr. Ross demurred at this. Church weddings seemed 
so public, so showy. He would much rather be married 
here in the parlor. 
“ I shall be married in church,’’ said Theo with calm 
decision. 
“Suppose I do not agree to it?” and Ross gave 
a little uncomfortable laugh. 
Theo flared up at that. There was a bright spot in her 
cheek, and her eyes had a steady, resolute look. 
“ If you many me at all, you will marry me in church,” 
she returned slowly. “You can do quite as you like 
about it.” 
He turned toward her. I dreaded to see them come to 
a quarrel : so I interposed with a bit of fun ; and then a 
friend dropped in. 
‘ ‘ Did you settle about the marriage ? ” I asked some 
time the next day. 
“Oh, yes! ” but it sounded petulant, or not quite at 
ease. 
 
“ Is it to be in church? ” 
“Yes. Why should one be ashamed of the great act 
of one’s hfe? I do not care if half of Northwood is 
there, or if there were but only one soul for witness. It 
seems to me that church is the proper place. When I 
die, I should like to be taken there with ‘ solemn step and 
slow.’ Remember this, Chrissie, will you? ” 
“ How absurdly you mix things, Theo ! ” and a chill 
went to my heart. 
“ I feel sometimes as if marrying and burying were not 
so very unlike. There ! It is nonsense. Yes, we are to 
be married in church.” 
First it was to be in travelling- attire. Then papa put 
in a word. It was so unsocial to go from church to the 
depot ! At home it would seem as if there had been a 
funeral. Couldn’t we have a little wine and cake, and 
a few people ? “ If it is the poverty you are thinking of, 
I would go with one meal a day afterward,” said he wistfully.
Mother laughed tremulously, and we began to consider 
again. 
Theo planned it at length. She would go to church in 
white, at — say eight in the evening ; then come home 
for a little reception. There was a train going through at 
ten, and it would suit them just as well. Father was so 
much better pleased. 
She made over her white tarlatan dress with plaitings 
of blond lace. I had a white organdie. Another inti- 
mate friend was to stand with her lover. Ned Morton 
was to TV ait upon me ; he and Mr. Ross being friends. 
With my school- salary- the first of December, and 
mother’s wdse ways, we managed. We didn’t put our 
pinches and crooks, and the sixpence saved here and 
there, for guests to look at. Is it sham, the working 
and saving, the appearing nice on a little? I had dipped 
into Caiiyie. Mollie Henderson had quoted two or three 
such trenchant sentences, that they had piqued my curi- 
osity, and I was beginning to think. Yet I am not sure 
that putting on a rough outside is nearer honesty. 
Inside there was just my school- salary, and about a 
hundred dollars that father had earned during the last 
three months, our work, care, planning, and anxiety. I 
should have had a much more expensive wedding two 
years agoiie, without half the thought. Outside there 
was a troop of white-clad maidens walking up the church- 
aisle ; the bride looking very lovely ; the groom proud, 
erect, and with manly tenderness ; the family around, — 
mother in brown silk and soft lace ; father in his best 
clothes, though they were not quite new ; Dell girlish 
in pale blue, which was very becoming ; and pretty, boy- 
ish Richard, proud that “ Theo couldn’t be an old maid 
now,” — a very young boy’s fear about his sisters. 
There was no break or contretemps. Just at eight we 
entered the church ; and fifteen minutes later Theo was 
going out on her husband’s arm, — Mrs. Ross. 
Dell and I had adorned the house with princes-pine, 
pressed fern-leaves, tufts of snowy Aaron’s-beard, and 
scarlet bitter-sweet. Miss New'by and one of our neigh- 
bors had sent in some lovely flowers. The parlor was not 
overloaded ; the sitting-room was in nice order ; the din- 
ing-room looked cheerfully inviting. There was a hand- 
somety-ornamented wedding-cake, plainer ones, plain 
cake, some choice fruit, a little wine (that was a gift 
from uncle Robert) , ice-cream, tea and cotfee for some of 
the old-fashioned friends. We had not bidden merely the 
