her face in her hands again, and breaks into a low, 
piteous sobbing. 
Bartlett, with a groan of helpless fury and com- 
passion : " The fool, the sot, the slave ! Constance, 
I knew all this, I knew it from the first." 
Constance, recoiling in wild reproach : " You 
knew it? " 
Bartlett, desperately : " Yes, I knew it in 
spite of myself, through my own stubborn fury I 
knew it, that first day, when I had obliged my 
friend to tell me what your father had told him, 
before I would hear reason. I would have given 
anything not to have known it then, when it was 
too late, for I had at least the grace to feel the 
 
wrong, the outrage of my knowing it. You can 
never pardon it, I see ; but you must feel what a 
hateful burden I had to bear, when I found that I 
had somehow purloined the presence, the looks, 
the voice of another man- a man whom I would 
have joyfully changed myself to any monstrous 
shape not to resemble, though I knew that my 
likeness to him, bewildering you in a continual 
dream of him, was all that ever made you look at 
me or think of me. I lived in the hope Heaven 
only knows why I should have had the hope ! 
that I might yet be myself to you; that you might 
wake from your dream of him and look on me in 
the daylight, and see that I was at least an honest 
man, and pity me and may be love me at last, as I 
loved you at first, from the moment I saw your 
dear, pale face, and heard your dear, sad voice." 
He follows up her slow retreat and again pos- 
sesses himself of her hand : " Don't cast me off ! It 
was monstrous, out of all decency, to know your 
sorrow ; but I never tried to know it ; I tried not 
to know it." He keeps fast hold of her hand, 
while she remains with averted head. " I love you, 
 
Constance ; I loved you ; and when once you had 
bidden me stay, I was helpless to go away, or I 
would never be here now to offend you with the 
confession of that shameful knowledge. Do you 
think it was no trial to me ? It gave me the con- 
science of an eavesdropper and a spy ; yet all I 
knew was sacred to me." 
Constance, turning and looking steadfastly into 
his face : " And you could care for so poor a crea- 
ture as I so abject, so obtuse as never to know 
what had made her intolerable to the man that 
cast her off?" 
Bartlett : " Man ? He was no man ! He " 
Constance, suddenly: "Oh, wait! I I love 
him yet." 
Bartlett, dropping her hand : " You " 
Constance : " Yes, yes ! As much as I live, I 
love him ! But when he left me, I seemed to die ; 
and now it's as if I were some wretched ghost 
clinging for all existence to the thought of my lost 
happiness. If that slips from me, then I cease to 
be." 
Bartlett : " Why, this is still your dream. But 
 
I won't despair. You'll wake yet, and care for 
me : I know you will." 
Constance, tenderly: "Oh, I'm not dreaming 
now. I know that you are not he. You are 
everything that is kind and good ; and some 
day you will be very happy." 
Bartlett, desolately : " I shall never be happy 
without your love." After a pause ; " It will be a 
barren, bitter comfort, but let me have it if you 
can : if I had met you first, could you have loved 
u*f 
Constance: " I might have loved you if I had 
lived." She turns from him again, and moves 
softly toward the door; his hollow voice arrests 
her. 
Bartlett : " If you are dead, then I have lived 
too long. Your loss takes the smile out of life 
for me." A moment later : " You are cruel, Con- 
stance." 
Constance, abruptly facing him : " I cruel ? To 
you f " 
Bartlett : " Yes, you have put me to shame 
before myself. You might have spared me! A 
 
treacherous villain is false in time to save you 
from a life of betrayal, and you say your heart 
is dead. But that isn't enough. You tell me 
that you cannot care for me because you love 
that treacherous villain still. That 's my disgrace, 
that's my humiliation, that's my killing shame. 
I could have borne all else. You might have cast 
me off however you would, driven me away 
with any scorn, whipped me from you with the 
sharpest rebuke that such presumption as mine 
could merit ; but to drag a decent man's self- 
respect through such mire as that poor rascal's 
memory for six long weeks, and then tell him 
.that you prefer the mire " ~ 
Constance : u Oh, hush ! I can't let you re- 
proach him ! He was pitilessly false to me, but 
I will be true to him forever. How do I know 
I must find some reason for that, or there is no 
reason in anything ! how do I know that he did 
not break his word to me at my father's bidding? 
My father never liked him." 
Bartlett, shaking his head with a melancholy 
smile : " Ah, Constance, do you think I would 
break my word to you at your father's bidding ? " 
 
Constance, in abject despair: "Well, then I 
go back to what I always knew; I was too 
slight, too foolish, too tiresome for his life-long 
love. He saw it in time, I don't blame him. 
You would see it, too." 
Bartlett : " What devil's vantage enabled that 
infernal scoundrel to blight your spirit with his 
treason ? Constance, is this my last answer ? " 
