tablespoonful corn-starch; 1 teaspoonful of salt, and ½ teaspoonful of
soda, dissolved in the milk; flavor to taste.

Soak the crumbs in the milk, and heat in a custard-kettle to a boil.
Add the corn-starch wet with cold milk, cook one minute, turn out
and beat hard. When smooth and almost cold, whip in the yolks, the
flavoring, lastly, the whites. Boil in a buttered mould an hour and a
half. Eat hot with sweet sauce. It is excellent.



  Second Week.      Wednesday.
  ——
  A Cheap Soup.
  Cannelon of Beef.      Browned Sweet Potatoes.
  Hominy Croquettes.      Cauliflower.
  ——
  Claret Jelly and Mrs. M.’s Sponge-Cake.
  ——


A CHEAP SOUP.

1 lb. of lean beef, cut into strips; 2 onions; 2 turnips; ½ cup
of rice; 6 tomatoes; 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar; pepper, salt; 2
teaspoonfuls essence of celery; dripping for frying; 3 quarts of water;
bunch of herbs.

Put dripping and sugar into a soup-pot; when they heat, add the meat
and sliced onions. Stir until nicely browned. Add the water, the
turnips, and herbs. Cook one hour; take off the fat; put in tomatoes
and rice, and simmer two hours. Season to taste, cook ten minutes, and
pour out.


CANNELON OF BEEF.

Chop the remains of yesterday’s beef; mix with quarter of a pound of
minced ham; season with pepper, salt grated lemon-peel, and a little
onion. Moisten with yesterday’s gravy, with a little flour stirred in,
and bind with a beaten egg or two. Make some pie-paste, or such as you
would use for dumplings; roll into an oblong sheet; put the beef-mince
in the middle, and make the pastry into a long roll, enclosing the
meat. Close at the ends with round caps of pastry, the edges pinched
well together. Lay in a dripping-pan—the joined side of the roll
downward, and bake to a good brown.


BROWNED SWEET POTATOES.

Boil, and peel neatly. Lay in a dripping-pan, and baste often with good
dripping, or butter, until glossy and delicately browned.


HOMINY CROQUETTES.

2 cups of boiled, fine-grained hominy; 2 beaten eggs; 2 tablespoonfuls
melted butter; salt to taste.

Work the hominy smooth with the butter; beat in the eggs with a wooden
spoon; salt, and make into long balls, with floured hands. Flatten at
the ends, roll in flour, and fry to a golden brown in lard or dripping.
Drain, and pile upon a flat dish.


CAULIFLOWER.

Boil a fine cauliflower in hot salted water. Drain, put into a deep
dish, blossom upward, and pour over it a cup of rich drawn butter, with
the juice of half a lemon stirred in.


CLARET JELLY.

1 package Coxe’s gelatine, soaked one hour in a large cup of water; 2
cups of sugar; 2 cups of claret; 1 pint of boiling water; juice of 1
lemon; a pinch of mace.

Put gelatine, lemon, sugar, and mace together, and cover half an hour.
Pour on the boiling water; stir until the gelatine is melted, and
strain through a flannel bag. Add the wine, and strain through double
flannel into a wet mould. Set in ice.


MRS. M.’S SPONGE-CAKE.

See “GENERAL RECEIPTS NO. 1, COMMON SENSE IN THE HOUSEHOLD SERIES,”
page 326.



  Second Week.      Thursday.
  ——
  Egg Soup.
  Larded Steak, Broiled.      Purée of Potatoes.
  Baked Macaroni.      Bavarian Salad.
  ——
  Lemon Cream Pie.
  ——


EGG SOUP.

2 lbs. lean ham; 1 lb. lean veal, cut into dice; 1 carrot; 1 onion; 1
grated turnip; 1 boiled potato, mashed; chopped parsley; 3 quarts of
water; 6 or 8 eggs.

Cut up the meat, onion, and carrot, and put on with herbs and water
to come to a slow boil. Keep this up for three hours and a half. The
water should not lose more than one-third. Strain off the liquor; cool
and skim. Put over the fire, with the grated turnip and mashed potato.
Season, and simmer half an hour. Pour into the tureen, and lay upon
the top of the soup as many poached eggs, trimmed round, as there are
persons to be served.


LARDED STEAK, BROILED.

Flatten a large steak, and lard it with thin strips of fat salt pork,
bringing all the ends out on one side of the steak. You can do this
