were seated in fastidious solitude at the morning 
repast. These young persons had not the morning paper before them, but they were engaged in 
languid perusal of the bill of fare. 
This latter document was a great puzzle to our 
friends, who, on reflecting that its bewildering 
categories had relation to breakfast alone, had an 
uneasy prevision of an encyclopedic dinner list. 
They found a great deal of entertainment at the 
hotel, an enormous wooden structure, for the erection of which it seemed to them that the virgin 
forests of the West must have been terribly deflowered. It was perforated from end to end with 
immense bare corridors, through which a strong 
draught was blowing bearing along wonderful 
figures of ladies in white morning dresses and 
clouds of Valenciennes lace, who seemed to float 
down the long vistas with expanded furbelows, 
like angels spreading their wings. In front was 
a gigantic veranda, upon which an army might 
have encamped a vast wooden terrace, with a 
roof as lofty as the nave of a cathedral. Here our young Englishmen enjoyed, as they supposed, 
a glimpse of American society, which was distributed over the measureless expanse in a variety of 
sedentary attitudes, and appeared to consist large 
ly of pretty young girls, dressed as if for a fete 
champetre, swaying to and fro in rocking-chairs, 
fanning themselves with large straw fans, and en 
joying an enviable exemption from social cares. 
Lord Lambeth had a theory, which it might be 
interesting to trace to its origin, that it would be 
not only agreeable, but easily possible, to enter 
into relations with one of these young ladies : and 
his companion (as he had done a couple of days 
before) found occasion to check the young noble 
man 's colloquial impulses. 
" You had better take care," said Percy Beaumont, " or you will have an offended father or 
brother pulling out a bowie-knife." 
"I assure you it is all right," Lord Lambeth 
replied. " You know the Americans come to these 
big hotels to make acquaintances." 
" I know nothing about it, and neither do you," 
said his kinsman, who, like a clever man, had be 
gun to perceive that the observation of Ameri 
can society demanded a re-adjustment of one 's 
standard. 
" Hang it, then, let 's find out !" cried Lord Lambeth, with some impatience. " You know I don 't 
want to miss any thing." 
" We will find out," said Percy Beaumont, very 
reasonably. " We will go and see Mrs. Westgate, 
and make all the proper inquiries." 
And so the two inquiring Englishmen, who had 
this lady 's address inscribed in her husband 's hand 
upon a card, descended from the veranda of the 
big hotel and took their way, according to direction, along a large straight road, past a series of 
fresh-looking villas embosomed in shrubs and 
flowers, and inclosed in an ingenious variety of 
wooden palings. The morning was brilliant and 
cool, the villas were smart and snug, and the walk 
of the young travellers was very entertaining. 
Every thing looked as if it had received a coat of 
fresh paint the day before the red roofs, the 
green shutters, the clean, bright browns and buffs 
of the house fronts. The flower beds on the little 
lawns seemed to sparkle in the radiant air, and 
the gravel in the short carriage sweeps to flash 
and twinkle. Along the road came a hundred little basket-phaetons, in which, almost always, a 
couple of ladies were sitting ladies in white 
dresses and long white gloves, holding the reins 
and looking at the two Englishmen, whose nation 
ality was not elusive, through thick blue veils tied 
tightly about their faces as if to guard their complexions. At last the young men came within 
sight of the sea again, and then, having interrogated a gardener over the paling of a villa, they 
turned into an open gate. Here they found them 
selves face to face with the ocean and with a very 
picturesque structure, resembling a magnified cha 
let, which was perched upon a green embankment 
just above it. The house had a veranda of extraordinary width all around it, and a great many 
doors and windows standing open to the veranda. 
These various apertures had, in common, such an 
accessible, hospitable air, such a breezy flutter 
within of light curtains, such expansive thresh 
olds and re-assuring interiors, that our friends hardly 
knew which was the regular entrance, and, aft 
er hesitating a moment, presented themselves at 
one of the windows. The room within was dark, 
but in a moment a graceful figure vaguely shaped 
itself in the rich-looking gloom, and a lady came 
to meet them. Then they saw that she had been 
seated at a table writing, and that she had heard 
them and had got up. She stepped out into the 
light; she wore a frank, charming smile, with 
which she held out her hand to Percy Beaumont. 
" Oh, you must be Lord Lambeth and Mr. Beau 
mont," she said. " I have heard from my husband 
that you would come. I am extremely glad to see 
you." And she shook hands with each of her visitors. Her visitors were a little shy, but they had 
very good manners ; they responded with smiles 
and exclamations, and they apologized for not 
knowing the front-door. The lady rejoined, with 
vivacity, that when she wanted to see people very 
much she did not insist upon those distinctions, 
and that Mr. Westgate had written to her of his 
English friends in terms that made her really 
anxious. "He said you were so terribly pros 
trated," said Mrs. Westgate. 
"Oh, you mean by the heat?" replied Percy 
Beaumont. " We were rather knocked up, but we 
feel wonderfully better. We had such a jolly a 
voyage down here. It 's so very good of you to 
mind." 
"Yes, it 's so very kind of you," murmured 
Lord Lambeth. 
Mrs. Westgate stood smiling ; she was extreme 
ly pretty. " Well, I did mind," she said ; " and I 
thought of sending for you this morning to the 
Ocean House. I am very glad you are better, and 
I am charmed you have arrived. You must come 
round to the other side of the piazza." And she 
led the way, with a light, smooth step, looking 
back at the young men and smiling. 
The other side of the piazza was, as Lord Lam 
beth presently remarked, a very jolly place. It 
was of the most liberal proportions, and with its 
