What is this New England ? A country ? No : a 
camp. It is alternately invaded by the hyperborean 
legions and by the wilting sirens of the tropics. 
Icicles hang always on its northern heights ; its sea- 
coasts are fringed with mosquitoes. There is for a 
third of the year a contest between the icy air of the 
pole and the warm wind of the gulf. The result of 
this is a compromise: the compromise is called Thaw. 
It is the normal condition in New England. The 
New-Englander is a person who is always just about 
to be warm and comfortable. This is the stuff of 
which heroes and martyrs are made. A person thor- 
oughly heated or frozen is good for nothing. Look at 
the Bongos. Examine, on the map, the Dog-Rib na- 
tion. The New-Englander, by incessant activity, hopes 
to get warm. Edwards made his theology. Thank 
God, New England is not in Paris ! 
Hudson's Bay, Labrador, Grinnell's Land, a whole 
zone of ice and walruses, make it unpleasant for New 
England. This icy cover, like tlie lid of a pot, is 
always suspended over it : when it shuts down, that is 
winter. This would be intolerable, were it not for 
the Gulf Stream. The Gulf Stream is a benign, 
liquid force, flowing from under the ribs of the equa- 
tor, — a white knight of the South going up to battle 
the giant of the North. The two meet in New Eng- 
land and have it out there. 
This is the theory ; but in fact, the Gulf Stream is 
mostly a delusion as to New England. For Ireland 
it is quite another thing. Potatoes ripen in Ireland 
before they are planted in New England. That is 
the reason the Irish emigrate : they desire two crops 
the same year. The Gulf Stream gets shunted off 
from New England by the formation of the coast 
below : besides, it is too shallow to be of any service. 
Icebergs float down against its surface-current, and 
fill all the New-England air with the chill of death 
till June : after that the fogs drift down from New- 
foundland. There never was such a mockery as this 
Gulf Stream. It is like the English influence on 
France, on Europe. Pitt was an iceberg. 
Still New England survives. To what purpose? 
I say, as an example : the politician says, to produce 
" Poor Boys." Bah ! The poor boy is an anachro- 
nism in civilization. He is no longer poor, and he is 
not a boy. In Tartary they would hang him for 
sucking all the asses' milk that belongs to the chil- 
dren : in New England he has all the cream from the 
Public Cow. What can you expect in a country 
where one knows not to-day what the weather will be 
to-morrow ? Climate makes the man. Suppose he, 
too, dwells on the Channel Islands, where he has all 
climates, and is superior to all. Perhaps he will be- 
come the prophet, the seer, of his age, as he is its Poet. 
The New-Englander is the man without a climate. 
Why is his country recognized ? You won't find it 
on any map of Paris. 
And yet Paris is the universe. Strange anomaly ! 
The greater must include the less ; but how if the less 
leaks out? This sometimes happens. 
And yet there are phenomena in that country worth 
observing. One of them is the conduct of Nature 
from the 1st of March to the 1st of June, or, as some 
say, from the vernal equinox to the summer solstice. 
As Tourmalain remarked, " You 'd better observe the 
unpleasant than to be blind." This was in 802. Tour- 
malain is dead ; so is Gross Alain ; so is little Pee- 
Wee: we shall all be dead before things get any 
better. 
That is the law. Without revolution there is no- 
thing. What is revolution? It is turning society 
over, and putting the best underground for a fertilizer. 
Thus only will things grow. What has this to do with 
New England ? In the language of that flash of social 
lightning, Beranger, " May the Devil fly away with 
me if I can see ! " 
Let us speak of the period in the year in New Eng- 
land when winter appears to hesitate. Except in the 
calendar, the action is ironical ; but it is still decep- 
tive. The sun mounts high : it is above the horizon 
twelve hours at a time. The snow gradually sneaks 
away in liquid repentance. One morning it is gone, 
except in shaded spots and close by the fences. From 
about the trunks of the trees it has long departed : 
the tree is a living thing, and its growth repels it. 
The fence is dead, driven into the earth in a rigid line 
by man : the fence, in short, is dogma : icy prejudice 
lingers near it. 
The snow has disappeared; but the landscape is a 
ghastly sight, — bleached, dead. The trees are stakes ; 
the grass is of no color ; and the bare soil is not brown 
with a healthful brown ; life has gone out of it. Take 
up a piece of turf: it is a clod, without warmth, inanimate. Pull it in pieces : there is no hope in it : it 
is a part of the past ; it is the refuse of last year. This 
is the condition to which winter has reduced the landscape. When the snow, which was a pall, is removed, 
you see how ghastly it is. The face of the country is 
sodden. It needs now only the south wind to sweep 
over it, full of the damp breath of death ; and that 
begins to blow. No prospect would be more dreary. 
And yet the south wind fills credulous man with joy. 
He opens the window. He goes out, and catches cold. 
He is stirred by the mysterious coming of something. 
If there is sign of change nowhere else, we detect it in 
the newspaper. In sheltered corners of that truculent 
instrument for the diffusion of the prejudices of the 
few among the many begin to grow the violets of ten- 
der sentiment, the early greens of yearning. The 
poet feels the sap of the new year before the marsh- 
willow. He blossoms in advance of the catkins. Man 
is greater than Nature. The poet is greater than man : 
he is nature on two legs, — ambulatory. 
At first there is no appearance of conflict. The 
winter garrison seems to have withdrawn. The invad- 
ing hosts of the South are entering without opposi- 
tion. The hard ground softens ; the sun lies warm 
upon the southern bank, and water oozes from its base. 
If you examine the buds of the lilac and the flowering 
shrubs, you cannot say that they are swelling ; but the 
varnish with which they were coated in the fall to keep 
out the frost seems to be cracking. If the sugar-maple 
