Niagara, you know." 
" With you, do you mean ? " 
 
" I should be delighted to take you." 
" You alone ? " 
Acton looked at her, smiling, and yet with a 
serious air. " Well, yes ; we might go alone," he 
said. 
" If you were not what you are," she answered, 
"I should feel insulted." 
" How do you mean what I am ? " 
" If you were one of the gentlemen I have been 
used to all my life. If you were not a queer Bos- 
tonian." 
" If the gentlemen you have been used to have 
taught you to expect insults," said Acton " I am 
glad I am what I am. You had much better come 
to Niagara." 
" If you wish to ' amuse ' me," the Baroness de- 
clared, " you need go to no further expense. You 
amuse me very effectually." 
He sat down opposite to her ; she still held her 
fan up to her face, with her eyes only showing 
above it. There was a moment's silence, and then 
he said, returning to his former question, " Have 
you sent that document to Germany ? " 
Again there was a moment's silence. The ex- 
pressive eyes of Madame Miinster seemed, how- 
ever, half to break it. 
" I will tell you at Niagara ! " she said. 
She had hardly spoken when the door at the fur- 
   
ther end of the room opened the door upon 
which, some minutes previous, Eugenia had fixed 
her gaze. Clifford Wentworth stood there, blush- 
ing and looking rather awkward. The Baroness 
rose, quickly, and Acton, more slowly, did the 
same. Clifford gave him no greeting ; he was 
looking at Eugenia. 
" Ah, you were here ? " exclaimed Acton. 
" He was in Felix's studio," said Madame Mini- 
ster. " He wanted to see his sketches." 
Clifford looked at Robert Acton, but said noth- 
ing ; he only fanned himself with his hat. " You 
chose a bad moment," said Acton ; " you had n't 
much light." 
" I had n't any ! " said Clifford, laughing. 
" Your candle went out ? " Eugenia asked. 
" You should have come back here and lighted it 
again." 
Clifford looked at her a moment. " So I have 
come back. But I have left the candle ! " 
Eugenia turned away. " You are very stupid, 
my poor boy. You had better go home." 
" Well," said Clifford, " good night ! " 
" Have n't you a word to throw to a man when 
he has safely returned from a dangerous journey ? " 
Acton asked. 
" How do you do ? " said Clifford. " I thought 
I thought you were " and he paused, looking 
at the Baroness again. 
 
" You thought I was at Newport, eh ? So I was 
this morning." 
" Good night, clever child ! " said Madame Miin- 
ster, over her shoulder. 
Clifford stared at her not at all like a clever 
child ; and then, with one of his little facetious 
growls, took his departure. 
" What is the matter with him ? " asked Acton, 
when he was gone. " He seemed rather in a mud- 
dle." 
Eugenia, who was near the window, glanced out, 
listening a moment. " The matter the matter " 
she answered. " But you don't say such, things 
here." 
" If you mean that he had been drinking a lit- 
tle, you can say that." 
" He does n't drink any more. I have cured 
him. And in return he 's in love with me." 
It was Acton's turn to stare. He instantly 
thought of his sister ; but he said nothing about 
her. He began to laugh. " I don't wonder at his 
passion ! But I wonder at his forsaking your so- 
ciety for that of your brother's paint-brushes." 
Eugenia was silent a little. " He had not been 
in the studio. I invented that at the moment." 
" Invented it ? For what purpose ? " 
" He has an idea of being romantic. He has 
adopted the habit of coming to see me at midnight 
   
passing only through the orchard and through 
Felix's painting-room, which has a door opening 
that way. It seems to amuse him," added Eu- 
genia, with a little laugh. 
Acton felt more surprise than he confessed to, 
for this was a new view of Clifford, whose irregu- 
larities had hitherto been quite without the ro- 
mantic element. He tried to laugh again, but he 
felt rather too serious, and after a moment's hes- 
itation his seriousness explained itself. " I hope 
you don't encourage him," he said. " He must 
not be inconstant to poor Lizzie." 
" To your sister ? " 
"You know they are decidedly intimate," said 
Acton. 
"Ah," cried Eugenia, smiling, "has she has 
she " 
" I don't know," Acton interrupted, " what she 
has. But I always supposed that Clifford had a 
desire to make himself agreeable to her." 
" Ah, par exemple ! " the Baroness went on. 
" The little monster ! The next time he becomes 
sentimental I will him tell that he ought to be 
ashamed of himself." 
Acton was silent a moment. " You had better 
say nothing about it." 
" I had told him as much already, on general 
grounds," said the Baroness. " But in this coun- 
 
