education, including enough Latin and Greek to fit me for entering
college. My mother desired me to enter; but I knew that she could not
keep me there without practicing pinching economy, and I secured a place
with a small salary in a business house in Cincinnati. A year since,
when the papers were full of the gold discoveries on this coast, I was
seized, like so many others, with the golden fever, and arranged to
start overland. It would have proved a wise step had I not been so rash
a fool as to squander my earnings; for two thousand dollars in six
months compare very favorably with twelve dollars a week, which I was
earning at home. I might have gone home by the next steamer, and had
money enough to carry me through a course of legal study, had I desired.
I am out of patience with myself when I think of how I have thrown away
my good fortune."
"Don't think too much of the past, which cannot be recalled. Resolve not
to repeat your folly, and all may yet be well."
"I have fully resolved upon that," said Russell, earnestly.
"Do you think you shall study law, if you are again fortunate, Mr.
Russell?" asked Tom.
"If you please don't call me Mr. Russell, unless you want me to call you
Mr. Nelson. Call me Dick."
"I will," said Tom, smiling, "for I am not ready to be called Mr. Nelson
yet."
"Now, to answer your question: if I can get two thousand dollars
together again, I shall probably study law. Of course I don't mean to be
a miner all my life any more than you. Now, Tom, what are your plans?"
"I think I should like to be a lawyer, too, but I must earn more than
two thousand dollars first."
"Two thousand ought to be sufficient to educate you if you are
economical."
"It would be, but I want to pay off a mortgage on my father's farm
before I begin to lay up money for myself."
"You are a good fellow, Tom, and I wish you success."
"Thank you, Dick. I will succeed if hard work can bring success."
"Good-night to you both," said Ferguson. "I want to sleep well to
prepare myself for starting to-morrow."
In half an hour all three were sleeping soundly.
CHAPTER XXIV.
PREPARING FOR A NEW START.
When Tom opened his eyes he did not at first remember where he was, but
a glance at Dick Russell, his new acquaintance, stretched out on the
floor and still sleeping, quickly recalled the important events of the
day previous. Mr. Ferguson was already dressed.
"Well, Tom, are you rested?" he asked.
"Yes, Mr. Ferguson; I slept like a top. What time is it?"
"It is seven o'clock. Our new friend is still asleep."
"I suppose he was on his feet all day yesterday."
"I don't know whether I ought to hurry you away from San Francisco so
soon, Tom," said his Scotch friend. "We only arrived yesterday, and you
have not had time to see the place, and enjoy yourself after your hard
work at the mines."
"I don't care for that, Mr. Ferguson. I am anxious to be at work again.
I didn't come out here to enjoy myself, but to make money for my
father."
"You have succeeded pretty well thus far, Tom."
"Yes; but I have made more by the sale of the team than by work at the
mines."
"True; but that is a legitimate transaction. If our friend here has
reported correctly, we shall find mining more profitable in the place he
mentions than at River Bend."
"I have no objection to that, though I was satisfied with River Bend.
Wouldn't it be splendid, Mr. Ferguson, if we could do as well in the
next six months as he did?"
"Making two thousand dollars each?"
"Yes."
"We may accomplish it; but it is best not to calculate upon it."
"If I could only free the farm from that troublesome mortgage I should
be proud and happy. It has worn upon father, as I could see, and he has
been compelled to toil early and late to pay the interest, besides
supporting us all."
"How much is the mortgage, Tom?"
"Twenty-two hundred dollars."
"You have made a good beginning towards it already, Tom. You have seven
hundred dollars invested in business."
"But out of that I owe you a hundred and fifty, Mr. Ferguson."
"Don't trouble yourself about that, Tom. Unless I should stand in great
need of it, I will wait till you have paid off the mortgage before
asking to have it repaid."
"You are very kind, Mr. Ferguson," said Tom, gratefully. "A part of my
seven hundred dollars rightfully belongs to you, for you owned
two-thirds of the horse and wagon."
"I couldn't have bought them without your help, Tom. So you see that you
enabled me to make money. I am quite satisfied with an equal
partnership."
"And I am very well satisfied with my partner," said Tom, smiling.
"Shall we wake up Russell?"
"Yes, for we have much to do to-day."
"John Miles will be surprised at my leaving the city so quick."
"By the way, Tom, as he is to remain here, while you are out of the
reach of post-offices, it may be well to ask your father to direct
future letters to his care, and he can forward them as he has
opportunity."
"That is a good idea. I will write to-day so as to catch the next
steamer, and I will also speak to John."
Tom had to shake Dick Russell energetically before that young man opened
his eyes.
"What's the matter?" he ejaculated, drowsily.
"Don't you want some breakfast?" asked Tom.
"Oh, it's you, Tom! Yes, you have touched the right chord. I have a
first-class appetite--and no money," he added, his face clouding.
"Mr. Ferguson is treasurer," said Tom, lightly, wishing to divert
Russell from the thoughts of his heavy loss, and the folly to which he
owed it; "but we know very little of the city. Can you guide us to a
good restaurant?"
"To a good one, but not a cheap one. Everything is high here."
"Then it is fortunate we are going to leave so soon."
In a small restaurant, on Montgomery street, our three friends partook
of a hearty breakfast. It might not have attracted an epicure, but
neither of the three was fastidious; and, though the charge was five
dollars, Ferguson, economical as he was, paid the bill cheerfully. It
was the first "civilized" breakfast he had eaten for months, and it
might be months before he would be able to partake of another as good.
"I wish we could breakfast like this at the mines," said Tom.
"So say I," chimed in Dick Russell; "but you know that the gold-hunter
must sacrifice home comforts."
"I shan't complain of that, if I can do as well as you did," said Tom.
"I see no reason why you can't. There is plenty of gold there, and all
that is needed is work and perseverance."
"I am willing to contribute them," said Tom. "I mean to do my best to
succeed."
"None of us can do more, my lad," said Ferguson. "Let us hope that God
