Lydia ! " she called after her. Lydia turned. 
" Do you realize what dress you 've got on ? " 
Lydia look down at her robe ; it was the blue 
flannel yachting-suit of the Aroostook, which she 
had put on for convenience in taking care of her 
aunt. " Isn 't it too ridiculous ? " Mrs. Erwin 
 
meant to praise the coincidence, not to blame the 
dress. Lydia smiled faintly for answer, and the 
next moment she stood at the parlor door. 
Staniford, at her entrance, turned from looking 
out of the window and saw her as in his dream, with 
her hand behind her, pushing the door to ; but the 
face with which she looked at him was not like the 
dead, sad face of his dream. It was thrillingly 
alive, and all passions were blent in it, — love, 
doubt, reproach, indignation ; the tears stood in 
her eyes, but a fire burnt through the tears. With 
his first headlong impulse to console, explain, de- 
plore, came a thought that struck him silent at 
sight of her. He remembered, as he had not till 
then remembered, in all his wild longing and fear- 
ing, that there had not yet been anything explicit 
between them ; that there was no engagement ; and 
that he had upon the face of things, at least, no 
right to offer her more than some formal expres- 
sion of regret for not having been able to keep his 
promise to come sooner. While this stupefying 
thought gradually filled his whole sense to the ex- 
clusion of all else, he- stood looking at her with 
a dumb and helpless appeal, utterly stunned and 
wretched. He felt the life die out of his face and 
leave it blank, and when at last she spoke, he knew 
that it was in pity of him, or contempt of him. 
u Mrs. Erwin is not well," she said, "and she 
wished me " — 
But he broke in upon her : " Oh, don't talk to 
 
me of Mrs. Envin ! It was you I wanted to see. 
Are you well ? Are you alive ? Do you " — He 
stopped as precipitately as he began ; and after an- 
other hopeless pause, he went on piteously : "I 
don't know where to begin. I ought to have been 
here five days ago. I don't know what you think 
of me, or whether you have thought of me at all ; 
and before I can ask I must tell you why I wanted 
to come then, and why I come now, and why I 
think I must have come back from the dead to see 
you. You are all the world to me, and have been 
ever since I saw you. It seems a ridiculously un- 
necessary thing to say, I have been looking and 
acting and living it so long ; but I say it, because I 
choose to have you know it, whether you ever 
cared for me or not. I thought I was coming here 
to explain why I had not come sooner, but I need 
n't do that unless — unless " — He looked at her 
where she still stood aloof, and he added : " Oh, 
answer me something, for pity's sake ! Don't send 
me away without a word. There have been times 
when you wouldn 't have done that ! " 
" Oh, I did care for you ! " she broke out. " You 
know I did " — 
He was instantly across the room, beside her. 
" Yes, yes, I know it ! " But she shrank away. 
" You tried to make me believe you cared for 
me, by everything you could do. And I did be- 
lieve you then ; and yes, I believed you afterwards, 
when I didn 't know what to believe. You were 
 
the one true thing in the world to me. But it 
seems that you didn 't believe it yourself." 
" That I didn 't believe it myself ? That I — I 
don't know what you mean." 
" You took a week to think it over ! I have 
had a week, too, and I have thought it over, too. 
You have come too late." 
"Too late? You don't, you can't, mean — 
Listen to me, Lydia ; I want to tell you " — 
"No, there is nothing you can tell me that would 
change me. I know it, I understand it all." 
" But you don't understand what kept me." 
" I don't wish to know what made you break 
your word. I don't care to know. I couldn 't go 
back and feel as I did to you. Oh, that 's gone I 
It isn 't that you did not come — that you made 
me wait and surfer ; but you knew how it would 
be with me after I got here, and all the things I 
should find out, and how I should feel ! And you 
stayed away ! I don't know whether I can forgive 
you, even ; oh, I 'm afraid I don't ; but I can never 
care for you again. Nothing but a case of life and 
death " — 
"It was a case of life and death ! " 
Lydia stopped in her reproaches, and looked at 
him with wistful doubt, changing to a tender fear. 
" Oh, have you been hurt ? Have you been 
sick ? " she pleaded, in a breaking voice, and made 
some unconscious movement toward him. He put 
out his hand, and would have caught one of hers, 
but she clasped them in each other. 
" No, not I, — Dunham " — 
" Oh ! " said Lydia, as if this were not at all 
enough. 
" He fell and struck his head, the night you left. 
I thought he would die." Staniford reported his 
own diagnosis, not the doctor's ; but he was per- 
haps in the right to do this. " I had made him go 
down to the wharf with me ; I wanted to see you 
again, before you started, and I thought we might 
find you on the boat." He could see her face re- 
lenting ; her hands released each other. " He was 
delirious till yesterday. I couldn 't leave him." 
" Oh, why didn 't you write to me ? " She ig- 
nored Dunham as completely as if he had never 
lived. "You knew that I" — Her voice died 
away, and her breast rose. 
"I did write" — 
" But how, — I never got it." 
" No, — it was not posted, through a cruel blun- 
der. And then I thought — I got to thinking that 
