the dead of winter, she should go to New York at once, and stay with
Mrs. Minor until all danger of infection was over. She did not seem to
comprehend the gravity of Irene's case, though she wept over her
suffering in a soft self-pity.
"If you could be removed to our house," suggested Miss Barry, in her
gentle way, "we would take the best of care of you; and it must be
extremely wearing for you here."
"Ah, you have no idea! I never slept last night. I have heard of people
in these dreadful fevers who have left their beds when the nurse was
absent, and committed some horrible crime. I locked my door last night;
then I was afraid I might faint away alone, and Fred had to come and
stay with me. It was terrible!" and the washed-out eyes dilated with
real fear.
Martha was despatched for the doctor, who not only came himself, but
brought a close coach, thankful to dispose of one patient so
comfortably. Before dusk Mrs. Lawrence was snugly settled in Miss
Barry's best room, where a cheerful open-front stove made amends for a
grate, and the new surroundings served to take her mind from her late
apprehensions. Indeed, she felt so much better for the change, that she
insisted upon coming down to tea.
It was beneficial in many ways. They removed Irene again to her own
room, and used her mother's for various convenient purposes. Sylvie went
back and forth, and shared the day-watching, beside entertaining Mrs.
Lawrence. The two dropped insensibly into their olden positions. Sylvie
listened patiently to the death, the loss of fortune, the changes, which
Mrs. Lawrence dwelt upon with the exaggerating vividness of a nature
completely engrossed with its own sorrows.
Dr. Maverick had to come every day. Mrs. Lawrence had arrived at that
stage when a woman depends upon the doctor as a sort of bulletin for her
own health. Fred, too, must visit his mother frequently; but at first he
chose the hours he knew Sylvie would be with Irene.
Dr. Maverick used to watch Sylvie Barry with an interest and admiration
that grew upon him. Her tact was something marvellous, born of a certain
exquisite harmony and almost divine unselfishness. But of this last she
appeared serenely unconscious. I think, indeed, that she was. A higher
love and faith had interpenetrated her soul, her very being. Instead of
agonizing introspections and lightning flashes to the inward depths of
her nature, she seemed to live continually on the outside of herself,
radiating warmth and light as the sun. Her patience was of a rare, fine
quality, born of health, and spirits not easily wearied.
It would have been quite impossible for any two people to go through
such a strain of feeling, and not be drawn together in love and
sympathy, or friendship. With Fred and Sylvie it was unconsciously a
little of all. If he had gone back with the old love, even exalted and
refined, he would surely have blundered again. But now she was
another's, sacred in his eyes. And though in his blind pride he had once
thought the greatest favor he could do her would be to save her from any
such mésalliance, he recognized now that Jack Darcy was immeasurably
above him in all the qualities that went to make up pure manhood. Even
in his work: Jack's ambition was not for himself, but a cause; and
his--ah, how poor and paltry it seemed! So he accepted his place with
outward bravery, and a great wrench of all a man holds most dear. For
now he loved her.
The days passed slowly on. It seemed at the last as if the fever would
prove the victor. A consultation was held, and new remedies employed.
Irene's beautiful hair was cut off and laid away, the clear skin seemed
to grow brown and shrivelled, the hands lost their plump whiteness, and
the rosy nails were dull and gray. There came a time when human skill
had done all, and they could only wait for that Higher power to whose
eternal force death and love alike submit.
There followed upon that awful night of suspense, days when she was but
just alive, when a turn of her head on the pillow caused a lapse into
unconsciousness. But the spring came on; and she did rally, at first, it
appeared, at the entire sacrifice of her regal beauty. Would she care to
take life on such terms?
They brought Mrs. Lawrence home. Mrs. Minor came up, and insisted that
both mother and sister should be removed to the city at once. She had
her horses and carriage, her servants, her luxuries, and she could make
them so much more comfortable.
Dr. Maverick interposed a decided negative. The body had not yet resumed
its normal state; but the brain was to be ministered to, as only those
of experience and study could minister. It was to be brought out of the
hell of its own despairing self-torture, and enfranchised, set free from
the demons that, standing in the present abeyance of weakness, had lost
neither strength nor desire, and were only waiting the auspicious moment
to seize their prey again. And he was too much fascinated to relinquish
the study.
Sylvie persuaded her aunt to indulge in a pony-carriage. Miss Barry was
breaking a little; but she still kept her interest in good works, and
found she was much more useful with this aid. Winsome little Sylvie
looked more piquant than ever with the reins in her hands, flashing
hither and thither through the streets of Yerbury, gathering a harvest
of smiles and nods. She fairly compelled Mrs. Lawrence to trust her
precious self to what she laughingly declared was superior
horsewomanship.
Dr. Maverick used to stop her often, just to catch a delicious ripple of
laughter, or a bit of trenchant talk. If it were not for Jack Darcy--did
Jack love her? At all events, she loved him: any one could see that by
her frank, fearless manner. Oh, sapient Dr. Maverick, with all your
knowledge of brains and nerves, of occult causes and mysterious effects!
So it happens that sometimes a simple, direct truth is the greatest
puzzle of all.
The schools and clubs had not been neglected with all this excitement.
But this winter Mary Moran had been teacher at a small salary; and a
bakery and refreshment or dining room had been opened down stairs, which
really made quite a little money. Wholesomely cooked food was offered
for sale, with bread, rolls, and biscuit. The club had also given two
successful suppers. When Jane Morgan was home, Sylvie was relieved of
the actual care: she would have it. She had come back to Yerbury a
thousand dollars richer for her relative's death, and she and Jack were
drawing plans for a co-operative store.
CHAPTER XXI.
"I'D rather lose five thousand dollars than do it."
Jack Darcy leaned back in his office-chair. He had just made up the
third half-yearly account. It was bad enough. They had known this all
along, and had not concealed it from the men. Now it was to be
confronted in black and white, with searching eyes.
It was not that they had not made any thing: that would have been
endurable, considering the kind of winter. But they had gone back, and
eaten up the profits of last year.
"You see, there co-operation comes in," said Bob Winston. "It isn't
your loss alone. It's mine and every man's. That's what we agreed to
when we went in. Labor and capital should share in the ups and downs.
See here, Jack, I've learned a good deal myself. I have more sympathy
with employers. Gad! what a pull we've had this winter! If it hadn't
been for your fairy godmother"--
"Well, it must be done!" and Jack pulled a long face. "There, it is all
ready to print. Now old fellow, we must brace ourselves up for the shot
and shell. We'll have to do the fighting all over again. If every man
had as easy, philosophical a mind as you, or as sensible, reasonable a
