and it's so strange me a-having any one, with no chick or 
child, and nothing ever happening since the time 'Mirny 
made her visit, and I was that beat out with the baby 
a-crying that I didn't know whether I stood on my head 
or my feet ; and theatres, you know, being wondered at in 
a little town like this, and some people considering dancing 
sinful, so may-be Miss Post was right, and you better say 
nothing about it ; but people will ask, and what can we 
tell 'em ?" 
With that Miss Madeira looked up helplessly to the 
sweet, arch face, smiling over her perplexity. 
Titania, child as she was, was much better versed in the 
world's ways, and perhaps more widely experienced in the 
sad, sharp wisdom of life. 
" There need not be much said, dear Miss Madeira, and 
we can leave out all that life. You can just explain that 
I left the woman I was living with, and was going back to 
some friends in New York, for I could find Owen Thomas 
now that I am well, and maybe Dolly St. John, and I know 
she would be good to me, but that it stormed, and I 
asked shelter here, and you thought you'd keep me until 
I wrote to my friends. I will write to Kate, and perhaps 
some day I may hear from her ; but oh, I don't ever want 
to go away from you ; " and she clasped the thin fingers 
in her own warm palm. 
" Well, I suppose we can make that sound reasonable. 
Folks 'll think it strange my taking in any one ; but charity 
is charity, and I'm a poor lone woman, and why shouldn't 
I have a bit of company?" 
So Miss Madeira took her to church the next day, and 
on Monday was fortified with her story. Of course she 
was besieged with questions. Wasn't the child an im- 
postor ? Ought she not send her back to the woman who 
took her, or the institution from whence she came ? How 
could she think of burdening herself with such a charge? 
She knew nothing about children, and the little girl was 
too pretty to turn out well. She would get herself into 
na end of trouble. 
Miss Madeira listened, sometimes not very patiently. 
She had taken the child to her heart, to her love, and 
something stronger than neighborly advice would be neces- 
sary to dislodge her. But the days went and came, and 
the child proved honest and trusty, and did not run away 
with the gold and ornaments of the whole town of Bart- 
lett, as had been predicted. 
I doubt if there was a happier home in the whole town 
that winter. Simple, quaint, near of kin to poverty, full 
of small straits and economies, and yet so rich in enjoy- 
ment. They were like two children ; in fact, Miss Madeira 
in worldly ignorance was only a child of larger growth, 
and Titania soon became the leading spirit. 
She borrowed the book whose singing tea-kettle had 
made such an impression on her mind, and Titania read it 
aloud. It proved to be the " Cricket on the Hearth," and 
together they laughed and cried over it, with its wise, 
cheery, sweet, unapproachable little Dot. Miss Madeira 
was not quite clear in her mind whether story-reading was 
allowable, but they began Little Nell, and their scruples 
went to the winds. 
Titania wrote to Mrs. Chippenham, at Paris, and at New 
York ; but she might as well have dropped both letters into 
a whirlpool. Indeed, as the months went on, she was so 
simply happy that she felt afraid of the time when Kate 
should claim her. In the spring she began to go to school, 
and though she had an innate shrinking from children, her 
desire for knowledge gave her a certain bravery. Her ed- 
ucation, so far, had been sadly neglected, though in some 
respects she was in advance, certainly in that strange and 
bitter experience. Childhood, indeed, had been rudely 
wrenched out of its proper season, and yet there was a 
bewildering freshness and fascination in her character, now 
that it was unfolding. Daily she surprised Miss Madeira, 
who began to hold her in a curious awe. 
They had discussed her name in the early time of her 
coming. 
" It's such an odd name, I never heard it before," ex- 
claimed the lady. " It isn't a Bible name, I'm sure, though 
there's many a queer name in the Bible. Bathsheba, now, 
that's my name, but goodness me ! no one would ever 
think of calling it. Jemima's ever so much nicer, for you 
can say 'Mirny for short ; but I've always been called Miss 
Madeira, from the time I was born, I do believe." 
" Titania was a fairy queen," said the child. " Dick told 
me about her." 
" But there isn't any such thing as fairies, you know, and 
father never would allow us to read anything of the kind ; 
but I did know about Cinderella, and the girl who dropped 
pearls and diamonds every time she spoke." 
"And Dick called me Queenie. Oh, Miss Madeira," she 
cried eagerly, " if you would only call me that ! Dick 
loved me so, you see. No one else ever really loved me, 
though Kate was so kind and indulgent. And now you 
love me you do really love me ? " and the dark eyes 
shone with an intense light. 
"Love you ! " One could hardly imagine Miss Madeira's 
thin voice so full and tender. " I don't know how it feels 
to have children of your very own ; but I can't bear to 
think of any one else wanting you or taking you away." 
" Maybe they never will. Then I'll go right on living 
with you, and caring for you, and if you are ever sick nurs- 
ing you. I think I could do it. Dick was so tender of 
me, and I'd be just that way, having nice things for you to 
eat, and reading to you, and bathing your head with per- 
fumes, only I couldn't hold you," and then both children 
laughed, the elder with tears in her eyes. 
And thus the old name fell into disuse, and she became 
Miss Madeira's little Queen, as she had been Dick Brid- 
ger's. Her pretty ways of stateliness and dignity fitted 
her so well, seemed indeed so much a part of her, that 
never a name suited better. 
The spring came to Bartlett, and Queenie coaxed Misa 
Madeira out to walk in the woods by coming for her when 
her day's work was done. The small house took on a new 
air of beauty and freshness. Flowers stood in saucers and 
rases, and the two made a pretty garden-bed in the front 
yard, that was more comfort than a mine of gold. 
Then passed the rich, blooming summer, and autumn 
with its luscious fruits ; Queenie grew taller, but was still 
slender and lissome as a sylph. A shy little thing with 
great, wistful, entreating dark eyes, and golden hair that 
