shaking all over, apparently with anger at being disturbed by our
approach; and it was this motion that shook the rattles in his tail.
While we were looking at him he made a leap which brought him within
twelve or fourteen feet of us, and again coiled himself up for another
spring. Owen aimed his gun, and fired into the centre of the coil. The
rattlesnake whirled and wriggled for a moment, and then lay still. We
could see that his head had been torn all to pieces by the shot, and he
was as dead as it was possible for a snake to be. We straightened him
out, and found that he was six feet long. When positively assured that
he was dead, the ladies came up and examined him. But he was not a
pleasant sight to look upon, and a glance or two satisfied them. They
wanted no more flowers, and insisted upon going on board at once.
As we started for the boat, we met a gentleman coming down the path
from the house to the landing. He proved to be the owner of the
plantation, who had come down to see what steamer was at the wharf. He
invited us to his house, and would be delighted to have us stay a week;
but we felt obliged to decline the invitation with many thanks.
"I should not dare to stay here even a day," said Miss Margie.
"Why not, miss?" asked the gentleman, who was a native of South
Carolina.
"Mr. Garningham has just killed a monstrous rattlesnake; and I should
be afraid of my life to stay where they are," replied the English
maiden.
"We don't mind them at all," replied the gentleman, laughing. "I have
lived here ten years, and not one of our people has ever been bitten by
a rattlesnake. In fact, I hardly ever heard of such a thing as any one
being bitten by a rattlesnake. There are three times as many deaths
from suicide in the South, as from the bites of moccasins and
rattlesnakes put together. You get used to them in a little while, and
don't mind anything more about them than you do the mocking-birds that
sing day and night."
"I don't like them at all," added Miss Margie.
"I can't say that I like them," continued the gentleman. "I make a
business of killing them when I come across them. I have no doubt the
snake you killed was the one that came into my house the other day. We
had a big hunt for him, and couldn't find him; and I am very much
obliged to the gentleman that shot him. Very likely we shall not see
another one for a year."
The gentleman walked with us to the landing, and waited there till the
Wetumpka was out of sight. At five o'clock in the afternoon we entered
Lake Griffin, which I judged to be about ten miles long, and moored at
Leesburg in season for supper. This place is the county-town of Sumter
County, and the head of navigation by the Ocklawaha. One end of the
town was on Lake Hawkins, and there were a dozen lakes within a few
miles of it. We found nothing very different from what we had seen. Our
sportsmen brought in large quantities of small game, upon which we
feasted, and we sailed about the lake, exchanging hospitalities with
the people who treated us like old friends.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
AN EXPEDITION TO INDIAN RIVER.
After spending three days at Leesburg, we started on Friday noon, March
22, as I find it in my diary, which I kept in place of the logbook of
the Sylvania, on our trip down the river. In order to get the fullest
idea of travelling on the Ocklawaha, Cobbington rigged out the sheet
iron pans, with which the boat was provided for burning light wood, and
other combustibles that would give a bright blaze, and the run was
continued till midnight. The effect was exceedingly picturesque; and
the ladies, wrapped in their shawls and water-proofs, were delighted
with the view of the forest, illuminated by the bright fires. The
trees, the trailing moss, and the openings in the woods assumed weird
shapes, and the alligators were as frisky as though they were attending
a grand ball.
At midnight, the ladies began to yawn, and had evidently seen enough of
the dazzling spectacle; and the boat was moored to a tree for the rest
of the night. At daylight we were moving again, and in the middle of
the forenoon we reached the mouth of the river, and ran alongside of
the Sylvania. We found our ship-keepers in good condition; but both of
them wanted to go with us up the St. Johns, and I had not the heart to
refuse them. I hired a reliable man to take charge of the Sylvania, and
on Monday morning, at daylight, we began the trip.
"I don't think we want to stop at all these towns on the river," said
Owen, who put in an appearance on deck about six, with Colonel Shepard.
"We have seen enough of the little places, and I dare say there is
nothing but a shop and a post-office at any of them."
"Just as you please," I replied. "We can be at the head of navigation
on this river to-night, if you say so. But we are just going into Lake
George, and I think you had better call the ladies, for I am told the
scenery is very fine."
But the ladies began to come out of their room before we had time to
call them. The lake was simply a widening of the river for eighteen
miles to a breadth of twelve miles. It was not very different from the
lower St. Johns, except that it was studded with islands, and was twice
its width. On the largest of the islands is an extensive orange-grove.
As there were no difficulties in the navigation of the lake, Cornwood
called Buck to the wheel, and joined the party on the outer deck. He
pointed out the herons, curlew, cranes, paroquets, and other birds.
When he said it was fine fishing in the lake, our sportsmen had their
trolling lines overboard. Ten fine black bass were taken; and at "seven
bells," a portion of them were on the breakfast table. We all took our
meals at the same table on the Wetumpka, though not at the same time.
As we sat in front of the pilot-house, Cornwood pointed out all the
objects of interest, and named the towns we passed. But nature was more
to our taste than any village, after we had obtained an idea of the
average town in Florida. We did not stop all day long, except to run
into the stream that flows from Blue Spring, to note the marvellous
clearness of the water. At four in the afternoon we passed into Lake
Monroe, which is the head of navigation. On it are located the three
towns of Sanford, Mellonville, and Enterprise, at the last of which we
made a landing. This place I had heard spoken of as the "paradise of
sportsmen," and the headquarters of all who desire to hunt and fish in
this part of the state.
For a change, the passengers went on shore and stopped at the Brock
House over night. Cornwood went with them, but he returned about nine
o'clock. I was reading some letters I had obtained at the post-office;
but none came from my father, and I had become quite anxious about him.
"What do your passengers wish to do, captain?" asked Cornwood, as he
joined us in the cabin.
"They intend to hunt and fish a few days; and they want to get at it
to-morrow morning," I replied.
"There is not much game about here, I am told. I have talked with
several of the old guides, and they say this part of the country has
been hunted out," continued Cornwood.
"Where shall we go, then?"
"I find there have been heavy rains down south of us, and that the
streams are high. We can certainly go as far as Lake Harney, and
perhaps thirty or forty miles farther. That would bring us to a country
where the sportsmen seldom go; and there you will find plenty of deer,
wild turkeys, and ducks. But I want to show you some better fishing
than you have seen in Florida, or in any other place."
"Where shall that be?" I asked, curiously.
