a minced onion, and some pepper. Stew, closely covered, half an hour,
or until tender; take out the rabbits and lay in a hot covered dish.
Strain the gravy, add a tablespoonful of butter, the juice of a lemon,
and thicken with flour. Boil up and pour over the meat.
FRIED RABBIT.
They must be very tender for this purpose. Cut into joints; soak for an
hour in salt and water; dip in beaten egg, then in powdered cracker,
and fry brown in nice sweet lard or dripping. Serve with onion sauce.
Garnish with sliced lemon.
BARBECUED RABBIT. 
Clean and wash the rabbit, which must be plump and young, and having
opened it all the way on the under-side, lay it flat, with a small
plate or saucer to keep it down, in salted water for half an hour. Wipe
dry and broil whole, with the exception of the head, when you have
gashed across the back-bone in eight or ten places that the heat may
penetrate this, the thickest part. Your fire should be hot and clear,
the rabbit turned often. When browned and tender, lay upon a very hot
dish, pepper and salt and butter profusely, turning the rabbit over and
over to soak up the melted butter. Cover and set in the oven for five
minutes, and heat in a tin cup two tablespoonfuls of vinegar seasoned
with one of made mustard. Anoint the hot rabbit well with this, cover
and send to table garnished with crisped parsley.
The odor of this barbecue is most appetizing, and the taste not a whit
inferior.
RABBIT PIE.
Cut a pair of rabbits into eight pieces each, soak in salted water half
an hour, and stew until half done in enough water to cover them. Cut a
quarter of a pound of fat pork into slips, and boil four eggs hard. Lay
some bits of pork in the bottom of a deep dish and upon these a layer
of the rabbit. Upon this spread slices of boiled egg, peppered and
buttered. Sprinkle, moreover, with a little powdered mace, and squeeze
a few drops of lemon-juice upon each piece of meat. Proceed in this
order until the dish is full, the top layer being pork. Pour in the
water in which the rabbit was boiled, when you have salted it and added
some lumps of butter rolled in flour. Cover with puff-paste, cut a slit
in the middle, and bake one hour, laying paper over the top should it
brown too fast.
SQUIRRELS.
The large gray squirrel is seldom eaten at the North, but is in
great request in Virginia and other Southern States. It is generally
barbecued, precisely as are rabbits; broiled, fricasseed, or—most
popular of all—made into a Brunswick stew. This is named from Brunswick
County, Virginia, and is a famous dish—or was—at the political and
social pic-nics known as barbecues. I am happy to be able to give a
receipt for this stew that is genuine and explicit, and for which I am
indebted to a Virginia housekeeper.
BRUNSWICK STEW. 
    2 squirrels—3, if small.
    1 quart of tomatoes—peeled and sliced.
    1 pint butter-beans, or Lima.
    6 potatoes—parboiled and sliced.
    6 ears of green corn cut from the cob.
    ½ lb. butter.
    ½ lb. fat salt pork.
    1 teaspoonful ground black pepper.
    Half a teaspoonful cayenne.
    1 gallon water.
    1 tablespoonful salt.
    2 teaspoonfuls white sugar.
    1 onion, minced small.
Put on the water with the salt in it, and boil five minutes. Put in the
onion, beans, corn, pork or bacon cut into shreds, potatoes, pepper,
and the squirrels, which must first be cut into joints and laid in cold
salt and water to draw out the blood. Cover closely and stew two and a
half hours very slowly, stirring frequently from the bottom. Then add
the tomatoes and sugar, and stew an hour longer. Ten minutes before
you take it from the fire add the butter, cut into bits the size of a
walnut, rolled in flour. Give a final boil, taste to see that it is
seasoned to your liking, and turn into a soup-tureen. It is eaten from
soup-plates. Chickens may be substituted for squirrels.
RAGOÛT OF SQUIRRELS.
Skin, clean, and quarter a pair of fine young squirrels, and soak in
salt and water to draw out the blood. Slice an onion and fry brown in a
tablespoonful of butter. Stir into the frying-pan five tablespoonfuls
of boiling water, and thicken with two teaspoonfuls of browned flour.
Put the squirrels into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pound of bacon
cut into slips; season with pepper and salt to taste, add the onion
and gravy, and half a cupful of tepid water. Cover and stew for forty
minutes, or until tender; pour in a glass of wine and the juice of half
a lemon, shake around well, and turn into a deep covered dish.
BROILED SQUIRRELS.
Clean and soak to draw out the blood. Wipe dry and broil over a hot,
clear fire, turning often. When done, lay in a hot dish and anoint
with melted butter, seasoned with pepper and salt. Use at least a
tablespoonful for each squirrel, and let it lie between two hot dishes
five minutes before sending to table.
PHEASANTS, PARTRIDGES, QUAILS, GROUSE, ETC.
The real pheasant is never sold in American markets. The bird known as
such at the South is called a partridge at the North, and is, properly
speaking, the ruffled grouse. The Northern quail is the English and
Southern partridge. The wild fowls brought by the hundred dozen from
the Far West to Eastern cities, and generally styled prairie-fowls, are
a species of grouse. The mode of cooking all these is substantially the
same.
ROAST.
Clean, truss, and stuff as you do chickens; roast at a hot fire, and
baste with butter and water until brown; sprinkle with salt, dredge
lightly at the last with flour to froth the birds, and serve hot.
Thicken the gravy with browned flour, boil up, and serve in a boat.
Wash the inside of all game—prairie-fowls in particular—with soda and
water, rinsing out carefully afterward with fair water.
BROILED.
Clean, wash, and split down the back. Lay in cold water half an hour.
Wipe carefully, season with salt and pepper, and broil on a gridiron
over a bright fire. When done, lay in a hot dish, butter on both sides
well, and serve at once.
Broiled quails are delicious and nourishing fare for invalids.
GROUSE ROASTED WITH BACON. 
Clean, truss, and stuff as usual. Cover the entire bird with thin
slices of corned ham or pork, binding all with buttered pack-thread.
Roast three-quarters of an hour, basting with butter and water three
times, then with the dripping. When quite done, dish with the ham laid
about the body of the bird. Skim the gravy, thicken with browned flour,
season with pepper and the juice of a lemon. Boil up once.
QUAILS ROASTED WITH HAM. 
Proceed as with the grouse, but cover the ham or pork with a sheet
of white paper, having secured the slices of meat with pack thread.
Stitch the papers on, and keep them well basted with butter and water,
that they may not burn. Roast three quarters of an hour, if the fire
is good. Remove the papers and meat before sending to table, and brown
