a single instant the dupe of her blundering alacrity ; 
he knew that of what she promised she was com- 
petent to perform but an insignificant fraction, and 
the more she professed her willingness to serve him, 
the greater fool he thought her. 
" What will you do if you don't marry her ?" she 
ventured to inquire in the course of this conversation. 
" Something brilliant," said Morris. " Shouldn't 
you like me to do something brilliant ?" 
The idea gave Mrs. Penniman exceeding pleasure. 
" I shall feel sadly taken in if you don't." 
" I shall have to, to make up for this. This isn't 
at all brilliant, you know." 
Mrs. Penniman mused a little, as if there might 
be some way of making out that it was; but she 
had to give up the attempt, and, to carry off the 
awkwardness of failure, she risked a new inquiry. 
" Do you mean do you mean another marriage ?" 
Morris greeted this question with a reflection 
which was hardly the less impudent from being 
inaudible. " Surely women are more crude than 
men !" And then he answered, audibly, 
"Never in the world !" 
Mrs. Penniman felt disappointed and snubbed, 
and she relieved herself in a little vaguely sarcastic 
cry. He was certainly perverse. 
" I give her up, not for another woman, but for a 
wider career," Morris announced. 
This was very grand ; but still Mrs. Penniman, 
who felt that she had exposed herself, was faintly 
rancorous. 
" Do you mean never to come to see her again ?" 
she asked, with some sharpness. 
" Oh no, I shall come again ; but what is the use 
of dragging it out? I have been four times since 
she came back, and it's terribly awkward work. I 
can't keep it up indefinitely ; she oughtn't to expect 
that, you know. A woman should never keep a 
man dangling," he added, finely. 
"Ah, but you must have your last parting !" urged 
his companion, in whose imagination the idea of last 
partings occupied a place inferior in dignity only to 
that of first meetings. 
XXIX. 
HE came again, without managing the last part- 
ing ; and again and again, without finding that Mrs. 
Penniman had as yet done much to pave the path 
of retreat with flowers. It was devilish awkward, 
as he said, and he felt a lively animosity for Cath- 
erine's aunt, who, as he had now quite formed the 
habit of saying to himself, had dragged him into 
the mess, and was bound in common charity to get 
him out of it. Mrs. Penniman, to tell the truth, had, 
in the seclusion of her own apartment and, I may 
add, amid the suggestiveness of Catherine's, which 
wore in those days the appearance of that of a young 
lady laying out her trousseau Mrs. Penniman had 
measured her responsibilities, and taken fright at 
their magnitude. The task of preparing Catherine 
and easing off Morris presented difficulties which 
increased in the execution, and even led the impul- 
sive Lavinia to ask herself whether the modification 
of the young man's original project had been con- 
ceived in a happy spirit. A brilliant future, a wider 
career, a conscience exempt from the reproach of 
interference between a young lady and her natural 
rights these excellent things might be too trou- 
blesomely purchased. From Catherine herself Mrs. 
Penniman received no assistance whatever ; the poor 
girl was apparently without suspicion of her danger. 
She looked at her lover with eyes of undiminished 
trust, and though she had less confidence in her aunt 
than in a young man with whom she had exchanged 
so many tender vows, she gave her no handle for 
explaining or confessing. Mrs. Penniman, faltering 
and wavering, declared Catherine was very stupid, 
put off the great scene, as she would have called it, 
from day to day, and wandered about, very uncom- 
fortably, with her unexploded bomb in her hands. 
Morris's own scenes were very small ones just now ; 
but even these were beyond his strength. He made 
his visits as brief as possible, and, while he sat with 
his mistress, found terribly little to talk about. She 
was waiting for him, in vulgar parlance, to name 
the day; and so long as he was unprepared to be 
explicit on this point, it seemed a mockery to pre- 
tend to talk about matters more abstract. She had 
no airs and no arts ; she never attempted to disguise 
her expectancy. She was waiting on his good 
pleasure, and would wait modestly and patiently; 
his hanging back at this supreme time might appear 
strange, but of course he must have a good reason 
for it. Catherine would have made a wife of the 
gentle, old-fashioned pattern regarding reasons as 
favors and windfalls, but no more expecting one 
every day than she would have expected a bouquet 
of camellias. During the period of her engage- 
ment, however, a young lady even of the most slen- 
der pretensions counts upon more bouquets than at 
other times ; and there was a want of perfume in 
the air at this moment which at last excited the 
girl's alarm. 
"Are you sick?" she asked of Morris. " You 
seem so restless, and you look pale." 
" I am not at all well," said Morris ; and it occur- 
red to him that, if he could only make her pity him 
enough, he might get off. 
" I am afraid you are overworked ; you oughtn't 
to work so much." 
" I must do that." And then he added, with a 
sort of calculated brutality, " I don't want to owe 
you everything." 
" Ah, how can you say that ?" 
" I am too proud," said Morris. 
" Yes you are too proud." 
" Well, you must take me as I am," he went on ; 
" you can never change me." 
"I don't want to change you," she said, gently ; 
" I will take you as you are." And she stood look- 
ing at him. 
