"You must have cursed me over there," Gordon 
went on. 
" I did, a little. As you were cursing me here, it 
was permissible." 
" That 's over now," said Gordon. " I came to wel- 
come you back. It seemed to me I couldn 't lay my 
head on my pillow without speaking to you." 
" I am glad to get back," Bernard admitted, smil- 
ing still. "I can't deny that. And I find you as 
I believed I should." Then he added, seriously — "I 
knew Angela would keep us good friends." 
For a moment Gordon said nothing. Then, at 
last — 
"Yes, for that purpose it didn't matter which 
of us should marry her. If it had been I," he added, 
" she would have made you accept it." 
" Ah, I don't know ! " Bernard exclaimed. 
" I am sure of it," said Gordon earnestly — almost 
argumentatively. " She 's an extraordinary woman." 
"Keeping you good friends with me — that's a 
great thing. But it's nothing to her keeping you 
good friends with your wife." 
Gordon looked at Bernard for an instant ; then he 
fixed his eyes for some time on the fire. 
" Yes, that is the greatest of all things. A inau 
should value his wife. He should believe in her. 
He has taken her, and he should keep her — espe- 
cially when there is a great deal of good in her. I was 
a great fool the other day," he went on. " I don't re- 
member what I said. It was very weak." 
" It seemed to me feeble," said Bernard. " But it 
is quite within a man's rights to be a fool once in a 
while, and you had never abused of the license." 
"Well, I have done it for a lifetime — for a life- 
time." And Gordon took up his hat. He looked 
into the crown of it for a moment, and then he fixed 
his eyes on Bernard's again. " But there is one thing 
I hope you won't mind my saying. I have come back 
to my old impression of Miss Vivian." 
" Your old impression ? " 
And Miss Vivian's accepted lover frowned a little. 
" I mean that she 's not simple. She 's very strange." 
Bernard's frown cleared away in a sudden, almost 
eager smile. 
" Say at once that you dislike her ! That will do 
capitally." 
Gordon shook his head, and he, too, almost smiled 
a little. 
" It 's not true. She 's very wonderful. And if I 
did dislike her, I should struggle with it. It would 
never do for me to dislike your wife ! " 
After he had gone, wlien the night was half over. 
Bernard, lying awake a while, gave a laugh in the 
still darkness, as this last sentence came back to him. 
On the morrow he saw Blanche, for he went to see 
Gordon. The latter, at first, was not at home ; but 
he had a quarter of an hour's talk with his wife, 
whose powers of conversation were apparently not 
in the smallest degree affected by anything that had 
occurred. 
" I hope you enjoyed your visit to London," she 
said. " Did you go to buy Angela a set of diamonds 
in Bond Street ? You didn' t buy anything — you 
didn' t go into a shop ? Then pray what did you go 
for ? Excuse my curiosity — it seems to me it 's 
rather flattering. I never know anything unless I 
am told. I haven't any powers of observation. I 
noticed you went — oh, yes, I observed that very 
much ; and I thought it very strange, under the cir- 
cumstances. Your most intimate friend arrived in 
Paris, and you choose the next day to make a little 
tour ! I don't like to see you treat my husband so ; 
he would never have done it to you. And if you 
didn' t stay for Gordon, you might have staid for 
Angela. I never heard of anything so monstrous as a 
gentleman rushing away from the object of his affec- 
tion, for no particular purpose that any one could 
discover, the day after she has accepted him. It was 
not the day after ? -Well, it was too soon, at any rate. 
Angela couldn 't in the least tell me what you had 
gone for ; she said it was for a ' chance.' That was a 
charming reason ! But she was very much ashamed 
of you — and so was I ; and at last we all sent 
Captain Lovelock after you to bring you hack. You 
came back without him ? Ah, so much the better ; I 
suppose he is still looking for you, and, as he isn 't 
very clever, that will. occupy him for some time. We 
want to occupy him ; we don't approve of his being 
so idle. However, for my own part, I am very glad 
you were away. I was a great deal at Mrs. Vivian's, 
and I shouldn 't have felt nearly so much at liberty 
to go if I had known I should always find you there 
making love to Mademoiselle, It wouldn't have 
seemed to me discreetj — I know what you are going 
to say — that it 's the first time you ever heard of 
my wishing to avoid an indiscretion. It 's a taste I 
have taken up lately, — for the same reason you went 
to London, for a ' change.' " Here Blanche paused 
for an appreciable moment; and then she added — 
"Well, I must say, I have never seen anything so 
lovely as Mrs. Vivian's influence. I hope mamma 
won't be disappointed in it this time !" 
When Bernard next saw the other two ladies, he 
said to them that he was surprised at the way in 
which clever women incurred moral responsibilities. 
" We like them," said Mrs. Vivian. " We delight in 
them ! " 
" Well," said Bernard, " I wouldn 't for the world 
have it on my conscience to have recoiiciled poor 
Gordon to Mrs. Blanche." 
"You are not to say a viord against Blanche," 
Angela declared. " She 's a little miracle." 
" It will he all right, dear Bernard," Mrs. Vivian 
added, with soft authority. 
" I have taken a great fancy to her," the younger 
lady went on. 
Bernard gave a little laugh. 
" Gordon is right in his ultimate opinion. You are 
very strange ! " 
" You may abuse me as much as you please ; hut I 
