forth at last with sleep-flushed cheeks and starry eyes shielded 
from the light. " The spell is broken ; we have all been 
taking care of Felipa, and she likes one as well as the other." 
Which was not true, in my case at least, since Felipa had 
openly derided my small strength when I lifted her, and beat 
off the sponge with which I attempted to bathe her hot face, 
" They " used no sponges, she said, only their nice cool hands ; 
and she wished " they " would come and take care of her again. 
But Christine had resigned in toto. If Felipa did not prefer 
her to all others, then Felipa should not have her ; she was 
not a common nurse. And indeed she was not. Her fair 
face, ideal grace, cooing voice, and the strength of her long 
arms and flexible hands, were like magic to the sick, and 
distraction to the well ; the well in this case being Edward 
Bowne looking in at the door. 
" You love them very much, do you not, Felipa ? " I said 
one day when the child was sitting up for the first time in a 
cushioned chair. 
"Ah, yes ; it is so strong when they carry me," she replied. But it was Edward who carried her. 
" He is very strong," I said. 
" Yes ; and their long soft hair, with the smell of roses in 
it too," said Felipa dreamily. But the hair was Christine s. 
" I shall love them for ever, and they will love me for 
ever," continued the child. " Drollo too." She patted the 
 
clog's head as she spoke, and then concluded to kiss him on 
his little inch of forehead ; next she offered him all her 
medicines and lotions in turn, and he smelled at them grim 
ly. " He likes to know what I am taking," she explained. 
I went on : " You love them, Felipa, and they are fond 
of you. They will always remember you, no doubt." 
" Remember !" cried Felipa, starting up from her cush 
ions like a Jack-in-a-box. "They are not going away? 
Never! never!" 
" But of course they must go some time, for : 
But Felipa was gone. Before I could divine her intent 
she had flung herself out of her chair down on the floor, 
and was crawling on her hands and knees toward the out 
er room. I ran after her, but she reached the door before 
me, and, dragging her bandaged foot behind her, drew her 
self toward Christine. " You are not going away ! You 
are not ! you are not !" she sobbed, clinging to her skirts. 
Christine was reading tranquilly ; Edward stood at the 
outer door mending his fishing-tackle. The coolness be 
tween them remained, unwarmed by so much as a breath. 
" Run away, child ; you disturb me," said Christine, turning 
over a leaf. She did not even look at the pathetic little 
bundle at her feet. Pathetic little bundles must be taught 
some time what ingratitude deserves. 
" How can she run, lame as she is ? " said Edward from 
the doorway. 
" You are not going away, are you ? Tell me you are 
not," sobbed Felipa in a passion of tears, beating on the 
floor with one hand, and with the other clinging to Chris 
tine. 
" I am not going," said Edward. " Do not sob so, you 
poor little thing ! " 
She crawled to him, and he took her up in his arms and 
soothed her into stillness again ; then he carried her out on 
the barren for a breath of fresh air. 
" It is a most extraordinary thing how that child confounds 
 
you two," I said. " It is a case of color-blindness, as it were 
supposing you two were colors." 
" Which we are not," replied Christine carelessly. " Do 
not stray off into mysticism, Catherine." 
" It is not mysticism ; it is a study of character " 
" Where there is no character," replied my friend. 
I gave it up, but I said to myself : " Fate, in the next 
world make me one of those long, lithe, light-haired women, 
will you ? I want to see how it feels." 
Felipa's foot was well again, and spring had come. Soon 
we must leave our lodge on the edge of the pine-barren, our 
outlook over the salt-marsh, with the river sweeping up twice a 
day, bringing in the briny odors of the ocean ; soon we should 
see no more the eagles far above us or hear the night-cry of 
the great owls, and we must go without the little fairy flowers 
of the barren, so small that a hundred of them scarcely made 
a tangible bouquet, yet what beauty ! what sweetness ! In 
my portfolio were sketches and studies of the salt-marsh, and 
in my heart were hopes. Somebody says somewhere : " Hope 
is more than a blessing ; it is a duty and a virtue." But I fail 
to appreciate preserved hope hope put up in cans and served 
out in seasons of depression. I like it fresh from the tree. 
And so when I hope it is hope, and not that well-dried, monot 
onous cheerfulness which makes one long to throw the per 
sistent smilers out of the window. Felipa danced no more 
on the barrens ; her illness had toned her down ; she seemed 
content to sit at our feet while we talked, looking up dreamily 
into our faces, but no longer eagerly endeavoring to compre 
hend. We were there ; that was enough. 
"She is growing like a reed," I said ; "her illness has left 
her weak." 
" -Minded," suggested Christine. 
At this moment Felipa stroked the lady's white hand ten 
derly and laid her brown cheek against it. 
" Do you not feel reproached ? " I said. 
" Why ? Must we give our love to whoever loves us ? A 
 
fine parcel of paupers we should all be, wasting our inheri 
tance in pitiful small change ! Shall I give a thousand beg 
gars a half hour's happiness, or shall I make one soul rich 
his whole life long ? " 
" The latter," remarked Edward, who had come up unob 
served. 
They gazed at each other unflinchingly. They had come 
to open battle during those last days, and I knew that the end 
was near. Their words had been cold as ice, cutting as steel, 
and I said to myself, " At any moment." There would be a 
deadly struggle, and then Christine would yield. Even I com 
prehended something of what that yielding would be. 
" Why do they hate each other so ? " Felipa said to me 
sadly. 
" Do they hate each other ? " 
" Yes, for I feel it here," she answered, touching her breast 
with a dramatic little gesture. 
" Nonsense ! Go and play with your doll, child." For I 
had made her a respectable, orderly doll to take the place of 
the ungainly fetich out on the barren. 
Felipa gave me a look and walked away. A moment 
