the first time, she accepted for herself. He sometimes brought her
books, the light sort which form the sentimental currency of young
people, and she lent them round among the other ladies, who were
insatiable of them. She took a pleasure in these attentions, as if they
had been for some one else. In this alien sense she liked to be followed
up with a chair to the point where she wished to sit; to have her hat
fetched, or her shawl; to drop her work or her handkerchief, secure that
it would be picked up for her.

It all interested her, and it was a relief from the circumstances that
would have forbidden her to recognize it as gallantry, even if her own
mind had not been so far from all thought of that. His kindness followed
often upon some application of hers for his advice or help, for she had
fallen into the habit of going to him with difficulties. He had a prompt
common sense that made him very useful in emergencies, and a sympathy
or an insight that was quick in suggestions and expedients. Perhaps
she overrated other qualities of his in her admiration of the practical
readiness which kept his amiability from seeming weak. But the practical
had so often been the unattainable with her that it was not strange she
should overrate it, and that she should rest upon it in him with a trust
that included all he chose to do in her behalf.

“What is the matter, Mr. Libby?” she asked, as he came toward her.

“Is anything the matter?” he demanded in turn.

“Yes; you are looking downcast,” she cried reproachfully.

“I didn’t know that I mustn’t look downcast. I did n’t suppose it would
be very polite, under the circumstances, to go round looking as bobbish
as I feel.”

“It’s the best thing you could possibly do. But you’re not feeling very
bobbish now.” A woman respects the word a man uses, not because she
would have chosen it, but because she thinks that he has an exact
intention in it, which could not be reconveyed in a more feminine
phrase. In this way slang arises. “Is n’t it time for Mr. Maynard to be
here?”

“Yes,” he answered. Then, “How did you know I was thinking of that?”

“I did n’t. I only happened to think it was time. What are you keeping
back, Mr. Libby?” she pursued tremulously.

“Nothing, upon my honor. I almost wish there were something to keep
back. But there is n’t anything. There have n’t been any accidents
reported. And I should n’t keep anything back from you.”

“Why?”

“Because you would be equal to it, whatever it was.”

“I don’t see why you say that.” She weakly found comfort in the praise
which she might once have resented as patronage.

“I don’t see why I should n’t,” he retorted:

“Because I am not fit to be trusted at all.”

“Do you mean”--

“Oh, I haven’t the strength, to mean anything,” she said. “But I thank
you, thank you very much,” she added. She turned her head away.

“Confound Maynard!” cried the young man. “I don’t see why he does n’t
come. He must have started four days ago. He ought to have’ had sense
enough to telegraph when he did start. I did n’t tell his partner to
ask him. You can’t think of everything. I’ve been trying to find out
something. I’m going over to Leyden, now, to try to wake up somebody in
Cheyenne who knows Maynard.” He looked ruefully at Grace, who listened
with anxious unintelligence. “You’re getting worn out, Miss Breen,” he
said. “I wish I could ask you to go with me to Leyden. It would do you
good. But my mare’s fallen lame; I’ve just been to see her. Is there
anything I can do for you over there?”

“Why, how are you going?” she asked.

“In my boat,” he answered consciously.

“The same boat?”

“Yes. I’ve had her put to rights. She was n’t much damaged.”

She was silent a moment, while he stood looking down at her in the chair
into which she had sunk. “Does it take you long?”

“Oh, no. It’s shorter than it is by land. I shall have the tide with me
both ways. I can make the run there and back in a couple of hours.”

“Two hours?”

“Yes.”

A sudden impulse, unreasoned and unreasonable, in which there seemed
hope of some such atonement, or expiation, as the same ascetic nature
would once have found in fasting or the scourge, prevailed with her. She
rose. “Mr. Libby,” she panted, “if you will let me, I should like to go
with you in your boat. Do you think it will be rough?”

“No, it’s a light breeze; just right. You need n’t be afraid.”

“I’m not afraid. I should not care if it were rough! I should not care
if it stormed! I hope it--I will ask mother to stay with Mrs. Maynard.”

Mrs. Breen had not been pleased to have her daughter in charge of Mrs.
Maynard’s case, but she had not liked her giving it up. She had said
more than once that she had no faith in Dr. Mulbridge. She willingly
consented to Grace’s prayer, and went down into Mrs. Maynard’s room, and
insinuated misgivings in which the sick woman found so much reason that
they began for the first time to recognize each other’s good qualities.
They decided that the treatment was not sufficiently active, and that
she should either have something that would be more loosening to the
cough, or some application--like mustard plasters--to her feet, so as to
take away that stuffed feeling about the head.

At that hour of the afternoon, when most of the ladies were lying down
in their rooms, Grace met no one on the beach but Miss Gleason and Mrs.
Alger, who rose from their beds of sand under the cliff at her passage
with Mr. Libby to his dory.

