drew Johnson. Did you ever hear of him ? " 
" Was he the one they impeached ? " she faltered, 
 
not knowing what Bartley would be at, but smiling 
faintly in sympathy with his mirth. 
" He was the one they impeached. He was the one 
who was overcome by wine on his inauguration day, 
because he had never been overcome before. It ft a 
parallel case ! " Bartley got a great deal more enjoy 
ment out of the parallel case than Marcia. The smile 
faded from her face. 
" Come, come," he coaxed, " be satisfied with Andrew 
Johnson, and let Halleck go. Ah, Marcia I he added, 
seriously, " Ben Halleck is the kind of man you ought 
to have married ! Don 't you suppose that I know 
I 'm not good enough for you ? I in pretty good by 
fits and starts ; but he would have been good right 
straight along. I should never have had to bring him 
home in a hack to you ! " 
His generous admission had the just effect. " Hush, 
Bartley ! Don 't talk so ! You know that you 're bet 
ter for me than the best man in the world, dear, 
and even if you were not, I should love you the best. 
Don 't talk, please, that way, of any one else, or it will 
make me hate you ! " 
He liked that ; and after all he was not without an 
obscure pride in his last night 's adventure as a some 
what hazardous but decided assertion of manly su 
premacy. It was not a thing to be repeated ; but 
for once in a way it was not wholly to be regretted, 
especially as he was so well out of it. 
He pulled up a chair in front of her, and began to 
joke about the things she had in her lap ; aiid the 
shameful and sorrowful day ended in the bliss of a 
more perfect peace between them than they had known 
since the troubles of their married life began. " I tell 
you," said Bartley to Marcia, " I shall stick to tivoli 
after this, religiously." 
It was several weeks later that Halleck limped 
into Atherton 's lodgings, and dropped into one of his 
 
friend 's easy-chairs. The room had a bachelor com 
fort of aspect, and the shaded lamp on the table shed 
a mellow light on the green leather-covered furniture, 
wrinkled and creased, and worn full of such hospita 
ble hollows as that which welcomed Halleck. Some 
packages of law papers were scattered about on the 
table ; but the hour of the night had come when 
a lawyer permits himself a novel. Atherton looked 
up from his as Halleck entered, and stretched out a 
hand, which the latter took on his way to the easy- 
chair across the table. 
" How do you do ? " said Atherton, after allowing 
him to sit for a certain time in the silence, which ex 
pressed better than words the familiarity that existed 
between them in spite of the lawyer 's six or seven 
years of seniority. 
Halleck leaned forward and tapped the floor with 
his stick ; then he fell back again, and laid his cane 
across the arms of his chair, and drew a long breath. 
" Atherton," he said, " if you had found a blackguard 
of your acquaintance drunk on your doorstep early one 
morning, and had taken him home to his wife, how 
would you have expected her to treat you the next 
time you saw her ? " 
The lawyer was too much used to the statement, 
direct and hypothetical, of all sorts of case?, to be 
startled at this. He smiled slightly, and said, " That 
would depend a good deal upon the lady." 
" Oh, but generalize ! From what you know of 
women as Woman, what should you expect ? Shouldn 't 
you expect her to make you pay somehow for your 
privity to her disgrace, to revenge her misery upon 
you ? Isn 't there a theory that women forgive inju 
ries, but never ignominies ? " 
" That 's what the novelists teach, and we bachelors 
get most of our doctrine about women from them." 
He closed his novel on the paper-cutter, and, laying 
 
the book upon the table, clasped his hands together at 
the back of his head. " We don 't go to nature for our 
impressions ; but neither do the novelists, for that 
matter. Now and then, however, in the way of busi 
ness, I get a glimpse of realities that make me doubt 
my prophets. Who had this experience ? " 
" I did." 
" I 'm sorry for that," said Atherton. 
"Yes," returned Halleck, with whimsical melan 
choly ; " I 'm not particularly adapted for it. But I 
don 't know that it would be a very pleasant experi 
ence for anybody." 
He paused drearily, and Atherton said, " And how 
did she actually treat you ? " 
" I hardly know. I hadn 't been at the pains to 
look them up since the thing happened, and I had been 
carrying their squalid secret round for a fortnight, 
and suffering from it as if it were all my own." 
Atherton smiled at the touch of self-characterization. 
" When I met her and her husband and her baby to 
day, a family party, well, she made me ashamed 
of the melodramatic compassion I had been feeling 
for her. It seemed that I had been going about un 
necessarily, not to say impertinently, haggard with the 
recollection of her face as I saw it when she opened 
the door for her blackguard and me that morning. 
She looked as if nothing unusual had happened at our 
last meeting. I couldn 't brace up all at once : I be 
haved like a sneak, in view of her serenity." 
" Perhaps nothing unusual had happened," suggested 
Atherton. 
" No, that theory isn 't tenable," said Halleck. " It 
was the one fact in the blackguard 's favor that she had 
evidently never seen him in that state before, and 
didn 't know what was the matter. She was wild at 
first ; she wanted to send for a doctor. I think towards 
the last she began to suspect. But I don 't know how 
 
she looked then : I couldn 't look at her." He stopped 
as if still in the presence of the pathetic figure, with its 
sidelong, drooping head. 
