backs; and these went and came, bringing in each 
turn a course of dishes, served in plate. These 
dishes •were received by a gentleman in the same 
order they were brought, and placed upon the table, 
while the taster gave to each guard a mouthful to 
eat of the particular dish he had brought, for fear 
of any poison.” 
Tom made a good dinner, not'withstanding he was 
conscious that hmxdreds of eyes followed each morsel 
to his mouth and watched him eat it with an inter- 
est which could not have been more intense if it had 
been a deadly explosive and was expected to blow 
him up and scatter him all over the place. He 
was careful not to hurry, and equally careftd not to 
do anything whatever for himself, but wait till the 
proper official knelt down and did it for him. Ete 
got through without a mistake — flawless and precious 
triumph. 
• When the meal was over at last and he marched 
away in the midst of his bright pageant, with the 
happy noises in his ears of blaring bugles, rolling 
drums, and thundering acclamations, he felt that if 
he had seen the worst of dining in public, it was an 
ordeal which he would be glad to endure several 
times a day if by that means he could but buy himself
free from some of the more formidable require- 
ments of his royal office. 
CHAPTER XVII 
FOO-FOO THE FIRST 
Miles HENDON hurried along toward the 
Southwark end of the bridge, keeping a sharp 
lookout for the persons he sought, and hoping and 
expecting to overtake them presently. He was disappointed 
in this, however. By asking questions, 
he was enabled to track them part of the way 
through Southwark; then all traces ceased, and he 
was perplexed as to how to proceed. Still, he continued 
his efforts as best he could during the rest 
of the day. Nightfall foimd him leg-weary, half 
famished, and his desire as far from accomplishment 
as ever; so he supped at the Tabard inn and went 
to bed, resolved to make an early start in the morning,
and give the town an exhaustive search. As 
he lay thinking and planning, he presently began to 
reason thus : The boy would escape from the ruffian, 
his reputed father, if possible; would he go back to 
London and seek his former haimts? No, he would 
not do that, he would avoid recapture. What, then, 
would he do? Never having had a friend in the 
wcorld, or a protector, until he met Miles Hendon, 
he would naturally try to find that friend again, 
provided the effort did not require him to go toward 
London and danger. He would strike for Hendon 
Hall, that is what he woidd do, for he loiew Hendoa 
was homeward bound, and there he might expect 
to find him. Yes, the case was plain to Hendon — he 
must lose no more time in Southwark, but move at 
once through Kent, toward Monk’s Holm, searching 
the wood and inqtdring as he went. Let us return 
to the vanished little king now. 
The ruffian, whom the waiter at the inn on the 
Bridge saw “about to join” the youth and the king, 
did not exactly join them, but fell in close behind 
them and followed their steps. He said nothing. 
His left arm was in a sling, and he wore a large 
green patch over his left eye; he limped slightly, 
and used an oaken staff as a support. The youth 
led the king a crooked course through Southwark, 
and by and by struck into the highroad beyond. 
The king was irritated now, and said he would stop 
here — it was Hendon’s place to come to Mm, not his 
to go to Hendon. He would not endure such 
insolence; ho would stop where he was. The youth 
said: 
“Thou’lt taiTy here, and thy friend lying wotmded 
in the wood yonder? So be it, then.” 
The king’s manner changed at once. He cried 
out: 
“Wounded? And who hath dared to do it? But 
that is apart; lead on, lead on I Faster, sirrah! art 
shod with lead? Wounded, is he? Now though the 
doer of it be a duke’s son, he shall rue it!” 
It was some distance to the wood, but the space 
was speedily traversed. The youth looked about 
him, discovered a bough sticking in the ground, 
with a small bit of rag tied to it, then led the way 
iito the forest, watching for similar boughs and 
fkiding them at intervals; they were evidently guides 
tc the point he was aiming at. By and by an open 
place was reached, where were the charred remains 
of a farmhouse, and near them a bam which was 
falling to ruin and decay. There was no sign of 
life anywhere, and utter silence prevailed. The 
youth entered the bam, the king following eagerly 
upon his heels. No one there! The king shot a 
surprised and suspicious glance at the youth, and 
asked; 
“Where is he?” 
A mocking laugh was his answer. The king was 
in a rage in a moment; he seized a billet of wood 
and was in the act of charging upon the youth when 
another mocking laugh fell upon his ear. It was 
from the lame ruffian, who had been following at a 
distance. The king turned and said angrily: 
“Who art thou? What is thy business here?” 
“Leave thy foolery,” said the man, “and quiet 
thyself. My disguise is none so good that thou 
canst pretend thou knowest not thy father through 
it.” 
“Thou art not my father. I know thee not. I 
am the king. If thou hast hid my servant, find him 
for me, or thou shalt sup sorrow for what thou hast 
done.” 
John Canty replied, in a stem and measured 
voice: 
“It is plain thou art mad, and I am loath to ptm- 
ish thee; but if thou provoke me, I must. Thy 
prating doth no harm here, where there are no eais 
that need to mind thy follies, yet is it well to 
practise thy tongue to wary speech, that it may do no 
