while Mrs. Busby talked of the middle of summer, some subtle sense in 
Rotha's nature translated the words and made them signify an indefinite 
and distant future, almost as uncertain as indefinite. Rotha could not 
help feeling that it might be long before she saw New York or Mrs. 
Mowbray again; and anew the wondering thought arose, why Mrs. Mowbray 
should have been incapacitated for helping her precisely at this 
juncture? It was mysterious. It was evident that a higher rule than Mrs. 
Busby's was taking effect here; it was plain that not her aunt alone had 
willed to put her away from all she trusted and delighted in, and bring 
her to this strange place; where she would be utterly alone and uncared-
for and shut off from all her beloved pursuits. But why? 

It is the vainest of questions; yet one which in such circumstances 
mortals are terribly tempted to ask. If they could be told, then, the 
design of the movement would be lost upon their mental and spiritual 
education; and ten to one the ulterior developments would be hindered 
also which are meant to turn to their temporal advantage. It is in the 
nature of things, that the "why" should be hidden in darkness; without 
being omniscient we cannot see beforehand the turns that things will 
take; and so now is Faith's time to be quiet and trust and believe. And 
somehow faith is apt to find it hard work. Most of us know what it is to 
trust a human fellow creature absolutely, implicitly; with so full a 
trust that we are not afraid nor doubtful nor unwilling; but with one 
hand in the trusted one's hand are ready to go blindly anywhere, or to 
dare or to do gladly, counting with certainty that there is no hazard 
about it. So children can trust their father or their mother; so friends 
and lovers can trust one another. But it is very hard, somehow, to trust 
God so. Precisely such trust is what he wants of us; but--we do not know 
him well enough! "They that know thy name will put their trust in  
thee." Yet it is rare, rare, to find a Christian who can use Faber's 
words--

   "I know not what it is to doubt; 
   My mind is ever gay; 
   I run no risk, for come what will, 
   Thou always hast thy way." 


Rotha at any rate had not got so far. Her mind was in a troubled state, 
as she sat at the window of the Tanfield hotel and stared out into the 
dewy dusk of the morning. It was indignant besides; and that is a very 
disturbing element in one's moods. She felt wronged, and she felt 
helpless. The sweet trust of the night seemed to have deserted her. A 
weary sense of loneliness and forlornness came instead, and at last found 
its safest expression in a good hearty fit of weeping. That washed off 
some of the dust from her tired spirit. 

When she raised her head again and looked out, the dawn was really coming 
up in the sky. Things were changed. There was a sweeter breath in the 
air; there was an indefinable stir of life in all nature. The grey soft 
light was putting out the stars; the tops of the trees swayed gently in a 
morning breeze; scents came fresher from flowers and fields; scents so 
rarely spicy and fragrant as dwellers in towns never know them, as all 
towns of men's building banish them. Birds were twittering, cocks were 
crowing; and soon a stir of humanity began to make itself known in the 
neighbourhood; a soft, vague stir and movement telling of the awaking to 
life and business and a new day. Feet passed along the corridor within 
doors, and doors opened and shut, voices sounded here and there, horses 
neighed, dogs barked. Rotha sat still, looking, watching, listening, with 
a growing spring of life and hope in herself answering to the movement 
without her. And then the light broadened; dusky forms began to take 
colour; the eastern sky grew bright, and the sun rose. 

Now Rotha could see about her. She was in a well-built village. Well-to-
do looking house tops appeared between the leafy heads of trees that were 
much more than "well-to-do"; that were luxuriant, large, and old, and 
rich in their growth and thriving. The road Rotha could not see from her 
window; however, what she did see shewed that the place was built 
according to the generous roomy fashion of New England villages; the 
houses standing well apart, with gardens and trees around and between 
them; and furthermore there was an inevitable character of respectability 
and comfort apparent everywhere. Great round elm heads rose upon her 
horizon; and the roof trees which they shadowed were evidently solid and 
substantial. This town, to be sure, was not Rotha's place of abode; yet 
she might fairly hope to find that, when she got to it, of the like 
character. 

She sat at the window almost moveless, until she was called to her early 
breakfast. It was spread in a very large hall-like room, where small 
tables stood in long rows, allowing people to take their meals in a sort 
by themselves. Rotha placed herself at a distance from all the other 
persons who were breakfasting there, and was comfortably alone. 

She never forgot that meal in all her life. She wanted it; that was one 
thing; she was faint and tired, with her night journey and her morning 
watch. The place was brilliantly clean; the service rendered by neat 
young women, who went back and forth to a room in the rear whence the 
eatables were issued. And very excellent they were, albeit not in the 
least reminding one of Delmonico's; if Delmonico had at that day existed 
to let anybody remember him. No doubt, it might have been difficult to 
guess where the coffee was grown; but it was well made and hot and served 
with good milk and cream; and Rotha was exhausted and hungry. The coffee 
was simply nectar. The corn bread was light and sweet and tender; the 
baked potatoes were perfect; the butter was good, and the ham, and the 
apple sauce, and the warm biscuit. There was a pleasant sensation of 
independence and being alone, as Rotha sat at her little table in the not 
very brightly lit room; and it seemed as if strength and courage came 
back to her heart along with the refitting of her physical nature. She 
was not in a hurry to finish her breakfast. The present moment was 
pleasant, and afforded a kind of lull; after it must come action, and 
action would plunge her into she could not tell what. The lull came to an 
end only too soon. 

"Do you know where Mrs. Busby's place is?" she inquired of the girl that 
served her. 

"Place? No, I don't. Is it in Tanfield?" 

"It is near Tanfield." 

"You are not going by the train, then?" 

"No. I am going to this place. Can I get a carriage to take me there?" 

"I'll ask Mr. Jackson." 

Mr. Jackson came up accordingly, and Rotha repeated her question. He was 
a big, fat, comfortable looking man. 

"Busby?" he said with his hand on his chin--"I don't seem to recollect no 
