even his own disabilities are part of the general joke. They 
might well indeed with Ralph have been the chief cause of 
the want of seriousness with which he appeared to regard a 
world in which the reason for his own presence was past 
finding out. Isabel had grown fond of his ugliness; his 
awkwardness had become dear to her. These things were 
endeared by association; they struck her as the conditions of 



296 THE POETKAIT OF A LADY. 

his being so charming. Ealph was so charming that her sense 
of his being ill had hitherto had a sort of comfort in it; the 
state of his health had seemed not a limitation, but a kind of 
intellectual advantage ; it absolved him from all professional 
and official emotions and left him the luxury of being simply- 
personal. This personality of Ealph's was delightful ; it had 
none of the staleness of disease ; it was always easy and fresh 
and genial. Such had been the girl's impression of her cousin ; 
and when she had pitied him it was only on reflection. As she 
reflected a good deal she had given him a certain amount of 
compassion; but Isabel always had a dread of wasting compassion 
a precious article, worth more to the giver than to any one else. 
Now, however, it took no great ingenuity to discover that poor 
Ralph's tenure of life was less elastic than it should be. He was 
a dear, bright, generous fellow ; he had all the illumination of 
wisdom and none of its pedantry, and yet he was dying. Isabel 
said to herself that life was certainly hard for some people, and 
she felt a delicate glow of shame as she thought how easy it now 
promised to become for herself. She was prepared to learn that 
Ralph was not pleased with her engagement ; but she was not pre- 
pared, in spite of her affection for her cousin, to let this fact spoil 
the situation. She was not even prepared or so she thought 
to resent his want of sympathy ; for it would be his privilege 
it would be indeed his natural line to find fault with any step 
she might take toward marriage. One's cousin always pretended 
to hate one's husband ; that was traditional, classical ; it was a 
part of one's cousin's always pretending to adore one. Ralph was 
nothing if not critical ; and though she would certainly, other 
things being equal, have been as glad to marry to please Ralph 
as to please any one, it would be absurd to think it important 
that her choice should square with his views. What were his 
views, after alii He had pretended to think she had better 
marry Lord Warburton ; but this was only because she had re- 
fused that excellent man. If she had accepted him Ralph would 
certainly have taken another tone ; he always took the opposite 
one. You could criticise any marriage ; it was the essence of 
a marriage to be open to criticism. How well she herself, if she 
would only give her mind to it, might criticise this union of 
her own ! She had other employment, however, and Ralph was 
welcome to relieve her of the care. Isabel was prepared to be 
wonderfully good-humoured. 

He must have seen that, and this made it the more odd that 
he should say nothing. After three days had elapsed without 
his speaking, Isabel became impatient ; dislike it as he would 



 

he might at least go through the form. We who know more 
about poor Ralph than his cousin, may easily helieve that during 
the hours that followed his' arrival at the Palazzo Crescentini, 
he had privately gone through many forms. His mother had 
literally greeted him with the great news, which was even more 
sensibly chilling than Mrs. Touchett's maternal kiss. Ralph 
was shocked and humiliated ; his calculations had been false, 
and his cousin was lost. He drifted about the house like a 
rudderless vessel in a rocky stream, or sat in the garden of the 
palace in a great cane chair, with his long legs extended, his 
head thrown back, and his hat pulled over his eyes. He felt 
cold about the heart ; he had never liked anything less. What 
could he do, what could he say   If Isabel were irreclaimable, 
could he pretend to like it ? To attempt to reclaim her was 
permissible only if the attempt should succeed. To try to per- 
suade her that the man to whom she had pledged her faith was 
a humbug would be decently discreet only in the event of her 
being persuaded. Otherwise he should simply have damned 
himself. It cost him an equal effort to speak his thought and 
to dissemble ; he could neither assent with sincerity nor protest 
with hope. Meanwhile he knew or rather he supposed that 
the affianced pair were daily renewing their mutual vows. 
Osmond, at this moment, showed himself little at the Palazzo 
Crescentini; but Isabel met him every day elsewhere, as she 
was free to do after their engagement had been made public. 
She had taken a carriage by the month, so as not to be indebted 
to her aunt for the means of pursuing a course of which Mrs. 
Touchett disapproved, and she drove in the morning to the 
Cascine. This suburban wilderness, during the early hours, was 
void of all intruders, and our young lady, joined by her lover in 
its quietest part, strolled with him a while in the grey Italian 
shade and listened to the nightingales. 



XXXIV. 

ONE morning, on her return from her drive, some half-hour 
before luncheon, she quitted her vehicle in the court of the 
palace, and instead of ascending the great staircase, crossed the 
court, passed beneath another archway, and entered the garden. 
A sweeter spot, at this moment, could not have been imagined. 
The stillness of noontide hung over it ; the warm shade was 
motionless, and the hot light made it pleasant. Ralph was 



 

sitting there in the clear gloom, at the base of a statue of 
Terpsichore a dancing nymph with taper fingers and inflated 
draperies, in the manner of Bernini ; the extreme relaxation of 
his attitude suggested at first to Isabel that he was asleep. Her 
light footstep on the grass had not roused him, and before turn- 
ing away she stood for a moment looking at him. During this 
instant he opened his eyes ; upon which she sat down on a rustic 
chair that matched with his own. Though in 'her irritation she 
had accused him of indifference, she was not blind to the fact 
