her very face, and he, quick to read, to detect meanings, 
understands and takes his decision from it. 
There is a soft, sweet, winsome laugh, such as a child 
gives when one has made several pretences at guessing a 
secret and at last hits upon it. 
" Can it be," he inquires, " that you have remembered 
Wilfred Carew all these years ? " And the pleasure of his 
tone would be a delicate flattery to any woman free to be 
charmed. 
" I was hardly likely to forget that part of my life," 
she says coldly. 
The die is cast and he must make the best of it, yet he 
feels less certain than a moment ago. Perhaps he has a 
foe to face, but he has conquered foes ere now. 
" Well?" He will compel her to show her hand. 
"Why did you come here?" she asks, for she feels 
 
 
assured that it was not hatred of Dolly that has called 
him thither. 
" Kismet,' he answers, in a soft, foreign-sounding pro- 
nunciation, lifting his delicately arched brows with the 
touch of audacity that appeals rather than offends. '' A 
chain of incidents opened the way, and I wanted to see 
you. Christmas, I was your friend in that solitary, re- 
pressed, misunderstood girlhood. There are many things 
that you cannot have forgotten." 
There is something inexpressibly sincere in his tone, 
and it does move her. 
" There are many things I never could forget." And she 
makes a gesture of bitter disdain. 
"Yet they were not my fault That a yiUain should 
have been the ruin of us all, I as a young lad could not 
help. My mother suffered intensely, bitterly, knew want 
and sorrow and regret. She often spoke of you. We 
never could hear aught concerning you, though we made 
some efforts. Then she died." 
Even that does not soften Miss Ormiston. She has 
come to look at Mrs. Treverton with the clear eyes of 
womanhood, whose sight has been trained by sincerity and 
invincible honor, and found her wanting in some of the 
most ordinary phases of character. She is the mother of 
this young man before her; and though Christmas was 
too young to distrust the woman's sweetness, experience 
has taught her much since that day. 
" Treverton was a villain ! " he says, in tones of deep, 
unforgiving resentment. " When the worst came out, my 
mother was compelled to fly with him. He drank, gam- 
bled ; indeed, I believe he is still in some notorious resort 
on the Continent. My poor mother did not long survive 
the shock. I took her maiden name Jeffries, which indeed 
had always been my own, for I wanted to break all con- 
nection with that wretch ! And nothing gave me greater 
joy than to know your fortunes had not been utterly 
wrecked." 
 
 
 
" It was owing to the wisdom and earnest endeayoro oi 
others that they were not." 
'' Mr. St. George," he says enthnsiastically, " is one of 
nature's noblemen, with all llie culture and* sincerity of 
true endeavor, and the purity of genius." 
A wavering flame seems to run over her face at this 
commendation, but the next instant it is calm and cold. 
Jeftries begins to experience the difficulty others have 
found, that Miss Ormiston is hard to get on with. 
(( Well," he begins again, with a kind of hopeful bright- 
ness, ''having confessed my sins, what remains? Can 
we not be friends as in the old times? I thought two 
nights ago that you had more than fulfilled one's highest 
dreams about you. I was wild to make some sign, some 
test. How well you hid your suspicions ! " 
Christmas Ormiston has to use all her force of will to 
resist this man's subtle fascination, that seems a perva- 
sive atmosphere about him. Not that she is in the slight- 
est danger of loving him, but he sways her so powerfully 
that she can hardly follow out her own consdiousness of 
right. 
'' You have not confessed aU your sins," she replies, 
with a breath-long conscious intensity that seems to wring 
her farthest pulses. 
"No," he answers with deprecating tenderness. "A 
man would confess to you every day, every hour, if he 
might, as one prays to angels. Only, not seeing the faces 
of the angels in the depths of solitary midnights, he 
might bewail sins that he could not set in the light of 
such a woman's eyes." 
The breath she draws cuts her like a knife. She makes 
a pitiful judge after all. 
" What are you to Dolly Allaire? " she asks briefly. 
"To Dolly Allaire?" There is a kind of innocent, 
doubtful, undecided light in his face that finally blends 
into amusement. " She is one of the charming products 
 
 
of society, and as the betrothed of Mr. St. Greorge I 
could be only a friend or tempter. And I doubt extremely 
if I would have the power to become the latter. Where 
would I be against fame and fortune? " he asks incredu- 
lously. " We have been compeers ; I met her some time 
ago. I had returned to America at the instance of some 
friends for a brief visit, and spent several weeks at New- 
port where her family were staying. Then I stumbled 
over them again at Paris. The world is not so wide after 
all, or else we go around in circles. And here we meet 
again." 
He watches her closely under his long lashes, that can 
shelter so much wariness. Can she be unconsciously 
jealous? For a moment he is mad enough to think she 
is beginning to care for him. He has a wild impulse to 
throw himself at her feet, but he is too wise to rush on to 
fate through unknown paths. 
" You have been engaged to Miss Allaire," she pursues, 
with a cold brevity that is so like a cover for resentment 
it blinds him. 
" A foolish child's play, long ago ! " he cries. " There 
was nothing in it." Then his face is sublimed with the 
white heat of passion, his lips quiver, his eyes droop and 
the long lids are tremulous, his voice has that full depth 
