hours."

"It does not appear that we have gone at all," I continued, looking
over the pages of the book. "We have been drifting all the time. The
steamer is in the Gulf Stream, and that, with the fierce wind, has
carried her a long distance from where I supposed she was. I find that
in a strong easterly wind the Gulf Stream sets to the westward, and
runs in among the Keys. I have no doubt now that this is the reason why
the bark struck last night on the rocks to the southward of French
Reef."

"It appears from what you say that we have not carried steam enough to
prevent us from being drifted to the westward as well as to the
northward," added Washburn.

"That is the fact: we have been drifting about north-northwest. In a
few hours more we should have been on the reef. Ring the speed-bell."

It was plain enough by this time, when it was almost broad daylight,
that the force of the gale was spent. In less than an hour the wind
subsided entirely, and the wind whirled to the south, then to the west,
and finally settled in the north-west. We made our course to the
southward. The clouds rolled away, and the sun rose bright and
beautiful after one of the hardest nights I had ever known.

The wind began to freshen from the north-west, and at six o'clock we
had all sail on her. We all wondered what had become of the Islander.
Captain Blastblow was evidently well acquainted with the navigation of
the Florida Reefs, or he would not have taken his vessel through the
dangerous channel he had chosen. But I was too tired to talk much, and
I slept an hour in Washburn's berth until breakfast-time. When I waked,
I found the captain of the bark sitting in a chair in the state-room.




CHAPTER XIV.

LOOKING FOR THE ISLANDER.


The captain of the bark was a man of about fifty. He was bald, and his
hair and whiskers were sprinkled with gray. I had no doubt that the
violent storm had made an end of his vessel, for the wreck was exposed
to the full fury of the sea, tenfold more violent after we left it than
before.

"Good morning, Captain; I hope you are quite well this morning," I
began.

"I am well enough, thank you; but I cannot forget that I have lost my
ship," he replied. "You had a rough night of it on deck; and I don't
think I ever knew a vessel to pitch and roll so badly as this one did."

"It was a terrible blow, and this is a very small vessel, though she is
as strong as wood and iron could make her. If she had not been well
built, the sea would have taken the house off this deck."

"I thought it was going to do so as it was. I think she was exceedingly
well handled, or she would have gone to the bottom," continued the
captain. "I have no doubt there are scores of wrecks along the Keys
this morning, and many a good fellow may miss his mess after this."

I gave him a full account of the storm, and of our being carried so far
out of our course by the wind and the current. I told him that we had
been delayed so long by the wreck and the storm that we probably should
not reach Key West till three or four in the afternoon.

"I suppose we shall be lucky to get there at all after all that has
happened to us," replied the captain. "What you say about drifting so
far out of your course strikes me as being a little strange."

"What was the name of your vessel, Captain?--I have not even learned
your name," I continued. I intended to point out to him the way in
which the bark had been lost; but I wanted to know something more about
the voyage of the unfortunate vessel.

"Captain Mayfield; and the bark was the Olive, of New York, from New
Orleans, with a cargo of cotton from the latter port," replied the
captain. "I owned a third of her myself; but she is well insured, and
so is her cargo. My wife and daughter were with me, and are now in the
after cabin."

"I think you were fortunate to escape with your lives," I added.

"I know we were, Captain--I don't know your name any better than you
did mine; and it strikes me that you are a very young fellow to be in
command of a steamer, though she is a very small one."

"My name is Alexander Garningham, and I am generally called Captain
Alick. I have been on the water most of the time since I was ten years
old, either on the sea or on the great lakes. I have had as rough a
time on Lake Superior as we had last night, if not a rougher." I told
my story as briefly as I could.

"Your education has not been neglected, Captain Alick," continued
Captain Mayfield. "If you had not managed the Sylvania so well last
night, most of us must have perished; for I have no doubt that the
Olive went to pieces before midnight. She was a well-built vessel, but
rather old. The gale kept forcing her up to the sharp coral rocks, and
she was grinding off her timbers at a very rapid rate when we left her.
If there had been any chance for her I would not have left her. I had
reduced sail at dark, when it began to freshen into a gale. We had the
wind on the beam, and the bark was behaving very well."

"It began to blow the heaviest about six bells," I added.

"We did not get the worst of it. We had the foretop-mast staysail, fore
and main topsails, and the spanker set. The Gulf Stream was with us,
and we were making not less than ten knots an hour. I expected soon to
see Carysfort Light. Our course was north, a quarter east, and I had no
doubt I was making it good."

"I am afraid not."

"Of course I know now that I did not make it good; but I can't see any
reason why I did not."

"I can," I interposed. "It was for the same reason that we were drifted
so far to the northward and westward. When the wind comes strong from
