Then he saw that she had clasped her hands 
upon the mantel-piece, and that her strong face 
had sunk till it was buried in them. She started 
as he turned, as if his gaze had been a blow, and 
shrank before him, a shaken creature. 
Even at that moment, he felt more a sense of 
awe than of transport, at the sight of her royal 
overthrow. He was beside her in a moment, and 
gently putting his own hand upon her cold, clenched 
fingers said, 
 
" Dear, is it true ? " 
" Oh, I am afraid it is true." 
" And why should you be afraid of the truth ? " 
" Oh, it is a fearful thing for a woman to 
love a man "... 
"It doesn't  frighten me." He held out his 
arms, with his low, glad laugh. " Come, and see 
how dreadful it is ! Come ! " 
But she shook her head, and both her firm hands 
warned him off. 
" I have lost my self-possession," she pleaded. 
" I have lost myself. Let me alone. I cannot 
talk to you to-night. Go, and don't I cannot 
bear to have you expect anything. I entreat you 
not to hope for anything. It will be so hard to 
make you understand "... 
" It will, indeed," cried the lover joyously, " be 
hard to make me understand anything but Eden, 
now ! " 
But he spared her for that time, and, drunken 
with hope, went out, the maddest, gladdest, most 
ignorant man that faced the storm that night. 
He waded across the piazza, where the snow 
was now drifting high. The dead stalk of a hon 
eysuckle clutched at him feebly, as he went by. 
He presented himself at Mrs. Butterwell 's door, 
and bore dreamily the little domestic whirl which 
 
followed. The only coherent thought he had was 
a passionate desire to be alone. Mrs. Butterwell 
hastened to call the doctor, but he said he had 
spoken to her as he came along. Mr. Butterwell 
began at once to give him the particulars relative 
to the last hours of the sorrel. Mrs. Butterwell 
bustled about blankets, and fires, and things. She 
looked a great way off, to Yorke, and small ; he 
heard her imperfectly, and had to ask her to repeat what she said. He seemed to be floating, a 
being of another race, from another planet, high 
above the heads of these old married people ; in a 
blinding light, at a perilous height, from which 
he regarded them with a beautiful scorn. 
He hastened to his room, under plea of fatigue, at 
the first pardonable moment. It was warm there, 
and still. The bed had been moved into a new 
place, and the framed certificate was gone. The 
hair- cloth sofa was there, and the little three-legged 
table where the medicine used to stand. There was 
a great fire in a fat, air-tight stove. He wheeled 
up the black sofa, and sat down, and watched 
the red oblong blocks of light made by the open 
damper in the side of the stove. He sat there a 
long time. Sleep seemed as impossible as pain, 
and connected thought as foreign as fear. He 
drifted in his delirium. He had no future, he 
 
knew no past. She loved him. He reeled before 
the knowledge of it. Possession seemed profanity. 
Where was her peer in all the world ? And she 
chose him ! With closed eves he repeated the 
three words, She loves me, as he might have dashed 
down a dangerous wine, of which he had already 
more than man could bear. He was intoxicated 
with her. 
He got through the next day as best he might. 
His host and hostess brought a first mortgage upon 
him, and Doctor Zay was hard at work. She was 
early at breakfast, late at dinner, and apparently 
took no tea. He saw her once struggling through 
the snow to give an order to Handy, who seemed 
to have added a number at his hatter 's for each 
degree of severity in the thermometer. Handy 
had private views, which no man could fathom, 
relative to Mr. Yorke 's unexpected appearance ; 
but they were not of a nature which improved his 
temper, and, under the present climatic conditions 
lie was denied the resources of the sawdust heap. 
Handy wore blue mittens and a red tippet tied 
over his ears. He drove with the doctor that day, 
to watch the pony, who was uneasy from the cold, 
in her extended " waits." Doctor Zay was 
wrapped in her furs, and had long, seal-skin 
 
gloves. She looked a trifle pale. Yovke watched 
the brave girl ride away into the deadly weather. 
She drove slowly, battling with the unbroken road. 
She carried a shovel to cut their way through 
drifts. 
In the evening, as soon as might decently be, 
he went to her rooms. She was alone, and wel 
comed him with unexpected self-possession. She 
had a feverish flush on her cheeks. She began 
to talk as if nothing had happened. She inquired 
about his health, and the medical items of his recovery. She spoke of his mother, and his life in 
Boston. 
Indulgently, he let her go on. He experienced 
an exquisite delight in all this little parrying and 
playing with fate, and in the haughty conscious 
ness that he could put an end to it when he chose. 
He occupied himself in noticing that she wore a 
woolen dress of a ruby color, with a plush jacket 
and white lace. 
"I have been at woxk myself, this winter," he 
ventured to say. " Did I tell you ? " 
" No. What have you done ? " 
" Sat in my office and prayed for clients." 
"I approve of that. Didn't  you get any ? " 
" Oh yes ; some wills and leases, and that kind 
of thing. Greatness is not thrust upon me. But 
I 've sat there." 
