"I wisht it was!--like it fust-rate. Never heerd it afore in my life."
"There's as good as that in the church book," remarked Mrs. Armadale.
"Yes," said Lois; "I like Wesley's hymn even better--
   'Come, let us join our friends above
   That have obtained the prize;
   And on the eagle wings of love
   To joys celestial rise.
.           .           .           .
   'One army of the living God,
   To his command we bow;
   Part of his host have crossed the flood
   And part are crossing now.
.           .           .           .           .           .
   'His militant embodied host,
   With wishful looks we stand,
   And long to see that happy coast,
   And reach the heavenly land.
   'E'en now, by faith, we join our hands
   With those that went before;
   And greet the blood-besprinkled bands
   On the eternal shore.'"
CHAPTER XXXI.
LONG CLAMS.
There was a soft ring in Lois's voice; it might be an echo of the
trumpets and cymbals of which she had been speaking. Yet not done for
effect; it was unconscious, and delicate as indescribable, for which
reason it had the greater power. The party remained silent for a few
minutes, all of them; during which a killdeer on the fence uttered his
little shout of gratulation; and the wild, salt smell coming from the
Sound and the not distant ocean, joined with the silence and Lois's
hymn, gave a peculiar impression of solitude and desolation to at least
one of the party. The cart entered an enclosure, and halted before a
small building at the edge of the shore, just above high-water mark.
There were several such buildings scattered along the shore at
intervals, some enclosed, some not. The whole breadth of the Sound lay
in view, blinking under the summer sun; yet the air was far fresher
here than it had been in the village. The tide was half out; a wide
stretch of wet sand, with little pools in the hollows, intervened
between the rocks and the water; the rocks being no magnificent
buttresses of the land, but large and small boulders strewn along the
shore edge, hung with seaweed draperies; and where there were not rocks
there was a growth of rushes on a mud bottom. The party were helped out
of the cart one by one, and the strangers surveyed the prospect.
"'Afar in the desert,' this is, I declare," said the gentleman.
"Might as well be," echoed his wife. "Whatever do you come here for?"
she said, turning to Lois; "and what do you do when you are here?"
"Get some clams and have supper."
"Clams!"--with an inimitable accent. "Where do you get clams?"
"Down yonder--at the edge of the rushes."
"Who gets them? and how do you get them?"
"I guess I shall get them to-day. O, we do it with a hoe."
Lois stayed for no more, but ran in. The interior room of the house,
which was very large for a bathing-house, was divided in two by a
partition. In the inner, smaller room, Lois began busily to change her
dress. On the walls hung a number of bathing suits of heavy flannel,
one of which she appropriated. Charity came in after her.
"You ain't a goin' for clams, Lois? Well, I wouldn't, if I was you."
"Why not?"
"I wouldn't make myself such a sight, for folks to see."
"I don't at all do it for folks to see, but that folks may eat. We have
brought 'em here, and now we must give them something for supper."
"Are you goin' with bare feet?"
"Why not?" said Lois, laughing. "Do you think I am going to spoil my
best pair of shoes for vanity's sake?" And she threw off shoes and
stockings as she spoke, and showed a pair of pretty little white feet,
which glanced coquettishly under the blue flannel.
"Lois, what's brought these folks here?"
"I am sure I don't know."
"I wish they'd stayed where they belong. That woman's just turning up
her nose at every blessed thing she sees."
"It won't hurt the Sound!" said Lois, laughing.
"What did they come for?"
"I can't tell; but, Charity, it will never do to let them go away
feeling they got nothing by coming. So you have the kettle boiled, will
you, and the table all ready--and I'll try for the clams."
"They won't like 'em."
"Can't help that."
"And what am I going to do with Mr. Sears?"
"Give him his supper of course."
"Along with all the others?"
"You must. You cannot set two tables."
"There's aunt Anne!" exclaimed Charity; and in the next minute aunt
Anne came round to them by the front steps; for each half of the
bathing-house had its own door of approach, as well as a door of
communication. Mrs. Marx came in, surveyed Lois, and heard Charity's
statement.
"These things will happen in the best regulated families," she
remarked, beginning also to loosen her dress.
"What are you going to do, aunt Anne?"
"Going after clams, with Lois. We shall want a bushel or less; and we
can't wait till the moon rises, to eat 'em."
"And how am I going to set the table with them all there?"
Mrs. Marx laughed. "I expect they're like cats in a strange garret. Set
your table just as usual, Charry; push 'em out o' the way if they get
in it. Now then, Lois!"
And, slipping down the steps and away off to the stretch of mud where
the rushes grew, two extraordinary, flannel-clad, barefooted figures,
topped with sun-bonnets and armed with hoes and baskets, were presently
seen to be very busy there about something. Charity opened the door of
communication between the two parts of the house, and surveyed the
party. Mrs. Barclay sat on the step outside, looking over the plain of
waters, with her head in her hand. Mrs. Armadale was in a
rocking-chair, just within the door, placidly knitting. Mr. and Mrs.
Lenox, somewhat further back, seemed not to know just what to do with
themselves; and Madge, holding a little aloof, met her sister's eye
with an expression of despair and doubt. Outside, at the foot of the
steps, where Mrs. Barclay sat, lounged the ox driver.
"Ben here afore?" he asked confidentially of the lady.
"Yes, once or twice. I never came in an ox cart before."
"I guess you hain't," he replied, chewing a blade of rank grass which
he had pulled for the purpose. "My judgment is we had a fust-rate
entertainment, comin' down."
"I quite agree with you."
"Now in anythin' but an ox cart, you couldn't ha' had it."
"No, not so well, certainly."
"I couldn't ha' had it, anyway, withouten we'd come so softly. I
declare, I believe them critters stepped soft o' purpose. It's better'n
a book, to hear that girl talk, now, ain't it?"
"Much better than many books."
"She's got a lot o' 'em inside her head. That beats me! She allays was
