"That will do very well for one week, Theodore; but you will not find
steady employment for the season. But this is not the strongest
objection to your plan," replied Captain Gildrock.
"I don't see what other objection there can be to the plan," said Dory,
whose heart was set on the scheme.
"Perhaps you will not be able to see it when I mention it; but I think
your mother will," continued his uncle. "If you could select your own
parties, it might do very well. Many people who indulge in boating are
fast livers. You will find that some of your customers are rough
characters. You will have a great deal of drinking in your boat, and
many men who are willing to pay five dollars a day for the boat are not
such persons as I should choose for associates of a son or a nephew of
mine."
"I never drink any liquor, beer, or any thing stronger than coffee,
uncle Royal," protested Dory. "I found half a bottle of whiskey on board
of the Goldwing yesterday morning, and I threw it into the lake."
"Your habits are good now, but it is a question whether they will
continue so if you make a business of taking out parties in your boat.
You will meet men in their gayest moods, when they lay aside all
restraint."
"But I promised the landlord of the Witherill House that I would take
out parties when he sent for me," added Dory. "I think I can take care
of myself.'
"Go in this instance, if you think you ought to do so. I am going up to
Plattsburgh in the Sylph this afternoon. I have invited the Goldwing
Club to go with me, but I suppose you will be unable to join us," said
Captain Gildrock.
"I was going to ask the members to sail down with me," replied Dory.
"Very well: they may go with you, and I will bring them back. I have a
scheme in my mind upon which I have been at work this forenoon; but, if
you have concluded to do a boating business for a living, I shall have
to give it up, at least for the present."
"Has the scheme any thing to do with me?" asked Dory, his curiosity
awakened by the remark.
"It has to do with all the members of the Goldwing Club. I have been to
see Mrs. Short and Mrs. Minkfield in regard to Richard and Cornelius.
But my plan is not yet matured, and I will not say any thing more about
it until we see how you make out boating."
"I bought the boat in order to do something to help mother," added Dory.
"I didn't give forty-two dollars for it for a plaything."
"Your mother tells me that you have done every thing you could to help
her, and have given her all the money you earned. I am very glad to hear
so good a report of you, for I have been told that you were rather wild.
The only doubt I have in regard to you now is as to where the money came
from to pay for the Goldwing."
Dory told all he felt at liberty to tell, but this did not satisfy his
uncle any more than it did his mother.
"A man doesn't give a boy over a hundred dollars without some very
strong motive; and your mother is not likely ever to know the nature of
this mysterious transaction," added the captain.
"I can't break my promise, uncle Royal," protested Dory.
"Some promises are better broken than kept."
Captain Gildrock's residence was about twenty miles up the lake on
Beaver River, where he had a large estate. Dory had never been there,
though he had seen it from the river. It was decided that Mrs. Dornwood
and Marian should go to Plattsburgh in the Sylph and then go home with
the captain, as Dory was to be away for three days.
After dinner Dory went on board of the Goldwing. He had seen and invited
the members of the Goldwing Club to go with him, and they were at the
wharf when he arrived. In a few minutes they were sailing down the
lake.
CHAPTER XXX.
CAPTAIN GILDROCK DILATES UPON HIS NOTABLE SCHEME.
The first thing Corny Minkfield did was to apologize for his conduct the
last day he had been on board of the Goldwing. He was afraid then that
Dory had been guilty of some offence which might get them all into a
scrape. The skipper accepted the apology, and they were as good friends
as ever.
"We are all invited up to Beech Hill," said Thad, when the difficulty
between the skipper and Corny had been healed.
"Where is Beech Hill?" asked Dory, who had never heard the name before.
"Don't you know the name of your uncle's place?" demanded Dick Short,
laughing.
"I never was there, and I never heard the name before."
"We are going up in the Sylph from Plattsburgh to-night. Captain
Gildrock is the bulliest man on the lake," said Nat Long.
"He has got something in his head," added Thad. "He treats us fellows
like lords."
"He asked my mother what I was going to do in the way of business; and
she told him she should get a place in a store for me as soon as I got
through school," said Corny. "You ought to have heard him talk then! He
said I was too much of a fellow to be a counter-jumper."
"What is he driving at, Corny?" asked Dory.
"I don't know: he didn't let on; but he has got something in his head."
The skipper found that his fellow-members of the club knew no more about
his scheme than he did himself. They had a very jolly time on the trip;
but the wind was light, and the Goldwing did not arrive at her
destination until nearly dark. Dory hastened to the hotel to report to
the landlord, who was very glad to see him.
"I am glad you have come; for there is a gentleman in the house who is
very anxious to see you, Dory," said the hotel-keeper.
"Who is it, sir?"
"It is Pearl Hawlinshed's father. When he heard that his son was in
trouble, he hastened back."
Dory remembered that he had a secret to keep; and he said nothing,
expressing no interest by word or look in the arrival of Mr. Hawlinshed.
He asked about the party he was to take out the next morning, and
learned that it consisted of two young men from New-York City. They came
in while he was at the counter, and he was introduced to them. They
appeared to be very gentlemanly young men, and treated the skipper very
politely.
After they had talked a while about the trip, they expressed a desire to
see the boat; and Dory went with them to the wharf. They were pleased
with the Goldwing, and directed Dory to procure the provisions and other
supplies for the cruise. They gave him a list of what they wanted, and
Dory could not help thinking of what his uncle said when he found "one
gallon of best Bourbon whiskey" among the articles to be procured.
On the other side of the wharf was the Sylph. The young men from New
York manifested a great deal of interest in the magnificent craft, and
wanted to see more of her. But visitors were not allowed on board, for
her owner said he should as soon think of strangers coming into his
house as into his yacht without an invitation. While the young men were
regretting that they could not see more of the beautiful craft, Captain
Gildrock, with Dory's mother and sister, came down. At his nephew's
request he invited the New Yorkers on board.
Dory had never put his foot on board of the Sylph before, and he was
quite as much interested as his passengers. Mr. Jepson was directed to
show them through the yacht; but, after they had looked into the
engine-room, Mr. Hawlinshed came down the wharf in search of Dory, who
was obliged to postpone his examination until another time.
