I might so easily take the right of deciding her child's 
future, I do not want to feel that we hastened any change 
in her. If she does care for you, your absence will help 
her to find it out. She will contrast others with you, and 
for this cause, as well as more personal ones, I want your 
standard kept high and pure. Take the noblest, manliest 
view of it, my dear son. Think of her for the next two 
or three years, perhaps, living upon your letters, exaggerating, no doubt, the dangers to which you may be ex- 
posed, never feeling that she has the right to be quite care 
free, denying herself many innocent pleasures through what 
she considers her duty to you. Do you not see that it 
would eat the heart and the sweetness out of girlhood ? " 
The young man was silent a moment, then he rose 
suddenly. 
' ' You think it would be selfish in me, I know you do ; 
and it is." 
There was a new resolution visible in every feature, as 
he stood in the (tying light by the western window. It 
was a noble face, full of health and energy, and a certain 
integrity that would command respect anywhere. 
"I had not looked at it in that light before; I was 
thinking of myself and the fear of losing her. You will 
guard her for me ? " And his tone was full of tender en- 
treaty. 
A softened commendation shone in the father's eyes, as 
he crossed to his son, and Bruce, linking his arm in that of 
the other, resumed the slow pacing with him. 
" I will do my best, but," with a fond smile, " I do not 
think she will require much guarding. And I need not ask 
you to keep honorable in thought, word, and deed for her 
sake. You have passed through some of the perils of 
early manhood unscathed ; but in the frontier life, to which 
you are going, there will be new temptations, and, not the 
least, the subtle ennui of idleness. O my boy, I should 
like to keep you with me always ! " 
Bruce pressed the hand he was holding to his lips. To 
the boy his father had been the ideal of all that was noble 
and worthy of admiration. The strain and peril of all 
those years of civil war had given his soul a larger growth 
than the tranquil times of peace. 
It gratifies us to see our sons and daughters taking 
their places in the great world, and yet it brings a pang of 
sadness. They can only be children of memory, and the 
after-friendship must be largely their own gift. We have 
been more than ordinarily near and dear, and, Bruce, it 
pains me to refuse you ; but I have tried to keep to the 
highest right and sense of honor." 
" I am not sure but it will be a better discipline for me 
if it has a little bitter flavor. It is something to strive 
for, to win. I shall try to make myself worthy of her, 
and to keep the respect and esteem of all whom I love. 
You will not blame me for placing her first?" 
'' I hold that a man has as good a right to strive ear- 
nestly for the woman he loves as for any other great prize 
of life ; and often an aim of this kind is the best incentive 
for a young man, since out of it springs the wider duties 
of life and citizenship." 
' ' It has been such a happy year ! ' ' Bruce said in a tone 
of lingering enjoyment. " I ought to be the more ready 
to go back after such a grand holiday ; but there seems 
so little that is heroic in frontier life, so little to do, con- 
trasted with the stirring years of the past. It is only the 
steady tramp, now." 
" That all the good the past has had 
Kemains to make our own life glad, 
Our common, daily life divine, 
And every land a Palestine,' " 
repeated his father. 
" Brave, gentle Whittier," rejoined Bruce. " I will tiy 
to remember that among the many noble truths he has 
sung." 
'' We are so apt to think our own times prosaic ; but 
occasionally the victories of peace are greater to a nation 
than those of war. Heroes are often called into being by 
the emergency of the hour, and there is an inspiration in 
being called upon to perform a great deed ; but it often 
takes more real strength and principle to fulfil the daily 
duties that are demanded of every human being, both by 
God and his neighbor." 
Bruce was silent : he had fallen into a revery. He had 
enjoyed being at West Point, and the prestige of his 
father's name had given him a leaning toward military 
life, yet he wondered if he would make the same choice 
now. He had no right to shirk : he owed his country 
her meed of service, even if it was guarding a frontier out- 
post against marauding Indians and affording protection 
to travelling traders. He had come to dream of home 
life, of daily love, of sweeter duties, and the other looked 
bald and barren. What was it he had read somewhere 
about girding one's self like a good soldier? 
" Bruce? " The elder paused, in a tone of soft, doubt- 
ful inquiry. 
' ' I was thinking of all the outtying things shall I 
call them so? Of the years to come." 
" I am glad you can look at it in that light," in a greatly 
relieved tone. " And you are not unhappy?" 
" I cannot promise that I will not be unhappy when I 
am alone by myself, but I am not as wretched as I thought 
I should be an hour ago, when you asked me to to sac- 
rifice my own desire. And yet I am just as much in love 
with Kathie ; and the horrible fear comes over me what 
if I should lose her ! At least you will let me write. My 
letters may come in yours, unsealed." 
The father's heart was deeply touched. 
" Bruce, in this matter I trust you unreservedly. And 
I think I can answer for the others, when the proper time 
comes." 
" Thank you," with a warm, earnest pressure of the 
hand. Then suddenly, " We must have lights : I hear 
them coming." 
There was a sound of footfalls and voices on the stairs, 
and before the apartment was really illumined, the door 
opened, and Mrs. Mackenzie entered with her niece. A 
certain matronly grace marked the changes the years had 
brought Aunt Ruth ; but Kathie Alston, to stranger eyes, 
would have been an undeniable young lady. A fresh, fair, 
slender girl, with the delicate complexion of her country- 
women, and a charm that was not so much beauty, per- 
haps, as the candor, grace, and purity of childhood still 
clinging about her. Certainly foreigners who met her did 
