know it. Let me pass, or I will kill you with my 
hands!" 
The words came low and distinct to his excited ear, 
like the tolling of a passing bell. Her face must have 
been dreadful to see, and Benoni was suddenly fasci 
nated and terrified at the concentrated anger that 
blazed in her blue eyes. His arm dropped to his side, 
and Hedwig passed proudly through the door, in all 
the majesty of innocence, gathering her skirts, lest 
they should touch his feet or any part of him. She 
never hastened her step as she ascended the broad 
stairs within and went to her own little sitting-room, 
made gay with books and flowers and photographs 
from Rome. Nor was her anger followed by any passionate outburst of tears. She sat herself down by 
the window and looked out, letting the cool breeze 
from the open casement fan her face. 
Hedwig, too, had passed through a violent scene 
that day, and, having conquered, she sat down to 
think over it. She reflected that Benoni had but 
 
used the same words to her which she had daily heard 
from her father's lips. False as was their accusation, 
she submitted to hearing her father speak them, for 
she had no knowledge of their import, and only 
thought him cruelly hard with her. But that a 
stranger above all, a man who aspired, or pretended 
to aspire, to her hand should attempt to usurp the 
same authority of speech was beyond all human endurance. She felt sure that her father's anger would all 
be turned against Benoni when he heard her story. 
As for what her tormentor had said of Nino, she 
could have killed him for saying it, but she knew 
that it was a lie ; for she loved Nino with all her heart, 
and no one can love wholly without trusting wholly. 
Therefore she put away the evil suggestion from 
herself, and loaded Benoni with all its burden of 
treachery. 
How long she sat by the window, compelling her 
strained thoughts into order, no one can tell. It 
might have been an hour, or more, for she had lost 
the account of the hours. She was roused by a knock 
at the door of her sitting-room, and at her bidding the 
man entered who, for the trifling consideration of 
about a thousand francs, first and last, made communication possible between Hedwig and myself. 
This man's name is Temistocle, Themistocles, no 
less. All servants are Themistocles, or Orestes, or 
Joseph, just as all gardeners are called Antonio. 
Perhaps he deserves some description. He is a type, 
short, wiry, and broad-shouldered, with a cunning eye, 
a long, hooked nose, and plentiful black whiskers, and 
coarse, closely cropped black hair. His motions are 
 
servile to the last degree, and he addresses every one 
in authority as " excellency," on the principle that it 
is better to give too much titular homage than too 
little. He is as wily as a fox, and so long as you have 
money in your pocket, as faithful as a hound and as 
silent as the grave. I perceive that these are precisely the epithets at which the baron scoffed, say 
ing that a man can be praised only by comparing him 
with the higher animals, or insulted by comparison 
with himself and his kind. We call a man a fool, an 
idiot, a coward, a liar, a traitor, and many other 
things applicable only to man himself. However, I 
will let my description stand, for it is a very good 
one ; and Temistocle could be induced, for money, 
to adapt himself to almost any description, and he 
certainly had earned, at one time or another, most of 
the titles I have enumerated. 
He told me, months afterwards, that when he 
passed through the courtyard, on his way to Hed- 
wig's apartment, he found Benoni seated on the stone 
bench, smoking a cigarette and gazing into space, 
so that he passed close before him without being 
noticed. 
 
CHAPTER XIX. 
TEMISTOCLE closed the door, then opened it again, 
and looked out, after which he finally shut it, and 
seemed satisfied. He advanced with cautious tread 
to the window where Hedwig sat. 
"Well? What have you done?" she inquired, 
without looking at him. It is a hard thing for a 
proud and noble girl to be in the power of a servant. 
The man took Nino's letter from his pocket, and 
handed it to her upon his open palm. Hedwig tried 
hard to take it with indifference, but she acknowledges that her fingers trembled and her heart beat 
fast. 
"I was to deliver a message to your excellency, 
from the old gentleman," said Temistocle, coming 
close to her and bending down. 
" Ah ! " said Hedwig, opening the envelope. 
"Yes, excellency. He desired me to say that it 
was absolutely and most indubitably necessary that 
your excellency should be at the little door to-night 
at twelve o clock. Do not fear, Signora Contessina ; 
we can manage it very well." 
"I do not wish to know what you advise me to 
fear, or not to fear," answered Hedwig, haughtily ; 
for she could not bear to feel that the man should 
counsel her or encourage her. 
 
"Pardon, excellency ; I thought" began Temistocle humbly ; but Hedwig interrupted him. 
" Temistocle," she said, "I have no money to give 
you, as I told you yesterday. But here is another 
stone, like the first. Take it, and arrange this 
matter as best you can." 
Temistocle took the jewel and bowed to the ground, 
eyeing curiously the little case from which she had 
taken it. 
"I have thought and combined everything," he 
said. " Your excellency will see that it is best you 
should go alone to the staircase; for, as we say, a 
mouse makes less noise than a rat. When you have 
descended, lock the door at the top behind you; 
and when you reach the foot of the staircase, keep 
that door open. I shall have brought the old gentleman, by that time, and you will let me in. I shall 
go out by the great gate." 
"Why not go with me?" inquired Hedwig. 
"Because, your excellency, one person is less 
likely to be seen than two. Your excellency will 
let me pass you. I will mount the staircase, unlock 
