a powerful impression:
“I know old Abe,” said the Senator, “and I tell you there is not, at
this hour, a more patriotic or a truer man living than that man Abraham
Lincoln. Some say he is an imbecile; but he not only held his own in his
debates with Douglas, whose power is admitted, and whom I considered the
ablest intellect in the United States Senate, but got a little the
better of him. He has been deliberate and slow, but when he puts his
foot down it is with the determination and certainty with which our
generals take their steps; and, like them, when he takes a city he never
gives it up. This firm old man is noble and kind-hearted. He is a child
of the people. Go to him with a story of woe, and he will weep like a
child. This man so condemned works more hours than any President that
ever occupied the chair. His solicitude for the public welfare is
never-ceasing. I differed from him at first myself, but at last felt and
believed that he was right, and shall vote for this brave, true,
patriotic, kind-hearted man. All his faults and mistakes you have seen;
all his virtues you never can know. His patience in labor is wonderful.
He works far harder than any man in Erie County. At the head of this
great nation--look at it! He has all the bills to sign passed by
Congress. No one can be appointed to any office without his approval.
No one can be punished without the judgment receives his signature, and
no one pardoned without his hand. This man--always right, always
just--we propose to re-elect now to the Presidency.”
CHAPTER XXXI.
THE SPEECH AT GETTYSBURG.
One of the most important and critical battles of the Civil War took
place on the soil of Pennsylvania. The battle of Gettysburg commenced on
the 1st day of July, 1863, and lasted for three days. The invasion of
Pennsylvania by Lee’s forces was a bold turning of the tables upon the
Federal forces, but fortunately they had a brave, cool, and skillful
commander in General Meade, who beat back the Confederates with terrible
loss.
It is needless to say that excitement, amounting to panic, prevailed
throughout the North. Had Lee been successful in his bold movement, he
would probably have continued his victories through the State, and
menaced more than one Northern city. The danger was averted, but the
victory was won at large cost. The Federal loss in dead, wounded, and
missing amounted to twenty-three thousand, though considerably less than
the losses on the other side. A piece of land adjoining the cemetery of
the town was given by the State as a last resting-place for the loyal
soldiers who had fallen in the battle, and on the 19th of November it
was dedicated. Two addresses were made--one by Hon. Edward Everett,
which was not unworthy of the eminent Massachusetts orator; but the
second, though brief, was a gem which will live longer than the stately
periods of Everett. It was by President Lincoln himself, and surprised
even those who best appreciated him. There are few of my readers to whom
it is not familiar, but I can not deny myself the pleasure of recording
it here:
“Four score and seven years ago,” said Mr. Lincoln, “our fathers brought
forth upon this continent a new nation, conceived in liberty, and
dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. Now we are
engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation
so conceived and so dedicated, can long endure. We are met on a great
battle-field of that war. We have come to dedicate a portion of that
field as a final resting-place for those who here gave their lives that
that nation might live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we
should do this. But in a larger sense we can not dedicate, we can not
consecrate, we can not hallow this ground. The brave men, living and
dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it far above our power to add
or detract. The world will little note, nor long remember, what we say
here; but it can never forget what they did here. It is for us, the
living, rather to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they
who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is rather for us to
be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us, that from these
honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they
gave the last full measure of devotion; that we here highly resolve that
these dead shall not have died in vain; that this nation, under God,
shall have a new birth of freedom, and that the government of the
people, by the people, and for the people shall not perish from the
earth.”
Is there anything to be found in the addresses of any orator, ancient or
modern, more elevated in sentiment or admirable in expression? Yet the
speaker had been reared in the backwoods, a stranger to schools and
colleges, and his eloquence was neither acquired nor inherited. This
speech alone proclaims Abraham Lincoln a man of genius.
CHAPTER XXXII.
THE CURTAIN FALLS.
An Oriental monarch, fearing that in the plenitude of his power he might
forget the common fate, engaged a trusted attendant from time to time to
remind him of his mortality.
Abraham Lincoln needed no such reminder. Before his first inauguration,
and at intervals during his official life, he received frequent
threatening letters, menacing him with death. These he kept in a package
by themselves. Though he never permitted them to influence his action,
they had their natural effect upon a mind and temperament subject to
despondency, and not free from superstition. Mr. Lincoln had a strong
impression that he would not live through his term of office. When,
however, he was inaugurated for a second time, amid the plaudits of the
nation, and the clouds of civil war seemed lifting to reveal a brighter
future, his spirits, too, became buoyant, and he permitted himself to
believe that all would end well, and he would be permitted to reconcile
the disaffected States, and bring them back into the national fold. His
heart was full of tenderness and magnanimity toward the States in
rebellion. His large heart was incapable of harboring malice, or
thirsting for revenge.
But he was only to come in sight of the Promised Land. It was for
another leader to finish his weary and protracted task, and reap where
he had sown.
On the evening of the fourteenth of April, 1865, President Lincoln and
wife with two friends occupied a box at Ford’s Theatre, by invitation of
the manager, to witness a performance of Tom Taylor’s “American Cousin.”
They arrived late, and their entrance was greeted with enthusiasm, the
large audience rising to their feet and cheering.
Not long afterward, John Wilkes Booth, a young actor, who, throughout
the war, had made no secret of his sympathy with the Confederate cause,
entered the theatre, and, not without difficulty, made his way through
the crowded dress circle to the back of the box in which the President’s
party were seated.
“The President has sent for me,” he said to the servant, showing his
card, and thus he gained admission.
Standing in the door-way, after a hasty glance at the interior, he took
a small Derringer pistol in one hand, holding at the same time a
double-edged dagger in the other, he aimed deliberately at Mr. Lincoln,
who sat in an arm-chair, with his back to him. There was a quick report,
and the fatal bullet had entered Mr. Lincoln’s brain. Major Rathbone,
the only other gentleman present in the box, quickly comprehending the
truth, tried to seize the assassin, but he was too quick for him.
Striking at him with his dagger, he sprang to the front of the box,
leaped upon the stage, crying in a theatrical tone, “Sic semper
tyrannis!” and “The South is avenged!” and, favored by his knowledge of
