other side. It would do no harm even then, unless it was the mainsail,
and the boom hit you on the head.
“Then, if you should let her come a quarter way around, you would have
her in that ugly position with the wind at right angles with the
sails, and she would upset. With as much wind as there is to-day, she
will go over every time you put her into chancery; and it won’t be her
fault either.”
Oscar soon got used to the motion and the erratic gyrations of the
boat, and then he enjoyed it. He had been told to steer for a tree on
a hill, and he kept the course remarkably well for a beginner. The
Goldwing had gone two miles in a little over ten minutes, and the
shoal-water of Field’s Bay was ahead of her.
“We must haul up a little, or we shall get aground,” said Dory. “As we
are going squarely before the wind, there is no up or down about it;
and you must put the helm to starboard. But we will do it without
making any sensation,” he added, as he cast off the main-sheet. “The
foresail will pop over to the other side, and do it with a rush. Now,
starboard, very slowly.”
Dory let out the main-sheet, so that the sail did not draw full. Over
went the foresail with a rush.
“Steady! That is, keep her as she is.” Relieved of a portion of the
pressure on the mainsail, she did not heel over much under the shock.
Dory was about to ask Oscar how he would come about, when a tremendous
yell came up the lake from the other students.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
THE UPSETTING OF THE MONKEY, AND ITS LESSON.
“The Monkey has upset!” exclaimed Dory, considerably excited by the
catastrophe.
“You had better take the helm, Dory, for we can’t wait to make any
mistakes,” added Oscar, as he gave the tiller to the skipper.
“Bolly is determined to drown himself, and he will do it if he keeps
on trying. I did not think he had pluck enough to go out in a sailboat
again without a skipper.”
“But the rowboats are all around him, and they are all pulling towards
the Monkey,” continued Oscar. “But that sailboat don’t sink, as you
say the other did.”
“Perhaps she has not ballast enough to carry her down. She is lying
flat on her side, and the fellows that were in her are clinging to
her. They are safe for a while if they will only hold on,” said the
skipper of the Goldwing when he had taken in the situation.
The Goldwing was within five hundred feet of the Monkey when the
latter went over; and, before any of the rowboats reached the wreck,
the schooner was alongside of her. The skipper had taken in the
foresail; and, as she rounded-to, Oscar let go the jib-halyard, and
Dory lowered the mainsail. With the boat-hook Oscar got hold of the
wreck, and the schooner was hauled alongside.
Bolly, Steve Baxter, and Phil Gawner were helped into the Goldwing.
All three of them were thoroughly frightened, but were not otherwise
damaged.
“Who was the skipper of this boat?” asked Dory.
“Bolly; and he said he knew how to sail a boat, or we should not have
come out with him,” replied Phil.
“Can you skipper a boat, Bolly?” said Dory, turning to Bolly.
“I thought I could,” answered Bolly sheepishly.
“You thought so last Friday, when you let that steam-launch run into
you.”
“But since that I have watched you, and I was sure I could do it,”
pleaded Bolly.
“I don’t think you know any more about it now than you did then. I
told Oscar you would upset the boat when I first saw her come out of
the river. I don’t believe you will ever be hanged. If you are going
to keep doing this thing, you had better learn to swim,” added the
skipper of the Goldwing.
“I won’t try it again: there is something about sailing a boat that I
don’t understand,” replied Bolly.
“A good deal that you don’t understand; and, if you want to commit
suicide, you had better keep on sailing a boat. You will finish the
job one of these days. It is lucky this boat did not sink, like the
other. If she had, some of you might have been drowned. As it is, we
must get her up, and bail her out.”
“If you will tell us how, we will do all the work,” added Bolly.
By this time the four-oar boat came up. Corny Minkfield was acting as
coxswain, in the absence of Dory. Dick Short was not in the boat, and
Dave Windsor and John Brattle pulled the two after-oars.
“Where is Dick Short?” asked Dory.
“Mr. Brookbine would not let him come. He said he must learn the lesson
he lost while he was up a tree,” replied Corny. “We have got two
greenhorns in the boat, and we can’t row worth a cent.”
“No need of telling of it, for any one could see it a mile off,”
laughed Dory.
“Corny wants to do all the ordering while we do all the work,” added
Dave Windsor. “When he is appointed boss we will mind him.”
“Just as you like. There is Captain Gildrock on the point watching us,
and I don’t believe he will let any of you fellows out in a boat again
till you learn how to handle one. But we must put the Monkey in shape,
and take her up the river: Sim Green don’t want to lose another boat
just yet.”
Dory fastened a line to the mast-head of the Monkey. As the boat had
gone over on the port side, he moved the Goldwing to the opposite
side. But pulling on this line would only move the boat in the water
without righting her.
Making another line fast to the middle of the inside of the wreck, he
passed it over the side out of the water, and then drew it under the
keel, carrying the rope out beyond the mast-head. The end of the line
was then made fast to the stern of Corny’s boat, whose crew were
directed to pull with all their might when the word was given.
Dory then climbed to the foremast-head of the Goldwing, with the other
line tied around his body. From this elevated position he could pull
up from the fallen mast of the Monkey. He gave the word to Corny to
pull, and the boat yanked away at the line; but the crew pulled so
badly that they did not exert any great force.
The skipper passed his line over the spring-stay of the schooner, so
that Oscar could keep what he got. When he pulled at the rope, greatly
to his delight, and somewhat to his astonishment, the mast of the
wreck began to rise, and the hull began to right. After it had been
elevated a few feet, it was easy work; and the Monkey was soon right
side up. The rowers gave a smart cheer when the work was accomplished.
Bolly and his companions timidly returned to the Monkey. All the
buckets and dippers that both boats contained were in demand, and she
was soon free of water. The lines were cast off, and both sailboats
were ready to return to Beech Lake. Phil and John Brattle positively
refused to sail with Bolly again, and the late skipper of the Monkey
had his doubts about attempting to get the boat into the river without
upsetting her.
“I can do it,” suggested Oscar.
“I have no doubt you can, Oscar, and you may do it,” replied Dory.
“You will have the wind fair all the way.”
Oscar took his place in the Monkey, which he soon found was not such a
craft as the Goldwing. He trimmed the sail, and got under way without
making any mistakes. He had the wind on the beam, and he let out the
