lullaby. When he raised himself she pushed him back 
and said that the baby must finish its nap. " But I want 
to see the gentleman with the fiend inside of him," said 
Rowland. 
"What is a fiend?" Bessie demanded. "It 's only 
Mr. Hudson." 
" Very well, I want to see him." 
" Oh, never mind him !" said Bessie, with the brevity 
of contempt. 
 
"You speak as if you didn't like him." 
"I don't !" Bessie affirmed, putting Rowland to bed 
again. 
The hammock was swung at the end of the verandah, 
in the thickest shade of the climbing plants, and this 
fragment of dialogue had passed unnoticed. Rowland 
submitted a while longer to be cradled, and contented 
himself with listening to Mr. Hudson 's voice. It was a 
soft and not altogether masculine organ, and was pitched 
on this occasion in a somewhat plaintive and pettish key. 
The young man 's mood seemed fretful ; he complained of 
the heat, of the dust, of a shoe that hurt him, of having 
gone on an errand a mile to the other side of the town 
and found the person he was in search of had left Northampton an hour before. 
"Won't you have a cup of tea?" Cecilia asked. 
" Perhaps that will restore your equanimity." 
"Ay, by keeping me awake all night !" said Hudson. 
"At the best, to go down to the office is like getting 
into a bath with the water frozen. With my nerves set 
on edge by a sleepless night I should sit and shiver at 
home. That 's always charming for my mother." 
" Your mother is well, I hope ?" 
"Oh, she 's as usual." 
"And Miss Garland?" 
"She 's as usual too. Every one, everything, is as 
usual. Nothing ever happens in this benighted town." 
"I beg your pardon ; things do happen sometimes," 
said Cecilia. "Here is a dear cousin of mine arrived 
on purpose to congratulate you on your statuette." And 
she called to Rowland to come and be introduced to Mr. 
Hudson. The young man sprang up with alacrity, and 
Rowland, coming forward to shake hands, had a good 
look at him in the light projected from the parlour window. Something seemed to shine out of Hudson 's face 
as a warning against a " compliment " of the idle unpondered sort. 
"Your statuette seems to me very good," Rowland 
said, gravely. " It has given me extreme pleasure." 
"And my cousin knows what is good," said Cecilia. 
" He is a connoisseur." 
Hudson smiled and stared. "A connoisseur?" he 
cried, laughing. " He is the first I have ever seen ! 
Let me see what they look like ;" and he drew Rowland 
nearer to the light. "Have they all such good heads 
as that ? I should like to model yours. " 
" Pray, do," said Cecilia. " It will keep him a while. 
He is running off to Europe." 
"Ah, to Europe !" Hudson exclaimed, with a melan 
choly cadence as they sat down. " Happy man !" 
But the note seemed to Rowland to be struck rather 
at random, for he perceived no echo of it in the boyish 
garrulity of his later talk. Hudson was a tall slender 
young fellow, with a singularly mobile and intelligent 
face. Rowland was struck at first only with its responsive vivacity, but in a short time he perceived it was 
remarkably handsome. The features were admirably 
chiselled and finished, and a frank smile played over 
them as gracefully as a breeze among flowers. The fault 
of the young man 's whole structure was an excessive 
want of breadth. The forehead, though it was high and 
rounded, was narrow ; the jaw and the shoulders were 
narrow, and the result was an air of insufficient physical 
substance. But Mallet afterwards learned that this fair 
slim youth could draw indefinitely upon a fund of nervous 
force which outlasted and outwearied the endurance of 
many a sturdier temperament. And certainly there was 
life enough in his eye to furnish an immortality ! It was 
a generous dark gray eye, in which there came and went 
a sort of kindling glow which would have made a ruder 
visage striking, and which gave at times to Hudson 's 
harmonious face an altogether extraordinary beauty. 
There was to Rowland 's sympathetic sense a slightly 
pitiful disparity between the young sculptor 's delicate 
 
countenance and the shabby gentility of his costume. 
He was dressed for a rural visit a visit to a pretty 
woman. He was clad from head to foot in a white linen 
suit, which had never been remarkable for the felicity of 
its cut, and had now quite lost its vivifying and redeeming 
crispness. He wore a bright red cravat, passed through 
a ring altogether too splendid to be valuable ; he pulled 
and twisted, as he sat, a pair of yellow kid gloves ; 
he emphasised his conversation with great dashes and 
flourishes of a light silver-tipped walking-stick, and he 
kept constantly taking off and putting on one of those 
slouched sombreros which are the traditional property of 
the Virginian or Carolinian of romance. When his hat 
was on he was veiy picturesque, in spite of his mock 
elegance ; and when it was off and he sat nursing it and 
turning it about and not knowing what to do with it, he 
could hardly be said to be awkward. He evidently had 
a natural relish for brilliant accessories, and he appropriated what came to his hand. This was visible in his 
talk, which abounded in the florid and sonorous. In 
conversation he was a colourist. 
Rowland, who was but a moderate talker, sat by in 
silence, while Cecilia, who had told him that she desired 
his opinion upon her friend, used a good deal of characteristic finesse in leading the young man to disclose him 
self. She perfectly succeeded, and Hudson rattled away 
for an hour with a volubility in which boyish unconsciousness and manly shrewdness were singularly combined. 
He gave his opinion on twenty topics, he opened up an 
endless budget of local gossip, he described his repulsive routine at the office of Messrs. Striker and Spooner, 
counsellors at law, and he gave with great felicity and 
gusto an account of the annual boat race between Harvard 
and Yale, which he had lately witnessed at Worcester. 
He had looked at the straining oarsmen and the swaying 
crowd with the eye of the sculptor. Rowland was a 
good deal amused, and not a little interested. Whenever Hudson uttered some peculiarly striking piece of 
youthful grandiloquence, Cecilia broke into a long, light, 
familiar laugh. 
"What are you laughing at?" the young man then 
demanded. " Have I said anything so ridiculous?" 
"Go on, go on," Cecilia replied. "You are too 
delicious ! Show Mr. Mallet how Mr. Striker read the 
