into his face.
"Yes," answered Madam Carroll, simply.
"You did not know then that I felt as far as possible from being a
stranger? That I wished--that I have tried--"
"That is later; I was coming to that. Yes--since I have known that you
cared so much for her (though I knew it long ago!)--since you have
spoken, rather, I have felt that I wished to tell you, that I would
gladly tell you, as soon as I could. The time has come, and it came
earlier than I expected, though I knew it could not be long delayed. I
have taken the earliest hour."
"Then she--then Miss Carroll told you that I--that I had spoken?" said
Owen.
"She told me because I asked her, pressed her. I knew that you had been
here--a week ago, wasn't it?--I had caught a glimpse of your face as you
left the house. And so I asked her. She is very reticent, very proud;
she would never have told me, in spite of my asking, if her wish to
show me that I had been mistaken in something I had said to her long
before had not been stronger even than her reserve."
"What was it that you were mistaken in?" said Owen, quickly.
"I was not mistaken. But she wished to prove to me that I was. I had
told her in October that she cared for you, and that she had made the
greatest sacrifice a woman could make in voluntarily lowering herself in
your eyes by allowing you to suppose--to suppose what you did."
"You were mistaken, after all, Madam Carroll," said Owen, sadly. "She
cares nothing for me."
"Men are dull," answered the mistress of the Farms, wearily. "They have
to have everything explained to them. Don't you see that it was
inevitable that she should refuse you? As things stood--as you let them
stand--she could not stoop to any other course. She knew that you
believed that she had cared for--for Louis Dupont" (Madam Carroll's face
had here a strange, set sternness, but her soft voice went on
unchanged), "and she knew your opinion of him. She knew, moreover, that
you believed it clandestine, that she had not dared to tell her father.
For you to come, then, at this late day, believing all this, and tell
her that you loved her--that seemed to her an insult. Your tone was, I
presume (if not your words), that you loved her in spite of all."
"Yes," Owen answered. "For that was my feeling. I did love her in spite
of all. I had fought against it. I had thought--I don't know what. But
it was over; whatever it had been it was ended forever, and my love had
conquered. I knew that very well!"
"And you told her so, I suppose--'I love you in spite of all'--when you
should have said 'I love you; and it never existed.'"
"But had she not told me with her own lips that it did exist, that she
was engaged to him?"
"You should not have believed her own lips; you should have risen above
that. You should have told her to her face that you did not believe, and
never would believe, anything that was, or even seemed to be, against
her. I see you know very little about women. You will have to learn. I
am taking all this pains for you because I want her to be happy. Her
nature is a very noble one, in spite of an overweight of pride. She
could not explain to you, even at that time, without betraying me, and
that she would never do. But I doubt whether she would have explained in
any case; it would have been doing too much for you."
"All she did was done for her father," said Owen; "and it was the same
with you, Madam Carroll. Seldom has man been so loved. My place with her
will be but a second one."
"That should content you."
"Ah, you do not like me, though you try to help me," cried the young
man. "But give me time, Madam Carroll; give me time."
"To make me like you? Take as much as you please. But do not take it
with Sara."
"I shall take five minutes," Owen answered. Then he lifted her hand to
his lips. "Forgive me for thinking of my own happiness," he said, with
the gentlest respect.
"I like you to think of it; it gives me pleasure. And now I must come to
my second reason for telling you. You remember I said that there were
two. This is something which even Sara does not know--I would not give
her any of that burden; she could not help me, and she had enough to
bear. She could not help me; but now you can. It is something I want you
to do for me. It could not be done before, it could not be done until
the Major became as he is at present. No one now living knows; still, as
you are to be one of us, I should like to have you do it for me."
And then she told him.
CHAPTER IX.
On Easter Sunday morning Far Edgerley people woke to find their village
robed in blossoms; in one night the fruit trees had burst into bloom, so
that all the knolls and Edgerley Street itself stood in bridal array,
and walking to church was like taking part in a beautiful procession.
Nearly a month had passed since the Major's attack; but all his old
friends in the congregation of St. John's missed him more than ever on
this Easter morning. Sara and Scar were in the Carroll pew at the head
of the aisle; but it looked very empty, nevertheless. During this month
there had not been much change in the Major, save that for two weeks
after the doctor's decision he had not been so well; restlessness had
troubled him. But for the preceding few days he had been much better,
and every one was cheered by this; every one was interested in hearing
that he had talked quite at length with his wife on simple local
subjects, that he enjoyed little things, and thought about them. He
lived entirely in the present, the present of the passing moment;
everything in the past he had forgotten, and he speedily forgot the
moment itself as soon as it was gone. What his wife said to him he
understood, and he always knew when she was near, though his blind eyes
could not see her; he felt for a fold of her dress or the ruffle of her
sleeve, and held it; the sense of touch had taken the place of the
vanished sight. He listened for Scar's voice too, and seemed to like to
have him in the room, to hold the child's hand in his. In the same way
he always smiled and was pleased when Sara spoke to him.
When the morning service was over, every one waited to ask how the Major
was on this lovely Easter Sunday. Lately they had come to like his
daughter far better than they had liked her at first; they said she
talked more, that she was not so cold. Certainly there was nothing cold
in her face, but a beautiful sweetness, as she rose from her knees and,
taking Scar's hand, turned to go down the aisle. She answered their
questions on the steps and in the church-yard. For on Easter morning Far
Edgerley people always brought many flowers to church; then, after
service, they took them out and laid them upon all the graves, so that,
as Scar once said, "they could have their Easter Sunday too." Every
mound had its blossoms to-day, and there were many upon the grave of
the young stranger, Louis Dupont; this was because there was no one,
they said, to remember him. So they all remembered him.
A little before sunset Frederick Owen, having officiated at the Easter
service of the Sunday-school and at one of his mission stations, was on
his way to Carroll Farms. As he came up Carroll Lane and crossed the
little bridge over the brook, he saw that there was more bloom here than
anywhere else in all the blooming town. For the whole orchard was out
behind the house, and all the flowering almonds in front of it; the old
stone walls rose close pressed in blossoms. Sara opened the door before
he had time to knock. "I was watching for you," she said. "Judith Inches
and Caleb have gone up the mountain to see their mother, as they always
do on Easter afternoon, and they have taken Scar."
