because the latter "never talked," and would not always answer
questions. So she came to the conclusion that Barker only suspected
something, because the Doctor had not been with her during the day. And
so she laughed, and Claudius laughed, and they were well satisfied to
pay their social obolus in a little well-bred and well-assumed hilarity.
So the dinner progressed, in spite of the rolling and pitching; for
there was a good deal of both, as the sea ran diagonally to the course,
breaking on the starboard quarter. They had reached the dessert, and two
at least of the party were congratulating themselves on the happy
termination of the meal, when, just as the Duke was speaking, there was
a heavy lurch, and a tremendous sea broke over their heads. Then came a
fearful whirring sound that shook through every plate and timber and
bulkhead, like the sudden running down of mammoth clock-work, lasting
some twenty seconds; then everything was quiet again save the sea, and
the yacht rolled heavily to and fro.
Every one knew that there had been a serious accident, but no one moved
from the table. The Duke sat like a rock in his place and finished what
he was saying, though no one noticed it. Miss Skeat clutched her silver
fruit-knife till her knuckles shone again, and she set her teeth. Mr.
Barker, who had a glass of wine in the "fiddle" before him, took it out
when the sea struck and held it up steadily to save it from being
spilled; and Lady Victoria, who was not the least ashamed of being
startled, cried out--
"Goodness gracious!" and then sat holding to the table and looking at
her brother.
Margaret and Claudius were sitting next each other on one side of the
table. By one of those strange, sympathetic instincts, that only
manifest themselves in moments of great danger, they did the same thing
at the same moment. Claudius put out his left hand and Margaret her
right, and those two hands met just below the table and clasped each
other, and in that instant each turned round to the other and looked the
other in the face. What that look told man knoweth not, but for one
instant there was nothing in the world for Margaret but Claudius. As for
him, poor man, he had long known that she was the whole world to him,
his life and his death.
It was very short, and Margaret quickly withdrew her hand and looked
away. The Duke was the first to speak.
"I do not think it is anything very serious," said he. "If you will all
sit still, I will go and see what is the matter." He rose and left the
saloon.
"I don't fancy there is any cause for anxiety," said Barker. "There has
probably been some slight accident to the machinery, and we shall be off
again in an hour. I think we ought to compliment the ladies on the
courage they have shown; it is perfectly wonderful." And Mr. Barker
smiled gently round the table. Lady Victoria was palpably scared and
Miss Skeat was silent. As for Margaret, she was confused and troubled.
The accident of her seizing Claudius's hand, as she had done, was a
thousand times more serious than any accident to the ship. The Doctor
could not help stealing a glance at her, but he chimed in with Barker in
praising the coolness of all three ladies. Presently the Duke came back.
He had been forward by a passage that led between decks to the
engine-room, where he had met the captain. The party felt reassured as
the ruddy face of their host appeared in the doorway.
"There is nothing to fear," he said cheerfully. "But it is a horrid
nuisance, all the same."
"Tell us all about it," said Lady Victoria.
"Well--we have lost our means of locomotion. We have carried away our
propeller."
"What are you going to do about it?" asked Barker.
"Do? There is nothing to be done. We must sail for it. I am dreadfully
sorry."
"It is not your fault," said Claudius.
"Well, I suppose not. It happens even to big steamers."
"And shall we sail all the way to New York?" asked his sister, who was
completely reassured. "I think it will be lovely." Miss Skeat also
thought sailing much more poetic than steaming.
"I think we must hold a council of war," said the master. "Let us put it
to the vote. Shall we make for Bermuda, which is actually nearer, but
which is four or five days' from New York, or shall we go straight and
take our chance of a fair wind?"
"If you are equally willing to do both, why not let the ladies decide?"
suggested Barker.
"Oh no," broke in the Countess, "it will be much more amusing to vote.
We will write on slips of paper and put them in a bag."
"As there are five of you I will not vote," said the Duke, "for we might
be three on a side, you know."
So they voted, and there were three votes for New York and two for
Bermuda.
"New York has it," said the Duke, who counted, "and I am glad, on the
whole, for it is Sturleson's advice." Barker had voted for New York, and
he wondered who the two could have been who wanted to go to Bermuda.
Probably Miss Skeat and Lady Victoria. Had the Countess suspected that
those two would choose the longer journey and out-vote her, if the
decision were left to the ladies?
Meanwhile there had been heavy tramping of feet on the deck, as the men
trimmed the sails. She could only go under double-reefed trysails and
fore-staysail for the present, and it was no joke to keep her head up
while the reefs were taken in. It was blowing considerably more than
half a gale of wind, and the sea was very heavy. Soon, however, the
effect of the sails made itself felt; the yacht was a good sea-boat, and
when she fairly heeled over on the port-tack and began to cut the waves
again, the ladies downstairs agreed that sailing was much pleasanter and
steadier than steam, and that the next time they crossed in a yacht they
would like to sail all the way. But in spite of their courage, and
notwithstanding that they were greatly reassured by the explanations of
Mr. Barker, who made the nature of the accident quite clear to them,
they had been badly shaken, and soon retired to their respective
staterooms. In the small confusion of getting to their feet to leave the
cabin it chanced that Claudius found himself helping Margaret to the
door. The recollection of her touch and look when the accident happened
was strong in him yet and gave him courage.
"Good-night, Countess," he said; "shall I have the pleasure of reading
with you to-morrow?"
"Perhaps," she answered; "if it is very fine. Fate has decreed that we
should have plenty of time." He tried to catch a glance as she left his
arm, but she would not, and they were parted for the night. Barker had
gone into the engine-room, now quiet and strange; the useless machinery
stood still as it had been stopped when the loss of the propeller,
relieving the opposition to the motor-force, allowed it to make its
last frantic revolutions. The Duke and Claudius were left alone in the
main cabin.
"Well," said the Duke, "we are in for it this time, at all events."
"We are indeed," said Claudius; "I hope the delay will not cause you any
serious inconvenience, for I suppose we shall not reach New York for a
fortnight at least."
"It will not inconvenience me at all. But I am sorry for you--for you
all, I mean," he added, fearing he had been awkward in thus addressing
Claudius directly, "because it will be so very disagreeable, such an
awful bore for you to be at sea so long."
"I have no doubt we shall survive," said the other, with a smile. "What
