lady 's suppressed mistrust of the Eternal City broke 
out passionately. " Oh, dear Mr. Mallet," she went 
on, "I am sure he has the fever, and he 's already 
delirious !" 
" I am very sure it 's not that," said Mary, softly. 
She was still looking at Rowland ; his eyes met hers 
and his own glance wandered away. This made him 
angry, and to carry off his confusion he pretended to be 
looking meditatively at the floor. After all, what had 
he to be ashamed of? For a moment he was on the 
point of making a clean breast of it, of crying out, 
"Good ladies, I abdicate ; I can't help you !" But he 
 
checked himself; he felt so impatient to have his three 
words with Christina. He grasped his hat. 
" I will see what it is !" he cried. And then he was 
glad he had not abdicated, for as he turned away he 
glanced again at Mary, and saw that, though her eyes 
were full of trouble, they were not hard and accusing, 
but charged with appealing friendship. 
He went straight to Roderick 's apartment, deeming 
this, at an early hour, the safest place to seek him. He 
found him in his sitting-room, which had been closely 
darkened to keep out the heat. The carpets and rugs 
had been removed, the floor of speckled concrete was 
bare, and lightly sprinkled with water. Here and 
there, over it, certain strongly-odorous flowers had been 
scattered. Roderick was lying on his divan in a white 
dressing-gown, staring up at the frescoed ceiling. The 
room was deliciously cool, and filled with the moist 
sweet fragrance of the circumjacent roses and violets. 
All this seemed highly fantastic, and yet Rowland hardly 
felt surprised. 
" Your mother was greatly alarmed at your note," he 
said, "and I came to satisfy myself that, as I believed, 
you are not ill." 
Roderick lay motionless except that he slightly turned 
his head towards his friend. He was smelling a large 
white rose, which he continued to present to his nose. 
In the darkness of the room he looked exceedingly pale, 
but his handsome eyes had an extraordinary brilliancy. 
He let them rest for some time on Rowland, lying there 
like a Bhuddist in an intellectual swoon, whose percep 
tion should be slowly ebbing back to temporal matters. 
"Oh, I am not ill," he said at last. "I have never 
been better." 
"Your note, nevertheless, and your absence have veiy 
naturally alarmed your mother. I advise you to go to 
her directly and reassure her." 
" Go to her ? Going to her would be worse than 
 
staying away. Staying away at present is a kindness." 
And he inhaled deeply his huge rose, looking up over it 
at Rowland. " My presence, in fact, would be indecent." 
" Indecent ? Pray explain." 
"Why, you see, as regards Mary Garland. I am 
divinely happy ! Doesn 't it strike you ? You ought to 
agree with me. You wish me to spare her feelings ; 
I spare them by staying away. Last night I heard 
something 
" I heard it too," said Rowland, with brevity. "And 
it 's in honour of this piece of news that you have taken 
to your bed in this fashion ?" 
" Extremes meet ! I can't get up for joy." 
"May I inquire how you heard your joyous news? 
from Miss Light herself?" 
"By no means. It was brought me by her maid, 
who is in my service as well." 
" Casamassima 's loss, then, is to a certainty your own 
gain?" 
"I don 't talk about certainties. I don 't want to be 
arrogant, I don 't want to offend the immortal gods. I 
am keeping very quiet, but I can't help being happy. I 
shall wait a while ; I shall bide my time." 
"And then?" 
"And then that incomparable girl will confess to me 
that when she threw overboard her Prince she remem 
bered that I adore her ! " 
" I feel bound to tell you," was in the course of a 
moment Rowland 's response to this speech, "that I am 
now on my way to Mrs. Light 's." 
"I congratulate you, I envy you!" Roderick mur 
mured, imperturbably. 
" Mrs. Light has sent for me to remonstrate -\vith her 
daughter, with whom she has taken it into her head that 
I have an influence. I don 't know to what extent I 
shall remonstrate, but I give you notice I shall not speak 
in your interest." 
 
Roderick looked at him for a moment with a lazy radi 
ance in his eyes. " Pray, don 't ! " he simply answered. 
You deserve I should tell her you are a very shabby 
fellow." 
"My dear Rowland, the comfort with you is that I 
can trust you. You are incapable of doing anything dis 
loyal." 
"You mean to lie here, then, smelling your roses and 
nursing your visions and leaving your mother and Miss 
Garland to eat their hearts out?" 
" Can I go and flaunt my felicity in their faces ? 
Wait till I get used to it a trifle. I have done them a 
villainous wrong, but I can at least forbear to add insult 
to injury. I may be an arrant fool, but for the moment I 
have taken it into my head to be prodigiously pleased. I 
shouldn 't be able to conceal it ; my pleasure would offend 
them ; so I lock myself up as a dangerous character. " 
"Well, I can only hope that your pleasure may never 
grow less or your danger greater !" 
Roderick closed his eyes again and sniffed at his rose. 
" God 's will be done !" 
On this Rowland left him and repaired directly to 
Mrs. Light 's. This afflicted lady hurried forward to 
meet him. Since the Cavaliere 's visit to Rowland she 
had taken a reef, as the saying is, in her distress, but 
she was evidently still in high agitation, and she clutched 
Rowland by his two hands as if in the shipwreck of her 
hopes he were her single floating spar. Rowland greatly 
pitied her, for there is something respectable in passion 
ate grief, even in a very bad cause ; and as pity is akin 
to love he felt rather more tolerant of her fantastic pre 
