deeds if circumstances favor it a passionate desire to 
create. The capacity for work might not be there, 
nor the power of mastering technicalities, but the 
longing was strong. 
He had been hemmed in from all intercourse with life 
outside Stratford by circumstances which he was too 
young, if not too irresolute, to overcome. There were 
 
few books at home, and all but his dear Shakespeare 
were calculated to fit a religious bent of mind What 
could have been expected ? Healthy mental growth 
was impossible for want of good food ; was it any won- 
der that the rootlets of fancy should suck the juices 
the unknown and find their way luxuriantly into 
untrodden soil ? Since he must color his thought in- 
ependently of outward suggestions, there was every 
eason that his intense nature should make the hues as 
rich and varied as possible. 
Elizabeth was never shut out from his gorgeous and 
:loud-topping palaces. Because she listened not only 
with patience to his visions, but with interest only 
second to his own, he invited her in and made her 
with himself, actor in his brilliant pageants He was 
to do, while she was to share the fruits of his work 
Sometime, as he told her, there would be a play full 
of power and pathos, to take great cities by storm, and 
lizabeth would sit beside him while he should receive 
the praises of crowded theaters. He was glad he was 
young. It could not be many y ears before the 
play would be written ; and there was a childish 
triumph m the thought that people would speak 
his youth while they wondered the more at his 
genius. 
_ Oswald's coming was something tangible as float- 
ing sea-weed from that unknown land. That some 
one spoke of theaters as places, actors as living exist- 
ces, was almost like having a dream begin to come 
To Elizabeth, the advent of the young man 
was something beyond the ordinary, though no roman- 
fancies were connected with it. But the days 
were unusually lacking of interest, that fall ; she had 
seen no faces but those with which she had been 
familiar all her life. And this was a handsome face 
that broke the monotony, at last ; one with warm brown 
hair and eyes, and a soft, youthful outline of feature. 
Whatever disagreeable characteristics he might possess, 
which no one could be expected to guess from an 
evening's acquaintance, Oswald had the exterior and 
carried the air of a fine creature ; and as such he might 
easily inspire with active pleasure a nature open to 
beautiful influences. Elizabeth, therefore, felt a 
momentary pang of disappointment when Philip 
brought the news that he was gone ; a feeling quite 
overbalanced by the boy's passionate regret. 
" I wanted to see him again, I thought he would 
stay ! " he cried. 
" I suppose he only came down for a few days' gun- 
ning," said Elizabeth. " It wouldn't be very comforta- 
ble to stay long in that bare house, you know ! ' 
" But he had just begun to talk to me about the 
things I wanted to know," mourned Philip, the pathos 
of his tone in no wise lessened by the hoarseness which 
was a reminder of his morning on the water. "I 
couldn't ask him all the questions I wanted to, then, 
but I meant to go on ; he liked to talk, I know he 
did." 
Grandmother had not deigned to notice that Philip 
had a cold ; whenever he took one in a legitimate way, 
by carrying water or wood, or sitting in the chill and 
draughty church, she harassed him with remedies ; 
but the present case was quite outside her sympathies. 
On the subject of his absence that morning she main- 
tained a silence which betrayed the state of her mind 
only too plainly. 
Philip was nursing a secret project more daring 
than he had ever seriously entertained. Oswald's few- 
words had clung to him and fixed their impression; 
he was convinced that there ought to be a founda- 
tion of reality for his dreams, and he set about the 
only practicable, as well as the hardest, method of 
obtaining it. 
Grandmother could make his vision real. It had 
grown to be a habit of thought in the house that if she 
chose to do a certain thing she would not need to be 
reminded of it, and, if she had no intention of doing it, 
a reminder would only involve unpleasant consequen- 
But now Philip would take his fate in his hand, 
and ask her to help him. 
Sunday afternoon, when the greatness of the under- 
taking had so grown upon him that his heart beat to 
suffocation whenever he thought of it, he resolved to 
speak. His mother and sister were at church, and, 
having excused himself from going out on account of 
his cold, he was, as usual, by the fire. Madam Nye 
finished her chapter and sat with her hands, those 
strong, square hands, folded in her lap as they never 
were except at the command of her creed. Her face 
was a little harder than usual, this morning. Philip 
imagined it always was, on Sunday, and wondered if it 
were because she chose to read the sternest parts of 
the Bible then, or because observance of the day was 
more effective and strictly religious if the face were a 
fit index of the heart. Perhaps if one could have 
traced her reverie, he would have found a, page of 
history in which there was one chief actor, the pale 
" Jeremiah, aged nineteen." Philip thought nothing 
of this ; he did remember Jeremiah, but only in connec- 
tion with his own cause. Here was a son who had 
been educated ; why should the grandson expect less ? 
His heart beat fast, and he saw only an indistinct 
blurr of print upon the paper he held. The stillness in 
the room was alarming, and, when he spoke, his own 
voice startled him with its strained, husky effect. 
" Grandmother, my uncle Jeremiah died when he was 
away at school, didn't he ? ' Madam Nye started. 
" The date is in the Bible, after his name," she said', 
"it's on the coffin-plate, too." 
" Was he a very good scholar ? Mother says he was 
called one of the brightest boys that ever went to the 
Academy." 
