reached the hotel, and Winthrop was to remain with them. She could not
travel far, but she could cross over to East Angels; she decided to do
that.
When she reached the house, Aunt Katrina's voice greeted her: "Oh,
Margaret! Margaret! what a horrible fright you have given me!"
Celestine, however (there were certain emergencies when Celestine did
not scruple to interrupt Aunt Katrina), appeared promptly upon the scene
from somewhere, took Margaret up in her arms as though she had been a
child, and carried her off to her bedroom.
"Oh, Miss Margaret!" she said, weeping over her one or two big tears as
she laid her down on the bed--"oh, Miss Margaret!"
"There's nothing the matter with me, Minerva, except that I am tired,"
Margaret answered.
And she did look tired; she was so exhausted that she had not laughed
over Celestine's idea of taking her up and carrying her, she was glad to
be carried.
But having shed her tears, Celestine was now the nurse again. "Don't
speak another word!" she said, peremptorily. And then, with careful
hands, she undressed Margaret and put her to bed.
At the end of the third day Margaret was able to present herself again
in Aunt Katrina's sitting-room.
"I suppose you've got to get it over some time," was Celestine's
reluctant assent.
"But how in the world, Margaret, did you ever come to go back to that
house all alone, late at night, and without letting a soul know?"
demanded Aunt Katrina, in the course of her cross-examination. "I've
tried to conceal what I thought of such a freak!"
"It was not late," Margaret answered, "it was early. I changed my mind
about sleeping at the hotel, I thought I should rather sleep in my own
house, after all; so I went back. Then when I found that Mr. Moore had
already gone to bed, early though it was, I decided not to disturb him."
"What a piece of craziness!--and to think, too, that at your age you
should have gone wandering about with matches! Well, I am glad that I
at least have no such tastes; when I say I am going to sleep in a place,
I sleep there, and you have no idea what sacrifices I have made
sometimes, when travelling, to keep my word--keep it merely to myself;
it is so much better to do what you say you're going to, and not keep
changing your mind. I can never be thankful enough that Lanse was not
there; he could never have escaped so easily as you did, poor fellow;
it really seems almost providential--his having gone off on that journey
just at that time. And as to the wandering about with matches, Margaret
(for it all comes back to that), it's an excellent rule for people who
have those manias never to allow themselves to get out of bed (until the
next morning, of course) after once they're in; now do promise me that
you will make it yours, at least as long as you are staying here;
otherwise I shall be so nervous."
"I wasn't in bed at all," said Margaret.
"A lounge is the same thing; don't quibble," said Aunt Katrina,
severely.
Here Betty, hurrying in, fell on Margaret's neck and kissed her, holding
her closely in her affectionate arms. "Oh, my dearest child! restored to
us from that dreadful danger, thank God! To think how near you
came--Oh, my dear, dear girl!" She kissed her again, and got out her
handkerchief to dry her brimming eyes. "We're going to have prayers in
the church, my dear--thanksgiving."
"What a pity it is, Betty, that you are so demonstrative! Can't you be
glad to see Margaret without boohooing? And when my head is in such a
state, too."
"I am very sorry, Kate, I'm sure," Betty answered. She sat down on the
sofa beside Margaret; as there was a table in front of her which
concealed the movement, she put out her hand furtively and took
Margaret's in hers, holding it with tenderness, and giving it every now
and then a motherly pressure. In the mean while, she talked as usual to
her dear Kate. This was not duplicity on Betty's part; on principle she
never opposed Kate now, she was such an invalid, poor thing! In her
heart lurked the conviction that if Kate would only "let her figure go,"
and be just "natural," as she (Betty) was, her health would immediately
improve. People's figures altered as they grew older, it was useless to
say they didn't; no one could retain a slim waist after forty-five; dear
Kate was over sixty,--really it was not seemly to be so girted in.
If dear Kate could have suspected these opinions, there is no doubt but
that she would have risen from her couch, figure and all, and turned her
uncinctured Elizabeth from the room.
On the fourth day Winthrop came over from the river.
Learning from Celestine that his aunt was in a fairly comfortable
condition, he had fifteen minutes of serious conversation with her; he
told the truth about Lansing Harold's relations with his wife, as well
as his relations with another person.
Aunt Katrina was greatly overcome. She cared more for Lanse than for any
one; much as she cared for him, she had always admired him even more.
She cried--really cried; her handsome face became reddened and
disfigured, and she did not think of it. "He was such a dear little
boy," she said, sobbing. Then she rallied. "If he had had another sort
of wife, he would have been different."
"That's what is always said about such men. In any case, there's nothing
gained by going back to that now."
"I think something is gained; justice is gained--justice for Lanse.
And, mark my words, Evert, Margaret Cruger has not suffered."
"Whether she has or not, she is going to leave us."
"What?" said Aunt Katrina, quickly, turning towards him her altered
countenance. He scarcely knew it, with its reddened eyes and spotted
look.
"You thought, I believe, that she was only going to be absent a short
time," he went on; "that it was merely that she wished a change. But it
was more than that; she has a plan for opening that old house of hers
near Cherry Valley, and living there."
"And me?" said Aunt Katrina, in angry amazement. "Does she cut herself
free from me in that way? In my state of health?"
"It appears so."
Aunt Katrina remained speechless. Pure dismay was now conquering every
other feeling.
"The truth is, Aunt Katrina, you have not been kind enough to Margaret,
ever."
"Kind!" ejaculated the lady.
"No. She has done everything for you for years, and you have constantly
illtreated her."
"Illtreated! Good heavens!"
"She has therefore decided--and I am not much surprised--that she would
rather have a home of her own."
"And you abet her in this?"
"Not at all, I think she had much better stay with you; I am only
explaining to you how she feels."
"I don't know that I care to understand Margaret Cruger's feelings."
"Exactly; you don't. And therefore she is going."
Aunt Katrina was evidently struggling with her own thoughts. He left her
to the contest.
At last, "Poor child!" she said, sighing, as she gently pressed a
handkerchief to different parts of her disordered countenance--"poor
child!"
Winthrop waited for further developments; he knew they would come.
