men; strong enough to shake them off when their hot 
grimy hands clutched too savagely at her ; bartering kisses 
for a tawdry gift, or as persuasion ruled ; lowering a man's 
respect and honor for his wife at home, or maddening the 
younger ones until they were ready to fight about her, — 
faugh ! she would have given anything not to have seen 
the vision, yet she knew it was best. She would not 
allow herself to ask whether Thomas Marshall had com- 
mitted any great sin, but even that kissing had discrowned 
their married love, if such a thing remained. She felt 
that he had ceased to regard her with the slightest respect. 
Sometimes he exhibited a cowardly fear of her, at others 
he was maudlin and wept profusely, blaming himself and 
declaring that he was not fit to live ; but he never reached 
the point of resolve to make himself fit for life and its 
duties once more. 
All these things had at last decided Mrs. Marshall; 
goaded her courage up to the point of applying to Aunt 
Clara for six hundred dollars, as a loan for two years, at 
lawful interest. She would not beg. Every penny should 
be paid back. If Miss Caruth could succeed, she certainly 
had as much on her side, and an indomitable energy if she 
oonld find a place to stand. 
It was true she felt quite disheartened at the very out- 
set. There were complications and questions. How much 
duty on the one side, how much on the other? Her soul 
was almost rent in twain. " Show me the way, Lord," she 
cried in her secret agony. "Point out to me the true 
path, and I will walk in it, even over thorns." But both 
paths lay pitilessly clear, — duty to husband, duty to chil- 
dren: the one love pure, sweet, clinging, unconsciously 
pleading, stretching out small, helpless hands to be saved 
from inhumanity, to be raised to its true estate, to be 
given a chance with other souls ; on the other side the 
great wrong, the secret endurance, the wounded trust, 
the rejected love and tenderness, the wasted riches, the 
womanhood poisoned and trampled into the dust, the 
light of a whole life darkened. Ah, no wonder the out- 
raged soul cried entreatingly in its anguish ! 
She saw clearly that she could expect no aid or counte- 
nance from the Marshalls. There were no relatives be- 
side Aunt Clara's family with whom she had been at all 
intimate. Clearly she could not look to relatives. Then 
as to friends, there might be some, but her inmost soul 
shrank from a round on such an errand. 
There was one. She knew of a person who would 
grant her this request kindly with no further wound to 
pride than the stab she would give herself in asking. 
Why she should have such perfect reliance upon this per- 
son she could not tell, since she had given him the deepest 
pang a woman can give, though not designedly. This 
flashed upon her almost like an answer to her prayer. 
Was it i answer? Did she dare believe anything "she 
really wanted was an answer? 
The children had played unheeded, but Daisy suddenly 
grew sleepy. Celia had been studying her lessons and 
 
wondering at her mother's idleness and abstractions. It 
was so seldom that her hands lay folded in her lap. 
" What beautiful hands she has ! " thought Celia. " They 
are so white, and the fingers taper to the very ends, while 
her nails are so prettily kept. They are like a picture." 
Mrs. Marshall roused herself. 
" I will put you to bed, Daisy," she began, " and Herbert 
may go with you a little while. I want to talk to Celia." 
There were three nice rooms on this floor and a small 
hall chamber that they kept for storage. The two girls 
slept on a lounge bedstead in the parlor, as it was called, 
though seldom needed for that purpose. The room 
between was Mrs. Marshall's. Bertie slept in a crib ; but, 
as he had a tendency to colds, it was often placed in the 
living-room when the parlor was very cold. 
Celia looked up in surprise at these words, then gave 
her mother a quick glance of confidence. The children 
were undressed in the warm room and wrapped in 
blankets, for the night was bitter cold. " I might have 
had a little fire," she thought — she could not afford but 
one steadily. 
When she returned Celia glanced up again inquiringly. 
"My dear," she said gravely, "put up your book, and 
come rest your arms on my lap, as you used to do. It 
was your favorite position as a little child." 
Celia brought a low seat, and, having settled herself, 
took the soft, white hands in hers, wondering how they 
kept so soft with all the rough work mamma had to do. 
" Something troubles you," she ventured, breaking the 
silence with a sweet, low tone. There was something 
peculiar about Celia Marshall's voice, a far-reaching 
depth, a kind of tender entreaty, not often found in one 
ao young. 
" I have a great and grave question to decide, my child. 
I do not know that you are old enough to take in all its 
bearings, or how it may affect you in after life, but I 
must make some confidence, and soon I shall need your 
help. It is a hard burden to lay upon you, my child — " 
and the voice faltered. 
" I can guess, mamma. I must give up school and go 
to work. I know we are very poor — other girls have to 
do it — " she paused, buried her face in her mother's lap, 
while a hard, tearless sob shook her. Only a moment, 
then she raised her sweet face again. " I am not going 
to be a coward, mamma, while you are so brave," and she 
kissed the hands that lay in her clasp with the very pas- 
sion of devotion. 
"It would be hard to leave school," her mother said 
slowly. 
"O mamma, why should I deny it? One can do 
what is right even against one's sense of delight in the 
thing relinquished. It would take a long while for me to 
be trained to teach, which I should like better than any 
real actual work. Three years more, perhaps four, and I 
could not be spared so long, I know. O mamma, forgive 
me, but when I see other girls whose fathers are proud of 
them and work for them, fathers who can be loved and 
respected, I wonder why God allows other men to bring 
children into the world to be disgraced! O mamma, 
you don't know what they say, — that papa is ' in love 
with a pretty Dutch girl at Hassler's saloon ! " 
Celia's overwrought soul gave way then to a rain of 
convulsive tears. 
