the boats. He did not seem to be at all nervous or uneasy in regard to
the situation. The Sylph was just beginning to round in so as to strike
the channel. On the other side of it the water was only from one to
three feet deep, and the caisson would make a wide sweep in coming
about.
"If the tow should get adrift here it would ground in shoal water," said
Dory, as he glanced again at the approaching barges.
"Captain Glovering has just called Will Orwell, and he means to do
something. It is time something was done," replied Oscar.
The acting first officer had come on the hurricane deck, and the captain
was apparently giving him some orders. Will hastened to the forward deck
again. All hands were called; and this summons included all who were not
actually on duty in the engine and firerooms or the pilot-house, for the
work of the cooks and stewards was finished for that day.
Will selected eight of them and sent them to the stern of the steamer.
It was evident that something was to be done, and the students wondered
what it was. The captain was not asleep, and it was clear that he was
conscious of the perils of the tow. Thad had observed with admiration
the conduct of Dory in the former engagements with the Chesterfields and
Topovers, and he had strictly obeyed every order without asking a
question. He was glad of the present opportunity to distinguish himself,
and he hoped to give a good account of himself.
"Mr. Pilot, I wish you would hug the port side of the channel, and get
the tow as far as possible from the shoal water," said Captain
Glovering, entering the pilot-house as soon as he had given his orders
to the first officer. "I wish to stop her as soon as possible."
"I have been doing that, Captain Glovering," replied Dory. "It will be
safe to stop her as soon as you give the order."
"Thank you," added the captain, with more politeness than is usual on
board of vessels.
Captain Glovering hastened to the stern of the hurricane deck where he
could see the tow. Will and his eight hands were on the rail ready to do
the duty intrusted to them. The captain called to the pilot to stop her.
The order was promptly obeyed, but the headway of the Sylph kept her at
the same relative distance from the caisson. Then a few strokes back
were called for. The first officer had put fenders over the stern; but
the captain did not allow the tow to come in contact with the steamer.
As soon as the caisson was near enough, Will and his party leaped on
board of it. The captain had given the order to go ahead before they did
so. The steamer straightened the tow-lines, and in a few moments
everything was moving on as before. The wind was light from the
northwest, and Dory hugged the weather side of the channel; but the
Sylph was still half a mile from the nearest point of land at the
entrance of the river.
"The captain has done something, but I haven't the least idea what it
is," said Oscar, as the tow-lines began to stretch.
"Neither have I, for I have not even looked behind me to see what he was
about," replied the first pilot, who never neglected his own duty to
attend to other people's business.
"He has put the first officer and eight of the fellows on board of the
caisson," added Oscar. "But there are thirty-five fellows in the barges,
and the captain don't expect to beat them off with only nine of ours. I
wonder he did not send the whole crowd except what are needed to work
the steamer."
"Don't be in a hurry to criticise, Oscar," laughed Dory, without even
looking out at the rear windows of the pilot-house to see what the
captain was about.
"Does Thad Glovering expect nine of our fellows to whip four times
their number?" demanded the second pilot, who was evidently beginning to
be somewhat excited. "We are not going more than three knots now, and
the Chesterfields can have it all their own way. Our fellows can't do
anything on the caisson when the barges pour in twenty or thirty fellows
upon them; and the Topovers are fighting men."
"Keep cool, Oscar," said Dory, smiling.
"Do you know what the captain's plan is, Dory?" asked the second pilot
nervously.
"I do not; I have not the first idea in regard to it," answered Dory.
"But I think you had better go astern where you can see what is going
on. If there is going to be a fight Captain Glovering will certainly
want you; and you may have a chance to tackle Tom Topover."
"I should like the chance," said Oscar, as he left the pilot-house.
By this time the barges were within a few rods of the caisson. One was
bearing down upon the stern, and the other upon the starboard side of
it. Mad Twinker, who was leading in the Dasher, was evidently the
commodore of the squadron, for he gave orders to Jeff Monroe in the
Racer. He clearly had a plan, and intended to capture the caisson, or
at least to set it adrift.
In the bow of the commodore's barge was Tom Topover and Nim Splugger,
ready to leap on board of the expected prize. In the Racer, Kidd
Digfield and Pell Sankland occupied the corresponding positions. The
other Topovers were seated in the rear of their leaders, and were to
follow them in the boarding exploit.
When the barges were within fifty feet of the caisson the captain's plan
was suddenly developed. On the top of the timber were a dozen long
pike-poles, which Captain Gildrock had ordered at Burlington. Each one
was armed with a sharp spike in one end. They were to be used in raising
the building, and in managing the caisson in the narrow creek.
At the word from Will Orwell, each of the nine students picked up a
pike, and poised it in the direction of the approaching barges.
CHAPTER XXVI.
THE RESULT OF THE BATTLE ON THE CAISSON.
Commodore Mad Twinker could not help seeing the preparations on board of
the caisson for the reception of his party. He saw the pike-poles, but
he could not know that the ends were armed with spikes. Doubtless he
supposed the weapons were simply to be used in shoving the barges away
from the tow.
Oscar Chester saw at a glance, when the party on the caisson picked up
the pikes, that the captain of the Sylph was likely to make bad work
with the boats of the enemy. He walked forward to the pilot-house and
reported to Dory the state of things, for the first pilot had not yet
looked astern.
"Will Orwell's party can stave their boats all to pieces in less than
two minutes," added Oscar, somewhat excited still.
"I hope he will not have occasion to do that," added Dory. "The
Chesterfields can see for themselves that the iron points will go
through the cedar planking as if it were nothing but paper."
"I don't think they know that the poles are armed with spikes."
"They can see what they are in season to back out," added Dory, as Oscar
returned to the stern of the steamer to watch the proceedings, and take
a part in them, if required.
"Keep off! keep off!" shouted Will Orwell, as the Dasher approached the
caisson.
Instead of heeding this warning, the Chesterfields gave three cheers, as
though the victory were already won, and they had possession of the
caisson. The commodore quickened the movements of his oarsmen, and the
Topovers in the bows of the boat were all ready to spring upon the
prize.
"Keep off, or we will stave your boats all to pieces!" shouted the first
officer, louder and more vigorously than before.
A yell of derision greeted him, and the barges still advanced to the
