about him. All was severe order and emptiness, 
telling that the master had been away; his treasures were safe packed up, under lock and key, or 
stowed away upon cupboard shelves; there was no 
pleasant litter on tables and floor, alluring to work 
or play. Was that old life, of work and play which 
mixed and mingled, lighthearted and sweet, gone 
for ever ? Pitt stood in the middle of the floor 
looking about him, gathering up many a broken 
thread of association ; and then, obeying an impulse 
which had been on him all the morning, he turned, 
caught up his hat, and went out. 
 
He loitered down the village street. It was mid- 
morning now, the summer sun beating down on 
the wide space and making every big tree shadow 
grateful. Great over-arching elms, sometimes an 
oak or a maple, ranged along in straight course 
and near neighbourhood, making the village look 
green and bowery, and giving the impression of 
an easy-going thrift and habit of pleasant conditions, which perhaps was not untrue to the char 
acter of the people. The capital order in which 
everything was kept confirmed the impression. 
Pitt however was not thinking of this, though he 
noticed it; the village was familiar to him from his 
childhood and looked just as it had always done, 
only that the elms and maples had grown a little 
more bowery with every year. He walked along, 
not thinking of that, nor seeing the roses and syringa 
blossoms which gave him a sweet breath out of 
some of the gardens. He was not in a hurry. He 
was going back in mind to that which furnished 
the real answer to his mother's wondering query, 
whence Pitt could have got his new ideas? It 
was nobody at Oxford or in London, neither conventicle nor discourse; but a girl's letter. He 
went on and on, thinking of it and of the writer. 
What would she say to his disclosures, which his 
father and mother could do nothing with ? Would 
she be in condition to give him the help he knew 
he must not expect from them? She, a girl? who 
did not know the world? Yet she was the goal 
of Pitt's present thoughts, and her house the point 
his footsteps were seeking, slowly and thought 
fully. 
He was not in a hurry. Indeed he was too absorbedly busy with his own cogitations and ques 
tions to give full place to the thought of Esther 
and the visit he was about to make. Besides, it 
was not as in the old time. He had no image 
before him now of a forlorn, lonely child, awaiting 
his coming as the flowers look for the sun. Things 
were rather turned about; he thought of Esther 
as the one in the sunlight, and himself as in need 
of illumination. He thought of her as needing no 
comfort that he could give; he half hoped to find 
the way to peace through her leading. But yes, 
she would be glad to see him ; she would not have 
forgotten him nor lost her old affection for her old 
playfellow; though the entire cessation of letters 
from either her or her father had certainly been 
inexplicable. Probably it might be explained by 
some crankiness ol the colonel. Esther would certainly be glad to see him. He quickened his steps 
to reach the house. 
He hardly knew it when he came to it, the 
aspect of things was so different from what he 
remembered. Truly it had been always a quiet 
house, with never a rush of company or a crowd 
of voices; but there had been life; and now? Pitt 
stood still at the little gate and looked, with a 
sudden blank of disappointment. There could be 
nobody there. The house was shut up and dead. 
Not a window was open ; not a door. In the little 
 
front garden the flowers had grown up wild and 
were struggling with weeds; the grass of the lawn 
at the side was rank and unmown; the honeysuckle 
vines in places were hanging loose and uncared-for; 
waving in the wind in a way that said eloquently, 
" Nobody is here." There was not much wind that 
summer day, just enough to move the honeysuckle 
sprays. Pitt stood and looked and queried; then 
yielding to some unconscious impulse, he went in 
through the neglected flowers to the deserted verandah, and spent a quarter of an hour in twining 
and securing the loose vines. He was thinking 
hard all the time. -This was the place where he 
remembered sitting with Esther that day when she 
asked help of him about getting comfort. He remembered it well; he recalled the girl's subdued 
manner, and the sorrowful craving in the large 
beautiful eyes. Now. Esther had found what she 
sought, and to-day he was nearly as unable to 
understand her as he had been to help her then. 
He fastened up the honeysuckle vines; and then 
he went and sat down on the step of the verandah 
and took Esther's letter out of his breast pocket, 
and read it over. He had read it many times. He 
did not comprehend it; but this he comprehended, 
that to her at least there was something in religion more heartfelt than a form, and more satisfying than a profession. To her it was a reality. 
The letter had set him thinking, and he had been 
thinking ever since. He had come here this morning, hoping that in talking with her she might 
perhaps give him some more light; and now, she 
had disappeared. Strange, that his mother should 
not have told him ! What could be the explanation of this sudden disappearance ? Disaster or 
death it could not be, for that she certainly would 
have told him. 
Sitting there and musing over many things, his 
own great question ever and again, he heard a 
mower whetting his scythe somewhere in the neighbourhood. Pitt set about searching for the unseen 
labourer, and presently saw the man who was cut 
ting the grass in an adjoining field. Dismissing 
thought for action, in two minutes he had sprung 
over the fence and was beside the man; but the 
mower did not intermit the long sweeps of his 
scythe, until he heard Pitt's civil, " Good morning." Then he stopped, straightened himself up 
and looked at his visiter; looked him all over. 
" Good mornin " he replied. " Guess you're the 
young squoire, aint ye ? " 
If Pitt's appearance had been less supremely neat 
and faultless, I think the honest worker would have 
offered his hand; but the white linen summer suit, 
the polished boots, the delicate gloves, were too 
much of a contrast with his own dusty and rough 
exterior. It was no feeling of inferiority, be it 
