" Well, you know how crowded that last boat 
always is, and he can't get any other now." 
Mrs. Lapham laughed at the simple wile. " I hope 
 
you 'll be just as well satisfied, Si, if it turns out he 
doesn't want Irene after all." 
" Pshaw, Persis ! What are you always bringing 
that up for ? " pleaded the Colonel. Then he fell 
silent, and presently his rude, strong face was clouded 
with an unconscious frown. 
" There ! " cried his wife, startling him from his 
abstraction. " I see how you J d feel ; and I hope 
that you J ll remember who you Ve got to blame." 
" I'll risk it," said Lapham, with the confidence of 
a man used to success. 
From the veranda the sound of Penelope's lazy 
tone came through the closed windows, with joyous 
laughter from Irene and peals from Corey. 
"Listen to that ! " said her father within, swelling 
up with inexpressible satisfaction. " That girl can 
talk for twenty, right straight along. She 's better 
than a circus any day. I wonder what she 's up to 
now." 
" Oh, she 's probably getting off some of those yarns 
of hers, or telling about some people. She can't step 
out of the house without coming back with more 
things to talk about than most folks would bring 
back from Japan. There ain't a ridiculous person 
she's ever seen but what she's got something from 
them to make you laugh at ; and I don't believe we 've 
ever had anybody in the house since the girl could 
talk that she hain't got some saying from, or some 
trick that 'll paint 'em out so 't you can see 'em and 
hear 'em. Sometimes I want to stop her ; but when 
she gets into one of her gales there ain't any standing 
 
up against her. I guess it 's lucky for Irene that 
she 's got Pen there to help entertain her company. 
I can't ever feel down where Pen is." 
"That's so," said the Colonel. "And I guess 
she 's got about as much culture as any of them. 
Don't you ? " 
" She reads a great deal," admitted her mother. 
" She seems to be at it the whole while. I don't 
want she should injure her health, and sometimes I 
feel like snatchin' the books away from her. I don't 
know as it 's good for a girl to read so much, anyway, 
especially novels. I don't want she should get 
notions." 
" Oh, I guess Pen 'll know how to take care of 
herself," said Lapham. 
" She 's got sense enough. But she ain't so 
practical as Irene. She 's more up in the clouds 
more of what you may call a dreamer. Irene 's wide 
awake every minute ; and I declare, any one to see 
these two together when there J s anything to be done, 
or any lead to be taken, would say Irene was the 
oldest, nine times out of ten. It 's only when they 
get to talking that you can see Pen 's got twice as 
much brains." 
" Well," said Lapham, tacitly granting this 
point, and leaning back in his chair in supreme 
content. " Did you ever see much nicer girls any 
where ? " 
His wife laughed at his pride. "I presume 
they 're as much swans as anybody's geese." 
" No ; but honestly, now ! " 
 
" Oh, they 'll do ; but don't you be silly, if you 
can help it, Si." 
The young people came in, and Corey said it was 
time for his boat. Mrs. Lapham pressed him to 
stay, but he persisted, and he would not let the 
Colonel send him to the boat ; he said he would 
rather walk. Outside, he pushed along toward the 
boat, which presently he could see lying at her land 
ing in the bay, across the sandy tract to the left of 
the hotels. From time to time he almost stopped in 
his rapid walk, as a man does whose mind is in a 
pleasant tumult ; and then he went forward at a 
swifter pace. 
" She 's charming ! " he said, and he thought he 
had spoken aloud. He found himself floundering 
about in the deep sand, wide of the path ; he got 
back to it, and reached the boat just before she 
started. The clerk came to take his fare, and Corey 
looked radiantly up at him in his lantern-light, with 
a smile that he must have been wearing a long 
time ; his cheek was stiff with it. Once some 
people who stood near him edged suddenly and fear 
fully away, and then he suspected himself of having 
laughed outright. 
XL 
COREY put off his set smile with the help of a 
frown, of which he first became aware after reaching 
home, when his father asked 
"Anything gone wrong with your department of 
the fine arts to-day, Tom ?" 
"Oh no no, sir," said the son, instantly reliev 
ing his brows from the strain upon them, and 
beaming again. " But I was thinking whether you 
were not perhaps right in your impression that it 
might be well for you to make Colonel Lapham's 
acquaintance before a great while." 
" Has he been suggesting it in any way ? " asked 
Bromfield Corey, laying aside his book and taking 
his lean knee between his clasped hands. 
"Oh, not at all!" the young man hastened to 
reply. "I was merely thinking whether it might 
not begin to seem intentional, your not doing it" 
"Well, Tom, you know I have been leaving it 
altogether to you " 
" Oh, I understand, of course, and I didn't mean 
to urge anything of the kind " 
" You are so very much more of a Bostonian than 
I am, you know, that I Ve been waiting your motion 
in entire confidence that you would know just what 
to do, and when to do it. If I had been left quite 
to my own lawless impulses, I think I should have 
called upon your padrone at once. It seems to me 
