                                  VII.
                           HOW THEY RAN AWAY.
Two little boys sat on the fence whittling arrows one fine day.  Said
one little boy to the other little boy,--
"Let’s do something jolly."
"All right.  What will we do?"
"Run off to the woods and be hunters."
"What can we hunt?"
"Bears and foxes."
"Mullin says there ain’t any round here."
"Well, we can shoot squirrels and snare woodchucks."
"Have n’t got any guns and trap."
"We ’ve got our bows, and I found an old trap behind the barn."
"What will we eat?"
"Here ’s our lunch; and when that’s gone we can roast the squirrels and
cook the fish on a stick.  I know how."
"Where will you get the fire?"
"Got matches in my pocket."
"I ’ve got a lot of things we could use.  Let’s see."
And as if satisfied at last, cautious Billy displayed his treasures,
while bold Tommy did the same.
Besides the two knives there were strings, nails, matches, a piece of
putty, fish-hooks, and two very dirty handkerchiefs.
"There, sir, that ’s a first-rate fit-out for hunters; and with the
jolly basket of lunch Mrs. Mullin gave us, we can get on tip-top for two
or three days," said Tommy, eager to be off.
"Where shall we sleep?" asked Billy, who liked to be comfortable both
night and day.
"Oh, up in trees or on beds of leaves, like the fellows in our books.
If you are afraid, stay at home; I ’m going to have no end of a good
time."  And Tommy crammed the things back into his pockets as if there
were no time to lose.
"Pooh!  I ain’t afraid.  Come on!"  And jumping down Billy caught up his
rod, rather ashamed of his many questions.
No one was looking at them, and they might have walked quietly off; but
that the "running away" might be all right, both raced down the road,
tumbled over a wall, and dashed into the woods as if a whole tribe of
wild Indians were after them.
"Do you know the way?" panted Billy, when at last they stopped for
breath.
"Yes, it winds right up the mountain; but we ’d better not keep to it,
or some one will see us and take us back.  We are going to be real
hunters and have adventures; so we must get lost, and find our way by
the sun and the stars," answered Tommy, who had read so many Boys’ Books
his little head was a jumble of Texan Rangers, African Explorers, and
Buffalo Bills; and he burned to outdo them all.
"What will our mothers say if we really get lost?" asked Billy, always
ready with a question.
"Mine won’t fuss.  She lets me do what I like."
That was true; for Tommy’s poor mamma was tired of trying to keep the
lively little fellow in order, and had got used to seeing him come out
of all his scrapes without much harm.
"Mine will be scared; she ’s always afraid I ’m going to get hurt, so I
’m careful.  But I guess I ’ll risk it, and have some fun to tell about
when we go home," said Billy, trudging after Captain Tommy, who always
took the lead.
These eleven-year-old boys were staying with their mothers at a
farm-house up among the mountains; and having got tired of the tame
bears, the big barn, the trout brook, the thirty colts at pasture, and
the society of the few little girls and younger boys at the hotel near
by, these fine fellows longed to break loose and "rough it in the bush,"
as the hunters did in their favorite stories.
Away they went, deeper and deeper into the great forest that covered the
side of the mountain.  A pleasant place that August day; for it was cool
and green, with many brooks splashing over the rocks, or lying in brown
pools under the ferns.  Squirrels chattered and raced in the tall pines;
now and then a gray rabbit skipped out of sight among the brakes, or a
strange bird flew by.  Here and there blackberries grew in the open
places, sassafras bushes were plentiful, and black-birch bark was ready
for chewing.
"Don’t you call this nice?" asked Tommy, pausing at last in a little
dell where a noisy brook came tumbling down the mountain side, and the
pines sung overhead.
"Yes; but I ’m awful hungry.  Let’s rest and eat our lunch," said Billy,
sitting down on a cushion of moss.
"You always want to be stuffing and resting," answered sturdy Tommy, who
liked to be moving all the time.
He took the fishing-basket, which hung over his shoulder by a strap, and
opened it carefully; for good Mrs. Mullin had packed a nice lunch of
bread and butter, cake and peaches, with a bottle of milk, and two large
pickles slipped in on the sly to please the boys.
Tommy’s face grew very sober as he looked in, for all he saw was a box
of worms for bait and an old jacket.
"By George! we ’ve got the wrong basket. This is Mullin’s, and he ’s
gone off with our prog.  Won’t he be mad?"
"Not as mad as I am.  Why did n’t you look?  You are always in such a
hurry to start. What shall we do now without anything to eat?" whined
Billy; for losing his lunch was a dreadful blow to him.
"We shall have to catch some fish and eat blackberries.  Which will you
do, old cry-baby?" said Tommy, laughing at the other boy’s dismal face.
"I ’ll fish; I ’m so tired I can’t go scratching round after berries.  I
don’t love ’em, either."  And Billy began to fix his line and bait his
hook.
"Lucky we got the worms; you can eat ’em if you can’t wait for fish,"
said Tommy, bustling about to empty the basket and pile up their few
possessions in a heap.  "There’s a quiet pool below here, you go and
fish there.  I ’ll pick the berries, and then show you how to get dinner
in the woods.  This is our camp; so fly round and do your best."
Then Tommy ran off to a place near by where he had seen the berries,
while Billy found a comfortable nook by the pool, and sat scowling at
the water so crossly, it was a wonder any trout came to his hook.  But
the fat worms tempted several small ones, and he cheered up at the
prospect of food.  Tommy whistled while he picked, and in half an hour
came back with two quarts of nice berries and an armful of dry sticks
for the fire.
"We ’ll have a jolly dinner, after all," he said, as the flames went
crackling up, and the dry leaves made a pleasant smell.
"Got four, but don’t see how we ’ll ever cook ’em; no frying-pan,"
grumbled Billy, throwing down the four little trout, which he had half
cleaned.
"Don’t want any.  Broil ’em on the coals, or toast ’em on a forked
stick.  I ’ll show you how," said cheerful Tommy, whittling away, and
feeding his fire as much like a real hunter as a small boy could be.
While he worked, Billy ate berries and sighed for bread and butter.  At
last, after much trouble, two of the trout were half cooked and eagerly
eaten by the hungry boys.  But they were very different from the nice
brown ones Mrs. Mullin gave them; for in spite of Tommy’s struggles they
would fall in the ashes, and there was no salt to eat with them.  By the
time the last were toasted, the young hunters were so hungry they could
have eaten anything, and not a berry was left.
