This structure was seventy-five feet long, with plenty of windows, and
was entirely open on the water side. In accordance with the general
policy of the principal, its use had not been explained; but all the
students believed it was to contain the ways on which the boat was to be
built. It looked now as though the desired information in regard to the
building of the boat was to be communicated to them.
"I need not ask you if you have noticed these drawings, and this model
of a vessel," said Captain Gildrock, after he had finished what he had
to say about the moving of the cottage; "for you have been looking at
these things most of the time since you came into the school-room."
"Are we to begin on the boat to-day?" Lon Dorset asked; and he was one
of the new students, not yet thoroughly broken in with the customs of
the school.
"When I set you at work you will begin; not before. It always affords me
very great pleasure to answer sensible questions, boys, and I shall do
everything I can to encourage you to ask them; but I don't believe in
foolish questions. Such is the character of all questions relating to
what we are going to do. You are never required to do anything until an
order is given. Foolish questions take up as much time as sensible
ones."
Lon Dorset was somewhat abashed at the manner in which his inquiry had
been treated; but the principal knew that some of the boys would talk
all day about nothing, if permitted to do so; and the questions he
tolerated and encouraged were those which brought out real information,
and revealed the condition of the inquirer's mind.
"The building of the boat has been somewhat delayed on account of the
difficulty of obtaining suitable lumber," continued the principal. "A
load which came from Boston yesterday will enable us to make a
beginning."
Some of the new pupils were disposed to give three cheers.
CHAPTER X.
A LECTURE ON SHIP-BUILDING.
"We are not ship-builders, boys; in fact, there is not a ship-builder
connected with the school, and I do not intend to engage one even as an
instructor," said the principal, continuing his remarks on the platform.
"In the present depressed state of this important industry, perhaps it
is not advisable to devote much time to the study of scientific
construction in ship-building. It looks now as though the ships of the
future were to be of iron; and many vessels of this material are built
in this country at the present time.
"But perhaps ship-building is rather too ambitious a term to apply to
our intended operations. We shall build a boat of considerable size, and
while we are doing the work we shall learn what we can about
ship-building. Many years ago I built a ship for myself, and
superintended its construction from the keel to the trucks. In building
our boat we shall not put in every stick used in a ship.
"Did any of you ever tow a log in the water?" asked the principal,
pausing for a reply.
"I have," answered Leo Pownall, whose father owned a saw-mill. "I have
towed lots of them on the mill-pond."
"To which end of the log did you make fast?" inquired the captain.
"To either end; just as it came handy," replied the student.
"Then you sometimes did more work than was necessary with your oars. A
log tows easier when you make fast to the big end," continued the
principal, waiting for the pupils to digest the idea.
"I don't see what difference it can make," added Leo. "If anything, I
should say that the small end would open a passage through the water
more readily than the big end."
"I suppose none of you ever saw a whale, but most of you have caught
horn-pouts, or bullheads."
"I have seen a whale on exhibition in New York," interposed Luke
Bennington.
"What was the shape of his head?"
"The one I saw was round; but I have seen pictures of whales in which
the head was nearly square."
"How is it with the pout!"
"His mouth is about the widest part of him," laughed Alick Hartford.
"Take fishes in general, in what part of the body do you find the
greatest girt?" asked the principal.
"Just astern of the head," replied Kit Burlington.
"In some fishes, about one third of the length from the mouth," added
Bark Duxbury.
"Very good; you are about right, though some fishes vary from the
general rule. Now don't you think Nature made a mistake, Leo Pownall,
and that fishes ought to swim tail first instead of head first, as you
would tow a log?"
"I suppose God made the fishes all right; but He gave some of them very
sharp noses," returned the saw-mill owner's son.
"Corresponding to the shape of the butt of a log after it has been
felled; but the greatest girt is still near the head. This is the
general shape of the hull of a vessel."
"But the head of a sperm whale is almost square; and no other fish is
like him," added Phil Gawner.
"The whale is not a fish, Gawner. I have seen a school of porpoises
alongside an ocean steamer. Their greatest girt is one third of the
length from the head end; but they will swim past a fast steamer, and
make something like twenty knots an hour," said Captain Gildrock.
"I was trying to find the porpoise in Wood's Natural History the other
day; but there is no such fish in the book," added Sol Guilford.
"Where did you look?"
"In the volume about fishes."
"The porpoise is not a fish, and you would have found it in the volume
marked 'Mammalia,'" replied the principal with a smile.
"But isn't the porpoise a fish? He lives in the water."
"So do hippopotami; but they are not fishes. Whales, porpoises,
dolphins, seals, and some others, are mammals; that is, they suckle
their young as a cow does a calf. Properly they are not fishes, though
they are very often called so."
These were the kind of questions the captain believed in encouraging,
though they sometimes led the conversation out of the legitimate
channel. They elicited useful information; and he was careful not to let
the students wander too wide of the subject under discussion.
"I don't know now why a log or a fish goes best with the big end
ahead," said Leo Pownall.
"After the passage for a moving body in the water is opened, this fluid
follows its own laws, and seeks an equilibrium. As it moves back to its
natural level, it crowds in upon the after part of the body, whether it
be a log, a fish, or a ship, and thus pushes it ahead. Under the stern
of a vessel, the hull is curved, or hollowed out, just as the size of a
fish diminishes at the tail, which is the fish's rudder.
"But the shape of the hull is varied according to the use to which the
vessel is to be put; but the rule will hold good in the main. In
building a ship the beginning of the work is done on paper. As in
erecting a house, the first thing is to obtain the plans, which are made
by the naval architect. In fact, the entire shape of the vessel is laid
down on the drawing-board. From these the builder gets his dimensions,
all the curves, and the form of every timber and piece of wood used.
"On the drawing on the wall," continued the principal, taking the
pointer and indicating the plans, "everything is put down that can be
needed in the construction of the boat we intend to build. There are
