" My age ! Do you call that being a girl ? " 
" She was old enough to know what she was 
about,'' said Mrs. Bowen justly. 
Imogens fell back in her chair, drawing out her 
needle the full length of its thread, and then letting 
her hand fall. "I don't know. It seems as if I 
never should be grown up, or anything but a 
child. Yes, when I think of the way young men 
talk, they do seem boys. Why can't they talk like 
Mr. Colville ? I wish I could talk like him. It 
makes you forget how old and plain he is." 
She remained with her eyelids dropped in an absent 
survey of her sewing, while Mrs. Bowen regarded 
her with a look of vexation, impatience, resentment, 
on the last refinement of these emotions, which she 
banished from her face before Miss Graham looked 
up and said, with a smile : " How funny it is' to see 
Effie's infatuation with him ! She can't take her 
eyes off him for a moment, and she follows him 
round the room so as not to lose a word he is say- 
ing. It was heroic of her to go to bed without a 
murmur before he left to-night." 
V' Yes, she sees that he is goody said Mrs. Bowen. 
" Oh, she sees that he 's something very much 
more. Mr. Waters is good." 
Miss Graham had the best of the argument, and 
so Mrs. Bowen did not reply. 
" I feel," continued the young girl, " as if it were 
almost a shame to have asked him to go to that silly 
dancing party with us. It seems as if we didn't 
appreciate him. I think we ought to have kept him 
for high aesthetic occasions and historical researches." 
 
" Oh, I don't think Mr. Colville was very deeply 
offended at being asked to go with us." 
" No," said Imogene, with another sigh, " he 
didn't seem so. I suppose there 's always an under- 
current of sadness — of tragedy — in everything for 
him." 
" I don't suppose anything of the kind," cried 
Mrs. Bowen gaily. " He 's had time enough to get 
over it."" 
" Do people ever get over such things ? " 
"Yes — men.'' 
" It must be because he was young, as you say. 
But if it had happened now ? " 
" Oh, it couldn't happen now. He 's altogether too 
cool an J calculating." 
"Do you think he 's cool and calculating ? " 
" No. He 's too old for a broken heart — a new 
one." 
" Mrs. Bowen," demanded the girl solemnly, 
" could yoio forgive yourself for such a thing if you 
had done it t " 
" Yes, perfectly well, if I wasn't in love with 
him." 
" But if you 'd made him think you were ? " pur- 
sued the girl breathlessly. 
" If I were a flirt — yes." 
" I couldn't," said Imogene, with tragic depth. 
" Oh, be done with your intensities, and go to 
bed, Imogene," said Mrs. Bowen, giving her a play- 
ful push. 
VI. 
It was so long since Colville had been at a dancing 
party that Mrs. Bowen's offer to take him to Madame 
Uccelli's had first struck his sense of the ludicrous. 
Then it had begun to flatter him ; it implied that he 
was still young enough to dance if he would, though 
he had stipulated that they were not to expect any- 
thing of the kind from him. He liked also the 
notion, of being seen and accepted in Florentine 
society as the old friend of Mrs. Bowen's, for he had 
not been long in discovering that her position in 
Florence was, among the foreign residents, rather 
authoritative. She was one of the very few Ameri- 
cans who were asked to Italian houses, and Italian 
houses lying even beyond the neutral ground of 
English-speaking intermarriages. She was not, of 
course, asked to the great Princess Strozzi ball, 
where the Florentine nobility appeared in the medi- 
aeval pomp — the veritable costumes — of their ances- 
tors ;' only a rich American banking family went, 
and their distinction was spoken of under the 
breath ; but any glory short of this was within Mrs. 
Bowen's reach. So an old lady who possessed her- 
 
self of Colville the niglit before had told him, cele- 
brating Mrs. Bowen at length, and boasting of her 
acceptance among the best English residents, who, 
next after the natives, seem to constitute the social 
ambition of Americans living in Italian cities. 
It interested him to find that some geographical 
distinctions vehich are fading at home had quite dis- 
appeared in Florence. When he was there before, 
people from quite small towns in the East had made 
pretty Lina Eidgely and her friend feel the disad- 
vantage of having come from the Western side of an 
imaginary line ; he had himself been at the pains 
always to let people know, at the American water- 
ing-places where he spent his vacations, that though 
presently from Des Vaches, Indiana, he was really 
born in Rhode Island ; but in Florence it was not 
at all necessary. He found in Mrs. Bowen's house 
people from Denver, Chicago, St. Louis, Boston, 
New York, and Baltimore, all meeting' as of appar- 
ently the same civilisation, and whether Mrs. 
Bowen's own origin was, like that of the Etruscan 
cities, lost in the mists of antiquity, or whether she 
had sufficiently atoned for the error of her birth by 
subsequent residence in the national capital and 
prolonged sojourn in New York, it seemed certainly 
not to be remembered against her among her Eastern 
acquaintance. The time had been when the fact 
that Miss Graham came from Buffalo would have 
gone far to class her with the animal from which 
her native city had taken its name ; but now it 
made no difference, unless it was a difference in her 
 
favour. The English spoke with the same vague 
