the State. Each rolling year was pricked in his leathern belt with a new
hole as his heart grew more peaceful and his body throve. He had a goodly
girth and weighed full fifteen stone in his uniform; his mild blue eye
had inspired confidence in a maiden of Billingsfield parish and Mrs. Gall
was now rearing a numerous family of little Galls, all perhaps destined
to become mild-eyed and portly village constables in their turn.
The squire, who was not destitute of a sense of humour, never thought of
Mr. Gall without a smile, so much out of keeping did the man's occupation
seem with his jovial humour. Mr. Gall, he said, was the kind of policeman
who would bribe a refractory tramp to move on by the present of a pint of
beer. But Gall had a good point. He was very proud of his profession, and
in the exercise of it he showed a discretion which, if it was the better
part of his valour, argued unlimited natural courage. It was a secret
profession, he was wont to say, and a man who could not keep a secret
would never do for a constable. He shrouded his ways in an amiable
mystery and walked a solitary beat on fine nights; when the nights were
not fine there was nobody to see whether he walked his beat or not.
Probably, he faithfully fulfilled his obligations; but his constitution
seemed to bear exposure to the weather wonderfully well. Whether he ever
saw anything worth mentioning upon those lonely walks of his, is
uncertain; at all events he never mentioned anything he saw, unless it
was in the secrecy of the reports he was supposed to transmit from time
to time to his superiors.
On the present occasion as he entered the study, the squire observed with
surprise that he looked grave. He had never witnessed such a phenomenon
before and argued that it was just possible that something of real
importance might have occurred.
"Good morning, sir," said Mr. Gall, approaching the squire respectfully,
after carefully closing the door behind him.
"Good morning, Gall. Nothing wrong, I hope?"
"Not yet, sir. I hope not, sir. Only a little matter of business, Mr.
Juxon. In point of fact, sir, I wished to consult you."
"Yes," said the squire who was used to the constable's method of
circumlocution. "Yes--what is it?"
"Well, sir--it's this," said the policeman, running his thumb round the
inside of his belt as though to test the pressure, and clearing his
throat. "There has been a general order sent down to be on the lookout,
sir. So I thought it would be best to take your opinion."
"My opinion," said the squire with great gravity, "is that if you are
directed to be on the look-out, you should be on the look-out; by all
means. What are you to be on the look-out for?"
"In point of fact, sir," said the constable, lowering his voice, "we are
informed that a criminal has escaped from Portland. I never heard of a
convict getting out of that strong'old o' the law, sir, and I would like
to have your opinion upon it."
"But if you are informed that some one has escaped," remarked the squire,
"you had better take it for granted that it is true."
"Juss so, sir. But the circumstances wasn't communicated to us, sir; so
we don't know."
Mr. Gall paused, and the squire smoothed his hair a little.
"Well, Gall," said Mr. Juxon, "have you any reason for believing that
this escaped convict is likely to come this way?"
"Well sir, there is some evidence," answered the policeman, mysteriously.
"Leastways what seems like evidence to me, sir."
"Of what kind?" the squire fixed his quiet eyes on Mr. Gall's face.
"His name, sir. The name of the convict. There is a party of that name
residin' here."
The squire suddenly guessed what was coming, or at least a possibility of
it crossed his mind. If Mr. Gall had been a more observant man he would
have seen that Mr. Juxon grew a shade paler and changed one leg over the
other as he sat. But in that moment he had time to nerve himself for the
worst.
"And what is the name, if you please?" he asked calmly.
"The name in the general orders is Goddard, sir--Walter Goddard. He was
convicted of forgery three years ago, sir, a regular bad lot. But
discretion is recommended in the orders, sir, as the business is not
wanted to get into the papers."
The squire was ready. If Gall did not know that Mary Goddard was the wife
of the convict Walter, he should certainly not find it out. In any other
country of Europe that would have been the first fact communicated to the
local police. Very likely, thought Mr. Juxon, nobody knew it.
"I do not see," he said very slowly, "that the fact of there being a Mrs.
Goddard residing here in the least proves that she is any relation to
this criminal. The name is not so uncommon as that, you know."
"Nor I either, sir. In point of fact, sir, I was only thinking. It's what
you may call a striking coincidence, that's all."
"It would have been a still more striking coincidence if his name had
been Juxon like mine, or Ambrose like the vicar's," said the squire
calmly. "There are other people of the name in England, and the local
policemen will be warned to be on the lookout. If this fellow was called
Juxon instead of Goddard, Gall, would you be inclined to think he was a
relation of mine?"
"Oh no, sir. Ha! ha! Very good sir! Very good indeed! No indeed, sir, and
she such a real lady too!"
"Well then, I do not see that you can do anything more than keep a sharp
look-out. I suppose they sent you some kind of description?"
"Well, yes. There was a kind of a description as you say, sir, but I'm
not anyways sure of recognising the party by it. In point of fact, sir,
the description says the convict is a fair man."
"Is that all?"
"Neither particular tall, nor yet particular short, sir. Not a very big
'un nor a very little 'un, sir. In point of fact, sir, a fair man. Clean
shaved and close cropped he is, sir, being a criminal."
"I hope you may recognise him by that account," said the squire,
suppressing a smile. "I don't believe I should."
"Well, sir, it does say as he's a fair man," remarked the constable.
"Supposing he blacked his face and passed for a chimney-sweep?" suggested
the squire. The idea seemed to unsettle Gall's views.
"In that case, sir, I don't know as I should know him, for certain," he
answered.
"Probably not--probably not, Gall. And judging from the account they have
sent you I don't think you would be to blame."
"Leastways it can't be said as I've failed to carry out superior
instructions," replied Mr. Gall, proudly. "Then it's your opinion, sir,
that I'd better keep a sharp look-out? Did I understand you to say so,
sir?"
"Quite so," returned the squire with great calmness. "By all means keep a
sharp look-out, and be careful to be discreet, as the orders instruct
you."
"You may trust me for that, sir," said the policeman, who dearly loved
the idea of mysterious importance. "Then I wish you good morning, sir."
He prepared to go.
"Good morning, Gall--good morning. The butler will give you some ale."
Again Mr. Gall passed his thumb round the inside of his belt, testing the
local pressure in anticipation of a pint. He made a sort of half-military
salute at the door and went out. When the squire was alone he rose from
his chair and paced the room, giving way to the agitation he had
concealed in the presence of the constable. He was very much disturbed at
the news of Goddard's escape, as well he might be. Not that he was aware
that the convict knew of his wife's whereabouts; he did not even suppose
