VIII. 
WITHOUT fastidiousness, it was fair to declare, on 
the other hand, that the little inn at Azay-le-Rideau 
was very bad. It was terribly dirty, and it was in 
charge of a fat megdre whom the appearance of four 
trustful travellers we were four, with an illustrious 
fourth, on that occasion roused apparently to fury. 
I attached great importance to this incongruous 
hostess, for she uttered the only uncivil words I heard 
spoken (in connection with any business of my own) 
during a tour of some six weeks in France. Breakfast 
not at Azay-le-Rideau, therefore, too trustful traveller; 
or if you do so, be either very meek or very bold. 
Breakfast not, save under stress of circumstance; but 
let no circumstance whatever prevent you from going 
to see the admirable chateau, which is almost a rival 
of Chenonceaux. The village lies close to the gates, 
though after you pass these gates you leave it well 
behind. A little avenue, as at Chenonceaux, leads to 
the house, making a pretty vista as you approach the 
sculptured doorway. Azay is a most perfect and 
beautiful thing; I should place it third in any list of 
the great houses of this part of France in which these 
houses should be ranked according to charm. For 
beauty of detail it comes after Blois and Chenon 
ceaux; but it comes before Amboise and Chambord. 
On the other hand, of course, it is inferior in majesty 
to either of these vast structures. Like Chenonceaux, 
it is a watery place, though it is more meagrely 
moated than the little chateau on the Cher. It consists 
of a large square corps de logis, with a round tower 
at each angle, rising out of a somewhat too slumberous 
pond. The water the water of the Indre sur 
rounds it, rput it is only on one side that it bathes its 
feet in the moat. On one of the others there is a 
little terrace, treated as a garden, and in front there 
is a wide court, formed by a wing which, on the right, 
comes forward. This front, covered with sculptures, 
is of the richest, stateliest effect. The court is ap 
proached by a bridge over the pond, and the house 
would reflect itself in this wealth of water if the water 
were a trifle less opaque. But there is a certain 
stagnation it affects more senses than one about 
the picturesque pools of Azay. On the hither side of 
the bridge is a garden, overshadowed by fine old 
sycamores, a garden shut in by greenhouses and by 
a fine last-century gateway, flanked with twin lodges. 
Beyond the chateau and the standing waters behind 
it is a so-called pare, which, however, it must be con 
fessed, has little of park-like beauty. The old houses 
(many of them, that is) remain in France; but the old 
timber does not remain, and the denuded aspect of 
the few acres that surround the chateaux of Touraine 
is pitiful to the traveller who has learned to take the 
measure of such things from the manors and castles 
of England. The domain of the lordly Chaumont is 
that of an English suburban villa; and in that and 
in other places there is little suggestion, in the 
imtended aspect of walk and lawns, of the vigilant 
British gardener. The manor of Azay, as seen to-day, 
dates from the early part of the sixteenth century; 
and the industrious Abbe Chevalier, in his very 
entertaining though slightly rose-colored book on 
Touraine,* speaks of it as "perhaps the purest expres 
sion of the belle Renaissance frangaise" "Its height," 
he goes on, "is divided between two stories, terminat 
ing under the roof in a projecting entablature which 
imitates a row of machicolations. Carven chimneys 
and tall dormer windows, covered with imagery, rise 
from the roofs; turrets on brackets, of elegant shape, 
hang with the greatest lightness from the angles of 
the building. The soberness of the main lines, the 
harmony of the empty spaces and those that are 
filled out, the prominence of the crowning parts, the 
delicacy of all the details, constitute an enchanting 
whole." And then the Abbe speaks of the admirable 
staircase which adorns the north front, and which, 
with its extention inside, constitutes the principal 
treasure of Azay. The staircase passes beneath one 
of the richest of porticos, a portico over which a 
monumental salamander indulges in the most deco 
rative contortions. The sculptured vaults of stone 
which cover the windings of the staircase within, the 
fruits, flowers, ciphers, heraldic signs, are of the 
noblest effect. The interior of the chateau is rich, 
comfortable, extremely modern; but it makes no 
picture that compares with its external face, about 
which, with its charming proportions, its profuse yet 
not extravagant sculpture, there is something very 
tranquil and pure. I took a particular fancy to the 
roof, high, steep, old, with its slope of bluish slate, 
and the way the weather-worn chimneys seemed to 
grow out of it, like living things out of a deep soil. 
The only defect of the house is the blankness and 
bareness of its walls, which have none of those delicate 
parasites attached to them that one likes to see on the 
surface of old dwellings. It is true that this bareness 
results in a kind of silvery whiteness of complexion, 
which carries out the tone of the quiet pools and even 
that of the scanty and shadeless park. 
  
IX. 
I HARDLY know what to say about the tone of 
Langeais, which, though I have left it to the end of 
my sketch, formed the objective point of the first ex 
cursion I made from Tours. Langeais is rather dark 
and gray; it is perhaps the simplest and most severe 
of all the castles of the Loire. I don't know why I 
should have gone to see it before any other, unless it 
be because I remembered the Duchesse de Langeais, 
who figures in several of Balzac 's novels, and found 
this association very potent. The Duchesse de Lan 
geais is a somewhat transparent fiction; but the 
castle from which Balzac borrowed the title of his 
heroine is an extremely solid fact. My doubt just 
above as to whether I should pronounce it excep 
tionally grey came from my having seen it under a 
sky which made most things look dark. I have, how 
ever, a very kindly memory of that moist and melan 
choly afternoon, which was much more autumnal than 
