Ruggiero threw his head back and stuck out his chin, which signifies
negation in the south. He knew it was of little use to speak unless he
could get near the old man's ear and shout.
"And what are you doing here?" asked the latter.
Speech was now unavoidable. Ruggiero stood on tiptoe and the old man
bent over sideways, much as a heavily laden Dutch galliot heels to a
stiff breeze.
"The mother is dead!" bawled the boy in his high strong voice.
Oddly enough the tears came into his eyes for the first time, as he
shouted at the deaf old man, and at the same moment little Sebastiano's
lower lip trembled. Antonino shook his head in rough sympathy.
"We have also beaten Don Pietro Casale, and so we have run away," yelled
the boy.
Antonino grunted thoughtfully and his grey eyes twinkled as he slowly
righted himself and stood up again. Very deliberately he went into the
shop again and presently came back with a big measure of weak wine and
water.
"Drink," he said, holding out the jug.
Again the two boys pulled at their caps and each raised the jug
respectfully toward the old man before drinking.
"To health," each said, and Antonino nodded gravely.
Then Ruggiero took the jug inside and rinsed it, as he knew it was his
duty to do and set it on the table. When he came back he stood beside
his brother, waiting for Don Antonino to speak. A long silence followed.
"Sleep," said the old man. "Afterwards we will talk."
He took his old place in the doorway and stared steadily out to sea. The
boys lay down beside the house and having eaten and drunk their fill
and walked a matter of fifteen miles, were sound asleep in three
minutes.
At sunset Ruggiero sat up suddenly and rubbed his eyes. Don Antonino was
no longer at the door, and the sound of several men's voices came from
within, mingled with the occasional dull rattle of coarse glasses on
wooden tables.
"Ò!" Ruggiero called softly to his brother. Then he added a syllable and
called again, "O-è!" Little Sebastiano woke, sat up and looked about
him, rubbing his eyes in his turn.
"What has happened?" he inquired, only half awake.
"By the grace of God we have eaten, we have drunk and we have slept,"
said Ruggiero by way of answer.
Both got up, shook themselves and stood with their hands in their
pockets, looking at the sea. They were barefooted and barelegged, with
torn breeches, coarse white shirts much patched about the shoulders, and
ragged woollen caps. Presently they turned as by a common instinct and
went and stood before the open door, peering in at the guests. Don
Antonino was behind his black counter measuring wine. His wife was with
him now and helping him, a cheerful, clean woman having a fair
complexion, grey hair and round sharp eyes with red lids--a stranger in
Calabria like her husband. She held the neck of a great pear-shaped
demijohn, covered with straw, of which the lower part rested on the
counter. Antonino held a quart jug to be filled while she lowered the
mouth, and he poured the measure each time into a barrel through a black
tin funnel. They both counted the measures in audible tones, checking
each other as it were. The wine was very dark and strong and the smell
filled the low room and came out through the door. Half-a-dozen men sat
at the tables, mostly eating ship biscuit of their own and goat's-milk
cheese which they bought with their wine. They were rough-looking
fellows, generally in checked flannel shirts, and home-spun trousers.
But they all wore boots or shoes, which are in the south a distinctive
sign of a certain degree of prosperity. Most of them had black beards
and smart woollen caps. They were men who got their living principally
by the sea in one way or another, but none of them looked thorough
seamen. They talked loud and with a certain air of boasting, they were
rough, indeed, but not strongly built nor naturally easy in their
movements as sailors are. Their eyes were restless and fiery, but the
glance was neither keen nor direct. Altogether they contrasted oddly
with Don Antonino, the old boatswain. This part of Calabria does not
breed genuine sea folk.
Antonino took no notice of the boys as they stood outside the door, but
went quietly on with his work, measuring quart after quart of wine and
pouring it into the barrel.
"If it were a keg, I could carry it for him," said Ruggiero, "but I
cannot lift a barrel yet."
"We could roll it, together," suggested Sebastiano thoughtfully.
Presently Don Antonino finished his job and bunged the barrel with a
cork and a bit of old sailcloth. Then he looked up and stood still. The
boys were not quite sure whether he was watching them or not, for it was
already dusk. His wife lit a small German petroleum lamp and hung it in
the middle of the room, and then went to the fireplace in the dark
corner where something was cooking. One of the guests shouted to
Antonino.
"There is a martingane at San Nicola," he bawled.
Antonino turned his head slowly to the speaker and waited for more.
"Bound east," continued the man. "From Majuri."
"What is wrong with her?" inquired the old host.
Boats going west, that is, towards Naples and Civita Vecchia often put
in to the small natural harbours to wait for the night wind. Those going
east never do except for some especial reason.
The man said nothing, but fixed his eyes on Antonino and slowly filled
his pipe, evidently intending to convey some secret piece of information
by the look and action. But the old sailor's stolid face did not betray
the slightest intelligence. He turned away and deliberately took
half-a-dozen salted sprats from a keg behind the counter and laid them
in a dish preparatory to cleaning them for his own supper. The man who
had spoken to him seemed annoyed, but only shrugged his shoulders
impatiently and went on eating and drinking.
Antonino took a jug of water and went outside to wash his fish. The two
boys offered to do it for him, but he shook his head. He did not speak
until he had almost finished.
"We will fish to-night," he said at last, in a low voice, pouring a
final rinsing of water into the dish. "Sleep in the sand under the third
boat from the rocks. I will wake you when I am ready."
He looked from one to the other of the lads with a keen glance, and then
laid one huge finger against his lips. He drained the water from his
dish and went in again.
"Come along," said Ruggiero softly. "Let us find the boat and get out of
the way."
The craft was a small "gozzo," or fisherman's boat, not above a dozen or
fourteen feet long, sharp and much alike at bow and stern, but with a
high stem surmounted by a big ball of wood, very convenient for hanging
nets upon. It was almost dark by this time, but the boys saw that she
was black as compared with the other boats on both sides of her. She
was quite empty and lay high and dry on three low chocks. Ruggiero lay
down, getting as close to the keel as he could and Sebastiano followed
his example. They lay head to head so that they could talk in a whisper.
"Why are we not to speak of his fishing?" asked the younger boy.
"Who knows? But if we do as he tells us he will give us more bread
to-morrow."
"He is very good to us."
"Because we beat Don Pietro Casale. Don Pietro cheated him last year. I
saw the cottonseed oil he mixed with the good, in that load we brought
