difficulty is not so great as might be supposed; every day the will of
the individual suffices to triumph over the instinctive love of life,
and, Hartmann logically argues, may not the mass of humanity do the
same thing? The denial of the will to live on the part of the
individual is, it is true, barren of any benefit to the species, but,
on the other hand, a universal denial would result in complete
deliverance.
Mankind, however, has yet a long journey before it, and many
generations are needed to overcome, and to dissipate little by little,
through the influence of heredity, those passions which are opposed to
the desire for eternal peace. In time, Hartmann thinks, all this will
be brought about; and he holds, moreover, that the development of
consciousness will correspond with the weakening of passion, which is
to be one of the characteristics of the decline of humanity, as it is
now one of the signs of the day.
The third condition necessary for the perfect consummation of this
gigantic suicide is that communication between the inhabitants of the
world be so facilitated that they may simultaneously execute a common
resolution. Full play is allowed the imagination in picturing the
manner in which all this is to be accomplished. Hartmann has a contempt
for details, and contents himself with asserting that it is necessary
and possible, and that in the abdication of humanity every form of
existence will cease.
Such, in brief, is this vehement conception of the ordering of the
world, and the plan for its precipitate destruction. With a soldierly
disregard of objection, but with a prodigality of argument and
digression which, if not always substantial, is unusually vivid,
Hartmann explains the Unconscious and its reacting dualism of Will and
Idea. One principle is, as has been seen, constantly irrupting into
life, and it is through the revolt of the second that the first is to
be thwarted and extinguished. Nothing, indeed, could be more simple;
and it would be a graceless and pedantic task to laboriously clamber to
the same vague altitudes to which Hartmann has so lightly soared, and
there contradict his description of the perspective.
To any one who has cared to follow the writer thus far, the outlines
given of Hartmann's conspiracy against pain must have seemed
aggressively novel. Schopenhauer's ideas on the same subject were
seemingly more practical, if less lurid, but then Schopenhauer hugged a
fact and flouted chimeras. It may be that Schopenhauer was a little
behind the age, for Hartmann has criticised him very much as a
collegian on a holiday might jeer at the old-world manners of his
grandfather. As they cannot both be right, each may be wrong; and it
may be that the key to the whole great puzzle is contained in that one
word, resignation, which the poet-philosopher pronounced so long ago.
As a remedy this certainly has the advantage of being a more immediate
and serviceable palliative to the sufferer than either of those
suggested in the foregoing systems. It is admitted that--
     "Man cannot feed and be fed on the faith of to-morrow's baked meat;"
and it is in the same manner difficult for any one to hypnotize himself
and his suffering with the assurance that in the decline of humanity
all pain will cease; on the other hand, whether we have in regard to
future generations an after-me-the-deluge feeling, and practically care
very little whether or no they annihilate themselves and pain too,
still the more intelligent will readily recognize the ubiquity of
sorrow, and consider resignation at present as its most available
salve.
But in spite of its vagaries, pessimism, as expounded by Schopenhauer
and Hartmann, possesses a real and enduring value which it is difficult
to talk away; it is naturally most easy to laugh, in the heyday of
youth and health, at its fantastic misanthropy; indeed, it is in no
sense perfect; it has halted and tripped many times; it has points that
even to the haphazard and indifferent spectator are weak and faulty,
and yet what creed is logically perfect, and what creed is impregnable
to criticism? That there is none such can be truly admitted. The
reader, then, may well afford to be a little patient with pessimism;
theoretically, it is still in its infancy, but with increasing years
its blunders will give way to strength; and though many of the theories
that it now holds may alter, the cardinal, uncontrovertible tenet that
life is a burden will remain firm and changeless to the end of time.
CHAPTER VI.
IS LIFE AN AFFLICTION?
In very stately words, that were typical of him who uttered them,
Emerson said, "I do not wish to be amused;" and turned therewith a
figurative back on the enticements of the commonplace.
Broadly speaking, the sentiment that prompted this expression is common
to all individual men. The so-called allurements and charms of the
world are attractive to the vulgar, but not to the thinker, and whether
the thinker be a Trappist or a comedian, he will, if called to account,
express himself in a manner equally frank.
For sentiments of this description neither orthodoxy nor pessimism is
to blame. They are merely the resultants of the obvious and the true;
they leap into being in every intelligent mind. The holiday crowd on
its way to the Derby, to Coney Island, the Lido, or to any one of the
other thousand places of popular resort, causes even the ordinary
observer to wonder why it is that he cannot go too, and enjoy himself
with the same boisterous good humor which palpitates all about him; he
thinks at first that he has some fibre lacking, some incapacity for
that enjoyment which has in so large a measure been given to others;
but little by little the conviction breaks upon him that he has a fibre
more, and that it is the others who lack the finer perceptions with
which he is burdened.
That the others are to be envied, and he to be pitied, there can be no
manner of doubt, but all the same the fact that he is unable to take
part in popular amusements steadfastly remains; and while the matter of
the extra fibre is more or less reassuring, it is not always perfectly
satisfactory, and he then begins to look about for the reason. If to
his power of observation there be added also a receptive mind and an
introspective eye, it will be unnecessary for him to have ever heard of
M. Renan to become gradually aware that he is the victim of a gigantic
swindle. In common with many others, he has somehow imagined that the
world was a broad and fertile plain, with here and there a barren
tract. It is impossible for him to give any reason for this fancy; "In
the world ye shall have tribulation," is the explicit warning of the
Founder of Christianity, and to this warning all creeds, save that of
the early Hellenists, concur. It did not, therefore, come from any
religious teaching, nor, for that matter, from any philosophy. Still
the impression, however vague it may seem when analyzed, has none the
less been with him, as with all others, the reason being simply that he
grew up with it as he may have grown up with fairy tales, and it is not
until his aspirations stumble over facts that he begins to see that
life, instead of being the pleasant land flowing with milk and honey,
which he had imagined, is in reality something entirely different.
These deductions, of course, need not follow because a man finds that
he is more or less indifferent to every form of entertainment, from a
king's revel to a walking-match; but they may follow of any man who has
begun to dislike the propinquity of the average, and to feel that where
the crowd find amusement there will be nothing but weariness and
vexation of spirit for him. Under such circumstances he is an
instinctive pessimist, and one who needs but little theoretic
instruction to learn that he, as all others, has been made use of, and
