by the open door, and the king himself conducted 
Nehushta to the entrance of the garden, and bade the 
slave-woman who met them to lead her to the pavilion 
where the ladies of the palace spent the day in the 
warm summer weather. Zoroaster knew that what- 
ever liberty his singular position allowed him in the 
quarter of the building where the king himself lived, 
he was not privileged to enter that place which was 
set apart for the noble ladies. Darius hated to be 
always surrounded by guards and slaves, and the ter- 
races and staircases of his dwelling were generally 
totally deserted, — only small detachments of spear- 
men guarding jealously the main entrances. But the 
remainder of the palace swarmed with the gorgeously 
dressed retinue of the court, wdth slaves of every 
colour and degree, from the mute smooth-faced Ethiopian to the accomplished Hebrew scribes of the great 
nobles ; from the black and scantily-clad fan-girls to 
the dainty Greek tirewomen of the queen's toilet, 
who loitered near the carved marble fountain at the 
entrance to the gardens; and in the outer courts, 
detachments of the horsemen of the guard rubbed 
their weapons, or reddened their broad leather bridles 
and trappings with red chalk, or groomed the horse 
of some lately arrived officer or messenger, or hung 
about and basked in the sun, with no clothing but 
their short-sleeved linen tunics and breeches, discuss- 
 
ing the affairs of the nation with the certainty of 
decision peculiar to all soldiers, high and low. There 
was only room for a squadron of horse in the palace ; 
but though they were few, they were the picked men 
of the guard, and every one of them felt himself as 
justly entitled to an opinion concerning the position 
of the new king, as though he were at least a general. 
But Darius allowed no gossiping slaves nor wran- 
gling soldiers in his own dwelling. There all was 
silent and apparently deserted, and thither he led 
Zoroaster again. The young warrior was astonished 
at the way in which the king moved about unattended, 
as carelessly as though he were a mere soldier himself ; 
he was not yet accustomed to the restless independence 
of character, to the unceasing activity and perfect per- 
sonal fearlessness of the young Darius. It was hard to 
realise that this simple, hard-handed, outspoken man 
was the Great King, and occupied the throne of the 
magnificent and stately Cyrus, who never stirred 
abroad without the full state of the court about him ; 
or that he reigned in the stead of the luxurious Cambyses, who feared to tread upon uncovered marble, or 
to expose himself to the draught of a staircase ; and 
who, after seven years of caring for his body, had 
destroyed himself in a fit of impotent passion. Darius 
succeeded to the throne of Persia as a lion coming 
into the place of jackals, as an eagle into a nest of 
crows and carrion birds — untiring, violent, relentless 
and brave. 
" Knowest thou one Phraortes, of Ecbatana ? " the 
king asked suddenly when he was alone with Zo- 
roaster. 
 
"I know him," answered the prince. "A man 
rich and powerful, full of vanity as a peacock, and 
of wiles like a serpent. Not noble. He is the son 
of a fish-vendor, grown rich by selling salted sturgeons in the market-place. He is also the overseer 
of the queen's farmlands in Media, and of the Great 
King's horse-breeding stables." 
" Go forth and bring him to me," said the king 
shortly. Without a word, Zoroaster made a brief 
salute and turned upon his heel to go. But it was 
as though a man had thrust him through with a 
knife. The king gazed after him in admiration of 
his magnificent obedience. 
" Stay ! " he called out. " How long wilt thou be 
gone ? " 
Zoroaster turned sharply round in military fashion, 
as he answered : 
" It is a hundred and fifty farsangs ^ to Ecbatana. 
By the king's relays I can ride there in six days, and 
I can bring back Phraortes in six days more — if he 
die not of the riding," he added, with a grim smile. 
"Is he old, or young? Fat, or meagre?" asked 
the king, laughing. 
" He is a man of forty years, neither thin nor fat 
— a good horseman in his way, but not as we are." 
"Bind him to his horse if he falls off from weariness. And tell him he is summoned to appear before 
me. Tell him the business brooks no delay. Aura- 
mazda be with thee and bring thee help. Go with 
speed." 
1 Between five and six hundred English miles. South American 
postilions at the present day ride six hundred miles a week for a 
bare living. 
 
Again Zoroaster turned and in a moment he was 
gone. He had sworn to be the king's faithful servant, and he would keep his oath, cost what it might, 
though it was bitterness to him to leave Nehushta 
without a word. He bethought him as he hastily 
put on light garments for the journey, that he might 
send her a letter, and he wrote a few words upon a 
piece of parchment, and folded it together. As he 
passed by the entrance of the garden on his way to 
the stables, he looked about for one of Nehushta's 
slaves ; but seeing none, he beckoned to one of the 
Greek tirewomen, and giving her a piece of gold, 
bade her take the little scroll to Nehushta, the 
Hebrew princess, who was in the gardens. Then he 
went quickly on, and mounting the best horse in the 
king's stables, galloped at a break-neck pace down 
the steep incline. In five minutes he had crossed the 
bridge, and was speeding over the straight, dusty 
road toward Nineveh. In a quarter of an hour, a 
person watching him from the palace would have 
seen his flying figure disappearing as in a tiny speck 
of dust far out upon the broad, green plain. 
But the Greek slave-woman stood with Zoroaster's 
letter in her hand and held the gold piece he had 
given her in her mouth, debating what she should do. 
She was one of the queen's women, as it chanced, and 
she immediately reflected that she might turn the 
writing to some better account than by delivering it 
to Nehushta, whom she had seen for a moment that 
morning as she passed, and whose dark Hebrew 
