fortune to-day, and your uncle will send me some money 
shortly. So we may as well go on and see something of 
the world. We shall have Mr. Wentworth's man to look 
after us, and altogether it will be much pleasanter than 
travelling alone." 
Doris is glad with a child's delight, and she is really 
gratified that they are not to part from Lloyd Wentworth. 
'' You must make yourself as companionable as possi- 
ble, Doris," she suggests. " You must read up, — I wish 
I had a copy of Shakespeare for you. Everybody knows 
all about the plays." 
'' Mr. Wentworth promised to bring in his," she 
answers, quietly. 
To any other girl she would give advice ; but there is 
nothing that will meet the level of Doris's innocence, or is 
it obtuseness? Well, she will be right behind her in any 
emergency. And perhaps, if Doris thought of such a 
thing, she might turn cold and disagreeable, and show 
Wentworth how far matrimony was from her mind. No ; 
let them Just drift. But Mrs. Gilbert does so love talking 
over plans, and the best moves and probabilities of suc- 
cess. Lovers are to her what chess is to many people. 
Madame Cirrella is truly sorry to part with her guests. 
She brings out a small pearl brooch for Doris's accept- 
ance, and that last evening the two young people sing an 
''Ave Maria" without any accompaniment. It brings 
tears to madame's eyes. 
Mrs. Gilbert explains that they are to journey to Milan 
together. She feels her way cautiously with Doris, admit- 
ting to herself that, gentle as the girl is, she is difficult to 
manage. Indeed, Doris is much better without manage- 
ment. Her delicacy and unselfishness lead her invariably 
to do what others will prefer when it is any question of 
personal ease, desire, or pleasure. She finds enjoyment 
largely in making others happy ; but as yet Doris has not 
gone through the high experiences that make this a prin- 
ciple or an underlying strand in character. She does it 
as the bird sings, or the butterfly flits from flower to 
flower. It is one of the unconscious graces of her nature. 
But touch her on any fine moral point, and she could resist 
clearly and invincibly. 
So Mrs. Gilbert feels that she can only stand behind 
and pull the wires cautiously. Half the pleasure is gone ; 
but what she considers duty remains. She would never 
forgive herself if she let this prospect of a fortune for 
Doris slip through her fingers. She can even look forward 
complacently to the interesting widowhood of Doris Went- 
worth, who will still need a chaperon and companion. 
To Mr. Gilbert she writes briefly that she is going on to 
Milan. It will be less dull for Doris, who, like all young 
girls, is fond of change and pleasure ; and of course now 
is Doris's harvest time, when she is young and full of 
interest. 
The journey is not tiresome, and to Doris very delight- 
ful, with a companion like Lloyd Wentworth. She is 
beginning to discriminate ; she finds herself balancing and 
adjusting, evolving the many complexities of human souls, 
and comparing them. She does not say this to herself ; 
indeed, she does not understand the change going on so 
subtly within ; only she feels down to the depths of her 
honest nature that there is something in Aunt Gilbert that 
does not ring true, while in Mr. Wentworth it gives back 
the clear, decisive sound. It may be the difference be- 
tween men and women ; there may be an essential large- 
ness and nobleness in a man's nature. Then she shall copy 
that, she says to herself. More than once she has heard 
her aunt embellish some little incident very much for Lloyd 
Wentworth's hearing. 
When they reach their journey's end, Martin is 
despatched in search of apartments, and he finds them 
 
 
 
lodgings in a stately old sixteenth-century palace. The 
court-yard has a weed-grown, neglected look, and the gen- 
eral appearance is gloomy ; but it is so curious, with its 
high ceilings and carvings, its tapestries faded and worn, 
and its antique furniture. The sun shines brightly in 
Wentworth's room, and in the morning they will have it. 
Martin soon makes arrangements for meals. Mrs. Gilbert 
sighs a little as she thinks of the golden key that unlocks 
every store, and how most of her keys have turned out to 
be lead. But she accepts the goods the gods provide ; she 
will not refuse the richness of summer, because there may 
be a dreary winter. 
These two young people have fallen into an enchanted 
realm. It seems at first to Doris as if it must be wrong 
to plunge into the field of romance interdicted at school ; 
nay, to become a very part of it herself. Such wonderful 
lore as is poured out to her in extravagant measure ! Bits 
of history more thrilling than any story of the imagina- 
tion, men and women moving through incidents like veri- 
table characters of to-day, so strongly have they impressed 
their individuality at every step. Lives that wring tears 
from one's very soul, so deeply, bitterly sad are they; 
others that stalk on golden crowned, women who loved, 
suffered, and died, men who were alike villains and heroes. 
If she is absorbingly interested in them, Wentworth is 
fascinated by her. No travelling companion could be 
more delightful. Her freshness has a sparkle ; it is not 
the tame wonder of ignorance. She is so anxious to 
learn ; she feels that she has acquired next to nothing at 
school. 
There is the grand cathedral, the churches, the pic- 
tures, the palaces, and points o^ interest. They bore Mrs. 
Gilbert, but she falls in with some Florentine people who 
open to her the door of society in a small way. Doris, of 
course, would care nothing for a card party or a gossip- 
ing evening reception, and she is tired when night comes, 
 
 
 
glad to go to bed at the earliest moment. Wentworth 
makes no attempt at evening pleasures, for through the 
day he uses all his strength, and the nights are hardly 
long enough for recuperation. 
They journey on by easy stages. It is the perfection 
of summer weather. They pause awhile at the lovely, 
romantic lakes ; and in the quiet, with less to distract 
them, Wentworth brings out Shakespeare, whose magical 
