what she had done in rushing away from New York. This 
care for her moral appearance was, on Verena's part, some- 
thing new ; inasmuch as, though she had struck that note 
on previous occasions had insisted on its being her duty 
to face the accidents and alarms of life she had never 
erected such a standard in the face of a disaster so sharply 
possible. It was not her habit either to talk or to think 
about her dignity, and when Olive found her taking that 
tone she felt more than ever that the dreadful, ominous, 
fatal part of the situation was simply that now, for the first 
time in all the history of their sacred friendship, Verena 
was not sincere. She was not sincere when she told her 
that she wanted to be helped against Mr. Ransom when 
she exhorted her, that way, to keep everything that was 
salutary and fortifying before her eyes. Olive did not go 
so far as to believe that she was playing a part and putting 
her off with words which, glossing over her treachery, only 
made it more cruel; she would have admitted that that 
treachery was as yet unwitting, that Verena deceived herself 
first of all, thinking she really wished to be saved. Her 
phrases about her dignity were insincere, as well as her 
pretext that they must stay to look after Miss Birdseye : as 
if Doctor Prance were not abundantly able to discharge 
that function and would not be enchanted to get them out 
 
of the house! Olive had perfectly divined by this time 
that Doctor Prance had no sympathy with their movement, 
no general ideas; that she was simply shut up to petty 
questions of physiological science and of her own pro- 
fessional activity. She would never have invited her down 
if she had realised this in advance so much as the doctor's 
dry detachment from all their discussions, their readings 
and practisings, her constant expeditions to fish and 
botanise, subsequently enabled her to do. She was very 
narrow, but it did seem as if she knew more about Miss 
Birdseye's peculiar physical conditions they were very 
peculiar than any one else, and this was a comfort at a 
time when that admirable woman seemed to be suffering a 
loss of vitality. 
' The great point is that it must be met some time, and 
it will be a tremendous relief to have it over. He is de- 
termined to have it out with me, and if the battle doesn't 
come off to-day we shall have to fight it to-morrow. I 
don't see why this isn't as good a time as any other. My 
lecture for the Music Hall is as good as finished, and I 
haven't got anything else to do; so I can give all my 
attention to our personal struggle. It requires a good deal, 
you would admit, if you knew how wonderfully he can talk. 
If we should leave this place to-morrow he would come after 
us to the very next one. He would follow us everywhere. 
A little while ago we could have escaped him, because he 
says that then he had no money. He hasn't got much 
now, but he has got enough to pay his way. He is so 
encouraged by the reception of his article by the editor of 
the " Rational Review," that he is sure that in future his 
pen will be a resource.' 
These remarks were uttered by Verena after Basil 
Ransom had been three days at Marmion, and when she 
reached this point her companion interrupted her with the 
inquiry, ' Is that what he proposes to support you with 
his pen?' 
'Oh yes; of course he admits we should be terribly 
poor.' 
' And this vision of a literary career is based entirely 
upon an article that hasn't yet seen the light ? I don't see 
 
how a man of any refinement can approach a woman with 
so beggarly an account of his position in life.' 
' He says he wouldn't he would have been ashamed 
three months ago ; that was why, when we were in New 
York, and he felt, even then well (so he says) all he feels 
now, he made up his mind not to persist, to let me go. 
But just lately a change has taken place ; his state of mind 
altered completely, in the course of a week, in consequence 
of the letter that editor wrote him about his contribution, 
and his paying for it right off. It was a remarkably 
flattering letter. He says he believes in his future now; 
he has before him a vision of distinction, of influence, and 
of fortune, not great, perhaps, but sufficient to make life 
tolerable. He doesn't think life is very delightful, in the 
nature of things ; but one of the best things a man can do 
with it is to get hold of some woman (of course, she must 
please him very much, to make it worth while), whom he 
may draw close to him.' 
' And couldn't he get hold of any one but you among 
all the exposed millions of our sex?' poor Olive groaned. 
'Why must he pick you out, when everything he knew 
about you showed you to be, exactly, the very last?' 
c That's just what I have asked him, and he only remarks 
that there is no reasoning about such things. He fell in 
love with me that first evening, at Miss Birdseye's. So 
you see there was some ground for that mystic apprehension 
of yours. It seems as if I pleased him more than any one.' 
Olive flung herself over on the couch, burying her face 
in the cushions, which she tumbled in her despair, and 
moaning out that he didn't love Verena, he never had 
loved her, it was only his hatred of their cause that made 
him pretend it \ he wanted to do that an injury, to do it 
the worst he could think of. He didn't love her, he hated 
her, he only wanted to smother her, to crush her, to kill 
her as she would infallibly see that he would if she 
listened to him. It was because he knew that her voice 
had magic in it, and from the moment he caught its first 
note he had determined to destroy it. It was not tender- 
ness that moved him it was devilish malignity ; tenderness 
would be incapable of requiring the horrible sacrifice that 
 
he was not ashamed to ask, of requiring her to commit 
perjury and blasphemy, to desert a work, an interest, with 
which her very heart-strings were interlaced, to give the lie 
to her whole young past, to her purest, holiest ambitions. 
Olive put forward no claim of her own, breathed, at first, 
at least, not a word of remonstrance in the name of her 
personal loss, of their blighted union ; she only dwelt upon 
the unspeakable tragedy of a defection from their standard, 
of a failure on Verena's part to carry out what she had 
undertaken, of the horror of seeing her bright career blotted 
out with darkness and tears, of the joy and elation that 
would fill the breast of all their adversaries at this illustrious, 
consummate proof of the fickleness, the futility, the pre- 
