life in their very fleshly nature, previously the source of all sinful
lusts, but now, together with the inner man, wholly regenerated and
made anew. Here, then, is a Trinity of Divine manifestations, to
the corresponding triune degrees of the nature of man--the inner or
affectional degree, the intermediate, rational, or conscience degree,
and the external, or sensuous degree.

But while this was all that was necessary as a ground for the perfect
union of man with God, in the graduated triune degrees here mentioned,
and thus all that was necessary for his personal salvation in a sphere
of being beyond and above the earthy, it was not all that was
necessary to perfect his relations to the great and mysterious realm of
forms, materials, and forces which constitute the theater of his earthly
struggles; nor was it quite all that was necessary to project and carry
into execution the plan of that true and divine structure, order and
government of human society which might be appropriately termed "the
kingdom of heaven upon earth; wherefore you have now, according to a
divine promise frequently repeated in the New Testament, a Fourth
Great Divine Manifestation, which proves to be a manifestation of God in
universal science.

I. But that "Fourth Manifestation" (or "second coming," as we are
in the habit of calling it), which was promised in the New Testament,
was to be attended with imposing phenomena, of which we have as yet seen
nothing. It was to be a coming of Christ "in the clouds of heaven, with
power and great glory," and the resurrection of the dead, the final
judgment, etc., were to occur at the same time?

P. Certainly; but you would not, of course, insist upon putting a
strictly literal interpretation upon this language, and thus turning
it into utter and senseless absurdity. The real "heaven" is not that
boundary of your vision in upper space which you call the sky, but the
interior and living reality of things. The "clouds" that are meant
are not those sheets of condensed aqueous vapor which float above
your head, but the material coatings which have hitherto obscured
interior realities, and through which the Divine Logos, the "Sun of
Righteousness," is now breaking with a "power" which moves dead matter
without visible hands, and with a "great glory," or light, which reveals
a spiritual world within the natural. The "Resurrection" is not the
opening of the literal graves, and re-assembling of the identical flesh,
blood, and bones of dead men and nations which, during hundreds and
even thousands of years, have been combining and re-combining with the
universal elements; but it is the re-establishment of the long-suspended
relations of spirits with the earthly sphere of being, by which they
are enabled to freely manifest themselves again to their friends in the
earthly life, and often to receive great benefits in return; and if
you do not yet see, as accompanying and growing out of all this, the
beginning of an ordeal that is to try souls, institutions, creeds,
churches, and nations, as by fire, you had better wait awhile for a more
full exposition of the "last judgment." People should learn that the
kingdom of God comes not to outward but to inward observation, and
that as for the prophetic words which have been spoken on this subject,
"they are spirit, and they are life."

I. And what of the changed aspects of science that is to grow out of
this alleged peculiar Divine manifestation?

P. To answer that question fully would require volumes. Be content,
then, for the present, with the following brief words: Hitherto science
has been almost wholly materialistic in its tendencies, having nothing
to do with spiritual things, but ignoring and casting doubts upon them;
while spiritual matters, on the other hand, have been regarded by the
Church wholly as matters of faith with which science has nothing to
do. But through these modern manifestations, God is providentially
furnishing to the world all the elements of a spiritual science which,
when established and recognized, will be the stand-point from which
all physical science will be viewed. It will then be more distinctly
known that all external and visible forms and motions originate from
invisible, spiritual, and ultimately divine causes; that between cause
and effect there is always a necessary and intimate correspondence;
and hence that the whole outer universe is but the symbol and sure
index of an invisible and vastly more real universe within. From
this unitary basis of thought the different sciences as now correctly
understood may be co-related in harmonic order as One Grand Science, the
known of which, by the rule of correspondence, will lead by easy clews
to the unknown. The true structure and government of human society
will be clearly hinted by the structure and laws of the universe,
and especially by that microcosm, or little universe, the human
organization. All the great stirring questions of the day, including the
questions of suffrage, woman's rights, the relations between labor and
capital, and the questions of general political reform, will be put into
the way of an easy and speedy solution; and mankind will be ushered into
the light of a brighter day, socially, politically, and religiously,
than has ever yet dawned upon the world.

I. My invisible friend, the wonderful nature of your communication
excites my curiosity to know your name ere we part. Will you have the
kindness to gratify me in this particular?

P. That I may not do. My name is of no consequence in any respect.
Besides, if I should give it, you might, unconsciously to yourself, be
influenced to attach to it the weight of a personal authority, which
is specially to be avoided in communications of this kind. There is
nothing to prevent deceiving spirits from assuming great names, and you
have no way of holding them responsible for their statements. With
thinkers--minds that are developed to a vigorous maturity--the truth
itself should be its only and sufficient authority. If what I have told
you appears intrinsically rational, logical, scientific, in harmony with
known facts, and appeals to your convictions with the force of truth,
accept it; if not, reject it; but I advise you not to reject it before
giving it a candid and careful examination. I may tell you more at some
future time, but for the present, farewell.


CONCLUSION.

Here the interview ended. It was a part of my original plan, after
reviewing various theories on this mysterious subject, to propound one
of my own; but this interview with Planchette has changed my mind.
I confess I am amazed and confounded, and have nothing to say. The
commendable motive which the invisible intelligence, whatever it may
be, assigned in the last paragraph for refusing to give its name,
also prompts me to withhold my own name from this publication for the
present, and likewise to abstain from the explanation I intended to
give of certain particulars as to the manner and circumstances of this
communication. On its own intrinsic merits alone it should be permitted
to rest; and as I certainly feel that my own conceptions have been
greatly enlarged, not to say that I have been greatly instructed, I give
it forth in the hope that it may have the same effect upon my readers.

