that I talk to you, that I conduct myself with regard to 
you as I have done. What in the world is it I am 
trying to do but, by every device that my ingenuity 
suggests, fill up the inconvenient gulf that yawns between 
my position and yours? You know what I think of 
"positions"; I told you in London. For Heaven's sake 
let me feel that I have a little succeeded ! ' Hyacinth 
satisfied her sufficiently to enable her, five minutes later, 
apparently to entertain no further doubt on the question 
of his staying over. On the contrary, she burst into a 
sudden ebullition of laughter, exchanging her bright, lucid 
insistence for one of her singular sallies. ' You must 
absolutely go with me to call on the Marchants ; it will be 
too delightful to see you there ! ' 
As he walked up and down the empty drawing-room 
it occurred to him to ask himself whether that was mainly 
what she was keeping him for so that he might help her 
to play one of her tricks on the good people at Broome. 
He paced there, in the still candlelight, for a longer time 
than he measured; until the butler came and stood 
in the doorway, looking at him silently and fixedly, as if to 
let him know that he interfered with the custom of the 
 
house. He had told the Princess that what determined 
him was the thought of the manner in which he might 
exercise his craft in her service ; but this was only half the 
influence that pressed him into forgetfulness of what he had 
most said to himself when, in Lomax Place, in an hour of 
unprecedented introspection, he wrote the letter by which 
he accepted the invitation to Medley. He would go there 
(so he said), because a man must be gallant, especially if 
he be a little bookbinder ; but after he should be there he 
would insist at every step upon knowing what he was in for. 
The change that had taken place in him now, from one 
moment to another, was that he had simply ceased to care 
what he was in for. All warnings, reflections, considera- 
tions of verisimilitude, of the delicate, the natural and 
the possible, of the value of his independence, had become 
as nothing to him. The cup of an exquisite experience 
a week in that enchanted palace, a week of such immunity 
from Lomax Place and old Crookenden as he had never 
dreamed of was at his lips ; it was purple with the wine 
of novelty, of civilisation, and he couldn't push it aside 
without drinking. He might go home ashamed, but he 
would have for evermore in his mouth the taste of nectar. 
He went upstairs, under the eye of the butler, and on his 
way to his room, at the turning of a corridor, found himself 
face to face with Madame Grandoni. She had apparently 
just issued from her own apartment, the door of which stood 
open, near her ; she might have been hovering there in ex- 
pectation of his footstep. She had donned her dressing- 
gown, which appeared to give her every facility for respira- 
tion, but she had not yet parted with her wig. She still 
had her pink French book under her arm ; and her fat 
little hands, tightly locked together in front of her, formed 
the clasp of her generous girdle. 
' Do tell me it is positive, Mr. Robinson ! ' she said, 
stopping short. 
' What is positive, Madame Grandoni ? ' 
'That you take the train in the morning.' 
' I can't tell you that, because it wouldn't be true. On 
the contrary, it has been settled that I shall stay over. I 
am very sorry if it distresses you but che vuole ? ' Hyacinth 
added, smiling. 
Madame Grandoni was a humorous woman, but she 
gave him no smile in return; she only looked at him a 
moment, and then, shrugging her shoulders silently but 
expressively, shuffled back to her room. 
XXIV 
' I CAN give you your friend's name in a single guess. He 
is Diedrich Hoffendahl ! ' They had been strolling more 
and more slowly, the next morning, and as she made 
this announcement the Princess stopped altogether, standing 
there under a great beech with her eyes upon Hyacinth's 
and her hands full of primroses. He had breakfasted at 
noon, with his hostess and Madame Grandoni, but the old 
lady had fortunately not joined them when the Princess 
afterwards proposed that he should accompany her on her 
walk in the park. She told him that her venerable friend 
had let her know, while the day was still very young, that 
she thought it in the worst possible taste of the Princess not 
to have allowed Mr. Robinson to depart ; to which Christina 
had replied that concerning tastes there was no disputing 
and that they had disagreed on such matters before without 
any one being the worse. Hyacinth expressed the hope 
that they wouldn't dispute about him of all thankless 
subjects in the world ; and the Princess assured him that 
she never disputed about anything. She held that there 
were other ways than that of arranging one's relations with 
people ; and Hyacinth guessed that she meant that when 
a difference became sharp she broke off altogether. On her 
side, then, there was as little possibility as on his that they 
should ever quarrel ; their acquaintance would be a solid 
friendship or it would be nothing at all. The Princess 
gave it from hour to hour more of this quality, and it may 
be imagined how safe Hyacinth felt by the time he began 
to tell her that something had happened to him, in London, 
three months before, one night (or rather in the small 
hours of the morning), that had altered his life altogether 
had, indeed, as he might say, changed the terms on which 
he held it. He was aware that he didn't know exactly 
what he meant by this last phrase ; but it expressed 
sufficiently well the new feeling that had come over him 
since that interminable, tantalising cab -drive in the 
rain. 
The Princess had led to this, almost as soon as they left 
the house ; making up for her avoidance of such topics the 
day before by saying, suddenly, ' Now tell me what is going 
on among your friends. I don't mean your worldly acquaint- 
ances, but your colleagues, your brothers. On en etes-vous, 
at the present time? Is there anything new, is anything 
going to be done ; I am afraid you are always simply dawdling 
and muddling.' Hyacinth felt as if, of late, he had by no 
means either dawdled or muddled ; but before he had com- 
mitted himself so far as to refute the imputation the Princess 
exclaimed, in another tone, ' How annoying it is that I can't 
ask you anything without giving you the right to say to 
yourself, " After all, what do I know ? May she not be in 
the pay of the police ? " : 
' Oh, that doesn't occur to me,' said Hyacinth, with a 
