He brought it back in an envelope which held a 
very little more than Lemuel had asked for Sewell 
 
had not dared to add much and Lemuel put it in 
his pocket. 
He tried to say something ; he could only make a 
husky noise in his throat. 
" Good night ! " said Sewell pressing his hand 
with both of his again, at the door. "We shall 
come very soon." 
" MARRIED ! " said Mrs. Sewell, when he returned 
to her; and then she suffered a silence to ensue, 
in which it seemed to Sewell that his inculpation 
was visibly accumulating mountains vast and high. 
" Wlud did you say ? " 
"Nothing," he answered almost gaily; the case 
was so far beyond despair. "What should you 
have said ?" 
XXXIV. 
LEMUEL got a conductor 's overcoat and cap at half- 
price from a man who had been discharged, and put 
by the money saved to return to Sewell when he 
should come. He entered upon his duties the next 
morning, under the instruction of an old conductor, 
who said, " Hain't I seen you som ere 's before ? " and 
he worked all day, taking money and tickets, 
registering fares, helping ladies on and off the car, 
and monotonously journeying back and forth over his 
route. He went on duty at six o clock in the morning, 
after an early breakfast that Manda Grier and his 
mother got him, for Statira was not strong enough 
yet to do much, and he was to be relieved at eight. 
At nightfall, after two half-hour respites for dinner 
and tea, he was so tired that he could scarcely stand. 
" Well, how do you like it, as fur 's you've  gone ? " 
asked the instructing conductor, in whom Lemuel 
had recognised an old acquaintance. " Sweet life, 
ain't it ? There ! That switch hain't worked again ! 
Jump off, young man, and put your shoulder to the 
wheel ! " 
The car had failed to take the right-hand turn 
where the line divided ; it had to be pushed back, 
and while the driver tugged and swore under his 
breath at his horses, Lemuel set himself to push the 
car. 
" S no use ! " said the driver finally. " I got to 
hitch em on at the other end, and pull her back." 
He uncoupled the team from the front of the car, 
and swung round with it. Lemuel felt something 
strike him on the leg, and he fell down. He scram 
bled to his feet again, but his left leg doubled under 
him ; it went through his mind that one of the horses 
must have lashed out and broken it ; then everything 
seemed to stop. 
The world began again for him in the apothecary 's 
shop where he had been carried, and from which he 
was put into an ambulance, by a policeman. It 
stopped again, as he whirled away ; it renewed itself 
in anguish, and ceased in bliss as he fainted from the 
pain or came to. 
They lifted him up some steps, at last, and carried 
him into a high, bright room, where there were 
two or three cots, and a long glass case full of 
surgical instruments. They laid him on a cot, and 
some one swiftly and skilfully undressed him. A 
surgeon had come in, and now he examined Lemuel 's 
leg. He looked once or twice at his face. 
" This is a pretty bad job, I can't tell how bad till 
you have had the ether. Will you leave it with me ? " 
"Yes. But do the best you can for me." 
"You may be sure I will." 
Lemuel believed that they meant to cut off his leg. 
 
He knew that he had a right to refuse and to take 
the consequences, but he would not ; he had no right 
to choose death, when he had others to live for. 
He woke deathly sick at first, and found himself 
lying in bed, one of the two rows in a long room, 
where there were some quiet women in neat caps 
and seersucker dresses going about, with bowls of 
food and bottles of medicine. 
Lemuel still felt his leg, and the pain in it, but he 
had heard how mutilated men felt their lost limbs all 
their lives, and he was afraid to make sure by the 
touch of his hand. 
A nurse who saw his eyes open came to him. He 
turned them upon her, but he could not speak. She 
must have understood. "The doctor thinks he can 
save your leg for you ; but it 's a bad fracture. You 
must be careful to keep very still." 
He fell asleep ; and life began again for him, 
in the midst of suffering and death. He saw every 
day broken and mangled men, drunk with ether, 
brought up as he had been, and laid in beds ; he saw 
the priest of the religion to which most of the poor 
and lowly still belong, go and come among the cots, 
and stand by the pillows where the sick feebly 
followed him in the mystical gestures which he made 
on his brow and breast ; he learned to know the use 
of the white linen screen which was drawn about a 
bed to hide the passing of a soul ; he became familiar 
with the helpless sympathy, the despair of the friends 
who came to visit the sick and dying. 
He had not lacked for more attention and interest 
 
from his own than the rules of the hospital allowed. 
His mother and Manda Grier came first, and then 
Statira when they would let her. She thought it 
hard that she was not suffered to do the least thing 
for him ; she wished to take him away to their own 
rooms, where she could nurse him twice as well. At 
first she cried whenever she saw him, and lamented 
over him, so that the head nurse was obliged to 
explain to her that she disturbed the patients, 
and could not come any more unless she controlled 
herself. She promised, and kept her word ; she 
sat quietly by his pillow and held his hand, when she 
came, except when she put up her own to hide the 
cough which she could not always restrain. The 
nurse told her that, of course, she was not accountable 
