babies, let me come and give you cuddlings. They always make people
feel more better, and I love ‘em, and don’t get any now my dear
people are away.”
So the two made a tender little plan to comfort each other when
hearts were heavy with longings for the absent, and parted at the
small gate, both much cheered, and faster friends than ever.
Rosy hastened in with her peace-offering, forgetful now of headache
or loneliness as she sat patiently in the wide entry window-seat
listening till some sound in Cicely’s room should show that she was
awake. Before that happened, however, poor Button fell asleep
herself, lulled by the quiet of the house,--for every one was
napping,--and dreamed that Mr. Dover stood waving a rainbow over
his head, while several Indian gods and three little girls were
dancing round him, hand in hand, to the tune of “Ring around a
rosy.”
A loud yawn roused her, and there was Cis peeping out of her door to
see what time it was by the old-fashioned clock on the landing. Up
scrambled the child, feeling dizzy and heavy-eyed, but so eager to
give pleasure that she lost no time in saying, as she swung the
necklace in the sunshine,--
“See! this is for you, if you like it more better than the
thunder-and-lightning marbles, as Cousin Penny calls the one you
were going to wear.”
“How lovely! Where DID you get it, child?” cried Cis, wide awake at
once, as she ran to the glass to try the effect of the new ornament
on her white neck.
“My dear Mr. Thomas gave it to me; but he said I could give it away
if I liked, and I want you to have it, ‘cause it’s ever so much
prettier than any you’ve got.”
“That’s very kind of you, Chicken, but why not keep it yourself? You
like nice things as well as I do,” said Cicely, much impressed by
the value of the gift, for it was real amber, and the clasp of gold.
“Well, I’ve talked with Mr. Thomas about missionarying a great deal,
and he told me how he made the savinges good by giving them beads,
and things to eat, and being patient and kind to them. So I thought
I’d play be a missionary, and call this house Africa, and try to
make the people here behave more better,” answered Rosy, with such
engaging earnestness, as well as frankness, that Cis laughed, and
exclaimed,--
“You impertinent monkey, to call us heathen and try to convert us!
How do you expect to do it?”
“Oh, I’m getting on pretty well, only you don’t CONVERT as quick as
some of the savinges did. I’ll tell you about it;” and Button went
on eagerly. “Cousin Penny is the good old one, but rather fussy and
slow, so I’m kind and patient, and now she loves me and lets me do
things I like. She is my best one. Cousin Henny is my cannybel,
‘cause she eats so much, and I please HER by bringing nice things
and getting her cushions ready. You are my baddest one, who is cross
to me, and fights, and raps my head, and slaps my hands; so I
thought some beads would be nice for you, and I bringed these
beauties. Mr. Thomas gave ‘em to me when I told him my trials.”
Cicely looked angry, amused, and ashamed, as she listened to the
funny yet rather pathetic little play with which the lonely child
had tried to cheer herself and win the hearts of those about her.
She had the grace to blush, and offer back the necklace, saying in a
self-reproachful tone,--
“Keep your beads, little missionary, I’ll be converted without them,
and try to be kinder to you. I AM a selfish wretch, but you shall
play be my little sister, and not have to go to strangers for
comfort in your trials any more. Come, kiss me, dear, and we’ll
begin now.”
Rosy was in her arms at once, and clung there, saying with a face
all smiles,--
“That’s what I wanted! I thought I’d make a good savinge of you if I
tried VERY hard. Please be kind to me just till Mamma comes back,
and I’ll be the best little sister that ever was.”
“Why didn’t you tell me all about it before?” asked Cicely,
smoothing the tired head on her shoulder with a new gentleness; for
this last innocent confession had touched her heart as well as her
conscience.
“You never seemed to care about my plays, and always said, ‘Don’t
chatter, child; run away and take care of yourself.’ So I did; but
it was pretty dull, with only Tabby to tell secrets to and Bella to
kiss. Mr. Thomas said people over here didn’t like children very
well, and I found they didn’t. HE does, dearly, so I went to him;
but I like you now, you are so soft and kind to me.”
“How hot your cheeks are! Come and let me cool them, and brush your
hair for tea,” said Cis, as she touched the child’s feverish skin,
and saw how heavy her eyes were.
“I’m all burning up, and my head is SO funny. I don’t want any tea.
I want to lie on your sofa and go to sleep again. Can I?” asked
Rosy, with a dizzy look about the room, and a shiver at the idea of
eating.
“Yes, dear, I’ll put on your little wrapper, and make you all
comfortable, and bring you some ice-water, for your lips are very
dry.”
As she spoke, Cicely bustled about the room, and soon had Rosy
nicely settled with her best cologne-bottle and a fan; then she
hastened down to report that something was wrong, with a fear in her
own heart that if any harm did come to the child it would be her
fault. Some days before Cicely had sent Button-Rose with a note to a
friend’s house where she knew some of the younger children were ill.
Since then she had heard that it was scarlet fever; but though Rosy
had waited some time for an answer to the note, and seen one of the
invalids, Cis had never mentioned the fact, being ashamed to confess
her carelessness, hoping no harm was done. Now she felt that it HAD
come, and went to tell gentle Cousin Penny with tears of vain
regret.
Great was the lamentation when the doctor, who was sent for in hot
haste, pronounced it scarlet fever; and deep was the self-reproach
of the two older women for their blindness in not before remarking
the languid air and want of appetite in the child. But Cicely was
full of remorse; for every quick word, every rap of the hateful
thimble, every service accepted without thanks, weighed heavily on
her conscience now, as such things have an inconvenient way of doing
when it is too late to undo them. Every one was devoted to the
child, even lazy Miss Henny gave up her naps to sit by her at all
hours, Miss Penny hovered over the little bed like a grandmother,
and Cicely refused to think of pleasure till the danger was over.
For soon Button-Rose was very ill, and the old house haunted by the
dreadful fear that death would rob them of the little creature who
grew so precious when the thought of losing her made their hearts
stand still. How could they live without the sound of that sweet
voice chirping about the house, the busy feet tripping up and down,
the willing hands trying to help, the sunny face smiling at every
one, and going away into corners to hide the tears that sometimes
came to dim its brightness? What would comfort the absent mother for
such a loss as this, and how could they answer to the father for the
carelessness that risked the child’s life for a girl’s errand? No
one dared to think, and all prayed heartily for Rosy’s life, as they
