world has been long in realising, which we have not even suspected--an
amazing and transcendent genius for invention."

"It is pure insanity," answered Corona, in a tone of conviction. "The
woman is mad."

"Mad as an Englishman," asseverated the Prince, using the most powerful
simile in the Italian language. "We will have her in Santo Spirito before
night, and she will puzzle the doctors."

"She is not mad," said Giovanni, quietly. "I do not even believe we shall
find that her documents are forgeries."

"What?" cried his father. Corona looked quickly at Giovanni.

"You yourself," said the latter, turning to old Saracinesca, "were
assuring me half an hour ago that I was the victim of a plot. Now, if
anything of the kind is seriously attempted, you may be sure it will be
well done. She has a good ally in the man to whom she is engaged. Del
Ferice is no fool, and he hates me."

"Del Ferice!" exclaimed Corona, in surprise. As she went nowhere as yet,
she had, of course, not heard the news which had been published on the
previous evening. "You do not mean to say that she is going to marry Del
Ferice?"

"Yes, indeed," said Giovanni. "They both appeared last night and
announced the fact, and received everybody's congratulations. It is a
most appropriate match."

"I agree with you--a beautiful triangular alliteration of wit, wealth,
and wickedness," observed the Prince. "He has brains, she has money, and
they are both as bad as possible."

"I thought you used to like Donna Tullia," said Corona, suppressing a
smile.

"I did," said old Saracinesea, stoutly. "I wanted Giovanni to marry her.
It has pleased Providence to avert that awful catastrophe. I liked Madame
Mayer because she was rich and noisy and good-looking, and I thought
that, as Giovanni's wife, she would make the house gay. We are such a
pair of solemn bears together, that it seemed appropriate that somebody
should make us dance. It was a foolish idea, I confess, though I thought
it very beautiful at the time. It merely shows how liable we are to make
mistakes. Imagine Giovanni married to a lunatic!"

"I repeat that she is not mad," said Giovanni. "I cannot tell how they
have managed it, but I am sure it has been managed well, and will give us
trouble. You will see."

"I do not understand at all how there can be any trouble about it," said
Corona, proudly. "It is perfectly simple for us to tell the truth, and to
show that what they say is a lie. You can prove easily enough that you
were in Canada at the time. I wish it were time for her to come. Let us
go to breakfast in the meanwhile."

The views taken by the three were characteristic of their various
natures. The old Prince, who was violent of temper, and inclined always
to despise an enemy in any shape, scoffed at the idea that there was
anything to show; and though his natural wit suggested from time to time
that there was a plot against his son, his general opinion was, that it
was a singular case of madness. He hardly believed Donna Tullia would
appear at all; and if she did, he expected some extraordinary outburst,
some pitiable exhibition of insanity. Corona, on the other hand,
maintained a proud indifference, scorning to suppose that anything could
possibly injure Giovanni in any way, loving him too entirely to admit
that he was vulnerable at all, still less that he could possibly have
done anything to give colour to the accusation brought against him.
Giovanni alone of all the three foresaw that there would be trouble, and
dimly guessed how the thing had been done; for he did not fall into his
father's error of despising an enemy, and he had seen too much of the
world not to understand that danger is often greatest when the appearance
of it is least.

Breakfast was hardly over when Donna Tullia was announced. All rose to
meet her, and all looked at her with equal interest. She was calmer than
on the previous day, and she carried a package of papers in her hand.
Her red lips were compressed, and her eyes looked defiantly round upon
all present. Whatever might be her faults, she was not a coward when
brought face to face with danger. She was determined to carry the matter
through, both because she knew that she had no other alternative, and
because she believed herself to be doing a righteous act, which, at the
same time, fully satisfied her desire for vengeance. She came forward
boldly and stood beside the table in the midst of the room. Corona was
upon one side of the fireplace, and the two Saracinesea upon the other.
All three held their breath in expectation of what Donna Tullia was about
to say; the sense of her importance impressed her, and her love of
dramatic situations being satisfied, she assumed something of the air of
a theatrical avenging angel, and her utterance was rhetorical.

"I come here," she said, "at your invitation, to exhibit to your eyes the
evidence of what I yesterday asserted--the evidence of the monstrous
crime of which I accuse that man." Here she raised her finger with a
gesture of scorn, and extending her whole arm, pointed towards Giovanni.

"Madam," interrupted the old Prince, "I will trouble you to select your
epithets and expressions with more care. Pray be brief, and show what you
have brought."

"I will show it, indeed," replied Donna Tullia, "and you shall tremble at
what you see. When you have evidence of the truth of what I say, you may
choose any language you please to define the action of your son. These
documents," she said, holding up the package, "are attested copies made
from the originals--the first two in the possession of the curate of the
church of San Bernardino da Siena, at Aquila, the other in the office of
the Stato Civile in the same city. As they are only copies, you need not
think that you will gain anything by destroying them."

"Spare your comments upon our probable conduct," interrupted the Prince,
roughly. Donna Tullia eyed him with a scornful glance, and her face began
to grow red.

"You may destroy them if you please," she repeated; "but I advise you to
observe that they bear the Government stamp and the notarial seal of
Gianbattista Caldani, notary public in the city of Aquila, and that they
are, consequently, beyond all doubt genuine copies of genuine documents."

Donna Tullia proceeded to open the envelope and withdraw the three papers
it contained. Spreading them out, she took up the first, which contained
the extract from the curate's book of banns. It set forth that upon the
