When Mavering stopped coming to her house after his engagement she
justly suspected that it was because Alice had forbidden him, and she
had rejoiced at the broken engagement as an escape for Dan; she had
frankly said so, and she had received him back into full favour at the
first moment in Washington. She liked Miss Anderson, and she had hoped,
with the interest which women feel in every such affair, that her
flirtation with him might become serious. But now this had apparently
not happened. Julia Anderson was gone with mystifying precipitation,
and Alice Pasmer had come with an unexpectedness which had the aspect of
fatality.
Mrs. Brinkley felt bound, of course, since there was no open enmity
between them, to meet the Pasmers on the neutral ground of the Hygeia
with conventional amiability. She was really touched by the absent
wanness of the girls look, and by the later-coming recognition which
shaped her mouth into a pathetic snide. Alice did not look like death
quite, as Mrs. Brinkley had told her husband, with the necessity her sex
has for putting its superlatives before its positives; but she was pale
and thin, and she moved with a languid step when they all met at night
after Mrs. Brinkley had kept out of the Pasmers’ way during the day.
“She has been ill all the latter part of the winter,” said Mrs. Pasmer
to Mrs. Brinkley that night in the corner of the spreading hotel
parlours, where they found themselves. Mrs. Pasmer did not look well
herself; she spoke with her eyes fixed anxiously on the door Alice had
just passed out of. “She is going to bed, but I know I shall find her
awake whenever I go.”
“Perhaps,” suggested Mrs. Brinkley, “this soft, heavy sea air will put
her to sleep.” She tried to speak drily and indifferently, but she could
not; she was, in fact, very much interested by the situation, and she
was touched, in spite of her distaste for them both, by the evident
unhappiness of mother and daughter. She knew what it came from, and
she said to herself that they deserved it; but this did not altogether
fortify her against their pathos. “I can hardly keep awake myself,” she
added gruffly.
“I hope it may help her,” said Mrs. Pasmer; “the doctor strongly urged
our coming.”
“Mr. Pasmer isn’t with you,” said Mrs. Brinkley, feeling that it was
decent to say something about him.
“No; he was detained.” Mrs. Pasmer did not explain the cause of his
detention, and the two ladies slowly waved their fans a moment in
silence. “Are there many Boston People in the house?” Mrs. Pasmer asked.
“It’s full of them,” cried Mrs. Brinkley.
“I had scarcely noticed,” sighed Mrs. Pasmer; and Mrs. Brinkley knew
that this was not true. “Alice takes up all my thoughts,” she added; and
this might be true enough. She leaned a little forward and asked, in a
low, entreating voice over her fan, “Mrs. Brinkley, have you seen Mr.
Mavering lately?”
Mrs. Brinkley considered this a little too bold, a little too brazen.
Had they actually come South in pursuit of him? It was shameless, and
she let Mrs. Pasmer know something of her feeling in the shortness
with which she answered, “I saw him in Washington the other day--for a
moment.” She shortened the time she had spent in Dan’s company so as to
cut Mrs. Pasmer off from as much comfort as possible, and she stared at
her in open astonishment.
Mrs. Pasmer dropped her eyes and fingered the edge of her fan with a
submissiveness that seemed to Mrs. Brinkley the perfection of duplicity;
she wanted to shake her. “I knew,” sighed Mrs. Pasmer, “that you had
always been such a friend of his.”
It is the last straw which breaks the camel’s back; Mrs. Brinkley felt
her moral vertebrae give way; she almost heard them crack; but if there
was really a detonation, the drowned the noise with a harsh laugh.
“Oh, he had other friends in Washington. I met him everywhere with
Miss Anderson.” This statement conflicted with the theory of her single
instant with Dan, but she felt that in such a cause, in the cause of
giving pain to a woman like Mrs. Pasmer, the deflection from exact truth
was justifiable. She hurried on: “I rather expected he might run
down here, but now that they’re gone, I don’t suppose he’ll come. You
remember Miss Anderson’s aunt, Miss Van Hook?”
“Oh yes,” said Mrs. Pasmer.
“She was here with her.”
“Miss Van Hook was such a New York type--of a certain kind,” said Mrs.
Pasmer. She rose, with a smile at once so conventional, so heroic, and
so pitiful that Mrs. Brinkley felt the remorse of a generous victor.
She went to her room, hardening her heart, and she burst in with a flood
of voluble exasperation that threatened all the neighbouring rooms with
overflow.
“Well,” she cried, “they have shown their hands completely. They have
come here to hound Dan Mavering down, and get him into their toils
again. Why, the woman actually said as much! But I fancy I have given
her a fit of insomnia that will enable her to share her daughter’s
vigils. Really such impudence I never heard of!”
“Do you want everybody in the corridor to hear of it?” asked Brinkley,
from behind a newspaper.
“I know one thing,” continued Mrs. Brinkley, dropping her voice a couple
of octaves. “They will never get him here if I can help it. He won’t
come, anyway, now Miss Anderson is gone; but I’ll make assurance doubly
sure by writing him not to come; I’ll tell him they’ve gone; and than we
are going too.”
“You had better remember the man in Chicago,” said her husband.
“Well, this is my business--or I’ll make it my business!” cried Mrs.
Brinkley. She went on talking rapidly, rising with great excitement in
her voice at times, and then remembering to speak lower; and her husband
apparently read on through most of her talk, though now and then he made
some comment that seemed of almost inspired aptness.
“The way they both made up to me was disgusting. But I know the girl is
just a tool in her mother’s hands. Her mother seemed actually passive
in comparison. For skilful wheedling I could fall down and worship that
woman; I really admire her. As long as the girl was with us she kept
herself in the background and put the girl at me. It was simply a
masterpiece.”
“How do you know she put her at you?” asked Brinkley.
“How? By the way she seemed not to do it! And because from what I know
of that stupid Pasmer pride it would be perfectly impossible for any one
who was a Pasmer to take her deprecatory manner toward me of herself.
You ought to have seen it! It was simply perfect.”
“Perhaps,” said Brinkley, with a remote dreaminess, “she was truly
sorry.”
“Truly stuff! No, indeed; she hates me as much as ever--more!”
“Well, then, may be she’s doing it because she hates you--doing it for
her soul’s good--sort of penance, sort of atonement to Mavering.”
Mrs. Brinkley turned round from her dressing-table to see what her
husband meant, but the newspaper hid him. We all know that our own
natures are mixed and contradictory, but we each attribute to others a
logical consistency which we never find in any one out of the novels.
Alice Pasmer was cold and reticent, and Mrs. Brinkley, who had lived
half a century in a world full of paradoxes, could not imagine her
subject to gusts of passionate frankness; she knew the girl to be
proud and distant, and she could not conceive of an abject humility
and longing for sympathy in her heart. If Alice felt, when she saw Mrs.
Brinkley, that she had a providential opportunity to punish herself
for her injustice to Dan, the fact could not be established upon Mrs.
