" I 'll make no bones of it, nor mince nothin', for 
somebody 's got to tell ye, and they said it must be me. 
There 's a warrant after ye. The sheriff's on the tug 
betwixt us and the wharf. She \s layin' off of the island, 
him aboard of her." 
"I never was in prison," faltered Jack. "The boys 
have always bailed me." 
"I ain't a bailin' matter, Jack, this time." 
" What did you say ? " 
" I said it wasn't a bailin' business. Somebody 's 
got to tell you." 
Jack gazed confidingly up into his friend's face. 
"What was it that I done, old boy? Can't ye tell 
me?" 
" Let the sheriff tell you. Ask the sheriff. I 'd 
rather it was the sheriff told you, Jack." 
" Tell me what it is I done, Rowe Salt ; I 'd tell you." 
He looked puzzled. 
" The sheriff knows more about it nor I do," begged 
the fisherman ; " don't make an old messmate tell you." 
"All right," said Jack, turning away. He had now 
grown very quiet. He pleaded no more, only to mutter 
once : 
" I 'd rather heard it from a messmate." 
Rowe Salt took a step or two, turned, stopped, stirred, 
and turned again. 
"You killed somebody, then, if you will know." 
" Killed somebody ? " 
" Yes." 
" I was drunk and killed somebody ? " 
" Lord help you, yes." 
" I hope," hoarsely — " Look here, Salt. I hope Teen 
wont know. 
"I say, Rowe," after a long pause, "who was it that 
I killed?" 
"Ask the sheriff." 
"Who was it that I killed ?" 
"The skipper 'll tell you, mebby. I won't. No, I 
vow I won't. Let me go. I 've done my share of this. 
Let me up on deck ! I want the air ! " 
"I won't let you up on deck— so help me! — till you 
tell!" 
" Let me off, Jack, let me off ! " 
" Tell me who it was, I say ! " 
"Lord in heaven, the poor devil don't know, — he 
really don't." 
" I thought you would ha' told me, Rowe," said Jack 
with a smile, — his old winning smile, that had captivated 
his messmates all his life. 
" I will tell you ! " cried Rowe Salt with an oath of 
agony. " You killed your wife ! You murdered her. 
She 's dead Teen ain't to home. She 's dead." 
VI. 
They made way for him at this side and at that, for 
he sprang up the gangway, and dashed among them. 
When he saw them all together, and how they looked at 
him, he stopped. A change seemed to strike his pur- 
pose, be it what it might. 
" Boys," said Jack, looking all about, " ye won't have 
to go no bail for me. I 'll bide my account, this time." 
He parted from them, for they let him do the thing 
he would, and got himself alone into the bows, and there 
he sank down, crouching, and no one spoke to him. 
The Daredevil rounded Eastern Point, and down the 
shining harbor, all sails set, came gayly in. They were 
almost home. 
Straightway there started out upon the winter sea a 
strong, sweet tenor, like a cry. It was Jack's voice, — 
everybody knew it. He stood by himself in the bows, 
back to them, singing like an angel or a madman, — 
>.cme said this ; some said the other, — 
" Rock of Ages, cleft for me ! 
Let me hide myself in thee ; . . . 
Thou must save, and thou alone . . . 
When I soar to worlds unknown, 
See thee on thy judgment throne," — 
sang Jack. 
With the ceasing of his voice, they divined how it 
was, by one instinct, and every man sprang to him. 
But he had leaped and gained on them. 
The waters of Fairharbor seemed themselves to leap 
to greet him as he went down. These that had borne 
him and ruined him buried him as if they loved him. 
He had pushed up his sleeves for the spring, hard to the 
shoulder, like a man who would wrestle at odds. 
As he sank, one bared arm, thrust above the crest of 
the long wave, lifted itself toward the sky. It was his 
right arm, on which the crucifix was stamped. 
VII. 
White and gold as the lips and heart of a. lily, the 
day blossomed at Fairharbor one June Sunday, when 
these things were as a tale that is told. It was a warm 
day, sweet and still. There was no wind, no fog. The 
harbor wore her innocent face. She has one ; who can 
help believing in it, to see it ? The waves stretched 
themselves upon the beach as if they had been hands 
laid out in benediction ; and the colors of the sky were 
like the expression of a strong and solemn countenance. 
So thought Mother Mary, standing by her husband's 
side that day, and looking off from the little creature in 
her arms to the faces of the fishermen gathered there 
about her for the service. It was an open-air service, held 
upon the beach, where the people she had served and 
loved could freely come to her — and would. They had 
sought the scene in large numbers. The summer peo- 
ple, too, strolled down, distant and different, and hung 
upon the edges of the group. They had a civil welcome, 
but no more. This was a fisherman's affair ; nobody 
needed them ; Mother Mary did not belong to them. 
" The meetin 's ours," said Rowe Salt. " It 's us she 's 
after. The boarders ain't of no account to her." 
His brother Jim was there with Rowe, and Jim's wife, 
and some of the respectable women neighbors. The 
skipper of the Daredevil was there, and so were many 
"But no one heard the other words, said BY Mother Mary." 
of Jack's old messmates. When it was understood that 
Mother Mary had adopted Jack's baby, the news had 
run like rising tide, from wharf to wharf, from deck to 
deck, — everybody knew it, by this time. Almost everybody 
was there, to see the baptism. The Fairharbor 
