his own untiring industry, Dan Woods fell behind. There were five
children to support, and they required not only food but clothing, and
Dan found it uphill work.
His monthly rent was ten dollars; a small sum in itself, but large for
this much-burdened man to pay. But, however poorly he might fare in
other respects, Dan knew that it was important to have this sum ready on
the first day of every month. Wolverton was a hard landlord, and
admitted of no excuse. More than once after the rent had been paid there
was not a dollar left in his purse, or a pinch of food in his house.
A week before this time Dan was looking for his landlord's call with
unusual anxiety. He had been sick nearly a week during the previous
month, and this had so curtailed his earnings that he had but six
dollars ready in place of ten. Would his sickness be accepted as an
excuse? He feared not.
Wolverton's call was made on time. He had some expectation that the rent
would not be ready, for he knew Dan had been sick; but he was resolved
to show him no consideration.
"His sickness is nothing to me," he reflected. "It would be a pretty
state of affairs if landlords allowed themselves to be cheated out of
their rent for such a cause."
Dan Woods was at work in the yard when Wolverton approached. He was
splitting some wood for use in the kitchen stove. His heart sank within
him when he saw the keen, sharp features of his landlord.
"Good morning, Dan," said Wolverton, with suavity. His expression was
amiable, as it generally was when he was collecting money, but it
suffered a remarkable change if the money was not forthcoming.
"Good-morning, sir," answered Woods, with a troubled look.
"You've got a nice, snug place here, Dan; it's a fine home for your
family."
"I don't complain of it, sir. As I once owned it myself, probably I set
more store by it than a stranger would."
"Just so, Dan. You get it at a very low rent, too. If it were any one
but yourself I should really feel that I ought to raise the rent to
twenty dollars."
"I hope you won't do that, sir," said Woods, in alarm. "It's all I can
do to raise ten dollars a month, with all my other expenses."
"Oh, well, I'll let it remain at the present figure as long as you pay
me promptly," emphasizing the last words. "Of course I have a right to
expect that."
Dan's heart sank within him. It was clear he could not expect any
consideration from such a man. But the truth must be told.
"No doubt you are right, Mr. Wolverton, and you've found me pretty
prompt so far."
"So I have, Dan. I know you wouldn't be dishonest enough to make me
wait."
Dan's heart sank still lower. It was becoming harder every minute to own
that he was deficient.
"Still, Mr. Wolverton, bad luck will come----"
"What!" exclaimed Wolverton, with a forbidding scowl.
"As I was saying, sir, a man is sometimes unlucky. Now, I have been sick
nearly a week out of the last month, as you may have heard, and it's put
me back."
"What are you driving at, Dan Woods?" demanded Wolverton, severely. "I
hope you're not going to say that you are not ready to pay your rent?"
"I haven't got the whole of it, sir; and that's a fact."
"You haven't got the whole of it? How much have you got?"
"I can pay you six dollars, Mr. Wolverton."
"Six dollars out of ten! Why, this is positively shameful! I wonder you
are not ashamed to tell me."
"There is no shame about it that I can see," answered Dan, plucking up
his spirit. "I didn't fall sick on purpose; and when I was sick I
couldn't work."
"You ought to have one month's rent laid by, so that whatever happens
you could pay it on time."
"That's easy to say, Mr. Wolverton, but it takes every cent of my
earnings to pay my monthly expenses. There's little chance to save."
"Any one can save who chooses," retorted Wolverton, sharply.
"Shall I get you the six dollars, sir?"
"Yes, give it to me."
"And you will wait for the other four?"
"Till to-morrow night."
"But how can I get it by to-morrow night?" asked Dan in dismay.
"That's your lookout, not mine. All I have to say is, unless it is paid
to me to-morrow night you must move the next day."
With these words Wolverton went off. Dan Woods, in his trouble, went to
Bob Burton the next day, and Bob readily lent him the money he needed.
"Thank you!" said Dan, gratefully; "I won't forget this favor."
"Don't make too much of it, Dan; it's a trifle."
"It's no trifle to me. But for you my family would be turned out of
house and home to-morrow. The time may come when I can do you a
service."
"Thank you, Dan."
The time came sooner than either anticipated.
CHAPTER XVIII.
WOLVERTON'S WICKED PLAN.
Wolverton was somewhat puzzled when on his next call Dan Woods paid the
balance due on his rent.
"So you raised the money after all?" he said. "I thought you could if
you made an effort."
"I borrowed the money, sir."
"Of whom?"
"It isn't any secret, Mr. Wolverton. I borrowed it of a neighbor who has
always been kind to me--Bob Burton."
Wolverton shrugged his shoulders.
"I didn't know he had money to lend," he said.
"He always has money for a poor man who needs it."
"All right! I shall know where to go when I need money," responded
Wolverton, with a grin.
"It suits me well enough to have the boy throw away his money,"
Wolverton said to himself. "It will only draw nearer the time when he
will have to sue me for a favor."
That day Wolverton read in a St. Louis paper that wheat was steadily
rising, and had already reached two dollars and six cents per bushel.
"I could make a fine thing of it if I had only received the Barton wheat
at a dollar and a half a bushel," he reflected, regretfully. "If I had
only the widow to deal with, I might have succeeded, for she knows
nothing of business. But that confounded boy is always putting a spoke
in my wheel. If he carries out his plan, and markets the wheat, it will
set him on his feet for the year to come."
This reflection made Wolverton feel gloomy. There are some men who are
cheered by the prosperity of their neighbors, but he was not one of
them. He began to speculate as to whether there was any way of
interfering with Bob's schemes. Generally when a man is seeking a way of
injuring his neighbor he succeeds in finding one. This was the plan that
suggested itself to Wolverton: If he could set the ferry-boat adrift
when the grain was all stored it would float down stream, and the
chances were against its being recovered. It would be mean, and even
criminal, to be sure. For the first, Wolverton did not care; for the
second, he would take care that no one caught him at it. He did not
think of employing any one else in the matter, for he knew of no one he
