his reward could not come a moment too soon. 
Accordingly, for the first time since he had been 
at Rhyd-Alwyn, he declined to sit with Sir Iltyd 
over the wine, and went at once in search of 
Weir. 

As he opened the door of the drawing-room he 
found the room in semi-darkness, lighted only by 
the last rays of the setting sun, which strayed 
through the window. He went in, but did not 
see Weir. She was not in her accustomed seat 
by the fire, and he was about to call her name, 
when he came to a sudden halt, and for the mo- 
ment every faculty but one seemed suspended. 
A woman was standing by the open window 
looking out over the water. She had not heard him, 
and had not turned her head. Dartmouth felt a 
certain languor, as of one who is dreaming, and is 
half-conscious that he is dreaming, and therefore 



 

yields unresistingly to the pranks of his sleeping 
brain. Was it Weir, or was it the woman who 
had been a part of his vision last night ? She wore 
a long, shining yellow dress, and her arms and 
neck were bare. Surely it was the other woman! 
She turned her head a little, and he saw her 
face in profile; there was the same stamp of 
suffering, the same pallor. Weir had never 
looked like that; before he had known her she 
had had, sometimes, a little expression of sadness 
and abstraction which had made her look very 
picturesque, but which had borne no relationship 
to suffering or experience. And the scene! the 
room filled with dying light, the glimpse of water 
beyond, the very attitude of the woman at the 
casement — all were strangely and deeply familiar 
to him, although not the details of the vision of 
last night. The only things that were wanting 
were the Eastern hangings to cover the dark 
wainscotted old walls, and the skins on the black, 
time-stained floor. 

With a sudden effort of will he threw off the 
sense of mystery which had again taken
possession of him, and walked forward quickly. As 
Weir heard him, she turned her head and met 
his eyes, and although a closer look at her face 
startled him afresh, his brain was his own again, 
and he was determined that it should remain so. 
He might yield to supernatural impressions when 
unprepared, but not when both brain and will 



 

were defiantly on the alert. That she was not 
only unaccountably altered, but that she shrank 
from him, was evident; and he was determined to 
hear her version of last night's adventure without 
delay. He believed that she would 
unconsciously say something which would throw a flood 
of light on the whole matter. 

" Where did you get that dress ? " he said, abruptly. 

She started sharply, and the color flew to the 
roots of her hair, then, receding, left her paler 
than before. "Why do you ask me that?" she 
demanded, with unconcealed, almost terrified 
suspicion in her tones. 

"Because," he said, looking straight into her 
eyes, " I had a peculiar dream last night, in which 
you wore a dress exactly like this. It is rather a 
remarkable coincidence that you should put it on 
to-night." 

"Harold!" she cried, springing forward and 
catching his arm convulsively in both her hands, 
"what has happened? What is it? And how 
can you talk so calmly when to me it seems — " 

He put his arm around her. " Seems what ? " 
he said, soothingly. " Did you have a dream, 
too ? " 

" Yes," she said, her face turning a shade 
paler, " I had a dream." 

" And in it you wore this dress ? " 

" Yes." 



 

" Tell me your dream. " 

" No ! " she exclaimed, " I cannot." 

Dartmouth put his hand under her chin and 
pushed her head back against his shoulder, 
upturning her face. " You must tell me," he 
said, quietly; " every word of it ! I am not 
asking you out of curiosity, but because the dream 
I had was too remarkable to be without 
meaning. I cannot reach that meaning unassisted; 
but with your help I believe I can. So tell me 
at once." 

"Oh, Harold ! " she cried, throwing her arms 
suddenly about him and clinging to him, " I have 
no one else to speak to but you: I cannot tell 
my father; he would not understand. No girl 
