" Comma ces gens-Id. You know that if they 
were French, being otherwise what they are, 
one wouldn 't look at them." 
" Indeed one would ; they would be such 
curiosities." 
" Well, perhaps they are sufficiently so as it is," 
said Mr. Probert, with a little conclusive sigh. 
" Yes, let them pass for that. They will surprise 
you." 
" Not too much, I hope ! " cried the old man, 
opening his volume again. 
It will doubtless not startle the reader to learn 
that the complexity of things among the Proberts 
was such as to make it impossible for Gaston to 
proceed to the celebration of his nuptials, with 
all the needful circumstances of material preparation 
and social support, before some three months 
should have expired. He chafed however but 
moderately at the delay, for he reflected that it 
would give Francie time to endear herself to his 
whole circle. It would also have advantages for 
the Dossons; it would enable them to establish 
by simple but effective arts the modus mvendi 
with that rigid body. It would in short help 
every one to get used to everything. Mr. Dosson s 
designs and Delia s took no articulate form ; what 
was mainly clear to Gaston was that his future 
wife s relatives had as yet no sense of disconnec 
tion. He knew that Mr. Dosson would do what 
ever Delia liked and that Delia would like to 
" start " her sister. Whether or no she expected 
to be present at the finish, she had a definite 
purpose of seeing the beginning of the race. Mr. 
Probert notified Mr. Dosson of what he proposed 
to " do " for his son, and Mr. Dosson appeared 
more amused than anything else at the news. 
He announced, in return, no intentions in regard 
to Francie, and his queer silence was the cause 
of another convocation of the house of Probert. 
Here Mme. de Brecourt s valorous spirit won an 
other victory ; she maintained, as she informed her 
brother, that there was no possible policy but a 
policy of confidence. " Lord help us, is that what 
they call confidence ? " the young man exclaimed, 
o-uessing the way they all looked at each other; 
and he wondered how they would look next at 
poor Mr. Dosson. Fortunately he could always fall 
back, for reassurance, upon that revelation of their 
perfect manners ; though indeed he thoroughly 
knew that on the day they should really attempt 
interference make a row which might render 
him helpless and culminate in a rupture their 
courtesy would show its finest flower. 
Mr. Probert s property was altogether in the 
United States : he resembled various other persons 
to whom American impressions are mainly accept 
able in the form of dividends. The manner in 
which he desired to benefit his son on the occasion 
of the latter s marriage rendered certain visitations 
and reinvestments necessary in that country. It 
had long been his conviction that his affairs needed 
looking into; they had gone on for years and 
years without an overhauling. He had thought 
of going back to see, but now he was too old and 
too tired and the effort was impossible. There was 
nothing for it but for Gaston to go, and go quickly, 
though the moment was rather awkward. The idea 
was communicated to him and the necessity ac 
cepted ; then the plan was relinquished : it seemed 
such a pity he should not wait till after his marriage, 
when he would be able to take Francie with 
him. Francie would be such an introducer. This 
postponement would have taken effect had it not 
suddenly come out that Mr. Dosson himself wanted 
to go for a few weeks, in consequence of some 
news (it was a matter of business), that he had un- 
expectedly received. It was further revealed that 
that course presented difficulties, for he could not 
leave his daughters alone, especially in such a 
situation. Not only would such a proceeding 
have given scandal to the Proberts, but Gaston 
learned, with a good deal of surprise and not a 
little amusement, that Delia, in consequence of 
peculiar changes now wrought in her view of 
things, would have felt herself obliged to protest 
on the score of propriety. He called her 
attention to the fact that nothing would be more 
simple than, in the interval, for Francie to go 
and stay with Susan or Margaret ; Delia herself in 
that case would be free to accompany her father. 
But this young lady declared that nothing would 
induce her to quit the European continent until she 
had seen her sister through, and Gaston shrank 
from proposing that she too should spend five weeks 
in the Place Beauvau or the Rue de Lille. 
Moreover he was startled, he was a good deal 
mystified, by the perverse, unsociable way in which 
Francie asserted that, as yet, she would not lend 
herself to any staying. After, if he liked, but 
not till then. And she would not at the moment 
give the reasons of her refusal ; it was only very 
positive and even quite passionate. 
All this left her intended no alternative but 
to say to Mr. Dosson, " I am not such a fool as 
I look. If you will coach me properly, and trust 
me, I will rush across and transact your business 
as well as my father s." Strange as it appeared, 
Francie could resign herself to this separation 
from her lover it would last six or seven weeks 
rather than accept the hospitality of his 
sisters. Mr. Dosson trusted him; he said to him, 
&lt; Well, sir, you've  got a big brain," at the end of 
a morning they spent with papers and pencils; 
upon which Gaston made his preparations to sail. 
Before he left Paris Francie, to do her justice, 
confided to him that her objection to going in 
such an intimate way even to Mme. de Brecourt s 
had been founded on a fear that in close quarters 
she would do something that would make them 
all despise her. Gaston replied, in the first place, 
