Maule twirled his moustache for a second, and then, with a glance at
Eden, he too left the room.
Hardly had he gone, when Eden threw herself on a lounge. In her ears was
the roar of water displaced. The flooring turned from red to black. Then
all was still; she had fainted.
XI.
As Eden, through thunderclaps, and zig-zagged flames of light, groped
back to consciousness again, it was with the intuition that some
calamity was waiting to greet her. Into the depths of her being, a voice
which refused to be hushed had been whispering, "Come." And Eden,
clinging to the fringes of night, strove to still the call. But the
phantom of things that were persisted and overcame her; it loomed
abruptly, with arms outstretched, forcing her against her will, to
reason with that in which no reason was.
For the moment she was benumbed, out-wearied with effort and enervated
by the strain and depletion of force. She wished herself unconscious
again, and looked back into the absence of sentiency from which she had
issued, as a pilgrim reëntering the desert may recall the groves of
Mekka and the silence of the Khabian tomb. It had been less a swoon to
her than a foretaste of peace, the antithesis of life compressed into a
second; and she longed for a repetition of the sudden suffocation of its
embrace. But memory had got its baton back, and the incidents of the
hour trooped before her gaze. She could not be free of them; they beat
at her heart, filling her thoughts to fulfillment itself. In their
onslaught they brought her new strength, the courage that comes to the
oppressed; and rising from the lounge on which she had fallen, she left
her father and his ministrations, and redescended into the past with
anger for aigrette and hatred for spur.
It was the room that she had occupied during her girlhood to which she
then went, and in the presence of the familiar walls, something reminded
her of the days in which she had believed that the ignoble bore a stigma
on their brow, that infamy of thought or deed left a visible sign. She
recalled the old legends with which her childhood had been charmed, the
combats of heroes with monsters, the struggles of lords with lies. In
those days indeed, evil had been to her an abstraction, a figure of
speech beckoned out of the remotest past, and unencounterable as the
giant bat that darkened the nights of prehistoric time. Then had come a
nearer acquaintance with it, the shudders that chronicles brought, and
the intimations of the fabliaux; but still it had been distant, a
belonging of the past incompetent of survival. And it was not until
within recent years that she learned that it had indeed survived. Even
then the tidings that reached her had as much consistency to her mind as
the news of cholera in Singapore. She could not picture that Orient
port, and the cholera she was sure would never attack her in her
father's house.
And now suddenly she was contaminated. She felt as one may feel who had
been lured into a lazar of lepers. Turn which way she might she could
never wash herself clean. She was degraded in her own sight, and tricked
by those whom she had trusted best. And no issue, not one. The dishonor
into which she had been trapped was a thing that clamored for redress,
and to that clamoring of her heart no answer was vouchsafed. "O God,"
she moaned, "is justice dead? Where are the thunderbolts you used to
wield? Have you wearied of vengeance? have you left it, Jehovah, to us?"
Her forehead was throbbing as it had never throbbed before. Above it
each individual hair seemed to be turning red. Her sultry eyes were
dilated; she was quivering from shoulder to heel. And as in her restless
anger she paced the room, before her on the wall glowed the device her
own hands had made--Keep Yourself Pure. For a second she stared at it,
the color mounting and retreating from her cheeks, and suddenly she tore
it down and trampled it under foot.
"Vengeance is there," she cried; and without even the hesitation of a
hesitation she bent over a table, and finding a sheet of paper, she
scrawled across it--In telling you of Maule's love for me I omitted to
tell you of my own for Adrian. This she addressed and then rang the
bell.
And as she stood waiting for a servant to come, there was a rap on the
door and her father entered. He looked at her for an instant and rubbed
his hands. "It is chilly here, Eden," he said; "had you not better come
down-stairs?"
"Is it worth while? It must be late. Where is Parker? has she not come
with my things?"
"Yes; it is almost six o'clock. Parker--"
"Six! I thought it was midnight. How long have I been here?"
"Three or four minutes at most. I had a note to write. So soon as I
could do so I followed you at once. You are quite yourself again, Eden,
are you not?"
"I can understand," mused Eden, "that there are years that count double
when there are moments that prolong themselves as have these." "Yes,"
she answered, aloud. "I am better. I will come with you."
She picked up the message she had written and left the room. In the
hallway was the servant for whom she had rung. "Take this to Fifth
Avenue," she said. "There is no answer, but see that it is delivered in
person."
XII.
"It is pleasanter here, is it not, Eden?" Mr. Menemon asked, when they
reached the sitting-room. "It makes one think of old times, doesn't it?
Do you remember--" And Mr. Menemon rambled on with some anecdote of days
long past.
Eden gazed at him wonderingly. His words passed her by unheeded. It was
bewildering to her that he could accept the tragedy so lightly, and as
he spoke she kept repeating to herself that Virginius was part of a
world long dead and derided. Truly, she could not understand. He seemed
conscious of no wrong doing. The position in which she was placed
excited him so little that he was able to discourse in platitudes. She
was not wife nor maid nor widow, and for the man who had taken her from
her home and inflicted on her a wrong that merited the penitentiary, her
father expressed no indignation, no sorrow even. He did not even attempt
to condole with her. And it was to him she had turned. Truly, she was
helpless indeed. Yet still she gazed at him, expectant of some sudden
outbreak, some storm of anger which, though it parodied her own, would
at least be in unison with it. Her fingers were restless and her mouth
was parched, a handkerchief which she held she twisted into coils, it
seemed to her that were no word of sympathy forthcoming she would
suffocate, as the traveler in the desert gasps beneath the oppression of
fair and purple skies.
And still Mr. Menemon rambled on. "I should have gone to his funeral,"
he said, "had you not come in. He is to be buried in Washington I hear.
Well, well! he was a brave man and a staunch friend. Yes, he was all of
that. Really, Eden, I ought to have gone. I suppose they will escort the
body to the station. Did you hear the drums when you went up-stairs? It
makes a man of my age feel that his turn may be next."
Mr. Menemon crossed the room and looked out of the window. "See, Eden,"
he continued; "there must be a whole regiment. Not his own, though. The
better part of that went down at Gettysburg. You remember, don't
you----"
With this Mr. Menemon turned with a haste he strove to conceal. "It's
almost dinner time," he added, inconsequently. "I will just change my
coat." And immediately he left the room.
For a moment Eden thought she heard his voice in the hall. Then all was
still again. She was wholly alone. She envied her father's friend who
