' That Zouave who brought the message from the Vatican 
was he Gouache ? ' 
Corona turned her eyes away, annoyed at the demand. 
To refuse to answer was tantamount to admitting the truth, 
and she would not lie to her husband. 
' It was Gouache,' she said, after a moment's hesitation. 
' I thought so,' answered Sant' Ilario in a low voice. He 
moved away, throwing his cigarette into the fireplace. 
' Very well,' he continued, ' I will remember to tell the story 
as you told it to me, and I am sure you will tell me the 
truth some day.' 
' Of course,' said Corona. ' And I thank you, Giovanni, 
with my whole heart ! There is no one like you, dear.' 
She sat down in a chair beside him as he stood, and taking 
his hand she pressed it to her lips. She knew well enough 
what a strange thing she had asked, and she was indeed 
grateful to him. He stooped down and kissed her forehead. 
' I will always trust you,' he said, softly. ' Tell me, dear 
one, has this matter given you pain ? Is it a secret that 
will trouble you ? ' 
' Not now,' she answered, frankly. 
Giovanni was in earnest when he promised to trust his 
wife. He knew, better than any living man, how well 
worthy she was of his utmost confidence, and he meant what 
he said. It must be confessed that the situation was a try 
ing one to a man of his temper, and the depth of his love 
for Corona can be judged from the readiness with which he 
consented to her concealing anything from him. Every 
circumstance connected with what had happened that evening 
was strange, and the conclusion, instead of elucidating the 
mystery, only made it more mysterious still. His cousin's 
point-blank declaration that Faustina and Gouache were in 
love was startling to all his ideas and prejudices. He had 
seen Gouache kiss Corona's hand in a corner of the drawing- 
room, a proceeding which he did not wholly approve, though 
it was common enough. Then Gouache and Faustina had 
disappeared. Then Faustina had been found, and to facili 
tate the finding it had been necessary that Corona and 
Gouache should leave the palace together at one o'clock in 
the morning. Finally, Corona had appealed to his confidence 
in her and had taken advantage of it to refuse any present 
explanation whatever of her proceedings. Corona was a very 
noble and true woman, and he had promised to trust her. 
How far he kept his word will appear hereafter. 
CHAPTEE VII 
WHEN San Giacinto heard Corona's explanation of Faustina's 
disappearance, he said nothing. He did not believe the story 
in the least, but if every one was satisfied there was no 
reason why he should not be satisfied also. Though he saw 
well enough that the tale was a pure invention, and that 
there was something behind it which was not to be known, 
the result was, on the whole, exactly what he desired. He 
received the thanks of the Montevarchi household for his 
fruitless exertions with a smile of gratification, and congratu 
lated the princess upon the happy issue of the adventure. 
He made no present attempt to ascertain the real truth by 
asking questions which would have been hard to answer, for 
he was delighted that the incident should be explained away 
and forgotten at once. Donna Faustina's disappearance was 
of course freely discussed and variously commented, but the 
general verdict of the world was contrary to San Giacinto's 
private conclusions. People said that the account given by 
the family must be true, since it was absurd to suppose that 
a child just out of the convent could be either so foolish or 
so courageous as to go out alone at such a moment. No 
other hypothesis was in the least tenable, and the demonstra 
tion offered must be accepted as giving the only solution of 
the problem. San Giacinto told no one that he thought 
differently. 
It was before all things his intention to establish himself 
firmly in Roman society, and his natural tact told him that 
the best way to accomplish this was to offend no one, and 
VII 
to endorse without question the opinion of the majority. 
Moreover, as a part of his plan for assuring his position 
consisted in marrying Faustina's sister, his interest lay 
manifestly in protecting the good name of her family by 
every means in his power. He knew that old Montevarchi 
passed for being one of the most rigid amongst the stiff 
company of the strait-laced, and that the prince was as 
careful of the conduct of his children, as his father had 
formerly been in regard to his own doings. Ascanio Bellegra 
was the result of this home education, and already bid fair 
to follow in his parent's footsteps. Christian virtues are 
certainly not incompatible with manliness, but the practice 
of them as maintained by Prince Montevarchi had made his 
son Ascanio a colourless creature, rather non-bad than good, 
clothed in a garment of righteousness that fitted him only 
because his harmless soul had no salient bosses of goodness, 
any more than it was disfigured by any reprehensible depres 
sions capable of harbouring evil. 
There is a class of men in certain states of society who 
are manly, but not masculine. There is nothing paradoxical 
in the statement, nor is it a mere play upon the meanings of 
words. There are men of all ages, young, middle-aged, and 
old, who possess many estimable virtues, who show physical 
courage wherever it is necessary, who are honourable, strong, 
industrious, and tenacious of purpose, but who undeniably 
lack something which belongs to the ideal man, and which, 
for want of a better word we call the masculine element 
When we shall have microscopes so large and powerful that 
a human being shall be as transparent under the concentrated 
light of the lenses as the tiniest insect when placed in one of 
our modern instruments, then, perhaps, the scientist of the 
future may discover the causes of this difference. I believe, 
however, that it does not depend upon the fact of one man 
having a few ounces more of blood in his veins than another. 
The fact lies deeper hidden than that, and may puzzle the 
psychologist as well as the professor of anthropology. For 
us it exists, and we cannot explain it, but must content our 
selves with comparing the phenomena which proceed from 
these differences of organisation. At the present day the 
society of the English-speaking races seems to favour the 
growth of the creature who is only manly but not masculine, 
whereas outside the pale of that strange little family which 
calls itself ' society ' the masculinity of man is more striking 
than among other races. Not long ago a French journalist 
said that many of the peculiarities of the English-speaking 
peoples proceeded from the omnipresence of the young girl, 
who reads every novel that appears, goes to every theatre, 
