merely a formal salute. The fellows fight during fifteen minutes, 
unless one of them is severely wounded before the end of the time. 
An umpire has a stop-watch in his hand, and only the exact time 
of actual fencing is reckoned, which is rather a delicate and trouble- 
some matter. Speaking is not allowed. If both combatants are 
good fencers and cautious it sometimes happens that neither is 



 

touched, but as many as thirty slight wounds are occasionally 
inflicted on both sides. A surgeon is always present and decides 
when a wound is too severe to allow of further fighting. This 
usually occurs when a large artery is cut, or a splinter raised upon 
a bone. 

Meetings are generally arranged for novices, as soon as they 
have learned to handle the rapier, whether they have had any 
quarrel or not, and such encounters rarely lead to any result worth 
mentioning. The intention is to accustom the student to fighting 
for its own sake, and he must submit to the conditions or leave 
the Korps with ignominy. He learns to fence with coolness and 
judgment, in a way that could never be learned on the fencing 
ground with masks and blunted weapons, and he acquires from the 
first the habit of facing an armed man with little but his own 
blade to protect him. 

It must be remembered that duelling is a social institution in 
Germany. It is not necessary here to enter into a discussion of 
the merits of the system ; it is enough to recall the late Emperor's 
speech in regard to it, in which he declared that he would punish 
any officer who fought a duel, but would dismiss from the army 
any one who refused to do so. The first clause of this apparent 
paradox restrains the practice from becoming an abuse or a general 
evil ; the second imposes it as a necessity in serious cases. The 
penalty consists in a longer or shorter period of arrest, fixed within 
certain limits, and in case of the death of one of the combatants 
the survivor is confined in a fortress for three years, provided that 
the duel has taken place with the consent of the superior officers 
of the regiment sitting officially as a council of honour, and that 
the encounter has been conducted in accordance with the require- 
ments of the law. Any informality is most severely visited. The 
regimental council takes charge of the officer's reputation, and if it 
declares that there need be no meeting, honour is satisfied. In 
private life any individual may appeal to the decision of a court of 
honour chosen by himself and his adversary, and such decisions are 
considered final. But if any person refuses either to fight or to 
appeal to such arbitration, he is mercilessly excluded from all polite 
society wherever the facts are known. 

The customs of the country being of this nature, the existence 
of fighting associations among students can be both explained and 
defended. That some other nations consider the practice of 
duelling as altogether barbarous and antiquated, has nothing to 
do with the case in hand. An individual cannot change the 
conditions of the society in which he is obliged to live, and must 



 

either conform to them or be excluded from intercourse with his 
fellows. To learn to fight is, in Germany, as necessary as learning 
to eat decently is in England, and the schools of fighting are the 
Korps and other University unions. As a direct consequence, they 
are also schools of life, and in some degree of etiquette. A man 
learns there exactly what sort of language is courteous, what words 
may be spoken without giving offence, and in what an insult really 
consists. By this means a vast amount of trouble is saved for 
society, and a uniform standard of behaviour is secured which 
is universally respected and adhered to by all who call themselves 
gentlemen. The council of the Korps represents the council of 
the regiment, or the social court of honour appealed to by 
civilians. The conversation of the members with each other, 
though familiar in the extreme, is regulated by rigid rules. The 
slightest approach to discourtesy between members of the same 
Korps must be followed by an instant apology, the refusal of 
which entails the immediate ejection of the offender with ignominy, 
and what is more, the announcement of the fact by circular 
letter within the month to every Korps student in every one of 
the numerous Universities of the empire. A dishonourable action 
of any kind is visited in the same way. The publicity of such 
a scandal is enormous. Seven or eight thousand young men are 
simultaneously informed that one of their number is disgraced, 
and at the end of the year all those older men who have been 
Korps students in their youth, are also informed of the fact. 
This amounts to warning some thirty or forty thousand gentlemen, 
chiefly in the higher ranks of society, against an individual, who, 
in one circumstance or another, is almost certain to be brought 
into contact with some of them. Such an institution cannot be 
laughed at, and its censure is no joke. 

But even a Korps student's life is not made up merely of 
fighting and study. There is a very jovial side to it, and if its 
jollity is sometimes made the subject of reproach this is due to 
the fact that the few thoroughly lazy students are of necessity 
the very ones who are most seen. It cannot be denied that beer 
plays a considerable part in the life of German students. It is 
also an important element in the existence of the nation. German 
beer, however, is not English ale, any more than it is to be 
confounded with the nauseous concoctions sold under its name in 
other countries. German beer is protected by law, and un- 
oppressed by taxation. To adulterate it is a crime, an attempt 
to tax it would bring about a convulsion of the empire. Its use. 
in quantities that amaze the understanding, does not appear to 

F 



 

have made Germans cowards in war, nor laggards in commerce ; 
still less does it seem to have stupefied the national intellect, or 
dulled the Teutonic keenness in the race of nations. The first 
military power in the world drinks as much beer as all the rest 
of the universe together, and probably a little more. The 
commercial nation that undersells Englishmen in England, French- 
men in France, Italians in Italy and Turks in Turkey, consumes 
