nothing of them.
"I heard some sort of a noise," said Flint, rising from his recumbent
position. "But I can make nothing of what I hear. If there was a fresh
breeze, I should say that it was the surf."
"I heard it, too; but I am bothered to make out what it is. Did you get
an idea of any kind?" asked Christy.
"It sounded as though something of a gang of men were at work off in
this direction," replied Flint, pointing east of north. "I am almost
sure I heard the blows of hammers, or something like them."
"The noise I heard might have been almost anything," added Christy.
"What is there off in that direction?" asked Flint, pointing again.
"About north of us is Town Point, and just beyond it is Old Navy Cove,"
said the lieutenant, who had been up the bay in the Bellevite on an
excursion, and who had studied up all the localities.
"Possibly they are repairing a vessel there," suggested Flint.
"They would not do that over there, and certainly not on a dark night,"
argued Christy. "But we will soon find out all about it."
He led the way back to the boat, which he had ordered Beeks to have
carried on the shore. Then they proceeded to bear it across the island
to the bay, where it was put into the water again.
CHAPTER XIX
SOME TROUBLE ON BOARD THE TEASER
It was not a difficult thing for so many men to carry the whaleboat
across the island, and they were disposed to make merry over the novelty
of the task; but they had been instructed not to speak a loud word after
the party left the south side of the island. The noise to which Christy
and Flint had listened indicated that something was going on, though
they could not decide what it was. In the stillness of the night, and
in the absence of any roar of breakers, sounds could be heard a long
distance, though whether they came one mile or two, they could not
determine.
"Get out those cloths, Beeks," said Christy, as soon as the boat had
been put into the water. "Every oar must be very carefully muffled, and
you will see that it is properly done."
"I will have it done in a few minutes, sir," replied the acting
coxswain.
"As I said before, we are in no hurry, and you may take your time to do
it properly," added the lieutenant.
"Those sounds are still to be heard," said Flint, who had been a short
distance from the boat to listen for them.
"I hear them," replied Christy, walking away from the boat to continue
the investigation while they were waiting. "Some kind of a job is in
progress at no great distance from us. From how far off do you calculate
that those sounds come?"
"I think they must come a mile; and I don't believe I can guess any
nearer to it than that, though it is possible they come two miles.
I know little or nothing of the region about here. Suppose we should go
a mile north-northeast from this spot, what should we find there, Mr.
Passford?" asked Flint, apparently greatly interested in the question.
"It would be a point on Pensacola Bay, about half-way between this
island, where we stand, and Town Point," replied Christy. "I should say
it would be in the channel leading into Santa Rosa Sound."
"Precisely so!" exclaimed Flint, in an energetic whisper. "That's the
way they are going to take the Teaser out, and they are doing something
over there to prepare her for the trip in shallow water."
The master's mate was not aware that Christy had suggested to the
captain this way of escape for the Teaser, and he had abandoned the idea
himself. Flint had reached his conclusion from his own premises. They
discussed the matter for some time, though it was impossible to arrive
at any conclusion for the want of data on which to base their reasoning.
"All ready, sir," reported Beeks, coming up to them at this moment.
"How far is the entrance to the sound from Fort Pickens, Mr. Passford?"
asked Flint.
"About four miles."
"Then why should they choose such a night as this for their work?"
"The Bellevite, floating in four fathoms of water on the other side of
the island, could shell them out if they were seen, as they certainly
would be from Fort Pickens," replied Christy.
"That makes it plain enough," added Flint, as they walked towards the
boat.
"But I am not quite willing to believe yet that the Teaser will go out
through the sound. If she could get through at all, it would only be
after getting aground no end of times, and if to-morrow should be a
clear day, she could be seen anywhere on her course," persisted Christy.
"She cannot expect to make eight or ten knots an hour in that shallow
water."
The lieutenant ordered the men into the boat, after she was shoved off
the beach. They worked with such care that not a sound came from her.
The oars were shipped, and the sailors began to row. As instructed, they
pulled very slowly, though such work could not be done in perfect
silence.
"Look out for that binnacle, Beeks," said Christy. "The light from it
may betray us."
"You have not given me the course, sir," replied the coxswain, as he
obeyed the order.
"North-northeast," added Christy, as he settled back in the stern
sheets.
No one was allowed to speak in the boat, and the lieutenant set the
example of silence. But he kept his ears wide open, though the little
noise made by the oars and the rippling of the water prevented him from
hearing anything at first. It was so dark that one could hardly see
another in the boat. It was in vain that Christy watched in the gloom
for the glow of a light; for all was nearly total darkness in every
direction.
In about half an hour they began to hear the sounds which had attracted
their attention on the island, and they proceeded from directly ahead,
indicating that the operations, whatever they were, came from the
entrance to the sound. The workmen were not likely to hear the approach
of the boat while they were making so much noise themselves. In addition
to the sounds they had heard before, they recognized the noise of
escaping steam.
This last discovery made it certain that a steamer was there, though the
listeners could not know whether it was the Teaser or not. Both of the
officers of the expedition, in the uselessness of their eyes, made the
best use they could of their ears. Christy listened to ascertain if
there was more than one steamer present. In a whisper he asked Flint to
consider this question. There was no doubling of the sounds to indicate
more than one steamer.
For ten minutes more Christy listened and was silent; but he was doing
some very heavy thinking, for by this time the boat was very near the
scene of operations, if it could be a scene in that dense darkness.
Every sound, even to the speech of the men, could be distinctly heard.
Still nothing could be seen, and Christy knew that there was a point of
nearness where something could be discerned even in any gloom of night.
He permitted the boat to continue on its course, till he could very
dimly make out an object ahead.
"Way enough," he whispered to Beeks.
The coxswain raised both hands, and made a gesture with them, which
was the signal for the men to cease rowing. The sounds were now more
tangible. Occasionally there were a few raps with a hammer, but the most
