faces, all leaning toward the speaker, whose childish story pleased them
well.
In all her long and useful life, Lizzie never forgot that Daisy Day, for
it seemed as if she were born anew, and like a butterfly had left the
dark chrysalis all behind her then.  It was the first page of the
beautiful book just opening before the eyes of her little mind,--a
lovely page, illustrated with flowers, kind faces, sunshine, and happy
hopes.  The new life was so full, so free, she soon fell into her place
and enjoyed it all.  People worked there so heartily, so helpfully, it
was no wonder things went as if by magic, and the poor little creatures
who came in so afflicted went out in some years independent people,
ready to help themselves and often to benefit others.
There is no need to tell all Lizzie learned and enjoyed that summer, nor
how proud her mother was when she heard her read in the curious books,
making eyes of the little fingers that felt their way along so fast;
when she saw the neat stitches she set, the pretty clay things she
modelled, the tidy way she washed dishes, swept, and dusted, and helped
keep her room in order. But the poor woman’s heart was too full for
words when she heard the child sing,--not as before, in the dreary room,
sad, soft lullabies to Billy, but beautiful, gay songs, with flutes and
violins to lift and carry the little voice along on waves of music.
Lizzie really had a great gift; but she was never happier than when they
all sang together, or when she sat quietly listening to the band as they
practised for the autumn concert.  She was to have a part in it; and the
thought that she could help to earn money for the Kindergarten made the
shy child bold and glad to do her part.  Many people knew her now, for
she was very pretty, with the healthful roses in her cheeks, curly
yellow hair, and great blue eyes that seemed to see.  Her mates and
teachers were proud of her, for though she was not as quick as some of
the pupils, her sweet temper, grateful heart, and friendly little ways
made her very dear to all, aside from the musical talent she possessed.
Every one was busy over the fair and the concert; and fingers flew,
tongues chattered, feet trotted, and hearts beat fast with hope and fear
as the time drew near, for all were eager to secure a home for the poor
children still waiting in darkness.  It was a charity which appealed to
all hearts when it was known; but in this busy world of ours, people
have so many cares of their own that they are apt to forget the wants of
others unless something brings these needs very clearly before their
eyes.  Much money was needed, and many ways had been tried to add to the
growing fund, that all might be well done.
"We wish to interest children in this charity for children, so that they
may gladly give a part of their abundance to these poor little souls who
have nothing.  I think Lizzie will sing some of the pennies out of their
pockets, which would otherwise go for bonbons.  Let us try; so make her
neat and pretty, and we ’ll have a special song for her."
Mr. Constantine said this; and Miss Grace carried out his wish so well
that when the time came, the little prima donna did her part better even
than they had hoped.
The sun shone splendidly on the opening day of the fair, and cars and
carriages came rolling out from the city, full of friendly people with
plump purses and the sympathetic interest we all take in such things
when we take time to see, admire, and reproach ourselves that we do so
little for them.
There were many children; and when they had bought the pretty handiwork
of the blind needle-women, eaten cake and ices, wondered at the strange
maps and books, twirled the big globe in the hall, and tried to
understand how so many blind people could be so busy and so happy, they
all were seated at last to hear the music, full of expectation, for "the
pretty little girl was going to sing."
It was a charming concert, and every one enjoyed it, though many eyes
grew dim as they wandered from the tall youths blowing the horns so
sweetly to the small ones chirping away like so many sparrows, for the
blind faces made the sight pathetic, and such music touched the hearts
as no other music can.
"Now she’s coming!" whispered the eager children, as a little girl
climbed up the steps and stood before them, waiting to begin.
A slender little creature in a blue gown, with sunshine falling on her
pretty hair, a pleading look in the soft eyes that had no sign of
blindness but their steadfastness, and a smile on the lips that trembled
at first, for Lizzie’s heart beat fast, and only the thought, "I ’m
helping the poor little ones," gave her courage for her task.
But when the flutes and violins began to play like a whispering wind,
she forgot the crowd before her, and lifting up her face, sang in clear
sweet tones.
    THE BLIND LARK’S SONG.
    We are sitting in the shadow
      Of a long and lonely night,
    Waiting till some gentle angel
      Comes to lead us to the light;
    For we know there is a magic
      That can give eyes to the blind.
    Oh, well-filled hands, be generous!
      Oh, pitying hearts, be kind!
    Help stumbling feet that wander
      To find the upward way;
    Teach hands that now lie idle
      The joys of work and play.
    Let pity, love, and patience
      Our tender teachers be,
    That though the eyes be blinded,
      The little souls may see.
    Your world is large and beautiful,
      Our prison dim and small;
    We stand and wait, imploring,
      "Is there not room for all?
    Give us our children’s garden,
      Where we may safely bloom,
    Forgetting in God’s sunshine
      Our lot of grief and gloom."
    A little voice comes singing;
      Oh, listen to its song!
    A little child is pleading
      For those who suffer wrong.
    Grant them the patient magic
      That gives eyes to the blind!
    Oh, well-filled hands, be generous!
      Oh, pitying hearts, be kind!
It was a very simple little song, but it proved wonderfully effective,
for Lizzie was so carried away by her own feeling that as she sang the
last lines she stretched out her hands imploringly, and two great tears
rolled down her cheeks.  For a minute many hands were too busy fumbling
for handkerchiefs to clap, but the children were quick to answer that
gesture and those tears; and one impetuous little lad tossed a small
purse containing his last ten cents at Lizzie’s feet, the first
contribution won by her innocent appeal.  Then there was great applause,
and many of the flowers just bought were thrown to the little lark, who
was obliged to come back and sing again and again, smiling brightly as
she dropped pretty courtesies, and sang song after song with all the
added sweetness of a grateful heart.
Hidden behind the organ, Miss Grace and Mr. Constantine shook hands
