
Alma kept her place, away from the table. 

" Mah goodness ! Ho' exciting ! " said Miss 
Woodburn. " May anybody look ? " 

" Everybody," said Beaton. 

" Well, isn't it perfectly chawming ! " Miss Wood- 
bum exclaimed. "Come and look at this, Miss 
Leighton," she called to Alma, who reluctantly 
approached. 

" What lines are these ? " Mrs. Leighton asked, 
pointing to Beaton's pencil scratches. 

" They 're suggestions of modification," he re- 
plied. 

" I don't think they improve it much. What do 
you think, Alma ? " 

" Oh, I don't know," said the girl, constraining 
her voice to an effect of indifference, and glancing 
carelessly down at the sketch. " The design might 
be improved; but I don't think those suggestions 
would do it." 

" They 're mine," said Beaton, fixing his eyes upon 
her with a beautiful sad dreaminess that he knew 
he could put into them ; he spoke with a dreamy 
remoteness of tone : his wind-harp stop, Wetmore 
called it. 

" I supposed so," said Alma calmly. 

" Oh, mail goodness ! " cried Miss Woodburn. 
" Is that the way you awtusts talk to each othah ? 
Well, Ah'm glad Ah'm not an awtust — unless I 
could do all the talking." 

"Artists cannot tell a fib," Alma said, "or even 
act one," and she laughed in Beaton's upturned face. 

He did not unbend his dreamy gaze. "You're 
quite right. The suggestions are stupid." 

Alma turned to Miss Woodburn : " You hear ? 
Even when we speak of our own work." 

" Ah nevah hoad anything lahke it ! " 

"And the design itself? " Beaton persisted. 

" Oh, I 'm not an art editor," Alma answered, 
with a laudi of exultant evasion. 



 

A tall, dark, grave-looking man of fifty, with a 
swarthy face, and iron-grey moustache and imperial 
and goatee, entered the room. Beaton kncw the 
type ; he had been through Virginia sketching for 
one of the illustrated papers, and he had seen such 
men in Richmond. Miss Woodburn hardly needed 
to say, "May Ah introduce you to mah fathaw, 
Co'nel Woodburn, Mr. Beaton ? " 

The men shook hands, and Colonel Woodburn 
said, in that soft, gentle, slow Southern voice with- 
out our Northern contractions : " I am very glad to 
meet you, sir; happy to make yo' acquaintance. 
Do not move, madam," he said to Mrs. Leighton, 
who made a deprecatory motion to let him pass to 
the chair beyond her; "I can find my way." He 
bowed a bulk that did not lend itself readily to the 
devotion, and picked up the ball of yarn she had let 
drop out of her lap in half rising. " Yo' worsteds, 
madam." 

" Yarn, yarn. Colonel Woodburn ! " Alma shouted. 
" You 're quite incorrigible. A spade is a spade ! " 

"But sometimes it is a trump, my dear young 
lady," said the Colonel, with unabated gallantry ; 
"and when yo' mothah uses yarn, it is worsteds. 
But I respect worsteds even under the name of yarn : 
our ladies — my own mothah and sistahs — had to 
knit the socks we wore — all we could get — in the 
woe." 

"Yes, and aftah the woe," his daughter put in. 
"The knitting has not stopped yet in some places. 
Have you been much in the Soath, Mr. Beaton ? " 



 

Beaton explained just how much. 

" Well, sir," said the Colonel, " tlion you have 
seen a country making gigantic struggles to retrieve 
its losses, sir. The south is advancing -with enor- 
mous strides, sir." 

" Too fast for some of us to keep up," said Miss 
"Woodburn, in an audible aside. " The pace in 
Charlottesboag is pofectly killing, and we liad to 
drop oat into a slow place like New York." 

" The progress in the South is material now,'' 
said the Colonel ; " and those of us whose interests 
are in another direction find ourselves — isolated — 
isolated, sir. The intellectual centres are still in 
the No'th, sir ; the great cities draw the mental 
activity of the country to them, sir. Necessarily 
New York is the metropolis." 
