not only as a relief, as easily accessible recreation-grounds for the
inhabitants in every part of the city, but as an element in society
life. These parks, which I have already named, contain 1742 acres.
The two south parks, connected so as to be substantially one, have 957
acres. Their great connecting boulevards are interfered with somewhat by
railway-tracks, and none of them, except Lincoln, can be reached without
crossing tracks on which locomotives run, yet, as has been said, the
most important of them are led to by good driving-roads from the heart
of the city. They have excellent roads set apart for equestrians as
well as for driving. These facilities induce the keeping of horses, the
setting up of fine equipages, and a display for which no other city has
better opportunity. This cannot but have an appreciable effect upon the
growth of luxury and display in this direction. Indeed, it is already
true that the city keeps more private carriages—for the pleasure not
only of the rich, but of the well-to-do—in proportion to its population,
than any other large city I know. These broad thoroughfares, kept free
from traffic, furnish excellent sleighing when it does not exist in the
city streets generally, and in the summer unequalled avenues for the
show of wealth and beauty and style. In a few years the turnouts on the
Grand Boulevard and the Lincoln Park drive will be worth going far to
see for those who admire—and who does not? for, the world over, wealth
has no spectacle more attractive to all classes—fine horses and the
splendor of moving equipages. And here is no cramped mile or two for
parade, like most of the fashionable drives of the world, but space
inviting healthful exercise as well as display. These broad avenues and
park outlooks, with ample ground-room, stimulate architectural rivalry,
and this opportunity for driving and riding and being on view cannot but
affect very strongly the social tone. The foresight of the busy men who
planned this park system is already vindicated. The public appreciate
their privileges. On fair days the driving avenues are thronged. One
Sunday afternoon in January, when the sleighing was good, some one
estimated that there were as many as ten thousand teams flying up and
down Michigan avenue and the Grand Boulevard. This was, of course, an
over-estimate, but the throng made a ten-thousand impression on the
mind. Perhaps it was a note of Western independence that a woman was
here and there seen “speeding” a fast horse, in a cutter, alone.
I suppose that most of these people had been to church in the morning,
for Chicago, which does everything it puts its hand to with tremendous
energy, is a church-going city, and I believe presents some contrast to
Cincinnati in this respect. Religious, mission, and Sunday-school work
is very active, churches are many, whatever the liberality of the creeds
of a majority of them, and there are several congregations of over two
thousand people. One vast music-hall and one theatre are thronged Sunday
after Sunday with organized, vigorous, worshipful congregations. Besides
these are the Sunday meetings for ethical culture and Christian science.
It is true that many of the theatres are open as on week-days, and there
is a vast foreign population that takes its day of rest in idleness or
base-ball and garden amusements, but the prevailing aspect of the city
is that of Sunday observance. There is a good deal of wholesome New
England in its tone. And it welcomes any form of activity—orthodoxy,
liberalism, revivals, ethical culture.
A special interest in Chicago at the moment is because it is
forming—full of contrasts and of promise, palaces and shanties side by
side. Its forces are gathered and accumulating, but not assimilated.
What a mass of crude, undigested material it has! In one region on the
west side are twenty thousand Bohemians and Poles; the street signs
are all foreign and of unpronounceable names—a physically strong,
but mentally and morally brutal, people for the most part; the adults
generally do not speak English, and claning as they do, they probably
never will. There is no hope that this generation will be intelligent
American citizens, or be otherwise than the political prey of
demagogues. But their children are in the excellent public schools, and
will take in American ideas and take on American ways. Still, the mill
has about as much grist as it can grind at present.
Social life is, speaking generally, as unformed, unselected, as the
city—that is, more fluid and undetermined than in Eastern large cities.
That is merely to say, however, that while it is American, it is young.
When you come to individuals, the people in society are largely from
the East, or have Eastern connections that determine their conduct. For
twenty years the great universities, Harvard, Yale, Amherst, Princeton,
and the rest, have been pouring in their young men here. There is no
better element in the world, and it is felt in every pulse of the town.
Young couples marry and come here from every sort of Eastern circle. But
the town has grown so fast, and so many new people have come into the
ability suddenly to spend money in fine houses and equipages, that the
people do not know each other. You may drive past miles of good houses,
with a man who has grown up with the town, who cannot tell you who any
of the occupants of the houses are. Men know each other on change, in
the courts, in business, and are beginning to know each other in clubs,
but society has not got itself sorted out and arranged, or discovered
its elements. This is a metropolitan trait, it is true, but the
condition is socially very different from what it is in New York or
Boston; the small village associations survive a little yet, struggling
against the territorial distances, but the social mass is still
unorganized, although “society” is a prominent feature in the
newspapers. Of course it is understood that there are people “in
society,” and dinners, and all that, in nowise different from the same
people and events the world over.
A striking feature of the town is “youth,” visible in social life as
well as in business. An Eastern man is surprised to see so many young
men in responsible positions, at the head, or taking the managing oar,
in great moneyed institutions, in railway corporations, and in societies
of charity and culture. A young man, graduate of the city high-school,
is at the same time president of a prominent bank, president of the
Board of Trade, and president of the Art Institute. This youthful spirit
must be contagious, for apparently the more elderly men do not permit
themselves to become old, either in the business or the pleasures of
life. Everything goes on with youthful vim and spirit.
Next to the youth, and perhaps more noticeable, the characteristic
feature of Chicago is money-making, and the money power is as obtrusive
socially as on change. When we come to speak of educational and
intellectual tendencies, it will be seen how this spirit is being at
once utilized and mitigated; but for the moment money is the recognized
power. How could it be otherwise? Youth and energy did not flock here
for pleasure or for society, but simply for fortune. And success in
money-getting was about the only one considered. And it is still that
by which Chicago is chiefly known abroad, by that and by a certain
consciousness of it which is noticed. And as women reflect social
conditions most vividly, it cannot be denied that there is a type known
in Europe and in the East as the Chicago young woman, capable rather
than timid, dashing rather than retiring, quite able to take care of
herself. But this is not by any means an exhaustive account of the
Chicago woman of to-day.
While it must be said that the men, as a rule, are too much absorbed
in business to give heed to anything else, yet even this statement will
need more qualification than would appear at first, when we come to
consider the educational, industrial, and reformatory projects. And
indeed a veritable exception is the Literary Club, of nearly two hundred
members, a mingling of business and professional men, who have fine
rooms in the Art Building, and meet weekly for papers and discussions.
