articles cut her to the quick or aroused her to fury; and the adulation
he received delighted her as keenly as if offered to herself.
He was with her in his periods of elation and depression, and it was at
such times that the better part of her nature was stirred. He needed
her. She could give him that help and comfort and sympathy without which
his life would be barren. She knew that under the hard, outer crust of
her nature lay the stunted germs of self-abnegation and sacrifice, and
there were moments when she longed with all the ardor of her quickening
soul to give her life to this man’s happiness and good. Then the mood
would pass, and she would look back upon it with impatience.
                 
                             CHAPTER XXXIV.
                            LIFE FROM DEATH.
Hermia was in bed one morning when her maid brought her the papers. She
opened one, then sat suddenly erect, and the paper shook in her hands.
She read the headlines through twice—details were needless. Then she
dropped the paper and fell back on the pillows. A train had gone over an
embankment in the South, and Ogden Cryder’s name was in the list of
dead.
She lay staring at the painted canopy of her bed. It seemed to her that
with Cryder’s life her past was annihilated, that the man took with him
every act and deed of which she had been a part. A curtain seemed to
roll down just behind her. A drama had been enacted, but it was over.
What had it been about? She had forgotten. She could recall nothing.
That curtain shut out every memory.
She pressed her hands over her eyes. She was free! She could take up her
life from this hour and forget that any man had entered it but Grettan
Quintard. Cryder? Who was he? Had he ever lived? What did he look like?
She could not remember. She could recall but one face—a face which
should never be seen in this room.
Though her mood was not a hard one, she felt no pity for Cryder. Love
had made every object in life insignificant but herself and her lover.
She would marry Quintard. She would be all that in her better moments
she had dreamed of being—that and more. She had great capacity for good
in her; her respect and admiration for Quintard’s higher qualities had
taught her that. She threw up her arms and struck her open palms against
the bed’s head. And how she loved him! What exultation in the thought of
her power to give him happiness!
For a few days Quintard felt as if he were walking on the edge of a
crater. The hardness in her nature seemed to have melted and gone. The
defiant, almost cynical look had left her eyes; they were dreamy, almost
appealing. She made no further effort to tempt him, but he had a weird
feeling that if he touched her he would receive an electric shock. He
did not suspect the cause of the sudden change, nor did he care to know.
It was enough that it was.
                 
                             CHAPTER XXXV.
                            IDEALS RESTORED.
They were sitting together one evening in the jungle. The night was hot
and the windows were open, but the curtains were drawn. The lamps were
hidden behind the palms, and the room was full of mellow light. Hermia
sat on a bank of soft, green cushions, and Quintard lay beside her.
Hermia wore a loose gown of pale-green mull, that fell straight from her
bosom’s immovable swell, and her neck and arms were bare. She had
clasped her hands about her knee and was leaning slightly forward.
Beside her was a heavy mass of foliage, and against it shone her hair
and the polished whiteness of her skin.
“Now that you are famous, and your book has been discussed threadbare,
what are you going to do next?” she asked him.
“I want to write some romances about the princely houses of India—of
that period which immediately antedates the invasion of the East India
Company. I spent a year in northern and western India, and collected a
quantity of material. We know little of the picturesque side of India
outside of Macaulay, Crawford, and Edwin Arnold, and it is immensely
fertile in romance and anecdote. There never were such love-affairs,
such daring intrigues, such tragedies! And the setting! It would take
twenty vocabularies to do it justice; but it is gratifying to find a
setting upon which one vocabulary has not been twenty times exhausted.
And then I have half promised Mrs. Trennor-Secor to dramatize Rossetti’s
‘Rose Mary’ for her. She wants to use it at Newport this summer, or
rather, she wanted something, and I suggested that. I have always
intended to do it. But I feel little in the humor for writing at
present, to tell you the truth.”
He stopped abruptly, and Hermia clasped her hands more tightly about her
knee. “What are your plans for ‘Rose Mary’?” she asked. “I hope you will
have five or six voices sing the Beryl songs behind the altar. The
effect would be weird and most impressive.”
“That is a good idea,” said Quintard. “How many ideas you have given
me!”
“Tell me your general plan,” she said quickly.
He sketched it to her, and she questioned him at length, nervously
keeping him on the subject as long as she could. The atmosphere seemed
charged; they would never get through this evening in safety! If he
retained his self-control, she felt that she should lose hers.
She pressed her face down against her knee, and his words began to reach
her consciousness with the indistinctness of words that come through
ears that are the outposts of a dreaming brain. When he finished he sat
suddenly upright, and for a few moments uttered no word. He sat close
beside her, almost touching her, and Hermia felt as if her veins’ rivers
had emptied their cataracts into her ears. Her nerves were humming in a
vast choir. She made a rigid attempt at self-control, and the effort
made her tremble. Quintard threw himself forward, and putting his hand
to her throat forced back her head. Her face was white, but her lips
were burning. Quintard pressed his mouth to hers—and Hermia took her
ideals to her heart once more.
Time passed and the present returned to them. He spoke his first word.
“We will be married before the week is out. Promise.”
He left her suddenly, and Hermia sank back and down amidst the cushions.
Once or twice she moved impatiently. Why was he not with her? The
languor in her veins grew heavier and wrapped her about as in a
covering. She slept.
                 
                             CHAPTER XXXVI.
                             AN AWAKENING.
When Hermia awoke there was a rattle of wagons in the street, and the
dawn struggled through the curtains. There was a chill in the air and
she shivered a little. She lay recalling the events of the night.
Suddenly she sat upright and cast about her a furtive glance of horror.
Then she sat still and her teeth chattered.
Cryder’s face looked at her from behind every palm! It grinned mockingly
down from every tree! It sprang from the cushions and pressed itself
close to her cheek! The room was peopled with Cryder!
She sprang to her feet and threw her arms above her head. “O God!” she
cried; “it was but for a night! for a night!”
She fled down the room, Cryder, in augmenting swarm, pursuing her. She
flew up the stairs and into her room, and there flung herself on the
floor in such mortal agony as she could never know again, because the
senses must be blunted ever after. Last night, in Quintard’s arms, as
heaven’s lightning flashed through her heart, every avenue in it had
been rent wide. The great mystery of life had poured through, flooding
