" You idle girl ! " I cried laughingly. 
" It was very pleasant," said Mrs. West. " See how 
much I have gone past my usual hour. My dear, you 
are a marvel." 
"If I'd had. cake enough to go around," said Eve 
dolorously, "or lemons to make lemonade, or figs, 
or nuts, or cream, consequently we had to season it 
with our wits. . Quite a surprise party ! " 
We put out the lights, and went to bed. 
And what shall I say for June ? The world was 
full of flowers, the air was fragrance that stole into 
one's very soul. Such skies, such views, such pic 
tures, everywhere : such a heavenly completeness, 
that my heart went up in gratitude continually. Was 
it from the glad consciousness that sometime I might 
really be the owner of this bit of land, and this 
house, growing prettier to my eyes every day? I 
had always been amused by the enthusiasm of people 
concerning their own houses or their first baby. I 
am afraid, now, that I began to have exalted ideas of 
the possessorship of land. 
 
Pryor dropped in at the station a day or two 
after. 
"Thurston," he began, "will you allow me to 
bring some one up to your place to see what you have 
done ? Maybe I can sell the Moore house. There 
was a man over here looking at this very place 
last summer , but he thought it rather discouraging, 
and wanted more ground. His health isn't very 
good, and he has two sons to step into his business in 
New York. He wants to buy a place where he can 
have a nice large garden, and chickens, horse and 
cow, and all that. Yesterday he stopped off a train 
and talked about it; but he is almost afraid to try 
Athens, there is so little enterprise. I thought, if he 
could see your place and the Wilburs's new house, he 
might not consider us quite so benighted." 
" Why, of course," I answered. 
"Wouldn't it be jolly now, if I could sell the 
Moore place ? And, you see, that would tend to 
improve the value of yours as well. Who knows, 
Thurston, but that your coming may be the start of 
prosperity for this forlorn coast ? " 
We both laughed. The man, a Mr. Randall, came 
to hand. He was little past middle life, and did look 
very poorly ; but he proved pleasant and entertain 
ing, with a good fund of common sense. Pryor was 
right. He was caught by the wonderful improve- 
I 
 
ment we had made. I had almost forgotten how 
forlorn and unpromising the place had looked. He 
examined the fruit, the garden, the chickens, the 
house, and then we went over to inspect the new 
one. Afterward we went up to Moore's, which was 
only a short distance above us, on the same avenue. 
The house was a large, attractive one, with a hall 
through the middle, three bay-windows, two large 
piazzas, a fine, long arbor, with a variety tff grapes ; 
a large barn, and numerous sheds, and three acres 
of ground with considerable fruit. The land, like 
ours, lay on a gentle slope, was dry and sunny. For 
two years this house had not been tenanted. The 
price was seven thousand dollars. Mr. Randall did 
seem quite impressed. 
" If I could do as well as you have," he said to 
me, " and if my folks would be content. Still, it is 
easy getting to the city, and we do go away every 
summer. We are talking about it now. It is a big 
expense," and he gave a low whistle. 
His family consisted of himself and wife, one 
single son, who would live at home, two daughters, a 
niece, and a grandson and his widowed mother. There 
was plenty of room. We could see that he was 
" very much taken," as the Athenians expressed it. 
He did not even demur at the price. 
Two days afterward he was over again, and ques- 
 
tioned me closely about my plans and methods. He 
had been brought up on a farm. 
"But matters have changed so much since that 
time," he said, with a brief, amused laugh. " Now it 
is all scientific farming. People make as much off 
of an acre of ground as my father did from three or 
four, and do it easier too. I don't know why, but 
a man does have a hankering after a country-place 
as he grows older." 
I am afraid I was enthusiastic. I may as well say 
here that Mr. Randall took the place, the owner 
falling five hundred dollars in his price. After some 
repairs, the family came over the first of July, and 
so far they have not regretted it. We found them 
very agreeable neighbors. Pryor was delighted with 
his success, and sent Eve two veranda-chairs in red, 
that certainly were ornamental to our front porch, 
as well as useful. Accompanying them was an amus 
ing note, in which he quoted the old adage, that, if 
a visitor brought his chair, he might be sure of a 
welcome. 
Then Eve was appealed to for a home. Mrs. 
Wilbur wanted to find a boarding-place at Athens 
for a few weeks, as they had been promised some 
rooms by the middle of July, in their own house. 
Eve scoured the little town, and was much enter 
tained by her experiences, as well as entertaining us. 
 
Up above us, there was considerable boarding: 
indeed, Truro was quite a favorite. But among 
those who could take so large a family, for there 
would be eight in all, most of the householders 
seemed to feel afraid. Several days after, when 
Eve's hopes had fallen to zero, since she could not 
suddenly enlarge our house, one of our neighbors, 
a Mrs. Ten Eyck, some of the old aristocracy, came 
in, and, after considerable apologizing, wanted to 
talk the matter over. Her husband was dead ; her 
father and mother lived with her, the former partially 
paralyzed; and she had one young son who went 
to the city on business. She confessed reluctantly 
