This is a noisy age. The dreamer can find 
no sacred silence in which to hide his fantasy. 
The thinker may double-lock his study door, 
but the winds of heaven will pilfer his thoughts 
from him through the window, and the birds 
of the air will carry the matter ; if they do 
not, the world concludes that there was none 
to carry. The believer, too, is tremulous to 
the vibrations of the atmosphere. His mysticism and quietism come by the hardest. If 
he have a faith, he feels that he must believe 
aloud. On every hand the air is quick with 
clamors. The " advanced mind " shouts to the 
scientist. The theologian thunders at the infidel. The ecclesiastic menaces the liberal 
Christian. The philosopher sneers at each. 
Representing none of these wise and urgent 
people, the writer of this fragment is moved 
to say a word concerning that considerable 
portion of humanity who walk outside the circle
of this portentous amphitheatre, yet near 
enough to be alert to its contests as well as 
deafened by its din. To these honest, quiet, 
and thoughtful people, who in all militant eras 
press nearest to the combatants, constituting 
at once their busiest critics and truest friends, 
it seems, if I mistake not, as if the main question in dispute were one uncommonly easy to 
ask and uncommonly hard to answer. 
It is a long time ago since our great-grand- 
fathers were crossing lances over the doctrine 
of imputed sin, or the souls of infants con- 
demned by predestination and foreknowledge 
absolute to an eternal hell. A damned baby 
at best was a theory. Nobody ever saw one. 
This is not the age of theory ; hence we long 
since took our babies to be blessed by One 
who thought it worth while to mention the 
fact that of such was the kingdom of heaven. 
Thus we care no more whether we are to be 
punished for the sin of Adam, having enough 
of our own to look to, to say nothing of the 
additional doubt whether Adam himself can be 
called a fact. This, we find, is the age of fact. 
No one asks to-day, What is your theory? but, 
Where is your fact ? 
So, at least, it seems to these good people of 
whom I speak, who compose what we call " the 
masses" of the church and the world. The 
young man of business, who sits under your 
preaching from Sunday to Sunday, Reverend 
sir, watches you with a keen but yet with a 
slightly saddened eye. Whether this be an age 
for the encouragement of faith or the preservation 
of doctrine he is not sure. Whether he 
has fallen upon an era of inductive or deductive 
reasoning he does not know ; it is probable 
that he does not care. But, that forces 
which he does not understand are threatening 
faiths that he reveres, he does know ; and for 
this, in a downright, manly fashion, he does 
care very much indeed. 
The thoughtful woman at the head of the 
crowded Bible class which has given such 
celebrity to your Sunday-school is puzzled, too. 
She no longer finds Barnes's Notes adequate 
to the religious difficulties of her observant, 
critical, restless pupils ; she no longer teaches, 
either, that the world was made in six days, 
or that the majority of the human race are 
doomed by a loving Father to an eternal strug- 
gle with a lake of material fire. She has heard 
the authenticity of the Fourth Gospel and even 
the original authorship of the Golden Rule 
called in question. She has a general impression that Darwin is to blame, and that geology 
is at the bottom of the trouble. She finds 
this, however, less satisfactory as an argument 
than might be, when her pet convert, nineteen 
wise years of age, announces that he will immediately become a free-thinker, on the ground 
that, next to immorality, there is nothing he so 
much prays to be delivered from as superstition. Perhaps she learns, as some of us have, 
to assume in general the uselessness of discussion with the initial moods of " emancipated 
minds." 
So, perhaps, our friend, the young pew- 
owner, feeling himself unable to hold his 
ground with the fellows at the club, yet all the 
fonder of the faith which he cannot defend, as 
the father is of the child whom he sees sur- 
rendering to a stealthy disease, saddens a little 
more and more, but joins himself to the great 
rank and file of the silent believers, who try
to be good fellows, and hope the Lord will 
clear things up some day. He thinks it would 
be natural to be able to give good reasons for 
believing anything so important as the Chris- 
tian religion, — good business reasons, that 
were clear as the code of ethics on 'change, 
and as much to be respected, whether to be 
obeyed or not, — but finds no such reasons 
causing such respect, and gradually ceases to 
look for any. 
It is safe to say that a part of the difficulties 
which our friends meet would be relieved, if 
they could more distinctly, or at least more 
clearly, define in their own minds some start- 
ing-point — without agreement upon which it 
is impossible to debate differences of either 
judgment or feeling, and for lack of which so 
many of our religious discussions are as wasted 
as the powder and blood of Malvern Hill. 
The average religious argument of to-day 
takes, perhaps, some such form as this, — 
the disputants, we may suppose, not having 
reached that stage of familiarity with each 
other's views at which controversy is tacitly 
and mutually conceded to be no accretion 
either to friendship or to faith. 
 
The believer — we use this term and its 
opposite as, on the whole, less objectionable 
and more precise than any others which exist- 
ing religious conflict has popularized — the 
believer begins by timidly expressing a hope 
