if need were, and in the end she would yield. She must do that, he told
himself, and he groped after some falsity that should palliate the
offence. He would tell her that he had been drinking again; he would
deny his own words, or, if necessary, he would insist she had not heard
them aright. Indeed, there was nothing that might have weight with her
which he was not ready and anxious to affirm. If she would but begin, if
in some splendor of indignation such as he had beheld before she would
rise up and upbraid him, his task would be diminished by half. Anything,
indeed, would be better than this, and nothing could be worse; it was
not Justine alone that the tears were carrying from him, it was the
Dunellen millions as well. Oh, abysses of the human heart! As he
queried with himself, at the very moment he was experiencing his first
remorse, the old self returned, and it was less of the injury he had
inflicted that he thought than of the counter-effect that injury might
have on him. In the attempt to throttle the child he had been balked,
yet of that attempt he believed Justine to be suspicionless. Other
opportunities he would have in plenty; and even were it otherwise, the
child was weakly, and croup might do its work. With the future for which
he had striven, there, in the very palm of his hand, how was it possible
that he should have made this misstep? But he could retrieve it, he told
himself; he was a good actor, it was not too late. For a little while
yet he could still support the mask, and, recalling the sentimental
reveries of a moment before, the forerunner of a sneer came and loitered
beneath the fringes of his mustache.
"Justine!" He moved a step or two to where she lay. "Justine--"
His voice was very low and penitent, but at the sound of it she seemed
to shrink. "Could she know?" he wondered.
Then immediately, through the scantness of the apartment, he heard the
outer bell resound. Enervated as he was, the interruption affected him
like a barb. There was some one there whom he could vent his irritation
on. He hurried to the hall, but a servant had preceded him. The door was
open, and on the threshold Thorold stood.
Mistrial nodded--the nod of one who is about to throw his coat aside and
roll his shirt-sleeves up. "Is it for your bill you come?" he asked.
Thorold hesitated, and his face grew very black. He affected, however,
to ignore the taunt. He turned to the servant that still was waiting
there. "Is my cousin at home?" he asked.
"She is," Mistrial announced, "but not to you."
"In that case," Thorold answered, "I must speak to someone in her
stead."
Mistrial made a gesture, and the servant withdrew.
"I have to inform my cousin," Thorold continued, "that Mr. Metuchen came
to me this evening and said that when my uncle died he was in debt--"
"Stuff and nonsense!"
"He asked me to come and acquaint Justine with the facts. They are
here." With this Thorold produced a roll of papers. "Be good enough to
explain to her," he added, "that this is the inventory of the estate."
And, extending the documents to his host, he turned and disappeared.
In the cataleptic attitude of one standing to be photographed Mistrial
listened to the retreating steps; he heard Thorold descend the stairs,
cross the vestibule, and pass from the house. It seemed to him even that
he caught the sound of his footfall on the pavement without. But
presently that, too, had gone. He turned and looked down the hall.
Justine's door was closed. Then at once, without seeking a seat, he
fumbled through the papers that he held. The gas-jet above his head fell
on the rigid lines. In the absence of collusion--and from whence should
such a thing come?--in the absence of that, they were crystal in their
clarity.
There were the assets. Shares in mines that did not exist, bonds of
railways that were bankrupt, loans on Western swamps, the house on
Madison Avenue, mortgaged to its utmost value, property on the
Riverside, ditto. And so on and so forth till the eye wearied and the
heart sickened of the catalogue. Then came the debit account. Amounts
due to this estate, to that, and to the other, a list of items extending
down an entire page of foolscap and extending over onto the next. There
a balance had been struck. Instead of millions Honest Paul had left
dishonor. Swindled by the living, he had swindled the dead.
"So much for trusting a man that bawls Amen in church," mused Mistrial.
As yet the completeness and amplitude of the disaster had not reached
him. While he ran the papers over he feigned to himself that it was all
some trick of Thorold's, one that he would presently see through and
understand; and even as he grasped the fact that it was not a trick at
all, that it was truth duly signed and attested, even then the disaster
seemed remote, affecting him only after the manner of that wound which,
received in the heat of battle, is unnoticed by the victim until its
gravity makes him reel. Then at once in the distance the future on which
he had counted faded and grew blank. Where it had been brilliant it was
obscure, and that obscurity, increasing, walled back the horizon and
reached up and extended from earth to sky. The papers fell from his
nerveless hand, fright had visited him, and he wheeled like a rat
surprised. Surely, he reflected, if safety there were or could be, that
safety was with Justine.
In a moment he was at her door. He tried it. It was locked. He beat upon
it and called aloud, "Justine."
No answer came. He bent his head and listened. Through the woodwork he
could hear but the faintest rustle, and he called again, "Justine."
Then from within came the melody of her voice: "Who is it?"
"It is I," he answered, and straightened himself. It seemed odd to him
she did not open the door at once. "I want a word with you," he added,
after a pause. But still the door was locked.
"Justine," he called again, "do you not hear me? I want to speak to
you."
Then through the slender woodwork at his side a whisper filtered, the
dumb voice of one whom madness may have in charge.
"It is not to speak you come, it is to kill."
"Justine!" he cried. All the agony of his life he distilled into her
name, "Justine!"
"You killed your child before, you shall not kill another now."
VI.
"City Hall!"
The brakemen were shouting the station through the emptiness of the
"Elevated."
In the car in which Mistrial sat a drunken sailor lolled, and a pretty
girl of the Sixth Avenue type was eating a confection. Above her, on a
panel opposite, the advertisement of a cough remedy shone in blue;
beyond was a particolored notice of tennis blazers: and, between them, a
text from Mark, in black letters, jumped out from a background of white:
"What shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose
his own soul?"
During the journey from his home Mistrial had contemplated that text.
Not continuously, however. For a little space his eyes had grazed the
retreating throngs over which the train was hurrying, and had rested on
the insufferable ugliness of the Bowery. Once, too, he had found himself
staring at the girl who sat opposite, and once he had detected within
him some envy of the sailor sprawling at her side. But, all the while,
that text was with him, and to the jar of the car he repeated for
refrain a paraphrase of his own: "How shall it damage a man if he lose
his own soul and gain the whole world?"
How indeed? Surely he had tried. For three years the effort had been
constant. It was because of it he had married, it was for this he had
