to be transferred to the log book. Baskirk was directed to take the
starboard watch, and he was formally presented to the second lieutenant
by the captain; and whatever his feeling or opinions in regard to the
step which had just been taken, he accepted the hand of the new officer
and treated him with proper courtesy.
"Latitude 37° 52'," said the captain significantly, as he led the way
down from the bridge, attended by the first and third lieutenants.
They followed him to the captain's cabin. Christy gave them seats at
the table, and then went into his state room for the ponderous envelope
which contained his orders. He seated himself between his two officers;
but before he broke the great seal, he discovered Dave in the passageway
making energetic signs to him. He hastened to him, and followed him into
the ward room.
"Pink is under your berth in the state room," whispered the steward in
the most impressive manner.
"All right, Dave; you have been faithful to your duty," said Christy,
as he hastened back into his cabin.
Resuming his place at the table, he broke the seal of the huge envelope.
He unfolded the inclosed instructions, and ran over them without
speaking a word.
"We have nothing to do on this cruise," said he, apparently taking his
idea from the paper in his hand. "I will read the material parts of it,"
he continued in a much louder tone than the size of the cabin and the
nearness of his auditors seemed to demand. "'You will proceed with all
reasonable despatch to the Gulf of Mexico, and report to the flag
officer, or his representative, of the eastern Gulf Squadron. You will
attempt no operations on your passage, and if an enemy appears you will
avoid her if possible with honor.' That's all, gentlemen."
The two listeners seemed to be utterly confounded.
CHAPTER XI
ANOTHER READING OF THE SEALED ORDERS
Christy finished the reading of the orders, folded up the document, and
put it in his pocket. But he immediately took it out and unfolded it
again, as though a new thought had struck him. Flint watched him with
the utmost attention, and he realized that the bearing of the commander
was quite different from his usual manner; but he attributed it to the
very unexpected nature of the orders he had just read. He was distinctly
directed to attempt no operations on the passage, and to proceed to the
destination indicated with all reasonable despatch.
The wording of the order was rather peculiar, and somewhat clumsy,
Flint thought; but then he had been a schoolmaster, and perhaps he
was inclined to be over-critical. But the meaning of the first clause
could not be mistaken, however, though the word "operations" seemed
to indicate something on a grander scale and more prolonged than an
encounter with a blockade-runner, or a Confederate man-of-war; something
in the nature of a campaign on shore, or a thorough scouring of the
ocean in search of the vessels of the enemy.
But any such interpretation of the order was rendered impossible by what
followed. The commander was distinctly forbidden to engage the enemy if
such an encounter could be avoided "with honor." The first lieutenant
knew that a combat could be easily avoided simply by not following up
any suspicious craft, unless a fully manned and armed Confederate
cruiser presented herself, and then it might be honorable to run away
from her. There was no mistaking the meaning of the orders, and there
was no chance to strain a point, and fall upon one or both of the
expected steamers.
The captain was strictly enjoined from meddling with them, even if they
came in his way. If they chased the Bronx, she would be justified in
defending herself under the orders; and that was the most she could do.
Flint was terribly disappointed, and he regarded the commander with the
deepest interest to learn what interpretation he would give to the
orders, though there seemed to him to be no room even to take advantage
of any fortunate circumstance.
The appearance of the commander did not throw any new light upon the
contents of the document. After he had finished the reading of the
paper, Christy sat in his chair, apparently still looking it over, as
though he did not fully comprehend its meaning. But he made no sign and
indulged in no remark of any kind, and in a few moments folded the order
and put it back into his pocket. Undoubtedly he was thinking very
energetically of something, but he did not reveal the nature of his
reflections.
Flint concluded that he was utterly dissatisfied with his orders, and
even regarded them as a slight upon himself as the commander of the
steamer for the time being. It was not customary to direct captains
to avoid the enemy under all circumstances that were likely to be
presented. The first lieutenant began to realize the disadvantage of
sailing with a captain so young, for it looked to him as though the
strange order had been issued on account of the youth of the commander.
When Christy had restored the paper to his pocket, he rose from his
seat, and thus indicated that there was to be no consultation with the
officers in regard to the unusual instructions. The two officers rose at
the same time, and closely observed the face of the commander; but this
time Flint could find nothing there as serious as he had observed
before; in fact, there was a twinkle in his eye that looked promising.
"Gentlemen, it is dinner time in the ward room, and I will not detain
you any longer," said Christy, as politely as he usually spoke to his
officers, though the opera of "Pinafore" had not been written at that
time.
Flint bowed to his captain, and left the cabin; and his example was
followed by Baskirk. Christy certainly did not look as though he were
embarrassed by his orders, or as if he were disappointed at the
restrictions they imposed upon him. He left the cabin so that Dave could
prepare his table for dinner as he had the time to do so. He left the
cabin; but in the passage he called the steward to him, and whispered a
brief sentence to him.
He then ascended to the deck, and proceeded to take a "constitutional"
on the windward side of the quarter deck. The gale had moderated very
sensibly, though the wind was still from the southward. The sea was
still quite rough, though it was likely to subside very soon. After the
captain had walked as long as he cared to do, he mounted the bridge.
"What do you think of the weather, Mr. Lillyworth?" he asked of the
officer of the deck, after he had politely returned his salute.
"I don't believe we shall have any more wind today," replied the second
lieutenant, as he looked wisely at the weather indications the sky
presented. "But it don't look much like fairing off, and I shall look
for fog as long as the wind holds where it is."
"I have been expecting to be buried in fog," added the captain, as he
took a survey of the deck beneath him. "I see by the log slate that we
are making fifteen knots an hour, and we certainly are not driving her."
"There can be no doubt that this is a very fast vessel," said Mr.
Lillyworth. "Well, she ought to be, for I understand that she was built
for a nobleman's yacht, and such men want speed, and are willing to pay
for it."
"By tomorrow, we shall be in the latitude of the Bermudas, and most of
the blockade runners put in there, or some more southern port, to get
the news, and obtain a pilot, if they don't happen to have one on
board."
"That seems to be the way they do it."
"This fog is favorable to blockade runners if they have a skilful pilot
on board; and they all contrive to have such a one," added the captain,
