about a hmidred and fifty people, of all ages, collected 
around the tent, and placed themselves in circles of from 
ten to fifteen each, with legs crossed under them, to discuss 
 
as. After a long discussion, an old man approached me, 
and asked me, in very bad Spanish, which he rendered 
Intelligible by signs, what my name was, whence we came, 
and how we had happened to fall into their power. As in 
the course of the conversation he showed himself quite an 
intelligent man, I related to him circumstantially our mis- 
erable story, and. told him that my name was James Eiley, 
and that I was the captain of a North American vessel, 
which had been wrecked upon their coast. He appeared 
to understand perfectly all that I said. I also assured him 
ihat he should receive a large ransom if he would carry 
tie and my men to Morocco, but he shook his head, and 
intimated that Morocco was a great way off, and that no 
food for the camels was to be found on the journey. After 
this conversation he returned to his people, but I did not 
entirely relinquish all hope of regaining our freedom, 
ulthough I endeavored in vain to inspire my companions 
*dth a like trust. 
Day after day we continued our journey with our mas- 
ters in this manner, without reaching the place of our des- 
tination; the dissert always presenting the same appear- 
ance, very like the sea in a dead calm. Gradually the 
provisions and water came to an end, and it may easily be 
conceived that we poor prisoners suffered most severely. 
Often we received nothing during a whole day but a few 
drops of milk, and when we were driven to declare that 
we were too hungry and tired to proceed, they drove us on 
with blows and threats. 
I vainly attempted to work upon the sympathy of the 
women, and obtain a drink of water from them; they 
laughed at and mocked me, and when I continued my 
entreaties, drove me from the shadow of the tent, so that 
I was compelled to lie in the heat of the sun at high noon. 
To add to all this, a great negro slave, belonging to my 
master, a coarse bully of a fellow, undertook to tease us 
in every possible way, calling me "captain," with great 
mock respect. His witticisms pf this kind were greatly 
applauded by my master's family, to please whom he 
exerted himself in this way. Sometimes his jokes were 
cruelly rough, and he even used to poke our wounds with 
a pointed stick, to show the Arabs what miserable crea- 
tures we were, not to be able to endure even the heat of 
the sun. My men determined often to give him a deserved 
chaetiflement for his impudence, but I dissuaded them from 
doing 80, lest we should give our masters a pretext for still 
more rough usage of us. 
As my companions were more exasperated than I at the 
conduct of the negro, they were also more tormented by 
hunger, and resorted to the most horrible means to satisfy 
it. Thus I was once obliged to tie the hands of one 
of the men behind his back, that he might not gnaw his 
own flesh, and another time I discovisred, just at the right 
time, that two of them had enticed a child of four year;
old to some distance from the tents, and were about to kill 
him with a stone and devour him. I rescued him with 
difficulty, as they were burning with a desire for his blood, 
"We will willingly die for it afterwards," they replied to 
my entreaties and representations that we should all be 
murdered cruelly by the Arabs, if they persisted. God be 
praised, I was at last able to convince them that it was 
 
far more manly to die of thirst and hunger than to becoma 
cannibals. 
VII. 
Our affairs were in this wretched condition when, one 
day, two Arabs with several well-laden camels, approached 
our camp. They made their weary beasts kneel down, 
dismounted, and seated themselves opposite my master's 
tent. As the men were absent on a hunting, or rather a 
marauding expedition, the women came out to receive the 
strangers. As soon as the latter observed them, they rose 
and greeted them with the words, " Peace, peace be with 
you !" to which salutation the women replied in the same 
 words, and then went to work and erected a tent for their 
guests, into which they carried their saddles and all their 
baggage ; among this last were two skins of water which 
they brought. 
The strangers remained in the meantime sitting upon 
the ground beside their weapons, for each had a good 
double-barreled gun that shone like silver in the sunlight. 
After finishing their work, the women seated themselves 
beside the men, and asked them, as I gathered from my 
small knowledge of Arabic, which I had been diligently 
attempting to learn, whence they came, how long they had 
been on the way, and what goods they had with them. 
After their curiosity had been satisfied, an old woman, in 
whom I had never before discovered a trace of sympathy 
for us, came to me, and gave m« to understand that Sidi 
Hamet, one of the two strangers, came from the dominions 
of the Sultan of Modcco, and could, if he would, buy 
 
me and cany me where I might return to my wife and 
children. 
As my master would soon return, I went without further 
reflection to the strangers' tent, with a cup in my hand, 
and begged Sidi Hamet, pointing to my parched lips, for 
a little water. He looked at me, and asked if I were the 
captain. I nodded assent, and he then requested his 
brother to give me some water. But as the latter did not 
appear inclined to obey, he took the cup himself, poured 
about a pint of clear crystal water into it, and said, " Drink 
captain !" I greedily emptied half the cup, called down 
Heaven's blessing upon him for his humanity, and turned 
to carry the rest of the water to the tent, where one of 
our sailors lay, worn to a skeleton, suflfering the last cruel 
pangs of hunger and thirst. But Sidi Hamet signified to 
me that I m'jst drink the water myself. Still, when I told 
him as well as I could of the misery of my unfortunate 
companion, he kindly let me go. It was perfectly clear, 
the first good water that we had tasted since we had 
left our boat. It was a luxury indeed ; it gave the poor 
sailor new life, and his sunken eyes flashed in their sock- 
ets. " That is magnificent water," he said, " and must 
,come from a better land than this ; if we were only there, 
and could have a good drink, I might be savedi but now I' 
shall not survive to-morrow." 
