thing and not the chimney. He had no view of life which 
counted out the need of learning ; it was teaching rather as 
to which he was conscious of no particular mission. He liked 
life, liked it immensely, and was willing to study the ways and 
means of it with a certain patience. He cherished the usual 
wise monitions, such as that one was not to make a fool of 
one's self and that one should not carry on one's technical 
experiments in public. It was because as yet he liked life in 
general better than it was clear to him that he liked any par- 
ticular branch of it, that on the occasion of a constituency's 
holding out a cordial hand to him, while it extended another 
in a different direction, a certain bloom of boyhood that was 
on him had not resisted the idea of a match. 
He rose to it as he had risen to matches at school, for his 
boyishness could take a pleasure in an inconsiderate show of 
agility. He could meet electors and conciliate bores and com- 
pliment women and answer questions and roll off speeches 
.and chaff adversaries, because it was amusing and slightly 
dangerous, like playing football or ascending an Alp pastimes 
for which nature had conferred on him an aptitude not so very 
different in kind from a gallant readiness on platforms. There 
were two voices which told him that all this was not really 
action at all, but only a pusillanimous imitation of it : one of 
them made itself fitfully audible in the depths of his own spirit 
and the other spoke, in the equivocal accents of a very crabbed 
hand, from a letter of four pages by Gabriel Nash. However, 
Nick acted as much as possible under the circumstances, and 
that was rectifying it brought with it enjoyment and a 
working faith. He had not gone counter to the axiom that 
in a case of doubt one was to hold off ; for that applied to 
choice, and he had not at present the slightest pretension to 
choosing. He knew he was lifted along, that what he was 
doing was not first-rate, that nothing was settled by it and 
that if there was essentially a problem in his life it would 
only grow tougher with keeping. But if doing one's sum 
to-morrow instead of to-day does not make the sum easier it 
at least makes to-day so. 
Sometimes in the course of the following fortnight it 
seemed to him that he had gone in for Harsh because he was 
sure he should lose ; sometimes he foresaw that he should 
win precisely to punish him for having tried and for his want 
of candour ; and when presently he did win he was almost 
frightened at his success. Then it appeared to him that he 
had done something even worse than not choose he had let 
others choose for him. The beauty of it was that they had 
chosen with only their own object in their eye : for what did 
they know about his strange alternative  ? He was rattled 
about so for a fortnight (Julia took care of that) that he had 
no time to think save when he tried to remember a quotation 
or an American story, and all his life became an overflow of 
verbiage. Thought retreated before increase of sound, which 
had to be pleasant and eloquent, and even superficially 
coherent, without its aid. Nick himself was surprised at the 
airs he could play ; and often when the last thing at night 
he shut the door of his room he mentally exclaimed that he 
had had no idea he was such a mountebank. 
I must add that if this reflection did not occupy him long, 
and if no meditation, after his return from Paris, held him 
for many moments, there was a reason better even than that 
he was tired or busy or excited by the agreeable combination 
of hits and hurrahs. That reason was simply Mrs. Dallow, 
who had suddenly become a still larger fact in his conscious- 
ness than active politics. She was, indeed, active politics ; 
that is, if the politics were his, how little soever, the activity 
was hers. She had ways of showing she was a clever woman 
that were better than saying clever things, which only prove 
at the most that one would be clever if one could. The 
accomplished fact itself was the demonstration that Mrs. 
Dallow could ; and when Nick came to his senses after the 
proclamation of the victor and the cessation of the noise her 
figure was, of all the queer phantasmagoria, the most sub- 
stantial thing that survived. She had been always there, 
passing, repassing, before him, beside him, behind him. She 
had made the business infinitely prettier than it would have 
been without her, added music and flowers and ices, a charm, 
and converted it into a social game that had a strain of the 
heroic. It was a garden-party with something at stake, or 
to celebrate something in advance, with the people let in. 
The concluded affair had bequeathed him not only a seat 
in the House of Commons, but a perception of what women 
may do in high embodiments, and an abyss of intimacy with 
one woman in particular. 
She had wrapped him up in something, he didn't know 
what a sense of facility, an overpowering fragrance and 
they had moved together in an immense fraternity. There 
had been no love-making, no contact that was only personal, 
no vulgarity of flirtation : the hurry of the days and the 
sharpness with which they both tended to an outside object 
had made all that irrelevant. It was as if she had been too 
near for him to see her separate from himself ; but none the 
less, when he now drew breath and looked back, what had 
happened met his eyes as a composed picture a picture of 
which the subject was inveterately Julia and her ponies : 
Julia wonderfully fair and fine, holding her head more than 
ever in the manner characteristic of her, brilliant, benignant, 
waving her whip, cleaving the crowd, thanking people with 
her smile, carrying him beside her, carrying him to his doom. 
He had not supposed that in so few days he had driven about 
with her so much ; but the image of it was there, in his 
consulted conscience, as well as in a personal glow not yet 
chilled : it looked large as it rose before him. The things 
his mother had said to him. made a rich enough frame for it, 
and the whole impression, that night, had kept him much 
awake. 
XV. 
WHILE, after leaving Mrs. Gresham, lie was hesitating 
which way to go and was on the point of hailing a gardener 
to ask if Mrs. Dallow had been seen, he noticed, as a spot of 
colour in an expanse of shrubbery, a far-away parasol moving 
in the direction of the lake. He took his course that way, 
across the park, and as the bearer of the parasol was strolling 
slowly it was not five minutes before he had joined her. He 
went to her soundlessly over the grass (he had been whistling 
at first, but as he got nearer he stopped), and it was not till 
he was close to her that she looked round. He had watched 
her moving as if she were turning things over in her mind, 
brushing the smooth walks and the clean turf with her dress, 
slowly making her parasol revolve on her shoulder and 
carrying in the hand which hung beside her a book which he 
perceived to be a monthly review. 
