interested in the latest fashions. And now, in the disturbed state of
imports, it would not be so easy to have orders filled abroad.

Primrose danced down the stairs and through the hall. "Oh, Andrew!" she
cried, as she was clasped in the fond arms.

Then he held her off a bit. No, Faith could not compare with her. Yet
Faith had blue eyes, a fair skin, and light hair, straight and rather
stringy and cut short in her neck. But these eyes were like a glint of
heaven on a most radiant day, these curving red lips were full of smiles
and sweetness, and this lovely hair, this becoming and graceful
attire----

"Oh, why do you sigh!" in a pretty, imperious fashion. "Are you not glad
to see me? I thought you had forgotten me. It is such a long, long
while."

"Did I sigh? I was surprised. Thou art like a sweet, blossomy rose with
the morning dew upon it."

"Prim Rose." She drew her face down a little, drooped her eyes, and let
her arms hang at her side in a demure fashion, and though Andrew's
vocabulary had few descriptive adjectives in it, he felt she was
distractingly pretty. He wanted to kiss her again and again, but
refrained with Quaker self-restraint.

She laughed softly. "Madam Shippen was here one day with big Miss Peggy,
who can laugh and be gay like any little girl, and who is so pretty--not
like my dear mother in the frame, but--oh, I can't find a word, and I am
learning so many new ones, too. But one would just like to kneel at her
feet, and draw a long breath. And she took hold of my hands and we
skipped about in the hall with the new step Master Bagett taught me. And
Madam Shippen said I was 'most like a rose, and that if I became a
Friend I should be called Prim alone, since the name would be suitable.
And Madam Wetherill said I was divided, like my name. When will it be
time to go to the farm?"

"Would it be a great disappointment if thou didst not go?" he asked
gravely.

"What has happened, cousin?"

Her sweet face took instant alarm. The smiles shaped themselves to a
sudden unspoken sympathy.

"A great many things have happened." He would have liked to draw her
down to his knee as he had seen Penn hold his sister Faith and comfort
her for the loss of their mother. But Primrose did not need comforting.
He kept his arm about her and drew her nearer to him.

"Yes, a great many things. Mother's sister, Aunt Rachel Morgan, died in
March, and grandmother and the three children have come to live with us.
Grandmother is old and has mostly lost her mind. Penn is a large fellow
of his age, almost grown up, and is of great service. Rachel is fourteen
and is wise in the management of grandmother, who cannot tell one from
another and thinks my mother the elder Rachel who died. And then there
is little Faith."

"Faith? What is she like? Would you rather have her than--than me? Do
you love her most?"

A sudden jealousy flamed up in the child's heart. Since her mother had
gone she had really loved no one until she had met Andrew. Perhaps it
was largely due to the fact that he was the only sympathetic one in a
lonely life.

Andrew laughed, stirred by a sweet joy.

"I would a dozen times rather have thee, but Faith is nice and obedient
and my mother has grown fond of her. But there is something about thee,
Primrose--canst thou remember how the chickens followed thee, and the
birds and the squirrels never seemed afraid? Thou didst talk to the
robins as if thou didst understand their song. And the beady-eyed
squirrels--how they would stop and listen."

"I made a robin's song on the spinet quite by myself, one afternoon. And
the dainty Phoebe bird, and the wren with her few small notes. Do you
know, I think the wren a Quaker bird, only her gown is not quite gray
enough. We went out to great-aunt's farm one day, and oh, the birds!
Some had on such dazzling plumage and flew so swiftly. We went to the
woods and found trailing arbutus, that is so sweet, and hepatica, and
oh! many another thing. I can't recall half the names. There was a tall,
grave gentleman who talked much about them and said they were families.
Are the little birds the babies, and are there cousins and aunts and
grandmothers all faded and shriveled up? And can they talk to each other
with those little nods and swinging back and forth?"

"Thou art a strange child, Primrose," and he smiled. "What were we
talking of? Oh, the coming of the children. And then father hath had a
bad fall and has to be kept in bed for weeks. So we seem full of
trouble."

"Oh, I am so sorry, Andrew!" Her head was up by his shoulder and she
leaned over and kissed him, and then he held her in a very close embrace
and felt in some mysterious way that she belonged to him, rather than to
his father or to her grand aunt.

"And you will hardly want me," with a slow half question answering
itself.

"That is one of my errands. Father desires to see Madam Wetherill. He
did not say--he wishes to follow out my uncle's will concerning you."

Then he looked her all over. Her eyes were cast down on the polished
floor that had lately come in. Many people had them sanded; indeed, the
large dining room here was freshly sanded every morning and drawn in
waves and diamonds and figures of various sorts. The Friends used the
sand, but condemned the figures as savoring of the world.

As Primrose stood there she was grace itself. Her head was full of loose
curls that glinted of silver in the high lights and a touch of gold in
the shade, deepening to a soft brown. Her skin was fine and clear, her
brows and the long lashes were quite dark, the latter just tipped with
gold that often gave the eyes a dazzling appearance. Her ear was like a
bit of pinkish shell or a half crumpled rose leaf. And where her chin
melted into her neck, and the neck sloped to the shoulder, there were
exquisite lines. After the fashion of the day her bodice was cut square,
and the sleeves had a puff at the shoulder and a pretty bow that had
done duty in various places before. He did not understand that it was
beauty that moved him so, for he had always been deeply sympathetic over
