father's enemy as he lay upon the ground, and then he withdrew quickly
into the dark crowd so that none knew him. But though there was only the
light of the stars and the multitude was great, many had seen the deed
and each man stood closer by his neighbour and grasped his weapon to be
in readiness. The kinsmen of Abdullah saw that they were separated from
their own tribe and drew back, warning the others to keep the peace and
be silent, lest they should be cut off from their share of the spoil.
But their voices trembled with fears for their own safety, and they were
answered by scornful shouts and jeers.
'The young man says well that you are crows,' cried the angry men, 'for
you wish to keep the carcase for yourselves. Come and take it if you are
able!'
Now indeed the quarrel which had been begun by the blow struck in the
dark spread suddenly to great dimensions, for the words spoken were
caught up as grains of sand by the wind and blown into all men's ears.
Many were ready enough to believe that Abdullah cared only for
enriching himself and his tribe, and many more who had been persuaded to
the enterprise by the hope of gain turned again to their faith in Khaled
as the dream of gold disappeared from their eyes. Yet Abdullah's tribe
was numerous, and it was easy to see that if the dissension grew into a
strife of arms the fight would be long and fierce on both sides.
Then certain of those who were against Abdullah raised the cry that he
had slain Khaled and escaped with the treasure by a secret passage
leading under the walls of the city, which passage was spoken of in old
tales, though no one knew where to find it. But the multitude believed
and pressed forward in a strong body and began to beat against the
iron-bound gate of the palace with great stones and pieces of wood.
Abdullah's men came on fiercely to prevent them, but were opposed by
many, and as the wing of night was lifted and the dawn drank the stars,
the wide square was filled with the clashing of arms and the noise of a
terrible tumult.
CHAPTER XII
At the time when the beggars were carrying away Abdullah and his wife,
Khaled was sitting in his accustomed place, silent and heavy at heart,
and Zehowah played softly to him upon a barbat and sang a sad song in a
low voice. For she saw that gloominess had overcome him and she feared
to disturb his mood, though she would gladly have made him smile if she
had been able.
A black slave of Khaled's whom he had treated with great kindness had
secretly told him that there was a plan to enter the palace with evil
during that night, for the fellow had spied upon those who knew and had
overheard what he now told his master. He had also asked whether he
should not warn the guards of the palace, in order that a strict watch
should be kept, but Khaled had bidden him be silent.
'Either the guards are conspiring with the rest,' said Khaled, 'and will
be the first to attack me, or they are ignorant of the plan; and if so
how can they withstand so great a multitude? I will abide by my own
fate, and no man shall lose his life for my sake unless he desires to do
so.'
But he privately put on a coat of mail under his aba, and when he sat
down in the harem to await the end he would not let Zehowah take his
sword, but laid it upon his feet and sat upright against the wall,
looking towards the door.
'Since I have no soul,' he said to himself, 'this is probably the end of
all things. But there is no reason why I should not kill as many of
these murderers as possible.'
He was gloomy and desponding, however, since he saw that his hour was at
hand, and that Zehowah was no nearer to loving him than before. He
watched her fingers as she played upon the instrument, and he listened
to the soft notes of her voice.
'It is a strange thing,' he thought, 'and I believe that she is not able
to love, any more than my sword upon my feet, which is good and true and
beautiful, and ever ready to my hand, but is itself cold, having no
feeling in it.'
Still Zehowah sang and Khaled heard her song, listening watchfully for a
man's tread upon the threshold and looking to see a man's face and the
light of steel in the shadow beyond the lamps.
'The night is long,' he said at last, aloud.
'It is not yet midnight,' Zehowah answered. 'But you are tired. Will you
not go to rest?'
'I shall rest to-morrow,' said Khaled. 'To-night I will sit here and
look at you, if you will sing to me.'
Zehowah gazed into his eyes, wondering a little at his exceeding
sadness. Then she bowed her head and struck the strings of the
instrument to a new measure more melancholy than the last, and sang an
old song of many verses, with a weeping refrain.
'Are you also heavy at heart to-night?' Khaled asked, when he had
listened to the end.
'It is not easy to kindle a lamp when the rain is falling heavily,'
Zehowah said. 'Your sadness has taken hold of me, like the chill of a
fever. I cannot laugh to-night.'
'And yet you have a good cause, for they say that to-night the earth is
to be delivered of a great malefactor, a certain Persian, whose name is
perhaps Hassan, a notorious robber.'
Khaled turned away his head, smiling bitterly, for he desired not to see
the satisfaction which would come into her face.
'This is a poor jest,' she answered in a low voice, and the barbat
rolled from her knees to the carpet beside her.
'I mean no jesting, for I do not desire to disappoint you, since you
will naturally be glad to be freed from me. But I am glad if you are
willing to sing to me, for this night is very long.'
'Do you think that I believe this of you?' asked Zehowah, after some
time.
'You believed it yesterday, you believe it to-day, and you will believe
it to-morrow when you are free to make choice of some other man--whom
you will doubtless love.'
'Yet I know that it is not true,' she said suddenly.
'It is too late,' Khaled answered. 'The more I love you, the more I see
how little faith you have in me--and the less faith can I put in you.
Will you sing to me again?'
'This is very cruel and bitter.' Zehowah sighed and looked at him.
'Will you sing to me again, Zehowah?' he repeated. 'I like your sad
music.'
Then she took up the barbat from the carpet, but though she struck a
chord she could not go on and her hand lay idle upon the strings, and
her voice was still.
'You are perhaps tired,' said Khaled after some time. 'Then lay aside
the instrument and sleep.' He composed himself in his seat, his sword
being ready and his eyes towards the door.
But Zehowah shook her head as though awaking from a dream, her fingers
ran swiftly over the strings and gentle tones came from her lips. Khaled
listened thoughtfully to the song and the words soothed him, but before
she had reached the end, she stopped suddenly.
'Why do you not finish it?' he asked.
'If you have told me truth,' she answered, 'this is no time for singing
and music. But if not, why should I labour to amuse you, as though I
were a slave? I will call one of the women who has a sweet voice and a
good memory. She will sing you a kasid which will last till morning.'
'You are wrong,' said Khaled. 'There is no reason in what you say.'
But he reflected upon her nature, while he spoke.
