“Oh, miserable me!”
“Don’t! There’s just pure heart-break in that tone. It’s just as I say;
you’ve got to get right down to it and amuse your mind, as if it was
salvation.”
“They’re easy words to say, Barrow, but how am I going to amuse,
entertain, divert a mind that finds itself suddenly assaulted and
overwhelmed by disasters of a sort not dreamed of and not provided for?
No--no, the bare idea of amusement is repulsive to my feelings: Let us
talk of death and funerals.”
“No--not yet. That would be giving up the ship. We’ll not give up the
ship yet. I’m going to amuse you; I sent Brady out for the wherewithal
before you finished breakfast.”
“You did? What is it?”
“Come, this is a good sign--curiosity. Oh, there’s hope for you yet.”
CHAPTER XVI.
Brady arrived with a box, and departed, after saying, “They’re finishing
one up, but they’ll be along as soon as it’s done.”
Barrow took a frameless oil portrait a foot square from the box, set it
up in a good light, without comment, and reached for another, taking a
furtive glance at Tracy, meantime. The stony solemnity in Tracy’s face
remained as it was, and gave out no sign of interest. Barrow placed
the second portrait beside the first, and stole another glance while
reaching for a third. The stone image softened, a shade. No. 3 forced
the ghost of a smile, No. 4 swept indifference wholly away, and No. 5
started a laugh which was still in good and hearty condition when No. 14
took its place in the row.
“Oh, you’re all right, yet,” said Barrow. “You see you’re not past
amusement.”
The pictures were fearful, as to color, and atrocious as to drawing
and expression; but the feature which squelched animosity and made them
funny was a feature which could not achieve its full force in a single
picture, but required the wonder-working assistance of repetition. One
loudly dressed mechanic in stately attitude, with his hand on a cannon,
ashore, and a ship riding at anchor in the offing,--this is merely odd;
but when one sees the same cannon and the same ship in fourteen pictures
in a row, and a different mechanic standing watch in each, the thing
gets to be funny.
“Explain--explain these aberrations,” said Tracy.
“Well, they are not the achievement of a single intellect, a single
talent--it takes two to do these miracles. They are collaborations; the
one artist does the figure, the other the accessories. The figure-artist
is a German shoemaker with an untaught passion for art, the other is a
simple hearted old Yankee sailor-man whose possibilities are strictly
limited to his ship, his cannon and his patch of petrified sea. They
work these things up from twenty-five-cent tintypes; they get six
dollars apiece for them, and they can grind out a couple a day when they
strike what they call a boost--that is, an inspiration.”
“People actually pay money for these calumnies?”
“They actually do--and quite willingly, too. And these abortionists
could double their trade and work the women in, if Capt. Saltmarsh could
whirl a horse in, or a piano, or a guitar, in place of his cannon. The
fact is, he fatigues the market with that cannon. Even the male market,
I mean. These fourteen in the procession are not all satisfied. One is
an old ‘independent’ fireman, and he wants an engine in place of the
cannon; another is a mate of a tug, and wants a tug in place of the
ship --and so on, and so on. But the captain can’t make a tug that is
deceptive, and a fire engine is many flights beyond his power.”
“This is a most extraordinary form of robbery, I never have heard of
anything like it. It’s interesting.”
“Yes, and so are the artists. They are perfectly honest men, and
sincere. And the old sailor-man is full of sound religion, and is as
devoted a student of the Bible and misquoter of it as you can find
anywhere. I don’t know a better man or kinder hearted old soul than
Saltmarsh, although he does swear a little, sometimes.”
“He seems to be perfect. I want to know him, Barrow.”
“You’ll have the chance. I guess I hear them coming, now. We’ll draw
them out on their art, if you like.”
The artists arrived and shook hands with great heartiness. The German
was forty and a little fleshy, with a shiny bald head and a kindly
face and deferential manner. Capt. Saltmarsh was sixty, tall, erect,
powerfully built, with coal-black hair and whiskers, and he had a well
tanned complexion, and a gait and countenance that were full of command,
confidence and decision. His horny hands and wrists were covered with
tattoo-marks, and when his lips parted, his teeth showed up white and
blemishless. His voice was the effortless deep bass of a church organ,
and would disturb the tranquility of a gas flame fifty yards away.
“They’re wonderful pictures,” said Barrow. “We’ve been examining them.”
“It is very bleasant dot you like dem,” said Handel, the German,
greatly pleased. “Und you, Herr Tracy, you haf peen bleased mit dem too,
alretty?”
“I can honestly say I have never seen anything just like them before.”
“Schon!” cried the German, delighted. “You hear, Gaptain? Here is a
chentleman, yes, vot abbreviate unser aart.”
The captain was charmed, and said:
“Well, sir, we’re thankful for a compliment yet, though they’re not as
scarce now as they used to be before we made a reputation.”
“Getting the reputation is the up-hill time in most things, captain.”
“It’s so. It ain’t enough to know how to reef a gasket, you got to make
the mate know you know it. That’s reputation. The good word, said at the
right time, that’s the word that makes us; and evil be to him that evil
thinks, as Isaiah says.”
“It’s very relevant, and hits the point exactly,” said Tracy.
“Where did you study art, Captain?”
“I haven’t studied; it’s a natural gift.”
“He is born mit dose cannon in him. He tondt haf to do noding, his
chenius do all de vork. Of he is asleep, and take a pencil in his hand,
out come a cannon. Py crashus, of he could do a clavier, of he could do
a guitar, of he could do a vashtub, it is a fortune, heiliger Yohanniss
it is yoost a fortune!”
“Well, it is an immense pity that the business is hindered and limited
in this unfortunate way.”
The captain grew a trifle excited, himself, now:
“You’ve said it, Mr. Tracy!--Hindered? well, I should say so. Why, look
here. This fellow here, No. 11, he’s a hackman,--a flourishing hackman,
I may say. He wants his hack in this picture. Wants it where the cannon
is. I got around that difficulty, by telling him the cannon’s our
trademark, so to speak--proves that the picture’s our work, and I was
afraid if we left it out people wouldn’t know for certain if it was a
Saltmarsh--Handel--now you wouldn’t yourself--”
“What, Captain? You wrong yourself, indeed you do. Anyone who has once
seen a genuine Saltmarsh-Handel is safe from imposture forever.
Strip it, flay it, skin it out of every detail but the bare color
and expression, and that man will still recognize it--still stop to
worship--”
“Oh, how it makes me feel to hear dose oxpressions!--”
--“still say to himself again as he had, said a hundred times before,
the art of the Saltmarsh-Handel is an art apart, there is nothing in the
heavens above or in the earth beneath that resembles it,--”
“Py chiminy, nur horen Sie einmal! In my life day haf I never heard so
brecious worts.”
