or excavated on the slopes with frequent short curves and double curves.
Like all mountain roads which skirt precipices, it may seem "pokerish,"
but it is safe enough if the drivers are skilful and careful (all the
drivers on this route are not only excellent, but exceedingly civil as
well), and there is no break in wagon or harness. At the season this
trip is made the weather is apt to be warm, but this would not matter so
much if the road were not intolerably dusty. Over a great part of the
way the dust rises in clouds and is stifling. On a well-engineered road,
with a good road-bed, the time of passage might not be shortened, but
the journey would be made with positive comfort and enjoyment, for
though there is a certain monotony in the scenery, there is the wild
freshness of nature, now and then an extensive prospect, a sight of the
snow-clad Nevadas, and vast stretches of woodland; and a part of the way
the forests are magnificent, especially the stupendous growth of the
sugar-pine. These noble forests are now protected by their
inaccessibility.
From 1855 to 1864, nine years, the Yosemite had 653 visitors; in 1864
there were 147. The number increased steadily till 1869, the year the
overland railroad was completed, when it jumped to 1122. Between 4000
and 5000 persons visit it now each year. The number would be enormously
increased if it could be reached by rail, and doubtless a road will be
built to the valley in the near future, perhaps up the Merced River. I
believe that the pilgrims who used to go to the Yosemite on foot or on
horseback regret the building of the stage road, the enjoyment of the
wonderful valley being somehow cheapened by the comparative ease of
reaching it. It is feared that a railway would still further cheapen, if
it did not vulgarize it, and that passengers by train would miss the
mountain scenery, the splendid forests, the surprises of the way (like
the first view of the valley from Inspiration Point), and that the
Mariposa big trees would be farther off the route than they are now. The
traveller sees them now by driving eight miles from Wawona, the end of
the first day's staging. But the romance for the few there is in staging
will have to give way to the greater comfort of the many by rail.
The railway will do no more injury to the Yosemite than it has done to
Niagara, and, in fact, will be the means of immensely increasing the
comfort of the visitor's stay there, besides enabling tens of thousands
of people to see it who cannot stand the fatigue of the stage ride over
the present road. The Yosemite will remain as it is. The simplicity of
its grand features is unassailable so long as the Government protects
the forests that surround it and the streams that pour into it. The
visitor who goes there by rail will find plenty of adventure for days
and weeks in following the mountain trails, ascending to the great
points of view, exploring the cañons, or climbing so as to command the
vast stretch of the snowy Sierras. Or, if he is not inclined to
adventure, the valley itself will satisfy his highest imaginative
flights of the sublime in rock masses and perpendicular ledges, and his
sense of beauty in the graceful water-falls, rainbow colors, and
exquisite lines of domes and pinnacles. It is in the grouping of objects
of sublimity and beauty that the Yosemite excels. The narrow valley,
with its gigantic walls, which vary in every change of the point of
view, lends itself to the most astonishing scenic effects, and these the
photograph has reproduced, so that the world is familiar with the
striking features of the valley, and has a tolerably correct idea of the
sublimity of some of these features. What the photograph cannot do is to
give an impression of the unique grouping, of the majesty, and at times
crushing weight upon the mind of the forms and masses, of the
atmospheric splendor and illusion, and of the total value of such an
assemblage of wonders. The level surface of the peaceful, park-like
valley has much to do with the impression. The effect of El Capitan,
seen across a meadow and rising from a beautiful park, is much greater
than if it were encountered in a savage mountain gorge. The traveller
may have seen elsewhere greater water-falls, and domes and spires of
rock as surprising, but he has nowhere else seen such a combination as
this. He may be fortified against surprise by the photographs he has
seen and the reports of word painters, but he will not escape (say, at
Inspiration Point, or Artist Point, or other lookouts), a quickening of
the pulse and an elation which is physical as well as mental, in the
sight of such unexpected sublimity and beauty. And familiarity will
scarcely take off the edge of his delight, so varied are the effects in
the passing hours and changing lights. The Rainbow Fall, when water is
abundant, is exceedingly impressive as well as beautiful. Seen from the
carriage road, pouring out of the sky overhead, it gives a sense of
power, and at the proper hour before sunset, when the vast mass of
leaping, foaming water is shot through with the colors of the spectrum,
it is one of the most exquisite sights the world can offer; the
elemental forces are overwhelming, but the loveliness is engaging. One
turns from this to the noble mass of El Capitan with a shock of
surprise, however often it may have been seen. This is the hour also, in
the time of high-water, to see the reflection of the Yosemite Falls. As
a spectacle it is infinitely finer than anything at Mirror Lake, and is
unique in its way. To behold this beautiful series of falls, flowing
down out of the blue sky above, and flowing up out of an equally blue
sky in the depths of the earth, is a sight not to be forgotten. And
when the observer passes from these displays to the sight of the aerial
domes in the upper end of the valley, new wonders opening at every turn
of the forest road, his excitement has little chance of subsiding: he
may be even a little oppressed. The valley, so verdant and friendly with
grass and trees and flowers, is so narrow compared with the height of
its perpendicular guardian walls, and this little secluded spot is so
imprisoned in the gigantic mountains, that man has a feeling of
helplessness in it. This powerlessness in the presence of elemental
forces was heightened by the deluge of water. There had been an immense
fall of snow the winter before, the Merced was a raging torrent,
overflowing its banks, and from every ledge poured a miniature cataract.
Noble simplicity is the key-note to the scenery of the Yosemite, and
this is enhanced by the park-like appearance of the floor of the valley.
The stems of the fine trees are in harmony with the perpendicular lines,
and their foliage adds the necessary contrast to the gray rock masses.
In order to preserve these forest-trees, the underbrush, which is
liable to make a conflagration in a dry season, should be removed
generally, and the view of the great features be left unimpeded. The
minor cañons and the trails are, of course, left as much as possible to
the riot of vegetation. The State Commission, which labors under the
disadvantages of getting its supplies from a Legislature that does not
appreciate the value of the Yosemite to California, has developed the
trails judiciously, and established a model trail service. The Yosemite,
it need not be said, is a great attraction to tourists from all parts of
the world; it is the interest of the State, therefore, to increase their
number by improving the facilities for reaching it, and by resolutely
preserving all the surrounding region from ravage.
This is as true of the Mariposa big tree region as of the valley.
Indeed, more care is needed for the trees than for the great chasm, for
man cannot permanently injure the distinctive features of the latter,
while the destruction of the sequoias will be an irreparable loss to the
State and to the world. The Sequoia gigantea differs in leaf, and size
and shape of cone, from the great Sequoia semper virens on the coast
near Santa Cruz; neither can be spared. The Mariposa trees, scattered
along on a mountain ridge 6500 feet above the sea, do not easily obtain
their victory, for they are a part of a magnificent forest of other
growths, among which the noble sugar-pine is conspicuous for its
