are with her. She is not haughty, simplyregal, removed 
from him and his life. There is such a quick, keen, utter 
sense of loss that he is blinded, and would stagger if he 
attempted a step. His own voice has a queer, far away 
sound to himself ; the leaping blood that pulsed so warmly 
a few moments ago lags cold and slow. Can it be that he, 
has made such a terrible mistake, one that no after grace 
may amend ? 
How it comes about he cannot recall, but in their viva- 
cious interest the girls have expressed a longing to see 
Warwick for themselves, and judge if it be quite so hor- 
rible. They have been to Staunton to the great rolling- 
mills and engine-works. 
" Warwick is nothing like that," he says rather stupidly, 
with a strained articulation. "But if you would like to 
see it, why not come. I might escort you now." 
Let him have the whole bitterness at once. It will be 
over with the sooner. Let him see Regina there in that 
mean, straggling, disorderly place where her proud feet 
will disdain the very ground, her fair body shrink in dis- 
gust, and her face rigid in its disapproval. 
" Yes," declares Cynthia. " Mother, you have an after- 
noon out, and we ought to celebrate the occasion. I am of 
an inquiring mind, eagerly seeking for my level. Most 
things are too high, you see," turning to Winterburne 
with a laugh. 
Mrs. Halford glances from the girls to Regina, and then 
back again. 
" If you would like to go," sdys the tall daughter indif- 
ferently. " I am due at Madame Varney's in just tea 
minutes." 
" If you are sure we shall not inconvenience you," turn- 
ing to Winterburne. " Are you quite at liberty ? " 
" Entirely at your service." His voice is a little husky. 
"And being here — though I would come for you any 
time," he ends confusedly. 
" Oh, we could go this afternoon ! " Mrs. Halford says 
simply. She really would like to see more of him and his 
way of life, for she has hoped they would be cordial friends, 
" When shall we return ? " 
" If I were a real householder now, if my Sister were 
here, I could bid you to supper. I hope you will come 
then. As for trains — one leaves at six. One goes now in 
about ten miimtes," glancing at his watch. 
"Then I will drive you down," remarks Regina, "and 
come for you at half-past six ? " 
She does not look at Winterburne, but at her mother. 
" Yes," he makes answer. 
There is the gentle sort of confusion attendant upon 
departure. Mr. Sayre clasps his hand with more thaii 
ordinary fervor. 
" I wish you good luck," he says ; " I wish you the best 
of luck. I can't help thinking but that you will have it. 
The best deed of Silas Bradley's whole life was his dying 
without a will." 
 
This is not simply for Wiuterburne, but quite as niiicli 
for these pi-etty girls in whom he takes a fatherly pride. 
Tliey are great favorites at his house, and llegina is quite 
a young queen among Beverly people, with her beauty and 
her grand air. 
He walks down with the girls. Mrs. Halford is wait- 
ing on the platform. Regina has -turned the pony, and 
sits in her cloud of twilight gray, nodding a gracious 
farewell; 
Winterburne seats himself beside Mrs. Halford, and listens 
to her cheerful gossip of home affairs, delightful to him be- 
cause Kegina said this or thought that. The brief journey 
is rather pretty, most of it in sight of the river. At his 
own station he manages to find a decentj tWo-seated wagoii, 
though it is only a short distance to the mills. They are 
just in time to see the iron cast in its first stage, the rough 
pigs. The stream of fiery liquid runs slowly about the 
ground in its moulds, fascinatjng the small audience. They 
have a glimpse of the great furnace, they listen to the pro- 
cesses, inspect the piles of ore, the brusher, and watch the 
workmen with the eagerly curious eyes of youth. 
Afterward he drives them over to his new home. Mrs. 
Prall, at his request, sends them in a plate of delicious bread 
and butter and some of her best company cake, brews a 
cup of tea for Mrs. Halford, while the girls have a glass of 
milk. It is quite like a picnic. They inspect the rooms 
that look really habitable. 
" I don't see how you could have' chosen and arranged 
everything so prettily, and without a woman's help," says 
Mrs. Halford. 
"When he might have had our united wisdom," an- 
nounces Cynthia upbraidingly. 
"I never thought of that," he answers regretfully. 
"You see, I am a slow, stupid fellow at the best." 
" You are not stupid," declares Perdita; rather resent- 
fully. His strength and gentleness, his evident love for 
his sister, have touched her. "And you may have a large 
proportion of sureness to the slowness which makes an 
excellent adjustment. You know the tortoise won the 
race." 
It is a tender, attractive face that smiles up into his. 
He is wondering if he really cares so much about winning 
the race he has set for himself. The alluring vision is 
smouldering in dull grayish tints, just as he has seen clouds 
settle after a glowing sunset. They are all so happy 
among themselves, he seems far off outside of it all. Yet 
a few hours ago he was so content with what fate had 
brought him. Can he take this lesser pleasure held out to 
him so cordially ? Can he see her and not love her, not 
suffer from the icy barrier she has reared between them ? 
Mrs. Halford suggests that it must be train-time. 
She is most cordial. There is a motherliness in. it that 
touches him, and the pretty manner in which they have 
included him and his sister in their summer pleasures 
would make it quite' impossible for him to stand out. He 
promises some things with that uncertain pulsation at his 
heart that puts a tremor in his voice. It has been a charm- 
ing bit, like something out of a play, but he is glad to be 
alone. He watches the workmen filing out of the yardj 
talking in little groups and going their ways. . He bids 
Dale a good-evening, and walks a short distance with 
Graniss. 
" Well," says the latter, " there can be no question. The 
process is a success. You are a lucky chap, Winterburne, 
