“It is the only kindness any one can do for me,” she said simply; and
then without waiting for any further answer she turned towards the door.
George walked by her side in silence. They left the house and took the
direction of the wooded point, never exchanging a word as they went.
From time to time George glanced at his companion’s face, wondering
inwardly what manner of woman she might be who was able to suffer as she
evidently had suffered, and yet could of her own accord face such an
explanation of events as she had asked him to give her. In less than ten
minutes they had reached the spot. Grace stood a few seconds without
speaking, her thin face fixed in its unchangeable look of pain, her arms
hanging down, her hands clasped loosely together.
“Now tell me. Tell me everything. Do not be afraid—I am very strong.”
George collected his thoughts. He wished to make the story as short as
possible, while omitting nothing that was of vital importance.
“I was rowing,” he said, “and I saw what happened. The boat was lying to
and drifting very slowly. Your husband put the helm up and she began to
turn. At that moment the squall came. He tried to let out the sail—that
would have taken off the pressure—but it seemed as though he could not.
The last I saw of him was just as the boat heeled over. He seemed to be
trying to get the sheet—the rope, you know—loose, so that it would run.
Then the boat went over and I thought he had merely fallen overboard
upon the other side. I asked you if he could swim. When you cried out, I
jumped over and swam as hard as I could. Not seeing him I dived under.
He seemed to be entangled in the ropes and the sail and was struggling
furiously. I tried to drag him back, but he could not get out and caught
me by the arm so that I could not move either. I did my best, but my
breath would not hold out, and I could not get my head from under. He
was not moving then, though he held me still. That is the last I
remember, his grip upon my arm. Then I took in the water and it was all
over.”
He ceased speaking and looked at Grace. She was, if possible, paler than
before, but she had not changed her position and she was gazing at the
water. Many seconds elapsed, until George began to fear that she had
fallen into a sort of trance. He waited a little longer and then spoke
to her.
“Mrs. Bond!” She made no reply. “Are you ill?” he asked. She turned her
head slowly towards him.
“No. I am not ill. Let us go back,” she said.
They returned to the house as silently as they had come. Her step did
not falter and her face did not change. When they reached the door, she
stood still and put out her hand, evidently wishing him to leave her.
“You were very brave,” she said. “And you have been very kind to-day. I
hope you will come and see me sometimes.”
George bowed his head silently and took leave of her. He had not the
heart to ask for Constance, and, indeed, he preferred to be alone for a
time. He had experienced a new and strange emotion, and his eyes had
been opened concerning the ways of human suffering. If he had not seen
and heard, he would never have believed that a woman capable of such
calmness was in reality heartbroken. But it was impossible to look at
Grace’s face and to hear the tones of her voice without understanding
instantly that the whole fabric of her life was wrecked. As she had told
her sister, she had nothing left but the memory, and she had been
determined that it should be complete, that no detail should be wanting
to the very end. It was a satisfaction to remember that his last
words—insignificant enough—had been addressed to her. She had wanted to
know what his last movement had been, his last struggle for life. She
knew it all now, and she was satisfied, for there was nothing more to be
known.
As he rowed himself slowly across the river, George could not help
remembering the Grace Fearing he remembered in old times and comparing
her with the woman he had just left. The words she had spoken in praise
of his courage were still in his ear with their ring of heartfelt
gratitude and with the look that had accompanied them. There was
something grand about her which he admired. She had never been afraid to
show that she disliked him when she had feared that he might marry her
sister. When Constance had at last determined upon her answer, it had
been Grace who had conveyed it, with a frankness which he had once
distrusted, but which he remembered and knew now to have been real. She
had never done anything of which she was ashamed and she had been able
now to thank him from her heart, looking fearlessly into his eyes. She
would have behaved otherwise if she had ever deceived him. She would
have said too much or too little, or she might have felt bound to
confess at such a moment that she had formerly done him a wrong. A
strange woman she was, he thought, but a strong one and very honest. She
had never hesitated in her life, and had never regretted anything she
had done—it was written in her face even now. He did not understand why
she wished to see him often, for he could have supposed that his mere
presence must call up the most painful memories. But he determined that
if she remained some time longer he would once or twice cross the river
and spend an hour with her. The remembrance of to-day’s interview would
make all subsequent meetings seem pleasant by comparison.
The circumstances of the afternoon had wearied him, and he was glad to
find himself again in the midst of more pleasant and familiar
associations. In answer to Totty’s inquiries as to how Grace looked and
behaved during his visit, he said very little. She looked very ill, she
behaved with great self-possession, and she had wished to know some
details about the accident. More than that George would not say, and his
imperturbable face did not betray that there was anything more to be
said. In the evening he found himself alone with Mamie on the verandah,
Totty having gone within as usual, on pretence of writing letters. The
weather was still pleasant, though it had grown much cooler, and Mamie
had thrown a soft white shawl over her shoulders, of which George could
see the outlines in the gloom.
“Tell me, what did she really do?” Mamie asked, after a long silence.
George hesitated a moment. He was willing to tell her many things which
he would not have told her mother, for he felt that she could understand
them and sympathise with them when Totty would only pretend to do so.
“Why do you want to know?” he asked, by way of giving himself more time
to think.
“Is it not natural? I would like to know how a woman acts when the man
she loves is dead.”
“Poor thing!” said George. “There is not much to tell, but I would not
have it known—do you understand? She made me walk with her to the place
where it happened and go over the whole story. She never said a word,
though she looked like death. She suffers terribly—so terribly that
there is something grand in it.”
“Poor Grace! I can understand. She wanted to know all there was to be
known. It is very natural.”
“Is it? It seemed strange to me. Even I did not like to go near the
place, and it was very hard to tell her all about it—how poor Bond
gripped my arm, and then the grip after he was dead.”
He shuddered and was silent for a moment.
“I said it all as quickly and clearly as I could,” he added presently.
“She thanked me for telling her, and for what I had done to save her
husband. She said she hoped I would come again sometimes, and then I
left.”
“You did not see Constance, I suppose?”
“No. She did not appear. I fancy her sister told her not to interrupt us
and so she kept out of the way. It was horribly sad—the whole thing. I
could not help thinking that if it had not been for you, the poor
