She ascended the steps in a state of nervous agitation, for she felt
that the interview was of momentous importance to her, and in a low
voice asked the servant who answered the bell if she could see Mr.
Ferguson.
"I will ask, miss," said the servant, surveying her plain dress with
some disdain.
"A young lady to see me?" said Robert Ferguson in surprise. "Are you
sure it is not my daughter she wishes to see?"
"No, sir; she expressly asked to see you."
Mr. Ferguson was a widower, and rather vain of his personal
attractions. Perhaps the young lady might have been struck by his
appearance.
"You can show her up," he said amiably, and turned to catch a further
glance in a mirror just opposite. He straightened his necktie, and
passed his hand softly over his hair to make sure that it was smooth,
and then turned to the door to catch the first glimpse of his visitor.
Nothing thus far has been said of the outward appearance of Ruth
Patton. Notwithstanding her anxious face she was unusually pretty, and
her manners were refined and ladylike.
"Mr. Ferguson?" she said inquiringly, pausing at the door.
"Come in, my dear young lady!" said Robert Ferguson graciously. "I am
pleased to see you."
"Thank you, sir."
"Pray sit down."
"He is much kinder than I supposed," thought Ruth. "I must have
misjudged him."
"I wrote to you a few days since," she began.
"Indeed! I don't think I can have received your letter."
"But you answered it, sir."
"I answered a letter from you? What then is your name?"
"Ruth Patton."
"Oh!" returned Ferguson, his face darkening. He no longer felt inclined
to be gracious, for he had a premonition that the interview would not
be agreeable to him.
"My mother and I were quite overwhelmed by the news you sent us. We had
no idea that my father left so little, and she wished me to come on and
ask for some particulars."
"I have very little to tell you beyond what I wrote," said Mr. Ferguson
coldly.
"My father led us to think that we should be comfortably provided for."
"Many men have very vague ideas of how they stand. Your father did
wrong in not insuring his life."
"He did not think it would be necessary. He thought we should be
sufficiently provided for without that."
"He had no right to think so," said Ferguson irritably. "You see how
things have turned out."
"But what can have become of all the money?"
"I hope, Miss Patton, you don't think I have spirited it away?"
"No, sir. Don't be offended, but it seems so strange," faltered Ruth.
"The money was unwisely invested. A large part of it was in wild-cat
mining stocks, which were not worth the paper they were written on."
"Father never spoke to us about any such investments."
"I presume not. Most men keep such matters to themselves. Well, the
upshot is that but seventy-five dollars are left. I presume your mother
received my check for this amount."
"Yes, sir."
"Then that is all I can do for you. I will in time forward a bill of
particulars. A present I am busy."
At this moment Luella Ferguson entered the room. She recognized Ruth at
once.
"You here?" she said in haughty surprise.
"Yes, I came on business."
"We do not want any servants. Papa, this girl was very insolent to me
on the train yesterday. I hope you will send her away."
"I am going, Miss Ferguson," said Ruth with spirit. "Your father was
the trustee of my poor father's property, and it was to ask about it
that I came here. Good evening."
She left the house with faltering steps, for her last hope had been
destroyed, and she felt keenly the cruel slight of Luella Ferguson. As
she set foot on the sidewalk her brain reeled, and she would have
fallen had not a young man who was about to ascend the steps sprung
forward and supported her.
CHAPTER XX.
A FRIEND IN NEED.
Ruth Patton recovered herself by a great effort. "I won't trouble you
any longer, sir," she faltered. "I think I can do without further
assistance."
"Excuse me for doubting it. You look very weak. Take my arm. There is a
drug store not far away where I can procure you a strengthening
draught."
"I am sorry to trouble you so much," she murmured apologetically.
"It is no trouble, I assure you. I count myself fortunate in being on
hand so opportunely."
Ruth for the first time, encouraged by his kind words, stole a glance
at the stranger. He was a well made and unusually handsome young man of
perhaps twenty-seven. His careful dress and something in his manner
seemed to indicate high social position. The indication corresponded
with the fact. Alfred Lindsay belonged to an old and distinguished New
York family. Though his means were ample he was not content to be an
idler, but after careful preparation at Columbia College and Law
School, he had opened a law office in the Mills Building, and was
already beginning to be known as a young man with a future.
His wealth and high social standing led him to be considered a "catch,"
in the matrimonial market. It is safe to say that at least half a dozen
young ladies had set their caps for him. Among these was Luella
Ferguson, and there were those who considered her chance of landing the
prize the best. At any rate Mr. Lindsay, who had been employed by the
elder Ferguson in some legal matter, became a frequent caller, to the
great satisfaction of Luella Ferguson. It may not be considered a mark
of taste on the part of the young man to have fallen a victim to the
young lady's arts, but in his presence she was all that was amiable.
She was not without a certain attractiveness of face, which, had it
been joined to an equally agreeable disposition, might have proved a
good excuse to any young man for succumbing to her fascinations. Never
for a moment had he cause to suspect that she was otherwise than she
seemed. Kind and sympathetic himself, the absence of these qualities,
if known to him, would have rendered her repulsive to him.
He conducted Ruth to a drug store, and the druggist administered
restoratives that soon brought back her strength and color, but not her
cheerfulness.
"I am strong enough now to go on my way," she said rising. "How can I
thank you, sir, for your kindness?"
"By allowing me to see you to your own door," and this he insisted on
despite Ruth's protest.
"Would it be indiscreet," he asked, when they had set out on their way,
"to ask if you can account for your sudden illness?"
"I had a shock," she answered.
"Of what sort? Are you willing to make me your confidant? I do not ask
out of curiosity, but because it may be in my power to serve you."
"I have so few friends that I will not decline your kind offer."
