fact of a love which, if it could not endure heroically, was still a
deep and strong affection, doubtless the deepest and strongest thing in
the man's weak and shallow nature. It might be his truest inspiration,
and if it prompted him to venture everything, and to abide by whatever
might befall him, for the sake of being near those he loved, and
enjoying the convict's wretched privilege of looking on them now and
then, who should gainsay him?
Matt took Wade in on his way to Putney's office, to lay this question
before him, and he answered it for him in the same breath: "Certainly no
one less deeply concerned than the man's own flesh and blood could
forbid him."
"I'm not sure," said Wade, "that even his own flesh and blood would have
a supreme right there. It may be that love, and not duty, is the highest
thing in life. Oh, I know how we reason it away, and say that true
love is unselfish and can find its fruition in the very sacrifice of our
impulses; and we are fond of calling our impulses blind, but God alone
knows whether they are blind. The reasoned sacrifice may satisfy the
higher soul, but what about the simple and primitive natures which it
won't satisfy?"
For answer, Matt told how Northwick had come back, at the risk of
arrest, for an hour with his children, and was found in the empty house
that had been their home, and brought to them: how he had besought them
to let him stay, but they had driven him back to his exile. Matt
explained how he was on his way to the lawyer, at Adeline's frantic
demand, to go all over the case again, and see if something could not be
done to bring Northwick safely home. He had himself no hope of finding
any loophole in the law, through which the fugitive could come and go;
if he returned, Matt felt sure that he would be arrested and convicted,
but he was not sure that this might not be the best thing for all. "You
know," he said, "I've always believed that if he could voluntarily
submit himself to the penalty of his offence, the penalty would be the
greatest blessing for him on earth; the only blessing for his ruined
life."
"Yes," Wade answered, "we have always thought alike about that, and
perhaps this torment of longing for his home and children, may be the
divine means of leading him to accept the only mercy possible with God
for such a sufferer. If there were no one but him concerned, we could
not hesitate in urging him to return. But the innocent who must endure
the shame of his penalty with him--"
"They are ready for that. Would it be worse than what they have learned
to endure?"
"Perhaps not. But I was not thinking of his children alone. You,
yourself, Matt; your family--"
Matt threw up his arms impatiently, and made for the door. "There's no
question of me. And if they could not endure their portion,--the
mere annoyance of knowing the slight for them in the minds of vulgar
people,--I should be ashamed of them."
"Well, you are right, Matt," said his friend. "God bless you and guide
you!" added the priest.
The lawyer had not yet come to his office, and Matt went to find him at
his house. Putney had just finished his breakfast, and they met at his
gate, and he turned back indoors with Matt. "Well, you know what's
happened, I see," he said, after the first glance at Matt's face.
"Yes, I know; and now what can be done? Are you sure we've considered
every point? Isn't there some chance--"
Putney shook his head, and then bit off a piece of tobacco before he
began to talk. "I've been over the whole case in my mind this morning,
and I'm perfectly certain there isn't the shadow of a chance of his
escaping trial if he gives himself up. That's what you mean, I suppose?"
"Yes; that's what I mean," said Matt, with a certain disappointment. He
supposed he had nerved himself for the worst, but he found he had been
willing to accept something short of it.
"At times I'm almost sorry he got off," said Putney. "If we could have
kept him, and surrendered him to the law, I believe we could have staved
off the trial, though we couldn't have prevented it, and I believe we
could have kept him out of State's prison on the ground of insanity."
Matt started impatiently. "Oh, I don't mean that it could be shown that
he was of unsound mind when he used the company's funds and tampered
with their books, though I have my own opinion about that. But I feel
sure that he's of unsound mind at present: and I believe we could show
it so clearly in court that the prosecution would find it impossible to
convict. We could have him sent to the insane asylum, and that would be
a creditable exit from the affair in the public eye; it would have a
retroactive effect that would popularly acquit him of the charges
against him."
Putney could not forego a mischievous enjoyment of Matt's obvious
discomfort at this suggestion. His fierce eyes blazed; but he added
seriously, "Why shouldn't he have the advantage of the truth, if that is
the truth about him? And I believe it is. I think it could be honestly
and satisfactorily proved from his history, ever since the defalcation
came out, that his reason is affected. His whole conduct, so far as I
know it, shows it; and I should like a chance to argue the case in
court. And I feel pretty sure I shall, yet. I'm just as certain as I sit
here that he will come back again. He can't keep away, and another time
he may not fall into the hands of friends. It will be a good while
before any rumor of last night's visit gets out; but it will get out at
last, and then the detectives will be on the watch for him. Perhaps it
will be just as well for us if he falls into their hands. If we produced
him in court it might be more difficult to work the plea of insanity.
But I do think the man's insane, and I should go into the case with a
full and thorough persuasion on that point. Did he tell them where to
find him in Canada?"
"He promised to let them know."
"I doubt if he does," said Putney. "He means to try coming back again.
The secrecy he's kept as to his whereabouts--the perfectly needless and
motiveless secrecy, as far as his children are concerned--would be a
strong point in favor of the theory of insanity. Yes, sir; I believe the
thing could be done; and I should like to do it. If the pressure of our
life produces insanity of the homicidal and suicidal type, there's no
reason why it shouldn't produce insanity of the defalcational type. The
conditions tend to produce it in a proportion that is simply
incalculable, and I think it's time that jurisprudence recognized the
fact of such a mental disease, say, as defalcomania. If the fight for
money and material success goes on, with the opportunities that the
accumulation of vast sums in a few hands afford, what is to be the end?"
Matt had no heart for the question of metaphysics or of economics,
whichever it was, that would have attracted him in another mood. He went
back to Suzette and addressed himself with her to the task of quieting
her sister. Adeline would be satisfied with nothing less than the
assurance that Putney agreed with her that her father would be acquitted
if he merely came back and gave himself up; she had changed to this
notion in Matt's absence, and with the mental reservation which he
permitted himself he was able to give the assurance she asked. Then at
last she consented to go to bed, and wait for the doctor's coming,
before she began her preparations for joining her father in Canada. She
did not relinquish that purpose; she felt sure that he never could get
home without her; and Suzette must come, too.
IX.
The fourth morning, when Pinney went down into the hotel office at
Quebec, after a trying night with his sick child and its anxious mother,
