Again three days passed. Then, one morning, the post brought a large and
rather bulky letter, registered and addressed in a round, ornate,
clerk's hand. Adele had got the address written at the post-office on
pretence that her own handwriting was not legible enough. Laura supposed
that the missive contained a business communication from her banker, and
opened it without the least suspicion. It contained three greyish-blue
envelopes of the paper now very commonly used for daily correspondence.
All three were opened in a peculiar way, and precisely as Laura had more
than once seen Ghisleri open a letter in her presence. He had a habit of
tearing off a very thin strip along one edge, with so much neatness as
almost to give the paper the appearance of having been cut with a sharp
instrument. All three were addressed to him, moreover, in Adele
Savelli's handwriting, without any attempt at disguise. Laura held them
in her hand, turned them over, and saw the tiny prince's coronet over a
single initial which Adele had used for years. There was no mistaking
the authenticity of everything about the envelopes. Laura's heart stood
still. There was no word of explanation from her former correspondent,
but Laura recollected that the latter had said that the letters were
five in number, whereas these were only three. It was clear that the
remaining two had been kept back as a tacit threat in case the request
for money were not complied with. Laura's first impulse was to treat
them as she had treated the copy Maria B. had at first sent her, and to
tear them into minute shreds, without so much as glancing at the
contents. But a moment's reflection made her change her mind. She
slipped them all back into the large envelope and locked them up in the
drawer of her writing-table, putting the key into her pocket. Then she
wrote a note to Ghisleri, asking him to come and see her as soon as
possible, and despatched Donald with it immediately.
She sat down to wait, strangely affected by what had happened. It is
hardly to be wondered at, if the whole thing seemed inexplicable. Even
at first she could not suspect Pietro Ghisleri. She would hardly have
believed him capable of such an action as he was accused of had she seen
him write the letters to which these of Adele were supposed to be
answers. And yet those answers were there in the drawer, within reach of
her hand. She had not the slightest doubt but that the original of which
she had already seen a copy was amongst them. She could take it out and
read it if she pleased. It was damning evidence--but she would not have
believed in Ghisleri's guilt for twice as much proof as that. The one
thing she was forced to admit was that Adele had really written the
letters, though when, or for what purpose, or in what connexion, she
could not guess. The whole thing might turn out to be some Carnival jest
carried on by correspondence, and of which she had never heard. That was
the only explanation she could find, as she waited for Pietro Ghisleri.
He came within the hour.
"Has anything happened?" he asked, as he took her hand. "I thought there
was something anxious about your note."
"Something very strange has happened," she answered, looking into his
bright blue eyes, and acknowledging for the hundredth time that she
would believe him in spite of any testimony to the contrary. "Sit down,"
she said. "I have something to give you which seems to belong to you. I
will tell you the story afterwards."
She opened the drawer again and handed him the envelope. He looked at it
in surprise.
"Am I to read what is inside?" he asked.
"See for yourself."
He took out the letters and looked at them as he had first looked at the
outer address. Then, realising that they were addressed to himself, his
expression changed. He recollected Adele's handwriting though she had
rarely written to him anything more than an invitation, and he knew the
paper on which she wrote. But where or when he had received these
particular ones, or how they had got into Laura's hands, was a mystery.
"What are they?" he asked. "Are they old invitations? Why have they been
sent to you?"
"I believe them to be forgeries," said Laura, "or else that they refer
to some standing jest you and she once may have kept up for a time. I
have not read them, but I have read a copy of one of them which was sent
me, and I know what they are about. I will tell you the whole story
afterwards. See for yourself, as I said before."
Ghisleri drew out the first sheet.
"If they are forgeries, they are very cleverly done," he said, with a
laugh. "The person has even imitated my way of opening a letter."
His face grew very grave, as Laura watched it while he was reading, and
his brow knit together angrily. He read the second and the third, and
she could see his anger rising visibly in his eyes as he silently looked
at her each time he had finished one of them. When he had reached the
end of the last he did not speak for some moments.
"Did you say that you knew what these letters were about?" he asked at
length, in a steady, cold voice.
"I think so. I read a copy of one of them almost without knowing what I
was doing. Adele pretends that you are trying to get money from her for
a letter of hers you found at Gerano."
"Yes, that is what they are about. It is her doing, but it is my fault."
"Your fault!" exclaimed Laura. "But surely there never even was such a
letter as she refers to. Do you understand at all?"
"Yes, I understand much too well. She has done this for a distinct
purpose. Tell me in the first place one thing. Do you still trust me in
the face of such evidence as this?"
"I trust you as much as ever," answered Laura.
"Thank you," he said simply, and he looked into her deep eyes a moment
before he continued. "There are two stories to tell, yours and mine.
Tell yours first. Tell me how you came by the copy you speak of. Who
sent it to you, and when?"
As briefly as she could, Laura gave him all the details she could
remember from the day she had received the first request for help from
Maria B. It was painful to her to repeat what she could of the substance
of the copy sent her, but she went through with it to the end.
"That letter is not among these," said Ghisleri, thoughtfully. "It is
one of the two which have been kept back for future use. Now let me tell
you what I can remember. Do not be surprised that I should never have
told you the story before. Since you can trust me in such a matter as
this, you will believe me when I say that there was a good reason for
not telling you."
He gave a concise account of the conversation which had taken place
between himself and Adele at the Montevarchi's party, omitting only what
referred to his own suspicions concerning the manner of Arden's death.
If possible, he meant always to conceal that side of the question from
Laura. But it was necessary to tell her something about the document
constantly mentioned in the letters.
"There is a story in circulation," he said, "to the effect that when
Donna Adele was ill at Gerano nearly two years ago, she was unwilling to
confess to the parish priest, and wrote a confession to be sent to her
confessor in Rome. A servant stole it, says the story, and it is
supposed to be in existence, passing from hand to hand in society. It is
quite possible that she believes that I bought it of the thief. But I
doubt even that. She has most probably regained possession of it before
attempting this stroke. And this is almost what I suggested to her in a
general way, and laughing, as one way of ruining a man. I remember my
own words--an injury that would make a woman who loves a man turn upon
him. Substitute friendship for love, and the case is almost identical."
"Yes," Laura answered thoughtfully. "Substitute friendship for love."
