I can."
Althea waited half an hour, and then was provided with a ragged
sun-bonnet, with which, concealing her sad face, she emerged from the
house, and walked to a small market, where Mrs. Donovan obtained her
supplies for dinner.
Troubled as she was, Althea looked about her with a child's curiosity on
her way through the strange streets. It served to divert her from her
sorrow.
"Who's that little girl, Mrs. Donovan?" asked an acquaintance.
"Shure it's my little Katy," said the woman, with a significant wink
which prevented further questioning.
Althea wished to deny this, but she did not dare to. She had become
afraid of her new guardians. Oh, if she could only see Dan! She felt
sure that he would take her away from these wicked people, but how was
Dan to know where she was. The poor child's lips quivered, and she could
hardly refrain from crying.
CHAPTER XXXIV.
ANOTHER LITTLE GAME.
It was so late when Dan heard of Althea's disappearance that he felt it
necessary to wait till morning before taking any steps toward her
recovery.
"I'll find her, mother," he said, confidently. "Do not lie awake
thinking of her, for it won't do any good."
"How can I help it, Dan? I didn't know how much I loved the dear child
till I lost her."
"You have not lost her, mother."
"I am not so hopeful as you, Dan. I fear that I shall never see her
again."
"I am sure we shall. Now, mother, I am going to bed, but I shall be up
bright and early in the morning, and then to work."
"You won't have any time, Dan. You must go to the store."
"I shall take a week's vacation. I will write a note to Mr. Rogers,
telling him my reasons, and he will be sure not to object. If Althea is
to be found, I will find her within a week."
Dan's confidence gave Mrs. Mordaunt some courage, but she could not
feel as sanguine of success as Dan.
In the morning Dan sought out Nancy, and took down her account of how
the little girl had been spirited away.
"So she went away in a carriage, Nancy?"
"Yes, Master Dan."
"Can you tell me what sort of a looking man it was that took her away?"
"Shure I couldn't. I was struck dumb, you see, wid hearing how your
mother broke her leg, and I didn't think to look at him sharp."
"You can tell if he was an old man or a young one."
"He was naythur. He was betwixt and betwane."
"Very tall or very short?"
"Naythur. He was jist middlin'."
"Well, that's something. Now, what kind of a carriage was it?"
"Jist a hack like them at the square."
"You wouldn't remember the driver?"
"No; shure they all look alike to me."
Dan made more inquiries, but elicited nothing further that was likely to
be of service to him.
After a little reflection he decided to go to Union Square and
interview some of the drivers waiting for passengers there.
He did so, but the driver who had actually been employed by Hartley was
absent, and he learned nothing. One driver, however, remembered carrying
a gentleman and child to a house on Twenty-seventh street, between
Eighth and Ninth avenues.
Dan thought the clew of sufficient importance to be followed up. His
courage rose when, on inquiring at the house mentioned, he learned that
a child had actually been brought there.
"May I see the child, madam?" he asked.
"If you like," answered the lady, in surprise.
She appeared in a short time with a boy of about Althea's age.
Dan's countenance fell.
"It is a little girl I am inquiring after," he said.
"Then why didn't you say so?" demanded the woman, sharply. "You would
have saved me some trouble."
"I beg your pardon, madam."
"I begin to think I am not as good a detective as I thought," said Dan
to himself. "I am on a false scent, that is sure."
So Dan returned to Union Square.
When he had been asking questions of the cab-drivers he had not been
unobserved. John Hartley, who knew Dan by sight, laughed in his sleeve
as he noted our hero's inquiries.
"You may be a smart boy, my lad," he said to himself, "but I don't think
you'll find the child. I have a great mind to give you a hint."
He approached Dan, and observed, in a friendly way:
"Are you in search of your little sister?"
"Yes, sir," returned Dan, eagerly. "Can you tell me anything about her?"
"I am not sure, but possibly I may. I occupy a room directly opposite
the house in which you board."
"Did you see Althea carried away?" asked Dan, eagerly.
"Yes; I was sitting at my window when I saw a hack stop at your door.
The door-bell was rung by a man who descended from the hack, and shortly
afterward your sister came out, and was put into the carriage."
"What was the man's appearance, sir? The servant could not tell me."
"So much the better," thought Hartley, with satisfaction.
"He was a little taller than myself, I should say," he answered, "and I
believe his hair was brown"--Hartley's was black. "I am sorry I can't
remember more particularly."
"That is something. Thank you, sir. I wish I knew where the cab went."
"I think I can tell you that. I came down into the street before the cab
drove away, and I heard the gentleman referred to say, in a low voice,
'Drive to Harlem.'"
"Thank you, sir," said Dan, gratefully. "That puts me on the right
track. I shall know where to search now."
"I wish I could tell you more," said Hartley, with a queer smile.
"Thank you, sir."
"If you find your little sister, I should be glad if you would let me
know," continued Hartley, chuckling inwardly.
"I will, sir, if you will let me know your name and address."
"My name is John Franklin, and I live in the house directly opposite
yours, No. --."
"All right, sir; I will note it down."
John Hartley looked after Dan with a smile.
"My dear young friend," he said to himself, "it goes to my heart to
deceive you, you are so innocent and confiding. I wish you much joy of
your search in Harlem. I think it will be some time before I receive
intelligence of your success. Still I will keep my room here, and look
after you a little. I am really afraid your business will suffer while
you are wandering about."
John Hartley had already written to London, and he was prepared to wait
three weeks or more for an answer to his proposition. Meanwhile he had
one source of uneasiness. His funds were getting low, and unless Harriet
Vernon responded favorably to his proposal, he was liable to be
seriously embarrassed. He had on previous similar occasions had recourse
to the gaming-table, but Fortune did not always decide in his favor. He
did not dare to hazard the small sum he had on hand, lest want of
