have crowned her life.^ Sabrina straightened her- 
self and glanced in the tall mirror. She thought 
of the creed of honor and high-mindedness that 
she had set for herself long before this. Now, 
when she had reached a larger awakening, should 
she let a jealous regard rob her of the grace she 
had been striving to win ? Had she not longed to 
give of her very best? Was not that herself? 
Should she keep back part of the price ? The love 
that "seeketh not her own." Ah! that was it. 
With that high endeavor went all the rest. 
That evening she listened with a tender gra- 
ciousness to Mrs. Vantine's plans and her regrets 
for the wasted summer, the vague gossip, the 
anxiety that dressmakers were, the plans for a 
winter campaign, — subjects she should hear dis- 
cussed daily, no doubt. She could be thankful 
she had had such a long respite from them. In 
many ways she could order her life anew, but it 
would not be wise to make any violent break. 
Mr. Vantine had enjoyed his dinner and his 
cigars, and now he half dozed, wondering how it 
was that women could fill up their minds with 
such trifles ! 
Miss Eastwood, with her cool freshness, was 
quite an acquisition. There was Sir Archibald 
Poynter, who had been deeply fascinated with the 
fair American in the early years of his widower- 
hood, and who had supposed her eager for a title- 
his daughter, a nervous invalid ; his niece, the tra. 
ditionally robust English girl. Marianne Poynter 
had grown really fond of Miss Eastwood when 
she found she had no designs on her father, and 
now she welcomed her with unmistakable delight. 
Marianne had her poor and her schools at home, 
and her plans for the advancement of the world in 
general. Sabrina listened to them with a graceful 
attention that delighted the elder woman. But 
how different from Pearl Disbrowe, with her ac- 
tive, ardent love for humanity ! 
She watched her host and hostess with a new 
interest, thinking of the pathetic story she had 
left behind in Greenfields. No doubt the two 
much-buffeted pilgrims could claim kinship. How 
cruel that they had been compelled to drop out of 
their own gentle circle! A little of the luxury 
here would have been so much to them, saved so 
many pangs in their lives. Was not Pearl Dis- 
browe's kindly work greater than the ostentatious 
charities so often discussed.^ 
All this time she kept revolving her project in 
her mind. Pearl should have Chester House 
now, in the beginning of her life. If she, Sabrina, 
had gone on accumulating all these years, 
without any real income from that property, then 
surely she did not need it. Why should she seek 
to add to her already sufficient fortune.^ She 
wondered a little how she could best accomplish 
her purpose. There was no one to consult. The 
Vantines would consider her foolish above all 
women. Yet here was Marianne Poynter with a 
little orphanage of her own, established in a house 
bequeathed by an aunt, interested in the welfare 
of half a dozen little girls, and using her utmost 
endeavor to place it on a sure and permanent 
foundation, — girls who were to be trained to 
household service, no matter what their desires or 
their capacities might be. And there was Rhea 
Vasilis, rescued from, her hard, poverty-pinched 
life, and set in a high place, surrounded by love, 
some day, perhaps, to gladden the hearts of many. 
There were drives and dinners, receptions and 
dances, plans for winter, invitations given and ac- 
cepted. Between this and the Tuxedo engage- 
ment there intervened a week. Sabrina announced 
her intention of spending a few days at Chester 
House. Mr. Vantine had found his customers 
loath to increase their first offer, and he was 
holding off warily. Sabrina insisted that he 
should make no bargain until her return. 
" I think you ought to go at once to the city, 
and see about your fall wardrobe. It seems to 
me, Sabrina, that you really do not care how you 
look," declared Mrs. Vantine. "You might as 
well turn Quaker at once." 
Sabrina smiled. "They are spared a good deal 
of worry and anxiety. No wonder they keep look- 
ing young and pretty." 
" Well, but they are really going out of fashion, 
you see," returned Mrs. Vantine. "I have read 
in some of the statistics that they decrease in 
numbers every year. And there's the sisterhood 
idea that young unmarried women affect. It may 
be well enough when one feels that one's chances 
for marriage have passed; but I do hope, Sabrina, 
you won't take up any of these fads." 
Sabrina smiled again. Did everything revolve 
about marriage ? She was beginning to look at life 
with different eyes, — earnest eyes that, touched 
with the sacred fire of truth, could see how much 
nobler daily living might be made, without con- 
ventual seclusion. She wanted to be in the 
world, to take part in its advancement. She had 
the means ; she had, too, certain gifts, not those 
she desired most, perhaps, but at least one tal- 
ent which she must use. She could endeavor to 
make some virtues attractive to those with whom 
her daily life was cast. If she did not quite know 
the language of the byways, she could see that in 
the highways were standing many honest, fervent 
souls, whom "no man had hired," who were wait- 
ing for some one to show them the way, to point 
out the path that led to the "King's Country." 
She meant to so beautify some of these truths 
that others seeing would say, "We will go with 
thee." She had given up herself, and cast out 
the sweet hope of reward. 
The September afternoon had a slight autumnal 
chill in it as she was driven over the familiar way. 
There had been quite a frost during the night, 
