                                                        [Theresa dies.
Rod. 'Tis done, and I am rid of her forever; but 'tis an ugly deed. Poor
fool, there was a time when I could pity thee, but thou hast stood
'twixt me and Lady Leonore, and now I am free. I must conceal the form,
and none shall ever know the crime.
                                                       [Exit Rodolpho.
                [The panel opens and Norna enters.]
Norna. Heaven shield us! What is this? His cruel hand hath done the
deed, and I am powerless to save. Poor, murdered lady, I had hoped to
spare thee this, and lead thee to a happier home. Perchance, 'tis better
so. The dead find rest, and thy sad heart can ache no more. Rest to thy
soul, sweet lady. But for thee, thou cruel villain, I have in store a
deep revenge for all thy sinful deeds. If there be power in spell or
charm, I'll conjure fearful dreams upon thy head. I'll follow thee
wherever thou mayst go, and haunt thy sleep with evil visions. I'll
whisper strange words that shall appall thee; dark phantoms shall rise
up before thee, and wild voices ringing in thine ear shall tell thee of
thy sins. By all these will I make life like a hideous dream, and death
more fearful still. Like a vengeful ghost I will haunt thee to thy
grave, and so revenge thy wrongs, poor, murdered lady. Beware, Rodolpho!
Old Norna's curse is on thee.
    [She bears away Theresa's body through the secret door, and
        vanishes.
                                CURTAIN.
                         NOTE TO SCENE SECOND.
The mysterious cave was formed of old furniture, covered with dark
draperies, an opening being left at the back wherein the spirits called
up by Norna might appear. A kitchen kettle filled with steaming water
made an effective caldron over which the sorceress should murmur her
incantations; flaming pine-knots cast a lurid glare over the scene; and
large boughs, artfully arranged about the stage, gave it the appearance
of a "gloomy wood."
When Louis "retires within," he at once arrays himself in the white
robes of the vision, and awaits the witch's call to rise behind the
aperture in true dramatic style. He vanishes, quickly resumes his own
attire, while Norna continues to weave her spells, till she sees he is
ready to appear once more as the disguised Count Louis.
                             SCENE SECOND.
    [A wood. Norna's cave among the rocks. Enter Louis
            masked.]
Louis. Yes; 'tis the spot. How dark and still! She is not here. Ho,
Norna, mighty sorceress! I seek thy aid.
Norna [rising from the cave]. I am here.
Louis. I seek thee, Norna, to learn tidings of one most dear to me. Dost
thou know aught of Count Rodolpho's wife? A strange tale hath reached me
that not many nights ago she disappeared, and none know whither she hath
gone. Oh, tell me, is this true?
Norna. It is most true.
Louis. And canst thou tell me whither she hath gone? I will reward thee
well.
Norna. I can. She lies within her tomb, in the chapel of the castle.
Louis. Dead!--it cannot be! They told me she had fled away with some
young lord who had won her love. Was it not true?
Norna. It is false as the villain's heart who framed the tale. I bore
the murdered lady to her tomb, and laid her there.
Louis. Murdered? How? When? By whom? Oh, tell me I beseech thee!
Norna. Her husband's cruel hand took the life he had made a burden. I
heard him swear it ere he dealt the blow.
Louis. Wherefore did he kill her? Oh, answer quickly or I shall go mad
with grief and hate.
Norna. I can tell thee little. From my hiding-place I heard her vow
never to confess whose dagger had been found in her apartment, and her
jealous lord, in his wild anger, murdered her.
Louis. 'Twas mine. Would it had been sheathed in mine own breast ere it
had caused so dark a deed! Ah, Theresa, why did I leave thee to a fate
like this?
Norna. Young man, grieve not; it is too late to save, but there is left
to thee a better thing than grief.
Louis. Oh, what?
Norna. Revenge!
Louis. Thou art right. I'll weep no more. Give me thine aid, O mighty
wizard, and I will serve thee well.
Norna. Who art thou? The poor lady's lover?
Louis. Ah, no; far nearer and far deeper was the love I bore her, for I
am her brother.
Norna. Ha, that's well! Thou wilt join me, for I have made a vow to rest
not till that proud, sinful lord hath well atoned for this deep crime.
Spirits shall haunt him, and the darkest phantoms that my art can raise
shall scare his soul. Wilt thou join me in my work?
Louis. I will,--but stay! thou hast spoken of spirits. Dread sorceress,
is it in thy power to call them up?
Norna. It is. Wilt see my skill. Stand back while I call up a phantom
which thou canst not doubt.
    [Louis retires within the cave. Norna weaves a spell above
        her caldron.
    Norna. O spirit, from thy quiet tomb,
    I bid thee hither through the gloom,
    In winding-sheet, with bloody brow,
    Rise up and hear our solemn vow.
    I bid thee, with my magic power,
    Tell the dark secret of that hour
    When cruel hands, with blood and strife,
    Closed the sad dream of thy young life.
    Hither--appear before our eyes.
    Pale spirit, I command thee rise.
                                           [Spirit of Theresa rises.
    Shadowy spirit, I charge thee well,
    By my mystic art's most potent spell,
    To haunt throughout his sinful life,
    The mortal who once called thee wife.
    At midnight hour glide round his bed,
    And lay thy pale hand on his head.
    Whisper wild words in his sleeping ear,
    And chill his heart with a deadly fear.
    Rise at his side in his gayest hour,
    And his guilty soul shall feel thy power.
    Stand thou before him in day and night,
    And cast o'er his life a darksome blight;
    For with all his power and sin and pride,
    He shall ne'er forget his murdered bride.
    Pale, shadowy form, wilt thou obey?
                                            [The spirit bows its head.
    To thy ghostly work away--away!
                                                 [The spirit vanishes.
    The spell is o'er, the vow is won,
    And, sinful heart, thy curse begun.
                                                      [Re-enter Louis.
Louis. 'Tis enough! I own thy power, and by the spirit of my murdered
sister I have looked upon, I swear to aid thee in thy dark work.
Norna. 'Tis well; and I will use my power to guard thee from the danger
