" Blasphemer ! " she exclaimed. ' ' Mother 
of God, wilt thou ever forgive me ? " 
'*Why not call me a Jesuit.? It was a case 
where mind or matter must triumph. And you 
can confess your enforced sin, say a hundred 
aves or so, and be whiter than snow again ; 
whereas, had our Mission of Carmelo been razed 
to the ground, as it was in a fair way to be, 
California would have lost an historical monu- 
ment." 
"And Junipero Serra's bones are there, and 
it was his favorite Mission," said the girl, 
unwillingly. 
" Exactly. And now that you are reasonably 
sure of being forgiven, will not you forgive 
me ? I shall ask no priest's forgiveness. " 
She looked at him a moment, then shook her 
head. "No : I cannot forgive you for having 
made me commit what may be a mortal sin. 
But, Holy Heaven ! — I cannot help saying it — 
you are very quick ! " 
"For each idea is a moment born. Upon 
whether we wed the two or think too late de- 
pends the success or the failure of our lives." 
" Suppose, " she said, suddenly, — ''suppose 
you had failed, and those men had seized me 
and made me captive : what then ? " 
" I should have killed you. Not one of them 
should have touched you. But I had no 
doubts, or I should not have made the attempt. 
I know the superstitious nature of sailors, 
especially when they are drunk. Shall we 
gallop back? They will have eaten all the 
dulces. " 
VIII. 
Monterey danced every night and all night of 
that week, either at Alvarado's or at the Custom- 
house, and every afternoon met at the races, the 
bull-fight, a merienda, or to climb the greased 
pole, catch the greased pig by its tail as it ran, or 
exhibit skill in horsemanship. Chonita, at times 
an imperious coquette, at others, indifferent, per- 
verse, or coy, was La Favorita without appeal, and 
the girls alternately worshipped her — she was ab- 
stractedly kind to them— or heartily wished her 
back in Santa Barbara. Estenega rarely attended 
the socialities, being closeted with Alvarado and 
Castro most of the time, and when he did she 
avoided him if she could. The pirates had fled 
and were seen no more ; but their abrupt retreat, 
as described by Chonita, continued to be an excit- 
ing topic of discussion. There were few of us who 
did not openly or secretly approve of Estenega's 
Jesuitism and admire the nimbleness of his mind. 
The clergy did not express itself. 
On the last night of the festivities, when the 
women, weary with the unusually late hours 
of the past week, had left the ball-room early 
and sought their beds, and the men, being at 
loss for other amusement, had gone in a body 
to a saloon, there to drink and gamble and set 
fire to each other's curls and trouser-seats, the 
Departmental Junta met in secret session. 
The night was warm, the plaza deserted ; all 
who were not in the saloon at the other end of 
the town were asleep ; and after the preliminary- 
words in Alvarado's office the Junta picked up 
their chairs and went forth to hold conclave 
where bulls and bears had fought and the large 
indulgent moon gave clearer light than 
adamantine candles. They drew close together, and, 
after rolling the cigarito, solemnly regarded 
the sky for a few moments without speaking. 
Their purpose was a grave one. They met to 
try Pio Pico for contempt of government and 
annoying insistence in behalf of his pet project 
to remove the capital from Monterey to Los 
Angeles ; Jose Antonio Carillo and Reinaldo 
Iturbi y Moncada for conspiracy ; and General 
Vallejo for evil disposition and unwarrantable 
comments upon the policy of the administra- 
tion. None of the offenders was present. 
With the exception of Alvarado, Castro, and 
Estenega, the members of the Junta were men 
of middle age, and represented the talent of 
California, — ^Jimeno, Gonzales, Argugllo, Re- 
quena, Del Valle. Their dark, bearded faces, 
upturned to the stars, made a -striking set of 
 
profiles, but the effect was marred by the silk 
handkerchiefs they had tied about their heads. 
Alvarado spoke, finally, and, after presenting 
the charges in due form, continued : 
"The individual enemy to the government 
is like the fly to the lion ; it cannot harm, but 
it can annoy. We must brush away the fly as 
a vindication of our dignity, and take precaution 
that he does not return, even if we have to 
bend our heads to tie his little legs. I do not 
purpose to be annoyed by these blistering mid- 
gets we are met to consider, nor to have my 
term of administration spotted with their gall. 
I leave it to you, my compatriots and friends, 
to advise me what is best to do. " 
Jimeno put his feet on the side rung of Cas- 
tro's chair, puffed a large gray cloud, and half 
closed his eyes. He then, for three-quarters of 
an hour, in a low, musical voice, discoursed 
upon the dignity of the administration and the 
depravity of the offenders. When, his brethren 
were beginning to drop their heads and breathe 
heavily, Alvarado politely interrupted him and 
referred the matter to Castro. 
" Imprison them ! " exclaimed the impetuous 
General, suddenly alert. " With such a 
Governor and such a people, this should be a land 
white as the mountain-tops, unblemished by 
the tracks of mean ambitions and sinful 
revolutions. Let us be summary, altough not cruel ; 
let no man's blood flow while there are prisons 
