at all fat, as Ralston noticed, being a judge of athletes. This man wore
an overcoat with a superb sable collar, and a gorgeous gold chain was
stretched across the broad expanse of his waistcoat. He was perfectly
clean shaven, and looked as though he might be a successful prize
fighter. At this point in his observation John Ralston fell asleep.
He had two more intervals of consciousness.
He had gone to sleep in the horse-car. He woke to find himself fighting
the man with the fur coat and the chain, out under the falling snow,
with half a dozen horse-car drivers and conductors making a ring, each
with a lantern. He thought he remembered seeing a red streak on the face
of his adversary. A moment later he saw a vivid flash of light, and
then he was unconscious again.
When he opened his eyes once more he looked into his mother’s face, and
he saw an expression there which he never forgot as long as he lived.
CHAPTER XX.
Katharine looked in vain for Ralston near the door of the ball-room that
night, as she entered with her mother, passed up to curtsy to one of the
ladies whose turn it was to receive and slowly crossed the polished
floor to the other side. He was nowhere to be seen, and immediately she
felt a little chill of apprehension, as though something had warned her
that he was in trouble. The sensation was merely the result of her
disappointment. Hitherto, even to that very afternoon, he had always
shown himself to be the most scrupulously exact and punctual man of her
acquaintance, and it was natural enough that the fact of his not
appearing at such an important juncture as the present should seem very
strange. Katharine, however, attributed what she felt to a presentiment
of evil, and afterwards remembered it as though it had been something
like a supernatural warning.
When she had assured herself that he was really not at the ball, her
first impulse was to ask every one she met if he had been seen, and as
that was impossible, she looked about for some member of the family who
might enlighten her and of whom she might ask questions without
exciting curiosity. It was not an easy matter, however, to find just
such a person as should fulfil the requirements of the case. Hamilton
Bright or Frank Miner would have answered her purpose, and it was just
possible that one or both of them might appear at a later hour, though
neither of them were men who danced. Crowdie would come, of course, with
his wife, but she felt that she could not ask him questions about
Ralston, and Hester would hardly be likely to know anything of the
latter’s movements.
It was quite out of the question for Katharine to sit in a quiet corner
under one of the galleries, and watch the door, as a cat watches the
hole from which she expects a mouse to appear. She was too much
surrounded by the tribe of high-collared, broad-tied, smooth-faced,
empty-headed, and very young men who, in an American ball-room, make it
more or less their business to inflict their company upon the most
beautiful young girl present at any one time. Older men would often be
only too glad to talk with her, and she would prefer them to her bevy of
half-fledged admirers, but the older man naturally shrinks from
intruding himself amongst a circle of very young people, and
systematically keeps away. On the whole, too, the young girls enjoy
themselves exceedingly well and do not complain of their following.
At last, however, Katharine determined to speak to her mother. She had
seen the latter in close conversation with Crowdie. That was natural
enough. Crowdie thought more of beauty than of any other gift, and if
Mrs. Lauderdale had been a doll, which she was not, he would always have
spent half an hour with her if he could, merely for the sake of studying
her face. She was very beautiful to-night, and there was no fear of a
repetition of the scene which had occurred by the fireplace in Clinton
Place on Monday night. It seemed as though she had recalled the dazzling
freshness of other days--not long past, it is true--by an act of will,
determined to be supreme to the very end. She knew it, too. She was
conscious that the lights were exactly what they should be, that the
temperature was perfect, that her gown could not fit her better and that
she had arrived feeling fresh and rested. Charlotte’s visit had done her
good, also, for Charlotte had made herself very charming on that
afternoon, as will be remembered by those who have had the patience to
follow the minor events of the long day. Even her husband had been more
than usually unbending and agreeable at dinner, and it was probably her
appearance which had produced that effect on him. Like most very strong
and masculine men, whatever be their characters, he was very really
affected by woman’s beauty. For some time he had silently regretted the
change in his wife’s appearance, and this evening he had noticed the
return of that brilliancy which had attracted him long ago. He had even
kissed her before his daughter, when he had put on her cloak for her,
which was a very rare occurrence. Crowdie had seen Mrs. Lauderdale as
soon as he had left Hester to her first partner and had been at liberty
to wander after his own devices, and had immediately gone to her.
Katharine had observed this, for she had good eyes and few things within
her range of vision escaped her. Naturally enough, too, she had glanced
at her mother more than once and had seen that the latter was evidently
much interested by some story which Crowdie was telling. Her own mind
being entirely occupied with Ralston, it was not surprising that she
should imagine that they were talking of him.
She watched her opportunity, and when Crowdie at last left her mother’s
side, went to her immediately. They were a wonderful pair as they stood
together for a few moments, and many people watched them. Mrs.
Lauderdale, who was especially conscious of the admiration she was
receiving that night, felt so vain of herself that she did not attempt
to avoid the comparison, but drew herself up proudly to her great height
in the full view of every one, and as though remembering and repenting
of the bitter envy she had felt of Katharine’s youth even as lately as
the previous day, she looked down calmly and lovingly into the girl’s
face. Katharine was not in the least aware that any one was looking at
them, nor did she imagine any comparison possible between her mother and
herself. Her faults of character certainly did not lie in the direction
of personal vanity. Many people, too, thought that she was not looking
her best, as the phrase goes, on that evening, while others said that
she had never looked as well before. She was transparently pale, with
that fresh pallor which is not unbecoming in youth and health when it is
natural, or the result of an emotion. The whiteness of her face made her
deep grey eyes seem larger and deeper than ever, and the broad, dark
eyebrows gave a look of power to the features, which was striking in one
so young. Passion, anxiety, the alternations of hope and fear, even the
sense of unwonted responsibility, may all enhance beauty when they are
of short duration, though in time they must destroy it, or modify its
nature, spiritualizing or materializing it, according to the objects and
reasons from which they proceed. The beauty of Napoleon’s death mask is
very different from that of Goethe’s, yet both, perhaps, at widely
different ages, approached as nearly to perfection of feature as
humanity ever can.
“Well, child, have you come back to me?” asked Mrs. Lauderdale, with a
smile.
There was nothing affected in her manner, for she had too long been
first, yet she knew that her smile was not lost on others--she could
feel that the eyes of many were on her, and she had a right to be as
handsome as she could. Even Katharine was struck by the wonderful return
of youth.
“You’re perfectly beautiful to-night, mother!” she exclaimed, in genuine
admiration.
