if she were going on with it.
"Horrors!" Miss Maybough put her hand out over the sketch. "You don't
mean that you're going to carry it any farther?"
"Why, it isn't finished yet," Cornelia began.
"Of course it isn't, and it never ought to be! I hope you're not
going to turn out a niggler! Please don't! I couldn't bear to have
you. Nobody will respect you if you finish. Don't! If you won't come
out with me and get a breath of fresh air, do start a new drawing! I
want them to see this in the rough. It's so bold."
Miss Maybough had left her own drawing in the rough, but it could not
be called bold; though if she had seen the block hand with a faltering
eye, she seemed to have had a fearless vision of many other things, and
she had covered her paper with a fantastic medley of grotesque shapes,
out of that imagination which she had given Cornelia to know was so
fatally mischievous to her in its uninvited activities. "Don't look
at them!" she pleaded, when Cornelia involuntarily glanced at her
study. "My only hope is to hate them. I almost pray to be delivered
from them. Let's talk of something else." She turned the sheet over.
"Do you mind my having said that about your drawing?"
"No!" said Cornelia, provoked to laughter by the solemnity of the
demand. "Why should I?"
"Oh, I don't know. Do you think you shall like me? I mean, do you care
if I like you--very, very much?"
"I don't suppose I could stop it if I did, could I?" asked Cornelia.
The Sphinx seemed to find heart to smile. "Of course, I'm ridiculous.
But I do hope we're going to be friends. Tell me about yourself. Or,
have some more tea!"
XIV.
"I don't want any more tea, thank you," said Cornelia, "and there isn't
anything to tell."
"There must be!" the other girl insisted, clinging to her bottle with
tragic intensity. "Any one can see that you've lived. What part of
the country did you come from?"
"Ohio," said Cornelia, as the best way to be done with it.
"And have you ever been in Santa Fé?"
"Goodness, no! Why, it's in New Mexico!"
"Yes; I was born there. Then my father went to Colorado. He isn't
living, now. Are your father and mother living?"
"My mother is," said Cornelia; the words brought up a vision of her
mother, as she must be sitting that moment in the little front-room,
and a mist came suddenly before her eyes; she shut her lips hard to
keep them from trembling.
"I see, you worship her," said Miss Maybough fervidly, keeping her gaze
fixed upon Cornelia. "You are homesick!"
"I'm not homesick!" said Cornelia, angry that she should be so and
that she should be denying it.
"Mine," said the other, "died while I was a baby. She had Indian
blood," she added in the same way in which she had said her name was
Charmian.
"Did she?" Cornelia asked.
"That is the legend," said Miss Maybough solemnly. "Her grandmother was
a Zuñi princess." She turned her profile. "See?"
"It does look a little Indian," said Cornelia.
"Some people think it's Egyptian," Miss Maybough suggested, as if she
had been leading up to the notion, and were anxious not to have it
ignored.
Cornelia examined the profile steadily presented, more carefully: "It's
a good deal more Egyptian."
Miss Maybough relieved her profile from duty, and continued, "We've
been everywhere. Paris two years. That's where I took up art in dead
earnest; Julian, you know. Mamma didn't want me to; she wanted me to go
into society there; and she does here; but I hate it. Don't you think
society is very frivolous, or, any way, very stupid?"
"I don't know much about it. I never went out, much," said Cornelia.
"Well, I hope you're not conventional! Nobody's conventional here."
"I don't believe I'm conventional enough to hurt," said Cornelia.
"You have humor, too," said Miss Maybough, thoughtfully, as if she had
been mentally cataloguing her characteristics. "You'll be popular."
Cornelia stared at her and turned to her drawing.
"But you're proud," said the other, "I can see that. I adore pride. It
must have been your pride that fascinated me at the first glance. Do
you mind my being fascinated with you?"
Cornelia wanted to laugh; at the same time she wondered what new kind
of crazy person she had got with; this was hardly one of the
art-students that went wild from overwork. Miss Maybough kept on
without waiting to be answered: "I haven't got a bit of pride, myself.
I could just let you walk over me. How does it feel to be proud? What
are you proud for?"
Cornelia quieted a first impulse to resent this pursuit. "I don't think
I'm very proud. I used to be proud when I was little;--I guess you
ought to have asked me then."
"Oh, yes! Tell me about yourself!" Miss Maybough implored again, but
she went on as before without giving Cornelia any chance to reply. "Of
course, when I say mamma, I mean my step-mother. She's very good to me,
but she doesn't understand me. You'll like her. I'll tell you what sort
of a person she is." She did so at such length that the lunch hour
passed before she finished, and a hush fell upon all the babbling
voices about, as the monitor came back to her place.
Toward the end of the afternoon the monitor's vigilance relaxed again,
and Miss Maybough began to talk again. "If you want to be anything by
the Synthesis standards," she said, "you've got to keep this up a whole
year, you know." It was now four o'clock, and Cornelia had been working
steadily since eleven, except for the half-hour at lunch-time. "They'll
see how well you draw; you needn't be afraid of their not doing that;
and they'll let you go on to the round at once, perhaps. But if you're
truly Synthetic in spirit, you won't want to. You'll want to get all
you can out of the block; and it'll take you a year to do that; then
another year for the full length, you know. At first we only had the
block here, and a good many people think now that the full length
Preparatory encroaches on the Antique. Sometimes they even let you put
in backgrounds here, but it don't matter much: when the instructor in
the Antique gets hold of you he makes you unlearn everything you've
learnt in the full-length. He's grand."
A girl who was working at the other end of the table said with a
careless air, "They told me I might go up to the Antique to-day."
"Lida!" Miss Maybough protested, in a voice hoarse with admiration.
"Yes; but I'm not going."
"Why not? I should think you would be so proud. How did they come
to tell you?"
"Oh, they just said I might. But I'm not going. They're so severe in
the Antique. They just discourage you."
"Yes, that is so," said Miss Maybough, with a sigh of solemn joy. "They
make you feel as if you couldn't draw at all."
"Yes," said the other girl. "They act as if you didn't know a thing."
"I wouldn't go," said Miss Maybough.
"I don't know. Perhaps I may." The girl went on drawing, and Miss
Maybough turned to Cornelia again.
"Towards the end of your third year--or perhaps you don't like to have
your future all mapped out. Does it scare you?"
"I guess if it does I shall live through it," said Cornelia steadily;
