myself."
"Your offer is a very kind one, Mr. Fletcher----"
"Don't say Mr. Fletcher; call me Dick," interrupted their new
acquaintance.
"I will if you wish it, though as you are so much older, it hardly seems
proper. What I was going to say was that Jack and myself are determined
to pay our share. We couldn't accept any such favor as you mention."
"That's all right. Now, if you let me have the ten pounds I'll take all
the trouble off your hands, and have everything ready for a start
to-morrow morning."
"I would prefer to go with you and help select the articles."
Fletcher looked disconcerted.
"Oh, well, if you think I aint capable----" he began.
"I think nothing of the kind, but I want to learn as much as I can. I
may have to do it alone some time."
It was well Harry adhered to his determination. It saved him three
pounds, and Fletcher was forced to pay his share, as he had not intended
to do. While they were making purchases they were accosted by a tall
loose-jointed man, whom it was easy to recognize as a Yankee.
"Goin' to the mines, boys?" he asked in a strong nasal tone.
"Yes," answered Harry.
"So am I. I'd like to hook on to your party if you aint no objections."
For some reason Dick Fletcher did not appear to relish the proposal.
"I don't think we can accommodate you," he said abruptly.
"I think we can," said Harry, who was beginning to be distrustful of
Fletcher, and felt safer in adding another to the party. "There are but
three of us, and we shall be glad of your company."
Dick Fletcher looked angry, but did not venture to oppose the plan
further.
CHAPTER IV.
A TIMELY RESCUE.
On the last evening spent in Melbourne the boys decided to take a
farewell walk about the city, not knowing when it would again be their
fortune to see it. Neither Fletcher nor their new Yankee acquaintance
was at hand, and they started by themselves. They did not confine
themselves to the more frequented streets, but followed wherever fancy
led.
They had no thought of an adventure, but one awaited them.
As they were turning the corner of a narrow street, their attention was
suddenly excited by a sharp cry of blended surprise and fright.
"What is it, Jack?" asked Harry, grasping his companion by the arm.
He did not need to await a reply, for by the indistinct light he saw two
men struggling a few rods further on. One appeared to be an old man,
with white hair, the other was a man of middle age. Clearly it was a
case of attempted robbery.
"Run, Jack, run!" said Harry, in excitement. "Let us help the old man!"
"I'm with you," answered the young sailor briefly.
Harry had in his hand a heavy cane--his only weapon--but he did not stop
to consider the personal risk he was running. As he drew near, the old
man, whose feeble strength was quite unequal to a conflict with a man so
much younger, swayed and fell backward. His assailant bent over him, and
despite his feeble resistance began to search his pockets, at the same
time indulging in savage threats. The old man gave himself up for lost,
but help was nearer than he anticipated.
So occupied was the villain with his disgraceful work that he did not
hear the approaching footsteps.
His first intimation of them came in a sounding blow over his shoulders,
given by Harry's stick, which was laid on with a good will.
He jumped to his feet with an oath, and darted a rapid glance at his two
assailants. Then, much to the surprise of Harry, he turned and ran
rapidly away. It was a piece of great good luck, Harry thought, for he
was not at all sure that he and Jack combined would have been a match
for the highwayman.
"Are you hurt, sir?" asked Harry, bending over the old man.
"Not seriously," was the reply. "Will you kindly help me up?"
With Jack's help Harry got the old man on his feet. He was a tall man,
of splendid aspect, over sixty years of age. He looked like a gentleman
of wealth and position.
"You have had a narrow escape, sir," said our hero.
"Yes, indeed," answered the old man, "thanks to your brave interference.
It surprises me that my brutal assailant should have run away from two
boys."
"I am surprised also, sir. I feared we should have a hard fight. I
suppose his object was robbery."
"Yes, he must have heard in some way that I had a large sum of money
about me. Thanks to you, it is safe."
"I am very glad, sir."
"Do you mind accompanying me to my house? This attack has made me
timid."
"With pleasure, sir."
The old gentleman lived perhaps a quarter of a mile distant in a
handsome house. He pressed the boys to enter, and they did so. He
questioned them as to their plans, and then selecting two bank-notes of
large denomination, urged the boys to accept them as a recognition of
the help they had given him at a critical moment. The boys, however,
declined positively to accept any compensation, but expressed their
satisfaction at having been of service.
"At least," said the old gentleman, "you must promise to call on me when
you return from the mines. There is my card."
"That we will do with pleasure, sir," answered Harry.
He looked at the card, and read the name of Henry A. Woolson.
"Harry," said Jack, as they resumed their walk, "do you know that robber
had a look like Fletcher?"
"So I thought, Jack, but I had only a glimpse, and could not be sure. I
wish he were not to be in our party."
"We must be on our guard; I don't fancy him much."
When the boys saw Fletcher in the morning he appeared as usual, and they
were disposed to think they were mistaken. Yet the lurking suspicion
occurred to them from time to time, and made them feel uneasy.
The next day they set out on their journey, accompanied by Dick Fletcher
and Obed Stackpole.
CHAPTER V.
STARTING FOR THE MINES.
Harry may be considered rash in his immediate acceptance of his Yankee
acquaintance as a member of their party, but there are some men who need
no letters of recommendation. Obed Stackpole certainly was not a
handsome man. He was tall, lean, gaunt in figure, with a shambling walk,
and his skin was tough and leathery; but in spite of all there was an
honest, manly expression, which instantly inspired confidence. Both
Harry and Jack liked him, but Dick Fletcher seemed to regard him with
instinctive dislike.
"What made you accept that scarecrow into our company?" he asked, when
Stackpole had left them to make his own arrangements for leaving the
city.
Harry smiled.
"He isn't a handsome man," he replied, "but I think he will prove a
valuable companion."
"You took no notice of my objection to him," said Fletcher, frowning.
"Our company was too small," returned Harry. "From inquiry I find that
parties seldom consist of less than half a dozen."
