Vigorously the cry arose : 
" The young lady ! The young lady ! 
Three cheers for the girl-graduate ! Three 
for the girl who cleaned out the committee ! 
Hurrah for Miss Fleet ! Hurrah ! Hurrah ! " 
CHAPTER XX. 
FAIK AND FREE. 
FAY blushed like a Jacqueminot rosebud, 
and shrank quite out of sight behind her bro 
ther, who held her proudly. Donald, who 
could not touch her, looked at her through a 
divine mist in his young eyes; blind with 
love, and delight, and adoration. 
" I think," said Jamie quietly, " you 
might as well just walk past the window 
with me, Fay. I wouldn't seem ashamed 
to be seen. The fellows mean all right. 
It 's awfully nice of them. I am here 
and father and it 's my room, and you 
are where you belong." 
Just for an instant there flashed before 
the window a swift vision of a modest girl, 
leaning, blushing, on her brother 's arm, 
and then 
Fay fluttered, frightened, out of sight 
upon the big chair with the cashmere 
drapery, behind the towering, awful figure 
of the President and the committee; and 
the boys broke into a magnificent round 
of applause, and one fellow moved she be 
made an honorary member of the class, and 
this motion was carried with three times 
three, and it was a tremendous moment. 
Then Trouncey O Grian 's big voice was 
heard, calling the fellows off. 
" We mustn't bother the young lady, 
boys." But at the moment while the pha 
lanx turned, to march singing down the 
street, a little bouquet came tossing lightly 
in and dropped at Fay Fleet 's feet. It was 
gracefully done. The flowers were South 
ern jonquils, and they were thrown by Lee 
Calhoun. 
Fay was to go to Boston that night with 
her father, on her way to Vermont. Don 
ald had no opportunity now to see her alone. 
" I shall come up this vacation," he said 
excitedly. " I shall be sure to come, if I 
may?" 
" I shall be glad to see you," murmured 
Fay, with some timidity. They did not 
talk much together. Donald ordered the 
carriage, and they all rode to the station, 
he and Jamie, Dr. Fleet and Fay. The 
talk was general, but it was generally 
 
particular ; about the young people and 
their plans and hopes. Jamie with the 
valedictory next year, God willing Donald 
and his De Courtney Fay and her diploma, 
they were a hopeful, merry lot. 
They spoke of the school in Massachusetts 
which Fay would take in September, wherein 
she would " cultivate the Greek expression " 
in dead earnest, having charge of the Greek 
department. They spoke of Jamie 's longing 
to follow his father 's profession, " if he could 
pull through." And Donald said he was 
to have money when he became of age next 
January, and that he'd see Jamie through ; 
but Jamie shook his head ; he did not like 
a debt, he said, even to his dear old Don. 
They spoke of Don, then, and of his future ; 
and Donald thought he should study for the 
bar. His head swam with visions of some 
day rivaling the eminent Rufus Choate him 
self, and being cribbed by plagiarists in 
Harle University, who were detected by 
young lady visitors, just in time to save the 
honest competitor from defeat, and the 
unworthy one from disgrace. 
Donald wrung Fay 's hand in silence when 
they parted at the train. She had dropped 
her veil, and looked at him through it with 
sweet, bright eyes, that fell before his steady 
gaze. And Dr. Fleet said : 
" God bless you, boys ! " and they were 
gone. 
Don and Jamie walked home together, 
not inclined to talk. The fellows were still 
out singing, and the streets stirred rest 
lessly ; the boys were singing the university 
chorus, " The College by the Sea." 
" Oh, the college by the sea ! 
Like thy waves, thine honor be ! 
Fair and free, 
Fair and free, 
Harle ! Harle ! Forever ever be ! " 
Donald 's soul thrilled with the passion of 
the chorus, with the college loyalty so dear 
to every student 's heart. 
" Bless her, anyhow, J. ! " he cried. " I 
wouldn't miss being an alumnus of old 
Harle for all I ever expect to be worth." 
As the two boys came up College Street 
to their rooms, which were probably packed 
now with fellows, waiting for them, a West 
ern Union Telegraph boy met them, walking 
quite fast for a messenger boy. He 
stopped, and touched his cap. 
" A dispatch for you, Mr. Marcy." 
Donald took the yellow envelope 
leisurely ; lie had lived a life in which a tele 
gram meant nothing in particular : he was 
laughing at something his chum had said, 
and looked the very dream of youth and 
beauty, and health and wealth, and hope 
and ambition, as he cast his merry eyes 
upon the paper, and read aloud : 
"Misfortune at home. Come immedi 
