“Oh--it’s you, mother?” The girl’s tone changed a very little, and she
turned and came forward. “Well--I’m sorry,” she said, after a short
pause. “It can’t be helped, I suppose.”
Mrs. Lauderdale sat down in the one small arm-chair, by the
toilet-table, and clasped her hands over her knee, leaning back, and
looking up rather wistfully at Katharine.
“I think--in a way--it can be helped,” said Mrs. Lauderdale, in a
conciliatory manner. “If you would go downstairs now, and just say
quietly that you’re sorry, you know. Just as you said it now. I’m sure
he’d be willing to accept that as an apology.”
“Apology?” Katharine laughed bitterly. “I--make an apology to him? No,
mother--I won’t.”
“You ought to--really,” objected Mrs. Lauderdale, earnestly. “Why, my
dear child! Have you any idea of what you’ve been saying downstairs?
Some of the things you said were dreadful.”
“They were all true, and he knows it,” answered Katharine, stubbornly.
She leaned against the chest of drawers, and looked down into her
mother’s upturned face.
“Oh, no! they weren’t all true, dear,” protested the latter. “You
exaggerated very much. It’s quite possible that your father may have
saved something in all these years--he’s so careful! But as for having a
million, as you said--”
“But, dear mother--there isn’t a doubt of it! I didn’t promise uncle
Robert that I wouldn’t tell that--”
“What? Did uncle Robert tell you?”
“Yes! Of course! Did you suppose I was inventing?”
“Well--not exactly. But I thought you might have heard some gossip--or
something Jack Ralston said--”
“Not at all. Uncle Robert told me that he knew it to be a positive
fact--a million, at least, he said. And he’s quite as truthful as
papa--”
“More so,” said Mrs. Lauderdale, absently; “I mean,” she added, very
quickly, with a frightened look, for she had not realized what she was
saying--“I mean--quite as truthful. They’re both perfectly truthful--”
“Yes,” answered Katharine in a doubtful tone, and smiling in spite of
herself. “Not but that, if it came to believing, you know, I’d believe
uncle Robert sooner than papa--”
“Hush, child--don’t!”
Katharine said nothing, but still leaned back, resting both elbows on
the high chest of drawers on each side behind her, and looking down
thoughtfully at the points of her shoes. Mrs. Lauderdale was silent,
too, for several seconds.
“Well?” Katharine uttered the convenient word interrogatively, without
looking up.
“Well--yes,” responded Mrs. Lauderdale. “I was going to say that--” She
hesitated. “My dear,” she continued, at last, “you’ll have to say
something to your father, after all this.”
“Something like what I’ve said already?” asked Katharine, raising her
black eyebrows and glancing at her mother.
“No, no! I’m serious, my dear.”
“So am I--very. You began to talk of an apology. It’s quite useless,
mother--I can’t and I won’t apologize.”
“But, Katharine, darling--he says he won’t see you unless you do--he’s
dreadfully angry still!”
“Oh--he won’t see me? What does that mean? That I’m to stay in my room?”
She laughed a little.
“He’s in earnest about it,” said Mrs. Lauderdale. “That’s what he
said--he--I don’t like to say it--but I must, I suppose. That’s just it.
He means you to stay in your room whenever he’s in the house.”
“How childish!” exclaimed Katharine, scornfully. “What do I care? I
don’t want to see him particularly. But, just for curiosity--if he
happens to meet me on the stairs, for instance, what will he do? Throw
things at me? Box my ears? He’s quite capable of it--as you saw just
now--”
“Please don’t talk like that, dear,” said Mrs. Lauderdale. “He was
terribly angry--and you were saying the most dreadful things--he only
meant to stop you from speaking.”
“He hurt my mouth, and he hurt my arm--there’ll be black and blue marks
here to-morrow, I’m sure, by the way it feels.” She laid her left hand
on her right forearm at the point where her father had seized it.
“That’s rather like violence, you know, mother.”
Katharine turned perceptibly paler as she spoke of it. Mrs. Lauderdale
was pained at the recollection, and looked away from her, clasping her
hands a little more tightly over her knee.
“Did he ever touch you in that way, mother?” asked the young girl,
slowly.
“Me?” cried Mrs. Lauderdale. “Oh--child! How can you think of such a
thing! No, indeed! Fancy!”
“Well--I’m just as sensitive as you are,” answered Katharine. “Put
yourself in my place.”
The unexpected answer silenced the elder woman.
“I think it’s his place to apologize to me--and very humbly,” added
Katharine. “It was a cowardly piece of violence to a woman. I’m willing
to believe--for the honour of the family, and men generally--that he
didn’t mean to strike, exactly. But it felt very much like it, and I
told him so. I’ll tell him so again, if he mentions the thing.”
Mrs. Lauderdale was in great difficulties. Her husband and her daughter
were both stronger than she, they had no intention of making up their
quarrel, and yet, by her position, she was forced to act as
intermediary. It was not easy. Her husband dominated her by his strong
personality. Katharine had the better of her in argument. She turned
away a little, in thought, resting one elbow on the toilet-table beside
her, and covering her eyes with her hand for a moment. The beautiful,
tired features were pale and drawn.
“It’s very hard for me,” she said, wearily. “You’re both partly wrong
and partly right.”
“I think I’m altogether right,” said Katharine.
“I know--so does he. But you’re not--either of you--nor I, either, for
that matter. Oh, dear! I wish I knew what to do!”
“There’s nothing to be done, I’m afraid,” answered the young girl, more
gently, for she was somewhat pacified by her mother’s owning a share in
the blame. “Not that I’m going to make a fuss about it, if he doesn’t.
I’m not that kind. I won’t come down to dinner to-night, because it
would be unpleasant for everybody. As for to-morrow--we’ll see what
happens. The idea of shutting me up in my room so long as he’s in the
house, because the sight of me is disagreeable to him, it’s silly--it’s
perfectly childish! Just like an angry man! I’m not sure that I should
mind it very much, so far as not seeing him’s concerned. I don’t want to
see him, any more than he wants to see me. But it’s the principle of the
thing that sticks in my throat. It’s as though he had the right to treat
me like a small child, to be sent to bed in a dark room at discretion,
until I change my mind. It’s the tyranny of the thing, the arrogance of
it--and when I’m altogether right, as you both know.”
“No--not altogether,” objected Mrs. Lauderdale.
“I won’t go over it again, mother. I’ll sum it up in these words. He’s
rich, and he’s told us that he was poor, and he’s stood looking on and
letting you work to give us small luxuries that amount to necessities.
He’s wilfully calumniated Jack for months. He’s wilfully misled Archie
Wingfield--”
“My dear--about that--he assures me that he only said you might
