Christy had a theory of his own, in regard to the probable movements of
the chase, and he desired to be solely responsible for the result:
therefore he kept his plan to himself.

"Call all hands, Mr. Baskirk, but without any noise at all," continued
the commander, while the ship was still driving ahead at the rate of
twenty knots an hour.

The ship's company silently took their stations, and no one on the deck
spoke a loud word, though no order to this effect had been given. All
the white cotton cloth that could be found on board was brought to the
waist, where it was torn into strips about three inches wide, and two
feet in length. These two pieces were distributed among the ship's
company, with the order to tie them around the left arm, above the
elbow.

The fog was deep and dense; and the lookouts, who were stationed on the
top-gallant forecastle and aloft, could not see a ship's length ahead.
Christy had gone forward, and made his way out on the bowsprit, in order
to get as far as possible from the noise of the engine. He listened
there for a full half-hour, and while the ship had made ten miles.

"Starboard a little, Mr. Baskirk," he called to the executive officer,
who had followed him forward.

"Starboard, sir," repeated the officer, as he sent the order aft.

"Port! Port!" exclaimed the commander with more energy.

The orders were passed rapidly through the line of officers till they
reached the quartermaster conning the wheel. The captain continued to
listen for another quarter of an hour.

"Steady!" he shouted aloud, and left his position on the bowsprit to
take another on the top-gallant forecastle. "We are close aboard of her,
Mr. Baskirk! Have your grappling irons ready! Lay her aboard as we come
alongside!"

By this time all hands forward could see the dark hull of the enemy. The
St. Regis was rapidly running alongside of her, for the chase did not
seem to be going at her former speed; and no doubt her commander was
busy working out some manoeuvre he had devised to escape from his
pursuers. The boarders threw their grappling-irons, and fastened to the
side of the enemy.

The drum was heard on board of her, beating to quarters; but it was too
late, for the boarders were springing over her rail. Christy heard one
bell on the gong of the other ship, and instantly made the same signal
on his own. It was evidently a surprise to the enemy, but the ship's
company were promptly rallied. The enemy was overwhelmed in a few
minutes, though not till several had fallen on both sides. The captain
seemed to have been too busy with his manoeuvre to escape to attend to
present conditions.

While the commander of the St. Regis remained on the deck, or even on
the top-gallant forecastle, the clang of his own engine prevented him
from hearing any other sounds; and the enemy appeared not to have seen
the ship till she emerged from the fog. The crew of the prize, as she
was by this time, were all driven below, and the victory was complete.

"Do you surrender?" demanded Mr. Baskirk of the officer who appeared to
be the captain.

"There appears to be no alternative," replied the commander very
gloomily: and he did not attempt to explain how his misfortune had come
upon him. He had counted upon the fog to insure his salvation; but it
appeared to have been the primary cause of his capture, though he
certainly had not been as vigilant as a commander should be. Christy
came on board, and Mr. Baskirk introduced him.

"I am glad to see you, Captain Passford," said the commander as a matter
of form. "I was absolutely sure that you would chase me to the westward,
sir; and I had not the slightest expectation of encountering you on this
course."

"I took my chances of finding you in this direction rather than in the
opposite one," replied Christy. "It appears that I correctly interpreted
your strategy, though I dared not even mention my plan to my executive
officer."

"I have fallen into my own trap, and being captured as I was, is
disgraceful to me," added Captain Winnlock, as his name proved to be;
and the steamer was the Watauga.

Christy's opinion of the capture did not differ from that of the
commander of the prize, but he made no remark upon it. The Watauga was
loaded with cotton, which was to be sent to England from Nassau, while
the steamer was to go on a cruise in search of defenceless merchantmen
of the United States.

"I have a passenger on board, Captain Passford, who bears the same name
that you do, and possibly he may be one of your relatives, though he is
by no means a Federalist," said Captain Winnlock.

"Indeed! May I ask his name?" replied Christy very much surprised.

"Colonel Homer Passford, sir."

"My uncle again!"

Mr. French, the master, had already been appointed prize-master; and
while Mr. Baskirk was making the arrangements for her departure for New
York, Christy accompanied the captain to the cabin. Colonel Passford had
learned the fate of the Watauga; and he sat at a table, his face covered
with both hands.

"I have brought down to see you, Colonel Passford, your nephew," said
the commander; and his uncle sprang to his feet, and gazed at his
brother's son as though he had been a spectre.

"Christy!" he exclaimed; but he could say no more, and groaned in his
anguish.

"He is a lieutenant-commander now, and captain of the steamer St. Regis,
formerly the Tallahatchie. The Watauga is now unfortunately the prize of
his ship," added Captain Winnlock, as he retired from the cabin.

"Captured again by my nephew," groaned the unhappy colonel. "I believe
you are the emissary of the Evil One, sent to torment me."

