rose-light in the rooms.
“It is real sleep,” breathed Helen. “Don’t wake him, Captain.”
But when the old sailor-nurse would have taken her place for the
morning watch, she shook her head. She went back and lay down on
the cot beside her husband; he moved his hand, as if he groped for
hers, and she was sorry that he had missed it for a moment.
“It shall not happen again,” she thought.
Then exhaustion and vigil overcame her, for she had watched for
many nights; and thinking that she waked, she slept.
When she came to herself it was broad, bright day. Her hand had a
strange feeling; when she tried, she could not move it, for he held
it fast. There were people in the room,--her father, her mother,
Captain Hap. She stirred a little, leaning towards her husband’s
pillow.
“Dear, are you better this morning?”
But some one came up, and gently laid a hand upon her eyes.
XXX.
Job Slip went down to the water, and it was dark. He walked apart,
and took himself into that solitary place on the wharves which he
remembered, where he had knelt in the rain, one night, and said,
“God,” for Mr. Bayard.
A mackerel keg was there--the same one, perhaps; he overturned it,
and sat down, and tried to understand. Job had not been able to
understand since Mr. Bayard was hurt.
Thought came to him slowly, and with pain like that caused by the
return of congested blood to its channels.
“He is dead,” said Job. “Lord A’mighty, he ain’t alive. Seems I
couldn’t get it into my head. They’ve killed him. He’s goin’ to be
buried.”
Job clenched his gnarled hands together, and shook them at the sky;
then they dropped.
“Seems like shakin’ fists at him,” thought Job. “I ain’t a-goin’
to. S’posen he’s up yander. That’s the idee. Lord A’mighty, what do
you mean by it? You didn’t stop to think of us reformed men, did
you, when you let this happen?... For Christ’s sake. Amen,” added
Job, under the impression that he had been giving utterance to a
prayer.
“Mr. Bayard?” called Job aloud. He slipped off the keg and got
upon his knees. As he changed his position, the fisherman vaguely
noticed the headlight of the schooner on which he was to have
taken his trip, that night. “There goes the Tilly E. Salt,” said
Job, interrupting himself; “she’s got to weigh without me, this
time. I’m guard of honor for the--the--I can’t say it!” groaned
Job. “It’s oncredible him bein’ in a--him put in a--Lord, he’s the
livin’est man I ever set my eyes on; he CAN’T die!... Mr. Bayard?
Mr. Bayard, sir?”
Job paused, as if he expected to be answered. The water dashed
loudly against the old pier. The distant cry of the buoy came
over the harbor. The splash of retreating oars sounded faintly
somewhere, through the dark.
“He’s livin’ along,” said Job, after some thought. “He can’t
get fur out of Angel Alley. He wouldn’t be happy. He’d miss us,
someways; he’s so used to us; he’s hoverin’ in them hymn-toons and
that gymnasium he set so much by. I’ll bet he is. He’s lingerin’
in us poor devils he’s spent three year makin’ men of.... He’s
a-livin’ here.”
Job struck his own broad breast, and then he struck it again. A
shudder passed over his big frame; and then came the storm. He had
not wept before, since Mr. Bayard died. The paroxysm wearied and
weakened him, and it was the piteous fact that these were the next
words which passed the lips of the half-healed drunkard.
“God A’mighty, if I only had a drink!”
       
Two hours afterwards, Job Slip came up the wharves; he came as he
went, alone; he walked with a steady step; he held his head high in
the dark. He whispered as he walked:--
“I didn’t--no, I didn’t do it.... Bein’ left so--I’ve alwers had
you, sir, before, you know. It makes a sight o’ difference when a
man hain’t anybody but God. He’s a kinder stranger. I didn’t know,
one spell there--but I was goin’ under.... You won’t desert a
fellar, will you--yander? I’ll do you credit, sir, see if I don’t.
I won’t disgrace you, ----d if I will!”
At that moment Job shied suddenly, like a horse, clear from one
side of the wharf to the other. He cried aloud,--
“Why, why, what’s here? What’s got me?” Fingers touched him, but
they were of flesh; little fingers, but they were warm, and curled
confidingly in Job’s big hand.
“Joey? You? Little Joey! Why, father’s sonny boy! You come
just in the right time, Joey. I was kinder lonesome. I miss the
minister. I ain’t--just feelin’ right.”
“Fa--ther,” said Joey pleasantly; “Marm said to find you, for she
said she fought you’d need you little boy.”
“And so I do, my son, and so I do!” cried Job.
With Joey’s little fingers clasped in his, Job walked up Angel
Alley, past the doors of the dens that were closed, and the doors
that were open still; and if the ghost of the dear, dead minister
had swept visibly before Job and Joey, no man could have tempted or
disturbed them less.
       
In his own chapel, in Angel Alley, Bayard lay in state. It was
such state as the kings of the earth might envy, and its warriors
and its statesmen and its poets do not know. It was said that his
was the happiest dead face that ever rebuked the sadness of the
living; and the fairest that they who wept for him had ever seen.
Death had not marred his noble beauty; and in death or life there
was no comelier man. All the city thronged to show him reverence
who had lived among them baffled, doubted, and sick at heart; and
it appeared that those who had done the least for him then, would
have done most for him now: the people of ease; the imitators; the
conformers, and the church members who never questioned their own
creeds or methods; the summer strangers playing at life upon the
harbor coast, and visitors from a distance where the preacher had
his fame.
But when these superior and respectable persons crowded to give
their tardy tribute to him, they were told that there was no room
for them in the chapel; nay, they could scarcely find footing in
the dust of Angel Alley. For they were held back by the sacred
rights of “nearest mourners”; and Bayard’s mourners claimed him. It
was said that hundreds of sunburnt men had stood waiting in the
street since midnight for the opening of the doors, and the chance
to enter. Then, there had passed up the steps of Christlove Chapel
the great mass of the neglected and the poor, the simple and the
sodden and the heart-broken, and those who had no friends but only
that one man; and God had taken him. The fishermen of Windover, and
the poor girls, the widows of Windover, and her orphaned children,
the homeless, foreign sailors, and the discontented laborers from
the wharves poured in; and the press was great.
He lay among them regally, wrapped in his purple pall. And he and
Helen knew that her bridal roses withered forever out of mortal
sight upon his breast. But she had given him up at this last hour
