in at the alarm. Henderson was lifted from his 
chair and laid upon a lounge. When the doctor 
who had been called arrived, Carmen was in a 
heap by the low couch, one arm thrown across the 
body, and her head buried in the cushion close to 
his. 
The doctor instantly applied restoratives; he 
sent for an electric battery ; everything was done 
that science could suggest. But all was of no 
avail. There was no sign of life. He must have 
been dead half an hour, said the doctor. It was 
evidently heart-failure. 
Before the doctor had pronounced his verdict 
there was a whisper in the Stock Exchange. 
" Henderson is dead !" 
" It is not possible," said one. 
" I saw him only yesterday," said another. 
" I was in his office this morning," said a third. 
" I never saw him looking in better health." 
The whisper was confirmed. There was no 
doubt of it. Henderson's private secretary had 
admitted it. Yet it seemed incredible. No provision had been made for it. Speculation had not 
discounted it. A panic set in. No one knew what 
to do, for no one knew well the state of Henderson's affairs. In the first thirty minutes there was 
a tremendous drop in Henderson stocks. Then 
some of them rallied, but before the partial recovery hundreds of men had been ruined. It was a 
wild hour in the Exchange. Certain stocks were 
hopelessly smashed for the time, and some combinations were destroyed ; among them was one that 
Uncle Jerry had kept out of ; and Jack Delancy 
was hopelessly ruined. 
The event was flashed over the wires of the 
continent ; it was bulletined ; it was cried in the 
streets ; it was the all-absorbing talk of the town. 
Already, before the dead man was removed to his 
own house, people were beginning to moralize 
about him and his career. Perhaps the truest 
thing was said by the old broker in the board 
whose reputation for piety was only equalled by 
his reputation of always having money to loan at 
exorbitant rates in a time of distress. He said to 
a group of downcast operators, " In the midst of 
life we are in death." 
CHAPTER XX 
THE place that Eodney Henderson occupied in 
the mind of the public was shown by the attention 
the newspapers paid to his death. All the great 
newspapers in all the cities of importance published 
long and minute biographies of him, with pictorial 
illustrations, and day after day characteristic anecdotes of his remarkable career. Xor was there, it 
is believed, a newspaper in the United States, secular, religious, or special, that did not comment upon 
his life. This was the more remarkable in that he 
was not a public man in the common use of the 
word ; he had never interested himself in politics, 
or in public affairs, municipal or State or national ; 
he had devoted himself entirely to building up his 
private fortune. If this is the duty of a citizen, he 
had discharged it with singleness of purpose ; but 
no other duty of the citizen had he undertaken, 
if we except his private charities. And yet no 
public man of his day excited more popular in- 
terest or was the subject of more newspaper com- 
ment. 
And these comments were nearly all respectful, 
and most of them kindly. There was some justice 
in this, for Henderson had been doing what every- 
body else was trying to do, usually without his 
good -fortune. If he was more successful than 
others in trying to get rich, surely a great deal 
of admiration was mingled with the envy of 
his career. To be sure, some journals were very 
severe upon his methods, and some revived the 
old stories of his unscrupulousness in transactions 
which had laid him open to criminal prosecu- 
tion, from the eifects of which he was only saved 
by uncommon adroitness and, some said, by legal 
technicalities. His career also was denounced by 
some as wholly vicious in its effect upon the youth 
of the republic, and as lowering the tone of public 
morals. And yet it was remembered that he had 
been a frank, open-hearted friend, kind to his family, and generous in contrast with some of his close- 
fisted contemporaries. There was nothing mean 
about him ; even his rascalities, if you chose to 
call his transactions by that name, were on a grand 
scale. To be sure, he would let nothing stand be- 
tween him and the consummation of his schemes 
he was like Napoleon in that but those who knew 
him personally liked him. The building up of his 
colossal fortune which the newspapers were say- 
ing was the largest that had been accumulated in 
one lifetime in America had ruined thousands of 
people, #nd carried disaster into many peaceful 
houses, and his sudden death had been a cyclone 
of destruction for an hour. But it was hardly fair, 
one journal pointed out, to hold Henderson responsible for his untimely death. 
Even Jack Delancy, when the crushing news was 
brought him at the club, where he sat talking with 
Major Fairfax, although he saw his own ruin in a 
flash, said, " It wouldn't have happened if Henderson had lived." 
" Not so soon," replied the Major, hesitatingly. 
" Do you mean to say that Henderson and Mav- 
ick and Mrs. Henderson would have thrown me 
over ?" 
""Why, no, not exactly; but a big machine 
grinds on regardless, and when a crash comes ev- 
erybody looks out for himself." 
" I think I'll telegraph to Mavick." 
" That wouldn't do any good now. He couldn't 
have stopped the panic. I tell you what, you'd bet- 
ter go down to your brokers and see just how mat- 
ters stand." 
And the two went down to Wall Street. It was 
after hours, but the brokers' office was full of excitement. No one knew what was left from the 
storm, nor what to expect. It was some time before Jack could get speech with one of the young 
men of the firm. 
"How is it?" he asked. 
" It's been a of a time." 
" And Henderson ?" 
" Ob, his estate is all right, so far as we know. 
He was well out of the Missouris." 
" And the Missouri ?" 
