and some hadn't, and some was riding and some 
was walking. And the weather — well, it was just 
roasting. And how slow they did creep along ! W« 
swooped down, now, all of a sudden, and stopped 
about a hundred yards over their heads. 

The men all set up a yell, and some of them fell 
flat on their stomachs, some begun to fire their 
guns at us, and the rest broke and scampered every 
which way, and so did the camels. 

We see that we was making trouble, so we went 
up again about a mile, to the cool weather, and 
watched them from there. It took them an hour 
to get together and form the procession again ; 
then they started along, but we could see by the 
glasses that they wasn't paying much attention to 
anything but us. We poked along, looking down 
at them with the glasses, and by-and-by we 
big sand mound, and something like people the 
other side of it, and there was something like a man 
laying on top of the mound, that raised his head 
up every now and then, and seemed to be watching 

the caravan or us, we didn't know which. As the 
caravan got nearer, he sneaked down on the other 
side and rushed to the other men and horses — for 
that is what they was — and we see them mount in 
a hurry ; and next, here they come, like a house 
afire, some with lances and some with long guns, 
and all of them yelling the best they could. 

They come a-tearing down on to the caravan, 
and the next minute both sides crashed together 
and was all mixed up, and there was such another 
popping of guns as you never heard, and the ail 
got so full of smoke you could only catch glimpses 
of them struggling together. There must 'a' been 
six hundred men in that battle, and it was terrible 
to see. Then they broke up into gangs and groups, 
fighting tooth and nail, and scurrying and scamper- 
ing around, and laying into each other like every- 
thing ; and whenever the smoke cleared a little you 
could see dead and wounded people and camels 
scattered far and wide and all about, and camels 
racing off in every direction. 

At last the robbers see they couldn't win, so 
their chief sounded a signal, and all that was left 
of them broke away, and went scampering across 
the plain. The last man to go snatched up a 
child, and carried it off in front of him on his 
horse ; and a woman run screaming and begging 
after hiin, and followed hira away off across the plain 
till she was separated a long ways from her people ; 
but it warn't no use, and she had to give it up, and 
we see her sink down on the sand and cover her 
face with her hands. Then Tom took the helium, 
and started for that yahoo, and we come a-whizzing 
down and made a swoop, and knocked him out of 
the saddle, child and all ; and he was jarred con- 
siderable, but the child wasn't hurt, but laid there 
working its hands and legs in the air like a tumble- 
bug that's on its back and can't turn over. The 
man went staggering off to overtake liis horse, and 
didn't know what had hit him, for we was three or 
four hundred yards up in the air by this time. 

We judged the woman would go and get the 
child now, but she didn't. We could see her, 
through the glass, still setting there, with her head 
bowed down on her knees ; so of course she hadn't 
seen the performance, and thought her child was 
clean gone with the man. She was nearly a half a 
mile from her people, so we thought we might go 
down to the child, which was about a quarter of a 
mile bevond her, and snake it to her before the 
caravan-people could git to us to do us any harm ; 
and, besides, we reckoned they had enough business 
on their hands for one while, anyway, with the 
wounded. We thought we'd chance it, and we did. 

We swooped down and stopped, and Jim shinned 
down the ladder and fetched up the cub, which was 
a nice fat little thing, and in a noble good humour, 
too, considering it was just out of a battle and been 
tumbled off of a horse ; and then we started for the 
mother, and stopped back of her and tolerable near 
by, and Jim slipped down and crept up easy, and 
when he was close back of her the child goo-goo'd, 
the way a child does, and she heard it, and whirled 
and fetched a shriek of joy, and made a jump for 
the kid and snatched it and hugged it, and dropped 
it and hugged Jim, and then snatched off a gold 
chain and hung it around Jim's neck, and hugged 
him again, and jerked up the child again and 
mashed it to her breast, a- sobbing and glorifying 
all the time ; and Jim he shoved for the ladder and 
up it, and in a minute we was back up in the sky, 
and the woman was staring up, with the back of 
her head between her shoulders and the child with 
its arms locked around her neck. And there she 
stood, as long as we was in sight a-sailiug away in 
the sky. 



CHAPTER VII 

' Noon ! ' says Tom, and so it was. His shadder 
was just a blot around his feet. We looked, and 
the Grinnage clock was so close to twelve the 
difference didn't amount to nothing. So Tom said 
London was right north of us or right south of us, 
one or t'other, and he reckoned by the weather and 
the sand and the camels it was north ; and a good 
many miles north, too — as many as from New 
York to the city of Mexico, he guessed. 

Jim said he reckoned a balloon was a good deal 
