of your country must be from such an expression of it.”
I wished to tell him that while a country school-teacher who waits at
table in a summer hotel is very much to be respected in her sphere, she is
not regarded with that high honor which some other women command among us;
but I did not find this very easy, after what I had said of our esteem for
labor; and while I was thinking how I could hedge, my friend went on.
“I liked England greatly, and I liked the English, but I could not like
the theory of their civilization or the aristocratic structure of their
society. It seemed to me iniquitous, for we believe that inequality and
iniquity are the same in the last analysis.”
At this I found myself able to say: “Yes, there is something terrible,
something shocking, in the frank brutality with which Englishmen affirm
the essential inequality of men. The affirmation of the essential equality
of men was the first point of departure with us when we separated from
them.”
“I know,” said the Altrurian. “How grandly it is expressed in your
glorious Declaration!”
“Ah, you have read our Declaration of Independence, then?”
“Every Altrurian has read that,” answered my friend.
“Well,” I went on smoothly, and I hoped to render what I was going to say
the means of enlightening him without offence concerning the little
mistake he had just made with the waitress, “of course we don’t take that
in its closest literality.”
“I don’t understand you,” he said.
“Why, you know it was rather the political than the social traditions of
England that we broke with, in the Revolution.”
“How is that?” he returned. “Didn’t you break with monarchy and nobility,
and ranks and classes?”
“Yes, we broke with all those things.”
“But I found them a part of the social as well as the political structure
in England. You have no kings or nobles here. Have you any ranks or
classes?”
“Well, not exactly in the English sense. Our ranks and classes, such as we
have, are what I may call voluntary.”
“Oh, I understand. I suppose that from time to time certain ones among you
feel the need of serving, and ask leave of the commonwealth to subordinate
themselves to the rest of the state and perform all the lowlier offices in
it. Such persons must be held in peculiar honor. Is it something like
that?”
“Well, no, I can’t say it’s quite like that. In fact I think I’d better
let you trust to your own observation of our life.”
“But I’m sure,” said the Altrurian, with a simplicity so fine that it was
a long time before I could believe it quite real, “that I shall approach
it so much more intelligently with a little instruction from you. You say
that your social divisions are voluntary. But do I understand that those
who serve among you do not wish to do so?”
“Well, I don’t suppose they would serve if they could help it,” I replied.
“Surely,” said the Altrurian, with a look of horror, “you don’t mean that
they are slaves.”
“Oh no! oh no!” I said; “the war put an end to that. We are all free now,
black and white.”
“But if they do not wish to serve, and are not held in peculiar honor for
serving--”
“I see that my word ‘voluntary’ has misled you,” I put in. “It isn’t the
word exactly. The divisions among us are rather a process of natural
selection. You will see, as you get better acquainted with the workings of
our institutions, that there are no arbitrary distinctions here but the
fitness of the work for the man and the man for the work determines the
social rank that each one holds.”
“Ah, that is fine!” cried the Altrurian, with a glow of enthusiasm. “Then
I suppose that these intelligent young people who teach school in winter
and serve at table in the summer are in a sort of provisional state,
waiting for the process of natural selection to determine whether they
shall finally be teachers or waiters.”
“Yes, it might be stated in some such terms,” I assented, though I was not
altogether easy in my mind. It seemed to me that I was not quite candid
with this most candid spirit. I added: “You know we are a sort of
fatalists here in America. We are great believers in the doctrine that it
will all come out right in the end.”
“Ah, I don’t wonder at that,” said the Altrurian, “if the process of
natural selection works so perfectly among you as you say. But I am afraid
I don’t understand this matter of your domestic service yet. I believe you
said that all honest work is honored in America. Then no social slight
attaches to service, I suppose?”
“Well, I can’t say that, exactly. The fact is, a certain social slight
does attach to service, and that is one reason why I don’t quite like to
have students wait at table. It won’t be pleasant for them to remember it
in after-life, and it won’t be pleasant for their children to remember
it.”
“Then the slight would descend?”
“I think it would. One wouldn’t like to think one’s father or mother had
been at service.”
The Altrurian said nothing for a moment. Then he remarked: “So it seems
that while all honest work is honored among you, there are some kinds of
honest work that are not honored so much as others.”
“Yes.”
“Why?”
“Because some occupations are more degrading than others.”
“But why?” he persisted, as I thought, a little unreasonably.
“Really,” I said, “I think I must leave you to imagine.”
“I am afraid I can’t,” he said, sadly. “Then, if domestic service is
degrading in your eyes, and people are not willing servants among you, may
I ask why any are servants?”
“It is a question of bread-and-butter. They are obliged to be.”
“That is, they are forced to do work that is hateful and disgraceful to
them because they cannot live without?”
“Excuse me,” I said, not at all liking this sort of pursuit, and feeling
it fair to turn even upon a guest who kept it up. “Isn’t it so with you in
Altruria?”
“It was so once,” he admitted, “but not now. In fact, it is like a waking
dream to find one’s self in the presence of conditions here that we
outlived so long ago.”
There was an unconscious superiority in this speech that nettled me, and
stung me to retort: “We do not expect to outlive them. We regard them as
final, and as indestructibly based in human nature itself.”
“Ah,” said the Altrurian, with a delicate and caressing courtesy, “have I
said something offensive?”
“Not at all,” I hastened to answer. “It is not surprising that you did not
get our point of view exactly. You will by-and-by, and then, I think, you
will see that it is the true one. We have found that the logic of our
convictions could not be applied to the problem of domestic service. It is
everywhere a very curious and perplexing problem. The simple old solution
of the problem was to own your servants; but we found that this was not
consistent with the spirit of our free institutions. As soon as it was
abandoned the anomaly began. We had outlived the primitive period when the
housekeeper worked with her domestics and they were her help, and were
called so; and we had begun to have servants to do all the household work,
and to call them so. This state of things never seemed right to some of
our purest and best people. They fancied, as you seem to have done, that
to compel people through their necessities to do your hateful drudgery,
