novel slip down on her lap, she sat there, looking about the room. Miss
Billy Breeze had marvelled over the luxurious toilet table at
L'Hommedieu; here the whole room was like that table. Presently its
occupant put out her hand, and drew towards her a small stand which held
her jewel-box. For she already had jewels, as Chase liked to buy them
for her. He would have covered his wife with diamonds if Mrs. Franklin
had not said (during that first visit at Asheville after the marriage),
"Ruth is too young to wear diamonds, Mr. Chase; don't you think so?"
Chase did not think so; but he had deferred to her opinion--at least, he
supposed himself to be deferring to it when he bought only rubies and
sapphires and pearls. His wife now turned over these ornaments. She put
on the pearl necklace; then she took it off, and held it against her
cheek. But she did not spend as much time as usual over the jewels.
Often she entertained herself with them for an hour; it had been one of
her husband's amusements to watch her. To-night, putting the case aside,
she strolled to the window, opened it and looked out. The stars were
shining brilliantly overhead; she could hear the soft lapping of the
water against the sea-wall. From Anastasia came at intervals the flash
of the light-house. "I was over there at sunset," she said to herself as
she watched the gleam. Then closing the window, she walked idly to and
fro, with her hands clasped behind her. "How happy I am!" she thought;
or rather she did not think it, she felt it. She had no desire to sleep;
the door of the bedroom stood open behind her, but she did not go in.
She sat down on the divan, and let her head fall back among the
cushions: "Everything is perfect--perfect. How delightful it is to
live!"
CHAPTER X
Two days after the Indian party at Andalusia, the excursion which Mrs.
Kip had called a "boat-drive" came off. Horace Chase was still absent;
he had telegraphed to his wife that he could not return before the last
of the week. As all the preparations had been made, the excursion was
not postponed on his account. Nor was there any reason why it should be.
It was not given in honor of his wife, especially; Ruth, after sixteen
months of marriage, could hardly be called a bride. In addition, the
little winter colony had learned that an hour or two of their leisurely
pleasure-making was about as much as this man of affairs could enjoy
(some persons said "could endure"); after that his face was apt to
betray a vague boredom, although it was evident that (with his usual
careful politeness) he was trying to conceal it.
Walter Willoughby, meanwhile, was making the best of an annoying
situation. He had lost the chance of being introduced to David
Patterson, and with it the opportunity of learning something definite,
at last, about Chase's Californian interests, and this seemed to him a
great misfortune. But there was no use in moaning over it; the course to
follow was not still further to lose the five days of Chase's absence
in sulking, but to employ them in the only profitable way that was left
open (small profit, but better than nothing)--namely, in cementing still
further a friendly feeling between himself and Chase's wife, that
butterfly young wife who had been the cause of so many of his
disappointments. "Every little helps, I suppose," he said to himself,
philosophically. "And as the thing she likes best, apparently, is to go
and keep going, why, I'll take her own pace and outrace her--the little
gad-about!" For, to Walter's eyes, Ruth appeared very young; mentally
unformed as yet, child-like. His adjective "little" could, in truth,
only be applied to her in this sense, for in actual inches Mrs. Chase
was almost as tall as he was. Walter was of medium height, robust and
compact. He had a well-shaped, well-poised head, which joined his strong
neck behind with no hollow and scarcely a curve. His thick, dark hair
was kept very short; but, with his full temples and facial outlines,
this curt fashion became him well. He was not called handsome, though
his features were clearly cut and firm. His gray eyes were ordinarily
rather cold. But when he was animated--and he was usually very
animated--young Willoughby looked full of life. He was fond of pleasure,
fond of amusement. But this did not prevent his possessing, underneath
the surface, a resolute will, which he could enforce against himself as
well as against others. He intended to enjoy life. And as, according to
his idea, there could be no lasting enjoyment without freedom from the
pinch of anxiety about material things, he also intended to get
money--first of all to get money. "For a few years, while one is young,
to have small means doesn't so much matter," he had told himself. "But
when one reaches middle age, or passes it, then, if one has children,
care inevitably steps in. There are anxieties, of course, which cannot
be prevented. But this particular one can be--with a certain amount of
energy, and also of resolute self-control in the beginning. The
'have-a-good-time-while-you-are-young' policy doesn't compensate for
having a bad time when you are old, in my opinion. And it's care that
makes one old!"
Horace Chase had left St. Augustine on Monday. The next evening, at Mrs.
Kip's impromptu ball in the gymnasium, the junior partner of Willoughby,
Chase, & Company devoted his time to Mrs. Chase with much skill. His
attentions remained unobtrusive; he did not dance with her often. The
latter, indeed, would not have been possible in any case; for Mrs. Chase
was surrounded, from first to last, by all that St. Augustine could
offer. Graceful as she was in all her movements, Ruth's dancing was
particularly charming. And it was also striking; for, sinuous, lithe,
soon excited, she danced because she loved it, danced with unconscious
abandon. That night, her slender figure in the white ball dress, that
floated backward in the rapid motion, her happy face with the starry
eyes and beautiful color coming and going--this made a picture which
those who were present remembered long. At ten o'clock she had begun to
dance; at two, when many persons were taking leave, she was still on the
floor; with her circle of admirers, it was now Mrs. Chase who was
keeping up the ball. Her mother, who was staying with her during her
husband's absence, had accompanied her to Andalusia. But there was no
need to ask whether Mrs. Franklin was tired; Mrs. Franklin was never
tired in scenes of gayety; she was as well entertained as her daughter.
Walter had danced but twice with Mrs. Chase during the four hours. But
always between her dances he had been on hand. If she had a fancy for
spending a few moments on the veranda, he had her white cloak ready; if
she wished for an ice, it appeared by magic; if there was any one she
did not care to dance with, she could always say that she was engaged to
Mr. Willoughby. It was in this way, in fact, that Mr. Willoughby had
obtained his two dances. The last dance, however, was all his own. It
was three o'clock; even the most good-natured chaperons had collected
their charges, and the music had ceased. "How sorry I am! I do so long
for just one waltz more," said Ruth.
She spoke to her mother, but Walter overheard the words. He went across
to the musicians (in reality he bribed them); then returning, he said:
"I've arranged it, Mrs. Chase. You are to have that one waltz more." A
few of the young people, tempted by the revived strains, threw aside
their wraps and joined them, but practically they had the floor to
themselves. Walter was an expert dancer, skilful and strong; he bore his
partner down the long room, guiding her so securely that she was not
obliged to think of their course; she could leave that entirely to him,
and give herself up to the enjoyment of the motion. As they returned
towards the music for the third time, she supposed that he would stop.
But he did not; he swept her down again, and in shorter circles that
made her, light as she was on her feet, a little giddy. "Isn't this
enough?" she asked. But apparently he did not hear her. The floor began
to spin. "Please stop," she murmured, her eyes half closing from the
