stopping-place. Steam had been reduced so that the arrival should not be
in the night. The passage had been made in about four days. The pilot
came on board at six o'clock in the morning, and the passengers were
already on the promenade. Two large steamers were at anchor in the
roads, and were engaged in coaling and watering. A boat came off as soon
as the ship anchored, containing an agent of the great Parsee merchants,
who do most of the business of the town. He wished to see the captain,
who was in his cabin.

"Good-morning, Captain," said the man, speaking very good English. "I
have taken the liberty to bring off some newspapers."

"I am greatly obliged to you, for we are getting hungry for newspapers,"
replied Captain Ringgold as he took the package. "Excuse me for a moment
and I will send them to the passengers, for I have not time to look at
them now."

He tossed the bundle of papers up to Dr. Hawkes, and returned to his
cabin.

"I shall be happy to take your orders for whatever you may need at this
port, including coal and water, as well as provisions and other
supplies," continued the agent.

The commander ordered both coal and water; for he knew about the Parsee
merchants, and referred Mr. Gaskill, as he gave his name, to Mr.
Melancthon Sage, the chief steward.

"What sort of goods do you furnish here, Mr. Gaskill?" asked the
commander.

"Every sort, Captain Ringgold. This steamer does not belong to any
regular line, I think," said the agent.

"It does not to any line, regular or irregular; and yet she is not a
tramp," replied the commander with a smile.

"Is she a man-of-war?" inquired the visitor, opening wide his big eyes.

"She is not; she is a yacht, with a pleasure party on board who are
making a voyage around the world."

"Ah, yes, Captain; I understand. There is another steam-yacht in the
roads, over beyond the P. & O. steamer nearest to you. Perhaps you have
seen her; she is painted white all over."

"I did not notice her. What flag does she carry?"

"She sails under the British flag. But you suggested that you might need
other supplies. We can furnish your party with all the English goods
they want, and there are first-class tailors and dressmakers here."

"My passengers must speak for themselves," answered the captain. "I fear
you cannot furnish the supplies I need."

"We can furnish everything that can be named," persisted the agent of
the Parsee merchants. "What do you require?"

"Two twenty-four pounders, brass, naval carriages, and all the
ammunition needed for their use," replied the commander; and he felt as
though he had made an impossible demand.

"We can furnish anything and everything you may desire in this line; in
fact, we can fit out your ship as a man-of-war. But do you need only two
such guns as you describe, Captain Ringgold?" asked the business-driving
Mr. Gaskill. "We have a lot of four of them, and we should like to
dispose of them together."

"I will see the guns before I say anything more about the matter. When
can you fill our water-tanks and coal-bunkers?" inquired the commander.

"We are very busy to-day, for we have several steamers to supply; but it
shall be done before to-morrow noon."

"Now I will introduce you to our chief steward."

Mr. Sage insisted upon seeing his supplies before he named the quantity
needed, and made an appointment on shore.




CHAPTER XXXIII

A DISAPPOINTMENT TO CAPTAIN SCOTT


Captain Ringgold knew something about Aden before he decided to make a
stopping-place of it, and it was certainly a more agreeable location
than Perim. The town--or towns, for there appear to be several of
them--is described by a former resident as a sort of crater like that of
a volcano, formed by a circular chain of steep hills, the highest of
which is 1,775 feet above the sea level. The slope outside of them
reaching to the waters of the Arabian Gulf, or the Gulf of Aden as it is
now called, has several strings of hills in that direction, with valleys
between them, radiating from the group to the shore.

Aden is a peninsula connected with Hadramaut, the southern section of
Arabia, by a narrow isthmus, covered at the spring tides by the
surrounding waters. Over it is a causeway conveying an aqueduct which is
always above the sea level. The region looks as though it might have
been subject to volcanic convulsions at some remote period. Within the
circle of hills are the town and a portion of the military works. In its
natural location, as well as in the strength of its defences, it bears
some resemblance to Gibraltar.

This was the substance of what the commander told his passengers before
they landed, and proceeded to give points in the history of the
peninsula, which he had studied up, as he always did when approaching a
new locality; and though he was a walking encyclopædia, he had not
obtained this reputation without much study and labor in addition to his
extensive voyages and travels "all over the world."

"A learned biblical scholar of the last century, who studied Oriental
history in connection with the sacred record, identifies Aden as the
Eden mentioned by Ezekiel in describing the wealth of Tyrus," continued
the commander.

"But who was Tyrus, Captain?" asked Mrs. Blossom, who was wide awake
when any scriptural name was used.
