But for the orchard outings Hester would have had but a dull summer of
it. As it was, it was the happiest of her life. She actually gained
flesh, and her cheeks had the delicate flush of a sweet-pea blossom.
She mellowed and mollified in the intercourse with the sound, bright
natures of her new friends. Prosperity was teaching her unselfishness.

Hetty had a proof of this after the Sunday dinner was eaten, and there
still remained a long hour of sunful daylight.

“I have a charming book which Miss May lent me yesterday,” she said, as
her custodian inquired what she should do for her entertainment. “And
now that mamma has set the children to studying their Sunday-school
lessons for next week, you ought to have a breathing spell, my poor
dear. You are bleaching too fast to please me. You can’t plead ‘work to
do’ for once.”

Hetty yielded—the more, it would seem, because she had not the strength
to resist love pleadings than from any desire for the “outing”
recommended by Hester. Taking shawl and cushion with her, she passed
down the garden alley to the gate. There was a broad track through the
orchard, worn by the wheeled chair and Hester’s attendants. It led
straight to the king apple tree. From this bourne another track, not so
distinctly marked, diverged to the white picket fence shutting in the
Gilchrist garden. Hetty’s feet had never trodden this, she reflected
with a pang, after she had settled herself against the brown trunk. It
was most probable that she never would.

Her one little dream was dead, and she was too practical a business
woman to resuscitate it. Her consistent plan of avoiding March
Gilchrist and abjuring the painful sweet of association with his sister
was adopted before she returned to the house from her ineffectual quest
for Homer and the parsley. She was filled with wonder, in looking back
to the time—was it three minutes, or thirty?—she had wasted, leaning
on the gate, enveloped in lilac perfume as in a viewless mantle, and
daring to feel as other and unexceptional girls feel—that she could
have forgotten herself so utterly. She said—“so shamelessly.”

“The worm on the earth may look up to the star,” if it fancies that
method of spending an ignoble life, but star-gazing and presumptuous
longing for a million centuries would bring planets and worms no nearer
together. Hetty was very humble in imagining the figure. Some people
must live on the shady side of the street, where rents are low, and
green mold gathers upon stones, and snails crawl in areas. If the
wretches who pune and pale in the malaria-breeding damps would not go
mad, they must not look too often across the way where flowers and
people bloom. If they do, they must support the consequences.

This misguided girl had looked. She was now suffering. That she merited
what she had to bear did not make the pain less.

Unwittingly she had spread her shawl where March had laid his rug last
night. The rough bark of the tree-bole hurt her presently. Her gown
was thin, and her flesh less firm than it had been six weeks ago. She
slid down upon the shawl, her head on the cushion, and reached out, in
idle misery, to pick up some withered leaves and small, unripe apples
scattered on the grass. March had dropped them while hearkening to
his sister’s criticism of the Bohemian household. She was as idly—and
as miserably—tearing apart the leaves toughened by the heat of the
day, when she heard a joyous rush behind her and felt the panting of
hot breath upon her neck, and Thor was kissing her face and licking
her hands. She sprang to her feet and cast a wild glance along the
path and under the trees. There was no one in sight. The grounds were
peremptorily posted, and no vagrant foot ever crossed them. She took in
the situation at once. March had gone to New York in the five o’clock
train; the dog, wandering aimlessly about and missing his master,
had espied her, and accepted her as a substitute. She knelt down and
clasped her arms about his head, laid her cheek to his burly muzzle.

“O Thor! Thor! you would help me if you could.” Just as she had fondled
him in those far-away, blissful days. Her hand was tangled in his coat
when, looking across his huge bulk, she had met March Gilchrist’s eyes.
True eyes—and bonny and true, which must never read her soul again.

“Thor! dear Thor!” She cried it out in a passion of tears.

The faithful fellow moaned a little in sympathy. The more eloquent than
human longing to comfort the sorrowing, never seen except in a dog’s
eyes, filled and rounded his.

“I wouldn’t cry if I could help it, dear,” said Hetty, her arch smile
striking through the rain. “And nobody else should see me shed a tear.
You are my only confidant; and I do believe you understand—a little.”

He was not an indifferent consoler, it appeared, for in fifteen minutes
both of them were asleep, their heads upon the same pillow.

The sunset sea breeze rustled the stooping boughs. Arrows of greenish
gold, tipped with fire, were shot at random between the leaves at the
sleeping pair. Hetty was very pale, but the grieving droop of the
facial lines, the slight fullness of the lower lip, and the slow curve
of the arm thrown above her head made her seem like a child. She looked
what she was, fairly tired out—weariness so intense that it would
have chased slumber from the eyelids of an older sufferer. She had
cried herself to sleep, Thor’s presence giving the sense of protecting
companionship the child feels in his mother’s nearness. The cool breath
of the approaching twilight, the grateful shade, and Sabbath stillness
did the rest.

Now and then a long, broken sigh heaved her chest, and ran through her
body. There was the glisten of tiny crystals upon her eyelashes. Once
she sobbed aloud, and Thor moved uneasily and sighed sympathetically.
By and by he began to beat his tail gently against the turf, his
beautiful eyes gleamed glad and wistful, but he did not offer to lift
his head. Hetty patted it in her sleep, and left her hand there.

She and Thor were walking over a wilderness prairie. The coarse grass
flaunted up to her chin, and she would have lost the dog had she not
wound her fingers in his hair. Such a long, tiresome, toilsome way it
was, and the grass so stiff and strong! Sometimes it knotted about
her ankles; sometimes the beards struck like whips across her face. A
bitter wind was blowing, and stung her eyes to watering. In passing it
lashed the grass into surges that boomed like the sea.

Miles and miles away an orange sunset burned luridly upon the horizon,
and right between her and it was a floating figure, moving majestically
onward. A mantle blew back in the bitter wind until she could almost
touch the hem; a confusing flutter of drapery masked the head and
shoulders; the face was set steadfastly westward and kept away from
her. At long intervals a hand was tossed clear of the white foldings
and beckoned her to follow.
