this kindly demonstration of homage and affection, 
but let it run its course unrebuked. 
The old ladies stopped and shook hands with the 
twins with effusion, then gave the Judge a friendly 
nod, and bustled into the seats provided for them. 
They immediately began to deliver a volley of eager 
 
questions at the friends around them: "What is 
this thing for?" "What is that thing for?" "Who 
is that young man that's writing at the desk? Why, 
I declare, it's Jack Bunce! I thought he was sick." 
"Which is the jury? Why, is that the jury? Billy 
Price and Job Turner, and Jack Lounsbury, and 
— well, I never!" "Now who would ever 'a* 
thought—" 
But they were gently called to order at this point, 
and asked not to talk in court. Their tongues fell 
silent, but the radiant interest in their faces re- 
mained, and their gratitude for the blessing of a 
new sensation and a novel experience still beamed 
undimmed from their eyes. Aunt Patsy stood up 
and took the oath, and Mr. Allen explained the 
point in issue, and asked her to go on now, in her 
own way, and throw as much light upon it as she 
could. She toyed with her reticule a moment or two, 
as if considering where to begin, then she said: 
"Well, the way of it is this. They are Luigi's 
legs a week at a time, and then they are Angelo's, 
and he can do whatever he wants to with them." 
"You are making a mistake, Aunt Patsy Cooper," 
said the Judge. "You shouldn't state that as a. fact, 
because you don't know it to be a fact." 
"What's the reason I don't?" said Aunt Patsy, 
bridling a little. 
"What is the reason that you do know it?" 
"The best in the world — because they told me." 
"That isn't a reason." 
"Well, for the land's sake! Betsv Hale, do you 
hear that?" 
 
"Hear it? I should think so," said Aunt Betsy, 
rising and facing the court. "Why, Judge, I was 
there and heard it myself. Luigi says to Angelo — 
no, it was Angelo said it to — " 
"Come, come, Mrs. Hale, pray sit down, and — " 
"Certainly, it's all right, I'm going to sit down 
presently, but not until I've — " 
"But you must sit down!" 
"Must! Well, upon my word if things ain't 
getting to a pretty pass when — " 
The house broke into laughter, but was promptly 
brought to order, and meantime Air. Allen persuaded 
the old lady to take her seat. Aunt Patsy continued : 
"Yes, they told me that, and I know it's true. 
They're Luigi's legs this week, but — " 
"Ah, they told you that did they?" said the 
Justice, with interest. 
"Well, no, I don't know that they told me, but 
that's neither here nor there. I know, without that, 
that at dinner } r esterday, Angelo was as tired as a 
dog, and yet Luigi wouldn't lend him the legs to go 
up-stairs and take a nap with." 
"Did he ask for them?" 
"Let me see — it seems to me somehow, that — 
that — Aunt Betsy, do you remember whether he — " 
"Never mind about what Aunt Betsy remembers 
— she is not a witness; we only want to know what 
you remember yourself," said the Judge. 
"Well, it does seem to me that you are most 
cantankerously particular about a little thing, Sim 
Robinson. Why, when I can't remember a thing 
myself, I always — " 
 
"Ah, please go on!" 
"Now how can she when you keep fussing at her 
all the time?" said Aunt Betsy. "Why, with a 
person pecking at me that way, I should get that 
fuzzled and fuddled that — " 
She was on her feet again, but Allen coaxed her 
into her seat once more, while the court squelched 
the mirth of the house. Then the Judge said : 
"Madam, do you know — do you absolutely 
know, independently of anything these gentlemen 
have told you — that the power over their legs passes 
from the one to the other regularly every week?" 
"Regularly? Bless your heart, regularly ain't 
any name for the exactness of it ! All the big cities 
in Europe used to set the clocks by it." (Laughter, 
suppressed by the court.) 
"How do you know? That is the question. 
Please answer it plainly and squarely." 
"Don't you talk to me like that, Sim Robinson — 
I won't have it. How do I know, indeed! How 
do you know what you know? Because somebody 
told you. You didn't invent it out of your own 
head, did you? Why, these twins are the truthful- 
est people in the world; and I don't think it be- 
comes you to sit up there and throw slurs at them 
when they haven't been doing anything to you. 
And they are orphans besides — both of them. 
All—" 
But Aunt Betsy was up again now, and both old 
ladies were talking at once and with all their might ; 
but as the house was weltering in a storm of laughter, 
and the Judge was hammering his desk with an iron 
 
paper-weight, one could only see them talk, not 
hear them. At last, when quiet was restored, the 
court said: 
"Let the ladies retire." 
"But, your honor, I have the right, in the interest 
of my clients, to cross-exam — " 
"You'll not need to exercise it, Mr. Wilson — 
the evidence is thrown out." 
"Thrown out!" said Aunt Patsy, ruffled; "and 
what's it thrown out for, I'd like to know." 
"And so would I, Patsy Cooper. It seems to 
me that if we can save these poor persecuted stran- 
gers, it is our bounden duty to stand up here and talk 
for them till—" 
