




perhaps, through that clairvoyant intuition 
which girls possess, she would divine and 
jest. As he told himself this, it occurred to 
him that he might parry any possible thrust 
by the announcement that he was to leave 
town. After all, never yet had he asked 
for a holiday ; there was not an imaginable 
reason why he should not demand and 
obtain leave for an outing in Florida. But 
fate, that uncertain force which we recognize secretly and openly deny, willed otherwise. He was not destined to mingle with 
the magnolias that year no, nor on any 
other. 

" I think," he began, when the soup had 
gone, " I think, if Mr. Attersol don't mind, 
that I will take a run out of town to-morrow. 
What do you say, Myrrha ? Wouldn't it be 
a good idea for me to go to St. Augustine, 
or somewhere? These gayeties, you know, 
are upsetting." 

The girl shrugged a shoulder indiffer- 
ently. " A good idea yes, if you want to." 

Quain bit his lip. There had been a failure in the street, others were imminent. A 
political job, a triumph in trickery had been 
unearthed. The papers were dripping with 
scandals social, financial, ecclesiastic. A 
wave of corruption seemed to be crossing 
the continent. Mr. Attersol touched on the 
subject, but distantly, with his finger-tips. 
Quain picked it up bodily. Never had he 
appeared so intractable. You would have 
said that everything which was occurring 
was a matter of personal import. The 
ataraxia had gone. 

"At this rate," he declared, by way of 
conclusion, " the hour is near when this 
globe of ours, in whirling through space, 
will poison the universe with the fetidity of 
its exhalations." 

" My ! " exclaimed Mrs. Smithwick, whom 
the prospect startled. " My ! my ! ! " 

But Quain had turned to Myrrha. There 
was a violence in his eyes, a bitterness, an 
unreasoning anger, a light as well, which 
suddenly inundated her. A flush flamed to 
her face, she could have cried aloud ; she 





wished herself anywhere save where she was ; 
she was smitten by emotion as by a blow. 
"He loves me," she reflected. "He is 
angry because I have not seen it and I 
have." 

Mr. Attersol leaned from his seat : 

" What is the matter with you ? You are 
scarlet." 

The girl muttered something, but what ? 
The words were inaudible. She stood up 
and left the room. 

" Gayeties are upsetting," Mr. Attersol 
announced significantly. " Adelaide," he 
continued to Mrs. Smithwick, " see to it 
that she goes nowhere this week." 

As quickly as he could Quain got from 
the house. On the steps he reeled. He, too, 
had seen. He was blinded. It was unreal, 
he kept telling himself. It was impossible. 
He was the toy of an illusion. But the expression which her face had taken on in 
answer to the reproach on his was voluble. 
" She knows that I love her," he muttered. 
"She knows it, and if I read her eyes aright 





dear God, if I have, life is as fair as a 
dream." 

On the morrow he was irresolute, vacillant 
still. By four he left the office. An hour 
later he was at the house, determined if at 
all but as to one thing to know. 

" Yes, Miss Attersol was at home," he 
learned from the serwant ; and from coats in 
the hall, that Miss Attersol was not alone. 
How he entered the room he could not afterward recall. He was conscious merely that 
Melanchthon Stitt spoke to him, Bancroft 
as well, that he hated them both, and that 
for a second he held Myrrha's hand in his. 

"Yes, it was most odd," Stitt was saying. 
" Have you heard, Quain ? " the novelist interrupted himself to ask. " That little rival 
of mine, Mrs. Fordyce, has committed suicide. I was just telling Miss Attersol. Suicide always seems to me such a poor climax, 
particularly as life is well enough, agreeable 
even, if you let it have its own way. Of 
course, if you try to oppose it with all sorts 
of ideas you have got you don't know how, 



