broadest Irish, and sing all the street songs. The children were
positively fascinated with her. A wonder came to Dil as to how it would
feel to be so enthusiastically admired.
She lay there swinging to and fro until the supper bell rang long and
loud. One of the attendants came and talked with her while the children
were tripping in from the woods. Something in her appearance and gentle
manner reminded Dil of the hospital nurse.
There was a good deal of singing in the evening, but they all went to
bed early. How wonderfully quiet it was! No dogs barking, no marauding
cats wauling dismally on back fences, no rattle and whiz of “L” cars, no
clatter of heavy wagons. And oh, the wonderful sweetness in the air! If
Dil had ever achieved Bible reading, she would have thought of “songs in
the night” and a “holy solemnity,” but she could feel the things
unutterable.
The window was next to her bed. She sat up and watched the ships of
fleece go drifting by. How the great golden stars twinkled! Were they
worlds? and did people live in them? They made a mysterious melody; and
though she had not heard of the stars singing for joy, she felt it in
every pulse with a sweet, solemn thrill of rapture.
Was that heaven back of the shining stars? And oh! would she and Bess
and John Travis be together there? For he would help her to call back
Bess, as she came on Sunday. It was only a little while to wait now. She
felt the assurance—for the poor ignorant little girl had translated St.
Paul’s sublime, “By faith.”
The moon silvered the tree-tops, and presently sent one slant ray across
the bed. Dil laid her hands in it with a trance of ecstasy. The
delicious state of quietude seemed to make her a part of all lovely,
heavenly things. It was the “land of pure delight” that John Travis sang
about. A whole line came back to her,—
    “And pleasures banish pain.”
Dilsey Quinn had attained to the spiritual pleasures. Pain was not,
could not be again.
She was not a bit sleepy. She watched the moon dropping down and down.
All the insects had stopped. A soft darkness seemed spread over
everything, and by dozens the stars went out. Ah, how wonderful it all
was! If people could only have chances to know!
“My child,” said Miss Mary at the breakfast table, “you are not eating
anything! Don’t you like porridge, and this nice milk?”
“Yes, it’s so good,” replied Dil gratefully. “An’ the milk seems almost
as if ’twas full of roses, it’s so sweet. But I can’t get hungry as I
used, an’ when I eat just a little I seem all filled up.”
“Would you like bread better? And some nice creamed potatoes?”
“I don’t want nothin’ more.” Dil looked up with a soft light in her
eyes. “Mebbe by noon I’ll be hungry—I most know I will.”
“Yes, I hope so.”
It was such a long morning to Dil, so hard to sit round and do nothing.
If there had been a baby to tend, or a room to tidy. She would have been
glad to go to the kitchen and help prepare the vegetables. She was so
used to work that she could not feel at home in idleness.
She went over to the woods with the children to please Miss Mary, who
suggested it so gently. But some feeling—the long disuse of
childhood—held her aloof. She could not join in their plays, but it was
a pleasure to watch them. And how wonderful the woods were! The soft
grasses with feathery heads, the mosses, some of them with tiny red
blossoms not as large as a pin’s head. There were a few wild flowers
left, and long trails of clematis wandering about; shining bitter-sweet,
green chestnut burrs in clusters, the long, fringy blossoms in yellow
brown still holding on to some of them. There were bunches of little fox
grapes, too bitter and sour for even children to eat.
She sat down on a stone and almost held her breath. It was the real,
every-day country, not Central Park. The birds sang at their own sweet
will, and made swift dazzles in the sunshine as they flew from tree to
tree. Could heaven be any better? But there was no pain nor sickness nor
weariness in heaven. And she felt so strangely tired at some moments.
She used her utmost endeavors to eat some dinner. It had such an
appetizing flavor. The little girl next to her, who had swallowed her
supper so quickly last night, eyed it longingly.
“You can have the potato and the meat,” Dil whispered softly. That
travelled down red lane, and still seemed to leave a hollow behind. It
was like the hungry boys at home, and she smiled.
She sat under the tree again, and Miss Mary tried to persuade her to go
and play, but she was gently obstinate.
“Miss Lawrence asked me specially to look after her,” she said to
another of the attendants. “She looks like a little ghost; but whether
she is really ill, or only dead tired out, I can’t decide. It’s so
natural for children to want to play, but she doesn’t seem to care to do
anything but mope. Yet she speaks up so cheerful.”
“Poor children! How hard some of their lives are,” and her companion
sighed.
Dil’s supper tasted good; and she was so sorry she couldn’t eat more, as
she glanced up and caught Miss Mary’s eye.
“I’m ever so much better,” she said in her soft, bright manner. “I’m
glad; for the boys wanted me to get well an’ fat, an’ have red cheeks.
I’ll try my best, you’re all so good. An’ it’s such a beautiful place. I
wonder what made—some one—think ’bout the little mothers? But the babies
ought to be here too.”
“That wouldn’t give the little mothers much rest. Are there many babies
in your family?”
“There ain’t any, but—but some that come in. Other people’s babies.”
“And does your mother keep a nursery?”
“I ain’t got any mother now. I took the babies ’cause I liked them.”
“But where do you live?”
“With my brother an’—an’ the boys. I keep house.”
How unchildishly reticent she seemed. And most of the children were
ready to tell everything.
The little household was called in for their evening singing.
XIV—VIRGINIA DEERING
Wednesday’s visitor was a tall, slim girl with an abundance of soft,
light hair, that fell in loose waves and dainty little curls. Her gown
was so pretty, a sort of grayish-blue china silk with clusters of
flowers scattered here and there. Her wide-brimmed, gray chip hat was
just a garden of crushed roses, that looked as if they might shake off.
There was a charm about her, for the children who had seen her the week
before ran to her with joyful exclamations. They kissed her white hands,
they caught hold of her gown, and presently she dropped on the grass and
they all huddled about her. She told them a story, very amusing it must
have been, they laughed so. Sadie Carr, the little deformed girl, seemed
to lay instant claim to her.
Dil had a strange, homesick yearning to-day. She longed so to see the
boys. Her eyes overflowed with tears as she thought of them and their
warm, vital love. She seemed almost to have lost Bess. Could she see her
again at Cent’l Park she wondered? She would ask Patsey to take her
there as soon as she went home.
A great hay wagon had come and taken a load of the children down to the
meadows. Three were in disgrace for being naughty, and had to spend an
hour sitting on the stoop. Some were reading. The German girl was
crocheting.
Dil sat out under the old branching apple-tree, whose hard red apples
would be delightful along in the autumn. She was counting up the days.
To-night they would be half gone. Would they let her go on Saturday she
