silence for a few moments.
"Yes," said Johnstone at last, as though he had been reflecting, "you
generally say what you think. I didn't doubt it at the time. But you
seem rather hard on the men. Women are all angels, of course--"
"Not at all!" interrupted Clare. "Some of us are quite the contrary."
"Well, it's a generally accepted thing, you know. That's what I mean.
But it isn't generally accepted that men are. If you take men into
consideration at all, you must make some allowances."
"I don't see why. You are much stronger than we are. You all think that
you have much more pride. You always say that you have a sense of honour
which we can't understand. I should think that with all those advantages
you would be much too proud to insist upon our making allowances for
you."
"That's rather keen, you know," answered Brook, with a laugh. "All the
same, it's a woman's occupation to be good, and a man has a lot of other
things to do besides. That's the plain English of it. When a woman isn't
good she falls. When a man is bad, he doesn't--it's his nature."
"Oh--if you begin by saying that all men are bad! That's an odd way out
of it."
"Not at all. Good men and bad women are the exceptions, that's all--in
the way you mean goodness and badness."
"And how do you think I mean goodness and badness? It seems to me that
you are taking a great deal for granted, aren't you?"
"Oh, I don't know," said Brook, growing vague on a sudden. "Those are
rather hard things to talk about."
"I like to talk about them. How do you think I understand those two
words?"
"I don't know," repeated Johnstone, still more vaguely. "I suppose your
theory is that men and women are exactly equal, and that a man shouldn't
do what a woman ought not to do--and all that, you know. I don't exactly
know how to put it."
"I don't see why what is wrong for a woman should be right for a man,"
said Clare. "The law doesn't make any difference, does it? A man goes to
prison for stealing or forging, and so does a woman. I don't see why
society should make any distinction about other things. If there were a
law against flirting, it would send the men to prison just like the
women, wouldn't it?"
"What an awful idea!" laughed Brook.
"Yes, but in theory--"
"Oh, in theory it's all right. But in practice we men are not wrapped in
cotton and tied up with pink ribbons from the day we are born to the day
we are married. I--I don't exactly know how to explain what I mean, but
that's the general idea. Among poor people--I believe one mustn't say
the lower classes any more--well, with them it isn't quite the same. The
women don't get so much care and looking after, when they are young, you
know--that sort of thing. The consequence is, that there's much more
equality between men and women. I believe the women are worse, and the
men are better--it's my opinion, at all events. I dare say it isn't
worth much. It's only what I see at home, you know."
"But the working people don't flirt!" exclaimed Clare. "They drink, and
that sort of thing--"
"Yes, lots of them drink, men and women. And as for flirting--they
don't call it flirting, but in their way I dare say it's very much the
same thing. Only, in our part of the country, a man who flirts, if you
call it so, gets just as bad a name as a woman. You see, they have all
had about the same bringing up. But with us it's quite different. A girl
is brought up in a cage, like a turtle dove, with nothing to do except
to be good, while a boy is sent to a public school when he is eleven or
twelve, which is exactly the same as sending him to hell, except that he
has the certainty of getting away."
"But boys don't learn to flirt at Eton," observed the young girl.
"Well--no," answered Johnstone. "But they learn everything else, except
Latin and Greek, and they go to a private tutor to learn those things
before they go to the university."
"You mean that they learn to drink and gamble, and all that?" asked
Clare.
"Oh--more or less--a little of everything that does no good--and then
you expect us afterwards to be the same as you are, who have been
brought up by your mothers at home. It isn't fair, you know."
"No," answered Clare, yielding. "It isn't fair. That strikes me as the
best argument you have used yet. But it doesn't make it right, for all
that. And why shouldn't men be brought up to be good, just as women
are?"
Brook laughed.
"That's quite another matter. Only a paternal government could do
that--or a maternal government. We haven't got either, so we have to do
the best we can. I only state the fact, and you are obliged to admit it.
I can't go back to the reason. The fact remains. In certain ways, at a
certain age, all men as a rule are bad, and all women, on the whole, are
good. Most of you know it, and you judge us accordingly and make
allowances. But you yourself don't seem inclined to be merciful. Perhaps
you'll be less hard-hearted when you are older."
"I'm not hard-hearted!" exclaimed Clare, indignantly. "I'm only just.
And I shall always be the same, I'm sure."
"If I were a Frenchman," said Brook, "I should be polite, and say that I
hoped so. As I'm not, and as it would be rude to say that I didn't
believe it, I'll say nothing. Only to be what you call just, isn't the
way to be liked, you know."
"I don't want to be liked," Clare answered, rather sharply. "I hate what
are called popular people!"
"So do I. They are generally awful bores, don't you know? They want to
keep the thing up and be liked all the time."
"Well--if one likes people at all, one ought to like them all the time,"
objected Clare, with unnecessary contrariety.
"That was the original point," observed Brook. "That was your objection
to the man in the book--that he loved first one sister and then the
other. Poor chap! The first one loved him, and the second one prayed for
him! He had no luck!"
"A man who will do that sort of thing is past praying for!" retorted the
young girl. "It seems to me that when a man makes a woman believe that
he loves her, the best thing he can do is to be faithful to her
afterwards."
"Yes--but supposing that he is quite sure that he can't make her
happy--"
"Then he had no right to make love to her at all."
"But he didn't know it at first. He didn't find out until he had known
her a long time."
"That makes it all the worse," exclaimed Clare with conviction, but
without logic.
"And while he was trying to find out, she fell in love with him,"
continued Brook. "That was unlucky, but it wasn't his fault, you know--"
"Oh yes, it was--in that book at least. He asked her to marry him
before he had half made up his mind. Really, Mr. Johnstone," she
continued, almost losing her temper, "you defend the man almost as
though you were defending yourself!"
"That's rather a hard thing to say to a man, isn't it?"
Johnstone was young enough to be annoyed, though he was amused.
"Then why do you defend the man?" asked Clare, standing still at a turn
of the road and facing him.
"I won't, if we are going to quarrel about a ridiculous book," he
