ignorant of nautical terms. "Take the end of the rope in your hand, and
jump ashore as soon as it touches the land."
"All right; I understand you now," responded Ben, as he seized the
painter, and stood up in the fore-sheets as well as the rolling of the
boat in the current would permit.
"Now for it!" shouted Deck, as he felt the bottom of the boat strike on
its keel.
Ben said nothing, but sprang over the bow of the boat, upon what seemed
to be a flat shore, with the rope in his hand.
"Hold on with all your might, or I shall go down stream!" called Deck,
as he vigorously plied his paddle in an effort to heave around the
stern of the boat so that the current might strike it on the broadside.
The action of the stream helped him, and, assisted by the strength of
Ben at the painter, the tender was thrown high and dry on the gentle
slope where it had struck. The landing had proved to be a much less
difficult task than Deck had anticipated, perhaps because he had
skilfully handled the craft so that the current did most of the work.
The leader of the enterprise jumped from the stern-sheets upon the
ground, which was a part of the tongue of land formed by the great
bend, and extending to the south. Then Deck had a chance to look around
him, though it was too dark to make out the situation.
"Where are we now, Deck?" asked Ben.
"I never was here before; but I guess we are not more than six miles
below the intrenchments of the enemy on the Cumberland, and they have
another breastwork on the south side of the river," replied Deck, as he
continued to look about him.
"Where is Robertsport, of which you spoke a while ago?"
"That's on the opposite side of the river, not more than a quarter of a
mile higher up. I suppose you are satisfied now that you are on the
north side of the stream, and not on the south, as you anticipated,
Ben," said Deck.
"Yes; I reasoned that matter out, and found you were right. I suppose
you are about used up by this time. I wonder what o'clock it is."
"I have a watch if you have a match."
The sergeant took a tin box from his pocket, and lighted a match from
it, and held it under his cap. Deck produced his watch, and found that
it was twenty-five minutes past one.
"Later than I supposed," he added.
"We have been on our feet nearly twenty-four hours, and I think you
must be about played out," said the sergeant with a gape. "I am tired
out; and you are still young, too young to go without your regular
sleep."
"But I shall survey this locality before I do anything else."
"I am with you."
"I did not expect to find anything like a flat surface here," continued
the lieutenant, as he started to walk towards a high bluff in the
direction from which they had come.
It was only a couple of rods from the water, and the flat space where
they had come ashore was evidently made by the caving of the earth
along the bluff, when the river had been even higher than at present.
It was a hill which had possibly turned the river aside from its
westerly course to the south at some remote period in the past. There
was just such a bluff on the other side of the tongue of land, and
possibly a hill there had again changed the river's course to the
westward. But Deck's theory explained the presence of the fortunate
flat where they had landed.
"Now we must find a way to get up on the hill above the high bluff,"
said he, as he led the way up the river.
Beyond the bluff the bank of the river was the same as it had been all
the way from the fort, and the flat came to a sudden ending.
"Here is a flatboat," said Ben, who was the first to discover it.
"Somebody must live near here."
"This looks like a path up the bank," added Deck, who had been studying
the river above. "I think this must be a ferry, Ben; though I should
suppose the ferryman would find it hard work to get through the current
that brought us down."
It was plain that some work had been done on the path leading up the
bank, which was diagonal with the steep slope. It had been dug out, and
in the steepest parts there was something built for a fence or a
hand-rail. On the opposite side of the river from Robertsport there was
a road to the one extending from Harrison to Somerset. Doubtless the
ferry, if there was one, was for the use of travellers into Wayne
County, all of which lay on the south side of the river.
The fugitives were ready to mount the bluff by the path; but first they
went back to the boat, which might be of use to them later if they had
occasion to renew the voyage down the stream. They drew it back, and
concealed it behind a huge rock which the current had laid bare. Then
they mounted the path to the top of the bluff. Not ten rods from the
shore they found a cabin, around which were some fruit-trees and the
dried stalks of corn, showing that the land had been cultivated.
"This is some negro's house," said Ben, as they halted under a tree not
two rods from the cabin, which was nothing more than a shanty.
"It looks like one. Very likely the ferryman lives here," replied Deck.
"But there is some kind of a row going on in that cabin."
"It seems to be lighted up as though something was happening there at
this time of night. We will go up nearer and look into the matter,"
returned Ben, as he walked towards the cabin, and stationed himself at
the only window on that side of the building.
They listened for some time, and heard the voices of four different
white men, as they judged from their dialect.
"I done tole you I can't cross de riber to-night. We should all be
drownded, shore," replied an unmistakable negro.
CHAPTER XXVI
FOUR FUGITIVES FROM THE BATTLE-FIELD
The whinnying of a horse near the two wanderers attracted their
attention, and Fronklyn went over to look at the animal. He found four
of them hitched to the trees, all of them wearing cavalry saddles. The
sergeant still had his carbine slung at his back. He unslung the
firearm, thinking he might have occasion to use it. He knew the
lieutenant had reloaded his revolver after making with it the holes
across the board which had proved so serviceable to them.
In his report to the Confederate authorities at Richmond, General
Crittenden alludes to a battalion of cavalry, of which some officers
and privates were absent on furloughs, and of which all but about
twenty-five ran away. It is possible that the four troopers who were
trying to force the negro to ferry them over the river belonged to the
number.
"Cavalry," said the sergeant as he returned to the lieutenant.
"They have threatened to shoot the negro if he don't ferry them over to
Robertsport," added Deck, who had remained at the window of the shanty.
"They called him Cuffy; and when they threatened to kill him, he rushed
out of the house. I saw him go into the barn or outhouse in the rear.
The men lost sight of him when they followed him out, and perhaps
thinking he had gone to his boat, they went off in that direction. Let
us find the negro."
They went to the shanty, which did duty as a barn; but Cuffy had
concealed himself, and they could not find him. Deck called him by name
several times; and if the ferryman was not extremely stupid, he could
understand that neither his voice nor his speech was that of the
troopers.
