"Yes; she is doing well, but is in a great hurry to get well. The rent
comes due next week, and--"
"How much is it?" asked Miss Blagden, interrupting me.
"Seven dollars."
She drew a ten dollar bill from her pocket-book and extended it to me.
"Give that to Mrs. Mills," she said.
"You make me very happy as well as her; I am beginning to find how kind
and charitable you are."
"No, no," she said gravely. "There are few of us of whom that may be
said. How soon do you think your patient will be able to resume work?"
"Next Monday, I hope. She is gaining rapidly."
"How thick you are with the Disagreeable Woman!" said Mrs. Wyman, when
she next met me. "Don't fail to invite me to the wedding."
"On one condition."
"What is that?"
"That you invite me to your wedding with the Count."
She smiled complacently and called me a naughty man. I wonder if she
aspires to become a Countess.
CHAPTER XV.
THE PROFESSOR'S COURTSHIP.
"What a guy!"
The busy day at Macy's was over. Troops of young women passed through
the doors, in street costume, and laughing and chatting, made their way
up or down Sixth Avenue, or turned into Twenty-third street. Among them
was Ruth Canby, and it was to her that her friend Maria Stevenson
addressed the above exclamation.
Ruth turned to observe the figure indicated by her friend, and was
almost speechless with surprise.
At the corner leaning against the lamppost was a figure she knew well.
The rusty overcoat with its amplitude of cape, the brown crushed hat,
the weather-beaten face, and the green goggles were unmistakable. It was
Prof. Poppendorf. He was peering in his short-sighted way at the young
women emerging from the great store with an inquiring gaze. Suddenly his
eyes brightened. He had found the object of his search.
"Mees Ruth!" he exclaimed, stepping forward briskly, "I haf come to walk
home with you."
Ruth looked confused and almost distressed. She would gladly have found
some excuse to avoid the walk but could think of none.
"Maria!" she said, hurriedly, "it is an old friend of the family. I
shall have to leave you."
Her friend looked at the rusty figure in amazement.
"Oh, well, Ruth," she said, "we will meet to-morrow. So long!"
This was not perhaps the way in which a Fifth Avenue maiden would have
parted from her friend, but Maria Stevenson was a free and easy young
woman, of excellent heart and various good qualities, but lacking the
social veneering to be met with in a different class of society.
"How provoking!" thought Ruth, as she reluctantly took her place beside
the Professor, who, unlike herself, seemed in the best of spirits.
"I haf waited here a quarter of an hour to meet you, Mees Ruth," he
said.
"I wish you hadn't," thought Ruth, but she only said, "I am sorry to
have put you to so much trouble."
"It was no trouble, I assure you, Mees Ruth," said her elderly companion
in as genial a tone as his bass voice could assume.
"Let us cross the street," suggested Ruth.
She wished as soon as possible to get out of sight of her shop
companions, who were sure to tease her the next day.
"With all my heart," said the Professor. "I should wish to be more
alone."
They crossed Sixth Avenue, and walked down on the west side. Ruth was
wondering all the while what on earth could have induced the Professor
to take such pains to offer her his escort. She did not have long to
wait.
"I haf something very particular to say to you, Mees Ruth," said the
Professor, gazing fondly at her through his green goggles.
"Indeed!" returned Ruth, in great surprise.
"Yes, Mees Ruth, I haf been feeling very lonely. I am tired of living at
a boarding-house. I wish to have a home of my own. Will you marry me?
Will you be my frau--I mean my wife?"
Ruth Canby stopped short. She was "like to drop," as she afterwards
expressed it.
"Marry you!" she repeated, in a dazed way.
"Yes, Mees Ruth, dear Mees Ruth, I want you to be my wife."
"But, Professor, I could never think of marrying a man so----" old she
was about to add, but she feared it would hurt the Professor's feelings.
"I know what you would say, Mees Ruth. You think I am too old. But I am
strong. See here!" and he smote his large breast vigorously. "I am
sound, and I shall live many years. My father lived till eighty-five,
and I am only sixty-five."
"I am only twenty."
"True! you are much younger, but no young man would love you so fondly."
"I don't know," said Ruth.
"Perhaps you think I am poor, but it is not so. I haf a good income, and
I haf just been appointed to gif lectures on philosophy in Miss Green's
school on Madison Avenue. We will take a nice flat. I will furnish it
well, and we will haf a happy home."
"Thank you very much, Prof. Poppendorf," said Ruth, hurriedly. "Indeed
I feel complimented that such a learned man and great scholar should
wish to marry me, but I am only a simple girl--I have not much
education--and I should not make a suitable wife for you."
"Do not think of that, Mees Ruth. I will teach you myself. I will teach
you Latin and Greek, and Sanscrit, if you please. I will read my
lectures on philosophy to you, and I will make you 'une femme
savante,' so that you can talk with my brother Professors who will come
to see me. You can cook, can you not, Mees Ruth?"
"Yes, I know how to cook, but--"
"Ah, that is well," said the Professor, in a tone of satisfaction. "All
the German ladies can cook. Frau von Bismarck, the wife of my old
friend, is an excellent cook. I haf dined at Bismarck's house."
"But," said Ruth, firmly, "I can not think of becoming your wife, Prof.
Poppendorf."
"Ach, so!" said the Professor, in a tone of disappointment. "Do not make
such a mistake, my dear Mees Ruth. Is it nothing to become Mrs.
Professor Poppendorf. You will take a good place in society. For I
assure you that I am well known among scholars. I am now busy on a great
work on philosophy, which will extend my fame. I will make you proud of
your husband."
"Indeed, Prof. Poppendorf, I do not doubt your learning or your fame,
but I can not marry a man old enough to be my grandfather."
"So, I am not so sure about that. I am old enough to be your father,
but--"
"Never mind! We will not argue the point. I hope you will say no more. I
can not marry you."
"Ah! is there another? Haf I a rival?" demanded the Professor, frowning
fiercely. "It is that Dr. Fenwick?"
"No, it is not."
"I do not think he would care to marry you."
"And I don't want to marry him, though I think him a very nice young
gentleman."
"Who is it, then?"
