
"True; we much prefer that people should say what they don't. I have
myself noticed some plainly evident faults in her: a most impolitic
honesty; and, when stirred, an impulsiveness which is sure to be
unremunerative in the long-run. I should say, too, that she had an
empyrean sort of pride."

"Yes," replied the lily, not knowing what he meant, but concluding on
the whole that he spoke in reprobation. "As I said before, she has not
quite enough of that true feminine softness one likes so much to
see--I mean, of course, in a woman."

"Her pride will be her bane yet. It will make her blind to the most
obvious pitfall. However, I'll back her courage against it when once she
sees where she has dropped."

"What?" said the lily.

"She will in time learn from you; she could not follow a more lovely
example," said Blake, coming back from his reflections.

Towards the last of June a long expedition was planned, an expedition
into "Titian's country," which was to last three days. This little
pilgrimage had been talked about for a long time, Mrs. Lenox being as
much interested in it as the others. Whether she would have had the
courage to take Theocritus, even in his best estate, is a question; but
after the time was finally set and all the arrangements made, his worst
asserted itself, and so markedly that it was plain to all that she could
not go. Something was said about postponement, but it was equally plain
that if they were to go at all they should go at once, as the weather
was rapidly approaching a too great heat. Claudia wished particularly to
take this little journey; she had set her heart upon seeing the Titians
and reputed Titians said to be still left in that unvisited
neighborhood. Blake asserted that she even expected to discover one. It
was next proposed (although rather faintly) that Mr. Lenox should be
excused from the pilgrimage. But it could not be denied that the little
boy had been quite as ill (and irritable) several times before in
Venice, and that he had always recovered in a day or two. Not that Mrs.
Lenox denied it; on the contrary, she was the one to mention it. She
urged her husband's going; it was the excursion of all others to please
him the most. It ended in his consenting; it seemed, indeed, too much to
give up for so slight a cause.

"She looks a little anxious," observed Blake, as they waited for him in
the gondola which was to take them to the railway station. Lenox had
said good-bye to her, and was now coming down the long stairway within,
while she had stepped out on her balcony to see them start.

"Do you think so?" said Mrs. Marcy. "To me she always looks just the
same, always so unmoved."

Lenox now came out, and the gondola started. Claudia looked back and
waved her hand, Mrs. Lenox returning the salutation.

On the evening of the third day, at eleven o'clock, a gondola from the
railway station stopped at the larger palace's lower door, and three
persons ascended the dimly lighted stairs.

At the top Mrs. Lenox's servant was waiting for them. "Oh, where is
signore? Is he not with you? He has not come? Oh, the poor signora--may
the sweet Madonna help her now!" cried the girl, with tears in her
sympathetic Italian eyes. "The poor little boy is dead."

They rushed up the higher stairway and across the hall bridge. But it
was as the woman had said. There, on his little white bed, lay the
child; he would be troublesome no more on this earth; he was quiet at
last. Mrs. Lenox stood in the lighted doorway of her room as they came
towards her. When she saw that her husband was not with them, when they
began hurriedly to explain that he had not come, that he had stayed
behind, that he had sent a note, she swayed over without a word and
fainted away.

It was only over-fatigue, she explained later. The child had lain in her
arms for thirty hours, most of the time in great pain, and she had
suffered with him. She soon recovered consciousness and was quite
calm--more calm than they had feared she would be. They were anxiously
watchful; they tended her with the most devoted care. Blake did what he
could, and then waited. After a while, when Mrs. Lenox had in a measure
recovered, he softly beckoned Mrs. Marcy out.

"You must tell her that her husband will not be back in time for--that
he will not be back for at least six days, and very likely longer. And
as his route was quite uncertain, we cannot reach him; there is no
telegraph, of course, and even if I were to go after him I could only
follow his track from village to village, and probably come back to
Venice behind him."

"How can I tell her!" said the tearful lady. "Perhaps Claudia--"

"No, on no account. You are the one, and you must do it," replied Blake,
and with so much decision that she obeyed him. Thus the wife was told.

What Blake had said was true; it was hopeless to try to reach Lenox
before the time when he would probably be back of his own accord. He had
started on a hunt after some early drawings of Titian's, of which they
had unearthed dim legends. One was said to be in an old monastery, among
others of no importance; two more were vaguely reported as now here, now
there. Lenox had not been certain of his own route, but expected to be
guided from village to village according to indications. It was not even
certain whether he would come back by Conegliano or strike the railway
at another point. "It certainly is an inexorable fate!" exclaimed poor
Mrs. Marcy, in the emergency driven to unusual expressions.

But when Stephen Lenox's wife understood the position in which she was
placed, she at once decided upon all that was to be done, and gave her
directions clearly and calmly--directions which Blake executed with an
attention and thoughtful care as complete as any one could possibly have
bestowed.

The little boy was to be buried at Venice, in the cemetery on the
island opposite, early in the morning of the second day.

"She is so sensible!" Mrs. Marcy commented, admiringly. "Of course,
under all the circumstances, it is the thing to do. But so many women
would have insisted upon--all sorts of plans; and it would have been
so hard."

"I would willingly carry out anything she wished for, no matter how
difficult," replied Blake. "I greatly respect and admire Mrs. Lenox.
But, as you say, the perfect balance of her character, her clear
