the work is permitted, and then it lasts only from four to six weeks.
Thirteen men and ten divers are generally the crew of each boat, five of
the latter going down into the water while the other five rest. Each diver
has a stone, weighing forty pounds, attached to a line long enough to reach
the bottom, with a loop near the weight, into which he puts his foot. The
water varies in depth from fifty-four to seventy-eight feet. They work
quickly; for a minute is the usual time they remain in the water, though
some can stand it twenty seconds longer.

"One would suppose that the sharks, which abound in these waters, would
make it dangerous business; but very few accidents occur, for the commotion
about the boats seems to scare them away. When the diver gives the signal
he is hauled up, with his bag of oysters, as rapidly as possible. But the
ladies know more about pearls than I do, and I will say no more about them.

"There are many rivers in Ceylon, rising in the high land, and flowing into
the sea; but none of them are as long as the Mississippi. The climate of
the island is simply magnificent; the average heat in Colombo on the high
lands never exceeds 70°. I shall permit you to describe the flowers after
you have seen them; but the vegetation generally of the island is
exceedingly luxuriant. In regard to animals, the tiger does not reside in
Ceylon. The elephant, generally without any tusks, is the chief ruler in
the forests here. The bear and the leopard are found. There is no end of
monkeys. There are sixteen kinds of bats here, and all your base-ball clubs
could be supplied from the stock; and there is a flying fox, which might
amuse you if you could catch one. He is a sort of bat; and the more of them
you shoot, the better the farmer will be pleased, for they feed on his
fruit. Plenty of birds of all sorts are found in the island. The crocodile
is the biggest reptile found in Ceylon."

"But the snakes, your lordship?" suggested Felix.

"There are a few poisonous snakes; and the two worst are the cobra and the
ticpolonga, the latter a sort of viper; and the former is an old friend of
yours, Mr. McGavonty. The people are called Singhalese, but more generally
Cingalese, and are believed to be the descendants of immigrants from the
region of the Ganges. There are other races here, as the Malabars. The
religion of Ceylon is the Buddhist, and it has a very strong hold upon the
natives here as well as in Burma.

"Gautama, the founder of Buddhism, is said to have visited Ceylon three
times, and to have preached his doctrines here. His sacred footstep on
Adam's Peak, 7,420 feet high, the second highest elevation in the island,
is still adored by the people. But the most sacred relic here is the tooth
of Gautama, kept in an elegant shrine and carefully guarded at Candy. But
it is said to be well known that the Portuguese destroyed the original; and
the substitute is a discolored bit of ivory, without the least resemblance
to a human tooth. There are many temples, sacred caverns, some of them
sculptured like those near Bombay.

"There is something like ancient history in connection with Ceylon, dating
back to 543 B.C.; but it would be hardly edifying to follow it. It has also
a Portuguese, a Dutch, and a British period; and it was finally annexed to
the British crown by the Treaty of Amiens, in 1802.

"Thirty years ago coffee was the principal commercial production of the
island; but a kind of fungus attacked the leaves of the trees, and within
ten years the planters were obliged to abandon its cultivation to a great
extent, though it is still raised. Cacao, which is the name of the
chocolate-tree, while cocoa is the name of the product, is cultivated to a
considerable extent; so are cinchona, cardamoms, and various spices; though
Bishop Heber's lines--

                 'What though the spicy breezes
                  Blow soft o'er Ceylon's isle,'

are not applicable to the island as formerly.

"It has become evident in very recent years that Ceylon might become a
great tea-growing region, and the planters are now largely engaged in its
culture. A dozen years ago only 3,515 pounds were raised; ten years later
over 12,000,000 pounds of tea was the crop; and this year it is still
greater. The population in 1891 was 3,008,466. It has a governor, who rules
with an executive council of five, of which the officer in command of the
troops is one."

"Can your lordship tell me the salary of the governor-general of India?"
asked Captain Ringgold.

"I figured it up at one time in your money, and forgot to mention it. If I
remember rightly, it was $125,400; and that of the governor of Ceylon is
$20,000," replied Lord Tremlyn. "The former gets two and a half times the
salary of your President. I have nothing more to say of the island, but
after a concert by the band, Sir Modava will tell you something about the
principal towns;" and as he retired the audience separated, for it was to
be a promenade concert.

"I was asked just now by Mrs. Blossom about missions here in Ceylon," said
the Hindu gentleman as he took the stand. "The English Baptists sent
missionaries here eighty years ago; the Methodists a year later; the
Americans three years later; and the Church of England five years after. A
great deal of Christian teaching has been done in Ceylon, though I am not
able just now to give you statistically the results of missionary work; but
it has included the establishment of schools, female seminaries, and even
collegiate institutions, carried on by the missionaries, outside of the
government system of education.

"Point de Galle, at the south-western extremity of the island, is a town of
forty-seven thousand inhabitants, and has a good harbor in a sheltered bay.
It was formerly the principal coaling and shipping station in this part of
India; but all this has gone to Colombo. The Orient line of steamers, whose
principal business is with Australia, sends some of its ships here; and
most steamers of the Peninsular and Oriental line, called the 'P. & O.' for
short, touch here. A great deal of freight had to be reshipped at Point de
Galle for various ports of India.

"The name was given to the place by the Portuguese, and its meaning is
doubtful. Galles is the French of Wales, and La Nouvelle
Galles is New South Wales; without the final s, the word means
an oak-apple, in French. As I heard one of the 'Big Four' say this morning,
'You pay your money and take your choice,' as to the signification of the
word. At any rate, the importance of the place is gone, and Colombo has
captured its business and its prominence.

"Colombo is the capital of Ceylon. It is about seventy miles from Point de
Galle, on the south-west coast of the island. It has a population of almost
127,000, which has been increased at the expense of Galle, as we generally
call it to economize our breath. It is located on a peninsula, with the sea
on three sides of it, with a lake and moat on the land side. By the way,
Mr. Woolridge, do you happen to remember the Italian name of Christopher
