him. 
But John, whom Jesus loved, crept closer, and 
buried his face from sight of all the rest upon the 
shoulder of his Master. When the dearest disciple 
heard this presentiment or prescience of doom con- 
fided to his friends by Jesus, John put up his hand 
entreatingly, and laid his finger on the white lips 
which articulated the horrible words. 
264 THE STORY OF JESUS CHEIST 
Did John understand more than the others, or 
better ? For the disciples were not fine of percep- 
tion about what Jesus bad said. They found it 
almost impossible, when they came to think it over, 
to interpret him literally. He must mean this or 
that; must refer to some unknown decline or in- 
crease of fortune. He was indulging in parable. 
Or, perhaps, he thought of the general resurrection 
of the dead, whatever that should signify. 
One day Jesus found these good men wrangling 
as to which of them should hold the highest political 
office when he came to the throne of the Hebrew 
nation. He turned away, astonished and mute. 
After all, had their minds gone no farther than 
this ? If they, with their opportunities, could not 
understand, what should he expect of the rest of the 
world? 
The Nazarene was now living intense days. 
They passed in spiritual fervors which encroached 
upon a wasting, but always revitalized strength. 
His preaching indicated the exaltation under which 
he moved. When was he more eloquent? His 
language could not be more terse. His thought, fed 
by his heightened feeling, was seldom, if ever, more 
valuable. Immortal quotations from his addresses 
date from this time : " Let a man deny himself . . . 
to follow me. Whosoever will save his life shall 
lose it. . * , Whosoever will lose it for my sake 
shall find it." What profit to a man if he gain the 
world and lose his own soul ? * . . What shall he 
give in exchange for a soul ? " 
A week had gone. Dedication had done its work 
THE MOUOTATNT: AND THE TOMB 265 
upon his sensitive organization. He had grown pale, 
thin, shining. His eyes were larger than usual, and 
their hollows had darkened. His veined hands had 
shrunken a little, as the human hand does with cer- 
tain temperaments, giving the first signal o bodily 
change under suffering or sickness. What illumined 
his patient smile? A sacred fire was in his eye. 
His disciples watched him in dull wonder. 
There came a night when he bade the three on 
whom he most depended to climb the hills with him, 
and gave no reason beyond the familiar one, that 
he would ascend to pray. Peter, James, and John 
were tired with the day's traveling, but no one of 
them objected. The Rabbi's manner was something 
not to be argued with. 
They were at the foot of beautiful Lebanon, high- 
est and whitest of mountains. It was an Alpine 
ascent, involving a night spent in air too rarefied 
for comfortable breathing, if one made the snow- 
touched summit. The little party did not, but 
mounted to a nearer foothill, and wondered why 
this toil was added to a hot day's march. Jesus 
climbed in advance, apart. His stout staff fell 
firmly on the rocks. He showed less than usual 
signs of weariness. Yet his friends knew how worn 
he was. 
The great mountain divided Jewish from Gentile 
territory. It was an imposing height, and the view 
therefrom was significant and inspiring. 
The sun had set. Cool was coming. The road 
started among cultivated slopes, and wound upwards 
through orchards, vines, and grain fields. Figs and 
266 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
apricots, mulberry, corn, and melon interchanged 
outlines and colors of leaf or blossom or forming 
fruit. The air was sweet. The world was ripen- 
ing. Clumps of oak succeeded to this richer level ; 
dwarf shrubs and rock ravines thickened as the 
climb grew steeper. Turf, gravel, stunted cedars, 
gorges and crevices, began to take the place, of 
warmer scenery. Warm became cool, delightful to 
the sun-smitten travelers ; and now from above them 
the scent of snow ! The group drew it in to thirsty 
senses and to weary frames. Strength came, as it 
always comes with snow. They felt invigorated and 
excited. The hot, dusty world lay below them, as 
life lies below death, a trouble escaped. Their 
spirits rose, and so their souls. 
To the dull watchers down in the plain and valley, 
stately Lebanon gave no sign that mystery swept 
over his head that night. Life went on as usual to 
common minds and in common circumstances. Who 
guessed that a wonder thrilled the mountain ? The 
lowland and the heights are far apart. Lebanon 
was always a beautiful summit, and the eyes of the 
sad or the sick turned to it on this as on many other 
evenings. 
Sunset on this peak has been captured by the 
vivid pen of one who knew it well. 
" Close upon the rose color deepening into red " 
came " a death-like pallor, and darkness relieved by 
snow." ... "A deep ruby flush was slowly fol- 
lowed by warm purple shadows." The Sea of Gali- 
lee, " between its dim walls of hill," was lighted 
with "a delicate, greenish-yellow hue. The flush 
THE MOUNTAIN: AND THE TOMB 267 
died out . . . and a pale, steel-colored shade suc- 
ceeded. . * . A long, pyramidal shadow slid down 
. . . and crept across the plain. Damascus was 
swallowed up by it ... the pointed end of the 
shadow stood out distinctly against the sky a 
dusky cone o dull color against the flush of the 
afterglow. It was the shadow of the mountain it- 
self, stretching away for seventy miles across the 
plain the most marvelous shadow, perhaps, to be 
seen anywhere. . . . The sun at length slid into the 
sea, and went out like a blue spark." 
In the color, in the glory, remote from men, apart 
