water and Hamoaze, estuaries of the Plym 
and Tamar, twin rivers of Plymouth, and 
you shall find men-of-war and humble 
merchant vessels. Go to Devonport, and 
there you may seek the dockyards, en- 
ticingly open to such foreigners as are 
favored by the gods and the admiralty. 
Though the days have long passed when 
seafaring heroes trod the streets, Ply- 
mouth will disclose many a quaint comer 
to such as are patient as well as curious : 
witness, at least, the Barbican, where one 
who fears not sea slime and good-natured 
chafE may meet the fishing population at 
dawn; and also that eccentric auction 
 
distinguished by the falling of every bid. 
What lover of the past could be misled 
by a garnished exterior? Yet if there 
be one thus "fond and foolish/' let him 
in Plymouth seek out that square where 
so many stately buildings are congre- 
gated, and, ignoring their carven fresh- 
ness, enter old Saint Andrew's Church. 
For there were the people at service, 
three hundred years ago, when a salute 
told the news that Sir Francis Drake 
had returned from the seas which " were 
a prison for so large a spirit," and drew 
forth men, women, and children to meet 
the victorious hero. 
Another bit of earth where the loyal 
heart beats at thought of Kingsley and 
olden days is Clovelly, jewel dropped in 
a cleft of the rock, happy human nest 
builded close by the sea. The approach 
to this oddest comer of creation, past 
vestiges of a Roman encampment, gives 
no hint of the beauties on which the eye 
is presently to feed. The coach stops, 
apparently in a gentleman's park devoted 
to utilitarian ends ; and leaving care be- 
hind, in the shape of baggage, the trav- 
eler must thereupon take to his feet down 
a steep, rock-paved road, where all tour- 
 
ists fare alike, be they clad in frieze or 
gold. Suddenly, at a turn of the way, ap- 
pears Clovelly Street, descending sharply 
in low, broad stairs laid with cobblestones. 
No carriage has ever profaned this stony 
staircase. Only the tiny hoofs of don- 
keys go clattering up and down ; for it is 
Neddy who patiently toils under sacks 
of coal (trying, meanwhile, with gentle 
insistence, to " scrunch " the unwary 
traveler against the neighboring wall), 
or drags about sledges piled high with 
trunk and portmanteau, whose name 
here is legion. Flanking this declivitous 
way runs, on either side, a row of cot- 
tages, immaculate in whitewash, and 
adorned by fuchsia shrubs and gerani- 
ums. HaHway down stands the New 
Inn, its sign swinging across the street, 
— a little old-fashioned house, resplen- 
dent in old china, and kept in perpetual 
commotion by the influx of hungry ex- 
cursionists, who come by boat and coach 
to flood the tiny village with admiring 
exclamations. 
The quaintness of Clovelly is not all 
its charm ; it wears, too, that of a won- 
drous beauty and delight. Lpng as it 
does in an earth-cleft stretching down to 
 
the sea, it is fostered and overlooked by 
towering wooded cliffs, and, secure in 
humble contentment and sweetness of 
life, seems nowise inferior in merit to 
such natural pomp and magnificence. 
The little street wanders, in its progress 
to the water; once, perhaps twice, it 
boldly marches through the walls of a 
house (itself spanned by an archway 
above), and then after threading strange 
nooks and comers, where fishy smells 
mingle with the smoke which is Clovelly's 
natural breath, ends at the little harbor, 
— that harbor where, as Kingsley says, 
in the season of herring fishing so many 
boats set forth with song and prayer, 
some never to return. One scene, he 
tells us, would come upon him again and 
again : of " the old bay darkened with 
the gray coldness of the waterspouts 
stalking across the waves before the 
northern gales; and the tiny herring 
boats fleeing from their nets right for 
the breakers, hoping more mercy even 
from those iron walls of rock than from 
the pitiless howling wastes of spray be- 
hind them ; and that merry beach beside 
the town covered with shrieking women 
and old men, casting themselves on the 
 
pebbles in fruitless agonies of prayer, as 
corpse after corpse swept up at the feet 
of wife and child, till in one case alone 
the dawn saw upwards of sixty widows 
and orphans weeping over those who had 
gone out the night before in the fullness 
of strength and courage." 
Kingsley's father was rector of Clo- 
velly during six of those years when the 
sensitive lad must have been very deli- 
cately responsive to new impressions. 
Under the mysterious spell of sea and 
cliff, he conned the pages of England's 
naval history, learning it through the 
