fans and laces and silk for gowns, as if they were still quite young
women.
Uncle David had the "Knickerbocker History of New York," which everybody
now knew was written by Mr. Washington Irving, and various members of
the family were settled about Tarrytown, and many others in the Sleepy
Hollow graveyard. The very next day the little girl began to read the
history, for she wanted to know about New York. They had a delightful
visit with grandmother and Aunt Eunice. Uncle David was seven years
older than her father. The little girl concluded she liked him very
much.
When she and Margaret went home everything was going on just the same.
The little girl was somewhat amazed. No one said a word about moving.
She had expected to see everything packed. The children started for
school as usual. Then Mrs. Underhill went down to the city and stayed a
fortnight and came home looking worn and worried. The impending change
weighed upon her. But the little girl was so interested in Mr. Dederich
Knickerbocker which she was reading aloud to her father that changes
hardly mattered.
Early in December Mr. Frederic Underhill with his wife and daughter came
to hand. He was thin and stooped a good deal, and looked older than
Uncle David. Aunt Crete's name was Lucretia, and the little girl was
amazed to learn that. She was tall and thin and wore a black lace sort
of cap to cover the bald spot on her head. Then she had a false front of
dark hair. Her own was very thin and white. She had been a great
sufferer from 'ager,' as she called it, and the doctors said only an
entire change of climate would break it up. And goodness only knew how
glad she was to get back East.
Lauretta--Retty as she was called--was about twenty-two, a good, stout,
common-place girl who made herself at home at once. She had a lover who
was coming on in the spring when they would be married, and he expected
"to help Pop farm. Pop was pretty well broken down with hard work, and
he'd about seen his best days. He'd been awful anxious to get back among
his own folks, and she, Retty, hoped now he'd take things kinder easy."
Grandmother and Uncle David's family came down to welcome them. All the
country round seemed to turn out. And just before Christmas, with all
the rest of the work, the little girl's quilt was put in. Some of the
older people came the first day and had a fine supper. Next afternoon it
was the young people's turn.
The little girl had a blue-and-white figured silk frock made from a
skirt of her mother's. The tops of the sleeves were trimmed with four or
five ruffles and there were two ruffles around the neck. She wore her
gold beads, and Margaret curled her hair. Everybody praised her and she
felt very happy. Some of the young men came in while they were taking
the quilt out of the frame, and oh, what a tussle there was! The girl
who could wrap herself first in it was to be married first. Such pulling
and laughing, such a din of voices and struggle of hands--you would have
thought all the girls wild to get married. The little girl looked with
dismay, for it seemed as if her quilt would be torn to pieces.
Retty wound one corner around herself, and two of the young men rolled
Margaret and several of the other girls in the other end amid the shouts
of the lookers-on.
Then grandmother shook it out and folded it.
"There!" she exclaimed, "to-morrow I'll put on the binding. And, Hannah
Ann, you have a good beginning. Not every little girl can show such a
quilt as that, pieced all by herself before she was eight years old!"
"But you helped, grandmother----"
"Nonsense, child! Just a piece now and then! And I've a nice pair of
wool blankets I'm saving up for you that I spun myself. You'll have a
good many things saved up in a dozen years."
What fun they had afterward! There were two black fiddlers in the hall;
one was Cato, Aunt Mary's grandson, a stylish young fellow much in
demand for parties. They danced and danced.
Steve took his little sister out several times, and John danced with
her. Her father thought her the very prettiest one in the crowd. Her
mother let her stay up until eleven.
"I'm so sorry you are going away," said Retty, the next morning. "I
never did have such a good time in my life. I don't see why we can't all
live together in this big house!"
In the new year the real business of changing began. It was hard to
select a house. Joe said all New York was going up-town, and that before
many years the lower part of the city would be given over to business.
Bond and Amity Street, around St. John's Park and East Broadway were
still centres of fashion. The society people had come up from the
Bowling Green and the Battery, though there were still some beautiful
old houses that business people clung to because they wanted to be near
to everything. Harlem and Yorkville were considered country. Up on the
east side as far as Eightieth or Ninetieth Street there were some
spacious summer residences with beautiful grounds. A few fine mansions
clustered about University Square. City Hall Park was still covered with
fine growing shade-trees. There was such a magnificent fountain that
Lydia Maria Child, describing it, said there was nothing to equal it in
the Old World.
Still, the unmistakable trend was up-town. Grace Church was agitating a
new building at Tenth Street. Rows of houses were being put up on the
new streets, though down-town people rather scoffed and wondered why
people were not going up to Harlem and taking their business places
along.
After much discussion the Underhills settled upon First Street. Stephen
made the decision, though he had great faith in "up-town." This was
convenient. Then they could buy through to Houston Street, and there was
a stable and sort of storehouse on the end of the lot. And though you
wouldn't think it now, it was quite pretty and refined then, from Avenue
A out to the Bowery. They were in a row of nice brick houses, quite near
First Avenue, on the lower side of the street. Opposite it was well
built for quite a space, and then came the crowning glory of the block.
About a dozen houses stood thirty or so feet back from the street and
had lovely flower-gardens in front. Stephen would have liked one of
these, but the houses were not roomy enough. And in their own place they
had a nice grass-plot, some flower-beds, and several fruit-trees, beside
a grape-trellis. He thought his mother would be less homesick if she
could see some bloom and greenery.
It was the last of March, 1843, that the little girl came to New York.
Mrs. Underhill believed it only an experiment. When the boys were grown
up and married, settled in their own homes, she and 'Milyer would go
back to Yonkers on their part of the farm and have a nice big house for
their old age and for the grandchildren. In her motherly heart she hoped
there would be a good many of them. She couldn't have spared any of her
eight children.
The house in First Street seemed very queer. It had a front area and two
basements, two parlors on the next floor with folding-doors and a long
ell-room, rather narrow, so that it would not darken the back room too
much. Up-stairs there were three large chambers and one small one, and
on the fourth floor, that did not have full-size windows, three more.
That there was no "garret" caused endless lamentation.
They could not bring old Mary, indeed she would not come, but they had a
rather youngish countrywoman whose husband had deserted her, and who was
looking for a good home. Mary thought she would stay a while with the
"new folks" and get them "broke in," as she phrased it, and then go and
live with her son.
The little girl stood on her own front stoop looking up and down the
