it will be not only for your happiness, but for 
your dignity. If you entertain with no matter 
how bad a conscience a vain fancy that you've 
the smallest real chance of making the smallest 
real impression on anybody else, all I can say is 
that you prepare for yourself very nearly as 
much discomfort as you prepare disgust for your 
mother." She paused a moment; she felt, before 
her son's mild gape, like a trapezist in pink tights. 
" How much susceptibility, I should like to know, 
has Miss Armiger at her command for your great 
charms ? " 
Paul showed her a certain respect; he didn't 
clap her that is, he didn't smile. He felt some 
thing, however, which was indicated, as it always 
was, by the way his eyes grew smaller: they con 
tracted at times, in his big, fair face, to mere little 
conscious points. These points he now directed 
to the region of the house. " Well, mother," he 
quietly replied, " if you would like to know it 
hadn't you better ask her directly? " Rose Armi 
ger had come into view; Mrs. Beever, turning, 
saw her approach, bareheaded, in a fresh white 
dress, under a showy red parasol. Paul, as she 
drew near, left his seat and strolled to the ham 
mock, into which he meditatively dropped. Ex 
tended there, while the great net bulged and its 
attachments cracked with his weight, he spoke 
with the same plain patience. "She has come 
to give me up the ornament." 
XVI 
"THE great cake has at last arrived, dear 
lady ! " Rose gaily announced to Mrs. Beever, 
who waited, before acknowledging the news, long 
enough to suggest to her son that she was per 
haps about to act on his advice. 
" I'm much obliged to you for having gone to 
see about it," was, however, what, after a moment, 
Miss Armiger's hostess elected to reply. 
" It was an irresistible service. I shouldn't have 
got over on such a day as this," said Rose, "the 
least little disappointment to dear little Jean." 
" To say nothing, of course, of dear little Erne," 
Mrs. Beever promptly rejoined. 
"It comes to the same thing the occasion so 
mixes them up. They're interlaced the cake 
with their initials and their candles. There 
are plenty of candles for each," Rose laughed, 
"for their years have been added together. It 
makes a very pretty number ! " 
" It must also make a very big cake," said Mrs. 
Beever. 
" Colossal." 
"Too big to be brought out?" 
The girl considered. " Not so big, you know," 
she archly replied, "as if the candles had to be 
yours and mine ! " Then holding up the " orna 
ment " to Paul, she said : " I surrender you my 
trust. Catch ! " she added, with decision, mak 
ing a movement to toss him a small case in red 
morocco, which, the next moment, in its flight 
through the air, without altering his attitude, he 
intercepted with one hand. 
Mrs. Beever's excited mistrust dropped at the 
mere audacity of this: there was something per 
ceptibly superior in the girl who could meet half 
way, so cleverly, a suspicion she was quite con 
scious of and much desired to dissipate. The 
lady of Eastmead looked at her hard, reading her 
desire in the look she gave back. "Trust me, 
trust me," her eyes seemed to plead ; " don't at 
all events think me capable of any self-seeking 
that's stupid or poor. I may be dangerous to my 
self, but I'm not so to others ; least of all am I so 
to you" She had a presence that was, in its way, 
like Tony Bream's : it made, simply and directly, 
 
a difference in any personal question exposed to 
it. Under its action, at all events, Mrs. Beever 
found herself suddenly feeling that she could 
after all trust Rose if she could only trust Paul. 
She glanced at that young man as he lay in the 
hammock, and saw that in spite of the familiarity 
of his posture which indeed might have been 
assumed with a misleading purpose his dimin 
ished pupils, fixed upon their visitor, still had 
the expression imparted to them by her own last 
address. She hesitated ; but while she did so 
Rose came straight up to her and kissed her. It 
was the very first time, and Mrs. Beever blushed 
as if one of her secrets had been surprised. Rose 
explained her impulse only with a smile ; but the 
smile said vividly : " I'll polish him off ! " 
This brought a response to his mother's lips. 
" I'll go and inspect the cake ! " 
Mrs. Beever took her way to the house, and as 
soon as her back was turned her son got out of 
the hammock. An observer of the scene would 
not have failed to divine that, with some pro 
fundity of calculation, he had taken refuge there 
as a mute protest against any frustration of his 
interview with Rose. This young lady herself 
laughed out as she saw him rise, and her laugh 
would have been, for the same observer, a tribute 
to the natural art that was mingled with his 
obvious simplicity. Paul himself recognised its 
bearing and, as he came and stood at the tea-table, 
acknowledged her criticism by saying quietly: 
"I was afraid my mother would take me away." 
" On the contrary ; she has formally sur 
rendered you." 
"Then you must let me perform her office 
and help you to some tea." 
He spoke with a rigid courtesy that was not 
without its grace, and in the rich shade of her 
umbrella, which she twirled repeatedly on her 
shoulder, she looked down with detachment at 
the table. "I'll do it for myself, thank you; 
and I should like you to return to your ham 
mock." 
