whistle in feeble response.
When the whistles ceased, and the signals could no longer be seen, the
Blanchita came about, and headed for the Peak of Santubong on the
triangular island formed by the two passes of the Sarawak River. The
explorers watched the ships till they could no longer be seen, and then
headed up the river.
"Faix, the bridges betune oursels and civiloization are all broke down!"
exclaimed Felix McGavonty, who sometimes used his Milesian dialect in
order, as he put it, not to lose his mother's brogue.
"Not so bad as that, Felix; for there is considerable civilization lying
around loose in Borneo," replied Louis Belgrave.
"Not much of it here is found," added Achang Bakir, the Bornean.
"Is found here," interposed Morris Woolridge, who had been giving the
native lessons in English, for he mixed with it the German idiom.
"Rajah Brooke has civilized the region which he governs, and the Dutch
have done the same in portions of their territory. Professor Giroud gave
us the lecture on Borneo, and we shall have occasion to review some of
it," added Louis. "But I think we had better give some attention to the
organization of our party for the trip up the Sarawak River."
"I move, Mr. Chairman, that we have the same organization we had on
board of the Maud," interposed Felix, dropping his brogue. "That means
that Mr. Scott shall be captain, and Morris mate, while Louis and myself
shall be the deck-hands."
"Mr. Chairman, I move an amendment to the motion, to the effect that
Louis shall be captain, while I serve as deck-hand," said Scott.
"I hope the amendment will be voted down, and that the original motion
will prevail," Louis objected. "Captain Scott, in command of the Maud,
on a voyage of two thousand miles, proved himself to be an able and
skilful commander, as well as a prudent and successful leader in several
difficult situations. He is the right person for the position. Question!
Those in favor of the amendment of Mr. Scott will signify it by raising
the right hand."
Scott voted for his own motion, and he was the only one.
"Contrary minded, by the same sign," continued Louis, raising his right
hand, Felix and Morris voting the same. "The amendment is lost. The
question is now on the original motion of Felix. Those in favor of its
adoption will signify it."
Three hands appeared, the motion was carried, and the chairman informed
Scott and Morris that they were chosen captain and mate. Scott was
outvoted, and he made no further objection. Of the five seamen on board
he appointed Pitts cook and steward, in which capacity he had served on
board of the Maud. The starboard is the captain's watch; though the
second mate, when there is one, takes his place for duty, and the port
is the mate's watch.
"I select Clingman for the first of my watch," continued Scott. "Your
choice next, Morris."
"Wales," said the mate.
"Lane for the starboard," added Scott.
"Hobson's choice," laughed Morris, as he took the last man. "Clinch for
the port; the last, but by no means the least."
"I fancy the watches will have an easy time of it; for I suppose we
shall not do much running up and down these rivers, and through dark
forests, in the night," suggested Louis.
"If we lie up in the night, I shall divide them both into
quarter-watches, and have one man on duty all the time; for we may be
boarded by a huge crocodile or a boa-constrictor if we are not on the
lookout. But Achang is a pilot for these rivers. Isn't that so, Captain
Bakir?"
"I have been up and down all the rivers in this part of the island,
though I was not shipped as a pilot then," replied Achang, who had been
the captain of a dhow, and on board the ship he had been called by his
first name or the other with the title.
"All right; we shall use you for pilot or interpreter as occasion may
require; and I suppose you can tell us all we want to know about the
country and the people," added the captain.
Clinch, one of the ablest seamen on board, was steering the launch, and
Scott kept the run of the courses; but as long as the craft had three
feet of water under her, she was all right. The conversation took place
in the cabin, as the explorers called the after part of the steamer,
though no such apartment had been built there.
A frame constructed of brass rods, properly braced, extended the entire
length of the launch. A stanchion at the bow and another at the stern,
with five on each side set in the rail, supported a rod the whole
distance around the craft. Another extended from the bow to the stern
stanchion, directly over the keel, about six inches higher than those at
the sides. Ten rods led from the central down to the side rods, like the
rafters of a house.
Over the whole, of this structure above was extended a single piece of
painted canvas, serving as a roof, and keeping out both sun and rain. It
was laced very taut to the rods, and had slope enough to make the water
run off. On the sides were curtains, which could be hauled down tight.
The launch had been used by the rajah on the Ganges, and when closed in
the interior was like "a bug in a rug."
Thus closed in, the standing-room was called the cabin. It was
surrounded by wide cushioned seats, which made very good beds at night.
Between these divans was a table where the meals of the explorers were
to be served. Under the seats were many lockers for all sorts of
articles, the bedding, and the arms and ammunition.
Just forward of the cabin were the engine and boiler, with bunkers on
each side for the coal. In the middle of the craft was abundant space.
The forward part of the boat was provided with cushioned divans, where
passengers could sit by day or sleep at night; and this space was
appropriated to the sailors. In the centre of it was the wheel. Next to
it was the galley, with a stove large enough to cook for a dozen
persons, and all needed utensils.
The ship's company had looked the craft over with great interest, and
all of them were well pleased with the arrangements. The launch had been
put into the water and fitted up for use the day before. The party from
both ships had visited her, and almost wished they were to go to the
interior of the country in her.
The Blanchita continued on her course up the river. Pitts was at work in
the galley; and as soon as the launch was made fast off the "go-down,"
or business building of the town, dinner was served to the seamen, and
later to the denizens of the cabin. The afternoon was spent in examining
the place, and in obtaining such supplies as were needed; for the boat
was to sail on her voyage up the river early the next morning.
With the assistance of Achang, a small sampan, a kind of skiff, was
purchased; for the Bornean declared that it would be needed in the
hunting excursions of the party, for much of the country was flooded
with water, a foot or two in depth.
CHAPTER II
A VOYAGE UP THE SARAWAK RIVER
The young hunters slept on board of the Blanchita, and they were
delighted with their accommodations. Sarawak, or Kuching, the native
name of the town, is only about one hundred and fifty miles north of the
equator, and must therefore be a very warm region, though away from the
low land near the sea-coast it is fairly healthy. The party slept with
the curtains raised, which left them practically in the open air.
Achang had given them a hint on board of the ship that mosquitoes were
abundant in some localities in Borneo. The Guardian-Mother was provided
