window open. In the dim gray dawn he saw a muffled figure crouching on
the stones by the gate, slowly swaying forwards and backwards. The wail
began again, very soft and low, and as though the woman half feared to
be heard and yet could not control herself.
Orsino watched her intently for a few moments, and then understood. It
was some woman who had loved Ferdinando Pagliuca, and who came in the
simple old way to mourn at the door of the house wherein he lay dead.
Her head was covered with a black shawl, and her skirts were black, too,
but her hands were clasped about her knees, and visible, and looked
white in the dawn.
The young man drew back softly from the window, and sat down upon the
edge of the bed. He, of all men, had no right to silence the woman. She
did no harm, wailing for the dead man out there in the cold dawn. She
was not the only one who was to mourn him on that day. In a few hours
his sister would know, his mother, his brothers, and all the world
besides, though the rest of the world mattered little enough to Orsino.
But this woman's grief was a sort of foretaste of Vittoria's. She was
but a peasant woman, perhaps, or at most a girl of the small farmers'
class, but she had loved him, and would hate for ever the man who had
killed him. How much more should the slayer be hated by the dead man's
own flesh and blood!
The light grew less gray by quick degrees, and there were heavy
footsteps in the corridor. Then came a knock at the door, and a trooper
appeared in his forage cap.
'We have made the coffee, signore,' he said, on the threshold.
He held out a bright tin pannikin from which the steam rose in fragrant
clouds. The physical impression of the aromatic smell was the first
pleasant sensation which Orsino had experienced since he had pulled the
trigger of his rifle on the previous afternoon. If we could but look at
things as they are, we should see that there is neither love nor hate,
neither joy nor grief, nor hope nor fear, that will not at last efface
itself for a moment before hunger and thirst; so effectually can this
dying body mask and screen the undying essence.
Orsino drank the hot coffee with keen physical delight, though the
woman's wailing came up to his ears through the open window, and though
he had known a moment earlier that the stealing dawn was the beginning
of a day which might end in a broken heart.
But the trooper heard the voice, and went to the window and looked out,
while Orsino drank.
'Ho, there!' he cried roughly. 'Will you go or not?' He turned to
Orsino. 'She has been there since two o'clock,' he explained. 'We heard
her through the closed gate.'
'Let her alone,' said Orsino authoritatively. 'She is only a woman, and
can do no harm; and she has a right to her mourning, God knows.'
'There will be a hundred before the sun has been up an hour, signore,'
answered the soldier. 'The people will collect about her, for they will
come out of curiosity, from many miles away. It will be better to get
rid of them as fast as they come.'
'You might let that poor woman in,' suggested Orsino. 'After all, I have
killed her lover--she has a right to see his body.'
'As you wish, signore,' answered the trooper, taking the empty pannikin.
Orsino got up and looked out again, as the man went away. The girl had
risen to her feet, and stood looking up to the window. Her shawl had
fallen back upon her shoulders, and disclosed a young and dishevelled
but beautiful head, of the Greek type, though the eyes were somewhat
long and almond-shaped. There was no colour in the olive-pale cheeks,
and little in the parted lips; and the hand that gathered the shawl to
the bosom was singularly white. The regular features were set in a
tragic mask of grief, such as one very rarely sees in the modern world.
When she saw Orsino, she suddenly raised both hands to him, like a
suppliant of old.
'They have killed him!' she cried. 'They have killed my bridegroom! Let
me see him! let me kiss him! Are they Christians, and will not let me
see him?'
'You shall see him,' answered Orsino. 'I will let you in myself.'
'God will render it to you, signore. And God will render also to his
murderer a bad death.'
She sat down upon the stones, thinking, perhaps, that it would be long
before the gate was opened; and she began her low moan again.
'They have killed him! They have murdered him!'
But Orsino had already left the window and the room. He had understood
clearly from her words and face that she was no light creature, for whom
Ferdinando had conceived a passing fancy. He had meant to marry her,
perhaps within a few days. There was in her face the high stamp of
innocence, and her voice rang fearless and true. Ferdinando had never
been like his brothers. He had meant to marry this girl, doubtless a
small farmer's daughter, from her dress; and he would have lived happily
with her, sinking, perhaps, to a lower social level, but morally rising
far higher than his scheming brothers. Orsino had guessed from his dead
face, and from what he had heard, that Ferdinando had been the best of
the family; and in a semi-barbarous country like the interior of Sicily,
the young Roman did not blame him overmuch for having tried to resist
the new owners of his father's house when they came to take possession.
San Giacinto and the sergeant objected on principle to admitting the
girl, but Orsino insisted, and at last opened the gate himself. She had
covered her head and face again, and followed him swiftly and
noiselessly across the court to the door of the church. As though by
instinct she turned directly to her lover's body, where it lay before
the side altar, and with a low wail like a wounded animal, she fell
beside it, with clasped hands. Orsino left her there alone, closing the
door softly, and came out into the court, where it was almost broad
daylight. The men had drunk their coffee and were grooming their black
chargers tethered to rusty rings in the wall. The old stables were
between the court and the rampart. The two foot-carabineers were
despatched to Santa Vittoria to get a coffin for the dead man and a
priest to come and bury him.
From the church came every now and then the piteous echo of the girl's
lamentations. Then there was a knocking at the gate, and someone called
from without. One of the troopers looked out through the narrow slit in
the stone, made just wide enough to let the barrel of a gun pass. Half a
dozen peasants were outside, and the soldiers could see two more coming
down the drive towards the house. He asked what they wanted.
'We wish to speak with the master,' said one, and two or three repeated
the words.
They were the men who had brought the tools on the previous evening,
with a number of others, the small tenants of the little estate. San
Giacinto went and spoke with them, assuring them that he would be a
better landlord than they had ever had, if they would treat him well,
but that if he met with any treachery, he would send every man of them
to the galleys for life. It was his way of making acquaintance, and they
seemed to understand it.
While he was speaking a number of men and women appeared in the drive,
headed by the two soldiers who had gone to the village. Close behind
them, swaying with the walk of the woman who carried the load upon her
head, a white deal coffin caught the morning light. Then more people,
and always more, came in sight, up the drive. Amongst them walked a
young priest in his short white 'cotta' over his shabby cassock, and
beside him came a big boy bearing a silver basin with holy water, and
the little broom for sprinkling it. The two trudged along in a
business-like way, and all the people were talking loudly. It seemed to
