may be said. First, it is proper that old things should be respected
and honored, and therefore is presented the--
  
I have received hundreds of similar letters, containing substantially
the same testimony. In December of the year this letter came to me, I
was confined to my hotel in England by a London fog one day; and in the
first daily paper I picked up in the reading-room I was surprised to
find myself "written up" in terms that made me blush; but the article
pleased me because it contained the same idea my young friend had
embodied in his letter.
Gratefully remembering my friends of over forty years' standing, and
with a hearty recognition of those of more recent years, I return to
them all my most sincere thanks for their generous appreciation of the
work of my lifetime, and for their continued kindness to me from the
first appearance of "The Boat Club" to the present time. I heartily
wish them all continued health, prosperity, and happiness; and I do so
in the sincere belief that I have never morally harmed any of my
readers, but have added pleasure as well as moral and intellectual
profit to their lives.
"How much money have you got, Frank?" asked Charles Hardy of his friend
Frank Sedley.
"Four dollars and seventy-five cents."
"That is more than twice as much as I have. Won't you have a glorious
time?"
It was the evening of the third of July, and the two boys were counting
the money they had saved for Independence. Captain Sedley, the father
of Frank, had promised to take him and his friend to Boston to attend
the celebration; and they had long looked forward to the event with the
liveliest anticipations of pleasure.
"I don't know, Charley," replied Frank Sedley, as he slid the money
into his purse; "I was thinking of something else."
"What, Frank?"
"I was thinking how poor the widow Weston is, and how much good this
money I am going to throw away on fire-crackers and gingerbread would
do her."
"Perhaps it would."
"I know it would."
"But you are not going to spoil our fun by giving it to her, are you?"
"There are a great many boys who will have no money to spend
to-morrow--Tony Weston, for instance," continued Frank.
"Tony is a good fellow."
"That he is; and his mother has a terrible hard time of it to support
herself and her son and daughter."
"I suppose she has. Why don't you ask your father to help her?"
"He does help her. He gives her wood and flour, and a great many other
things; and my mother employs her to do sewing. She is willing to
work."
"And Tony works too."
"He is too young to do much; but he loves his mother, and tries to do
all he can to lighten her burden."
"He makes a dollar a week sometimes."
"I was thinking just now that I would give Mrs. Weston the money I had
saved for Independence."
"Pooh! Frank."
"It would do her a great deal of good."
"What is the use of going to Boston, if you have no money?" asked
Charles, who was not a little disturbed by this proposed disbursement
of the Fourth of July funds.
"I can stay at home, then."
"That wouldn't be fair, Frank."
"Why not?"
"You not only rob yourself of the fun, but me too."
"I really pity the poor woman so much that I cannot find it in my heart
to spend the money foolishly, when it will buy so many comforts for
her."
"Your father will give you some money for her."
"That isn't the thing."
"What do you mean?"
"You went to meeting last Sunday?"
"Yes."
"And heard the sermon?"
"Some of it," replied Charles, smiling.
"You remember the minister spoke of the luxury of doing good; of the
benefit one gets by sacrificing his inclination for the good of others,
or something like that; I can't express it as he did, though I have the
idea."
Frank paused, and looked earnestly into the face of his friend, to
ascertain whether he was likely to find any sympathy in the heart of
Charles.
"I do remember it, Frank. He told a story to illustrate his meaning."
"That was it. I don't very often mind much about the sermon, but
somehow I was very much interested in that one."
"And so you mean to give your money to the widow Weston, just to see
how you will feel after it," added Charles with a laugh.
"No; that isn't it."
"What is it, then?"
"I will give it to her because I really feel that she needs it more
than I do. I feel a pleasure in the thought of sacrificing my
inclination for her happiness, which is more satisfactory than all the
fun I anticipate to-morrow."
"You'll be a parson, Frank."
"No, I won't; I will do my duty."
"Have you made up your mind?"
"We can have a good time at home."
"Pooh!"
"I shall give my money to the widow Weston, at any rate."
Charles Hardy could not but admire the generosity of his friend, though
he found it difficult to abandon the thought of the pleasure he
anticipated in spending the Fourth in Boston. He stood in silent
thought a few moments, and then spoke.
"Well, Frank," said he, "if you have determined to give your money to
the widow, I shall follow your example."
"But, Charley, I didn't mean to influence you. I will even go to Boston
with you, though I have no money."
"I will give my money to the widow. I think you are right."
"Good, Charley! I like you for it."
"I have two dollars and a quarter," continued Charles, taking the money
from his pocket.
"We shall make up just seven dollars. How it will rejoice the heart of
the poor woman!" exclaimed Frank with enthusiasm.
"So it will. But don't you think your father will make it up to us,
when he finds out how generous we have been?"
Frank looked into the face of his companion with an expression of
painful surprise on his countenance.
"I don't want him to do so."
"Why not?"
"It would rob the action of all its merit. If you give your money with
the hope of having it restored to you, I beg you not to give it at all.
I have abandoned all thoughts of having any money to spend to-morrow."
"And not go to Boston?"
