mourning.' 
' Don't, father, it breaks my heart. I will be so good 
to her when I get home. I will do her work for her, and 
be her comfort, and she shall not suffer any more through 
me.' 
There was some more talk of this sort, then Uncle 
Laxart said — 
' You have done the will of God, dear, and are quits ; 
it is true, and none may deny it ; but what of the King ? 
You are his best soldier ; what if he command you to 
stay ? ' 
That was a crusher — and sudden ! It took Joan a 
moment or two to recover from the shock of it ; then she 
said, quite simply and resignedly : 
' The King is my Lord ; I am his servant.' She was 
silent and thoughtful a little while, then she brightened up 
and said, cheerily, ' But let us drive such thoughts away — 
this is no time for them. Tell me about home.' 
So the two old gossips talked and talked ; talked about 
everything and everybody in the village ; and it was good 
to hear. Joan out of her kindness tried to get us into the 
conversation, but that failed, of course. She was the Com- 
mander-in-Chief, we were nobodies ; her name was the 
mightiest in France, we were invisible atoms ; she was the 
comrade of princes and heroes, we of the humble and 
obscure ; she held rank above all Personages and all Puissances 
whatsoever in the whole earth, by right of bearing 
her commission direct from God. To put it in one word, 
she was Joan of Arc — and when that is said, all is said. 
To us she was divine. Between her and us lay the bridgeless 
abyss which that word implies. We could not be 
familiar with her. No, you can see yourselves that that 
would have been impossible. 
And yet she was so human, too, and so good and kind 
and dear and loving and cheery and charming and un- 
spoiled and unaffected ! Those are all the words I think 
of now, but they are not enough ; no, they are too few 
and colourless and meagre to tell it all, or tell the half. 
Those simple old men didn't realise her ; they couldn't ; 
they had never known any people but human beings, and 
so they had no other standard to measure her by. To 
them, after their first little shyness had worn off, she was 
just a girl — that was all. It was amazing. It made one 
shiver, sometimes, to see how calm and easy and comfortable 
they were in her presence, and hear them talk to her exactly 
as they would have talked to any other girl in France. 
Why, that simple old Laxart sat up there and droned 
out the most tedious and empty tale one ever heard, and 
neither he nor Papa D'Arc ever gave a thought to the bad- 
ness of the etiquette of it, or ever suspected that that 
foolish tale was anything but dignified and valuable history. 
There was not an atom of value in it ; and whilst they 
thought it distressing and pathetic, it was in fact not 
pathetic at all, but actually ridiculous. At least it seemed 
so to me, and it seems so yet. Indeed I know it was, 
because it made Joan laugh ; and the more sorrowful it 
got the more it made her laugh ; and the Paladin said that 
he could have laughed himself if she had not been there, 
and Noel Rainguesson said the same. It was about old 
Laxart going to a funeral there at Domremy two or three 
weeks back. He had spots all over his face and hands, 
and he got Joan to rub some healing ointment on them, 
and while she was doing it, and comforting him, and trying 
to say pitying things to him, he told her how it hap- 
pened. And first he asked her if she remembered that 
black bull calf that she left behind when she came away, 
and she said indeed she did, and he was a dear, and she 
loved him so, and was he well ?— and just drowned him in 
questions about that creature. And he said it was a young 
bull now, and very frisky ; and he was to bear a principal 
hand at a funeral ; and she said, ' The bull ? ' and he said, 
' No, myself ; ' but said the bull did take a hand, but 
not because of his being invited, for he wasn't ; but any- 
way he was away over beyond the Fairy Tree, and fell 
asleep on the grass with his Sunday funeral clothes on, and 
a long black rag on his hat and hanging down his back ; 
and when he woke he saw by the sun how late it was, and 
not a moment to lose ; and jumped up terribly worried, 
and saw the young bull grazing there, and thought maybe 
he could ride part way on him and gain time ; so he tied a 
rope around the bull's body to hold on by, and put a halter 
on him to steer with, and jumped on and started ; but it 
was all new to the bull, and he was discontented with it, 
and scurried around and bellowed and reared and pranced, 
and Uncle Laxart was satisfied, and wanted to get off and 
go by the next bull or some other way that was quieter, 
but he didn't dare try ; and it was getting very warm for 
him, too, and disturbing and wearisome, and not proper 
for Sunday ; but by-and-by the bull lost all his temper, and 
went tearing down the slope with his tail in the air and 
bellowing in the most awful way ; and just in the edge of 
the village he knocked down some bee-hives, and the bees 
turned out and joined the excursion, and soared along in a 
black cloud that nearly hid those other two from sight, and 
prodded them both, and jabbed them and speared them and 
spiked them, and made them bellow and shriek, and shriek 
and bellow ; and here they came roaring through the village 
like a hurricane, and took the funeral procession right in 
the centre, and sent that section of it sprawling, and 
galloped over it, and the rest scattered apart and fled 
screeching in every direction, every person with a layer of 
bees on him, and not a rag of that funeral left but the corpse ; 
and finally the bull broke for the river and jumped in, and 
when they fished Uncle Laxart out he was nearly drowned, 
and his face looked like a pudding with raisins in it. And 
then he turned around, this old simpleton, and looked a 
long time in a dazed way at Joan where she had her face 
in a cushion, dying, apparently, and says — 
' What do you reckon she is laughing at ? ' 
And old D'Arc stood looking at her the same way, sort 
of absently scratching his head ; but had to give it up, and 
said he didn't know — ' must have been something that 
happened when we weren't noticing.' 
Yes, both of those old people thought that that tale was 
pathetic ; whereas to my mind It was purely ridiculous, 
and not in any way valuable to any one. It seemed so to 
me then, and it seems so to me yet. And as for history, 
it does not resemble history, for the office of history is to 
furnish serious and Important facts that teach ; whereas 
this strange and useless event teaches nothing ; nothing 
