mind you that while you were doing your best to make 
the party to your second engagement believe that you 
were in love with her, you got her brother, an habitual 
inebriate, drunk, and were, so far, instrumental in 
breaking down the weak will with which he was strug- 
gling against his propensity. It is only fair to you 
that I should add that you persuaded me you got him 
only a little drunker than he had already got himself, 
and that you meant to have looked after him, but for- 
got him in your preoccupation with his sister. 

" I do not know what took place between you and 
these people after you broke your engagement with 
the sister, until your encounter with the brother in 
Whitwell's Clearing, and I know of this only at sec- 
ond hand. I can well believe that you had some real 
or fancied injury to pay oflE; and I give you all the 
credit you may wish to claim for sparing him at last. 
For one of your vindictive temperament it must have 
been difficult. 

" I have told you the worst things I know of yon, 
and I do not pretend to know them more than super- 
ficially. I am not asked to judge you, and I will not. 
You must be your own judge. You are to decide 
whether these and other acts of yours are the acts of 
a man good enough to be intrusted with the happiness 
of a woman who has already been very unhappy. 

"You have sometimes, however — oftener than I 
wished — come to me for advice, and I now offer you 
Bb 



 

some advice voluntarily. Do not suppose that because 
you love this woman, as you believe, you are fit to be 
the keeper of her future. Ask yourself how you have 
dealt hitherto with those who have loved you, and 
whom in a sort you loved, and do not go further un- 
less the answer is such as you can fully and faithfully 
report to the woman you wish to marry. What you 
have made yourself you will be to the end. You once 
called me an idealist, and perhaps you will call this 
idealism. I will only add, and I will give the last 
word in your defence, you alone know what you are." 



LIII. 

As soon as Westover liad posted his letter lie be- 
gan to blame himself for it. He saw that the right 
and manly thing would have been to write to Mrs. 
Vostrand, and tell her frankly what he thought of , 
Durgin. Her folly, her insincerity, her vulgarity, had 
nothing to do with the afEair, so far as he was con- 
cerned. If she had once been so kind to him as to 
bind him to her in grateful friendship, she certainly 
had a claim upon his best offices. His duty was to 
her, and not at all to Durgin. He need not have said 
anything against him because it was against him, but 
because it was true ; and if he had written he must 
not have said anything less than the truth. 

He could have chosen not to write at all. He could 
have said that her mawkish hypocrisy was a little too 
much ; that she was really wanting him to whitewash 
Durgin for her, and she had no right to put upon him 
the responsibility for the step she clearly wished to 
take. He could have made either of these decisions, 
and defended them to himself ; but in what he had 
done he had altogether shirked. While he was writ- 
ing to Durgin, and pretending that he could justly 



 

leave this affair to him, he was simply indulging a bit 
of sentimental pose, far worse than anything in Mrs. 
Vostrand's sham appeal for his help. 

He felt, as the time went by, that she had not writ- 
ten of her own impulse, but at her daughter's urgence, 
and that it was this poor creature whose trust he had 
paltered with. He believed that Durgin would not 
fail to make her unhappy, yet he had not done what 
he might to deliver her out of his hand. He had 
satisfied a wretched pseudo-magnanimity towards a 
faithless scoundrel, as he thought Durgin, at the cost 
of a woman whose anxious hope of his aid had proba- 
bly forced her mother's hand. 

At first he thought his action irrevocable, and he 
bitterly upbraided himself for not taking council with 
Cynthia upon Mrs. Vostrand's letter. He had thought 
of doing that, and then he had dismissed the thought 
as involving pain that he had no right to inflict ; but 
now he perceived that the pain was such as she must 
suffer in the event, and that he had stupidly refused 
himself the only means of finding out the right thing 
to do. Her true heart and her clear mind would have 
been infallible in the affair, and he had trusted to his 
own muddled impulse. 

He began to write other letters : to Durgin, to Mrs. 
Vostrand, to Genevieve; but none of them satisfied 
him, and he let the days go by without doing anything 
to retrieve his error or fulfil his duty. At last he did 
what he ought to have done at first : he enclosed Mrs. 
Vostrand's letter to Cynthia, and asked her what she 
thought he ought to have done. While he was wait- 




ing Cynthia's answer to his letter, a cable message 
