"Not even to have Poynton."
"But why on earth?" Mrs. Gereth's sad eyes were fixed on her.
Fleda colored; she hesitated. "Because he's too stupid!" Save on one
other occasion, at which we shall in time arrive, little as the reader
may believe it, she never came nearer to betraying to Mrs. Gereth that
she was in love with Owen. She found a dim amusement in reflecting that
if Mona had not been there and he had not been too stupid and he verily
had asked her, she might, should she have wished to keep her secret,
have found it possible to pass off the motive of her action as a mere
passion for Poynton.
Mrs. Gereth evidently thought in these days of little but things
hymeneal; for she broke out with sudden rapture, in the middle of the
week: "I know what they'll do: they will marry, but they'll go and
live at Waterbath!" There was positive joy in that form of the idea,
which she embroidered and developed: it seemed so much the safest thing
that could happen. "Yes, I'll have you, but I won't go there!" Mona
would have said with a vicious nod at the southern horizon: "we'll leave
your horrid mother alone there for life." It would be an ideal solution,
this ingress the lively pair, with their spiritual need of a warmer
medium, would playfully punch in the ribs of her ancestral home; for it
would not only prevent recurring panic at Poynton--it would offer them,
as in one of their gimcrack baskets or other vessels of ugliness, a
definite daily felicity that Poynton could never give. Owen might manage
his estate just as he managed it now, and Mrs. Gereth would manage
everything else. When, in the hall, on the unforgettable day of his
return, she had heard his voice ring out like a call to a terrier, she
had still, as Fleda afterwards learned, clutched frantically at the
conceit that he had come, at the worst, to announce some compromise; to
tell her she would have to put up with the girl, yes, but that some way
would be arrived at of leaving her in personal possession. Fleda Vetch,
whom from the first hour no illusion had brushed with its wing, now held
her breath, went on tiptoe, wandered in outlying parts of the house and
through delicate, muffled rooms, while the mother and son faced each
other below. From time to time she stopped to listen; but all was so
quiet she was almost frightened: she had vaguely expected a sound of
contention. It lasted longer than she would have supposed, whatever it
was they were doing; and when finally, from a window, she saw Owen
stroll out of the house, stop and light a cigarette and then pensively
lose himself in the plantations, she found other matter for trepidation
in the fact that Mrs. Gereth didn't immediately come rushing up into her
arms. She wondered whether she oughtn't to go down to her, and measured
the gravity of what had occurred by the circumstance, which she
presently ascertained, that the poor lady had retired to her room and
wished not to be disturbed. This admonition had been for her maid, with
whom Fleda conferred as at the door of a death-chamber; but the girl,
without either fatuity or resentment, judged that, since it could render
Mrs. Gereth indifferent even to the ministrations of disinterested
attachment, the scene had been tremendous.
She was absent from luncheon, where indeed Fleda had enough to do to
look Owen in the face; there would be so much to make that hateful in
their common memory of the passage in which his last visit had
terminated. This had been her apprehension at least; but as soon as he
stood there she was constrained to wonder at the practical simplicity of
the ordeal--a simplicity which was really just his own simplicity, the
particular thing that, for Fleda Vetch, some other things of course
aiding, made almost any direct relation with him pleasant. He had
neither wit, nor tact, nor inspiration: all she could say was that when
they were together the alienation these charms were usually depended on
to allay didn't occur. On this occasion, for instance, he did so much
better than "carry off" an awkward remembrance: he simply didn't have
it. He had clean forgotten that she was the girl his mother would have
fobbed off on him; he was conscious only that she was there in a manner
for service--conscious of the dumb instinct that from the first had made
him regard her not as complicating his intercourse with that personage,
but as simplifying it. Fleda found beautiful that this theory should
have survived the incident of the other day; found exquisite that
whereas she was conscious, through faint reverberations, that for her
kind little circle at large, whom it didn't concern, her tendency had
begun to define itself as parasitical, this strong young man, who had a
right to judge and even a reason to loathe her, didn't judge and didn't
loathe, let her down gently, treated her as if she pleased him, and in
fact evidently liked her to be just where she was. She asked herself
what he did when Mona denounced her, and the only answer to the question
was that perhaps Mona didn't denounce her. If Mona was inarticulate he
wasn't such a fool, then, to marry her. That he was glad Fleda was there
was at any rate sufficiently shown by the domestic familiarity with
which he said to her: "I must tell you I've been having an awful row
with my mother. I'm engaged to be married to Miss Brigstock."
"Ah, really?" cried Fleda, achieving a radiance of which she was
secretly proud. "How very exciting!"
"Too exciting for poor Mummy. She won't hear of it. She has been slating
her fearfully. She says she's a 'barbarian.'"
"Why, she's lovely!" Fleda exclaimed.
"Oh, she's all right. Mother must come round."
"Only give her time," said Fleda. She had advanced to the threshold of
the door thus thrown open to her and, without exactly crossing it, she
threw in an appreciative glance. She asked Owen when his marriage would
take place, and in the light of his reply read that Mrs. Gereth's
wretched attitude would have no influence at all on the event,
absolutely fixed when he came down, and distant by only three months. He
liked Fleda's seeming to be on his side, though that was a secondary
matter, for what really most concerned him now was the line his mother
took about Poynton, her declared unwillingness to give it up.
"Naturally I want my own house, you know," he said, "and my father made
every arrangement for me to have it. But she may make it devilish
awkward. What in the world's a fellow to do?" This it was that Owen
wanted to know, and there could be no better proof of his friendliness
than his air of depending on Fleda Vetch to tell him. She questioned
him, they spent an hour together, and, as he gave her the scale of the
concussion from which he had rebounded, she found herself saddened and
frightened by the material he seemed to offer her to deal with. It was
devilish awkward, and it was so in part because Owen had no imagination.
It had lodged itself in that empty chamber that his mother hated the
surrender because she hated Mona. He didn't of course understand why she
hated Mona, but this belonged to an order of mysteries that never
troubled him: there were lots of things, especially in people's minds,
that a fellow didn't understand. Poor Owen went through life with a
frank dread of people's minds: there were explanations he would have
been almost as shy of receiving as of giving. There was therefore
nothing that accounted for anything, though in its way it was vivid
enough, in his picture to Fleda of his mother's virtual refusal to move.
That was simply what it was; for didn't she refuse to move when she as
good as declared that she would move only with the furniture? It was the
furniture she wouldn't give up; and what was the good of Poynton without
the furniture? Besides, the furniture happened to be his, just as
everything else happened to be. The furniture--the word, on his lips,
had somehow, for Fleda, the sound of washing-stands and copious bedding,
and she could well imagine the note it might have struck for Mrs.
Gereth. The girl, in this interview with him, spoke of the contents of
the house only as "the works of art." It didn't, however, in the least
