gentle-minded girls. 
If they were "out of the world " to a certain 
extent, they were, to another, out of the evil of 
it. As I look back upon the little drama be 
tween twelve and twenty, I might rather say, 
between two and twenty, Andover young
people seem to me to have been as truly
and naturally innocent as one may meet anywhere in 
the world. Some of these private records of 
girl-history were so white, so clear, so sweet, 
that to read them would be like watching a 
morning-glory open. The world is full, thank 
Heaven, of lovely girls ; but though other forms 
or phases of gentle society claim their full 
quota, I never saw a lovelier than those I knew 
on Andover Hill. 
One terrible tragedy, indeed, befell our little 
" set ; " for we had our sets in Andover as well 
as they of Newport or New York. 
A high-bred girl of exceptional beauty was 
furtively kissed one evening by a daring boy 
(not a native of Andover, I hasten to explain), 
and the furore which followed this 
unprecedented enormity it would be impossible to de 
scribe to a member of more complicated circles 
of society. Fancy the reception given such a 
commonplace at any of our fashionable summer 
resorts to-day ! 
On Andover Hill the event was a moral
cataclysm. Andover girls were country girls, but 
not of rustic (any more than of metropolitan) 
social training. Which of them would have 
suffered an Academy boy, walking home with 
her from a lecture or a prayer-meeting, any 
little privilege which he might not have taken 
in her father's house and with her mother's 
 
knowledge ? I never knew one. The case of 
which I speak was historic, and as far as I ever 
knew, unique, and was that of a victim, not an 
offender. 
The little beauty to whom this atrocity hap 
pened cried all night and all the next day ; she 
was reported not to have stopped crying for 
twenty-six hours. Her pretty face grew wan 
and haggard. She was too ill to go to her 
lessons. 
The teachers to whom she had promptly 
related the circumstance condoled with her ; 
the entire school vowed to avenge her ; we were 
a score of as disturbed and indignant girls as 
ever wept over woman's wrongs or scorned a 
man's depravity. 
Yet, for aught I know to the contrary, this 
abandoned young man may have grown up to 
become a virtuous member of society, possibly 
even an exemplary husband and father. I have 
never been able to trace his history ; probably 
the moral repulsion was too great. 
Yet they were no prigs, for their innocence ! 
Andover girls, in the best and brightest sense 
of the word, led a gay life. 
The preponderance of young men on the Hill 
gave more than ample opportunity for well- 
mannered good times ; and we made the most 
of them. 
 
Legends of the feminine triumphs of past 
generations were handed breathlessly down to 
us, and cherished with awe. A lady of the 
village, said to have been once very handsome, was 
credibly reported to have refused nineteen offers 
of marriage. Another, still plainly beautiful, 
was known to have received and declined the 
suits of nine theologues in one winter. Neither 
of these ladies married. We watched their 
whitening hairs and serene faces with a certain 
pride of sex, not easily to be understood by a 
man. When we began to think how many 
times they might have married, the subject as 
sumed sensational proportions. In fact, the 
maiden ladies of Andover always, I fancied, 
regarded each other with a peculiar sense of 
peace. Each knew and knew that the rest 
knew that it was (to use the Andover phrase 
ology) not of predestination or foreordination, 
but of free will absolute, that an Andover girl 
passed through life alone. This little social 
fact, which is undoubtedly true of most, if not 
all, uniyersity towns, had mingled effects upon 
impressionable girls ; for the proportion of 
masculine society was almost Western in 
its munificence. 
Perhaps it is my duty to say just here that, if 
honestly put to the question, I should admit 
that this proportion was almost too munificent 
 
for the methods of education then and still 
to an extent now in vogue. 
A la rge Academy for boys, and a flourishing 
Seminary for young men, set across the village 
streets from two lively girls schools, gave to 
one observer of this little scholastic world her 
first argument for co-education. 
I am confident that if the boys who serenaded 
(right manfully) under the windows of Abbot 
Academy or of "The Nunnery," or who found 
their lady's colors on the bouquets that were 
tossed from balconies of professors houses, had 
been put, class to class, in competition with us, 
they would have wasted less time upon us ; and 
I could not deny that if the girls who cut little 
holes in their fans through which one could 
look, undetected and unreproved, at one's 
favorite Academy boy, on some public occasion, 
had been preparing to meet or pass that boy at 
Euclid or Xenophon recitation next morning, 
he would have occupied less of their fancy. 
Intellectual competition is simpler, severer, and 
more wholesome than the unmitigated social 
