were, except for the young who could 
not fast till dinner-time, only two meals 
daily, dinner and supper. Yet the Nor- 
mans had brought in the habit of sitting 
long at the table — a custom not yet al- 
together abated, since the great people, 
especially at banquets, sit till two or 
three o'clock in the afternoon ; so that it 
is a hard matter to rise and go to even- 
ing prayers and return in time for sup- 
per. 
 
Harrison does not make much account 
of the early meal called " breakfast "; 
but Froude says that in Elizabeth's time 
the common hour of rising, in the coun- 
try, was four o'clock, summer and win- 
ter, and that breakfast was at five, after 
which the laborers went to work and 
the gentlemen to business. The Earl 
and Countess of Northumberland break- . 
fasted together and alone at seven. The 
meal consisted of a quart of ale, a quart 
of wine, and a chine of beef; a loaf of 
bread is not mentioned, but we hope 
(says Froude) it may be presumed. The 
gentry dined at eleven and supped at 
five. The merchants took dinner at 
noon, and, in London, supped at six. 
The university scholars out of term ate 
dinner at ten. The husbandmen dined at 
high noon, and took supper at seven or 
eight. As for the poorer sort, it is need- 
less to talk of their order of repast, for 
 
they dined and supped when they could. 
The English usually began meals with 
the grossest food and ended with the 
most delicate, taking first the mild wines 
and ending with the hottest ; but the 
prudent Scot did otherwise, making 
his entrance with the best, so that 
he might leave the worse to the me- 
nials. 
.1 will close this portion of our sketch 
of English manners with an extract from 
the travels of Hentzner, who visited 
England in 1598, and saw the great 
queen go in state to chapel at Green- 
wich, and afterwards witnessed the lay- 
ing of the table for her dinner. It was 
on Sunday. The queen was then in her 
sixth-fifth year, and " very majestic," 
as she walked in the splendid procession 
of barons, earls, and knights of the gar- 
ter: " her face, oblong, fair, but wrin- 
kled ; her eyes small, yet black and pleas- 
 
ant ; her nose a little hooked ; her lips 
narrow, and her teeth black (a defect 
the English seem subject to from their 
great use of sugar). She had in her 
ears two pearls with very rich drops ; 
she wore false hair, and that red ; upon 
her head she had a small crown, reported 
to be made of some of the gold of'the 
celebrated Lunebourg table. Her bosom 
was uncovered, as all the English ladies 
have it till they marry ; and she had on 
a necklace of exceeding fine jewels; her 
hands were small, her fingers long, and 
her stature neither small nor low; her 
air was stately, her manner of speaking 
mild and obliging. That day she was 
dressed in white silk, bordered with 
pearls of the size of beans, and over it 
a mantle of black silk, shot with silver 
threads ; her train was very long, and 
the end of it borne by a marchioness; 
instead of a chain she had an oblong collar 
of gold and jewels." As she swept 
on in this magnificence, she spoke gra- 
ciously first to one, then to another, and 
always in the language of any foreigner 
she addressed ; whoever spoke to her 
kneeled, and wherever she turned her 
face, as she was going along, everybody 
fell down on his knees. When she pulled 
off her glove to give her hand to be 
kissed, it was seen to be sparkling with 
rings and jewels. The ladies of the court, 
handsome and well shaped, followed, 
dressed for the most part in white ; 
and on either side she was guarded 
by fifty gentlemen pensioners with gilt 
battle-axes. In the ante-chapel, where 
she graciously received petitions, there 
was an acclaim of " Long live Queen 
Elizabeth !" to which she answered, " I 
thank you, my good people." The music 
in the chapel was excellent, and the 
whole service was over in half an hour. 
 
This is Hentzner's description of the 
setting out of her table : 
" A gentleman entered the room bear- 
ing a rod, and along with him another 
who had a table-cloth, which, after they 
had both kneeled three times, he spread 
upon the table ; and after kneeling again 
they both retired. Then came two 
others, one with the rod again, the other 
with a salt-cellar, a plate, and bread ; and 
when they had kneeled as the others had 
done, and placed what was brought upon 
the table, they two retired with the same 
ceremonies performed by the first. At 
last came an unmarried lady (we were 
told she was a countess) and along with 
her a married one, bearing a tasting- 
