heavy package of “stories,” editorials, and telegrams of which she was
the heroine. Patience became so bewildered over the contradictory
descriptions of her personal appearance, the various versions of her
marital drama, the hundred and one theories for the murder and defence,
the ingenious analyses of her character, and the conflicting information
regarding her girlhood, that she wondered sometimes if a person could
come forth from the hands of so many creators and retain any original
birthmarks. The “Eye” telegraphed to its correspondent in San Francisco
to investigate her childhood, and the correspondent evidently
interviewed all her old enemies. Her mother’s happy career was detailed
with glee, and her own “sulky, moody, eccentric, murderous propensities”
were brilliantly epitomised. The story was entitled “She Tried To Murder
Her Mother,” and the “Eye’s” perfervid joy at this discovery throbbed in
an editorial.
The story was copied the length and breadth of the United States; but it
is only fair to add that Mr. Field’s eloquent leaders in her defence
were as widely quoted.
Miss Beale came to see her at once, and after a few tears and an
emphatic warning that “this terrible ordeal was the logical punishment
of her blasphemy of and disrespect to the Lord,” announced her intention
to sit by her during the trial, and let the jury see what a president of
the W. C. T. U. thought of a prisoner whose life was in their hands.
Patience told her that she loved her, and indeed was deeply grateful.
She spent her mornings reading the newspapers and attending to her
correspondence. Tarbox always paid her a short call, and usually
discoursed of Garan Bourke, whom he admired extravagantly. For a half
hour before luncheon she permitted her fellow prisoners to sit before
her in a wondering semi-circle while she manicured her nails and drew
vivid word-pictures of the superior comforts incident upon the
resignation of alcohol. With the exception of Mag they were
weather-beaten creatures, with hollow eyes and weak pathetic mouths.
They admired Patience superlatively. She was touched by their devotion,
and occasionally read them the funny stories in the illustrated
weeklies. They listened with open mouth and voiceless laughter, which,
however, expressed itself vocally when the stories were told in Irish or
German dialect. Patience gave them the papers, and they pasted the
pictures on the walls of the corridor. Never before had the female ward
of the White Plains Jail presented so festive an appearance. When the W.
C. T. U. ladies came to sing to the prisoners they were inclined to be
horrified; but Patience assured them that love of art, however
manifested, was a hopeful sign.
She was very comfortable. She had saved a thousand dollars,—to be
exact, Miss Merrien had saved them for her,—and she could command all
the small luxuries of prison life. The ugly walls of her cell had been
draped with red cloth, and a low bookcase was rapidly filling with the
literature of the moment. She would never have consented to save those
thousand dollars had not Miss Merrien represented that by judicious
economy she could manage to spend every third year abroad. They did her
good service now; she could accept great favours, but not small ones.
Graceful tributes were to be expected by every charming woman; but if
she had been dependent upon friends for the small comforts of her daily
life she would have gone without them.
The W’s and Y’s of Mariaville forgave her, and brought her flowers,
tracts, and spiritual admonitions. She received the former with
gratitude and the latter with grace. Miss Merrien came as often as her
duties permitted, and so did all the other newspaper women she had ever
known or heard of. She was interviewed for nearly every newspaper in the
Union, and in most cases treated with sensational kindness. Many
strangers and a few old friends called.
Steele came regularly once a week. He dared not come oftener. The “lover
in the case” was still a mystery, and it was as well that he should
remain so. Five other newspaper men lived in his house; therefore
Patience’s visit had told Bart Tripp nothing beyond the fact that she
had indubitably called on a young man at his apartments at a quarter
past nine in the morning.
But despite the fact that much of her time was occupied Patience grew
very restless and nervous, after the novelty wore off. She spent hours
pacing up and down the corridor, and every evening after dark Tarbox
took her out in the jail-yard for a walk; but she had been used to long
walks and hours in the open air all her life, and no woman ever lived
less suited to routine and restraint of any sort. Fear did not return,
although the coroner’s jury had pronounced her guilty and she had been
indicted by the Grand Jury.
                                  VIII
When the dark days of winter came little light struggled through the low
grating, and she was obliged to keep her lamp burning most of the time.
Steele sent her one with a rose-coloured shade which shed a cheerful
light but hurt her eyes. When the storms began visitors came
infrequently. Moreover, as public interest cannot be kept at concert
pitch for any length of time, there was less and less about her in the
newspapers. Steele, who understood the intimate relationship between
public interest and the resignation of a prisoner, assured her that when
her trial came off in March she would once more be the popular news of
the day.
At first the monotony of the long silent winter days was intolerable.
But gradually, by such short degrees, that she hardly realised the
change taking place within her, she grew to love her solitude and to be
grateful for it. For the first time since she had left Monterey her
hours were absolutely her own. She had longed for the solitude of a
forested mountain top. From her prison window she could see the naked
tops of a clump of trees above the buildings opposite, and even her
obedient imagination could not expand them to primeval heights; but at
least she had solitude and not a petty detail to annoy her.
She sometimes wondered if it mattered where one spent the few years of
this unsatisfactory life. Nothing was of permanent satisfaction.
Strongly as she had been infatuated with newspaper work the interest
would have lasted only just so long. She found her modernity slipping
from her, herself relapsing into the dreaming child of the tower with
vague desire for something her varied experience of the world had not
helped her to find. Inevitably she came to know herself and the large
demands of her nature, and as inevitably she said to Morgan Steele one
day,—
“I think you have known all along that it was a mistake.”
“Yes,” he said, “I have known it.”
“You have everything—everything,—good looks and distinction, brains
and modernity, magnetism of a queer cold sort, knowledge of women and
kindness of heart—I cannot understand. But the spark, the response, the
exaltation is not there,—the splendid rush of emotion. I love you, but
not in the way that makes matrimony marriage.”
He looked at her with his peculiar smile, an expansion of one corner of
his mouth which gave him something of the expression of a satyr. “You
were badly in need of a companion, and you found one in me. You wanted
to be understood, and I understood you. You wanted sympathy, and I
sympathised with you; but I am not the man, and I have never for one
moment deluded myself.”
“Then why would you have allowed me to drift into matrimony with
you?—as I should have done if I had not come here.”
“Because the experiment would have been no more dangerous than most
matrimonial experiments. And it would have been very delightful for a
time.”
