declaration. She hated the world before knowing it, but he hated it in
full knowledge.  That was a bond of sympathy like any other.  To each of
us the world means both what we know, and what we suspect, both what we
see and the completion of it in the unseen, both the outward lives of
our companions which we can judge, and their inward motives, which we
dimly guess.
But on this evening Sylvia felt that the world was particularly odious,
for she had suffered a first humiliation in her own eyes.  She thought
that she had lowered herself in the colonel’s estimation, and she had
discovered that she had made a great mistake with herself about him.
"I hate the world!" she repeated, in a lower tone, almost to herself,
and her eyes gleamed with young anger, while her delicate, curving lips
just showed her small white teeth.
Wimpole watched her face.
"That is no reason for hating yourself," he said gently.
She started and turned her eyes to him.  Then she blushed and looked
away.
"You must not guess my thoughts," she answered.  "It is not kind."
"I did not mean to.  I am sorry."
"Oh--you could not help it, of course.  I was so foolish to-day."
The blush deepened, and she said nothing more.  The colonel returned to
his own secret trouble, and on Sylvia’s other side Miss Wimpole was
silently planning a charitable institution of unusual severity, while
she peeled an orange with the most scrupulous neatness and precision.
                               CHAPTER X
Sylvia went to her own room after dinner, still wondering what had
happened to her on her birthday.  There is an age at which most of us
unexpectedly come across the truth about ourselves, and sometimes about
others, and it generally happens that in our recollection the change
turns upon one day, or even one hour.
The shock is sudden and unexpected.  Floating down a quick smooth stream
in a boat, a man is aware of motion, as he watches the bank without
realizing the strength of the flowing water; but when the skiff is
suddenly checked by any obstacle in midstream, the whole force of the
river rushes upon it, and past it, and perhaps over it, in an instant.
Something of the same sort happens now and then in our lives. The great
illusion of childhood carries us along at a speed of which we have no
idea, in the little boat which is the immediate and undeniable reality
of near surroundings, the child’s cradle afloat upon a fiction which is
wide and deep and strong, and sometimes we are grown men and women
before our small craft strikes upon a shoal of truth, with a dash that
throws us from the thwart, and frightens the bravest of us.  There we
stick fast upon the rough fact for a while, and the flood that was so
smooth and pleasant rushes past us, foaming and seething and breaking
against the boat’s side and threatening to tear her to pieces.  And if
the tide is ebbing at the river’s mouth, we may be left high and dry
upon the sharp reality for a long time; but if not, the high water will
presently float us, and off we shall spin again, smoothly and safely, on
the bosom of the sweet untrue.
Such accidents happen more than once to most people, and almost every
one resents them bitterly.  Even in daily living, few men can bear to be
roughly roused from sleep.  Much more is the waking rude from year-long
dreams of fancy.
Sylvia sat at her table and stared at the lamp, as if it were her own
heart which she could look into, and watch, and study, and criticise.
For most of all, she was in a humour to find fault with it, as having
played her false when she least expected that it could deceive her.  She
had built on it, as it dictated; she had trusted it, as it suggested;
she had lived, and loved to live, for its sake; and now it had betrayed
her. It had not been in earnest, all the time, but had somehow made her
think that she herself was all earnestness.  It was a false and silly
little heart, and she hated it, as she looked at it in the lamp, and she
wished that it would frizzle and burn like the poor moth that had gone
too near the hot glass while she had been downstairs.
It was positively laughing at her, now, and she set her small mouth
angrily.  To think that she should ever have fancied herself in love
with a man who might have been her grandfather! And it wickedly showed
her the colonel as he would be in another ten years, a picture founded
upon the tired look she had just seen in his face. She was ashamed of
herself, and furious against herself for being ashamed, and she suddenly
wished that she were dead, because that would give people a real reason
for being sorry for her. It would be very pathetic to die so young!  If
she did, her heart could not laugh at her.
She thought about it for a while, and among other reflexions she
suddenly found herself wondering whether young Knox, the officer on her
father’s ship, would be very sorry.  He had written her a letter from
Japan which she had not answered.  Indeed, she was not sure that she had
read every word of it, for it had only come this morning.  Life had been
too short for reading letters on that day.  But there it was, on the
table.  She had the evening before her, and though it was a long letter,
it could not take more than a quarter of an hour to go through it.  She
put out her hand to take it and then looked at the lamp again.
A lean, brown young face was suddenly there, and bright eyes that looked
straight at her, without anything vastly superior in them, but full of
something she liked and understood and instantly longed for.  Her heart
was not laughing at her any more, for she had forgotten all about it,
which is generally the best thing one can do in such cases.
Even the expression of her face changed and softened as she laid her
hand upon the letter. For Wimpole’s sake, as she had made herself think
a few hours earlier, she would gladly have doubled her age, and the
forced longing for equality of years between herself and her ideal had
fleetingly expressed itself in her face by shadows, where there could
not yet be lines. But as the illusion sank down into the storehouse of
all impossibilities and all mistakes, the light of early youth fell full
and unscreened upon her face again, and she revived unconsciously, as
day-flowers do at sunrise, when the night-flowers fold their leaves.
It was surely no thought of love which made the change; or if that were
its cause, it was but love’s fore-lightening in a waking dream.  Much
rather it must have been the consciousness of living roused by the
thought of youth.  For youth is the elixir of life, and the touch of old
age is a blight on youth, when youth is longing to be old; but youth
that is willingly young has power to give the old a breath of itself
again, before the very end.  In their children men live again, and in
their children’s children they remember the loveliness of childhood.
From a very far country, across half a world of land and water, the
letter had come to Sylvia on her birthday, as Harmon’s had come to
Helen.  There is something strange and terrible, if we realize it, in
man’s power to harm or help by written words from any distance. The
little bit of paper leaves our hand with its wishing-carpet in the shape
of a postage stamp, and swiftly singles out the one man or woman, in two
thousand millions, for whom it is meant, going straight to its mark with
an aim far more unerring than steel or ball.  A man may much more
probably miss his enemy with a pistol at ten paces, than with a letter
at ten thousand miles.  If the fabled inhabitant of Mars could examine
our world under an imaginary glass, as we study a drop of water under a
microscope, he would surely be profoundly interested in the movements of
the letter-bacillus, as he might call it.  He might question whether it
is generated spontaneously, or is the result of an act of will, more or
less aggressive, but he would marvel at the rapidity of its motion and
at the strength of its action upon the human animal through the eye.  It
