coming to the first table, for some of them want 
to get home before dark." 
The elderly and middle-aged seated themselves 
around on the rocks cushioned now by wise fore 
thought. They laughed and chatted, drank their 
tea leisurely and told their ages, at least those 
who were old enough to be proud of them, and ex 
changed reminiscences. It really was a pretty sight 
to Thirza. She wished it could be photographed. 
Had Chris Morrow gone off in a huff ? She 
was almost sure he had, from Clara's sharpness to 
her. It gave her a sense of relief. 
There was a good deal of laughter when the 
first table began to rise. Two or three of the 
young men were ready to assist. The stage was 
waiting. They packed up their little traps, such 
as handkerchiefs and spectacles and in a few 
instances knitting, and bustled about for shawls 
and bonnets that had been placed on a ledge that 
made a convenient closet. Mrs. Rolfe wasn't old 
enough to go. Aunt Abby was at home to look 
after the supper and the baby. The rest of the 
children were running wild here. 
 
The next table was full of jollity. The young 
men contingent had received several additions. 
Bessie was rendering herself very agreeable, per 
haps a little more pronounced than Thirza quite 
approved, but there was a pretty coquetry about 
her that was really fascinating. There were 
other couples making love unblushingly, in the 
frank manner of honest-hearted, uncultured girls, 
and Bessie seemed delicate beside them. 
Thirza was giving the children their supper, 
and could stop only now and then for a word or 
smile. Then Palmer made his appearance. 
There was a vacant seat beside Bessie at that 
moment, though the young man had not meant 
to give up so delightful a place and only gone on 
an errand. 
" Sit down here and have some supper," ex 
claimed Thirza, with brightening eyes. " Tea or cof 
fee? You see I have my business quite by heart." 
" It doesn't matter, really. Oh, tea I think. 
Well, has the good time come up to your expecta 
tions ? " turning his eyes on Bessie with a half- 
humorous expression. 
" It's been just splendid ! Miss Rolfe has 
proved a fairy godmother, I was going to say, but 
she isn't old enough for such an office." And 
Bessie's face dimpled and lightened with generos 
ity, she had been so happy. 
" Are they always old?" inquired Thirza. She 
had a feeling that she looked about twenty, she 
had been getting so down to the children's level. 
" I don't know ; I never had a fairy godmother 
unless it was my own mamma. Not that Mrs. 
Deane was ever unkind to me. But Miss Rolfe 
has been just lovely," and the girl raised her baby 
eyes to Roy with the utmost satisfaction. " I've 
had just the loveliest time, and she has introduced 
me to so many delightful people. I've been row 
ing and rambling and singing, and we even danced 
a little to Mr. Marvin's violin. It had such a weird, 
exquisite sound over the water. Was it wrong 
you see I don't quite know the distinctions here, 
and what makes a thing proper for an outsider." 
She looked so arch and eager, yet there was a 
certain beseechingness, as if she begged them both 
not to judge her too harshly. 
" I am glad you have had a good time. And, 
Thirza, I thank you sincerely for aiding and abet 
ting it," smiling into her eyes. 
There was something in Palmer's face she 
hardly knew how to take. Was Bessie's enjoy 
ment of account to him, or was it his love for 
seeing every one about him happy and at ease ? 
" Oh, your tea," and she went down to the great 
tea-urn. " It must be slops by this time," she 
thought, so she steeped some new. 
 
"Now, Thirza," began Mrs. Kent, "you just 
look up the children. We'll have Edith sick on 
our hands to-morrow she's run so crazy wild, 
and she isn't used to it. I'm packing my dishes 
without stopping to wash them, for John said he'd 
send the wagon half-past seven, sharp, and he'll 
take the children. Perhaps you better go with 
them. Mother'll be tired to death when she gets 
home." 
" I must take this tea to Roy Palmer. I've been 
making it on purpose for him." 
" Oh, have you been appointed tea-maker in 
chief to the young man ? " inquired her sister, in 
angry sarcasm. 
Thirza did not answer. Neither did she linger 
at the table. She resolved not to give color to 
any gossip about herself and Roy, so she went at 
once to look up the children. Edith was fanning 
herself with her dress skirt, while her hat hung 
round her neck, she looked so near to being pretty 
that Thirza stopped and kissed her. 
" Oh, Aunt Thirza," she cried, " I am all run 
over with joy, I've had such a good time. I don't 
think I could hold any more. But I've torn my 
frock dreadfully." 
" Never mind ; we will get it mended to-morrow. 
Where are the other children ? " 
They were as elusive as eels. When you 
 
caught one, the other disappeared. When the 
wagon came, Tom was missing. 
" Oh, Miss Rolfe," and Bessie caught her hand, 
" won't you beg and induce Mr. Palmer to stay for 
the dancing ? I do so want to dance in real earn 
est. I haven't danced in such a long, long while 
only just by myself, until that little an hour ago. 
You've been so kind to me all the afternoon that 
I know I oughtn't to ask another thing " 
"Are you going to stay?" asked Palmer, as if 
