side, extremely tired, from the pursuit of 
exercise qualified by much hovering, she 
encountered another emotion. She on this 
occasion learnt at the door that her instant 
attendance was requested in the drawing- 
room. Crossing the threshold in a cloud of 
shame she discerned through the blur Mrs. 
Beale seated there with a gentleman who 
immediately drew the pain from her predica- 
ment by rising before her as the original 
of the photograph of Sir Claude. She felt 
the moment she looked at him that he was 
by far the most radiant person with whom 
she had yet been concerned ; and her pleasure 
in seeing him, in knowing that he took hold 
of her and kissed her, as quickly throbbed 
into a strange, shy pride in him, a percep- 
tion of his making up for her fallen state, 
for Susan's public nudges, which quite 
bruised her, and for all the lessons that, in 
the dead schoolroom, where at times she was 
almost afraid to stay alone, she was bored 
with not having. It was as if he had told 
her on the spot that he belonged to her, so 
that she could already show him off and see 
the effect he produced. No, nothing else 
that was most beautiful that had ever 
belonged to her could kindle that particular 
joy not Mrs. Beale at that very moment, 
not papa when he was gay, nor mamma when 
she was dressed, nor Lisette when she was 
new. The joy almost overflowed in tears 
when he laid his hand on her and drew her 
to him, telling her, with a smile of which 
the promise was as bright as that of a 
Christmas-tree, that he knew her ever so 
well by her mother, but had come to see her 
now so that he might know her really. She 
could see that his view of the way "really" 
to know her was to make her come away 
with him, and, further, that this was what 
he was there for, and had already been some 
time, arranging it with Mrs. Beale, and 
getting on with that lady in a manner evi- 
dently not at all affected by her having, on 
the arrival of his portrait, thought of him so 
ill. They had grown almost intimate or 
had the air of it over their discussion ; and 
it was still further conveyed to Maisie that 
Mrs. Beale had made no secret, and would 
make yet less of one, of all that it cost to let 
her go. " You seem so tremendously eager," 
she said to the child, " that I hope you 're at 
least clear about Sir Claude's relation to 
you. It doesn't appear to occur to him to 
give you the necessary reassurance. " 
Maisie, a trifle mystified, turned quickly 
to her new friend. "Why, it's of course 
that you 're married to her, is n't it ?" 
Her anxious emphasis started them off, as 
she had learned to call it; this was the echo 
she infallibly and now quite resignedly pro- 
duced. Moreover Sir Claude's laughter was 
an indistinguishable part of the sweetness of 
his being there. " We 've been married, my 
dear child, three months, and my interest in 
you is a consequence, don't you know? of my 
great affection for your mother. In coming 
here it 's of course for your mother I 'm 
acting." 
"Oh, I know," Maisie said, with all the 
candor of her competence. " She can't come 
herself except just to the door." Then as 
she thought afresh: "Can't she come even 
to the door now ? " 
"There you are!" Mrs. Beale explained 
to Sir Claude. She spoke as if his dilemma 
were ludicrous. 
His kind face, in a hesitation, seemed 
to recognize it; but he answered the child 
with a frank smile. " No not very well. " 
" Because she has married you ? " 
He promptly accepted this reason. " Well, 
that has a good deal to do with it. " 
He was so delightful to talk to that 
Maisie pursued the subject. " But papa 
he has married Miss Overmore." 
"Yes, and you 'll see that he won't come 
for you at your mother's," that lady inter- 
posed. 
"Ah, but that won't be for a long time," 
Maisie hastened to respond. 
"We won't talk about it now; you've 
months and months to put in first." And 
Sir Claude drew her closer. 
" Oh, that 's what makes it so hard to give 
her up ! " Mrs. Beale sighed, holding out 
her arms to her stepdaughter. Maisie, 
quitting Sir Claude, went over to them, and, 
clasped in a still tenderer embrace, felt 
entrancingly the expansion of the field of 
happiness. "I'll come for you," said her 
stepmother, " if Sir Claude keeps you too 
long; we must make him quite understand 
that! Don't talk to me about her lady- 
ship!" she went on, to their visitor, so 
familiarly that it was almost as if they must 
have met before. "I know her ladyship as 
if I had made her. They 're a pretty pair of 
parents ! " Mrs. Beale exclaimed. 
Maisie had so often heard them called so 
that the remark diverted her but an instant 
from the agreeable wonder of this grand new 
form of allusion to her mother ; and that, in 
its turn, presently left her free to catch at 
the pleasant possibility, in connection with 
herself, of a relation much happier, as be- 
tween Mrs. Beale and Sir Claude than as 
between mamma and papa. Still the next 
thing that happened was that her interest 
