intellectual. That a man should starve on writing 
poetry, when there was other work to be done in 
the world, seemed rather absurd. In some of the 
centres, literature was becoming an honourable em- 
ployment ; but country places had not emerged from 
the twilight of respect for brawn rather than brain. 
Jennie made her selections, and expressed her 
obligation. The poet nodded absently. 
Mrs. Clemm rose, as they emerged from the 
door, and walked to the end of the porch with 
them. There was something wonderfully pathetic 
in the care-worn face, the reticent air, and gentle 
voice. 
" I wonder if you have a few eggs to spare," she 
asked, in a hesitating manner. " My poor Edgar's 
appetite is so wretched. He has had a bad spell, 
and eats next to nothing." 
"Yes, I can find you half-a-dozen, I know. Our 
hens are afflicted a little with summer laziness," 
and Jennie smiled. " We have been baking to-day, 
and I wish you would accept a loaf of bread. I 'll
send this little cousin up with them." 
" Oh, don't trouble ! I will come down." 
" I shall be glad to do it," said Hanny, with a 
gentle eagerness. 
 
Cousin Jennie put the bread and the eggs, - - she 
found seven, - - and part of a cake, in a little basket, 
and said, " Run along, Little Red Riding Hood. 
There are no wolves to catch you." 
They teased Cousin Jennie a little because the 
tall young man with bright eyes was named Woolf. 
Mrs. Clemm received the little girl's parcel with 
her usual quiet air, and thanked her for coming. 
And before she could hunt up her ever-scanty 
purse the child had said Good-evening, and 
vanished. 
Hanny heard the " spells " rather rudely explained 
a day or two after, and understood the melancholy 
shadow that hung about the house. People were 
not any more delicate in gossiping about their 
neighbour's short-comings then than now, when all 
the little faults and frailties of heroes are paraded 
to the public gaze and comment. 
But the exquisite care with which the mothei 
watched over the son of her heart, made her one 
of the little girl's heroines later on, when she could 
fully appreciate the tender solicitude that tried to 
shield him and save him from temptation, when 
possible, bearing her burthen with such heroic 
dignity that she w r as fain to persuade her own 
soul that she covered it from critical eyes. When 
one woman suffers bravely to the death, amid 
untold privation, and another takes up the dropped 
burthen with a devotion no anxiety can wear out, 
is it not proof that there must have been some 
charm in the poet seen more clearly by those 
who loved him? 
WITH A POET 
There was a new book by Miss Macintosh among 
those they had brought home ; and this Hanny de- 
voured eagerly, sitting on her high perch, while the 
rest were busy in the household routine. In the 
afternoon, she read aloud while the others sewed. 
Sometimes the Major came in to listen ; but he 
thought there were no novels written nowadays 
like " The Mysteries of Udolpho," " The Children 
of the Abbey," and "The Vicar of Wake field." 
" Oh," said the little girl, " isn't this funny ! 
We have the first volume of 'The Grumbler' 
and the second of 'The Grandfather.' I con't 
believe I can piece them together," with a bright, 
mirthful expression. 
" And I picked those up myself. No ; we are 
interested in the ' Grumbler ' now and must know 
what became of him." 
They were English novels by a Miss Pickering, 
long since forgotten, while less worthy ones are 
remembered. 
" We 'll walk up after supper and change them," 
continued Cousin Jennie. 
But visitors came in shortly afterward to stay to 
supper. People were not specially invited then; 
and the hostess did not expect to prepare a feast 
on ordinary occasions. So Jennie said Hanny 
might go up alone, if she didn't mind. 
She started gladly, yet a sense of diffidence 
oppressed her as she stood at the door, a half 
guilty consciousness, as if she had no right to the 
secret Mrs. Clemm was trying so assiduously to 
hide. 
The poet was pacing up and down the room ; 
but his pallid face and strange, shining eyes 
seemed looking out from some other world. Mrs. 
Clemm sat by the window with a magazine in her 
hand. 
Hanny preferred her request timidly. 
" Oh, come in and hunt them up. Your cousin 
is quite welcome to anything. Then there are 
some upstairs, though I brought down that pile 
over in the corner this very morning." 
The corner looked attractive. Hanny went 
thither, and knelt down on the checked matting. 
There were two books of engravings containing 
portraits of famous people, some old volumes of 
verse, some. 1 nev ores, and magazines. 
The volumes she wanted were not among them. 
But she exhumed something else that made her 
forget the slight, nervous man pacing up and 
down, and the woman at the window. Turning 
the leaves of an old novel that had lost one cover, 
she came across the name of one of her heroes, 
" Richard of the Lion Heart." She had a passion, 
just then, for English history. And there was 
Bulwer's "White Rose of England," in paper 
covers with a Harper imprint. 
" Could I take these beside?' she asked, with 
some hesitation. 
He glanced over at them as he came to that end 
of the room. 
