1 
Infidels, 
. , 9 
Zoroastrians, 
2 
Maronites, 
2 
Zwinglian, . 
1 
About 64 roads to the other world. You see how healthy the 
religious atmosphere is. Anything can live in it. Agnostics, 
Atheists, Freethinkers, Infidels, Mormons, Pagans, Indefinites : 
they are all there. And all the big sects of the world can do 
more than merely live in it : they can spread, flourish, prosper. 
All except the Spiritualists and the Theosophists. That is the 
most curious feature of this curious table. What is the matter 
with the specter? Why do they puff him away? He is a 
welcome toy everywhere else in the world. 
Pity is for the living, envy is for the dead. — Fudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar, 
THE successor of the sheet-iron hamlet of the mangrove 
marshes has that other Australian specialty, the Bo- 
tanical Gardens. We cannot have these paradises. 
The best we could do would be to cover a vast acreage under 
glass and apply steam heat. But it would be inadequate, the 
lacks would still be so great : the confined sense, the sense of 
suffocation, the atmospheric dimness, the sweaty heat — these 
would all be there, in place of the Australian openness to the 
sky, the sunshine and the breeze. Whatever will grow under 
glass with us will flourish rampantly out of doors in Australia.'' 
When the white man came the continent was nearly as poor, in 
variety ot vegetation, as the desert of Sahara; now it has 
everything that grows on the earth. In fact, not Australia 
only, but all Australasia has levied tribute upon the flora of 
the rest of the world ; and wherever one goes the results ap- 
pear, in gardens private and public, in the woodsy walls of the 
highways, and in even the forests. If you see a curious or 
beautiful tree or bush or flower, and ask about it, the people, 
answering, usually name a foreign country as the place of its 
origin — India, Africa, Japan, China, England, America, Java, 
Sumatra, New Guinea, Polynesia, and so on. 
In the Zoological Gardens of Adelaide I saw the only laugh- 
ing jackass that ever showed any disposition to be courteous 
to me. This one opened his head wide and laughed like a 
demon ; or like a maniac who was consumed with humorous 
scorn over a cheap and degraded pun. It was a very human 
laugh. If he had been out of sight I could have believed 
that the laughter came from a man. It is an odd-looking bird, 
with a head and beak that are much too large for its body. 
In time man 
will exterminate the rest of the wild crea- 
tures of Australia, but this one will probably survive, 
for man is his friend and lets 
him alone. Man always has a good 
reason for his charities towards wild things, human 
or animal — when he has any. In this case the bird is 
spared because he kills snakes. If L. J. will take my advice 
he will not kill all of them. 
In that garden I also saw the wild Australian dog — the 
dingo. He was a beautiful creature — shapely, graceful, a 
little wolfish in some of his aspects, but with a most friendly 
eye and sociable disposition. The dingo is not an importation ; 
he was present in great force when the whites first came to the 
continent. It may be that he is the oldest dog in the universe ; 
his origin, his descent, the place where his ancestors tirst ap- 
peared, are as unknown and as untraceable as are the camel's. 
He is the most precious dog in the world, for he does not bark. 
But in an evil hour he got to raiding the sheep-runs to appease 
his hunger, and that sealed his doom. He is hunted, now, just 
as if he were a wolf. He has been sentenced to extermination, 
and the sentence will be carried out. This is all right, and not 
objectionable. The world was made for man — the white man. 
South Australia is confusingly named. All of the colonies 
have a southern exposure except one — Queensland. Properly 
speaking. South Australia is middle Australia. It extends 
straight up through the center of the continent like the middle 
board in a center-table. It is 2,000 miles high, from south to 
north, and about a third as wide. A wee little spot down in 
its southeastern corner contains eight or nine-tenths of its 
population ; the other one or two-tenths are elscwhere — as 
elsewhere as they could be in the United States with all the 
country between Denver and Chicago, and Canada and the 
Gulf of Mexico to scatter over. There is plenty of room. 
A telegraph line stretches straight up north through that 
2,000 miles of wilderness and desert from Adelaide to Port 
Darwin on the edge of the upper ocean. South Australia 
built the line ; and did it in 1871-2 when her population num- 
bered only 185,000. It was a great work ; for there were no 
roads, no paths ; 1,300 miles of the route had been traversed 
but once before by white men ; provisions, wire, and poles had 
to be carried over immense stretches of desert ; wells had to be 
dug along the route to supply the men and cattle with water. 
A cable had been previously laid from Port Darwin to 
Java and thence to India, and there was telegraphic communi- 
cation with England from India. And so, if Adelaide could 
make connection with Port Darwin it meant connection with 
the whole world. The enterprise succeeded. One could watch 
the London markets daily, now ; the profit to the wool-growers 
of Australia was instant and enormous. 
A telegram from Melbourne to San Francisco covers ap- 
proximately 20,000 miles — the equivalent of five-sixths of the 
way around the globe. It has to halt along the way a good 
many times and be repeated ; still, but little time is lost. These 
halts, and the distances between them, are here tabulated.* 
Miles. 
Melbourne — Mount Gambler, 300 
Mount Gambler — Adelaide, . 270 
Adelaide — Port Augusta, . 200 
Port Augusta — Alice Springs, 1,036 
Alice Springs — Port Darwin, 898 
Port Darwin — Banjoewangie, 1,150 
Banjoewangie — Batavia, . 480 
Batavia — Singapore, . . 553 
Singapore — Penang, . . 399 
Penang— Madras, . . 1,280 
I was in Adelaide again, some months later, and saw the 
multitudes gather in the neighboring city of Glenelg to com- 
memorate the Reading of the Proclamation — in 1836 — which 
founded the Province. If I have at any time called it a 
Colony, I withdraw the discourtesy. It is not a Colony, it is a 
Province; and officially so. Moreover, it is the only one so 
