"What's your game, Mr. Parkinson?" asked Daniells.
Mr. Parkinson winked significantly.
"The fact is, Daniells," he said, "I want an opportunity to
ingratiate myself with the fair Rose. I will take her part, pay her
the money as a favor, and--you comprehend?"
"Yes, I see. The fact is, Rose is pretty, and if I were not a
married man I would try to obtain a smile from her myself."
"Just do as I tell you, there's a good fellow, and you won't lose by
it."
When Rose had obtained by good fortune the powerful friendship
of the rich Miss Wilmot, she, of course, decided to give up
vest-making. She had some time left, but she felt that it would be
necessary for her to keep up her practice at home, if she aspired
to become a successful piano-teacher. However, she would finish the
vests she had in hand, and let those be the last.
When the vests were finished she took them round to Mr. Walton's
establishment.
The vigilant Daniells did not fail to note her appearance, and
prepared to serve the interests of his superior in the way which had
been arranged between them.
"So you've finished the vests?" he said, carelessly. "Let me look at
them."
Rose regarded this as a mere formality, knowing that they had been
well made, and never before having had her work objected to.
What was her surprise, therefore, when Daniells went over them one
by one, frowning and shaking his head, disapprovingly.
"Really," he said, "these vests are hardly satisfactory."
"What is amiss with them?" asked Rose, in genuine surprise.
"I can't go into particulars," said Daniells, who would have found
it hard to do so, by the way; "I can only say that they are not as
well made as we expect."
"They are as well made as usual," said Rose, flushing indignantly.
"I cannot understand why you object to them, when all the work I've
done before has passed without objection."
"All I can say, Miss Beaufort, is that I do not feel authorized to
pay you for them. Mr. Parkinson, however, is my superior. You can
refer the matter to him."
"I should like to do so, sir," said Rose, with cold dignity.
"I will accompany you."
The two passed on to the superintendent's desk, and Daniells
explained the matter to his superior.
"I will look over the work myself," said Parkinson. "You may go
back, Mr. Daniells. I will settle the matter."
Rose stood quiet, while the superintendent examined the vests.
"Really, Miss Beaufort," said Hugh, with his fascinating smile, "I
think Mr. Daniells has done you injustice. To my eye, the vests are
very neatly made."
"Thank you, sir," said Rose, gratefully. "I am sure they are as well
made as any I have brought here."
"The fact is," said Parkinson, confidentially, "Daniells is rather
fussy--I might say cranky--I have had more than once to reverse his
decision. You shall certainly be paid promptly, as usual."
"Thank you, sir."
Rose had never admired the superintendent, but he seemed to her
now a just and agreeable man. The money was not now of so much
importance to her, but she strongly objected to being unjustly
treated, and being deprived of the money which she had fairly earned.
Mr. Parkinson himself paid over to Rose the money due for the six
vests.
"Miss Beaufort," he said, "I hope you won't think we men of business
are all hard and disposed to take advantage of the poor. Now, in
your case, I assure you that I feel very kindly toward you."
"Thank you, sir," said Rose, considerably surprised.
Mr. Parkinson's vanity led him to think that she was regarding him
with a look of interest, but he misinterpreted her. She looked upon
him as old enough to be her father, and not a suspicion had ever
entered her mind that he thought of her as a possible wife.
"If you will permit me," said the superintendent, "I am about to go
out to lunch, and will communicate to you a plan I have for your
advantage. It will be better not to take any new work now."
"I did not intend to," said Rose.
Mr. Parkinson looked a little surprised.
They passed through the store together, and out into Broadway. Rose
waited for Mr. Parkinson to say what he appeared to have in his mind.
"I think, Miss Beaufort," he said, as they emerged into the street,
"you could do better than make vests at thirty-five cents each."
"I think so, too," answered Rose. "I wonder what he means?" she
thought.
"Such a beautiful girl as you are----"
"Sir!" exclaimed Rose, haughtily.
"No offense, my dear. Quite the contrary, I assure you. I have had
my eye upon you for some time, and I admire you exceedingly. You are
poor, but I shall overlook that. My dear girl, I am very well off,
as you may suppose, and I offer to make you Mrs. Parkinson."
"Good-evening, sir," said Rose, coldly. "I don't wish to continue
the conversation."
"Don't be foolish, my dear girl. It is a fine chance for a poor
vest-maker to marry a man in my position."
Rose did not deign to answer, but tried to escape. He attempted to
seize her by the arm, when his hat was violently knocked over his
eyes, and he came near measuring his length on the sidewalk.
                           CHAPTER XXII.
                      THE ROMANCE OF A ROSE.
Mr. Parkinson adjusted his hat, and darted a glance of indignation
at a fine-looking young man who had come to the rescue of Rose
Beaufort.
"This is an outrage, sir," he said, angrily.
Clinton Randall paid no attention to the discomfited Parkinson, but
asked Rose:
"Has this man annoyed you?"
"He forced his attentions upon me," answered Rose.
"If he has insulted you, I will take care that he is punished."
"Don't meddle with what is none of your business," said Parkinson,
furiously. "I have a good mind to horsewhip you."
"Make the attempt whenever you please, sir," said Randall,
significantly. "If ever I find you annoying this young lady again, I
shall probably give you a taste of the same medicine."
"Annoying?" sneered Parkinson. "I offered to make her my wife, if
you call that annoyance. Let me tell you that when a gentleman in
my position offers to marry a vest-maker she has reason to feel
complimented."
"She evidently does not," said Randall, not without sarcasm.
"Whether she is a vest-maker or not, she is evidently a young lady
and is entitled to be treated as such."
"She will be sorry for having made such a fuss," said Parkinson,
spitefully. "Miss Beaufort," he continued, turning to Rose, "you
need not trouble yourself to come to the store again for work, as I
shall decline to give you any. You may regret having treated me with
such scant courtesy."
"I had no intention of asking for more work," said Rose, coldly.
