together. Then, while he fairly fumed with rage and hatred, his hands
were made fast and he was left lying there, shrieking curses in his
native Spanish.
Clif turned to the captain of the vessel; the man was frightened nearly
to death, and began protesting volubly.
"I did not know it, senor!" he cried. "Indeed, I did not know it! Santa
Maria! I----"
"I don't suppose you did," said Clif, calmly. "You did not act like it.
But you will have to suffer for it."
"Suffer for it! Madre di dios, no, senor! What does the senor mean?
Surely he will not hang me for----"
"The senor will not hang you," said Clif, unable to help smiling at the
blustering fellow's terror.
"Then what will the senor do?"
"He will tie you like Ignacio."
The man was evidently relieved, but he protested volubly. He did not
want to be tied.
"Is it customary?" he cried.
"No," said Clif; "neither is it customary to try to assassinate an
officer. After that I think common prudence requires it."
"But," cried the man, angrily. "I will not submit! Por dios, I will
not----"
"You will either submit or be made to," said Clif, "or else sink to the
bottom."
And so the man had to give up. Those two delighted tars went the rounds
and tied every single man on that vessel hand and foot. And they tied
them tight, too, occasionally giving them a dig in the ribs for good
measure.
And when they came to search them Clif was glad he had done as he did,
for quite a respectable heap of knives and revolvers were removed from
the clothes of those angry Spaniards.
But it did not take long to tie them up, and then Clif felt safe. He
took a few extra hitches in the treacherous Ignacio, who was by far the
most valuable prize of them all.
"Admiral Sampson will be glad to get you," the cadet thought to himself.
And then he turned to examine the captured vessel.
His sword in his hand, he went down the forward companionway, where he
met a group of frightened firemen and stokers huddled below. They seemed
to think the Yankee pigs were going to murder them on the spot.
But Clif had another use for them. Being able to speak Spanish, he found
it easy to reassure them in a few words, and sent them down to their
work again.
Then he descended into the hold; he was worried lest the continuous
firing he had directed upon the vessel had made her unseaworthy. But
apparently the holes were all well above the water line, for there did
not seem to be any leak.
And that was all there was to be done. Clif knew that he had the task
before him of piloting that vessel into Key West; he was not willing to
let that ugly-looking Spanish captain have anything to do with the
matter.
Clif had fancied he would rather enjoy that duty but under the
circumstances of the present case he was not so much pleased.
For the darkness was gathering then and the cadet knew that he had a
long hard night before him; it would be necessary for him to remain on
the vessel's bridge all through the stormy trip.
And, moreover, it would take him away from Havana, the place of all
places he was then anxious to reach.
But the duty had to be faced, and so Clif sent one of the sailors back
to the Uncas to report the state of affairs and ask for a prize crew. It
seemed scarcely orthodox to send the small boat away without an officer
to command it, but that, too, was inevitable.
The boat arrived safely, however, and returned with three more men, all
the little tug dared spare. Lieutenant Raymond sent word to report at
Key West with the prize, but to steam slowly so as not to come anywhere
near the shore before daylight.
Lieutenant Raymond was evidently a little worried about intrusting that
big vessel to an inexperienced officer like Clif, and Clif was not so
very cock sure himself. No one knew just where they were, and in the
storm and darkness reaching Key West harbor would be task enough for an
old hand.
The cadet realized the enormous responsibility thus thrown upon him, and
he made up his mind that eternal vigilance should be the watchword.
"If staying awake all night'll do any good," he muttered, "I'll do it."
And then the small boat dashed away to the Uncas again, and Clif was
left alone. He stepped into the pilot house of the steamer and signaled
for half speed ahead.
The vessel began to glide slowly forward again, heading north; the tug
steamed away in the direction of Havana.
CHAPTER V.
A HAIL FROM THE DARKNESS.
The four sailors who were with Clif fully realized the task which was
before them.
It was then about dusk, and the night was coming on rapidly. Two of the
men were stationed as lookouts, and the other two took the wheel.
Clif set to work to try to calculate as best he could how far and in
what direction he was from Key West; he wished to take no chances of
running ashore or getting lost.
Those, and the possibility of collision, seemed the only dangers that
had to be guarded against; the possibility of meeting a Spanish vessel
was not considered, for the chance seemed very remote.
The two lookouts were both stationed in the bow. That fact and the other
just mentioned sufficed to account for the fact that the real danger
that threatened the crew of the merchantman was not thought of or
guarded against in the least.
For Clif had no way of knowing that any trouble was to come from behind
him; but coming it was, and in a hurry.
Within the shelter of a narrow inlet just to one side of the batteries
that had made so much trouble for the Uncas had lain hidden and
unsuspected an object that was destined to play an important part in the
rest of the present story.
It was a Spanish gunboat, of much the same kind as the Uncas, only
smaller. Hidden by the land, her officers had eagerly watched the
struggle we have just seen.
The Spanish vessel had not ventured out to take part, for one important
reason; she had not steam up. But she would probably not have done so
anyhow, for the Uncas was the stronger of the two.
And so venturing out would have been little better than suicide. The
Spanish captain had a plan that put that one far in the shade.
The Uncas was still visible down the shore, and the merchantman had
hardly gotten well started out to sea before great volumes of black
smoke began to pour from the furnaces of the Spaniard.
Her men worked like fiends; sailors pitched in to help the firemen
handle coal, while the shores of the dark little inlet flared brightly
with the gleam of the furnaces.
Meanwhile the officers with their glasses were feverishly watching the
distant steamer, now hull down to the north, and almost invisible in the
darkness.
It was about half an hour later, perhaps even less, that that Spanish
gunboat weighed her anchor and stole silently out to the open sea.
She breasted the fierce waves at the entrance to the inlet boldly. A
