of sitting still, I expect; and in a sick room, I'm afraid. Poor Hiram
looks thinner and greyer every day. Almost all our relations died of
consumption."
"I wrote to aunt how badly he was looking, but she has not answered."
"She won't, the heartless thing. She never loved him. But if he takes to
his bed with slow consumption, she'll have to come up and do her share
of the nursing. She ought to like it. Fat women always make good
nurses."
Magdaléna was more than glad to fall out of the gaieties. She was
beginning to feel that most demoralising of all sensations,--the
disintegration of will. Pride, a certain excitement, and novelty had
kept her armour locked for a time; but each time she met Trennahan, the
ordeal of facing him with platitudes, or, what was worse still, in
occasional friendly talks, and of witnessing Helena's little airs of
possession, suggested a future and signal failure. She came to have a
morbid terror that she should betray herself, and when in company with
him kept out of the very reach of his voice. She never went to the
woods, lest she meet him, with or without Helena. In those rustling
arbours of many memories, she knew that she should let fly the passion
within her. She was appalled that neither time nor will nor principle
had authority over her love. She had made up her mind that she would, if
not tear it up by the roots, at least level it to the soil from which it
had sprung, and she was quite ready to believe that love was not all;
that with her youth, intellect, and wealth there was much in life for
her. But the plant flourished and was heavy with bloom. Even while she
avoided him, she longed for the moment when he must of necessity speak
to her. She welcomed the excuse to secede from the ranks of pleasurers,
but even then she started up at every sound of wheels that might herald
his approach. She longed for the wedding to be over; but Helena would
not marry before December, that being her birth month and eminently
suitable, in her logical fancy, for her second launching. Colonel
Belmont, having satisfied himself that everyone in the little drama had
acted with honour, was well pleased with his son-in-law; but he was much
distressed at the attitude of the old friend who had hoped to fill a
similar relation to Trennahan. Don Roberto, taciturn with everybody,
refused to speak to Colonel Belmont, to return his courtly salutation.
"I suppose it is natural," said Colonel Belmont to Helena. "Don is not
only eccentric, but he would almost rather lose a hundred thousand
dollars than his own way. But I hope he'll come round in time, for it
makes me feel right lonesome in my old age. He and Hi were the only real
intimates I have had in California, and now Hi is going, poor old
fellow! and of course I can do little to cheer him up until Don thaws
out."
"Do you feel quite well yourself?" asked Helena, anxiously. "You often
look so terribly pale."
"I never was better, honey, I assure you. But remember that you must
expect to lose your old father some day. But I've been pretty good to
you, haven't I? You'll have nothing but pleasant things to remember?"
"You're the very best angel on earth. I don't even love Jack so much. I
thought I did, but I don't."
"Don't you love him?" asked her father, anxiously. He was eager for her
to marry; he knew that his blood was white.
"Of course! What a question!"
XXII
It was an intensely hot September night. Magdaléna, knowing that sleep
was impossible, had not gone to bed. She wandered restlessly about her
large room, striving to force a current of air. Not a vibration came
through the open windows, nor a sound. The very trees seemed to lean
forward with limp hanging arms. Across the stars was a dark veil, riven
at long intervals with the copper of sheet lightning. Her room, too, was
dark. A light would bring a pest of mosquitoes. The high remote falsetto
of several, as it was, proclaimed an impatient waiting for their ally,
sleep.
Last night, Tiny had given a party, and wrung from Magdaléna a promise
that she would go to it. Rose had called for her. At the last moment
Magdaléna's courage had shrunk to a final shuddering heap, and as she
heard the wheels of the Geary waggonette, she had run upstairs, and
flung herself between the bedclothes, sending down word that she had a
raging toothache. It was her first lie in many years, but it was better
than to dance with despair and agony written on her relaxed face behind
the windows of the garden in which Trennahan had asked her to marry him.
To-night she was seriously considering the proposition of going to her
aunt in Santa Barbara, with or without her father's consent. Her sense
of duty had not tumbled into the ruins of her will, but she argued that
in this most crucial period of her life, her duty was to herself. Helena
had not even asked her to be bridesmaid; she took her acquiescence for
granted. Magdaléna laughed aloud at the thought; but she could not leave
Helena in the lurch at the last moment. When she got to Santa Barbara,
she could plead her aunt's ill health as excuse for not returning in
time for the ceremony. She was in a mood to tell twenty lies if
necessary, but she would not stand at the altar with Trennahan and
Helena. Her passionate desire for change of associations was rising
rapidly to the dignity of a fixed idea. To-morrow there must be a change
of some sort, or her brain would be babbling its secrets. Already her
memory would not connect at times. She felt sure that the prolonged
strain had produced a certain congestion in her brain. And she was
beginning to wonder if she hated Helena. The fires in Magdaléna burned
slowly, but they burned exceeding hot.
She paused and thrust her head forward. For some seconds past her
sub-consciousness had grasped the sound of galloping hoofs. They were on
the estate, by the deer park; a horse was galloping furiously toward the
house.
She ran to the window and looked out. She could see nothing. Could it be
a runaway horse? Was somebody ill? The flying feet turned abruptly and
made for the rear of the house, then paused suddenly. There was a
furious knocking.
Magdaléna's knees shook with a swift presentiment. Something had
happened--was going to happen--to her. She stood holding her breath.
Someone ran softly but swiftly up the stair, and down the hall, to her
room. She knew then who it was, and ran forward and opened the door.
"Helena!" she exclaimed. "What is the matter? Something has--Mr.
Trennahan--"
Helena flung herself upon Magdaléna and burst into a passion of weeping.
Magdaléna stood rigid, ice in her veins. "Is he dead?" she managed to
ask.
"No! He isn't. I wish he were--No, I don't mean that--I'll tell you in a
minute--Let me get through first!"
Magdaléna dragged her shaking limbs across the room and felt for a
chair. Helena began pacing rapidly up and down, pushing the chairs out
of her way.
"Would you like a light?" asked Magdaléna.
"No, thanks; I don't want to be eaten alive with mosquitoes. Oh, how
shall I begin? I suppose you think we've had a commonplace quarrel. I
wish we had. I swear to you, 'Léna, that up to to-night I loved
him--yes, I know that I did! I was rather sorry I'd promised to marry so
soon, for I like being a girl, not really belonging to anyone but
myself, and I love being a great belle, and I think that I should have
begged for another year--but I loved him better than anyone, and I
really intended to marry him--"
"Aren't you going to marry him?"
