deprecation.  Be patient, then, with this poor child if she darkles a
little under the disappointment of not finding Saratoga so personally gay
as she supposed it would be, and takes it out of you and your wife, as if
you were to blame for it, in something like sulks.
He remained silent under these tacit appeals, but at the end he heaved a
deep sigh, as he might if he were acknowledging their justice, and were
promising to do his very best in the circumstances.  His wife looked
round at him, but did not speak.  In fact, they none of them spoke after
the first words of greeting to the girl, as I can very well testify; for
I sat eavesdropping with all my might, resolved not to lose a syllable,
and I am sure I lost none.
The young girl did not look round at that deep-drawn sigh of the man’s;
she did not lift her head even when he cleared his throat: but I was
intent upon him, for I thought that these sounds preluded an overture (I
am not sure of the figure) to my acquaintance, and in fact he actually
asked, “Do you know just when the concert begins?”
I was overjoyed at his question, for I was poignantly interested in the
little situation I had created, and I made haste to answer: “Well,
nominally at eight o’clock; but the first half-hour is usually taken up
in tuning the instruments.  If you get into the pavilion at a quarter to
nine you won’t lose much.  It isn’t so bad when it really begins.”
The man permitted himself a smile of the pleasure we Americans all feel
at having a thing understated in that way.  His wife asked timidly, “Do
we have to engage our seats in the—pavilion?”
“Oh, no,” I laughed; “there’s no such rush as that.  Haven’t you been at
the concerts before?”
The man answered for her: “We haven’t been here but a few days.  I should
think,” he added to her, “it would be about as comfortable outside of the
house.”  I perceived that he maintained his independence of my superior
knowledge by refusing to say “pavilion”; and in fact I do not know
whether that is the right name for the building myself.
“It will be hot enough anywhere,” I assented, as if the remark had been
made to me; but here I drew the line out of self-respect, and resolved
that he should make the next advances.
The young girl looked up at the first sound of my voice, and verified me
as the elderly man whom she had seen before; and then she looked down at
the water again.  I understood, and I freely forgave her.  If my beard
had been brown instead of grey I should have been an adventure; but to
the eye of girlhood adventure can never wear a grey beard.  I was truly
sorry for her; I could read in the pensive droop of her averted face that
I was again a disappointment.
They all three sat, without speaking again, in the mannerless silence of
Americans.  The man was not going to feel bound in further civility to me
because I had civilly answered a question of his.  I divined that he
would be glad to withdraw from the overture he had made; he may have
thought from my readiness to meet him half way that I might be one of
those sharpers in whom Saratoga probably abounded.  This did not offend
me; it amused me; I fancied his confusion if he could suddenly know how
helplessly and irreparably honest I was.
“I don’t know but it’s a little too damp here, Rufus,” said the wife.
“I don’t know but it is,” he answered; but none of them moved, and none
of them spoke again for some minutes.  Then the wife said again, but this
time to the friend, “I don’t know but it’s a little too damp here,
Julia,” and the friend answered, as the husband had—
“I don’t know but it is.”
I had two surprises in this slight event.  I could never have imagined
that the girl had so brunette a name as Julia, or anything less blond in
sound than, say, Evadne, at the very darkest; and I had made up my
mind—Heaven knows why—that her voice would be harsh.  Perhaps I thought
it unfair that she should have a sweet voice added to all that beauty and
grace of hers; but she had a sweet voice, very tender and melodious, with
a plangent note in it that touched me and charmed me.  Beautiful and
graceful as she was, she had lacked atmosphere before, and now suddenly
she had atmosphere.  I resolved to keep as near to these people as I
could, and not to leave the place as long as they stayed; but I did not
think it well to let them feel that I was æsthetically shadowing them,
and I got up and strolled away toward the pavilion, keeping an eye in the
back of my head upon them.
I sat down in a commanding position, and watched the people gathering for
the concert; and in the drama of a group of Cubans, or of South
Americans, I almost forgot for a moment the pale idyl of my compatriots
at the kiosk.  There was a short, stout little Spanish woman speaking in
the shapely sentences which the Latin race everywhere delights in, and
around her was an increasing number of serious Spanish men, listening as
if to important things, and paying her that respectful attention which
always amuses and puzzles me.  In view of what we think their low
estimate of women, I cannot make out whether it is a personal tribute to
some specific woman whom they regard differently from all the rest of her
sex, or whether they choose to know in her for the nouce the abstract
woman who is better than woman in the concrete.  I am sure I have never
seen men of any other race abandon themselves to such a luxury of respect
as these black and grey bearded Spaniards of leaden complexion showed
this dumpy personification of womanhood, with their prominent eyes bent
in homage upon her, and their hands trembling with readiness to seize
their hats off in reverence.  It appeared presently that the matter they
were all canvassing so devoutly was the question of where she should sit.
It seemed to be decided that she could not do better than sit just at
that point.  When she actually took a chair the stately convocation
ended, and its members, with low obeisances, dispersed themselves in
different directions.  They had probably all been sitting with her the
whole afternoon on the verandah of the Everett House, where their race
chiefly resorts in Saratoga, and they were availing themselves of this
occasion to appear to be meeting her, after a long interval, in society.
I said to myself that of course they believed Saratoga was still that
centre of American fashion which it once was, and that they came and went
every summer, probably in the belief that they saw a great deal of social
gaiety there.  This made me think, by a natural series of transitions, of
the persons of my American idyl, and I looked about the pavilion
everywhere for them without discovering, till the last, that they were
just behind me.
I found the fact touching.  They had not wished to be in any wise
beholden to me, and had even tried to reject my friendly readiness to
know them better; but they had probably sought my vicinity in a sense of
their loneliness and helplessness, which they hoped I would not divine,
but which I divined instantly.  Still, I thought it best not to show any
consciousness of them, and we sat through the first part of the concert
without taking notice of one another.  Then the man leaned forward and
touched me on the shoulder.
“Will you let me take your programme a minute?”
“Why, certainly,” said I.
He took it, and after a vague glance at it he passed it to his wife, who
gave it in turn to the young girl.  She studied it very briefly, and
then, after a questioning look, offered it back to me.
“Won’t you keep it?” I entreated.  “I’ve quite done with it.”
“Oh, thank you,” she answered in her tender voice, and she and the wife
looked hard at the man, whom they seemed to unite in pushing forward by
that means.
He hemmed, and asked, “Have you been in Saratoga much?”
“Why, yes,” I said; “rather a good deal.  My wife and I have been here
three or four summers.”
