slender column, and, partly missing it, hung down 
over the window-ledge. A single monthly rose made 
a point of colour among the sweet green things. 
The Queen was still smiling as she rested her 
elbows upon the sill and her chin on her folded 
hands. She was near enough to the tennis-players 
to be heard by them if she spoke in a low tone. 
" Are you angry because Master Gilbert is fright- 
ened ? " she asked, looking at Henry. " Or are you 
frightened because his lordship, the Count of Anjou, 
is angry? " she inquired, turning her eyes to Gilbert. 
He smiled at her way of opening the conversation, 
but Henry thought that she was laughing at him and 
grew redder than ever. Not deigning to answer, he 
picked up the ball and served it over the penthouse 
to himself, striking it back cleverly enough. The 
Queen laughed again as he kept his face resolutely 
turned from her. 
"Will you teach me to play, if I come down to 
you ? " she asked, looking at the back of his head. 
"It is no game for women," answered the boy, 
rudely, and still keeping the ball up. 
"Will you give me a lesson. Master Gilbert?" 
The laughing eyes were suddenly grave as they 
turned to the young Englishman, the smiling lipa 
grew tender, and the voice was gentle. Without 
turning round, Henry felt the change and knew that 
she was looking at his friend; he served the ball 
with a vicious stroke that brought it back too high 
for him. Without turning his head to see where it 
had rolled, the angry boy walked off, picked up his 
 
tunic, which lay on the turf at a little distance, 
threw it over his arm, jammed his pointed cap upon 
his head with his other hand, and departed in offended 
dignity. 
The Queen smiled as she looked after him, but 
did not laugh again. 
" Will you teach me to play tennis ? " she asked 
of Gilbert, who was hesitating as to what he should 
do. "You have not answered me yet." 
"I shall at all times do your Grace's bidding," 
answered Gilbert, inclining his head a little and 
making a gesture with the hand that held his cap as 
if to put himself at her disposal. 
" At all times ? " she asked quietly. 
Gilbert looked up quickly, fearing lest he might 
be tricked into a promise he did not understand, and 
he did not answer at once. But she would not repeat 
the question. 
" Wait, " she said, before he spoke. " I am coming 
down." 
With an almost imperceptible gesture, like a 
greeting, she disappeared. Gilbert began to walk 
up and down, his hands behind him, his eyes on the 
ground, and he did not see the tennis-ball which 
Henry had lost until he almost stumbled over it. 
The boy's words had roused an entirely new train of 
ideas in his mind. Perhaps no man could be so free 
from vanity as not to be pleased, even against his 
will, with the thought that the most beautiful liv- 
ing woman, and she a queen, was in love with him. 
But whatever satisfaction of that sort Gilbert may 
have felt was traversed in an opposite direction by 
the cool sense of his own indifference. And be- 
sides, that was a simple age in which sins were 
called by their own names and were regarded with a 
sort of semi-religious, respectful abhorrence by most 
honest gentlemen; and what was only the general 
expression of a narrow but high morality had been 
branded upon Gilbert's soul during the past months 
in letters that were wounds by the ever-present 
memory of his own mother's shame. 
The confusion of his reflections was simplified by 
the appearance of Queen Eleanor. At the window 
of the lower story, which opened to the ground, she 
stepped out, looked up and down the deserted yard, 
and then came towards him. Gilbert had been long 
enough in Paris to understand that Queen Eleanor 
had not the slightest regard for the set rules, formal 
prejudices, and staid traditions of her husband's 
court; and when King Louis gravely protested 
against her dressing herself in man's mail, bestriding his own favourite charger, and tilting at the 
Saracen quintain in the yard, she hinted with more 
or less good or ill nature, according to her mood, 
that her possessions were considerably more extensive than the kingdom of France, and that what she 
had been taught to do by William of Aquitaine was 
necessarily right, and beyond the criticism of Louis 
Capet, who was descended from a Paris butcher. 
Nevertheless, the Englishman had some reasonable doubts and misgivings at finding himself, 
a humble squire, alone in that quiet corner with 
the most beautiful and most powerful of reigning 
queens. But she, whose quick intuition was a gift 
 
almost beyond nature, knew what he felt before she 
had reached his side. She spoke quite naturally and 
as if such a meeting were an everyday occurrence. 
" You did not know that the window was mine ? " 
she said quietly. " I saw how surprised you were 
when I looked out. It is a window of a little hall 
behind my room. There is a staircase leading down. 
I often come that way, but I hardly ever look out. 
To-day as I was passing I heard that silly child's 
angry voice, and when I saw his face and heard what 
he said, I could not help laughing." 
"The young Count is in earnest," said Gilbert, 
quietly, for it would have seemed disloyal to him to 
join in the Queen's laughter. 
" In earnest ! Children are always in earnest ! " 
"They deserve the more respect," retorted the 
Englishman. 
"I never heard of respecting children," laughed 
the Queen. 
"You never read Juvenal," answered Gilbert. 
"You often say things which I never heard 
before," answered the Queen. "Perhaps that is one 
reason why I like you." 
She stopped and leaned against the penthouse, for 
they had reached the corner of the court, and she 
thoughtfully bit a sprig of rosemary which she had 
