where the cleverness of women began. 
"Marguerite, Regent Street. Try on at six. 
All Spanish lace. Pearls. The full length. 
That was the first; it had no signature. 
"Lady Agnes Orme, Hyde Park Place. 
Impossible to-night, dining Haddon. Opera 
to-morrow, promised Fritz, but could do play 
Wednesday. Will try Haddon for Savoy, 
and anything in the world you like, if you 
can get Gussy. Sunday, Montenero. Sit 
Mason Monday, Tuesday. Marguerite awful. 
Cissy." That was the second. The third, 
the girl noted when she took it, was on a 
foreign form: "Everard, Hotel Brighton, 
Paris. Only understand and believe. 22nd 
to 26th, and certainly 8th and 9th. Perhaps 
others. Come. Mary." 
Mary was very handsome, the handsomest 
woman, she felt in a moment, she had ever 
seen or perhaps it was only Cissy. Perhaps it was both, for she had seen stranger 
things than that ladies wiring to different 
persons under different names. She had 
seen all sorts of things and pieced together 
all sorts of mysteries. There had once been 
one not long before who, without winking, sent off five over five different signatures. Perhaps these represented five 
different friends who had asked her all 
women, just as perhaps now Mary and Cissy, 
or one or other of them, were wiring by 
deputy. Sometimes she put in too much 
too much of her own sense; sometimes 
she put in too little ; and in either case this 
often came round to her afterwards, for she 
had an extraordinary way of keeping clues. 
When she noticed, she noticed; that was 
what it came to. There were days and days, 
there were weeks sometimes, of vacancy. 
This arose often from Mr. Buckton 's devilish and successful subterfuges for keeping 
her at the sounder whenever it looked as if 
anything might amuse ; the sounder, which 
it was equally his business to mind, being 
the innermost cell of captivity, a cage within 
the cage, fenced off from the rest by a frame 
of ground glass. The counter-clerk would 
have played into her hands; but the counter- 
clerk was really reduced to idiocy by the 
effect of his passion for her. She flattered 
herself moreover, nobly, that with the un 
pleasant conspicuity of this passion she 
would never have consented to be obliged to 
him. The most she would ever do would 
be always to shove off on him whenever she 
could the registration of letters, a job she 
happened particularly to loathe. After the 
long stupors, at all events, there almost 
always suddenly would come a sharp taste 
of something; it was in her mouth before 
she knew it ; it was in her mouth now. 
To Cissy, to Mary, whichever it was, she 
found her curiosity going out with a rush, 
a mute effusion that floated back to her, like 
a returning tide, the living colour and splen 
dour of the beautiful head, the light of eyes 
that seemed to reflect such utterly other 
things than the mean things actually before 
them; and, above all, the high, curt 
consideration of a manner that, even at bad 
moments, was a magnificent habit and of 
the very essence of the innumerable things 
her beauty, her birth, her father and mother, 
her cousins and all her ancestors that its 
possessor couldn' t have got rid of if she had 
wished. How did our obscure little public 
servant know that, for the lady of the telegrams, this was a bad moment? How did 
she guess all sorts of impossible things, such 
as, almost on the Very spot, the presence of 
drama, at a critical stage, and the nature of 
the tie with the gentleman at the Hotel 
Brighton? More than ever before it floated 
to her through the bars of the cage that this 
at last was the high reality, the bristling 
truth that she had hitherto only patched up 
and eked out one of the creatures, in fine, 
in whom all the conditions for happiness 
actually met and who, in the air they made, 
bloomed with an unwitting insolence. What 
came home to the girl was the way the 
insolence was tempered by something that 
was equally a part of the distinguished life, 
the custom of a flower-like bend to the less 
fortunate a dropped fragrance, a mere 
quick breath, but which in fact pervaded and 
lingered. The apparition was very young, 
but certainly married, and our fatigued 
friend had a sufficient store of mythological 
comparison to recognise the port of Juno. 
Marguerite might be "awful," but she knew 
how to dress a goddess. 
Pearls and Spanish lace she herself, with 
assurance, could see them, and the "full 
length" too, and also red velvet bows, which, 
disposed on the lace in a particular manner 
(she could have placed them with the turn 
of a hand), were of course to adorn the front 
of a black brocade that would be like a dress 
in a picture. However, neither Marguerite, 
nor Lady Agnes, nor Haddon, nor Fritz, nor 
Gussy were what the wearer of this garment 
had really come in for. She had come in 
for Everard and that was doubtless not his 
true name either. If our young lady had 
never taken such jumps before, it was 
simply that she had never before been so 
affected. She went all the way. Mary and 
Cissy had been round together, in their 
single superb person, to see him he must 
live round the corner; they had found that, 
in consequence of something they had come, 
precisely, to make up for or to have another 
scene about, he had gone off gone off just 
on purpose to make them feel it; on which 
