" You first, my friend " Suppressing 
a mighty yawn. 

"It is easier for me to keep awake. Lie 
down on that horrible bed. I do not so 
much mind waiting a little longer." 

Adan lifted his nose at the bunk cov 
ered with a bearskin, then flung himself 
upon it, and was asleep in three minutes. 
Roldan sat with his eyes applied to a rift 
between the hide-door and the wall. It 



 

commanded a view of the opposite wall 
of the canon, over which wound a zig-zag 
horse trail. 

The sun, which had hung directly above 
the canon when Hill and Rafael departed, 
had slid toward the west, leaving the 
canon cold and dark again, and Roldan 
was about to call Adan, when he sprang 
to his feet, and stood rigid, cold with 
fear. 

On the brow of the wall opposite, three 
hundred feet above his head, stood a 
powerful brown horse. On him was a 
huge figure clad in a brown cassock, the 
hood drawn well over the face. It was 
impossible to distinguish features at that 
distance, but Roldan fancied that those 
terrible eyes were holding his own. He 
recovered himself and dragged Adan out 
of bed. 

" The priest ! " he said. " Help me to 
wash these dishes quick. It will take 
him some time to get down." 

Adan stumbled across the room, 
plunged the dishes into a pail of drinking 
water, then handed them to Roldan, who 



 

dried them hastily and piled them on the 
shelf. Then he flung the water across the 
clay floor of the hut. 

"Get up the ladder," he commanded. 
Adan scrambled up. Roldan followed, 
and pulled the ladder after him. The garret was very low, and half full of skins. 
They could not stand upright. It was 
also bitterly cold. Each hastily wrapped 
a skin about his body, and lay full length, 
Roldan on his face, his eyes applied to a 
chink in the rough floor. 

A few moments later the door was flung 
aside and the priest strode in. 

Roldan shuddered, but not with personal fear. The priest looked like a man 
who had just left the rack of his native 
Spain. His hair the hood had fallen 
back stood on end, his face and tight 
ened lips were livid, his eyes rolled wildly. 

" Jim! " he said hoarsely. " Jim ! " 

He left the hut as abruptly as he had 
entered it. 

" He has gone to look at the mouth of 
the tunnel," whispered Roldan. "What 
fools we were not to cover it up again. 
  

Then he would have walked its length to 
find us, and the horses might have come 
before he returned. Well, he cannot get 
us until he pulls the roof down." 

" He could do it," whispered Adan, 
grimly. " Those hands ! Dios de mialma ! " 

" He will think we have gone somewhere 
with Don Jim." 

The priest returned in less than half an 
hour. His face, if anything, was still more 
terrible to look upon. There was a touch 
of foam on his lips. His great hands were 
clinched. He strode over to the bunk 
and lifted the heaped-up bearskin. Suddenly he pressed his face into the fur. 

" Perfume Dona Martina's," he exclaimed. " They have been here." 

He raised his face to the ceiling, and the 
boys held their mouths open that their 
teeth might not clack together. They 
closed their eyes: instinct bade them give 
heed to visual magnetism. Roldan imme 
diately wanted to cough, Adan to scratch 
his nose. The next few moments were the 
most agonised of their lives. They felt the 



 

priest lift his hands and pass them slowly 
along the ceiling, they felt those eyes 
searching every crevice. Then they felt 
