"Yes, they pay me well. I have some money in the bank."
Then Ernest remembered having seen the Indian one day at the bank. He
was told at the time that his name was John Castro, and that he had
several hundred dollars on deposit.
CHAPTER XV.
A NEW ACQUAINTANCE.
While Ernest's clothes were drying the Indian woman was bustling about
the stove. The boy did not suspect her object till she placed on the
table a plate of Indian cakes hot from the oven, and he was invited to
partake.
It was the first time he had ever been a guest in an Indian family,
and he hesitated, but saw that his refusal to partake might hurt the
feelings of his new friends. He seated himself at the table and found
the cakes really very good.
When his clothes were dry he rose to go.
"Won't you stay all night?" asked Castro.
"Thank you. I cannot spare the time. I must push on."
"Where are you going?" asked the Indian.
"To Lee's Falls."
"I will go with you a short distance."
So they set out together.
At length John Castro stopped.
"That is your way," he said. "I wish you a pleasant journey. I will
not forget what you have done for my little son. If ever you are in
trouble, send for John Castro."
"I thank you."
The Indian shook hands with him gravely, and turned back towards his
cabin.
All this had taken time. Ernest had no watch with him, but he
estimated that the adventure had cost him two hours. However, he had
saved a boy's life.
Again, he had made a friend. The friend was an Indian, but Ernest was
wise enough to consider that no friend, however humble, is to be
despised.
It was clear that he would reach his destination late, and he began to
wish that some carriage would overtake him in which he might ask for a
ride.
But he walked two miles farther without encountering any team. At
last, however, he heard the rumble of wheels, and turning round to see
whether there was room in the vehicle, he saw that it was a buggy
driven by a tall, thin man with dark hair, swarthy face, and a long,
aquiline nose.
The driver eyed Ernest sharply and brought the buggy to a standstill.
"Where are you going, boy?" he asked.
"To Lee's Falls."
"Where have you come from?"
"From Emmonsville."
"It is a long walk."
"Yes. Do you think you could give me a lift?"
"Perhaps so. Jump in."
Ernest lost no time in availing himself of the invitation. He was
footsore and weary, and it was with a sensation of relief that he
seated himself beside the driver.
The latter, who had been going at good speed, pulled his horse down to
a walk and showed indications of becoming sociable.
"Where were you going in Lee's Falls?" he asked.
Ernest felt that it would be imprudent to mention that his destination
was the bank, so he answered guardedly, "I am going to see the town. I
may stop over night."
"At the hotel?"
"Yes."
"It is not much of a place to see," said the driver, watching his
companion curiously.
"It is larger than Emmonsville, isn't it?"
"Yes. How long have you been in Emmonsville?"
"Not long."
"Where do you live there?"
"At Mrs. Larkins'."
"Do you go to school?"
"No."
Ernest began to think that his companion was decidedly inquisitive,
and something told him that he would do well to be on his guard. Why
should he ask so many questions of a boy with whom he had no
acquaintance?
Meanwhile the horse was travelling very slowly, and it seemed to
Ernest that he would go over the road quite as fast if he had
continued to walk. However, it was easier riding, and this was a
consideration. He began to think it was his turn to ask questions.
"Are you going all the way to Lee's Falls?" he asked.
"I may go nearly there."
"I am very much obliged to you for giving me a lift. I was quite
tired."
The driver smiled.
"Perhaps I have an object," he said.
Ernest looked an inquiry.
"The pleasure of your company," explained his companion, with a smile.
"Thank you," answered Ernest.
"Now I come to look at you, I think I have seen you before," continued
the driver.
"Where?"
"In Emmonsville--at the bank."
Ernest became alarmed. There was a significance in his companion's
tone which excited his alarm. But he did not dare show his feelings.
He remained outwardly calm, though inwardly disturbed.
"Very probably," he said; "I have been there."
His companion laughed. He was playing with the boy as a cat plays with
a captive mouse. Ernest began to consider whether he could not think
of some pretext for getting out of the buggy.
Suddenly the buggy stopped.
"I will get out here," said Ernest, quickly.
"Not quite yet. I have not got through questioning you."
"I am in a hurry," said Ernest.
"You must wait till your hurry is over. Now tell me truly, are you not
bound for the Lee's Falls bank?"
Ernest was startled.
"You see I know more about you than you suppose. You are the bank
messenger."
It seemed useless to deny it. The important question now was, was his
secret packet in danger?
"I have sometimes acted as bank messenger," he said warily.
"And you are acting in that capacity now. What are you taking to the
Lee's Falls bank?"
Ernest turned pale. His worst fears were confirmed.
"Why do you ask?" he said.
"Because I want to know."
"What business can it be of yours?" demanded Ernest, boldly.
"Don't be impudent, boy! Hand me the package of money."
"I have no package of money."
"Then you have bonds."
Ernest remained silent.
