was conscious of little more than her own cold and stiffness, and she
answered sharply,--
"No, I don't. I don't calculate to hire, except in hayin' time, an' then
I don't take tramps."
The man dropped the child's hand, and pushed her gently to one side.
"Stan' there, Rosie," said he. Then he went forward, and drew the pail
from Amelia's unwilling grasp. "Where do you empt' it?" he asked.
"There? It ought to be carried further. You don't want to let it gully
down into that beet bed. Here, I'll see to it."
Perhaps this was the very first time in Amelia's life that a man had
offered her an unpaid service for chivalry alone. And somehow, though
she might have scoffed, knowing what the tramp had to gain, she believed
in him and in his kindliness. The little girl stood by, as if she were
long used to doing as she had been told, with no expectation of
difficult reasons; and the man, as soberly, went about his task. He
emptied the cistern, and cleansed it, with plentiful washings. Then, as
if guessing by instinct what he should find, he went into the kitchen,
where were two tubs full of the water which Amelia had pumped up at the
start. It had to be carried back again to the cistern; and when the job
was quite finished, he opened the bulkhead, set the tubs in the cellar,
and then, covering the cistern and cellar-case, rubbed his cold hands on
his trousers, and turned to the child.
"Come, Rosie," said he, "we'll be goin'."
It was a very effective finale, but still Amelia suspected no trickery.
The situation seemed to her, just as the two new actors did, entirely
simple, like the course of nature. Only, the day was a little warmer
because they had appeared. She had a new sensation of welcome company.
So it was that, quite to her own surprise, she answered as quickly as he
spoke, and her reply also seemed an inevitable part of the drama:--
"Walk right in. It's 'most dinner-time, an' I'll put on the pot." The
two stepped in before her, and they did not go away.
Amelia herself never quite knew how it happened; but, like all the other
natural things of life, this had no need to be explained. At first,
there were excellent reasons for delay. The man, whose name proved to be
Enoch Willis, was a marvelous hand at a blow, and she kept him a week,
splitting some pine knots that defied her and the boy who ordinarily
chopped her wood. At the end of the week, Amelia confessed that she was
"terrible tired seein' Rosie round in that gormin' kind of a dress;" so
she cut and fitted her a neat little gown from her own red cashmere.
That was the second reason. Then the neighbors heard of the mysterious
guest, and dropped in, to place and label him. At first, following the
lead of undiscouraged fancy, they declared that he must be some of
cousin Silas's connections from Omaha; but even before Amelia had time
to deny that, his ignorance of local tradition denied it for him. He
must have heard of this or that, by way of cousin Silas; but he owned to
nothing defining place or time, save that he had been in the war--"all
through it." He seemed to be a man quite weary of the past and
indifferent to the future. After a half hour's talk with him,
unseasonable callers were likely to withdraw, perhaps into the pantry,
whither Amelia had retreated to escape catechism, and remark jovially,
"Well, 'Melia, you ain't told us who your company is!"
"Mr. Willis," said Amelia. She was emulating his habit of reserve. It
made a part of her new loyalty.
Even to her, Enoch had told no tales; and strangely enough, she was
quite satisfied. She trusted him. He did say that Rosie's mother was
dead; for the last five years, he said, she had been out of her mind. At
that, Amelia's heart gave a fierce, amazing leap. It struck a note she
never knew, and wakened her to life and longing. She was glad Rosie's
mother had not made him too content. He went on a step or two into the
story of his life. His wife's last illness had eaten up the little
place, and after she went, he got no work. So, he tramped. He must go
again. Amelia's voice sounded sharp and thin, even to her, as she
answered,--
"Go! I dunno what you want to do that for. Rosie's terrible contented
here."
His brown eyes turned upon her in a kindly glance.
"I've got to make a start somewhere," said he. "I've been thinkin' a
machine shop's the best thing. I shall have to depend on somethin'
better'n days' works."
Amelia flushed the painful red of emotion without beauty.
"I dunno what we're all comin' to," said she brokenly.
Then the tramp knew. He put his gnarled hand over one of hers. Rosie
looked up curiously from the speckled beans she was counting into a bag,
and then went on singing to herself an unformed, baby song. "Folks'll
talk," said Enoch gently. "They do now. A man an' woman ain't never too
old to be hauled up, an' made to answer for livin'. If I was younger,
an' had suthin' to depend on, you'd see; but I'm no good now. The better
part o' my life's gone."
Amelia flashed at him a pathetic look, half agony over her own lost
pride, and all a longing of maternal love.
"I don't want you should be younger," said she. And next week they were
married.
Comment ran races with itself, and brought up nowhere. The treasuries of
local speech were all too poor to clothe so wild a venture. It was
agreed that there's no fool like an old fool, and that folks who ride to
market may come home afoot. Everybody forgot that Amelia had had no
previous romance, and dismally pictured her as going through the woods,
and getting a crooked stick at last. Even the milder among her judges
were not content with prophesying the betrayal of her trust alone. They
argued from the tramp nature to inevitable results, and declared it
would be a mercy if she were not murdered in her bed. According to the
popular mind, a tramp is a distinct species, with latent tendencies
toward crime. It was recalled that a white woman had, in the old days,
married a comely Indian, whose first drink of fire-water, after six
months of blameless happiness, had sent him raging home, to kill her "in
her tracks." Could a tramp, pledged to the traditions of an awful
brotherhood, do less? No, even in honor, no! Amelia never knew how the
tide of public apprehension surged about her, nor how her next-door
neighbor looked anxiously out, the first thing on rising, to exclaim,
with a sigh of relief, and possibly a dramatic pang, "There! her smoke's
a-goin'."
Meantime, the tramp fell into all the usages of life indoors; and
without, he worked revolution. He took his natural place at the head of
affairs, and Amelia stood by, rejoicing. Her besetting error of doing
things at the wrong moment had disarranged great combinations as well as
small. Her impetuosity was constantly misleading her, bidding her try,
this one time, whether harvest might not follow faster on the steps of
spring. Enoch's mind was of another cast. For him, tradition reigned,
and law was ever laying out the way. Some months after their marriage,
Amelia had urged him to take away the winter banking about the house,
for no reason save that the Mardens clung to theirs; but he only replied
that he'd known of cold snaps way on into May, and he guessed there was
no particular hurry. The very next day brought a bitter air, laden with
sleet, and Amelia, shivering at the open door, exulted in her feminine
soul at finding him triumphant on his own ground. Enoch seemed, as
usual, unconscious of victory. His immobility had no personal flavor. He
merely acted from an inevitable devotion to the laws of life; and
however often they might prove him right, he never seemed to reason that
Amelia was consequently wrong. Perhaps that was what made it so pleasant
to live with him.
