He thought a little. " No then. You've only to tell 
me not to, and I'll never speak of it again." 
" Yonll be in an odd position for speaking of it if you 
do really go in. You deny that you've declined," said 
Mrs. Brook ; "which means then that you've allowed our 
friend to hope." 
Vanderbank met it bravely. "Yes, I think he hopes." 
" And imparts his hope to my child . " 
This arrested the young man, but only for a moment. 
"I've the most perfect faith in his wisdom with her. I 
trust the delicacy of his tenderness. He cares more for 
her," he presently added, "even than we do." 
Mrs. Brook gazed away at the infinite of space. " ' We,' 
my dear Van," she at last returned, "is one of your own 
real, wonderful touches. But there's something in what 
you say : I have, as between ourselves — between me and 
him — been backing Mitchy. That is I've been saying to 
him ' Wait, wait : don't, at any rate, do anything else.' 
Only it's just from the depth of my thought for my 
daughter's happiness that I've clung to this resource. 
He would so absolutely, so unreservedly, do anything for 
her." She had reached now, with her extraordinary self- 
control, the pitch of quiet, bland den onstration. "I 
want the poor thing, que citable, to l ave a otl er string 
 
to her bow and another loaf, for her desolate old age, on 
; he shelf. When everything else is gone Mitchy will still 
,)e there. Then it will be at least her own fault — !" 
Mrs. Brook continued.  ' What can relieve me of the 
primary duty of taking precautions, ' she wound up, 
' • when I know as well as that I stand here and look at 
you—" 
"Yes, what ?" he asked as she just paused. 
 '' Why, that so far as they count on you, they count, 
my dear Van, on a blank. "" Holding him a minute as 
with the soft, low voice of his fate, she sadly but firmly 
shook her head.  '  You won't do it." 
" Oh" he almost too loudly protested. 
"You won't do it,"' she went on. 
" I say !" — he made a joke of it. 
"You won't do it," she repeated. 
It was as if he could not at last but show himself really 
struck; yet what he exclaimed on was what might in 
truth most have impressed him. " You are magnificent, 
really !" 
"Mr. Mitchett !" the butler, appearing at the door, 
almost familiarly dropped ; on which Vanderbank turned 
straight to the person announced. 
Mr. Mitchett was there, and, anticipating Mrs. Brook 
in receiving him, her companion passed it straight on. 
" She's magnificent !" 
Mitchy was already all interest. " Rather ! But 
what's her last ?" 
It had been, though so great, so subtle, as they said in 
Buckingham Crescent, that Vanderbank scarce knew 
how to put it. " Well, she's so thoroughly superior." 
" Oh, to whom do you say it ?" Mitchy cried as he 
greeted her. 
  
XXII 
The subject of this eulogy had meanwhile returned to 
her sofa, where she received the homage of her new vis- 
itor. " It's not I who am magnificent, a bit — it's dear 
Mr. Longdon. Tve just had from Van the most wonder- 
ful piece of news about him — his announcement of his 
wish to make it worth somebody's while to marry my 
child." 
" ' Make it '?"— Mitchy stared. '' But isn't it T' 
 ' My dear friend, you must ask Van. Of course you've 
always thought so. But I must tell you, all the same," 
Mrs. Brook went on,  ''that I'm delighted." 
Mitchy had seated himself, but Vanderbank remained 
erect and became perhaps even slightly stiff. He was not 
angry — none of the inner circle at Buckingham Crescent 
was ever angry — but he looked grave and rather troubled. 
' Even if it is decidedly fine" — he addressed his hostess 
straight —   I can't make out, however, quite why you're 
doing this. I mean immediately making it known." 
"Ah, but what do we keep from Mitchy?" Mrs. Brook 
asked. 
"What can you keep ? It comes to the same thing," 
Mitchy said. "Besides, here we are together, share and 
share alike — one beautiful intelligence. Mr. Longdon's 
' somebody ' is of course Van. Don't try to treat me as 
an outsider." 
Vanderbank looked a little foolishly, though it was but 
the shade of a shade, from one of them to the other. "I 
think I've been rather an ass !" 
" What then, by the terms of our friendship — just as 
Mitchy says — can he and I have a better right to know 
and to feel with you about ? You will want, Mitchy, 
won't you ?"Mrs. Brook went on, "to hear all about that." 
"Oh, I only mean," Vanderbank explained, "in hav- 
 
ing just now blurted my tale out to yon. However, I of 
course do know.' he pursued to Mitcliy, "that whatever 
is really between us will remain between us. Let me 
then tell you myself exactly what's the matter." The 
length of his pause, after these words, showed at last that 
he had stopped short ; on which his companions, as they 
waited, exchanged a sympathetic look. They waited 
another minute, and then he dropped into a chair, where, 
leaning forward, his elbows on the arms and his gaze at- 
tached to the carpet, he drew out the silence. Finally he 
looked at Mrs. Brook. " You make it clear." 
The appeal called up for some reason her most infan- 
tine manner. "I don't think I can, dear Van — really 
clear. You know, however, yourself," she continued to 
Mitchy, " enough, by this time, about Mr. Longdon and 
mamma." 
" Oh, rather !" Mitchy laughed. 
"And about mamma and Nanda." 
" Oh, perfectly : the way Nanda reminds him, and the 
'beautiful loyalty' that has made him take such a fancy 
to her. But I've already embraced the facts — you 
needn't dot any i's." With another glance at his fellow- 
visitor Mitchy jumped up and stood there florid. "He 
has offered you money to marry her." He said this to 
Vanderbank as if it were the most natural thing in the 
world. 
