Leslie drew from his pocket a half sheet of note paper, and read aloud
the following words:
     "DEAR FATHER--
     "When you read these words I shall be far from home. I suppose I
     ought not to go, but I am tired of the country, and I want to win
     fame and fortune. I have a plan in view which I have considered for
     years. I won't tell you what it is now, for though strictly
     honorable, you might not approve it. I think I understand myself
     better than you do, though you are my father. I will let you hear
     from me soon. Your son,
     LESLIE WATERS."
"Of course you don't know how this was received by your father?"
"I met a boy from Rahway this morning. He told me that father was mad,
and said he washed his hands of me, that I was a fool, and would very
soon find it out."
"Then you don't think he will pursue you?"
"No, he isn't that kind of a man."
"It will be rather awkward for you to go home."
"Yes. I wouldn't like to do that."
"Suppose you don't get a chance to go on the stage, would you be willing
to take a business place?"
"Yes, I would rather do that than go home. Here I should be in the midst
of life, and if I bided my time I might get a chance to go on the stage
after all."
"That is true. Now I will tell you why I asked. One of the bell-boys
here is going to leave. I might get the position for you."
"You are a bell-boy, are you not?"
"Yes."
"How much do you get?"
"Five dollars a week and my meals. I have to hire a room outside."
"And you say I can get a room for two dollars a week?"
"Yes. Perhaps for a dollar and a half."
"Then I could get along."
"You might not like the duties of a bell-boy."
"What are they?"
Rupert explained.
"How early should I get off at night?"
"At six o'clock. The bell-boy who is about to leave is on through the
day like myself."
"That would suit me. I could go to the theatre in the evening."
"True."
"If I don't get a chance to act to-day I will take the place if you can
get it for me. It will be much better than going back to Rahway.
Besides, my father will think better of me if he hears that I have found
a place where I can make my expenses."
"Does he know that you have had thoughts of becoming an actor?"
"No; I never told him, but my mother knows it."
"What does she say to it?"
"She thinks I am smart enough to succeed, but fears I might get into bad
company."
"There is danger of that."
"Not for me. I don't care for drinking, and I belong to the temperance
society."
"So do I."
"When a boy is ambitious to be great I don't think he is likely to get
dissipated."
"Perhaps you are right. One thing I must say to you, Leslie. If you take
the place of bell-boy you must try to give satisfaction."
"I will, for it will keep me in the city. In Rahway there is no chance
of my rising in life."
Rupert foresaw that there was very little chance of his new friend
getting a position in any theatre, and he spoke at once to the manager
of the hotel about giving a place as bell-boy to Leslie.
"Is he a friend of yours, Rupert?" asked the manager.
"Yes, sir."
"Have you known him long?"
"Not long enough to be sure that he will be satisfactory. Still you
might be willing to take him on trial."
"I will try him for a week. If at the end of that time he suits me
moderately well I will retain him."
"I will coach him a little and instruct him in his duties."
"That will help."
In the evening Leslie came home just before Rupert got through his day's
work. He did not look as if he had succeeded. Still he was not as sober
as the day before.
"Well?" said Rupert. "What luck?"
"I don't get a place. In some of the theatres they did not treat me
respectfully, though one manager admitted that he went on the stage
earlier than I did."
"Where was that?"
"In Brooklyn."
"Then I suppose you will be ready to accept the place of bell-boy?"
"Yes; but if a chance should come of my going on the stage I should want
to resign it."
"You had better not say anything about that. Wait till the chance
comes."
"I have one piece of good news," said Leslie, more cheerfully. "In two
weeks a spectacular piece will be put on the stage at Niblo's, and they
have promised me a place as supe."
"How much will you be paid?"
"Only twenty-five cents a night, but it will be a beginning. I shall
have a place behind the footlights. More than one actor has made his
start in that way."
"I am glad for you. I will go and see you when you make your first
appearance."
CHAPTER XXIII.
A BAFFLED SCHEME.
Both Julian Lorimer and his father felt mortified at the failure of
their attempt to humiliate Mr. Benton. They had supposed he had neither
friends nor influence and were very much surprised at his securing
another position elsewhere at an advanced salary. They tried to find out
where he was now employed, but without success. Julian inquired of
Rupert one day when he met him, but the bell-boy refused to tell.
"Oh, it's a secret, is it?" sneered Julian.
"Yes, to you," answered Rupert. "Why did you wish to know?"
Rupert was confident that Julian meant mischief, and in the interest of
Mr. Benton he declined to give him any information.
Of course this made Julian all the more anxious to gain his point. He
got in the way of visiting every dry-goods store, and scanning the
clerks and salesmen. But there are a good many such stores in New York,
and it was some time before he made any discovery.
One day, however, he strayed into Grand Street, and entered a large
store in quest of some cheap neckties which he saw exposed outside.
Julian was rather a dude, and these ties had attracted his notice.
As he was passing through the store without any special thought of his
father's old clerk, he chanced to pass by the counter where dress goods
were sold. His face lighted up with malicious joy when he saw Benton
measuring off a dress pattern for a lady. He stopped until the salesman
was at leisure. Then, stepping up to the counter, he said, "Good
morning, Mr. Benton."
