And I have covered the old rocker with some new, pretty 





cretonne in wood colors and yellow, with glints of red. 
Mother hated dreadfully to have the brocade covered 
up, but I like fresh, clean chintz better than pretentious 
rags." 

" What a treasure you are to a home, Agnes ! I take 
all the good things and do nothing in return. But when 
the trunk comes I have some remembrances you will en- 
joy. I did not forget you with all the good times." 

" I suppose those people are all very rich." 

Agnes sighed at the end of her question, but there was 
no envy in it. 

"Yes. But they are the kind of people you never 
connect with money. I suppose it is because they are so 
accustomed to it and their wants are all gratified before 
they are hardly wants. It is a delightful way to live. If 
Aunt Sampson had been like any of them ! " 

" I must go down and look after the supper. And 
there come Virgie and Elsie. O, I must send 'Lonzo for 
the trunk." 

'Lonzo was a big shambling fellow who gardened and 
did chores for the neighbors. 

Gertrude freshened herself up a bit, brushed her hair 
and put on a clean shirt waist she found in the drawer. 
Then she went down and was almost smothered with a 
double greeting from the two who had not yet arrived at 
the dignity of "teens." 

After that her father, who shook hands cordially and 
looked her all over, then asked if he could have supper 
right away, as he had to go down to Gregory's and make 
an estimate on some lumber. 

So they had supper and the trunk came. There was a 
painting by Violet Osborne, a group of the four girls, 
photographs of the children, books, rare shells, a sash 





for Lu, some pretty goods for waists, ribbons, lace and 
chiffon. 

" I'd rather have had a silk frock than all the stuff," 
declared Lu, disdainfully. 

" These were gifts of friendship," replied Gertrude, 
with spirit. " I was fed and entertained, but there was 
no bargain about my being clothed." 

"Gertrude, do not take your sister up in that sharp 
fashion," said her mother, fretfully. "I have known 
people who did even that for a guest. It isn't such an 
uncommon thing." 

"There are some letters for Gertie," said Agnes, com- 
ing in, though she had heard her mother's rather shrill 
voice in the little kitchen. It was soft in its lower tones, 
indolent, but when she was not pleased, and raised it 
a little, it lost its pleasant sound. 

"O yes, three ! " exclaimed Virgie. "I brought one 
in this morning. I put them on the tray " 

"I took them in my room. They are — but it can't 
make any difference to-night. And really, you ought to 
tell us about your visit and the people you met. Was 
that club composed of men, alone ? But of course there 
were plenty of married women to matronize you all. Are 
those other girls in society? " 

"O no. They are going back to school." 

"Then, Gertrude, I think you ought to have done 
something for yourself. There are so many of you girls, 
and your poor father has his hands full. I don't know 
what would become of you all if anything should happen 
to him. And you have had the best of everything. You 
are like your father, you never can see a golden oppor- 
tunity." 

"I'll have to earn my golden opportunities myself, I 





am afraid," responded Gertrude, with a tremolo in her 
voice that was meant to do duty for a half laugh. "I 
have not the beauty to captivate people off-hand. And 
everybody seemed to think more of fun and dancing than 
sentiment. ' ' 

" Some of the most successful women have not been 
handsome. I remember when I was young there was 
one girl who had only to raise her finger and men would 
flock to her. And she was very plain. I'm sure I don't 
see why you should all take after your father and the 
Sampson tribe ' ' 

"The Maurice tribe it must have been," interposed 
Lu, with her giggle. "Aunt Sampson claims that she 
was a handsome young woman, and she was thirty-five 
when she married. Goodness me ! Even at that rate 
Gertie would have sixteen years' grace." 

" Luella, I would try and cultivate a little sense," said 
