" I mean about the millionaire heiress. It has 
excited a wide interest." 

" Ah, that ! Yes, it gave me a chance," re- 
plied Brad, who was thinking only of himself. 

" I've had several letters about it from the 
country." 

" Yes ? "Well, I suppose," said Brad, modestly, 
" that a little country notoriety doesn't hurt a 
person." 

Philip did not tell his interlocutor that, so far 
as he knew, nobody in the country had ever 
heard the name of Olin Brad, or knew there was 
such a person in existence. But he went on : 

" Certainly. And, besides, there is a great 
curiosity to know about the girl. Did you ever 
see her?" 

" Only in public. I don't know Mavick person- 
ally, and for reasons," and Mr. Brad laughed in a 
superior manner. " It's easy enough to see her." 

" How ?" 

" Watch out for a Wagner night, and go to 
the opera. You'll see where Mavick's box is in 
the bill. She is pretty sure to be there, and her 
mother. There is nothing special about her ; but 
her mother is still a very fascinating woman, I 
can tell you. You'll iind her sure on a ' Carmen' 
night, but not so sure of the girl." 




 

On this suggestion Philip promptly acted. 
The extra expense of an orchestra seat he put 
down to his duty to keep his family informed of 
anything that interested them in the city. It 
was a " Siegfried " night, and a full house. To 
describe it all would be very interesting to Alice. 
The Mavick box was empty until the overture 
was half through. Then appeared a gentleman 
who looked as if he were performing a public 
duty, a lady who looked as if she were receiving 
a public welcome, and seated between them a 
dark, slender girl, who looked as if she did not 
see the public at all, but only the orchestra. Be- 
hind them, in the shadow, a middle-aged woman 
in plainer attire. It must be the Scotch govern- 
ess. Mrs. Mavick had her eyes everywhere 
about the house, and was graciously bowing to 
her friends. Mr. Mavick coolly and unsympa- 
thetically regarded the house, quite conscious of 
it, but as if he were a little bored. You could not 
see him without being aware that he was think- 
ing of other things, probably of far-reaching 
schemes. People always used to say of Mavick, 
when he was young and a clerk in a Washington 
bureau, that he looked omniscient. At least the 
imagination of spectators invested him with a 
golden hue, and regarded him through the rose- 
ate atmosphere that surrounds a many-millioned 
man. The girl had her eyes always on the or- 




 

chestra, and was waiting for the opening of the 
world that lay behind the drop curtain. Phllip 
noticed that all the evening Mrs. Mavick paid 
very little attention to the stage, except when 
the rest of the house was so dark that she could 
distinguish little in it. 

Fortunately for Philip, in his character of 
country reporter, the Mavick box was near the 
stage, and he could very well see what was going 
on in it, without wholly distracting his attention 
from Wagner's sometimes very dimly illuminated 
creation. 

There are faces and figures that compel uni- 
versal attention and admiration. Commonly 
there is one woman in a theatre at whom all 
glances are levelled. It is a mystery why one 
face makes only an individual appeal, and an ap- 
peal much stronger than that of one universally 
admired. The house certainly concerned itself 
very little about the shy and dark heiress in the 
Mavick box, having with regard to her only a 
moment's curiosity. But the face instantly took 
hold of Philip. He found it more interesting to 
read the play in her face than on the stage. He 
seemed instantly to have established a chain of 
personal sympathy with her. So intense was his 
regard that it seemed as if she must, if there is 
anything in the telepathic theory of the inter- 
change of feeling, have been conscious of it. 




 

That she was, however, unconscious of any in- 
fluence reaching her except from the stage was 
pei^fectly evident. She was absorbed in the 
drama, even when the drama was ahnost lost in 
darkness, and only an occasional grunting ejacu- 
lation gave evidence that there was at least ani- 
mal life responsive to the continual pleading, 
