was built at that time, and it was much newer than 
the house on Seventeenth street in New York, where 
she spent the girlhood that had since prolonged itself 
beyond middle life with her. She had first lived 
abroad in the Paris of the Second Empire, and she 
had been one winter in Rome, but she had settled def 
initely in Florence before London became an Ameri 
can colony, so that her friends were chiefly Americans, 
though she had a wide international acquaintance. 
Perhaps her habit of taking her brother 's part, when 
he was a black sheep, inclined her to mercy with peo 
ple who had not been so blameless in their morals as 
they were in their minds and manners. She exacted 
that they should be interesting and agreeable, and 
not too threadbare ; but if they had something that 
decently buttoned over the frayed places, she did not 
frown upon their poverty. Bohemians of all kinds 
liked her ; Philistines liked her too; and in such a 
place as Florence, where the Philistines themselves 
are a little Bohemian, she might be said to be very 
popular. You met persons whom you did not quite 
wish to meet at her house, but if these did not meet 
you there, it was your loss. 

On the night of the dance the line of private carri 
ages, remises and cabs, lined the Viale Ariosto for a 
mile up and down before her gates, where young art 
ists of both sexes arrived on foot. By this time her 




passion for Clementina was at its height. She had 
Maddalena bring her out early in the evening, and 
made her dress under her own eye and her French 
maid s, while Maddalena went back to comfort Mrs. 
Lander. 

" I hated to leave her," said Clementina. " I don 't 
believe she 's very well." 

"Isn 't she always ill?" demanded Miss Milray. 
She embraced the girl again, as if once were not 
enough. " Clementina, if Mrs. Lander won 't give you 
to me, I 'm going to steal you. Do you know what I 
want you to do to-night ? I want you to stand up 
with me, and receive, till the dancing begins, as if it 
were your coming-out. I mean to introduce every 
body to you. You 'll be easily the prettiest girl, 
there, and you 'll have the nicest gown, and I don 't 
mean that any of your charms shall be thrown away. 
You won 't be frightened ? " 

" No, I don 't believe I shall," said Clementina. 
" You can tell me what to do." 

The dress she wore was of pale green, like the light 
seen in thin woods; out of it shone her white shoul 
ders, and her young face, as if rising through the 
verdurous light. The artists, to a man and woman, 
wished to paint her, and severally told her so, during 
the evening which lasted till morning. She was not 
surprised when Lord Lioncourt appeared, toward 
midnight, and astonished Miss Milray by claiming 
acquaintance with Clementina. He asked about Mrs. 
Lander, and whether she had got to Florence without 
losing the way ; he laughed but he seemed really to 


care. lie took Clementina out to supper, when the 
time came; and she would have topped him by half a 
head as she leaned on his arm, if she had not consid 
erately drooped and trailed a little after him. 

She could not know what a triumph he was making 
for her ; and it was merely part of the magic of the 
time that Mr. Ewins should come in presently with 
one of the ladies, lie had arrived in Florence that 
day, and had to be brought unasked. He put on the 
effect of an old friend with her ; but Clementina 's 
curiosity was chiefly taken with a tall American, whom 
she thought very handsome. His light yellow hair 
was brushed smooth across his forehead like a \vell- 
behaving boy 's ; he was dressed like the other men, 
but he seemed not quite happy in his evening coat, 
and his gloves which he smote together uneasily from 

O O J 

time to time. He appeared to think that somehow 
the radiant Clementina would know how he felt; he 
did not dance, and he professed to have found him 
self at the party by a species of accident. He told 
her that he was out in Europe looking after a patent 
right that he had just taken hold of, and was having 
only a middling good time. He pretended surprise 
to hear her say that she was having a first-rate time, 
and he tried to reason her out of it. He confessed 
that from the moment he came into the room he 
had made up his mind to take her to supper, and 
had never been so disgusted in his life as when he 

O 

saw that little lord toddling off with her, and trying 
to look as large as life. He asked her what a lord 
was like, anyway, and he made her laugh all the time. 



 

He told her his name, G. W. Hinkle, and asked 
whether she would be likely to remember it if they 
ever met again. 

Another man who interested her very much was a 
young Russian, with curling hair and neat, small feat 
ures who spoke better English than she did, and said 
he was going to be a writer, but had not yet decided 
