mean to stay here more than two days, you know. It wouldn't be worth
while to unpack the trunks, I s'pose? Mamma will be well enough to go on
to Ohio pretty soon, won't she?"
"I hope so, dear."
My mother drew her up to her and kissed the brown head. She, too, was
thoughtful. I supposed that she was wondering if she would better
unpack those trunks. I was not glad that Cousin Mary Bray was sick, but
I was in no hurry for her to get well enough to travel. I had never had
another visitor whose ways of playing suited me as well as Lucy's. She
was a year older than I, and a year younger than Mary 'Liza, and she got
along beautifully with both of us. Then there was her cat, Alexander the
Great, that she was taking to Ohio with her. He was the biggest cat any
of us had ever known, with a coat of the longest, softest fur you can
imagine, all pure gray, without a white or black hair on him, and he had
lots of fun and sense. Mary 'Liza wanted, at first, to make believe that
he was a hungry wolf, but Lucy would not hear of it until I proposed he
should be a tame wolf we had taken when he was a baby and trained to
defend us. He really seemed to understand what was expected of him, and
when we lay down in the feather-bed and huddled close together under
the covers, and whispered, as the wind screamed around the corners of
the house:--
"There they are again! Don't you s'pose they'll be afraid of the fire?
Wolves always are, you know,"--and Lucy would answer:--
"Faithful Alexander will take care of us."
Alexander would prowl up and down the room and stalk around the bed,
never offering to get upon it, until we called out to one another:--
"Another morning, and we are still safe!"
Then, he would leap into Lucy's arms, and purr, and tickle her nose with
his whiskers, until she couldn't speak for laughing. She had had him
ever since he was born, and he slept on the foot of her bed at night.
While she sat in my mother's lap, he was winding himself in and out
between her feet, his tail carried aloft like a soldier's plume, and
purring almost as loudly as a watchman's rattle. My mother looked down,
presently, at him, and checked the absent-minded passes of her hand
over Lucy's hair.
"Give him some milk, Marthy," she said, smiling. "I wish you had a coat
like his, Lucy. I shouldn't be afraid then of your taking cold, or of
your going too near the fire. Marthy! to-morrow you must hunt up a
fender to put here, and see if one of your Miss Mary 'Liza's last
winter's frocks won't fit Miss Lucy. It would do very well for her to
play in. We must take good care of her while--this bad weather lasts."
I fancy she would have finished the sentence differently but for fear of
saddening the child by intimating that her mother might be ill for a
long time. She kissed Lucy in putting her down, and patted my shoulder,
telling me to "be a good girl and very kind to my cousin."
"I am glad you all are so comfortable and happy here," she added. "I
could not have you downstairs just now. Carry these things down, Marthy,
and run up every little while to see how the young ladies are getting
on. Be sure and keep up a good fire, Mary 'Liza, my dear. I trust you to
look after the other children."
When she had gone I went to the window and flattened my nose against the
glass to peer into the storm. It was a dormer-window, and the March snow
was drifted high upon the roof on both sides of it, and upon the jutting
eaves above it, until I looked out, as through a tunnel, into the
jutting tree-tops. Beyond was a mad whirl of snowflakes that hid the
nearest hills. The wind whined and scolded, and now and then arose into
a hoarse bellow. I shivered, and slipped my cold hands up the sleeves of
my stuff frock. We had circassian frocks for every day, and merino for
Sundays. Our under petticoats were of flannel, and we wore, outside of
these, quilted skirts interlined with wool. My mother had a nervous
dread of fire.
A shriek of laughter turned me to the more cheerful scene behind me.
Alexander the Great was chasing his own tail as violently as if he had
just discovered it and considered it as an offence to his dignity. Lucy
was clapping her hands to egg him on, and Mary 'Liza had sat down upon
the pile of bedding to laugh at her ease. Before leaving the room Marthy
had piled wood upon the andirons as high as she could reach up the
chimney-throat without grazing her hands in withdrawing them, as was the
rule in fire-architecture on Virginia plantations. The March wind,
finding its way through many a crack and cranny, beat at the flames
until they flared this way and that. The cat dashed dizzily across the
hearth, and Lucy, with a cry of alarm, darted forward to snatch him from
the dangerous neighborhood. She caught hold of him, and pulled him away,
and the draught whipped her skirts into the hottest heart of the fire.
It was the work of an instant. The oily dressing of the cotton fabric
may have made it the more inflammable. Rooted to the floor by horror, I
saw a column of flame flash past me to the door, and heard the piercing
wail grow fainter down the stairs.
My mother heard it in the distant room where the sick woman was sleeping
quietly, the tiny baby on her arm. Shutting the door as she came out,
the hostess flew across the house to the north wing, and met the burning
child on the stairs. Eluding her by keeping close to the wall, she
gained the upper room, saw, at one wild glance that her own little ones
were safe, tore a blanket from the bed, overtook Lucy at the stair-foot,
and smothered the flames with it.
[Illustration]
Chapter V
What Was Done With Musidora
[Illustration]
The details of Lucy Bray's death were told to me by others. My childish
recollection held every feature of that first awful scene as tenaciously
as if the flames had kindled upon me, and not upon my hapless
playfellow. What followed is a hazy kaleidoscope, lurid and vague, until
my scattered thoughts settled to the perception that I was making a long
visit at Uncle Carter's and sharing Cousin Molly Belle's room and bed.
She made me a new rag-doll-baby while I was there. That was the first
thing that "brought me round," as Aunt Eliza phrased it. For one whole
day when it was raining and blowing out of doors, I had eyes and
thoughts for nothing except the evolution of that miraculous doll-baby,
as she grew and glowed into an entity under the fingers of my
best-beloved crony. She was a blonde after she ceased to be a blank. Her
eyes were blue, her cheeks were shaded carmine; she had a real nose
raised above the dead level of her countenance, stuffed artistically,
and kept in shape by well-applied stitches. Finally,--and half a century
thereafter I thrill in thinking of it,--an intellectual cranium was
covered with a cunningly fashioned wig of Cousin Molly Belle's own silky
auburn hair.
This last and transcendent touch was added after I went to bed one
night. The superb creation, arrayed in a lovely light purple French
calico frock that could be taken off at night and put on in the morning,
and sure enough underclothes, all tucked and trimmed, smiled from my
pillow into my eyes when I unclosed them at the touch of the morning
light.
I christened my beauty "Mollabella," and would not change the name for
her maker's gentle remonstrances and all my college cousin Burwell's
teasing.
Musidora had lapsed, little by little, into chronic invalidism, spending
much of her time in bed. She was uncomely to any eyes but mine, and I
would not subject her to unkind criticism. Her case was made hopeless by
the officious kindness of Argus, a Newfoundland puppy, in bringing her
