Carrington loitered with the Collaston party, debating whether he
should meet Jaqueline. It would break the ice, perhaps. Patty had
been so cordial. She had taken on so many pretty married airs that
were charming. She talked about her house and her lovely baby, how
Annis had grown, and how sweet it was of her to be content without her
mother, and how sad it was about Charles. Louis joined them, full of
enthusiasm. And at last Jaqueline and her escort came up.

"We thought we should have to go home without you," Patty said gayly.
"Come; it is late. The carriage has been here waiting ever so long."

Jaqueline bowed to her old lover. Major Day, in his military trappings,
was quite an imposing figure, and how beautiful she was! She had been
a pretty young girl when he first met her; she was young still, in
that early dawn of womanhood before the bud had quite unfolded. Had he
expected to see her faded and worn in this brief period?

They all wished each other good-night.

Why did he not "ask Jaqueline to love him again"? He was not as sure
as Annis had been. And now everything was different. Patty was already
quite a figure in society, and Jaqueline could have her choice of
lovers, husbands.

Annis longed to tell over her little episode of the meeting, but there
seemed no time. Jaqueline was always going out and having company.
Louis teased Annis when he saw her.

"Two conquests in one night for a little girl!" he exclaimed. "Oh, I
saw you dancing with the young midshipman, and then on high parade with
Mr. Carrington, who looked grave and grand, as if he was escorting
about a lady of high degree. I am afraid Madame Badeau will make a
woman of you too fast. Do you not think it would be better to send her
over to the convent to steady her, Patty?"

"Oh, I don't want to be shut up! I should run away. And I like the
girls so much. The convent looks dreary. And they can walk only in that
high-walled garden. I want the whole big outside world."

Louis laughed and pinched her cheek.

If Mr. Carrington wouldn't come and ask Jaqueline again, no one could
do anything. Annis sighed in her tender heart, and felt that it was
better not to retail the confidence.

Mrs. Madison's dinners were quite the events of the winter, and her
levees were delightful entertainments. All parties began to harmonize
more warmly; perhaps it was the gracious tact and affability of
the hostess. The National Intelligencer espoused the cause of
the Madisons enthusiastically, and congratulated the nation on his
re-election. Roger Carrington began to haunt the entertainments he had
so long shunned, or at the utmost merely devoted a few moments to them.
Of course he met Jaqueline, who was simply indifferent, a much harder
condition to overcome than if she had shown hauteur or resentment. And,
then--in a worldly point of view she could do better.

For Washington, in a certain way, was prospering in spite of the war
and privations. There was a feeling of permanence, as if the Capital
really would be great some day. Houses were springing up, streets
lengthening out, mudholes being filled up, pavements placed, and every
year a little was added to the home of the nation.

The time ran gayly around. The winter had seemed unusually brief. March
came in again, and with it the second inauguration of James Madison,
when the Capitol grounds were thronged as never before. The President
was paler and thinner, and though it had been a triumph for his party,
he sighed often for the quiet and rest of Montpellier.

Mrs. Madison, in rose-colored satin and ermine, looked "every inch a
queen," said the papers of the day. And happier than some of the queens
off or on European thrones, even if she had carried a great burden the
last two years. And the ladies of the republican court certainly were
not lacking in beauty or grace. The foreign ministers and their wives,
in all their brave array, hardly excelled them; and the army and navy
were in force.

Annis went to the levee. It was quite a crush, but a pleasure to the
child to see the brilliant throng. Louis was her escort, and he was
proud of her refined and lady-like manners. The French grace in her
nature had been assiduously cultivated by the woman who still thought
there was no place like France.

"We will go home early," Patty said. "Jaqueline is to stay and help
entertain. She's getting to be such a grand lady that I suppose she
will be marrying a senator or a secretary next, and perhaps be Mrs.
President herself. She and Mrs. Seaton are hand and glove." Mrs. Seaton
was the pretty wife of the editor of the National Intelligencer. "But
I am tired, and the doctor will be out all night, so we will get some
beauty sleep."

She sent the servant for the carriage. One of the guests escorted them
through the spacious hall and out on the portico. A merry party were
coming up, and Annis, turning aside for them, slipped, landing in a
little heap on the stone pavement. Patty uttered a cry.

A gentleman at the foot of the steps picked her up before Patty or Mr.
Fenton could reach her.

"Oh, Mr. Carrington!" cried Patty; and now the other guests ran down to
see what injury they had done, quite alarmed at the incident.

Annis drew a long sigh and flung her arms about her rescuer's neck,
quite ignorant who it might be, but still frightened.

"No, I do not think I am hurt," in a shaken voice.

"Take her to the carriage, please," entreated Patty. "And, Mr. Fenton,
do not mention it to my sister nor my brother, if you see them.
Good-night, and thanks."

Mr. Carrington carried her to the edge of the walk and then put her
down.

"I feel shaky," she began, with a tremulous laugh. "But I am quite sure
I have not broken any bones."

Patty stepped in first. Mr. Carrington assisted Annis, and then studied
the pale face.

"Do you not think I had better accompany you?" he asked solicitously.
