
DR. THORNE. There must be serious cerebral congestion. I cannot find the
street. I cannot find Fayth’s house. What part of this bewitched town am
I in? I have lost my way--I, Esmerald Thorne, with a clientele of twenty
years from end to end of the city--I cannot find my way.

Enter a Suburban, a Loafer, and a
Priest. (The Woman draws her veil,
and looks solemnly at DR. THORNE
as she passes. Her face is pale and
wretched, but possesses singular
beauty.)

       [Exit the Woman.

(DR. THORNE does not notice the Woman.)

(The Loafer leans against a post. He stares stupidly at the wreck.)

(The Priest walks slowly, reciting an Ave.)

(The Suburban hurries on, making a wide circle to avoid the ruins of
the carriage.)

DR. THORNE (addressing the Suburban). Can you tell me?--Here! Hold on
a minute! Man, can’t you answer a civil question? Will you tell me--

THE SUBURBAN (pays no attention to DR. THORNE, but hurries on.
Consults his watch; speaks.) I shall lose my train!

       [Exit Suburban, running.

DR. THORNE (with puzzled impatience, addressing the Loafer).
Here!--You! Why, it’s Jerry! Just tell me, will you, Jerry, where the
accident was, and how much was the lady hurt?

(The Loafer stares stupidly at DR. THORNE, but makes no answer.)

       [Exit Loafer.

DR. THORNE (with trouble on his face, more gently addresses the
Priest, whom he slightly touches on the arm). Sir!--Oh, Father
Sullivan! Look here, Father! I’m ashamed to confess, I have lost my way.
Would you direct me to the house of the well-known merchant, Frederick
Fayth? I am due there on an urgent professional errand, and--I cannot
explain the phenomenon--but I have lost my way!

(The Priest repeats an Ave under his breath. He looks DR. THORNE
full in the face, but does not reply.)

DR. THORNE. And will you be so kind as to tell me whether you have heard
of a carriage accident down-town--and how much was the lady hurt? Did
you--

PRIEST(looks blindly over DR. THORNE’S head; mutters). Nay--Nay. I
see nothing. (He crosses himself). Ave Sanctissima! Ora pro nobis!
(He lifts his arms and, with a troubled and confused expression, makes
the sign of the cross in the air over DR. THORNE. Priest passes on.)

DR. THORNE (gently). Thank you, Father.

       [Exit Priest.

DR. THORNE (stands sunken in thought for a few moments; suddenly starts
and knots his hands together, then separates them with the motion of one
blind or of one feeling his way in the dark). I must see Helen! I must
go to Helen!--Helen! Helen!

(Sudden darkness settles. When it passes, the wreck of the buggy is
removed.)

Enter DR. THORNE. (Walks rapidly and
perplexedly, still with the manner of a
man who has lost his way.)

       [Exit.


Re-enter.

       [Exit.

Re-enter (speaks).

I must get home. I will get home. I will see Helen! (Stops
sharply, as if smitten by an unseen force; cannot take another step;
contends, as if with an invisible power; droops, as if vanquished;
turns, and retraces his way; his head hangs to his breast. He speaks.)
What thwarts me from my home? Who constrains me from my wife?
(Lifts his face angrily to the sky.) Is this hypnotism? (Laughs
sarcastically.) Am I an infant--or a maniac? It must be anæsthesia
passing off. Perhaps I was etherized by some blank fool after that
shock.--The accident! That is it, of course, of course! It is the
cerebral concussion--a simple case.... I shouldn’t like this to get out.
I believe I’ll go into my office--if I can find my office--and wait till
this passes off. It is a perfectly simple case. (Walks feverishly up
and down the street, searching for his own office; mutters.) Ever since
I yielded to that demand for a noon office hour downtown for business
men--it has crowded me without mercy. If they hadn’t been my old
patients, I wouldn’t have succumbed to it. It’s just another strand in
the whiplash that has driven me to death. Well (draws a long
breath)--I seem to be out of sorts to-night. I shall get over all this
nonsense when I see Helen. Helen will set me right. Helen will make a
live man of me again.


END OF SCENE II.


SCENE III.

The interior of a down-town office. DR. THORNE
is seen in the consulting room; the door is closed into
the reception room. One gas-jet burns over the desk;
patient’s chair and physician’s chair are seen in the
usual places; the desk is in order for the night; a
movable telephone, of the kind in use in offices, stands
upon the desk.

DR. THORNE (throws himself heavily
