A minute after there was another shout of surprise.
A second time Gerald had hit the bull’s-eye, thus making the best
record.
“You ain’t a Britisher, be you?” asked Abe, mortified.
“No, I am a native-born American, and proud of it,” returned Gerald.
“You’ll do, then! Hurrah for the stars and stripes!” shouted Abe. “The
Amerikins kin shoot, you must admit, stranger.”
“Yes, I am willing to admit it,” said Noel Brooke with a smile,
“especially as it is my friend Gerald who has come out first.”
Later on Mrs. Peters and Bess, who had completed their housework, came
out and joined them.
Mrs. Peters was astonished when she heard that the Englishman, who was
two inches shorter than herself, had defeated both her tall sons.
“Why,” she said, “I didn’t think you could handle me.”
“I don’t believe I can, Mrs. Peters,” said Noel Brooke modestly.
“I’m with you there!” put in her husband. “There ain’t many men that’s
as tough and gritty as Sal Peters.”
Mrs. Peters listened to this high encomium with complacency.
“And the boy there beat Abe and Ben in shooting,” continued Mr. Peters.
“I reckon he couldn’t beat me!” said Mrs. Peters.
“The fact is the old woman is the best marksman in the lot of us,”
explained Mr. Peters. “She’s got a sharp, keen eye, even if she is
forty-nine years old.”
“Does Miss Peters take after her mother?” inquired the tourist.
“Miss Peters? Oh, you mean Bess. No, she’ll never make the woman her
mother is.”
“I should hope not if I were going to marry her,” thought Brooke.
Before ten o’clock all the inmates of the cabin were asleep. It may
readily be supposed that first-class accommodations were not provided.
Gerald and his friend were shown to a bed in one corner, where they
threw themselves down without undressing. But neither of them were
inclined to be fastidious. They were thoroughly fatigued, and were soon
oblivious to all that passed around them.
Noel Brooke, though a sound sleeper, was easily aroused. About midnight
he started suddenly, and lifted his head as a noise was heard outside.
It was a whinny from one of the horses, that were tethered to a tree at
the rear part of the cabin. The horse was evidently frightened.
“Gerald!” exclaimed Brooke, shaking his companion energetically.
Gerald opened his eyes and asked drowsily, “What’s the matter?”
“The horses! Some one is meddling with them. Get up at once!”
Gerald comprehended instantly, and sprang to his feet. Both he and the
tourist were out of doors like a flash, and ran to the rear of the
cabin.
Two cowboys wearing large flapping sombreros, had untied the horses,
and were leading them away.
“Hold on there!” exclaimed the Englishman. “Leave that horse alone!”
The cowboy who had sprung upon the horse turned and greeted him with
derisive laughter.
“Mind your business, stranger, and get back to your bed!” he answered.
“I’ve got use for this horse.”
The other, who had Gerald’s horse by the bridle, also sprang upon his
back.
“That’s my horse!” called out Gerald angrily.
“It’s mine now!”
“I wish I had my rifle!” said Brooke in excitement, “I would soon stop
these thieves!”
This incautious speech betrayed the fact that he was unarmed, and made
the two thieves feel secure.
“Good-by, strangers!” said the first cowboy. “Your horses will be taken
care of. You ain’t no cause to worry.”
They turned the horses’ heads and prepared to gallop away, though the
poor animals, recognizing the voices of their real masters, seemed
reluctant to go.
“If Mr. Peters and the boys were only awake,”
said the tourist, “they would manage these fellow.”
[Illustration: “You just get off them animals, or I’ll shoot!” cried a
stern voice.—Page 163.]
But help was near at hand after all.
“You just get off them animals, or I’ll shoot!” cried a stern voice.
The two cowboys turned quickly, expecting to encounter a man, but
instead saw only a tall, gaunt woman in a white night-dress, with her
long, disheveled hair hanging down her back.
“Go back to bed, you old witch!” shouted the thief contemptuously.
If he had known Mrs. Peters better he would have hesitated before
speaking in this strain, and above all he would have felt it prudent to
get out of the way.
She took no time to parley, but raising a rifle which she carried at
her side, aimed at the foremost ruffian, and an instant later a sharp
pain in his shoulder told him he had been hit. With an imprecation
he dropped to the ground, and his companion, striking Gerald’s horse
sharply, prepared to seek safety in flight, leaving his companion to
his fate. But Mrs. Peters was ready for him, too. A second shot struck
him in the leg, and he slid off the horse.
By this time Peters and his two boys showed themselves, roused by the
sound of firing.
“What’s up?” asked the old man.
“Two hoss thieves are down!” answered Mrs. Peters.
“Hoss thieves?”
“Yes; they was makin’ off with the strangers’ hosses. I’ve given ’em a
hint not to come round here agin.”
The groans uttered by the two fallen men confirmed her statement.
CHAPTER XXI.
ON THE STEAMER ROCK ISLAND.
THE horse thieves struggled to their feet, and stood apprehensively,
but defiant, facing the old man who eyed them with stern and
threatening glances. They were too much disabled to think of escaping.
“Why, you poor contemptible hoss thieves!” ejaculated Peters, “what
have you got to say for yourselves?”
The two men looked at each other, but the right words did not seem to
occur to them, for they remained silent.
“Serves you right to be tripped up by a woman! You ain’t men, you’re
sneaks!”
The thieves turned their eyes toward Mrs. Peters, who, tall and gaunt,
stood looking on with her thin gray hair floating down her back.
“She ain’t a woman! She’s a witch!” said one of them bitterly.
“You’ll have to answer for that to me!” cried Ben, and with a stride
he struck the man with his huge fist, and prostrated him.
“Dad, shall we string ’em up?” he asked, turning to his father. “He’s
insulted mother.”
What Mr. Peters would have said is problematical, but Noel Brooke
interposed earnestly, “No, no, Mr. Peters, let them go! They’re both
wounded, and that will be punishment sufficient.”
“Just as you say, stranger! It’s your hosses they tried to steal.”
“But they insulted mother,” insisted Ben.
“Let ’em go!” said Mrs. Peters contemptuously. “They’ll remember the
old witch for some time, I reckon!”
The men looked as if they would like to strangle her, but they were
prudent enough to keep their mouths shut.
“Now scoot!” exclaimed Peters, in a threatening tone. “If I ever catch
either of you within a mile of my cabin, I’ll shoot you down like dogs.”
