to fight! Listen to me--look into my eyes,--for you must call up
your powers--now--now before it is too late! You cannot shirk
it--do you hear me? It is here!”
And as the man was speaking the frenzied words the look of a tiger
had come into his face; his eyes were starting from his head, and he
held Helen’s wrists in a grip that turned them black, tho then she
did not feel the pain. She was gazing into his face, convulsed with
fright; and the man gasped for breath once more, and then rushed on:
“A fight like this conies once to a soul, Helen--and it wins or it
loses--and you must win! Do you hear me?--Win! I am dying, Helen,
I am going--and I leave you to God, and to life. He is, He made
you, and He demands your worship and your faith--that you hold your
soul lord of all chances, that you make yourself master of your
life! And now is your call--now! You clench your hands and you
pray--it tears your heart-strings, and it bursts your brain--but you
say that you will--that you will--that you will! Oh, God, that I
have left you so helpless--that I did not show you the peril of your
soul! For you must win--oh, if I could but find a word for you!
For you stand upon the brink of ruin, and you have but an
instant--but an instant to save yourself--to call up the vision of
your faith before you, and tho the effort kill you, not to let it
go! Girl, if you fail, no power of earth or heaven can save you from
despair! And oh, have I lived with you for nothing--showed you no
faith--given you no power? Helen, save me--have mercy upon me, I
cannot stand this, and I dare not--I dare not die!”
The man was leaning forward, gazing into the girl’s face, his own
countenance fearful to see. “I could die,” he gasped; “I could die
with a song--He has shown me His face--and He is good! But I dare
not leave you--you--and I am going! Helen! Helen!”
The man’s fearful force seemed to have been acting upon the girl
like magnetism, for tho the look of wild suffering had not left her
face, she had raised herself and was staring into his burning eyes;
then suddenly, with an effort that shook her frame she clenched her
hands and gave a gasp for breath, and panted, scarcely audibly:
“What--can--I--do?”
David’s head had sunk, but he mastered himself once more; and he
whispered, “I leave you to God--I leave you to life! You can be a
soul,--you can win--you must win, you must live--and
worship--and rejoice! You must kneel here--here, while I am going, never
more to return; and you must know that you can never see me again, that
I shall no longer exist; and you must cling to your faith in the God who
made you, and praise Him for all that He does! And you will not shed a
tear--not a tear!”
And his grip tightened yet more desperately; he stared in one last
wild appeal, and gasped again, “Promise me--not a tear!”
And again the throbbing force of his soul roused the girl; she could
not speak, she was choking; but she gave a sign of assent, and then
all at once David’s fearful hold relaxed. He gave one look more, one
that stamped itself upon Helen’s soul forever by its fearful
intensity of yearning; and after it he breathed a sigh that seemed
to pant out the last mite of strength in his frame, and sank
backwards upon the sofa, with Helen still clinging to him.
There for an instant or two he lay, breathing feebly; and the girl
heard a faint whisper again--“Not a tear--not a tear!” He opened
his eyes once more and gazed at her dimly, and then a slight
trembling shook his frame. His chest heaved once more and sank, and
after it everything was still.
For an instant Helen stared at him, dazed; then she clutched him by
the shoulders, whispering hoarsely-then calling louder and louder in
frenzied terror, “David, David!” He gave no answer, and with a cry
that was fearful to hear the girl clutched him to her. The body was
limp and lifeless--the head fell forward as if the neck were
broken; and Helen staggered backward with a scream.
There came an instant of fierce agony then; she stood in the center
of the room, reeling and swaying, clutching her head in her hands,
her face upturned and tortured. And first she gasped, “He is dead!”
 and then “I shall not ever see him again!” And she choked and
swallowed a lump in her throat, whispering in awful terror, “Not a
tear--not a tear!” And then she flung up her arms and sank forward
with an incoherent cry, and fell senseless into Arthur’s arms.
A week had passed since David’s death; and Helen was in her father’s
home once more, sitting by the window in the gathering twilight. She
was yery pale, and her eyes were sunken and hollow; but the beauty
of her face was still there, tho in a strange and terrible way. Her
hand was resting upon Arthur’s, and she was gazing into his eyes and
speaking in a deep, solemn voice.
“It will not ever leave me, Arthur, I know it will not ever leave
me; it is like a fearful vision that haunts me night and day, a
voice that cries out in my soul and will not let me rest; and I know
I shall never again be able to live like other people, never be free
from its madness. For oh, I do not think it is often that a human
soul sees what I saw--he seemed to drag me out into the land of
death with him, into the very dwelling-place of God. And I almost
went with him, Arthur, almost! Can you dream what I suffered--have
you any idea of what it means to a human being to make such an
effort? I loved that man as if he had been my own soul; I was bound
to him so that he was all my life, and to have him go was like
tearing my heart in two; and he had told me that I should never see
him again, that there was nothing to look for beyond death. And yet,
Arthur, I won--do you ever realize it?--I won. It seemed to me as if
the earth were reeling about me--as if the very air I breathed were
fire; and oh, I thought that he was dead--that he was gone from me
forever, and I believed that I was going mad! And then, Arthur,
those awful words of his came ringing through my mind, ‘Not a tear,
not a tear!’ I had no faith, I could see nothing but that the world
was black with horror; and yet I heard those words! It was love--it
was even fear, I think, that held me to it; I had worshiped his
sacredness, I had given all my soul to the wonder of his soul; and I
dared not be false to him--I dared not dishonor him,--and I knew
that he had told me that grief was a crime, that there was truth in
the world that I might cling to. And oh, Arthur, I won it--I won it!
I kept the faith--David’s faith; and it is still alive upon the
earth. It seems to me almost as if I had won his soul from death--as
if I had saved his spirit in mine-as if I could still rejoice in his
life, still have his power and his love; and there is a kind of
fearful consecration in my heart, a glory that I am afraid to know
of, as if God’s hand had been laid upon me.
“David used to tell me, Arthur, that if only that power is roused in
a soul, if only it dwells in that sacredness, there can no longer be
fear or evil in its life; that the strife and the vanity and the
misery in this cruel world about us come from nothing else but that
men do not know this vision, that it is so hard--so dreadfully
hard--to win. And he used to say that this power is infinite, that
it depends only upon how much one wants it; and that he who
possessed it had the gift of King Midas, and turned all things that
he touched to gold. That is real madness to me, Arthur, and will not
let me be still; and yet I know that it cannot ever die in me; for
whenever there is an instant’s weakness there flashes over me again
the fearful thought of David, that he is gone back into nothingness,
that nowhere can I ever see him, ever hear his voice or speak to him
