The face flushed all over and seemed to quiver as with 
an electric shock. She raised herself by a strong effort 
of will. The nurse pushed the pillows at her back. 

“Will they never come ?” impatiently. 

“Madame, the priest is here.” 

“Then bring them all in.” 

The voice sounded strangely clear. The eyes were 
fixed on the arched door-way with its faded hangings and 
heavy, tarnished fringe that had once glittered in golden 
lights. 

A small procession entered the apartment, headed by 
the priest, a tall, austere personage in whose face craftiness was held in abeyance by a certain assumed meekness. 
Next came a beautiful girl of sixteen or so, leading by 
the hand a child of five or six, a fair-haired little being 
with a sweet face, now full of curiosity. She was gowned 
in a flowing robe of satin and lace, festooned to allow the 
childish figure some freedom of movement, while the 
long train followed her in shining billows, touched with a 
certain transparent shimmering by the veil, with a crown 
of orange blossoms, many of them set with diamonds. 
The child seemed all elation in her unusual attire. 

Back of her walked a tall, well-grown young fellow 





not much, if any, older than the girl. A fine, spirited face, 
for all its youth ; large dark eyes that had a useful quality 
of looking blank on certain occasions — eyes with the gift 
of seeing but not revealing all they saw. His hair was 
very dark too, with the purplish tints, and curling, and 
there was a delicate shading on the beautifully curved 
upper lip. The complexion was fine and healthy, with 
a tint of pink in the boyish cheeks. 

“Do not wait a moment,” entreated the tremulous 
voice. “Father Mambert, you know what is demanded 
of you. Proceed at once, Angelique, lead her up here, 
close by me ” 

The child shrank back suddenly, and her blue eyes 
dilated with a flash of terror as the thin, pallid hand was 
stretched out. But the next instant it dropped on the 
bed, helpless. 

“O, you need not be afraid. It is only to promise to 
your dear Gervaise. Begin, Sir Priest.” 

There had entered back of the bridal procession two 
servitors of the better class, intelligent, well-bred and 
grave. The woman led the little one forward and placed 
her hand in that of Gervaise, when she glanced up and 
smiled. Angelique Saucier stood at her side. 

“It is your wish, Madame, nay, your command, that 
I unite Sylvie Perrier in marriage by proxy to Monsieur 
de Brienne?” began the priest. 

“It is my son’s wish as well as my own. Gervaise, 
you understand? You marry Sylvie for my son Hugh. 
You solemnly swear to convey her to Canada, Quebec, — 
my mind is a little confused about names. You will find 
him and deliver to him his wife. Swear it — loyally, 
valiantly, to a dying mother.” 

“God helping me, I will search faithfully for him,” 
and he placed his hand over that of the death-stricken 





woman. No one seemed to remark that the rest of the 
promise was left unuttered. Madame de Brienne’s 
breathing became more labored. She signed to the priest 
without speaking. 

It was a weird, solemn ceremony. Madame made a 
snatch at the child’s hand and gave it to Gervaise at the 
proper moment. It seemed as if she had been saving 
up her strength for this, disposing of the little child with 
no volition on her part, no understanding of what she was 
signing away, a girl’s choice, a woman’s freedom, the 
right to love when her time came. 

The ceremony was over. The priest produced a piece 
of parchment, long and not all unrolled. “You will sign 
for her?” he said to Mademoiselle Saucier, pointing to 
the place. 

“Let her make her mark herself. Let me. Barbette, 
guide my hand. Marguerite de Brienne. Can you read 
it plainly? Now, Angelique, Gervaise, and you, too, 
Barbe, with Jaques. Is it all done?” 

“It is all done, Madame,” and the priest bowed. 

“Barbette, give Father Mambert the two gold pieces 
on that tray. Now go your way. Sir Priest,” dismissing 
him peremptorily. 

He glided out of the room and through the great hall 
full of shadows. Quite at the door another cowled priest 
rose. 

“Well ” he exclaimed, half inquiringly. 

“After the funeral Mademoiselle and her charge will 
go to the convent for safety. Once out of Paris, we will 
decide. Then the house may be ransacked — it will likely 
be pillaged before we reach the end. All papers and 
valuables — there was a wreath set with diamonds — will 
go to the convent, to the Holy Church whose property 
