curable, whom life and death alike pass by.  In her short, invalid life
Jean had remembered everybody within her reach who bore this fate; and
it would never be known now in what sweet fashion she had contrived to
make over to these poor souls a precious portion of her abounding
courage, or the gift of Jean's own sympathy.  This was something quite
peculiar to herself.  It was finer than the shading of words in a poem,
as reverent as the motion of feeling in a prayer, and always as womanly
as Jean.
He who followed her to her burial in such a trance of anguish as few
men know who love a wife and cherish her (as so many do, that women may
well thank Heaven for their manly number),--he who had loved, but had
not cherished, looked into Jean's open grave, and believed that in all
the world he stood most desolate among afflicted men.
"I left her to die alone," he said.  He grasped Pink's little hand till
he hurt the child, and she wrenched it away.  He did not even notice
this, and his empty hand retained its shape as the little girl's
fingers had left it.  "I went on a gunning trip.  And she asked me not
to go.  And she died alone." ...
The clergyman's voice intoning sacred words smote upon and did not
soothe this comfortless man.
"He that believeth on Me." ...
"Jean believed on me.  And I failed her.  And she is dead."
Pink crept up to his side again, and put her fingers back into his
still outstretched hand.  Perhaps it was the child's touch;
perhaps--God knew--it was some effluence from the unseen life within
whose mystery the deathless love of the dead wife had ceased from the
power of expression; but something at that instant poured vigor into
the abjectly miserable man.  His first consciousness that Jean was not
dead rushed back upon him at the mouth of her grave.  It seemed,
indeed, no grave, but a couch cut in a catafalque of autumn leaves.
"There is some mistake," he thought, as he had thought before.  He
lifted his bared head to the November sky in a kind of exaltation.
This did not fail him until he came back into his desolate home.  He
stood staring at the swept and garnished house.  The disarray of the
funeral was quite removed.  His wife's room was ordered as usual; its
windows stood open.  Some of the dreadful flowers were still left about
the house.  He pulled them savagely from their places and threw them
away.  The servants stood crying in the hall; and the strange
professional nurse, who had remained with the baby, came up and offered
him the child--somewhat as if it had been a Bible text, he thought.  He
took the little thing into his arms, piously; but the baby began to
cry, and hit him in the eyes with both fists.
"It's after her he do be cryin'," said Molly.
Avery handed her the child in silence.  As he turned to go upstairs,
Pink ran after him.
"Papa," said Pink, "do you expect Mummer Dee to make a very long
visit in heaven?  I should fink it was time for her to come home, by
supper, shouldn't you, Papa?"
In their own rooms Marshall Avery sat him down alone.  He bolted all
the doors, and walked from limit to limit of the narrow space--his room
and hers, with the door open between that he used to close because the
baby bothered him.  It stood wide open now.  In his room some of his
neckties and clothes were lying about; Jean used to attend to his
things herself, even after she was ill--too ill, perhaps; he remembered
reminding her rather positively if any of these trifles were neglected;
once she had said, "I 'm not quite strong enough to-day."
On his bureau stood her photograph, framed in silver--a fair picture,
in a white gown, with lace about the throat.  It had Jean's own eyes;
but nothing ever gave the expression of her mouth.  He stood looking at
her picture.
Presently he put it down, and came back into his wife's room.  He shut
the windows, for he shivered with cold, and stared about.  The empty
bed was made, straight and stark.  The violets were drooping on the
table beside her Bible, her basket, and her portfolio.  He picked these
things up, and laid them down again.  He went mechanically to the
bureau and opened the upper drawer.  All her little dainty belongings
were folded in their places,--her gloves, her handkerchiefs, the laces
that she fancied, and the blond ribbons that she wore--the blue, the
rose, the lavender, and the corn.
In this drawer a long narrow piece of white tissue-paper lay folded
carefully across the glove box.  He opened it idly.  Something fell
from it and seemed to leap to his fingers, and cling as if it would not
leave them.  It was a thick lock of her own long bright hair.
He caught it to his breast, his cheek, his lips.  He cherished it
wildly, as he would now have cherished her.  The forgotten tenderness,
the omitted gentleness of life, lavished itself on death, as remorse
will lavish what love passed by.  The touch of her hair on his hands
smote the retreating form of his illusion out of him.  He could not
deceive himself any longer.
"Jean is dead," he said distinctly.
He threw himself down on her lounge and tried to collect himself, as he
would for any other event of life--that he might meet it manfully.
"She is really dead," he repeated.  "I have got to live without her,
... and those children ... no mother.  I must arouse myself.  I must
bear it, as other men do."
Even as the words turned themselves like poisoned wires through his
mind the conviction that his sorrow was not like the sorrow of other
men rushed upon him.  What had he done to her?  Oh, what had he been to
her--his poor Jean?  He turned his head and thrust his face into the
depths of her blue pillow.  A delicate breath stole from it--the violet
perfume that Jean used about her bedroom because he fancied it.  He
sprang from the lounge, and began to pace the room madly to and fro.
Now there rose about him, wave by wave, like the rising of an awful
tide, the overlooked but irresistible force of the common life which
married man and woman share--incidents that he would rather have died
than recall, words, looks, scenes, which it shattered his soul and body
to remember.
A solemn sea, they widened and spread about him.  He felt himself torn
from his feet and tossed into the surge of them.
It seemed to him that every tenderness he had shown his wife was
drowning out of his consciousness.  But every hard thing he had ever
done rose and rolled upon him--an unkind look, a harsh word, a little
neglect here, a certain indifference there; an occasion when he had
made her miserable and could just as easily have made her happy; a time
when she had asked--Jean so seldom asked--for some trifling attention
which he had omitted to bestow; the desolate look she wore on a given
day; the patient eyes she lifted, heart-sick with sore surprise, once
when he ...
The worst of it was in thinking how it was when she began to be weak
and ill.  Jean was not a complaining woman, never a whining invalid,
but resolute, sweet, and cheerful.  Like an air-plant on oxygen, she
existed on his tenderness.  He had offered it to her when he felt like
it.  Well, busy, bustling man--out of his bounteous health and freedom,
what comfort had he given to this imprisoned woman?  The passing of his
moods?  The attention of his whims?  The fragments of his time?  The
blunt edge of his sympathy?
One night he had come in late, when he could quite as well have come
two hours before; he found her by the open window, gasping for breath
in the cold night air, in her blue gown, with her braided hair, her
lovely look, the dear expression in her eyes.  She had not reproached
