uncomfortably so. Poverty meant not having horses and carriages, nor a
yacht, and living in bachelor's rooms, and not giving dinner parties,
and not playing cards, and not giving every woman whatever she fancied,
if it happened to be a pearl or a pigeon's blood ruby. That was poverty,
of course, but it was relative.
If his aunt did not drive him to blow out his brains in a fit of
impatience, there was no reason why Guido should not go on living, as he
lived now, to the far end of a long and sufficiently well-fed life. And
if he married Cecilia and her fortune, it would certainly not be because
he wished to give other women rubies and pearls, nor for the sake of
keeping a couple of hunters, two or three carriages, and a coach; still
less, because he could ever wish to lose money again at baccara, or
poker, or bridge. He had done all those things, and they had not amused
him long. If he ever married Cecilia, it would be because he fell in
love with her, which, thank goodness, had not happened yet. Inclination
was quite sure of that, but was willing to admit the possibility in the
future, merely for the sake of argument.
Before it was time to dress for dinner that evening, Guido received a
long letter from his aunt, written with her own hand, which probably
meant that Monsieur Leroy knew little or nothing of its contents. Guido
glanced at the pages, one after another, and saw that the whole letter
was in the writer's most affectionate manner. Then he read it carefully.
It had been so kind of him to be civil to her friends on the previous
day, said the Princess. He reminded her of his poor father, her dear
brother, who, in all his many misfortunes, had never once lost his
beautiful affability of temper and unfailing courtesy to every one about
him.
This was very pretty, but Guido had heard that his father's beautiful
affability had sometimes been ruffled so far as to allow a certain
harmless violence, such as hurling a light chair at the head of a
faithful courtier and friend who gave him advice that was too good to be
taken, or summarily boxing the ears of his son and heir when the latter
was already over thirty years old.
Guido sometimes wondered why he had not inherited some of that very
unroyal temper, which must have been such a thoroughly satisfactory
relief to the ex-king's feelings. He never felt the least desire to
dance with rage and throw the furniture about the room.
His aunt's letter was evidently meant to please him and flatter his
vanity, and she did not once refer to matters of business. She asked his
opinion about a new novel he had not read yet, and had he thought of
leaving a card on the Countess Fortiguerra? She lived in the Palazzo
Massimo. What a strange girl the daughter was, to be sure! so very
unlike other girls that it was almost disquieting to talk with her. Of
course there was nothing real behind all that superficial talk about
lectures at the Sorbonne, and Nietzsche, and all that. Everybody
pretended to have read Nietzsche nowadays, and after all the girl might
be quite sensible. One could not help wondering what she would make of
her life, with her handsome fortune, and her odd ideas, and no one to
look after her except that dear, gentle, sweet-tempered, foolish mother,
who was in perpetual adoration before her! It would be a brave man who
would marry such a girl, the Princess wrote, in spite of her money; but
there was this to be said, he would not have any trouble with his
mother-in-law.
Subtle, very subtle of the Princess, who left the subject there and
ended her letter by asking a favour of Guido. It was indeed only for the
sake of asking it, she explained, that she was writing to him at all.
Would he allow a great friend of hers to see his Andrea del Sarto? It
was the celebrated art critic, Doctor Baumgarten, of whom he had heard.
Leroy would bring him the next morning about ten o'clock, if Guido had
no objection. He need not answer; he must not take any trouble about the
matter. If he had an engagement at ten, perhaps he would leave orders
that the Doctor should be allowed to see the picture.
Guido did not think at once of any good reason for refusing such a
request. He was very fond of his Andrea del Sarto; indeed, he liked it
much better than a small Raphael of undoubted authenticity which was
hung in another part of the room. The German critic was quite welcome to
see both, and perhaps knew something about prints which might be worth
learning. He was probably writing a book. Germans were always writing
books. Guido wrote a line to thank his aunt for her letter, and to say
that her friend would be welcome at the appointed hour.
He was sealing the note when the door opened and Lamberto Lamberti came
in.
"Will you come and dine with me?" he asked, standing still before the
writing table.
"Let us dine here," answered Guido, without looking up, and examining
the little seal he had made on the envelope. "I daresay there is
something to eat." He held out the note to his servant, who stood in the
open doorway. "Send this at once," he said.
"Yes," said Lamberti, answering the invitation. "I do not care whether
there is anything to eat or not, and it is always quiet here."
"What is the matter?" asked Guido, looking at him attentively for the
first time since he had entered. "Yes," he added to his man, "Signor
Lamberti will dine with me."
The servant disappeared and shut the door. Guido repeated his question,
but Lamberti only shook his head carelessly and relit his half-smoked
cigar. Guido watched him. He was less red than usual, and his eyes
glittered in the light of the wax match. His voice had sounded sharp and
metallic, as Guido had never heard it before.
When two men are intimate friends and really trust each other they do
not overwhelm one another with questions. Each knows that each will
speak when he is ready, or needs help or sympathy.
"I have just been answering a very balmy letter from my aunt," Guido
said, rising from the table. "Sweeter than honey in the honeycomb! Read
it. It has a distinctly literary and biographical turn. The allusion to
my father's gentle disposition is touching."
Lamberti looked through the letter carelessly, dropped it on the table,
and sucked hard at his cigar.
"What did you expect?" he asked, between two puffs. "For the present you
are the apple of her eye. She will handle you as tenderly as a new-laid
egg, until she gets what she wants!"
Lamberti's similes lacked sequence, but not character.
"The Romans," observed Guido, "began with the egg and ended with the
apple. I have an idea that we are going to do the same thing at dinner,
and that there will be nothing between. But we can smoke between the
courses."
"Yes," answered Lamberti, who had not heard a word. "I daresay."
Guido looked at him again, rather furtively. Lamberti never drank and
had iron nerves, but he was visibly disturbed. He was what people
vaguely call "not quite himself."
Guido went to the door of his bedroom.
"Where are you going?" asked Lamberti, sharply.
"I am going to wash my hands before dinner," Guido answered with a
smile. "Do you want to wash yours?"
"No, thank you. I have just dressed."
He turned his back and went to the open window as Guido left the room.
In a few seconds his cigar had gone out again, and he was leaning on the
sill with both hands, staring at the twilight sky in the west. The
colours had all faded away to the almost neutral tint of straw-tempered
steel.
The outline of the Janiculum stood out sharp and black in an uneven
