at a turn of the street, their equipage was greeted 
with ironical cheers by a group of gay young Dutch 
men on the sidewalk. Then he saw that the side 
walks were packed with people, who spread into the 
street almost to the tram, and that the house fronts 
were dotted with smiling Dutch faces, the faces of 
pretty Dutch girls, who seemed to share the amuse 
ment of the young fellows below. 
Trannel lay back in the carriage. " This is some 
thing like," he said. "Boyne, they 're on to the 
distinguished young Ohioan the only Ohioan out 
of office in Europe." 
" Yes," said Boyne, trying to enjoy it. " I wonder 
what they are holloing at." 
Trannel laughed. "They 're holloing at your 
Baedeker, my dear boy. They never saw one be 
fore," and Boyne was aware that he was holding 
his red-backed guide conspicuously in view on his 
lap. " They know you 're a foreigner by it." 
 
"Don 't you think we ought to turn down some 
where? I don 't see poppa anywhere." He rose and 
looked anxiously back over the top of their carriage. 
The crowd, closing in behind it, hailed his troubled 
face with cries that were taken up by the throng on 
the sidewalks. Boyne turned about to find that the 
tram-car which they had been following had disap 
peared round a corner, but their driver was still keep 
ing on. At a wilder burst of applause Trannel took 
off his hat and bowed to the crowd, right and left. 
" Bow, bow !" he said to Boyne. " They 'll be call 
ing for a speech the next thing. Bow, I tell you !" 
" Tell him to turn round !" cried the boy. 
" I can 't speak Dutch," said Trannel, and Boyne 
leaned forward and poked the driver in the back. 
" Go back !" he commanded. 
The driver shook his head and pointed forward 
with his whip. " He 's all right," said Trannel. " He 
can 't turn now. We ve got to take the next cor 
ner." The street in front was empty, and the people 
were crowding back on the sidewalks. Loud, vague 
noises made themselves heard round the corner to 
which the driver had pointed. " By Jove!" Trannel 
said, " I believe they 're coming round that way." 
" Who are coming ?" Boyne palpitated. 
" The queens." 
" The queens ?" Boyne gasped ; it seemed to him 
that he shrieked the words. 
" Yes. And there 's a tobacconist 's now said 
Trannel, as if that were what he had been looking 
for all along. " I want some cigarettes." 
 
He leaped lightly from the carriage, and pushed 
his way out of sight on the sidewalk. Boyne 're 
mained alone in the vehicle, staring wildly round; 
the driver kept slowly and stupidly on, Boyne did 
not know how much farther. He could not speak; 
he felt as if he could not stir. But the moment 
came when he could not be still. He gave a gal 
vanic jump to the ground, and the friendly crowd 
on the sidewalk welcomed him to its ranks and 
closed about him. The driver had taken the left- 
hand corner, just before a plain carriage with the 
Queen and the queen-mother came in sight round 
the right. The young Queen was bowing to the 
people, gently, and with a sort of mechanical regu 
larity. Now and then a brighter smile than that 
she conventionally wore lighted up her face. The 
simple progress was absolutely without state, except 
for the aide-de-camp on horseback who rode beside 
the carriage, a little to the front. 
Boyne stood motionless on the curb, where a 
friendly tall Dutchman had placed him in front 
that he might see the Queen. 
" Hello !" said the voice of Trannel, and elbowing 
his way to Boyne 's side, he laughed and coughed 
through the smoke of his cigarette. " I was afraid 
you had lost me. Where 's your carriage?" 
Boyne did not notice his mockeries. He was 
entranced in that beatific vision ; his boy-heart went 
out in worship to the pretty young creature with a 
reverence that could not be uttered. The tears 
came into his eyes. 
 
" There, there ! She 's bowing to you, Boyne. 
She 's smiling right at you. By Jove! She 's beck 
oning to you !" 
" You be still !" Boyne retorted, finding his tongue. 
" She isn 't doing any such a thing." 
" She is, I swear she is ! She 's doing it again ! 
She 's stopping the carriage. Oh, go out and see 
what she wants! Don 't you know that a queen 's 
wish is a command? You ve got to go!" 
Boyne never could tell just how it happened. The 
carriage did seem to be stopping, and the Queen 
seemed to be looking at him. He thought he must, 
and he started into the street towards her, and the 
carriage came abreast of him. He had almost reach 
ed the carriage when the aide turned and spurred 
his horse before him. Four strong hands that were 
like iron clamps were laid one on each of Boyne 's 
elbows and shoulders, and he was haled away, as 
if by superhuman force. " Mr. Trannel !" he called 
out in his agony, but the wretch had disappeared, 
and Boyne was left with his captors, to whom he 
could have said nothing if he could have thought 
of anything to say. 
The detectives pulled him through the crowd and 
hurried him swiftly down the side street. A little 
curiosity straggled after him in the shape of small 
Dutch boys, too short to look over the shoulders of 
men at the queens, and too weak to make their 
way through them to the front ; but for them, Boyne 
seemed alone in the world with the relentless offi 
cers, who were dragging him forward and hurting 
 
him so with the grip of their iron hands. He lifted 
up his face to entreat them not to hold him so tight, 
and suddenly it was as if he beheld an angel stand 
ing in his path. It was Breckon who was there, 
