"Come," replied the Lizard, coldly, placing the box on the moss,
"you'd better not quarrel with me."
"Oh, that's a threat, is it?" sneered Tric-Trac. He walked over to
the steel box, lifted it, placed it in the iron-edged case, and sat
down on the case.
"I want you to comprehend," he added, "that you have pushed your
nose into an affair that does not concern you. The next time you come
here to sell your snared pheasants, come like a man, nom de Dieu! and
not like a cat of the Glacière!--or I'll find a way to stop your
curiosity."
The dull-red color surged into the poacher's face and heavy neck; for
a moment he stood as though stunned. Then he dragged out his knife.
Tric-Trac sat looking at him insolently, one hand thrust into the
bosom of his greasy coat.
"I've got a toy under my cravate that says 'Papa!' six times--pop!
pop! pop! pop! pop! pop! Papa!" he continued, calmly; "so there's no
use in your turning red and swelling the veins in your neck. Go to the
devil! Do you think I can't live without you? Go to the devil with
your traps and partridges and fish-hooks--and that fagot-knife in your
fist--and if you try to throw it at me you'll make a sad mistake!"
The Lizard's half-raised hand dropped as Tric-Trac, with a movement
like lightning, turned a revolver full on him, talking all the while
in his drawling whine.
"C'est çà! Now you are reasonable. Get out of this forest, my
friend--or stay and join us. Eh! That astonishes you? Why? Idiot, we
want men like you. We want men who have nothing to lose and--millions
to gain! Ah, you are amazed! Yes, millions--I say it. I, Tric-Trac of
the Glacière, who have done my time in Noumea, too! Yes, millions."
The young ruffian laughed and slowly passed his tongue over his thin
lips. The Lizard slowly returned his knife to its sheath, looked all
around, then deliberately sat down on the moss cross-legged. I could
have hugged him.
"A million? Where?" he asked, vacantly.
"Parbleu! Naturally you ask where," chuckled Tric-Trac. "Tiens! A
supposition that it's in this box!"
"The box is too small," said the Lizard, patiently.
Tric-Trac roared. "Listen to him! Listen to the child!" he cried,
delighted. "Too small to hold gold enough for you? Very well--but is
a ship big enough?"
"A big ship is."
Tric-Trac wriggled in convulsions of laughter.
"Oh, listen! He wants a big ship! Well--say a ship as big as that
ugly, black iron-clad sticking up out of the sea yonder, like a
Usine-de-gaz!"
"I think that ship would be big enough," said the poacher,
seriously.
Tric-Trac did not laugh; his little eyes narrowed, and he looked
steadily at the poacher.
"Do you mean what I mean?" he asked, deliberately.
"Well," said the Lizard, "what do you mean?"
"I mean that France is busy stitching on a new flag."
"Black?"
"Red--first."
"Oh-h!" mused the poacher. "When does France hoist that new red
flag?"
"When Paris falls."
The poacher rested his chin on his doubled fist and leaned forward
across his gathered knees. "I see," he drawled.
"Under the commune there can be no more poverty," said Tric-Trac;
"you comprehend that."
"Exactly."
"And no more aristocrats."
"Exactly."
"Well," said Tric-Trac, his head on one side, "how does that
programme strike you?"
"It is impossible, your programme," said the poacher, rising to his
feet impatiently.
"You think so? Wait a few days! Wait, my friend," cried Tric-Trac,
eagerly; "and say!--come back here next Monday! There will be a few
of us here--a few friends. And keep your mouth shut tight. Here! Wait.
Look here, friend, don't let a little pleasantry stand between
comrades. Your fagot-knife against my little flute that sings
pa-pa!--that leaves matters balanced, eh?"
The young ruffian had followed the Lizard and caught him by his
stained velvet coat.
"Voyons," he persisted, "do you think the commune is going to let a
comrade starve for lack of Badinguet's lozenges? Here, take a few of
these!" and the rascal thrust out a dirty palm full of twenty-franc
gold pieces.
"What are these for?" muttered the Lizard, sullenly.
"For your beaux yeux, imbecile!" cried Tric-Trac, gayly. "Come back
when you want more. My comrade, Citizen Buckhurst, will be glad to see
you next Monday. Adieu, my friend. Don't chatter to the Flics!"
He picked up his box and the packet of provisions, dropped his
revolver into the side-pocket of his jacket, cocked his greasy cap,
blew a kiss to the Lizard, and started off straight into the forest.
After a dozen steps he hesitated, turned, and looked back at the
poacher for a moment in silence. Then he made a friendly grimace.
"You are not a fool," he said, "so you won't follow me. Come again
Monday. It will really be worth while, dear friend." Then, as on an
impulse, he came all the way back, caught the Lizard by the sleeve,
raised his meagre body on tip-toe, and whispered.
The Lizard turned perfectly white; Tric-Trac trotted away into the
woods, hugging his box and smirking.
The Lizard and I walked back together. By the time we reached Paradise
bridge I understood him better, and he understood me. And when we
arrived at the circus tent, and when Speed came up, handing me a
telegram from Chanzy refusing my services, the Lizard turned to me
like an obedient hound to take my orders--now that I was not to
re-enter the Military Police.
I ordered him to disobey the orders from Lorient and from the mayor of
Paradise; to take to the woods as though to avoid the conscription; to
join Buckhurst's franc-company of ruffians, and to keep me fully
informed.
"And, Lizard," I said, "you may be caught and hanged for it by the
police, or stabbed by Tric-Trac."
"Bien," he said, coolly.
"But it is a brave thing you do; a soldierly thing!"
He was silent.
"It is for France," I said.
He shrugged his shoulders.
"And we'll catch this Tric-Trac red-handed," I suggested.
"Ah--yes!" His eyes glowed as though lighted up from behind. "And
another who is high in the police, and a friend of this Tric-Trac!"
"Was it that man's name he whispered to you when you turned so
white?" I said, suddenly.
The Lizard turned his glowing eyes on me.
"Was the man's name--Mornac?" I asked, at a hopeless venture.
The Lizard shivered; I needed no reply, not even his hoarse, "Are you
the devil, that you know all things?"
