of such states; it was much rather a principle of pride relatively bold
and hard, a principle that played up like a fine steel spring at the
lightest pressure of too near a footfall. Thus insuperably guarded was
the truth about the girl's own conception of her validity; thus was a
wondering pitying sister condemned wistfully to look at her from the
far side of the moat she had dug round her tower. Certain aspects of
the connexion of these young women show for us, such is the twilight
that gathers about them, in the likeness of some dim scene in a
Maeterlinck play; we have positively the image, in the delicate dusk,
of the figures so associated and yet so opposed, so mutually watchful:
that of the angular pale princess, ostrich-plumed, black-robed, hung
about with amulets, reminders, relics, mainly seated, mainly still, and
that of the upright restless slow-circling lady of her court who
exchanges with her, across the black water streaked with evening
gleams, fitful questions and answers. The upright lady, with thick dark
braids down her back, drawing over the grass a more embroidered train,
makes the whole circuit, and makes it again, and the broken talk, brief
and sparingly allusive, seems more to cover than to free their sense.
This is because, when it fairly comes to not having others to consider,
they meet in an air that appears rather anxiously to wait for their
words. Such an impression as that was in fact grave, and might be
tragic; so that, plainly enough, systematically at last, they settled
to a care of what they said.

There could be no gross phrasing to Milly, in particular, of the
probability that if she wasn't so proud she might be pitied with more
comfort--more to the person pitying; there could be no spoken proof, no
sharper demonstration than the consistently considerate attitude, that
this marvellous mixture of her weakness and of her strength, her peril,
if such it were, and her option, made her, kept her, irresistibly
interesting. Kate's predicament in the matter was, after all, very much
Mrs. Stringham's own, and Susan Shepherd herself indeed, in our
Maeterlinck picture, might well have hovered in the gloaming by the
moat. It may be declared for Kate, at all events, that her sincerity
about her friend, through this time, was deep, her compassionate
imagination strong; and that these things gave her a virtue, a good
conscience, a credibility for herself, so to speak, that were later to
be precious to her. She grasped with her keen intelligence the logic of
their common duplicity, went unassisted through the same ordeal as
Milly's other hushed follower, easily saw that for the girl to be
explicit was to betray divinations, gratitudes, glimpses of the felt
contrast between her fortune and her fear--all of which would have
contradicted her systematic bravado. That was it, Kate wonderingly saw:
to recognise was to bring down the avalanche--the avalanche Milly lived
so in watch for and that might be started by the lightest of breaths;
though less possibly the breath of her own stifled plaint than that of
the vain sympathy, the mere helpless gaping inference of others. With
so many suppressions as these, therefore, between them, their
withdrawal together to unmask had to fall back, as we have hinted, on a
nominal motive--which was decently represented by a joy at the drop of
chatter. Chatter had in truth all along attended their steps, but they
took the despairing view of it on purpose to have ready, when face to
face, some view or other of something. The relief of getting out of
harness--that was the moral of their meetings; but the moral of this,
in turn, was that they couldn't so much as ask each other why harness
need be worn. Milly wore it as a general armour.

She was out of it at present, for some reason, as she hadn't been for
weeks; she was always out of it, that is, when alone, and her
companions had never yet so much as just now affected her as dispersed
and suppressed. It was as if still again, still more tacitly and
wonderfully, Eugenio had understood her, taking it from her without a
word and just bravely and brilliantly in the name, for instance, of the
beautiful day: "Yes, get me an hour alone; take them off--I don't care
where; absorb, amuse, detain them; drown them, kill them if you will:
so that I may just a little, all by myself, see where I am." She was
conscious of the dire impatience of it, for she gave up Susie as well
as the others to him--Susie who would have drowned her very self for
her; gave her up to a mercenary monster through whom she thus purchased
respites. Strange were the turns of life and the moods of weakness;
strange the flickers of fancy and the cheats of hope; yet lawful, all
the same--weren't they?--those experiments tried with the truth that
consisted, at the worst, but in practising on one's self. She was now
playing with the thought that Eugenio might inclusively assist her:
he had brought home to her, and always by remarks that were really
quite soundless, the conception, hitherto ungrasped, of some complete
use of her wealth itself, some use of it as a counter-move to fate. It
had passed between them as preposterous that with so much money she
should just stupidly and awkwardly want--any more want a life, a
career, a consciousness, than want a house, a carriage or a cook. It
was as if she had had from him a kind of expert professional measure of
what he was in a position, at a stretch, to undertake for her; the
thoroughness of which, for that matter, she could closely compare with
a looseness on Sir Luke Strett's part that--at least in Palazzo
Leporelli when mornings were fine--showed as almost amateurish. Sir
Luke hadn't said to her "Pay enough money and leave the rest to
me"--which was distinctly what Eugenio did say. Sir Luke had appeared
indeed to speak of purchase and payment, but in reference to a
different sort of cash. Those were amounts not to be named nor
reckoned, and such moreover as she wasn't sure of having at her
command. Eugenio--this was the difference--could name, could reckon,
and prices of his kind were things she had never suffered to scare
her. She had been willing, goodness knew, to pay enough for anything,
for everything, and here was simply a new view of the sufficient
quantity. She amused herself--for it came to that, since Eugenio was
there to sign the receipt--with possibilities of meeting the bill. She
was more prepared than ever to pay enough, and quite as much as ever to
pay too much. What else--if such were points at which your most trusted
servant failed--was the use of being, as the dear Susies of earth
called you, a princess in a palace?

She made now, alone, the full circuit of the place, noble and peaceful
while the summer sea, stirring here and there a curtain or an outer
blind, breathed into its veiled spaces. She had a vision of clinging to
it; that perhaps Eugenio could manage. She was in it, as in the ark
of her deluge, and filled with such a tenderness for it that why
shouldn't this, in common mercy, be warrant enough? She would never,
never leave it--she would engage to that; would ask nothing more than
to sit tight in it and float on and on. The beauty and intensity, the
real momentary relief of this conceit, reached their climax in the
positive purpose to put the question to Eugenio on his return as she
had not yet put it; though the design, it must be added, dropped a
little when, coming back to the great saloon from which she had started
on her pensive progress, she found Lord Mark, of whose arrival in
Venice she had been unaware, and who had now--while a servant was
following her through empty rooms--been asked, in her absence, to wait.
He had waited then, Lord Mark, he was waiting--oh unmistakeably; never
before had he so much struck her as the man to do that on occasion with
patience, to do it indeed almost as with gratitude for the chance,
though at the same time with a sort of notifying firmness. The odd
