a pretty large heart could find space 
to accommodate a lodger like Flint 
Buckner, from all I hear about him 
outside. I think that this one detail
will give you a better idea of 
Sammy's character than any labored- 
out description I could furnish you 
of him. In one of our talks he said 
something about like this: "Flint's 
a kinsman of mine, and he pours out 
all his troubles to me — empties his 
breast from time to time, or I reckon 
it would burst. There couldn't be 
any unhappier man, Archy Stillman; 
his life has been made up of misery 
of mind — he isn't near as old as he 
looks. He has lost the feel of re- 
posef ulness and peace — oh, years and 
years ago! He doesn't know what 
good luck is — never has had any; 
often says he wishes he was in the 
other hell, he is so tired of this one." 
IV 
No real gentleman will tell the naked 
truth in the presence of ladies. 
IT was a crisp and spicy 
morning in early October. 
The lilacs and la- 
burnums, lit with the 
glory-fires of autumn, himg burning 
and flashing in the upper air, a fairy 
bridge provided by kind Nature for 
the wingless wild things that have 
their homes in the tree-tops and would 
visit together ; the larch and the pome- 
granate flung their purple and yellow 
flames in brilliant broad splashes 
along the slanting sweep of the wood- 
land; the sensuous fragrance of in- 
numerable deciduous flowers rose upon 
the swooning atmosphere; far in the 
empty sky a solitary oesophagus slept 
upon motionless wing; everywhere 
brooded stillness, serenity, and the 
peace of God. 
October is the time — 1900; Hope 
Canyon is the place, a silver-mining 
camp away down in the Esmeralda 
region. It is a secluded spot, high 
and remote; recent as to discovery; 
thought by its occupants to be rich 
in metal — a year or two's prospect- 
ing will decide that matter one way 
or the other. For inhabitants, the 
camp has about two hundred miners, 
one white woman and child, several 
Chinese washermen, five squaws, and   
a dozen vagrant buck Indians in rab- 
bit-skin robes, battered plug hats, 
and tin -can necklaces. There are 
no mills as yet; there is no church, 
no newspaper. The camp has ex- 
isted but two years; it has made no 
big strike; the world is ignorant of 
its name and place. 
On both sides of the canyon the 
mountains rise wall-like, three thou- 
sand feet, and the long spiral of strag- 
gling huts down in its narrow bottom 
gets a kiss from the sun only once a 
day, when he sails over at noon. The 
village is a couple of miles long; the 
cabins stand well apart from each 
other. The tavern is the only " frame " 
house — the only house, one might 
say. It occupies a central position, 
and is the evening resort of the pop- 
ulation. They drink there, and play 
seven-up and dominoes ; also billiards, 
for there is a table, crossed all over 
with torn places repaired with court- 
plaster; there are some cues, but no 
leathers; some chipped balls which 
clatter when they run, and do not 
slow up gradually, but stop suddenly 
and sit down; there is part of a cube 
of chalk, with a projecting jag of flint 
in it ; and the man who can score six 
on a single break can set up the drinks 
at the bar's expense. 
Flint Buckner's cabin was the last 
one of the village, going south; his 
silver claim was at the other end of 
the village, northward, and a little 
beyond the last hut in that direction. 
He was a sour creature, unsociable,  'our 
creature and had no companionships. Peo- 
ple who had tried to get acquainted 
with him had regretted it and dropped 
him. His history was not known. 
Some believed that Sammy Hillyer 
knew it; others said no. If asked, 
Hillyer said no, he was not acquainted 
with it. Flint had a meek English 
youth of sixteen or seventeen with 
him, whom he treated roughly, both 
in public and in private, and of course 
this lad was applied to for informa- 
tion, but with no success. Fetlock 
Jones — name of the youth — said that 
Flint picked him up on a prospecting 
tramp, and as he had neither home 
nor friends in America, he had found 
it wise to stay and take Buckner's 
hard usage for the sake of the salary, 
bacon which was bacon and beans. Further 
and beans than this he could offer no 
testimony. 
Fetlock had been in this slavery 
for a month now, and under his meek 
