with a curtain stretched across. For now the house was really full,
except one guest chamber. There was a closet for her clothes just off
the end of the short hall, that led to the back stairs, which ran down
to the kitchen, a spacious orderly kitchen, good enough to live in
altogether, Helen thought.
She helped to take the dishes out to Joanna, and begged to wipe them for
her.
"If you're not heavy handed," said Joanna, a little doubtful.
"Or butter-fingered," laughed Helen. "That's what we say at home. But
these dishes are so lovely that it is like--well it's like reading
verses after some heavy prose."
"I'm not much on verses," replied Joanna, watching her new help warily.
She did work with a dainty kind of touch.
Mrs. Dayton came, and stood looking at them with a humorous sort of
smile.
"She knows how to wipe dishes," said Joanna, nodding approvingly.
"It is a good deal to suit Joanna. No doubt she will excuse you this
time from wiping pots and pans, and you may come out of doors with me."
The lawn--they called it that here at North Hope--presented a
picturesque aspect. A party were playing croquet. Mrs. Disbrowe was
walking her twenty-months'-old little girl up and down the path. Mrs.
Van Dorn sat in a wicker rocking chair that had a hood over the top to
shield her from the air. Her silk gown flowed around gracefully, and her
hands were a sparkle of rings.
"Oh, how sweet the air is," said Helen. "There's sweet-clover somewhere,
and when the dew falls it is so delightful."
"They have it in the next-door lawn and the mower was run over it awhile
ago."
Helen drew long delicious breaths. No noisy children, and the soft
laughs, the gay talk was like music to her. She walked across the porch.
"Mrs. Dayton said you were fond of reading aloud," began Mrs. Van Dorn.
"Your voice is nice and smooth."
"Your voice is like your father's, Helen! I had not remarked it before.
Only it is a girl's voice," Mrs. Dayton commented.
"I am glad it suggests his," exclaimed Helen with a pleasurable thrill.
"Where is your father?" asked Mrs. Van Dorn.
"He is dead," said Mrs. Dayton. "Both father and mother are dead."
"I was an orphan, too," continued Mrs. Van Dorn. "And I had no near
relatives. It is a sorrowful lot."
"Helen has had good friends, relatives."
"That's a comfort. I heard, we all did, that you were one of the best
speakers at the closing of school. It was in the paper."
"Oh, was it?" Helen's eyes glowed with gratification.
"Yes. So Mrs. Dayton suggested you might be as good as some grown-up
body. That was Robert Browning's poem you recited."
"It is a splendid poem," cried Helen enthusiastically. "You can see it
all; the squadron--what was left of it after the battle--and the 'brief
and bitter debate,' and the order to blow up the vessels on the beach.
And then Hervé Riel, just a sailor, stepping out and making his daring
proposal, and going 'safe through shoal and rock!' Oh, how the captain
must have stood breathless! And the English coming too late! I'm glad
someone put it in stirring verse."
Helen paused with a scarlet face. She never talked this way to anyone
except Mr. Warfield.
"Yes," said Mrs. Van Dorn, "I have seen the man who wrote it, talked
with him and his lovely wife, who wrote verses quite as beautiful. I
think you like stirring poems," in a half inquiry.
"Yes, I do," she replied tremulously, and in her girlish enthusiasm she
thought she could have fallen down at the feet of the man who wrote
Hervé Riel. She never had thought of his being an actual living man.
"And do you know Macaulay's 'Horatius'?"
"Oh, I don't know very much--only the poems in the reading books, and a
few that Mr. Warfield had. I know most of Longfellow."
"The Center is rather behind the towns around, although it is the oldest
part; settled more than a hundred years ago. But it is largely farms.
The railroad passed it by some fifteen years ago, and the stations have
improved rapidly. Why, we have quite a library here, and the High School
for more than a half the county," explained Mrs. Dayton.
"It's not as pretty as this Hope. And the range of hills to the
northeast--I suppose you call them mountains--and the river, add so much
to it."
[Illustration: Helen put her head down suddenly, and pressed her lips on
the jewelled hand.--Page 55.]
"And we have only a little creek that empties into Piqua River, and a
pond in a low place, that we skate on in the winter," said Helen
rather mirthfully. "I can't help wondering what the ocean is like, and
the great lakes, and Niagara Falls, and the Mississippi River with all
its mouths emptying into the Gulf of Mexico. And the Amazon, and the
Andes."
"And Europe, and the Alps, and the lovely lakes, and the Balkans, and
the Gulf of Arabia, and India, and the Himalayas, and Japan----"
"Oh, dear, what a grand world!" exclaimed Helen, when Mrs. Van Dorn
paused. "I don't suppose anyone has ever seen it all," and her tone was
freighted with regret.
"I have seen a good deal of it. I have been round the world, and lived
in many foreign cities."
"Oh! oh!" Helen put her head down suddenly and pressed her lips on the
jeweled hand. The unconscious and impulsive homage touched the old
heart.
"And people who have done wonderful things, who have painted pictures,
and made beautiful statues, and built bridges and churches and palaces,"
the girl assumed.
"Most of them were built before my time, hundreds of years ago. But I
have been in a great many of them."
"And seen the Queen!"
"If you mean Queen Victoria, yes. And other queens as well. And the
Empress of the French when she had her beauty and her throne."
"Oh, dear!" sighed Helen with a long breath. And Aunt Jane had called
her a queer old woman; Aunt Jane, who had never even been to New York.
It was getting too dark to play croquet. Mrs. Disbrowe had gone in some
time ago with her baby in her arms, and somehow it had suggested the
Madonna picture to Helen. The gentlemen smoked and talked. Then Mrs. Van
Dorn rose and bade them good-night, and pressed Helen's hand.
"I think I shall like your little girl very much," she said to Mrs.
Dayton, in the hall. "She's modest and not at all dull."
Mrs. Van Dorn stepped off, as if she was still at middle life. She was
wonderfully well preserved, but then, for almost forty years she had
taken the best of care of herself. She wouldn't have admitted to anyone
that she was past eighty. Sometimes in her travels she had a maid, often
when she was abroad she had both a maid and a man. For two years she
had been traveling about her own country, and seeing the changes.
Yet her life had not been set in rose leaves in her youth. She had
worked hard, had a lover who jilted her for a girl not half as pretty
but rich. And when she was thirty-five, a rich old man married her, and
gave her a lovely home; then, ten years afterward, left her a rich
widow, and told her to have the best time she could. If she could only
have had one little girl! She thought she would adopt one, but the child
with the lovely face had some mean traits, and she provided for her
elsewhere. She traveled, she met entertaining people; she liked refined
society; she acquired a good deal of knowledge with her pleasure.
