sunshine, he might, with his rougher preparation, have 
marked as the model for such an occasion. She had, this 
lady, a perfect plain propriety, an expansive subdued 
suitability, that her companion was not free to analyse, but 
that struck him, so that his consciousness of it was instantly 
acute, as a quality quite new to him. He stopped on the 
grass before reaching her, and went through the form of 
feeling for something, possibly forgotten, in the light over- 
coat he carried on his arm ; yet the essence of the act was 

 no more than the impulse to gain time. Nothing could 
have been more odd than Strether's feeling, at that 
moment, that he was launched in something of which the 
sense would be quite disconnected from the sense of his 

 past, and which was literally beginning there and then. 
It had begun, in fact, already, upstairs, before the dressing- 
glass that struck him as blocking further, so strangely, the 
dimness of the window of his dull bedroom ; begun with a 
sharper survey of the elements of Appearance than he had 
for a long time been moved to make. He had felt during 
those moments that these elements were not so much to his 
hand as he should have liked, and then had fallen back on 
the thought that they were precisely a matter as to which 
help was supposed to come from what he was about to do. 
He was about to go up to London, and hat and necktie 
might wait. What had come as straight to him as a ball 
in a well-played game — and caught, moreover, not less 
neatly — was just the air, in the person of his friend, of 
having seen and chosen, the air of achieved possession of 
those vague qualities and quantities that figured to him, 
collectively, as the advantage snatched from lucky  chances. 
Without pomp or circumstance, certainly, as her original 
address to him, equally with his own response, had been, 
he would have sketched to himself his impression of her as : 
"Well, she's more subtly civilised — !" If "More subtly 
than whom ? " would not have been for him a sequel to 
this remark, that was just by reason of his deep conscious- 
ness of the bearing of his comparison. 

The amusement, at all events, of a civilisation more 

subtle was what — familiar compatriot as she was, with the 
full tone of the compatriot and the rattling link, not with 
mystery, but only with dear dyspeptic VVaymarsh — she 
appeared distinctly to promise. His pause while he felt in 
his overcoat was positively the pause of confidence, and it 
enabled his eyes to make out as much of a case for her, in 
proportion, as her own made out for himself. She affected 
him as almost insolently young ; but an easily-carried five- 
and-thirty could still do that. She was, however, like 
himself, marked and wan ; only it naturally couldn't have 
been known to him how much a spectator looking from 
one to the other might have discerned that they had in 
common. It would not for such a spectator have been 
altogether insupposable that, each so finely brown and so 
sharply spare, each confessing so to dents of surface and 
aids to sight, to a disproportionate nose and a head deli- 
cately or grossly grizzled, they might have been brother 
and sister. On this ground, indeed, there would still have 
been a residuum of difference ; such a sister having known, 
surely, in respect to such a brother the extremity of 
separation, and such a brother feeling now, in respect to 
such a sister, the extremity of surprise. Surprise, it was 
true, was not, on the other hand, what the eyes of Strether's 
friend most showed him while she gave him, stroking her 
gloves smoother, the time he appreciated. They had taken 
hold of him straightway, measuring him up and down, as 
if they knew how ; as if he were human material they had 
already in some sort handled. Their possessor was in 
truth, it may be communicated, the mistress of a hundred 
cases or categories, receptacles of the mind, subdivisions 
for convenience, in which, from a full experience, she 
pigeon-holed her fellow-mortals with a hand as free as that 
of a compositor scattering type. She was as equipped in 
this particular as Strether was the reverse, and it made 



 

an opposition between them which he might well have 
shrunk from submitting to if he had fully suspected it. So 
far as he did suspect it he was, on the contrar)', after a 
momentary shake of his consciousness, as pleasantly passive 
as might be. He really had a sort of sense of what she 
knew. He had__c uite_the  sense that she knew things he 
didn'ti nSTtliough this was a concession that, in general, he 
found not easy to make to women, he made it now as good- 
humouredly as if it lifted a burden. His eyes were so quiet 
behind his eternal nippers that they might almost have 
been absent without changing his face, which took its ex- 
pression mainly, and not least its stamp of sensibilit ', from 
other sources, surface and grain and form. He joined his 
guide in an instant, and he then felt that she had profited 
still better than he by his having been, for the moments just 
mentioned, so at the disposal of her intelligence. She 
knew even intimate things about him that he had not yet 
told her and perhaps never would. He was not unaware 
that he had told her rather remarkably many for the time, 
but these were not the real ones. Some of the real ones, 
however, precisely, were what she knew. 

They were to pass again through the hall of the inn to 
get into the street, and it was here, presently, that she 
checked him with a question. " Have you looked up my 
name ? " 

He could only stop with a laugh. " Have you looked 
up mine?" 

" Oh dear, yes — as soon as you left me. I went to the 
office and asked. Hadn't you better do the same?" 

He wondered. " Find out who you are, after the up- 
lifted young woman there has seen us thus scrape acquaint- 
ance ? " li 

She laughed on her side now at the shade of alarm in 
his amusement. " Isn't it a reason the more? If what 
