
“There can be but one more ball, Lent falls so early,” said some one.

“True. Well, let us make it on Tuesday night.”

“Oh, you forget! That is the masked ball.”

“What matter, so long as there is dancing and fun?”

“But we are not all allowed at the masked ball. That is more for the
older people. Oh, I hope next year I shall be a queen!”

So they chatted in their gay youth. André fastened Renée’s fur cloak and
drew the hood over her face. Had she ever looked so sweet and
bewildering before? Monsieur Laflamme wished her good-night and happy
dreams, then bending low, whispered:

“But they must be of me. I shall dream of you.”

She colored vividly.

The quiet streets were filled with echoes of talk. Two or three dropped
out here, a few more there. Renée and André called out good-night and
turned in their square.

Gaspard Denys was smoking his pipe before the cheerful blazing fire, a
picture of comfort.

“Oh, you lazy uncle!” Renée cried, but her voice had gayety, and not
disappointment in it. “You did not come to see me as the queen. And I
may never be that again.”

“A queen! And whose queen, pray?”

“M. Laflamme chose me. And M. Rivé was one of the kings. I don’t know
why, but I believe I like him better. And he looked especially well
to-night. Why didn’t you come?” with an enchanting pout of her rosy
lips.

“I had a long list of accounts to go over. And then, pretty one, you had
André to bring you home. Besides, I am growing old and, like Mère Lunde,
love the chimney corner.”

“Oh, you are not old! I will not have you growing old. Why, the fathers
with their grown-up children were there. And some women have
grandchildren. Good-night, André,” nodding to him.

André took his dismissal cheerfully.

Renée crawled in Gaspard’s lap and put her soft arms about his neck,
laid her cheek to his.

“Oh,” she cried in a tone of pathos, “I do not want you ever to get old!
You are just right now.”

“My dear, do you want always to stay fifteen?”

“Yes, I should be glad to. Oh, what makes the world whirl round so! And
I shall be sixteen in the summer, and then—no, I won’t go on. Can’t you
take something, do something——”

“There was a man once who fell asleep and slept for years. When he awoke
his friends were dead, or had gone away——”

“Oh, hush! hush! I do not mean anything so dreadful as that,” she
entreated.

“Then we must go on and take all the pleasure we can to-day, or
to-night—though I believe it is to-morrow morning now, and you must run
to bed.”

She kissed him and turned slowly. She wanted to ask some curious
questions, but they were vague and would not readily shape themselves
into words.

He still sat and thought. Sixteen. It gave him an uneasy feeling. If she
could always stay a little girl! If he might map out her life! André
Valbonais had the making of a fine, trusty man, a good business man as
well. If he could come here as a son of the house. If they three could
go on together, and a merry throng of children grow up about them!

The dream was rudely broken to fragments the next day. The young man of
six or seven and twenty who stood leaning against the counter, one foot
half crossed over the other, with an easy, gentlemanly air that
betokened training beyond what the average habitant of the new countries
acquired, was well calculated to win a woman’s heart, a girl’s heart,
perhaps too easily caught, satisfied with the outward indications of
manliness. Gaspard Denys could not quite tell why, but in his heart he
did not altogether approve of this fine gentlemen, for all his good
looks, his well-modulated voice and excellent breeding.

And he had asked him for the pride of his eye, the idol of his heart,
the dearest thing on earth, to take her away for years, perhaps forever,
and leave him to the loneliness of old age! And, monstrous thought, he
was persuaded that Renée would love him when he had spoken. He had seen
indications of it. Last evening he had startled her by some vehemence,
for in spite of her apparent gayety and merriment she was a tender,
sensitive plant. He would woo her with the utmost gentleness after the
permission was once given.

“She is so young,” Gaspard Denys began reluctantly. “Whether a girl at
that time of life knows her own mind, is able to choose wisely——”

“But it is the guardians and parents generally who choose. A little
advice, suggestion—and I think I can satisfy you on any point you
desire. Ma’m’selle Renée would go back to the standing of her father’s
family. She would have advantages, and I may succeed to a title. Still,
now I only present myself, and rely upon no adventitious aids.”

“It would be—for her to decide. And I would rather have her here. Her
father, it seems, cared little enough about her. No, I do not think I
could give her up,” decisively.

“But it is not absolutely necessary that I return to France,” in a
gravely gentle tone. “After my affairs in Montreal are settled, which I
hope will turn out profitably, I should be free to do as I liked, or as
another liked,” smiling affably.

“We will not decide this matter hastily. If you chose to go to Montreal,
and the spring will soon open,” M. Denys said tentatively.
