annoyed. 
I shall not go there again for a week. I can 
not make him hurry. 
Februai-y i8th. 
To-day I had to begin by apologizing to my 
landlady, and begging her to let me pay her a 
week later. I had to go into an elaborate expla- 
nation — she wanted to know why I had not been 
working all these months, and so on. She has a 
red face, and drinks, I think. 
Then I had to take a load of my best books — 
my poor, few precious books that I have loved 
— and sell them at a second-hand bookstore. 
When I had sold them I had to hire a waiter's 
suit for a week, until I had money to buy it. And 
then with that awful thing on I went down to the 
restaurant. 
Can you imagine how a pure woman would 
feel if she had to go into a brothel to live? That 
was just how I felt — just how! Oh my God, the 
indignity of it! Is there anything that I could do 
more humiliating? 
— But I have lost the power of getting angry. 
Only my heart is one great sob. 
February 20th. 
Oh, that hellish place! What is there in this 
whole city more brutal than that restaurant? 
Day and night, day and night, to see but one 
thing — to see flashy, overdressed, fat and vulgar 
men and women gorging themselves! Oh, this 
will teach me to feel — this at least! I go about 
with my whole being one curse of rage — I could 
throttle them ! And to bow and smirk and lackey 
them — all day! All day! Oh, what shall I do — 
how shall I bear it? 
They offer me tips. At first I thought I 
should refuse; but no, I dare not do that, even if 
I wanted to. And since I have stooped to do it, 
I will take all I can get. To get money is my one 
passion now. Oh my God, how can I bear it! 
February 21st. 
I said to-day, I must fight this thing — I must, 
or it will kill me; I can not let myself go to wreck 
in this fashion — Vve got to fight! 
And so I got my note-book; and I fell to 
work to drive myself as of old. The effort that it 
cost me made me ill, but I did it. I shall keep on 
doing it — I am like a man faced by a fiend — I 
must keep on — I must! 
But then, why do you want to have new lan- 
guages? Do you not know enough now to keep 
you in reading matter for all the time you are ever 
likely to have? 
February 24th. 
Oh, one can get used to even a flashy restau- 
rant ! It is your fate — you take it. This is how 
I pass all my time there. I struggle to resist the 
deadening of it, and the horror of it; while I am 
going about the loathsome grind I try to think — 
try to have some idea in my head. And some- 
thing comes to me — something beautiful, per- 
haps; and then in a few moments, in the clatter 
and confusion, I lose it; and after that I go about 
haunted, restless, feeling that I have lost some- 
thing, that I ought to be doing something. 
What the thing is, I do not even know — but so it 
drives me and drives me! 
I spend literally hours that way. 
February 25th. 
When are you going to read that poem — 
when? The week was gone yesterday — but I 
will not trouble you, even now! I wait, I wait! 
February 27th. 
There is another torment about this fearful 
place that I am in, one that you could not im- 
agine. I had thought that it would be a pleas- 
ure, but it tears my soul. They have music in the 
evening; and fancy a person in my state listening 
to a violin ! 
Chiefly, of course, they play trash; but some- 
times there comes something beautiful, perhaps 
only a phrase. But it takes hold of my soul, it 
makes my eyes grow dim, it makes me shudder. 
It is all my pent-up agony, it is all my sleeping 
passion — why, it overwhelms me! And I am 
helpless — I can not get away from it! 
Remember that I have not heard any music 
for a year. It is like the voice of a dead love to 
me. I thought to-night that I could not bear it. 
March ist. 
To-day I had a day ofif, and I went to see 
the editor. I have been waiting, day by day, 
for a letter; it has been a month since I left 
it with him, and I found that he had not read 
it yet! 
" Mr. Stirling," he said, " it is not my fault, it 
has simply been impossible. Now I will tell you 
what to do. I am going out of the city Sunday 
week, and I shall have a little leisure then. I do 
not see how I can get to it before that, so you 
take it and see if you can find some one else to 
read it meanwhile. If you will bring it to me. 
Saturday, a week from to-day, I will promise you 
faithfully to read it on Sunday." 
So I took the manuscript. I tried four pub- 
lishing houses, but I could not find one that 
would read it in a week. I had to take the manu- 
script home. 
March 3d. 
To-morrow ends my second week at the res- 
taurant. It took me five days to find that place, 
but I am going to give it up to-morrow. I could 
not bear it, if it were to save my life. I can not 
bear the noise and the grease and the dirt, and the 
endless, endless vulgarity; but above all I can 
not bear the music. 
I can bear almost any degradation, I have 
found; but not when I have to listen to music! 
Besides, I can afiford to give it up. I have 
made a fortune. I shall have over thirty dollars 
