“I have always wondered what his object could have been?”
As Bernard spoke he fixed his eyes eagerly upon the face of his old
companion. He felt persuaded that Professor Puffer could tell him what
he was very anxious to know. He meant before the interview was over to
obtain from him light as to his relations with Mr. McCracken.
“Have you see him lately? Won’t he do anything for you?” he continued.
“Listen! When I returned from Europe, two months since, I called upon
him. I had previously communicated with him by letter. He asked after
you. I told him that you were dead.”
“Why did you tell him that?”
“Because it was what he wished to know.”
“Did he wish me to die?” asked Bernard, startled, but not wholly
surprised.
“He did. In sending you to Europe with me, he wished to get rid of you,
and I had instructions to that effect.”
“That accounts for your trying to throw me overboard that night on the
Vesta.”
“Yes. I was endeavoring to carry out my instructions.”
“Were the instructions oral or written?”
“Written. I had a letter in McCracken’s own handwriting.”
“Don’t that give you a hold upon him?”
“It would if I had kept it, but unfortunately I lost it on the steamer,
I think.”
Bernard had the letter in his trunk at the hotel. He had always
preserved it, thinking that some time he might find a use for it. Of
course the professor didn’t know this.
“I reported your death,” continued Puffer. “I said you had been run over
and fatally injured in Marseilles. I could see how much satisfaction
this news afforded Mr. McCracken. He ascertained by cunning questions
that I didn’t have his letter in my possession, and then he became cool
and indifferent. ‘I am sorry for the boy’s death,’ he said. ‘He was
young to die. I think you must have been careless.’ ‘I was only carrying
out your instructions,’ I said. ‘What do you mean?’ he retorted. ‘I
committed him to your charge. If I gave you any instructions, produce
them.’
“This I couldn’t do, and he knew it.
“I represented to him that I was very poor, and needed help.
“‘Really,’ he said, ‘that is nothing to me.’
“‘Can’t you give me employment?’ I asked.
“‘I have no places vacant,’ he answered coldly.
“‘What am I to do?’ I asked. ‘I have no money.’
“‘Surely you don’t expect me to support you,’ he said impatiently. ‘You
have no claim upon me.’
“Then I bethought myself of a clever scheme.
“‘Surely,’ I said, ‘you will repay me the sum I paid out for the boy’s
funeral.’
“He reflected a moment, and then answered in the affirmative.
“‘Yes,’ he said, ‘if you will give me a receipt in due form.’
“I went out of the office with one hundred dollars in my pocket.”
“It was certainly a lucky thought,” said Bernard, smiling; “considering
that my funeral expenses are paid, I feel unusually full of life.
However, I am glad you got the money.”
“It is all gone now!” went on Puffer mournfully. “I lived perhaps too
freely while it lasted. When it was gone I called once more at Mr.
McCracken’s office, and was literally kicked out. What do you think of
that?”
Hitherto Walter Cunningham had stood by in silence, listening to the
conversation between Bernard and his quondam guardian. Now he came
forward with a question.
“Can you tell me, Professor Puffer,” he asked, “why Mr. McCracken wishes
to get rid of Bernard?”
“The answer is an easy one. He has in his possession ten thousand
dollars intrusted to him by Bernard’s father. It must amount to a good
deal more now from the interest that has accrued.”
“What proof can you give of this? Did he ever write to you to that
effect?”
“No; but he admitted it to me in conversation.”
“I am disposed to get this back from him. Are you willing to help me?”
“I wish I could,” said Puffer earnestly. “I owe him a grudge. That would
be a welcome revenge. But I am afraid there is no chance. If only I had
that letter of instructions I could prove at any rate that he wanted me
to get rid of him.”
“That would give us a hold on him, and with the help of it I think we
could bring him to terms.”
“But unfortunately I have lost the letter,” continued the professor
regretfully.
“Professor Puffer,” said Bernard, “that letter is still in existence.”
“Is it?” asked Puffer eagerly. “Where is it?”
“I have it in my trunk. I found it on the floor of your stateroom on the
Vesta. It is not quite complete, but there is enough in it with your
help to fasten a very serious charge upon Mr. McCracken.”
“Good! good! I am thankful,” said the professor. “I will go with you,
and beard him in his den. He shall repent the way in which he has
treated me. But you will have to wait till evening. I shall not be
through with my work till six o’clock.”
“You can leave it now,” said Cunningham. “I am not at all sure that you
are entitled to the title of professor, but at all events you are fit
for something better than a sandwich man. I will see that you are no
longer reduced to such humble work.”
“I shall be thankful,” said Ezra Puffer, “deeply thankful if you will
find me a better position. Sometimes I meet a man whom I knew in better
days, and then I am inexpressibly mortified to be seen in such a
position.”
“I think I can promise you some more congenial employment. Do you know
where the Brevoort House is?”
“Yes.”
“Come round there at ten o’clock to-morrow morning, and call for me. You
remember my name?”
“Yes; you are Mr. Cunningham.”
“Do you think,” asked Puffer, “that you could spare me half a dollar
now? I feel quite hungry, and I should like to make a good meal.”
“Certainly. Here are five dollars. Now, be sure to call at the Brevoort
House to-morrow morning.”
“Most certainly I will,” said the professor, eying the bank note he had
just received with a joyful glance. “I should be a fool if I didn’t.
Through you and Bernard, I hope to have another chance of living
respectably. Now I must go and surrender this badge of my servitude,”
 and he glanced disdainfully at the two placards which he had already
removed from their position behind and in front. “I hope, Bernard, you
will never be subjected to such humiliation.”
“I hardly think it likely,” said Walter Cunningham, “especially if
through you he obtains possession of his father’s money.”
“I will do my best, sir. I think, Cornelius McCracken,” he continued,
snapping his fingers at an imaginary form, “that we shall be too much
for you at last. You will be sorry that you did not treat me better.”
Professor Puffer disappeared rapidly round the corner of Houston Street,
and Bernard and Walter Cunningham walked up town to their hotel.
“Things seem to be turning in your favor, Bernard,” said his companion.
“The money left by your father will not be of so much consequence to you
now, but it will be a satisfaction to wrest it from the hands of your
