"Is it possible?"
"Diane . . ."
"I am Diane no longer," she interrupted.
"In God's name, what shall I call you, then?" his despair maddening him.
"You may call me . . . a dream.  And I advise you to wake soon."
The man in him came to his rescue.  He suddenly reached across the
table and caught her wrist.  With his unengaged hand he caught up the
ashes and let them flutter back to the table.
"A lie, a woman's lie!  Is that why the ash is black?  Have I wronged
you in any way?  Has my love been else than honest?  Who are you?"
vehemently.
"I am play, Monsieur; pastime, frolic," insolently.  "Was not that what
you named me in the single hours?"
"Are you some prince's light-o'-love?" roughly.
The blood of wrath spread over her cheeks.
"Your name?"
"I am not afraid of you, Monsieur; but you are twisting my arm cruelly.
Will you not let go?  Thank you!"
"You will not tell me who you are?"
"No."
"Nor what your object was in playing with my heart?"
"Perhaps I had best tell you the truth.  Monsieur, it was a trap I set
for you that night in Paris, when I came dressed as a musketeer.  My
love of mischief was piqued.  I had heard so much about the fascinating
Chevalier du Cévennes and his conquests.  There was Mademoiselle de
Longueville, Mademoiselle de Fontrailles, the little Coislin, and I
know not how many others.  And you walked over their hearts in such a
cavalierly way, rumor had it, that I could not resist the temptation to
see what manner of man you were.  You were only the usual lord of
creation, a trite pattern.  You amused me, and I was curious to see how
long you would remain constant."
"Are you not also a trite pattern?"
"I constituted myself a kind of vengeance.  Mademoiselle Catharine
expected you to establish her in the millinery.  Have you done so?"
The Chevalier fell back from the table.  This thrust utterly confused
and bewildered him.  It was so groundless and unexpected.
"She is very plump, and her cheeks are like winter apples.  She had at
one time been in my service, but I had reasons to discharge her.  I
compliment you upon your taste.  After kissing my hands, these,"
holding out those beautiful members of an exquisite anatomy, "you could
go and kiss the cheeks of a serving-wench!  Monsieur, I come from a
proud and noble race.  A man can not, after having kissed my hands,
press his lips to the cheeks of a Catharine and return again to me.  I
wrote that letter to lead you a dance such as you would not soon
forget.  And see! you did not trouble yourself to start to find me.
And a Catharine!  Faugh!  Her hands are large and red, her eyes are
bold; when she is thirty she will be fat and perhaps dispensing cheap
wine in a low cabaret.  And you called me Rosalind between times and
signed your verses and letters Orlando!  You quoted from Petrarch and
said I was your Laura.  My faith!  man is a curious animal.  I have
been told that I am beautiful; and from me you turned to a Catharine!
I suspect she is lodged somewhere here in Quebec."
"A Catharine!" he repeated, wildly.  The devil gathered up the reins.
"This is a mad, fantastic world!  You kiss my handsome grey eyes a
thousand times, then?  What rapture!  Catharine?  What a pretext!  It
has no saving grace.  You are mad, I am mad; the world is one of those
Italian panoramas!  A thousand kisses, Diane . . .  No; you have ceased
to be the huntress.  You are Daphne.  Well, I will play Apollo to your
Daphne.  Let us see if you will change into laurel!"  Lightly he leaped
the table, and she was locked in his arms.  "What! daughter of Perseus
and Terra, you are still in human shape?  Ah! then the gods themselves
are lies!"
She said nothing, but there was fear and rage in her eyes; and her
heart beat furiously against his.
Presently he pressed her from him with a pressure gentle but steady.
"Have no fear, Diane, or Daphne, or whatever you may be pleased to call
yourself.  I am a gentleman.  I will not take by force what you would
not willingly give.  I have never played with a woman's heart nor with
a man's honor.  And as for Catharine, I laugh.  It is true that I
kissed her cheeks.  I had been drinking, and the wine was still in my
head.  I had left you.  My heart was light and happy.  I would have
kissed a spaniel, had a spaniel crossed my path instead of a Catharine.
There was no more taint to those kisses I gave to her than to those you
have often thoughtlessly given to the flowers in your garden.  I loved
you truly; I love you still.  Catharine is a poor pretext.  There is
something you have not told me.  Say truthfully that your belief is
that I was secretly paying court to that poor Madame de Brissac, and
that I wore the grey cloak that terrible night; that I fled from France
because of these things.  You say that you are about to become a nun.
You do, then, believe in God.  Well," releasing her, "I swear to you by
that God that I never saw Madame de Brissac; that I was far away from
Paris on the nineteenth of February.  You have wantonly and cruelly
destroyed the only token I had which was closely associated with my
love of you.  This locket means nothing." He pulled it forth, took the
chain from round his neck.  "You never wore it; it is nothing.  I do
not need it to recall your likeness.  Since I have been the puppet,
since even God mocks me by bringing you here, take the locket."
She looked, not at the locket nor at the hand which held it, but into
his eyes.  In hers the wrath was gone; there was even a humorous
sparkle under the heavy lashes.  She made no sign that she saw the
jeweled miniature.  She was thinking how strong he was, how handsomely
dignity and pride sat upon his face.
"Will you take it?" he repeated.
Her hands went slowly behind her back.
"Does this mean that, having lain upon my heart for more than a year,
it is no longer of value to you?"  He laid the chain and locket upon
the table.  "Yesterday I had thought my cup was full."  The mask lay
crumpled at his feet, and he recovered it absently.  "You?" he cried,
suddenly, as the picture came back.  He looked at the mask, then at
her.  "Was it you who came into that room at the Corne d'Abondance in
Rochelle, and when I addressed you, would not speak?  Oh!  You, were
implicated in a conspiracy, and you were on the way to Spain.
Saumaise!  He knows who you are, and by the friendship he holds for me
and I for him, he shall tell me!"  He became all eagerness again.
"Vervain!  I might have known.  Diane, give me some hope that all this
mystery shall some day be brushed aside.  I am innocent of any evil; I
have committed no crime.  Will you give me some hope, the barest straw?"
She did not answer.  She was nervously fingering the ashes of her
letter.
"You do not answer?  So be it.  You have asked me why I did not seek
you.  Some day you will learn.  Since you refuse to take the locket, I
will keep it.  Poor fool that I have been, with all these dreams!"
"You are destroying my mask, Monsieur."
He pressed his lips against the silken lips where hers had been so
often.
"Keep it," she said, carelessly, "or destroy it.  It is valueless.
Will you stand aside?  I wish to go."
He stood back, and she passed out.  Her face remained in the shadow.
He strove to read it, in vain.  Ah, well, Quebec was small.  And she
had taken the voyage on the same ship as his father. . . .  She had not
