like ice. It would surely be better to wake her, and 
make her move about a little. He spoke to her, at 
first softly, and then quite loud, but she made no sign. 
Perhaps she was not asleep, but had fainted from weari- 
ness and cold ; he knelt beside her, and took her hand 
in both his own, chafing it between them, but still she 
gave no sign. It was certainly a fainting fit, and he 
knew that if a woman was pale when she fainted, she 
should be laid down at full length, to make the blood 
return to her head. Kneeling beside her, he lifted her 
carefully and placed her on her back beside the Aphro- 
dite, smoothing out his waistcoat under her head, not for 
a pillow but for a little protection from the cold ground. 
'  
Then he hesitated, and remained some time kneeling 
beside her. She needed warmth more than anything 
else ; he knew that, and he knew that the best way to 
warm her a little was to hold her in his arms. Yet he 
would try something else first. 
He bent over her and undoing one of the buttons 
of the coat, he breathed into it again and again, long, 
warm breaths. He did this for a long time, and then 
looked at her face, but it had not changed. He felt 
the ground with his hand, and it was cold ; as long as 
she lay there, she could never get warm. 
He lifted her again, still quite unconscious, and sat 
with her in his arms, as he had done before, laying her 
head against the hollow of his shoulder, and pressing 
her gently, trying to instil into her some of his own 
strong life. 
At last she gave a little sigh and moved her head, 
nestling herself to him, but it was long before she 
spoke. He felt the consciousness coming back in her, 
and the inclination to move, rather than any real 
motion in her delicate frame ; the more perceptible 
breathing, and then the little sigh came again, and at 
last the words. 
" I thought we were dead," she said, so low that he 
could barely hear. 
" No, you fainted," he answered. " We are safe. I 
have got the bar through the wall." 
She turned up her face feebly, without lifting her 
head. 
" Really ? Have you done it ? " 
"Yes. In another hour, or a little more, the hole 
will he wide enough for us to get through it." 
She hid her face again, and breathed quietly. 
"You do not seem glad," he said. 
" It seemed so easy to die like this," she answered. 
But presently she moved in his arms, and looked up 
again, and smiled, though she did not try to speak 
again. He himself, almost worn out by what he had 
done, was glad to sit still for a while. His blood was 
not racing through him now, his head was not on fire. 
It seemed quite natural that he should be sitting there, 
holding her close to him and warming her back to life 
with his own warmth. 
It was a strange sensation, he thought afterwards, 
when many other things had happened which were not 
long in following upon the events of that night. He 
could not quite believe that he was almost stupid with 
extreme fatigue, and yet he remembered that it had 
been more like a calm dream than anything else, a 
dream of peace and rest. At the time, it all seemed 
natural, as the strangest things do when one has been 
face to face with death for a few hours, and when one 
is so tired that one can hardly think at all. 
CHAPTER XV 
Theee was less consternation in tlie Volterra house- 
hold than might have been expected when Sabina did 
not return before bedtime. The servants knew that she 
had gone out with an old gentleman, a certain Signor 
Sassi, at about five o'clock, but until Volterra came 
in, the Baroness could not find out who Sassi was, and 
she insisted on searching every corner of the house, as 
if she were in quest of his biography, for the servants 
assured her that Sabina was still out, and they certainly 
knew. She carefully examined Sabina's room too, look- 
ing for a note, a line of writing, anything to explain the 
girl's unexpected absence. 
She could find nothing except the short letter from 
Sabina's mother to which reference has been made, and 
she read it over several times. Sabina received no let- 
ters, and had been living in something like total isolation. 
The Baroness had reached a certain degree of intimacy 
with her beloved aristocracy ; but though she occasion- 
ally dropped in upon it, and was fairly well received, it 
rarely, if ever, dropped in upon her. It showed itself 
quite willing, however, to accept a formal invitation to 
a good dinner at her house. 
She telephoned to the Senate and to a club, but Vol- 
terra could not be found. Then she went to dress, giv- 
ing orders that Sabina was to be sent to her the moment 
she came in. She was very angry, and her sallow face 
was drawn into severe angles ; she scolded her maid for 
everything, and rustled whenever she moved. 
At last the Baron came home, and she learned who 
Sassi was. Volterra was very much surprised, but said 
that Sassi must have come for Sabina in connection with 
some urgent family matter. Perhaps some one of her 
family had died suddenly, or was dying. It was very 
thoughtless of Sabina not to leave a word of explana- 
tion, but Sassi was an eminently respectable person, and 
she was quite safe with him. 
The Baron ate his dinner, and repeated the substance 
of this to his wife before- the servants, whose good opin- 
ion they valued. Probably Donna Clementina, the nun, 
was very ill, and Sabina was at the convent. No, Sabina 
did not love her sister, of course ; but one always went 
to see one's relations when they were dying, in order to 
forgive them their disagreeable conduct; all Romans 
did that, said the Baroness, and it was very proper. 
By and by a note could be sent to the convent, or the 
carriage could go there to bring Sabina back. But the 
Baron did not order the carriage, and became very 
thoughtful over his coffee and his Havana. Sabina 
had been gone more than four hours, and that was cer- 
tainly a longer time than could be necessary for visit- 
ing a dying relative. He said so. 
" Perhaps," suggested his wife, " it is the Prince who 
