the news more tenderly to his child. I was glad to 
find him on the porch in the old reclining chair, reading 
his paper. 
I don't remember how I told it. I think I left some 
thing to be inferred. I did not hear Mr. Gaynor's 
question, for a white wraith glided out on the porch. 
The soft light hair framed in the sweet, deathlike face, 
but the clear eyes shone out with an unearthly light. I 
would have caught her, but she went straight to her 
father. 
"I know," she said, and her voice was like a low- 
 
toned bell shaken wildly about. "Dan told me that 
day. They loved each other and went away together." 
Then she fell into her father's lap. 
I lifted her to the settle, limp and lifeless. It seemed 
as if she had lost all her flesh during these days that 
she had carried her secret. Was her heart broken? 
My poor Little Girl! My poor Little Girl! 
I went for the doctor presently. All night she lapsed 
from one faint to another, and was left as near lifeless 
as any human body could be. Mr. Gaynor watched 
her dry eyed, but with such an expression of despair 
as is seldom concentrated in any countenance. He 
would place his cold hand in mine, that was so vigorous 
and warm, that I felt almost ashamed. I had given 
her up to Dan, I could not give her up to death. 
After two days fever set in. It was not raging or 
violent, but the lassitude was painful to witness. The 
boys were both going away, and I persuaded mother to 
shut her house and come up. Her sorrow was heart 
breaking, but she knew it was still worse for Ruth. 
The result of the storm was being cleared away and 
repaired. There was a good deal of talk, to be sure, 
and the men who had liked Dan best blamed Polly 
bitterly. Others did not see how he could have thrown 
up his prospects for any woman, for it was admitted 
if all went well with Mr. Gaynor and Chicago Ruth 
would be no mean heiress. 
Sad as it was to watch day and night with only a 
mere thread of hope, it took mother and Ruth out of 
the head of the gossip. I looked after Mr. Gaynor's 
affairs as well as I could, and there were some matters 
of Dan's left unsettled. He must have taken a consid 
erable amount of money with him, but whether it was 
in the bottom of the lake or buried with him no one 
was ever to know. 
After a month or so Ruth began to evince a slow 
improvement. "If she had enough strength to pull 
through," the doctor said with a faint inflection in his 
voice that sounded like hope to the waiting, longing 
ear. She could not have had a tenderer nurse than 
mother, and womanly care and sympathy exceeds that 
of the most loving man. 
Through this time I learned by bits and snatches 
how this ill-fated marriage had come about. And 
although at first Mr. Gaynor could have rejoiced over 
Dan's untimely end, he had built high hopes on him 
and would have loved him like a son. Even now he 
referred to the kindly things Dan had done for him in 
his illness, and I could see Dan had held many fascina 
tions for him. But when he wanted to get all the 
property interests into his hands and began to treat 
Ruth with indifference all the fatherly feelings were 
roused. Then he had grudged young John Gaynor 
the relationship. 
I could not but admire the wise and kindly reticence 
he observed in speaking of Dan. Of course there was 
no glossing over the last cruel insult to Ruth, but poor 
Dan had paid for it with his life, Polly as well. 
I had many plans in my mind through this time. 
Go back to Paris I must. The boys had gone to their 
different institutions, and that left mother alone. 
Homer wanted her to rent the house and live with 
 
them. Then in watching Mr. Gaynor it seemed to me 
that something might still be done for him. Surgery in 
Paris had made rapid strides. There were splendidly 
equipped hospitals, perhaps I might find them in 
New York or Philadelphia, but I could not go there to 
stay. If I might take them all to Paris with me, 
mother as companion and chaperone for Ruth. 
I advanced my plans very cautiously. Ruth's wel 
fare was my first point. She did not get along rapidly. 
The doctor had insisted on having her beautiful hair 
cut, and it was now a mass of rings, like silken floss. 
She seemed to have gone back to childhood, her face 
was so small and wore such a look of timid entreaty. 
Her eyes were still like the midnight blue of the sky 
and their expression penetrated one's very soul with 
their infinite pathos. 
Mr. Gaynor at first considered a journey abroad for 
himself an impossibility with his farming interest. It 
did puzzle me a little to know how this could be man 
aged. And when I was about discouraged in my 
search for a capable person Providence sent him right 
in my way. Since the unfortunate struggle in Hun 
gary we had received many immigrants of the better 
class who had largely drifted to the West in search for 
land. Homer had taken a young man to work for him 
when he had spent his little all. He and his father had 
been successful wheat growers, but their farms had 
been confiscated. The young man had left his wife 
and two little ones and the mother with friends, hop 
ing soon to be able to send for them, but they found it 
very hard to get at anything without money. 
I asked them to come over and spend an evening 
with us. John Gaynor was much interested in them, 
for both were intelligent, though speaking rather 
broken English. They discussed the possibility of 
buying government land and tilling it, and exploited 
their own methods, which were not behind ours, but 
their markets were. 
The upshot of this was at the proper time my plan 
of having them as overseers, living in the house and 
looking after everything. 
"It would be a godsend to them," said Mr. Gaynor. 
"They could get quite forehanded. These are the kind 
of citizens we need." 
I left the leaven to work without any needless 
