“You recognise then that you’ve failed?” asked Charlotte from the
threshold.
Maggie waited; she looked, as her companion had done a moment before,
at the two books on the seat; she put them together and laid them
down; then she made up her mind. “I’ve failed!” she sounded out before
Charlotte, having given her time, walked away. She watched her, splendid
and erect, float down the long vista; then she sank upon a seat. Yes,
she had done all.
PART SIXTH.
                             XL
“I’ll do anything you like,” she said to her husband on one of the last
days of the month, “if our being here, this way at this time, seems to
you too absurd, or too uncomfortable, or too impossible. We’ll either
take leave of them now, without waiting--or we’ll come back in time,
three days before they start. I’ll go abroad with you, if you but say
the word; to Switzerland, the Tyrol, the Italian Alps, to whichever of
your old high places you would like most to see again--those beautiful
ones that used to do you good after Rome and that you so often told me
about.”
Where they were, in the conditions that prompted this offer, and where
it might indeed appear ridiculous that, with the stale London September
close at hand, they should content themselves with remaining, was where
the desert of Portland Place looked blank as it had never looked, and
where a drowsy cabman, scanning the horizon for a fare, could sink to
oblivion of the risks of immobility. But Amerigo was of the odd opinion,
day after day, that their situation couldn’t be bettered; and he even
went at no moment through the form of replying that, should their ordeal
strike her as exceeding their patience, any step they might take would
be for her own relief. This was, no doubt, partly because he stood out
so wonderfully, to the end, against admitting, by a weak word at least,
that any element of their existence WAS, or ever had been, an ordeal; no
trap of circumstance, no lapse of “form,” no accident of irritation, had
landed him in that inconsequence. His wife might verily have suggested
that he was consequent--consequent with the admirable appearance he had
from the first so undertaken, and so continued, to present--rather too
rigidly at HER expense; only, as it happened, she was not the little
person to do anything of the sort, and the strange tacit compact
actually in operation between them might have been founded on an
intelligent comparison, a definite collation positively, of the kinds of
patience proper to each. She was seeing him through--he had engaged
to come out at the right end if she WOULD see him: this understanding,
tacitly renewed from week to week, had fairly received, with the
procession of the weeks, the consecration of time; but it scarce needed
to be insisted on that she was seeing him on HIS terms, not all on
hers, or that, in other words, she must allow him his unexplained and
uncharted, his one practicably workable way. If that way, by one of the
intimate felicities the liability to which was so far from having even
yet completely fallen from him, happened handsomely to show him as more
bored than boring (with advantages of his own freely to surrender, but
none to be persuadedly indebted to others for,) what did such a false
face of the matter represent but the fact itself that she was pledged?
If she had questioned or challenged or interfered--if she had reserved
herself that right--she wouldn’t have been pledged; whereas there were
still, and evidently would be yet a while, long, tense stretches
during which their case might have been hanging, for every eye, on her
possible, her impossible defection. She must keep it up to the last,
mustn’t absent herself for three minutes from her post: only on those
lines, assuredly, would she show herself as with him and not against
him.
It was extraordinary how scant a series of signs she had invited him to
make of being, of truly having been at any time, “with” his wife: that
reflection she was not exempt from as they now, in their suspense,
supremely waited--a reflection under the brush of which she recognised
her having had, in respect to him as well, to “do all,” to go the whole
way over, to move, indefatigably, while he stood as fixed in his place
as some statue of one of his forefathers. The meaning of it would seem
to be, she reasoned in sequestered hours, that he HAD a place, and that
this was an attribute somehow indefeasible, unquenchable, which laid
upon others--from the moment they definitely wanted anything of him--
the necessity of taking more of the steps that he could, of circling
round him, of remembering for his benefit the famous relation of the
mountain to Mahomet. It was strange, if one had gone into it, but such
a place as Amerigo’s was like something made for him beforehand by
innumerable facts, facts largely of the sort known as historical, made
by ancestors, examples, traditions, habits; while Maggie’s own had come
to show simply as that improvised “post”--a post of the kind spoken of
as advanced--with which she was to have found herself connected in the
fashion of a settler or a trader in a new country; in the likeness even
of some Indian squaw with a papoose on her back and barbarous bead-work
to sell. Maggie’s own, in short, would have been sought in vain in the
most rudimentary map of the social relations as such. The only geography
marking it would be doubtless that of the fundamental passions. The
“end” that the Prince was at all events holding out for was represented
to expectation by his father-in-law’s announced departure for America
with Mrs. Verver; just as that prospective event had originally figured
as advising, for discretion, the flight of the younger couple, to say
nothing of the withdrawal of whatever other importunate company, before
the great upheaval of Fawns. This residence was to be peopled for a
month by porters, packers and hammerers, at whose operations it had
become peculiarly public--public that is for Portland Place--that
Charlotte was to preside in force; operations the quite awful appointed
scale and style of which had at no moment loomed so large to Maggie’s
mind as one day when the dear Assinghams swam back into her ken
besprinkled with sawdust and looking as pale as if they had seen Samson
pull down the temple. They had seen at least what she was not seeing,
rich dim things under the impression of which they had retired; she
having eyes at present but for the clock by which she timed her husband,
or for the glass--the image perhaps would be truer--in which he was
reflected to her as HE timed the pair in the country. The accession of
their friends from Cadogan Place contributed to all their intermissions,
at any rate, a certain effect of resonance; an effect especially marked
by the upshot of a prompt exchange of inquiries between Mrs. Assingham
and the Princess. It was noted, on the occasion of that anxious lady’s
last approach to her young friend at Fawns, that her sympathy had
ventured, after much accepted privation, again to become inquisitive,
and it had perhaps never so yielded to that need as on this question of
the present odd “line” of the distinguished eccentrics.
“You mean to say really that you’re going to stick here?” And then
before Maggie could answer: “What on earth will you do with your
evenings?”
Maggie waited a moment--Maggie could still tentatively smile. “When
people learn we’re here--and of course the papers will be full of
it!--they’ll flock back in their hundreds, from wherever they are, to
catch us. You see you and the Colonel have yourselves done it. As for
our evenings, they won’t, I dare say, be particularly different from
anything else that’s ours. They won’t be different from our mornings or
our afternoons--except perhaps that you two dears will sometimes help us
to get through them. I’ve offered to go anywhere,” she added; “to take
a house if he will. But THIS--just this and nothing else--is Amerigo’s
idea. He gave it yesterday” she went on, “a name that, as, he said,
