He gave me a hug and a hearty shake, so that the thrums tossed, and my
little round cap of doeskin flew from my head. I clutched it ere it
fell, and keeping it in my hand, presented him to Elsin.
"We are affianced, Peter," I said quietly. "Colonel Willett must play
guardian until this fright in Albany subsides."
"Oh, the luck o' that man Willett!" he exclaimed, beaming on Elsin, and
saluting the hand she stretched out. "Why do you not choose a man like
me, madam? Heaven knows, such a reward is all I ask of my country's
gratitude! And you are going to marry this fellow Carus? Is this what
sinners such as he may look for? Gad, madam, I'm done with decency, and
shall rig me in fringed shirt and go whipping through the woods, if
such maidens as you find that attractive!"
"I find you exceedingly attractive, Colonel Van Schaick," she said,
laughing--"so attractive that I ask your protection against this man
who desires to be rid of me at any cost."
Van Schaick swore that I was a villain, and offered to run off with her
at the drop of her 'kerchief, but when I spoke seriously of the danger
at Albany, he sobered quickly enough, and we rode to the head of the
little column, now ready to move.
"March," I said briefly; and we started.
"I'll ride a little way with you," said the Colonel--"far enough to say
that when Joshua gave me your message on my return last night I sent my
orderly to find the wagon and animals and provision for three days'
march. You can make it in two if you like, or even in twenty-four
hours."
I thanked him and asked about the rumors which had so alarmed the
people in Albany; but he shook his head, saying he knew nothing except
that there were scalping parties out, and that he for one believed them
to be the advance of an invading force from Canada.
"You ask me where this sweet lady will be safest," he continued, "and I
answer that only God knows. Were I you, Carus, I should rather have her
near me; so if your duty takes you to Johnstown it may be best that she
remain with you until these rumors become definite. Then, it might be
well that she return to Albany and stay with friends like the
Schuylers, or the Van Rensselaers, or Colonel Hamilton's lady, if these
worthy folk deem it safe to remain."
"Have they gone?" I asked.
"They're preparing to go," he said gloomily. "Oh, Carus, when we had
Walter Butler safe in Albany jail in '78, why did we not hang him? He
was taken as a spy, tried, and properly condemned. I remember well how
he pretended illness, and how that tender-hearted young Marquis
Lafayette was touched by his plight, and begged that he be sent to
hospital in the comfortable house of some citizen. Ah, had we known
what that human tiger was meditating! Think of it, Carus! You knew him,
did you not, when he came a-courting Margaret Schuyler? Lord! who could
believe that Walter Butler would so soon be smeared with the blood of
women and children? Who could believe that this young man would so soon
be damned with the guilt of Cherry Valley?"
We rode on in silence. I dared not glance at Elsin; I found no pretext
to stop Van Schaick; and, still in perfect silence, we wheeled
northwest into the Schenectady road, where Peter took leave of us in
his own simple, hearty fashion, and wheeled about, galloping back up
the slope, followed by his jingling dragoons.
I turned to take my last look at the three hills and the quaint Dutch
city. Far away on the ramparts of the fort I saw our beloved flag
fluttering, a gay spot in the sunshine, with its azure, rose, and
silvery tints blending into the fresh colors of early morning. I saw,
too, the ruined fort across the river, where that British surgeon, Dr.
Stackpole, composed the immortal tune of "Yankee Doodle" to deride
us--that same tune to which my Lord Cornwallis was now dancing, while
we whistled it from West Point to Virginia.
As I sat my saddle there, gazing at the city I had thought so wonderful
when I was a lad fresh from Broadalbin Bush, I seemed once more to
wander with my comrades, Stephen Van Rensselaer, Steve Watts, and Jack
Johnson--now Sir John--a-fishing troutlings from the Norman's Kill,
that ripples through the lovely vale of Tawasentha. Once more I seemed
to see the patroon's great manor-house through the drooping foliage of
the park elms, and the stately mansion of our dear General Schuyler,
with its two tall chimneys, its dormers, roof-rail, and long avenue of
trees; and on the lawn I seemed to see pretty little Margaret, now
grown to womanhood and affianced to the patroon; and Betty Schuyler,
who scarce a year since wedded my handsome Colonel Hamilton--that same
lively Betty who so soon sent Walter Butler about his business, though
his veins were like to burst with pride o' the blood in them, that he
declared came straight from the Earls of Arran and the great Dukes of
Ormond and of Ossery.
"Of what are you thinking?" asked Elsin softly.
"Of my boyhood, dearest. Yonder is the first city I ever beheld. Shall
I tell you of it--and of that shy country lad who came hither to learn
something of deportment, so that he might venture to enter an assembly
and forget his hands and feet?"
"Were you ever awkward, Carus?"
"Awkward as a hound-pup learning to walk."
"I shall never believe it," she declared, laughing; and we moved
forward on the Schenectady road, Murphy, Mount, Elerson, and the little
Weasel trotting faithfully at heel, and the brown column trailing away
in their dustless wake.
I had not yet forgotten the thrill of her quick embrace when, as we met
at the breakfast-table by candle-light, I had told her of my commission
and of our Governor's kindness. And just to see the flush of pride in
her face, I spoke of it again; and her sweet eyes' quick response was
the most wonderful to me of all the fortune that had fallen to my lot.
I turned proudly in my saddle, looking back upon the people now
entrusted to me--and as I looked, pride changed to apprehension, and a
quick prayer rose in my heart that I, a servant of my country, might
not prove unequal to the task set me.
Sobered, humbled, I rode on, asking in silence God's charity for my
ignorance, and His protection for her I loved, and for these human
souls entrusted to my care in the dark hours of the approaching trial.
North and northwest we traveled on a fair road, which ran through
pleasant farming lands, stretches of woods, meadows, and
stubble-fields. At first we saw men at work in the fields, not many,
but every now and again some slow Dutch yokel, with his sunburned face
turned from his labor to watch us pass. But the few farmhouses became
fewer, and these last were deserted. Finally no more houses appeared,
and stump-lots changed to tangled clearings, and these into second
growth, and these at last into the primeval forests, darkly
magnificent, through which our road, now but a lumber road, ran moist
and dark, springy and deep with the immemorial droppings of the trees.
Without command of mine, four lithe riflemen had trotted off ahead. I
now ordered four more to act on either flank, and called up part of the
rear-guard to string out in double file on either side of the animals
and wagon. The careless conversation in the ranks, the sudden laugh,
the clumsy skylarking all ceased. Tobacco-pipes were emptied and
pouched, flints and pans scrutinized, straps and bandoleers tightened,
moccasins relaced. The batmen examined ropes, wagon-wheels, and
harness, and I saw them furtively feeling for their hatchets to see
that everything was in place.
Thankful that I had a company of veterans and no mob of godless and
silly trappers, bawling contempt of everything Indian, I unconsciously
