name of Blind Alley.) She did so with the 
ease of one who was quite accustomed to it. 
Here and there she was recognized with the 
sullen respect or the servile flattery of people 
who have to be benefited against their wills. 
She stopped before a large wooden building, 
recently painted, well-ordered, and conspicuous 
among its neighbors for a front door that shut, 
light in the entries, unbroken windows, and fire- 
escapes. As she put her foot upon the lowest 
step the door opened, there was a penetrating 
hospital whiff, and a gentleman followed. 
" You can't come in here," said a deep 
voice gruffly. " Nobody can. I 'm going to 
station a policeman at the door to keep every 
one in — and every one out." 
As the speaker stood with his back against 
the closed door, he suddenly lifted his hat. 
 
" You ! I beg- your pardon ; I did not re- 
cognize you." 
" What are you doing in my house, Dr. 
Beal ? " Miss Lauriat let the words out slowly 
and haughtily. She ascended the steps, and 
would have brushed by him. But he faced 
her with his hand upon the latch. 
" There is a case of diphtheria here. I 'm 
going to have the card up immediately." 
" I can't believe it ! " cried Miss Lauriat 
hotly. " I know every family in the building. 
I keep them very clean. The sanitary conditions 
are excellent. It is impossible. I 've got 
to see one of my tenants immediately. My 
agent was going to evict him — Please stand 
aside, sir. I am going in." 
" The Board of Health has taken posses- 
sion of your tenement, madam, and I am very 
sorry, but I must insist." 
" So must I," she retorted. " The house is 
mine." 
" But the responsibility is mine," he 
flashed, reddening. " You cannot come in." 
It was now a duel between the citizen and 
the state, and the girl yielded perforce. 
" I am sorry to have to use my authority," 
 
continued the physician in a different tone. 
" The laws, you know, are strict ; and life," 
he hesitated, " is precious." 
" Oh, I suppose you can't help yourself," 
replied Miss Lauriat, not very graciously. 
She took a sudden step or two backwards and 
lifted her face towards the windows, most of 
which were crowded with weeping women and 
angry men. 
" You poor people ! " she cried, " I can't 
help it, and you know I can't. I would if I 
could. I would do anything. Who is it that 's 
sick ? Where is Dan Badger ? I must speak 
with Dan." 
Her upturned throat, showing white 
through the hurrying twilight, rose from her 
furs like a carving by Canova set upon velvet. 
Her impassioned face, fired by the beauty of 
selflessness and pity, swam before the doc- 
tor's eyes. It puzzled him as much as it 
thrilled him. 
A woman's voice, shrill and sobbing, came 
down from above. " It 's Cady's Molly — 
Dan 's right behind you, Miss. lie 's lucky. 
He 's outside. I wish 't we was ! " 
" I won't forget you," Miss Lauriat called 
 
up in her rich, generous voice. " I 'll see the 
doctors. I 'll send a nurse. I 'll do all I can. 
Perhaps there isn't anything in it after all. 
It may not he diphtheria at all ! Perhaps it 's 
only a sore throat." 
The doctor smiled at this unconscious insult 
to his profession and his office ; but the 
tenants were comforted. 
" Here I be, Miss," said a plaintive voice 
behind her. 
" Oh, Dan ! " The young lady turned 
quickly. An undersized, crippled lad, leaning 
on one crutch, stood in the muddy snow, 
watching her like a dog. " So Mr. Smithers 
was going to turn you out, was he ? Why 
didn't you pay your rent?" 
" Couldn't," said Dan patiently. " Trixy 's 
been sick with a cough." 
"Where is Trixy now?" 
" Gone to market for supper — acrosst the 
alley. I 'm a watchin'." 
Still with his back to the door, the doctor 
silently observed the scene. He was waiting 
for his assistant to come back with an officer. 
" You can't go back there, Dan," said the 
lady ruefully. " This gentleman won't let 
 
you. Somebody's sick inside. What will you 
do?" 
"We'll get in somewheres," said Dan 
sweetly ; " there 's places. Don't you fret, 
Miss Laurie." 
" Oh, I can't have that sort of thing," said 
Miss Lauriat decidedly. " You and Trixy 
come to the coach house this evening. We 'll 
put you up, somehow." 
The officer arrived at this moment, and the 
physician gave way, escaping from his uncom- 
fortable position with evident embarrassment. 
As Miss Lauriat turned to go back through 
the darkening alley, he joined her timidly. 
She noticed that he kept as wide a space between 
them as the narrow and now freezing" 
sidewalk permitted. 
" I am really very sorry," he observed with 
a touch of something like humility which sat 
awkwardly upon his dogmatic manner, " that 
