"Is that the dog?" he inquired, adjusting his spectacles.
"That's the dog," I said. "He's full of points, you see?"
"Oh," mused the professor; "I thought he was full of--" He hesitated,
inspecting the animal, who, nose to the ground, stood investigating a
smell of some sort.
"See," I said, with enthusiasm, "he's found a scent; he's trailing it
already! Now he's rolling on it!"
"He's rolling on one of our concentrated food lozenges," said the
professor, dryly. "Tie him up, Mr. Gilland, and ask Mrs. Gilland to
come up to camp. Your room is ready."
"Rooms," I corrected; "she isn't Mrs. Gilland yet," I added, with a
forced smile.
"But you're practically married," observed the professor, "as you
pointed out to me. And if she's practically Mrs. Gilland, why not say
so?"
"Don't, all the same," I snarled.
"But marriages are made in--"
I cast a desperate eye upon him.
From that moment, whenever we were alone together, he made a target of
me. I never had supposed him humorously vindictive; he was, and his
apparently innocent mistakes almost turned my hair gray.
But to Miss Barrison he was kind and courteous, and for a time
over-serious. Observing him, I could never detect the slightest
symptom of dislike for her sex--a failing which common rumor had
always credited him with to the verge of absolute rudeness.
On the contrary, it was perfectly plain to anybody that he liked her.
There was in his manner towards her a mixture of business formality
and the deferential attitude of a gentleman.
We were seated, just before sunset, outside of the hut built of
palmetto logs, when Professor Farrago, addressing us both, began the
explanation of our future duties.
Miss Barrison, it appeared, was to note everything said by himself,
making several shorthand copies by evening. In other words, she was to
report every scrap of conversation she heard while in the Everglades.
And she nodded intelligently as he finished, and drew pad and pencil
from the pocket of her walking-skirt, jotting down his instructions as
a beginning. I could see that he was pleased.
"The reason I do this," he said, "is because I do not wish to hide
anything that transpires while we are on this expedition. Only the
most scrupulously minute record can satisfy me; no details are too
small to merit record; I demand and I court from my fellow-scientists
and from the public the fullest investigation."
He smiled slightly, turning towards me.
"You know, Mr. Gilland, how dangerous to the reputation of a
scientific man is any line of investigation into the unusual. If a man
once is even suspected of charlatanism, of sensationalism, of turning
his attention to any phenomena not strictly within the proper pale of
scientific investigation, that man is doomed to ridicule; his
profession disowns him; he becomes a man without honor, without
authority. Is it not so?"
"Yes," I said.
"Therefore," he resumed, thoughtfully, "as I do most firmly believe in
the course I am now pursuing, whether I succeed or fail I desire a
true and minute record made, hiding nothing of what may be said or
done. A stenographer alone can give this to the world, while I can
only supplement it with a description of events--if I live to
transcribe them."
Sunk in profound reverie he sat there silent under the great, smooth
palm-tree--a venerable figure in his yellow dressing-gown and carpet
slippers. Seated side by side, we waited, a trifle awed. I could hear
the soft breathing of the pretty stenographer beside me.
"First of all," said Professor Farrago, looking up, "I must be able to
trust those who are here to aid me."
"I--I will be faithful," said the girl, in a low voice.
"I do not doubt you, my child," he said; "nor you, Gilland. And so I
am going to tell you this much now--more, I hope, later."
And he sat up straight, lifting an impressive forefinger.
"Mr. Rowan, lately an officer of our Coast Survey, wrote me a letter
from the Holland House in New York--a letter so strange that, on
reading it, I immediately repaired to his hotel, where for hours we
talked together.
"The result of that conference is this expedition.
"I have now been here two months, and I am satisfied of certain facts.
First, there do exist in this unexplored wilderness certain forms of
life which are solid and palpable, but transparent and practically
invisible. Second, these living creatures belong to the animal
kingdom, are warm-blooded vertebrates, possess powers of locomotion,
but whether that of flight I am not certain. Third, they appear to
possess such senses as we enjoy--smell, touch, sight, hearing, and no
doubt the sense of taste. Fourth, their skin is smooth to the touch,
and the temperature of the epidermis appears to approximate that of a
normal human being. Fifth and last, whether bipeds or quadrupeds I do
not know, though all evidence appears to confirm my theory that they
walk erect. One pair of their limbs appear to terminate in a sort of
foot--like a delicately shaped human foot, except that there appear to
be no toes. The other pair of limbs terminate in something that, from
the single instance I experienced, seemed to resemble soft but firm
antennæ or, perhaps, digitated palpi--"
"Feelers!" I blurted out.
"I don't know, but I think so. Once, when I was standing in the
forest, perfectly aware that creatures I could not see had stealthily
surrounded me, the tension was brought to a crisis when over my face,
from cheek to chin, stole a soft something, brushing the skin as
delicately as a child's fingers might brush it."
"Good Lord!" I breathed.
A care-worn smile crept into his eyes. "A test for nerves, you think,
Mr. Gilland? I agree with you. Nobody fears what anybody can see."
There came the slightest movement beside me.
"Are you trembling?" I asked, turning.
"I was writing," she replied, steadily. "Did my elbow touch you?"
"By-the-way," said Professor Farrago, "I fear I forgot to congratulate
you upon your choice of a stenographer, Mr. Gilland."
A rosy light stole over her pale face.
"Am I to record that too?" she asked, raising her blue eyes.
"Certainly," he replied, gravely.
"But, professor," I began, a prey to increasing excitement, "do you
propose to attempt the capture of one of these animals?"
"That is what the cage is for," he said. "I supposed you had guessed
that."
"I had," murmured the pretty stenographer.
"I do not doubt it," said Professor Farrago, gravely.
"What are the chemicals for--and the tank and hose attachment?"
"Think, Mr. Gilland."
"I can't; I'm almost stunned by what you tell me."
He laughed. "The rosium oxide and salts of strontium are to be dumped
into the tank together. They'll effervesce, of course."
"Of course," I muttered.
"And I can throw a rose-colored spray over any object by the hose
attachment, can't I?"
"Yes."
