Then the peasant rose, and with the grace and courtesy of a grandee
possessed himself of a bonbon. But he did not know, perhaps, that it was
intended to go the road of black bread and garlic, for he fumbled in the
pocket of his blouse, brought forth an envelope, rolled up the
sweetmeat, and tenderly secreted it. Lydia gave him a radiant smile,
shook her head, and still held out the box.
“Eat one,” she said; and as the man only stared at her with deepening
color, she put one of the bonbons into her own mouth and motioned to him
to follow suit. This time he obeyed her, and for the moment they had the
appearance, and perhaps the sensation, of breaking bread together.
“Dios de mi alma!” muttered the man, and then Lydia bowed to him gravely
and turned slowly, reluctantly, and rejoined her panting family. Mrs.
Moulton’s face was scarlet; she was sitting upright; the air-cushions
were in a heap on the floor. Mr. Moulton’s bland visage expressed solemn
indignation, an expression which he had the ability to infuse into the
review of a book prudence warned him to condemn.
“Lydia Moulton!” exclaimed her mother.
“I am grieved and ashamed,” said her father.
“Why?” asked Lydia, flippantly. “It is the custom in Spain to share with
your travelling companions, and last night you said you had rather I
married a Spanish peasant than a Spanish gentleman.”
“I am ashamed of you!” repeated Mr. Moulton, with dignity. “Are you
looking for a husband, may I ask? If so, we will go direct to Gibraltar
and take the first steamer for America.”
Lydia colored, but she was still in a naughty mood, and, encouraged by a
sympathetic flash from Catalina, she retorted:
“No, I don’t want to marry, but I do want to be able to look at a man
unchaperoned by the entire family. I haven’t had the liberty of a
convent girl since I arrived in Europe. I feel like running off with the
first man that finds a chance to propose to me.”
Mrs. Moulton, whose complexion during this outburst had faded to its
normal gray tones, the little lines of cultivated worries and invalidism
quivering on the surface, turned her pale gaze upon Catalina. She stared
mutely, but volumes rolled into the serene, contemptuous orbs two seats
away.
Mr. Moulton, in his way, was a rapid thinker. “My dear,” he said,
gently, to the revolutionist, “if we have surrounded you it has not been
from distrust, but because you are far too pretty to be alone among
foreigners for a moment. At home, as you know, you often receive your
young friends alone. I am sure that when you think the matter over you
will regret your lapse from dignity, particularly as you have no doubt
disturbed that poor young man’s peace of mind.”
Lydia seldom rebelled, but she had learned that when her father became
diplomatic she might as well smite upon stone; so she refrained from
further sarcasm, and, retreating to a seat behind the others, stared
sullenly out of the window. She was not unashamed of herself, but
longed, nevertheless, to meet again the fiery gaze of the Catalan—“the
anarchist,” she called him; it sounded far better than peasant. Zuñiga
dwindled out of her memory as the poor, artificial thing he no doubt
was. At last she had seen a blaze of admiration in the eyes of a real
man. She was not wise enough to know that it was nothing in her meagre
little personality that had roused the lightnings in a manly bosom,
merely a type of prettiness made unconventional by the setting and the
man. But the impression was made, and had she dared she would have sent
an occasional demure glance towards the young peasant behind her; as it
was she adjusted her charming profile for his delectation.
They entered the long tunnel which the train traverses before skirting
the bluffs of Tarragona. Spain does not light its railway carriages
before dark. Lydia had thrown her arm along the seat. Suddenly she
became aware that some one, as lithe and noiseless as a cat, had entered
the seat behind her. She was smitten with sudden terror, and held her
breath. A second later a pair of young and ardent lips passed as lightly
as a passing flame along her rigid hand.
“Dueño adorado!” The voice was almost at her ear. Then she knew that the
seat was empty again. Her first impulse had been to cry out; she was
terrified and furious. But she had a quick vision of a mêlée of knives
and pistols, the Guardia Civile and peasant, reinforcements from the
next car, and the death of all her party. It was the imaginative feat of
her life, and as the train ran out of the tunnel she congratulated
herself warmly and put on her hat as indifferently as Jane, who had
never known the kiss of man. She swept past her admirer with her head
high and her lids—with their curling lashes—low.
                                  VII
“Ah!” exclaimed Captain Over, “this is Spain! Who is going to sit with
me in front?”
Catalina made no reply, but she ran swiftly to the big, canvas-covered
diligence, climbed over the high wheel before Over could follow to
assist her, and seated herself beside the driver with the most
ingratiating manner that any of her party had seen her assume. Over
placed himself beside her, the others took possession of the rear, the
driver cracked his whip, and the six mules, jingling with half a hundred
bells, leaped down the dusty road towards the steep and rocky heights
where Tarragona has defied the nations of the earth. Then it was that
Over laughed softly, and the innocent Moultons learned what depths of
iniquity may lie at the base of a ranch-girl’s blandishments. As they
reached the foot of the bluff the delighted youth who was answerable to
Heaven for his precious freight abandoned the reins. Catalina gathered
them in one hand, half rose from her seat, and with a great flourish
cracked the long whip, not once, but thrice, delivering herself of
sharp, peremptory cries in Spanish. The mules needed no further
encouragement. They tore up the steep and winding road, whisked round
curves, strained every muscle to show what a Spanish mule could do. They
even shook their heads and tossed them in the air that their bells might
jingle the louder. Mrs. Moulton and Jane screamed, clinging to each
other, the portmanteaus bounced to the floor, and Mr. Moulton would have
grasped Catalina’s arm but Over intercepted and reassured him. And,
indeed, there were few better whips than Catalina in a state notorious
for a century of reckless and brilliant driving. She drove like a
cowboy, not like an Englishwoman, Over commented, but he felt the
exhilaration of it, even when the unwieldy diligence bounded from side
to side in the narrow road and the dust enveloped them. In a moment he
shifted his eyes to her face. Her white teeth were gleaming through the
half-open bow of her mouth, tense but smiling, and her splendid eyes
were flashing, not only with the pleasure of the born horsewoman, but
with a wicked delight in the consternation behind her. She looked,
despite the mules and the dusty old diligence, like a goddess in a
chariot of victory, and Over, who rarely imagined, half expected to see
fire whirling in the clouds of dust about the wheels.
As they reached the top of the bluff the driver indicated the way, and
they flew down the Rambla San Carlos, past the astounded soldiers
lounging in front of the barracks, and stopped with a grand flourish in
front of the hotel.
Catalina turned to Over, her lips still parted, her eyes glittering.
“That is the first time I have been really happy since I left home,” she
announced, ignoring her precipitately descending relatives. “I feel
young again, and I’ve felt as old as the hills ever since I’ve been in
Europe. I’ll like you forever because you approve of me, and I haven’t
seen that expression on anybody’s face for months.”
“Oh, I approve of you!” said the Englishman, laughing.
They descended, and she challenged him to race her to the parapet that
