"Yes," said Annandale to the chastened waiter, "order that and some
moselle, and I want a Scotch and soda. There's Orr," he interrupted
himself to announce. "I wonder what he is doing uptown? And there's
Loftus."
At the mention of Orr, Fanny, who had been eying an adjacent gown,
evinced no interest. But at the mention of Loftus she glanced about
the room.
It was large, high-ceiled, peopled with actresses and men-about-town,
smart women and stupid boys, young girls and old beaux. From a balcony
there dripped the twang of mandolins. In the air was the savor of
pineapple, the smell of orris, the odor of food and flowers.
On entering Sylvia had stopped to say a word at one table, Fanny had
loitered at another. Then in their trip to a table already reserved,
a trip conducted by the maitre d'hôtel whom Annandale had rebuked,
murmurs trailed after them, the echo of their names, observations
profoundly analytical. "That's Fanny Price, the great beauty." "That's
Miss Waldron, who is engaged to Arthur Annandale." "That is Annandale
there"--the usual subtleties of the small people of a big city. Now,
at the entrance, Orr and Loftus appeared.
"Shall I ask them to join us?" Annandale asked.
"Yes, do," said Fanny. "I like Mr. Orr so much."
But Loftus, who, with his hands in his pockets, a monocle in his eye,
had been looking about with an air of great contempt for everybody,
already with Orr was approaching. On reaching the table very little
urging was required to induce them to sit, and, when seated they were,
Loftus was next to Fanny.
"What are you doing uptown at this hour?" Annandale asked Orr, who had
got between Loftus and Sylvia. "I thought you lawyers were all so
infernally busy."
"Everybody ought to be," Orr replied. "Although an anarchist who had
managed to get himself locked up, and whom I succeeded in getting out,
confided to me that only imbeciles work. By way of exchange I had to
confide to him that it is only imbeciles that do not."
"Now that," said Annandale, who had never done a stroke of work in his
life, "is what I call a very dangerous theory."
"A theory that is not dangerous," Orr retorted, "can hardly be called
a theory at all."
With superior tact Sylvia intervened. "But what is anarchy,
Melanchthon? Socialism I know about, but anarchy--?"
"To put it vulgarly, I drink and you pay."
"But suppose I am an anarchist?"
"Then Sherry pays."
"But supposing he is an anarchist?"
"Then there is a row. And there will be one. The country is drifting
that way. It will, I think, be bloody, but I think, too, it will be
brief. Anarchists, you know, maintain that of all prejudices capital
and matrimony are the stupidest. What they demand is the free
circulation of money and women. As a nation, we are great at
entertaining, but we will never entertain that."
"Why, then, did you not let the beggar rot where he was?" Annandale
swiftly and severely inquired.
"Oh, you know, if I had not got him out someone else would have, and I
thought it better that the circulation of money should proceed
directly from his pocket to mine."
"You haven't any stupid prejudices yourself, that's clear," said
Annandale, helping himself as he spoke to more Scotch. "Sylvia," he
continued, "if I am ever up for murder I will retain Melanchthon Orr."
Orr laughed. "That retainer will never reach me. You would not hurt a
fly."
"Wouldn't I?" And Annandale assumed an expression of great ferocity.
"You don't know me. I can imagine circumstances in which I could wade
in gore. By the way, I have ordered a revolver."
"What!"
"Yes, a burglar got in my place the night before last and woke me up.
If he comes back and wakes me up again I'll blow his head off."
Sylvia looked at him much as she might at a boastful child. "Yes, yes,
Arthur, but please don't take so much of that whisky."
"I think I will have a drop of it, if I may," said Loftus, who
meanwhile had been talking to Fanny. In a moment he turned to her
anew.
"Where are you going this summer?"
"To Narragansett. It is cool and cheap. Why don't you come?"
"It is such a beastly hole."
"Well, perhaps. But do you think you would think so if I were there?"
"That would rather depend on how you treated me."
"You mean, don't you, that it would rather depend on how I let you
treat me?" Fanny, as she spoke, looked Loftus in the eyes and made a
face at him.
That face, Loftus, after a momentary interlude with knife and fork,
tried to mimic. "If a chap gave you the chance you would drive him to
the devil."
On Fanny's lips a smile bubbled. She shook her pretty head. "No, not
half so far. Not even so far as the other end of Fifth avenue, where I
saw you trying to scrape acquaintance with that girl. Apropos. You
might tell me. How are matters progressing? Has the castle
capitulated?"
"I haven't an idea what you are talking about."
"That's right. Assume a virtue though you have it not. It's a good
plan."
"It does not appear to be yours."
"Appearances may be deceptive."
"And even may not be."
Sylvia interrupted them. "What are you two quarreling about?"
"Mr. Loftus does not like my hat. Don't you like it, Mr. Orr?"
"I like everything about you, everything, from the crown of your head
to the soles of your feet."
"There!" exclaimed Fanny. "That is the way I like to have a man talk."
"It is dreadfully difficult," Loftus threw in.
"You seem to find it so," Fanny threw back.
Sylvia raised a finger. "Mr. Loftus, if you do not stop quarreling
with Fanny I will make you come and sit by me."
"If I am to look upon that as a punishment, Miss Waldron," Loftus with
negligent gallantry replied, "what would you have me regard as a
reward?"
"Arthur! Arthur!" Fanny cried. "Did you hear that? This man is making
up to Sylvia."
But Annandale did not seem in the least alarmed. He was looking about
for Ferdinand. "Here," he began, when at last the waiter appeared.
"You neglect us shamefully. We want some more moselle and more
Scotch."
"None for me," said Loftus rising. "I have an appointment."
"Appointment," Fanny announced, "is very good English for
rendezvous."
"And taisez-vous, mademoiselle, is very good French for I wish it
were with yourself."
"I have not a doubt of it."
"Fanny!" Sylvia objected. "You are impossible."
"Yes," Fanny indolently replied. "Yet then, to be impossible and seem
the reverse is the proper caper for a debutante. Heigho! I wish girls
smoked here. I would give a little of my small change for a cigarette.
