destruction.
'Mother, please don't!' cried Lushington, in helpless distress. 'You
know that I can't take money from you!'
'Oh, I know, I know! That is the worst of it--I know! It is not because
you are proud of earning your own living, it's because you're ashamed
of me!'
Lushington rose again, and began to walk up and down, bending his head
and glancing at her now and then.
'Why will you always go back to that question?' he asked, and his tone
showed how much he resented it. 'You cannot unlive your life. Don't
make me say more than that, for you don't know how it hurts to say that
much. Indeed you don't!'
He went to the closed window and looked out, turning away from her. She
stretched out her hand and pulled at his coat timidly, as a dog pulls
his master's clothes to attract his attention. He turned his head a
little.
'I've tried to live differently, Tom,' she said. 'Of late years I've
tried.'
Her voice was low and unsteady.
'I know it,' he said just above a whisper, and he turned to the
window-pane again.
'Can't you forgive me, Tom?' she asked pitifully. 'Won't you take some
of the money--only what I made by singing?'
He shook his head without looking round, for it would have hurt him to
see her eyes just then.
'I have enough, mother,' he answered. 'I make as much as I need.'
'You will need much more when you marry.'
'I shall never marry.'
'You will marry little Miss Donne,' said Madame Bonanni, after a
moment's pause.
Lushington turned sharply now, and leaned back against the glass.
'No,' he answered, with sudden hardness, 'I can't ask Miss Donne to be
my wife. No man in my position could have the right. You understand
what I mean, and heaven knows I don't wish to pain you, mother--I'd
give anything not to! Why do you talk of these things?'
'Because I feel that you're unhappy, Tom, and I know that I am--and
there must be some way out of it. After all, my dear--now don't be
angry!--Miss Donne is a good girl--she's all that I wish I had
been--but after all, she's going to be an opera-singer. You are the son
of an artist and I don't see why any artist should not marry you. The
public believes we are all bad, whether we are or not.'
'I'm not thinking of the public,' Lushington answered. 'I don't care a
straw what the world says. If I had been offered my choice I would not
have changed my name at all.'
'But then, my dear, what in the world are you thinking of?' asked the
prima donna, evidently surprised by what he said. 'If the girl loves
you, do you suppose she will care what I've done?'
'But I care!' cried Lushington with sudden vehemence. 'I care, for her
sake!'
Madame Bonanni's hand had disappeared within the furs again, after she
had ascertained that the two tears were not going to run down her
cheeks. Her large face wore the expression of a coloured sphinx, and
there was something Egyptian about the immobility of her eyes and her
painted eyebrows. No one could have guessed from her look whether she
were going to cry or laugh the next time she spoke. Lushington walked
up and down the room without glancing at her.
'Do you think----' she began, and broke off as he stopped to listen.
'What?' he inquired, standing still.
'Would it make it any better if--if I married again?' She asked the
question with hesitation.
'How? I don't understand.'
'They always say that marriage is so respectable,' Madame Bonanni
answered, in a matter-of-fact tone. 'I don't know why, I'm sure, but
everybody seems to think it is, and if it would help matters--I mean,
if Miss Donne would consider that a respectable marriage with a solid,
middle-class man would settle the question, I suppose I could manage
it. I could always divorce, you know, if it became unbearable!'
'Yes,' Lushington answered. 'Marriage is the first step to the divorce
court. For heaven's sake, don't talk in this way! I've made up my mind
that I cannot marry, and that ends it. Let it alone. We each know what
the other thinks, and we are each trying to make the best of what can't
be undone. Talking about it can do no good. Nothing can. It's the
inevitable, and so the least said about it, the better. Sometimes you
say that I am ungrateful, mother, but I'm not, you don't mean it
seriously. If I've made my own way, it is because you started me right,
by making me work instead of bringing me up at your apron-strings, to
live on your money. You did it so well, too, that you cannot undo it,
now that you would like to make me rich. Why aren't you proud of that,
mother? It's the best thing you ever did in your life--God bless you!
And yet you say I'm ungrateful!'
At this, there was a convulsion of the white furs; Madame Bonanni
suddenly emerged, erect, massive and seething with motherly emotion;
throwing her arms round her son she pressed him to her with a strength
and vehemence that might have suffocated a weaker man. As it was,
Lushington was speechless in her embrace for several seconds, while she
uttered more or less incoherent cries of joy.
'My child! My own darling Tommy! Oh, you make me so happy!'
Lushington let her print many heavy kisses on his cheeks, and he gently
patted her shoulder with his free hand. He was very patient and
affectionate, considering the frightful dilemma with regard to her in
which he had lived all his life; for, as his mother, he loved her, but
as a woman, he knew that he could never respect her, whatever she might
do to retrieve her past. He could find excuses for the life she had
led, but they were only palliatives that momentarily soothed the
rankling sore in his heart, which nothing could heal. In his own world
of literature and work and publicity, he had a name of his own, not
without honour, and respected by every one. But to himself, to the few
trusted persons who knew his secret, above all to Margaret Donne, he
was the son of that 'Bonanni woman,' who had been the spoilt plaything
of royalty and semi-royalty from London to St. Petersburg, whose lovers
had been legion and her caprices as the sand on the sea-shore. There
were times when Lushington could not bear to see her, and kept away
from her, or even left the city in which they were together. There were
days when the natural bond drew him to her, and when he realised that,
with countless faults, she had been to him a far better mother than
most men are blessed with.
And now, poor thing, she was grateful to the verge of tears for his one
word of blessing that seemed to wipe out all the rest. She wished that
when her hour came, she might hear him say again 'God bless you,' and
then die.
She let him go, and sat down amongst her furs, with a deep sigh of
satisfaction.
'I've made up my mind what to do,' she said, almost as if she were
talking to herself. 'I'm tired of it all, Tom, and I'm losing my good
looks and my figure. If this goes on, I shall soon be ridiculous. You
would not like your mother to be ridiculous, would you?'
'Certainly not!'
'No, my angel! Be good if you can; if you can't be good, be bad; but
never be ridiculous! Oh, never, never! I could not bear that. So I
shall leave the stage, quietly, without any farewell. I shall cancel my
