friend? We were not very warm friends when I knew you."

Was it a school friend playing a prank?

"I am so tired." She dropped down on a stone. "I wanted to see you
first--I am a little afraid of Miss Holmes." Then she pulled off the
headgear, afterward the gray wig.

Laverne stood astounded. "It isn't, it surely isn't Carmen Estenega!"

"Why--yes; you know you saw me last at the Convent."

"And you were going to be married."

"Oh, what a blind idiot I was! But it was considered a great thing,
and I didn't know how any one might love then. I know now. I have run
away. I would kill myself sooner than marry Pascuel Estenega."

Laverne drew a long breath. Yes, this really was Carmen. The eyes, the
mouth, when she talked, but there was a fire in the face that had not
been there in childhood, and a spirit that half frightened Laverne.

"I want to see your uncle. I have a note to him, from--from a person
he has confidence in. And I want to tell him my story. I think men
take a different view, of some things, at least I believe he will, and
another person thinks so."

She blushed as she uttered this.

"You ran away--from the Convent?"

"Yes. It was very skilfully planned. They were not quite so strict--I
was to be married in a month, there in the chapel, and they allowed me
time to myself. I had a--a girl devoted to me, who did embroidery and
sewing, and she carried notes. Then there was a place in the old
garden where the railing was broken, but it was hidden by the
shrubbery. A girl had seen a snake there, and no one would go near it.
We used to meet there when his vessel came in. And it was all
planned."

"He--who? Not----" and Laverne hardly knew how to put her question.

"Oh, not Pascuel Estenega. He love a girl!"

The face seemed to quiver with scornful indignation, and the eyes
fairly blazed.

"He is an American. He is in the employ of your uncle, and he will be
good to us both. Perhaps in his youth he knew what love was. We are
going to trust him. He comes up with the trading vessel on Saturday.
He put me on another, the Lulita, an old Spanish thing, and I was an
old Mexican woman. No one suspected. We came in at noon, and I walked
off. Gracious! how the world has changed. I had to ask the way; no one
paid any attention to an old woman with a stick, and bent in the
shoulders."

She gave a triumphant laugh.

"But--your marriage----"

She seemed to study Laverne from head to foot, and the girl shrank a
little.

"Holy Mother, what a child you are! Not in long skirts yet! And you
know nothing about love; but you may some day. Not like the heat that
is in the Spanish blood, when it is roused, but many a woman is given
in marriage who knows no more about it than a child. Papa Estenega
came to see me when I had been in the Convent some months. I do not
understand, but mamacita has some old portraits and archives and
jewels, that came from Spain, and we are the last of the two houses.
He was very anxious for these, and mamacita had no son. So when she
came they signed a marriage contract. Pascuel had been ill, and the
doctor had taken him away for his health. We went out to the estate.
It is a splendid old place. I was very proud then of being chosen as
its mistress. Well, perhaps I held my head too lofty. Then I heard
that years before Pascuel had wedded a young girl, and when her baby
was born dead, he treated her very bitterly, and one night she threw
herself down an old well, though it was said she had gone out of her
mind. He came to the convent after a while, and I thought I should
faint when I saw him. He was a shrunken-up thing, a good head shorter
than his father. Oh, I do believe I could have married Papa Estenega
more willingly. His eyes were small and cruel, he had a great
mustache, over a hanging lip, and his hair was already turning white.
Then I began to place some credence in what one of the girls said, and
repeated it to mamacita. Panchita was sent away from school the next
week, and no one knew just why. Mamacita would not hear a word, and
said it was sheer envy; that any girl would be proud of reigning
there, and being the mother of an Estenega heir. And then I saw Señor
José Hudson, the American, and my heart seemed to go out of me at
once. We talked with our eyes, and then he sent me a note. He came to
church two or three times, but of course we hardly dared look at each
other. He found this broken place, and I used to steal down there. Oh,
it was delicious! I told him all the story, and he said we would run
away and that I should be his wife. He had no estate, but he could
make enough money to take care of me, and that we would go farther
north, and be, oh, so happy with each other. So I seemed to give in,
and fretted mamacita no more, and they began with the trousseau. Señor
Hudson planned it all, and brought me the wig and the garments. And
one day, just dusk, I slipped out, a lame old woman, and a servant
took me to the boat. He was waiting there, and we had a talk. You see,
it would not have been best for me to come on his boat. When he asked
me if I had any trusty friend in San Francisco, I spoke of you, and he
said, 'Oh, that is my master. Jason Chadsey owns the boat. I have
worked for him two years. Go straight to him and he will befriend
you.' So he wrote the letter I have in my hand. I could not seek him
in that busy place, where there were crowds of men around, so I found
my way up here. Juana had written me about it, though I was frightened
at every step. And I found you. I saw you up here with the dog. You
know in that old time I did not care much for you, we were taught that
the Americanos were interlopers, and would sweep us out of our homes,
drive us, heaven only knew where, but now, because I have found one so
sweet and noble and tender, I can see the virtues and graces in you
all. And I know you will befriend me."

She knelt suddenly at Laverne's feet, and snatching her hands, covered
them with kisses. Isola Savedra sometimes did this. The child was
confused, helpless.

"And the Señor Chadsey will be good to me for the sake of Señor
Hudson. It will be only two days. And will you beseech your Señora to
