accustomed to the exercises and sports of men: he could ride fearlessly,
if not untiringly; he was a fair shot; he had hunted wild boar with his
stepfather in the marshy lands by the sea; he had been taught to fence
and was not clumsy with weapons, though he had not yet any great skill.
He had always been told that he was delicate and must be careful, and he
knew that he was not strong; but there was one good sign in that his
weakness irritated him and bred at least the desire for strength,
instead of the poor-spirited indolence that bears bodily infirmity as
something inevitable, and is ready to accept pity if not to ask for it.
The smell of the damp earth was gone, and as the sun shone out the air
was filled with the scent of warm roses and the faintly sweet odour of
wistaria. Marcello heard a light footstep close to him, and met his
mother's eyes as he turned.
Even to him, she looked very young just then, as she stood in the light,
smiling at him. A piece of lace was drawn half over her fair hair, and
the ends went round her throat like a scarf and fell behind her. Its
creamy tints heightened the rare transparency of her complexion by faint
contrast. She was a slight woman and very graceful.
"I have looked for you everywhere," she said, and she still smiled, as
if with real pleasure at having found him.
"I have been watching the shower" Marcello answered, drawing her to the
window. "And then the earth and the roses smelt so sweet that I stayed
here. Did you want me, mother?"
"I always like to know where you are."
She passed her arm through his with a loving pressure, and looked out
of the window with him. The villa stood on the slope of the Janiculum,
close to the Corsini gardens.
"Do I run after you too much?" the mother asked presently, as if she
knew the answer. "Now that you are growing up, do I make you feel as if
you were still a little boy? You are nearly nineteen, you know! I
suppose I ought to treat you like a man."
Marcello laughed, and his hand slipped into hers with an almost childish
and nestling movement.
"You have made a man of me," he answered.
Had she? A shadow of doubt crossed her thoughtful face as she glanced at
his. He was so different from other young men of his age, so delicately
nurtured, so very gentle; there was the radiance of maidenly innocence
in his look, and she was afraid that he might be more like a girl than a
man almost grown.
"I have done my best," she said. "I hope I have done right."
He scarcely understood what she meant, and his expression did not
change.
"You could not do anything that was not right," he answered.
Perhaps such a being as Marcello would be an impossibility anywhere but
in Italy. Modern life tears privacy to tatters, and privacy is the veil
of the temple of home, within which every extreme of human development
is possible, good and bad. Take privacy away and all the strangely
compound fractions of humanity are soon reduced to a common
denomination. In Italy life has more privacy than anywhere else west of
Asia. The Englishman is fond of calling his home his castle, but it is a
thoroughfare, a market-place, a club, a hotel, a glass house, compared
with that of an average Italian. An Englishman goes home to escape
restraint: an Italian goes out. But the northern man, who lives much in
public, learns as a child to conceal what he feels, to be silent, to
wear an indifferent look; whereas the man of the south, who hides
nothing when the doors of his house are shut, can hide but little when
he meets his enemy in the way. He laughs when he is pleased, and scowls
when he is not, threatens when he is angry, and sheds tears when he is
hurt, with a simplicity that too often excites the contempt of men
accustomed to suffer or enjoy without moving a muscle.
Privacy favours the growth of individual types, differing widely from
each other; the destruction of it makes people very much alike.
Marcello's mother asked herself whether she had done well in rearing him
as a being apart from those amongst whom he must spend his life.
And yet, as she looked at him, he seemed to be so nearly the ideal of
which she had dreamt throughout long years of loving care that she was
comforted, and the shadow passed away from her sweet face. He had
answered that she could do nothing that was not right; she prayed that
his words might be near the truth, and in her heart she was willing to
believe that they were almost true. Had she not followed every good
impulse of her own good heart? Had she not tried to realize literally
for him the most beautiful possibilities of the Christian faith? That,
at least, was true, and she could tell herself so without any mistaken
pride. How, then, had she made any mistake? The boy had the face of a
young saint.
"Are you ready, my dear?" she asked suddenly, as a far-off clock struck.
"Yes, mother, quite ready."
"I am not," she answered with a little laugh. "And Folco is waiting, and
I hear the carriage driving up."
She slipped from Marcello's side and left the room quickly, for they
were going to drive down to the sea, to a little shooting-lodge that
belonged to them near Nettuno, a mere cottage among the trees by the
Roman shore, habitable only in April and May, and useful only then, when
the quail migrate along the coast and the malarious fever is not yet to
be feared. It was there that Marcello had first learned to handle a gun,
spending a week at a time there with his stepfather; and his mother used
to come down now and then for a day or two on a visit, sometimes
bringing her friend the Contessa dell' Armi. The latter had been very
unhappy in her youth, and had been left a widow with one beautiful girl
and a rather exiguous fortune. Some people thought that it was odd that
the Signora Corbario, who was a saint if ever there was one, should have
grown so fond of the Contessa, for the latter had seen stormy days in
years gone by; and of course the ill-disposed gossips made up their
minds that the Contessa was trying to catch Marcello for her daughter
Aurora, though the child was barely seventeen.
This was mere gossip, for she was quite incapable of any such scheme.
What the gossips did not know was something which would have interested
them much more, namely, that the Contessa was the only person in Rome
who distrusted Folco Corbario, and that she was in constant fear lest
she should turn out to be right, and lest her friend's paradise should
be suddenly changed into a purgatory. But she held her tongue, and her
quiet face never betrayed her thoughts. She only watched, and noted from
month to month certain small signs which seemed to prove her right; and
she should be ready, whenever the time should come, by day or night, to
help her friend, or comfort her, or fight for her.
If Corbario guessed that the Contessa did not trust him, he never showed
it. He had found her installed as his wife's friend, and had accepted
her, treating her with much courtesy and a sort of vicarious affection;
but though he tried his best he could not succeed in reaching anything
like intimacy with her, and while she seemed to conceal nothing, he felt
that she was hiding her real self from him. Whether she did so out of
pride, or distrust, or jealousy, he could never be sure. He was secretly
irritated and humiliated by her power to oppose him and keep him at a
distance without ever seeming to do so; but, on the other hand, he was
very patient, very tenacious of his purpose, and very skilful. He knew
something of the Contessa's past, but he recognised in her the nature
that has known the world's worst side and has done with it for ever, and
is lifted above it, and he knew the immense influence which the
spectacle of a blameless life exercises upon the opinion of a good woman
who has not always been blameless herself. Whatever he had been before
