"Somewhere along the road most likely."
"Maybe he'll hide on you."
"He had better not. If he does that, I'll call on the squire about him."
"Can you do that?"
"O' course I can. Didn't he try to burn down the barn? The squire can
make out a warrant for his arrest."
"It would be awful to have him arrested."
"Well, he brought it on himself," answered Abner Balberry, doggedly. "He
had no right to try to set the barn afire. Next thing you know, Mrs.
Felton, he'll be a-trying to burn us up in our beds."
"Oh, I don't think Nat would be as bad as that."
"You don't know thet boy as well as I do. He's sly an' stubborn, and
he'll do 'most anything when he's crossed. But I'll fix him! Jest you
wait an' see!"
"How far will you follow him?"
"As far as it's necessary. If he thinks he can git away from me he'll
find out, sooner or later, he is mistaken."
"You don't know when you'll be back?"
"No. It may be I'll have to wait in town till the squire opens his
office--that is, if I can't find Nat."
"But you are going to look for him yourself first?"
"Yes."
With this answer Abner Balberry drove off in the darkness. Mrs. Felton
watched him and heaved a long and deep sigh.
"Too bad!" she murmured. "If he catches Nat it will surely go hard with
that boy. Well, I didn't think he was bad enough to set fire to a
barn!"
CHAPTER V
THE SALE OF A COW
Totally unconscious of what had taken place at the farm after his
departure, Nat, in company with his friend, Sam Price, proceeded on his
way to Brookville.
On the journey Nat told his friend of many things that had happened to
him and of his uncle's meanness.
"I don't wonder you want a change," said Sam. "I'd want a change
myself."
At last they came in sight of Brookville, and Nat drove the cow to the
yard of Jackson the butcher.
The butcher was a fat, good-natured man of middle age. But he was a
shrewd business man and first-class at driving a bargain.
"What do you want, boy?" he asked of Nat.
"Do you want to buy a cow, Mr. Jackson? Sam says you were out looking
for cows day before yesterday."
"I did want cows then, but I've got nearly all I want now."
"Oh, then I'll go elsewhere," answered Nat.
"Hold on, not so fast. What do you want for your cow?"
"Thirty dollars."
"Phew! you don't want much."
"She's worth it. You can milk her or use her for meat, just as you
choose."
"Whose cow is she?"
"Mine."
"Yours?" And the butcher gazed at Nat curiously.
"Yes. I've owned her ever since she was a little calf."
"And now you are tired of her?"
"Not exactly that, but I want to use the money. Will you buy her?"
"Yes, but not for thirty dollars."
"How much will you give?"
"Twenty dollars."
"I don't care to sell for twenty dollars."
"That's the best I can do."
"Then I'll have to go elsewhere. Come, Jennie," and Nat turned to drive
the cow from the butcher's yard again.
"Hold on!" cried the meat man. "I'll give you twenty-two dollars."
"Make it twenty-five and I'll accept. I can't take less. I ought to get
thirty dollars."
There was some more talk, and in the end, the butcher agreed to pay
twenty-five dollars and did so. He wanted a receipt, and Nat wrote it
out for him.
"So you are Nat Nason," said the butcher. "I used to know your father. A
very nice man."
"He was a nice man."
"Live with your uncle now, don't you?"
"I have been living with him, yes. Good-day, and much obliged," returned
the boy, and to avoid being questioned further he left the yard at once,
followed by Sam.
"You made a good bargain on the cow," said Sam. "I reckon you got every
cent she was worth."
"She was a good cow, Sam. I'm rather sorry to part with her. She was
almost like a friend."
"What are you going to do next?"
"Strike out for the city."
"I wish you luck."
"You won't tell my uncle?"
"Not a word. But, say."
"Well?"
"When you get to the city write and tell me how you like it."
"I will, Sam, and you must tell me the news from home, and how my uncle
gets along without me."
So it was arranged; and a few minutes later the two lads separated, and
Sam Price started for home.
Brookville was on a small branch railroad running to Cleveland, and by
consulting a time-table Nat learned that a train for Cleveland would
leave in ten minutes. He lost no time in purchasing a ticket, and spent
the rest of the time in eating some of the lunch he had brought along.
With over twenty-three dollars still in his pocket he felt rich, and
bought some peanuts and a cake of sweet chocolate.
When the train came along there were scarcely any passengers aboard, so
he had little difficulty in getting the seat he wanted. He sat down by a
window, with his bundle beside him, and gave himself up to thinking and
to looking at the scenery as it whirled past.
Nat had traveled but little on the cars, so the ride to Cleveland was
intensely enjoyable. The different places passed were so interesting
that he soon forgot to think about his prospects, or of what he was to
do when he arrived at the city on the lake.
"Next stop is Cleveland!" cried the conductor, standing at the open
doorway. "All change, for trains east and west!"
A moment later the train rolled into the smoky station, and bundle in
hand, Nat left the car and stepped onto the platform. From there he
walked to the street, where he gazed in some bewilderment at the crowds
of people and the swiftly moving street cars.
"Paper!" cried a newsboy. "Morning paper?"
"No, I don't want any paper," answered Nat.
"All about the big fire in Chicago, boss. Take a paper?"
"Yes, I'll take one," said Nat, and passed over the necessary change.
Off darted the newsboy, to be lost in the crowd on the other side of the
street. Nat gazed at the paper, to find that a tenement had burned out
in Chicago, with the loss of one life.
"That's not such a terrible thing--for a big city like Chicago," he
mused, and then noticed that the newspaper was two days old.
