ing about ? " And as he said nothing, she added, with 
a daring little laugh : " You are credited with being 
very agreeable, you see." 
" If — if that's the way you take it — " he began. 
" Of course ! What do you expect me to do — call 
for help before I'm hurt? " 
" You mean that this talk — gossip — doesn't hurt? " 
" How silly ! " She looked at him, smiling. " You 
know how likely I am to require protection from your 
importunities." She dropped her pretty head, and be- 
gan plaiting with her fingers the silken gown over her 
knee. " Or how likely I would be to shriek for it even 
if " — she looked up with childlike directness — " even if 
I needed it." 
" Of course you can take care of yourself," said 
Plank, wincing. 
 
" I could, if I wanted to." 
" Everybody knows that. I know it, Leroy knows 
it ; only I don't care to figure as that kind of man." 
Already he had lost sight of her position in the 
matter; and she drew a long, quiet breath, almost like 
a sigh. 
" Time enough after you marry," she said delib- 
erately, and lighted a cigarette from a candle, recrossing 
her knees the other way. 
He considered her, started to speak, checked him- 
self, and swung around to the desk again. His pen 
hovered over the space to be filled in. He tried to recol- 
lect the amount, hesitated, dated the cheque and af- 
fixed his signature, still trying to remember; then he 
looked at her over his shoulder. 
" I forget the exact amount." 
She surveyed him through the haze of her cigarette, 
but made no answer. 
" I forget the amount," he repeated. 
" So do I," she nodded indolently. 
" But I " 
" Let it go. Besides, I shall not accept it." 
He flushed up, astonished. " You can't refuse to 
take a gambling debt." 
" I do," she retorted coolly. " I'm tired of taking 
your money." 
" But you won it." 
" I'm tired of winning it. It is all I ever do win 
. . . from you." 
Her pretty head was wreathed in smoke. She tipped 
the ashes from the cigarette's end, watching them fall 
to powder on the rug. 
" I don't know what you mean," he persisted dog- 
gedly. 
" Don't you? I don't believe I do, either. There 
are intervals in my career which might prove eloquent if 
I opened my lips. But I don't, except to make floating 
rings and cabalistic signs out of cigarette smoke. Can 
you read their meaning.'' Look! There goes one, and 
there's another, and another — all twisting and uncurling 
into hieroglyphics. They are very significant; they 
might tell you a lot of things, if you would only trans- 
late them. But you haven't the key — have you? " 
There was a heavy, jarring step in the main living- 
room, and Mortimer's bulk darkened the doorway. 
" Entrez, mon ami,''' nodded Leila, glancing up. 
" Where is Agatha ? " 
" I'm going to Desmond's," he grunted, ignoring 
his wife's question ; " do you want to try it again, 
Beverly?" 
" I can't make Leila take her own winnings," said 
Plank, holding out the signed but unfilled cheque to 
Mortimer, who took it and scrutinised it for a moment, 
rubbing his heavy, inflamed eyes ; then, gesticulating, 
the cheque fluttering in his puff'y fingers: 
" Come on," he insisted. " I've a notion that I can 
give Desmond a whirl that he won't forget in a hurry. 
Agatha's asleep ; she's going to that ball — w here is it ? " 
he demanded, turning on his wife. " Yes, yes ; the Page 
blow-out. You're going, I suppose ? " 
Leila nodded, and lighted another cigarette. 
" All right," continued Mortimer impatiently ; " you 
and Agatha won't start before one. And if you think 
Plank had better go, why, we'll be back here in time." 
" That means you won't be back at all," observed his 
wife coolly ; " and it's good policy for Beverly to go 
where he's asked. Can't you turn in and sleep, now, 
and amuse your friend Desmond to-morrow night? " 
 
" No, I can't. What a fool I'd be to let a chance 
shp when I feel like a winner ! " 
" You never feel otherwise when you gamble," said 
Leila. 
" Yes, I do," he retorted peevishly. " I can tell al- 
most every time what the cards are going to do to me. 
Leila, go to sleep. We'll be back here for you by one, 
or half past." 
" Look here, Leroy," began Plank, " there's one 
thing I can't stand for, and that's this continual loss 
of sleep. If I go with you I'll not be fit to go to the 
Pages." 
" What a farmer you are ! " sneered Mortimer. " I 
believe you roost on the foot-board of your bed, like a 
confounded turkey. Come on ! You'd better begin 
training, you know. People in this town are not going 
to stand for the merry ploughboy game, you see ! " 
But Plank was shrewdly covering his principal rea- 
son for declining ; he had too often " temporarily " as- 
sisted Mortimer at Desmond's and Burbank's, when 
Mortimer, cleaned out and unable to draw against a 
balance non-existent, had plucked him by the sleeve from 
the faro table with the breathless request for a loan. 
" I tell you I can wring Desmond dry to-night," re- 
peated Mortimer sullenly. " It isn't a case of ' want to,' 
either ; it's a case of ' got to.' That old pink-and-white 
rabbit, Belwether, got me into a game this afternoon, 
and between him and Voucher and Alderdine I'm 
stripped clean as a kennel bone." 
But Plank shook his head, pretending to yawn ; and 
Mortimer, glowering and lingering, presently went off, 
his swollen hands thrust into his trousers' pockets, his 
gross features dark with disgust; and presently they 
heard the front door slam, and a rattling tattoo of 
