It was very pleasant to dally there in the woods. He was unnecessarily
awkward, that the slim fingers might touch his, and her little laugh was
charming.
"Allow me to carry the larger one," and he reached for it.
"No, no. You are weighted in the pockets. And these are choice. I will
have no one take part in them."
She drew herself aside and began to march with a graceful, vigorous
step, her head proudly poised on the arching neck that, bared to summer
suns and wind, yet was always white. The delicious little hollow, where
the collar bones met, was formed to lay kisses in, and be filled with
warm, throbbing lips. Yes, he was right in coming back to Quebec, she
was more enchanting than the glimpse of her had been.
"Why do you look at me so?" she cried, with a kind of quick repulsion
she did not understand, but it angered her.
"It is the homage we pay to beauty, Mam'selle."
"Your sister is beautiful," she said, with an abruptness that was almost
anger.
"So thought the Sieur de Champlain, and I believe she was not offended
at it."
"I am not like that," she declared decisively. "She was fair as a lily,
and Father Jamay said she had the face of a saint."
"I am not so partial to saints myself. And my brother-in-law would have
been better satisfied, I do believe, if she had been less saintly."
She looked a trifle puzzled.
"It is long since you left France," she commented irrelevantly.
"I was not seventeen. It is six years ago."
"Do you mean to go back?"
"Sometime, Mam'selle. Would you like to go?"
"No," she said decidedly.
"But why not?" amused.
"Because I like Quebec."
"It is a wretched wilderness of a place."
"Madame Destournier talks about France. Why, if Paris is all gayety and
pleasure, are people put in dungeons, and then to death? And there seem
so many rulers. They are not always good to the Sieur, either."
"They do not understand. But these are too weighty matters for a young
head."
"Why do they not want a great, beautiful town here! All they care about
is the furs, and the rough men and Indians spoil the summer. I like to
hear the Sieur tell what might be, houses and castles, and streets,
instead of these crooked, winding paths, and--there are fine shops,
where you buy beautiful things," glancing vaguely at him.
"Why should you not like to go thither then, if you can dream of these
delights?"
"I want the Sieur to have his way, and do some of the things he has set
his heart upon. Miladi would like it too. But I am well enough
satisfied."
She tossed her head in her superb strength. He had not known many women,
and they were older. There was something in her fresh sweetness that
touched him to the soul.
"This way, M'sieu." He was plunging ahead, keeping pace with some
tumultuous thoughts.
"Ah----!"
"And see--you have been careless. You are sowing plums along the way.
This is no place for them to take root."
She gave a little laugh as well, though she had begun in a sharp tone.
He had pressed the side of his slight receptacle and made a yawning
crack in it.
"Well, now you must gather that great leaf and patch it. Here are some
pine needles. I sew with them sometimes. You do not need a thread."
Was she laughing at him?
He managed to repair the damages, and picked up the plums he had not
trodden upon, that were yielding their wine-like fragrance to the air.
"Which way do you go, M'sieu?" she asked, with unconscious hauteur.
"Why--to M. Destournier's. I called on miladi, and she sent me to find
you in some wood, she hardly knew where. And I have brought you safely
back."
"M'sieu, I have come back many a time in safety without you."
Her voice had a suggestion of dismissal in it.
"I must present my spoils to Madame. No, I believe they are yours, you
were the discoverer, you made the purple shower that I only helped
gather."
She skipped up the steps lightly. How dainty her moccasined feet were!
The short skirt showed the small ankles and the swell of the beautiful
leg. Her figure was not a whit behind his sister's convent-trained one,
but she was fearless as a deer.
Miladi sat out on the gallery in her chair, that could be moved about
with ease by a small lever at the side. Looking down at the youthful
figures, the thought beset her that haunts all women, that here was
material for a very fortunate match. He was much superior to Pierre
Gaudrion.
"The trophies of the hunt," Boullé exclaimed gayly. "The huntress and
the most delicious harvest. I have seen nothing like it."
"I found some plums, a tree quite by itself, and only two branches of
fruit. We must send some of the best pits to M. Hébert. And I shall
plant a row in the Sieur's garden."
She brought out a dish and took them carefully from the birch-bark
receptacle. The exquisite bloom had not been disturbed.
"I will get a dish for yours," she said to the young man.
"Mine were the gleanings," he laughed.
Miladi's eyes glowed at the sight of the feast. Rose had not emptied all
of hers out, and now she laid three beauties in the corner of the
cupboard, looking around until she espied a pan. Wooden platters were
mostly used, even the Indian women were handy in fashioning them.
The young man had taken a seat and a plum, and was regaling his hostess
with the adventure.
"Curious that I should find the place so easily," and he smiled most
beguilingly. "Sometimes one seems led in just the right way."
For several reasons he preferred not to say he had heard the singing.
"Yes," and now she gave a soft, answering smile, as if there might be a
mysterious understanding between them. Miladi was often ennuied, now
that she was never really well, and the sight and voice of a young man
cheered her inexplicably.
"Every one knows her. She is the most fearless thing."
"I remember her when she was very little. How tall she has grown. A very
pretty girl."
"Youth always has a prettiness. It is the roundness and coloring. I
often long to go back and have it all over again. I should remain in
France. I do not see what there is in this bleak country to charm one."
"There was some talk of your going with my sister, was there not?"
"Yes. But I was too ill. And M. Destournier thought he could not leave.
He has many interests here."
Rose re-entered the room.
"I never tasted such delicious plums," the elder commented, in a pleased
tone. "I want some saved as long as they will keep."
"There is a quantity of them. I should have had to make another journey
but for M. Boullé," and she dropped a charming little courtesy.
"We might see if we could not find another tree."
"I doubt it."
"Will you stay some time?" asked miladi.
