an existence of uneventful safety. The soldier in time of peace
was the butt and laughing-stock of the ancients in the comedies
of Plautus and Terence, and of the Greeks, whom those playwrights
copied or adapted, but no such contemptuous use has ever been made
of the sailor, whose life is in danger half a dozen times in every
year.
Oderisio Boccapaduli was squeezing a lemon into a glass for Maria
when he saw her hand shake as if it had been struck, and the
spoon which she was going to use for putting the powdered sugar
into the glass fell from her fingers upon the metal counter with
a sharp clatter. Oderisio glanced sideways at her face without
interrupting the squeezing of the lemon, and he saw that the
characteristic warmth had disappeared all at once from her natural
pallor and that her white cheeks looked as cold as if she were in
an ague. She was looking down when she took up the spoon again and
drew the polished brass sugar-can nearer to her. The young man
was quite sure that something had happened to disturb her, and he
could only suppose that she felt suddenly tired and ill, or else
that some one had appeared in sight not far from the booth, whose
presence was unexpected and disagreeable enough to give her a bad
shock.
But he knew much more about her than Angelica Campodonico, for he
was six-and-twenty, and had been seventeen himself when Maria had
married, and nineteen when Montalto had left her; and since he had
finished his military service and had been at large in society he
had learned pretty much all that could be known about people who
belonged to his set. He therefore scrutinised the faces in the near
distance, and presently he saw one which he had not seen in Rome
for several years; once more he glanced sideways at Maria, and her
hand was unsteady as she gave the full glass to a respectable old
gentleman who was waiting for it in an attitude of admiration.
The face was that of a man who was Oderisio’s cousin in a not very
distant degree, and who bore the honourable and historical name of
Baldassare del Castiglione. He was looking straight at Maria and
was coming slowly towards her.
Then Oderisio, who was an honest gentleman, saw that something
unpleasant was going to happen, and on pretence of bringing fresh
glasses from behind the booth, he slipped under the curtain into
the tent; but instead of getting the tumblers he quietly took his
hat and stick and went away, telling the servant that he would send
his brother or a friend to help the Contessa, as he was obliged to
go home. Moreover, he carefully avoided passing in front of the
booth lest Maria should think that he was watching her, and he went
off to another part of the Kermess.
Meanwhile the old gentleman drank his lemonade, and it chanced that
no other customer was at the counter when Castiglione reached it
and took off his hat. He was a square-shouldered man of thirty or
a little less, with short and thick brown hair and a rather heavy
moustache, such as is often affected by cavalrymen; his healthy,
sunburnt face made his rather hard eyes look very blue, and the
well-shaped aquiline nose of the martial type, with the solid
square jaw, conveyed the impression that he was a born fighting
man, easily roused and soon dangerous, somewhat lawless and violent
by nature, but brave and straightforward.
He took off his hat and bowed as he came up, neither stiffly nor at
all familiarly, but precisely as he would have bowed to ninety-nine
women out of a hundred whom he knew. He did not put out his hand,
and he did not speak for a moment, apparently meaning to give Maria
a chance to say something.
Her hand was no longer shaking now, but the warmth had not come
back to her face, and when she slowly looked up and met the man’s
eyes her own were coldly resentful. She did not speak; she merely
met his look steadily, by an effort of will which he was far from
understanding at the moment.
‘I have left Milan on a fortnight’s leave,’ he said quietly. ‘Will
you let me come and see you?’
‘Certainly not.’
The decided answer was given in a voice as calm as his own, but
the tone would have convinced most men that there was to be no
appeal from the direct refusal. Castiglione’s features hardened and
his jaw seemed more square than ever. There was a look of brutal
strength in his face at that moment, though his voice was gentle
when he spoke.
‘Have you never thought of forgiving me?’ he asked.
‘I have prayed that I might.’ Maria fixed her eyes fearlessly on
his.
‘But your prayer has not been answered, I suppose,’ he said, with
some contempt, and with an evident lack of belief in the efficacy
of prayer in general.
‘No,’ Maria answered. ‘God has not yet granted what I ask every
day.’
Castiglione looked at her still. It was strange that the face of
such a man should be capable of many shades of expression, so
subtle that only a portrait painter of genius could have defined
them and reproduced any one of them, while most men would hardly
have noticed them all. Yet every woman with whom he talked felt
that his face often said more than his words.
The keen blue light in his eyes softened at Maria’s simple answer
to his contemptuous speech; the strength was in his face still, but
without the brutality. She saw, and remembered why she had loved
him too well, and when he spoke she turned away lest she should
remember more.
‘I beg your pardon for what I said. I am sorry. Please forgive me.’
‘Yes,’ she answered, ‘I can forgive that, for you did not mean it.’
She looked behind her, for she had been expecting Oderisio to come
back at any moment. The booth was so small that she could lift the
curtain without leaving the counter. She looked under it and saw
that Oderisio was gone, and she guessed that he knew something and
had seen Castiglione coming; instead of being grateful to him for
leaving her, she at first resented his going away and bit her lip;
for she was a very womanly woman, and every woman is annoyed that
any man should know any secret of hers which she has not told him.
But later, when she was thinking over what had happened, she felt
that Oderisio had done what a gentleman should, according to his
lights; for he must have known that the two had not seen each other
for years, and that such a meeting could hardly take place without
some show of feeling on one side or the other.
Castiglione thanked her gently for her answer, and was going to say
more, but she interrupted him, and suddenly began to busy herself
with a lemon and a glass.
‘I am making you a lemonade,’ she said in a low voice. ‘There are
some people we know coming to the booth. Do not turn round to look.’
The new-comers were two rather young women and a man who was not
the husband of either. Castiglione knew them too, as Maria was well
aware, and she would not have let them find him there, talking to
her, without so much as a lemonade for an excuse.
But the necessity for the small artifice, the low tone in which she
had been obliged to speak, and, above all, the close connection of
that necessity with the past, had slightly changed the situation.
‘I shall go to your house to-morrow at three o’clock,’ said
