"That's too bad."
"After this I'm a-goin' to stay to hum on the Fourth," went on Sammy,
as he began to fork over the hay vigorously. "I ain't goin' to no city
to be skinned."
"Did they skin you?"
"Jest about. A feller robbed me an' I was pushed into a duck pond."
"That's too bad."
"If I hadn't a-had my train ticket I'd had to walk home," went on
Sammy. "As it was, I had to borrow fifteen cents on the stage, to pay
fer thet ride. No more city celebrations fer me. I kin have all I want
right here at Riverport." And then Sammy related his adventures in
detail, to which our hero listened with much secret amusement.
Over at the Thompson place the ground had been plowed up in part, and
as soon as he left Jerry Borden Randy set to work in earnest to plant
late vegetables. For what our hero had done for the Bordens he was paid
in vegetables, and also received a rooster and four hens. This gave the
Thompsons their own eggs, for which the lady of the cottage was
thankful.
Randy was at work early one morning, when Jack appeared.
"Hullo, at it already?" sang out Jack. "I thought I'd find you still in
bed."
"I prefer to work when the sun is not so hot," answered Randy. "But
what brings you out at such an hour as this?"
"I've got news."
"What is it?"
"We are going to move to Albany."
"When?"
"The first of next week."
"I'll be sorry to miss you, Jack."
"And I'll be sorry to leave you, Randy. But I came over for something
more than to tell the news. I want you to go fishing with me. They say
the sport is extra fine just now."
"I don't know if I can go," answered our hero, doubtfully. "There is
still enough to do here."
"It will be a change for you. You have worked very hard lately."
"I admit that."
"Go by all means, if you care to, Randy," called out Mrs. Thompson.
"You have earned a holiday, and the fish will be acceptable."
"All right, mother; if you say so, I'll go."
It did not take Randy long to prepare for the outing. Jack had with him
a basket of lunch for two, so all he had to get was his line and hooks
and some extra bait.
"I hope we catch a good mess to-day," said Randy, as they started off.
"Then I can give Mr. Borden some and he can let us have some bacon that
we need."
"I suppose it is rather hard scratching for you just now," said Jack.
"It is, and I am going to look for outside work before long."
"Well, I hope you find something to do. Ben Bash was looking for work
all over this district but he couldn't find a thing."
"Oh, I know there is small chance in Riverport. I think I may try
elsewhere," answered our hero.
It did not take the two boys long to reach the river, at a point where
Jack had left his boat. Both rowed to their favorite fishing spot.
"Oh, isn't that too bad!" cried Jack, in disappointment.
Strangers were fishing at the spot and they soon saw that there was no
room for them to throw in.
"How is fishing?" called out Randy.
"Very good," answered one of those present.
"We'll have to go elsewhere," said Jack. "The question is, where?"
"I know another spot about quarter of a mile from here," answered
Randy. "It may be just as good."
They rowed on and reached the new place, to find nobody there. Soon
they had their boat tied fast to an overhanging tree and then they got
out on some flat rocks and baited up.
It did not take long to prove that the new fishing place was as good as
the old. Randy drew in a small fish almost immediately and Jack did the
same. Then both got hauls of good size.
"Maybe we'll do better than if we went to the old Fishing Hole,"
observed Jack.
At noon time they knocked off for lunch and a rest and then took a good
swim.
"I can tell you, I enjoy this!" cried Randy. "I haven't had a chance to
go in for so long."
The swim at an end, the boys donned their garments and resumed their
fishing. They kept at it until about four o'clock. Then all their luck
seemed to suddenly desert them.
"Never mind," said Randy. "We certainly have a prime haul, even as it
is," and he looked the fish over with much pride.
They wound up their lines and were soon on the way down the river. It
was rather a hot day, so they took their time in getting back.
"What are you going to do with your boat?" asked Randy.
"Sell it to Mr. Stanwood for ten dollars."
"You are lucky to get a customer, Jack."
"I know it. I'd turn the boat over to you only--well--we need the money
now, you know," and Jack's eyes dropped.
"Thank you, Jack, but I wouldn't have much time to use it. I must put
in the most of my time at work."
"I suppose that is true. At the same time I'd rather you had the boat
than anybody I know of."
The boys were coming around a bend of the river when they heard a
peculiar noise in the distance.
"What do you make that out to be?" asked Jack, as the noise continued.
"I think I know," answered our hero. "It is the new tugboat from the
bay. I saw it once, several weeks ago. It makes a very odd sound, for
the engine is not like the ordinary ones."
The noise kept coming closer and presently the tugboat came into view.
It was stuck in the mud and those on board were doing what they could
to get the craft afloat again.
"They seem to be having a hard time of it," remarked Jack, as he
stopped rowing to watch the proceedings.
"The mud is very sticky here, if you'll remember," answered Randy.
"Don't you remember how we were stuck here last year?"
"Yes, and how I lost an oar overboard and nearly went overboard
myself," continued Jack, with a short laugh. "Heigh-ho! Randy, I'll be
sorry in a way to lose it all."
"We must write to each other."
"Of course."
The tug was puffing and snorting viciously to get out of the mud. On
board were four people who were evidently passengers, including a lady
with a little girl.
Suddenly there came something which sounded like an explosion. This was
followed by a cloud of steam that seemed to completely envelop the
tugboat.
"Something is wrong!" shouted Randy.
"Oh, mamma, I don't like this!" screamed the little girl, as she ran to
the stern of the tug. "We'll be burned up!"
She had scarcely spoken when there came another explosion and the cloud
of steam increased. The four passengers crowded to the stern in a body,
and a moment later the two men leaped overboard and called on the lady
and her child to do likewise.
