offered me. ' ' 
" Concha! '' He was deeply moved, and at 
the same time her words chilled him with subtle 
prophecy, sank into some unexplored depth of 
his consciousness, meeting response as subtle, filling him with a rush of angry impatience at the 
mortality of man. He glanced over his shoulder, 
then took her recklessly in his arms. 
" Is it possible you doubt I will come back! " 
he demanded. '' My faith! '' 
'' No, not that. But such happiness seems to 
me too great for this life." 
He remembered how often he had been close to 
death; he knew that during the greater part of 
the next two years he should see the glimmer of 
the scythe oftener yet. For a moment it seemed 
to him that he felt the dark waters rise in his 
soul, heard the jeers of the gods at the vanity 
of mortal will. But the blood ran strong and warm 
in his veins. He shook off the obsession, and 
smiled a little cynically, even as he kissed her. 
" This is the hour for romance, my dear. In 
the years to come, when you are very prosaically 
my wife with a thousand duties, and grumbling 
at my exactions, your consolation will be the 
memory of some moment like this, when you were 
able to feel romantic and sad. I wish I could arrange for some such set of memories for myself, 
but I am unequal to your divine melancholy. 
"When I cannot see you I am cross and sulky; and 
just now— I am, well— philosophically happy. 
Some day I shall be happier, but this is well 
enough. And I can harbor no ugly presentiments. 
As I entered California I was elated with a sense 
of coming happiness, of future victories; and I 
prefer to dwell upon that, the more particularly 
as in a measure the prophetic hint has been fulfilled. So make the most of the present. I shall 
see you daily during this last precious fortnight, 
for I am determined this arrangement shall cease ; 
and you must exorcise coquetry and abet me whenever there is a chance of a word alone.'' 
She nodded, but she noted with a sigh that he 
said no more of sudden flight. She would never 
have consented to jeopardize the least of his in- 
terests, but she fain would have been besought. 
The experience she had had of the vehemence and 
fire in Eezanov made her long for his complete 
 
subjugation and the happiness it must bring to 
herself. But as he smiled tenderly above her she 
saw that his practical bra,in had silenced the irresponsible demands of love, and although she did 
not withdraw from his arm she stiffened her head. 
" I fancy I shall return home to-morrow,'' she 
said. " My mother tells me that she can live 
without me no longer, and that Father Abella has 
reminded her that if I stay in the house of Elena 
Castro I shall be as free from gossip as here. I 
infer that he has rated my two parents for making a martyr of me unnecessarily, and told them 
it was a duty to enliven my life as much as possible before I enter upon this long period of probation. The grating of my room at Elena's is 
above a little strip of garden, and faces the blank 
wall of the next house. Sometimes— who knows? " 
She shrugged her shoulders and gave a gay little 
laugh, then stood very erect and moved past him 
to the door. She had recognized the shuffling step 
of Father Abella. 
" Is supper ready, padre miol " she asked 
sweetly. " His excellency and I have talked so 
much that we are very hungry." 
'' There is no need to deceive me," said Father 
Abella dryly. ' ' You are not the first lovers I have 
 
known, although I will admit yon are by far the 
most interesting, and for that reason I have had 
the wickedness to abet yon. But I fancy the good 
God will forgive me. Come quickly. They are 
scattered now, but will go to the refectory in a 
moment and miss you. Excellency, will you 
give your arm to Doha Ignacia and take the 
seat at the head of the table? Concha, my child, 
I am afraid you must console our good Don Weeliam. He is having a wretched quarter of an hour, 
but has loyally diverted the attention of your 
mother. ' ' 
" That is the vocation of certain men,'' said 
Concha lightly. 
XXIII 
Life was very gay for a fortnight. An 
hour after the Comandante 's surrender he 
had despatched invitations to all the young folk 
of the Gente de Eazon of Monterey, Santa Barbara, Los Angeles, and San Diego, and to such of 
the older as would brave the long journeys. 
The Monterehos had arrived for the Mission entertainment, and during the next few days the 
rest poured over the hills : De la Guerras, 
Ximenos, Estudillos, Carrillos, Estenegas, 
Morenos, Cotas, Estradas, Picos, Pachecos, 
Lugos, Ortegas, Alvarados, Bandinis, Peraltas, 
members of the Luis, Kodriguez, Lopez families 
all of gentle blood, that made up the society of 
Old California; as gay, arcadian, irresponsible, 
yet moral a society as ever fluttered over this 
planet. Every house in the Presidio and valley, 
every spare room at the Mission, opened to them 
with the exuberant hospitality of the country. 
The caballeros had their finest wardrobes of colored silks and embroidered botas, sombreros 
laden with silver, fine lawn and lace, jewel and 
sash, velvet serape for the chill of the late afternoon. The matrons brought their stiff robes of 
red and yellow satin, the girls as many flowered 
silks and lawns, mantillas and rebosos, as the 
family carretas would hold. The square of the 
Presidio was crowded from morning until mid- 
night with the spirited horses of the country, 
prancing impatiently under the heavy Mexican 
saddle, heavier with silver, made a trifle more 
endurable by the blanket of velvet or cloth. No 
Californian walked a dozen rods when he had a 
horse to carry him. 
But the horses were not always champing in 
the square. There was more than one bull-bear 
fight, and twice a week at least they carried their 
owners to the hills of the Mission ranch, or the 
rocky cliffs and gorges above Yerba Buena, the 
Indian servants following with great baskets of 
luncheon, perhaps roasting an ox whole in a 
trench. This the Californians called barbecue 
