sought the pages, following the inked writing from end to end. What was
she seeking there that he had left unwritten? What was she searching
for, of which there was not one hint in all these pages?
And now Nina was calling her from the hall below; and she answered gaily
and, hiding the letter in her long glove, came down the stairs.
"I'll tell you all about the letter in the train," she said; "he is
perfectly well, and evidently quite happy; and Nina--"
"What, dear?"
"I want to send him a telegram. May I?"
"A dozen, if you wish," said Mrs. Gerard, "only, if you don't climb into
that vehicle, we'll miss the train."
So on the way to Wyossette station Eileen sat very still, gloved hands
folded in her lap, composing her telegram to Selwyn. And, once in the
station, having it by heart already, she wrote it rapidly:
     "Nina and I are on our way to the Berkshires for a week.
     House-party at the Craigs'. We stay overnight in town. E.E."
But the telegram went to his club, and waited for him there; and
meanwhile another telegram arrived at his lodgings, signed by a trained
nurse; and while Miss Erroll, in the big, dismantled house, lay in a
holland-covered armchair, waiting for him, while Nina and Austin,
reading their evening papers, exchanged significant glances from time to
time, the man she awaited sat in the living-room in a little villa at
Edgewater. And a slim young nurse stood beside him, cool and composed in
her immaculate uniform, watching the play of light and shadow on a woman
who lay asleep on the couch, fresh, young face flushed and upturned, a
child's doll cradled between arm and breast.
       
"How long has she been asleep?" asked Selwyn under his breath.
"An hour. She fretted a good deal because you had not come. This
afternoon she said she wished to drive, and I had the phaeton brought
around; but when she saw it she changed her mind. I was rather afraid of
an outburst--they come sometimes from less cause than that--so I did not
urge her to go out. She played on the piano for a long while, and sang
some songs--those curious native songs she learned in Manila. It seemed
to soothe her; she played with her little trifles quite contentedly for
a time, but soon began fretting again, and asking why you had not come.
She had a bad hour later--she is quite exhausted now. Could you stay
to-night, Captain Selwyn?"
"Y-es, if you think it better. . . . Wait a moment; I think she has
awakened."
Alixe had turned her head, her lovely eyes wide open.
"Phil!" she cried, "is it you?"
He went forward and took the uplifted hands, smiling down at her.
"Such a horrid dream!" she said pettishly, "about a soft, plump man with
ever so many rings on his hands. . . . Oh, I am glad you came. . . .
Look at this child of mine!" cuddling the staring wax doll closer;
"she's not undressed yet, and it's long, long after bedtime. Hand me her
night-clothes, Phil."
The slim young nurse bent and disentangled a bit of lace and cambric
from a heap on the floor, offering it to Selwyn. He laid it in the hand
Alixe held out, and she began to undress the doll in her arms, prattling
softly all the while:
"Late--oh, so very, very late! I must be more careful of her, Phil;
because, if you and I grow up, some day we may marry, and we ought to
know all about children. It would be great fun, wouldn't it?"
He nodded, forcing a smile.
"Don't you think so?" she persisted.
"Yes--yes, indeed," he said gently.
She laughed, contented with his answer, and laid her lips against the
painted face of the doll.
"When we grow up, years from now--then we'll understand, won't we, Phil?
. . . I am tired with playing. . . . And Phil--let me whisper something.
Is that person gone?"
He turned and signed to the nurse, who quietly withdrew.
"Is she gone?" repeated Alixe.
"Yes."
"Then listen, Phil. Do you know what she and the other one are about all
day? I know; I pretend not to, but I know. They are watching me every
moment--always watching me, because they want to make you believe that I
am forgetting you. But I am not. That is why I made them send for you so
I could tell you myself that I could never, never forget you. . . . I
think of you always while I am playing--always--always I am thinking of
you. You will believe it, won't you?"
"Yes," he said.
Contented, she turned to her doll again, undressing it deftly, tenderly.
"At moments," she said, "I have an odd idea that it is real. I am not
quite sure even now. Do you believe it is alive, Phil? Perhaps, at
night, when I am asleep, it becomes alive. . . . This morning I awoke,
laughing, laughing in delight--thinking I heard you laughing, too--as
once--in the dusk where there were many roses and many stars--big stars,
and very, very bright--I saw you--saw you--and the roses--"
She paused with a pained, puzzled look of appeal.
"Where was it, Phil?"
"In Manila town."
"Yes; and there were roses. But I was never there."
"You came out on the veranda and pelted me with roses. There were others
there--officers and their wives. Everybody was laughing."
"Yes--but I was not there, Phil. . . . Who--who was the tall, thin
bugler who sounded taps?"
"Corrigan."
"And--the little, girl-shaped, brown men?"
"My constabulary."
"I can't recollect," she said listlessly, laying the doll against her
breast. "I think, Phil, that you had better be a little quiet now--she
may wish to sleep. And I am sleepy, too," lifting her slender hand as a
sign for him to take his leave.
As he went out the nurse said: "If you wish to return to town, you may,
I think. She will forget about you for two or three days, as usual.
Shall I telegraph if she becomes restless?"
"Yes. What does the doctor say to-day?"
The slim nurse looked at him under level brows.
"There is no change," she said.
"No hope." It was not even a question.
"No hope, Captain Selwyn."
He stood silent, tapping his leg with the stiff brim of his hat; then,
wearily: "Is there anything more I can do for her?"
"Nothing, sir."
"Thank you."
He turned away, bidding her good-night in a low voice.
       
He arrived in town about midnight, but did not go to any of his clubs.
At one of them a telegram was awaiting him; and in a dismantled and
summer-shrouded house a young girl was still expecting him, lying with
closed eyes in a big holland-covered arm-chair, listening to the rare
footfalls in the street outside.
But of these things he knew nothing; and he went wearily to his lodgings
and climbed the musty stairs, and sat down in his old attitude before
the table and the blank wall behind it, waiting for the magic frescoes
to appear in all the vague loveliness of their hues and dyes, painting
for him upon his chamber-walls the tinted paradise now lost to him for
