duties of official Readers--in church:
“Naming Book and Author. The Reader of Science and Health, with Key
to the Scriptures, before commencing to read from this book, shall
distinctly announce its full title and give the author’s name.”
Otherwise the congregation might get the habit of forgetting who
(ostensibly) wrote the book.
THE ARISTOCRACY
This consists of First Members and their apostolic succession. It is a
close corporation, and its membership limit is one hundred. Forty will
answer, but if the number fall below that, there must be an election, to
fill the grand quorum.
This Sanhedrin can’t do anything of the slightest importance, but it
can talk. It can “discuss.” That is, it can discuss “important questions
relative to Church members”, evidently persons who are already Church
members. This affords it amusement, and does no harm.
It can “fix the salaries of the Readers.”
Twice a year it “votes on” admitting candidates. That is, for Church
membership. But its work is cut out for it beforehand, by Art. IX.:
“Every recommendation for membership In the Church ‘shall be
countersigned by a loyal student of Mrs. Eddy’s, by a Director of this
Church, or by a First Member.’”
All these three classes of beings are the personal property of Mrs.
Eddy. She has absolute control of the elections.
Also it must “transact any Church business that may properly come before
it.”
“Properly” is a thoughtful word. No important business can come before
it. The By laws have attended to that. No important business goes before
any one for the final word except Mrs. Eddy. She has looked to that.
The Sanhedrin “votes on” candidates for admission to its own body. But
is its vote worth any more than mine would be? No, it isn’t. Sec. 4, of
Art. V.--Election of First Members--makes this quite plain:
“Before being elected, the candidates for First Members shall be
approved by the Pastor Emeritus over her own signature.”
Thus the Sanhedrin is the personal property of Mrs. Eddy. She owns it.
It has no functions, no authority, no real existence. It is another
Board of Shadows. Mrs. Eddy is the Sanhedrin herself.
But it is time to foot up again and “see where we are at.” Thus far,
Mrs. Eddy is:
The Massachusetts Metaphysical College; Pastor Emeritus, President;
Board of Directors; Treasurer; Clerk; Future Board of Trustees;
Proprietor of the Priesthood: Dictator of the Services; Proprietor of
the Sanhedrin. She has come far, and is still on her way.
CHURCH MEMBERSHIP
In this Article there is another exhibition of a couple of the large
features of Mrs. Eddy’s remarkable make-up: her business-talent and her
knowledge of human nature.
She does not beseech and implore people to join her Church. She knows
the human race better than that. She gravely goes through the motions of
reluctantly granting admission to the applicant as a favor to him. The
idea is worth untold shekels. She does not stand at the gate of the fold
with welcoming arms spread, and receive the lost sheep with glad emotion
and set up the fatted calf and invite the neighbor and have a time. No,
she looks upon him coldly, she snubs him, she says:
“Who are you? Who is your sponsor? Who asked you to come here? Go away,
and don’t come again until you are invited.”
It is calculated to strikingly impress a person accustomed to Moody and
Sankey and Sam Jones revivals; accustomed to brain-turning appeals to
the unknown and unendorsed sinner to come forward and enter into the
joy, etc.--“just as he is”; accustomed to seeing him do it; accustomed
to seeing him pass up the aisle through sobbing seas of welcome, and
love, and congratulation, and arrive at the mourner’s bench and be
received like a long-lost government bond.
No, there is nothing of that kind in Mrs. Eddy’s system. She knows that
if you wish to confer upon a human being something which he is not sure
he wants, the best way is to make it apparently difficult for him to get
it--then he is no son of Adam if that apple does not assume an interest
in his eyes which it lacked before. In time this interest can grow into
desire. Mrs. Eddy knows that when you cannot get a man to try--free of
cost--a new and effective remedy for a disease he is afflicted with, you
can generally sell it to him if you will put a price upon it which he
cannot afford. When, in the beginning, she taught Christian Science
gratis (for good reasons), pupils were few and reluctant, and required
persuasion; it was when she raised the limit to three hundred dollars
for a dollar’s worth that she could not find standing room for the
invasion of pupils that followed.
With fine astuteness she goes through the motions of making it difficult
to get membership in her Church. There is a twofold value in this
system: it gives membership a high value in the eyes of the applicant;
and at the same time the requirements exacted enable Mrs. Eddy to keep
him out if she has doubts about his value to her. A word further as to
applications for membership:
“Applications of students of the Metaphysical College must be signed by
the Board of Directors.”
That is safe. Mrs. Eddy is proprietor of that Board.
Children of twelve may be admitted if invited by “one of Mrs. Eddy’s
loyal students, or by a First Member, or by a Director.”
These sponsors are the property of Mrs. Eddy, therefore her Church is
safeguarded from the intrusion of undesirable children.
Other Students. Applicants who have not studied with Mrs. Eddy can get
in only “by invitation and recommendation from students of Mrs. Eddy....
or from members of the Mother-Church.”
Other paragraphs explain how two or three other varieties of applicants
are to be challenged and obstructed, and tell us who is authorized to
invite them, recommend them endorse them, and all that.
The safeguards are definite, and would seem to be sufficiently
strenuous--to Mr. Sam Jones, at any rate. Not for Mrs. Eddy. She adds
this clincher:
“The candidates be elected by a majority vote of the First Members
present.”
That is the aristocracy, the aborigines, the Sanhedrin. It is Mrs.
Eddy’s property. She herself is the Sanhedrin. No one can get into the
Church if she wishes to keep him out.
This veto power could some time or other have a large value for her,
therefore she was wise to reserve it.
It is likely that it is not frequently used. It is also probable that
the difficulties attendant upon getting admission to membership have
been instituted more to invite than to deter, more to enhance the
value of membership and make people long for it than to make it really
difficult to get. I think so, because the Mother. Church has many
thousands of members more than its building can accommodate.
AND SOME ENGLISH REQUIRED
Mrs. Eddy is very particular as regards one detail curiously so, for
her, all things considered. The Church Readers must be “good English
scholars”; they must be “thorough English scholars.”
She is thus sensitive about the English of her subordinates for cause,
possibly. In her chapter defining the duties of the Clerk there is an
indication that she harbors resentful memories of an occasion when the
hazy quality of her own English made unforeseen and mortifying trouble:
“Understanding Communications. Sec. 2. If the Clerk of this Church shall
receive a communication from the Pastor Emeritus which he does not fully
