Stark indicated a chair, with a courteous motion, and then allowed
himself to be seated.
"She is a remarkably beautiful young woman," he returned, in his
impartial way of shedding optimism. Electra made an impatient gesture.
"I know--I know. It's easy enough to be handsome."
"Oh, is it?" commented Madam Fulton.
"But what do you think of her?"
"What do you mean, Electra?" asked her grandmother testily. She was
prepared to hear that Electra thought the stranger lacking in poise.
A deep red had risen to Electra's cheeks. Her hands flew together in a
nervous clasp. She had momentarily lost what poise she herself
possessed.
"Can't you see," she urged, "that girl is an adventuress?"
Grandmother was leaning forward, enchanted at the prospect. She seemed
to have before her an absorbing work of fiction, "concluded in our
next."
"Now what makes you think so?" she inquired cosily. "Wouldn't that be
grand! Stay here, Billy. If there's any scandal about Queen Elizabeth,
you must share it."
Electra was speaking with a high impatience.
"Of course she is an adventuress. You must see it, both of you."
"Is that all the evidence you have?" asked the old lady dryly.
Electra blenched a little. She liked to have irrefutable fact on her
side, and allow other people the generalities. Yet her certainty
remained untouched.
"Does Peter say she is Tom's wife?" inquired Madam Fulton, in some scorn
at herself for putting elementary questions.
"Yes. Peter says she was Tom's wife."
"There, you see!" But at Electra's look, the old lady cried out to
Stark, in irrepressible annoyance, "No, she doesn't see! It doesn't mean
a thing to her."
"It will be quite easy," said Stark soothingly, "to assure yourself,
Miss Electra. She will no doubt tell you where she was married. That can
be confirmed at once."
"She must present her proofs," said Electra. "I shall not ask for them."
"What do you hate the poor girl for?" asked Madam Fulton. "Is it the
money? Are you afraid you've got to share with her?"
Billy Stark had been nearing the door, and now he was out of the room.
"Have you told Peter how you feel about it?" asked the old lady keenly.
Electra seemed to herself to be unjustly upon her own defense when she
had meant to place the stranger there.
"He knows it, grandmother." She spoke as impatiently as decorum would
allow.
The old lady watched her for a moment steadily. Then she inquired,--
"Do you know what's the matter with you, Electra?"
"With me, grandmother?"
"You're jealous, child. You're jealous of Peter, because the girl's so
pretty."
Electra stood still, the color surging over her face. She felt out of
doors for all the world to jeer at, and without the blameless habit of
her life. Nothing, Electra told herself, even at that moment, had the
value of the truth. If she believed herself to be jealous, she must not
shirk it, degrading as it was. But she would not believe it.
"You must excuse me, grandmother," she said, with dignity. "I can't
discuss such things, even with you."
Madam Fulton spoke quite eagerly.
"But, bless you, child, I like you the better for it. It makes you
human. Your decorum is the only thing I've ever had to complain of. If I
could find a weakness in you now and then, we should agree like two peas
in a pod."
Electra stood taller and straighter.
"At least," she said, "the young woman is here, and we have got to do
our best about it."
"The young woman! Don't talk as if she were a kitchen wench. What's the
use, Electra! What's the sense in being so irreproachable? Come off your
stilts while we're alone together."
"But, grandmother," said Electra, with an accession of firmness, and
leaving irrelevant strictures to be considered in the silence of her
room, "I shall neither acknowledge her nor shall I invite her here."
"You won't acknowledge her?"
"Not until she brings me proof."
"You won't ask for it?"
"I shan't ask for it. It is for her to act, not for me."
"And you won't have her here? Then, by George, Electra, I will!"
Electra raised her eyebrows by the slightest possible space. It was
involuntary, but the old lady saw it.
"You're quite right," she said ironically, "the house isn't mine."
"The house is yours to do exactly as you please with it," said Electra,
with an instant justice instinct even with a dutiful warmth. "Any guest
you invite is welcome. Only, grandmother, I must beg of you not to
invite this particular person."
"Person! Electra, you make me mad. Be human; come, unbend a little. Take
the poker out of your training. Do the decent thing, and ask her here,
and then find out about her, and if she's a baggage, turn her out, neck
and crop."
"I must refuse, grandmother," said Electra. "Now aren't you getting
tired? I will bring your food."
Madam Fulton spoke with deliberate unction:--
"Perdition take my food!"
IX
Rose came down out of her chamber after supper on a warm still evening.
She had stayed in retirement nearly all day. Grandmother had been
suffering discomfort from the heat and was better alone. Peter had gone
to town, and he had not come back. The girl stopped in the doorway of
the silent house and looked out into the night. It was all moonlight,
all mysterious shadows and enchanting stillnesses. The glamour of the
hour lay over it like a veil, and her heart responded to the calling
from mysterious distances, voices that were those of life itself
springing within her and echoing back from that delusive world. She
stood there smiling a little, trying to keep the wholesome bitterness of
her mood, because she thought she knew what a deceiving jade fortune is,
and yet with her young heart pathetically craving life and the fullness
of it. Rose thought she had quite fathomed the worth of things. She knew
the bravest shows are made by the trickiest design, and she had sworn,
in desperate defense of herself, to "take the world but as the
world,"--a gaming-ground for base passions and self-love. But to-night
all the instincts of youth in her were innocently vocal. Here was the
beautiful earth, again fecund and full of gifts. She could not help
believing in it. She gathered her skirts about her, and stepped out into
the dew, and with no avowed purpose, but, straight as inevitable intent
could lead her, crossed the orchard and went down across the field to
Osmond. She had selected that way, in her unconscious mind, when
grandmother had that morning sent her into the attic to look at some
precious heirlooms in disuse. Looking out of the attic window she had
noted his little shack and fields of growing things, and some impatience
then had said to her, That would be the way to get to him. Before the
last wall, she came out on a low rise where there was a spreading tree.
It was an oak tree, and though there seemed to be no wind that night,
the leaves rustled thinly.
"Where are you going?" It was Osmond's voice out of the shadow near the
