fellow who will never do anything for him- 
self, make any advance, or strike out in am- 
bitious ways. There are a good many such 
people in the world, I find, with a capacity 
for work that never seems to accomplish any 
real thing.” 
Yes, that was true enough. 
“ And now tell me about your affairs. 
Helen; you can’t think how interested I am 
in girls who want to know something of the 
higher knowledge. So many are frivolous 
and just thinking of the present pleasures, as 
 
if there were no years to come for which they 
must store up mental provision. You have 
written only such a little. What is Miss 
Morse like? Her brother is fine, isn’t he? 
He is the sort of man that gives you an idea, 
and puts it in such shape that you must think 
about it. And the girls — of course you have 
met almost every variety, but there must be 
some fine ones among them. I don’t suppose 
you ever felt hungry to hear about outside 
people ? ” 
“ I can understand the feeling, though. 
And Nat, I'll try to do better. There was the 
death of my friend, and then her father — ” 
“ Was she as fine as Miss Craven ? I think 
she is just splendid.” 
“ She wasn’t as fine and earnest to fill a 
place in the world, but she was very pretty and 
charming. And a curious little body has 
fallen in love with me at college, writes the 
daintiest verses to me ; and she isn't a gener- 
ally effusive girl, either.” 
“ Oh, isn't that queer ! And about the 
play? Why, it was almost like the theatre! 
I wish there was some place here a fellow 
could go to now and then. I’m reading 
Shakespeare, but it seems as if you must be 
quite high up to understand it ! ” 
She described the play and the scenery very 
graphically, and also some of the little com- 
edies the girls had, just for their own amuse- 
ment. She told him of the out-of-door sports, 
the ball and tennis meets, the grand tennis 
tournament which they always had before the 
senior class graduated. 
“ Well, you do have lots of good times. I 
don’t wonder girls love to go to college. It 
stirs them all up, doesn’t it? And won’t you 
hate to leave it ? ” 
“ O dear, I don’t want to think of that ! ” 
She was putting it out of her mind as much 
as she could, because there were some very 
serious questions concerned in it. 
Then she told Nat about the two girls she 
liked best, and her gladness that Miss Brooks 
was to remain another year; the room they 
were to have, the library, the gymnasium, the 
beautiful plaza, and the chapel. 
Almost before they knew it they had 
 
reached Mrs. Wilmarth’s. Mr. Morse 
thanked them for his delightful day. 
“ And what are you going to do to-mor- 
row ? ” he asked. 
“ Visit and visit. And you must go to the 
library; Mr. Walters will be glad to take 
you. And the old church — oh, you can put 
in another day!” cried Helen archly. She 
was in an unusual flow of spirits. She was 
truly glad to have given her cousin so much 
gratification ; the day had ended more happily 
than she had anticipated. 
“ I shall see you again to-morrow,” Mr. 
Morse rejoined with his good-by. 
“ At least a quarter of the town has called 
to see you,” announced Mrs. Wilmarth. 
“ And there are to be visitors this evening. 
It is really the event of the season. Why, I
am shining in borrowed plumage,” said Mrs. 
Wilmarth with a genial interest. 
Two ladies of the club came quite early. 
They had a very special errand and a favor 
to ask of Miss Grant. The club met Satur- 
day afternoon at the house of one of its mem- 
bers whom Helen knew quite well, and the 
request was that Miss Grant would come and 
give them a little talk on college life from the 
woman’s side. 
Helen was startled and abashed; her color 
came and went, and her nerves fluttered. 
“ I feel complimented,” she began with 
some hesitation, “ but — ” 
“ Oh, Miss Grant, I thought you girls had 
to discuss problems at college and write 
papers, and it would be just a talk, you know, 
not over our heads in learned arguments ! We 
want the young woman’s side of it ; we get the 
man's view in various magazine essays. I 
am sure you can tell us something interest- 
ing.” 
That she should come back to Hope to do 
this! The contrast of this and Mrs. Van 
Dorn’s little waiting-maid appeared rather 
laughable to her. 
“ Why, yes, Helen,” Mrs. Wilmarth began 
persuasively. “ Of course you can. And it 
would be such a pleasure to us all. Why, if 
you only described the buildings, the routine, 
it would be interesting, and you might tell of 
 
the political struggle and the procession you 
wrote to me about.” 
A curious bashfulness seized Helen in a 
grasp that rendered her almost breathless. 
What made her recall the old day at school 
when she had “ spoken her piece,” the dear 
old “ Herve Riel,” with its “ Sirs, believe me, 
