the dog considered the glove for some moments. 
But these were incredibly few. With a howl of 
rage he flung himself upon it, worried it as if it 
had been a rat of the lowest social order in the 
vermin world, and, suddenly tearing it as if it were 
shredded flesh, muscle from muscle, nerve from 
 
nerve, he dashed it away, and leaped up the long 
wooded avenue. As he went, he took mighty 
bounds, scorning the earth, scaling the air. But 
when he approached the house the dog grew astute, 
crushed his anger into diplomacy, sniffed, and 
secreted himself, watched, crawled upon his belly, 
hid, and smouldered in the shrubbery. There, a 
quivering, splendid creature, with ancient,
unforgiven wrong tense in every rigid line of his
beautiful body, with death and fire in his eyes, and an 
ominous patience in his attitude, the collie bided 
his time. 
It had been a clear, late sunset, and a brilliant 
moon arose. There was no darkness, but the 
evening advanced from glow to gleam. The windows 
of the great house flashed warm light, and the 
movements of a luxurious home set in as quietly 
and steadily among the trained servants as if the 
place had been occupied for six months. The bride 
(in Cara's old room) was dressing for dinner, and 
the newly wedded husband strolled out of the 
house ; he had the thoughtful mood in which the 
most thoughtless of men will find himself upon 
his marriage evening. 
Thomas Frost sat in Mr. Sterling's wind chair 
upon the piazza that faced the sea, but the night 
was cool and he did not remain there. He got up 
and paced the piazza for a while. He did not 
 
smoke. His tall, rather military figure moved to 
and fro with precision. With a cold gray eye he 
observed the sea. Both his firm, sinuous hands 
were in his pockets. His mind was active. What 
he called his heart was occupied. His heavily lined 
face assumed the mould of satisfaction, — -with 
himself, with his marriage, with his position, with 
his prospects. That he had been appointed to the 
Chair of Physiology in an important New England 
Medical School was, he reflected, no more than his 
distinguished skill as an experimenter deserved. 
He would enter upon the honors of his 
professorship soon after the expiration of his honeymoon. 
This, meanwhile, after the scientific method, he 
set himself to appreciate. Once he left the piazza 
and walked restlessly among the shrubbery, glanc- 
ing towards the nasturtium cottage, which, for the 
thickness of the intervening trees, he could not 
see. 
" She made a most unfortunate marriage," he 
thought. He raised his eyes to the windows of his 
wife's room ; her substantial shadow passed before 
the shade. Just then she raised it, opened the 
window, and saw him. The muscular arm and hand 
which had wielded the best brassie and driver in 
the Country Club relaxed and wafted down a kiss. 
This the bridegroom felt under obligations to re- 
turn. To do so, he withdrew his right hand from 
 
his pocket. Then Mrs. Frost let down the shade 
again. 
He was standing looking up, moonlit and visible 
every contour of him in the bright night, every 
personal sign and scent of him given to the soft 
wind, when the shrubbery behind him stirred a 
little, as if a snake had crawled through it. Thomas 
Frost turned to reenter the house, and had set 
one foot upon the piazza steps, when an ominous 
muttering sound annoyed his ear. This grew into 
a formidable growl. A dog, raging with memory 
of the unforgiven, leaped and sprang. The collie 
would have none of the physiologist's body except 
his hand, — the hand that had committed the
unpardonable sin of all that man may inflict upon 
an animal; the hand that had dissected conscious, 
helpless flesh alive. Clyde's teeth fastened upon 
the vivisector's cruel, valuable right hand, and 
crushed it, crunching. 
Kathleen had her evening off that day, and 
Joyce had been answering the doorbell. But the 
child was now in bed ; patients were many ; the 
reception room was full, and Mrs. Dane had taken 
upon herself this domestic task. The front door 
was closed. A long scratch, followed by a heavy, 
thumping sound, besieged it, and two or three 
sharp peals of the electric button succeeded. Caro- 
 
lyn opened the door, and said, " Why, Clyde! Did 
you ring that bell ? " 
No person was visible, and she let the dog in. 
He was panting heavily, and quivered in every 
nerve. As if he had been a child, he flung himself 
upon her lap, and put his paws about her neck. 
Although his eyes were wild, they had a solemn 
look. He whined and sighed, and then he began 
to sob like a little overwrought boy. Cara bent and 
put her cheek upon his forehead to comfort him. 
As she did so, she perceived that his mouth was 
dripping, and that it dripped red. 
The telephone called loudly at that moment, and 
the doctor answered it without delay. With a word 
of explanation to his waiting patients, he hurried 
limping out into the hall, and seized his hat. 
" It is an emergency call," he said to Mrs. Dane. 
" There seems to have been a little accident among 
those bridal people. I must go at once." 
He was gone some time, so long that the patients 
grew discouraged, and drifted one by one away. 
When he returned, the office was empty, and the 
house was still. Clyde was asleep upon the rug ; 
in his sleep he groaned and growled. Mrs. Dane 
was sitting by the office fire. She rose to greet the 
doctor, but asked no questions. 
"Can I have a little hot water?" he asked 
