first came over with the object of permitting somebody to support him
indefinitely so that later, in France, he could in turn support his
mistresses in the style to which they earnestly desired to become
accustomed.
And now the American girl who had been a countess was back, a little
wiser, a little harder, and more cynical, with some of the bloom rubbed
off, yet much of her superficial beauty remaining.
"Alida Ascott," murmured Shiela. "Jessie was a bridesmaid. Poor little
girl!--I'm glad she's free. There were no children," she said, looking
up at Hamil; "in that case a decent girl is justified! Don't you think
so?"
"Yes, I do," he said, smiling; "I'm not one of those who believe that
such separations threaten us with social disintegration."
"Nor I. Almost every normal woman desires to live decently. She has a
right to. All young girls are ignorant. If they begin with a dreadful
but innocent mistake does the safety of society require of them the
horror of lifelong degradation? Then the safety of such a society is not
worth the sacrifice. That is my opinion."
"That settles a long-vexed problem," he said, laughing at her
earnestness.
But she looked at him, unsmiling, while he spoke, hands clasped in her
lap, the fingers twisting and tightening till the rose-tinted nails
whitened.
       *       *       *       *       *
Men have only a vague idea of women's ignorance; how naturally they are
inclined to respond to a man; how the dominating egotism of a man and
his confident professions and his demands confuse them; how deeply his
appeals for his own happiness stir them to pity.... They have heard of
love--and they do not know. If they ever dream of it it is not what they
have imagined when a man suddenly comes crashing through the barriers of
friendship and stuns them with an incoherent recital of his own desires.
And yet, in spite of the shock, it is with them instinctive to be kind.
No woman can endure an appeal unmoved; except for them there would be no
beggars; their charity is not a creed: it is the essence of them, the
beginning of all things for them--and the end.
       *       *       *       *       *
The bantering smile had died out in Hamil's face; he sat very still,
interested, disturbed, and then wondering when his eyes caught the
restless manoeuvres of the little hands, constantly in motion,
interlacing, eloquent of the tension of self-suppression.
       *       *       *       *       *
He thought: "It is a cowardly thing for an egotist with an egotist's
early and lively knowledge of the world and of himself to come
clamouring to a girl for charity. It is true that almost any man can
make a young girl think she loves him if he is selfish enough to do it.
Is her ignorance a fault? All her training deprecates any acquisition of
worldly knowledge: it is not for her: her value is in her ignorance.
Then when she naturally makes some revolting mistake and attempts to
escape to decency and freedom once more there is a hue and a cry from
good folk and clergy. Divorce? It is a good thing--as the last resort.
And a woman need feel no responsibility for the sort of society that
would deprive a woman of the last refuge she has!"
He raised his eyes, curiously, in time to intercept hers.
"So--you did not know me after all, it seems," she said with a faint
smile. "You never suspected in me a Vierge Rouge, militant, champion
of her downtrodden sex, haranguing whomsoever would pay her the fee of
his attention. Did you?"
And as he made no reply: "Your inference is that I have had some unhappy
love affair--some perilously close escape from--unhappy matrimony." She
shrugged. "As though a girl could plead only a cause which concerned
herself.... Tell me what you are thinking?"
She had risen, and he stood up before her, fascinated.
"Tell me!" she insisted; "I shall not let you go until you do!"
"I was thinking about you."
"Please don't!... Are you doing it yet?" closely confronting him, hands
behind her.
"Yes, I am," he said, unable to keep his eyes from her, all her beauty
and youth and freshness troubling him, closing in upon him like subtle
fragrance in the golden forest dusk.
"Are you still thinking about me?"
"Yes."
The rare sweet laughter edged her lips, for an instant; then something
in his eyes checked her. Colour and laughter died out, leaving a pale
confused smile; and the straight gaze wavered, grew less direct, yet
lost not a shade of his expression which also had changed.
Neither spoke; and after a moment they turned away, walking not very
near together toward the house.
The sunshine and the open somehow brought relief and the delicate
constraint between them relaxed as they sauntered slowly into the house
where Shiela presently went away to dress for the Ascott function, and
Hamil sat down on the veranda for a while, then retired to undertake the
embellishment of his own person.
CHAPTER IX
THE INVASION
They went together in a double chair, spinning noiselessly over the
shell road which wound through oleander and hibiscus hedges. Great
orange and sulphur-tinted butterflies kept pace with them as they
travelled swiftly southward; the long, slim shadows of palms gridironed
the sunny road, for the sun was in the west, and already a bird here and
there had ventured on a note or two as prelude to the evening song, and
over the ocean wild ducks were rising in clouds, swinging and drifting
and settling again as though in short rehearsal for their sunset flight.
"Your hostess is Mrs. Tom O'Hara," said the girl; "when you have enough
of it look at me and I'll understand. And if you try to hide in a corner
with some soulful girl I'll look at you--if it bores me too much. So
don't sit still with an infatuated smile, as Cecile does, when she sees
that I wish to make my adieux."
"I'm so likely to," he said, "when escape means that I'll have you to
myself again."
There was a trifle more significance in the unconsidered speech than he
had intended. The girl looked absently straight in front of her; he sat
motionless, uncomfortable at his own words, but too wise to attempt to
modify them by more words.
Other chairs passed them now along the road--there were nods of
recognition, gay salutes, an intimate word or two as the light-wheeled
vehicles flashed past; and in a moment more the tall coquina gate posts
and iron grille of Mrs. Tom O'Hara's villa, Tsana Lahni, glimmered under
an avenue of superb royal palms.
The avenue was crowded with the slender-wheeled basket-bodied chairs gay
with the plumage of pretty women; the scene on the lawns beyond was
charming where an orange and white pavilion was pitched against the
intense green of the foliage, and the pelouse was all dotted and
streaked with vivid colours of sunshades and gowns.
"Ulysses among the sirens," she whispered as they made their way toward
their hostess, exchanging recognition with people everywhere in the
throngs. "Here they are--all of them--and there's Miss Suydam,--too
unconscious of us. How hath the House of Hamil fallen!--"
"If you talk that way I won't leave you for one second while we're
here!" he said under his breath.
"Nonsense; it only hurts me, not my pride. And half a cup of unforbidden
