'At your ladyship's service!' answered Trombin in a laughing tone, for
the jest she unconsciously made in using the single word seemed to him
full of humour.
Gambardella's dark lantern sent its searching ray up to the window at
that moment, and showed the heads of the two young people close
together, for the shutters were now wide open; an instant later the
light went out and the music began again. It was a madrigal this time,
airy and changing, and sung by four men, one of whom had a beautiful
male contralto, which is a rarity even in Italy. Stradella recognised it
instantly, for he had often sung at the Lateran and knew the man.
'They are of the choir of Saint John's,' he whispered to Ortensia.
There was rivalry between the Lateran and the Vatican in the matter of
music then, as there has been in our own day, and it was no wonder that
the musicians themselves had joined in the fray when Don Alberto drew on
Trombin and Gambardella.
The serenade continued, and the two Bravi enjoyed it quite as much as
Ortensia herself; but it was not likely that Don Alberto would be
satisfied to go quietly to bed after being wounded under the very walls
of his father's palace by a professional cut-throat who had been
doubtless hired to protect a rival serenader. There was a guardhouse of
the watch not far away, at the foot of the Capitol Hill, and thither he
hastened, after twisting his silk scarf round his forearm as tightly as
he could to staunch the blood.
In less than a quarter of an hour he came back with a corporal's guard
of the night-watchmen, armed with clumsy broadswords, but each carrying
a serviceable iron-shod cudgel of cornel-wood which, according to old
Roman rhyme, breaks bones so easily that the blows do not even hurt:
'Corniale, rompe le ossa e non fa male.' The corporal himself carried an
elaborately wrought lantern of iron and glass, ornamented with the papal
tiara and crossed keys.
Now the Bravi did not know Alberto Altieri by sight, and they had
treated him as if he were of no more account than several hundred other
young noblemen, sure that he would have his scratch dressed and go
quietly to bed like a sensible fellow who has had the worst of it.
Therefore when the watch came in sight suddenly, from behind the corner
of the palace that juts out sharply towards San Stefano, the serenaders
did not connect the appearance of the patrol with their late adversary,
who had disappeared in the opposite direction; on the contrary, they
went on singing and playing, well aware that night-watchmen never
interfered with such innocent diversions, but would generally stop on
their round to enjoy the music. Even now, when they came straight towards
the musicians, the latter only made way quietly, supposing that they
wished to pass. It was not till Gambardella recognised Don Alberto's face
by the light of the corporal's lantern that he understood, and drew his
rapier just in time to save himself from being arrested.
'Run, while we hold the street!' he yelled to the musicians, who did not
wait for a second invitation, but fled like sheep down the Via del Gesù.
Trombin's blade was out almost as soon as his companion's, and the two
Bravi faced the watch side by side. Their hats were drawn well over
their eyes, and they had clapped on the little black masks most people
carried then, so that they were in no fear of being recognised. The
corporal, who seemed to be a determined fellow, swung his stick like a
sabre, to bring it down on Gambardella's head, but it found only the
empty air in its path, and at the same time the officer's left hand was
so sharply pricked that he dropped the big lantern, which rolled on its
side and went out. Meanwhile Trombin had parried the blow his nearest
adversary had struck at him, and in return had instantly disabled him by
running him through the right forearm, precisely as he had done by Don
Alberto.
A moment later Gambardella opened his dark lantern, and held it in his
left, so that he and Trombin became almost invisible to their
adversaries and had them at a great disadvantage. Furious, the corporal
struck another wild blow with his staff, but Gambardella dodged it even
more easily than before, being behind the lantern that dazzled the
other; and as the iron-shod stick hit the ground after missing its aim,
the officer felt the Bravo's blade run through the muscles of his upper
arm, like a stream of icy water, followed instantly by burning heat.
With a hearty curse he backed out of the way of another thrust and bade
his men draw their broadswords and finish the matter.
But this was more easily said than done. The half-dozen men obeyed,
indeed, so far as drawing and brandishing their clumsy weapons was
concerned, but the street was narrow, the lantern dazzled them, and the
two long rapiers with their needle points and solid blades pointed out
at them in the circle of light, ready to run in under the awkward
broadsword guard with deadly effect.
The corporal swore till Cucurullo, who was looking out of another upper
window, expected to see him struck by lightning, and all the people who
were now at the windows of the low houses opposite the palace crossed
themselves devoutly; but it was of no use, as long as those two gleaming
points kept making little circles slowly in the light. There was not a
man in the corporal's guard who would have gone within an arm's length
of them.
Seeing that they already had the best of it, the Bravi began to advance
by regular short steps, moving the right foot forward first and then the
left, as if they were on the fencing ground, their rapiers steadily in
guard; and the watchmen fell back, fearing to face them. But that was
not enough; for though the two might drive the little band in that way
from street to street, if they but lowered their points a moment their
adversaries would spring in upon them, even at some risk.
'We are mild-tempered men,' said Trombin at last, 'but we are both
fencing-masters, and it will not be prudent to irritate us, or, as I may
say, to drive us to extremities. You had better go your way quietly and
let us go ours.'
'If you do not,' said Gambardella, who was excessively bored, 'we will
skewer every mother's son of you in five minutes, by the holy
marrow-bones of Beelzebub!'
This singular invocation arrested the attention and disturbed the
equanimity of the watchmen; they could stand being sworn at by every
saint in the calendar, by every article of the Nicene Creed, and,
generally, by everything sacred of which their corporal had ever heard,
but they did not like men who invoked relics of such horrible import as
those which Gambardella had named. Nor were their fears misplaced, for
as they hesitated for two or three seconds before turning to run, the
Bravo made a spring like a wild cat, struck the corporal violently on
the nose with the iron guard of his rapier, jumped back one step, and
then, lunging an almost incredible distance as the corporal staggered
against the wall, ran the man behind him through the fleshy part of the
shoulder. On his side, Trombin advanced too, pretended to lunge and
then suddenly struck the man before him such a stinging blow with the
flat of his rapier that the fellow howled and fled, whereupon Trombin
encouraged his speed by prodding him sharply in the rear. In a moment
the confusion was complete, and the watchmen were tumbling over each
other in their hurry to escape. Then the lantern was suddenly shut, and
the two Bravi faced about and ran like deer in the opposite direction.
CHAPTER XV
Don Alberto did not care to tell how he had been wounded, and kept the
matter between himself, his doctor, and his own man, giving out that he
had been thrown from his horse and had broken one of the bones of his
forearm, a story which quite accounted for his wearing his arm in a
sling when he appeared after keeping his room during five days. It was
