Monsignor Saracinesca thought the good woman was dreaming.
'It is impossible,' he said emphatically.
'On the contrary,' returned Madame Bernard, 'it is perfectly true. If
you do not believe me, look at this!'
She opened her governess's reticule and fumbled amongst the little
school-books and papers it contained. In a moment she brought out a
letter, sealed, stamped, and postmarked, and held it up before the
tall prelate's eyes.
It was addressed to 'Donna Angela Chiaromonte,' to the care of Madame
Bernard at the latter's lodgings in Trastevere, the stamp was an
Italian one, and the postmark was that of the military post-office in
Massowah. Monsignor Saracinesca looked at the envelope curiously, took
it from Madame Bernard and examined the stamped date. Then he asked
her if she was quite sure of the handwriting, and she assured him that
she was; Giovanni had written before he started into the interior with
the expedition, and she herself had received the letter from the
postman and had given it to Angela. What was more, after Angela had
gone to live at the Convent, Madame Bernard had found the old envelope
of the letter in a drawer and had kept it, and she had just looked at
it before leaving her house.
'He is alive,' she said with conviction; 'he has written this letter
to her, and he does not know that she is a nun. He is coming home, I
am sure!'
Monsignor Saracinesca was a man of great heart and wide experience,
but such a case as this had never come to his knowledge. He stood
still in deep thought, bending a little as he rested both his hands on
the battered silver knob of his old stick.
'He is coming home!' repeated Madame Bernard in great distress. 'What
are we to do?'
'What were you going to do just now, when I met you at the door?'
asked the prelate.
'I do not know! I was going to see her! Perhaps I would have broken
the news to her gently, perhaps I would have said nothing and kept the
letter to give it to her at another time! How can I tell what I would
have done? It would have depended so much on the way she took the
first suggestion! People have died of joy, Monseigneur! A little
weakness of the heart, a sudden joyful surprise, it stops beating--that
has happened before now!'
'Yes. It has happened before now. I knew of such a case myself.'
'And I adore the child!' cried the impulsive Frenchwoman, ready to
burst into tears. 'Oh, what shall we do? What ought we to do?'
'Do you know the Mother Superior?'
'Oh yes! Quite well. Are you going to tell me that I should take the
letter to her? She is a cold, hard woman, Monseigneur! A splendid
woman to manage a hospital, perhaps, but she has no more heart than a
steel machine! She will burn the letter, and never tell any one!'
'I think you are mistaken about her,' answered the churchman gravely.
'She has more heart than most of us, and I believe that even you
yourself are not more devoted to Sister Giovanna than she is.'
'Really, Monseigneur? Is it possible? Are you sure? What makes you
think so?'
'To the best of my knowledge and belief, what I have told you is the
truth, though I might find it hard to explain my reasons for saying
so. But before you go to the Mother Superior, or speak of the matter
to Sister Giovanna, there is something else to be done. This letter,
by some strange accident of the post, may have been written before
Giovanni Severi died. There is a bare possibility that it may have
been mislaid in the post-office, or that he may have given it to a
comrade to post, who forgot it--many things may happen to a letter.'
'Well? What must I do?'
'If he is alive, the fact is surely known already at headquarters, and
you should make inquiries. To give Sister Giovanna a letter from the
dead man would be wrong, in my opinion, for it would cause her
needless and harmful pain. If he is dead, it should be burned, I
think. But if he is really alive, after all, you have no right to burn
it, and sooner or later she must have it and know the truth, with as
little danger to her health and peace of mind as possible.'
'You are right, Monseigneur,' answered Madame Bernard. 'What you say
is full of wisdom. I have three lessons to give this morning, and as
soon as I am free I will go myself to the house of a superior officer
whose daughter I used to teach, and he will find out the truth by the
telephone in a few minutes.'
'I think that is the best course,' said the churchman.
So they parted, for he was going to Saint Peter's, and she turned in
the direction of the nearest tramway, hastening to her pupils. And
meanwhile the inevitable advanced on its unchanging course.
For Giovanni Severi was alive and well, and was on his way to Rome.
CHAPTER XI
Giovanni Severi's adventures, between his supposed death in the
massacre of the expedition and his unexpected reappearance at Massowah
nearly five years later, would fill an interesting little volume in
themselves; but inasmuch as an account of them would not make this
story clearer and would occupy much space, it is enough to state the
bare facts in a few words. Such tales of danger, suffering, and
endurance have often been told at first hand, by the heroes of them,
far more vividly and correctly than a mere story-teller can narrate
them on hearsay.
The expedition had been attacked and destroyed by a handful of natives
from a wandering tribe that was camping very near. Within a few
minutes their chief was informed of what they had done, and he rode
out to the spot with a large body of men at his heels. Among the dead,
Giovanni Severi lay bleeding from a gash in the head, but not mortally
hurt. The chief was by no means a mere dull savage, and finding an
Italian officer alive, he recognised at once that it would be a
mistake to knock him on the head and leave him with his comrades to be
disposed of by the vultures and hyænas. On the other hand, he must not
be allowed to escape to the Italian colony with news of the disaster.
At some future time, and from a safe distance, it might be possible to
obtain a large ransom for him; or, on the other hand, if a large force
were ever sent up the country to revenge the outrage, it might be to
the credit of the chief if he could prove that the deed had been done
without his knowledge and that he had treated the only survivor
humanely. He therefore took possession of Giovanni and provided for
his safety in a simple manner by merely stating that if the prisoner
escaped he would cut off ten heads, but if any harm came to him, he
would cut off at least a hundred. As no one doubted but that he would
keep his word, as he invariably did in such matters, Giovanni had but
small chance of ever regaining his liberty, and none at all presented
itself for nearly five years. During that time he travelled with his
captors or lived in camps, many hundreds of miles from the outposts of
civilisation; he learned their language and the chief insisted on
learning his, as it might be useful; furthermore, he was required to
teach his master whatever he could about modern warfare and what
little he knew of agriculture and its arts of peace. In return he was
well fed, well lodged when possible, and as well clad as any man in
the tribe except the chief himself, which was not saying much.
His chance came at last and he did not let it pass. It involved
killing one of his guards, stunning another, and seizing the chief's
own camel, and it was not without great risk to his life that he got
away. A fortnight later he had travelled five hundred miles and
