Montague, in his turn, hesitated; then he said, "That is
correct--between you and me."
"Very good," said Harvey, "and that is what made me suspicious. Do you
know anything about Ellis?"
"I didn't," said the other. "I've heard a little since."
"I can fancy so," said Harvey. "And I can tell you that Ellis is mixed
up in life-insurance matters in all sorts of dubious ways. It seems to
me that you have reason to be most careful where you follow him."
Montague sat with his hands clenched and his brows knitted. His
friend's talk had been like a flash of lightning; it revealed huge
menacing forms in the darkness about him. All the structure of his
hopes seemed to be tottering; his case, that he had worked so hard
over--his fifty thousand dollars that he had been so proud of! Could it
be that he had been tricked, and had made a fool of himself?
"How in the world am I to know?" he cried.
"That is more than I can tell," said his friend. "And for that matter,
I'm not sure that you could do anything now. All that I could do was to
warn you what sort of ground you were treading on, so that you could
watch out for yourself in future."
Montague thanked him heartily for that service; and then he went back
to his office, and spent the rest of the day pondering the matter.
What he had heard had made a vast change in things. Before it
everything had seemed simple; and now nothing was clear. He was
overwhelmed with a sense of the utter futility of his efforts; he was
trying to build a house upon quicksands. There was nowhere a solid spot
upon which he could set his foot. There was nowhere any truth--there
were only contending powers who used the phrases of truth for their own
purposes! And now he saw himself as the world saw him,--a party to a
piece of trickery,--a knave like all the rest. He felt that he had been
tripped up at the first step in his career.
The conclusion of the whole matter was that he took an afternoon train
for Albany; and the next morning he talked the matter out with the
Judge. Montague had realized the need of going slowly, for, after all,
he had no definite ground for suspicion; and so, very tactfully and
cautiously he explained, that it had come to his ears that many people
believed there were interested parties behind the suit of Mr. Hasbrook;
and that this had made him uncomfortable, as he knew nothing whatever
about his client. He had come to ask the Judge's advice in the matter.
No one could have taken the thing more graciously than did the great
man; he was all kindness and tact. In the first place, he said, he had
warned him in advance that enemies would attack him and slander him,
and that all kinds of subtle means would be used to influence him. And
he must understand that these rumours were part of such a campaign; it
made no difference how good a friend had brought them to him--how could
he know who had brought them to that friend?
The Judge ventured to hope that nothing that anyone might say could
influence him to believe that he, the Judge, would have advised him to
do anything improper.
"No," said Montague, "but can you assure me that there are no
interested parties behind Mr. Hasbrook?"
"Interested parties?" asked the other.
"I mean people connected with the Fidelity or other insurance
companies."
"Why, no," said the Judge; "I certainly couldn't assure you of that."
Montague looked surprised. "You mean you don't know?"
"I mean," was the answer, "that I wouldn't feel at liberty to tell,
even if I did know."
And Montague stared at him; he had not been prepared for this frankness.
"It never occurred to me," the other continued, "that that was a matter
which could make any difference to you."
"Why--" began Montague.
"Pray understand me, Mr. Montague," said the Judge. "It seemed to me
that this was obviously a just case, and it seemed so to you. And the
only other matter that I thought you had a right to be assured of was
that it was seriously meant. Of that I felt assured. It did not seem to
me of any importance that there might be interested individuals behind
Mr. Hasbrook. Let us suppose, for instance, that there were some
parties who had been offended by the administration of the Fidelity,
and were anxious to punish it. Could a lawyer be justified in refusing
to take a just case, simply because he knew of such private motives?
Or, let us assume an extreme case--a factional fight within the
company, as you say has been suggested to you. Well, that would be a
case of thieves falling out; and is there any reason why the public
should not reap the advantage of such a situation? The men inside the
company are the ones who would know first what is going on; and if you
saw a chance to use such an advantage in a just fight--would you not do
it?"
So the Judge went on, gracious and plausible--and so subtly and
exquisitely corrupting! Underneath his smoothly flowing sentences
Montague could feel the presence of one fundamental thought; it was
unuttered and even unhinted, but it pervaded the Judge's discourse as a
mood pervades a melody. The young lawyer had got a big fee, and he had
a nice easy case; and as a man of the world, he could not really wish
to pry into it too closely. He had heard gossip, and felt that his
reputation required him to be disturbed; but he had come, simply to be
smoothed down the back and made at ease, and enabled to keep his fee
without losing his good opinion of himself.
Montague quit, because he concluded that it was not worth while to try
to make himself understood. After all, he was in the case now, and
there was nothing to be gained by a breach. Two things he felt that he
had made certain by the interview--first, that his client was a
"dummy," and that it was really a case of thieves falling out; and
second, that he had no guarantee that he might not be left in the lurch
at any moment--except the touching confidence of the Judge in some
parties unknown.
CHAPTER XIX
Montague came home with his mind made up that there was nothing he
could do except to be more careful next time. For this mistake he would
have to pay the price.
He had still to learn what the full price was. The day after his return
there came a caller--Mr. John C. Burton, read his card. He proved to be
a canvassing agent for the company which published the scandal-sheet of
Society. They were preparing a de luxe account of the prominent
families of New York; a very sumptuous affair, with a highly exclusive
set of subscribers, at the rate of fifteen hundred dollars per set.
Would Mr. Montague by any chance care to have his family included?
And Mr. Montague explained politely that he was a comparative stranger
in New York, and would not belong properly in such a volume. But the
agent was not satisfied with this. There might be reasons for his
subscribing, even so; there might be special cases; Mr. Montague, as a
stranger, might not realize the important nature of the offer; after he
had consulted his friends, he might change his mind--and so on. As
Montague listened to this series of broad hints, and took in the
meaning of them, the colour mounted, to his cheeks--until at last he
rose abruptly and bid the man good afternoon.
But then as he sat alone, his anger died away, and there was left only
discomfort and uneasiness. And three or four days later he bought
another issue of the paper, and sure enough, there was a new paragraph!
He stood on the street-corner reading it. The social war was raging
hotly, it said; and added that Mrs. de Graffenried was threatening to
