and Betty Upham is keeping steady company. I used to have an idea that
you and Ben would make a match----"

"It's Jenny Willing," she interrupted. "And I am heartily glad."

"You were all such friends;" looking puzzled.

"And I hope we will go on being friends. I have always liked Jenny."

"She was awfully afraid you'd cut her out. You know he did fancy you
first. I think she would have been very unhappy if she had missed him. I
don't see what there is about you, Cynthia;" studying her intently. "You
are pretty, but there are some handsome girls in Salem. And they run
after Ed Saltonstall as if there was no other man in town. And my advice
to you is to seize on him, for I think your chance best. He's an awful
flirt, though. I think good-looking men always are."

Cynthia flushed. Why should these things be profaned by foolish gossip.

Polly came over one afternoon. She had accomplished the bag and was
proud enough of it. And she announced Bentley's engagement.

"They will be married in the early fall; they are not going to build,
but have part of that double house of Nelsons'. She'll make a fine,
economical wife, and that is what men need who are trying to get along.
Assemblies and all that are not the thing for prudent married people."

"And one gets tired of them." She had a feeling just then that she
should never want to dance any more.

Cynthia was glad to have him settled, glad Jenny Willing had the man she
loved.

And the last time he had come back to her she had held up her finger to
him thoughtlessly, to shield herself from some other pointed attentions.
It had been a mean thing to do. But she had only meant it for that
evening, and he had gone on importunately. She was ashamed of it now.
Yes, she had better marry; then no one would be pleading for favors,
mistaking a simple smile for deeper meaning. Was her smile different
from that of other girls?

She watched Cousin Chilian narrowly. Was the old dear freedom between
them gone? He seemed rather abstracted. He did not call her into the
study, he went out oftener of an evening. Mr. Saltonstall would pass by,
then turn and walk up the path and sit down on the step. This would
occur several times a week. He asked her to ride with him, but she
shrank from that. She went over one evening on special invitation, when
Chilian was to play chess with the father. Mrs. Saltonstall took her in
quite as if she was one of the family, and really was very sweet to her.
And the old gentleman was fatherly.

That seemed to settle it for her, rather the fact that sank deeper in
her mind every day that Cousin Chilian wished her to marry and that this
young man was his preference. She allowed him to come a little nearer,
to hold her hand, to take nameless small freedoms, and he was always
delicate.

Would he be satisfied without all she could not help withholding? Would
it be right to give him a half love? But then how could she help loving
Cousin Chilian, who had been so tender to her in childhood? She would be
gladly content to stay without any nearer tie between them; of course,
that other could not be thought of.

One night Mr. Saltonstall asked her in a manly fashion. And suddenly a
great white light shot up in her heart, and loving one man she knew she
had no right to deceive another, to live a deception all her life long,
to cheat him--yes, it was that. Better a hundred times to live out her
flawed life alone.

"Oh, I cannot," she murmured. "I--I"--she choked down the strangling
sob.

"My little darling, give me the opportunity to teach you what love
really is. You do not know."




CHAPTER XVII

THE FLOWERING OF THE SOUL


Cynthia had said coldly that she did not wish to marry at present,
perhaps never. "I have been trying to love you to--to please some one
else, and it is a compliment for you to ask me. But any woman ought to
be sure before she makes a life-long promise. I must be honest--with
you, with myself."

Something in the solemn tone awed him. He had not been looking at the
serious side of love. She was pretty, bright, and winsome, with a good
deal of Puritan simplicity, a great power of enjoyment and difficult to
win. He liked to do the winning himself. He liked to find some new
qualities in girls, and Cynthia, with all her daintiness, had many sides
that surprised one. She had been brought up by a man--that made the
difference.

"We will wait a little," he said. "Talk to your cousin about it. I think
it will all come right. You are the first woman I ever desired to marry,
and I have been fond of girls, too."

That would have flattered some women. She said good-night in a strained,
breathless tone, and vanished through the door. He sat and thought.
There was no other lover, he was quite sure.

She went to bed at once. She did not cry, she was somehow stunned at
this revelation about herself, for she had resolved to accept him and
this sudden protest told her that it was quite impossible. If Cousin
Chilian was disappointed, if he was tired of her, there was a warm
welcome in Boston.

She did not sleep much. Rachel noted her heavy eyes, and the expression
as if she might be secretly upbraiding fate. What if Mr. Saltonstall had
been trifling?

Chilian went up to his study. He felt languid, he nearly always did now.
He took a book and sat by the open window. Two tall trees hid the
prospect, except a space of blooming garden. To-day a small outlook
pleased him, for his life was to be made narrower. She would come and
tell him--shut the golden gate forever. He could not, would not, enter
