Miss Andrews laughed and blushed at once. " Then 
we shall expect you every day." 
" Well, every day but Thursday," he promised. 
When the mother and daughter had gone Mrs. Ver- 
rian said, " She is a great admirer of yours, Philip. 
She's read your story, and I suspect she wants an op- 
portunity to talk with you about it." 
" You mean Mrs. Andrews ?" 
 
" Yes. I suppose the daughter hasn't waited for an 
opportunity. The mother had read that publisher's 
paragraph about your invalid, and wanted to know if 
you had ever heard from her again. Women are per- 
sonal in their literary interests." 
Philip asked, in dismay, " You didn't give it away 
did you, mother ?" 
" Certainly not, my dear. You have brought me up 
too carefully." 
" Of course. I didn't imagine you had." 
Then, as they could not pretend to look at the pict- 
ures any longer, they went away, too. Their issue into 
the open air seemed fraught with novel emotion for 
Mrs. Verrian. " Well, now," she said, " I have seen 
the woman I would be willing my son should marry." 
" Child, you mean," Philip said, not pretending that 
he did not know she meant Miss Andrews. 
" That girl," his mother returned, " is innocence it- 
self. Oh, Philip, dear, do marry her !" 
" Well, I don't know. If her mother is behaving as 
sagely with her as you are with me the chances are that 
she won't let me. Besides, I don't know that I want 
to marry quite so much innocence." 
" She is conscience incarnate," his mother uttered, 
perfervidly. " You could put your very soul in her 
keeping." 
" Then you would be out of a job, mother." 
" Oh, I am not worthy of the job, my dear. I have 
always felt that. I am too complex, and sometimes I 
can't see the right alone, as she could." 
Philip was silent a moment while he lost the personal 
point of view. " I suspect we don't see the right when 
we see it alone. We ought to see the wrong, too." 
" Ah, Philip, don't let your fancy go after that girl !" 
" Miss Andrews ? I thought — " 
 
" Don't you be complex, my dear. You know I mean 
Miss Shirley. What has become of her, I wonder. I 
heard Miss Andrews asking you." 
" I wasn't able to tell her. Do you want me to try 
telling you ?" 
" I would rather you never could." 
Philip laughed sardonically. " Now, I shall forget 
Thursdays and all the other days, too. You are a very 
unwise parent, mother." 
They laughed with each other at each other, and 
treated her enthusiasm for Miss Andrews as the joke 
it partly was. Mrs. Verrian did not follow him up 
about her idol, and a week or so later she was able to 
affect a decent surprise when he came in at the end of 
an afternoon and declined the cup of tea she proposed 
on the ground that he had been taking a cup of tea with 
the Andrewses. " You have really been there ?" 
" Didn't you expect me to keep my promise ?" 
" But I was afraid I had put a stumbling-block in the 
way." 
" Oh, I found I could turn the consciousness you 
created in me into literary material, and so I was rather 
eager to go. I have got a point for my new story out 
of it. I shall have my fellow suffer all I didn't suffer 
in meeting the girl he knows his mother wants him to 
marry. I got on very well with those ladies. Mrs. 
Andrews is the mother of innocence, but she isn't in- 
nocence. She managed to talk of my story without 
asking about the person who wanted to anticipate the 
conclusion. That was what you call complex. She was 
insincere; it was the only thing she wanted to talk 
about." 
" I don't believe it, Philip. But what did Miss 
Andrews talk about ?" 
" Well, she is rather an optimistic conscience. She 
 
talked about books and plays that some people do not 
think are quite proper. I have a notion that, where the 
point involved isn't a fact of her own experience, she 
is not very severe about it. You think that would be 
quite safe for me ?" 
" Philip, I don't like your making fun of her !" 
" Oh, she wasn't insipid ; she was only limpid. I 
really like her, and, as for reverencing her, of course I 
feel that in a way she is sacred." He added, after a 
breath, " Too sacred. We none of us can expect to 
marry Eve before the Tall now; perhaps we have got 
over wanting to." 
" You are very perverse, my dear. But you will get 
over that." 
" Don't take away my last defence, mother." 
Verrian began to go rather regularly to the Andrews 
house, or, at least, he was accused of doing it by Miss 
Macroyd when, very irregularly, he went one day to 
see her. " How did you know it ?" he asked. 
" I didn't say I knew it. I only wished to know it. 
Now I am satisfied. I met another friend of yours 
on Sunday." She paused for him to ask who; but 
he did not ask. " I see you are dying to know what 
friend : Mr. Bushwick." 
" Oh, he's a good-fellow. I wonder I don't run across 
him." 
" Perhaps that's because you never call on Miss Shir- 
ley." Miss Macroyd waited for this to take effect, but 
he kept a glacial surface towards her, and she went on : 
" They were walking together in the park at noon. I 
suppose they had been to church together." 
Verrian manifested no more than a polite interest in 
the fact. He managed so well that he confirmed Miss 
Macroyd in a tacit conjecture. She went on : " Miss 
Shirley was looking quite blooming — for her. But so 
was he, for that matter. Why don't you ask if they in- 
quired for you?" 
" I thought you would tell me without." 
" I will tell you if he did. He was very cordial in 
