“Is Mrs. Taylor on board?” he asked.
“She is,” the other answered. “Is this Mr. Montague? She left word
for you.”
Montague had begun to ascend; but a half a second later he stopped
short in consternation.
Through one of the portholes of the vessel he heard distinctly a
muffled cry,--
“Help! help!”
And he recognised the voice. It was Lucy’s!
CHAPTER V
Montague hesitated only an instant. He sprang up to the deck. “Where
is Mrs. Taylor?” he cried.
“She went below, sir,” said the man, hesitating; but Montague sprang
past him and down the companionway.
At the foot of the stairs he found himself in a broad entrance-hall,
lighted by a glass dome above. He sprang toward a door which opened
in the direction of the cry he had heard, and shouted aloud, “Lucy!
Lucy!” He heard her answer beyond the doorway, and he seized the
knob and tried it. The door was locked.
“Open the door!” he shouted.
There was no sound. “Open the door!” he called again, “or I’ll break
it down.”
Suiting his action to the word, he flung his weight upon it. The
barrier cracked; and then suddenly he heard a man’s voice. “All
right. Wait.”
Someone fumbled at the knob; and Montague stood crouching and
watching breathlessly, prepared for anything. The door opened, and
he found himself confronted by Dan Waterman.
Montague recoiled a step in consternation; and the other strode out,
and without a word went past him down the hall. There was just time
enough for Montague to receive one look--of the most furious rage
that he had ever seen upon a human face.
He rushed into the room. Lucy was standing at the farther end,
leaning upon a table to support herself. Her clothing was in
disarray, and her hair was falling about her ears; her face was
flushed, and she was panting in great agitation.
“Lucy!” he gasped, running to her. She caught at his arm to steady
herself.
“What is the matter?” he cried. She turned her face away, making not
a sound.
For a minute or so he stood staring at her. Then she whispered,
“Quick! let us go from here!”
And with a sudden movement of her hands, she swept her hair back
from her forehead, and straightened her clothing, and started to the
door, leaning upon her friend.
They went up to the deck, where the officer was still standing in
perplexity.
“Mrs. Taylor wishes to go ashore,” said Montague. “Will you get us a
boat?”
“The launch will be back in a few minutes, sir--” the man began.
“We wish to go at once,” said Montague. “Will you let us have one of
those rowboats? Otherwise I shall hail that tug.”
The man hesitated but a moment. Montague’s voice was determined, and
so he turned and gave orders to lower a small boat.
In the meantime, Lucy stood, breathing heavily, and gazing about her
nervously. When at last they had left the yacht, he heard her sigh
with relief.
They sat in silence until she had stepped upon the landing. Then she
said, “Get me a cab, Allan.”
He led her to the street and hailed a vehicle. When they were
seated, Lucy sank back with a gasp. “Please don’t ask me to talk,
Allan,” she said. And she made not another sound during the long
drive to the hotel.
* * *
“Is there anything I can do for you?” he said, after he had seen her
safely to her apartment.
“No,” she answered. “I am all right. Wait for me.”
She retired to her dressing-room, and when she came back, all traces
of her excitement had been removed. Then she seated herself in a
chair opposite Montague and gazed at him.
“Allan,” she began, “I have been trying to think. What can I do to
that man?”
“I am sure I don’t know,” he answered.
“Why, I can hardly believe that this is New York,” she gasped. “I
feel as though I had got back into the Middle Ages!”
“You forget, Lucy,” he replied, “that I don’t know what happened.”
Again she fell silent. They sat staring at each other, and then
suddenly she leaned back in her chair and began to laugh. Once she
had started, burst after burst of merriment swept over her. “I try
to stay angry, Allan!” she gasped. “It seems as if I ought to. But,
honestly, it was perfectly absurd!”
“I am sure you’d much better laugh than cry,” said he.
“I will tell you about it, Allan,” the girl went on. “I know I shall
have to tell somebody, or I shall simply explode. You will have to
advise me about it, for I was never more bewildered in my life.”
“Go ahead,” said he. “Begin at the beginning.”
“I told you how I met Waterman at his art gallery,” said Lucy. “Mr.
David Alden took me, and the old man was so polite, and so
dignified--why, I never had the slightest idea! And then he wrote me
a little note--in his own hand, mind you--inviting me to be one of a
party for the first trip of the Brünnhilde. Of course, I thought it
was all right. I told you I was going, you know, and you didn’t have
any objections either.
“I went down there, and the launch met me and took me on board, and
a steward took me down into that room and left me, and a second
later the old man himself came in. And he shut the door behind him
and locked it!
“How do you do, Mrs. Taylor?’ he said, and before I had a chance
even to open my mouth and reply, he came to me and calmly put his
arms around me.
“You can fancy my feelings. I was simply paralysed!
“Mr. Waterman?’ I gasped.
“I didn’t hear what he said; I was almost dazed with anger and
fright. I remember I cried several times, ‘Let me go!’ but he paid
not the slightest attention to me. He just held me tight in his
arms.
“Finally I got myself together, a little. I didn’t want to bite and
scratch like a kitchen-wench. I tried to speak calmly.
“‘Mr. Waterman,’ I said, ‘I want you to release me.’
“‘I love you,’ he said.
“‘But I don’t love you,’ I protested. I remember thinking even then
how absurd it sounded. I can’t think of anything that wouldn’t have
sounded absurd in such a situation.
“‘You will learn to love me,’ he said. ‘Many women have.’
“‘I am not that sort of a woman,’ I said. ‘I tell you, you have made
a mistake. Let me go.’
“‘I want you,’ he said. ‘And when I want a thing, I get it. I never
take any refusal--understand that. You don’t realise the situation.
It will be no disgrace to you. Women think it an honour to have me
love them. Think what I can do for you. You can have anything you
