Our fellow-lodgers were quiet people of divers de- 
grees, except perhaps the highest, unless the nobility 
bring boiled hams with them when they visit the sea- 
side. The boiled ham of the drawing-room floor was 
frankly set out on the hall table, where it seemed to last 
a week, or at least till the lodgers went away. There 
was much coming and going, for it was the height of 
the season, with the prices at flood tide. We paid six 
guineas a week for three bedrooms and a sitting-room ; 
but our landladies owned it was dear. An infirm and 
superannuated sideboard served for a dressing-table in 
one room; in others the heavier pieces of furniture 
stood sometimes on four legs, sometimes on three. We 
had the advantage of two cats on the back fence, and a 
dog in the back yard; but if the controversy between 
them was carried on in Welsh, it is no wonder we never 
knew what it was about. 
Our hostesses said the Welsh were dirty house- 
keepers : " At least we think so," but I am bound to 
say their own cooking was very good; and not being 
Welsh our hostesses consented to market -for us, except 
in the article of Spanish melons: these I bought my- 
self of increasing cost and size. When I alleged, the 
second morning, that the melon then sold me for six- 
pence had been sold me by another boy for fourpence 
the day before, my actual Cymric youth said, " Then 
he asked you too little," which seemed a non sequitur 
but was really an unexpected stroke of logic. 
It was the utmost severity used with me by my co- 
racials in Llandudno. They were in the great majority 
of the permanent inhabitants, but they were easily out- 
numbered among the pleasurers by the Saeseneg, whose 
language prevailed, so that a chance word of Welsh 
now and then was all that I heard in the streets. Some 
faint stirrings of ambition to follow the language as 
far as a phrase-book would lead were not encouraged 
by the kindly bookseller who took my money for it; 
 
and I did not go on. It is a loss for me in literature 
which translation cannot supply, for the English lovers 
of Welsh poetry, after praising it to the skies, are never 
able to produce anything which is not direly mechani- 
cal and vacuous. The native charm somehow escapes 
them; the grace beyond the reach of art remains with 
the Cymric poets who have resources for its capture 
unknown to their English admirers. George Borrow 
seems the worst failure in this sort, and the worst of- 
fender in giving his reader the hopes he never fulfils, 
so that his Wild Wales is a desert of blighted literary 
promises. I believe that the merit of Welsh poetry 
dwells largely, perhaps overlargely, in its intricate 
technique, and in the euphonic changes which leave the 
spoken word ready for singing almost without the of- 
fices of the composer. 
One of the great musical contests, the yearly nation- 
al Eisteddfod, was taking place that year at the neigh- 
boring town of Miyl, but I did not go to hear it, not 
being good for a week's music without intermission. 
At Llandudno there was only the music of the Pierrots 
and the Niggers, which those simple-hearted English 
have borrowed, the one from France and the other 
from these States. Their passion for our colored min- 
strelsy is, in fact, something pathetic. They like Pier- 
rots well enough, and Pierrots are amusing, there is no 
doubt of it; but they dote upon Niggers, as they call 
them with a brutality unknown among us except to the 
vulgarest white men and boys, and the negroes them- 
selves in moments of exasperation. Negro minstrelsy 
is almost extinct in the land of its birth, but in the land 
of its adoption it flourishes in the vigor of undying 
 
youth ; no watering-place is genuine without it. Bands 
of Niggers haunt the streets and suburbs of London, 
and apparently every high day or holiday throughout 
the British Islands requires the stamp of their pres- 
ence as a nostrum requires the name of the patentee 
blown in the bottle. The decay of their gay science 
began among us with the fall of slavery, and the pass- 
ing of the old plantation life; but as these never ex- 
isted in Great Britain the English version of negro 
minstrelsy is not affected by their disappearance. It 
is like the English tradition of the Red Skins, which 
has all but vanished from our superstition, but remains 
as powerful as ever in the constant fancy of those isl- 
anders. 
The English like their Niggers very, very black, and 
as their Niggers are English they know how to gratify 
the national preference: such a spread of scarlet lips 
over half the shining sable face is known nowhere else 
in nature or art; and it must have been in despair of 
rivalling their fellow-minstrels that the small Amer- 
ican troupe we saw at Aberystwyth went to the op- 
posite extreme and frankly appeared as the White 
N"eegurs. At Llandudno the blackness of the Niggers 
was absolute, so that it almost darkened the day as they 
passed our lodging, along the crescent of the beach on 
their way to their open-air theatre beyond it. They 
were followed by a joyous retinue of boys and girls, 
tradesmen's apprentices, donkeys, bath-chairs, and all 
the movable gladness of the watering-place, to the music 
of their banjos and the sound of their singing. They 
were going to a fold of the foot-hills called the Happy 
Valley, bestowed on the public for such pleasures by 
the local nobleman whose title is given to a principal 
street, and to other points and places, I suppose out of 
the public pride and gratitude. It is a charming 
 
amphitheatre overlooked by the lofty tops around, 
and there on the green slope the Niggers had set up 
their stage, and ranged the spectators' chairs in the 
classification of first, second, and third so dear to the 
British soul. There they cracked their jokes, and there 
they sang their songs; the songs were newer than the 
jokes, but they were both kinds delivered with a strong 
Cockney accent, and without an aspirate in its place. 
But it was all richly acceptable to the audience, who 
laughed and cheered and joined in the chorus when 
asked. Here, as everywhere, the crowd delighted equal- 
ly in songs of the sloppiest sentimentality and of hu- 
mor nighest indecency. 
