exterminating the reason for it I don't know--" Her voice broke
pitifully. "Only stand by us, Duane. Don't go away just now. You were
packing to go; but please don't leave me just yet. Could you arrange to
remain for a while?"
"Yes, I'll arrange it.... I'm a little troubled about my father--" He
checked himself. "I could run down to town for a day or two and
return----"
"Is Colonel Mallett ill?" she asked.
"N-no.... These are rather strenuous times--or threaten to be. Of course
the Half-Moon is as solid as a rock. But even the very, very great are
beginning to fuss.... And my father is not young, Kathleen. So I thought
I'd like to run down and take him out to dinner once or twice--to a
roof-garden or something, you know. It's rather pathetic that men of his
age, grown gray in service, should feel obliged to remain in the
stifling city this summer."
"Of course you must go," she said; "you couldn't even hesitate. Is your
mother worried?"
"I don't suppose she has the slightest notion that there is anything to
worry over. And there isn't, I think. She and Naïda will be in the
Berkshires; I'll go up and stay with them later--when Geraldine is all
right again," he added cheerfully.
Scott, fidgeting like a neglected pup, came wandering into the hall,
book in hand.
"For the love of Mike," he said impatiently, "what have you two got to
talk about all night?"
"My son," observed Duane, "there are a few subjects for conversation
which do not include the centipede and the polka-dotted dickey-bird.
These subjects Kathleen and I furtively indulge in when we can arrange
to elude you."
Scott covered a yawn and glanced at Kathleen.
"Is Geraldine all right?" he asked with all the healthy indifference of
a young man who had never been ill, and was, therefore, incapable of
understanding illness in others.
"Certainly, she's all right," said Duane. And to Kathleen: "I believe
I'll venture to knock at her door----"
"Oh, no, Duane. She isn't ready to see anybody----"
"Well, I'll try----"
"Please, don't!"
But he had her at a disadvantage, and he only laughed and mounted the
stairs, saying:
"I'll just exchange a word with her or with her maid, anyway."
When he turned into the corridor Geraldine's maid, seated in the
window-seat sewing, rose and came forward to take his message. In a few
moments she returned, saying:
"Miss Seagrave asks to be excused, as she is ready to retire."
"Ask Miss Seagrave if I can say good-night to her through the door."
The maid disappeared and returned in a moment.
"Miss Seagrave wishes you good-night, sir."
So he thanked the maid pleasantly and walked to his own room, now once
more prepared for him after the departure of those who had temporarily
required it.
Starlight made the leaded windows brilliant; he opened them wide and
leaned out on the sill, arms folded. The pale astral light illuminated a
fairy world of meadow and garden and spectral trees, and two figures
moving like ghosts down by the fountain among the roses--Rosalie and
Grandcourt pacing the gravel paths shoulder to shoulder under the stars.
Below him, on the terrace, he saw Kathleen and Scott--the latter
carrying a butterfly net--examining the borders of white pinks with a
lantern. In and out of the yellow rays swam multitudes of night moths,
glittering like flakes of tinsel as the lantern light flashed on their
wings; and Scott was evidently doing satisfactory execution, for every
moment or two Kathleen uncorked the cyanide jar and he dumped into it
from the folds of the net a fluttering victim.
"That last one is a Pandorus Sphinx!" he said in great excitement to
Kathleen, who had lifted the big glass jar into the lantern light and
was trying to get a glimpse of the exquisite moth, whose wings of olive
green, rose, and bronze velvet were already beating a hazy death tattoo
in the lethal fumes.
"A Pandorus! Scott, you've wanted one so much!" she exclaimed,
enchanted.
"You bet I have. Pholus pandorus is pretty rare around here. And I say,
Kathleen, that wasn't a bad net-stroke, was it? You see I had only a
second, and I took a desperate chance."
She praised his skill warmly; then, as he stood admiring his prize in
the jar which she held up, she suddenly caught him by the arm and
pointed:
"Oh, quick! There is a hawk-moth over the pinks which resembles nothing
we have seen yet!"
Scott very cautiously laid his net level, stole forward, shining the
lantern light full on the darting, hazy-winged creature, which was now
poised, hovering over a white blossom and probing the honeyed depths
with a long, slim proboscis.
"I thought it might be only a Lineata, but it isn't," he said
excitedly. "Did you ever see such a timid moth? The slightest step
scares the creature."
"Can't you try a quick net-stroke sideways?"
Her voice was as anxious and unsteady as his own.
"I'm afraid I'll miss. Lord but it's a lightning flier! Where is it
now?"
"Behind you. Do be careful! Turn very slowly."
He pivoted; the slim moth darted past, circled, and hung before a
blossom, wings vibrating so fast that the creature was merely a gray
blur in the lantern light. The next instant Gray's net swung; a furious
fluttering came from the green silk folds; Kathleen whipped off the
cover of the jar, and Duane deftly imprisoned the moth.
"Upon my word," he said shakily, "I believe I've got a Tersa Sphinx!--a
sub-tropical fellow whose presence here is mere accident!"
"Oh, if you have!" she breathed softly. She didn't know what a Tersa
Sphinx might be, but if its capture gave him pleasure, that was all she
cared for in the world.
"It is a Tersa!" he almost shouted. "By George! it's a wonder."
Radiant, she bent eagerly above the jar where the strange, slender,
gray-and-brown hawk-moth lay dying. Its recoiling proboscis and its
slim, fawn-coloured legs quivered. The eyes glowed like tiny jewels.
"If we could only keep these little things alive," she sighed; then,
fearful of taking the least iota from his pleasure, added: "but of
course we can't, and for scientific purposes it's all right to let the
lovely little creatures sink into their death-sleep."
A slight haze had appeared over the lake; a sudden cool streak grew in
the air, which very quickly cleared the flower-beds of moths; and the
pretty sub-tropical sphinx was the last specimen of the evening.
In the library Scott pulled out a card-table and Kathleen brought
forceps, strips of oiled paper, pins, setting-blocks, needles, and
oblong glass weights; and together, seated opposite each other, they
removed the delicate-winged contents of the collecting jar.
Kathleen's dainty fingers were very swift and deft with the forceps.
Scott watched her. She picked up the green-and-rose Pandorus, laid it on
its back on a setting-block, affixed and pinned the oiled-paper strips,
drew out the four wings with the setting-needle until they were
symmetrical and the inner margin of the anterior pair was at right
