been about much ? ” tentatively. 
“ Mr. Winslow took me for an automobile 
ride. Mrs. Winslow thinks it the perfection 
of traveling. Perhaps I should on a five- 
thousand-mile journey. I was tied up in a 
veil, which I can’t endure, but I saw the bene- 
fit of it. We went like the wind and you had 
to gasp for breath. All about was a blur. I 
might like a more moderate pace. Next 
spring I think I shall hire a comfortable nag 
who will not disdain wayside grass, and go 
really sight-seeing.” 
“ Let me share the expense now and then,” 
she besought. 
Helen nodded. “ When shall we give the 
invitations?” she asked. 
“ Not until Friday noon. Otherwise we 
may be besieged.” 
“ But that seems such a short notice. Some 
of their mothers may not consent.” 
“ Oh, they will. If not, we can pick up a 
stray somewhere,” Miss Jaynes said gayly. 
“ You see it would have a tendency to distract 
Friday’s attention.” 
I 
That was true enough. 
They were each going different ways. 
Helen sauntered slowly along when Mr. Un- 
derwood overtook her. 
“ So you have been offered a sort of ex- 
cursion,” he commented, laughing with a tint 
of mischief in his eyes. 
“ Miss Jaynes and I are to take some of the 
children up to North Bend for ferns. Mr. 
Hildreth is to send his big surrey,” she replied 
in a most ordinary tone. “ Some of the best 
scholars are to be thus rewarded.” 
“ He has a new crochet in his head. Not 
exactly that,” in a more serious tone. “ I do 
believe it would be a rather good thing. We 
had a parents’ association last winter, but it 
didn’t amount to much. They can go through 
the worst storm to a card party, but anything 
of real value — I do wish parents took more 
interest in these early years of their children. 
You can teach, but you can’t murder the 
queen’s English and learn for them, though 
some people think you might. Eastman be- 
gins to improve. His father came to see me 
and wondered if we had the right person in the 
right place, as the head of the school. Look 
me in the face and you will see what I said.” 
They both laughed. 
“ You are a very good friend,” she sub- 
joined, with deep feeling. 
“ That fellow ought to be sent away to a 
regular boys’ school. However, if he makes 
trouble he will find a short shrift. Dinsmore 
is doing better.” 
“ Why do not the boys have a ball club for 
the sake of the esprit de corps f ” 
“ I thought they were to.” 
“ I believe the younger ones would have 
done so, but the notable players were in an 
outside club.” 
“ I don’t quite like that, but I did not want 
to seem arbitrary on the start, since we were a 
rather puny folk.” 
“ I think of appointing a debate. If I could 
get the girls up to the point.” 
“ The days of chromos have gone by,” he 
returned with a funny inflection. “ We might 
offer a prize of a gold watch for the best argu- 
ment well rendered. Or a football suit well 
padded. My people are doing wondrous well. 
 
They want to enter the high school in 
February.” 
“ I shall be glad to have them, on the prin- 
ciple that a large family of children entertain 
each other and are less trouble. A crowd is 
stimulating.” 
“ Thank you for looking at it so cheerfully.” 
“ I’ve been used to large numbers. They 
can get up a wider interest. They rub off the 
sharp corners. They find one person doesn’t 
know it all, and that in many things there is 
more than one way. I change my mind about 
matters, methods. What is life for but to 
broaden you out ? ” 
“ If you didn't have to get narrowed in 
again.” 
“ Well, sometimes you do take up too much 
room and you find that out, too.” 
“ Alas, mortifying fact ! ” 
“ Shrunken goods give more satisfaction.” 
“ Did Mr. Hildreth put you down for one of 
the talkers ? ” he inquired. 
“ Oh, I sincerely hope not ! ” 
It was Mr. Underwood’s turn to laugh 
then. 
u We will have to talk it over. Come down 
some evening. Mrs. Underwood thinks you 
neglect her because her schooldays are 
passed; ” 
Helen turned up her street with a gay nod. 
CHAPTER VII 
, OCTOBER AND HALLOWE’EN 
The children had all gathered in the sitting- 
room at Mrs. Stirling’s before the surrey 
came. Not one sent an excuse. And children 
they really were, from twelve to almost four- 
teen. Daisy Bingham was the oldest and the 
smallest, but she had a bright little brown face 
and soft brown eyes, while her hair was light, 
a curious combination. She sighed for the 
purple-black hair one of her favorite story- 
book heroines had, but her mother comforted 
her by telling her nearly all light hair turned 
darker as people grew older. 
