
The girl unfurled a fan. "Dearest, do 
you know, Malakoff talks really rather 
well." 

Welden nodded. "He isn't such a bad 
sort. I won a pot of money of him to 
night. By the way, I am in for a race. It 
is to be on the sixth " 

Further confidences were interrupted. In 
the doorway Cantire appeared, looking 
eagerly about. 

"Oh, Miss Barhyte," he cried, as he spotted the girl. "Won't you give me this dance, 
or at least, what's left of it?" 



 

Maud, rising, took the boy's arm, and 
Welden, who had also risen, dropped back. 

The pot of money which he had won, 
while inconsequential, was an assistance. 
There had been a very inconveniencing 
crash in Wall street. That morning 
he had meditated wiring there and 
having the proceeds of July coupons 
and dividends cabled to his Paris account. But now, meanwhile, the pot, 
however relatively small, was a help. 
Mechanically he felt of the pocket in which 
he had placed it. 

As he did so, Maud reappeared. Other 
confidences ensued, which, as before, were 
interrupted. A new aspirant for a turn came 
to the girl. After the second, there was a 
third, then there were more. For in the 
minds of men, however obtuse, her beauty 
put a restlessness, a trouble, sometimes a 
hope. Those who were free coveted the 
possibilities it evoked; those who were not 





ruminated the savourousness of those possibilities. 

"Dearest," she said at last. "Shall we 
go?" 

"Yes, a 1 Anglaise," Welden answered, 
expressing in the language of the land its 
neat equivalent for the English "French 
leave." 

"Dearest," she remonstrated, "I at least 
must say a word." 

In search of Sally, on through the ball 
room she passed, surrounded by homages, 
enveloped by the glances of men. 

Presently, after the word had been said, 
and her cloak had been put about her, she 
went down through a double hedge of lackeys 
to the perron below, where her lover waited 
and a footman bawled: 

"The people of Madame la princesse de 
Solferino!" 

Very gorgeous, very smiling, the princess, 
formerly Fanny Murray of New York, interrupted her luminous exit to remark to 
them: "Hasn't it been jolly?" 

When she, her glitter and her platitudes 
had gone, the footman bawled again, this 
time for Welden's carriage. 

About the entrance was a group of 
grooms, idlers, birds of the night. Down 
the avenue glowed the lamps of waiting cars 
and broughams. Before these a sergent-de- 
ville, his head bent, his hands behind his 
back, promenaded Napoleonically. Above, 
the moon hung, a round of butter in the sky. 
In the air was a sweetness, and from the 
open windows sank the swooning measures 
of a waltz. 

Welden, after putting Maud into the 
carriage, drew from a pocket of his white 
waistcoat a chainless watch, from the stem 
of which her token, the sapphire, dangled. 

"You have had no supper. Suppose we 
go somewhere and take a private room?" 

With a quick intake of the breath, the 





girl answered: "Dearest, yes, and let us 
hurry." 

"The Cafe de la Paix," Welden threw at 
the coachman's back. "Et vivement!" 

Then, in a moment, when he was beside 
her, the girl withdrew a glove, put her hand 
in his and whispered : 

"Dearest, I am so happy that it frightens 

