once as the dark ages. They had every accompaniment of 
a gentler, quainter village civilization but the crinoline. Clyde 
was a place where, though fashion was accurately copied 
among the class that had every opportunity and desire to 
be a smart set, you could wear what clothes you pleased. 
 
Except in the smart set, which might have been better known 
as the flaunting annuals of the garden, changes in deference 
to fashion were unheard of. The votaries of constancy would 
as soon have thought of altering the style of their sleeves 
because some French minion had decreed it, as they would 
of levelling a gambrel roof to a flat one, to suit the season. 
They bought the best material, these dear ladies, and had it 
made up according to a style that had pleased once and kept 
its vogue through worth. Dolmans had been graceful 
and genteel. In Clyde, dolmans never went out. There was 
in every sewing-room great accumulation of narrow black 
velvet ribbon, wide silk fringe, and something known as 
lutestring. With lutestring Lovell's mind had intimate con- 
nection. He used, in his poet days, to hear his mother talk 
of it, and it gave him a thrill, a response to the time of 
spinets and ringlets, that was never to be lost to him. So 
softly-stepping ladies barred with parallels of velvet ribbon 
and tangled with fringe, the only thing about them capable 
of enmeshing, came in their low-heeled shoes to the Winter- 
bournes' door, and often they brought jelly and delicate blanc 
mange, made from the moss itself, no grocer's instantane- 
ous substitute. Celia was always delighted to receive them, 
and they spoke of her afterwards as very pleasing. One 
of them — It was the wife of the old minister who had died 
that year, an ancient lady cut out of ivory, all yellow tones 
in face and hair — said to her, " My dear, I hear you have 
a beautiful voice. Young Dwight Hunter told me so. He 
was seeing to my cistern. We 've had quite a time getting 
it cleaned out." 
It was her sister, Celia brightly conceded. She was ready 
to sing in public, to women's clubs especially. And at that 
instant, to her mortification, Bess came in, just pushing down 
her sleeves and warm from kitchen work. 
 
The minister's wife, through the habit of a long life when 
she was first lady of the town, had no hesitations. She looked 
kindly at Bess, and asked, " So you 're the one, my dear ? 
you 're the one that sings. I wish you 'd sing something to 
me now." 
Celia felt one of her moments of despair. Bess, she knew, 
had her mind on making breadcake and saving Lyddy. How 
should she recall even the words of the songs she had been 
so painstakingly taught ? But Bess just sat down opposite the 
minister's wife, dropped her hands in her lap, — those dear 
plump hands like mothers' hands, that looked sometimes, so 
great was the surge and stress they lived in, as if soapsuds 
had wilfully boiled them, — smiled at the minister's wife 
and asked, " Should you like a hymn ? " 
" We 've no piano here — yet," Celia was beginning; but 
Bess had evidently determined that this was her venture. 
She sang three hymns, and the minister's wife cried. 
" You have a great gift, my dear," she said, as she rose to 
go. " I mustn't keep you now from your invalids, but I 
hope to see your gift made much of. I hope to live to see 
you singing in church." 
To sing in clubs and concert-halls did not much affect the 
minister's wife and the other ladies of her color who pre- 
served the dear traditions of Clyde. They, too, went to the 
meetings of the Woman's Club founded by the annual bed, 
and relished every word, these hardy perennials, with an 
unction the annuals could hardly guess, for it had in it the 
savor of, "It sounds as if it must be so, but, dear us! what 
are we coming to ! " Yet all the strife of factions and the 
reaching out for bette'r things went on without them, as a 
comet may whisk by the ordered stars. They really lived in 
their world of old remembrance, and after the surge and dash 
of dub meeting, they melted softly back to its repose. But the 
 
minister's wife lost no time in telling her intimates among 
the perennials how beautifully Bess had sung, and a stream 
of wilfully ancient-seeming ladies directed itself, day by day, 
to the house, and as regular as their admission was the under- 
standing that Bess should sing to them. For the first time Celia, 
to her perfect amazement, saw her sister delighting in her 
voice and unrestrained in using it. She could not, it seemed, 
be tired in this incidental homely sharing of her gift. Old 
ladies loved her, and the news got round, and the annuals in 
their silken petals came flaunting in, and frightened her and 
she was dumb. To Celia, the world was upside down. 
But something else came of all this. The waves of Mrs. 
Ramsay's illness threw up other treasure on the shore. 
When John Winterbourne had come back, three years be- 
fore, to live in his house, there had been a waft of curiosity 
and interest. Men and women who had known him a little 
in his youth, or been the intimates of his father and mother, 
came to call ; but he never returned the visits. He was im- 
mersed, they found, in his book, and he seemed to show 
them out with haste, not surprising, because they hoped 
they knew the ways of scholars. And he had taken to an inti- 
macy with James Trenton Lovell, and this also was fitting, be- 
cause James was a scholar and a poet, too, though debarred, 
poor fellow ! by his infirmity from entering into the village 
life. But now it became known through the lively interest 
in perennials and annuals that there were at Winterbourne's 
(this in another language, that of the young men who went 
to town daily) two stunning girls, and it was to be hoped, 
when the illness in the family was over, that the town would 
see more of them. 
Celia was in evidence. She often walked abroad, clad in 
gowns that commended themselves almost holily to the 
feminine eye that knew how to distinguish what when it 
 
becomes what, though the young men thought she must be 
a particularly nice girl because she dressed so simply. She 
was really pretty, too, they decided, for her beauty spoke 
for itself without adorning ; and at this their sisters laughed 
aloud and lost no time in enlightening them on the money 
and genius that go into clothes wonderfully conceived and 
simply made. 
These things that were going on below stairs, Catherine 
did not guess. She was thinking how incredible a thing it is 
that man who has once loved us should not love us again, 
and whether she had, as mistress of the house, any duty to 
Mrs. Ramsay as a guest, and whether the moral obliquity in 
