extraordinary generosity. But I can’t go through life in disguise. And I
want you to know that I have not won Daisy under false pretences--”
Mr. Grew started up with the first expletive Ronald had ever heard on
his lips.
“You damned young fool, you, you haven’t told her--?”
Ronald raised his head quickly. “Oh, you don’t know her, sir! She thinks
no worse of me for knowing my secret. She is above and beyond all
such conventional prejudices. She’s proud of my parentage--” he
straightened his slim young shoulders--“as I’m proud of it ... yes, sir,
proud of it...”
Mr. Grew sank back into his seat with a dry laugh. “Well, you ought to
be. You come of good stock. And you’re father’s son, every inch of you!”
 He laughed again, as though the humor of the situation grew on him with
its closer contemplation.
“Yes, I’ve always felt that,” Ronald murmured, flushing.
“Your father’s son, and no mistake.” Mr. Grew leaned forward. “You’re
the son of as big a fool as yourself. And here he sits, Ronald Grew.”
The young man’s flush deepened to crimson; but Mr. Grew checked his
reply with a decisive gesture. “Here he sits, with all your young
nonsense still alive in him. Don’t you see the likeness? If you don’t,
I’ll tell you the story of those letters.”
Ronald stared. “What do you mean? Don’t they tell their own story?”
“I supposed they did when I gave them to you; but you’ve given it a
twist that needs straightening out.” Mr. Grew squared his elbows on the
table, and looked at the young man across the gift-books and the dyed
pampas grass. “I wrote all the letters that Dolbrowski answered.”
Ronald gave back his look in frowning perplexity. “You wrote them? I
don’t understand. His letters are all addressed to my mother.”
“Yes. And he thought he was corresponding with her.”
“But my mother--what did she think?”
Mr. Grew hesitated, puckering his thick lids. “Well, I guess she kinder
thought it was a joke. Your mother didn’t think about things much.”
Ronald continued to bend a puzzled frown on the question. “I don’t
understand,” he reiterated.
Mr. Grew cleared his throat with a nervous laugh. “Well, I don’t know
as you ever will--quite. But this is the way it came about. I had a
toughish time of it when I was young. Oh, I don’t mean so much the fight
I had to put up to make my way--there was always plenty of fight in
me. But inside of myself it was kinder lonesome. And the outside didn’t
attract callers.” He laughed again, with an apologetic gesture toward
his broad blinking face. “When I went round with the other young fellows
I was always the forlorn hope--the one that had to eat the drumsticks
and dance with the left-overs. As sure as there was a blighter at a
picnic I had to swing her, and feed her, and drive her home. And all the
time I was mad after all the things you’ve got--poetry and music and all
the joy-forever business. So there were the pair of us--my face and my
imagination--chained together, and fighting, and hating each other like
poison.
“Then your mother came along and took pity on me. It sets up a gawky
fellow to find a girl who ain’t ashamed to be seen walking with him
Sundays. And I was grateful to your mother, and we got along first-rate.
Only I couldn’t say things to her--and she couldn’t answer. Well--one
day, a few months after we were married, Dolbrowski came to New York,
and the whole place went wild about him. I’d never heard any good music,
but I’d always had an inkling of what it must be like, though I couldn’t
tell you to this day how I knew. Well, your mother read about him in the
papers too, and she thought it’d be the swagger thing to go to New York
and hear him play--so we went... I’ll never forget that evening. Your
mother wasn’t easily stirred up--she never seemed to need to let off
steam. But that night she seemed to understand the way I felt. And when
we got back to the hotel she said suddenly: ‘I’d like to tell him how I
feel. I’d like to sit right down and write to him.’
“‘Would you?’ I said. ‘So would I.’
“There was paper and pens there before us, and I pulled a sheet toward
me, and began to write. ‘Is this what you’d like to say to him?’ I
asked her when the letter was done. And she got pink and said: ‘I don’t
understand it, but it’s lovely.’ And she copied it out and signed her
name to it, and sent it.”
Mr. Grew paused, and Ronald sat silent, with lowered eyes.
“That’s how it began; and that’s where I thought it would end. But it
didn’t, because Dolbrowski answered. His first letter was dated January
10, 1872. I guess you’ll find I’m correct. Well, I went back to hear him
again, and I wrote him after the performance, and he answered again. And
after that we kept it up for six months. Your mother always copied the
letters and signed them. She seemed to think it was a kinder joke, and
she was proud of his answering my letters. But she never went back to
New York to hear him, though I saved up enough to give her the treat
again. She was too lazy, and she let me go without her. I heard him
three times in New York; and in the spring he came to Wingfield and
played once at the Academy. Your mother was sick and couldn’t go; so I
went alone. After the performance I meant to get one of the directors to
take me in to see him; but when the time came, I just went back home
and wrote to him instead. And the month after, before he went back to
Europe, he sent your mother a last little note, and that picture hanging
up there...”
Mr. Grew paused again, and both men lifted their eyes to the photograph.
“Is that all?” Ronald slowly asked.
“That’s all--every bit of it,” said Mr. Grew.
“And my mother--my mother never even spoke to Dolbrowski?”
“Never. She never even saw him but that once in New York at his
concert.”
The blood crept again to Ronald’s face. “Are you sure of that, sir?” he
asked in a trembling voice.
“Sure as I am that I’m sitting here. Why, she was too lazy to look at
his letters after the first novelty wore off. She copied the answers
just to humor me--but she always said she couldn’t understand what we
wrote.”
“But how could you go on with such a correspondence? It’s incredible!”
Mr. Grew looked at his son thoughtfully. “I suppose it is, to you.
You’ve only had to put out your hand and get the things I was starving
for--music, and good talk, and ideas. Those letters gave me all that.
You’ve read them, and you know that Dolbrowski was not only a great
musician but a great man. There was nothing beautiful he didn’t see,
nothing fine he didn’t feel. For six months I breathed his air, and I’ve
lived on it ever since. Do you begin to understand a little now?”
“Yes--a little. But why write in my mother’s name? Why make it a
sentimental correspondence?”
Mr. Grew reddened to his bald temples. “Why, I tell you it began that
way, as a kinder joke. And when I saw that the first letter pleased and
interested him, I was afraid to tell him--I couldn’t tell him. Do you
suppose he’d gone on writing if he’d ever seen me, Ronny?”
Ronald suddenly looked at him with new eyes. “But he must have thought
your letters very beautiful--to go on as he did,” he broke out.
“Well--I did my best,” said Mr. Grew modestly.
Ronald pursued his idea. “Where are all your letters, I wonder?
Weren’t they returned to you at his death?”
Mr. Grew laughed. “Lord, no. I guess he had trunks and trunks full of
better ones. I guess Queens and Empresses wrote to him.”
“I should have liked to see your letters,” the young man insisted.
“Well, they weren’t bad,” said Mr. Grew drily. “But I’ll tell you one
