" And what are you going to do now? " she 
asked after a pause. 
" I don't know. I wanted to talk about it with 
you." 
" But what do you think of doing? " 
" I must expose them to the people." 
Miss Gladys looked at him quickly. " Oh, no, 
Samuel," she said — "you mustn't do that!" 
"Why not. Miss Gladys?" 
" Because — it wouldn't do." 
" But Miss Gladys " 
" It wouldn't be decent, Samuel. And it's so 
much more effective to talk with people privately, 
as you have been doing." 
" But who else is there to talk to? '* 
" Why, I don't know. We'll have to think." 
" It's your father and Mr. Hickman I have to 
deal with, Miss Gladys. And they won't listen 
to me any morel " 
" Perhaps not. But, then, see how much you 
have done already! " 
" What have I done? " 
" Think how ashamed you have made them! " 
" But what difference does that make. Miss 
Gladys? Don't you see they've still got the 
money they've taken? " 
There was a pause. " This is something I have 
been thinking," said Samuel gravely. " I've had 
this great burden laid upon me, and I must 
carry it. I have to see the thing through to the 
end. And I'm afraid it will be painful to you. 
You may feel that you can't possibly marry 
me." 
At these words Miss Gladys gave a wild start. 
She stared at him in consternation. " Marry 
you!" she gasped. 
" Yes," he said ; and then, seeing the look upon 
her face, he stopped. 
" Marry you! " she panted again. 
A silence followed, while they gazed at eacn 
other. 
" Why, Samuel! " she exclaimed. 
" Miss Gladys," he said in a low voice, " you 
told me that you loved me." 
"Yes," she said, "but surely — " And then 
suddenly she bit her lips together exclaiming, 
" .This has gone too far! " 
" Miss Gladys! " he cried. 
" Samuel," she said, " we have been two bad 
children; and we must not go on in this way." 
The boy gave a gasp of amazement. 
" I had no idea that you were taking me so 
seriously," she continued. " It wasn't fair to 
me." 
" Then — then you don't love me! " he panted. 
" Why — perhaps," she replied, " how can I 
tell? But one does not marry because one loves, 
Samuel." 
He gazed at her, speechless. 
" I thought we were playing with each other; 
and I thought you imderstood it. It wasn't very 
wise, perhaps " 
" Playing with each other! " whispered the boy, 
his voice almost gone. 
" You take everything with such frightful 
seriousness," she protested. " Really, I don't 
think you had any right " 
"Miss Gladys!" he cried in sudden an- 
guish; and she stopped and stared at him, 
frightened. 
" Do you know what you have done to me? " 
he exclaimed. 
" Samuel," she said in a trembling voice, " I 
am very much surprised and upset. I had no 
idea of such a thing; and you must stop, before 
it is too late." 
" But I love you! " he cried, half beside him- 
self. 
" Yes," she said in great agitation — " and 
that's very good of you. But there are some 
things you must remember " 
" You — you let me embrace you, Miss Gladys! 
You let me think of you so ! Why, what is a man 
to do? What was I to make of it? I had never 
loved a woman before. And you — you led me 
on 
" Samuel, you must not talk like this! " she 
broke in. " I can't listen to you. It was a mis- 
understanding, and you must forget it all. You 
must go away. We must not meet again." 
" Miss Gladys! " he cried in horror. 
" Yes," she exclaimed, " you must go " 
" You are going to turn me off I " he panted. 
" Oh, how can you say such a thing? Why, think 
what you have done to me! " 
" Samuel," protested the girl angrily, " this 
is perfectly preposterous behavior of you! You 
have no right to go on in this way. You never 
had any right to — to think such things. How 
could you so forget yoiu* place? " 
And he started as if stung with a whip. " My 
place ! " he gasped. 
" Yes," she said. 
" I see, I see ! " he burst out. " It's my * place ' 
again. It's the fact that I have no money! " 
"Why, Samuel!" she exclaimed. "What a 
thing to say! It's not that " 
" It's that, and it's nothing but that! It never 
is anything but that! It's because I am a poor 
boy, and couldn't help myself ! You told me that 
you loved me, and I believed you. You were so 
beautiful, and I thought that you must be good! 
Why, I worshiped the very ground you walked 
on. I would have done anything in the world 
for you — I would have died for you! I went 
about thinking about you all day — I made you 
into a dream of everything that was good and 
perfect ! And now — now — you say that you were 
only playing with me! Using me for your self- 
ish pleasure — just as you do all the other poor 
