downward on their hellward way.
  "Margins wiped, out in war,
  Profits are scattered far,
  I'll to the nearest bar,
    Ailsa oroon!"
he hummed to himself, walking-stick under his chin, his new hat not
absolutely straight on his well-shaped head.
A ferry-boat lay in the slip; they walked forward and stood in the
crowd by the bow chains.  The flag new over Castle William; late
sunshine turned river and bay to a harbour in fairyland, where,
through the golden haze, far away between forests of
pennant-dressed masts, a warship lay all aglitter, the sun striking
fire from her guns and bright work, and setting every red bar of
her flag ablaze.
"The Pocahontas, sloop of war from Charleston bar," said a man in
the crowd.  "She came in this morning at high water.  She got to
Sumter too late."
"Yes.  Powhatan had already knocked the head off John Smith,"
observed Berkley thoughtfully.  "They did these things better in
colonial days."
Several people began to discuss the inaction of the fleet off
Charleston bar during the bombardment; the navy was freely
denounced and defended, and Berkley, pleased that he had started a
row, listened complacently, inserting a word here and there
calculated to incite several prominent citizens to fisticuffs.  And
the ferry-boat started with everybody getting madder.
But when fisticuffs appeared imminent in mid-stream, out of
somewhat tardy consideration for Ailsa he set free the dove of
peace.
"Perhaps," he remarked pleasantly, "the fleet couldn't cross the
bar.  I've heard of such things."
And as nobody had thought of that, hostilities were averted.
Paddle-wheels churning, the rotund boat swung into the Brooklyn
dock.  Her gunwales rubbed and squeaked along the straining piles
green with sea slime; deck chains clinked, cog-wheels clattered,
the stifling smell of dock water gave place to the fresher odour of
the streets.
"I would like to walk uptown," said Ailsa Paige.  "I really don't
care to sit still in a car for two miles.   You need not come any
farther--unless you care to."
He said airily: "A country ramble with a pretty girl is always
agreeable to me.  I'll come if you'll let me."
She looked up at him, perplexed, undecided.
"Are you making fun of Brooklyn, or of me?"
"Of neither.  May I come?"
"If you care to," she said.
They walked on together up Fulton Street, following the stream of
returning sight-seers and business men, passing recruiting stations
where red-legged infantry of the 14th city regiment stood in groups
reading the extras just issued by the Eagle and Brooklyn Times
concerning the bloody riot in Baltimore and the attack on the 6th
Massachusetts.  Everywhere, too, soldiers of the 13th, 38th, and
70th regiments of city infantry, in blue state uniforms, were
marching about briskly, full of the business of recruiting and of
their departure, which was scheduled for the twenty-third of April.
Already the complexion of the Brooklyn civic sidewalk crowds was
everywhere brightened by military uniforms; cavalrymen of the troop
of dragoons attached to the 8th New York, jaunty lancers from the
troop of lancers attached to the 69th New York, riflemen in green
epaulettes and facings, zouaves in red, blue, and brown uniforms
came hurrying down the stony street to Fulton Ferry on their return
from witnessing a parade of the 14th Brooklyn at Fort Greene.  And
every figure in uniform thrilled the girl with suppressed
excitement and pride.
Berkley, eyeing them askance, began blandly:
  "Citizens of martial minds,
  Uniforms of wondrous kinds,
  Wonderful the sights we see--
  Ailsa, you'll agree with me."
"Are you utterly without human feeling?" she demanded.  "Because,
if you are, there isn't the slightest use of my pretending to be
civil to you any longer."
"Have you been pretending?"
"I suppose you think me destitute of humour," she said, "but there
is nothing humourous about patriotism and self-sacrifice to me, and
nothing very admirable about those who mock it."
Her cheeks were deeply flushed; she looked straight ahead of her as
she walked beside him.
Yet, even now the swift little flash of anger revealed an inner
glimpse to her of her unaltered desire to know this man; of her
interest in him--of something about him that attracted her but
defied analysis---or had defied it until, pursuing it too far one
day, she had halted suddenly and backed away.
Then, curiously, reflectively, little by little, she retraced her
steps.  And curiosity urged her to investigate in detail the Four
Fears--fear of the known in another, fear of the unknown in
another, fear of the known in one's self, fear of the unknown in
one's self.  That halted her again, for she knew now that it was
something within herself that threatened her.  But it was his
nearness to her that evoked it.
For she saw, now that her real inclination was to be with him, that
she had liked him from the first, had found him agreeable--pleasant
past belief--and that, although there seemed to be no reason for
her liking, no excuse, nothing to explain her half-fearful pleasure
in his presence, and her desire for it, she did desire it.  And for
the first time since her widowhood she felt that she had been
living her life out along lines that lay closer to solitude than to
the happy freedom of which she had reluctantly dreamed locked in
the manacles of a loveless marriage.
For her marriage had been one of romantic pity, born of the
ignorance of her immaturity; and she was very young when she became
the wife of Warfield Paige--Celia's brother--a gentle,
sweet-tempered invalid, dreamy, romantic, and pitifully confident
of life, the days of which were already numbered.
Of the spiritual passions she knew a little--of the passion of
pity, of consent, of self-sacrifice, of response to spiritual need.
But neither in her early immaturity nor in later adolescence had
she ever before entertained even the most innocent inclination for
a man.  Man's attractions, physical and personal, had left only the
lightest of surface impressions--until the advent of this man.
To what in him was she responsive?  What intellectual charm had he
revealed?  What latent spiritual excellence did she suspect?  What
were his lesser qualities--the simpler moral virtues--the admirable
attributes which a woman could recognise.  Nay, where even were the
nobler failings, the forgivable faults, the promise of future
things?
Her uplifted, questioning eyes searched and fell.  Only the
clear-cut beauty of his head answered her, only the body's grace.
She sometimes suspected pity as her one besetting sin.  Was it pity
for this man--a young man only twenty-four, her own age, so
