silently as they could, and made for the upper floors.
"Come into my room," said Fitzgerald; "it's only midnight."
Breitmann agreed.  If he had any reluctance, he did not show it.
Fitzgerald produced cigars.
"Do my clothes look anything like yours?" asked Breitmann dryly,
striking a match.
"Possibly."
They looked themselves over for any real damage.  There were no rents,
but there were cobwebs on the wool and streaks of coal dust on the
linen.
"We shall have to send our clothes to the village tailor.  The
admiral's valet might think it odd."
"Where do you suppose he comes from?"
"I don't care where.  What's he after, to take all this trouble?
Something big, I'll warrant."
And then, for a time, they smoked like Turks, in silence.
"By George, it's a good joke; you and I trying to choke each other,
while the real burglar makes off."
"It has some droll sides."
"And you all but broke my arm."
Breitmann chuckled.  "You were making the same move.  I was quicker,
that was all."
Another pause.
"The admiral has seen some odd corners.  Think of seeing, at close
range, the Japanese-Chinese naval fight!"
"He tells a story well."
"And the daughter is a thoroughbred."
"Yes," non-committally.
"By the way, I'm going to the Pole in June or August."
"The Italian expedition?"
"Yes."
"That ought to make fine copy.  You will not mind if I turn in?  A bit
sleepy."
"Not at all.  Shall we tell the admiral?"
"The first thing in the morning.  Good night."
Fitzgerald finished his cigar, and went to bed also.  "Interesting old
place," wadding a pillow under his ear.  "More interesting to-morrow."
Some time earlier, the individual who was the cause of this nocturnal
exploit hurried down the hill, nursing a pair of skinned palms, and
laughing gently to himself.
"Checkmate!  I shall try the other way."
On the morrow, Fitzgerald recounted the adventure in a semi-humorous
fashion, making a brisk melodrama out of it, to the quiet amusement of
his small audience.
"I shall send for the mason this morning," said the admiral.  "I've
been dreaming of The Black Cat and all sorts of horrible things.  I
hate like sixty to spoil the old chimney, but we can't have this going
on.  We'll have it down at once.  A fire these days is only a nice
touch to the mahogany."
"But you must tell him to put back every brick in its place," said
Laura.  "I could not bear to have anything happen to that chimney.  All
the same, I am glad the matter is going to be cleared up.  It has been
nerve-racking; and I have been all alone, waiting for I know not what."
"You haven't been afraid?" said Fitzgerald.
"I'm not sure that I haven't."  She sighed.
"Nonsense!" cried the admiral.
"I am not afraid of anything I can see; but I do not like the dark; I
do not like mysteries."
"You're the bravest girl I know, Laura," her father declared.  "Now,
Mr. Breitmann, if you don't mind."
"Shall we begin at once, sir?"
"You will copy some of my notes, to begin with.  Any time you're in
doubt over a word, speak to me.  There will not be much outside of
manuscript work.  Most of my mail is sorted at my bankers, and only
important letters forwarded.  There may be a social note occasionally.
Do you read and write English as well as you speak it?"
"Oh, yes."
Laura invited Fitzgerald to the tennis court.
"In these shoes?" he protested.
"They will not matter; it is a cement court."
"But I shan't look the game.  Tennis without flannels is like duck
without apples."
"Bother!  We'll play till the mason comes up.  And mind your game.
I've been runner-up in a dozen tournaments."
And he soon found that she had not overrated her skill.  She served
strongly, volleyed beautifully, and darted across the court with a
fleetness and a surety both delightful to observe.  So interested were
they in the battle that they forgot all about the mason, till the
butler came out, and announced that the desecration had begun.
In fact the broad marble top was on the floor, and the room full of
impalpable dust.  The admiral and the secretary were gravely stacking
the bricks, one by one, as they came out.
"Found anything?" asked the girl breathlessly.
"Not yet; but Mr. Donovan here has just discovered a hollow space above
the mantel line."
The admiral sneezed.
Mr. Donovan, in his usual free and happy way, drew out two bricks, and
dropped them on the polished floor.
"There's your holler, sir," he said, dusting his hands.
Unbidden, Breitmann pushed his hand into the cavity.  His arm went down
to the elbow, and he was forced to stand on tiptoe.  He was pale when
he withdrew his arm, but in his hand was a square metal case, about the
size and shape of a cigar box.
"By cracky!  What's the matter, Mr. Breitmann?"  The admiral stepped
forward solicitously.
Breitmann swayed, and fell against the side of the fireplace.  "It is
nothing; lost my balance for a moment.  Will you open it, sir?"
"Lost his balance?" muttered Fitzgerald.  "He looks groggy.  Why?"
This was not a time for speculation.  All rushed after the admiral, who
laid the case on his desk, and took out his keys.  None of them would
turn in the ancient lock.  With an impatient gesture, which escaped the
others, the secretary seized Mr. Donovan's hammer, inserted the claw
between the lock and the catch, and gave a powerful wrench.  The lid
fell back, crooked and scarred.
The admiral put on his Mandarin spectacles.  With his hands behind his
back, he bent and critically examined the contents.  Then, very
carefully, he extracted a packet of papers, yellow and old, bound with
heavy cording.  Beneath this packet was a medal of the Legion of Honor,
some rose leaves, and a small glove.
"Know what I think?" said the admiral, stilling the shake in his voice.
"This belonged to that mysterious Frenchman who lived here eighty years
ago.  I'll wager that medal cost some blood.  By cracky, what a find!"
"And the poor little glove and the rose leaves!" murmured the girl, in
pity.  "It seems like a crime to disturb them."
"We shan't, my child.  Our midnight friend wasn't digging yonder for
faded keepsakes.  These papers are the things."  The admiral cut the
string, and opened one of the documents.  "H'm!  Written in French.  So
is this," looking at another, "and this.  Here, Laura, cast your eye
over these, and tell us why some one was hunting for them."
Fitzgerald eyed Breitmann thoughtfully.  The whole countenance of the
