parted, and the soft colour gone from them. Then she went to the window
and looked down the road; and came back to stand by the centre-table, her
clasped hands resting on the Bible.
For a while fear had its way with her; the silent shock of it whitened
her face and left her with fair head bowed above her clasped hands.
Once or twice she opened the Bible and tried to understand, choosing what
she cared for most--reading of Lazarus, too. And she read about
miracles--those symbolic superfluities attributed to a life which in
itself was the greatest of all miracles.
And ever through the word of God glittered the memory of the pistol till
fear made her faint, and she rose, her hands against her breast, and
walked unsteadily out under the trees.
A bird or two had begun its sunset carol; the tree-trunks were stained
with the level crimson light. Far away her gaze rested on the blue hills.
Beyond them lay the accursed city.
The dull reiteration in her brain throbbed on unceasingly; she had given
him his pistol; he had lied to her; she had trusted him; he had lied; and
the accursed city lay beyond those hills--and he was there--with his
pistol; and he had lied to her--lied! lied! God help them both!
Across her clover fields the ruddy sunlight lay in broad undulating
bands, gilding blossom and curling trefoil. On every side of her the farm
stretched away over a rolling country set with woods; sweet came the
freshening air from the hills; she heard her collie barking at the
cattle along the pasture brook; a robin carolled loudly from the
orchard; orioles answered; gusts of twittering martins swept and soared
and circled the chimneys.
Erect, anguished hands clenched, she stood there, wide eyes seeing
nothing, and in her shrinking ears only the terrible reiteration of her
growing fears.
Then the level sun struck her body with a bar of light; all the world
around her smouldered rose and crimson. But after a little the shadows
fell through the fading light; and she turned her head, shivering, and
went back to the house--back to the room she had prepared for him, and
sat there watching the shapes of dusk invade it; the vague grey ghosts
that came crawling from corners and alcoves to gather at her feet and
wait and wait there with her for him who would never come into her life
again.
[Illustration]
[Illustration]
XXVII
"MISS LILY?"
She lifted her head from the sofa cushion in the dark, dazzled by the
sudden lamp-light.
"What is it?" she asked, averting her face.
"There's a gentleman says he'd like to see you----"
The girl turned, still dully confused; then, rigid, sat bolt upright.
"Who?"
"A gentleman--said you don't know his name. Shall I show him in?"
She managed to nod; her heart was beating so violently that she pressed
her hand over it.
He saw her sitting that way when he entered.
She did not rise; pain and happiness, mingled, confusing her for a
moment; and he was already seated near her, looking at her with an
intentness almost expressionless.
"You see," he said, "what the honour of a gambler is worth. I have lied
to you twice already."
His words brought her to her senses. She rose with an effort and, as he
stood up, she gave him her hand.
"Don't think me rude," she said. "I was resting--not expecting you--and
the lamp and--your coming--confused me."
"You were not expecting me," he said, retaining her hand an instant. Then
she withdrew it; they seated themselves.
"I don't know," she said, "perhaps I was expecting you--and didn't
realise it."
"Had you thought--much about it?"
"Yes," she said.
Then it seemed as though something sealed her lips, and that nothing
could ever again unseal them. All that she had to say to him vanished
from her mind; she could not recall a single phrase she had prepared to
lead up to all she must somehow say to him.
He talked quietly to her for a while about nothing in particular. Once
she saw him turn and look around the room; and a moment afterward he
spoke of the old-time charm of the place and the pretty setting such a
room made for the old-fashioned flowers.
He spoke about gardens as though he had known many; he spoke of trees and
of land and of stock; and, as he spoke in his pleasant, grave young
voice, he noticed the portraits on the wall; and he spoke of pictures as
though he had known many, and he spoke of foreign cities, and of
old-world scenes. And she listened in silence and in such content that
the happiness of it seemed to invade her utterly and leave her physically
numb.
From time to time his dark eyes wandered from her to the objects in the
room; they rested for a moment on the centre-table with its Book,
lingered, passed on. For a little while he did not look at her--as though
first it were necessary to come to a conclusion. Whatever the conclusion
might have been, it seemed to make his eyes and mouth alternately grave
and amused--but only very faintly amused--as though the subject he was
considering held him closely attentive.
And at last he looked up at her, gently, not all the curiosity yet
quenched.
"You are kind enough to wish to know about me; and too well bred to
ask--now that the time is come. Shall I speak of myself?"
Her voiceless lips found a word.
"Then--It began in college--after my uncle died and left nothing for me
to go on with. . . . I worked my way through--by my wits. . . . Up to
that time it was only luck and card-sense--and luck again--the ability to
hold the best cards at the best time--hold them honestly, I mean. It
happens--I don't know why or what laws govern it. Some men hold
them--always hold them--with intervals of bad fortune--but only
intervals."
He gazed thoughtfully at the rag carpet, passed a well-shaped hand over
his forehead.
"Yes, it is the truth. . . . And so, Fortune linked arms with me . . .
and I drifted into it--gradually--not all at once . . . lower--always a
little lower--until--what you saw occurred."
She would not meet his eyes, perhaps with an idea of sparing him.
He said: "You know nothing of such things, of course. . . . I am--on a
commission basis for doing what--they threw me out of that hotel for
doing. . . . Of course, a man can fall lower--but not much lower. . . .
The business from which I receive commissions is not honest--a square
game, as they say. Some games may be square for a while; no games are
perfectly square all the time. . . . I have heard of honest gamblers; I
never saw one. . . . There may be some; but I'm afraid they're like good
Indians. . . . And that is the way in which Life and I are situated."
After a while she managed to look at him.
"Could you tell me--are you--your circumstances----"
"I am not in want," he said gently.
"Then it is not--not necessity----"
"No. It is easier and more interesting than for me to earn a decent
living."
