chatter."

"Jim?" repeated Diana; "very well, it doesn’t embarrass me to call him
Jim—or Tom or Bill, for that matter," she added indifferently.

"It doesn’t worry me, either," said Edgerton; "call me anything but
early."

"Such a poor joke!" said Silvette; "if we ever call you, cousin, it will
be a very late affair—and with nothing under a full house."

"Poker!—and you!  What an incredible combination!" he said.

Diana interrupted coolly: "If you please, Mr. Edgerton, what is your
valuable and masculine opinion concerning this munificent offer for the
summer?"  And she let her glance rest slowly and sideways on her sister.

"Take it," he said; "it’s a good offer."

"Is that your vote?" inquired Silvette.

"Have I a vote?" he asked of Diana; but she merely said: "I say we try
the Rivetts of Adriutha.  That is my vote."

"Then—so do I say so," nodded Silvette. "Is it settled?"

Diana looked up at Edgerton.

"Are you really expecting to come with us?"

"If you will let me."

She remained a moment in thought, then sprang lightly to her feet.

"Who is going to be our spokesman?" she asked; "you, sister?"

"Jim," said Silvette, tranquilly leading the way.  "It looks better, I
think."

So Edgerton politely informed Mr. Rivett of their unanimous decision,
and that little man got briskly to his feet.

"I’m satisfied," he said.  "Come to Adriutha as soon as you are ready.
Bring all the luggage you want to bring; there’s plenty of room.
Don’t bring any servants; there are more than enough there now.  My
wife and I receive you as guests; my son and daughter are about your
ages; nobody can prophesy what you’ll think of them or they of you....
Colonel—if you are ready....  Good-by, ma’am," to Silvette, offering a
dry little hand; and he took his leave of Diana and of Edgerton, and
pulled the colonel unceremoniously out of a most elegant attitude,
ruining a jaunty bow which he had not intended to finish so abruptly.

"Well," exclaimed Silvette with a sigh and a laugh as the door closed,
"it’s settled!  Let’s forget it....  What do you think of our gowns,
cousin James?"

"Corking," he replied; "but my cousin Diana was very fetching in her
Japanese dress this morning."

"That’s like a man!" observed Diana.  "I was a mess, Silvie—with two
ragged peonies over my ears and those old straw sandals of yours——"

"You were a vision of Japanese fairyland," he insisted.  "I may be
weak-minded, but I simply cannot get that vision of you out of my head."

"Try some tea," as the maid brought it; "weak tea and feeble intellects
agree."

"Oh, I’ll try tea or anything else, but if you think I’m likely to
forget the first moment I ever saw you—a slender, Japanese shadow shape
against the sun!—ethereal, vaguely tinted, exquisite——"

"You are a poet, Jim," said Silvette admiringly.  "I read one of your
rhymes in Life once, and didn’t think so."

"Diana made me a poet.  If you’d seen her as she came stealing across
the window, which was all glittering like a Japanese sunburst, you’d
have become a poet, too!"  He began to laugh.  "I even created a name
for you, Diana; it came to me—was already on my lips——"

"What name?" she asked, looking composedly at him.

"Japonette! ... I never before heard such a name.  I don’t believe
there ever was such a name before it suddenly twitched at my lips for
utterance!  Japonette!"

"Why didn’t you utter it if you were so enchanted with your discovery?"

"Because you seemed to be sufficiently scared as it was."

She shrugged, and handed him his tea. "Japonette," she repeated
reflectively; "I don’t know whether or not I care for it.  It sounds
frivolous."

"Which you are not!"

She lifted her blue eyes to his.

"You think I am," she said.

"No, I don’t."

"You know I am," she said, and presented herself with a small tea
cake.  Into it she bit once; then raised her eyes, watching her sister
manipulating the alcohol lamp.

"Do you suppose," she said, "that we’ll ever have the slightest personal
interest in these Rivett people?"

"Probably not," said her sister.  "What of it?  I wonder whether that
colonel is likely to figure as a guest."

Diana shrugged again.  "Figure!  He seems to be all figure.  I thought
him rather odious."

"Did you?  He seemed anxious to be agreeable. Who is he, cousin Jim?"

"I don’t know....  Perhaps I may have heard of him—a militia colonel of
some kind, I don’t remember.  He’s probably a decent sort; I rather like
him."
