"Yes, dear," said Thyrsis, "of course. Go on." 
"Well, one day it was last Friday he came up with 
a carriage to take us driving. And Delia had a head- 
ache, and wanted to rest, and so Harry and I went 
alone. I I guess I shouldn't have gone, but I didn't 
realize it. It was a beautiful afternoon, and we both 
had a good time in fact, I don't know when I have 
been so contentedly happy. We stopped to gather wild 
flowers, and once we sat by a little stream; and of 
course, we talked and talked, and before I realized it, 
twilight was falling, and we were a long way from 
home." 
"Go on," said Thyrsis, as she hesitated. 
"We started out. I recollected later, though I didn't 
seem to notice it at the time that Harry's voice seemed 
to grow husky, and he spoke indistinctly. He had let 
the horse have the reins, and his arm was on the back 
of my seat. I hadn't noticed it ; but then then fancy 
my horror " 
"Well?" 
"It happened all of a sudden." Corydon stam- 
mered, her cheeks turning scarlet. "I felt his arm 
clasp me ; and I turned and stared, and his face was 
close to mine, and his eyes were fairly shining." 
There was a pause. "What did you do?" asked 
the other. 
"I just looked at him calmly, and said, 'Oh, how 
could you?' And at that he took his arm away quickly, 
and sat up stiff and straight, with a terribly hurt ex- 
 
pression. 'Forgive me,' he said. 'I was mad.' And 
we neither of us spoke a word all the way home. And 
when we came to the house, I jumped out of the car- 
riage without saying good-night." 
Corydon sat staring at her husband, with her wide- 
open, anxious eyes. "And was that all?" he asked. 
"To-day I had a letter from him. He said he was 
going away, over the Christmas holidays. He said 
that he was very much ashamed of himself, and he 
hoped that I would be able to forgive him. And that's 
all." 
They sat for a while in silence. "You won't be too 
angry?" asked Corydon, anxiously. 
"I'm not angry at all," he said. "But naturally it's 
disturbing. I don't like to have such things happen 
to you." 
"It's strange, you know," said Corydon, "but I 
haven't seemed to stay very indignant. He was so hurt, 
you know and I can realize how unhappy he's been. 
Curiously enough, I've even found myself thinking that 
I'd like to see him again. And that puzzled me. I felt 
that I ought to be quite outraged. That he should 
imagine he could hug me like any shop-girl!" 
They spent many hours discussing this adventure; in 
fact it was a week or two before they had disposed of 
it entirely. Thyrsis was hoping that the experience 
might be utilized to persuade Corydon to modify her 
Utopian attitude towards young men with soulful eyes 
and waving brown hair. He was at some pains to 
set forth to her the psychology of the male creature 
insisting that he knew more about this than she did, and 
that his remarks applied to drawing-teachers as well 
as to all other arts and professions. 
The main question, of course, was as to their atti- 
 
tude towards Harry Stuart when he returned. Cory- 
don, it became clear, had forgiven him ; the phraseology 
of his letter was touching, and he was now invested in 
the glamor of penitence. She insisted that the episode 
might be overlooked, and that their friendship could go 
on as before. But Thyrsis argued vigorously that their 
relationship could never be the same again, and declared 
that they ought not to meet. 
"But then," Corydon protested, "he'll be at the Jen- 
nings ! And I can't snub him !" 
"What does Delia think about it?" he asked. 
"Dear me!" Corydon exclaimed. "I haven't told 
Delia a word of it !" 
"Haven't told her! But why not?" 
''Because she'd be horrified. She'd never speak to 
Harry Stuart again!" 
''But then you want me to speak to him ! And even 
to be cordial to him ! You want to go ahead and carry 
on a sentimental flirtation with him " 
"Oh, Thyrsis !" she protested. 
''But that's what it would come to. And how much 
peace of mind do you suppose I'd have, while I knew 
that was going on?" 
At which Corydon sighed pathetically. "I'm a fine 
sort of emancipated woman!" she said. "Don't you 
see you're playing the role of the conventional jealous 
husband?" 
But as she thought over the matter in the privacy 
of her own mind she was "filled with perplexity, and 
wondered at herself. She found herself actually long- 
ing to see Harry Stuart. She asked herself, "Can it 
really be I, Corydon, who am capable of being interested 
in any other man besides my husband?" She could not 
bring herself to face the fact that it was true. 
 
4. THYRSIS went away, and took to wandering 
about the country, wrestling with his new book. After 
the fashion of every work that came to possess him, it 
seemed to possess him as no other work had ever done 
before. His mind was in a turmoil with it, his thoughts 
racing from one part to another ; he would stop in the 
midst of pumping a bucket of water or bringing in a 
supply of wood, to jot down some notes that came to 
him. Each day he realized more fully the nature of the 
task. Seated alone at night in his tiny cabin, his spirit 
would cry out in terror at the burden that had been 
heaped upon it. 
He had decided upon the title of the book "Art 
and Money: an Essay in the Economic Interpretation 
of Literature". And then, late one night, as he was 
pondering it, there had flashed over him the form into 
which he should cast the work; he would make it, not 
only an exposition of his philosophy, but the story of 
his life, the cry of his soul. There had come to him 
an introductory statement ; it was a smashing thing 
