"I mean," he said, "that you might recognise my right to govern my own
conduct; that you might try to sympathise with views which are not your
own--with the ideas, ideals, desires, convictions which, if modern, are
none the less genuine--and are mine."
There was a brief silence; then:
"Louis, are you speaking with any thought of--that woman in your mind?"
she asked in a voice that quivered slightly.
"Yes, mother."
"I knew it," she said, under her breath; "I knew it was that--I knew
what had changed you--was changing you."
"Have I altered for the worse?"
"I don't know--I don't know, Louis!" She was leaning heavily on his
elbow now; he put one arm around her and they walked very slowly over
the fragrant grass.
"First of all, mother, please don't call her, 'that woman.' Because she
is a very sweet, innocent, and blameless girl.... Will you let me tell
you a little about her?"
His mother bent her head in silence; and for a long while he talked to
her of Valerie.
The sun still hung high over the Estwich hills when he ended. His
mother, pale, silent, offered no comment until, in his trouble, he urged
her. Then she said:
"Your father will never consent."
"Let me talk to father. Will you consent?"
"I--Louis--it would break our hearts if--"
"Not when you know her."
"Lily knows her and is bitterly opposed to her--"
"What!" he exclaimed, astounded. "You say that my sister knows Valerie
West?"
"I--forgot," faltered his mother; "I ought not to have said anything."
"Where did Lily meet her?" he asked, bewildered.
"Don't ask me, Louis. I should not have spoken--"
"Yes, you should have! It is my affair; it concerns me--and it concerns
Valerie--her future and mine--our happiness. Where did Lily meet her?"
"You must ask that of Lily. I cannot and will not discuss it. I will say
only this: I have seen the--this Miss West. She is at present a guest at
the villa of a--countess--of whom neither your father nor I ever before
heard--and whom even Lily knows so slightly that she scarcely bows to
her. And yesterday, while motoring, we met them driving on the Estwich
road and your sister told us who they were."
After a moment he said slowly: "So you have actually seen the girl I am
in love with?"
"I saw--Miss West."
"Can't you understand that I am in love with her?"
"Even if you are it is better for you to conquer your inclination--"
"Why?"
"Because all your life long you will regret such a marriage."
"Why?"
"Because nobody will care to receive a woman for whom you can make no
explanation--even if you are married to her."
He kept his patience.
"Will you receive her, mother?"
She closed her eyes, drew a quick, painful breath: "My son's
wife--whoever she may be--will meet with no discourtesy under my roof."
"Is that the best you can offer us?"
"Louis! Louis!--if it lay only with me--I would do what you wished--even
this--if it made you happy--"
He took her in his arms and kissed her in silence.
"You don't understand," she said,--"it is not I--it is the family--our
entire little world against her. It would be only an eternal, hopeless,
heart-breaking struggle for you, and for her;--pain for you--deep pain
and resentment and bitterness for those who did not--perhaps could
not--take your views of--"
"I don't care, mother, as long as you and father and Lily stand by her.
And Valerie won't marry me unless you do. I didn't tell you that, but it
is the truth. And I'm fighting very hard to win her--harder than you
know--or will ever know. Don't embitter me; don't let me give up.
Because, if I do, it means desperation--and things which you never could
understand.... And I want you to talk to father. Will you? And to
Lily, too. Its fairer to warn her that I have learned of her meeting
Valerie. Then I'll talk to them both and see what can be done.... And,
mother, I am very happy and very grateful and very proud that you are
going to stand by me--and by the loveliest girl in all the world."
That night Lily came to his room. Her eyes were red, but there was fire
in them. She seated herself and surveyed her brother with ominous
self-possession.
"Well, Lily," he said pleasantly, prepared to keep his temper at all
hazards.
"Well, Louis, I understand from mother that you have some questions to
ask me."
"No questions, little sister; only your sympathetic attention while I
tell you how matters stand with me."
"You require too much!" she said shortly.
"If I ask for your sympathy?"
"Not if you ask it for yourself, Louis. But if you include that--"
"Please, dear!" he interrupted, checking her with a slight gesture--for
an instant only; then she went on in a determined voice:
"Louis, I might as well tell you at once that I have no sympathy for
her. I wrote to her, out of sheer kindness, for her own good--and she
replied so insolently that--that I am not yet perfectly recovered--"
"What did you write?"
Mrs. Collis remained disdainfully silent, but her eyes sparkled.
"Won't you tell me," he asked, patiently, "what it was you wrote to
Valerie West?"
"Yes, I'll tell you if you insist on knowing!--even if you do
misconstrue it! I wrote to her--for her own sake--and to avoid
ill-natured comment,--suggesting that she be seen less frequently with
you in public. I wrote as nicely, as kindly, as delicately as I knew
how. And her reply was a practical request that I mind my business!...
Which was vulgar and outrageous, considering that she had given me her
promise--" Mrs. Collis checked herself in her headlong and indignant
complaint; then she coloured painfully, but her mouth settled into
tight, uncompromising lines.
"What promise had Valerie West made you?" he asked, resolutely subduing
his amazement and irritation.
For a moment Mrs. Collis hesitated; then, realising that matters had
gone too far for concealment, she answered almost violently:
"She promised me not to marry you,--if you must know! I can't help what
you think about it; I realised that you were infatuated--that you were
making a fatal and terrible mistake--ruining life for yourself and for
your family--and I went to her and told her so! I've done all I could to
save you. I suppose I have gained your enmity by doing it. She promised
me not to marry you--but she'll probably break her word. If you mean to
marry her you'll do so, no doubt. But, Louis, if you do, such a step
will sever all social relations between you and your family. Because I
will not receive her! Nor will my friends--nor yours--nor father's and
mother's friends! And that settles it."
He spoke with great care, hesitating, picking and choosing his words:
"Is it--possible that you did--such a thing--as to write to Valerie
West--threatening her with my family's displeasure if she married me?"
