CHAPTER III
Sunshine illuminated the rose-silk curtains of Mrs. Leeds's bedroom with
parallel slats of light and cast a frail and tremulous net of gold
across her bed. The sparrows in the Japanese ivy seemed to be unusually
boisterous, and their persistent metallic chatter disturbed Strelsa who
presently unclosed her gray eyes upon her own reflected features in the
wall-glass opposite.
Face still flushed with slumber, she lay there considering her mirrored
features with humorous, sleepy eyes; then she sat up, stretched her
arms, yawned, patted her red lips with her palm, pressed her knuckles
over her eyelids, and presently slipped out of bed. Her bath was ready;
so was her maid.
A little later, cross-legged on the bed once more, she sat sipping her
chocolate and studying the morning papers with an interest and
satisfaction unjaded.
Coupled with the naïve curiosity of a kitten remained her unspoiled
capacity for pleasure, and the interest of a child in a world unfolding
daily in a sequence of miracles under her intent and delighted eyes.
Bare of throat and arm and shoulder, the lustrous hair shadowing her
face, she now appeared unexpectedly frail, even thin, as though the
fuller curves of the mould in which she was being formed had not yet
been filled up.
Fully dressed, gown and furs lent to her something of a youthful
maturity which was entirely deceptive; for here, in bed, the golden
daylight revealed childish contours accented so delicately that they
seemed almost sexless. And in her intent gray eyes and in her
undeveloped mind was all that completed the bodily and mental
harmony--youth unawakened as yet except to a confused memory of
pain--and the dreamy and passionless unconsciousness of an unusually
late adolescence.
At twenty-four Strelsa still looked upon her morning chocolate with a
healthy appetite; and the excitement of seeing her own name and picture
in the daily press had as yet lost none of its delightful thrill.
All the morning papers reported the Wycherlys' house-warming with
cloying detail. And she adored it. What paragraphs particularly
concerned herself, her capable maid had enclosed in inky brackets. These
Strelsa read first of all, warm with pleasure at every stereotyped
tribute to her loveliness.
The comments she perused were of all sorts, even the ungrammatical sort,
but she read them all with profound interest, and loved every one, even
the most fulsome. For life, and its kinder experience, was just
beginning for her after a shabby childhood, a lonely girlhood, and a
marriage unspeakable, the memory of which already had become to her as
vaguely poignant as the dull recollection of a nightmare.
So her appetite for kindness, even the newspaper variety, was keen and
not at all discriminating; and the reaction from two years'
solitude--two years of endurance, of shrinking from public comment--had
developed in her a fierce longing for pleasure and for play-fellows.
Her fellow-men had responded with an enthusiasm which still surprised
her delightfully at moments.
       *       *       *       *       *
The clever Swedish maid now removed the four-legged tray from her knees;
Strelsa, propped on her pillows, was still intent on her newspapers,
satisfying a natural curiosity concerning what the world thought about
her costume of the night before, her beauty, herself, and the people she
knew. At last, agreeably satiated, she lowered the newspaper and lay
back, dreamy-eyed, faintly smiling, lost in pleasant retrospection.
Had she really appeared as charming last night as these exceedingly kind
New York newspapers pretended? Did this jolly world really consider her
so beautiful? She wished to believe it. She tried to. Perhaps it was
really true--because all these daily paragraphs, which had begun with
her advent into certain New York sets, must really have been founded on
something unusual about her.
And it could not be her fortune which continued to inspire such
journalistic loyalty and devotion, because she had none--scarcely enough
money in fact to manage with, dress with, pay her servants, and maintain
her pretty little house in the East Eighties.
It could not be her wit; she had no more than the average American girl.
Nor was there anything else in her--neither her cultivation,
attainments, nor talents--to entitle her to distinction. So apparently
it must be her beauty that evoked paragraphs which had already made her
a fashion in the metropolis--was making her a cult--even perhaps a
notoriety.
[Illustration: "Strelsa, propped on her pillows, was still intent on her
newspapers."]
Because those people who had personally known Reginald Leeds, were
exceedingly curious concerning this young girl who had been a nobody, as
far as New York was concerned, until her name became legally coupled
with the name of one of the richest and most dissipated scions of an old
and honourable New York family.
The public which had read with characteristic eagerness all about the
miserable finish of Reginald Leeds, found its abominable curiosity
piqued by his youthful widow's appearance in town.
It is the newspapers' business to give the public what it wants--at
least that appears to be the popular impression; and so they gave the
public all it wanted about Strelsa Leeds, in daily chunks. And then
some. Which, in the beginning, she shrank from, horrified, frightened,
astonished--because, in the beginning, every mention of her name was
coupled with a glossary in full explanation of who she was, entailing a
condensed review of a sordid story which, for two years, she had striven
to obliterate from her mind. But these post-mortems lasted only a week
or so. Except for a sporadic eruption of the case in a provincial paper
now and then, which somebody always thoughtfully sent to her, the press
finally let the tragedy alone, contenting its intellectual public with
daily chronicles of young Mrs. Leeds's social activities.
A million boarding houses throughout the land, read about her beauty
with avidity; and fat old women in soiled pink wrappers began to mention
her intimately to each other as "Strelsa Leeds"--the first hall-mark of
social fame--and there was loud discussion, in a million humble homes,
about the fashionable men who were paying her marked attention; and the
chances she had for bagging earls and dukes were maintained and
combated, below stairs and above, with an eagerness, envy, and
back-stairs knowledge truly and profoundly democratic.
       *       *       *       *       *
Her morning mail had begun to assume almost fashionable proportions, but
she could not yet reconcile herself to the idea of even such a clever
maid as her own assuming power of social secretary. So she still read
and answered all her letters--or rather neglected to notice the
majority, which invested her with a kind of awe to some and made others
furious and unwillingly respectful.
Letters, bills, notes, invitations, advertisements were scattered over
the bedclothes as she lay there, thinking over the pleasures and
excitement of last night's folly--thinking of Quarren, among others, and
of the swift intimacy that had sprung up between them--like a
witch-flower over night--thinking of her imprudence, and of the cold
displeasure of Barent Van Dyne who, toward daylight, had found her
almost nose to nose with Quarren, absorbed in exchanging with that young
man ideas and perfectly futile notions about everything on top, inside,
and underneath the habitable globe.
She blushed as she remembered her flimsy excuses to Van Dyne--she had
