jolly face, clean-shaven, and what seemed to make 
it merrier was a big dimple in one cheek. His 
eyes had a laugh in them, too, and were a sort 
of grayish-green. 
Whew ! How many — Seven in all, she 
said,’ ” quoting from Wordsworth. 
I said eight, and I ain’t a she — I’m a boy. 
And my name’s Tip; ” indignantly. 
He raised himself from a pile of heads. The 
tears had made rivulets down a dirty face, but the 
eyes were still lustrous with them. 
And where has your mother gone ? ” 
‘‘ She went to a fun’ral. Somebody died — they 
always do at a fun’ral. She was cornin’ home at 
noon and here it’s ’most night. An’ what if she 
should die an’ never come back ! ” 
The howl burst forth again equal to any Irish 
banshee. 
“ Children,” with an air of authority in his 
tone, you’re too young to be borrowing trouble 
that way.” 
But she never went away so far before. An’ 
there’s accildents ” 
‘‘ Did you have any dinner? ” thinking to change 
the tone of apprehension. 
Oh, yes. Rilla often gets dinner. Now she’s 
gone down to the store and she took the eggs. 
She’ll get mother when she comes in the train. 
An’ Goldie’s going to make a johnny-cake an’ cook 
some corn.” 
‘‘ I just don’t want any supper if mother doesn’t 
come ! There, now ! ” — bringing his little fist 
down on his knee — “ I’m not going to eat a mouth- 
ful till she does, if it’s clear to Christmas! ” 
“ My lad, there’d be nothing left of you,” and 
the man gave his merry laugh again. Hello ! 
Here’s another.” 
An odd little girl had appeared, with a mop of 
red curly hair, considerably sunburned and 
freckled, with a plump body, and looking as if she 
were not much given to trouble, if that was what 
made Tip thin. She stopped in amazement and 
looked from the children to the man. 
 
We’ve been tellin’ him about mother. An’ we 
cried ” 
“Oh, Tip, you must have been born crying!. 
You’re good for a drouthy time! And what a 
dirty lot ! Oh, do go and get washed ! I’m 
ashamed of you! ” 
“ Where did your mother go — to what place, I 
mean?” he asked of the newcomer. 
“Well, the train goes to Bridgeville, then you 
have to walk to Tory Corner. A great lot of 
Tories lived there in war times. She’s a queer 
old lady — was grandmother’s sister. Mother 
wouldn’t have gone only they sent particular word. 
She thought she’d be home by noon.” 
“An’ she isn’t!” Tip dug his knuckles into 
his eyes and sniffed. “ An’ if she was your 
mother and didn’t come home I guess you’d cry 
too, when she’s the most beauti fullest mother in 
the world ! ” 
This was addressed to the man, who smiled hu- 
morously. 
“ Please don’t mind them, Mr. Man. You’re 
very good to — to ask about her. Oh, children, 
do go in and wash up! You are a disgrace to 
the country. It’s lucky we live on the back road. 
People don’t often come this way. Mother’s all 
right, I know.” 
The voice was very cheerful and he thought the 
face quite pretty. 
Well, I don’t see that I can be of any use to 
you, so I’ll drive round by the store. I’d like to 
see your mother.” 
“ Thank you.” She made a droll little curtsy, 
and he sprang into the wagon. 
A funny lot! ” he said to himself. Eight of 
them, and one little mother to feed them. I don’t 
know how many ravens there are that the Lord 
feeds, but the robins have only four or five in a 
nest. Gid-dap, Bonnie.” 
Isn’t he just splendid ! ” Marigold’s eyes dis- 
tended in admiration. ‘‘ Oh, I’ll tell you, he’s 
playing he was our father and he’s going to bring 
mother to us. I’d like just such a father who had 
a face full of smiles. They don’t often. And 
we’d go and live in a nice house and have some 
clothes the neighbors didn’t send in and mother 
wouldn’t have to patch, and spandy new shoes 
that fitted you. And I’d choose one of them 
pretty woolly caps that keep your ears so nice and 
warm in winter. And Linn could have a blue suit 
like Charley Deane’s. And we’d have real sweet- 
cake every night for supper and we wouldn’t have 
to sell our turkeys at Thanksgiving.” 
 
Marigold had talked herself out of breath. The 
children listened in wide-eyed wonder. 
“ But it ain’t real,” declared Chan. “ There 
ain’t no fairies nowadays and Santa Claus is a 
fraud.” 
“No, he ain’t, either!” declared Tip angrily. 
“ S’pose it is your mother if your stocking’s full 
and you didn’t see it put in ” 
“ Chan, go and pick me up a lot of chips. I’ll 
boil some corn and make a johnny-cake and have 
it all nice and hot when mother comes. And, 
Prim, get the children washed up.” 
The wagon was out of sight and the children 
went out to the back shed where the washing 
paraphernalia stood. 
As for the man, he drove along slowly, 
chuckling now and then, the episode had been so 
funny. Yet he could not laugh heartily alone. 
What did a mother do with eight children ? “ The 
beautifullest mother.” He had never known any- 
thing about a mother. For his had died before he 
could remember, and his childhood had been spent 
