What did he want with her or her friendship--or her blue eyes and bright
hair--or the slim, girlish grace of her? What was there to do? How many
more weeks did he intend to idle about at her heels, follow her, look at
her, converse with her, make a habit of her until, now, he found that to
suddenly break the habit of only a week's indulgence was annoying him!

And suppose the habit were to grow. Into what would it grow? And how
unpleasant would it be to break when, in the natural course of events,
circumstances made the habit inconvenient?

And, always, the main, central thought was growing, persisting. What
did he want of her? He was not in love with her any more than he was
always lightly in love with feminine beauty. Besides, if he were, what
would it mean? Another affair, with all its initial charm and gaiety,
its moments of frivolity, its moments of seriousness, its sudden crisis,
its combats, perplexities, irresolution, the faint thrill of its deeper
significance startling both to clearer vision; and then the end,
whatever it might be, light or solemn, irresponsible or care-ridden, gay
or sombre, for one or the other.

What did he want? Did he wish to disturb her tranquility? Was he trying
to awaken her to some response? And what did he offer her to respond to?
The flattery of his meaningless attentions, or the honour of falling in
love with a Desboro, whose left hand only would be offered to support
both slim white hands of hers?

He ought to have gone South, and he knew it, now. Last week he had told
himself--and her occasionally--that he was going South in a week. And
here he was, his head on his hands and his elbows on the table, looking
vacantly at the pile of manuscript she had left there, and thinking of
the things that should not happen to them both.

And who the devil was this fellow Sissly? Why had she suddenly changed
her mind and suggested a creature named Sissly? Why didn't she finish
the cataloguing herself? She had been enthusiastic about it. Besides,
she had enjoyed the skating and sleighing, and the luncheons and teas,
and the cats and dogs--and even Mrs. Quant. She had said so, too. And
now she was too busy to come any more.

Had he done anything? Had he been remiss, or had he ventured too many
attentions? He couldn't recall having done anything except to show her
plainly enough that he enjoyed being with her. Nor had she concealed her
bright pleasure in his companionship. And they had become such good
comrades, understanding each other's moods so instinctively now--and
they had really found such unfeigned amusement in each other that it
seemed a pity--a pity----

"Damn it," he said, "if she cares no more about it than that, she can
send Sissly, and I'll go South!"

But the impatience of hurt vanity died away; the desire to see her grew;
the habit of a single week was already unpleasant to break. And it would
be unpleasant to try to forget her, even among his own friends, even in
the South, or in drawing-rooms, or at the opera, or at dances, or in
any of his haunts and in any sort of company.

He might forget her if he had only known her better, discovered more of
her real self, unveiled a little of her deeper nature. There was so much
unexplored--so much that interested him, mainly, perhaps, because he had
not discovered it. For theirs had been the lightest and gayest of
friendships, with nothing visible to threaten a deeper entente; merely,
on her part, a happy enjoyment and a laughing parrying in the eternal
combat that never entirely ends, even when it means nothing. And on his
side it had been the effortless attentions of a man aware of her young
and unspoiled charm--conscious of an unusual situation which always
fascinates all men.

He had had no intention, no idea, no policy except to drift as far as
the tides of destiny carried him in her company. The situation was
agreeable; if it became less so, he could take to the oars and row where
he liked.

But the tides had carried him to the edge of waters less clear; he was
vaguely aware of it now, aware, too, that troubled seas lay somewhere
behind the veil.

The library clock struck three times. He got up and went to the
telephone booth. Miss Nevers was there; would speak to him if he could
wait a moment. He waited. Finally, a far voice called, greeting him
pleasantly, and explaining that matters which antedated her business at
Silverwood had demanded her personal attention in town. To his request
for particulars, she said that she had work to do among the jades and
Chinese porcelains belonging to a Mr. Clydesdale.

"I know him," said Desboro curtly. "When do you finish?"

"I have finished for the present. Later there is further work to be done
at Mr. Clydesdale's. I had to make certain arrangements before I went to
you--being already under contract to Mr. Clydesdale, and at his service
when he wanted me."

There was a silence. Then he asked her when she was coming to
Silverwood.

"Did you not receive my message?" she asked.

"About--what's his name? Sissly? Yes, I did, but I don't want him. I
want you or nobody!"

"You are unreasonable, Mr. Desboro. Lionel Sissly is a very celebrated
connoisseur."

"Don't you want to come?"

"I have so many matters here----"

"Don't you want to?" he persisted.

"Why, of course, I'd like to. It is most interesting work. But Mr.
Sissly----"

"Oh, hang Mr. Sissly! Do you suppose he interests me? You said that this
work might take you weeks. You said you loved it. You apparently
expected to be busy with it until it was finished. Now, you propose to
send a man called Sissly! Why?"

"Don't you know that I have other things----"

"What have I done, Miss Nevers?"

