"Our cousins Isabel and Charlie Firth go to 
dancing school. Mother thinks I may go next 
winter. They are teaching it in some schools.” 

"Children,” said Mrs. Warren, ''do you 



know what time it is? You must go to bed. 
Marilla you have betwitched us all. And 
papa will have hardly time to read his paper. 
Come. Marilla will not run away, so you can 
have her tomorrow night." 

Mr. Warren kissed all the little girls and 
they trooped off. 

'You may sleep on the lounge in my room, 
Edith, and give Marilla your bed, I can't send 
her up stairs alone, and now you must not say 
a word after your prayers for I know she is 
clear tired out.'' 

They were generally very good children to 
mind. Their mother left them with a good- 
night kiss. Mr. Warren had rolled his chair 
nearer the center table and taken up his 
paper. 

"Mother, he exclaimed, 'That Marilla is an 
unusual child. How beautifully she describes 
everything, but the sweetest trait about her 
in her utter lack of bitterness. Most chil- 
dren would have been sharp and disparaging 
about Mrs. Johnson, but she never uttered a 
bitter word. It really was wonderful. I 
hope that Dr. Richards will give her a first- 
class education, and I’d like to see that fairy 



godmother. Marilla needs good care, she 
isn't very strong, but there is happiness in 
every pulse of her small body. I wish we could 
keep her.’’ 

The next morning the children had to kiss 
her half a dozen times before they went to 
school, and make her promise over and over 
again that she would not let Dr. Richards 
take her home. While Mrs. Warren was do- 
ing up her morning’s work Marilla wrote her 
letter to Miss Armitage, who smiled over the 
thrill of delight that ran through it. Aunt 
Grace was so sweet and lovely and she couldn’t 
describe the girls for she didn’t know any 
words that were beautiful enough and good 
enough to apply to them. Jessie was a real 
little beauty with the most wonderful eyes 
that were like brown velvet and sunshine, and 
she didn’t know father’s could be so sweet as 
Uncle Warren. Maybe Mr. Borden would 
love the twins that way when they grew older. 
They might be prettier then. But her dear 
fairy godmother lived in her mind all the 
time, she wanted her to see and hear every- 
thing. There would be so much to tell her 
that she couldn’t write. 




It was a wonderful day to Marilla. Such 
splendid stores and gowns that were fit for 
queens. Such beautiful dishes and jewelry, 
such stacks of books; and, oh, such dolls holding 
out their hands with a pleading look in their 
eyes. She could hardly tear herself away. 
Was she too big to have a doll? 

Then they went into a cozy place and had a 
dainty lunch, only it did seem as if Marilla 
was too happy to eat. If fairy godmother 
were only here! 

Afterward they went to the Eden Musee. 
You had to ride from place to place; why, it was 
full of strange people who never stirred. They 
could not be dead! What was the matter 
with them? The wonder in her eyes made 
Mrs. Warren smile. Some were funny, too; 
you wanted to laugh with them. Marilla sat 
down in perfect despair as if she had gone to 
some strange country. 

don't see how they can make them just 
like folks, she said. "You feel almost sure 
they are going to speak to you.'' 

A very tired little girl it was who came home, 
but it was such a pleasant, happy tired she 
didn't mind. It wasn't like dragging the 



heavy babies around. Aunt Grace made her 
lie down on the lounge and the girls gathered 
round her talking it over. They had been 
several times. 

Then Dr. Richards came in and they had 
such a delightful time. Why the whole 
world of pleasure was fairy land when you 
come to think of it. "And there’s the Hippo- 
drome,' said Edith. 'Oh mother don’t you 
believe father could take us on Saturday?” 

''And couldn’t I go, too?” 

The doctor asked in such a whimsical tone 
