“It was not perhaps quite nice.”
“But I had not seen,” Leilah continued. “No, not that,” she interrupted
herself to explain. “I had forgotten that this prison, all I have
endured, all I shall endure, these are my debts to the Lords of Karma.”
But that was a bit too strong. Violet laughed.
“You mean the Lords of Gammon.”
“I mean,” Leilah, with heightening fervour, replied, “that I have
looked upon my prison as a cross. It is not a cross, it is a boon--one
of which I have not been worthy. For I forgot that any sorrow should
be welcomed. I forgot that it has been sent to make us nobler than we
are. But my sorrows I have not welcomed. I have rebelled against them.
I shall rebel no more. They were my masters. They shall be my servants
now.”
At these fine sentiments Violet sniffed.
“If that is theosophy I will believe in it when I am old, fat and a
German. But I am glad it enabled you to reach a decision. Otherwise----”
But what the lady may have intended to say was never expressed or at
least not then. Through the yellow portières, the delicate oval of
Aurelia’s face appeared.
“Aren’t you ever coming?” she called. “What have you two been talking
about?”
As the ingénue spoke, she entered, strolled to the mirror, considered
herself.
“We have been discussing your engagement,” Violet, in a very matter of
fact way, replied.
Aurelia adjusted her hat, patted her hair, and addressed the mirror.
“I fancied it must be something important. Did I tell you what happened
before I took Farnese?”
Violet yawned. “I have forgotten.”
Aurelia, still pluming herself, smiled.
“Then I didn’t. Besides, it is so shocking.”
Violet motioned at her. “Don’t be tiresome. I may have lost the ability
to be shocked but not the ability to be bored.”
With an air of great satisfaction Aurelia turned.
“Well, this morning, d’Arcy called. He told me about the gayeties last
evening and it seemed to me that he must have looked so sweet with the
champagne all over him that I could hardly resist accepting him, too.”
“Accepting him, three!” Violet exclaimed. She raised her eyes as though
calling heaven to witness. “There’s constancy for you!”
Aurelia gave another glance at her enticing self.
“Do you know, I have always thought that constancy must be due either
to a lack of imagination or else of opportunity. That is what you would
call a moral standpoint, isn’t it? Though what morality itself is you
never deigned to explain. Personally I am inclined to think that it
must be a preference in a choice of experiences.”
Violet stood up. “One might suppose you thought it consisted in being
engaged to half a dozen men at the same time.”
Enthusiastically the girl regarded her. “There! That’s it! You’ve
struck it! There is safety in numbers and what a moral young person I
am!”
Violet nodded. “I never suspected it before.”
“Nor I,” Aurelia contentedly replied. She looked at Leilah. “By-by.”
“Good-by,” Violet added.
In a moment both had gone and Leilah, again alone, reopened the little
treatise on the Paramitas.
The way was now clear and to that way the pamphlet had pointed. It
had done more. It had brought the exaltation which such beatitudes do
bring to those in great distress. But though it had exalted, suddenly
the fervour fell from her, for at once she foresaw the scene which she
would have with Verplank, when now, at the last moment, she had to
tell him that she could not go. The terror of it daunted her. She could
see him, demanding that she tell him why--that faltering why of hers
which would be gibberish to him and yet which summarised her ideals.
For the moment she felt that she lacked the strength for this, that
it would be better to write him and she was thinking what she would
say and how she would say it, when something external, a noise from
without, distracted her.
She stood up and went to the window, from which, since the day of the
ambuscade, she had had no heart to look.
Below, a footman in a canary coat and black knee-breeches was walking,
bareheaded, straight on. At the gate he stopped, fumbled with the
latch, drew back the door, held it open.
A man entered. Tall and broad-shouldered, he had a rigid face, calm
eyes, the air of a judge. His beard, intensely black, the beard of a
Saracen, was close cut and pointed. He was dressed in black.
Another man followed. Shorter, fairer, distinctly fat, he had a box
under his arm. About the box were broad bands, sealed with red wax.
A third man appeared. Older than the others, he had gray hair, glasses
rimmed with tortoise-shell, and a bag.
All three were in black, all were grave, all were silent, and as they
stood before the gate they partially concealed a fourth man, who, in
black also, wore white gloves.
What they had come for Leilah could not imagine. Then, at once,
she recalled what Violet had said: the rigors of French justice,
a husband’s ability to cage an erring wife, to put her away,
indefinitely, among the demented and the depraved, and at the sight
of these men, at the thought of the Byzantine abysses of Barouffski’s
nature, abysses perhaps unsounded yet, dread shook her. She shuddered.
But now another procession appeared, one that issued not from the gate,
but from the house, a procession also composed of four men, also grave,
also silent. One of them she vaguely recalled, and her stumbling memory
tried to put a name on him, Dal, Mal, Pal-Palencia! Another, too, she
remembered, Tyszkiewicz. A third also, and, to her cost, she knew. It
was Barouffski.
In the first procession there was now a fourth acquaintance. The man
with white gloves was raising his hat. As he did so she recognised
d’Arcy. Then at last she understood, and, lest they should see her,
drew back.
Meanwhile the footman had disappeared. From the first procession the
man with the umbrella and the man with the box detached themselves.
From the second, Palencia and Tyszkiewicz advanced.
For a little, grouped together, they conversed inaudibly, but amply
with gestures and movements that included the tossing of a coin.
A pantomime followed. Tyszkiewicz, Palencia and the fat man moved
to one side. The man with the umbrella drew with the ferule of it a
line on the ground. Then, his head bent, one foot put directly in
front of the other, he walked slowly until he had covered a space
equal apparently to about fifteen yards. There he drew a second line,
straightened himself, turned to Barouffski, who went to that line,
while d’Arcy stationed himself at the other.
Immediately the fat man handed his box to Palencia. Palencia looked
at the seals, broke them, opened the box, and, going to where d’Arcy
stood, presented it. D’Arcy removed a glove, removed his hat, which he
put brim upward beside him, and taking a pistol from the box, pointed
it at the ground.
Palencia went back, restored the box to the fat man, who presented
it to Barouffski. Another pistol was extracted. The fat man moved to
one side. The man with the umbrella placed himself at an angle to
d’Arcy and Barouffski. In front of him, at an equal angle, Palencia,
Tyszkiewicz and the fat man stood. These the old man with the bag and
