The laughter had died out in her face. After a moment it became grave.
"Was it to tell me this that you spoke to me in the fort, Mr. Loskiel?"
she asked.
"Yes, Two days ago our pickets were fired on by Indians. Last night two
riflemen of our corps took as many Seneca scalps. Do you suppose that
when I heard of these affairs I did not think of you--remembering what
was done but yesterday at Cherry Valley?"
"Did you--remember--me?"
"Good God, yes!" I exclaimed, my nerves on edge again at the mere
memory of her rashness. "I came here as a comrade--wishing to be of
service, and--you have used me----"
"Vilely," she said, looking serenely at me.
"I did not say that, Lois----"
"I say it, Mr. Loskiel. And yet--I told you where to find me. That is
much for me to tell to any man. Let that count a little to my damaged
credit with you.... And--I still wear the ring you gave.... And left a
rose for you, Let these things count a little in my favour. For you can
scarcely guess how much of courage it had cost me." She knelt there,
her bared arms hanging by her side, the sun bright on her curls,
staring at me out of those strange, grey eyes.
"Since I have been alone," she said in a low voice, "no man--unless by
a miracle it be you--has offered me a service or a kindness except that
he awaited his reward. Soon or late their various songs became the same
familiar air. It is the only song I've heard from men--with endless
variations, truly, often and cunningly disguised--yet ever the same and
sorry theme.... Men are what God made them; God has seemed to fashion
me to their liking--I scarce know how--seeing I walk in rags, unkempt,
and stained with wind and rain, and leaf and earth and sun."
She made a childish gesture, sweeping the curls aside with both her
hands:
"I sheared my hair! Look at me, sir--a wild thing in a ragged shift and
tattered gown--all burnt and roughened with the sun and wind--not even
clean to look on--yet that I am!--and with no friend to speak to save
an Indian.... I ask you, sir, what it is in me--and what lack of pride
must lie in men that I can not trust myself to the company of one among
them--not one! Be he officer, or common soldier--all are the same."
She dropped her head, and, thoughtfully, her hands again crept up and
wandered over her cheeks and hair, the while her grey eyes, fixed and
remote, seemed lost in speculation. Then she looked up again:
"Why should I think to find you different?" she asked, "Is any man
different from his fellows, humble or great? Is it not man himself, not
only men, that I must face as I have faced you--with silence, or with
sullen speech, or with a hardness far beyond my years, and a gaiety
that means nothing more kind than insolence?"
Again her head fell on her breast, and her hands linked themselves on
her knees as she knelt there in silence.
"Lois," I said, trying to think clearly, "I do not know that other men
and I are different. Once I believed so. But--lately--I do not know.
Yet, I know this: selfish or otherwise, I can not endure the thought of
you in peril."
She looked at me very gravely; then dropped her head once more.
"I don't know," I said desperately, "I wish to be honest--tell you no
lie--tell none to myself. I--your beauty--has touched me--or whatever
it is about you that attracts. And, whatever gown you go in, I scarcely
see it--somehow--finding you so--so strangely--lovely--in speech
also--and in--every way.... And now that I have not lied to you--or to
myself--in spite of what I have said, let me be useful to you. For I
can be; and perhaps these other sentiments will pass away----"
She looked up so suddenly that I ceased speaking, fearful of a rebuff;
but saw only the grave, grey eyes looking straight into mine, and a
sudden, deeper colour waning from her cheeks.
"Whatever I am," said I, "I can be what I will. Else I were no man. If
your--beauty--has moved me, that need not concern you--and surely not
alarm you. A woman's beauty is her own affair. Men take their chance
with it--as I take mine with yours--that it do me no deep damage. And
if it do, or do not, our friendship is still another matter; for it
means that I wish you well, desire to aid you, ease your burdens, make
you secure and safe, vary your solitude with a friendly word--I mean,
Lois, to be to you a real comrade, if you will. Will you?"
After a moment she said:
"What was it that you said about my--beauty?"
"I take my chances that it do me no deep damage."
"Oh! Am I to take my chance, too?"
"What chance?"
"That--your kindness do me--no damage?"
"What senseless talk is this you utter?"
She shook her head slowly, then:
"What a strange boy! I do not fear you."
"Fear me?" I repeated, flushing hotly. "What is there to fear? I am
neither yokel nor beast."
"They say a gentleman should be more dreaded."
I stared at her, then laughed:
"Ask yourself how far you need have dread of me--when, if you desire
it, you can leave me dumb, dismayed, lip-bound by your mocking
tongue--which God knows well I fear."
"Is my tongue so bitter then? I did not know it."
"I know it," said I with angry emphasis. "And I tell you very freely
that----"
She stole a curious glance at me. Something halted me--an expression I
had never yet seen there in her face, twitching at her lips--hovering
on them now--parting them in a smile so sweet and winning that,
silenced by the gracious transformation, unexpected, I caught my
breath, astonished.
"What is your given name?" she asked, still dimpling at me, and her
eyes now but two blue wells of light.
"Euan," I said, foolish as a flattered schoolboy, and as awkward.
"Euan," she said, still smiling at me, "I think that I could be your
friend--if you do truly wish it. What is it you desire of me? Ask me
once more, and make it very clear and plain."
"Only your confidence; that is all I ask."
"Oh! Is that all you ask of me?" she mimicked mockingly; but so sweet
her smile, and soft her voice, that I did not mind her words.
"Remember," said I, "that I am older than you. You are to tell me all
that troubles you."
"When?"
"Now."
"No. I have my washing to complete, And you must go. Besides, I have
mending, darning, and my knitting yet to do. It all means bed and bait
to me."
"Will you not tell me why you are alone here, Lois?"
"Tell you what? Tell you why I loiter by our soldiers' camps like any
painted drab? I will tell you this much; I need no longer play that
shameless role."
"You need not use those words in the same breath when speaking of
yourself," I answered hotly.
"Then--you do not credit ill of me?" she asked, a bright but somewhat
fixed and painful smile on her red lips.
"No!" said I bluntly. "Nor did I ever."
"And yet I look the part, and seem to play it, too. And still you
believe me honest?"
