parallel with the invader's chest.  He brought up the heel of his palm
viciously against the Chinaman's chin.  It was sufficient to break the
hold.  Then followed a struggle that always remained nightmarish to
Warrington.  Hither and thither across the room, miraculously avoiding
chairs, tables and bed, they surged.  He heard a ring of steel upon the
cement floor, and breathed easier to learn that the thief had dropped
his knife.  Warrington never thought to call out for help.  The old
fear of bringing people about him had become a habit.  Once, in the
whirl of things, his hand came into contact with a belt which hung
about the other's middle.  He caught at it and heaved.  It broke, and
the subsequent tinkling over the floor advised him of the fact that it
was his own gold.  The broken belt, however, brought the fight to an
abrupt end.  The oily body suddenly slipped away.  Warrington beheld a
shadow in the doorway; it loomed there a second against the sky-line,
and vanished.  He ran to the gallery railing, but it was too dark below
to discern anything.
He returned to his room, breathing hard, the obnoxious odor of sweat
and fish-oil in his nose.  He turned on the lights and without waiting
to investigate, went into the shower-room and stood under the tepid
deluge.  Even after a thorough rub-down the taint was in the air.  The
bird was muttering and turning somersaults.
"Thanks, Rajah, old sport!  He'd have got me but for you.  Let's see
the damage."
He picked up the belt.  The paper-money was intact, and what gold had
fallen he could easily find.  He then took up his vest . . . and
dropped it, stunned.  The letter of credit for half his fortune was
gone.  He sank back upon the bed and stared miserably at the fallen
garment.  Gone!  Fifty thousand dollars.  Some one who knew!  Presently
he stood up and tugged at his beard.  After all, why should he worry?
A cable to Rangoon would stop payments.  A new letter could be issued.
It would take time, but he had plenty of that.
Idly he reached for the broken cigar that lay at the foot of the bed.
He would have tossed it aside as one of his own had not the carnelian
band attracted his attention.  He hadn't smoked that quality of tobacco
in years.  He turned it over and over, and it grew more and more
familiar.  Mallow's!
XVI
WHO IS PAUL ELLISON?
For some time Warrington sat upon the edge of the bed and studied the
cigar, balanced it upon his palm, as if striving to weigh accurately
Mallow's part in a scrimmage like this.  The copra-grower assuredly
would be the last man to give a cigar to a Chinaman.  His gifts kept
his coolies hopping about in a triangle of cuffs and kicks and
pummelings.  He had doubtless given the cigar to another white man
likely enough, Craig, who, with reckless inebriate generosity, had in
turn presented it to the Oriental.  Besides, Mallow was rich.  What
stepping-stones he had used to acquire his initial capital were not
perfectly known; but Warrington had heard rumors of shady transactions
and piratical exploits in the pearl zone.  Mallow, rich, was Mallow
disposed of, at least logically; unless indeed it was a bit of
anticipatory reprisal.  That might possibly be.  A drunken Mallow was
capable of much, for all that his knowledge of letters of credit might
necessarily be primitive.
Pah!  The abominable odor of fish still clung.  He reached for his pipe
and lighted it, letting the smoke sink into his beard.
Yet, Mallow was no fool.  He would scarcely take such risk for so
unstable and chancely a thing as revenge of this order.  Craig?  He
hadn't the courage.  Strong and muscular as he was, he was the average
type of gambler, courageous only when armed with a pack of cards,
sitting opposite a fool and his money.  But, Craig and Mallow together.
. . .  He slipped off the label.  It was worth preserving.
With an unpleasant laugh he began to get into his clothes.  Why not?
The more he thought of it, the more he was positive that the two had
been behind this assault.  The belt would have meant a good deal to
Craig.  There were a thousand Chinese in Singapore who would cut a
man's throat for a Straits dollar.  Either Mallow or Craig had seen him
counting the money on shipboard.  It had been a pastime of his to throw
the belt on the bunk-blanket and play with the gold and notes; like a
child with its Christmas blocks.  He had spent hours gloating over the
yellow metal and crackly paper which meant a competence for the rest of
his years.  And Craig or Mallow had seen him.
He looked at his watch; quarter after two.  If they were not in their
rooms he would have good grounds for his suspicions.  He stole along
the gallery and down the stairs to the office, just in time to see the
two enter, much the worse for drink.  Mallow was boisterous, and Craig
was sullen.  The former began to argue with the night manager, who
politely shook his head.  Mallow grew insistent, but the night manager
refused to break the rules of the hotel.  Warrington inferred that
Mallow was demanding liquor, and his inference was correct.  He moved a
little closer, still hidden behind the potted palms.
"All right," cried Mallow.  "We'll go back to town for it."
"I've had enough," declared Craig sullenly.
"Yah!  A little sore, eh?  Well, I can't pour it down your throat."
"Let's cut out booze and play a little hand or two."
"Fine!"  Mallow slapped his thigh as he laughed.  "Nice bird I'd be for
you to pluck.  Think of something else.  You can hit me on the head
when I'm not looking and take my money that way.  What do you think I
am, anyhow?  The billiard-hall is open."
Craig shook his head.  When Mallow was argumentative it was no time to
play billiards.
"Bah!" snarled Mallow.  "Since you won't drink like a man nor play
billiards, I'm for bed.  And just as the fun was beginning!"
Craig nudged him warningly.  Mallow stalked away, and Craig, realizing
that the night was done, followed.
Warrington had seen and heard enough.  He was tolerably sure.  It might
have been out of pure deviltry, so far as Mallow was concerned; but
Craig had joined in hope of definite profits.  A fine pair of rogues!
Neither of them should be able to draw against the letter.  He would
block that game the first thing in the morning.  He would simply notify
the local banks and cable to Rangoon.
He eyed indecisively the stairs and then glanced toward the brilliant
night outside.  It would not be possible to sleep in that room again.
So he tiptoed out to the cafe-veranda and dropped into a comfortable
chair.  He would hunt them up some time during the day.  He would ask
Mallow for fifty pounds, and he sincerely hoped that Mallow would
refuse him.  For he was grimly resolved that Mallow should pay for
those half-truths, more damning than bald lies.  It was due to Mallow
that he was never more to see or speak to Elsa.  He emptied the ash
from his cutty which he stowed away.
The great heart ache and the greater disillusion would not have fallen
to his lot had Elsa been frank in Rangoon, had she but told him that
she was to sail on the same steamer.  He would have put over his
sailing.  He would have gone his way, still believing himself to be a
Bayard, a Galahad, or any other of those simple dreamers who put honor
and chivalry above and before all other things.
Elsa!  He covered his face with his hands and remained in that position
for a long while, so long indeed that the coolies, whose business it
was to scrub the tilings every morning at four, went about their work
quietly for fear of disturbing him.
Elsa had retired almost immediately after dinner.  She endeavored to
