such torment of mind as can hardly be 
imagined. Truly, in these days he paid 
for his sins; he paid a thousand-fold in 
agonized and impotent regret. He looked 
back upon the course of his life, and traced 
one by one the acts which had led him and 
those he loved into this nightmare of tor- 
ment. He would have been willing to give 
his life if he could have undone those acts. 
 
But avenging nature offered him no such 
easy dehverance as that. We shudder 
as we read the grim words of the Jehovah 
of the ancient Hebrews; and yet not all 
the learning of modern times has availed 
to deliver us from the cruel decree, that 
the sins of the fathers shall be visited 
upon the children. 
George wrote notes to his wife, imploring 
her forgiveness. He poured out all his 
agony and shame to her, begging her to 
see him just once, to give him a chance to 
plead his defense. It was not much of a 
defense, to be sure; it was only that he 
had done no worse than the others did — 
only that he was a wretched victim of 
ignorance. But he loved her, he had 
proven that he loved her, and he pleaded 
that for the sake of their child she would 
forgive him. 
When all this availed nothing, he went 
to see the doctor, whose advice he had so 
shamefully neglected. He besought this 
man to intercede for him — 'which the doc- 
tor, of course, refused to do. It was an 
extra-medical matter, he said, and George 
was absurd to expect him to meddle in it. 
 
But, as a matter of fact, the doctor had 
already been interceding — 'he had gone 
farther in pleading George's cause than he 
was willing to have George know. For 
Monsieur Loches had paid him a visit — 'his 
purpose being to ask the doctor to continue 
attendance upon the infant, and also to give 
Henriette a certificate which she could use 
in her suit for a divorce from her husband. 
So invariably there had been a discussion 
of the whole question between the two men. 
The doctor had granted the first request, 
but refused the second. In the first place, 
he said, there was a rule of professional 
secrecy which would prevent him. And 
when the father-in-law requested to know 
if the rule of professional secrecy compelled 
him to protect a criminal against honest 
people, the doctor answered that even 
if his ethics permitted it, he would still 
refuse the request. ''I would reproach 
myseK forever,'' he said, "if I had aided 
you to obtain such a divorce." 
"Then," cried the old man, vehemently, 
"because you profess such and such theories, 
because the exercise of your profession 
 
makes you the constant witness of such 
miseries — therefore it is necessary that my 
daughter should continue to bear that 
man's name all her life!'' 
The doctor answered, gently, "Sir, I 
understand and respect your grief.. But 
believe me, you are not in a state of mind to 
decide about these matters now." 
"You are mistaken," declared the other, 
controlling himself with an effort. "I 
have been thinking about nothing else for 
days. I have discussed it with my daughter, 
and she agrees with me. Surely, sir, 
you cannot desire that my daughter should 
continue to live with a man who has struck 
her so brutal, so cowardly, a blow." 
"If I refuse your request," the doctor 
answered, "it is in the interest of your 
daughter." Then, seeing the other's excite- 
ment returning, he continued, "In your 
state of mind. Monsieur Loches, I know that 
you will probably be abusing me before 
five minutes have passed. But that will 
not trouble me. I have seen many cases. 
And since I have made the mistake of 
letting myself be trapped into this discus- 
 
sion, I must explain to you the reason for 
my attitude. You ask of me a certificate 
so that you may prove in court that your 
son-in-law is afflicted with syphilis. '' 
''Precisely.' said the other. 
''And have you not reflected upon this — 
that at the same time you will be publicly 
attesting that your daughter has been 
exposed to the contagion? With such an 
admission, an admission officially registered 
in the public records, do you believe that 
she will find it easy to re-marry later on?'' 
''She will never re-marry.' said the 
father. 
"She says that today, but can you affirm 
that she will say the same thing five years 
from now, ten years from now? I tell 
you you will not obtain that divorce, because 
I will most certainly refuse you the neces- 
sary certificate.'' 
"Then," cried the other, "I will find 
other means of estabhshing proofs. I 
will have the child examined by another 
doctor!" 
The other answered. "Then you do 
not find that that poor little one has been 
 
already sufficiently handicapped at the 
