cabin was tight, dry as the saloon of a liner. 
Three men emerged on deck to assist in the 
difficult process of making a landing. One of 
them sprang to the dock, and confronting me, 
inquired if I was Mrs. Abbott. He explained 
 
that they had set out to meet me the previous 
afternoon, but had had to take refuge behind one 
of the keys. 
"How is Mrs. van Tuiver?" I asked, quickly. 
"She is  well." 
"I don't suppose — the baby " I hinted. 
"No, ma'am, not yet," said the man; and after 
that I felt interested in what he had to say about 
the storm and its effects. We could return at 
once, it seemed, if I did not mind being pitched 
about. 
"How long does it take?" I asked. 
"Three hours, in weather like this. It's about 
fifty miles." 
"But then it will be dark," I objected. 
"That won't matter, ma'am — we have plenty 
of Ught of our own. We shan't have trouble, 
unless the wind rises, and there's a chain of keys 
all the way, where we can get shelter if it does. 
The worst you have to fear is spending a night 
on board." 
I reflected that I could not well be more uncom- 
fortable than I had been the previous night, so 
I voted for a start. There was mail and some 
supplies to be put on board; then I made a spring 
for the deck, as it surged up towards me on a 
rising wave, and in a moment more the cabin- 
door had shut behind me, and I was safe and snug, 
in the midst of leather and mahogany and electric- 
lighted magnificence. Through the heavy double 
windows I saw the dock swing round behind us, 
and saw the torrents of green spray sweep over 
 
us and past. I grasped at the seat to keep myself 
from being thrown forward, and then grasped 
behind, to keep from going in that direction. 
I had a series of sensations as of an elevator 
stopping suddenly — and then I draw the curtains 
of the "Merman's" cabin, and invite the reader 
to pass by. This is Sylvia's story, and not mine, 
and it is of no interest what happened to me 
during that trip. I will only remind the reader 
that I had lived my life in the far West, and there 
were some things I could not have foreseen. 
IS 
 
 
"We are there, ma'am," I heard one of the 
boatmen say; and I realized vaguely that the 
pitchmg had ceased. He helped me to sit up, 
and I saw the search-hght of the craft sweeping 
the shore of an island. "It passes off 'most as 
quick as it comes, ma'am," added my supporter; 
and for this I murmured feeble thanks. 
We came to a little bay, where the power was 
shut off, and we gUded towards the shore. There 
was a boat-house, a sort of miniatm-e dry-dock, 
with a gate which closed behind us. I had visions 
of Sylvia waiting to meet me; but apparently 
oiu" arrival had not been noted — and for this I 
was grateful. There were seats in the boat- 
house, and I sank into one, and asked the man to 
wait a few minutes while I recovered myself. 
When I got up and went to the house, what I 
found made me quickly forget that I had such a 
thing as a body. 
There was a bright moon, I remember, and I 
could see the long, low bungalow, with windows 
gleaming through the palm-trees. A woman's 
figure emerged from the house and came down 
the white shell-path to meet me. My heart 
leaped. My beloved! 
But then I saw it was the EngUsh maid, whom. 
I had come to know in New York; I saw too 
that her face was alight with excitement. "Oh, 
my lady!" she cried. "The baby's come!" 
 
It was like a blow in the face. "Whatf" I 
gasped. 
"Came early this morning! A girl." 
"But — I thought it wasn't till next week!" 
"I know, but it's here. In that terrible storm, 
when we thought the house was going to be 
washed away! Oh, my lady, it's the loveliest 
baby!" 
I had presence of mind enough to try to hide 
my dismay. The semi-darkness was a fortunate 
thing for me. "How is the mother?" I asked. 
"Splendid. She's asleep now." 
"And the child?" 
"Oh! Such a dear you never saw!" 
"And it's all right?" 
"It's just the living image of its mother! You 
shall see!" 
We moved towards the house, slowly, while 
I got my thoughts together. "Dr. Perrin is 
here?" I asked. 
"Yes. He's gone to his place to sleep." 
"And the nurse?" 
"She's with the child. Come this way." 
We went softly up the steps of the veranda. 
All the rooms opened upon it, and we entered 
one of them, and by the dim-shaded Ught I saw 
a white-clad woman bending over a crib. "Miss 
Lyman, this is Mrs. Abbott," said the maid. 
The nurse straightened up. "Oh! so you got 
here! And just at the right time!" 
"God grant it may be so!" I thought to my- 
self. "So this is the child!" I said, and bent 
 
over the crib. The nurse turned up the light 
for me. 
It is the form in which the miracle of life 
becomes most apparent to us, and dull indeed 
