it was a legacy of terror and confusion.  You knew.  Why did you
return?  Ah, pearls and sapphires and emeralds!  What?  I offer you
this throne upon conditions."
"And those conditions I have refused."
"You have, yes, but now----"  Umballa smiled.  Then he suddenly blazed
forth: "Think you a white man shall sit upon this throne while I live?
It is mine.  I was his heir."
"Then why didn't you save him from the leopard?  I'll tell you why.
You expected to inherit on the spot, and I spoiled the game.  Is that
not true?"
"And what if I admit it?" truculently.
"Umballa, or Durga Ram, if you wish, listen.  Take the throne.  What's
to hinder you?  You want it.  Take it and let me begone."
"Yes, I want it; and by all the gods of Hind I'll have it--but safely.
Ah!  It would be fine to proclaim myself when mutiny and rebellion
stalk about.  Am I a pig to play a game like that?  Tch!  Tch!"  He
clicked his tongue against the roof of his mouth in derision.  "No; I
need a buckler till all this roily water subsides and clears."
"And then, some fine night, Hare Sahib's throat?  I am not afraid of
death, Umballa.  I have faced it too many times.  Make an end of me at
once or leave me to rot here, my answer will always be the same.  I
will not become a dishonorable tool.  You have offered me freedom and
jewels.  No; I repeat, I will free all slaves, abolish the harems, the
buying and selling of flesh; I will make a man of every poor devil of a
coolie who carries stones from your quarries."
Umballa laughed.  "Then remain here like a dog while I put your golden
daughter on the throne and become what the British Raj calls prince
consort.  She'll rebel, I know; but I have a way."  He stepped outside
and closed the door.
"Umballa?"
"Well?"
"Kit, my daughter?  Good God, what is she doing here when I warned
her?"  Hare tugged furiously at his chains.  "Durga Ram, you have
beaten me.  State your terms and I will accept them to the
letter. . . .  Kit, my beautiful Kit, in this hellhole!"
"Ah, but I don't want you to accept now.  I was merely amusing myself."
The door shut and the bolt shot home.
Hare fell upon his knees.  "My head, my head!  Dear God, save me my
reason!"
      *      *      *      *      *      *
The moment Kathlyn arrived at the animal cages of her father she called
for Ahmed.
"My father?"
"Ah, Mem-sahib, they say he is dead.  I know not.  One night--the
second after we arrived--he was summoned to the palace.  He never came
back."
"They have killed him!"
"Perhaps.  They watch me, too; but I act simple.  We wait and see."
Kathlyn rushed across the ground intervening between the animal cages
and the bungalow.  There was no one in sight.  She ran up the
steps . . . to be greeted inside by the suave Umballa.
"You?" her hand flying to her bosom.
"I, Miss Hare."  He salaamed, with a sweeping gesture of his hands.
Sadly the wretch told her the tale; the will of the king, his death and
the subsequent death of her father in his, Durga Ram's, arms.  Yonder
urn contained his ashes.  For the first time in her young life Kathlyn
fainted.  She had been living on her nerves for weeks, and at the sight
of that urn something snapped.  Daintily Umballa plucked forth the
packet and waited.  At length she opened her eyes.
"You are a queen, Miss Hare."
"You are mad!"
"Nay; it was the madness of the king.  But mad kings often make laws
which must be obeyed.  You will accuse me of perfidy when I tell you
all.  The note which brought you here was written by me and substituted
for this."
Duly Kathlyn read:
"Kathlyn--if not heard from, I'm held captive in Allaha.  The royal
title given to me by the king made me and my descendants direct heirs
to the throne.  Do not come to Allaha yourself.  Destroy sealed
document herewith.
"Father."
The Council of Three entered noiselessly from the adjoining room.  At
the four dark, inscrutable faces the bewildered girl stared, her limbs
numb with terror.  Gravely the council told her she must come with them
to the palace.
"It is impossible!" she murmured.  "You are all mad.  I am a white
woman.  I can not rule over an alien race whose tongue I can not speak,
whose habits I know nothing of.  It is impossible.  Since my father is
dead, I must return to my home."
"No," said Umballa.
"I refuse to stir!"  She was all afire of a sudden: the base trickery
which had brought her here!  She was very lovely to the picturesque
savage who stood at her elbow.
As he looked down at her, in his troubled soul Umballa knew that it was
not the throne so much as it was this beautiful bird of paradise which
he wished to cage.
"Be brave," he said, "like your father.  I do not wish to use force,
but you must go.  It is useless to struggle.  Come."
She hung back for a moment; then, realizing her utter helplessness, she
signified that she was ready to go.  She needed time to collect her
stunned and disordered thoughts.
Before going to the palace they conducted her to the royal crypt.  The
urn containing her father's ashes was deposited in a niche.  Many other
niches contained urns, and Umballa explained to her that these held the
ashes of many rulers.  Tears welled into Kathlyn's eyes, but they were
of a hysterical character.
"A good sign," mused Umballa, who thought he knew something of women,
like all men beset with vanity.  Oddly enough, he had forgot all about
the incident of the lion in the freight caboose.  All women are felines
to a certain extent.  This golden-haired woman had claws, and the day
was coming when he would feel them drag over his heart.
From the crypt they proceeded to the palace zenana (harem), which
surrounded a court of exceeding beauty.  Three ladies of the harem were
sitting in the portico, attended by slaves.  All were curiously
interested at the sight of a woman with white skin, tinted like the
lotus.  Umballa came to a halt before a latticed door.
"Here your majesty must remain till the day of your coronation."
"How did my father die?"
"He was assassinated on the palace steps by a Mohammedan fanatic.  As I
told you, he died in my arms."
"His note signified that he feared imprisonment.  How came he on the
palace steps?"
"He was not a prisoner.  He came and went as he pleased in the city."
He bowed and left her.
Alone in her chamber, the dullness of her mind diminished and finally
cleared away like a fog in a wind.  Her dear, kind, blue-eyed father
was dead, and she was virtually a prisoner, and Winnie was all alone.
A queen!  They were mad, or she was in the midst of some hideous
nightmare.  Mad, mad, mad!  She began to laugh, and it was not a
pleasant sound.  A queen, she, Kathlyn Hare!  Her father was dead, she
