wait in the dark, there where the keyboard 
is, and where you see all the wires lead 
ing upward. You shall listen attentively, and 
I will be on the landing above, among my 
bells. And when you hear me cry out to you, 
then you shall come running with pistols!" 
"For heaven's sake " 
"Is it understood? Give me your word, 
Keed!" 
"Sure! " 
"Allans! Assez!" she whispered excitedly. 
"Make prisoner any man you see there! 
any man! You understand!" 
"You bet!" 
Any man!" she repeated slowly, "even if 
he wears the same uniform you wear." 
There was a silence. Then: 
"By God!" said Glenn under his breath. 
"You suspect?" 
"Yes. And if it is one of our German- 
American muleteers, we'll lynch him!" he 
whispered in a white rage. 
But Maryette shook her head. 
"No," she said in a dull, even voice, "let the 
gendarmerie take him in charge. Spy or sus 
pect, he must have his chance. That is the 
law in France." 
"You don't give rats a chance, do you!" 
"I give everything its chance," she said 
simply. "And so does my country." 
She drew the automatic pistol from her 
holster, examined it, raised her eyes gravely 
to the American beside her: 
"This is terrible for me," she added, in a 
low but steady voice. "If it were not for 
my country " She made a grave gesture, 
turned, and went slowly out through the 
arched stone passage into the main street of 
the town. A few minutes later the angelus 
sounded sweetly over the woods and meadows 
of Sainte Lesse. 
At ten, as the last stroke of the hour ended, 
there came a charming, intimate little mur 
mur of awakening bells; it grew sweeter, 
clearer, filling the starry sky, growing, ex 
quisitely increasing in limpid, transparent vol 
ume, sweeping through the high, dim belfry 
like a great wind from Paradise carrying 
Heaven's own music out over the darkened 
earth. 
All Sainte Lesse came to its doorways to 
listen to the playing of their beloved Carillon- 
 
nette; the bell-music ebbed and swelled under 
the stars; the ancient Flemish masterpiece, 
written by some carillonneur whose bones had 
long been dust, became magnificently vital 
again under the enchanted hands of the little 
mistress of the bells. 
In fifteen minutes the carillon ended; a 
slight pause followed, then the quarter hour 
struck. 
With the last stroke of the bell, the girl 
drew off her wooden gloves, laid them on the 
keyboard, turned slowly in her seat, listening. 
A slight sound coming from the spiral stair 
case of stone set her heart beating violently. 
Had the suspected man violated his word? 
She drew the automatic pistol from her hol 
ster, rose, and stole up to the stone platform 
overhead, where, rising tier on tier into the 
darkness, the great carillon of Sainte Lesse 
loomed overhead. 
She listened uneasily. Had the man lied? 
It seemed to her as though her hammering 
heart must burst from her bosom with the 
terrible suspense of the moment. 
Suddenly a shadowy form appeared at the 
3-
head of the stairs, reaching the platform at 
one bound. And her heart seemed to stop as 
she realized that this man had arrived too 
early for her friends to be of any use to her. 
He had lied to her. And now she must take 
him unaided, or kill him there in the starlight 
under the looming bells. 
"Maryette!" he called. She did not stir. 
"Maryette!" he whispered. "Where are 
you, little sweetheart? Forgive me, I could 
not wait any longer. I adore you 
All at once he discovered her standing mo 
tionless in the shadow of the great bell Bay 
ard sprang toward her, eager, ardent, tri 
umphant. 
"Maryette," he whispered, "I love you! I 
shall teach you what a lover is 
Suddenly he caught a glimpse of her face; 
the terrible expression in her eyes checked 
him. 
"What has happened?" he asked, bewil 
dered. And then he caught sight of the pistol 
in her hand. 
"What's that for?" he demanded harshly. 
"Are you afraid to love me? Do you think 
 
I'm the kind of lover to stop for a thing like 
that " 
She said, in a low, distinct voice: 
"Don't move! Put up both hands in 
stantly!" 
"What!" he snapped out, like the crack of 
a lash. 
"I know who you are. You're a Boche and 
no Yankee! Turn your back and raise your 
arms !" 
For a moment they looked at each other. 
"I think," she said, steadily, "you had bet 
ter explain your gas cylinders and balloons 
to the gendarmes at the Poste." 
"No," he said, "I'll explain them, to you, 
