
When Jones received the telegram that Florence was safe, the iron nerve
of the man broke down.  The suspense had been so keenly terrible that
the sudden reaction left him almost hysterically weak.  Three weeks of
waiting, waiting.  Not even the scoundrel and his wife who had been the
principal actors in the abduction had been found.  From a great ship in
midocean they had disappeared.  Doubtless they had hidden among the
immigrants, who, for little money, would have fooled all the officers
on board.  There was no doubt in Jones' mind that the pair had landed
safely at Madrid.

As for Susan, she did have hysterics.  She went about the room, wailing
and laughing and wringing her hands.  You would have thought by her
actions that Florence had just died.  The sight of her stirred the
saturnine lips of the butler into a smile.  But he did not remonstrate
with her.  In fact, he rather envied her freedom in emotion.  Man can
not let go in that fashion; it is a sign of weakness; and he dared not
let even Susan see any sign of weakness in him.

So the reporter had found her, and she was safe and sound on her way to
New York?  Knowing by this time something of the reporter's courage, he
was eager to learn how the event had come about.  When he had not had a
telephone message from Norton in forty-eight hours, he had decided that
the Black Hundred had finally succeeded in getting hold of him.  It had
been something of a blow; for while he looked with disfavor upon the
reporter's frank regard for his charge, he appreciated the fact that
Norton was a staff to lean on, and had behind him all the power of the
press, which included the privilege of going everywhere even if one
could not always get back.

As he folded the telegram and put it into his pocket, he observed the
man with the opera glasses over the way.  He shrugged.  Well, let him
watch till his eyes dropped out of his head; he would only see that
which was intended for his eyes.  Still, it was irksome to feel that no
matter when or where you moved, watching eyes observed and chronicled
these movements.

Suddenly, not being devoid of a sense of dry humor, Jones stepped over
to the telephone and called up her highness the Countess Perigoff.

"Who is it?"

He was forced to admit, however reluctantly, that the woman had a
marvelously fine speaking voice.

"It is Jones, madam."

"Jones?"

"Mr. Hargreave's butler, madam."

"Oh!  You have news of Florence?"

"Yes."  It will be an embarrassing day for humanity when some one
invents a photographic apparatus by which two persons at the two ends
of the telephone may observe the facial expressions of each other.

"What is it?  Tell me quickly."

"Florence has been found, and she is on her way back to New York.  She
was found by Mr. Norton, the reporter."

"I am so glad!  Shall I come up at once and have you tell me the whole
amazing story?"

"It would be useless, madam, for I know nothing except what I learned
from a telegram I have just received.  But no doubt some time this
evening you might risk a call."

"Ring up the instant she returns.  Did she say what train?"

"No, madam," lied Jones, smiling.

He hung up the receiver and stared at the telephone as if he would
force his gaze in and through it to the woman at the other end.  Flesh
and blood!  Well, greed was stronger than that.  Treacherous cat!  Let
her play; let her weave her nets, dig her pits.  The day would come,
and it was not far distant, when she would find that the mild-eyed
mongoose was just as deadly as the cobra, and far more cunning.

The heads of the Black Hundred must be destroyed.  Those were the
orders.  What good to denounce them, to send them to a prison from
which, with the aid of money and a tremendous secret political pull,
they might readily find their way out?  They must be exterminated, as
one kills off the poisonous plague rats of the Orient.  A woman?  In
the law of reprisal there was no sex.

Shortly after the telephone episode (which rather puzzled the countess)
she received a wire from Braine, which announced the fact that Florence
and Norton had escaped and were coming to New York on train No. 25, and
advising her to meet the train en route.  She had to fly about to do it.

[Illustration: HE HAD PUT FLORENCE AND BRAINE IN THE BOAT AND LANDED
THEM]

When Captain Bannock released Braine, he had been in no enviable frame
of mind.  Tricked, fooled by the girl, whose mind was as unclouded as
his own!  She had succeeded in bribing a coal stoker, and had taken him
unawares.  The man had donned the disguise he had laid out for shore
approach, and the blockheaded Bannock had never suspected.  He had not
recognized Norton at all.  It was only when Bannock explained the
history of the shanghaied stoker that he realized his real danger.
Norton!  He must be pushed off the board.  After this episode he could
no longer keep up the pretense of being friendly.  Norton, by a rare
stroke of luck, had forced him out into the open.  So be it.
Self-preservation is in nowise looked upon as criminal.  The law may
have its ideas about it, but the individual recognizes no law but its
own.  It was Braine whom he loved and admired, or Norton whom he hated
as a dog with rabies hates water.  With Norton free, he would never
again dare return to New York openly.  This meddling reporter aimed at
his ease and elegance.

He left the freighter as soon as a boat could carry him ashore.  The
fugitives would make directly for the railroad, and thither he went at
top speed, to arrive ten minutes too late.

"Free!" said Florence, as the train began to increase its speed.

Norton reached over and patted her hand.  Then he sat back with a
sudden shock of dismay.  He dived a hand into a pocket, into another
