of these toy people swarming briskly about and working diligently and
wiping the sweat off their faces as natural as life. In the absorbing
interest of watching those five hundred little people make the castle
grow step by step and course by course, and take shape and symmetry,
that feeling and awe soon passed away and we were quite comfortable and
at home again. We asked if we might make some people, and he said yes,
and told Seppi to make some cannon for the walls, and told Nikolaus to
make some halberdiers, with breastplates and greaves and helmets, and
I was to make some cavalry, with horses, and in allotting these tasks
he called us by our names, but did not say how he knew them. Then Seppi
asked him what his own name was, and he said, tranquilly, “Satan,” and
held out a chip and caught a little woman on it who was falling from
the scaffolding and put her back where she belonged, and said, “She is
an idiot to step backward like that and not notice what she is about.”
It caught us suddenly, that name did, and our work dropped out of our
hands and broke to pieces--a cannon, a halberdier, and a horse. Satan
laughed, and asked what was the matter. I said, “Nothing, only it
seemed a strange name for an angel.” He asked why.
“Because it’s--it’s--well, it’s his name, you know.”
“Yes--he is my uncle.”
He said it placidly, but it took our breath for a moment and made our
hearts beat. He did not seem to notice that, but mended our halberdiers
and things with a touch, handing them to us finished, and said, “Don’t
you remember?--he was an angel himself, once.”
“Yes--it’s true,” said Seppi; “I didn’t think of that.”
“Before the Fall he was blameless.”
“Yes,” said Nikolaus, “he was without sin.”
“It is a good family--ours,” said Satan; “there is not a better. He is
the only member of it that has ever sinned.”
I should not be able to make any one understand how exciting it all
was. You know that kind of quiver that trembles around through you when
you are seeing something so strange and enchanting and wonderful that
it is just a fearful joy to be alive and look at it; and you know how
you gaze, and your lips turn dry and your breath comes short, but you
wouldn’t be anywhere but there, not for the world. I was bursting to
ask one question--I had it on my tongue’s end and could hardly hold it
back--but I was ashamed to ask it; it might be a rudeness. Satan set an
ox down that he had been making, and smiled up at me and said:
“It wouldn’t be a rudeness, and I should forgive it if it was. Have I
seen him? Millions of times. From the time that I was a little child a
thousand years old I was his second favorite among the nursery angels
of our blood and lineage--to use a human phrase--yes, from that time
until the Fall, eight thousand years, measured as you count time.”
“Eight--thousand!”
“Yes.” He turned to Seppi, and went on as if answering something that
was in Seppi’s mind: “Why, naturally I look like a boy, for that
is what I am. With us what you call time is a spacious thing; it
takes a long stretch of it to grow an angel to full age.” There was
a question in my mind, and he turned to me and answered it, “I am
sixteen thousand years old--counting as you count.” Then he turned to
Nikolaus and said: “No, the Fall did not affect me nor the rest of the
relationship. It was only he that I was named for who ate of the fruit
of the tree and then beguiled the man and the woman with it. We others
are still ignorant of sin; we are not able to commit it; we are without
blemish, and shall abide in that estate always. We--” Two of the little
workmen were quarreling, and in buzzing little bumblebee voices they
were cursing and swearing at each other; now came blows and blood; then
they locked themselves together in a life-and-death struggle. Satan
reached out his hand and crushed the life out of them with his fingers,
threw them away, wiped the red from his fingers on his handkerchief,
and went on talking where he had left off: “We cannot do wrong; neither
have we any disposition to do it, for we do not know what it is.”
It seemed a strange speech, in the circumstances, but we barely
noticed that, we were so shocked and grieved at the wanton murder he
had committed--for murder it was, that was its true name, and it was
without palliation or excuse, for the men had not wronged him in any
way. It made us miserable, for we loved him, and had thought him so
noble and so beautiful and gracious, and had honestly believed he was
an angel; and to have him do this cruel thing--ah, it lowered him so,
and we had had such pride in him. He went right on talking, just as if
nothing had happened, telling about his travels, and the interesting
things he had seen in the big worlds of our solar system and of other
solar systems far away in the remotenesses of space, and about the
customs of the immortals that inhabit them, somehow fascinating us,
enchanting us, charming us in spite of the pitiful scene that was now
under our eyes, for the wives of the little dead men had found the
crushed and shapeless bodies and were crying over them, and sobbing
and lamenting, and a priest was kneeling there with his hands crossed
upon his breast, praying; and crowds and crowds of pitying friends were
massed about them, reverently uncovered, with their bare heads bowed,
and many with the tears running down--a scene which Satan paid no
attention to until the small noise of the weeping and praying began to
annoy him, then he reached out and took the heavy board seat out of our
swing and brought it down and mashed all those people into the earth
just as if they had been flies, and went on talking just the same.
An angel, and kill a priest! An angel who did not know how to do wrong,
and yet destroys in cold blood hundreds of helpless poor men and women
who had never done him any harm! It made us sick to see that awful
deed, and to think that none of those poor creatures was prepared
except the priest, for none of them had ever heard a mass or seen a
church. And we were witnesses; we had seen these murders done and it
was our duty to tell, and let the law take its course.
But he went on talking right along, and worked his enchantments upon us
again with that fatal music of his voice. He made us forget everything;
we could only listen to him, and love him, and be his slaves, to do
with us as he would. He made us drunk with the joy of being with him,
and of looking into the heaven of his eyes, and of feeling the ecstasy
that thrilled along our veins from the touch of his hand.
CHAPTER III
The Stranger had seen everything, he had been everywhere, he knew
everything, and he forgot nothing. What another must study, he learned
at a glance; there were no difficulties for him. And he made things
live before you when he told about them. He saw the world made; he saw
Adam created; he saw Samson surge against the pillars and bring the
temple down in ruins about him; he saw Cæsar’s death; he told of the
daily life in heaven; he had seen the damned writhing in the red waves
of hell; and he made us see all these things, and it was as if we were
on the spot and looking at them with our own eyes. And we felt them,
too, but there was no sign that they were anything to him beyond mere
entertainments. Those visions of hell, those poor babes and women and
girls and lads and men shrieking and supplicating in anguish--why, we
could hardly bear it, but he was as bland about it as if it had been so
many imitation rats in an artificial fire.
And always when he was talking about men and women here on the earth
and their doings--even their grandest and sublimest--we were secretly
ashamed, for his manner showed that to him they and their doings were
of paltry poor consequence; often you would think he was talking about
flies, if you didn’t know. Once he even said, in so many words, that
our people down here were quite interesting to him, notwithstanding
they were so dull and ignorant and trivial and conceited, and so
