instinct told her she could only do her errand, make her assault, it
seemed, on those who knew what she did not, if she never paused to weigh
the difficulties: her hatreds, too, for they had to be weighed. Lydia
was sure she hated Madame Beattie and Esther. She would not willingly
speak to them, she had thought, after her last encounters. But now she
was letting the knocker fall on Esther's door, and had asked the
discreet maid with the light eyelashes, who always somehow had an air of
secret knowledge and amusement, if Madame Beattie were at home, and gave
her name. The maid, with what seemed to Lydia's raw consciousness an
ironical courtesy, invited her into the library and left her there in
its twilight tranquillity. Lydia stood still, holding one of her
pathetically small, hard-worked hands over her heart, and shortly, to
her gratitude, Sophy was back and asked her to go up to Madame Beattie's
room.
The maid accompanying her, Lydia went, with her light step, afraid of
itself lest it turn coward, and in the big dark room at the back of the
house, its gloom defined by the point of light from a shaded reading
candle, she was left, and stood still, almost wishing for Sophy whose
footfalls lessened on the stairs. There were two bits of light in the
room, the candle and Madame Beattie's face. Madame Beattie had taken off
her toupée, and for Lydia she had not troubled to put it on. She lay on
the bed against pillows, a down quilt drawn over her feet, regardless of
the seasonable warmth, and a disorder of paper-covered books about her.
One she held in her ringed hand, and now she put it down, her eyeglasses
with it, and turned the candle so that the light from the reflector fell
on Lydia's face.
"I wasn't sure which girl it was," she said, in a tone of mild
good-nature. "It's not the good one. It's you, mischief. Come and sit
down."
Madame Beattie did not apologise for giving audience in her bedchamber.
In the old royal days before the downfall of her kingdom she had
accorded it to greater than Lydia French. Lydia's breath came so fast
now that it hurt her. She stepped forward, but she did not take the low
chair which really had quite a comfortable area left beyond Madame
Beattie's corset and stockings. She stood there in the circle of light
and said desperately:
"What was it about your necklace?"
She had created an effect. Madame Beattie herself gasped.
"For God's sake, child," said she, "what do you know about my necklace?"
"I don't know anything," said Lydia. "And I want to know everything that
will help Jeff."
She broke down here, and cried bitterly. Madame Beattie lay there
looking at her, at first with sharp eyes narrowed, as if she rather
doubted whose emissary Lydia might be. Then her face settled into an
astonished yet astute calm and wariness.
"You'll have to sit down," said she. "It's a long story." So Lydia sank
upon the zone left by the corset and stockings. "Who's been talking to
you?" asked Madame Beattie: but Lydia looked at her and dumbly shook her
head. "Jeff?"
"No. Oh, no!"
"His father?"
"Farvie? Not a word."
Madame Beattie considered.
"What business is it of yours?" she asked.
Lydia winced. She was used to softness from Anne and the colonel. But
she controlled herself. If she meant to enter on the task of exonerating
Jeffrey, she must, she knew, make herself impervious to snubs.
"Anne and I are doing all we can to help Jeffrey," she said. "He doesn't
know it. Farvie doesn't know it. But there's something about a necklace.
And it had ever so much to do with Jeffrey and his case. And I want to
know."
Madame Beattie chuckled. Her worn yellowed face broke into satirical
lines, hateful ones, Lydia thought. She was like a jeering unpleasant
person carved for a cathedral and set up among the saints.
"I'll tell you about my necklace," said she. "I'm perfectly willing to.
Perhaps you can do something about it. Something for me, too."
It was a strange, vivid picture: that small arc of light augmenting the
dusk about them, and Lydia sitting rapt in expectation while Madame
Beattie's yellowed face lay upon the obscurity, an amazing portraiture
against the dark. It was a picture of a perfect consistency, of youth
and innocence and need coming to the sybil for a reading of the leaves
of life.
"You see, my dear," said Madame Beattie, "years ago I had a necklace
given me--diamonds." She said it with emotion even. No one ever heard
her rehearse her triumphs on the lyric stage. They were the foundation
of such dignity as her life had known; but the gewgaws time had flung at
her she did like, in these lean years, to finger over. "It was given me
by a Royal Personage. He had to do a great many clever things to get
ahead of his government and his exchequer to give me such a necklace.
But he did."
"Why did he?" Lydia asked.
It was an innocent question designed to keep the sybil going. Madame
Beattie's eyes narrowed slightly. You could see what she had been in the
day of her power.
"He had to," said she, with an admiringly dramatic simplicity. "I wanted
it."
"But--" began Lydia, and Madame Beattie put up a small hand with a
gesture of rebuttal.
"Well, time went on, and he needed the necklace back. However, that
doesn't belong to the story. Some years ago, just before your Jeff got
into trouble, I came over here to the States. I was singing then more or
less." A concentrated power, of even a noble sort, came into her face.
There was bitterness too, for she had to remember how disastrous a
venture it had been. "I needed money, you understand. I couldn't have
got an audience over there. I thought here they might come to hear
me--to say they'd heard me--the younger generation--and see my jewels. I
hadn't many left. I'd sold most of them. Well, I was mistaken. I
couldn't get a house. The fools!" Scorn ate up her face alive and opened
it out, a sneering mask. They were fools indeed, she knew, who would not
stir the ashes of such embers in search of one spark left. "I'm a very
strong woman. But I rather broke down then. I came here to Esther. She
was the only relation I had, except my stepsister, and she was off
travelling. Susan was always ashamed of me. She went to Europe on
purpose. Well, I came here. And Esther wished I was at the bottom of the
sea. But she liked my necklace, and she stole it."
Esther, as Lydia had seen her sitting in a long chair and eating candied
fruit, had been a figure of such civilised worth, however odious, that
Lydia said involuntarily, in a loud voice:
"She couldn't. I don't believe it."
"Oh, but she did," said Madame Beattie, looking at her with the coolness
of one who holds the cards. "She owned she did."
"To you?"
"To Jeff. He was madly in love with her then. Married, you understand,
but frightfully in love. Yes, she owned it. I always thought that was
why he wasn't sorry to go to jail. If he'd stayed out there was the
question of the necklace. And Esther. He didn't know what to do with
her."
"But he made her give it back," said Lydia, out of agonised certainty
that she must above all believe in him.
"He couldn't. She said she'd lost it."
