have been so careless of the jurist's name as to mistake another name
for it. These are the things that happen in fiction when the novelist
is hard driven by the exigencies of his plot, but cannot easily occur in
sober history.
I met both of these prominent men during my Columbus years, as an
improminent young fellow-citizen might, Justice Swayne rather often, and
Justice Swann once at least, in their own houses. On this sole occasion,
which dimly remains with me, I was paying one of those evening calls
which we youth were diligent in making at houses where there were young
ladies; and after due introduction to the great jurist, I was aware of
him, withdrawn and darkling in the next room, not unkindly, but not
sensibly contributing to the gaiety of the time in me. That might have
been after I was asked to a party at his house, which I was told, by a
lady versed in such mysteries, was the greatest distinction which
society had to offer in our city, and I suppose from this fact that the
popular blame for his momentous decision, even if it was of much force,
did not follow him into more rarefied air.
XI
We young men of that time were mostly Republicans, but some of us were
Democrats and some of us were Southerners, or derivatively Southern. I
have said how little society with us was affected by New England, even
in such a custom as Thanksgiving, and I may go a little farther and say
how it was characterized for good as well as for evil by the nearer
South rather than the farther East, but more for good than for evil.
Many people of Southern origin among us had chosen a Northern home
because they would rather live in a Free State than a Slave State; they
had not cast their sectional patriotism, but when it came to a question
of which ideal should prevail, they preferred the Northern ideal. They
derived from that South which antedated the invention of the
cotton-gin, and which could take a leading part in keeping the
Northwestern Territory free, with Ohio the first Free State born of that
great mother of Free States. The younger generation of their blood were
native Ohioans, and these were not distinguishable from the children of
the New-Englanders and the Scotch-Irish Pennsylvanians by anything that
I can remember. We had already begun to be Ohioans, with an accent of
our own, and I suppose our manners were simpler and freer than those of
the East, but the American manners were then everywhere simple and free,
and are so yet, I believe, among ninety-nine hundred-thousandths of our
ninety-nine millions. It seems to me now that the manners in Columbus
were very good then among the young people. No one can say what change
the over-muchness of subsequent money may have made in them, but one
likes to think the change, if any, is not for the better. There seems to
have been greater pecuniary equality then than there is now; there was
an evener sky-line, with scarcely a sky-scraping millionaire breaking it
anywhere. Within what was recognized as society there was as much social
as pecuniary equality; apparently one met the same people everywhere on
that easily ascertained level above the people who worked for their
living with their hands. These were excluded, as they always have been
excluded from society in all times and places; so that if I had still
been a compositor at the printer's case I could not have been received
at any of the houses that welcomed me as a journalist, though that did
not occur to me then, and only just now occurs to me, as something
strange and sad; something that forever belies our democracy, but is so
fast and deep-rooted in the conditions which our plutocracy has kept
from our ancestral monarchies and oligarchies and must keep as long as
men live upon one another in the law of competition.
In one house there was more singing and playing and in another more
reading and talking. All the young ladies were beautiful, with the
supremacy of that young lady whom it was our poetry to hold so beautiful
that no other might contest it. As I believe the use still is in the
South, we called them Miss Lilly, Miss Julia, Miss Sally, Miss Fanny,
Miss Maggie, whether they were the older or the younger daughters of the
family. We were always meeting them at parties or, failing that or
including that, we went to call upon them at their houses. We called in
the evening and it was no strange thing for a young man to call every
evening of the week, not at one house, but at three or four. How, in the
swift sequence of the parties, we managed so often to find the young
ladies at home remains one of the mysteries which age must leave youth
to solve. Possibly in that sharply foreshortened perspective of the past
the parties show of closer succession than they really were.
At most of the houses we saw only the young ladies; it was they whom we
asked for; but there were other houses where the mothers of the family
received with the daughters, and at one of these my welcome was
immediately of a kindness and always of a conscience which it touches me
to realize. I was taken at the best I meant as well as the best I was by
the friend who was the exquisite spirit of the house, and made me at
home in it. My world had been very small, and it has never since been
the greatest, but I think yet, as I divined then, that she was of a
social genius which would have made her in any great-worldlier capital
the leader she was in ours, where her supremacy in that sort was no more
questioned than the incomparable loveliness of that most beautiful girl
whom every one worshiped. Her house expressed her, so that when her home
finally changed to another the new house obeyed the magic of her taste
and put on the semblance of the first, with a conservatory breathing
through it the odor of her flowers and the murmur of the dove that lived
among them: herself a flower-like and birdlike presence, delicate,
elegant, such as might have been fancied of some fine, old-world
condition in a new-world reading of it. She lived to rule socially in a
community which attested its gentleness by its allegiance to her until
she was past eighty, but when I knew her first she was too young to be
titularly accepted as their mother by her stepdaughters and was known to
them as their cousin in what must have been her own convention; but I
suppose she liked to be not less than sovereign among her equals. With
me she was not only the kindest, but the most candid of my friends; my
literary journalism and later my literature may have been to her liking,
but she never flattered me for them when, as I now know, too much praise
had made me hungry for flattery. No young man such as I was then could
have had a wiser and faithfuler friend, and I render her memory my
tribute after so many years from a gratitude which cannot be spoken.
After so many years I cannot make out whether she accepted or merely
suffered my extreme opinions in politics; though she was wholly Ohioan,
her husband's family had close affiliations with the South; but hers was
certainly a Republican house, as nearly all the houses I frequented
were. What may have made her even anticipatively my friend was our
common acceptance of the Swedenborgian philosophy, which long, long
afterward, the last time I saw her, I spoke of as a philosophy. But then
she rejected the notion with scorn; it might be a pleasant fancy, she
said, but a philosophy, no; and I perceived that she had come the way of
that agnosticism which the whole cultivated world had taken. Now I have
heard that in her last years she went back to the faith which was
perhaps more inherited than reasoned in both of us. But I am sure that
it was at first a bond and that she was conscientiously true to this
bond of a common spiritual tradition, when upon some public recognition
of my work she reminded me how according to Swedenborg every beautiful
thing we said or did was by an influx from the divine. I submitted
outwardly, but inwardly I rebelled: not that my conceit of the things I
did was so very great; I believe I thought rather modestly of myself for
doing them, and I always meant to do much better things; in fact I still
have my masterpiece before me; but, poor things as they were, I wished
to feel them wholly mine.
