"You would indeed!" her visitor brooded. 
She laughed out at his tone. "Ah but don't 
put it as a threat as if you'd be Nick o' the 
Woods, and, to punish me for what I should have 
kept you from, wish to beat out my brains. You'd 
really be as pleased with me, I feel sure, as I 
should with you, and we'd grow old together in 
honour and patriotism." She became, however, 
the next moment braver; which had the effect of 
showing her as kinder. "It's all, when one con 
siders, the fault of your peculiar situation added, 
I mean, to the turn of your mind. The result of 
the combination of your starved state (which I 
call, you see, to oblige you, what you would call 
it) and your natural passion for everything old is 
as calculable as to-morrow's dawn." It was the 
sort of fact one could put in a nutshell. "The 
only way for you not to remain is not to go." 
"You'll see whether I remain," Ralph said as 
drily as he could. 
"Oh but do! Do," she earnestly repeated. 
"The great thing is after all not to spoil it 
whichever way you take it; and isn't it also, when 
one thinks, much better you should be perfect 
for yourself than for me ?" 
  
"How you must, fortunately, hate and loathe 
me!" Ralph returned to that with the same 
mastered misery. "Because if it weren't for that 
what a question for us to separate on!" 
This appeared just to strike her. "It wouldn't 
be such a base one as you seem to suggest; but, 
to give you the benefit of the doubt, don't let us 
admit for a moment that it is the one ! By which 
I mean that we don't separate, inasmuch as for 
people to do that they must first have come to 
gether. For you to decline my condition I must 
first have imposed it. I mentioned just now," 
she added for further lucidity, "the fact that 
makes you such a catch for one's theory, but I 
didn't mention the other fact, the way you're in 
spite of everything pledged and committed 
which spoils it all. The ideal subject of my ex 
periment," she perfectly allowed, "needn't cer 
tainly be that particular rare bird, a young New 
' Yorker who's an ardent student of history. It's 
over there," she appeared magnanimously to 
muse, "that history can best be studied !" 
"How you laugh at me and lash me and rub 
it in !" Ralph grimly observed. 
But she put the matter for him now as if in 
her achieved indulgence of it no misjudgment 
could interrupt her. "You've earned your holi 
day, and nothing can be more right and just than 
for it to be long and unclouded. I know nothing 
of a finer grace than the way you've gone on year 
  
after year doing without it for the charity nearest 
home; and I'm not so stupid as not to have a 
notion of the disadvantage at which, in the in 
tellectual work you scraped time for, your limita 
tions and privations must often have placed you. 
You did it, bravely and patiently, as you could, 
and I'm sure, ignorant as I am, that no one else 
could have in the conditions done it half so well. 
Only the conditions were so wrong that it's de 
lightful they can at last be right. I'll wait for 
another day," she smiled, "to try my theory." 
"What you'll wait for," he after a moment 
returned, "is evidently and more especially 
another person." 
She shook her head in general relinquishment. 
"Another person will never turn up. There will 
always be a flaw. If he's worth one's idea he'll 
be sure to have been over. If he hasn't been over 
he'll be sure not to be worth one's idea. You" 
oh she could indeed, as he said, rub it in ! 
"would have been so perfectly worth it." 
"Perhaps I might still try to be," he thought 
fully suggested, "if I could by any chance come 
as near to it as really to understand it. But I 
assure you I don't so much as to take hold of it." 
She struck him for a moment as on the point, 
in answer to this, of breaking into impatience 
and declaring that his failure of comprehension 
needn't matter to him. He had a glimpse thus 
of what he believed that she truly would have 
  
wished him to take her conception on trust and, 
as it were, for the love of her; to oblige her by 
adopting it, by accommodating himself blindly. 
Her courage, however, he made out, was insuffi 
cient for this, and the next minute she only did 
for herself what she could. "That's because I'm 
at the disadvantage, which I perfectly recognise, 
of not having practised what I preach because 
I naturally, in my position, have everything 
against me." She smiled again for the vanity of 
j the regret, but she went on. "If I could have 
known how I was now to feel I would never have 
gone." 
Ralph tried to follow her as if something might 
come of it. "But it took nothing less than your 
charming experience, I gather, to produce your 
actual attitude. You would have had no attitude 
without it. You had to qualify yourself for your 
remonstrance." 
He spoke so gravely that it made, in effect, for 
irony, and that in turn just visibly made her 
flinch. "Well, I do of course hold myself quali 
fied, and of course I'm glad to be, on any terms. 
I give it to you at best as mere inevitable reaction, 
but the point I make is that as reaction it's final. 
One must choose at last" she couldn't, he saw, 
but let herself go; "and I take up definitely with 
my own country. It's high time; here, en fin de 
compte, one can at least do or be something, show 
something, make something. To try and make 
  
something is at all events what's wanted of us, 
