Prince of Peace until the word even makes them drunk with 
ecstasy. Gradually Larry found that he was not listen- 
ing. His mind was slipping more and more from the spell 
of the pathetic falsities and the misconceived idealism ; he 
had raised his eyes from the stabbing needle to the face 
of the woman who bent over it. He thought he had never 
seen a face so unmoved and at the same time possessed by 
such a fury of revolt. He dreamed into it the deeds of 
other women who had rebelled, and he could see her with 
the dagger of righteous anger stabbing the new leaders of 
evil and piercing them to the heart. As the Reverend 
John Peterson warmed to his sermon, the oldest boy came 
in, tall, like his father, the fanatical black eyes belied by a 
warm, generous, beautiful mouth. He turned to the win- 
dow and looked out while the sermon went on, and Larry 
imagined into his back the revolt he had seen in the 
mother's face. When the sermon slackened in flow, as if 
the preacher had perhaps not thought it out to the end, 
Larry rose and sidled toward the door. 
"It's not so, Peterson," he said, in his gentlest voice. 
" You're all wrong, you know, wrong from beginning to 
end. If you had your way the whole show'd go to pot 
— your show, I mean, right and wrong and all that. No, 
you've got all mired up." 
 
The preacher turned upon him in a very human re- 
sentment. He resented being called Peterson in that way. 
It was undervaluing the cloth. And though he was not 
used to being listened to, he was also not hardened to being 
withstood. But Larry had slipped out at the front door, 
and saw then that the tall boy had snatched his cap and 
followed him. 
" Hullo,'' said Larry. " Where you bound? " 
They went slipping down the wind swept hill together. 
" I thought I'd tell you," said the boy. He was breath- 
less with his own eagerness. He had great trust in Larry. 
Most of the boys, though they were not allowed to play 
with him, had that admiring confidence, perhaps through 
Hugh who had managed to evade the edict. " I'm going 
to run away. To Canada. To enlist." 
Larry looked at him, the face set eagerly forward, 
flushed richly now by the blood of youth. He was like 
his father indeed, yet how different. The great ideal had 
not got clogged in him by weakness and imaginative lack. 
He was working it out through his own hot desires. 
" How old are you? " asked Larry. 
The boy faced him with a smile on the beautiful lips. 
Larry could not help thinking the lips were something his 
mother had given him. They were not hers, but she had 
dreamed them. 
" I shall be twenty-one," he said, " when I get to 
Canada." 
" Mr. Greene ! " came a breathless voice behind them. 
It was the mother, running to overtake them, and, in her 
light slenderness and the flush on her cheeks, not like 
the woman who had sat at her stabbing work. They 
waited for her, the boy kindly but disconcerted. Larry 
took off his cap and she came up to them, panting. 
" Eddy," said she, " you better go back." 
 
Larry knew why, and perhaps Eddy did, too. Peter- 
son would not have considered such company wholesome 
for the young. Eddy turned sulkily, but without demur. 
His moment was ruined anyway, by mother's coming. 
Perhaps his life was not thereafter the same on that 
account: for Eddy never did go to Canada. Nor did he 
seek out Larry again. It may be there was something in 
the temperament behind the fanatical eyes that told him 
it was God's will for him to yield. But the mother stood 
there panting on the wind swept hill, and drew the apron 
she had caught up the closer about her shoulders. Larry 
looked at her and pitied her for the cold of her inner life 
which was more deadly than all the force of all the winds. 
" I wanted to ask you," said she, " where you think I 
can find out how to knit? Sponges they call 'em, to soak 
up the blood. I could do it minutes when I get time; 
but of course they want 'em to be just right. I saw 
something about it in the paper, but it didn't give the 
rule." 
Larry knew even less of knitting than he did of war, but 
he answered instantly: 
" I'll find out for you, Mrs. Peterson. And I'll buy the 
stuff, if you'll let me. I'll pay for it and you knit it up." 
For he knew the Reverend John had no money to spend 
on knitting cotton. 
She looked relieved and thankful. 
" That's nice," said she. " I thought I could ravel out 
a spread I've got. Mr. Greene ! " Her. face came to a 
point of earnest and even savage determination. It 
was not that color ran into it, but it seemed to tighten all 
over with an extremity of pain. " I know how you feel. 
I want to tell you I feel just as you do. If I was a man, 
I'd do something." 
 
She turned, and went running up the windy hill, putting 
her head down as if she were butting the gale and planting 
her feet like some little sore beset animal that had to run 
its claws into the earth to keep from being dragged up 
from it by an enemy of the air. Larry went thought- 
fully homeward. He decided not to challenge Thomas 
Neale about the war, lest Neale should ask him what he 
knew about his son. 
He found Ellen sitting in his house, the fire burning 
brightly and Smilie by the hearth, twitching in imagined 
raids and only jumping up to give him a dash of welcome 
and pliunping down again to go on with her dream. Ellen 
was finishing his week's mending. ' She usually did it at 
home, but this time something had escaped her. He stood 
a moment in the doorway and looked at her, his heart 
greeting her before his lips: for his lips could never hail 
her as his heart would like. She looked up at him and 
smiled, the quiet housewife smile ready for the returning 
man who is worked for so absorbedly that there has been 
scant time to miss him. Again Larry's besetment came 
upon him. Was he too old to paint the love she had for 
him so bright that it would lead her into the path that 
never ends? Or, since she was a woman now, though so 
young, should he tell Ardelia to come to do his work be- 
cause he found Ellen too glamorously sweet? Bromley 
would never call their intimacy unfitting. He was not 
