manner, beyond cavil by the canny poilu, as if they 
were counting the family linen or superintending one 
of the stupendous facts of existence, a daughter's 
trousseau. Only the one to whom I was introduced 
raised her eyes, and I should not have been expected 
to distract her attention for a moment had not she 
told Mile. Javal that she had read my books (in the 
Tauchnitz edition) and would like to meet me when 
I called. 
It seemed to me that everything conceivable was in 
those large storerooms. I had grown used to seeing 
piles of sleeping-suits, sleeping-bags, trench slippers, 
warm underclothes, sabots, all that is comprised in the 
word vetement; but here were also immense boxes of 
books and magazines, donated by different firms and 
editors, about to be shipped to the depots; games of 
every sort; charming photogravures, sketches, prints, 
pictures, that would make the baraques gay and beloved — all to be interspersed, however, with mottoes 
from famous writers calculated to elevate not only the 
morale but the morals of the idle. 
Then there were cases of handkerchiefs, of pens 
and paper, pencils, songs with and without music, 
knives, pipes, post-cards, razors, parasiticides, chocolate, vaseline, perfumes (many of these articles are 
donations from manufacturers), soap in vast quantities ; books serious and diverting ; pamphlets purposed 
to keep patriotism at fever pitch, or to give the often 
ignorant peasant soldier a clear idea of the designs of 
the enemy. 
In small compartments at one end of the largest 
of the rooms were exhibited the complete installations 
of the baraques, the portable beds, kitchen and dining- 
room utensils and dishes, all extraordinarily neat and 
compact. In another room was a staff engaged in 
correspondence with officers, doctors and surgeons at 
the Front, poilus, or the hundred and one sources that 
contribute to the great ceuvre. Girls, young widows, 
young and middle-aged married women whose husbands and sons were fighting, all give their days freely 
and work far harder and more conscientiously than 
most women do for hire. 
All of these presents, when they arrive at the 
depots, are given out personally by the officers, and 
this as much as the genuine democracy of the men in 
command has served to break down the suspicious or 
surly spirit of the French peasant on his first service, 
to win over the bumptious industrial, and even to 
subdue the militant anarchist and predatory Apache. 
This was Mile. Javal's idea, and has solved a problem 
for many an anxious officer. 
 
She said to me with a shrug : "My brother and I 
are now run by our servants. I have quite lost control. Our home is like a bachelor apartment. After 
the war is over I must turn them all out and get a 
new staff." 
And this is but one of the minor problems for men 
and women the Great War has bred. 
VII 
Magic lanterns and cinemas are also among the 
presents sent to the eclope depots in the War Zone; 
some of which, by the way, are charmingly situated. 
I visited one just outside of a town which by a miracle 
had escaped the attention of the enemy during the 
retreat after the Battle of the Marne. The buildings 
of the depot have been built in the open fields but 
heavily ambushed by fine old trees. Near by is a river 
picturesquely winding and darkly shaded. Here I saw 
a number of eclopes fishing as calmly as if the roar 
of the guns that came down the wind from Verdun 
were but the precursor of an evening storm. 
In the large refectory men were writing home; 
reading not only books but the daily and weekly news- 
papers with which the depots are generously supplied 
by the editors of France. Others were exercising in 
a gymnasium or playing games with that childish absorption that seems to be as natural to a soldier at the 
Front when off duty as the desire for a bath or a 
limbering of the muscles when he leaves the trenches. 
 
Another of Mile. Javal's ideas was to send to the 
War Zone automobiles completely equipped with a 
dental apparatus in charge of a competent dentist. 
These automobiles travel from depot to depot and even 
give their services to hospitals where there are no 
dental installations. 
Other automobiles have a surgeon and the equipment for immediate facial operations; and there are 
migratory pedicures, masseurs, and barbers. So 
heavy has been the subscription, so persistent and intelligent the work of all connected with this great 
oeuvre, so increasingly fertile the amazing brain of 
Mile. Javal, that practically nothing is now wanted to 
make these Depots d'ficlopes perfect instruments for 
saving men for the army by the hundred thousand. I 
once heard the estimate of the army's indebtedness 
placed as high as a million and a half. 
The work of M. Frederic Masson must not be ig- 
nored, and Madame Balli assisted him for a short 
time, until compelled to concentrate on her other work ; 
but it is not comparable in scope to that of Mile. Javal. 
Hers is unprecedented, one of the greatest achieve- 
ments of France behind the lines, and of any woman 
at any time. 
V 
THE WOMAN'S OPPORTUNITY 
MADAME VfiRONE, one of the leading lawyers and feminists of Paris, told me that without the help of the women France could not have re- 
mained in the field six months. This is no doubt true. 
Probably it has been true of every war that France 
has ever waged. Nor has French history ever been 
reluctant to admit its many debts to the sex it admires, 
without idealization perhaps, but certainly in more 
ways than one. As far back as the reign of Louis 
XI memoirs pay their tribute to the value of the 
French woman both in peace and in war. This war 
has been one of the greatest incentives to women in 
all the belligerent countries that has so far occurred 
in the history of the world, and the outcome is a 
problem that the men of France, at least, are already 
revolving in their vigilant brains. 
On the other hand the inept have just managed to 
exist. Madame Verone took me one day to a restaurant on Montmartre. It had been one of the largest 
cabarets of that famous quarter, and at five or six 
tables running its entire length I saw seven hundred 
men and women eating a substantial dejeuner of veal 
swimming in spinach, dry puree of potatoes, salad, 
apples, cheese, and coffee. For this they paid ten 
