protest at an ardour entirely new to her.
He merely kissed her fragrant mouth into silence, looking steadily into
her grey eyes now widening with perplexed and troubled inquiry.
"I love you," he said.  "I want you back.  Now, do you understand,
Steve?  I love you!  I love you!"
Confused, crushed hotly in his embrace, she stared blankly at him for
one dizzy instant; then, in silence, she twisted her supple body
backward and aside, and with both nervous hands broke loose the circle
of his arms.
They were both rather white now; her breath came and went irregularly,
checked in her throat with a little sob at intervals.  She leaned back
against the wall, one jewelled hand against her breast, looking aside
and away from where he stood.
"I told you," he said, unsteadily.
She remained silent, keeping her gaze resolutely averted.
"You understand now, don’t you?" he asked.
She nodded.
Then he caught her in his arms again, and she threw back her lovely
head, looking at him with frightened eyes, defending her lips with a
bare, jewelled arm across them.
He laughed breathlessly and kissed the partly clenched fingers.
"Don’t," she whispered, her grey eyes brilliant with fear.
"Do you understand that I am in love with you, Steve?"
"Let me go, Jim——"
"Do you?"
"Don’t kiss me—that way——"
"Do you believe me?"
"I don’t want to!——"  Suddenly she turned terribly white in his arms,
swayed a moment against him. He released her, steadied her; she passed
one arm through his, leaning heavily on him.
"Are you faint, Steve?" he whispered.
"A—little.  It’s nothing.  The air here is stifling.... I’m tired." ...
She dropped her head against his shoulder.  Her lids were half closed as
they descended the steps, he guiding her.
It seemed to her an interminable descent.  She felt as though she were
falling through space into a glittering, roaring abyss.  In their box
sat Helen and Grayson, gossiping gaily together and waiting for another
dance to begin.  Cleland warned Stephanie in a whisper, and she lifted
her head and straightened up with an effort.
She said mechanically:
"I’m going home; I’m very tired."
Helen and Grayson rose and the former came toward her inquiringly.
Stephanie smiled:
"Jim will take me back," she said.  "Don’t let me disturb your pleasure.
And tell Oswald I was very sleepy....  And not to come to the studio for
a day or two.  Good night, dear."
She made a humorously tired little gesture of farewell to Grayson also,
and, taking Cleland’s arm again, sauntered with him toward the lobby.
"Get your overcoat and my wraps," she said in a colourless, even voice.
"I have a car outside.  Here’s the call-check.  I’ll wait over there for
you."
Her car, a toy limousine, was ultimately found. Cleland redeemed his
overcoat and her wrap.  When he came back for her she smiled at him,
suffered him to swathe her in the white silk cloak, and, laying her
dainty hand lightly on his sleeve, went out with him into the lamp-lit
grey of dawn.
"You are feeling better," he said as they seated themselves in the
limousine and the little car rolled away southward.
"Yes.  It was the stifling atmosphere there, I suppose."
"It was horribly close," he assented.
They remained silent for a while.  Then, abruptly:
"Have I made you angry, Steve?" he asked.
She looked up and laughed:
"You adorable boy," she said.
"You don’t mind if I’m in love with you?" he asked.
"I haven’t any mind.  I can’t seem to think....  But I don’t think you’d
better kiss me until I collect my senses again....  Please don’t, Jim."
They became silent again until the car drew up before her door.  She had
two keys in her cloak pocket; she paused to give the chauffeur an order,
turning to ask Cleland whether he didn’t want the car to take him to the
Hotel Rochambeau.
"Thanks; it’s only a step.  I had rather walk."
So the car drove away; Cleland opened the front door for her, then her
own studio door.  She felt around the corner in the darkness and
switched on the electric bulb in a standing lamp.
"Good night, Steve," he said, taking her hand in both of his.
"Good night....  Unless you care to talk to me for a little while."
"It’s four o’clock in the morning."
"I can’t sleep—I know that."
He said in a low voice:
"Besides, I am very much in love with you.  I think I had better go
back."
"Oh....  Do you think so?"
"Don’t you?"
"I told you that I haven’t recovered enough sense to think."
She crossed the threshold and walked into the studio, dropping her cloak
across a chair; and presently halted before the empty fireplace, gazing
into its smoke-blackened depths.
For a few moments she stood there in a brown study—a glittering,
exquisite figure in the subdued light which fell in tiny points of fire
on gem and ring, bracelet and girdle, and tipped the gilded sandals on
her little naked feet with sparks of living flame.
Then she turned her charming young head and looked across at him where
he stood on the threshold.
"What do you think?" she said.  "Ought you to go?"
"I ought to.  But I don’t think I shall."
"No, don’t go," she said with a little laugh.  "After all, if we’re not
to remain brother and sister any longer, there’s a most fascinating
novelty in your being here."
He came in and closed the door.  She made room for him on the sofa and
he flung his coat across her cloak and seated himself.
"Now," she said, dropping one silken knee over the other and clasping
her hands around it, "how much can we care for each other without being
silly?  You know I have a dreadful intuition that I’d better not kiss
you any more.  Not that I don’t adore you as much as I always did——"
She turned squarely around and looked at him out of her lovely eyes:
"You took me by surprise.  I didn’t understand. Then, suddenly I lost my
senses and became panicky. I was scared stiff, Jim—you kissed me so many
times——"
He reddened and looked down.  Under his eyes her bare foot hung in its
golden sandal—an exquisite, snowy little foot, quite perfectly fashioned
to match her hands’ soft symmetry.
"If you loved me," he said, "you would not care how many times I kissed
you."
"But you kept on—and you kissed my eyes and throat——"
"You wouldn’t care what I did if you loved me."
"But they were unusual places to be kissed.  I was scared.  Did you
think me ridiculous?  It was rather startling, you know.  It was such a
complete novelty."
She admitted it so naïvely that he laughed in spite of his chagrin.
