things up with the families. They would offer a widow 
a ticket back to the old country ; they would offer a whole 
family of orphaned children, maybe fifty dollars, maybe 
a hundred dollars — and it would be a case of take it or 
leave it. You could get nothing from the courts ; the case 
was so hopeless that you could not even find a lawyer to 
make the attempt. That was one reform in which the 
companies believed, said " Big Jack," with sarcasm ; they 
had put the " shyster lawyer " out of business ! 
 There followed a night and then another day of 
torturing suspense. The fan came, but it had to be set up 
 
before anything could be done. As volumes of black smoke 
continued to pour from the shaft, the opening was made 
tight with a board and canvas cover ; it was necessary, the 
bosses said, but to Hal it seemed the climax of horror. To 
seal up men and boys in a place of deadly gases ! 
There was something peculiarly torturing in the idea 
of men caught in a mine ; they were directly under one's 
feet, yet it was impossible to get to them, to communicate 
with them in any way! The people on top yearned to 
them, and they, down below, yearned back. It was im- 
possible to forget them for even a few minutes. People 
would become abstracted while they talked, and would 
stand staring into space; suddenly, in the midst of a 
crowd, a woman would bury her face in her hands and 
burst into tears, and then all the others would follow suit. 
Few people slept in North Valley during those two 
nights. They held mourning parties in their homes or on 
the streets. Some house-work had to be done, of course, 
but no one did anything that could be left undone. The 
children would not play ; they stood about, silent, pale, like 
wizened-up grown people, over-mature in knowledge of 
trouble. The nerves of every one were on edge, the self- 
control of every one balanced upon a fine point. 
It was a situation bound to be fruitful in imaginings and 
rumours, stimulated to those inclined to signs and omens 
— the seers of ghosts, or those who went into trances, or 
possessed second sight or other mysterious gifts. There 
were some living in a remote part of the village who de- 
clared they had heard explosions under the ground, several 
blasts in quick succession. The men underground were 
setting off dynamite by way of signalling! 
In the course of the second day Hal sat with Mary 
Burke upon the steps of her home. Old Patrick lay 
within, having found the secret of oblivion at O'Callahan's. 
Now and then came the moaning of Mrs. Zamboni, who 
was in her cabin with her brood of children. Mary had 
been in to feed them, because the distracted mother let them 
starve and cry. Mary was worn out, herself; the won- 
derful Irish complexion had faded, and there were no 
curves to the vivid lips. They had been sitting in silence, 
for there was nothing to talk of but the disaster — and 
they had said all there was to say about that. But Hal 
had been thinking while he watched Mary. 
" Listen, Mary ' he said, at last ; " when this thing is 
over, you must really come away from here. I've thought 
it all out — I have friends in Western City who will give 
you work, so you can take care of yourself, and of your 
brother and sister too. Will you go ? " 
But she did not answer. She continued to gaze indif- 
ferently into the dirty little street. 
" Truly, Mary," he went on. " Life isn't so terrible 
everywhere as it is here. Come away ! Hard as it is to 
believe, you'll forget all this. People suffer, but then they 
stop suffering; it's nature's way — to make them forget." 
" Nature's way has been to beat me dead," said she. 
" Yes, Mary. Despair can become a disease, but it 
hasn't with you. You're just tired out. If you'll try to 
rouse yourself — " And he reached over and caught her 
hand with an attempt at playfulness. " Cheer up, Mary ! 
You're coming away from North Valley." 
She turned and looked at him. " Am I ? " she asked, 
impassively ; and she went on studying his face. " Who 
are ye, Joe Smith ? What are ye doin' here ? " 
" Working in a coal-mine," he laughed, still trying to 
divert her. 
But she went on, as gravely as before. " Ye' re no work- 
ing man, that I know. And ye're always offering me 
help ! Ye're always sayin' what ye can do for me ! " 
She paused and there came some of the old defiance into 
her face. " Joe, ye can have no idea of the feelin's that 
have got hold of me just now. I'm ready to do something 
desperate ; ye'd best be leavin' me alone, Joe ! " 
 
" I think I understand, Mary. I would hardly blame 
you for anything you did." 
She took up his words eagerly. "Wouldn't ye, Joe? 
Ye're sure ? Then what I want is to get the truth from 
ye. I want ye to talk it out fair ! " 
" All right, Mary. What is it ? " 
But her defiance had vanished suddenly. Her eyes 
dropped, and he saw her fingers picking nervously at a 
fold of her dress. " About us, Joe," she said. " I've 
thought sometimes ye cared for me. I've thought ye liked 
to be with me — not just because ye were sorry for me, 
but because of me. I've not been sure, but I can't help 
thinkin' it's so. Is it ? " 
" Yes, it is," he said, a little uncertainly. " I do care 
for you." 
" Then is it that ye don't care for that other girl all the 
time?" 
" No," he said, " it's not that." 
" Ye can care for two girls at the same time ? " 
He did not know what to say. " It would seem that 
I can, Mary." 
She raised her eyes again and studied his face. " Ye 
told me about that other girl, and I been wonderin', was 
it only to put me off ? Maybe it's me own fault, but I 
can't make meself believe in that other girl, Joe ! " 
"You're mistaken, Mary," he answered, quickly. 
" What I told you was true." 
" Well, maybe so," she said, but there was no conviction 
in her tone. "Ye come away from her, and ye never 
go where she is or see her — it's hard to believe ye'd 
do that way if ye were very close to her. I just don't 
think ye love her as much as ye might. And ye say you 
do care some for me. So I've thought — I've won- 
dered — " 
She stopped, forcing herself to meet his gaze : " I been 
