hereditas — this thinkable enough in respect to 
some limited, even if considerable, amount etc.', 
but losing its virtue of conceivability if applied 
to larger and more complicated things. Vulgar 
theft I don't want, but I want something to which 
Horty is led on and encouraged by Gray's whole 
attitude and state of mind face to face with the 
impression which he gets over there of so many 
of the black and merciless things that are behind 
the great possessions. I want Gray absolutely 
to inherit the money, to have it, to have had it, 
and to let it go; and it seems to me that a whole 
element of awkwardness will be greatly minimised 
for me if I never exactly express, or anything like 
it, what the money is. The difficulty is in seeing 
any one particular stroke by which Horty can 
do what he wants; it will have to be much rather 
a whole train of behaviour, a whole process of 
depredation and misrepresentation, which con- 
stitutes his delinquency. This, however, would 
be and could be only an affair of time; and my 
whole intention, a straight and compact action, 
would suffer from this. What I originally saw 
was the fact of Gray's detection of Horty in a 
piece of extremely ingenious and able malversa- 
tion of his funds, the care of which he has made 
over to him, and the then determination on his 
 
part simply to show the other in silence that he 
understands, and on consideration will do nothing; 
this being, he feels in his wrought-up condition 
after what he has learnt about the history of the 
money, the most congruous way of his ceasing 
himself to be concerned with it and of resigning 
it to its natural associations. That was the es- 
sence of my subject, and I see as much in it as 
ever; only I see too that it is imaginable about 
a comparatively small pecuniary interest much 
more than about a great. It has to depend upon 
the kind of malpractice involved; and I am partly 
tempted to ask myself whether Horty's con- 
nection with the situation may not be thinkable 
as having begun somewhat further back. One 
thing is certain, however; I don't want any 
hocus-pocus about the Will itself — which an an- 
terior connection for H. would more or less amount 
to: I want it just as I have planned it up to the 
edge of the circle in which his misdeed is per- 
petrated. What glimmers upon me, as I said just 
now, is the conception of an extreme frankness 
of understanding between the two young men 
on the question of Gray's inaptitudes, which at 
first are not at all disgusts — because he doesn't 
know; but which makes them, the two, have it 
/out together at an early stage. Yes, there 
glimmers, there glimmers; something really more 
interesting, I think, than the mere nefarious act; 
something like a profoundly nefarious attitude, 
 
or even genius: I see, I really think I see, the 
real fine truth of the matter in that. With which 
I keep present to me the whole significance and 
high dramatic value of the part played in the 
action by Cissy Foy; have distinct to me her 
active function as a wheel in the machine. How 
it isn't simply Gray and Horty at all, but Gray 
and Horty and her; how it isn't She and Gray, 
any more than it's She and Horty, simply, but 
is for her too herself and the two men: in which 
I see possibilities of the most interesting. But 
I must put her on her feet perfectly in order to 
see as I should. Without at all overstraining the 
point of previous contacts for Gray with these 
three or four others — than which even at the 
worst there is nothing in the world more veri- 
similitudinous — I want some sort of relation for 
him with her started; this being a distinct 
economy, purchased by no extravagance, and 
seeing me, to begin with, so much further on 
my Way. And who, when I bethink myself, 
have his contacts been with, after all, over there, 
but Horty and Rosanna — the relation to Mr. 
Betterman being but of the mere essence. Of 
the people who matter the Bradhams are new 
to him, and that is all right; Cissy may have 
been seen of him on some occasion over there 
that is quite recent, as recent as I like; all the 
more that I must remember how if I want her 
truly a Girl I must mind what I'm about with 
 
the age I'm attributing to Gray. I want a dis- 
parity, but not too great, at the same time that 
though I want her a Girl, I want her not too 
young a one either. Everything about her, her 
intelligence, character,' sense of life and knowl- 
edge of it, imply a certain experience and a cer- 
tain time for that. The great fact is that she is 
the poor Girl, and the "exceptionally clever," in 
a society of the rich, living her life with them, 
and more or less by their bounty; being, I seem 
to see, already a friend and protegee of Rosanna's, 
though it isn't Rosanna but the Bradhams who 
put her in relation with Gray, whether designedly 
or not. I seem to run here the risk a bit of ex- 
posure to the charge of more or less repeating 
the figure of Charlotte in The Golden Bowl, with 
the Bradhams repeating even a little the Asr 
singhams in that fiction; but I shake this re- 
flection off, as having no weight beyond duly 
warning; the situation being such another affair 
and the real characteristics and exhibited pro- 
ceedings of these three persons being likewise so 
other. Say something shall have passed between 
Cissy at a then 25, ormost, and Gray "on 
the other side"; this a matter of but two or three 
occasions, interesting to him, shortly before his 
stepfather's death — a person with whom she has 
then professed herself greatly struck, to whom 
she has been somehow very "nice": a circum- 
stance pleasing and touching at the time to Gray, 
