guest aboard the rich German-American banker's yacht, was very much in
his element as friend and mentor.
For Ferez Bey knew everybody in the Orient--knew when to cringe, when
to be patronising, when to fawn, when to assert himself, when to be
servile, when impudent.
He was as impudent to Adolf Gerhardt as he dared be, the banker not
knowing the subtler shades and differences; he was on an equality with
the French senator, Monsieur le Comte d'Eblis because he knew that
d'Eblis dared not resent his familiarity.
Otherwise, in that brilliant company, Ferez Bey was a jackal--and he
knew it perfectly--but a valuable jackal; and he also knew that.
So when the German Ambassador spoke pleasantly to him, his attitude
was just sufficiently servile, but not overdone; and when Von-der-Hohe
Pasha, in the uniform of a Turkish General of Division, graciously
exchanged a polite word with him during a moment's easy gossip with
the Count d'Eblis, Ferez Bey writhed moderately under the honour, but
did not exactly squirm.
To Conrad von Heimholz he ventured to present his German-American
patron, Adolf Gerhardt, and the thin young military attaché
condescended in his Prussian way to notice the introduction.
"Saw your yacht in the harbour," he admitted stiffly. "It is
astonishing how you Americans permit no bounds to your somewhat
noticeable magnificence."
"She's a good boat, the Mirage," rumbled Gerhardt, in his bushy red
beard, "but there are plenty in America finer than mine."
"Not many, Adolf," insisted Ferez, in his flat, Eurasian voice--"not
ver' many anyw'ere so fine like your Mirage."
"I saw none finer at Kiel," said the attaché, staring at Gerhardt
through his monocle, with the habitual insolence and disapproval of
the Prussian junker. "To me it exhibits bad taste"--he turned to the
Count d'Eblis--"particularly when the Meteor is there."
"Where?" asked the Count.
"At Kiel. I speak of Kiel and the ostentation of certain foreign yacht
owners at the recent regatta."
Gerhardt, redder than ever, was still German enough to swallow the
meaningless insolence. He was not getting on very well at the Embassy
of his fellow countrymen. Americans, properly presented, they endured
without too open resentment; for German-Americans, even when
millionaires, their contempt and bad manners were often undisguised.
"I'm going to get out of this," growled Gerhardt, who held a good
position socially in New York and in the fashionable colony at
Northbrook. "I've seen enough puffed up Germans and over-embroidered
Turks to last me. Come on, d'Eblis----"
Ferez detained them both:
"Surely," he protested, "you would not miss Nihla!"
"Nihla?" repeated d'Eblis, who had passed his arm through Gerhardt's.
"Is that the girl who set St. Petersburg by the ears?"
"Nihla Quellen," rumbled Gerhardt. "I've heard of her. She's a dancer,
isn't she?"
Ferez, of course, knew all about her, and he drew the two men into the
embrasure of a long window.
It was not happening just exactly as he and the German Ambassador had
planned it together; they had intended to let Nihla burst like a
flaming jewel on the vision of d'Eblis and blind him then and there.
Perhaps, after all, it was better drama to prepare her entrance. And
who but Ferez was qualified to prepare that entrée, or to speak with
authority concerning the history of this strange and beautiful young
girl who had suddenly appeared like a burning star in the East, had
passed like a meteor through St. Petersburg, leaving several
susceptible young men--notably the Grand Duke Cyril--mentally unhinged
and hopelessly dissatisfied with fate.
"It is ver' fonny, d'Eblis--une histoire chic, vous savez! Figurez
vous----"
"Talk English," growled Gerhardt, eyeing the serene progress of a
pretty Highness, Austrian, of course, surrounded by gorgeous uniforms
and empressement.
"Who's that?" he added.
Ferez turned; the gorgeous lady snubbed him, but bowed to d'Eblis.
"The Archduchess Zilka," he said, not a whit abashed. "She is a ver'
great frien' of mine."
"Can't you present me?" enquired Gerhardt, restlessly; "--or you,
d'Eblis--can't you ask permission?"
The Count d'Eblis nodded inattentively, then turned his heavy and
rather vulgar face to Ferez, plainly interested in the "histoire" of
the girl, Nihla.
"What were you going to say about that dancer?" he demanded.
Ferez pretended to forget, then, apparently recollecting:
"Ah! Apropos of Nihla? It is a ver' piquant storee--the storee of
Nihla Quellen. Zat is not 'er name. No! Her name is Dunois--Thessalie
Dunois."
"French," nodded d'Eblis.
"Alsatian," replied Ferez slyly. "Her fathaire was captain--Achille
Dunois?--you know----?"
"What!" exclaimed d'Eblis. "Do you mean that notorious fellow, the
Grand Duke Cyril's hunting cheetah?"
"The same, dear frien'. Dunois is dead--his bullet head was crack
open, doubtless by som' ladee's angree husban'. There are a few
thousan' roubles--not more--to stan' between some kind gentleman and
the prettee Nihla. You see?" he added to Gerhardt, who was listening
without interest, "--Dunois, if he was the Gran' Duke's cheetah, kept
all such merry gentlemen from his charming daughtaire."
Gerhardt, whose aspirations lay higher, socially, than a dancing girl,
merely grunted. But d'Eblis, whose aspirations were always below even
his own level, listened with visibly increasing curiosity. And this
was according to the programme of Ferez Bey and Excellenz. As the Hun
has it, "according to plan."
"Well," enquired d'Eblis heavily, "did Cyril get her?"
"All St. Petersburg is still laughing at heem," replied the voluble
Eurasian. "Cyril indeed launched her. And that was sufficient--yet,
that first night she storm St. Petersburg. And Cyril's reward? Listen,
d'Eblis, they say she slapped his sillee face. For me, I don't know.
That is the storee. And he was ver' angree, Cyril. You know? And, by
God, it was what Gerhardt calls a 'raw deal.' Yess? Figurez
vous!--this girl, déjà lancée--and her fathaire the Grand Duke's
hunting cheetah, and her mothaire, what? Yes, mon ami, a 'andsome
Géorgianne, caught quite wild, they say, by Prince Haledine! For me, I
believe it. Why not?... And then the beautiful Géorgianne, she fell to
Dunois--on a bet?--a service rendered?--gratitude of Cyril?----Who
knows? Only that Dunois must marry her. And Nihla is their daughtaire.
Voilà!"
"Then why," demanded d'Eblis, "does she make such a fuss about being
grateful? I hate ingratitude, Ferez. And how can she last, anyway? To
dance for the German Ambassador in Constantinople is all very well,
but unless somebody launches her properly--in Paris--she'll end in a
Pera café."
Ferez held his peace and listened with all his might.
"I could do that," added d'Eblis.
"Please?" inquired Ferez suavely.
"Launch her in Paris."
The programme of Excellenz and Ferez Bey was certainly proceeding as
