life in a country in which his masters starved and oppressed him, 
and when he tried to help himself, met him with every weapon 
of treachery and slander. So Jimmie had made up his mind 
that one capitalist country was the same as another capitalist 
country, and that he would not be frightened into submission 
by tales about goblins and witches and sea-serpents and German 
spies. 
"CVEEY evening now the party held its "soap-box" meetings 
-- J on a corner just off Main Street. Jimmie, having volun- 
teered as one of the assistants, would bolt his supper in the 
evening and hurry off to the spot. He was not one of the 
speakers, of course he would have been terrified at the idea 
of making a speech; but he was one of those whose labours 
made the speaking possible, and who reaped the harvest for 
the movement. 
The apparatus of the meeting was kept in the shop of a 
friendly carpenter nearby. The carpenter had made a "soap- 
box" that was a wonder a platform mounted upon four slender 
legs, detachable, so that one man could carry the whole business 
and set it up. Thus the speaker was lifted a couple of feet 
above the heads of the crowd, and provided with a hand-rail upon 
which he might lean, and even pound, if He did not pound too 
hard. A kerosene torch burned some distance from his head, 
illuminating his features, and it was Jimmie's business to see that 
this torch was properly cleaned and filled, and to hold it erect on 
a pole part of the time. The rest of the time he peddled litera- 
ture among the crowd copies of the Leesville "Worker," and 
five and ten cent pamphlets supplied by the National Office. 
He would come home at night, worn out from these labours 
after his daily toil ; he would fall asleep at Lizzie's side, and have 
to be routed out by her when the alarm-clock went off next 
morning. She would get him a cup of hot coffee, and after he 
had drunk this, he would be himself again, and would chatter 
about the adventures of the night before. There was always 
something happening, a fellow starting a controversy, a drunken 
man, or perhaps a couple of thugs in the pay of old man Gran- 
itch, trying to break up the meeting. 
Lizzie would do her best to show that sympathy with her 
husband's activities which is expected from a dutiful wife. 
But all the time there was grief in her soul the eternal grief 
of the feminine temperament, which is cautious and conserva- 
tive, in conflict with the masculine, which is adventurous and 
destructive. Here was Jimmie, earning twice what he had ever 
earned before, having a chance to feed his children properly and 
to put by a little margin for the first time in his harassed life; 
but instead of making the most of the opportunity, he was going 
out on the streets every night, doing everything in his power to 
destroy the golden occasion which fate had brought to him! 
Like the fellow who climbs a tree to saw off a limb, and sits on 
the limb and saws between himself and the tree ! 
In spite of her best efforts, Lizzie's broad, kindly face would 
sometimes become hard with disappointment, and a big tear 
would roll down each of her sturdy cheeks. Jimmie would be 
sorry for her, and would patiently try to explain his actions. 
Should a man think only of his own wife and children, and for- 
get entirely all the other wives and children of the working- 
class? That was why the workers had been slaves all through 
the ages, because each thought of himself, and never of his 
fellows. No, you must think of your class I You must act as 
a class on the alert to seize every advantage, to teach solidarity 
and stimulate class-consciousness ! Jimmie would use these 
long words, which he had heard at meetings; but then, seeing 
that Lizzie did not understand them, he would go back and say 
it over again in words of one syllable. They had old man 
Granitch in a hole just now, and they must teach him a lesson, 
and at the same time teach the workers their power. Lizzie 
would sigh, and shake her head; for to her, old man Granitch 
was not a human being, but a natural phenomenon, like winter, 
or hunger. He, or some other like him, had been the master 
of her fathers for generations untold, and to try to break or 
even to limit his power was like commanding the tide or the 
sun. 
II 
Events moved quickly to their culmination, justifying the 
worst of Lizzie's fears. The shops were seething with discon- 
tent, and agitators seemed fairly to spring out of the ground; 
some of them paid by Jerry Coleman, no doubt, others taking 
their pay in the form of gratification of those grudges with 
which the profit-system had filled their hearts. Noon-meetings 
would start up, quite spontaneously, without any prearrange- 
ment ; and presently Jimmie learned that men were going about 
taking the names of all who would agree to strike. 
The matter was brought to a head by the Empire managers, 
who, of course, were kept informed by their spies. They dis- 
charged more than a score of the trouble-makers ; and when this 
news spread at noon-time, the whole place burst into a flame of 
wrath. "Strike ! strike !" was the cry. Jimmie was one of many 
who started a procession through the yards, shouting, singing, 
hurling menaces at the bosses, challenging all who proposed 
to return to work. Less than one-tenth of the working force 
made any attempt to do so, and for that afternoon the plant of 
the Empire Machine Shops, which was supposed to be turning 
out shell-casings for the Russian government, was turning out 
labour-union, Socialist, and I. W. W. oratory. 
Jimmie Higgins was beside himself with excitement. He 
danced about and waved his cap, he shouted himself hoarse, he 
almost yielded to the impulse to jump upon a pile of lumber 
and make a speech himself. Presently came Comrades Gerrity 
and Mary Allen, who had got wind of the trouble, and had 
loaded a whole edition of the "Worker" into a Ford ; so Jimmie 
turned newsboy, selling these papers, hundreds of them, until 
his pockets were bursting with the weight of pennies and 
nickels. And then he was pressed into service running errands 
for those who were arranging to organise the workers; he car- 
ried bundles of membership-cards and application-blanks, fol- 
lowing a man with a bull voice and a megaphone, who shouted 
in several languages the location of union headquarters, and the 
halls where various foreign language meetings would be held 
that evening. Evidently some one had foreseen the breaking of 
this trouble, and had been at pains to plan ahead. 
Late in the afternoon Jimmie was witness of an exciting 
incident. In one of the shops a number of the men had per- 
sisted in returning to work, and an immense throng of strikers 
had gathered to wait for them. They were afraid to come out, 
but stayed in the building after the quitting-whistle, while 
those outside jeered and hooted, and the bosses telephoned fran- 
tically for aid. The greater part of the Leesville police-force 
was on hand, and in addition, the company had its own guards 
 
and private detectives. But they were needed all over the place. 
