"Madame," said I soothingly, for I was really afraid of her, "I am
extremely sorry to inconvenience you, but the rules of the chalet must
be observed by everybody, otherwise confusion in the service is certain
to result——"
"I am not interested in your domestic problems," she said, and turned
over in bed.
"Madame," said I, "let me trouble you to remember that I am not an
innkeeper whom you can bully. I am the grandson of an Admiral!"
At that the Queen sat up and stared at me like a maverick.
"That’s true," she said.  "I had forgotten that distinction.  I am sorry
if I spoke too severely. Nevertheless it’s very annoying."
I said I regretted the necessity of making rules; she yawned and fiddled
with her corkscrew kinks, but nodded acknowledgment to my perfectly
correct bow.  And so I left the Queen, yawning, stretching, and rubbing
her neck and ears with the sleepy satisfaction of an awakened cat.
The bell of King Constantino was still ringing at intervals.  So I
continued along the corridor and knocked very lightly at his door.
Listening, I heard a shuffle of unshod feet within, a rustle, then
through the key-hole a persuasive voice thick with suppressed affection:
"Why so cruel, little one?  Bring me my breakfast on a pretty
tray—there’s a good little girl.  And maybe there’ll be a big, shiny
gold-piece for you if you’re very amiable."
I hesitated, listening to his heavy, irregular breathing, then opened
the door.
The King looked intensely foolish for a moment, then seized me by the
shoulder, drew me into the room, and shut the door.
"We’re a pack of sad dogs, we men!" he said jovially, smiting me
familiarly on the shoulder again. "We’re all up to our little
tricks—every one of us, eh, O’Ryan?  No—no!  Don’t pull a smug face with
me—a good looking young fellow like you! No, no! it won’t do, O’Ryan.
We men ought to be frank with one another.  And that’s me—bluff, rough,
frank to a fault!—just a soldier, O’Ryan——"
"I thought you were a wine-merchant, Monsieur Xenos."
"Oh, certainly.  But I’ve been a soldier.  I’m more at home in barracks
than I am anywhere else."  He chuckled, dug me in the ribs with his
thumb:
"Be a good sport, O’Ryan.  You don’t want both of them, do you?  My God,
man, you’re no Turk, I hope.  Why can’t that very young one—I mean the
yellow haired one—bring me my breakfast and——"
Probably my features were not under perfect control for the King stopped
short and took an instinctive step backward.
"Where do you think you are, Monsieur Xenos?" I asked, striving to keep
my voice steady.  "Did you think you are in a cabaret, or a mastroquet
or a zenana?"
"Oh, come," he began, losing countenance, "you shouldn’t take a bluff
old soldier too precisely——"
"You listen to me!  Mind your damned business while you’re under my
roof or I’ll knock your silly head off!"
I looked him over deliberately, insultingly, from the tasseled toe of
his Algerian bed-room slippers to his purple pyjamas clasped with a
magnificent ruby at the throat.
"Behave yourself decently," said I slowly, "or I’ll take you out to the
barnyard and rub your nose in it."
And I went out, leaving Tino stupefied in the center of his bedroom.
The Tzar’s bell was ringing again, but I made no ceremony in his case,
merely jerking open his door and telling him curtly to come down to
breakfast if he wanted any.  Then I closed his door to cut off argument
and continued on.
I met Thusis in apron and dust-cloth, sweeping the stairs.
She looked up almost shyly as I passed her with a polite bow.
"Good morning," she said.  "Did you sleep well, Monsieur?"
"The wind kept me awake," said I drily.
"And me, also."  She glanced out of the stair window, leaning on her
broom.  "It is raining very hard," she observed.  "The mountains will
not be safe to-day."
"How do you mean?" I inquired coolly, but willing to linger, heaven help
me!
"Avalanches," she explained.
"I see."
We remained silent.  Thusis inspected her broom-handle, tucked a curl up
under her white head-cloth.
I said: "You and Clelia seem to exchange jobs rather frequently."
"It mitigates the monotony," she remarked, resting her rounded cheek
against the broom-handle.
"Where did you leave that gun?" I demanded in a low voice.
"Do you remember my reply to you on the stairs last night, Don Michael?"
"You bade me go to the devil."
"That was rude of me, wasn’t it?  And so frightfully vulgar!  Oh, dear
me!  I really don’t know what I am coming to."
She smiled very gaily, however.
"Thusis," said I, "you wouldn’t shoot up any of these kings and queens,
would you?"
At that she laughed outright: "Not if they behave themselves!"
"Seriously——"
"I am quite serious, Don Michael."
"You’re bent on searching their luggage," said I.  "And Ferdinand has
two big automatic pistols."
"You’re such a funny boy," said Thusis with her adorable smile.  "But
now you must run away and let me do my dusting."
Her sleeves were rolled to her shoulders.  I had never seen such perfect
arms except in Greek sculpture. I said so, impulsively.  And Thusis
blushed.
"That is the sort of thing I had rather you did not say," she remarked.
"But if it’s quite true, Thusis——"
"Does one blurt out anything merely because one believes it to be true?
Besides, ill-made or agreeable, my arms do not concern you, Monsieur
O’Ryan."
"Everything that you are concerns me very deeply, Thusis——"
"I will not have it so!"
"But you said I might pay my court to you——"
"But you don’t pay court!  You make love to me!"
"What is the essential difference?"
"To court a woman is to be polite, empressé, always ready to serve her,
always quick with some stately compliment, some pretty conceit, some
bon-mot to please her, some trifle of wit, of gossip."  She cast a
deliciously wicked look at me.  "I have no doubt, Michael, that you
could, without effort, measure up to the standard of a faultless
courtier.... If you’d be content to do so."
That was too much for me.  I stepped toward her and slipped my arm
around her pliant waist. She laughed, resisted, flushed, then lost her
color and clutched my hand at her waist with her own, striving to
unloosen it.
"Don’t do that, Michael," she said, breathing unevenly.
"I love you, Thusis——"
"I don’t wish to listen——"
"I’m madly in love with you——"
"Michael!"
"What?"
"Are you trying to kiss me?"
That is what I was trying to do.  She twisted herself free and stepped
