whence had she come? Where had she gone?--problems, momentarily
insoluble but which investigations, then in progress, would probably
decide.
At the great white house on upper Fifth Avenue, the servants knew only
that they knew nothing. Nothing at all. Already coached, they were sure
and unshakable in their knowledge of that. A Mr. Harvey--from
Headquarters--could not budge them an inch. Not one!
The night before, at the first intelligence of it, M. P. came nearer to
giving up the ghost than is commonly advisable. Suffocation seized him.
An incubus within was pushing his life-springs out. So can emotion and
an impaired digestion affect a father. The emotion was not caused by
grief. It was fear. For weeks, for months, during the tedium and terror
of the trial, his name, Paliser, would top the page! It had topped it
before, very often, but that was years ago. Then he had not cared. Then
the wine of youth still bubbled. No, he had not cared. But that was long
ago. Since then the wine of youth had gone, spilled in those orgies
which he had survived, yet, in the survival, abandoned more and more to
solitude and making him seek, what the solitary ever do seek,
inconspicuousness. For years he had courted obscurity as imbeciles court
fame. And now!
If only the boy had had the decency to die of pneumonia!
It was then the incubus gripped him. For a second he saw the visage,
infinitely consoling, that Death can display and possibly, but for an
immediate drug, there too would have echoed the Terra addio!
He was then in white velvet. A preparation of menthe, dripping from a
phial, spotted it green. He did not notice. At the moment the spasm had
him. Then as that clicked and passed, he looked in the expressionless
face of the butler who had told him.
The spasm had shaken him into a chair.
The room, an oblong, was furnished after a fashion of long ago. The
daised bed was ascended by low, wide steps. Beyond stood a table of
lapis-lazuli. A mantel of the same material was surmounted by a mirror
framed in jasper. Beneath the mirror, a fire burned dimly. The lights
too were dim. They were diffused by tall wax candles that stood shaded
in high gold sticks. On the table there were three of them.
The chair was near this table, at which M. P. had been occupied very
laboriously, in doing nothing, a task that he performed in preparation
for the bed, which was always ready for him, and for sleep, which seldom
was. There he had been told. It had shaken him to his feet, shaken
apoplexy at him and shaken him back in the chair.
Now, as he looked at the servant's wooden mask, for a moment he relived
an age, not a pleasant one either and of which this blow, had he known
it, was perhaps the karma. He did not know it. He knew nothing of karma.
None the less, with that curious intuition which the great crises
induce, he too divined the woman and wished to God that he had kept his
hands off, wished that he had not interfered and told Monty to put her
in a flat and be damned to her! It was she, he could have sworn it. At
once, precisely as he wished he had let her alone, he hoped and quite as
fervently that she had covered her tracks, that there would be no trial,
nothing but inept conjectures and that forgetfulness in which all
things, good and bad, lose their way.
The futility of wishing passed. The time for action had come. He
motioned. "Is Benny here?"
"He left this noon, sir."
"Did he say anything?"
The butler did not know whether to lie or not, but seeing no personal
advantage in either course, he hedged. "Very little, sir."
That little, the old man weighed. A little is often enough. It may be
too much.
"He spoke about a girl, eh?"
"He said a lady was stopping there. Yes, sir."
"What else?"
The butler shuffled. "He said she was very pretty, sir."
"Go on, Canlon."
"Well, sir, it seems there was a joke about it. The young lady thought
she was married."
"How was that?"
"I'm not supposed to know, sir. But from what was let on, Benny was
rigged out as a dominie and it made 'em laugh."
The old man ran his head out like a turtle. "Damnation, what has that to
do with it?"
"Why, sir, he pretended to marry her."
"Benny did?"
"Yes, sir."
"He pretended that she was his wife."
"No, sir, he pretended to marry her to Mr. Monty."
"Good God!" the old man muttered and sank back. The blackness was
blacker than any black he had entered. In days gone by, he had agreeably
shocked New York with the splendid uproar of his orgies. He had left
undone those things which he ought to have done and done those things
which he should have avoided. He had been whatever you like--or
dislike--but never had he been dishonest. Little that would avail him
now. If this turpitude were published, it would be said that he had
fathered it. At the prospect, he felt the incubus returning. In a moment
it would have him and, spillingly, he drank the green drug.
The agony receded, but the nightmare confronted him. He grappled with
it.
"The coat I had on at dinner. There is a card-case in the pocket. Give
it to me."
Probably it was all very useless. Probably no matter what he contrived,
the police would ferret her out. There was just one chance though which,
properly taken, might save the situation.
The card-case, pale damask, lined with pale silk, the man brought him.
He put it on the table.
"Canlon!"
"Yes, sir."
"Benny said nothing."
"Very good, sir."
"I have a few hundred for you here, between eight and nine, I think."
"Thank you, sir."
"To-morrow there will be more."
"I am sure I am very grateful, sir."
"Don't interrupt me. Recently my son returned from Cuba. Occasionally he
went visiting. Where he went, he did not tell you. That is all you know.
You know nothing else. You heard nothing. Nobody here heard anything.
Nobody, in this house, knows anything at all. You understand?"
"Yes, sir."
"Then see to it. The police will come. You must be at the door. You know
now what to say. They will want a word with me. I am too prostrated to
see anybody."
"Thank you, sir."
"Telephone to the Place. Get Benny. Repeat my orders. Say I will do as
well by him as I shall by you."
"Thank you, sir."
"Take the money. You may have the case also."
"I thank you, sir."
"Tell Peters to fetch me some brandy. The 1810. That will do."
Presently, when the police did come and, several hours later, in the
person of Mr. Harvey, came again, they came upon the barriers, invisible
and unscalable, which ignorance, properly paid, can erect. With an empty
