He lived on the top floor. As they paused before his door in the dim
corridor:
"Are you afraid?" he asked.
She came nearer, laid a hand on his arm:
"Are you afraid?"
He stood silent, the latch-key in his hand.
"I'm not afraid of myself--if that is what you mean," he said.
"That is partly what I mean ... you'll have to mount guard over your
soul."
"I'll look out for my soul," he retorted dryly.
"Do so. I lost mine. I--I would not wish any harm to yours through our
companionship."
"Don't you worry about my soul," he remarked, fitting the key to the
lock. But again her hand fell on his wrist:
"Wait. I can't--can't help warning you. Neither your soul nor your body
are safe if--if you ever do make of me a companion. I've got to tell
you this!"
"What are you talking about?" he demanded bluntly.
"Because you have been courteous--considerate--and you don't know--oh,
you don't realise what spiritual peril is!--What your soul and body have
to fear if you--if you win me over--if you ever manage to make of me a
friend!"
He said: "People follow and threaten you. We know that. I understand
also that association with you involves me, and that I shall no doubt be
menaced with bodily harm."
He laid his hand on hers where it still rested on his sleeves:
"But that's my business, Miss Norne," he added with a smile. "So,
otherwise, it being merely a plain business affair between you and me, I
think I may also venture my immortal soul alone with you in my room."
The girl flushed darkly.
"You have misunderstood," she said.
He looked at her coolly, intently; and arrived at no conclusion. Young,
very lovely, confessedly without moral principle, he still could not
believe her actually depraved. "What did you mean?" he said bluntly.
"In companionship with the lost, one might lose one's way--unawares....
Do you know that there is an Evil loose in the world which is bent upon
conquest by obtaining control of men's minds?"
"No," he replied, amused.
"And that, through the capture of men's minds and souls the destruction
of civilisation is being planned?"
"Is that what you learned in your captivity, Miss Norne?"
"You do not believe me."
"I believe your terrible experiences in China have shaken you to your
tragic little soul. Horror and grief and loneliness have left scars on
tender, impressionable youth. They would have slain maturity--broken it,
crushed it. But youth is flexible, pliable, and bends--gives way under
pressure. Scars become slowly effaced. It shall be so with you. You will
learn to understand that nothing really can harm the soul."
For a few moments' silence they stood facing each other on the dim
landing outside his locked door.
"Nothing can slay our souls," he repeated in a grave voice. "I do not
believe you really ever have done anything to wound even your
self-respect. I do not believe you are capable of it, or ever have been,
or ever will be. But somebody has deeply wounded you, spiritually, and
has wounded your mind to persuade you that your soul is no longer in
God's keeping. For that is a lie!"
He saw her features working with poignant emotions as though struggling
to believe him.
"Souls are never lost," he said. "Ungoverned passions of every sort
merely cripple them for a space. God always heals them in the end."
He laid his hand on the door-knob once more and lifted the latch-key.
"Don't!" she whispered, catching his hand again, "if there should be
somebody in there waiting for us!"
"There is not a soul in my rooms. My servant sleeps out."
"There is somebody there!" she said, trembling.
"Nobody, Miss Norne. Will you come in with me?"
"I don't dare----"
"Why?"
"You and I alone together--no! oh, please--please! I am afraid!"
"Of what?"
"Of--giving you--my c-confidence--and trust--and--and f-friendship."
"I want you to."
"I must not! It would destroy us both, soul and body!"
"I tell you," he said, impatiently, "that there is no destruction of the
soul--and it's a clean comradeship anyway--a fighting friendship I ask
of you--all I ask; all I offer! Wherein, then, lies this peril in
being alone together?"
"Because I am finding it in my heart to believe in you, trust you, hold
fast to your strength and protection. And if I give way--yield--and if I
make you a promise--and if there is anybody in that room to see us and
hear us--then we shall be destroyed, both of us, soul and body----"
He took her hands, held them until their trembling ceased.
"I'll answer for our bodies. Let God look after the rest. Will you trust
Him?"
She nodded.
"And me?"
"Yes."
But her face blanched as he turned the latch-key, switched on the
electric light, and preceded her into the room beyond.
The place was one of those accentless, typical bachelor apartments made
comfortable for anything masculine, but quite unlivable otherwise.
Live coals still glowed in the hob grate; he placed a lump of cannel
coal on the embers, used a bellows vigorously and the flame caught with
a greasy crackle.
The girl stood motionless until he pulled up an easy chair for her, then
he found another for himself. She let slip her furs, folded her hands
around the bunch of violets and waited.
"Now," he said, "I'll come to the point. In 1916 I was at Plattsburg,
expecting a commission. The Department of Justice sent for me. I went to
Washington where I was made to understand that I had been selected to
serve my country in what is vaguely known as the Secret Service--and
which includes government agents attached to several departments.
"The great war is over; but I am still retained in the service. Because
something more sinister than a hun victory over civilisation threatens
this Republic. And threatens the civilised world."
"Anarchy," she said.
"Bolshevism."
She did not stir in her chair.
She had become very white. She said nothing. He looked at her with his
quiet, reassuring smile.
"That's what I want of you," he repeated.
"I want your help," he went on, "I want your valuable knowledge of the
Orient. I want whatever secret information you possess. I want your
rather amazing gifts, your unprecedented experience among almost unknown
people, your familiarity with occult things, your astounding
powers--whatever they are--hypnotic, psychic, material.
"Because, to-day, civilisation is engaged in a secret battle for
existence against gathering powers of violence, the force and limit of
which are still unguessed.
"It is a battle between righteousness and evil, between sanity and
