There ensued a silence so protracted that a shaft of fear struck
through her. Then his voice, pleasantly collected:

"I'll be around in a few minutes."

                  *       *       *       *       *

She was scared speechless when the bell rang--when she heard his
unhurried step on the stair.

Before he was announced by the maid, however, she had understood one
problem in the scheme of things--realised it as she rose from the
lounge and held out her slender hand.

He took it and kept it. The maid retired.

"Well, Palla," he said.

"Well," she said, rather breathlessly, "--I know now."

His voice and face seemed amiable and lifeless; his eyes, too,
remained dull and incurious; but he said: "I don't think I understand.
What is it you know?"

"Shall I tell you?"

"If you wish."

His pleasant, listless manner chilled her; she hesitated, then turned
away, withdrawing her hand.

When she had seated herself on the sofa he dropped down beside her in
his old place. She lighted a cigarette for him.

"Tell me about poor old Jack," he said in a low voice.

Their dinner was a pleasant but subdued affair. Afterward she played
for him--interrupted once by a telephone call from Ilse, who said that
John's temperature had risen a degree and the only thing to do was to
watch him every second. But she refused Palla's offer to join her at
the hospital, saying that she and the night nurse were sufficient; and
the girl went slowly back to the piano.

But, somehow, even that seemed too far away from her lover--or the man
who once had been her avowed lover. And after idling-with the keys for
a few minutes she came back to the lounge where he was seated.

He looked up from his revery: "This is most comfortable, Palla," he
said with a slight smile.

"Do you like it?"

"Of course."

"You need not go away at all--if it pleases you." Her voice was so
indistinct that for a moment he did not comprehend what she had said.
Then he turned and looked at her. Both were pale enough now.

"That is what--what I was going to tell you," she said. "Is it too
late?"

"Too late!"

"To say that I am--in love with you."

He flushed heavily and looked at her in a dazed way.

"What do you mean?" he said.

"I mean--if you want me--I am--am not afraid any more----"

They had both risen instinctively, as though to face something vital.
She said:

"Don't ask me to submit to any degrading ceremony.... I love you
enough."

He said slowly: "Do you realise what you say? You are crazy! You and
your socialist friends pretend to be fighting anarchy. You preach
against Bolshevism! You warn the world that the Crimson Tide is
rising. And every word you utter swells it! You are the anarchists
yourselves! You are the Bolsheviki of the world! You come bringing
disorder where there is order; you substitute unproven theory for
proven practice!

"Like the hun, you come to impose your will on a world already content
with its own God and its own belief! And that is autocracy; and
autocracy is what you say you oppose!

"I tell you and your friends that it was not wolves that were
pupped in the sand of the shaggy Prussian forests when the first
Hohenzollern was dropped. It was swine! Swine were farrowed;--not
even sanglier, but decadent domestic swine;--when Wilhelm and his
degenerate litter came out to root up Europe! And they were the
first real Bolsheviki!"

He turned and began to stride to and fro; his pale, sunken face deeply
shadowed, his hands clenching and unclenching.

"What in God's name," he said fiercely, "are women like you doing to
us! What do you suppose happens to such a man as I when the girl he
loves tells him she cares only to be his mistress! What hope is there
left in him?--what sense, what understanding, what faith?

"You don't have to tell me that the Crimson Tide is rising. I saw it
in the Argonne. I wish to God I were back there and the hun was still
resisting. I wish I had never lived to come back here and see what
demoralisation is threatening my own country from that cursed germ of
wilful degeneracy born in the Prussian twilight, fed in Russian
desolation, infecting the whole world----"

His voice died in his throat; he walked swiftly past her, turned at
the threshold:

"I've known three of you," he said, "--you and Ilse and Marya. I've
seen a lot of your associates and acquaintances who profess your
views. And I've seen enough."

He hesitated; then when he could control his voice again:

