love. Such a love had now come to her; only Sadie might not
understand, Sadie might think they did not know each other well
enough, and that they ought to wait. They knew, of course, that they
really did know each other perfectly, so there was no reason for
uncertainty or fear. Peter managed deftly to put these suggestions
into Jennie’s mind as if they were her own.
And all the time he was making ardent love to her; all day long,
while he was helping her address envelopes and mail out circulars
for the Goober Defense Committee. He really did work hard; he didn’t
mind working, when he had Jennie at the table beside him, and could
reach over and hold her hand every now and then, or catch her in his
arms and murmur passionate words. Delicious thrills and raptures
possessed him; his hopes would rise like a flood-tide--but then,
alas, only to ebb again! He would get so far, and every time it
would be as if he had run into a stone wall. No farther!
Peter realized that McGivney’s “free love” talk had been a cruel
mistake. Little Jennie was like all the other women--her love wasn’t
going to be “free.” Little Jennie wanted a husband, and every time
you kissed her, she began right away to talk about marriage, and you
dared not hint at anything else because you knew it would spoil
everything. So Peter was thrown back upon devices older than the
teachings of any “Reds.” He went after little Jennie, not in the way
of “free lovers,” but in the way of a man alone in the house with a
girl of seventeen, and wishing to seduce her. He vowed that he loved
her with an overwhelming and eternal love. He vowed that he would
get a job and take care of her. And then he let her discover that he
was suffering torments; he could not live without her. He played
upon her sympathy, he played upon her childish innocence, he played
upon that pitiful, weak sentimentality which caused her to believe
in pacifism and altruism and socialism and all the other “isms” that
were jumbled up in her head.
And so in a couple of weeks Peter had succeeded in his purpose of
carrying little Jennie by storm. And then, how enraptured he was!
Peter, with his first girl, decided that being a detective was the
job for him! Peter knew that he was a real detective now, using the
real inside methods, and on the trail of the real secrets of the
Goober case!
And sure enough, he began at once to get them. Jennie was in love;
Jennie was, as you might say, “drunk with love,” and so she
fulfilled both the conditions which Guffey had laid down. So Jennie
told the truth! Sitting on Peter’s knee, with her arms clasped about
him, and talking about her girlhood, the happy days before her
mother and father had been killed in the factory where they worked,
little Jennie mentioned the name of a young man, Ibbetts.
“Ibbetts?” said Peter. It was a peculiar name, and sounded
familiar.
“A cousin of ours,” said Jennie.
“Have I met him?” asked Peter, groping in his mind.
“No, he hasn’t been here.”
“Ibbetts?” he repeated, still groping; and suddenly he remembered.
“Isn’t his name Jack?”
Jennie did not answer for a moment. He looked at her, and their eyes
met, and he saw that she was frightened. “Oh, Peter!” she whispered.
“I wasn’t to tell! I wasn’t to tell a soul!”
Inside Peter, something was shouting with delight. To hide his
emotion he had to bury his face in the soft white throat.
“Sweetheart!” he whispered. “Darling!”
“Uh, Peter!” she cried. “You know--don’t you?”
“Of course!” he laughed. “But I won’t tell. You needn’t mind
trusting me.”
“Oh, but Mr. Andrews was so insistent!” said Jennie, “He made Sadie
and me swear that we wouldn’t breathe it to a soul.”
“Well, you didn’t tell,” said Peter. “I found it out by accident.
Don’t mention it, and nobody will be any the wiser. If they should
find out that I know, they wouldn’t blame you; they’d understand
that I know Jack Ibbetts--me being in jail so long.”
So Jennie forgot all about the matter, and Peter went on with the
kisses, making her happy, as a means of concealing his own
exultation. He had done the job for which Guffey had sent him! He
had solved the first great mystery of the Goober case! The spy in
the jail of American City, who was carrying out news to the Defense
Committee, was Jack Ibbetts, one of the keepers in the jail, and a
cousin of the Todd sisters!
Section 20
It was fortunate that this was the day of Peter’s meeting with
McGivney. He could really not have kept this wonderful secret to
himself over night. He made excuses to the girls, and dodged thru
the chicken-yard as before, and made his way to the American House.
As he walked, Peter’s mind was working busily. He had really got his
grip on the ladder of prosperity now; he must not fail to tighten
it.
McGivney saw right away from Peter’s face that something had
happened. “Well?” he inquired.
“I’ve got it!” exclaimed Peter.
“Got what?”
“The name of the spy in the jail.”
“Christ! You don’t mean it!” cried the other.
“No doubt about it,” answered Peter.
“Who is he?”
Peter clenched his hands and summoned his resolution. “First,” he
said, “you and me got to have an understanding. Mr. Guffey said I
was to be paid, but he didn’t say how much, or when.”
“Oh, hell!” said McGivney. “If you’ve got the name of that spy, you
don’t need to worry about your reward.”
“Well, that’s all right,” said Peter, “but I’d like to know what I’m
to get and how I’m to get it.”
“How much do you want?” demanded the man with the face of a rat.
Rat-like, he was retreating into a corner, his sharp black eyes
watching his enemy. “How much?” he repeated.
Peter had tried his best to rise to this occasion. Was he not
working for the greatest and richest concern in American City, the
Traction Trust? Tens and hundreds of millions of dollars they were
worth--he had no idea how much, but he knew they could afford to pay
for his secret. “I think it ought to be worth two hundred dollars,”
 he said.
“Sure,” said McGivney, “that’s all right. We’ll pay you that.”
And straightway Peter’s heart sank. What a fool he had been! Why
hadn’t he had more courage, and asked for five hundred dollars? He
might even have asked a thousand, and made himself independent for
life!
“Well,” said McGivney, “who’s the spy?”
Peter made an agonizing, effort, and summoned yet more nerve.
“First, I got to know, when do I get that money?”
“Oh, good God!” said McGivney. “You give us the information, and
you’ll get your money all right. What kind of cheap skates do you
take us for?”
“Well, that’s all right,” said Peter. “But you know, Mr. Guffey
didn’t give me any reason to think he loved me. I still can hardly
use this wrist like I used to.”
“Well, he was trying to get some information out of you,” said
