in search of art treasures. He had once been chased up and down Japan by
the Mikado's agents for having in his possession some royal-silk tapestry
which it is forbidden to take out of the country. Another time he had gone
into Tibet for a lama's ghost mask studded with raw emeralds and
turquoise, and had suffered untold miseries in getting down into India.
Again he had entered a Rajput haremlik as a woman, and eventually escaped
with the fabulous rug which hung in the salon. Adventure, adventure, and
death always at his elbow! There was nothing of the braggart in the man;
he recounted his tales after the manner of a boy relating some college
escapades, deprecatingly.

Often Jane stole a glance at one or the other of the Cleighs. She was
constantly swung between--but never touched--the desire to laugh and the
desire to weep over this tragedy, which seemed so futile.

"Why don't you write a book about these adventures?" she asked.

"A book? No time," said Cunningham. "Besides, the moment one of these
trips is over it ends; I can recount it only sketchily."

"But even sketchily it would be tremendously interesting. It is as if you
were playing a game with death for the mere sport of it."

"Maybe that hits it, though I've never stopped to analyze. I never think
of death; it is a waste of gray matter. I should be no nearer death in
Tibet than I should be asleep in a cradle. Why bother about the absolute,
the inevitable? Humanity wears itself out building bridges for imaginary
torrents. I am an exception; that is why I shall be young and handsome up
to the moment the grim stalker puts his claw on my shoulder."

He smiled whimsically.

"But you, have you never caught some of the passion for possessing rare
paintings, rugs, manuscripts?"

"You miss the point. What does the sense of possession amount to beside
the sense of seeking and finding? Cleigh here thinks he is having a thrill
when he signs a check. It is to laugh!"

"Have you ever killed a man?" It was one of those questions that leap
forth irresistibly. Jane was a bit frightened at her temerity.

Cunningham drank his coffee deliberately.

"Yes."

"Oh!"

Jane shrank back a little.

"But never willfully," Cunningham added--"always in self-defence, and
never a white man."

There was a peculiar phase about the man's singular beauty. Animated, it
was youthful; in grim repose, it was sad and old.

"Death!" said Jane in a kind of awed whisper. "I have watched many die,
and I cannot get over the terror of it. Here is a man with all the
faculties, physical and mental; a human being, loving, hating, working,
sleeping; and in an instant he is nothing!"

"A Chinaman once said that the thought of death is as futile as water in
the hand. By the way, Cleigh--and you too, captain--give the wireless a
wide berth. There's death there."

Jane saw the fire opals leap into the dark eyes.




CHAPTER XIII


The third day out they were well below Formosa, which had been turned on a
wide arc. The sea was blue now, quiescent, waveless; there was only the
eternal roll. Still Jane could not help comparing the sea with the
situation--the devil was slumbering. What if he waked?

Time after time she tried to force her thoughts into the reality of this
remarkable cruise, but it was impossible. Romance was always smothering
her, edging her off, when she approached the sinister. Perhaps if she had
heard ribald songs, seen evidence of drunkenness; if the crew had loitered
about and been lacking in respect, she would have been able to grasp the
actuality; but so far the idea persisted that this could not be anything
more than a pleasure cruise. Piracy? Where was it?

So she measured her actions accordingly, read, played the phonograph, went
here and there over the yacht, often taking her stand in the bow and
peering down the cutwater to watch the antics of some humorous porpoise or
to follow the smother of spray where the flying fish broke. In fact, she
conducted herself exactly as she would have done on board a passenger
ship. There were moments when she was honestly bored.

Piracy! This was an established fact. Cunningham and his men had stepped
outside the pale of law in running off with the Wanderer. But piracy
without drunken disorder, piracy that wiped its feet on the doormat and
hung its hat on the rack! There was a touch of the true farce in it.
Hadn't Cunningham himself confessed that the whole affair was a joke?

Round two o'clock on the afternoon of the third day Jane, for the moment
alone in her chair, heard the phonograph--the sextet from Lucia. She left
her chair, looked down through the open transom and discovered Dennison
cranking the machine. He must have seen her shadow, for he glanced up
quickly.

He crooked a finger which said, "Come on down!" She made a negative sign
and withdrew her head.

Here she was again on the verge of wild laughter. Donizetti! Pirates!
Glass beads for which Cleigh had voyaged sixteen thousand miles! A father
and son who ignored each other! She choked down this desire to laugh,
because she was afraid it might end suddenly in hysteria and tears. She
returned to her chair, and there was the father arranging himself
comfortably. He had a book.

"Would you like me to read a while to you?" she offered.

"Will you? You see," he confessed, "I'm troubled with insomnia. If I read
by myself I only become interested in the book, but if someone reads aloud
it makes me drowsy."
