There was no sound in the still settlement except a dull and distant
stirring made by the workmen sodding parapets on the new and unfinished
fort.
From where I stood I could see the Wells house, and the little children
at play in the dooryard; and Peter Smith, a servant, drawing water, who
one day was to see his master's family in their blood.
I could make out Colonel Campbell's house, too, and the chimney of
Colonel Clyde's house; and had a far glimpse of the residence of the
Reverend Mr. Dunlop, the aged minister of Cherry Valley.
From a gilded weather-cock I was able to guess about where Captain
M'Kean should reside; and Mr. Mitchell's barn I discovered, also. But
M'Kean and his rangers must now be marching with Herkimer's five
regiments to meet the hordes of St. Leger.
The sun sank blood-red behind the unbroken forests, and the sky over
Cherry Valley seemed to be all afire as I turned away and entered the
twilight of the woods, lugging my sack of provisions on my back.
That night my Indians and I lay within rifle-shot of the Mohawk River;
and at dawn we made a crow-flight of it toward Oneida Lake; and found
not a trace of Sir John or of anybody in that trackless wilderness; and
so camped at last, exhausted and discouraged.
On the fourth day, toward sunset, the Screech-owl, roaming far out on
our western flank, returned with news of a dead and stinking fire in the
woods, and fish heads rotting in it; and he thought the last ember burnt
out some four days since.
He took us to it in the dark, and his was a better woodcraft than I
could boast, who had been Brent-Meester, too. At dawn we examined the
ashes, but discovered nothing; and we were eating our parched corn and
discussing the matter of the fire when, very far away in the west, a
shot sounded; and in that same second we were on our feet and listening
like damned men for the last trumpet.
My heart made a deadened rataplan like a muffled drum, and seemed to
deafen me, so terribly intent was I.
Tahioni stretched out like a panther sunning on a log; and laid his ear
flat against the earth. Seconds grew to minutes; nobody stirred; no
other sound came from the westward.
Presently I turned and signalled in silence; my Indians crawled
noiselessly to their allotted intervals, extending our line north and
south; then, trailing my rifle, I stole forward through an open forest,
beneath the ancient and enormous trees of which no underbrush grew in
the eternal twilight.
Nothing stirred. There were no animals here, no birds, no living
creature that I could hear or see,--not even an insect.
Under our tread the mat of moist dead leaves gave back no sound; the
silence in this dim place was absolute.
We had been creeping forward for more than an hour, I think, before I
discovered the first sign of man in that spectral region.
I was breasting a small hillock set with tall walnut trees, in hopes of
obtaining a better view ahead, and had just reached the crest, and,
lying flat, was lifting my head for a cautious survey, when my eye
caught a long, wide streak of sunlight ahead.
My Indians, too, had seen this tell-tale evidence which indicated either
a stream or a road. But we all knew it was a road. We could see the
sunshine dappling it; and we crawled toward it, belly dragging, like
tree-cats stalking a dappled fawn.
Scarce had we come near enough to observe this road plainly, and the
crushed ferns and swale grasses in the new waggon ruts, when we heard
horses coming at a great distance.
Down we drop, each to a tree, and lie with levelled pieces, while slop!
thud! clink! come the horses, nearer, nearer; and, to my astonishment
and perplexity, from the east, and travelling the wrong way.
I cautioned my Oneidas fiercely against firing unless I so signalled
them; we lay waiting in an excitement well nigh unendurable, while
nearer and nearer came the leisurely sound of the advancing horses.
And now we saw them!--three red-coat dragoons riding very carelessly
westward on this wide, well-trodden road which now I knew must lead to
Oneida Lake.
I could see the British horsemen plainly. The day was hot; the sun beat
down on their red jackets and helmets; they sat their saddles wearily;
their faces were wet with perspiration, and they had loosened jacket and
neck-cloth, and their pistols were in holster, and their guns slung upon
their backs.
It was plain that these troopers had no thought of precaution nor
entertained any apprehension of danger on this road, which must lie in
the rear of their army, and must also be their route of communication
between the Lake and the Mohawk.
Slap, slop, clink! they trampled past us where my Oneidas lay a-tremble
like crouched cats to see the rats escaping on their runway.
But my ears had caught another sound,--the distant noise of wheels; and
I guessed that this was a waggon which the three horsemen should have
escorted, but, feeling entirely secure, had let their horses take their
own gait, and so had straggled on far ahead of the convoy with which
they should have kept in touch.
The waggon was far away. It approached slowly. Already the horsemen had
ridden clear out o' sight; and we crept to the edge of the road and lay
flat in the weeds, waiting, listening.
Twice the approaching vehicle halted as though to rest the horses; the
dragoons must have been a long way ahead by this time, for it was some
minutes since the sound of their horses' hoofs had died away in the
woods.
And now, near and ever nearer, creeps the waggon; and now it seems close
at hand; and now we see it far away down the road, slowly moving toward
us.
But it is no baggage-wain,--no transport cart that approaches us. The
two horses are caparisoned in bright harness; the driver wears a red
waistcoat and is a negro, and powdered. The vehicle is a private coach
which lurches, though driven cautiously.
"Good God!" said I, "that is Sir John's family coach! Tahioni, hold
your Oneidas! For I mean to find out who rides so carelessly to Oneida
Lake, confiding too much in the army which has passed this way!"
Slowly, slowly the coach drew near our ambush. I recognized Colas as the
coachman pro tem; I knew the horses and the family coach; saw the
Johnson arms emblazoned on the panels as I rose from the roadside weeds.
"Colas!" I said quietly.
The negro pulled in his horses and sat staring at me, astounded.
I walked leisurely past the horses to the window of the coach. And
there, seated, I saw Polly Johnson and Claudia Swift.
There ensued a terrible silence and they gazed upon me as though they
were looking upon a dead man.
"Jack Drogue!" whispered Claudia, "how--how come you here?"
I bowed, my cap in my hand, but could not utter a word.
"Jack! Jack, are--are you alone?" faltered Lady Johnson. "Good heavens,
what does this mean, I beg of you?----"
"Where are your people, Polly?" I asked in a dead voice.
"My--my people? Do you mean my husband?"
"I mean him.... And his troops. Where are they at this moment?"
"Do you not know that the army is before Stanwix?"
"I know it now," said I gravely.
"Mercy on us, Jack!" cried Claudia, finding her voice shrilly; "will you
not tell us how it is that we meet you here on the Oneida road and close
to our own army?"
