ought to rejoice in what power you have left." 
She rose and stretched and yawned in a most unlady- 
like fashion. 
"I'm going to make a cup of coffee for our sentinel, 
and have a little chat with him, chaperoned by the great 
bonfire. Don't think you can stop me, for you can't. 
Heavens, what a noise that dynamite does make! We 
shall have to shout. It will be more than proper. Good 
night, darling." 
CHAPTER VII 
DORA D WIGHT with a quick turn of a strong and 
supple wrist flung a folding chair up through the 
trap door of the roof. She followed with a pitcher of 
water, opened the chair, and sat down. 
It was the second day of the fire, which was now 
raging in the valleys north of Market Street and up the 
hills. It was still some distance from all but the lower 
end of Van Ness Avenue, the wide street that divides 
the eastern and western sections of the city, as Market 
Street divides the northern and southern, and her own 
home on Geary Street was beyond Franklin and safe for 
the present. It was expected that the fire would be 
halted by dynamiting the blocks east of the avenue, but 
as it had already leapt across not far from Market Street 
and was running out toward the Mission, Gora pinned 
her faith in nothing less than a change of wind. 
Life has many disparate schools. The one attended 
by Miss Gora Dwight had taught her to hope for the 
best, prepare for the worst, and be thankful if she 
escaped (to use the homely phrase; one rarely found 
leisure for originality in this particular school) by the 
skin of her teeth. 
Gora fully expected to lose the house she sat on, and 
had packed what few valuables she possessed in two 
 
large bags: the fine underclothes she had made at odd 
moments, and a handsome set of toilet articles her 
brother had given her on the Christmas before last. He 
had had a raise of salary and her experiment with 
lodgers had proved even more successful than she had 
dared to hope. On the following Christmas he had given 
her a large book with a fancy binding (which she had 
exchanged for something she could read). After satisfying the requirements of a wardrobe suitable for the 
world of fashion, supplemented by the usual toll of 
flowers and bon-bons, he had little surplus for domestic 
presents. 
Gora's craving for drama was far deeper and more 
significant than young Alexina Groome's, and she determined to watch until the last moment the terrific spectacle of the burning city. The wind had carried the 
smoke upward for a mUe or more and pillars of fire supported it at such irregular intervals that it looked like 
a vast infernal temple in which demons were waging 
war, and undermining the roof in their senseless fury. 
In some places whole blocks of houses were blazing; 
here and there high buildings burned in solitary 
grandeur, the flames leaping from every window or boiling from the roof. Sometimes one of these buildings 
would disappear in a shower of sparks and an awful 
roar, or a row of humbler houses was lifted bodily from 
the ground to burst into a thousand particles of flying 
wood, and disappear. 
The heat was overpowering (she bathed her face con- 
stantly from the pitcher) and the roar of the flames, the 
constant explosions of dynamite, the loud vicious 
crackling of wood, the rending and splitting of masonry, 
the hoarse impact of walls as they met the earth, was the 
scene's wild orchestral accompaniment and, despite underlying apprehension and horror, gave Gora one of 
the few pleasurable sensations of her life. 
But she moved her chair after a moment and fixed her 
gaze, no longer rapt but ironic, on the flaming hillcrests, 
the long line of California Street, nucleus of the wealth 
and fashion of San Francisco. The Western Addition 
was fashionable and growing more so, but it had been 
 
too far away for the pioneers of the fifties and sixties, 
the bonanza kings of the seventies, the railroad magnates 
of the eighties, and they had built their huge and hideous 
mansions upon the hill that rose almost perpendicularly 
above the section where they made and lost their millions. 
Some wag or toady had named it Nob Hill and the inhabitants had complacently accepted the title, although 
they refrained from putting it on their cards. 
And now it was in flames. 
Gora recalled the day when she had walked slowly 
past those mansions, staring at each in turn as she assimilated the disheartening and infuriating fact that she and 
the children that inhabited them belonged to different 
worlds. 
Her family at that time lived in a cottage at the 
wrong end of Taylor Street Hill, and, Mrs. Dwight having received a small legacy from a sister recently deceased which had convinced her, if not her less mer- 
curial husband, that their luck had finally turned, had 
sent Gora, then a rangy girl of thirteen, fond of books 
and study, to a large private school in the fashionable 
district. 
Gora, after all these years, ground her teeth as she 
had a sudden blighting vision of the day a week later, 
when, puzzled and resentful, she had walked up the 
steep hill with several of the girls whose homes were on 
California and Taylor Streets, and two of whom, like 
herself, were munching an apple. 
They had hardly noticed her sufficiently to ignore her, 
either then or during the previous week, so absorbed 
were they in their own close common interests. She 
listened to allusions which she barely could comprehend, 
but it was evident that one was to give a party 
on Friday night and the others were expected as a 
matter of course. Gora assumed that Jim and Sam and 
Kex and Bob were brothers or beaux. Last names appeared to be no more necessary than labels to inform the 
outsider of the social status of these favored maidens, 
 
too happy and contented to be snobs but quite callous to 
the feelings of strange little girls.  
They drifted one by one into their opulent homes, 
bidding one another a careless or a sentimental good-by, 
and Gora, throwing her head as far back on her shoulders as it would go without dislocation, stalked down to 
the unfashionable end of Taylor Street and up to the 
solitude of her bedroom under the eaves of the cottage. 
On the following day she had lingered in the school 
yard until the other girls were out of sight, then climbing the almost perpendicular hill so rapidly that she 
arrived on the crest with little breath and a pain in her 
side, she had sauntered deliberately up and down before 
the imposing homes of her schoolmates, staring at them 
with angry and puzzled eyes, her young soul in tumult. 
It was the old inarticulate cry of class, of the unchosen 
who seeks the reason and can find none. 
