to be a great many men in army uniforms. “Hello!” I exclaimed. “A
row?”
There was a clamor of shouting; the army men seemed to be pulling
and pushing the civilians. When we got nearer, I asked of a
bystander, “What’s up?” The answer was: “They don’t want ‘em to go
in to see the picture.”
“Why not?”
“It’s German. Hun propaganda!”
Now you must understand, I had helped to win a war, and no man gets
over such an experience at once. I had a flash of suspicion, and
glanced at my companion, the cultured literary critic from Berlin.
Could it possibly be that this smooth-spoken gentleman was playing a
trick upon me--trying, possibly, to get something into my crude
American mind without my realizing what was happening? But I
remembered his detailed account of the production, the very essence
of “art for art’s sake.” I decided that the war was three years
over, and I was competent to do my own thinking.
Dr. Henner spoke first. “I think,” he said, “it might be wiser if I
did not try to go in there.”
“Absurd!” I cried. “I’m not going to be dictated to by a bunch of
imbeciles!”
“No,” said the other, “you are an American, and don’t have to be.
But I am a German, and I must learn.”
I noted the flash of bitterness, but did not resent it. “That’s all
nonsense, Dr. Henner!” I argued. “You are my guest, and I won’t--”
“Listen, my friend,” said the other. “You can doubtless get by
without trouble; but I would surely rouse their anger, and I have no
mind to be beaten for nothing. I have seen the picture several
times, and can talk about it with you just as well.”
“You make me ashamed of myself,” I cried--“and of my country!”
“No, no! It is what you should expect. It is what I had in mind when
I spoke of the surgeon contracting the disease. We German
intellectuals know what war means; we are used to things like this.”
 Suddenly he put out his hand. “Good-bye.”
“I will go with you!” I exclaimed. But he protested--that would
embarrass him greatly. I would please to stay, and see the picture;
he would be interested later on to hear my opinion of it. And
abruptly he turned, and walked off, leaving me hesitating and angry.
At last I started towards the entrance of the theatre. One of the
men in uniform barred my way. “No admittance here!”
“But why not?”
“It’s a German show, and we aint a-goin’ to allow it.”
“Now see here, buddy,” I countered, none too good-naturedly, “I
haven’t got my uniform on, but I’ve as good a right to it as you; I
was all through the Argonne.”
“Well, what do you want to see Hun propaganda for?”
“Maybe I want to see what it’s like.”
“Well, you can’t go in; we’re here to shut up this show!”
I had stepped to one side as I spoke, and he caught me by the arm. I
thought there had been talk enough, and gave a sudden lurch, and
tore my arm free. “Hold on here!” he shouted, and tried to stop me
again; but I sprang through the crowd towards the box-office. There
were more than a hundred civilians in or about the lobby, and not
more than twenty or thirty ex-service men maintaining the blockade;
so a few got by, and I was one of the lucky ones. I bought my
ticket, and entered the theatre. To the man at the door I said: “Who
started this?”
“I don’t know, sir. It’s just landed on us, and we haven’t had time
to find out.”
“Is the picture German propaganda?”
“Nothing like that at all, sir. They say they won’t let us show
German pictures, because they’re so much cheaper; they’ll put
American-made pictures out of business, and it’s unfair
competition.”
“Oh!” I exclaimed, and light began to dawn. I recalled Dr. Henner’s
remark about producing a great many ideas out of a very little food;
assuredly, the American picture industry had cause to fear
competition of that sort! I thought of old “T-S,” as the screen
people call him for short--the king of the movie world, with his
roll of fat hanging over his collar, and his two or three extra
chins! I though of Mary Magna, million dollar queen of the pictures,
contriving diets and exercises for herself, and weighing with fear
and trembling every day!
III
It was time for the picture to begin, so I smoothed my coat, and
went to a seat, and was one of perhaps two dozen spectators before
whom “The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari” received its first public showing
in Western City. The story had to do with a series of murders; we
saw them traced by a young man, and fastened bit by bit upon an old
magician and doctor. As the drama neared its climax, we discovered
this doctor to be the head of an asylum for the insane, and the
young man to be one of the inmates; so in the end the series of
adventures was revealed to us as the imaginings of a madman about
his physician and keepers. The settings and scenery were in the
style of “futurist” art--weird and highly effective. I saw it all in
the light of Dr. Henner’s interpretation, the product of an old,
perhaps an overripe culture. Certainly no such picture could have
been produced in America! If I had to choose between this and the
luxurious sex-stuff of Mary Magna--well, I wondered. At least, I had
been interested in every moment of “Dr. Caligari,” and I was only
interested in Mary off the screen. Several times every year I had to
choose between mortally hurting her feelings, and watching her
elaborate “vamping” through eight or ten costly reels.
I had read many stories and seen a great many plays, in which the
hero wakes up in the end, and we realize that we have been watching
a dream. I remembered “Midsummer Night’s Dream,” and also “Looking
Backward.” An old, old device of art; and yet always effective, one
of the most effective! But this was the first time I had ever been
taken into the dreams of a lunatic. Yes, it was interesting, there
was no denying it; grisly stuff, but alive, and marvelously well
acted. How Edgar Allen Poe would have revelled in it! So thinking, I
walked towards the exit of the theatre, and a swinging door gave
way--and upon my ear broke a clamor that might have come direct from
the inside of Dr. Caligari’s asylum. “Ya, ya. Boo, boo! German
propaganda! Pay your money to the Huns! For shame on you! Leave your
own people to starve, and send your cash to the enemy.”
I stopped still, and whispered to myself, “My God!” During all the
time--an hour or more--that I had been away on the wings of
imagination, these poor boobs had been howling and whooping outside
the theatre, keeping the crowds away, and incidentally working
themselves into a fury! For a moment I thought I would go out and
reason with them; they were mistaken in the idea that there was
anything about the war, anything against America in the picture. But
I realized that they were beyond reason. There was nothing to do but
go my way and let them rave.
But quickly I saw that this was not going to be so easy as I had
fancied. Right in front of the entrance stood the big fellow who had
caught my arm; and as I came toward him I saw that he had me marked.
He pointed a finger into my face, shouting in a fog-horn voice:
“There’s a traitor! Says he was in the service, and now he’s backing
