Sard, seized with a sort of still terror, regarded Quintana with
enormous eyes. Torn between dismay of being left alone in the
wilderness, and a very natural fear of any single companion, he did not
know what to say or do.
En masse, the gang were too distrustful of one another to unite on
robbing any individual. But any individual might easily rob a companion
when alone with him.
"Why--why can't we all go together," he stammered. "It is safer,
surer----"
"I go with Quintana and you," interrupted Georgiades, smilingly; his
mind on the diamond in the muzzle of Quintana's pistol.
"I do not invite you," said Quintana. "But come if it pleases you."
"I also prefer to come with you others," growled Sanchez. "To roam alone
in this filthy forest does not suit me."
Picquet shrugged his shoulders, turned on his heel in silence. They
watched him moving away all alone, eastward. When he had disappeared
among the trees, Quintana looked inquiringly at the others.
"Eh, bien, non alors!" snarled Georgiades suddenly. "There are too many
in your trupeau, mon capitaine. Bonne chance!"
He turned and started noisily in the direction taken by Picquet.
They watched him out of sight; listened to his careless trample after he
was lost to view. When at length the last distant sound of his retreat
had died away in the stillness, Quintana touched Sard with the point of
his pistol.
"Go first," he said suavely.
"For God's sake, be a little careful of your gun----"
"I am, my dear frien'. It is of you I may become careless. You will
mos' kin'ly face south, and you will be kin' sufficient to start
immediate. Tha's what I mean.... I thank you.... Now, my frien',
Sanchez! Tha's correc'! You shall follow my frien' Sard ver' close. Me,
I march in the rear. So we shall pass to the eas' of thees Star Pon',
then between the cross-road an' Ghos' Lake; an' then we shall repose;
an' one of us, en vidette, shall discover if the Constabulary have
patrol beyon'.... Allons! March!"
II
Guided by Quintana's directions, the three had made a wide detour to the
east, steering by compass for the cross-roads beyond Star Pond.
In a dense growth of cedars, on a little ridge traversing wet land,
Quintana halted to listen.
Sard and Sanchez, supposing him to be at their heels, continued on,
pushing their way blindly through the cedars, clinging to the hard ridge
in terror of sink-holes. But their progress was very slow; and they were
still in sight, fighting a painful path amid the evergreens, when
Quintana suddenly squatted close to the moist earth behind a juniper
bush.
At first, except for the threshing of Sard and Sanchez through the
massed obstructions ahead, there was not a sound in the woods.
After a little while there was a sound--very, very slight. No dry
stick cracked; no dry leaves rustled; no swish of foliage; no whipping
sound of branches disturbed the intense silence.
But, presently, came a soft, swift rhythm like the pace of a forest
creature in haste--a discreetly hurrying tread which was more a series
of light earth-shocks than sound.
Quintana, kneeling on one knee, lifted his pistol. He already felt the
slight vibration of the ground on the hard ridge. The cedars were moving
just beyond him now. He waited until, through the parted foliage, a face
appeared.
The loud report of his pistol struck Sard with the horror of paralysis.
Sanchez faced about with one spring, snarling, a weapon in either hand.
In the terrible silence they could hear something heavy floundering in
the bushes, choking, moaning, thudding on the ground.
Sanchez began to creep back; Sard, more dead than alive, crawled at his
heels. Presently they saw Quintana, waist deep in juniper, looking down
at something.
And when they drew closer they saw Georgiades lying on his back under a
cedar, the whole front of his shirt from chest to belly a sopping mess
of blood.
There seemed no need of explanation. The dead Greek lay there where he
had not been expected, and his two pistols lay beside him where they had
fallen.
Sanchez looked stealthily at Quintana, who said softly:
"Bien sure.... In his left side pocket, I believe."
Sanchez laid a cool hand on the dead man's heart; then, satisfied,
rummaged until he found Georgiades' share of the loot.
Sard, hurriedly displaying a pair of clean but shaky hands, made the
division.
When the three men had silently pocketed what was allotted to each,
Quintana pushed curiously at the dead man with the toe of his shoe.
"Peste!" he remarked. "I had place, for security, a ver' large
diamon' in my pistol barrel. Now it is within the interior of this
gentleman...." He turned to Sanchez: "I sell him to you. One sapphire.
Yes?"
Sanchez shook his head with a slight sneer: "We wait--if you want your
diamond, mon capitaine."
Quintana hesitated, then made a grimace and shook his head.
"No," he said, "he has swallow. Let him digest. Allons! March!"
But after they had gone on--two hundred yards, perhaps--Sanchez stopped.
"Well?" inquired Quintana. Then, with a sneer: "I now recollec' that
once you have been a butcher in Madrid.... Suit your tas'e, l'ami
Sanchez."
Sard gazed at Sanchez out of sickened eyes.
"You keep away from me until you've washed yourself," he burst out,
revolted. "Don't you come near me till you're clean!"
Quintana laughed and seated himself. Sanchez, with a hang-dog glance at
him, turned and sneaked back on the trail they had traversed. Before he
was out of sight Sard saw him fish out a Spanish knife from his hip
pocket and unclasp it.
Almost nauseated, he turned on Quintana in a sort of frightened fury:
"Come on!" he said hoarsely. "I don't want to travel with that man! I
won't associate with a ghoul! My God, I'm a respectable business
man----"
"Yaas," drawled Quintana, "tha's what I saw always myse'f; my frien'
Sard he is ver' respec'able, an' I trus' him like I trus' myse'f."
However, after a moment, Quintana got up from the fallen tree where he
had been seated.
As he passed Sard he looked curiously into the man's frightened eyes.
There was not the slightest doubt that Sard was a coward.
"You shall walk behin' me," remarked Quintana carelessly. "If Sanchez
fin' us, it is well; if he shall not, that also is ver' well.... We go,
now."
       
Sanchez made no effort to find them. They had been gone half an hour
before he had finished the business that had turned him back.
After that he wandered about hunting for water--a rivulet, a puddle,
anything. But the wet ground proved wet only on the surface moss.
Sanchez needed more than damp moss for his toilet. Casting about him,
hither and thither, for some depression that might indicate a stream, he
came to a heavily wooded slope, and descended it.
There was a bog at the foot. With his fouled hands he dug out a basin
which filled up full of reddish water, discoloured by alders.
