VYou had Spurlock once." 
O'Higgins grinned. "Women are always balling 
up and muddling clean cases. If this girl hadn't 
busted into the game, Spurlock would still be at 
the hotel." 
The doctor was forced to admit the truth of this. 
Ruth out of the picture, he wouldn't have concerned 
himself so eagerly in regard to Spurlock's departure. 
"I'm sorry, Mr. O'Higgins, but I decline to give 
you the least information." 
The detective ruefully inspected the scarlet band 
on his perfecto. "And I'll bet a doughnut that boy 
in his soul is crazy to have it over with. Well-born, 
well-educated; those are the lads that pay in full." 
"You're a philosopher, too. I'll tell you some- 
thing. One of the reasons why I decline to talk 
is this: that boy's punishment will be enough." 
" That's not my game. They order me to get my 
man, and I get him. There ends my duty. What 
they do with him afterward is oflF my ticket, no con- 
cern of James Boyle; they can lock him up or let him 
go. Say, how about this Ah Cum: is he honest?" 
"As the day is long." 
"Didn't know but what I'd been out-bid. I 
offered him a hundred to watch Spurlock. Fifty 
in advance. This morning I met him at the dock, 
and he wouldn't take the other fifty. A queer nut. 
Imagine any one on this' side refusing fifty bucks! 
Well, I'll be toddling along. Don't feel fussed upon 
my account. I get your side all right. H'm!" 
Over the desk, on the wall, was a map of the South 
Pacific archipelagoes, embossed by a number of little 
circles drawn in red ink. O'Higgins eyed it thought- 
fully. 
 
That's your hunting ground," said the doctor. 
It's a whale of a place. Ten thousand islands, 
and each one good for a night's rest. Why, that 
boy could hide for thirty years —  without the girl. 
She's my meal-ticket. What are those little red 
circles?" O'Higgins asked, rising and inspecting 
the map. A film of dust lay upon it; the ink marks 
were ancient. For a moment O'Higgins had hoped 
that the ink applications would be recent.   Been 
to those places?" 
''No. Years ago I marked out an intinerary for 
myself; but the trip never materialized. Too busy." 
"That's the way it goes. Well, I'll take myself 
off. But if I were you, I shouldn't warn Spurlock. 
Let him have his honeymoon. So long." 
For a long time after O'Higgins had gone the 
doctor rocked in his swivel chair, his glance directed 
at the map. In all his life he had never realized a 
dream; but the thought had never before hurt him. 
The Dawn Pearl. It did not seem quite fair. He 
had plugged along, if not happy, at least with sound 
philosophy. And then this girl had to sweep into 
and out of his life! He recalled McClintock's com- 
ment about Spurlock being the kind that fell soft. 
Even this man-hunting machine was willing to 
grant the boy his honeymoon. 
Meantime, O'Higgins wended his way to the 
Victoria, mulling over this and that phase, all matters 
little and big that bore upon the chase. Mac's. In 
one of the little red circles the doctor had traced that 
abbreviation. That could signify nothing exc t 
that the doctor had a friend down there sontiewh   
on an island in one of those archipelagoes. Sut the 
sheer immensity of the tract! James Boyle was 
certainly up against it, hard. One chance in a 
thousand, and that would be the girl. She wouldn't 
be able to pass by anywhere without folks turning 
their heads. 
Of course he hadnH played the game wis y. 
But what the deuce! He was human; he w as a 
machine only when on the hunt. He had found 
Spurlock. In his condition the boy apparently had 
been as safe as in the lock-up. Why shouldn't 
James Boyle pinch out a little fun while waiting? 
How was he to anticipate the girl and the sea-tramp 
called The Tigress? Something that wasn't ra the 
play at all but had walked out of the scenery like the 
historical black cat? 
''I'll have to punish a lot of tobacco to get the 
kinks out of this. Sure Mike!" 
At the hotel he wrote a long letter to his chief, 
explaining every detail of the fizzle. Later he 
dispatched a cable announcing the escape and the 
sending of the letter. When he returned to Hong- 
Kong, there was a reply to his cable : 
"Hang on. Find that boy." 
Some order. South America was big; but ten 
thousand islands, scattered all over the biggest ocean 
 
on the map! Nearly all of them clear of the ship 
lanes and beaten tracks! The best thing he could 
do  would be to call up the Quai d'Orsay and turn 
over the job to Lecocq. Only a book detective 
could dope this out. 
What he needed most in this hour was a bottle 
of American rye-whisky and a friendly American 
bar-keep to talk to. He regretted now that in his 
idle hours he hadn't hunted up one against the 
rainy day. The barmaids had too strongly appealed 
to his sense of novelty. So he marched into the 
street, primarily bent upon making the favourable 
discovery. If there was a Yankee bar-keep in 
Hong-Kong, James Boyle would soon locate him. 
No blowzy barmaids for him to-day: an American bar- 
keep to whom he could tell his troubles and receive 
the proper meed of sympathy. 
The sunshine was brilliant, the air mild. The 
hotel on the Peak had the aspect of a fairy castle. 
The streets were full of colour. O'Higgins wandered 
into this street and that, studying the signs and 
resenting the Britisher's wariness in using too much 
tin and paint. This niggardliness compelled him 
to cross and recross streets. 
Suddenly he came to a stop, his mouth agape. 
"SoKd ivory!" he said aloud; '  solid from dome 
