She bore down on him, and shook his unresponsive hand heartily.  "I've
been telling them how dear and noble you were last night, dear Mr.
Clavering, just like a real uncle, or what any one would expect of one
of granny's pets.  No doubt you saved my life and honor, and I want to
tell the world." Her crisp clear voice was pitched in G.  It carried
from end to end of the silent room.

"Would that I were your uncle!  Won't you sit down?  I believe that you
have not met Madame Zattiany."

Miss Oglethorpe had not cast a glance at her victim's companion,
assuming her to be some writing person; although he did once in a while
take out Anne Goodrich or Marian Lawrence: old girls--being all of
twenty-four--in whom she took no interest whatever.

She half turned her head with a barely perceptible nod.  The tail of
her eye was arrested.  She swung round and stared, her mouth open.  For
the moment she was abashed; whatever else she may have submerged, her
caste instinct remained intact and for a second she had the unpleasant
sensation of standing at the bar of her entire class.  But she
recovered immediately.  Grandes dames were out of date.  Even her
mother had worn her skirts to her knees a short time since.  What fun
to "show this left-over."  And then her spiteful naughtiness was
magnified by anger.  Madame Zattiany had inclined her head graciously,
but made no attempt to conceal her amusement.

"Yes, I'll sit down.  Thanks."  She produced a cigarette and lit it.
"Granny's got a lot of ancient photographs of her girlhood friends,"
she remarked with her insolent eyes on Madame Zattiany, "and one of
them's enough like you to be you masquerading in the get-up of the
eighties.  Comes back to me.  Just before mother left I heard her
discussing you with a bunch of her friends.  Isn't there some mystery
or other about you?"

"Yes, indeed!  Is it not so?"  Madame Zattiany addressed her glowering
host, her eyes twinkling.  It was evident that she regarded this
representative of the new order with a scientific interest, as if it
were a new sort of bug and herself an entomologist.  "Probably," she
added indulgently, "the most mysterious woman in New York.  What you
would call an adventuress if you were not too young to be uncharitable.
Mr. Clavering is kind enough to take me on trust."

Miss Oglethorpe's wrath waxed.  This creature of an obsolete order had
the temerity to laugh at her.  Moreover----  She flashed a glance from
Clavering's angry anxious face to the beautiful woman opposite, and a
real color blazed in her cheeks.  But she summoned a sneer.

"Noble again!  Has he told you of our little adventure last night?"

"Last night?"  A flicker crossed the serenity of Madame Zattiany's
face.  "But no.  I do not fancy Mr. Clavering is in the habit of
telling his little adventures."

"Oh, he wouldn't.  Old standards.  Southern chivalry.  All the rest of
it.  That's why he's granny's model young man.  Well, I'll tell you----"

"You've been drinking again," hissed Clavering.

"Of course.  Cocktail party at Donny's----"

"Well, moderate your voice.  It isn't necessary to take the entire room
into your confidence.  Better still, go back to your own table."

She raised her voice.  "You see, Madame Zattiany, I was running round
loose at about one o'clock A. M. when whom should I run into but dear
old Uncle Lee.  He looked all shot to pieces when he saw me.  Girls in
his day didn't stay out late unless they had a beau.  Ten o'clock was
the limit, anyhow.  But did he take advantage of my unprotected maiden
innocence?  Not he.  He stood there in the snow and delivered a lecture
on the error of my ways, then took me to a delicatessen shop--afraid of
compromising himself in a restaurant--and stuffed me with sandwiches
and bananas.  Even there, while we were perched on two high stools, he
didn't make love to me as any human man would have done.  He just ate
sandwiches and lectured.  God!  Life must have been dull for girls in
his day!"

People about them were tittering.  One young man burst into a guffaw.
Madame Zattiany was calmly eating her dinner.  The tirade might have
fallen on deaf ears.

Clavering's skin had turned almost black.  His eyes looked murderous.
But he did not raise his voice.  "Go back to your table," he said
peremptorily.  "You've accomplished your revenge and I've had all I
propose to stand. . . .  By God!  If you don't get out this minute I'll
pick you up and carry you out and straight to your grandmother."

"Yes you would--make a scene."

"The scene could hardly be improved.  Will you go?"

He half rose.  Even Madame Zattiany glanced at him apprehensively.

Miss Oglethorpe laughed uncertainly.  "Oh, very well.  At least we
never furnish material for your newspapers.  That's just one thing we
think beneath us."  She rose and extended her hand.  "Good night,
Madame Zattiany," she said with a really comical assumption of the
grand manner.  "It has been a great pleasure to meet you."

Madame Zattiany took the proffered hand.  "Good night," she said
sweetly.  "Your little comedy has been most amusing.  Many thanks."

Miss Oglethorpe jerked her shoulders.  "Well, console dear unky.  He'd
like the floor to open and swallow him.  Ta!  Ta!"

She ran back to her table, and its hilarity was shortly augmented.

Madame Zattiany looked at Clavering aghast.  "But it is worse than I
supposed!" she exclaimed.  "It is really a tragedy.  Poor Mrs.
Oglethorpe."  Then she laughed, silently but with intense amusement.
"I wish she had been here!  After all! . . .  Nevertheless, it is a
tragedy.  An Oglethorpe!  A mere child intoxicated . . . and truly
atrocious manners.  Why don't her people put her in a sanitarium?"

"Parents count about as much today as women counted in the cave era.
But it is abominable that you should be made conspicuous."

"Oh, that!  I have been conspicuous all my life.  And you must admit
that she had the centre of the stage!  If any one is to be
commiserated, it is you.  But you really behaved admirably; I could
only admire your restraint."
