Good-bye, good-bye." 
Ellen's hands were full, but the old gentleman took them 
in both his, packages and all, and shook them after a fashion, 
and again bidding her good-bye, walked away down the 
street. 
The next morning Ellen and her mother were sitting quietly 
together, and Ellen had not finished her accustomed reading, 
when there came a knoek at the door. " My old gentleman !" 
cried Ellen, as she sprung to open it. No, — there was no old 
gentleman, but a black man with a brace of beautiful wood- 
cock in his hand. He bowed very civilly, and said he had 
been ordered to leave the birds with Miss Montgomerv. 
Ellen, in surprise, took them from him, and likewise a note 
which he delivered into her hand. Ellen asked from whom 
the birds eame, but with another polite, bow the man said the 
note would inform her, and went away. In great curiosity 
she carried them and the note to her mother, to whom the 
latter was directed. It read thus: — 
" Will Mrs. Montgomery permit an old man to please himself in his own way, by showing his regard for her little 
daughter ? And not feel that he is taking a liberty. The birds 
are for Miss Ellen." 
" Oh, mamma ! " exelaimed Ellen, jumping with delight, 
" did you ever see sueh a dear old gentleman ? Now I know 
what he meant yesterday, when he asked me if I would rather 
have something for myself or for you. How kind he is ! to 
do just the very thing for me that he knows would give me the 
most pleasure. Now, mamma, these birds are mine, you 
know, and I give them to you. You must pay me a kiss 
for them mamma ; they are worth that. Aren't they beau- 
ties ? " 
" They are very fine indeed," said Mrs. Montgomery ; " this 
is just the season for woodcock, and these are in beautiful 
condition." 
" Do you like woodcocks, mamma?" 
" Yes, very much." 
" 0, how glad I am ! " said Ellen. " I'll ask Sam to have 
them done very nicely for you, and then you will enjoy them 
so much." 
The waiter was called, and instructed accordingly, and to 
him the birds were committed, to be delivered to the care of 
the cook. 
" Now mamma," said Ellen, " I think these birds have 
made me happy for all day." 
"Then I hope, daughter, they will make you busy for all 
Jay. You have ruffles to hem, and the skirts of your dresses 
to make, we need not wait for Miss Rice to do that ; and 
when she comes you will have to help her, for I can do 
little. You can't be too industrious." 
" Well, mamma, I am as willing- as can be." 
This was the beginning of a pleasant two weeks to Ellen ; 
weeks to which she often looked back afterwards, so quietly 
and swiftly the days fled away in busy occupation and sweet 
intercourse with her mother. The passions which were apt 
enough to rise in Ellen's mind upon occasion, were for the 
present kept effectually in check. She could not forget that 
her days with her mother would very soon be at an end, for 
a long time at least ; and this consciousness, always present 
to her mind, forbade even the wish to do anything that might 
grieve or disturb her. Love and tenderness had absolute 
rule for the time, and even had power to overcome the sorrowful thoughts that would often rise, so that in spite of them 
peace reigned. And perhaps both mother and daughter 
enjoyed this interval the more keenly because they knew that 
sorrow was at hand. 
All this while there was scarcely a day that the old gen- 
tleman's servant did not knock at their door, bearing a present 
of game. The second time he came with some fine larks ; 
next was a superb grouse then ; woodcock again. Curiosity 
strove with astonishment and gratitude in Ellen's mind. 
" Mamma," she said, after she had admired the grouse for 
five minutes, " I cannot rest without finding out who this old 
gentleman is." 
" I am sorry for that," replied Mrs. Montgomery gravely, 
" for I see no possible way of your doing it." 
" Why, mamma, couldn't I ask the man that brings the 
birds what his name is ? He must know it." 
" Certainly not ; it would be very dishonourable." 
" Would it, mamma ? — why ? " 
" This old gentleman has not chosen to tell you his name ; 
he wrote his note without signing it, and his man has obviously 
been instructed not to disclose it ; don't you remember, he 
did not tell it when you asked him, the first time he came. 
Now this shows that the old gentleman wishes to keep it 
secret, and to try to find it out in any way would be a very 
unworthy return for his kindness." 
" Yes, it wouldn't be doing as I would be done by, to be 
sure ; but would it be dishonourable, mamma ? " 
" Very. It is very dishonorable to try to find out that 
about other people which does not concern you, and which 
they wish to keep from you. Remember that my dear 
daughter." 
" I will, mamma. I'll never do it, I promise you." 
" Even in talking with people, if you discern in tbem any 
unwillingness to speak upon a subject, avoid it immediately, 
provided of course that some higher interest do not oblige 
you to go on. That is true politeness, and true kindness, 
which are nearly the same ; and not to do so, I assure you, 
Ellen, proves one wanting in true honour." 
" Well mamma, I don't care what his name is, — at least I 
wont try to find out ; — but it does worry me that I cannot 
thank him. I wish he knew how much I feel obliged to 
him." 
" Very well ; write and tell him so." 
" Mamma !" said Ellen, opening her eyes very wide, — 
"can I?— would you?" 
" Certainly, — if you like. It would be very proper." 
" Then I will ! I declare that is a good notion. I'll do it 
the first thing, and then I can give it to that man if he comes 
to-morrow, as I suppose he will. Mamma," said she, on 
opening her desk, "how funny! don't you remember you 
wondered who I was going to write notes to ? here is one 
now, mamma ; it is very lucky I have got notepaper." 
More than one sheet of it was ruined before Ellen had 
satisfied herself with what she wrote. It was a full hour 
from the time she began when she brought the following 
note for her mother's inspection : — 
" Ellen Montgomery does not know how to thank the old 
gentleman who is so kind to her. Mamma enjoys the birds 
very much, and I think I do more ; for I have the double 
pleasure of giving them to mamma, and of eating them afterwards ; but your kindness is the best of all. I can't tell 
you how much I am obliged to you, sir, but I will always 
love you for all you have done for me. 
"Ellen Montgomery." 
This note Mrs. Montgomery approved ; and Ellen having 
with great care and great satisfaction enclosed it in an envelope, succeeded in sealing it according to rule and very 
well. Mrs. Montgomery laughed when she saw the direction, 
but let it go. Without consulting her, Ellen had written 
on the outside, "To the old gentleman." She sent it the 
next morning by the hands of the same servant, who this 
time was the bearer of a plump partridge " To Miss Montgomery ;" and her mind was a great deal easier on this subject from that time. 
CHAPTER VI. 
October was now far advanced. One evening, the even- 
ing of the last Sunday in the month, Mrs, Montgomery 
was lying in the parlour alone. Ellen had gone to bed 
some time before ; and now in the stillness of the Sabbath evening the ticking of the clock was almost the only 
sound to be heard. The hands were rapidly approaching 
ten. Captain Montgomery was abroad ; and he had been 
so, — according to custom, — or in bed, the whole day. The 
mother and daughter had had the Sabbath to themselves ; 
and most quietly and sweetly it had passed. They had read 
together, prayed together, talked together a great deal ; and 
the evening had been spent in singing hymns ; but Mrs. 
Montgomery's strength failed here, and Ellen sang alone. 
She was not soon weary. Hymn succeeded hymn, with fresh 
and varied pleasure ; and her mother could not tire of listening. The sweet words, and the sweet airs, — which were 
all old friends, and brought of themselves many a lesson of 
wisdom and consolation, by the mere force of association, — 
needed not the recommendation of the clear childish voice in 
which they were sung which w r as of all things the sweetest 
to Mrs. Montgomery's ear. She listened, — till she almost 
felt as if earth were left behind, and she and her child already 
standing within the walls of that city where sorrow and 
sighing shall be no more, and the tears shall be wiped from 
all eyes forever. Ellen's next hymn, however, brought her 
back to earth again, but though her tears flowed freely while 
she heard it, all her causes of sorrow could not render them 
bitter. 
God in Israel sows the seeds 
Of affliction, pain, and toil ; 
These spring up and choke the weeds 
Which would else o'er^pread the soil. 
Trials make the promise sweet, — 
Trials give new life to prayer, — 
Trials bring me to his feet, 
Lay me low, and keep me there. 
" It is so indeed, dear Ellen," said Mrs. Montgomery when 
she had finished, and folding the little singer to her breast, — 
" I have always found it so. God is faithful. I have seen 
abundant cause to thank him for all the evils he has made 
me suffer heretofore, and I do not doubt it will be the same 
with this last and worst one. Let us glorify him in the fires, 
my daughter ; and if earthly joys be stripped from us, and 
if we be torn from each other, let us cling the closer to 
him, — he can and he will in that case make up to us more 
than all we have lost." 
Ellen felt her utter inability to join in her mother's expres- 
sions of confidence and hope ; to her there was no brightness 
on the cloud that hung over them, — it was all dark. She 
could only press her lips in tearful silence to the one and the 
other of her mother's cheeks alternately. How sweet the 
sense of the coming parting made every such embrace ! This 
one, for particular reasons, was often and long remembered. 
A few minutes they remained thus in each other's arms, cheek 
pressed against cheek, without speaking; but then Mrs. 
Montgomery remembered that Ellen's bed-time was already 
past, and dismissed her. 
For a while after Mrs. Montgomery remained just where 
Ellen had left her, her busy thoughts roaming over many 
things in the far past, and the sad present, and the uncertain 
future. She was unconscious of the passage of time, and 
did not notice how the silence deepened as the night drew 
on, till scarce a footfall was heard in the street, and the ticking of the clock sounded with that sad distinctness which 
seems to say, — "Time is going on — time is going on, — and 
you are going with it, — do what you will you can't help 
that." It was just upon the stroke of ten, and Mrs. Montgomery was still wrapped in her deep musings, when a sharp 
brisk footstep in the distance aroused her, rapidly approaching ; — and she knew very well whose it was, and that 
it would pause at the door, before she heard the quick run 
up the steps, succeeded by her husband's tread upon the 
staircase. And yet she saw him open the door with a kind 
of startled feeling which his appearance now invariably caused 
her ; the thought always darted through her head, " perhaps 
he brings news of Ellen's going." Something, it would have 
been impossible to say what, in his appearance or manner, 
confirmed this fear on the present occasion. Her heart felt 
sick, and she waited in silence to hear what he would say. 
He seemed very well pleased ; sat down before the fire rubbing his hands, partly with cold and partly with satisfaction ; 
and his first words were, " Weli ! we have got a fine opportunity for her at last." 
How little he was capable of understanding the pang this 
announcement gave his poor wife ! But she only closed her 
eyes and kept perfectly quiet, and he never suspected it. 
He unbuttoned his coat, and taking the poker in his hand 
began to mend the fire, talking the while. 
" I am very glad of it indeed," said he, — " it's quite a load 
off my mind. Now we'll be gone directly, and high time it 
is — I'll take passage in the England the first thing to-morrow. And this is the best possible chance for Ellen — every- 
thing we could have desired. I began to feel very uneasy 
about it, — it was getting so late, — but I am quite relieved 
now." 
"Who is it?" said Mrs. Montgomery, forcing herself to 
speak. 
" Why, it's Mrs. Dunscombe," said the captain, flourishing 
his poker by way of illustration, — " you know her, don't 
you ? — Captain Dunscombe's wife — she's going right through 
Thirlwall, and will take charge of Ellen as far as that, and 
there my sister will meet her with a wagon and take her 
straight home. Couldn't be anything better. I write to 
let Fortune know when to expect her. Mrs. Dunscombe is 
a lady of the first family and fashion — in the highest degree 
respectable ; she is going on to Fort Jameson, with her 
daughter and a servant, and her husband is to foliow her in 
a few days. I happened to hear of it to-day, and I immediately seized the opportunity to ask if she would not take 
Ellen with her as far as Thirlwall, and Dunscombe was only 
too glad to oblige me. I'm a very good friend of his, and 
lie knows it." 
" How soon does she go ?" 
" Why — that's the only part of the business I am afraid 
you won't like, — but there is no help for it ; — and after all 
it is a great deal better so than if you had time to wear 
yourselves out with mourning — better and easier too, in the 
end." 
" How soon ?" repeated Mrs. Montgomery, with an agonized accent. 
" Why — I'm a little afraid of startling you — Dunscombe's 
wife must go, he told me, to-morrow morning ; and we arranged that she should call in the carriage at six o'clock to 
take up Ellen." 
Mrs. Montgomery put I.r hands to her face and sank 
back against the sofa. 
"I was afraid you would take it so," said her husband, — 
" but I don't think it is worth while. It is a great deal better 
as it is, — a great deal better than if she had a long warning. 
You would fairly wear yourself out if you had time enough ; 
and you haven't any strength to spare." 
It was some while before Mrs. Montgomery could recover 
composure and firmness enough to go on with what she had 
to do, though knowing the necessity, he strove hard for it. 
For several minutes she remained quite silent and quiet, endeavoring to collect her scattered forces ; then sitting Upright and drawing her shawl around her she exclaimed, " I 
must waken Ellen immediately !" 
" Waken Ellen !" exclaimed her husband in his turn, — 
"what on earth for? That's the very last thing to be 
done." 
" Why you would not put oft' telling her until to-morrow 
morning ?" said Mrs. Montgomery. 
" Certainly I would — that's the only proper way to do. 
Why in the world should you wake her up, just to spend 
the whole night in useless grieving ? — unfitting her utterly 
for her journey, and doing yourself more harm than you can 
undo in a week. No, no, — just let her sleep quietly, and 
you go to bed and do the same. Wake her, up, indeed ! 
I thought you were wiser." 
" But she will be so dreadfully shocked in the morning !" 
" Not one bit more than she would be to-night, and she 
won't have so much time to feel it. In the hurry and bustle 
of getting off she will not have time to think about her 
feelings ; and once on the way she will do well enough ; — 
children always do." 
Mrs Montgomery looked undecided and unsatisfied. 
" I'll take the responsibility of this matter on myself, — you 
must not waken her, absolutely. It would not do at all," 
said the Captain, poking the fire very energetically, — " it 
would not do at all, — I cannot allow it." 
Mrs. Montgomery silently rose and lit a lamp. 
" You are not going into Ellen's room ?" said the husband. 
" I must — I must put her things together." 
" But you'll not disturb Ellen ?" said he, in a tone that 
required a promise. 
" Not if I can help it." 
Twice Mrs. Montgomery stopped before she reached the 
door of Ellen's room, for her heart failed her. But she must 
go on, and the necessary preparations for the morrow must 
be made ; — she knew it ; and repeating this to herself she 
gently turned the handle of the door and pushed it open, 
and guarding the light with her hand from Ellen's eyes, she 
set it where it would not shine upon her. Having done this, 
she set herself, without once glancing at her little daughter, 
to put all things in order for her early departure on the following morning. But it was a bitter piece of work for her. 
She first laid out all that Ellen would need to wear, — the 
dark merino, the new nankeen coat, the white bonnet, the 
clean frill that her own hands had done up, the little gloves 
and shoes, and all the etceteras, with the thoughtfulness and 
the carefulness of love ; but it went through and through 
her heart that it was the very last time a mother's fingers 
would ever be busy in arranging or preparing Ellen's 
