Mrs. Ellis, with a troubled heart, went up to the room where so many of
her lonely evening hours were spent. Taking her work-basket, she tried
to sew; but her thoughts troubled her so, that she finally sought
refuge therefrom in the pages of an exciting romance.
The realizing power of imagination in Ellis was very strong. While he
paced the floor after his wife and children had left the room, there
came to him such a vivid picture of the coldness and reserve that must
mark the hours of that evening, if they were passed with Cara, that he
turned from it with a sickening sense of pain. Under the impulse of
that feeling he left the house, but with no purpose as to where he was
going.
For as long, perhaps, as half an hour, Ellis walked the street, his
mind, during most of the time, pondering the events of the day. His
absence from business was so much lost, and would throw double burdens
on the morrow, for, besides the sum of two hundred dollars to be
returned to Wilkinson, he had a hundred to make up for another friend
who had accommodated him. But where was the money to come from? In the
matter of borrowing, Ellis had never done much, and his resources in
that line were small. His losses at the gaming-table added so much to
the weight of discouragement under which he suffered!
"You play well." Frequently had the artful tempter, Carlton, lured his
victim on by this and other similar expressions, during the time he had
him in his power; and thus flattered, Ellis continued at cards until
repeated losses had so far sobered him as to give sufficient mental
resolution to enable him to stop.
Now, these expressions returned to his mind, and their effect upon him
was manifested in the thought,--
"If I hadn't been drinking, he would have found in me a different
antagonist altogether."
It was an easy transition from this state of mind to another. It was
almost natural for the wish to try his luck again at cards to be
formed; particularly as he was in great need of money, and saw no
legitimate means of getting the needed supply.
The frequency with which Ellis had spent his evenings abroad made him
acquainted with many phases of city life hidden from ordinary
observers. Idle curiosity had more than once led him to visit certain
gambling-houses on a mere tour of observation; and, during these
visits, he had each time been tempted to try a game or two, in which
cases little had been lost or won. The motive for winning did not then
exist in tempting strength; and, besides, Ellis was naturally a
cautious man. Now, however, the motive did exist.
"Yes, I do play well," said he, mentally answering the remembered
compliment of Carlton, "and but for your stealing away my brains with
liquor, you would have found me a different kind of antagonist."
Ellis had fifty dollars in his pocket. This sum was the amount of the
day's sales of goods in his store. Instead of leaving the money in his
fire-closet, he had taken it with him, a sort of dim idea being in his
mind that, possibly, it might be wanted for some such purpose as now
contemplated. So he was all prepared for a trial of his skill; and the
trial was made. To one of the haunts of iniquity before visited in mere
reprehensible curiosity, he now repaired with the deliberate purpose of
winning money to make up for losses already sustained, and to provide
for the next day's payments. He went in with fifty dollars in his
pocket-book; at twelve o'clock he left the place perfectly sober, and
the winner of three hundred dollars. Though often urged to drink, he
had, knowing his weakness, firmly declined in every instance.
Cara, he found, as usual on returning home late at night, asleep. He
sought his pillow without disturbing her, and lay for a long time with
his thoughts busy among golden fancies. In a few hours he had won three
hundred dollars, and that from a player of no common skill.
"Yes, yes, Carlton said true. I play well." Over and over did Ellis
repeat this, as he lay with his mind too much excited for sleep.
Wearied nature yielded at last. His dreams repeated the incidents of
the evening, and reconstructed them into new and varied forms. When he
awoke, at day-dawn, from his restless slumber, it took but a short time
for his thoughts to arrange themselves into a purpose, and that purpose
was to seek out Carlton as the first business of the day, and win back
the evidence of debt that he had against him.
The meeting of Ellis and his wife at the breakfast-table had less of
coldness and reserve in it than their meeting at tea-time. No reference
was made to the previous evening, nor to the fact of his having
remained out to a late hour.
It was the intention of Ellis, on leaving his house after breakfast, to
repair to his store and make some preliminary arrangements for the day
before hunting up Carlton; but on his way thither, his appetite
constrained him to enter a certain drinking-house just for a single
glass of brandy to give his nerves their proper tension.
"Ah! how are you, my boy?" exclaimed Carlton, who was there before him,
advancing as he spoke, and offering his hand in his usual frank way.
"Glad to meet you!" returned Ellis. "Just the man I wished to see. Take
a drink?"
"I don't care if I do."
And the two men moved up to the bar. When they turned away, Carlton
drew his arm familiarly within that of Ellis, and bending close to his
ear, said--"You wish to take up your due-bills, I presume?
"You guess my wishes precisely," was the answer.
"Well, I shall be pleased to have you cancel them. Are you prepared to
do it this morning?"
"I am--in the way they were created."
A gleam of satisfaction lit up the gambler's face, which was partly
turned from Ellis; but he shrugged his shoulders, and said, in an
altered voice--"I'm most afraid to try you again."
"We're pretty well matched, I know," said the victim. "If you decline,
of course the matter ends."
"I never like to be bantered," returned Carlton. "If a man were to dare
me to jump from the housetop, it would be as much as I could do to
restrain myself."
"I've got three hundred in my pocket," said Ellis, "and I'm prepared to
see the last dollar of it."
"Good stuff in you, my boy!" and Carlton laid his hand upon his
shoulder in a familiar way. "It would hardly be fair not to give you a
chance to get back where you were. So here's for you, win or lose, sink
or swim."
And the two men left the tavern together. We need not follow them, nor
describe the contest that ensued. The result has already been
anticipated by the reader. A few hours sufficed to strip Ellis of his
three hundred dollars, and increase his debts to the gambler nearly
double the former amount.
CHAPTER XV.
MRS. ELLIS knew, by the appearance of her husband, that he had not been
drinking on the night previous, late as he had remained away. This took
a weight from her feelings, and relieved her mind from self-upbraidings
that would have haunted her all the day. After breakfast her mind began
to ponder what Mrs. Claxton had said on the day previous, and the more
she thought of her advice and example, the more she felt inclined to
adopt a similar course of action. On new Brussels carpets she had, long
ago, set her heart, and already worried her husband about them past
endurance. To obtain his consent to the purchase, she felt to be
hopeless.
"I must get them in this way, or not at all. So much is clear." Thus
she communed with herself. "He's able enough to pay the bill; if I had
any doubts of that, the matter would be settled; but I have none."
With the prospect of getting the long coveted carpets, came an
increased desire for their possession.
In imagination Mrs. Ellis saw them already on the floor. For some hours
there was a struggle in her mind. Then the tempter triumphed. She
dressed herself, and went out for the purpose of making a selection.
From this moment she did not hesitate. Calling at a well-known carpet
warehouse, she made her selection, and directed the bill, after the
carpet was made and put down, to be sent in to her husband. The price
of the carpet she chose was two dollars and a quarter a yard; and the
whole bill, including that of the upholsterer, would reach a hundred
and sixty dollars.
When Mrs. Ellis returned home, after having consummated her purpose,
the thought of her beautiful carpet gave her far less pleasure than she
had anticipated. In every wrong act lies its own punishment. Uneasiness
of mind follows as a sure consequence. From the idea of her beautiful
parlours, her mind would constantly turn to her husband.
"What will he say?"
Ah! if she could only have answered that question satisfactorily!
"I will be so good, I will disarm him with kindness. I will humour him
in every thing. I will not give him a chance to be angry."
For a while this idea pleased the mind of Mrs. Ellis. But it only
brought a temporary respite to the uneasiness produced by her wrong act.
"I'll tell him just what I have done," said she to herself, as the
dinner hour approached, and Cara began to look for her husband's
return. "He might as well know it now, as in a week; and, besides, it
will give him time to prepare for the bill. Yes, that is what I will
do."
Still, her mind felt troubled. The act was done, and no way of retreat
remained open. The consequences must be met.
The hour for Mr. Ellis to return home at length arrived, and his wife
waited his coming with a feeling of troubled suspense such as she had
rarely, if ever, before experienced. Smiles, ready to be forced to her
countenance, were wreathing themselves in her imagination. She meant to
be "so good," so loving, so considerate. A particular dish of which
he was so fond had been ordered,--it was a month since it had graced
their table.
But time moved on. It was thirty minutes past the dinner hour, and he
was still away. At last Mrs. Ellis gave him up. A full hour had
elapsed, and there was little probability of his return before the
close of business for the day. So she sat down with her children to eat
the meal which long delay had spoiled, and for which she had now but
little appetite.
Wearily passed the afternoon, and, as the usual time for Ellis's
appearance drew near, his wife began to look for his coming with
feelings of unusual concern. Not concern for him, but for herself. She
had pretty well made up her mind to inform him of what she had done,
but shrank from the scene which she had every reason to believe would
follow.
The twilight had just begun to fall, and Mrs. Ellis, with her babe in
her arms, was sitting in one of the parlours, waiting for and thinking
of her husband, when she heard his key in the door. He came in, and
moving along the entry with a quicker step than usual, went up-stairs.
Supposing that, not finding her above, he would come down to the
parlours, Mrs. Ellis waited nearly five minutes. Then she followed him
up-stairs. Not finding him in the nursery, she passed into their
chamber. Here she found him, lying across the bed, on which he had,
evidently, thrown himself under some strong excitement, or abandonment,
of feeling, for his head was not upon a pillow, and he lay perfectly
motionless, as if unconscious of her presence.
"Henry!" She called his name, but he made no answer, nor gave even a
sign.
"Henry! Are you sick?"
There was a slight movement of his body, but no reply.
"Henry! Henry!" Mrs. Ellis spoke in tones of anxiety, as she laid her
hand upon him. "Speak! What is the matter? Are you sick?"
A long deep sigh was the only answer.
"Why don't you speak, Henry?" exclaimed Mrs. Ellis. "You frighten me
dreadfully."
"Don't trouble me just now, if you please," said the wretched man, in a
low, half-whispering voice.
"But what ails you, Henry? Are you sick?"
"Yes."
"How? Where? What can I do for you?"
"Nothing!" was faintly murmured.
By this time, Cara began to feel really alarmed. Leaving the room
hurriedly, she gave the babe she held in her arms to one of her
domestics, and then returned. Bending, now, over her husband, she took
one of his hands, and clasping it tightly, said, in a voice of earnest
affection that went to the heart of Ellis with electric quickness--
"Do, Henry, say what ails you! Can't I get something for you?"
"I'll feel better in a little while," whispered Ellis.
"Let me send for the doctor."
"Oh, no! no! I'm not so sick as that," was answered. "I only feel a
little faint, not having taken any dinner."
"Why did you go without a meal? It is not right to do so. I waited for
you so long, and was so disappointed that you did not come."
There was more of tenderness and wife-like interest in Cara's words and
manner than had been manifested for a long time, and the feelings of
Ellis were touched thereby. Partly raising himself on his elbow, he
replied--
"I know it isn't right; but I was so much engaged!"
The twilight pervading the room was too feeble to give Mrs. Ellis a
distinct view of her husband's countenance. Its true expression,
therefore, was veiled.
"You feel better now, do you?" she inquired tenderly.
"Yes, dear," he answered, slightly pressing the hand she had laid in
his.
"I will order tea on the table immediately."
And Mrs. Ellis left the room. When she returned, he had risen from the
bed, and was sitting in a large chair near one of the windows.
"Are you better, dear?" tenderly inquired Mrs. Ellis.
"Yes, a good deal better," was answered. And the words were truly
spoken; for this unlooked-for, kind, even tender reception, had wrought
an almost instantaneous change. He had come home with a feeling of
despair tugging at his heart. Nothing appeared before him but ruin. Now
the light of hope, feeble though were the rays, came glimmering across
the darkness of his spirit.
"I am glad to hear it!" was the warm response of Cara. "Oh! it is so
wrong for you to neglect your meals. You confine yourself too closely
to business. I wanted you to come home to-day particularly, for I had
prepared for you, just in the way you like it, such a nice dish of
maccaroni."
"It was very thoughtful in you, dear. I wish I had been at home to
enjoy it with you."
Tea being announced, Mrs. Ellis arose and said:
"Come; supper is on the table. You must break your long fast."
"First let me wash my hands and face," returned Ellis, who wished to
gain time, as well as use all the means, to restore his countenance to
a better expression than it wore, ere meeting Cara under the glare of
strong lamp light.
A basin was filled for him by his wife, and, after washing his hands
and face, he left the chamber with her, and went to the dining-room.
Here Cara got a distinct view of her husband's countenance. Many lines
of the passion and suffering written there during that, to him,
ever-to-be-remembered day, were still visible, and, as Cara read them
without comprehending their import, a vague fear came hovering over her
heart. Instantly her thoughts turned to what she had been doing, and
most sincerely did she repent of the act.
"I will confess it to him, this very night," such was her mental
resolution,--"and promise, hereafter never to do aught against his
wishes."
Notwithstanding Ellis had taken no dinner, he had little appetite for
his evening meal; and the concern of his wife was increased on
observing that he merely tasted his food and sipped his tea.
The more than ordinary trouble evinced, as well in the whole manner of
Ellis as in the expression of his face and in the tones of his voice,
oppressed the heart of Cara. She felt that something more than usual
must have occurred to disturb him. Could it be possible that any thing
was wrong in his business? The thought caused a low thrill to tremble
along her nerves. He had frequently spoken of his affairs as not very
prosperous; was always, in fact, making a "sort of a poor mouth." But
all this she had understood as meant for effect--as a cover for his
opposition to her wish to spend. What if it were all as he had
represented?
Such thoughts could not but sober the mind of Mrs. Ellis, and caused
her manner towards her husband to assume an air of tenderness and
concern to which it had too long been a stranger. How quickly was this
felt by Ellis! How gratefully did his heart respond to his wife's
gentler touches on its tensely strung chords!
That evening Henry Ellis spent at home. Not much conversation passed
between him and his wife; for the mind of each was too heavily burdened
with thoughts of its own to leave room for an interchange of ideas. But
the manner of Cara towards her husband was subdued, and even tender;
and he felt it as the grateful earth feels the strength-giving
impression of the gentle rain. Leaving the past, to the future both
their thoughts turned; and both strengthened themselves in good
resolutions.
Cara resolved to be a better wife--to be more considerate and more
yielding towards her husband. And Ellis resolved to abandon, at every
sacrifice the vicious habits he had indulged,--habits which, within a
day or two, had led him aside from the path of safety, and conducted
him to the brink of a precipice, from which he now started back with a
thrilling sense of fear.
More than twenty times during that evening was Cara on the eve of
telling her husband about the carpet. But she shrank from the
confession.
"In the morning I will do it," was her final conclusion; thus putting
off the evil hour. But morning found her no better prepared for the
task.
CHAPTER XVI.
ALL through the night, the mind of Ellis was haunted with troubled
dreams; but, on waking, he felt calm, and good purposes were in his
heart. The manner of Cara still being tender and considerate, he went
forth feeling the strength of her love, and resolving, for her sake,
and the sake of his children, to free himself from his present
entanglements, cost what it would.
Seven hundred dollars was the sum he had lost at the gaming-table and
for over five hundred of this, Carlton held his obligations, payable on
