position, "can't we devise a scheme for worrying her a little? She is
certainly a fair subject. It would be fine sport."
"Yes, it would."
"She evidently thinks Fisher perfection."
"Oh, yes! There never was such a man before! She actually said to
Caroline Lee, who was trying to jest with her a little, that Fisher was
one of the most pure-minded, honourable young men living."
"Oh, dear."
"It is a fact."
"Was she serious?"
"Yes, indeed! Serious as the grave. Caroline was laughing to me about
it. Nearly every one notices the silliness of her conduct, and the
weakness she displays in forever talking about and praising him."
"I would like to run him down a little when she could overhear me, just
for the fun of the thing."
"So would I. Capital! That will do, exactly. We must watch an
opportunity, and if we can get within earshot of her, any time that she
is by herself, we must abuse Fisher right and left, without appearing
to notice that she is listening to what we say, or, indeed, anywhere
near us."
"Right! That's the very thing. It will be capital fun."
Thus, the thoughtless young men, meddling themselves in a matter that
did not concern them, determined upon a very questionable piece of
folly. All that they said of the lovers was exaggeration. It was true
that they did show rather more preference for each other in company
than just accorded with good taste; but this, while it provoked a smile
from the many, irritated only the few.
Clara Grant, notwithstanding the light manner in which the two young
men had spoken of her, was a girl of good sense, good principles, and
deep feeling, She had been several times addressed by young men before
Fisher offered his hand; but, with all their attractions, there were
defects about them, which her habits of close observation enabled her
to see, that caused her to repel their advances, and in two instances
to decline apparently very advantageous offers of marriage. In the
integrity of Fisher's character, she had the most unbounded confidence;
and she really believed, as she had said to Caroline Lee and others,
that he was one of the purest-minded, most honourable young men living.
Judge, then, with what feelings she overheard, about half an hour after
the plan to disturb her peace had been formed, the following
conversation between Mears and his companion, carried on in low tones
and in a confidential manner. She was sitting close to one side of the
folding-doors that communicated between the parlours, and they were in
the adjoining room, concealed from her by the half-partition, yet so
close that every word they uttered was distinctly heard. Her attention
was first arrested by hearing one of them say--
"If she knew Fisher as well as I do."
To which the other responded--
"Yes; or as well as I do. But, poor girl! it isn't expected that she is
to know every thing about young men who visit her. It is better that
she should not."
"Still, I am rather surprised that common report should not have given
her more information about Fisher than she seems to possess."
"So am I. But she'll know him better one of these days."
"I'll warrant you that! Perhaps to her sorrow; though I hope things
will turn out differently from what they now promise. Don't you think
he is pretty well done with his wild oats?"
"Possibly. But time will tell."
"Yes, time proves all things."
Some one joining the young men at this point of their conversation, the
subject was changed. Greatly amused at what they had done, they little
thought how sad the effects of their unguarded words would be.
Five minutes afterwards, the young man named Mears, curious to see how
Clara had been affected by what he knew she must have heard, moved to
another part of the room, in order to observe her without attracting
her attention. But she had left the place where she was sitting. His
eye ranged around the room, but she was nowhere to be seen.
"I'm afraid we've hurt Clara more than we intended," he said, rejoining
his friend. "She has vanished."
"Ah! Where's Fisher?"
"He's at the other end of the room."
"We didn't say any thing against the young man."
"Not in particular. We made no specifications. There was nothing that
she could take hold of."
"No, of course not. But I wonder what is going to be the upshot of the
matter?"
"Nothing very serious, I apprehend."
"No. I suppose she will go home and cry her eyes half out, and then
conclude that, whatever Fisher may have been, he's perfection now. It's
a first-rate joke, isn't it?"
Clara Grant had not only left the parlours, but soon after quietly left
the house, and alone returned to her home. When her lover, shortly
afterwards, searched through the rooms for her, she was nowhere to be
seen.
"Where is Clara?" he asked of one and another. The answer was--
"I saw her here a moment since."
But it was soon very apparent that she was nowhere in the rooms now.
Fisher moved about uneasy for half an hour. Still, not seeing her, he
became anxious lest a sudden illness had caused her to retire from the
company. More particular inquiries were made of the lady who had given
the entertainment. She immediately ascertained for him that Clara was
not in the house. One of the servants reported that a lady had gone
away alone half an hour before. Fisher did not remain a single moment
after receiving this intelligence, but went direct to the house of
Clara's aunt, with whom she lived, and there ascertained that she had
come home and retired to her room without seeing any of the family.
His inquiry whether she were ill, the servant could not answer.
"Have you seen anything of Clara yet?" asked the friend of Mears, with
a smile, as they met about an hour after they had disturbed the peace
of a trusting, innocent-minded girl, "just for the fun of it."
"I have not," replied Mears.
"Where's Fisher?"
"He is gone also."
"Ah, indeed! I'm sorry the matter was taken so seriously by the young
lady. It was only a joke."
"Yes. That was all; and she ought to have known it."
On the next day, Fisher, who had spent a restless night, called to ask
for Clara as early as he could do so with propriety.
"She wishes you to excuse her," said the servant, who had taken up his
name to the young lady.
"Is she not well?" asked Fisher.
"She has not been out of her room this morning. I don't think she is
very well."
The young man retired with a troubled feeling at his heart. In the
evening he called again; but Clara sent him word, as she had done in
the morning, that she wished to be excused.
In the mean time, the young lady was a prey to the most distressing
doubts. What she had heard, vague as it was, fell like ice upon her
heart. She had no reason to question what had been said, for it was, as
far as appeared to her, the mere expression of a fact made in
confidence by friend to friend without there being an object in view.
If any one had come to her and talked to her after that manner, she
would have rejected the allegations indignantly, and confidently
pronounced them false. But they had met her in a shape so unexpected,
and with so much seeming truth, that she was left no alternative but to
believe.
Fisher called a third time; but still Clara declined seeing him. On the
day after this last attempt, he received a note from her in these, to
him, strange words:--
"DEAR SIR:--Since I last met you, I have become satisfied that a
marriage between us cannot prove a happy one. This conclusion is far
more painful to me than it can possibly be to you. You, I trust, will
soon be able to feel coldly towards her whose fickleness, as you will
call it, so soon led her to change her mind; but a life-shadow is upon
my heart. If you can forget me, do so, in justice to yourself. As for
me, I feel that--but why should say this? Charles, do not seek to
change the resolution I have taken, for you cannot; do not ask for
explanations, for I can give none. May you be happier than I can ever
be! Farewell.
"CLARA."
"Madness!" exclaimed Charles Fisher, as he crumpled this letter in his
hand. "Is there no faith in woman?"
He sought no explanation; he made no effort to change her resolution;
he merely returned this brief answer--
"Clara, you are free."
It was quickly known among the circle of their friends that the
engagement between Fisher and Clara had been broken off. Mears and his
friend, it may be supposed, did not feel very comfortable when they
heard this.
"I didn't think the silly girl would take it so seriously," remarked
one to the other.
"No; it was a mere joke."
"But has turned out a very serious one."
"I guess they'll make it up again before long."
"I hope so. Who would have believed it was in her to take the matter so
much at heart, or to act with so much decision and firmness? I really
think better of the girl than I did before, although I pity her from my
heart."
"Hadn't we better make an effort to undo the wrong we have done?"
"And expose ourselves? Oh, no! We must be as still as death on the
subject. It is too serious an affair. We might get ourselves into
trouble."
"True. But I cannot bear to think that others are suffering from an act
of mine."
"It is not a pleasant consciousness, certainly. But still, to confess
what we have done would place us in a very awkward position. In fact,
not for the world would I have an exposure of this little act of folly
take place. It would affect me in a certain quarter--where, I need not
mention to you--in a way that might be exceedingly disagreeable."
"I didn't think of that. Yes, I agree with you that we had best keep
quiet about it. I'm sorry; but it can't be helped now."
And so the matter was dismissed.
No one saw Clara Grant in company for the space of twelve months. When
she did appear, all her old friends were struck with the great change
in her appearance. As for Fisher, he had left the city some months
before, and gone off to a Southern town, where, it was said, he was in
good business.
The cause of estrangement between the lovers remained a mystery to
every one. To all questions on the subject, Clara was silent. But that
she was a sufferer every one could see.
"I wish that girl would fall in love with somebody and get married,"
Mears remarked to his friend, about two years after they had passed off
upon Clara their good joke. "Her pale, quiet, suffering face haunts me
wherever I go."
"So do I. Who could have believed that a mere joke would turn out so
seriously?"
"I wonder if he is married yet?"
"It's doubtful. He appeared to take the matter quite as hard as she
does."
"Well, it's a lesson to me."
"And to me, also."
And, with this not very satisfactory conclusion, the two friends
dropped the subject. Both, since destroying, by a few words spoken in
jest, the happiness of a loving couple, had wooed and won the maidens
of their choice, and were now married. Both, up to this time, had
carefully concealed from their wives the act of which they had been
guilty.
After returning home from a pleasant company, one evening, at which
Clara was present, the wife of Mears said to him--
"You did not seem to enjoy yourself to-night. Are you not well?"
"Oh, yes; I feel quite well," returned Mears.
"Why, then, did you look so sober?"
"I was not aware that I looked more so than usual."
"You did, then. And you look sober now. There must be some cause for
this. What is it, dear?"
Mears was by no means ignorant of the fact that he felt sober. The
presence of Clara distressed him more, instead of less, the oftener he
met her. The question of his wife made him feel half inclined to tell
her the truth. After thinking for a moment, he said--
"I have felt rather graver than usual to-night. Something brought to my
recollection, too vividly, a little act of folly that has been attended
with serious consequences."
His wife looked slightly alarmed.
"It was only a joke--just done for the fun of the thing; but it was
taken, much to my surprise, seriously. I was innocent of any desire to
wound; but a few light words have made two hearts wretched."
Mrs. Mears looked at her husband with surprise. He continued--
"You remember the strange misunderstanding that took place between
Clara Grant and young Fisher, about two years ago?"
"Very well. Poor Clara has never been like herself since that time."
"I was the cause of it."
"You!" said the wife, in astonishment.
"Yes. Clara used to make herself quite conspicuous by the way she acted
towards Fisher, with whom she was under an engagement of marriage. She
hardly saw anybody in company but him. And, besides, she made bold to
declare that he was about as near to perfection as it was possible for
a young man to come. She was always talking about him to her young
female friends, and praising him to the skies. Her silly speeches were
every now and then reported, much to the amusement of young men to
whose ears they happened to find their way. One evening, at a large
party, she was, as usual, anchored by the side of her lover, and
showing off her fondness for him in rather a ridiculous manner. A young
friend and myself, who were rather amused at this, determined, in a
thoughtless moment, that we would, just for the fun of the thing, run
Fisher down in a confidential undertone to each other, yet loud enough
for her to hear us, if a good opportunity for doing so offered. Before
long, we noticed her sitting alone in a corner near one of the
folding-doors. We managed to get near, yet so as not to appear to
notice her, and then indulged in some light remarks about her lover,
mainly to the effect that if his sweetheart knew him as well as we did,
she might not think him quite so near perfection as she appeared to do.
Shortly afterwards, I searched through the rooms for her in vain. From
that night, the lovers never again met. Clara refused to see Fisher
when he called on her the next day, and shortly afterwards requested
him, in writing, to release her from her marriage-contract, without
giving any reason for her change of mind."
"Henry," exclaimed Mrs. Mears, her voice and countenance expressing the
painful surprise she felt, "why did you not immediately repair the
wrong you had done?"
"How could I, without exposing myself, and causing perhaps a serious
collision between me and Fisher?"
"You should have braved every consequence," replied Mrs. Mears, firmly,
"rather than permitted two loving hearts to remain severed, when a word
from you would have reunited them. How could you have hesitated a
moment as to what was right to do? But it may not be too late yet.
Clara must know the truth."
"Think what may be the consequence," said Nears.
"Think, rather, what have been the consequences," was the wife's
reply.
It was in vain that Mears argued with his wife about the policy of
letting the matter rest where it was. She was a woman, and could only
feel how deeply Clara had been wronged, as well as the necessity for an
immediate reparation of that wrong. For more than an hour, she argued
the matter with her husband who finally consented that she should see
Clara, and correct the serious error under which she had been
labouring. Early on the next day, Mrs. Mears called upon the unhappy
girl. A closer observation of her face than she had before made
revealed deep marks of suffering.
"And all this 'for the fun of it!'" she could not help saying to
herself with a feeling of sorrow. After conversing a short time with
Clara, Mrs. Mears said--
"I heard something, last night, so nearly affecting your peace, that I
have lost no time in seeing you."
"What is that?" asked Clara, a flush passing over her face.
"Two years ago, you were engaged in marriage to Mr. Fisher?"
Clara made no reply, but the flush faded from her face and her lips
quivered slightly for a moment.
"From hearing two persons who were conversing about him make
disparaging remarks, you were led to break off that engagement."
The face of Clara grew still paler, but she continued silent.
"By one of them, I am authorized to tell you that all they said was in
mere jest. They knew you could hear what they said, and made the
remarks purposely for your ear, in order to have a little sport. They
never dreamed of your taking it so seriously."
A deep groan heaved the bosom of Clara; her head fell back, and her
body drooped nervelessly. Mrs. Mears extended her hands quickly and
saved her from falling to the floor.
"This, too, 'for the fun of it!'" she said to herself, bitterly, as she
lifted the inanimate body of the poor girl in her arms, and laid it
upon the sofa.
Without summoning any of the family, Mrs. Mears made use of every
effort in her power to restore the circle of life. In this she was at
last successful. When the mind of Clara had become again active, and
measurably calm, she said to her--
"It was a cruel jest, and the consequences have been most painful. But
I trust it is not yet too late to repair the wrong thus done, although
no compensation can be made for the suffering to which you have been
subjected."
"It is too late, Mrs. Mears--too late!" replied Clara, in a mournful
voice.
"Say not so, my dear young friend."
