
"Mother, I want ten dollars!"

The face of the young man was flushed, and his eyes unsteady. It was
plain, at a glance, that he had been drinking.

Mrs. Darlington looked at him for a moment, and then, before Edith had
seen the contents of Miriam's letter, placed it in his hands.

"What does this mean?" he exclaimed, after running his eyes over it
hurriedly. "Miriam gone off with that Burton!"

The letter dropped upon the floor, and Henry clasped his hands together
with a gesture of pain.

"Who is Mr. Burton? What do you know of him?" asked Edith.

"I know him to be a man of the vilest character, and a gambler into the
bargain! Rich! Gracious heaven!"

And the young man struck his hands against his forehead, and glanced
wildly from his pale-faced mother to his paler sister.

"And you knew the character of this man, Henry!" said Mrs. Darlington.
There was a smiting rebuke in her tone. "You knew him, and did not make
the first effort to protect your young, confiding, devoted sister!
Henry Darlington, the blood of her murdered happiness will never be
washed from the skirts of your garments!"

"Mother! mother!" exclaimed the young man, putting up his hands to
enforce the deprecation in his voice, "do not speak so, or I will go
beside myself! But where is she? When did she go? I will fly in
pursuit. It may not yet be too late."

"Your Uncle Hiram saw her in a carriage with Mr. Burton, on their way,
as he supposed, to the steamboat landing. He has gone to intercept
them, if possible."

Henry drew his watch from his pocket, and, as he glanced at the time,
sank into a chair, murmuring, in a low voice of anguish--

"It is too late!"



CHAPTER IX.

WHEN Mr. Ellis left the house of his sister, he called a carriage that
happened to be going by, and reached the wharf at Walnut street in time
to spring on board of the steamboat just as the plank was drawn in at
the gangway. He then passed along the boat until he came to the ladies'
cabin, which he entered. Almost the first persons he saw were Burton
and his niece. The eyes of Miriam rested upon him at the same moment,
and she drew her veil quickly, hoping that she was not recognised.
Hiram Ellis did not hesitate a moment, but, walking up to where Miriam
sat, stooped to her ear, and said, in a low, anxious voice--

"Miriam, are you married yet?"

Miriam did not reply.

"Speak, child. Are you married?"

"No," came in a half audible murmur.

"Thank God! thank God!" fell in low accents from the lips of Mr. Ellis.

"Who are you, sir?" now spoke up Burton, whom surprise had till now
kept silent. There was a fiery gleam in his eyes.

"The uncle of this dear girl, and one who knows you well," was
answered, in a stern voice. "Knows you to be unworthy to touch even the
hem of her garment."

A dark scowl lowered upon the face of Burton. But Mr. Ellis returned
his looks of anger glance for glance. Miriam was in terror at this
unexpected scene, and trembled like an aspen. Instinctively she shrank
towards her uncle.

Two or three persons, who sat near, were attracted by the excitement
visible in the manner of all three, although they heard nothing that
was said. Burton saw that they were observed, and, bending towards Mr.
Ellis, said--

"This, sir, is no place for a scene. A hundred eyes will soon be upon
us."

"More than one pair of which," replied Mr. Ellis, promptly, "will
recognise in you a noted gambler, who has at least one wife living, if
no more."

As if stung by a serpent, Burton started to his feet and retired from
the cabin.

"Oh, uncle! can what you say of this man be true?" asked Miriam, with a
blanching face.

"Too true, my dear child! too true! He is one of the worst of men.
Thank God that you have escaped the snare of the fowler!"

"Yes, thank God! thank God!" came trembling from the lips of the maiden.

Mr. Ellis then drew his niece to a part of the cabin where they could
converse without being overheard by other passengers on board of the
boat. To his inquiry into the reasons for so rash an act, Miriam gave
her uncle an undisguised account of her mother's distressed condition,
and touchingly portrayed the anguish of mind which had accompanied her
reluctant assent to the offer of Burton.

"And all this great sacrifice was on your mother's account?" said Mr.
Ellis.

"All! all! He agreed to settle upon her the sum of two thousand dollars
a year, if I would become his wife. This would have made the family
comfortable."

"And you most wretched. Better, a thousand times better, have gone down
to your grave, Miriam, than become the wife of that man. But for the
providential circumstance of my seeing you in the carriage with him,
all would have been lost. Surely, you could not have felt for him the
least affection."

"Oh, uncle! you can never know what a fearful trial I have passed
through. Affection! It was, instead, an intense repugnance. But, for my
mother's sake, I was prepared to make any sacrifice consistent with
honour."

"Of all others, my dear child," said Mr. Ellis, with much feeling, "a
sacrifice of this kind is the worst. It is full of evil consequences
that cannot be enumerated, and scarcely imagined. You had no affection
for this man, and yet, in the sight of Heaven, you were going solemnly
to vow that you would love and cherish him through life!"

A shudder ran through the frame of Miriam, which being perceived by Mr.
Ellis, he said--

"Well may you shudder, as you stand looking down the awful abyss into
which you were about plunging. You can see no bottom, and you would
have found none. There is no condition in this life, Miriam, so
intensely wretched as that of a pure-minded, true-hearted woman united
to a man whom she not only cannot love, but from whom every instinct of
her better nature turns with disgust. And this would have been your
condition. Ah me! in what a fearful evil was this error of your mother,
in opening a boarding-house, about involving her child! I begged her
not to do so. I tried to show her the folly of such a step. But she
would not hear me. And now she is in great trouble?"

"Oh yes, uncle. All the money she had when she began is spent; and what
she now receives from boarders but little more than half pays expenses."

"I knew it would be so. But my word was not regarded. Your mother is no
more fitted to keep a boarding-house than a child ten years old. It
takes a woman who has been raised in a different school, who has
different habits, and a different character."

"But what can we do, uncle?" said Miriam.

"What are you willing to do?"

"I am willing to do any thing that is right for me to do."

"All employment, Miriam, are honourable so far as they are useful,"
said Mr. Ellis, seriously, "though false pride tries to make us think
differently. And, strangely enough, this false pride drives too many,
in the choice of employments, to the hardest, least honourable, and
least profitable. Hundreds of women resort to keeping boarders as a
means of supporting their families when they might do it more easily,
with less exposure and greater certainty, in teaching, if qualified,
fine needle-work, or even in the keeping of a store for the sale of
fancy and useful articles. But pursuits of the latter kind they reject
as too far below them, and, in vainly attempting to keep up a certain
appearance, exhaust what little means they have. A breaking up of the
family, and a separation of its members, follow the error in too many
cases."

Miriam listened to this in silence. Her uncle paused.

"What can I do to aid my mother?" the young girl asked.

"Could you not give music lessons?"

"I am too young, I fear, for that. Too little skilled in the principles
of music," replied Miriam.

"If competent, would you object to teach?"

"Oh, no. Most gladly would I enter upon the task, did it promise even a
small return. How happy would it make me if I could lighten, by my own
labour, the burdens that press so heavily upon our mother!"

"And Edith. How does she feel on this subject?"

"As I do. Willing for any thing; ready for any change from our present
condition."

"Take courage, then, my dear child, take courage," said the uncle, in a
cheerful voice. "There is light ahead."

"Oh, how distressed my mother will be when she finds I am gone!" sighed
Miriam, after a brief silence, in which her thoughts reverted to the
fact of her absence from home. "When can we get back again?"

"Not before ten o'clock to-night. We must go on as far as Bristol, and
then return by the evening line from New York."

Another deep sigh heaved the troubled bosom of Miriam, as she uttered,
in a low voice, speaking to herself--

"My poor mother! Her heart will be broken!"



CHAPTER X.

MEANWHILE the hours passed with the mother, sister, and brother in the
most agonizing suspense. Henry, who had been drawn away into evil
company by two young men who boarded in the house, was neglecting his
studies, and pressing on towards speedy ruin. To drinking and
association with the vicious, he now added gaming. Little did his
mother dream of the perilous ways his feet were treading. On this
occasion he had come in, as has been seen, with a demand for ten
dollars. When he left home in the morning, it was in company with the
young man named Barling. Instead of his going to the office where he
was studying, or his companion to his place of business, they went to a
certain public house in Chestnut Street, where they first drank at the
bar.

"Shall we go up into the billiard-room?" said Barling, as they turned
from the white marble counter at which they had been drinking.

"I don't care. Have you time to play a game?" replied Henry.

"Oh, yes. We're not very busy at the store to-day."

So the two young men ascended to the billiard-room, and spent a couple
of hours there. Both played very well, and were pretty equally matched.

From the billiard-room, they proceeded to another part of the house,
more retired, and there, at the suggestion of Barling, tried a game at
cards for a small stake. Young Darlington was loser at first, but,
after a time, regained his losses and made some advance on his
fellow-player. Hours passed in playing and drinking; and finally,
Darlington, whose good fortune did not continue, parted with every
sixpence.

"Lend me a dollar," said he as the last game went against him.

The dollar was lent, and the playing renewed. Thus it went on, hour
after hour, neither of the young men stopping to eat any thing, though
both drank too frequently. At last, Darlington was ten dollars in debt
to Barling, who, on being asked for another loan, declined any further
advances. Stung by the refusal, Henry said to him, rising as he spoke--

"Do you mean by this that you are afraid I will never return the money?"

"Oh, no," replied Barling. "But I don't want to play against you any
longer. Your luck is bad."

"I can beat you," said Darlington.

"You hav'n't done it to-day certainly," answered Barling.

"Will you wait here a quarter of an hour?" asked Henry.

"For what?"

"I want to pay you off and begin again. I am going for some money."

"Yes, I'll wait," replied the young man.

"Very well. I'll be back in a few minutes."

It was for this work and for this purpose that Henry Darlington came to
his mother just at the moment the absence of Miriam and her purpose in
leaving had been discovered. The effect of the painful news on the
young man has already been described. From the time he became aware of
the fact that Miriam had gone away with Burton for the purpose of
becoming his wife, until ten o'clock at night, he was in an agony of
suspense. As the uncle could not be found at the office where he wrote,
nor at the house where he boarded, it was concluded that he had reached
the boat before its departure, and gone on with the fugitives in the
train to New York. Nothing was therefore left for the distressed family
but to await his return.

How anxiously passed the hours! At tea time Edith only made her
appearance. Henry and his mother remained in the chamber of the latter.
As for the young man, he was cast down and distressed beyond measure,
vexing his spirit with self-accusations that were but too well founded.

"Oh, mother!" said he, while they were alone, starting up from where he
had been sitting with his face buried in his hands--"oh, mother! what
evils have come through this opening of our house, for strangers to
enter! Miriam, our sweet, gentle, pure-hearted Miriam, has been lured
away by one of the worst of men; and!"--the young man checked himself a
moment or two, and then continued--"and I have been drawn away from
right paths into those that lead to sure destruction. Mother, I have
been in great danger. Until Barling and Mason came into our family, I
was guiltless of any act that could awaken a blush of shame upon my
cheek. Oh, that I had never met them!"

