and hardly speaking the words through thick tears. Her head
was down, and they came fast. Charlton stood abashed for a
minute.
"You sha'n't do so, Fleda," said he gently, endeavouring to
raise her  "you have tired yourself with this miserable work!
Come to the window  you have got low-spirited, but, I am
sure, without reason about Hugh  but you shall set me about
what you will; you are right, I dare say, and I am wrong; but
don't make me think myself a brute, and I will do anything you
please."
He had raised her up, and made her lean upon him. Fleda wiped
her eyes and tried to smile.
"I will do anything that will please you, Fleda."
"It is not to please me," she answered, meekly.
"I would not have spoken a word last night if I had known it
would have grieved you so."
"I am sorry you should have none but so poor a reason for
doing right," said Fleda, gently.
"Upon my word, I think you are about as good reason as anybody
need have," said Charlton.
She put her hand upon his arm, and looked up  such a look of
pure rebuke, as carried to his mind the full force of the
words she did not speak,  "Who art thou that carest for a
worm which shall die, and forgettest the Lord thy Maker!"
Charlton's eyes fell. Fleda turned gently away, and began to
mend the fire. He stood watching her for a little.
"What do you think of me, Fleda?" he said at length.
"A little wrong-headed," answered Fleda, giving him a glance
and a smile. "I don't think you are very bad."
"If you will go with me, Fleda, you shall make what you please
of me."
He spoke half in jest, half in earnest, and did not himself
know at the moment which way he wished Fleda to take it. But
she had no notion of any depth in his words.
"A hopeless task!" she answered, lightly, shaking her head, as
she got down on her knees to blow the fire;  "I am afraid it
is too much for me. I have been trying to mend you ever since
you came, and I cannot see the slightest change for the
better."
"Where is the bellows?" said Charlton, in another tone.
"It has expired  its last breath," said Fleda. "In other
words, it has lost its nose."
"Well, look here," said he, laughing and pulling her away 
"you will stand a fair chance of losing your face if you put
it in the fire. You sha'n't do it. Come and show me where to
find the scattered parts of that old wind instrument, and I
will see if it cannot be persuaded to play again."
CHAPTER XXV.
"I dinna ken what I should want
If I could get but a man."
SCOTCH BALLAD.
Captain Rossitur did no work at the saw-mill. But Fleda's
words had not fallen to the ground. He began to show care for
his fellow-creatures in getting the bellows mended; his next
step was to look to his gun; and from that time, so long as he
stayed, the table was plentifully supplied with all kinds of
game the season and the country could furnish. Wild ducks and
partridges banished pork and bacon even from memory; and Fleda
joyfully declared she would not see another omelette again
till she was in distress.
While Charlton was still at home came a very urgent invitation
from Mrs. Evelyn, that Fleda should pay them a long visit in
New York, bidding her care for no want of preparation, but
come and make it there. Fleda demurred, however, on that very
score. But before her answer was written another missive came
from Dr. Gregory, not asking so much as demanding her
presence, and enclosing a fifty dollar bill, for which he said
he would hold her responsible till she had paid him with, not
her own hands, but her own lips. There was no withstanding the
manner of this entreaty. Fleda packed up some of Mrs.
Rossitur's laid-by silks, to be refreshed with an air of
fashion, and set off with Charlton at the end of his furlough.
To her simple spirit of enjoyment the weeks ran fast; and all
manner of novelties and kindnesses helped them on. It was a
time of cloudless pleasure. But those she had left thought it
long. She wrote them how delightfully she kept house for the
old doctor, whose wife had long been dead, and how joyously
she and the Evelyns made time fly And every pleasure she felt
awoke almost as strong a throb in the hearts at home. But they
missed her, as Barby said, "dreadfully;" and she was most
dearly welcomed when she came back. It was just before New
Year.
For half an hour there was most gladsome use of eyes and
tongues. Fleda had a great deal to tell them.
"How well  how well you are looking, dear Fleda!" said her
aunt, for the third or fourth time.
"That's more than I can say for you and Hugh, aunt Lucy. What
have you been doing to yourselves?"
"Nothing new," they said, as her eye went from one to the
other.
"I guess you have wanted me!" said Fleda, shaking her head, as
she kissed them both again.
"I guess we have," said Hugh, "but don't fancy we have grown
thin upon the want."
"But where's uncle Rolf? you didn't tell me."
"He is gone to look after those lands in Michigan."
"In Michigan!  When did he go?"
"Very soon after you."
"And you didn't let me know!  Oh, why didn't you? How lonely
you must have been!"
"Let you know, indeed!" said Mrs. Rossitur, wrapping her in
her arms again;  "Hugh and I counted every week that you
stayed, with more pleasure each one."
"I understand!" said Fleda, laughing under her aunt's kisses.
"Well, I am glad I am at home again to take care of you. I see
you can't get along without me."
"People have been very kind, Fleda," said Hugh.
"Have they?"
"Yes  thinking we were desolate, I suppose. There has been no
end to aunt Miriam's goodness and pleasantness."
"Oh, aunt Miriam, always!" said Fleda. "And Seth."
"Catherine Douglass has been up twice to ask if her mother
could do anything for us; and Mrs. Douglass sent us once a
rabbit, and once a quantity of wild pigeons that Earl had
shot. Mother and I lived upon pigeons for I don't know how
long. Barby wouldn't eat 'em  she said she liked pork better;
but I believe she did it on purpose."
"Like enough," said Fleda, smiling, from her aunt's arms where
she still lay.
"And Seth has sent you plenty of your favourite hickory nuts,
very fine ones; and I gathered butternuts enough for you near
home."
"Everything is for me," said Fleda. "Well, the first thing I
do shall be to make some butternut candy for you. You wont
despise that Mr. Hugh?"
Hugh smiled at her, and went on.
"And your friend Mr. Olmney has sent us a corn-basket fill of
the superbest apples you ever saw. He has one tree of the
finest in Queechy, he says."
"My friend!" said Fleda, colouring a little.
"Well, I don't know whose he is, if he isn't yours," said
Hugh. "And even the Finns sent us some fish that their brother
had caught, because, they said, they had more than they
wanted. And Dr. Quackenboss sent us a goose and a turkey. We
didn't like to keep them, but we were afraid, if we sent them
back, it would not be understood."
"Send them back!" said Fleda. "That would never do! All
Queechy would have rung with it."
"Well, we didn't," said Hugh. "But so we sent one of them to
Barby's old mother, for Christmas."
"Poor Dr. Quackenboss!" said Fleda. "That man has as near as
possible killed me two or three times. As for the others, they
are certainly the oddest of all the finny tribes. I must go
out and see Barby for a minute."
It was a good many minutes, however, before she could get free
to do any such thing.
"You han't lost no flesh," said Barby, shaking hands with her
anew. "What did they think of Queechy keep, down in York?"
"I don't know  I didn't ask them," said Fleda. "How goes the
world with you, Barby?"
"I'm mighty glad you are come home, Fleda," said Barby,
lowering her voice.
"Why?" said Fleda, in a like tone.
"I guess I aint all that's glad of it," Miss Elster went on,
with a glance of her bright eye.
"I guess not," said Fleda, reddening a little  "but what is
the matter?"
"There's two of our friends ha'n't made us but one visit
apiece since  oh, ever since some time in October!"
"Well, never mind the people," said Fleda. "Tell me what you
were going to say."
"And Mr. Olmney," said Barby, not minding her, "he's took and
sent us a great basket chock full of apples. Now, wa'n't that
smart of him, when he knowed there wa'n't no one here that
cared about 'em ?"
"They are a particularly fine kind," said Fleda.
"Did you hear about the goose and turkey?"
"Yes," said Fleda, laughing.
"The doctor thinks he has done the thing just about right,
this time, I 'spect. He had ought to take out a patent right
for his invention. He'd feel spry if he knowed who ate one on
'em."
"Never mind the doctor, Barby. Was this what you wanted to see
me for?"
"No," said Barby, changing her tone. "I'd give something it
was. I've been all but at my wit's end; for you know, Mis'
Rossitur aint no hand about anything  I couldn't say a word
to her; and ever since he went away, we have been just winding
ourselves up. I thought I should clear out, when Mis' Rossitur
said, maybe you wa'n't a-coming till next week."
"But what is it, Barby? what is wrong?"
"There ha'n't been anything right, to my notions, for a long
spell," said Barby, wringing out her dish-cloth hard, and
flinging it down, to give herself uninterruptedly to talk;
"but now you see, Didenhover, nor none of the men, never comes
near the house to do a chore; and there aint wood to last
three days; and Hugh aint fit to cut it if it was piled up in
the yard; and there aint the first stick of it out of the
woods yet."
Fleda sat down, and looked very thoughtfully into the fire.
"He had ought to ha' seen to it afore he went away; but he
ha'n't done it, and there it is."
"Why, who takes care of the cows?" said Fleda.
"Oh, never mind the cows," said Barby, "they aint suffering 
I wish we was as well off as they be; but I guess, when he
went away, he made a hole in our pockets for to mend his'n. I
don't say he hadn't ought to ha' done it, but we've been
pretty short ever sen, Fleda  we're in the last bushel of
flour, and there aint but a handful of corn meal, and mighty
little sugar, white or brown. I did say something to Mis'
Rossitur, but all the good it did was to spoil her appetite, I
s'pose; and if there's grain in the floor, there aint nobody
to carry it to mill  nor to thrash it  nor a team to draw
it, fur's I know."
"Hugh cannot cut wood," said Fleda, "nor drive to mill either,
in this weather."
"I could go to mill," said Barby, "now you're to hum; but
that's only the beginning, and it's no use to try to do
everything  flesh and blood must stop somewhere."
"No, indeed!" said Fleda. "We must have somebody immediately."
"That's what I had fixed upon," said Barby. "If you could get
hold o' some young feller that wa'n't sot up with an idee that
he was a grown man and too big to be told, I'd just clap to
and fix that little room up-stairs for him, and give him his
victuals here, and we'd have some good of him; instead o'
having him streaking off just at the minute when he'd ought to
be along."
"Who is there we could get, Barby?"
"I don't know," said Barby; "but they say there is never a
nick that there aint a jog some place; so I guess it can be
made out. I asked Mis' Plumfield, but she didn't know anybody
that was out of work; nor Seth Plumfield. I'll tell you who
does  that is, if there is anybody  Mis' Douglass. She keeps
hold. of one end of most everybody's affairs, I tell her.
Anyhow, she's a good hand to go to."
"I'll go there at once," said Fleda. "Do you know anything
about making maple sugar, Barby?"
"That's the very thing," exclaimed Barby, ecstatically.
"There's lots o' sugar-maples on the farm, and it's murder to
let them go to loss; and they ha'n't done us a speck o' good
ever since I come here. And in your grandfather's time, they
used to make barrels and barrels. You and me and Hugh, and
somebody else we'll have, we could clap to and make as much
sugar and molasses in a week as would last us till spring come
round again. There's no sense into it All we'd want would be
to borrow a team some place. I had all that in my head long
ago. If we could see the last of that man, Didenhover, oncet,
I'd take hold of the plough myself, and see if I couldn't make
a living out of it. I don't believe the world would go now,
Fleda, if it wa'n't for women. I never see three men, yet,
that didn't try me more than they were worth."
"Patience, Barby!" said Fleda, smiling. "Let us take things
quietly."
"Well, I declare, I'm beat, to see how you take 'em," said
Barby, looking at her lovingly.
"Don't you know why, Barby?"
"I s'pose I do," said Barby, her face softening still more 
"or I can guess."
"Because I know that all these troublesome things will be
managed in the best way, and by my best Friend, and I know
that He will let none of them hurt me. I am sure of it  isn't
that enough to keep me quiet?"
Fleda's eyes were filling, and Barby looked away from them.
"Well, it beats me," she said, taking up her dish-cloth again,
"why you should have anything to trouble you. I can understand
wicked folks being plagued, but I can't see the sense of the
good ones."
"Troubles are to make good people better, Barby."
"Well," said Barby, with a very odd mixture of real feeling
and seeming want of it, "it's a wonder I never got religion,
for I will say that all the decent people I ever see were of
that kind,  Mis' Rossitur aint, though, is she?"
"No," said Fleda, a pang crossing her at the thought that all
her aunt's loveliness must tell directly and heavily in this
case to lighten religion's testimony. It was that thought, and
no other, which saddened her brow as she went back into the
other room.
"Troubles already!" said Mrs. Rossitur. "You will be sorry you
have come back to them, dear."
"No, indeed," said Fleda, brightly; "I am very glad I have
come home. We will try and manage the troubles, aunt Lucy."
There was no doing anything that day, but the very next
afternoon Fleda and Hugh walked down through the snow to Mrs.
Douglass's. It was a long walk and a cold one, and the snow
was heavy; but the pleasure of being together made up for it
all. It was a bright walk, too, in spite of everything.
In a most thrifty-looking well-painted farm-house, lived Mrs.
Douglass.
"Why, 'taint you, is it'?" she said, when she opened the door
 "Catharine said it was, and I said I guessed it wa'n't, for
I reckoned you had made up your mind not to come and see me at
all. How do you do?"
The last sentence in the tone of hearty and earnest
hospitality. Fleda made her excuses.
"Ay, ay  I can understand all that just as well as if you
said it. I know how much it means, too. Take off your hat."
Fleda said she could not stay, and explained her business.
"So you ha'n't come to see me, after all? Well, now, take off
your hat 'cause I wont have anything to say to you till you
do. I'll give you supper right away."
"But I have left my aunt alone, Mrs. Douglass; and the
afternoons are so short now, it would be dark before we could
get home."
"Serve her right for not coming along! and you sha'n't walk
home in the dark, for Earl will harness the team, and carry
you home like a streak  the horses have nothing to do. Come,
you sha'n't go."
And as Mrs. Douglass laid violent hands on her bonnet, Fleda
thought best to submit. She was presently rewarded with the
promise of the very person she wanted  a boy, or young man,
