can do nothing but fire a salute, instead of demolishing her."
"Can't you!" said Fleda. "I am sure many a time I have felt as
if you had left me nothing but my colours."
"Except your prizes, my dear. I am sure I don't know about
your being a friend, either, for I have observed that you
engage English and American alike."
"She is getting up her colours now," said Mrs. Evelyn, in mock
gravity  "you call tell what she is."
"Blood-red!" said Constance. "A pirate!  I thought so," she
exclaimed, with an ecstatic gesture. "I shall make it my
business to warn everybody."
"Oh, Constance!" said Fleda, burying her face in her hands.
But they all laughed.
"Fleda, my dear, I would box her ears," said Mrs. Evelyn,
commanding herself. It is a mere envious insinuation  I have
always understood those were the most successful colours
carried."
"Dear Mrs. Evelyn!" 
"My dear Fleda, that is not a hot roll  you shan't eat it 
take this. Florence, give her a piece of the bacon  Fleda, my
dear, it is good for the digestion  you must try it.
Constance was quite mistaken in supposing yours were those
obnoxious colours  there is too much white with the red  it
is more like a very different flag."
"Like what, then, Mamma!" said Constance; "a good American
would have blue in it."
"You may keep the American yourself," said her mother.
"Only," said Fleda, trying to recover herself, "there is a
slight irregularity; with you the stars are blue and the
ground white."
"My dear little Fleda," exclaimed Constance, jumping up, and
capering round the table to kiss her, "you are too delicious
for anything; and in future I will be blind to your colours,
which is a piece of self-denial I am sure nobody else will
practise."
"Mamma," said Edith, "what are you all talking about? Can't
Constance sit down and let Fleda eat her breakfast?"
"Sit down, Constance, and eat your breakfast."
"I will do it, Mamma, out of consideration for the bacon.
Nothing else would move me."
"Are you going to Mrs. Decatur's to-night, Fleda?"
"No, Edith, I believe not."
"I'm very glad; then there'll be somebody at home. But why
don't you?"
"I think, on the whole, I had rather not."
"Mamma," said Constance, "you have done very wrong in
permitting such a thing. I know just how it will be. Mr. Thorn
and Mr. Stackpole will make indefinite voyages of discovery
round Mrs. Decatur's rooms, and then, having a glimmering
perception that the light of Miss Ringgan's eyes is in another
direction, they will sheer off; and you will presently see
them come sailing blandly in, one after the other, and cast
anchor for the evening; when, to your extreme delight, Mr.
Stackpole and Miss Ringgan will immediately commence fighting.
I shall stay at home to see!" exclaimed Constance, with little
bounds of delight up and down upon her chair, which this time
afforded her the additional elasticity of springs; "I will not
go. I am persuaded how it will be, and I would not miss it for
anything."
"Dear Constance," said Fleda, unable to help laughing through
all her vexation, "please do not talk so. You know very well
Mr. Stackpole only comes to see your mother."
"He was here last night," said Constance, in an extreme state
of delight, "with all the rest of your admirers, ranged in the
hall, with their hats in a pile at the foot of the staircase,
as a token of their determination not to go till you came
home; and, as they could not be induced to come up to the
drawing-room, Mr. Evelyn was obliged to go down, and with some
difficulty persuaded them to disperse."
Fleda was by this time in a state of indecision betwixt crying
and laughing, assiduously attentive to her breakfast.
"Mr. Carleton asked me if you would go to ride with him again
the other day, Fleda," said Mrs. Evelyn, with her face of
delighted mischief, "and I excused you, for I thought you
would thank me for it."
"Mamma," said Constance, "the mention of that name rouses all
the bitter feelings I am capable of. My dear Fleda, we have
been friends; but if I see you abstracting my English rose "
"Look at those roses behind you!" said Fleda.
The young lady turned and sprang at the word, followed by both
her sisters; and for some moments nothing but a hubbub of
exclamations filled the air.
"Joe, you are enchanting! But did you ever see such flowers?
Oh, those rose-buds!"
"And these camellias," said Edith; "look, Florence, how they
are cut  with such splendid long stems!"
"And the roses, too  all of them  see, Mamma, just cut from
the bushes, with the buds all left on, and immensely long
stems! Mamma, these must have cost an immensity!"
"That is what I call a bouquet," said Fleda, fain to leave the
table, too, and draw near the tempting show in Florence's
hand.
"This is the handsomest you have had all winter, Florence,"
said Edith.
"Handsomest! I never saw anything like it. I shall wear some
of these to-night, Mamma."
"You are in a great hurry to appropriate it," said Constance;
"how do you know but it is mine?"
"Which of us is it for, Joe?"
"Say it is mine, Joe, and I will vote you  the best article
of your kind," said Constance, with an inexpressible glance at
Fleda.
"Who brought it, Joe?" said Mrs. Evelyn.
"Yes, Joe, who brought it? where did it come from, Joe?" Joe
had hardly a chance to answer.
"I really couldn't say, Miss Florence; the man wasn't known to
me."
"But did he say it was for Florence or for me?"
"No, Ma'am  he "
"Which did he say it was for?"
"He didn't say it was either for Miss Florence or for you,
Miss Constance; he "
"But didn't he say who sent it?"
"No, Ma'am. It's "
"Mamma, here is a white moss that is beyond everything! with
two of the most lovely buds. Oh!" said Constance, clasping her
hands, and whirling about the room in comic ecstasy, "I
sha'n't survive it if I cannot find out where it is from."
"How delicious the scent of these tea-roses is!" said Fleda.
"You ought not to mind the snow-storm to-day, after this,
Florence. I should think you would be perfectly happy."
"I shall be, if I can contrive to keep them fresh to wear to-
night. Mamma, how sweetly they would dress me!"
"They're a great deal too good to be wasted so," said Mrs.
Evelyn; "I sha'n't let you do it."
"Mamma! it wouldn't take any of them at all for my hair, and
the bouquet de corsage, too; there'd be thousands left. Well,
Joe, what are you waiting for?"
"I didn't say," said Joe, looking a good deal blank and a
little afraid  "I should have said  that the bouquet  is "
"What is it?"
"It is  I believe, Ma'am  the man said it was for Miss
Ringgan."
"For me!" exclaimed Fleda, her cheeks forming instantly the
most exquisite commentary on the gift that the giver could
have desired. She took in her hand the superb bunch of flowers
from which the fingers of Florence unclosed as if it had been
an icicle.
"Why didn't you say so before?" she inquired sharply; but the
"fowling-piece" had wisely disappeared.
"I am very glad!" exclaimed Edith. "They have had plenty all
winter, and you haven't had one. I am very glad it is yours,
Fleda."
But such a shadow had come upon every other face that Fleda's
pleasure was completely overclouded. She smelled at her roses,
just ready to burst into tears, and wishing sincerely that
they had never come.
"I am afraid, my dear Fleda," said Mrs. Evelyn, quietly going
on with her breakfast, "that there is a thorn somewhere among
those flowers."
Fleda was too sure of it; but not by any means the one Mrs.
Evelyn intended.
"He never could have got half those from his own green-house,
Mamma," said Florence, "if he had cut every rose that was in
it; and he isn't very free with his knife, either."
"I said nothing about anybody's greenhouse," said Mrs. Evelyn,
"though I don't suppose there is more than one Lot in the city
they could have come from."
"Well," said Constance, settling herself back in her chair and
closing her eyes, "I feel extinguished! Mamma, do you suppose
it possible that a hot cup of tea might revive me? I am
suffering from a universal sense of unappreciated merit, and
nobody can tell what the pain is that hasn't felt it."
"I think you are extremely foolish, Constance," said Edith.
"Fleda hasn't had a single flower sent her since she has been
here, and you have had them every other day. I think Florence
is the only one that has a right to be disappointed."
"Dear Florence," said Fleda, earnestly, "you shall have as
many of them as you please, to dress yourself  and welcome!"
"Oh, no  of course not!" Florence said; "it's of no sort of
consequence  I don't want them in the least, my dear. I
wonder what somebody would think to see his flowers in my
head!"
Fleda secretly had mooted the same question, and was very well
pleased not to have it put to the proof. She took the flowers
up stairs after breakfast, resolving that they should not be
an eyesore to her friends; placed them in water, and sat down
to enjoy and muse over them in a very sorrowful mood. She
again thought she would take the first opportunity of going
home. How strange!  out of their abundance of tributary
flowers, to grudge her this one bunch! To be sure, it was a
magnificent one. The flowers were mostly roses, of the rarer
kinds, with a very few fine camellias; all of them cut with a
freedom that evidently had known no constraint but that of
taste, and put together with an exquisite skill that Fleda
felt sure was never possessed by any gardener. She knew that
only one hand had had anything to do with them, and that the
hand that had bought, not the one that had sold; and "How very
kind!" presently quite supplanted "How very strange!" "How
exactly like him! and how singular that Mrs. Evelyn and her
daughters should have supposed they could have come from Mr.
Thorn!" It was a moral impossibility that he should have put
such a bunch of flowers together; while to Fleda's eye they so
bore the impress of another person's character, that she had
absolutely been glad to get them out of sight for fear they
might betray him. She hung over their varied loveliness,
tasted and studied it, till the soft breath of the roses had
wafted away every cloud of disagreeable feeling, and she was
drinking in pure and strong pleasure from. each leaf and bud.
What a very apt emblem of kindness and friendship she thought
them; when their gentle preaching and silent sympathy could
alone so nearly do friendship's work; for to Fleda there was
both counsel and consolation in flowers. So she found it this
morning. An hour's talk with them had done her a great deal of
good; and, when she dressed herself and went down to the
drawing-room, her grave little face was not less placid than
the roses she had left; she would not wear even one of them
down to be a disagreeable reminder. And she thought that still
snowy day was one of the very pleasantest she had had in New
York.
Florence went to Mrs. Decatur's; but Constance, according to
her avowed determination, remained at home to see the fun.
Fleda hoped most sincerely there would be none for her to see.
But, a good deal to her astonishment, early in the evening,
Mr. Carleton walked in, followed very soon by Mr. Thorn.
Constance and Mrs. Evelyn were forthwith in a perfect
effervescence of delight, which as they could not very well
give it full play, promised to last the evening; and Fleda,
all her nervous trembling awakened again, took her work to the
table, and endeavoured to bury herself in it. But ears could
not be fastened as well as eyes; and the mere sound of Mrs.
Evelyn's voice sometimes sent a thrill over her.
"Mr. Thorn," said the lady, in her smoothest manner, "are you
a lover of floriculture, Sir?"
"Can't say that I am, Mrs. Evelyn  except as practised by
others."
"Then you are not a connoisseur in roses? Miss Ringgan's happy
lot  sent her a most exquisite collection this morning, and
she has been wanting to apply to somebody who could tell her
what they are  I thought you might know. Oh, they are not
here," said Mrs. Evelyn, as she noticed the gentleman's look
round the room; "Miss Ringgan judges them too precious for any
eyes but her own. Fleda, my dear, wont you bring down your
roses to let Mr. Thorn tell us their names?"
"I am sure Mr. Thorn will excuse me, Mrs. Evelyn  I believe
he would find it a puzzling task."
"The surest way, Mrs. Evelyn, would be to apply at the
fountain head for information," said Thorn, drily.
"If I could get at it," said Mrs. Evelyn (Fleda knew, with
quivering lips)  "but it seems to me I might as well try to
find the Dead Sea!"
"Perhaps Mr. Carleton might serve your purpose," said Thorn.
That gentleman was at the moment talking to Constance.
"Mr. Carleton," said Mrs. Evelyn, "are you a judge, Sir?"
"Of what, Mrs. Evelyn?  I beg your pardon."
The lady's tone somewhat lowered.
"Are you a judge of roses, Mr. Carleton?"
"So far as to know a rose when I see it," he answered,
smiling, and with an imperturbable coolness that it quieted
Fleda to hear.
"Ay, but the thing is," said Constance, "do you know twenty
roses when you see them?"
"Miss Ringgan, Mr. Carleton," said Mrs. Evelyn, "has received
a most beautiful supply this morning; but, like a true woman,
she is not satisfied to enjoy unless she can enjoy
intelligently  they are strangers to us all, and she would
like to know what name to give them; Mr. Thorn suggested that
perhaps you might help us out of our difficulty."
"With great pleasure, so far as I am able  if my judgment may
be exercised by day-light. I cannot answer for shades of green
in the night-time."
But he spoke with an ease and simplicity that left no mortal
able to guess whether he had ever heard of a particular bunch
of roses in his life before.
"You give me more of Eve in my character, Mrs. Evelyn, than I
think belongs to me," said Fleda, from her work at the far
centre-table, which certainly did not get its name from its
place in the room. "My enjoyment to-day has not been in the
least troubled by curiosity."
Which none of the rest of the family could have affirmed.
"Do you mean to say, Mr. Carleton," said Constance, "that it
is necessary to distinguish between shades of green in judging
of roses?"
"It is necessary to make shades of distinction in judging of
almost anything, Miss Constance. The difference between
varieties of the same flower is often extremely nice."
"I have read of magicians," said Thorn, softly, bending down
towards Fleda's work  "who did not need to see things to
answer questions respecting them."
Fleda thought that was a kind of magic remarkably common in
the world; but even her displeasure could not give her courage
to speak. It gave her courage to be silent, however; and Mr.
Thorn's best efforts, in a conversation of some length, could
gain nothing but very uninterested rejoinders. A sudden pinch
from Constance then made her look up, and almost destroyed her
self-possession, as she saw Mr. Stackpole male his way into
the room.
"I hope I find my fair enemy in a mollified humour," he said,
approaching them.
"I suppose you have repaired damages, Mr. Stackpole," said
Constance, "since you venture into the region of broken
windows again."
"Mr. Stackpole declared there were none to repair," said Mrs.
Evelyn, from the sofa.
"More than I knew of," said the gentleman, laughing  "there
were more than I knew of; but you see I court the danger,
having rashly concluded that I might as well know all my weak
points at once."
"Miss Ringgan will break nothing to-night, Mr. Stackpole  she
promised me she would not."
