fugitive voluntarily threads his way back to the terrors and 
perils of that dark land, that he may bring out his sister, or 
mother, or wife. 
One young man, of whom a missionary has told us, twice 
re-captured, and suffering shameful stripes for his heroism, 
had escaped again ; and in a letter which we heard read, tells 
his friends that he is going back a third time, that he may, at 
last, bring away his sister. My good sir, is this man a hero 
or a criminal ? Would not you do as much for your sister ? 
And can you blame him ? 
But to return to our friends, whom we left wiping their 
eyes and recovering themselves from too great and sudden a 
joy. They are now seated around the social board, and are 
getting decidedly companionable ; only that Cassy who keeps 
little Eliza on her lap, occasionally squeezes the little thing 
in a manner that rather astonishes her, and obstinately re- 
fuses to have her mouth stuffed with cake to the extent the 
little one desires, alleging, what the child rather wonders 
at, that she has got something better than cake, and doesn't 
want it. 
And, indeed, in two or three days such a change has 
passed over Cassy that our readers would scarcely know her. 
The despairing, haggard expression of her face had given 
way to one of gentle trust. She seemed to sink at once into 
the bosom of the family, and take the little ones into her 
heart, as something for which it long had waited. Indeed, 
her love seemed to flow more naturally to the little Eliza than 
to her own daughter, for she was the exact image and body 
of the child whom she had lost. The little one was a flowery 
bond between mother and daughter, through whom grew up 
acquaintanceship and affection. Eliza's steady, consistent 
piety, regulated by the constant reading of the sacred word, 
made her a proper guide for the shattered and wearied mind 
of her mother. Cassy yielded at once, and with her whole 
soul, to every good influence, and became a devout and 
tender Christian. 
After a day or two, Madame de Thoux told her brother 
more particularly of her affairs. The death of her husband 
had left her an ample fortune, which she generously offered 
to share with the family. When she asked George what way 
she could best apply it for him, he answered, " Give me an 
education, Emily ; that has always been my heart's desire. 
Then I can do all the rest." 
On mature deliberation, it was decided that the whole 
family should go, for some years, to France, whither they 
sailed, carrying Emmeline with them. 
The good looks of the latter won the affection of the first 
mate of the vessel, and shortly after entering the port, she 
became his wife. 
George remained four years at a French university, and 
applying himself with an unintermitted zeal, obtained a very 
thorough education. 
Political troubles in France at last led the family again to 
seek an asylum in this country. 
George's feelings and views, as an educated man, may be 
best expressed in a letter to one of his friends : 
" I feel somewhat at a loss as to my future course. True, 
as you have said to me, I might mingle in the circles of the 
whites in this country, my shade of colour is so slight, and 
that of my wife and family scarce perceptible. Well, 
perhaps on sufferance, I might. But, to tell you the truth, 
" My sympathies are not for my father's race, but for my 
mother's. To him I was no more than a fine dog or horse ; 
to my poor heart-broken mother I was a child ; and, though 
I never saw her after the cruel sale that separated us till she 
died, yet I know she always loved me dearly. I know it by 
my own heart. When I think of all she suffered, of my own 
early sufferings, of the distresses and struggles of my heroic 
wife, of my sister, sold in the New Orleans slave-market 
though I hope to have no unchristian sentiments, yet I 
may be excused for saying, I have no wish to pass for an 
American, or to identify myself with them. 
" It is with the oppressed, enslaved African race that I 
cast in my lot ; and if I wished anything, I would wish 
myself two shades darker, rather than one lighter. 
" The desire and yearning of my soul is for an African 
nationality. I want a people that shall have a tangible, 
separate existence of its own ; and where am I to look for 
it ? Not in Hayti ; for in Hayti they had nothing to start 
with. A stream cannot rise above its fountain. The race 
that formed the character of the Haytiens was a worn-out, 
effeminate one, and, of course, the subject race will be 
centuries in rising to anything. 
" Where, then, shall I look ? On the shores of Africa I 
see a republic a republic formed of picked men, who, by 
energy and self-educating force, have, in many cases, individually, raised themselves above a condition of slavery. 
Having gone through a preparatory stage of feebleness, this 
republic has at last become an acknowledged nation on the 
face of the earth acknowledged by both France and 
England. There it is my wish to go, and find myself a 
people. 
"I am aware now, that I shall have you all against 
me ; but, before you strike, hear me. During my stay in 
Erance, I have followed up, with intense interest, the history 
of my people in America. I have noted the struggle 
between Abolitionist and Colonisationist, and have received 
some impressions, as a distant spectator, which could never 
have occurred to me as a participator. 
" I grant that this Liberia may have subserved all sorts of 
purposes, by being played off in the hands of our oppressors, 
against us. Doubtless the scheme may have been used, in 
unjustifiable ways, as a means of retarding our emancipation. 
But the question to me is, Is there not a Crod above all 
man's schemes ? May He not have overruled all their 
designs, and founded for us a nation by them ? 
" In these days a nation is born in a day. A nation starts 
now with all the great problems of republican life and civilisation wrought out to its hand ; it has not to discover, but 
only to apply. Let us, then, all take hold together with all 
our might, and see what we can do with this new enterprise, 
and the whole splendid continent of Africa opens before us 
and our children. Our nation shall roll the tide of civilisa- 
tion and Christianity along its shores, and plant there 
mighty republics, that, growing with the rapidity of tropical 
vegetation, shall be for all coming ages. 
" Do you say that I am deserting my enslaved brethren ? 
I think not. If I forget them one hour, one moment of my 
life, so may God forget me ? But what can I do for them 
here ? Can I break their chains ? No, not as an individual ; 
but let me go and form part of a nation, which shall have a 
voice in the councils of nations, and then we can speak. A 
nation has a right to argue, remonstrate, implore, and 
present the cause of its race, which an individual has not. 
<c If Europe ever becomes a grand council of free nations 
as I trust in God it will if there serfdom, and all unjust 
and oppressive social inequalities, are done away ; and if they, 
as France and England have done, acknowledge our position 
then, in the great congress of nations, we will make our 
appeal, and present the cause of our enslaved and suifering 
race ; and it cannot be that free, enlightened America, will 
not then desire to wipe from her escutcheon that bar sinister 
which disgraces her among nations, and is as truly a curse to 
her as to the enslaved. 
" But, you will tell me, our race have equal rights to mingle 
in the American republic as the Irishman, the German, the 
Swede. Granted, they have. "We ought to be free to meet 
and mingle to rise by our individual worth, without any 
consideration of caste or colour ; and they who deny us this 
right are false to their own professed principles of human 
equality. "We ought, in particular, to be allowed here." "We 
have more than the rights of common men we have the 
claim of an injured race for reparation. But, then, I do not 
want it; I want a country, a nation, of my own. I think 
that the African race has peculiarities yet to be unfolded in 
the light of civilisation and Christianity, which, if not the 
same with those of the Anglo-Saxon, may prove to be, 
morally, of even a higher type. 
" To the Anglo-Saxon race have been intrusted the destinies of the world, during its pioneer period of struggle and 
conflict. To that mission its stern, inflexible, energetic 
elements were well adapted ; but, as a Christian, I look for 
another era to arise. On its borders I trust we stand ; and 
the throes that now convulse the nations are, to my hope, 
but the birth-pangs of an hour of universal peace and 
brotherhood. 
" I trust that the development of Africa is to be essentially a Christian one. If not a dominant and commanding 
race, they are, at least, an aifectionate, magnanimous, and 
forgiving one. Having been called in the furnace of injustice 
and oppression, they have need to bind closer to their hearts 
that sublime doctrine of love and forgiveness, through which 
alone-jthey are to conquer, which it is to be their mission to 
spread over the continent of Africa. 
" In myself, I confess I am feeble for this full half the 
blood in my veins is the hot and hasty Saxon ; but I have an 
eloquent preacher of the Gospel ever by my side, in the 
person of my beautiful wife. When I wander, her gentler 
spirit ever restores me, and keeps before my eyes the Christian 
calling and mission of our race. As a Christian patriot, as a 
teacher of Christianity, I go to my country my chosen, my 
glorious Africa-! and to her, in my heart, I sometimes 
apply those splendid words of prophecy, ' Whereas thou hast 
been forsaken and hated, so that no man went through 
thee ; I will make thee an eternal excellence, a joy of many 
generations ! ' 
" You will call me an enthusiast : you will tell me that I 
have not well considered what I am undertaking. But I have 
considered, and counted the cost. I go to Liberia, not as to 
an Elysium of romance, but as to a field of work. I expect 
to work with both hands to work hard; to work against all 
sorts of difficulties and discouragements ; and to work till I 
die. This is what I go for ; and in this I am quite sure 
I shall not be disappointed. 
" Whatever you may think of my determination, do not 
divorce me from your confidence; and think that, in whatever 
I do, I act with a heart wholly given to my people. 
Greorge, with his wife, children, sister, and mother, em- 
barked for Africa some few weeks after. If we are not 
mistaken, the world will yet hear from him there. 
Of our other characters we have nothing very particular 
to write, except a word relating to Miss Ophelia and Topsy, 
and a farewell chapter, which we shall dedicate to Greorge 
Shelby. 
Miss Ophelia took Topsy home to Vermont with her, 
much to the surprise of that grave deliberative body whom 
a, New Englander recognises under the term " Our folks" 
" Our folks," at first, thought it an odd and unnecessary 
addition to their well-trained domestic establishment ; but, 
so thoroughly efficient was Miss Ophelia in her conscientious 
endeavour to do her duty by her eleve, that the child rapidly 
grew in grace and in favour with the family and neighbourhood. At the age of womanhood she was, by her own request, 
baptised, and became a member of the Christian Church in 
the place ; and showed so much intelligence, activity, and 
zeal, and desire to do good in the world, that she was at last 
recommended and approved as a missionary to one of the 
stations in Africa ; and we have heard that the same activity 
and ingenuity which, when a child, made her so multiform 
and restless in her developments, is now employed, in a safer 
and wholesomer manner of teaching the children of her own 
country. 
P.S. It will be a satisfaction to some mother also to 
state, that some inquiries which were set on foot by Madame 
de Thoux have resulted recently in the discovery of Cassy's 
son. Being a young man of energy, he had escaped some 
years before his mother, and been received and educated by 
friends of the oppressed in the north. He will soon follow 
Iris family to Africa. 
CHAPTEE XLIV. 
THE LIBERATOR. 
GEORGE SHELBY had written to his mother merely a line, 
stating the day that she might expect him home. Of the 
death-scene of his old friend he had not the heart to write. 
He had tried several times, and only succeeded in half-choking 
himself; and invariably finished by tearing up the paper, 
wiping his eyes, and rushing somewhere to get quiet. 
There was a pleased bustle all through the Shelby 
mansion that day in expectation of the arrival of young 
Mas'r George. 
Mrs. Shelby was seated in her comfortable parlour, where 
a cheerful hickory fire was dispelling the chill of the late 
autumn evening. A supper-table, glittering with plate and 
cut glass, was set out, on whose arrangements our former 
friend, old Chloe, was presiding. 
Arrayed in a new calico dress, with clean, white apron, 
and high, well-starched turban, her black polished face 
glowing with satisfaction, she lingered, with needless punctiliousness, around the arrangements of the table, merely as 
an excuse for talking a little to her mistress. 
"Laws, now! won't it look natural to him?" she said. 
" Thar I set his plate just whar he likes it round by the 
fire. Mas'r George allers wants de warm seat. Oh, go 
way. Why didn't Sally get out de best teapot de little 
new one Mas'r George got for missis, Christmas ? I'll have 
it out ! And missis has heard from Mas'r George ? " she 
said, inquiringly. 
" Yes, Chloe ; but only a line, just to say he would be 
home to-night, if he could that's all." 
" Didn't say nothin' 'bout my old man, s'pose ? " said 
Chloe, still fidgeting with the teacups. 
" No, he didn't. He did not speak of anything, Chloe. 
He said he would tell all when he got home." 
" Jes like Mas'r George ; he's allers so ferce for tellin' 
everything hisself. I allers minded dat ar in Mas'r George. 
Don't see, for my part, how white people gen'lly can bar to 
hev to write things much as they do writin' 's such slow, 
oneasy kind o' work." 
Mrs. Shelby smiled. 
" I'm a thinkin' my old man won't know de boys and de 
baby. Lor' ! she's the biggest gal, now ; good she is, too, 
and peart, Polly is. She's out to the house, now, watchin' 
de hoe-cake. 1's got jist de very pattern my old man liked 
so much a-bakin'. Jist sich as I gin him the mornin' he 
was took off. Lord bless us ! how I felt dat ar morning ! " 
Mrs. Shelby sighed, and felt a heavy weight on her heart, 
at this allusion. She had felt uneasy ever since she received 
her son's letter, lest something should prove to be hidden 
behind the veil of silence which he had drawn. 
" Missis had got dem bills ? " said Chloe, anxiously. 
"Yes, Chloe." 
" Cause I wants to show my old man dem very bills de 
perfectioner gave me. ' And,' says he, ' Chloe, I wish you'd 
stay longer.' ' Thank you, mas'r,' says I, ' I would, only my 
old man's coming home, and missis, she can't do without me 
no longer.' There's jist what I telled him. Berry nice man, 
dat Mas'r Jones was." 
Chloe had pertinaciously insisted that the very bills in 
which her wages had been paid should be preserved to 
show to her husband, in memorial of her capability ; and 
Mrs. Shelby had readily consented to humour her in the 
request. 
" He won't know Polly my old man won't. Laws, it's 
five year since they tuk him ! She was a baby den couldn't 
but jist stand. Remember how tickled he used to be, 'cause 
she would keep a fallin' over, when she sot out to walk. 
Laws a me ! " 
The rattling of wheels now was heard. 
"Mas'r George!" said Aunt Chloe, starting to the 
window. 
Mrs. Shelby ran to the entry door, and was folded in the 
arms of her son. Aunt Chloe stood anxiously straining her 
eyes out into the darkness. 
" O poor Aunt Chloe ! " said George, stopping compassionately, and taking her hard black hand between both his. 
" I'd have given all my fortune to have brought him with 
me, but he's gone to a better country." 
There was a passionate exclamation from Mrs. Shelby, but 
Aunt Chloe said nothing. 
The party entered the supper- room. The money of which 
Chloe was so proud was still lying on the table. 
" Thar," said she, gathering it up, and holding it with a 
trembling hand to her mistress, " don't never want to see nor 
hear on't again. Jist as I knew 'twould be sold and 
murdered on dem ar' old plantations ! " 
Chloe turned, and was walking proudly out of the room. 
Mrs. Shelby followed her softly, and took one of her hands, 
