barbarous individuals, and it visited the violations of its commands
with penalties the more dreaded that they related to some awful future,
dimly perceived and imperfectly comprehended.
In dealing with slavery, the church did not commence by a proclamation
of universal emancipation, because, such was the barbarous and unsettled
nature of the times, so fierce the grasp of violence, and so many the
causes of discord, that she avoided adding to the confusion by infusing
into it this element;—nay, a certain council of the church forbade, on
pain of ecclesiastical censure, those who preached that slaves ought
immediately to leave their masters.
The course was commenced first by restricting the power of the master,
and granting protection to the slave. The Council of Orleans, in 549,
gave to a slave threatened with punishment the privilege of taking
sanctuary in a church, and forbade his master to withdraw him thence,
without taking a solemn oath that he would do him no harm; and, if he
violated the spirit of this oath, he was to be suspended from the church
and the sacraments,—a doom which in those days was viewed with such a
degree of superstitious awe, that the most barbarous would scarcely dare
to incur it. The custom was afterwards introduced of requiring an oath
on such occasions, not only that the slave should be free from corporeal
infliction, but that he should not be punished by an extra imposition of
labor, or by any badge of disgrace. When this was complained of, as
being altogether too great a concession on the side of the slave, the
utmost that could be extorted from the church, by way of retraction, was
this,—that in cases of very heinous offence the master should not be
required to make the two latter promises.
There was a certain punishment among the Goths which was more dreaded
than death. It was the shaving of the hair. This was considered as
inflicting a lasting disgrace. If a Goth once had his hair shaved, it
was all over with him. The fifteenth canon of the Council of Merida, in
666, forbade ecclesiastics to inflict this punishment upon their slaves,
as also all other kind of violence, and ordained that if a slave
committed an offence, he should not be subject to private vengeance, but
be delivered up to the secular tribunal, and that the bishops should use
their power only to procure a moderation of the sentence. This was
substituting public justice for personal vengeance—a most important
step. The church further enacted, by two councils, that the master who,
of his own authority, should take the life of his slave, should be cut
off for two years from the communion of the church,—a condition, in the
view of those times, implying the most awful spiritual risk, separating
the man in the eye of society from all that was sacred, and teaching him
to regard himself, and others to regard him, as a being loaded with the
weight of a must tremendous sin.
Besides the protection given to life and limb, the church threw her
shield over the family condition of the slave. By old Roman law, the
slave could not contract a legal, inviolable marriage. The church of
that age availed itself of the catholic idea of the sacramental nature
of marriage to conflict with this heathenish doctrine. Pope Adrian I.
said, “According to the words of the apostle, as in Jesus Christ we
ought not to deprive either slaves or freemen of the sacraments of the
church so it is not allowed in any way to prevent the marriage of
slaves; and if their marriages have been contracted in spite of the
opposition and repugnance of their masters, nevertheless they ought
not to be dissolved.” St. Thomas was of the same opinion, for he openly
maintains that, with respect to contracting marriage, “slaves are not
obliged to obey their masters.”
It can easily be seen what an effect was produced when the personal
safety and family ties of the slaves were thus proclaimed sacred by an
authority which no man living dared dispute. It elevated the slave in
the eyes of his master, and awoke hope and self-respect in his own
bosom, and powerfully tended to fit him for the reception of that
liberty to which the church by many avenues was constantly seeking to
conduct him.
Another means which the church used to procure emancipation was a
jealous care of the freedom of those already free.
Every one knows how in our Southern States the boundaries of slavery are
continually increasing, for want of some power there to perform the same
kind office. The liberated slave, travelling without his papers, is
continually in danger of being taken up, thrown into jail, and sold to
pay his jail-fees. He has no bishop to help him out of his troubles. In
no church can he take sanctuary. Hundreds and thousands of helpless men
and women are every year engulfed in slavery in this manner.
The church, at this time, took all enfranchised slaves under her
particular protection. The act of enfranchisement was made a religious
service, and was solemnly performed in the church; and then the church
received the newly-made freeman to her protecting arms, and guarded his
newly-acquired rights by her spiritual power. The first Council of
Orange, held in 441, ordained in its seventh canon that the church
should check by ecclesiastical censures whoever desired to reduce to any
kind of servitude slaves who had been emancipated within the enclosure
of the church. A century later, the same prohibition was repeated in the
seventh canon of the fifth Council of Orleans, held in 549. The
protection given by the church to freed slaves was so manifest and known
to all, that the custom was introduced of especially recommending them
to her, either in lifetime or by will. The Council of Agde, in
Languedoc, passed a resolution commanding the church, in all cases of
necessity, to undertake the defence of those to whom their masters had,
in a lawful way, given liberty.
Another anti-slavery measure which the church pursued with distinguished
zeal had the same end in view, that is, the prevention of the increase
of slavery. It was the ransoming of captives. As at that time it was
customary for captives in war to be made slaves of, unless ransomed, and
as, owing to the unsettled state of society, wars were frequent, slavery
might have been indefinitely prolonged, had not the church made the
greatest efforts in this way. The ransoming of slaves in those days held
the same place in the affections of pious and devoted members of the
church that the enterprise of converting the heathen now does. Many of
the most eminent Christians, in their excess of zeal, even sold
themselves into captivity that they might redeem distressed families.
Chateaubriand describes a Christian priest in France who voluntarily
devoted himself to slavery for the ransom of a Christian soldier, and
thus restored a husband to his desolate wife, and a father to three
unfortunate children. Such were the deeds which secured to men in those
days the honor of saintship. Such was the history of St. Zachary, whose
story drew tears from many eyes, and excited many hearts to imitate so
sublime a charity. In this they did but imitate the spirit of the early
Christians; for the apostolic Clement says, “We know how many among
ourselves have given up themselves unto bonds, that thereby they might
free others from them.” (1st letter to the Corinthians, § 55, or ch.
XXI. V. 20.) One of the most distinguished of the Frankish bishops was
St. Eloy. He was originally a goldsmith of remarkable skill in his art,
and by his integrity and trustworthiness won the particular esteem and
confidence of King Clotaire I., and stood high in his court. Of him
Neander speaks as follows. “The cause of the gospel was to him the
dearest interest, to which everything else was made subservient. While
working at his art, he always had a Bible open before him. The abundant
income of his labors he devoted to religious objects and deeds of
charity. Whenever he heard of captives, who in these days were often
dragged off in troops as slaves that were to be sold at auction, he
hastened to the spot and paid down their price.” Alas for our
slave-coffles!—there are no such bishops now! “Sometimes, by his means,
a hundred at once, men and women, thus obtained their liberty. He then
left it to their choice, either to return home, or to remain with him as
free Christian brethren, or to become monks. In the first case, he gave
them money for their journey; in the last, which pleased him most, he
took pains to procure them a handsome reception into some monastery.”
So great was the zeal of the church for the ransom of unhappy captives,
that even the ornaments and sacred vessels of the church were sold for
their ransom. By the fifth canon of the Council of Macon, held in 585,
it appears that the priests devoted church property to this purpose. The
Council of Rheims, held in 625, orders the punishment of suspension on
the bishop who shall destroy the sacred vessels FOR ANY OTHER MOTIVE
THAN THE RANSOM OF CAPTIVES; and in the twelfth canon of the Council of
Verneuil, held in 844, we find that the property of the church was still
used for this benevolent purpose.
When the church had thus redeemed the captive, she still continued him
under her special protection, giving him letters of recommendation which
should render his liberty safe in the eyes of all men. The Council of
Lyons, held in 583, enacts that bishops shall state, in the letters of
recommendation which they give to redeemed slaves, the date and price of
their ransom. The zeal for this work was so ardent that some of the
clergy even went so far as to induce captives to run away. A council
called that of St. Patrick, held in Ireland, condemns this practice, and
says that the clergyman who desires to ransom captives must do so with
his own money, for to induce them to run away was to expose the clergy
to be considered as robbers, which was a dishonor to the church. The
disinterestedness of the church in this work appears from the fact that,
when she had employed her funds for the ransom of captives she never
exacted from them any recompense, even when they had it in their power
to discharge the debt. In the letters of St. Gregory, he reässures some
persons who had been freed by the church, and who feared that they
should be called upon to refund the money which had been expended on
them. The Pope orders that no one, at any time, shall venture to disturb
them or their heirs, because the sacred canons allow the employment of
the goods of the church for the ransom of captives. (L. 7, Ep. 14.)
Still further to guard against the increase of the number of slaves, the
Council of Lyons, in 566, excommunicated those who unjustly retained
free persons in slavery.
If there were any such laws in the Southern States, and all were
excommunicated who are doing this, there would be quite a sensation, as
some recent discoveries show.
In 625, the Council of Rheims decreed excommunication to all those who
pursue free persons in order to reduce them to slavery. The
twenty-seventh canon of the Council of London, held 1102, forbade the
barbarous custom of trading in men, like animals; and the seventh canon
of the Council of Coblentz, held 922, declares that he who takes away a
Christian to sell him is guilty of homicide. A French council, held in
Verneuil in 616, established the law that all persons who had been sold
into slavery on account of poverty or debt should receive back their
liberty by the restoration of the price which had been paid. It will
readily be seen that this opened a wide field for restoration to liberty
in an age where so great a Christian zeal had been awakened for the
redeeming of slaves, since it afforded opportunity for Christians to
interest themselves in raising the necessary ransom.
At this time the Jews occupied a very peculiar place among the nations.
The spirit of trade and commerce was almost entirely confined to them,
and the great proportion of the wealth was in their hands, and, of
course, many slaves. The regulations which the church passed relative to
the slaves of Jews tended still further to strengthen the principles of
liberty. They forbade Jews to compel Christian slaves to do things
contrary to the religion of Christ. They allowed Christian slaves, who
took refuge in the church, to be ransomed, by paying their masters the
proper price.
This produced abundant results in favor of liberty, inasmuch as they
gave Christian slaves the opportunity of flying to churches, and there
imploring the charity of their brethren. They also enacted that a Jew
who should pervert a Christian slave should be condemned to lose all his
slaves. This was a new sanction to the slave’s conscience, and a new
opening for liberty. After that, they proceeded to forbid Jews to have
Christian slaves, and it was allowed to ransom those in their possession
for twelve sous. As the Jews were among the greatest traders of the
time, the forbidding them to keep slaves was a very decided step toward
general emancipation.
Another means of lessening the ranks of slavery was a decree passed in a
council at Rome, in 595, presided over by Pope Gregory the Great. This
decree offered liberty to all who desired to embrace the monastic life.
This decree, it is said, led to great scandal, as slaves fled from the
houses of their masters in great numbers, and took refuge in
monasteries.
The church also ordained that any slave who felt a calling to enter the
ministry, and appeared qualified therefor, should be allowed to pursue
his vocation: and enjoined it upon his master to liberate him, since the
church could not permit her minister to wear the yoke of slavery. It is
to be presumed that the phenomenon, on page 176, of a preacher with both
toes cut off and branded on the breast, advertised as a runaway in the
public papers, was not one which could have occurred consistently with
the Christianity of that period.
Under the influence of all these regulations, it is not surprising that
there are documents cited by M. Balmes which go to show the following
things. First, that the number of slaves thus liberated was very great,
as there was universal complaint upon this head.
Second, that the bishops were complained of as being always in favor of
the slaves, as carrying their protection to very great lengths,
laboring in all ways to realize the doctrine of man’s equality; and it
is affirmed in the documents that complaint is made that there is hardly
a bishop who cannot be charged with reprehensible compliances in favor
of slaves, and that slaves were aware of this spirit of protection, and
were ready to throw off their chains, and cast themselves into the
church.
It is not necessary longer to extend this history. It is as perfectly
plain whither such a course tends, as it is whither the course pursued
by the American clergy at the South tends. We are not surprised that
under such a course, on the one hand, the number of slaves decreased,
till there were none in modern Europe. We are not surprised by such a
course, on the other hand, that they have increased until there are
three millions in America.
Alas for the poor slave! What church befriends him? In what house of
prayer can he take sanctuary? What holy men stand forward to rebuke the
wicked law that denies him legal marriages? What pious bishops visit
slave-coffles to redeem men, women and children, to liberty? What holy
exhortations in churches to buy the freedom of wretched captives? When
have church velvets been sold, and communion-cups melted down, to
liberate the slave? Where are the pastors, inflamed with the love of
Jesus, who have sold themselves into slavery to restore separated
families? Where are those honorable complaints of the world that the
church is always on the side of the oppressed?—that the slaves feel the
beatings of her generous heart, and long to throw themselves into her
arms? Love of brethren, holy charities, love of Jesus,—where are ye?—Are
ye fled forever?
                             CHAPTER VIII.
    “Masters, give unto your servants that which is just and equal.”
From what has been said in the last chapter, it is presumed that it will
appear that the Christian church of America by no means occupies that
position, with regard to slavery, that the apostles did, or that the
church of the earlier ages did.
However they may choose to interpret the language of the apostles, the
fact still remains undeniable, that the church organization which grew
up immediately after these instructions did intend and did effect the
abolition of slavery.
But we wish to give still further consideration to one idea which is
often put forward by those who defend American slavery. It is this. That
the institution is not of itself a sinful one, and that the only sin
consists in the neglect of its relative duties. All that is necessary,
they say, is to regulate the institution by the precepts of the
gospel. They admit that no slavery is defensible which is not so
regulated.
If, therefore, it shall appear that American slave-law cannot be
regulated by the precepts of the gospel, without such alterations as
will entirely do away the whole system, then it will appear that it is
an unchristian institution, against which every Christian is bound to
remonstrate, and from which he should entirely withdraw.
The Roman slave-code was a code made by heathen,—by a race, too,
proverbially stern and unfeeling. It was made in the darkest ages of the
world, before the light of the gospel had dawned. Christianity gradually
but certainly abolished it. Some centuries later, a company of men, from
Christian nations, go to the continent of Africa; there they kindle
wars, sow strifes, set tribes against tribes with demoniac violence,
burn villages, and in the midst of these diabolical scenes kidnap and
carry off, from time to time, hundreds and thousands of miserable
captives. Such of those as do not die of terror, grief, suffocation,
ship-fever, and other horrors, are, from time to time, landed on the
shores of America. Here they are. And now a set of Christian legislators
meet together to construct a system and laws of servitude, with regard
to these unfortunates, which is hereafter to be considered as a
Christian institution.
Of course, in order to have any valid title to such a name, the
institution must be regulated by the principles which Christ and his
apostles have laid down for the government of those who assume the
relation of masters. The New Testament sums up these principles in a
single sentence: “Masters, give unto your servants that which is just
and equal.”
But, forasmuch as there is always some confusion of mind in regard to
what is just and equal in our neighbor’s affairs, our Lord has given
this direction, by which we may arrive at infallible certainty. “All
things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to
them.”
It is, therefore, evident that if Christian legislators are about to
form a Christian system of servitude, they must base it on these two
laws, one of which is a particular specification under the other.
Let us now examine some of the particulars of the code which they have
formed, and see if it bear this character.
First, they commence by declaring that their brother shall no longer be
considered as a person, but deemed, sold, taken, and reputed, as a
chattel personal.—This is “just and equal!”
This being the fundamental principle of the system, the following are
specified as its consequences:
1. That he shall have no right to hold property of any kind, under any
circumstances.—Just and equal!
2. That he shall have no power to contract a legal marriage, or claim
any woman in particular for his wife.—Just and equal!
