swimming in the pale blue sky, and the star of love shone upon them--an
eye of light--from the blushing west, and he sung to her--poetry
ascending from his heart as perfume from the flowers--songs, upon
whose memory she lived, in the winter of his absence. "But"--and the
deep wells of her eyes were black with anguish, "her heart died, and
dissolution came not to the body--would that it had! and the thought
of the past was a yawning abyss, like the abode of the lost, from which
arose hot, poisonous simooms and tormenting spirits. The world brought
incense and gaudy offerings, and friends their best treasures, but it
closed not--and she resolved, by self-immolation, to shut the chasm; by
an irrevocable sacrifice, to seal it forever. The effort was idle--she
sold soul and body for nought. He came, and turned her face to the
Future. His heart had wavered, but returned to its allegiance. She was
his, by an earlier, holier tie than her loathed tyrant's;--away in the
sunny land of their youthful dreams, they would live, unmolested by
memory or care. She clung to duty, until her husband drove her from
him with a curse; to a brother's love,--and he painted that brother's
hatred of him, and threatened to see her no more;--and by the specious
names of "soul-dictates," and the "religion which enjoins truth, and
condemns hypocrisy," gained her promise. The hand of the Almighty
interfered!
Ida shut up her tears, and reasoned and plead with her; praying
inwardly for her comfort, and that her own mind and nerves might not
fail her. She rested the maniac's head upon her breast--bathed the
beating temples, and pressed her cool lips to the parched ones, working
with pain--beseeching her, with every endearing epithet, to rest and
forget. But the lava crust was heaving; and the long-repressed flood
spread over it in fast, soothing streams. The June twilight was on the
earth--as she had described those of years agone; and in calming tones,
she bade Ida "sing."
"What shall I sing?"
"Of love and faith and hope."
The exhausted girl rallied her strength, and the sweetest of written
hymns seemed whispered to her spirit.
  "'Oh! Thou, who driest the mourner's tear,
    How dark this world would be,
  If pierced by sins and sorrows here,
    We could not fly to Thee!
  'The friends, who in our sunshine live.
    When winter comes, are flown;
  And he, who has but tears to give,
    Must weep those tears alone.
  'But Thou wilt heal that broken heart,
    Which, like the plants that throw
  Their fragrance from the wounded part--
    Breathes sweetness out of woe.
  'When joy no longer soothes or cheers,
    And e'en the hope that threw
  A moment's sparkle o'er our tears,
    Is dimmed and vanished too;--
  Oh! who could bear life's stormy doom,
    Did not thy wing of love,
  Come, brightly waiting through the gloom,
    Our peace-branch from above!
  Then sorrow, touched by Thee, grows bright,
    With more than rapture's ray,
  As darkness shows us worlds of light
    We never saw by day.'"
The head weighed upon her arm, she did not withdraw it Scarcely
breathing herself, she listened to the regular respiration, that said
the distempered brain was locked in forgetfulness. One--two--three
hours--and a cold lifelessness succeeded to the smart and aching
suspended circulation had first produced, a torpor, creeping to her
shoulder--affecting her whole body; but she would not terminate that
blessed slumber. A fleet step ascended the stairs,--it did not belong
to any of the household, yet was not strange. A knock--which she could
not answer--the bolt was cautiously drawn.
"Helen!" said her brother's voice.
The "hush-sh-sh!" silenced him, but he entered. The moon revealed the
dark and white forms upon the bed.
"Your sister sleeps!" said Ida, under her breath. "I beg you to
retire--she must not see you. Oh! go!" for she was awaking.
"Ida!" said Mrs. Read; "what am I doing here? Oh! mercy! I remember!"
"Peace! peace!" and with gentle violence, Ida forced her back to the
pillow. "You are safe and well now."
She was still for a minute. "Whom were you speaking to when I awoke?"
"Some one opened the door, and I did not wish you disturbed."
"It was a servant, then? I dreamed Richard had come. Oh! if he should!"
"Do you want us to send for him?"
"Never!"
"But the fatigue of travelling rapidly over so great a distance will be
too much for your parents. Some of your friends ought to be with you."
"But not Richard! any one else!"
Ida was perplexed. He would insist upon seeing her, as soon as he heard
that she was awake;--they must meet in the morning, and the shock then
might unfit her to endure the trials of the day; yet to tell her now,
appeared cruel and unnecessary.
"You have not eaten to-day--you will take some nourishment if I bring
it?"
"Don't leave me!"
"Only for a little while. Promise me to be good and quiet, until I can
run down stairs and back."
"Only do not stay--I am afraid to be alone."
Richard was pacing the hall with a troubled air. "How is she?" he asked.
"More composed."
"May I go up?"
"It pains me to deny you, but she can see no one, at present."
"This is extraordinary, Miss Ida. We know that there is not ground for
this excessive grief, and Helen has not miss-ish nerves. What ails her?"
His frown commanded her to reply, explicitly.
"You do not reflect how sudden Mr. Read's death was, Mr. Copeland. It
was an alarming event to us all. After awhile, your sister will receive
you. She does not know that you are here;--her mind has wandered all
day; and I deemed it safest not to agitate her. Trust me to do all in
my power for her and you."
"I do!"
Mrs. Read remained comparatively tranquil, saying little, except to
supplicate Ida not to leave her.
"You are better--are you not?" inquired the latter, stroking her brow.
"Yes--easier, and more quiet."
"I find your brother has been sent for;" she pursued.
"He has come!" ejaculated Mrs. Read. "Oh! what shall I do? what shall I
do?"
"It is unavoidable;--you must meet--why delay it?"
"Oh! he will kill him! he said he would, if he ever spoke to me again!"
More perplexity! Ida staggered under it. Her ingenuousness pointed
to the straightest, as the best road. The guilty mind would never be
unburdened without confession; but there was solid rock, underlying
the foamy flow of Richard's character. When his distrust of Ashlin
did not amount to a defined conviction, he had said, that he "dared
not see him"--and she recalled his meaning,--"If he crosses my path
again!" The dilemma was fearful--a life of concealment to one, murder
to the other. Mrs. Read's consternation redoubled on perceiving hers.
"What shall I do? oh! if I could die!" she moaned, tossing from side
to side. Ida spoke in accents of command--representing the unhappiness
she would experience in her intercourse with her deceived brother; the
watchfulness, and subterfuges, and the misery of accepting a love she
had forfeited; and on the other hand, the remorse of the murderess; the
blood of another soul clogging hers; the public ignominy--but this was
barely touched upon.
"Yet sin unconfessed to man, is not always unrepented of to God;" said
she.
"Can you resign this base-hearted man, and devote your life to an
endeavor to repair--you cannot of yourself, expiate your offences
against your Maker and your fellow creatures?" And the haughty,
hardened woman bent before the simple majesty of truth and feeling, and
solemnly vowed herself ready for her work.
CHAPTER XXVI.
Richard was to take his sister home; and Ida was busily assisting her
to pack her trunks, the day after the funeral, when Josephine sent to
request an audience. She ordered the servants out of the room as she
came in, and without preamble, entered upon her subject.
"You two have been confederates in many amusing schemes. Wedded spirits
at sight, you flattered yourselves that you counterfeited indifference
successfully. But not to me--my fair intriguers! You, Miss Ross, were
wilfully imprudent. I foiled your manoeuvres to entrap Morton Lacy,
the man you loved;--you owe the disappointment, from which you will
never recover, to me. You were unwary to oppose me a second time. And
for you--lovely and inconsolable widow! your downfall was decreed from
the moment we met. I poisoned that old man's mind against you. He
weakly tried to repel doubt--to confide--the fool! in your love--but
the venom was subtle--certain! I overheard your first interview
with your recreant lover--marked, step by step, your reconciliation,
and furthered it when I could:--I saw your trepidation when your
brother's arrival menaced an expose; and compelled John afterwards
to a confession of the warning he transmitted, and the reply, 'on
account of a friend's danger!' That 'friend' is in imminent danger
now! The cessation of his visits did not mislead her, who dogged you
in your walks, and saw him by your side. I was awake the elopement
night,--saw your signal, and heard the theatrical dialogue in the hall,
rehearsed for the benefit of eaves-droppers, to clear the skirts of
your accomplice, when your flight should be discovered. Pah! a child
could see through it! a remarkable coincidence that Miss Ross should
select a parlor for a dormitory, and arouse, just in season to confront
you at the door! It was a scene,--as the play-bills have it--'for one
night only.' Your plan proved abortive; death has left you as free as
a divorce would have done; and when the 'days of mourning are ended,'
you think to marry, and the public be in blissful ignorance that this
measure was in contemplation before your husband's decease. Idiot! is
this the revenge I have worked for? Your swain is yet in town;--act out
your plot. You need not go to Cuba--the laws of Virginia do not forbid
the bans. If, however, your saint-like confidante reprobates 'indecent
haste,' my game is nevertheless sure. I give you to-day and to-night
for deliberation and escape. At the end of twenty-four hours, if you
are in this house, your hot-blooded brother shall hear the interesting
facts, of which I have presented a summary;--I have spoken, and I
never repent!"
Her auditors had not moved hand or foot, since she began to speak; and
after she had gone, they gazed at each other in the same dead silence.
Mrs. Read's stony despair revived Ida's energies.
"I am lost!" she said, in a hollow tone. She put by the garment she
held, and seated herself, with folded arms.
"You are not!"
"She 'never repents!'"
"God grant she may, before it is too late!" said Ida, looking upward;
"but I do not rely upon her relentings for your deliverance. We must
consider. Bear up, and remember your vow!"
But her own heart sank. Contrivance and expedient presented
themselves,--all inadequate to the emergency.
"Are you willing to brave Richard's wrath, if it affects only
yourself?" she asked.
"I am! to the shedding of my blood. Your face brightens! Is there any
hope?"
"Iniquity defeats itself!" said Ida devoutly. "The Helper of the
tempted will provide a means of escape. Have we not time, and the
knowledge that he is in the city, and liberty to communicate with
him? Write him a warning, and final farewell;--he must fly for his
life--he will do it! The traitor is seldom brave!" she said inwardly.
Mrs. Read's nerveless fingers dropped the pen.
"I cannot!"
"You must!" said Ida, authoritatively. "His life--your peace, depend
upon it. Write! I will dictate."
The note was short and imperative. If the hand quivered, the heart that
indited did not.
"Take comfort!" said Ida, sealing it.
"How will you send it?" said Mrs. Read, whom grief and shame had robbed
of mind and fortitude.
"I will carry it myself."
"Oh! not you! what will be said?"
"Trust me. If Josephine has emissaries, so have I. I will not
compromise myself or you. I was cut out for a conspirator, and to keep
up the character, you must disguise me. My appearance on the street so
soon after the--yesterday, will excite remark. Ah! this thick veil, and
that black mantle, will serve my purpose. Now, would you know me?"
"Never--but dear Ida--"
But repeating "Take comfort!" Ida kissed her, and went out. She tripped
across the back yard, under shelter of the buildings, unlatched the
gate, and was safely in an alley, bisecting the square, and parallel
with the street upon which the house was built. She walked briskly,
thinking over her plan. As in Lynn's case, Charley was her aim; but
she was not so sure now of his co-operation. It was a delicate and
dangerous matter;--would he be a blind tool? confidence was not to be
thought of. With his nice notions of propriety, would he take a note
from her to Mr. Ashlin, of whose character she had heard him speak
disparagingly. "This is foolish!" she interrupted herself--"he must!"
and she was conscious that this word from her, carried with it an
authority few had the hardihood to resist.
John Dana was in the store, but he did not know her, and sent a clerk
forward.
"I wish to see Mr. Dana, sir."
She raised her veil as he responded to the call.
"Ida! my dear child! I should never have recognised you!"
"I did not design you should. My errand is with Charley--is he in?"
"In the counting-room. What is the matter?"
"With me? Nothing, sir;--a state secret. He is my Vizier."
"Very well!" said he, smiling. "Walk this way." He pushed aside the
baize door, and Ida thought she should faint, as Richard Copeland was
discovered talking with Charley. John also retreated.
"He is not alone;" he said, "I will call him out."
"Not while Mr. Copeland is here!" she faltered. "Oh! I would not have
him see me!"
"Ida!"
"He must not see me, Mr. Dana!"
"Then I will hide you--shall I?" He took her to the end of a counter,
piled to the ceiling with goods; gave her a tall stool, and bade her
"rest awhile."
Ida was ashamed of her perturbation, and heartsick of the feints and
concealments her nature revolted at;--all the consequences of another's
errors.
Charley and Richard entered the store. "You had better say you will
go," said the latter. "It is insufferably stupid;--staying here this
weather."
"I don't know whether I can get off;" answered Charley. "We'll see."
His brother directed him to Ida. He was astonished to see her.
"But you can never be unwelcome."
"Cela depend;" said Ida, "I sue for a favor."
"Consider it granted."
"That will not do. Can you perform my bidding, without asking
questions?"
"I am not inquisitive; and I depend upon your discretion."
"Then, will you deliver this letter immediately?"
His countenance changed. Ida lifted her finger.
"I have promised," he replied; "but Ida--if you were my sister, I would
not be the bearer of this!"
"Charley!"
"I do not say it to hurt your feelings, but I know men, and this man,
better than you do. This is not your handwriting. My fear is that you
may be tampered with--not your integrity--but that designing people may
impose upon your credulity."
"I thank you sincerely for your consideration, but I act with my eyes
open, and conscientiously believe that what I demand is actually
necessary. I dictated that note. Will you oblige me now?"
"Unhesitatingly."
"Be sure you give it, at once, to him. I cannot explain, I may never
do it, perhaps. One thing more. Where does Mr. Copeland want you to go?
and when?"
"To the country, to-morrow; a tete-a-tete drive out of town; a dinner
at a tavern; and spend the day in the woods, gunning."
"Go, please! I have a special reason for asking it--and start early."
"More mysteries!"
"The last I shall ever annoy you with, Charley."
"Enough! if possible you shall be obeyed. I trust you, Ida--not one of
the other parties concerned. By the way," he added, putting on his hat,
"Lacy passed through the city yesterday; stopped but an hour, and left
his regrets and respects for you. He would have called, but for the
circumstances of the family."
"I should have been happy to see him," said Ida, very naturally. "Was
his sister with him? how is her health?"
"Not improved. They contemplate a sea-voyage. I heard a queer report
about him the other day." They were at the store-door, and Ida did
not lower her veil, although the light was glaring. Charley was
scrutinising her from the corners of his eyes, and she was aware of it.
"I don't credit it;" he said. "They say he is engaged to be married to
Miss Arnold."
Ida smiled. "Why do you discredit it?"
"Why I hear the girl is a flirt; she is pretty, but I don't relish the
match. Besides, to be frank, I had a private opinion that--"
"That he was engaged to me!" finished Ida, laughingly. "Your shrewdness
is at fault for once, Charley. I have known of his engagement ever
since last summer--almost a year."
