wandering through the forest where the Brownies took him captive,
he stopped beside the quiet lake.
As he stood here he heard a sound of pain, and, looking in the tall
grass at his side, he saw the dragon-fly whose kindness he once
repayed by pain and sorrow, and who now lay suffering and alone.
Thistle bent tenderly beside him, saying, "Dear Flutter, do not
fear me.  I will gladly ease your pain, if you will let me; I am your
friend, and long to show you how I grieve for all the wrong I did you,
when you were so kind to me.  Forgive, and let me help and comfort
you."
Then he bound up the broken wing, and spoke so tenderly that Flutter
doubted him no longer, and was his friend again.
Day by day did Thistle watch beside him, making little beds of
cool, fresh moss for him to rest upon, fanning him when he slept,
and singing sweet songs to cheer him when awake.  And often when
poor Flutter longed to be dancing once again over the blue waves,
the Fairy bore him in his arms to the lake, and on a broad leaf,
with a green flag for a sail, they floated on the still water; while
the dragon-fly's companions flew about them, playing merry games.
At length the broken wing was well, and Thistle said he must again
seek the Water Spirits.  "I can tell you where to find them," said
Flutter; "you must follow yonder little brook, and it will lead you
to the sea, where the Spirits dwell.  I would gladly do more for you,
dear Thistle, but I cannot, for they live deep beneath the waves.
You will find some kind friend to aid you on your way; and so
farewell."
Thistle followed the little brook, as it flowed through field and
valley, growing ever larger, till it reached the sea.  Here the wind
blew freshly, and the great waves rolled and broke at Thistle's feet,
as he stood upon the shore, watching the billows dancing and sparkling
in the sun.
"How shall I find the Spirits in this great sea, with none to help or
guide me? Yet it is my last task, and for Lily-Bell's sake I must not
fear or falter now," said Thistle.  So he flew hither and thither
over the sea, looking through the waves.  Soon he saw, far below,
the branches of the coral tree.
"They must be here," thought he, and, folding his wings, he plunged
into the deep, cold sea.  But he saw only fearful monsters and dark
shapes that gathered round him; and, trembling with fear, he struggled
up again.
The great waves tossed him to and fro, and cast him bruised and faint
upon the shore.  Here he lay weeping bitterly, till a voice beside him
said, "Poor little Elf, what has befallen you?  These rough waves are
not fit playmates for so delicate a thing as you.  Tell me your
sorrow, and I will comfort you."
And Thistle, looking up, saw a white sea-bird at his side, who tried
with friendly words to cheer him.  So he told all his wanderings,
and how he sought the Sea Spirits.
"Surely, if bee and blossom do their part to help you, birds should
aid you too," said the Sea-bird.  "I will call my friend, the
Nautilus, and he will bear you safely to the Coral Palace where the
Spirits dwell."
So, spreading his great wings, he flew away, and soon Thistle saw
a little boat come dancing over the waves, and wait beside the shore
for him.
In he sprang.  Nautilus raised his little sail to the wind, and the
light boat glided swiftly over the blue sea.  At last Thistle cried,
"I see lovely arches far below; let me go, it is the Spirits' home."
"Nay, close your eyes, and trust to me.  I will bear you safely down,"
said Nautilus.
So Thistle closed his eyes, and listened to the murmur of the sea,
as they sank slowly through the waves.  The soft sound lulled him
to sleep, and when he awoke the boat was gone, and he stood among
the Water Spirits, in their strange and lovely home.
Lofty arches of snow-white coral bent above him, and the walls
of brightly tinted shells were wreathed with lovely sea-flowers, and
the sunlight shining on the waves cast silvery shadows on the ground,
where sparkling stones glowed in the sand.  A cool, fresh wind swept
through the waving garlands of bright sea-moss, and the distant murmur
of dashing waves came softly on the air.  Soon troops of graceful
Spirits flitted by, and when they found the wondering Elf, they
gathered round him, bringing pearl-shells heaped with precious stones,
and all the rare, strange gifts that lie beneath the sea.  But Thistle
wished for none of these, and when his tale was told, the kindly
Spirits pitied him; and little Pearl sighed, as she told him of the
long and weary task he must perform, ere he could win a crown of
snow-white pearls like those they wore.  But Thistle had gained
strength and courage in his wanderings, and did not falter now, when
they led him to a place among the coral-workers, and told him he must
labor here, till the spreading branches reached the light and air,
through the waves that danced above.
With a patient hope that he might yet be worthy of Lily-Bell,
the Fairy left the lovely spirits and their pleasant home, to toil
among the coral-builders, where all was strange and dim.  Long, long,
he worked; but still the waves rolled far above them, and his task was
not yet done; and many bitter tears poor Thistle shed, and sadly he
pined for air and sunlight, the voice of birds, and breath of flowers.
Often, folded in the magic garments which the Spirits gave him, that
he might pass unharmed among the fearful creatures dwelling there,
he rose to the surface of the sea, and, gliding through the waves,
gazed longingly upon the hills, now looking blue and dim so far away,
or watched the flocks of summer birds, journeying to a warmer land;
and they brought sad memories of green old forests, and sunny fields,
to the lonely little Fairy floating on the great, wild sea.
Day after day went by, and slowly Thistle's task drew towards an end.
Busily toiled the coral-workers, but more busily toiled he; insect
and Spirit daily wondered more and more, at the industry and patience
of the silent little Elf, who had a friendly word for all, though
he never joined them in their sport.
Higher and higher grew the coral-boughs, and lighter grew the Fairy's
heart, while thoughts of dear Lily-Bell cheered him on, as day by day
he steadily toiled; and when at length the sun shone on his work,
and it was done, he stayed but to take the garland he had won, and
to thank the good Spirits for their love and care.  Then up through
the cold, blue waves he swiftly glided, and, shaking the bright drops
from his wings, soared singing up to the sunny sky.
On through the fragrant air went Thistle, looking with glad face
upon the fair, fresh earth below, where flowers looked smiling up,
and green trees bowed their graceful heads as if to welcome him.  Soon
the forest where Lily-Bell lay sleeping rose before him, and as he
passed along the cool, dim wood-paths, never had they seemed so fair.
But when he came where his little friend had slept, it was no longer
the dark, silent spot where he last saw her.  Garlands hung from every
tree, and the fairest flowers filled the air with their sweet breath.
Bird's gay voices echoed far and wide, and the little brook went
singing by, beneath the arching ferns that bent above it; green
leaves rustled in the summer wind, and the air was full of music.
But the fairest sight was Lily-Bell, as she lay on the couch of
velvet moss that Fairy hands had spread.  The golden flower lay
beside her, and the glittering robe was folded round her little form.
The warmest sunlight fell upon her, and the softest breezes lifted
her shining hair.
Happy tears fell fast, as Thistle folded his arms around her,
crying, "O Lily-Bell, dear Lily-Bell, awake! I have been true to you,
and now my task is done."
Then, with a smile, Lily-Bell awoke, and looked with wondering eyes
upon the beauty that had risen round her.
"Dear Thistle, what mean these fair things, and why are we in this
lovely place?"
"Listen, Lily-Bell," said the Brownie King, as he appeared beside her.
And then he told all that Thistle had done to show his love for her;
how he had wandered far and wide to seek the Fairy gifts, and toiled
long and hard to win them; how he had been loving, true, and tender,
when most lonely and forsaken.
"Bird, bee, and blossom have forgiven him, and none is more loved
and trusted now by all, than the once cruel Thistle," said the King,
as he bent down to the happy Elf, who bowed low before him.
"You have learned the beauty of a gentle, kindly heart, dear Thistle;
and you are now worthy to become the friend of her for whom you have
done so much.  Place the crown upon her head, for she is Queen of all
the Forest Fairies now."
And as the crown shone on the head that Lily-Bell bent down on
Thistle's breast, the forest seemed alive with little forms, who
sprang from flower and leaf, and gathered round her, bringing gifts
for their new Queen.
"If I am Queen, then you are King, dear Thistle," said the Fairy.
"Take the crown, and I will have a wreath of flowers.  You have toiled
and suffered for my sake, and you alone should rule over these little
Elves whose love you have won."
"Keep your crown, Lily-Bell, for yonder come the Spirits with their
gifts to Thistle," said the Brownie.  And, as he pointed with his
wand, out from among the mossy roots of an old tree came trooping
the Earth Spirits, their flower-bells ringing softly as they came,
and their jewelled garments glittering in the sun.  On to where
Thistledown stood beneath the shadow of the flowers, with Lily-Bell
beside him, went the Spirits; and then forth sprang little Sparkle,
waving a golden flower, whose silvery music filled the air.  "Dear
Thistle," said the shining Spirit, "what you toiled so faithfully
to win for another, let us offer now as a token of our love for you."
As she ceased, down through the air came floating bands of lovely
Air Spirits, bringing a shining robe, and they too told their love
for the gentle Fairy who had dwelt with them.
Then softly on the breeze came distant music, growing ever nearer,
till over the rippling waves came the singing Water Spirits, in their
boats of many-colored shells; and as they placed their glittering
crown on Thistle's head, loud rang the flowers, and joyously sang
the birds, while all the Forest Fairies cried, with silvery voices,
"Lily-Bell and Thistledown!  Long live our King and Queen!"
"Have you a tale for us too, dear Violet-Eye?" said the Queen, as
Zephyr ceased.  The little Elf thus named looked from among the
flower-leaves where she sat, and with a smile replied, "As I was
weaving garlands in the field, I heard a primrose tell this tale
to her friend Golden-Rod."
LITTLE BUD.
IN a great forest, high up among the green boughs, lived Bird
Brown-Breast, and his bright-eyed little mate.  They were now very
happy; their home was done, the four blue eggs lay in the soft nest,
and the little wife sat still and patient on them, while the husband
sang, and told her charming tales, and brought her sweet berries
and little worms.
Things went smoothly on, till one day she found in the nest a little
white egg, with a golden band about it.
"My friend," cried she, "come and see!  Where can this fine egg have
come from?  My four are here, and this also; what think you of it?"
The husband shook his head gravely, and said, "Be not alarmed, my
love; it is doubtless some good Fairy who has given us this, and we
shall find some gift within; do not let us touch it, but do you sit
carefully upon it, and we shall see in time what has been sent us."
So they said nothing about it, and soon their home had four little
chirping children; and then the white egg opened, and, behold,
a little maiden lay singing within.  Then how amazed were they,
and how they welcomed her, as she lay warm beneath the mother's wing,
and how the young birds did love her.
Great joy was in the forest, and proud were the parents of their
family, and still more of the little one who had come to them;
while all the neighbors flocked in, to see Dame Brown-Breast's
little child.  And the tiny maiden talked to them, and sang so
merrily, that they could have listened for ever.  Soon she was
the joy of the whole forest, dancing from tree to tree, making
every nest her home, and none were ever so welcome as little Bud;
and so they lived right merrily in the green old forest.
The father now had much to do to supply his family with food, and
choice morsels did he bring little Bud.  The wild fruits were her
food, the fresh dew in the flower-cups her drink, while the green
leaves served her for little robes; and thus she found garments in
the flowers of the field, and a happy home with Mother Brown-Breast;
and all in the wood, from the stately trees to the little mosses
in the turf, were friends to the merry child.
And each day she taught the young birds sweet songs, and as their gay
music rang through the old forest, the stern, dark pines ceased their
solemn waving, that they might hear the soft sounds stealing through
the dim wood-paths, and mortal children came to listen, saying softly,
"Hear the flowers sing, and touch them not, for the Fairies are here."
Then came a band of sad little Elves to Bud, praying that they might
hear the sweet music; and when she took them by the hand, and spoke
gently to them, they wept and said sadly, when she asked them whence
they came,--
"We dwelt once in Fairy-Land, and O how happy were we then! But alas!
we were not worthy of so fair a home, and were sent forth into the
cold world.  Look at our robes, they are like the withered leaves;
our wings are dim, our crowns are gone, and we lead sad, lonely lives
in this dark forest.  Let us stay with you; your gay music sounds
like Fairy songs, and you have such a friendly way with you, and speak
so gently to us.  It is good to be near one so lovely and so kind; and
you can tell us how we may again become fair and innocent.  Say we may
stay with you, kind little maiden."
And Bud said, "Yes," and they stayed; but her kind little heart
was grieved that they wept so sadly, and all she could say could not
make them happy; till at last she said,--
"Do not weep, and I will go to Queen Dew-Drop, and beseech her
to let you come back.  I will tell her that you are repentant,
and will do anything to gain her love again; that you are sad, and
long to be forgiven.  This will I say, and more, and trust she will
grant my prayer."
"She will not say no to you, dear Bud," said the poor little Fairies;
"she will love you as we do, and if we can but come again to our lost
home, we cannot give you thanks enough.  Go, Bud, and if there be
power in Fairy gifts, you shall be as happy as our hearts' best love
can make you."
The tidings of Bud's departure flew through the forest, and all her
friends came to say farewell, as with the morning sun she would go;
and each brought some little gift, for the land of Fairies was
far away, and she must journey long.
"Nay, you shall not go on your feet, my child," said Mother
Brown-Breast; "your friend Golden-Wing shall carry you.  Call him
hither, that I may seat you rightly, for if you should fall off
my heart would break."
Then up came Golden-Wing, and Bud was safely seated on the cushion
of violet-leaves; and it was really charming to see her merry little
face, peeping from under the broad brim of her cow-slip hat, as
her butterfly steed stood waving his bright wings in the sunlight.
Then came the bee with his yellow honey-bags, which he begged she
would take, and the little brown spider that lived under the great
leaves brought a veil for her hat, and besought her to wear it,
lest the sun should shine too brightly; while the ant came bringing a
tiny strawberry, lest she should miss her favorite fruit.  The mother
gave her good advice, and the papa stood with his head on one side,
and his round eyes twinkling with delight, to think that his
little Bud was going to Fairy-Land.
Then they all sang gayly together, till she passed out of sight
over the hills, and they saw her no more.
And now Bud left the old forest far behind her.  Golden-Wing
bore her swiftly along, and she looked down on the green mountains,
and the peasant's cottages, that stood among overshadowing trees;
and the earth looked bright, with its broad, blue rivers winding
through soft meadows, the singing birds, and flowers, who kept their
bright eyes ever on the sky.
And she sang gayly as they floated in the clear air, while her friend
kept time with his waving wings, and ever as they went along all grew
fairer; and thus they came to Fairy-Land.
As Bud passed through the gates, she no longer wondered that the
exiled Fairies wept and sorrowed for the lovely home they had lost.
Bright clouds floated in the sunny sky, casting a rainbow light on
the Fairy palaces below, where the Elves were dancing; while the
low, sweet voices of the singing flowers sounded softly through the
fragrant air, and mingled with the music of the rippling waves, as
they flowed on beneath the blossoming vines that drooped above them.
All was bright and beautiful; but kind little Bud would not linger,
for the forms of the weeping Fairies were before her; and
though the blossoms nodded gayly on their stems to welcome her,
and the soft winds kissed her cheek, she would not stay, but on
to the Flower Palace she went, into a pleasant hall whose walls
were formed of crimson roses, amid whose leaves sat little Elves,
making sweet music on their harps.  When they saw Bud, they gathered
round her, and led her through the flower-wreathed arches to a group
of the most beautiful Fairies, who were gathered about a stately lily,
in whose fragrant cup sat one whose purple robe and glittering crown
told she was their Queen.
Bud knelt before her, and, while tears streamed down her little face,
she told her errand, and pleaded earnestly that the exiled Fairies
might be forgiven, and not be left to pine far from their friends and
kindred.  And as she prayed, many wept with her; and when she ceased,
and waited for her answer, many knelt beside her, praying forgiveness
for the unhappy Elves.
With tearful eyes, Queen Dew-Drop replied,--
"Little maiden, your prayer has softened my heart.  They shall not be
left sorrowing and alone, nor shall you go back without a kindly word
to cheer and comfort them.  We will pardon their fault, and when they
can bring hither a perfect Fairy crown, robe, and wand, they shall be
again received as children of their loving Queen.  The task is hard,
