landscapes, but very uncommon in those of great masters. 
Painters give us trees and grounds, brown, yellow, red, chocolate, any color, in short, but green. The reason of this is, 
thai green is an exceedingly difficult color to manage. I have 
seen, sometimes, in spring, set against a deep-blue sky, an 
array of greens, from lightest yellow to deepest blue of the 
pines, tipped and glittering with the afternoon's sun, yet so 
swathed in some invisible, harmonizing medium, that the 
strong contrasts of color jarred upon no sense. All seemed 
to be bound by the invisible cestus of some celestial Venus. 
Yet what painter would dare attempt the same ? Herein lies 
the particular triumph of Claude. It is said that he took his 
brush and canvas into the fields, and there studied, hour after 
hour, into the mysteries of that airy medium which lies between the eye and the landscape, as also between the fore- 
ground and the background. Hence he, more than others, 
succeeds in giving the green landscape and the blue sky the 
same effect that God gives them. If, then, other artists would 
attain a like result, let them not copy Claude, but Claude's 
Master. Would that our American artists would remember 
that God's pictures are nearer than Italy. To them it might 
be said, (as to the Christian,) " The word is nigh thee." 
"When we shall see a New England artist, with his easel, in 
the fields, seeking, hour after hour, to reproduce on the canvas the magnificent glories of an elm, with its firmament of 
boughs and branches, — when he has learned that there is in 
it what is worth a thousand Claudes — then the morning star 
of art will have risen on our hills. God send us an artist 
with a heart to reverence his own native mountains and fields, 
and to veil his face in awe when the great Master walks before 
his cottage door. "When shall arise the artist whose inspira- 
tion shall be in prayer and in communion with God ? — whose 
eye, unsealed to behold his beauty in the natural world, shall 
offer up, on canvas, landscapes which shall be hymns and 
ascriptions ? 
By a strange perversity, people seem to think that the Au- 
thor of nature cannot or will not inspire art ; but " He that 
formed the eye, shall he not see ? he that planted the ear, shall 
he not hear ? " Are not God's works the great models, and 
is not sympathy of spirit with the Master necessary to the 
understanding of the models ? 
But to continue our walk. "We entered another Dutch 
apartment, embellished with works by Dietrich, prettily col- 
ored, and laboriously minute ; then into a corridor devoted 
chiefly to the works of Rembrandt and scholars. In this also 
were a number of those minute culinary paintings, in which 
cabbages, brass kettles, onions, potatoes, &c, are reproduced 
with praiseworthy industry. Many people are enraptured 
with these; but for my part I have but a very little more 
pleasure in a turnip, onion, or potato in a picture than out, and 
always wish that the industry and richness of color had been 
bestowed upon things in themselves beautiful. The great 
Master, it is true, gives these models, but he gives them not to 
be looked at, but eaten. If painters could only contrive to 
paint vegetables (cheaply) so that they could be eaten, I would 
be willing. 
Two small saloons are next devoted to the modern Dutch 
and German school. In these is Denner's head of an old 
woman, which Cowper celebrates in a pretty poem — a marvel of faithful reproduction. One would think the old lady 
must have sat at least a year, till he had daguerreotyped every 
wrinkle and twinkle. How much better all this labor spent 
on the head of a good old woman than on the head of a cab- 
bage ! 
And now come a set of Italian rooms, in which we have 
some curious specimens of the Romish development in reli- 
gion ; as, for instance, the fathers Gregory, Augustine, and 
Jerome, meditating on the immaculate conception of the Virgin. 
Think of ;i painter employing all his powers in representing 
such a fog bank ! 
 
Next comes a room dedicated to the works of Titian, in 
which two nude Venuses, of a very different character from the 
de Milon, are too conspicuous. Titian is sensuous ; a Greek, 
but not of the highest class. 
The next room is devoted to Paul "Veronese. This Paul 
has quite a character of his own — a grand old Venetian, 
with his head full of stateliness, and court ceremony, and gorgeous conventionality, half Oriental in his passion for gold, 
and gems, and incense. As a specimen of the subjects in 
which his soul delights, take the following, which he has 
wrought up into a mammoth picture : Faith, Love, and Hope, 
presenting to the Virgin Mary a member of the old Venetian 
family of Concina, who, after having listened to the doctrines 
of the reformation, had become reconciled to the church. 
Here is Paul's piety, naively displayed by giving to the Virgin all the courtly graces of a high-born signorina. He 
paints, too, the Adoration of the Magi, because it gives such a 
good opportunity to deal with camels, jewels, turbans, and all 
the trappings of Oriental royalty. The Virgin and Child 
are a small part of the affair. I like Paul because he is so 
innocently unconscious of any thing deep to be expressed ; so 
honestly intent on clothes, jewels, and colors. He is a mag- 
nificent master of ceremonies, and ought to have been kept by 
some king desirous of going down to posterity, to celebrate his 
royal praise and glory. 
Another room is devoted to the works of Guido. One or 
two of the Ecce Homo are much admired. To me they 
are, as compared with my conceptions of Jesus, more than in- 
adequate. It seems to me that, if Jesus Christ should come 
again on earth, and walk through a gallery of paintings, and 
see the representations of sacred subjects, he would say again, 
as he did of old in the temple, " Take these things hence ! " 
 
How could men who bowed down before art as an idol, and 
worshipped it as an ultimate end, and thus sensualized it, represent these holy mysteries, into which angels desired to look ? 
There are many representations of Christ here, set forth in 
the guide book as full of grace and majesty, which any soul 
who has ever felt his infinite beauty would reject as a libel. 
And as to the Virgin Mother, one's eye becomes wearied in 
following the countless catalogue of the effeminate inane representations. 
There is more pathos and beauty in those few words of the 
Scripture, " Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his moth- 
er," than in all these galleries put together. The soul that 
has learned to know her from the Bible, loving without idol- 
izing, hoping for blest communion with her beyond the veil, 
seeking to imitate only the devotion which stood by the cross 
in the deepest hour of desertion, cannot be satisfied with these 
insipidities. 
Only once or twice have I seen any thing like an "approach 
towards the representations of the scriptural idea. One is this 
painting by Raphael. Another is by him, and is called Ma- 
donna Maison dAlba : of this I have seen only a copy ; it 
might have been painted on the * words, " Now Mary kept all 
these things, and pondered them in her heart." The figure is 
that of a young Jewess, between girl and womanhood, in 
whose air and eye are expressed at once the princess of the 
house of David, the poetess, and the thoughtful sequestered 
maiden. She is sitting on the ground, the book of the prophets in one hand, lying listless at her side ; the other hand is 
placed beneath the chin of her infant son, who looks inquiringly into her face. She does not see him-— her eye has a 
sorrowful, far-darting look, as if beyond this flowery childhood 
she saw the dim image of a cross and a sepulchre. This was 
Mary. 
I have often thought that, in the reaction from the idolatry 
of Romanism, we Protestants were in danger of forgetting the 
treasures of religious sweetness, which the Bible has given us 
in her brief history. 
It seems to me the time demands the forming of a new 
school of art, based upon Protestant principles. For whatever vigor and originality there might once be in art, based 
on Romanism, it has certainly been worn threadbare by repetition. 
Apropos to this. During the time I was in Paris, I formed 
the acquaintance of Schoeffer, whose Christus Consolator and 
Remunerator and other works, have made him known in 
America. I went with a lady who has for many years been an 
intimate friend, and whose head has been introduced into sev- 
eral of his paintings. On the way she gave me some interesting particulars of him and his family. His mother was an 
artist — a woman of singularly ethereal and religious character. There are three brothers devoted to art ; of these 
Ary is the one best known in America, and the most distinguished. For seme time, while they were studying, they were 
obliged to be separated, and the mother, to keep up the sym- 
pathy between them, used to copy the design of the one with 
whom she resided for the other two. A singular strength of 
attachment unites the family. 
We found Schoeffer in retired lodgings in the outskirts of 
Paris, and were presented to his very pretty and agreeable 
English wife. In his studio we saw a picture of his mother, 
a most lovely and delicate woman, dressed in white, like one 
of the saints in the Revelation. 
Then we saw his celebrated picture, Francisca Rimini, 
representing a cloudy, dark, infernal region, in which two 
hapless lovers are whirled round and round in mazes of never
-ending wrath and anguish. His face is hid from view ; his at- 
titude expresses the extreme of despair. But she clinging to 
his bosom — what words can tell the depths of love, of an- 
guish, and of endurance unconquerable, written in her pale 
sweet face ! The picture smote to my heart like a daggei 
thrust ; I felt its mournful, exquisite beauty as a libel on mj 
Father in heaven. 
No. It is not God who eternally pursues undying, patieni 
love with storms of vindictive wrath. Alas ! well said Je 
sus, " O righteous Father, the world hath not known thee/ 
The day will come when it will appear that in earth's history 
the sorrowing, invincible tenderness has been all on his part 
and that the strange word, long-suffering, means just what 
it says. 
Nevertheless, the power and pathos of this picture cannot 
be too much praised. The coloring is beautiful, and though it 
pained me so much, I felt that it was one of the most striking 
works of art I had seen. 
Schoeffer showed us a large picture, about half finished, in 
which he represents the gradual rise of the soul through the 
sorrows of earth to heaven. It consisted of figures grouped 
together, those nearest earth bowed down and overwhelmed 
with the most crushing and hopeless sorrow ; above them are 
those who are beginning to look upward, and the sorrow in 
their faces is subsiding into anxious inquiry ; still above them 
are those who, having caught a gleam of the sources of consolation, express in their faces a solemn calmness ; and still 
higher, rising in the air, figures with clasped hands, and absorbed, upward gaze, to whose eye the mystery has been unveiled, the enigma solved, and sorrow glorified. One among 
these, higher than the rest, with a face of rapt adoration, 
seems entering the very gate of heaven. 
 
He also showed us an unfinished picture of the Temptation 
of Christ. Upon a clear aerial mountain top, Satan, a thunder-scarred, unearthly figure, kneeling, points earnestly to the 
distant view of the kingdoms of this world. There is a fur- 
tive and peculiar expression of eager anxiety betrayed in his 
face, as if the bitterness of his own blasted eternity could find 
a momentary consolation in this success. It is the expression 
of a general, who has staked all his fortune on one die. Of 
the figure of Jesus I could not judge, in its unfinished state. 
Whether the artist will solve the problem of uniting energy 
with sweetness, the Godhead with the manhood, remains to 
be seen. 
The paintings of Jesus are generally unsatisfactory ; but 
SchoefFer has approached nearer towards expressing my idea 
than any artist I have yet seen. 
The knowing ones are much divided about SchoefFer. Some 
say he is no painter. Nothing seems to me so utterly without 
rule or compass as this world of art. Divided into little 
cliques, each with his shibboleth, artists excommunicate each 
other as heartily as theologians, and a neophyte who should 
attempt to make up a judgment by their help would be obliged 
to shift opinions with every circle. 
I therefore look with my own eyes, for if not the best that 
might be, they are the best that God has given me. 
SchoefFer is certainly a poet of a high order. His ideas 
are beautiful and religious, and his power of expression quite 
equal to that of many old masters, who had nothing very par- 
ticular to express. 
I should think his chief danger lay in falling into manner- 
ism, and too often repeating the same idea. He has a theory 
of coloring which is in danger of running out into coldness 
and poverty of effect. His idea seems to be, that in the representation of spiritual subjects the artist should avoid the 
sensualism of color, and give only the most chaste and severe 
tone. Hence he makes much use of white, pale blue, and 
cloudy grays, avoiding the gorgeousness of the old masters. 
But it seems probable that in the celestial regions there is 
more, rather than less, of brilliant coloring than on earth. 
What can be more brilliant than the rainbow, yet what more 
perfectly free from earthly grossness ? Nevertheless, in looking 
at the pictures of Schoeffer there is such a serene and spirit- 
ual charm spread over them, that one is little inclined to wish 
them other than they are. No artist that I have ever seen, 
not even Raphael, has more power of glorifying the human 
face by an exalted and unearthly expression. His head of 
Joan of Arc, at Versailles, is a remarkable example. It is a 
commentary on that scripture — " And they beheld his face, 
as it were the face of an angel." 
Schoeffer is fully possessed with the idea of which I have 
spoken, of raising Protestant art above the wearisome imita- 
tions of Romanism. The object is noble and important. I 
feel that he must succeed. 
His best award is in the judgments of the unsophisticated 
heart. A painter who does not burn incense to his palette and 
worship his brushes, who reverences ideas above mechanism, 
will have all manner of evil spoken against him by artists, but 
the human heart will always accept him. 
LETTER XLIV. 
Berlin, August 10. 
Mr Dear: — 
Here we are in Berlin — a beautiful city. These places 
that kings build, have of course, more general uniformity and 
consistency of style than those that grow up by chance. The 
prevalence of the Greek style of architecture, the regularity 
and breadth of the streets, the fine trees, especially in the 
Unter den Linden, on which are our rooms, struck me more 
than any thing I have seen since Paris. Why Paris charms 
me so much more than other cities of similar recommenda- 
tions, I cannot say, any more than a man can tell why he is 
fascinated by a lady love no fairer to his reason than a thousand others. Perhaps it is the reflected charm of the people 
I knew there, that makes it seem so sunny. 
This afternoon we took a guide, and went first through the 
royal palace. The new chapel, which is being built by the 
present prince, is circular in form, with a dome one hundred 
and thirty feet high. The space between the doors is occupied 
by three circular recesses, with figures of prophets and apos- 
tles in fresco. Over one door is the Nativity, — over the 
other, the Resurrection, — also in fresco. On the walls around 
were pictures somewhat miscellaneous, I thought ; for exam- 
ple, John Huss, St. Cecilia, Melanchthon, Luther, several 
women, saints, apostles, and evangelists. These paintings are 
all by the first German artists. The floor is a splendid mo- 
saic, and the top of the dome is richly adorned with frescoes. 
 
Still, though beautiful, the chapel seemed to me deficient in 
unity of effect. One admires the details too much to appreciate it as a whole. We passed through the palace rooms. 
Its paintings are far inferior to those of Windsor. The finest 
royal paintings have gone to adorn the walls of the Museum. 
There was one magnificent Vandyke, into which he has intro- 
duced a large dog — some relief from his eternal horses. 
There was David's picture of Bonaparte crossing the Alps, 
of which Mrs. P. has the engraving, and you can tell her 
that it is much more impressive than the painting. Opposite 
to this picture hangs Blucher, looking about as amiable as one 
might suppose a captain of a regiment of mastiffs. Our guide, 
pointing to the portrait of Napoleon, with evident pride, said, 
" Blucher brought that from Paris. He said Napoleon had 
carried so many pictures from other countries to Paris, that 
now he should be carried away himself." 
There were portraits of Queen Louisa, very beautiful; of. 
Queen Victoria, a present ; one of the Empress of Russia ; 
also a statue of the latter. The ball room contained a statue 
of Victory, by Ranch, a beautiful female figure, the model of 
which, we were told, is his own daughter. He had the grace 
to allow her some clothing, which was fatherly, for an artist. 
The palace rooms were very magnificent. The walls were 
covered with a damask of silk and gold, into which was in- 
wrought the Prussian eagle. In the crowning room was an 
immense quantity of plate, in solid gold and silver. The 
guide seemed not a little proud of our king, princes, and palace. Men will attach themselves to power and splendor as 
naturally as moss will grow on a rock. . There is, perhaps, a 
foundation for this in human nature — witness the Israelites 
of old, who could not rest till they obtained a king. The 
 
guide told us there were nine hundred rooms in the palace, 
but that he should only take us through the best. We were 
duly sensible of the mercy. 
Then we drove to Charlottenburg to see the Mausoleum. 
