not to have any; and, on the whole, the children are quite as well
contented without it, and so we are fallen into the way of not having
any."
"But one must keep some kind of cake in the house," said Mrs. A.
"So I have always heard, and thought, and practised," said Mrs. B.; "but
really of late I have questioned the need of it."
The conversation gradually digressed from this point into various
intricate speculations on domestic economy, and at last each lady went
home to put her children to bed.
A fortnight after, the two ladies were again in conclave at Mrs. B.'s
tea table, which was graced by some unusually nice gingerbread.
"I thought you had given up making gingerbread," said Mrs. A.; "you told
me so a fortnight ago at my house."
"So I had," said Mrs. A.; "but since that conversation I have been
making it again."
"Why so?"
"O, I thought that since you thought it economical enough, certainly I
might; and that if you thought it necessary to keep some sort of cake in
the closet, perhaps it was best I should."
Mrs. A. laughed.
"Well, now," said she, "I have not made any gingerbread, or cake of
any kind, since that same conversation."
"Indeed?"
"No. I said to myself, If Mrs. B. thinks it will do to go without cake
in the house, I suppose I might, as she says it is some additional
expense and trouble; and so I gave it up."
Both ladies laughed, and you laugh, too, my dear lady reader; but have
you never done the same thing? Have you never altered your dress, or
your arrangements, or your housekeeping because somebody else was of a
different way of thinking or managing--and may not that very somebody at
the same time have been moved to make some change through a similar
observation on you?
A large party is to be given by the young lads of N. to the young
lassies of the same place; they are to drive out together to a picnic in
the woods, and to come home by moonlight; the weather is damp and
uncertain, the ground chill, and young people, as in all ages before the
flood and since, not famous for the grace of prudence; for all which
reasons, almost every mamma hesitates about her daughters' going--thinks
it a very great pity the thing has been started.
"I really don't like this thing," says Mrs. G.; "it's not a kind of
thing that I approve of, and if Mrs. X. was not going to let her
daughters go, I should set myself against it. How Mrs. X., who is so
very nice in her notions, can sanction such a thing, I cannot see. I am
really surprised at Mrs. X."
All this time, poor unconscious Mrs. X. is in a similar tribulation.
"This is a very disagreeable affair to me," she says. "I really have
almost a mind to say that my girls shall not go; but Mrs. G.'s daughters
are going, and Mrs. C.'s, and Mrs. W.'s, and of course it would be idle
for me to oppose it. I should not like to cast any reflections on a
course sanctioned by ladies of such prudence and discretion."
In the same manner Mrs. A., B., and C., and the good matrons through the
alphabet generally, with doleful lamentations, each one consents to the
thing that she allows not, and the affair proceeds swimmingly to the
great satisfaction of the juveniles.
Now and then, it is true, some individual sort of body, who might be
designated by the angular and decided letters K or L, says to her son or
daughter, "No. I don't approve of the thing," and is deaf to the
oft-urged, "Mrs. A., B., and C. do so."
"I have nothing to do with Mrs. A., B., and C.'s arrangements," says
this impracticable Mrs. K. or L. "I only know what is best for my
children, and they shall not go."
Again: Mrs. G. is going to give a party; and, now, shall she give wine,
or not? Mrs. G. has heard an abundance of temperance speeches and
appeals, heard the duties of ladies in the matter of sanctioning
temperance movements aptly set forth, but "none of these things move her
half so much as another consideration." She has heard that Mrs. D.
introduced wine into her last soirée. Mrs. D's husband has been a
leading orator of the temperance society, and Mrs. D. is no less a
leading member in the circles of fashion. Now, Mrs. G.'s soul is in
great perplexity. If she only could be sure that the report about Mrs.
D. is authentic, why, then, of course the thing is settled; regret it as
much as she may, she cannot get through her party without the wine; and
so at last come the party and the wine. Mrs. D., who was incorrectly
stated to have had the article at her last soirée, has it at her next
one, and quotes discreet Mrs. G. as her precedent. Mrs. P. is greatly
scandalized at this, because Mrs. G. is a member of the church, and Mr.
D. a leading temperance orator; but since they will do it, it is not
for her to be nice, and so she follows the fashion.
Mrs. N. comes home from church on Sunday, rolling up her eyes with
various appearances of horror and surprise.
"Well! I am going to give up trying to restrain my girls from dressing
extravagantly; it's of no use trying!--no use in the world."
"Why, mother, what's the matter?" exclaimed the girls aforesaid,
delighted to hear such encouraging declarations.
"Why, didn't you see Mrs. K.'s daughters sitting in the pew before us
with feathers in their bonnets? If Mrs. K. is coming out in this way,
I shall give up. I shan't try any longer. I am going to get just what
I want, and dress as much as I've a mind to. Girls, you may get those
visites that you were looking at at Mr. B.'s store last week!"
The next Sunday, Mrs. K.'s girls in turn begin:--
"There, mamma, you are always lecturing us about economy, and all that,
and wanting us to wear our old mantillas another winter, and there are
Mrs. N.'s girls shining out in new visites."
Mamma looks sensible and judicious, and tells the girls they ought not
to see what people are wearing in church on Sundays; but it becomes
evident, before the week is through, that she has not forgotten the
observation. She is anxiously pricing visites, and looking thoughtful as
one on the eve of an important determination; and the next Sunday the
girls appear in full splendor, with new visites, to the increasing
horror of Mrs. N.
So goes the shuttlecock back and forward, kept up on both sides by most
judicious hands.
In like manner, at a modern party, a circle of matrons sit in edifying
conclave, and lament the degeneracy of the age.
"These parties that begin at nine o'clock and end at two or three in the
morning are shameful things," says fat Mrs. Q., complacently fanning
herself. (N. B. Mrs. Q. is plotting to have one the very next week, and
has come just to see the fashions.)
"O, dreadful, dreadful!" exclaim, in one chorus, meek Mrs. M., and tall
Mrs. F., and stiff Mrs. J.
"They are very unhealthy," says Mrs. F.
"They disturb all family order," says Mrs. J.
"They make one so sleepy the next day," says Mrs. M.
"They are very laborious to get up, and entirely useless," says Mrs. Q.;
at the same time counting across the room the people that she shall
invite next week.
Mrs. M. and Mrs. F. diverge into a most edifying strain of moral
reflections on the improvement of time, the necessity of sobriety and
moderation, the evils of conformity to the world, till one is tempted to
feel that the tract society ought to have their remarks for general
circulation, were one not damped by the certain knowledge that before
the winter is out each of these ladies will give exactly such another
party.
And, now, are all these respectable ladies hypocritical or insincere? By
no means--they believe every word they say; but a sort of necessity is
laid upon them--a spell; and before the breath of the multitude their
individual resolution melts away as the frosty tracery melts from the
window panes of a crowded room.
A great many do this habitually, resignedly, as a matter of course. Ask
them what they think to be right and proper, and they will tell you
sensibly, coherently, and quite to the point in one direction; ask them
what they are going to do. Ah! that is quite another matter.
They are going to do what is generally done--what Mrs. A., B., and C.
do. They have long since made over their conscience to the keeping of
the public,--that is to say, of good society,--and are thus rid of a
troublesome burden of responsibility.
Again, there are others who mean in general to have an opinion and will
of their own; but, imperceptibly, as one and another take a course
opposed to their own sense of right and propriety, their resolution
quietly melts, and melts, till every individual outline of it is gone,
and they do as others do.
Yet is this influence of one human being over another--in some sense,
God-appointed--a necessary result of the human constitution. There is
scarcely a human being that is not varied and swerved by it, as the
trembling needle is swerved by the approaching magnet. Oppose conflict
with it, as one may at a distance, yet when it breathes on us through
the breath, and shines on us through the eye of an associate, it
possesses an invisible magnetic power. He who is not at all conscious of
such impressibility can scarce be amiable or human. Nevertheless, one of
the most important habits for the acquisition of a generous and noble
character, is to learn to act individually, unswerved by the feelings
and opinions of others. It may help us to do this, to reflect that the
very person whose opinion we fear may be in equal dread of ours, and
that the person to whom we are looking for a precedent may, at that very
time, be looking to us.
In short, Mrs. A., if you think that you could spend your money more
like a Christian than in laying it out on a fashionable party, go
forward and do it, and twenty others, whose supposed opinion you fear,
will be glad of your example for a precedent. And, Mrs. B., if you do
think it would be better for your children to observe early hours, and
form simple habits, than to dress and dance, and give and go to juvenile
balls, carry out your opinion in practice, and many an anxious mother,
who is of the same opinion, will quote your example as her shield and
defence.
And for you, young ladies, let us pray you to reflect--individuality of
character, maintained with womanly sweetness, is an irresistible grace
and adornment. Have some principles of taste for yourself, and do not
adopt every fashion of dress that is in vogue, whether it suits you or
not--whether it is becoming or not--but, without a startling variation
from general form, let your dress show something of your own taste and
opinions. Have some principles of right and wrong for yourself, and do
not do every thing that every one else does, because every one else
does it.
Nothing is more tedious than a circle of young ladies who have got by
rote a certain set of phrases and opinions--all admiring in the same
terms the same things, and detesting in like terms certain others--with
anxious solicitude each dressing, thinking, and acting, one as much like
another as is possible. A genuine original opinion, even though it were
so heretical as to assert that Jenny Lind is a little lower than the
angels, or that Shakspeare is rather dull reading, would be better than
such a universal Dead Sea of acquiescence.
These remarks have borne reference to the female sex principally,
because they are the dependent, the acquiescent sex--from nature, and
habit, and position, most exposed to be swayed by opinion--and yet, too,
in a certain very wide department they are the lawgivers and
custom-makers of society. If, amid the multiplied schools, whose
advertisements now throng our papers, purporting to teach girls every
thing, both ancient and modern, high and low, from playing on the harp
and working pincushions, up to civil engineering, surveying, and
navigation, there were any which could teach them to be women--to have
thoughts, opinions, and modes of action of their own--such a school
would be worth having. If one half of the good purposes which are in the
hearts of the ladies of our nation were only acted out without fear of
any body's opinion, we should certainly be a step nearer the millennium.
CHRISTMAS; OR, THE GOOD FAIRY.
"O, dear! Christmas is coming in a fortnight, and I have got to think up
presents for every body!" said young Ellen Stuart, as she leaned
languidly back in her chair. "Dear me, it's so tedious! Every body has
got every thing that can be thought of."
"O, no," said her confidential adviser, Miss Lester, in a soothing tone.
"You have means of buying every thing you can fancy; and when every shop
and store is glittering with all manner of splendors, you cannot surely
be at a loss."
"Well, now, just listen. To begin with, there's mamma. What can I get
for her? I have thought of ever so many things. She has three card
cases, four gold thimbles, two or three gold chains, two writing desks
of different patterns; and then as to rings, brooches, boxes, and all
other things, I should think she might be sick of the sight of them. I
am sure I am," said she, languidly gazing on her white and jewelled
fingers.
This view of the case seemed rather puzzling to the adviser, and there
was silence for a few moments, when Ellen, yawning, resumed:--
"And then there's Cousins Jane and Mary; I suppose they will be coming
down on me with a whole load of presents; and Mrs. B. will send me
something--she did last year; and then there's Cousins William and
Tom--I must get them something; and I would like to do it well enough,
if I only knew what to get."
"Well," said Eleanor's aunt, who had been sitting quietly rattling her
knitting needles during this speech, "it's a pity that you had not such
a subject to practise on as I was when I was a girl. Presents did not
fly about in those days as they do now. I remember, when I was ten years
old, my father gave me a most marvellously ugly sugar dog for a
Christmas gift, and I was perfectly delighted with it, the very idea of
a present was so new to us."
"Dear aunt, how delighted I should be if I had any such fresh,
unsophisticated body to get presents for! But to get and get for people
that have more than they know what to do with now; to add pictures,
books, and gilding when the centre tables are loaded with them now, and
rings and jewels when they are a perfect drug! I wish myself that I were
not sick, and sated, and tired with having every thing in the world
given me."
"Well, Eleanor," said her aunt, "if you really do want unsophisticated
subjects to practise on, I can put you in the way of it. I can show you
more than one family to whom you might seem to be a very good fairy, and
where such gifts as you could give with all ease would seem like a magic
dream."
"Why, that would really be worth while, aunt."
"Look over in that back alley," said her aunt. "You see those
buildings?"
"That miserable row of shanties? Yes."
"Well, I have several acquaintances there who have never been tired of
Christmas gifts, or gifts of any other kind. I assure you, you could
make quite a sensation over there."
"Well, who is there? Let us know."
"Do you remember Owen, that used to make your shoes?"
"Yes, I remember something about him."
"Well, he has fallen into a consumption, and cannot work any more; and
he, and his wife, and three little children live in one of the rooms."
"How do they get along?"
"His wife takes in sewing sometimes, and sometimes goes out washing.
Poor Owen! I was over there yesterday; he looks thin and wasted, and his
wife was saying that he was parched with constant fever, and had very
little appetite. She had, with great self-denial, and by restricting
herself almost of necessary food, got him two or three oranges; and the
poor fellow seemed so eager after them!"
"Poor fellow!" said Eleanor, involuntarily.
"Now," said her aunt, "suppose Owen's wife should get up on Christmas
morning and find at the door a couple of dozen of oranges, and some of
those nice white grapes, such as you had at your party last week; don't
you think it would make a sensation?"
"Why, yes, I think very likely it might; but who else, aunt? You spoke
of a great many."
"Well, on the lower floor there is a neat little room, that is always
kept perfectly trim and tidy; it belongs to a young couple who have
nothing beyond the husband's day wages to live on. They are,
nevertheless, as cheerful and chipper as a couple of wrens; and she is
up and down half a dozen times a day, to help poor Mrs. Owen. She has a
baby of her own, about five months old, and of course does all the
cooking, washing, and ironing for herself and husband; and yet, when
Mrs. Owen goes out to wash, she takes her baby, and keeps it whole days
for her."
"I'm sure she deserves that the good fairies should smile on her," said
Eleanor; "one baby exhausts my stock of virtues very rapidly."
"But you ought to see her baby," said Aunt E.; "so plump, so rosy, and
good-natured, and always clean as a lily. This baby is a sort of
household shrine; nothing is too sacred or too good for it; and I
believe the little thrifty woman feels only one temptation to be
extravagant, and that is to get some ornaments to adorn this little
divinity."
"Why, did she ever tell you so?"
"No; but one day, when I was coming down stairs, the door of their room
was partly open, and I saw a pedler there with open box. John, the
husband, was standing with a little purple cap on his hand, which he was
regarding with mystified, admiring air, as if he didn't quite comprehend
it, and trim little Mary gazing at it with longing eyes.
"'I think we might get it,' said John.
"'O, no,' said she, regretfully; 'yet I wish we could, it's so
pretty!'"
"Say no more, aunt. I see the good fairy must pop a cap into the window
on Christmas morning. Indeed, it shall be done. How they will wonder
where it came from, and talk about it for months to come!"
"Well, then," continued her aunt, "in the next street to ours there is a
miserable building, that looks as if it were just going to topple over;
and away up in the third story, in a little room just under the eaves,
live two poor, lonely old women. They are both nearly on to ninety. I
was in there day before yesterday. One of them is constantly confined to
her bed with rheumatism; the other, weak and feeble, with failing sight
and trembling hands, totters about, her only helper; and they are
entirely dependent on charity."
"Can't they do any thing? Can't they knit?" said Eleanor.
