they meant to ruin him.

Thus he reasoned over the matter, and thus he got rid of the objections
as fast as they occurred to him. While he was thinking about it, Tim
continued to describe in glowing colors the fun they could have;
occasionally relating some adventure of "Mike Martin," "Dick Turpin," or
other villain, whose lives and exploits were the only literature he ever
read.

But Charles could not fall at once. There were some difficulties which
he could not get over. It was wrong to do as Tim proposed; it was so
written on his soul. The "still small voice" could not be silenced. As
fast as he reconciled one objection, another came up, and something in
his bosom kept saying, "You must not do it."

The more he thought, the more imperative was the command. "Run away as
fast as you can!" said the voice within him. "You are tempted; flee from
the temptation."

"I guess I won't join you, Tim," said he.

"You won't, eh?" replied Tim, with a sneer.

"I think not; I don't believe it is right. But I won't say anything
about it."

"I rather guess you won't. It wouldn't be safe for you to do so."

"I won't, upon my honor, Tim," replied Charles, rising from his seat,
and edging away from his dangerous companion.

"Look here, Charley Hardy; in one word, you've got to join the Rovers."

"The what?"

"That's the name of a society," answered Tim, who had mentioned it
without intending to do so.

It was certainly a piratical appellation, and Charles was not
prepossessed by it in favor of the society. It had a ring of bold and
daring deeds, and his studies had not prepared him to entertain a very
high opinion of Tim's heroes, Dick Turpin and Captain Kidd.

"You can't back out now, Master Hardy," continued Tim.

"I don't want to join you, but I won't say a word."

"Very well, my fine fellow!" and Tim rose and walked away towards home.

Charles did not like this. He was afraid of Tim; afraid that some
terrible thing would happen to him if he did not keep on the right side
of him.

Like thousands of others, he had not the courage to do his duty, and
leave the consequences to take care of themselves. He was more afraid of
the Bunker than of the frowns of an accusing conscience.

"I say, Tim!" he called.

"Well, what you want now?" replied Tim, stopping.

"Suppose I don't join?"

"Then you will be in Rippleton jail before to-morrow night; that's all."

"What for?"

"No matter; if you come to the meeting to-night, all right; if you
don't--Rippleton jail;" and Tim hastened away, heedless of Charles's
calls.

Rippleton jail! What could he mean by that? He felt guilty, and his
heart beat so violently that he could hardly breathe. The stolen purse,
which still lay buried on Center Island, seemed to haunt him, and with
that he immediately connected Tim's dreadful threat. His confederate
meant to charge him with stealing it. It was all very plain, and his
conscience told him how justly he would be accused. He could not go to
jail innocent, as Tony had, and be borne home in triumph from the court
by the boat club.

His frame trembled with emotion; and he knew not what to do. There was a
right way and wrong way for him to proceed--the path of duty and the
path of error.

"I will go to Captain Sedley and tell him all about it," said he to
himself, "and tell him that they mean to steal the boats."

This was the path of duty; but he had not the courage to walk in it. He
would be despised even then, and Tim Bunker would certainly be revenged
if he did.

"I will go;" and he actually walked a short distance towards Captain
Sedley's house; but his courage failed him; he dared not do right, and
that evening he joined the "Rovers."

Poor Charles!




CHAPTER XV.

THE "ROVERS."


After Charles Hardy had joined the "Rovers" band, which was composed of
the original Bunkers, with others whom Tim had collected together, his
conscience proved less troublesome. The first wrong step taken, the
second follows with less compunction, and so on, till the moral sense is
completely blunted.

At the meeting he was informed by Tim that he had been admitted to the
society on account of his knowledge of boats. They could not get along
without such a fellow; and he was accordingly appointed "master of
marine," and second in command to Tim himself. These honors and
compliments reconciled him to the society of the Rovers, and he began to
exhibit his energy of purpose in directing the details of the next
week's operations.

Saturday was appointed as the day for stocking the island with
provisions and other necessaries, ready for the reception of the entire
party on Sunday night. Tim and Charles were to attend to this duty in
person.

"Meet me at eight o'clock in the morning over by Joe Braman's landing,
Charley, and--"

"But school keeps; I can't go till afternoon."

"And then the Zephyrs will see what we are about."

"I can't help it."

"Yes you can; can't you 'hook Jack'?"

"I dare not."

"Humph! You are an idiot! Tell the fellows to-morrow that you are going
over to your uncle's, and they will tell the master."

Charles consented, after some argument.

"I will get Joe's boat, and we can pull off to the island and get the
money."

"Where will you buy the things?"

"We must go down to Rippleton. You must get some, and I will get some.
We will buy them at different stores, so no one will know but what they
are for the folks."

"And the tent?"

"We will get a piece of cotton cloth for that, and some needles and
thread. Leave all that to me. Now, be on hand in season."

"One thing, Tim: I may be seen in Rippleton."

"No matter if you are. Bluff 'em off if they say anything."

The Rovers were to "rendezvous"--Tim had found this word in the
"Adventures of the Bold Buccaneer"--at nine o'clock on Sunday evening at
the wood. The arrangements were all completed, and the band dispersed.

On Saturday Charles was true to his appointment, and met Tim on the
north side of the lake. The money was procured, and the provisions were
safely deposited in the boat. It is true, Charles was so much
embarrassed that he well-nigh betrayed the existence of the plot to the
shopkeepers; and he was very glad when this part of the business was
done.

Then a new difficulty presented itself. Suppose the Zephyrs should
visit Center Island that afternoon and discover the stores! They had not
thought of this before, and the risk was too great to be incurred. They
decided to conceal their stores on the main shore till night, and then
carry them off. A convenient place was found for this purpose, and the
articles were landed.

They then repaired to the island to mature their plans.

"Now, where shall we pitch the tent?" asked Charles, when they landed.

"On the high ground near the beach."

"We have no poles. Here is the May-pole; that will do for one."

"We can't pitch the tent, soldier fashion. We must drive down four
forked stakes; then put poles on the forks, and cover the whole with
cloth."

"But where are the stakes and the poles?"

"We can cut them in the woods. We will get Joe Braman's ax, and do it
this forenoon."

"Suppose they should make a raft, and come off to us?" suggested
Charles.

"We have two fast boats, and can easily keep out of their way," replied
Tim. "If they want to fight we can beat them off."

Charles did not approve of fighting, and thought it would be bad policy.
Tim was tolerably tractable now that he was having his own way, and was
not very strenuous in support of his own pugnacious views. When their
plans were fully digested they left the island to prepare the stakes.
Before noon they separated, and the truant returned home about the usual
time.

That afternoon he joined the Zephyrs in an excursion up the lake, and
another lighthouse was erected in the vicinity of a dangerous reef.

"What shall we do next week?" asked Charles, as they were returning
home.

"We are going up the river," replied Frank. "My father has consented to
it."

"Has he? That will be first rate."

"And so has George Weston."

Charles relapsed into deep thought. He was thinking how much better he
could enjoy himself with good boys than with such fellows as the Rovers;
for, though he was "master of marine" among them, he could not help
acknowledging to himself that they were not pleasant companions. They
used profane and vulgar language; were always disposed to quarrel.
Disputes which were settled peaceably in the clubs were decided by a
fight among the Rovers; and the ambitious "master" had many misgivings
as to his ability to control them. Tim could manage them very well; for,
if one was turbulent, he struck him and knocked him down; and Charles
had not the brute courage to do this.

"What are you thinking about, Charley?" asked Frank, pleasantly.

"Nothing," replied Charles, promptly, as he tried to laugh.

"You act rather queerly this afternoon; just as though you had something
on your mind."

"O, no; nothing of the kind."

"I hope you don't regret the expulsion of Tim Bunker."

"Certainly not."

Charles tried to be gay after that; but he could not. There was a weight
upon his soul which bore him down, and he felt like a criminal in the
presence of his companions. He was glad when the club landed, and the
members separated--glad to get away from them, for their happy, innocent
faces were a constant reproach to him.

Sunday was a day of rest; but every moment of it was burdened with a sin
against God and against himself. Every moment that he delayed to repent
was plunging him deeper and deeper in error and crime. Strangely enough,
the minister preached a sermon about the Prodigal Son; and the vivid
picture he drew of the return of the erring wanderer so deeply affected
the youthful delinquent that he fully resolved to do his duty, and
expose the Rovers' scheme.

The money had been spent in part; but, if they sent him to jail, it
would be better than to continue in wickedness. Then he thought what
Captain Sedley would say to him; that the club would despise him; and
that he would not be permitted to join the sports of the coming week--to
say nothing of being put in prison.

But his duty was plain, and he had resolved to do it. He had decided to
suffer the penalty of his transgression, whatever it might be, and get
back again into the right path as soon as he could.

Happy would it have been for him had he done so. On his way home from
church he unfortunately met Tim Bunker, who had evidently placed himself
in his way to confirm his fidelity to the Rovers.

Tim saw that he was meditating something dangerous to the success of his
scheme. Charles was cold and distant. He appeared to have lost his
enthusiasm.

"If you play us false, it will be all up with you," said Tim, in a low,
determined tone. "I can prove that you stole the purse. That's all."

It was enough to overthrow all Charles's good resolution. His fickle
mind, his shallow principle, gave way. Stifling his convictions of duty,
and silencing the "still small voice," he went home: and there was no
joy in heaven over the returning prodigal.

"Charles," said his father, sternly, as he entered the house, "you were
not at school yesterday!"

"I got late, and did not like to go," whined he.

"Where were you?"

"Down at the village."

"Go to your room, and don't leave it without permission."

Charles obeyed. The consequences of his error were already beginning to
overtake him. His father joined him soon after, and talked to him very
severely. He was really alarmed, for Captain Sedley had given him a hint
concerning his son's intimacy with Tim Bunker.
