occasional fits of insanity. Generally she had appeared harmless,
excepting as regarded herself. Unless prevented by force, she would
sometimes beat her own flesh in a shocking manner, uttering at the same
time loud cries and complaints of the abuse of those whom she supposed
to be tormenting her.
“In her lucid intervals she had so earnestly besought them not to place
her in the asylum for the insane, but to continue to bear with her under
their own roof, that they had found it impossible to refuse their solemn
promise to comply with her wishes.
“For themselves, their love for her rendered them willing to bear
with her infirmities, but it should be their earnest care that their
neighbours should not again be disturbed.”
Mrs. Freeman kindly expressed her sympathy and forgiveness for the alarm
which she had experienced, and the gentleman took leave.
Poor Mrs. Morris had remained perfectly silent since her release; but
as the door closed on their visiter, and her friend kindly turned to
inquire how she found herself, she recovered her speech, and exclaimed,
energetically,
“I will never, never say again that there are not two sides to a story.
If I am ever tempted to believe one side without waiting to hear the
other, I shall surely feel again the hands of that old witch upon my
throat.”
“Old witch!” repeated Mrs. Freeman. “Surely she demands our sympathy as
much as when we thought her suffering under ill-treatment. It is indeed
a sad thing to be bereft of reason. But this will be a useful lesson to
both of us: for I will readily acknowledge that in this instance I
was sometimes tempted to forget that there are always ‘two sides to a
story.’”
LITTLE KINDNESSES.
NOT long since, it was announced that a large fortune had been left to a
citizen of the United States by a foreigner, who, some years before, had
“become ill” while travelling in this country, and whose sick-bed was
watched with the utmost care and kindness by the citizen referred to.
The stranger recovered, continued his journey, and finally returned to
his own country. The conduct of the American at a moment so critical,
and when, without relatives or friends, the invalid was languishing in a
strange land, was not forgotten. He remembered it in his thoughtful and
meditative moments, and when about to prepare for another world, his
gratitude was manifested in a truly signal manner. A year or two ago, an
individual in this city was labouring under great pecuniary difficulty.
He was unexpectedly called upon for a considerable sum of money; and,
although his means were abundant, they were not at that time immediately
available. Puzzled and perplexed, he hesitated as to his best course,
when, by the merest chance, he met an old acquaintance, and incidentally
mentioned the facts of the case. The other referred to an act of
kindness that he had experienced years before, said that he had never
forgotten it, and that nothing would afford him more pleasure than
to extend the relief that was required, and thus show, his grateful
appreciation of the courtesy of former years! The kindness alluded to
was a mere trifle, comparatively speaking, and its recollection had
passed entirely from the memory of the individual who had performed it.
Not so, however, with the obliged. He had never forgotten it, and
the result proved, in the most conclusive manner, that he was deeply
grateful.
We have mentioned the two incidents with the object of inculcating the
general policy of courtesy and kindness, of sympathy and assistance, in
our daily intercourse with our fellow-creatures. It is the true
course under all circumstances. “Little kindnesses” sometimes make an
impression that “lingers and lasts” for years. This is especially the
case with the sensitive, the generous, and the high-minded. And how much
may be accomplished by this duty of courtesy and humanity! How the paths
of life may be smoothed and softened! How the present may be cheered,
and the future rendered bright and beautiful!
There are, it is true, some selfish spirits, who can neither
appreciate nor reciprocate a courteous or a generous act. They are for
themselves--“now and for ever”--if we may employ such a phrase--and
appear never to be satisfied. You can never do enough for them. Nay,
the deeper the obligation, the colder the heart. They grow jealous,
distrustful, and finally begin to hate their benefactors. But these, we
trust, are “the exceptions,” not “the rule.” Many a heart has been won,
many a friendship has been secured, many a position has been acquired,
through the exercise of such little kindnesses and courtesies as are
natural to the generous in spirit and the noble of soul--to all,
indeed, who delight, not only in promoting their own prosperity, but
in contributing to the welfare of every member of the human family. Who
cannot remember some incident of his own life, in which an individual,
then and perhaps now a stranger--one who has not been seen for years,
and never may be seen again on this side the grave, manifested the true,
the genuine, the gentle spirit of a gentleman and a Christian, in
some mere trifle--some little but impulsive and spontaneous act,
which nevertheless developed the whole heart, and displayed the
real character! Distance and time may separate, and our pursuits and
vocations may be in paths distinct, dissimilar, and far apart. Yet,
there are moments--quiet, calm, and contemplative, when memory will
wander back to the incidents referred to, and we will feel a secret bond
of affinity, friendship, and brotherhood. The name will be mentioned
with respect if not affection, and a desire will be experienced to
repay, in some way or on some occasion, the generous courtesy of the
by-gone time. It is so easy to be civil and obliging, to be kindly and
humane! We not only thus assist the comfort of others, but we promote
our own mental enjoyment. Life, moreover, is full of chance’s and
changes. A few years, sometimes, produce extraordinary revolutions
in the fortunes of men. The haughty of to-day may be the humble of
to-morrow; the feeble may be the powerful; the rich may be the poor,
But, if elevated by affluence or by position, the greater the necessity,
the stronger the duty to be kindly, courteous, and conciliatory to those
less fortunate. We can afford to be so; and a proper appreciation of our
position, a due sympathy for the misfortunes of others, and a grateful
acknowledge to Divine Providence, require that we should be so. Life is
short at best. We are here a few years--we sink into the grave--and even
our memory is phantom-like and evanescent. How plain, then, is our
duty! It is to be true to our position, to our conscience, and to the
obligations imposed upon us by society, by circumstances, and by our
responsibility to the Author of all that is beneficent and good.
LEAVING OFF CONTENTION BEFORE IT BE MEDDLED WITH.
WE are advised to leave off contention before it be meddled with, by
one usually accounted a very wise man. Had he never given the world any
other evidence of superior wisdom, this admonition alone would have been
sufficient to have established his claims thereto. It shows that he had
power to penetrate to the very root of a large share of human
misery. For what is the great evil in our condition here? Is it not
misunderstanding, disagreement, alienation, contention, and the passions
and results flowing from these? Are not contempt, and hatred, and
strife, and alteration, and slander, and evil-speaking, the things
hardest to bear, and most prolific of suffering, in the lot of human
life? The worst woes of life are such as spring from, these sources.
Is there any cure for these maladies? Is there anything to prevent or
abate these exquisite sufferings? The wise man directs our attention to
a remedial preventive in the advice above referred to. His counsel to
those whose lot unites them in the same local habitations and name
to those who are leagued in friendship or business, in the changes
of sympathy and the chances of collision, is, to suppress anger or
dissatisfaction, to be candid and charitable in judging, and, by all
means, to leave off contention before it be meddled with. His counsel to
all is to endure injury meekly, not to give expression to the sense of
wrong, even when we might seem justified in resistance or complaint. His
counsel is to yield something we might fairly claim, to pardon when we
might punish, to sacrifice somewhat of our rights for the sake of peace
and friendly affection. His counsel is not to fire at every provocation,
not to return evil for evil, not to cherish any fires of revenge,
burning to be even with the injurious person. His counsel is to curb
our imperiousness, to repress our impatience, to pause in the burst of
another’s feeling, to pour water upon the kindling flames, or, at the
very least, to abstain from adding any fresh fuel thereto.
One proof of the superior wisdom of this counsel is, that few seem to
appreciate or perceive it. To many it seems no great virtue or wisdom,
no great and splendid thing, in some small issue of feeling or opinion,
in the family or among friends, to withhold a little, to tighten
the rein upon some headlong propensity, and await a calm for fair
adjustment. Such a course is not usually held to be a proof of wisdom
or virtue; and men are much more ready to praise and think well of
smartness, and spirit, and readiness for an encounter. To leave off
contention before it is meddled with does not command any very general
admiration; it is too quiet a virtue, with no striking attitudes, and
with lips which answer nothing. This is too often mistaken for dullness,
and want of proper spirit. It requires discernment and superior wisdom
to see a beauty in such repose and self-control, beyond the explosions
of anger and retaliation. With the multitude, self-restraining meekness
under provocation is a virtue which stands quite low in the catalogue.
It is very frequently set down as pusillanimity and cravenness
of spirit. But it is not so; for there is a self-restraint under
provocation which is far from being cowardice, or want of feeling, or
shrinking from consequences; there is a victory over passionate impulses
which is more difficult and more meritorious than a victory on the
bloody battle-field. It requires more power, more self-command, often,
to leave off contention, when provocation and passion are causing the
blood to boil, than to rush into it.
Were this virtue more duly appreciated, and the admonition of the Wise
Man more extensively heeded, what a change would be effected in human
life! How many of its keenest sufferings would be annihilated! The spark
which kindles many great fires would be withheld; and, great as are the
evils and sufferings caused by war, they are not as great, probably, as
those originating in impatience and want of temper. The fretfulness
of human life, it seems not hard to believe, is a greater evil,
and destroys more happiness, than all the bloody scenes of the
battle-field. The evils of war have generally something to lighten the
burden of them in a sense of necessity, or of rights or honour invaded;
but there is nothing of like importance to alleviate the sufferings
caused by fretfulness, impatience, want of temper. The excitable
peevishness which kindles at trifles, that roughens the daily experience
of a million families, that scatters its little stings at the table and
by the hearth-stone, what does this but unmixed harm? What ingredient
does it furnish but of gall? Its fine wounding may be of petty
consequence in any given case, and its tiny darts easily extracted; but,
when habitually carried into the whole texture of life, it destroys more
peace than plague and famine and the sword. It is a deeper anguish
than grief; it is a sharper pang than the afflicted moan with; it is
a heavier pressure from human hands than when affliction lays her hand
upon you. All this deduction from human comfort, all this addition to
human suffering, may be saved, by heeding the admonition of wisdom given
by one of her sons. When provoked by the follies or the passions,
the offences or neglects, the angry words or evil-speaking of others,
restrain your propensity to complain or contend; leave off contention
before you take the first step towards it. You will then be greater than
he that taketh a city. You will be a genial companion in your family and
among your neighbours. You will be loved at home and blessed abroad.
You will be a source of comfort to others, and carry a consciousness
of praiseworthiness in your own bosom. On the contrary, an acrid
disposition, a readiness to enter into contention, is like vinegar to
the teeth, like caustic to an open sore. It eats out all the beauty,
tenderness, and affection of domestic and social life. For all this the
remedy is simple. Put a restraint upon your feelings; give up a little;
take less than belongs to you; endure more than should be put upon you;
make allowance for another’s judgment or educational defects; consider
circumstances and constitution; leave off contention before it
be meddled with. If you do otherwise, quick resentment and stiff
maintenance of your position will breed endless disputes and bitterness.
But happy will be the results of the opposite course, accomplished every
day and every hour in the family, with friends, with companions, with
all with whom you have any dealings or any commerce in life.
Let any one set himself to the cultivation of this virtue of meekness
and self-restraint, and he will find that it cannot be secured by one or
a few efforts, however resolute; by a few struggles, however severe. It
requires industrious culture; it requires that he improve every little
occasion to quench strife and fan concord, till a constant sweetness
smooths the face of domestic life, and kindness and tenderness become
the very expression of the countenance. This virtue of self-control
must grow by degrees. It must grow by a succession of abstinences from
returning evil for evil, by a succession of leaving off contention
before the first angry word escapes.
It may help to cultivate this virtue, to practise some forethought. When
tempted to irritable, censorious speech, one might with advantage call
to recollection the times, perhaps frequent, when words uttered in haste
have caused sorrow or repentance. Then, again, the fact might be called
to mind, that when we lose a friend, every harsh word we may have spoken
rises to condemn us. There is a resurrection, not for the dead only, but
for the injuries we have fixed in their hearts--in hearts, it may be,
bound to our own, and to which we owed gentleness instead of harshness.
The shafts of reproach, which come from the graves of those who have
been wounded by our fretfulness and irritability, are often hard to
bear. Let meek forbearance and self-control prevent such suffering, and
guard us against the condemnations of the tribunal within.
There is another tribunal, also, which it were wise to think of. The
rule of that tribunal is, that if we forgive not those who trespass
against us, we ourselves shall not be forgiven. “He shall have judgment
without mercy that hath showed no mercy.” Only, then, if we do not
need, and expect never to beg the mercy of the Lord to ourselves, may we
withhold our mercy from our fellow-men.
“ALL THE DAY IDLE.”
     WHEREFORE idle?--when the harvest beckoning,
       Nods its ripe tassels to the brightening sky?
     Arise and labour ere the time of reckoning,
       Ere the long shadows and the night draw night.
     Wherefore idle?--Swing the sickle stoutly!
       Bind thy rich sheaves exultingly and fast!
     Nothing dismayed, do thy great task devoutly--
       Patient and strong, and hopeful to the last!
     Wherefore idle?--Labour, not inaction,
       Is the soul’s birthright, and its truest rest;
     Up to thy work!--It is Nature’s fit exaction--
       He who toils humblest, bravest, toils the best.
     Wherefore idle?--God himself is working;
       His great thought wearieth not, nor standeth still,
     In every throb of his vast heart is lurking
       Some mighty purpose of his mightier will.
     Wherefore idle?--Not a leaf’s slight rustle
       But chides thee in thy vain, inglorious rest;
     Be a strong actor in the great world,--bustle,--
       Not a, weak minion or a pampered guest!
     Wherefore idle?--Oh I my faint soul, wherefore?
       Shake first from thine own powers dull sloth’s control;
     Then lift thy voice with an exulting “Therefore
       Thou, too, shalt conquer, oh, thou striving soul!”
THE BUSHEL OF CORN.
FARMER GRAY had a neighbour who was not the best-tempered man in the
world though mainly kind and obliging. He was shoemaker. His name was
Barton. One day, in harvest-time, when every man on the farm was as busy
as a bee, this man came over to Farmer Gray’s, and said, in rather a
petulant tone of voice,
“Mr. Gray, I wish you would send over, and drive your geese home.”
“Why so, Mr. Barton; what have my geese been doing?” said the farmer, in
a mild, quiet-tone.
“They pick my pigs’ ears when they are eating, and go into my garden,
and I will not have it!” the neighbour replied, in a still more petulant
voice.
“I am really sorry it, Neighbour Barton, but what can I do?”
“Why, yoke them, and thus keep them on your own premises. It’s no kind
of a way to let your geese run all over every farm and garden in the
neighborhood.”
“But I cannot see to it, now. It is harvest-time, Friend Barton, and
every man, woman, and child on the farm has as much as he or she can do.
Try and bear it for a week or so, and then I will see if I can possibly
remedy the evil.”
“I can’t bear it, and I won’t bear it any longer!” said the shoemaker.
“So if you do not take care of them, Friend Gray, I shall have to take
care of them for you.”
“Well, Neighbour Barton, you can do as you please,” Farmer Gray replied,
in his usual quiet tone. “I am sorry that they trouble you, but I cannot
attend to them now.”
“I’ll attend to them for you, see if I don’t,” said the shoemaker, still
more angrily than when he first called upon Farmer Gray; and then turned
upon his heel, and strode off hastily towards his own house, which was
quite near to the old farmer’s.
“What upon earth can be the matter with them geese?” said Mrs. Gray,
about fifteen minutes afterwards.
“I really cannot tell, unless Neighbour Barton is taking care of them.
He threatened to do so, if I didn’t yoke them right off.”
“Taking care of them! How taking care of them?”
“As to that, I am quite in the dark. Killing them, perhaps. He said they
picked at his pigs’ ears, and drove them away when they were eating, and
that he wouldn’t have it. He wanted me to yoke them right off, but that
I could not do, now, as all the hands are busy. So, I suppose, he is
engaged in the neighbourly business of taking care of our geese.”
“John! William! run over and see what Mr. Barton is doing with my
geese,” said Mrs. Gray, in a quick and anxious tone, to two little boys
who were playing near.
The urchins scampered off, well pleased to perform any errand.
“Oh, if he has dared to do anything to my geese, I will never forgive
him!” the good wife said, angrily.
“H-u-s-h, Sally! make no rash speeches. It is more than probable that he
