" I don't mean to be a thief. But this pocket book 
will make me rich. She never will know any thing 
about it." 
" If she does not, there is One above who will 
know, and his angels will frown upon you, and 
stamp your crime upon your face. Then you will go 
about like Cain, with a mark upon you." 
" Pooh ! " said the outer Harry, who was sorely 
tempted by the treasure within his grasp. 
" You will not dare to look the little angel in the 
face, if you steal this money. She will know you 
we not good, then. Honest folks always hold their 
heads up, and are never ashamed to face any per- 
son." 
" I won't keep it ! " replied the struggling, tempt- 
ed Flesh. " Why did I think of such a thing ? : ' 
He felt strong then, for the Spirit had triumphed 
oyer the Flesh. The foe within had been beaten 
back, at least for the moment ; and as he laid his 
head upon the old coat that was to serve him for a 
pillow, he thought of Julia Bryant. He thought he 
saw her sweet face, and there was an angelic smile 
upon it. 
My young readers will remember, after Jesus had 
been tempted, and said, " Get thee behind me, Satan," 
that, " behold, angels came and ministered unto him." 
They came and ministered to Harry after he had cast 
out the evil thought ; they come and minister to all 
who resist temptation. They come in the heart, and 
minister with the healing balm of an approving con- 
science. 
Placing the pocket book under his head, with the 
intention of finding the owner in the morning, he 
tyent to sleep. The fatigue and excitement -)f the 
day softened liis pillow, and not once did he open 
hi* eyes till the toils of another day had commenced 
around him. I question whether he would have 
sk-pt so soundly if he had decided to keep Ihe 
pocket book. 
But the tempter was not banished. He had onlj 
been conquered for the moment — subdued only to 
attack him again. The first thought of the treasure, 
in the morning, was to covet it. Again he allowed 
his fancy to picture the comforts and the luxuries 
which it would purchase. 
" No one will know it," he added. " Why 
shouldn't I keep it ? " 
" God will know it ; you will know it yourself," 
said the other Harry, more faithful and conscientious 
than the outside Harry, who, it must be confessed, 
was sometimes disposed to be the " Old Harry." 
" No use of being too good. I will keep it." 
" She hoped you would b© a good boy," added tha 
monitor within. 
" I will — that is, when I can afford it." 
" Be good now, or you never will." 
One hundred dollars ! — perhaps five hundred ! H 
was a fortune. The temptation was very great. But 
the little angel — the act would forever banish him 
from her presence. He would never dare to look at 
her again, or even to write the letter he had prom- 
ised. 
" Be true to yourself, Harry. Good first, and rich 
next." 
" I will," exclaimed Harry, in an earnest whisper; 
and again the tempter was cast out. 
Once more the fine air castles began to pile them- 
selves up before him, standing on the coveted treas 
ure ; but he resolutely pitched them down, and ban- 
ished them from his mind. 
"Where did you lose it?" said a voice near the 
wagon. 
"I don't know. I didn't miss it till this morning; 
and I have been to every place where I was last 
night ; so I think I must have lost it here, when I 
put my horse up," replied another. 
The first speaker was one of the ostlers ; and the 
moment Harry heard the other voice he s.art^d as 
though a rattlesnake had rattled in his path. "-Yas i' 
possible ? As the speaker proceeded, he wa» sati* 
Bed beyond thi possibility of a doubt that the voice
belonged to Squire Walker. 
" Was there much money in it ? " asked the ostler. 
" About a hundred and fifty dollars ; and there 
were notes and other papers of great value," replied 
Squire Walker. 
"Well, I haven't seen or heard any thing about it." 
" I remember taking it out of my great-coat pocket, 
and putting it into a pocket inside of my vest, when 
I got out of the wagon." 
" I don't think you lost it here. Some of us 
would have found it, if you had." 
Here was a dilemma for Harry. He had deter- 
mined to restore the pocket book ; but he could not 
do so without exposing himself. Besides, if there 
had been any temptation to keep the treasure before, 
it was ten times as great now that he knew it be- 
longed to his enemy. It would be no sin to keep 
it fiom Squire Walker. 
" It would be stealing," said the voice within. 
" But if I give it to him, he will carry me back tf 
Jacob Wire's. I'll be — I'll be hanged if I do." 
" She hopes vou will be a good boy." 
There was no resisting this appeal ; and again the 
demon was put down, and the triumph added another 
laurel to the moral crown of the little hero. 
" It will be a dear journey to me," continued 
Squire Walker. " I was looking all day yesterday 
alter a boy that ran away from the poorhouse, and 
came to the city for him. I had better let him go." 
" Did you find him ? " 
" No. I brought that money down to put in the 
bank. It is gone, I suppose. Confound the boy ! " 
Harry waited no longer ; but while his heart beat 
like the machinery in the great factory at Rockville, 
he tumbled out of his nest, and slid down the bale 
of goods to the pavement. 
" Ah, Master Harry West ! you are here — arc 
you ? " exclaimed Squire Walker, springing forward 
to catch him. 
Harry dodged, and kept out of his reach. 
" Catch him ! " shouted the squire to the ostler. 
" Wait a minute, Squire Walker," said Harry. " I 
won't go back to Jacob Wire's, any how. Just heal 
what I have got to say ; and then, if you want to 
take me, you may, if you can." 
It was evident, even to the squire, that Harry had 
something of importance to say; and he in\oluntarily 
paused to hear it. 
" I have found your pocket book, squire, and * 
" Give it to me, and I won't touch you," cried the 
overseer, eagerly. 
It was clear that the loss of his pocket book had 
produced a salutary impression on the squire's mind. 
He loved money, and the punishment was more than 
he could bear. 
" I was walking along here, last night, when I 
struck my foot against something. I picked it up, 
and found it was a pocket book. I haven't opened 
it. Here it is;" and Harry handed him his lost 
treasure. 
" By gracious ! " exclaimed he, after he had assured 
himself that the contents of the pocket book had not 
been disturbed. " That is more than ever I expected 
of you, Master Harry West." 
" I mean to be honest," replied Harry, proudly. 
" Perhaps you do. I told you, Harry, I wouldn't 
touch you ; and I won't," continued the squire. 
" You may go.' 
Tl e overscpi- was amazed. He had come to Bos- 
Ion with the intentijn of catching Haxry, cost what 
it might, — he meant to charge the expense to> the 
town ; but the recovery of his money had warmed 
his heart, and banished the malice he cherished to- 
wards the boy. 
Squire Walker volunteered some excellent advice 
for the guidance of the little pilgrim, who, he face- 
tiously observed, had now no one to look after his 
manners and morals — manners first, and morals 
afterwards. He must be very careful and prudent, 
and he wished him well. Harry, however, took this 
wholesome counsel as from whom it came, and was 
not very deeply impressed by it. 
John Lane came to the stable soon after, and con- 
gratulated our hero upon the termination of the 
persecution from Redfield, and, when his horses were 
hitched on, bade him good by, with many heart j 
wishes for his future success. 
CHAPTER XIII. 
IN WHICH HARRY BECOMES A STABLE BOY, AWL 
HEARS BAD NEWS FROM ROCKVILLE. 
Harry was exceedingly rejoiced at the remarkable 
turn his affairs had taken. It is true, he had lost 
the treasure upon which his fancy had built so many 
fine castles ; but he did not regret the loss, since it 
had purchased his exemption from the Redfleld per- 
secution. He had conquered his enemy — which waa 
a great victory — by being honest and upright ; and 
he had conquered himself — which was a greater 
victory — by listening to the voice within him. He 
had resisted temptation, and the victory made him 
strong. 
Our hero had won a triumph, but the battle field 
was still spread out before him. There were l.hou» 
lands of enemies lurking in his path, ready to fall 
apon and despoil him of his priceless treasure — his 
integrity. 
" She hoped he would he a good hoy." He tiad 
done his duty — he had heen true in the face cf 
temptation. He wanted to write to Julia then, and 
tell her of his triumph — that, when tempted, he had 
thought of her, and won the victory. 
The world was before him ; it had no place for 
idlers, and he must get work. The contents of the 
basket were not yet exhausted, and he took it to a 
retired corner to eat his breakfast. While he waa 
thus engaged, Joe Flint, the ostler, happened to see 
him. 
' That is cold comfort," said he. " Why don'; 
you go to the tavern, and have your breakfast like 
a gentleman ? " 
" I can't afford it," replied Harry. 
" Can't afford it ? How much did the man that 
owned the pocket book give you ? " 
" Nothing." 
" Nothing ! I'm blamed if he ain't a mean one ! " 
eiclaimed Joe, heartily. " I don't wonder you run 
away." 
" I didn't want any thing. I was too glad to gel 
clear of him to think of any thing else." 
" Next time he loses his pocket book, I hope hta 
won't find it." 
And with this charitable observation, Joe resumed 
bis labors. Harry finished his meal, washed it down 
with a draught of cold water at the pump, and was 
ready for business again. Unfortunately, there was 
no business ready for him. All day long he wan- 
dered about the streets in search of employment ; 
but people did not appreciate his value. No one 
would hire him or have any thing to do with him- 
The five patches on his clothes, he soon discovered, 
rendered it useless for him to apply at the stores. 
He was not in a condition to be tolerated about one 
of these : and he turned his attention to the market, 
the stables, and the teaming establishments, yet with 
no better success. It was in vain that he tried again ; 
and at night, weary and dispirited, he returned to 
Major Phillips's stable. 
His commissariat was not yet exhausted ; and he 
made a hearty supper from the basket. It became 
an interesting question for him to consider how he 
phould pass the night. He could not afford to pay 
i e of his quarters for a night's lodging at the taverr 
oppc site. There was the stable, however, if he could 
get permission to sleep there. 
" May I sleep in the hay loft, Joe ?" he asked, an 
the ostler passed him. 
" Major Phillips don't allow any one to sleep in 
tbj hay loft ; but perhaps he will let you sleep there. 
He was asking about you to-day." 
"How should he know any thing about me?" 
said Harry, not a little surprised to find his fame had 
gone before him. 
" He heard about the pocket book, and wanted to 
see you. He said it was the meanest thing he evrr 
heard of, that the man who lost it didn't give you 
any thing ; and them's my sentiments exactly. Hen 
comes the major ; I will speak to him about you." 
" Thank you, Joe." 
" Major Phillips, this boy wants to know if he 
may sleep in the hay loft to-night." 
"No," replied the stable keeper, short as pie crust. 
" This is the boy that found the pocket book, and 
he hain't got no place to sleep." 
" O, is it ? Then I will find a place for him ta 
sleep. So, my boy, you are an honest fellow." 
" I tiy tu be," replied Harry, modestly. 
" If you had kept the pocket book, you might 
lave lodged at the Tremont House." 
" I had rather sleep in your stable, without it." 
" Squire Walker was mean not to give you a ten- 
dollar bill. What are you going to do with your- 
self?" 
* I want to get work ; perhaps you have got some- 
thing for me to do. I am used to horses." 
" Well, I don't know as I have." 
Major Phillips was a great fat man, rough, vulgar, 
and profane in his conversation ; but he had a kind 
and sympathizing nature. Though he swore like a 
pirate sometimes, his heart was in the right place so 
far as humanity was concerned. 
He took Harry into the counting room of the sta- 
ble, and questioned him in regard to his past history 
and future prospects. The latter, however, were just 
now rather clouded. He told the major his ex- 
perience in trying to get something to do, and wai 
afraid he should not find a place. 
The stable keeper was interested in him find in his 
itory. He swore roundly at the meanness of Jacol 
Wire and Squire Walker, and commended him for 
running away. 
"Well, my lad, I don't know as I can do much 
for ycu. I have three ostlers now, which is quite 
enough, and all I can afford to pay ; hut I suppose 
I can find enough for a hoy to do about the house 
and the stable. How much wages do you expect ? " 
" Whatever you think I can earn." 
"You can't earn much for me just now; but if 
you are a-mind to try it, I will give you six dollars a 
month and your board." 
" Thank you, sir ; I shall be very glad of the 
chance." 
" Very well ; but if you work for me, you must 
get up early in the morning, and be wide awake." 
" I will, sir." 
" Now we will see about a place for you to 
Bleep." 
Over the counting room was an apartment in which 
two of the ostlers slept. There was room for another 
bed, and one was immediately set up for Hairy's use. 
