us, and led him away, feeling, as my lady readers will very
naturally suppose, in not the most amiable humor in the world. I had
just got the child, who was pretty hungry, seated in his high chair,
when my husband and his guest made their appearance; and I was
introduced.
Sorry am I to chronicle the fact--but truth compels me to make a
faithful record--that my reception of the stranger was by no means
gracious. I tried to smile; but a smile was such a mockery of my
real feelings, that every facial muscle refused to play the
hypocrite. The man was not welcome, and it was impossible for me to
conceal this.
"A plain family dinner, you see," said Mr. Smith, as we took our
places at the meagre board. "We are plain people. Shall I help you
to some of the ham and eggs?"
He tried to smile pleasantly, and to seem very much at his ease.
But, the attempt was far from successful.
"I want some! Don't give him all!" screamed out the hungry child at
my side, stretching out his hands towards the poorly supplied dish,
from which my husband was about supplying our guest.
My face, which was red enough before, now became like scarlet. A
moment longer I remained at the table, and then rising up quickly
took the impatient child in my arms, and carried him screaming from
the room. I did not return to grace the dinner table with my
unattractive presence. Of what passed, particularly, between my
husband and his friend Mr. Jones, who had left his luxurious dinner
at the hotel to enjoy "a plain family dinner" with his old
acquaintance, I never ventured to make enquiry. They did not remain
very long at the table; nor very long in the house after finishing
their frugal meal.
I have heard since that Mr. Jones has expressed commiseration for my
husband, as the married partner of a real termigant. I don't much
wonder at his indifferent opinion; for, I rather think I must have
shown in my face something of the indignant fire that was in me.
Mr. Smith, who was too much in the habit of inviting people home to
take a "family dinner" with him on the spur of the moment, has never
committed that error since. His mortification was too severe to be
easily forgotten.
CHAPTER VIII.
WHO IS KRISS KRINGLE?
IT was the day before Christmas--always a day of restless, hopeful
excitement among the children; and my thoughts were busy, as is
usual at this season, with little plans for increasing the gladness
of my happy household. The name of the good genius who presides over
toys and sugar plums was often on my lips, but oftener on the lips
of the children.
"Who is Kriss Kringle, mamma?" asked a pair of rosy lips, close to
my ear, as I stood at the kitchen table, rolling out and cutting
cakes.
I turned at the question, and met the earnest gaze of a couple of
bright eyes, the roguish owner of which had climbed into a chair for
the purpose of taking note of my doings.
I kissed the sweet lips, but did not answer.
"Say, mamma? Who is Kriss Kringle?" persevered the little one.
"Why, don't you know?" said I, smiling.
"No, mamma. Who is he?"
"Why, he is--he is--Kriss Kringle."
"Oh, mamma! Say, won't you tell me?"
"Ask papa when he comes home," I returned, evasively.
I never like deceiving children in any thing. And yet, Christmas
after Christmas, I have imposed on them the pleasant fiction of
Kriss Kringle, without suffering very severe pangs of conscience.
Dear little creatures! how fully they believed, at first, the story;
how soberly and confidingly they hung their stockings in the chimney
corner; with what faith and joy did they receive their many gifts on
the never-to-be-forgotten Christmas morning!
Yes, it is a pleasant fiction; and if there be in it a leaven of
wrong, it is indeed a small portion.
"But why won't you tell me, mamma?" persisted my little
interrogator. "Don't you know Kriss Kringle?"
"I never saw him, dear," said I.
"Has papa seen him?"
"Ask him when he comes home."
"I wish Krissy would bring me, Oh, such an elegant carriage and four
horses, with a driver that could get down and go up again."
"If I see him, I'll tell him to bring you just such a nice
carriage."
"And will he do it, mamma?" The dear child clapped his hands
together with delight.
"I guess so."
"I wish I could see him," he said, more soberly and thoughtfully.
And then, as if some new impression had crossed his mind, he
hastened down from the chair, and went gliding from the room.
Half an hour afterwards, as I came into the nursery, I saw my three
"olive branches," clustered together in a corner, holding grave
counsel on some subject of importance; at least to themselves. They
became silent at my presence; but soon began to talk aloud. I
listened to a few words, but perceived nothing of particular
concern; then turned my thoughts away.
"Who is Kriss Kringle, papa?" I heard my cherry-lipped boy asking of
Mr. Smith, soon after he came home in the evening.
The answer I did not hear. Enough that the enquirer did not appear
satisfied therewith.
At tea-time, the children were not in very good appetite, though in
fine spirits.
As soon as the evening meal was over, Mr. Smith went out to buy
presents for our little ones, while I took upon myself the task of
getting them off early to bed.
A Christmas tree had been obtained during the day, and it stood in
one of the parlors, on a table. Into this parlor the good genius was
to descend during the night, and hang on the branches of the tree,
or leave upon the table, his gifts for the children. This was our
arrangement. The little ones expressed some doubts as to whether
Kriss Kringle would come to this particular room; and little "cherry
lips" couldn't just see how the genius was going to get down the
chimney, when the fire-place was closed up.
"Never mind, love; Kriss will find his way here," was my answer to
all objections.
"But how do you know, mother? Have you sent him word?"
"Oh, I know."
Thus I put aside their enquiries, and hurried them off to bed.
"Now go to sleep right quickly," said I, after they were snugly
under their warm blankets and comforts; "and to-morrow morning be up
bright and early."
And so I left them to their peaceful slumbers.
An hour it was, or more, ere Mr. Smith returned, with his pockets
well laden. I was in the parlor, where we had placed the Christmas
tree, engaged in decorating it with rosettes, sugar toys, and the
like. At this work I had been some fifteen or twenty minutes, and
had, I will own, become a little nervous. My domestic had gone out,
and I was alone in the house. Once or twice, as I sat in the silent
room, I imagined that I heard a movement in the one adjoining. And
several times I was sure that my ear detected something like the
smothered breathing of a man.
"All imagination," said I to myself. But again and again the same
sounds stirred upon the silent air.
"Could there be a robber concealed in the next room?"
The thought made me shudder. I was afraid to move from where I sat.
What a relief when I heard my husband's key in the door, followed by
the sound of his well known tread in the passage! My fears vanished
in a moment.
As Mr. Smith stood near me, in the act of unloading his pockets, he
bent close to my ear and whispered:
"Will is under the table. I caught a glance of his bright eyes,
just now."
"What!"
"It's true. And the other little rogues are in the next room,
peeping through the door, at this very moment."
I was silent with surprise.
"They're determined to know who Kriss Kringle is," added my husband;
then speaking aloud, he said:
"Come, dear, I want to show you something up in the dining-room."
I understood Mr. Smith, and arose up instantly, not so much as
glancing towards the partly opened folding door.
We were hardly in the dining room before we heard the light
pattering of feet, and low, smothered tittering on the stairway.
Then all was still, and we descended to the parlors again, quite as
much pleased with what had occurred as the little rogues were
themselves.
"I declare! Really, I thought them all sound asleep an hour ago,"
said I, on resuming my work of decorating the Christmas tree, "Who
could have believed them cunning enough for this? It's all Will's
doings. He'll get through the world."
"Aye will he," returned Mr. Smith. "Oh if you could have seen his
face as I saw it, just peering from under the table cloth, his eyes
as bright as stars, and full of merriment and delight."
"Bless his heart! He's a dear little fellow!"
How could I help saying this?
"And the others! You lost half the pleasure of the whole affair by
not seeing them."
"We shall have a frolic with the rogues to-morrow morning. I can see
the triumph on Will's face. I understand now what all their
whisperings meant this afternoon. They were concocting this plan. I
couldn't have believed it of them?"
"Children are curious bodies," said Mr. Smith.
"I thought I heard some one in the next room," I remarked, "while
you were out, and became really nervous for a while. I heard the
breathing of some one near me, also; but tried to argue myself into
the belief that it was only imagination."
Thus we conned over the little incident, while we arranged the
children's toys.
"I know who Kriss Kringle is! I know!" was the triumphant
affirmation of one and another of the children, as we gathered at
the breakfast table next morning.
"Do you, indeed?" said I, trying to look grave.
"Yes; it is papa."
"Papa, Kriss Kringle! How can that be?"
"Oh, we know! We found out!"
"Indeed!"
And we, made, of course, a great wonder of this assertion. The merry
elves! What a happy Christmas it was for them. Ever since, they have
dated from the time when they found out who Kriss Kringle was. It is
all to no purpose that we pleasantly suggest the possibility of
their having dreamed of what they allege to have occurred under
their actual vision; they have recorded it in their memories, and
refer to it as a veritable fact.
Dear children! How little they really ask of us, to make them happy.
Did we give them but a twentieth part of the time we devote to
business, care, and pleasure, how greatly would we promote their
good, and increase the measure of their enjoyment. Not alone at
Christmas time, but all the year should we remember and care for
their pleasures; for, the state of innocent pleasure, in children,
is one in which good affections are implanted, and these take root
and grow, and produce fruit in after life.
CHAPTER IX.
NOT AT HOME.
NEVER but once did I venture upon the utterance of that little white
lie, "Not at home," and then I was well punished for my weakness and
folly. It occurred at a time when there were in my family two new
inmates: a niece from New York, and a raw Irish girl that I had
taken a few days before, on trial.
My niece, Agnes, was a young lady in her nineteenth year, the
daughter of my brother. I had not seen her before since her
school-girl days; and knew little of her character. Her mother I had
always esteemed as a right-thinking, true-hearted woman. I was much
pleased to have a visit from Agnes, and felt drawn toward her more
and more every day. There was something pure and good about her.
"Now, Aggy, dear," said I to her, one morning after breakfast, as we
took our work and retired from the dining-room to one of the
parlors, where I was occasionally in the habit of sitting,--"we must
sew for dear life until dinner time, so as to finish these two
frocks for the children to wear this evening. It isn't right, I
know, to impose on you in this way. But you sew so quick and neatly;
and then it will help me through, and leave me free to visit Girard
College with you this afternoon."
"Don't speak of it, aunt," returned Agnes.--"I'm never happier than
when employed. And, besides, it's only fair that I should sew for
you in the morning, if you are to go pleasuring with me in the
afternoon."
Lightly the hours flew by, passed in cheerful conversation. I found
that the mind of my niece had been highly cultivated; that her
tastes were refined, and her moral sense acute. To say that I was
pleased with her, would but half express what I felt.
There was to be a juvenile party at the house of one of our
acquaintances that evening, to which the children were invited; and
we were at work in preparing dresses and other matters suitable for
them to appear in.
Twelve o'clock came very quickly--too quickly for me, in fact; for I
had not accomplished near so much as I had hoped to do. It would
require the most diligent application, through every moment of time
that intervened until the dinner hour, for us to get through with
what we were doing, so as to have the afternoon to ourselves for the
intended excursion.
As the clock rung out the hour of noon, I exclaimed:
"Is it possible! I had no idea that it was so late. How slowly I do
seem to get along!"
Just at this moment the bell rung.
"Bless me! I hope we are not to have visitors this morning," said I,
as I let my hands fall in my lap. I thought hurriedly for a moment,
and then remarked, in a decided way:
"Of course we cannot see any one. We are engaged."
By this time I heard the footsteps of Mary on her way from the
kitchen, and I very naturally passed quickly to the parlor door to
intercept and give her my instructions.
"Say that I'm engaged," was on my tongue. But, somehow or other, I
had not the courage to give these words utterance. The visitor might
be a person to whom such an excuse for not appearing would seem
unkind, or be an offence. In this uncertain state, my mind fell into
confusion. Mary was before me, and awaiting the direction she saw
that I was about giving.
"Say that I'm not at home, if any one asks to see me," came in a
sudden impulse from my lips.
And then my cheeks flushed to think that I had instructed my servant
to give utterance to a falsehood.
"Yes, mim," answered the girl, glancing into my face with a knowing
leer, that produced an instant sense of humiliation; and away she
went to do my bidding.
I did not glance towards Agnes, as I returned to my seat and took up
my work. I had not the courage to do this. That I had lowered myself
in her estimation, I felt certain. I heard the street door open, and
bent, involuntarily, in a listening attitude. The voice of a lady
uttered my name.
"She's not at home, mim," came distinctly on my ears, causing the
flush on my cheeks to become still deeper.
A murmur of voices followed. Then I heard the closing of the
vestibule door, and Mary returning to the back parlor where we were
sitting.
"Who was it, Mary?" I enquired, as the girl entered.
"Mrs.--Mrs.--Now what was it? Sure, and I've forgotten their names
intirely."
But, lack of memory did not long keep me in ignorance as to who were
my visitors, for, as ill luck would have it, they had bethought
themselves of some message they wished to leave, and, re-opening the
vestibule door, left a-jar by Mary, followed her along the passage
to the room they saw her enter. As they pushed open the door of the
parlor, Mary heard them, and, turning quickly, exclaimed, in
consternation--
"Och, murther!"
A moment she stood, confronting, in no very graceful attitude, a
couple of ladies, and then escaped to the kitchen.
Here was a scene of embarrassment. Not among all my acquaintances
were there, perhaps, two persons, whom I would have least desired to
witness in me such a fault as the one of which I had been guilty.
For a little while, I knew not what to say. I sat, overcome with
mortification. At length, I arose, and said with an effort,
"Walk in, ladies! How are you this morning? I'm pleased to see you.
Take chairs. My niece, Mrs. Williams, and Mrs. Glenn. I hope you
will excuse us. We were--"
"Oh, no apologies, Mrs. Smith," returned one of the ladies, with a
quiet smile, and an air of self-possession. "Pardon this intrusion.
We understood the servant that you were not at home."
"Engaged, she meant," said I, a deeper crimson suffusing my face.
"The fact is, we are working for dear life, to get the children
ready for a party to-night, and wished to be excused from seeing any
one."
"Certainly--all right," returned Mrs. Williams, "I merely came in to
say to your domestic (I had forgotten it at the door) that my sister
expected to leave for her home in New York in a day or two, and
would call here with me, to-morrow afternoon."
"I shall be very happy to see her," said I,--"very happy. Do come in
and sit down for a little while. If I had only known it was you."
