"He is an old servant of mine, who has been with Mr. Olyphant, and is
coming to me again."
Faith thought it was good news, and as good for Malthus as anybody. An
important little travelling-bag was committed to him, and the cavalcade
set forth.
The way was far longer than the distance seemed to promise, having to
follow the possibilities of the ground. A wild way--through the forest
and over the brook; a good bridle path, but no better. The stillness of
nature everywhere; rarely a human habitation near enough to afford
human sounds. Frost and dew lay sparkling yet on moss and stone, in the
dells where the sun had not looked; though now and then a sudden
opening or turn showed a reach or a gorge of the mountains all golden
with sunlight. Trees such as Faith had never seen, stood along the path
in many places, and under them the horses' footfalls frightened the
squirrels from tree to tree.
"Is this the only way of getting about here, Endecott?"
"This, or on foot, in many directions. That part of our parish which
lies below us, as Mr. Olyphant says, can be reached with wheels. But
look, Mignonette!"
The road turned sharply round a great boulder, and they were almost
home! There it lay before them, a little below, an irregular, low, grey
stone cottage, fitting itself to the ground as if fitting the ground to
it had been an impossibility. It was not on a ravine; the slope went
down, down, till it swept off into the stubble fields and cleared land
below. There was the sound of a great waterfall in the distance; close
by the house a little branch stream went bounding down, and spread
itself out peaceably in the valley. Dark hemlocks guarded the cottage
from too close neighbourhood of the cliffs at the back, but in front
the subsiding roughness of nature kept only a few oaks and maples here
and there. The cleared ground was irregular, like the house, running up
and down, as might be. No moving thing in sight but the blue smoke and
the sailing clouds and cloud shadows. The tinkle of a cow-bell made
itself heard faintly; the breeze rushed through the pines, then slowly
the black heifer came over the brow of her meadow and surveyed the
prospect.
Faith had checked her horse, and looking at it all, up and down, turned
to Mr. Linden. There was a great deal in her look, more than words
could bear the burden of, and she said none. He held out his hand and
clasped hers speakingly, the lips unbent then, though they went back to
the grave lines of thought and interest and purpose. It was not merely
his home he was looking at--it was the one to which he was bringing
her. Was it the place for Mignonette? would it be too lonely, too cold?
or was the whole scene that lay before them, in its wild beauty, the
roughness covered and glorified by that supreme sunlight, a fair
picture of their life together, wherever it might be? So he believed;
the light grew and deepened in his own eyes as he looked,--the grave
purpose, the sure hope; and Mignonette's little hand the while was held
as she had rarely felt him hold it before.
Presently she bent down so that she could look up in his face,
answering him then with a smile.
"Endy, what are you thinking of? I am very happy." The last words were
lowered a little.
Mr. Linden's eyes came to her instantly, with something of their former
look, but very bright; and bending off his horse he put one arm round
her, with as full and earnest a kiss as she had ever had from him.
"That is what I was thinking of," he said, "I was thinking of my wife,
Mignonette."
"Aren't you satisfied?" she said in her former tone.--"Perfectly."
The look made a very personal application.--Faith shook her head a
little, and they rode on.
The cottage door was very near presently: Faith could see all the minor
points of interest. Malthus, who had got there by a short cut, waited
to take their horses; then a white cap and apron appeared in the
doorway for a second and vanished again.
"You will find another of our old dependants here, Faith," said Mr.
Linden.
"Who is that?" she said quickly.--"There were three women in our
house," said Mr. Linden, "that Pet and I called respectively, 'Good,'
'Better,' and 'Best,' this is Best. Hers was a name in earnest, for we
never called her anything else; and it was always the desire of her
heart first to see my wife and then to live with her. And I was sure
she would please you."
"What must I call her?--Mrs. Best?" said Faith. "No, you must call
her nothing but 'Best.'"
"That's excellent!" said Faith gleefully. "I thought there was nobody
here but one friend of yours, Endecott. Now I shall get in order
directly."
"That is what you thought you were coming to," he said, coming to her
side to lift her down. "How would you like to be taken right back to
Mr. Olyphant's?"--"Not at all!"
In answer to which she was lightly jumped down from the saddle and
carried off into the house; where Mr. Linden and Best shook hands after
a prolonged fashion, and the old servant--not that she was very old
neither--turned glad, and eager, and respectful eyes upon her new
mistress, touching that little hand with great satisfaction of heart.
"It's warmer in the study, sir," she said, "and there's a fire in the
kitchen, if Mrs. Endecott would like to see that. And shall I make one
anywhere else, ma'am?"
Best's white cap and apron were very attractive, and so, on the other
hand were Faith's blush and smile.
The hall in which they stood, rather a wide one, cut the house from
front to back, with no break of stairway. Through the open back door
Faith could see the dark cliff, and hear the brook. Mr. Linden asked
where "she would go first?" Faith whispered, "To the study." He smiled,
and opened the one door at her left hand, and led her in.
Not yet in perfect order, the bookshelves yet unfurnished, it looked a
very abode of comfort; for there were basking sunbeams and a blazing
fire, there were shelves and cupboards of various size and shape, there
were windows, not very large, it is true, but giving such views of
the fair country below, and the brook, and the ascent, and the distant
blue peaks of the range. Warm-coloured curtains, and carpet, and couch
had been put here under Mr. Olyphant's orders; and here were things of
Mr. Linden's which Faith had never seen--his escritoire and study table
among others. Her table, with a dainty easy-chair, at the prettiest
of all the windows, she knew at a glance--unknown as it was before; but
the desk which she had had long ago, stood on the study table, nearer
his. Mr. Linden brought her up to the fire, and stood silent, with his
arms wrapped about her for a minute; then he stooped and kissed her.
"How does it look, Sunbeam?"
Faith was grave, and her eye went silently from one thing to another
even after he spoke, then turned its full sunny answer upon him. Faith
certainly thought he did too much for her; but she spoke no such
thought, leaving it as she had once meant to leave other thoughts, for
action.
"You can put your books right in, and then it will be beautiful," she
remarked. "And look down the mountain, out of that window, Endecott."
She was taken over to the window for a nearer view and placed in her
easy-chair to take the good of it.
"Do you see that little red speck far down at the foot of the hill?"
Mr. Linden said, "in that particularly rough steep place?"--"Yes."
"That is the best thing we can get for a church at present."
Faith thought it would be a very good sort of a "thing" when he was in
it; but, as usual, she did not tell all her thoughts. They came back to
her easy-chair and table, and from them to Mr. Linden's face, with a
look which said "How could you?" But he only smiled, and asked her if
she felt disposed to go over the rest of the house.
For a house that was not in order, this one was singularly put to
rights. Boxes and packages and trunks there were in plenty; rolls of
carpet and pieces of bedsteads, and chairs and tables, and everything
else; but they were all snugly disposed by the wall, so that the rooms
could be entered and the windows reached. The inside of the cottage
was, like the outside, irregular, picturesque, and with sufficient
capabilities of comfort. The kitchen was in a state of nicety to match
that of Best; in a piece of ground behind the house, partly prepared
for a garden, Malthus was at work as composedly as if they had all been
settled in the White Mountains for the last ten years.
Lunch was taken somewhat informally; then the riding habit being
changed for a working dress, Faith set about reducing the rebellion
among boxes and furniture. Best had reason presently to be satisfied
not only with the manners but the powers of her new mistress; though
she also judged in her wisdom that the latter needed some restriction
in their exercise. Gentleness was never more efficient. The
sitting-room began to look like a sitting-room; tables and bookshelves
and chairs marched into place. Meanwhile Faith had been getting into
pleasant order one of the rooms up stairs, which, with what Mrs.
Olyphant had done, was easy; enjoying the mountain air that came in
through the window, and unpacking linen and china. Mr. Linden, on his
part, had been as busy with some of the rougher and heavier work,
opening boxes and unpacking books, and especially taking care of Faith;
which last work was neither rough nor heavy. She was amused (edified
too) at the new commentary on his former life which this day gave her:
to call upon servants when they were present, seemed as natural as to
do without them when they were absent. Faith mused and wondered a
little over the old habit which showed itself so plainly, thinking too
of his life in Pattaquasset.
The day had worn on and faded, and Faith was still busy in a hunt for
some of her wedding presents which she wanted to have on the tea-table.
But Mr. Linden for some time had missed her; and entering upon a tour
of search, found her in a large closet near the kitchen, with a great
deal chest on one side and a trunk on the other. Between them, on her
knees, Faith was laying out package after package, and pile after pile
of naperies lay on the floor around her; in the very height of
rummaging, though with cheeks evidently paled since the morning. Mr.
Linden took an expressive view of the subject.
"Mignonette, I want my tea."
"Yes!" said Faith eagerly, looking up and then at her work again, "just
so soon as I find some things--"
"I don't want 'things,' I want tea."
"Yes; but you can't have tea without things."
"I will be content with six napkins and ten tablecloths--just for
to-night, as we are in confusion."
"And no spoons?" said Faith. "Here they are."
"Yes; here they are," said Mr. Linden, "and here is everything else.
Just look at the state of the floor, for me to walk over."
"Not at all," said Faith; "please keep out. I will have tea ready very
soon, Endy."
"You shall not have anything ready," and Faith found herself lifted
from her kneeling position, and placed in a not uncomfortable nest of
things, "Now, Mrs. Linden, whatever of those packages your hands may
touch, shall lie on the floor all night. But as you see, my hands have
a different effect." And swiftly and surely the "things" began to find
corner room in the closet.
"Endy," said Faith, catching his hands, "please don't! Just go away,
and leave me here for three minutes."
"Not for one. I'll turn them all out again in the morning, after the
most approved fashion."
Faith sat down, the swift colour in her cheeks testifying to a little
rebellion. It was swift to go, however, as it had been to come; and she
sat still, looking on at Mr. Linden's work, with a little soberness of
brow. That broke too, when she met his eye, in a very frank and deep
smile.
"Well?" he said, laughing and leaning back against the closet door.
"Will you let me go and get tea now?" she said, with the same
look.--"You pretty child! No, I want Best to get tea--and you to be
quiet."
"I'll come and be quiet in three minutes, Endy, after I get rid of the
dust," she said, winningly.
"Genuine minutes? If Ariel 'put a girdle round the earth' in forty, you
should be able to put one round your waist in three--I suppose that is
included in a feminine 'getting rid of the dust.'"
Faith's face promised faithfulness, as she ran off towards the kitchen;
where in less than three minutes she and Best had proved the
(sometimes) excellence of women's business faculties. Meantime a
strange man lifted the latch of the kitchen door, and carefully closing
it after him, remained upon the scene of action.
"How d'ye do?" he said. "Is the new man come?"--"Everybody's new here,"
said Faith. "Whom do you mean?"--"Couldn't tell ye the first word! But
I've been after him better'n three times, if he ain't," the man spoke
as if it was "worse" instead of better.
"Whom do you mean?" said Faith more gravely; "the minister?"--"Now
that's what I call hitting the nail," said her visitor. "Well if he's
here, just tell him to come up the mounting, will ye?"--"When?"
"Moon sets close on to nine, and its lighter afore that."
"Where is the place?" said Faith, now very serious indeed; "and what do
you want the minister for?"--"I don't want him, bless you!" said the
man. "If I did, I shouldn't be standin' here. It's an old soul up our
way. He's got to go up to the bridge and over the bridge and 'tother
side of the bridge, and so on till he comes to it. And the bridge is
slippy." With which summing up, the man turned to the door, rattling
the latch in a sort of preparatory way, to give Faith a chance for
remarks.
"But who wants him there and what for? you haven't told me."--"Why it's
old Uncle Bias. Sen he's sick he's got something on his mind, never
seemed to afore, and he's in a takin' to tell it. That's all." And he
opened the door.
"Why won't to-morrow do as well as to-night?"--"Wal," said the man
slowly, "s'pose it might. Nevertheless, to-morrow ain't worth much to
him. Nobody'd give much for it."
"Why?"--"'Taint certain he'd get what he paid for."
"Is he very sick?"--"Very enough," said the man with a nod, and opening
the door.
Faith sprang forward. "Stop a minute, will you, friend, and see Mr.
Linden."
"That's his name, as sure as guns," said he of the "mounting." "No,
thankee, I don't care about seein' him now, next time'll do just as
well, and it's time he was off."
"Then wait and show him the way, will you? how is he to find it?"--"Do
tell!" said the man slowly, "if he can't find his way round in the
moonlight?"--"Better than most people," said Faith; "but I think he
would like to see you."
The man however chose to defer that pleasure also to "next time," and
went off. Faith went to the study. Coming up behind Mr. Linden where he
was sitting, and laying both hands on his shoulders, she said in a very
low and significant voice, "Endy, some one wants you."
"Only that you never assert your claims," he said, bringing the hands
together, "I should suppose it must be the very person whom I want."
Her head stooped lower, till the soft cheek and hair lay against his.
But she only whispered, "Endy, it is some one up the mountain."
"Is it?" he said, rousing up; but only turning his lips to her cheek.
"Well, people up the mountain must have what they want. Is it now,
Faith?"
"Endy--they say it's a dying man."
"Where? Is the messenger here?"--"I couldn't make him wait--he thought
he had business somewhere else. The place is--I dare say Malthus
knows--up the mountain, beyond the bridge--you are to go over the
bridge and on till you come to the house. And he says the bridge is
slippery." Only a fine ear could detect the little change in Faith's
voice. But she knew it was noticed, from the smile on the lips that
kissed her, two or three times. Then Mr. Linden disengaged himself and
rose up.
"Faith," he said, "you are to wait tea for me, and in the mean time you
must take one of Miss Bezac's cups of comfort and lie down on the sofa
and go to sleep. Your eyes will be just as good guiding stars sleeping
as waking."
She said not another word, but watched him go off and out into the half
dark wilderness. The moon shone bright indeed, but only touched the
tops of many a woody outline, and many a steep mountain side rose up
and defied her. Faith smelled the wild sweet air, looked up and down at
the gleams of light and bands of shadow; and then came back to the
study where the fire blazed, and sat down on the floor in front of it;
gazing into the red coals, and following in fancy Mr. Linden on his
walk and errand. It took him away from her, and so many such an errand
would, often; but to speak comfort to the dying and tell the truth to
the ignorant.--Faith gloried in it. He was an ambassador of Christ; and
not to have him by her side would Faith keep him from his work. That he
might do his work well--that he might be blessed in it, both to others
and himself, her very heart almost fused itself in prayer. So thinking,
while every alternate thought was a petition for him, weariness and
rest together at last put her to sleep; and she slept a dreamless sweet
sleep with her head on Mr. Linden's chair.
She awoke before he got back, though the evening was long set in.
Feeling refreshed, Faith thought herself at liberty to reverse orders
and went to the forbidden closet again, and to further conjurations
with Best. They could not have taken long; for when, some hour later,
Mr. Linden was nearing the house on his return, he had a pretty view of
her, standing all dressed before the fire in his study. The glow shone
all over her--he could see her well, and her fresh neatness. He could
see more. Faith Linden to-night was not just the Faith Derrick of old
time; nor even of six months ago. The old foundations of character were
all there, intact; but upon them sat a nameless grace, not simply of
cultivation, nor of matured intelligence, nor even of happiness. A
certain quiet elegance, a certain airy dignity--which had belonged to
her only since she had been Mr. Linden's wife. She stood there,
waiting now for him to come home.
The firelight caught behind her the gleam of silver, whether Mr. Linden
could see it or not, where the little chocolatière stood brilliant.
Faith had found that in her last rummaging. Miss Bezac's new trencher
and bread knife were on the table too, with a loaf of Mrs. Olyphant's
bread; and the fireshine gleamed on Mr. Alcott's saltcellars, and on
the Mignonette tea service. Faith evidently had pleased her fancy. But
