throw questions into his mind? Was there anything evil in the faith
which he had adopted as exhibited in his life? I could not say yes. On
the contrary, taking his life as an illustration, good only was to be
inferred. I remembered very well when his mind diverged into this
new direction. Some years had intervened. I thought to see him
grow visionary or enthusiastic. Not so, however. There was a change
progressively visible; but it was in the direction of sound and rational
views of life. A broader humanity showed itself in his words and
actions. Then came the subtler vein of religious sentiments, running
like pure gold through all that appertained to him.

If, therefore, he was progressing towards a higher life, why should I
question as to the way being right for him? Why should I seek to turn
him into another path when there was such a broad light for his eyes on
the one he had chosen? “By their fruits ye shall know them.” And by his
fruits I knew him to be of that highest type of manhood, a Christian
gentleman.

I noticed, while Mr. Wallingford spoke so confidently of their reunion
in heaven, that his wife leaned towards, and looked at him, with eyes
through which her soul seemed going forth into his.

As the conversation flowed on, it gradually involved other themes, and
finally led to the question On my part, as to when they were going to
leave Ivy Cottage.

“That is quite uncertain,” replied Mr. Wallingford. “I shall not hurry
the present occupant. We have been so happy here, that we feel more
inclined to stay than to remove to a more ambitious home.”

“I hear that Mr. Dewey is going to build,” said I.

“Where?”

“He has been negotiating for the property on the elevation west of the
Allen House.”

“Ah!”

“Yes. The price of the ground, five acres, is ten thousand dollars.”

“The site is commanding and beautiful. The finest in S----, for one
who thinks mainly of attracting the attention of others,” said Mr.
Wallingford.

“If he builds, we shall see something on a grander scale than anything
yet attempted in our neighborhood. He will overshadow you.”

“The rivalry must be on his side alone,” was Mr. Wallingford’s reply.
“No elegance or imposing grandeur that he may assume, can disturb me in
the smallest degree. I shall only feel pity for the defect of happiness
that all his blandishments must hide.”

“A splendid Italian villa is talked of.”

Mr. Wallingford shook his head.

“You doubt all this?” said I.

“Not the man’s ambitious pride; but his ability to do what pride
suggests. He and his compeers are poorer, by a hundred thousand dollars,
than they deemed themselves a few short months ago.”

“Have they met with heavy losses?” I asked, not understanding the drift
of his remark.

“The estate in trust has been withdrawn.”

“How should that make them poorer?”

“It makes them poorer, in the first place, as to the means for carrying
on business. And it makes them poorer, in the second place, in the loss
of an estate, which, I am sorry to believe, Mr. Dewey and a part of his
New York associates regarded as virtually their own.

“But the heir was approaching his majority,” said I.

“And growing up a weak, vicious, self-indulgent young man, who, in the
hands of a shrewd, unscrupulous villain, might easily be robbed of his
fortune. You may depend upon it, Doctor, that somebody has suffered a
terrible disappointment, and one from which he is not likely soon to
recover. No--no! We shall see nothing of this princely Italian villa.”

“I cannot believe,” I replied, “that the executors who had the estate in
trust were influenced by dishonorable motives. I know the men too well.”

“Nor do I, Doctor,” he answered, promptly. “But, as I have before said,
they were almost wholly under the influence of Dewey, and I think that
he was leading them into mazes from which honorable extrication would
have been impossible.”

“Have you given Dewey any notice of removal?” I inquired.

“No--and shall not, for some time. I am in no hurry to leave this place,
in which the happiest days of my life have passed. Any seeming eagerness
to dispossess him, would only chafe a spirit in which I would not
needlessly excite evil passions. His pride must, I think, lead him at a
very early day to remove, and thus make a plain way before me.”

“How long will you wait?” I asked.

“Almost any reasonable time.”

“You and he might not take the same view of what was reasonable,” said
I.

“Perhaps not. But, as I remarked just now, being in no hurry to leave
our present home, I shall not disturb him for some months to come. No
change will be made by us earlier than next spring. And if he wishes to
spend the winter in his present abode, he is welcome to remain.”

There was no assumed virtuous forbearance in all this; but a sincere
regard for the feelings and comfort of Dewey. This was so apparent, that
I did not question for a moment his generous consideration of a man who
would not have hesitated, if the power were given, to crush him to the
very earth.

Many thoughts passed in my mind, as I pondered the incidents and
conversation of this evening. In looking back upon life, we see the sure
progress of causes to effects; and in the effects, the quality of the
causes. We no longer wonder at results--the only wonder is, that they
were not foreseen. Wise maxims, some of the garnered grains of our
fathers’ experiences, are scattered through the books we read, and daily
fall from the lips of teachers and friends; maxims which, if observed,
would lead us to honor and happiness. But who gives them heed? Who makes
them the rule of his conduct?

We might wonder less at the blind infatuation with which so many press
onward in a course that all the wisdom of the past, as well as all the
reason of the present, condemns, if it were possible to rub out our
actions, as a child rubs from his slate a wrong sum, and begin the work
of life over again. But this cannot be. We weave hourly the web that is
to bind us in the future. Our to-days hold the fate of our to-morrows.
What we do is done for ever, and in some degree will affect us
throughout infinite ages.

“Poor Delia Floyd!” My thought had turned to her as I lay awake,
long after the small hours of the morning, busy with incidents and
reflections which had completely banished sleep from my eyes. In the
strong pity of my heart, I spoke the words aloud.

“What of her?” said Constance, in a tone of surprise. And so intruding
thought had kept her awake also!

“Nothing more than usual,” I answered. “But I cannot sleep for thinking
of her unhappy state, and what she might have been, if obeying her own
heart’s right impulses, and the reason God gave her, she had accepted
a true man, instead of a specious villain for her husband. The scene in
Ivy Cottage to-night stands in most remarkable contrast with some things
I witnessed at the Allen House before she went out thence a wretched
woman for life. She staked everything on a desperate venture, and has
lost. God pity her! for there is no help in any human arm. To think of
what she is, and what she might have been, is enough to veil her reason
in midnight darkness.”

“Amen! God pity her!” said Constance. “For truly there is no help for
her in mortal arm.”



CHAPTER XXVIII.



The conduct of Mr. Wallingford, in regard to the estate which had
fallen into his hands, rather puzzled Dewey. He had anticipated an early
notification to remove, and, true to his character, had determined
to annoy the new owner by vexatious delays. But after the passage of
several weeks, in which came to him no intimation that he must give up
the possession of his elegant home, he began to wonder what it could
mean.

One day, not long after the conversation with Wallingford, mentioned in
the last chapter, I met Mr. Dewey in the street. He stopped me and said,
in half-sneering way,

“What of our honorable friend? Impatient, I suppose, to see the inside
of the Allen House?”

“No,” I replied, “he has no wish to disturb you for the present.”

“Indeed! You expect me to believe all that, of course.”

There was a rudeness in his manner that was offensive; but I did not
care to let him see that I noticed it.

“Why should you not believe my remark?” said I. “Is it a new thing in
your experience with men to find an individual considerate of another?”

“What do you mean by considerate of another?”

My form of speech touched his pride.

“Mr. Wallingford has manifested towards you a considerate spirit,” said
I, speaking slowly and distinctly. “It naturally occurs to him that,
as you are so pleasantly situated at the Allen House, an early removal
therefrom might be anything but desirable. And so he has rested quietly
up to this time, leaving a decision as to the period with yourself.”

“Humph! Very unselfish, truly!”

His lip curled in disdain.

“If you feel restive under this concession in your favor,” said I,
putting on a serious manner, “I would suggest independence as a remedy.”

He looked at me curiously, yet with a scowling contraction of his brows.

“Independence! What am I to understand by your remark?”

“Simply this, Mr. Dewey. You are in the occupancy of property belonging
to Mr. Wallingford, and by his favor. Now, if you cannot receive a
kindness at his hands, in the name of all that is manly and independent,
put yourself out of the range of obligation.”

I was not able to repress a sudden feeling of indignation, and so spoke
with warmth and plainness.

“Thank you for your plainness of speech, Doctor,” he retorted, drawing
himself up in a haughty manner.

“As to removing from the Allen House, I will do that just when it suits
my pleasure.”

“Mr. Wallingford, you may be assured,” said I, “will not show any
unseemly impatience, if you do not find it convenient to make an early
removal. He knows that it cannot be agreeable for you to give up the
home of years, and he is too much of a Christian and a gentleman to do
violence to another’s feelings, if it can be in any way avoided.”

“Pah! I hate cant!”

He threw his head aside in affected disgust.

“We judge men by their actions, not their words,” said I. “If a man
acts with considerate kindness, is it cant to speak of him in terms of
praise? Pardon me, Mr. Dewey, but I think you are letting passion blind
you to another’s good qualities.”

“The subject is disagreeable to me, Doctor. Let us waive it.”

“It was introduced by yourself, remember,” I replied; “and all that I
have said has been in response to your own remarks. This much good has
grown from it. You know just how Mr. Wallingford stands towards you, and
you can govern yourself according to your own views in the case. And now
let me volunteer this piece of advice. Never wantonly give offence to
another, for you cannot tell how soon you may find yourself in need of
his good services.”

Dewey gave me a formal bow, and passed on his way.

About a week afterwards, Judge Bigelow inquired of Wallingford as to
when he wished to get possession of the Allen House.

“Whenever Mr. Dewey finds it entirely convenient to remove,” was the
unhesitating reply.

“Suppose it should not be convenient this fall or winter?”

“Very well. The spring will suit me. I am in no hurry. We are too
comfortable in Ivy Cottage to be in any wise impatient for change.”

“Then it is your pleasure that Mr. Dewey remain until spring?”

“If such an arrangement is desirable on his part, Judge, it is
altogether accordant with my feelings and convenience. Say to him that
he has only to consult his own wishes in the case.”

“You are kind and considerate, Mr. Wallingford,” said the Judge, his
manner softening considerably, for there had been a coldness of some
years’ standing on the part of Judge Bigelow, which more recent events
had increased.

“And why should it be otherwise, Judge?” inquired his old student.

“Mr. Dewey has not given you cause for either kindness or
consideration.”

“It would hurt me more than it would him, were I to foster his unhappy
spirit. It is always best, I find, Judge, to be right with myself.”

“All men would find it better for themselves, were they to let so fine
a sentiment govern their lives,” remarked Judge Bigelow, struck by the
language of Wallingford.

“It is the only true philosophy,” was replied. “If a man is right with
himself, he cannot be wrong towards others; though it is possible, as in
my case, that other eyes, looking through a densely refracting medium,
may see him out of his just position. But he would act very unwisely
were he to change his position for all that. He will be seen right in
the end.”

Judge Bigelow reached out his hand and grasped that of Mr. Wallingford.

“Spoken like a man, Henry! Spoken like a man!” he said, warmly. “I only
wish that Ralph had something of your spirit. I have seen you a little
out of your right position, I believe; but a closer view is correcting
the error.”

Wallingford returned the pressure as warmly as it was given, saying, as
