pilot you down to Portland — don't you?" 
" We will obey your orders, Paul ; go any 
where you please," said Frank. 
 
" That is a great deal easier said than done. 
•What can I do, what can any body do, in this 
fog ? You thought you knew every thing, Tom, 
better than Captain Gordon. I hope you have 
got enough of it." 
" Captain Gordon was right," replied Tom ; and 
this sentiment was responded to by all the muti- 
neers. 
"I'm glad you have come to your senses, even 
at the eleventh hour," continued Paul; who, find- 
ing the conspirators were all upon the stool of 
repentance, was disposed to treat them a great 
deal better than they deserved. 
" I shall not go to Portland, or attempt to go 
there, for I do not consider myself competent to 
pilot a vessel in these waters," said he. " I shall 
take the Flyaway back to Portsmouth harbor as 
soon as I can get there." 
" Wherever you say, Paul, we will go," an- 
swered Tom. 
It was no easy matter to run back to the har- 
bor they had left in the dense fog that then pre- 
 
vailed, and Paul was sorely tried to determine 
what course he should take. From his study of 
the chart and the information derived from Cap- 
tain Briskett, he had obtained a tolerable idea of 
the coast and of the dangerous ledges and islands 
in the vicinity. This knowledge, however, was of 
little use to him while the fog lasted. He had no 
doubt that the island upon which the mutineers 
had so nearly wrecked the Flyaway was Boon 
Island, or one of the Isles of Shoals. The yacht 
was now headed east by north, by the compass, 
and a few hours upon this course would bring 
them to the coast of Maine. 
" Two of you go forward, and keep a sharp 
lookout ahead," said Paul. "Tom, you will take 
the helm, while I go below and look on the chart." 
" Ay, ay," replied Tom, reassured by the cool- 
ness and self-possession of the newly-appointed 
skipper. 
" I would give a good deal to be out of this 
scrape," continued Paul. 
" So would I," frankly added Tom. " I was a 
, 
fool to think I knew more about navigation than 
Captain Gordon. What do you suppose will be- 
come of us ?" 
" I can't form any idea," answered Paul, as he 
descended the ladder. 
He found that the closet which contained the 
chart was locked ; but he felt that the circum- 
stances in which he was placed fully justified him 
in forcing open the door, and he lost no time in 
doing so. With the chart in his hand he returned 
to' the deck. 
After questioning Tom in regard to the course 
he had sailed since leaving Kittery Point, he came 
to the conclusion that the land astern of them was 
one of the Isles of Shoals, for they never could 
have made Boon Island without tacking. But he 
could not see how, with the wind north-east, and 
the yacht close-hauled, she had brought up on the 
Isles of Shoals. Tom helped him solve this diffi- 
culty by declaring that he had not been very par- 
ticular in keeping her close up to the wind. 
Having satisfied himself on this point, the youth- 
 
ful skipper proceeded to decide upon his future 
course. If he continued to sail towards the north, 
he was in danger of running upon Boon Island. 
The night was coming on, and it promised to be 
a night of peril. what 
There were only two methods open to the young 
navigator. He must either attempt to make Ports- 
mouth harbor again, or stand out to sea. In the 
dense fog, it would be extremely perilous for hinr 
to try to find the port from which they had sailed ; 
and on the other hand, it seemed scarcely less 
perilous to go to sea with the prospect of a gale 
before him. It was an anxious moment for poor 
Paul, for he felt that the safety of the yacht and 
of his misguided companions were in his keeping, 
and before God he felt responsible for them. He 
tried to hold a consultation with Tom and some 
of the larger boys, but they were utterly incapable 
of giving him any advice. They were completely 
bewildered, and looked up to Paul as children to 
a father, in the midst of the dangers into which 
they had so recklessly and criminally plunged. 
 
The heart of the young captain was full, as he 
thought of his mother and his friends at home. 
He felt his own weakness, his own ignorance, and 
stealing away from his companions, he went below, 
and, on his bended knee, looked to Heaven for that 
strength and that knowledge which Heaven alone 
can give in the hour of peril. He prayed for him- 
self, for his brother, and for all his companiona; 
but especially did he ask God to give him wisdom 
to guide the frail bark through the perils that 
environed her. 
The prayer gave him resolution, and, as though 
his earnest supplication had been heard, he felt 
competent to decide between the two courses which 
alone were left open to him. The shore was stud- 
ded with dangers ; and the broad ocean, though 
lashed into fury by the increasing tempest, was 
preferable to a lee shore. The Flyaway was a 
stiff sea-boat, and if well-managed, would ride out 
any gale that would be likely to come upon them 
at this season of the year. 
On his return to the deck, therefore, he ordered 
 
all hands to stand by the jib sheet while he took 
thQ helm himself. His directions were so skil- 
fully given, and so well obeyed, that the Flyaway 
came about as handsomely as though Captain Gor- 
don himself had controlled the manoeuvre. Her 
course was laid exactly east, and the compass was 
placed in a convenient position for use. 
Dick now summoned the crew to supper. Sev- 
eral of them looked at Paul, but no one ventured 
to leave the post of duty till explicit orders had 
been given to that effect. Half the boys were 
permitted to "pipe to supper," while the other 
half were to remain on duty. 
After the meal was disposed of, Paul gave the 
helm to Tom, and went forward to make his ar- 
rangement for the night. The foresail was reefed 
in readiness for use in case it should blow too 
hard for the vessel to carry the jib and mainsail ; 
the fore hatch was carefully secured to guard 
against the peril of "shipping a sea;" and such 
other preparations were made as the occasion 
required. 
 
On his return to the standing room, Paul ft)und 
that Tom could not steer by compass, and he was 
obliged to take the helm himself. Among the 
appointments of the Fawn, there was a compass ; 
and Paul, more for the purpose of familiarizing 
himself with its use than from any necessity, had 
often steered by it. The knowledge which the 
youthful marine had thus gained was now in- 
valuable to him> and he was thankful that he had 
obtained it. 
A long and tedious night was before him, even 
though the perils of a gale should not be added 
to his present trials. The steward, at his request, 
brought him up an oil-cloth coat belonging to 
Captain Gordon, and thus protected from the pen- 
etrating mist, he gave himself up to the long and 
anxious watch before him. 
Darkness came down upon them, and the Fly- 
away still rolled and pitched in the heavy head- 
sea. The wind did not sensibly increase, and Paul 
dared to hope that the gale would not break upon 
them. At nine o'clock he bade half the boys go 
 
below and turn in, assuring them they would be 
called at one o'clock. The order was obeyed, but 
not one of the boys could sleep until nearly half 
of their watch below had expired. 
Hour after hour Paul kept his position at the 
helm, till the clock in the cabin indicated mid- 
night. The watch on deck had taken turns at 
the lookout on the bowsprit. No event had 
occurred to disturb the monotony of the scene, 
except that they narrowly escaped being run down 
by a large schooner. The fog had begun to dis- 
sipate, and by one o'clock they had passed entirely 
out of it ; but the wind had increased in violence, 
and at this time it blew a fresh gale. 
All hands were called up, and after an hour of 
hard labor, the jib and. mainsail were taken in, 
and the reefed foresail set. Now, though the wind 
blew a gale, the Flyaway behaved so well that 
Paul ventured to send the watch which had served 
from nine o'clock below. At four o'clock, the 
yacht having run ten hours to the eastward, "the 
clouds began to disperse, the wind suddenly 
 
abated, till it became almost a calm, and there 
was every appearance of fair weather. At this 
time Paul put the Flyaway about, and laid her 
course due west. 
 
CHAPTER XX. 
PAUL EXERCISES A STRONG MORAL INFLUENCE. 
At sunrise the sky was clear, and there was 
not a particle of fog to be seen in any direction ; 
but the wind had all died out, and there was a 
perfect calm upon the ocean. The yacht was out 
of sight of land, and Paul judged that she was 
from eighty to a hundred miles to the eastward 
of the Isles of Shoals. There was not a sail to 
be seen, and the crew were awed by the feeling 
that they were alone upon the ocean. Perhaps 
not one of them had ever been out of sight of 
land before, and many of them had serious 
doubts whether they should ever see the shore 
again. 
After the Flyaway had rolled and pitched for 
an hour in the heavy sea that still prevailed, a 
breeze sprang up from the south-west. The bon- 
 
net was rove on the jib, and the yacht began to 
dash merrily over the waves. Paul ate his break- 
fast, and remained on deck till nine o'clock, though 
he was almost exhausted by the fatigue and inces- 
sant watching of the previous night ; but he had 
trained Tom and Frank so that they could steer 
by compass, and at the suggestion of the former, 
he went below to obtain the sleep he so much 
needed. 
As the wind continued to blow steadily from 
the south-west, the yacht held her course, and 
the young commander was permitted to sleep till 
two o'clock in the afternoon, when, much re- 
freshed, he again appeared on deck. Land was in 
sight over the weather bow, and the boys were in 
excellent spirits — or rather would have been, if 
the record of their misconduct could have been 
obliterated. Frank and Tom had recovered their 
wonted cheerfulness, and when they sighted the 
land, had begun to think of the probable conse- 
quences of the mutiny in which they had been 
the ringleaders, It was clear enough that Cap- 
tain Gordon would immediately return home, when 
he recovered possession of the yacht. The cruise 
was, therefore, about up, if they returned to the 
port from which they had sailed ; and strange as 
it may seem, Frank was actually trying to per- 
suade his companions to run for Portland. 
They had all enjoyed their sail during the day, 
and been pleased with the novelty of their situa- 
tion. It was not pleasant for them to think of 
the frowns of Captain Gordon, and of being com- 
pelled to sail at once for home. A majority of them 
would have been in favor of continuing the cruise, 
if that oppressive sense of having done wrong had 
not operated against the scheme. But the most 
the adventurous leader — brave and skilful now 
that it was fine weather and plain sailing — could 
accomplish, was to induce the others to consent 
if Paul would agree to the plan. 
" Of course he won't agree," replied Frank, pet- 
tishly. '' There are enough of us to have our 
own way about it." 
'' You had your own way yesterday, and we 
came within one of being wrecked," said one of 
them. 
" That wasn't my fault," growled Frank. 
" Whose fault was it, then ? " demanded Tom. 
" Yours, of course ; didn't you put the helm 
the wrong way when I told you to put it hard- 
a-lee ? " 
" And you let go the jib sheet long before you 
ought to have done so. That's what made all the 
trouble. If it hadn't been for Paul, some of us 
would not have been here to talk about it now." 
" You are a spunky fellow, Tom," sneered Frank. 
'' So are you, when there is no danger near." 
" How many fellows will go to Portland ? " 
asked Frank, desperately. 
There was no response, and the conversation 
was here interrupted by the appearance of Paul. 
There were enough of them who would gladly 
have seen the bow of the Flyaway pointed to the 
north, instead of the west, but the influence of 
Paul was so powerful that no one but Frank 
would consent to take the command from him. 
" What land is that ? " asked Tom, as the 
skipper joined the group in the standing room. 
" The Isles of Shoals. Keep her away a couple 
of points, Frank," replied Paul. 
" I shall keep her as I think best," answered 
'P'rank, gruffly ; for he was smarting under the dis- 
ippointment he had just experienced. 
" Are you going to run her on the island ? " 
said Paul, astonished at the rude answer he had 
received. 
" I don't know as it is any more your business 
than mine where I run her." 
''What is the matter, Frank? What ails you? 
What makes you so ill-natured ? I hope I haven't 
done any thing to give you reason for any ill 
feeling." 
" He wants us to go to Portland," said one of 
the crew. 
" I thought you had got enough of cruising on 
your own hook," added Paul, with a smile. 
" I'm not going back to be snubbed by old 
Gordon ; and the rest of the fellows wouldn't, if 
