after him, crying, "Father! father! why do you leave us desolate?"
Whereupon he turned back a moment, and said, "God will be your help.
If we do not see each other again in this world, we surely shall in
heaven."
When the party had gone forth, the monks and citizens stood looking
into each other's faces, listening with dismay to the howl of wild
ferocity that was rising around the departing prisoner.
"What shall we do?" was the outcry from many voices.
"I know what I shall do," said Agostino. "If any man here will find me
a fleet horse, I will start for Milan this very hour; for my uncle is
now there on a visit, and he is a counselor of weight with the King of
France: we must get the King to interfere."
"Good! good! good!" rose from a hundred voices.
"I will go with you," said Father Antonio. "I shall have no rest till I
do something."
"And I," quoth Jacopo Niccolini, "will saddle for you, without delay,
two horses of part Arabian blood, swift of foot, and easy, and which
will travel day and night without sinking."
CHAPTER XXII
THE CATHEDRAL
The rays of the setting sun were imparting even more than their wonted
cheerfulness to the airy and bustling streets of Milan. There was the
usual rush and roar of busy life which mark the great city, and the
display of gay costumes and brilliant trappings proper to a ducal
capital which at that time gave the law to Europe in all matters of
taste and elegance, even as Paris does now. It was, in fact, from the
reputation of this city in matters of external show that our English
term Milliner was probably derived; and one might well have believed
this, who saw the sweep of the ducal cortege at this moment returning
in pomp from the afternoon airing. Such glittering of gold-embroidered
mantles, such bewildering confusion of colors, such flashing of jewelry
from cap and dagger-hilt and finger-ring, and even from bridle and
stirrup, testified that the male sex at this period in Italy were no
whit behind the daughters of Eve in that passion for personal adornment
which our age is wont to consider exclusively feminine. Indeed,
all that was visible to the vulgar eye of this pageant was wholly
masculine; though no one doubted that behind the gold-embroidered
curtains of the litters which contained the female notabilities of the
court still more dazzling wonders might be concealed. Occasionally
a white jeweled hand would draw aside one of these screens, and a
pair of eyes brighter than any gems would peer forth; and then there
would be tokens of a visible commotion among the plumed and gemmed
cavaliers around, and one young head would nod to another with jests
and quips, and there would be bowing and curveting and all the antics
and caracolings supposable among gay young people on whom the sun shone
brightly, and who felt the world going well around them, and deemed
themselves the observed of all observers.
Meanwhile, the mute, subservient common people looked on all this as
a part of their daily amusement. Meek dwellers in those dank, noisome
caverns, without any opening but a street-door, which are called
dwelling-places in Italy, they lived in uninquiring good-nature,
contentedly bringing up children on coarse bread, dirty cabbage-stumps,
and other garbage, while all that they could earn was sucked upward by
capillary attraction to nourish the extravagance of those upper classes
on which they stared with such blind and ignorant admiration.
This was the lot they believed themselves born for, and which every
exhortation of their priests taught them to regard as the appointed
ordinance of God. The women, to be sure, as women always will be,
were true to the instinct of their sex, and crawled out of the damp
and vile-smelling recesses of their homes with solid gold ear-rings
shaking in their ears, and their blue-black lustrous hair ornamented
with a glittering circle of steel pins or other quaint coiffure.
There was sense in all this: for had not even Dukes of Milan been
found so condescending and affable as to admire the charms of the
fair in the lower orders, whence had come sons and daughters who took
rank among princes and princesses? What father, or what husband,
would be insensible to prospects of such honor? What priest would
not readily absolve such sin? Therefore one might have observed more
than one comely dark-eyed woman, brilliant as some tropical bird in
the colors of her peasant dress, who cast coquettish glances toward
high places, not unacknowledged by patronizing nods in return, while
mothers and fathers looked on in triumph. These were the days for
the upper classes; the Church bore them all in her bosom as a tender
nursing-mother, and provided for all their little peccadilloes with
even grandmotherly indulgence, and in return the world was immensely
deferential towards the Church; and it was only now and then some
rugged John Baptist, in raiment of camel's hair, like Savonarola,
who dared to speak an indecorous word of God's truth in the ear of
power, and Herod and Herodias had ever at hand the good old recipe for
quieting such disturbances. John Baptist was beheaded in prison, and
then all the world and all the Scribes and Pharisees applauded; and
only a few poor disciples were found to take up the body and go and
tell Jesus.
The whole piazza around the great Cathedral is at this moment full of
the dashing cavalcade of the ducal court, looking as brilliant in the
evening light as a field of poppy, corn-flower, and scarlet clover
at Sorrento; and there, amid the flutter and rush, the amours and
intrigues, the court scandal, the laughing, the gibing, the glitter,
and dazzle, stands that wonderful Cathedral, that silent witness, that
strange, pure, immaculate mountain of airy, unearthly loveliness,--the
most striking emblem of God's mingled vastness and sweetness that
ever it was given to human heart to devise or hands to execute. If
there be among the many mansions of our Father above, among the houses
not made with hands, aught purer and fairer, it must be the work of
those grand spirits who inspired and presided over the erection of
this celestial miracle of beauty. In the great, vain, wicked city,
all alive with the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye, and the
pride of life, it seemed to stand as much apart and alone as if it
were in the solemn desolation of the Campagna, or in one of the wide
deserts of Africa,--so little part or lot did it appear to have in
anything earthly, so little to belong to the struggling, bustling
crowd who beneath its white dazzling pinnacles seemed dwarfed into
crawling insects. They who could look up from the dizzy, frivolous
life below saw far, far above them, in the blue Italian air, thousands
of glorified saints standing on a thousand airy points of brilliant
whiteness, ever solemnly adoring. The marble which below was somewhat
touched and soiled with the dust of the street seemed gradually to
refine and brighten as it rose into the pure regions of the air,
till at last in those thousand distant pinnacles it had the ethereal
translucence of wintry frost-work, and now began to glow with the
violet and rose hues of evening, in solemn splendor.
The ducal cortege sweeps by; but we have mounted the dizzy, dark
staircase that leads to the roof, where, amid the bustling life of the
city there is a promenade of still and wondrous solitude. One seems
to have ascended in those few moments far beyond the tumult and dust
of earthly things, to the silence, the clearness, the tranquillity of
ethereal regions. The noise of the rushing tides of life below rises
only in a soft and distant murmur; while around, in the wide, clear
distance, is spread a prospect which has not on earth its like or its
equal. The beautiful plains of Lombardy lie beneath like a map, and the
northern horizon-line is glittering with the entire sweep of the Alps,
like a solemn senate of archangels with diamond mail and glittering
crowns. Mont Blanc, Monte Rosa with its countenance of light, the
Jungfrau and all the weird brothers of the Oberland, rise one after
another to the delighted gaze, and the range of the Tyrol melts far off
into the blue of the sky. On another side, the Apennines, with their
picturesque outlines and cloud-spotted sides, complete the enclosure.
All around, wherever the eye turns, is the unbroken phalanx of
mountains; and this temple, with its thousand saintly statues standing
in attitudes of ecstasy and prayer, seems like a worthy altar and
shrine for the beautiful plain which the mountains enclose: it seems to
give all Northern Italy to God.
The effect of the statues in this high, pure air, in this solemn,
glorious scenery, is peculiar. They seem a meet companionship for
these exalted regions. They seem to stand exultant on their spires,
poised lightly as ethereal creatures, the fit inhabitants of the pure
blue sky. One feels that they have done with earth; one can fancy
them a band of white-robed kings and priests forever ministering in
that great temple of which the Alps and the Apennines are the walls
and the Cathedral the heart and centre. Never were Art and Nature so
majestically married by Religion in so worthy a temple.
One form could be discerned standing in rapt attention, gazing from a
platform on the roof upon the far-distant scene. He was enveloped in
the white coarse woolen gown of the Dominican monks, and seemed wholly
absorbed in meditating on the scene before him, which appeared to move
him deeply; for, raising his hands, he repeated aloud from the Latin
Vulgate the words of an Apostle:--
"Accessistis ad Sion montem et civitatem Dei viventis, Jerusalem
cælestem, et multorum millium angelorum frequentiam, ecclesiam
primitivorum, qui inscripti sunt in cælis."[11]
    [11] "Ye are come unto Mount Sion, and unto the city of the
         living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable
         company of angels, to the general assembly and church of
         the first-born, which are written in heaven."
At this moment the evening worship commenced within the Cathedral, and
the whole building seemed to vibrate with the rising swell of the great
organ, while the grave, long-drawn tones of the Ambrosian Liturgy rose
surging in waves and dying away in distant murmurs, like the rolling
of the tide on some ocean-shore. The monk turned and drew near to the
central part of the roof to listen, and as he turned he disclosed the
well-known features of Father Antonio.
Haggard, weary, and travel-worn, his first impulse, on entering the
city, was to fly to this holy solitude, as the wandering sparrow of
sacred song sought her nest amid the altars of God's temple. Artist no
less than monk, he found in this wondrous shrine of beauty a repose
both for his artistic and his religious nature; and while waiting for
Agostino Sarelli to find his uncle's residence, he had determined to
pass the interval in this holy solitude. Many hours had he paced alone
up and down the long promenades of white marble which run everywhere
between forests of dazzling pinnacles and flying buttresses of airy
lightness. Now he rested in fixed attention against the wall above the
choir, which he could feel pulsating with throbs of sacred sound, as if
a great warm heart were beating within the fair marble miracle, warming
it into mysterious life and sympathy.
"I would now that boy were here to worship with me," he said. "No
wonder the child's faith fainteth: it takes such monuments as these of
the Church's former days to strengthen one's hopes. Ah, woe unto those
by whom such offense cometh!"
At this moment the form of Agostino was seen ascending the marble
staircase.
The eye of the monk brightened as he came towards him. He put out
one hand eagerly to take his, and raised the other with a gesture of
silence.
"Look," he said, "and listen! Is it not the sound of many waters and
mighty thunderings?"
Agostino stood subdued for the moment by the magnificent sights
and sounds; for, as the sun went down, the distant mountains grew
every moment more unearthly in their brilliancy; and as they lay in
a long line, jeweled brightness mingling with the cloud-wreaths of
the far horizon, one might have imagined that he in truth beheld the
foundations of that celestial city of jasper, pearl, and translucent
gold which the Apostle saw, and that the risings and fallings of
choral sound which seemed to thrill and pulsate through the marble
battlements were indeed that song like many waters sung by the Church
Triumphant above.
For a few moments the monk and the young man stood in silence, till at
length the monk spoke.
"You have told me, my son, that your heart often troubles you in being
more Roman than Christian; that you sometimes doubt whether the Church
on earth be other than a fiction or a fable. But look around us. Who
are these, this great multitude who praise and pray continually in this
temple of the upper air? These are they who have come out of great
tribulation, having washed their robes and made them white in the blood
of the Lamb. These are not the men that have sacked cities, and made
deserts, and written their triumphs in blood and carnage. These be men
that have sheltered the poor, and built houses for orphans, and sold
themselves into slavery to redeem their brothers in Christ. These be
pure women who have lodged saints, brought up children, lived holy and
prayerful lives. These be martyrs who have laid down their lives for
the testimony of Jesus. There were no such churches in old Rome,--no
such saints."
"Well," said Agostino, "one thing is certain. If such be the True
Church, the Pope and the Cardinals of our day have no part in it; for
they are the men who sack cities and make desolations, who devour
widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers. Let us see one of
them selling himself into slavery for the love of anybody, while they
seek to keep all the world in slavery to themselves!"
"That is the grievous declension our master weeps over," said the
monk. "Ah, if the Bishops of the Church now were like brave old Saint
Ambrose, strong alone by faith and prayer, showing no more favor to an
unrepentant Emperor than to the meanest slave, then would the Church
be a reality and a glory! Such is my master. Never is he afraid
of the face of king or lord, when he has God's truth to speak. You
should have heard how plainly he dealt with our Lorenzo de' Medici on
his death-bed,--how he refused him absolution, unless he would make
restitution to the poor and restore the liberties of Florence."
"I should have thought," said the young man, sarcastically, "that
Lorenzo the Magnificent might have got absolution cheaper than that.
Where were all the bishops in his dominion, that he must needs send for
Jerome Savonarola?"
"Son, it is ever so," replied the monk. "If there be a man that cares
neither for Duke nor Emperor, but for God alone, then Dukes and
Emperors would give more for his good word than for a whole dozen of
common priests."
"I suppose it is something like a rare manuscript or a singular gem:
these virtuosi have no rest till they have clutched it. The thing
they cannot get is always the thing they want."
"Lorenzo was always seeking our master," said the monk. "Often would
he come walking in our gardens, expecting surely he would hasten down
to meet him; and the brothers would run all out of breath to his cell
to say, 'Father, Lorenzo is in the garden.' 'He is welcome,' would he
answer, with his pleasant smile. 'But, father, will you not descend
to meet him?' 'Hath he asked for me?' 'No.' 'Well, then, let us not
interrupt his meditations,' he would answer, and remain still at his
reading, so jealous was he lest he should seek the favor of princes and
forget God, as does all the world in our day."
"And because he does not seek the favor of the men of this world he
will be trampled down and slain. Will the God in whom he trusts defend
him?"
The monk pointed expressively upward to the statues that stood
glorified above them, still wearing a rosy radiance, though the
shadows of twilight had fallen on all the city below.
"My son," he said, "the victories of the True Church are not in time,
but in eternity. How many around us were conquered on earth that
they might triumph in heaven! What saith the Apostle? 'They were
tortured, not accepting deliverance, that they might obtain a better
resurrection.'"
"But, alas!" said Agostino, "are we never to see the right triumph
here? I fear that this noble name is written in blood, like so many of
whom the world is not worthy. Can one do nothing to help it?"
"How is that? What have you heard?" said the monk, eagerly. "Have you
seen your uncle?"
"Not yet; he is gone into the country for a day,--so say his servants.
I saw, when the Duke's court passed, my cousin, who is in his train,
and got a moment's speech with him; and he promised, that, if I would
wait for him here, he would come to me as soon as he could be let off
from his attendance. When he comes, it were best that we confer alone."
"I will retire to the southern side," said the monk, "and await the end
of your conference;" and with that he crossed the platform on which
they were standing, and, going down a flight of white marble steps, was
soon lost to view amid the wilderness of frost-like carved work.
He had scarcely vanished, before footsteps were heard ascending the
marble staircase on the other side, and the sound of a voice humming a
popular air of the court.
The stranger was a young man of about five-and-twenty, habited with all
that richness and brilliancy of coloring which the fashion of the day
permitted to a young exquisite. His mantle of purple velvet falling
jauntily off from one shoulder disclosed a doublet of amber satin
richly embroidered with gold and seed-pearl. The long white plume
which drooped from his cap was held in its place by a large diamond
which sparkled like a star in the evening twilight. His finely moulded
hands were loaded with rings, and ruffles of the richest Venetian
lace encircled his wrists. He had worn over all a dark cloak with a
peaked hood, the usual evening disguise in Italy; but as he gained
the top-stair of the platform, he threw it carelessly down and gayly
offered his hand.
"Good even to you, cousin mine! So you see I am as true to my
appointment as if your name were Leonora or Camilla instead of
Agostino. How goes it with you? I wanted to talk with you below, but I
saw we must have a place without listeners. Our friends the saints are
too high in heavenly things to make mischief by eavesdropping."
"Thank you, Cousin Carlos, for your promptness. And now to the point.
Did your father, my uncle, get the letter I wrote him about a month
since?"
"He did; and he bade me treat with you about it. It's an abominable
snarl, this, they have got you into. My father says, your best way
is to come straight to him in France, and abide till things take a
better turn: he is high in favor with the King and can find you a very
pretty place at court, and he takes it upon him in time to reconcile
the Pope. Between you and me, the old Pope has no special spite in
