friends cordially and entertain them hospitably, and there 
were few who were so destitute of right feeling as to be 
wanting in appreciation of her motives. 
At a quarter to nine, then, an unmannerly buzz went his 
sing, like a serpent, through the crowd, leaving in its track 
dismayed silence, glances of alarmed inquiry, nods and 
winks of malicious meaning. The knowing and observant 
ones began to notice the fluctuations of the host's florid 
complexion from purple to pallor ; that his face was lowering 
and his eye gleamed ominously as he conferred apart with 
his wife ; and that she, poor soul, looked amazed and disquieted, and could not prevent her regards from straying 
every instant to the door. At nine o'clock, without any 
pretence of apology or show of concealment, Colonel Floyd 
left the apartment, it was conjectured, to institute official 
inquiry into the cause of the mysterious and most ungallant 
non-appearance of the person who should have been one of 
the earliest upon the ground. No sooner was this plausible 
supposition reached by a majority of the assembly than 
there was a general and palpable effort to seem lively and 
unconcerned, a commendable and ostentatious display of 
ignorance that any thing was wrong which deluded no one, 
failed to impose upon the most single minded creature 
there, and that was unquestionably the lady of the house. 
Colonel Floyd crossed the hall and entered a small cloak 
room, occupied, for the nonce, by four very stiff and uneasy 
gentlemen the groomsmen who awaited the signal to 
join their fair mates and take up the line of wedding 
march. 
" This 's a very strange affair, gentlemen !" said the colonel, gravely ; " and it is my painful duty to inquire into it, 
without further delay. It may have been a mistaken delicacy which has kept me silent so long. Has any one of you 
seen or heard from Mr. Lay to-day?" 
Every man looked at his fellow, and there was a unani 
mous shaking of heads. 
" He called on me at noon yesterday, and engaged to meet 
me at the clerk's office this morning at eleven o'clock," pursued the colonel, visibly moved by some powerful emotion. 
" This engagement he saw fit to neglect. I waited for him 
until past twelve, and since my presence there was not a legal necessity, obeyed the call of other duties, and returned 
home. Since then " 
He was interrupted by the entrance of his relative, Harvey Floyd. 
" Well, boys !" said the new arrival, gayly, " how goes it 
with you by this time ? Tired of waiting hey ?" 
" They may well be !" returned the colonel, indignantly. 
" What have you to say, Harvey, respecting this very dila 
tory groom? The business begins to look very black to us. 
He is a particular friend of yours, I believe. Are you the 
bearer of his excuses ?" 
" Well, not that exactly, sir, but I can answer for him 
that he will be here pretty soon, sure as a gun !" thrusting 
his hands into his pockets and strolling to the window, 
where he commenced a careless whistle, that suddenly, and 
; without apparent cause, exploded into a laugh. 
All were startled, several shocked by the sound. 
" Beg pardon, colonel ! Excuse me, gentlemen, bi?t the 
truth is, you four look so like pall-bearers at a funeral, and 
my respected cousin there so like chief undertaker, sexton, 
and parson combined, that I cannot keep my countenance. 
Haw, haw !" 
He dug his hands down deeper into his pockets, and 
stamped about the room, rolling and choking with merri 
ment. 
" There are some subjects, young man, that are not to be 
jested upon !" rejoined the colonel, his brow blackening 
with suppressed wrath, while the veins in his temples stood 
out like cords. 
" No offence intended, sir !" Harvey tried manfully to 
swallow his amusement. " Only, when a man goes to a 
wedding, it does seem ludicrous to see every one else behave 
as if it were a funeral. " Actually, a stranger would feel dis 
posed to look for crape upon the left arm of each of this lugubrious quartette, and to listen for your official pronunciation of  dust to dust, ashes to ashes. 
" When you can express yourself in a manner becoming 
your position as a member of the respectable family so 
grossly insulted by the conduct of your associate, the expected bridegroom expected, rather than expectant, it ap 
pears I should like to talk with you upon this very unpleasant matter," said the colonel, with increasing choler. 
He walked out with immense stiffness. The door opening 
upon the back porch, the same through which he had conducted Lily upon her return from her evening jaunt, stood 
ajar, and the aperture was filled by a dusky figure. 
" I would like to speak to you, sir !" it said, in a guarded 
voice, as Colonel Floyd crossed the hall. 
The master started as if the word were a bullet. 
" What is it ?" he asked, hastily. 
Booker retired into the portico, whither the colonel followed him, shutting the door after them. 
"The moon will be up before we get there," said the 
man, in the same cautious key. " It's time we were off." 
" Had we not better wait until the moon does rise ? It 
will be a dark, rough walk," suggested Colonel Floyd, 
staring upward at the starry heavens. 
His manner was less that of the arbitrary owner than the 
equal of the one he addressed. But for the absurdity of the 
idea, one might have imagined that there lurked in his accent 
a certain degree of respect of humility. The negro's reply 
was assuredly positive and familiar, such as few white men 
would have dared to employ in conversation with the lord 
of Belleview. 
" So much the better ! We don't want light until we get 
to the woods. If you are seen quitting the house when it's 
full of invited company, folks will wonder at it, and there's 
a chance of our being followed. Then, the ground's froze 
hard as a rock, and the path is a rough one, as you say, besides being a good mile and a half long. We will want 
every minute of our time. If I'd had my way, we would 
have been off an hour ago." 
" That could not be, you know." Colonel Floyd manifested no anger at the imperative language of his inferior. 
" It was necessary that I should show myself first to those 
people in the parlors, and contrive some excuse for leaving 
them." 
" That may be so, but we ought to be off now !" repeated 
Booker, doggedly. " There's nothing else to be gained, and 
much may be lost by waiting." 
" Are you sure that you have every thing ready ?" whispered the master, peering over his shoulder at the lighted 
windows, blazing all along the rear of the building. 
" All's right, so far as I am concerned !" 
" Then I will be with you in three minutes !" 
He went back into the house, and stopped in the hall to 
collect thoughts or courage for the next move. His face was 
curiously changed. A leaden hue had come over it, and he 
had to clinch his teeth to hinder them from chattering 
probably with cold or nervousness, for no living man had 
ever seen him show fear or presumed to accuse him of cowardice. He felt the alteration in his looks, for he stroked 
his features to compose them ; while his hand shook from 
the same cause that had induced the discomposure he would 
conceal. First, he proceeded to the dining-room, unlocked 
the sideboard, and helped himself to a glass of strong brandy 
and water ; waited a minute to ascertain the potency of the 
draught, and swallowed a second. Then he again sought 
the presence of the uneasy groomsmen. 
There was a glare in his eye that looked like fierceness ; 
and if his voice were slightly husky, and not so steady as 
usual, it was attributed to the same, or kindred emotions, 
and these were regarded as altogether natural and commendable by the spectators, or by four out of the five. Har 
vey may have had his own ideas upon the subject. He, of 
the number, seemed least concerned by the announcement 
that should, in consideration of his relation to the bride, have 
affected him most. 
" Gentlemen ! you will oblige me by making yourselves 
at home in my house, and, so far as lies in your power, allay 
ing the apprehensions that may have been excited in the 
minds of others by Mr. Lay's extraordinary and utterly in 
excusable behavior. For myself," drawing himself up, and 
speaking hoarsely, yet dignifiedly, " I shall go in person to 
seek that young man to call him to account for the dastardly 
slight put upon my niece. I think that I have a clue which, 
if rightly used, will enable me to ferret out the truth." 
" Better stay where you are, colonel !" interposed Harvey, 
in some alarm ; " or, if it is necessary to make inquiries, let 
me go in your place. Don't be precipitate ! Things may 
come right without your troubling yourself. Lay is an hon 
orable fellow, and, if he is above ground, I am willing to 
wager my head that he will furnish in good season a solu 
tion, and a satisfactory one, of this puzzle." 
" Mr. Floyd !" The colonel wheeled suddenly upon him. 
" This is my affair, and I warn you, once for all, that I will 
not be interfered with ! The only true kindness you can at 
present do your cousin, Miss Gardner, is to undertake the 
painful office of breaking to her, as gently as you can, the 
unexpected news of Mr. Lay's disappearance." 
" Shall I find her up-stairs, sir ?" 
Harvey was near rupturing a blood-vessel in his frantic 
attempt to repress another uproarious fit of mirth. 
" I presume that she has not yet left her room." 
" Then I'll run right up !" said the willing bearer of the 
afflicting intelligence. 
He went up the steps, three at a leap, as the colonel solemnly bowed around to the bewildered quartette, and left 
the house by the back door. 
It was Sally's luck, this evening, to play the undesigning 
eaves-dropper. While Colonel Floyd and Booker held their 
cautious colloquy upon the porch, she was within ear-shot 
of most that was said. She had been to the kitchen upon 
some trifling errand, and was on her way back to Helen's 
room, when she espied Booker peeping in at the hall door, 
either watching or waiting for some one within. Sally in 
stantly crouched, like a hare upon her form, and, inch by 
inch, crept under the portico steps, not with the intention 
of overhearing what might follow, but to keep out of the 
plan's sight, and to avoid the chance of meeting him. She 
ated and feared him, not without sufficient cause, as the 
eader will allow, and was panic-stricken by the thought 
hat if she encountered him at this juncture of the plot confided to her keeping, he might drag the whole truth out of 
ler. She believed him to be possessed of the craft, as he 
vas of the depravity, of the great adversary of mankind. 
the quaked in her shoes when the pair master and man 
itt drawing away from the door and windows, walked di- 
ectly above her head, and there arranged the preliminaries 
 their expedition. Some words were lost ; others but partally comprehended ; still, she made out the drift of their 
purpose, and, while she was greatly mystified by certain expressions which occurred in the dialogue, she blessed the 
business, whatever it was, which took them out of the way 
at the moment when her mistress was expecting the real 
groom. 
" Before you get back, the knot will be tied fast and hard, 
and then let's see you break it !" she chuckled. 
Not audibly, for Booker was standing upon the top step, 
awaiting his accomplice's return. The flight was not a tall 
one, nor was her position comfortable or desirable, bowed 
together as she was, and not daring to move a finger, hardly 
venturing to draw a breath, while she could hear the creak 
of Booker's boots as he shifted his weight from one foot to 
the other, on the very plank against which her head rested. 
Her imprisonment was of brief duration in reality, tedious 
though it seemed to her. She did not quit her covert until 
the clang of the iron heels upon the flinty spring-path quite 
died away ; but she had one glimpse of the patrolling party, 
as they passed through the broad stream of light pouring 
through the dining-room window. Colonel Floyd carried 
his gun, his inseparable companion in Jiis nightly rambles, 
and Booker also bore something, she could not determine 
what, upon his shoulder. 
" There you go !" soliloquized the girl, stretching her be 
numbed limbs. " Two as great vilyans as ever breathed ! 
Hunting runaways, are you? You've tracked some poor 
fellow to his den, and mean to have him out, live or dead ! 
Tain't the first job you've joined hand-in-hand in but you 
won't go unpunished in the end, or the Scripter is mistaken, 
which ain't likely. Bless the Lord, Lem's hundreds of miles 
away, anyhow ! So you won't catch him ! Now, to tell Miss 
Helen thai the cats are away both of em!" 
CHAPTER XII. 
SALLY had no opportunity for the proposed communication. Outside the door of the bride's chamber stood Helen, 
in close conversation with her cousin, Harvey Floyd. Both 
were laughing ; for if Harvey attached any importance to the 
colonel's threat of retribution upon the sinning Robert, he 
kindly and discreetly refrained from whispering to her a 
syllable relating to this part of the scene, which he pre 
tended to describe to her with great exactness and evident enjoyment. The consultation was broken off by the 
outburst, from the adjoining room, of a figure in white 
robes. 
" Helen Gardner ! why aren't you in hysterics, or swooning, or something like that as is suitable and graceful in 
the circumstances ? I should be terrified into convulsions, 
if I were in your place. An hour after the time set for the 
ceremony, and not a word from the bridegroom ! It's a 
perfect scandal or, else, some terrible accident has happened and in either case, you ought to go crazy !" 
" I have just brought her a message that obviates the 
necessity of parting with her wits," replied Harvey. "The 
fortunate man is now on his way to happiness. I left him 
only half an hour ago. Aunt Ruth's newest cap was not 
ready in season, and he could not, as a dutiful nephew, 
leave her while she was conscientiously opposed to wear 
ing her second best It was trimmed with green, which 
she said was an unlucky color at weddings. There were 
twelve yards of white satin ribbon to be furbelowed upon 
the new one, and the last bow but one was being sewed on 
when I came away ; so they cannot be far behind me. You 
are divine, to-night, Miss Virginia!" 
" Humbug !" with a smile of conscious vanity. " You 
ought to see Lily now ! She is heavenly ! So pure-looking, 
so ethereal, so exactly like a snow-flake, that you are positively afraid that she will melt away before your eyes be 
exhaled like a dew-drop !" 
" I hope she won't melt, or exhale, while I am looking 
at her !" answered the saucy groomsman. " Where is this 
same snow-drift, or snow-drop, or whatever you call her ? 
I would like to take a parting look at her before she leaves 
this world for good and all." 
" In there, with the rest of them," nodding backwards 
into Helen's room; and Harvey, taking the hinted invitation, walked himself into the midst of the fair and flut 
tering group. 
There was a little scream of affected horror and surprise 
at his unceremonious entry ; then the girls closed in upon 
him on every side. 
"Mr. Floyd ! what is the matter down-stairs?" 
" What makes you gentlemen so tardy ? We're tired to 
death waiting !" 
" Hasn't Mr. Lay come yet ? It's shocking !" and similar 
inquiries pelted his ears a confusing volley, even to one of 
his consummate impudence. 
"Ah  right! all right! He will be here shortly!" he 
repeated, over and over, with slight variations, until the 
Babel subsided into a satisfied hum. 
Lily had remained aloof, looking on with sad contempt, 
that was heightened into disdain when her cousin accosted 
her. 
" Come, Lil ! stand out into the light and let me see you ! 
Miss Virginia likens you to snow-flakes, and dew-drops, and 
all manner of other beautiful things." 
He pulled her towards him, that he might take a better 
view. 
" Don t, Harvey ! you hurt me ! Let me alone, I say !" she 
cried, sharply, trying to wrest her hands from his. 
He held her tight. 
"The half was not told me," said he, in mock reverence. " You are a gem a star of the first lustre and sixth 
magnitude but not snow! There's too much heat for 
that !" 
If Virginia's simile had any aptness, this external fairness 
was the snowy crust veiling a volcanic heart. Lily's great 
eyes glittered feverishly ; her skin was hot ; her lips had a 
scarlet tinge. 
" You are to walk with me, you know, Queen Mab," con 
tinued Harvey. " I shall watch you very closely, lest you 
infold a pair of starry wings and fly away." 
" I know no such thing !" she retorted, peevishly, and 
Harvey perceived his blunder when he recollected that 
Meek Lay, as first groomsman, was the attendant assigned 
o her. 
The sound of an arrival below relieved him from the 
lecessity of fibbing to hide his lapsus linguae. 
" There he is at last !" 
He dropped the struggling hands and was off like the 
vind. Miss Ruth passed him on the stairs, mounting to 
he dressing-room under the pilotage of a maid. The poor 
idy looked scared and flurried, and Harvey laughed to 
imself, in the imagination of her amazement at the recent 
isclosure made to her. Aleck was in the hall, handsome 
nd self-possessed a smile of heart-felt satisfaction dispelling every vestige of cynicism, from his features. 
"All goes well!" was Harvey's salutation, "and I have 
