Eleanor stopped and the tears came into her eyes.

"My child! if I had known what danger you were in, I should have spent
even more time than I did in praying for you."

"I suppose I was in danger," said Eleanor thoughtfully. "It was a
difficult winter. Then do you think--Mr. Rhys gave me up?"

"No," said Mrs. Caxton smiling. "You remember he wrote to you after
that, from Fiji; but I suppose he tried to make himself give you up, as
far as hope went."

"For all that appears, I may be here long enough yet to have letters
before I go. We have heard of no opportunity that is likely to present
itself soon. Aunt Caxton, if my feeling is foolish, why is it natural?"

"Because you are a woman, my dear."

"And foolish?"

"Not at all; but feeling takes little counsel of reason in some cases.
I am afraid you will find that out again before you get to Mr.
Rhys--after that, I do not think you will."

The conversation made Eleanor rather more anxious than she had been
before to hear of a ship; but October and November passed, and the
prospect of her voyage was as misty as ever.

Again and again, all summer, both she and Mrs. Caxton had written
begging that Mrs. Powle would make a visit to Plassy and bring or send
Julia. In vain. Mrs. Powle would not come. Julia could not.




CHAPTER XIII.

IN MEETINGS.


  "A wild dedication of yourselves
  To unpath'd waters, undream'd shores; most certain,
  To miseries enough."


In a neat plain drawing-room in a plain part of London, sat Mrs. Caxton
and Eleanor. Eleanor however soon left her seat and took post at the
window; and silence reigned in the room unbroken for some length time
except by the soft rustle of Mrs. Caxton's work. Her fingers were
rarely idle. Nor were Eleanor's hands often empty; but to-day she stood
still as a statue before the window, while now and then a tear softly
roll down and dropped on her folded hands. There were no signs of the
tears however, when the girl turned round with the short announcement,

"She's here."

Mrs. Caxton looked up a little bit anxiously at her adopted child; but
Eleanor's face was only still and pale. The next moment the door
opened, and for all the world as in old times the fair face and fair
curls of Mrs. Powle appeared. Just the same; unless just now she
appeared a trifle frightened. The good lady felt so. Two fanatics. She
hardly knew how to encounter them. And then, her own action, though she
could not certainly have called it fanatical, had been peculiar, and
might be judged divers ways. Moreover, Mrs. Powle was Eleanor's mother.

There was one in the company who remembered that, witness the still
close embrace which Eleanor threw around her, and the still hiding of
the girl's face on her mother's bosom. Mrs. Powle returned the embrace
heartily enough; but when Eleanor's motionless clasp had lasted as long
as she knew how to do anything with it and longer than she felt to be
graceful, Mrs. Powle whispered,

"Won't you introduce me to your aunt, my dear,--if this is she."

Eleanor released her mother, but sobbed helplessly for a few minutes;
then she raised her head and threw off her tears; and there was to one
of the two ladies an exquisite grace in the way she performed the
required office of making them known to each other. The gentleness of a
chastened heart, the strength of a loving one, the dignity of an humble
one, made her face and manner so lovely that Mrs. Caxton involuntarily
wished Mr. Rhys could have seen it. "But he will have chance enough,"
she thought, somewhat incongruously, as she met and returned her
sister-in-law's greetings. Mrs. Powle made them with ceremonious
respect, not make believe, and with a certain eagerness which welcomed
a diversion from Eleanor's somewhat troublesome agitation. Eleanor's
agitation troubled no one any more, however; she sat down calm and
quiet; and Mrs. Powle had leisure, glancing at her from time to time,
to get into smooth sailing intercourse with Mrs. Caxton. She took off
her bonnet, and talked about indifferent things, and sipped chocolate;
for it was just luncheon time. Ever and anon her eyes came back to
Eleanor; evidently as to something which troubled her and which puzzled
her; and Mrs. Caxton saw, which had also the effect of irritation too.
Very likely, Mrs. Caxton thought! Conscience on one hand not satisfied,
and ambition on the other hand disappointed, and Eleanor the point of
meeting for both uneasy feelings to concentrate their forces. It would
come out in words soon, Mrs. Caxton knew. But how lovely Eleanor seemed
to her. There was not even a cloud upon her brow now; fair as it was
pure and strong.

"And so you are going?" Mrs. Powle began at last, in a somewhat
constrained voice. Eleanor smiled.

"And when are you going?"

"My letter said, Next Tuesday the ship sails."

"And pray, Eleanor, you are not going alone?"

"No, mamma. A gentleman and his wife are going the whole voyage with
me."

"Who are they?"

"A Mr. Amos and his wife."

"What are they then? missionaries?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"Going to that same place?"

"Yes, ma'am--very nicely for me."

"Pray how long do you expect the voyage will take you?"

"I am not certain--it is made, or can be made, in four or five months;
but then we may have to stop awhile at Sydney."

"Sydney? what Sydney? Where is that?"

"Australia, mamma," said Eleanor smiling. "New South Wales. Don't you
know?"

"Australia! Are you going there? To Botany Bay?"

"No, mamma; not to Botany Bay. And I only take Australia by the way. I
go further."

"Further than Botany Bay?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"Well certainly," said Mrs. Powle with an accent of restrained despair,
"the present age is enterprising beyond what was ever known in my young
days. What do you think, sister Caxton, of a young lady taking voyage
five months long after her husband, instead of her husband taking it
for her? He ought to be a grateful man, I think!"

"Certainly; but not too grateful," Mrs. Caxton answered composedly;
"for in this case necessity alters the rule."

"I do not understand such necessities," said Mrs. Powle; "at least if a
thing cannot be done properly, I should say it was better not to do it
at all. However, I suppose it is too late to speak now. I would not
have my daughter hold herself so lightly as to confer such an honour on
any man; but I gave her to you to dispose of, so no doubt it is all
right. I hope Mr. What's-his-name is worthy of it."

"Mamma, let me give you another cup of chocolate," said Eleanor. And
she served her with the chocolate and the toast and the hung beef, in a
way that gave Mrs. Caxton's heart a feast. There was the beautiful calm
and high grace with which Eleanor used to meet her social difficulties
two years ago, and baffle both her trials and her tempters. Mrs. Caxton
had never seen it called for. Her face shewed not the slightest
embarrassment at her mother's words; not a shade of rising colour did
dishonour to Mr. Rhys by proving that she so much as even felt the
slurs against him or the jealousy professed on her own behalf.
Eleanor's calm sweet face was an assertion both of his dignity and her
own. Perhaps Mrs. Powle felt herself in a hopeless case.

"What do you expect to live on out there?" she said, changing her
ground, as she dipped her toast into chocolate. "You won't have this
sort of thing."

"I have never thought much about it," said Eleanor smiling. "Where
other people live and grow strong, I suppose I can."

"No, it does not follow at all," replied her mother. "You are
accustomed to certain things, and you would feel the want of them. For
instance, will you have bread like this out there? wheat bread?"

"I shall not want chocolate," said Eleanor. "The climate is too hot."

"But bread?"

"Wheat flour is shipped for the use of the mission families," said Mrs.
Caxton. "It is known that many persons would suffer without it; and we
do not wish unnecessary suffering should be undergone."

"Have they cows there?"

"Mamma!" said Eleanor laughing.

"Well, have they? Because Miss Broadus or somebody was saying the other
day, that in New Zealand they never had them till we sent them out. So
I wondered directly whether they had in this place."

"I fancy not, mamma. You will have to think of me as drinking my tea
without cream."

"So you will take tea there with you?"

"Why not?"

"I have got the impression," said Mrs. Powle, "somehow, that you would
do nothing as other people do. You will drink tea, will you? I'll give
you a box."

"Thank you, mamma," said Eleanor, but the colour flushed now to the
roots of her hair,--"aunt Caxton has given me a great stock already."

"And coffee?"

"Yes, mamma--for great occasions--and concentrated milk for that."

"Do tell me what sort of a place it is, Eleanor."

"It is a great many places, mamma. It is a great many islands, large
and small, scattered over some hundreds of miles of ocean; but they are
so many and near each other often, and so surrounded with interlacing
coral reefs, that navigation there is in a kind of network of channels.
The islands are of many varieties, and of fairy-land beauty; rich in
vegetation and in all sorts of natural stores."

"Not cows."

"No, ma'am. I meant, the things that grow out of the ground," said
Eleanor smiling again. "Cows and sheep and horses are not among them."

"Nor horses either? How do you go when you travel?"

"In a canoe, I suppose."

"With savages?" exclaimed Mrs. Powle.

"Not necessarily. Many of them are Christians."

"The natives?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"Then I don't see what you are going for. Those that are Christians
already might teach those that are not. But Eleanor, who will marry
you?"

A bright rose-colour came upon the girl's cheeks. "Mamma, there are
clergymen enough there."

"Clergymen? of the Church?"

"I beg your pardon, mamma; no. That is not essential?"

"Well, that is as you look at things. I know you and my sister Caxton
have wandered away,--but for me, I should feel lost out of the Church.
It would be very essential to me. Are there no Church people in the
islands at all?"

"I believe not, mamma."

"And what on earth do you expect to do there, Eleanor?"

"I cannot tell you yet, mamma; but I understand everybody finds more
than enough."

"What, pray?"

"The general great business, you know, is to carry light to those that
sit in darkness."

"Yes, but you do not expect to preach, do you?"

Eleanor smiled, she could not help it, at the bewildered air with which
this question was put. "I don't know, mamma. Do not you think I could
preach to a class of children?"

"But Eleanor! such horrid work. Such work for you!"

"Why, mamma?"

"Why? With your advantages and talents and education. Mr.--no matter
who, but who used to be a good judge, said that your talents would give
anybody else's talents enough to do;--and that you should throw them
away upon a class of half-naked children at the antipodes!"----

"There will be somebody else to take the benefit of them first," Mrs.
Caxton said very composedly. "I rather think Mr. Rhys will see to it
that they are not wasted."

"Mamma, I think you do not understand this matter," Eleanor said
gently. "Whoever made that speech flattered me; but I wish my talents
were ten times so much as they are, that I might give them to this
work."

"To this gentleman, you mean!" Mrs. Powle said tartly.

A light came into Eleanor's eyes; she was silent a minute and then with
the colour rising all over her face she said, "He is abundantly worthy
of all and much more than I am."

"Well I do not understand this matter, as you said," Mrs. Powle
