"Shall we have a fire?" Mr. Carlisle had asked Eleanor, just before
they entered. And Eleanor could not find in her heart to deny that it
would be good, though not quite prepared to have it made to her
order. However, the word was given. Wood was brought, and presently a
roaring blaze went up within the old walls; not where the old chimney
used to be, for there were no traces of such a thing. The sun had not
shined bright enough to do away the mischief the shower had done; and
now the ladies gathered about the blaze, and declared it was very
comfortable. Eleanor sat down on a stone by the side of the fire,
willing to be less in the foreground for a little while; as well as to
dry her wet shoes. From there she had a view of the scene that would
have pleased a painter.
The blazing fire threw a warm light and colour of its own upon the dark
walls and on the various groups collected within them, and touched
mosses and ferns and greensward with its gypsy glare. The groups were
not all of one character. There was a light-hued gay company of muslins
and scarfs around the burning pile; in a corner a medley of servants
and baskets and hampers; and in another corner Eleanor watched Julia
and Mr. Rhys; the latter of whom was executing some adventurous
climbing, after a flower probably, or a fern, while Julia stood below
eagerly following his progress. Mr. Carlisle was all about. It was a
singularly pretty scene, and to Eleanor's eye it had the sharp painting
which is given by a little secret interest at work. That interest gave
particular relief to the figures of the two gentlemen whose names have
been mentioned; the other figures, the dark walls and ivy, the servants
and the preparing collation, were only a rich mosaic of background for
those two.
There was Mr. Powle, a sturdy, well-to-do, country gentleman; looking
it, and looking besides good-natured, which he was if not crossed.
There was Eleanor's mother, good-natured under all circumstances; fair
and handsome; every inch of her, from the close fair curls on each side
of her temples, to the tips of her neat walking shoes, shewing the
ample perfection of abundant means and indulgent living. There were
some friends that formed part of their household just then, and the
young people of a neighbouring family; with the Miss Broadus's; two
elderly ladies from the village who were always in everything. There
was Dr. Cairnes the rector, and his sister, a widow lady who spent part
of every year with him. All these Eleanor's eye passed over with slight
heed, and busied itself furtively with the remaining two; the great man
of the party, and the other, the one certainly of least consideration
in it. Why did she look at him, Eleanor asked herself? Mr. Carlisle was
a mark for everybody's eyes; a very handsome man, the future lord of
the manor, knowing and using gracefully his advantages of many kinds.
What had the other,--that tall, quiet man, gathering flowers with Julia
in the angle of the old tower? He could not be called handsome; a dark
thick head of hair, and somewhat marked features alone distinguished
him; except a pair of very clear keen eyes, the penetrating quality of
which Eleanor had felt that morning. "He has a good figure, though,"
she said to herself, "a very good figure--and he moves well and easily;
but what is there about him to make me think of him? What is the
difference between his face and that other face?"
"That other face" made frequent appeals for her attention; yet Eleanor
could not forget the group in the corner, where her sister seemed to be
having a time of more lively enjoyment than any one else of the
company. No other person paid them any attention, even in thought; and
when the collation was spread, Eleanor half wondered that her morning's
friend neither came forward nor was for some moments asked to do so.
She thought indeed she heard Julia ask him, but if so it was without
effect. Mr. Rhys remained in the distant angle, studying the stones
there; till Mr. Powle shouted to him and brought him into the company.
Having done this good action, the squire felt benevolently disposed
towards the object of his care, and entered into conversation with him.
It grew so satisfactory to Mr. Powle, that it absorbed his attention
from all but the meats and wines which were offered him, the enjoyment
of which it probably heightened; the talk was prolonged, and seemed to
grow more interesting as it went on. Eleanor could not hear what it was
about, her own ear was so much engaged with business nearer at hand.
The whole play had not escaped her, however; and between question and
answer of the rattling gaiety going on about her ears, and indeed on
her own tongue, she found time to wonder whether Mr. Rhys were shy, or
kept back by a feeling of inferiority; so marked his conduct was by the
absence of all voluntary self-assertion, She could not determine that
he was either. No look or word favoured the one or the other
supposition. And Eleanor could not look at those keen eyes, without
feeling that it was extremely unlikely they would quail before anybody
or anything. Very different from those fine hazel irids that were
flashing fun and gallantry into hers with every glance. Very different;
but what was the difference? It was something deeper than colour and
contour. Eleanor had no chance to make further discoveries; for her
father engrossed his new acquaintance all the way home, and only did
not bring him to Ivy Lodge to tea because Mr. Rhys refused it; for the
invitation was given.
CHAPTER II.
AT THE GARDEN-DOOR.
  "To die--to sleep.
  To sleep! perchance to dream; ay, there's the rub;
  For in that sleep of death what dreams may come"--
The family at Ivy Lodge gathered round the tea-table with spirits
rather whetted, apparently for both talking and eating. Certainly the
one exercise had been intermitted for some hours; the other however had
gone on without cessation. It went on still. The party was now reduced
to the home party, with the addition of Miss Broadus; which lady, with
her sister, was at home at Ivy Lodge, as she was everywhere else.
Elderly, respectable and respected old ladies they were; and though
they dealt in gossip, would not willingly have hurt a fly. They dealt
in receipts and in jellies too; in fashions, and in many kindnesses,
both received and given by all the neighbourhood. They were daughters
of a former rector of the parish, and poor, and asked nobody to help
them; which indeed they had no need to ask.
"You seemed to like your afternoon's acquaintance, papa?" said Eleanor.
"He is a fine fellow," said the squire. "He's a fine fellow. Knows
something. My dear, he teaches a small school at Wiglands, I hear."
"Does he. I wonder who goes to it," said Mrs. Powle.
"I don't know," said the squire; "but I mean to send Alfred."
"My dear Mr. Powle! to such a school as that? Nobody can go to it but
some of the farmers' children around--there is no one else."
"It won't hurt him, for a little while," said the squire. "I like the
master, and that's of more importance than the children. Don't you
worry."
"My dear Mr. Powle! But I never heard of such a thing in my life. I do
not believe Dr. Cairnes will like it at all. He will think it very
strange, your sending your boy to a man that is not a Churchman, and is
not anything, that anybody knows of."
"Dr. Cairnes be hanged!" said the squire,--"and mind his own affairs.
He wouldn't want me to send Alfred to him."
"My dear Mrs. Powle," said Miss Broadus, "I can tell you this for your
comfort--there are two sons of Mr. Churchill, the Independent minister
of Eastcombe--that come over to him; besides one or two more that are
quite respectable."
"Why does not Mr. Churchill send his boys to school it Eastcombe?"
"O well, it doesn't suit him, I suppose; and like goes to like, you
know, my dear."
"That is what I think," said Mrs. Powle, looking at her husband,--"and
I wonder Mr. Powle does not think so too."
"If you mean me," said the squire, "I am not 'like' anybody--that I can
tell you. A good schoolmaster is a good schoolmaster--I don't care what
else he calls himself."
"And Mr. Rhys is a good schoolmaster, I have no doubt," said Miss
Broadus.
"I know what he is," said Julia; "he is a nice man, I like him."
"I saw he kept you quiet," said Eleanor. "How did he manage it?"
"He didn't manage it. He told me about things," said Julia; "and he got
flowers for me, and told me about ferns. You never saw such lovely
ferns as we found; and you would not know where to look for them,
either. I never saw such a nice man as Mr. Rhys in my life."
"There, my dear," said her mother, "do not encourage Julia in talking.
She is always too ready."
"I am going to walk with him again, to get flowers," said the child.
"I shall invite him to the Lodge," said the squire. "He is a very
sensible man, and knows what he is about."
"Do you know anything more about him, Mr. Powle?"
"He does more than teach three or four boys," said Miss Broadus. "He
serves a little Dissenting Chapel of some sort, over at Lily Vale."
"Why does he not live there then?" said Mrs. Powle. "Lily Vale is two
and a half miles off. Not very convenient, I should think."
"I don't know, my dear. Perhaps he finds living cheap at Wiglands, and
I am sure he may. Do you know, I get butter for less than one-half what
I paid when I was in Leicester?"
"It is summer time now, Miss Broadus," said the squire.
"Yes, I know, but still--I am sure Wiglands is the nicest, easiest
place for poor people to live, that ever was."
"Why you are not poor, Miss Broadus," said the squire.
Miss Broadus chuckled. The fact was, that the Miss Broadus's not being
poor was a standing pleasant joke with them; it being well known that
they were not largely supplied with means, but contrived to make a
little do the apparent work of much more than they had. A way of
achieving respectability upon which they prided themselves.
"Eleanor," said her mother as they left the table, "you look pale. Did
you get your feet wet?"
"Yes, mamma--there was no helping that."
"Then you'll be laid up!"
"She must not, just now, my dear," said Miss Broadus smilingly.
Eleanor could not laugh off the prophecy, which an internal warning
told her was well founded. She went to bed thinking of Mr. Rhys's
helmet. She did not know why; she was not given to such thoughts;
neither did she comprehend exactly what the helmet might be; yet now
the thought came uneasily across her mind, that just such a cold as she
had taken had been many a one's death; and with that came a strange
feeling of unprotectedness--of want of defence. It was very
uncomfortable to go to bed with that slight sensation of sore throat
and feverishness, and to remember that the beginning of multitudes of
last sicknesses had been no other and no greater; and it was most
unlike Eleanor to have such a cause make her uncomfortable. She charged
it upon the conversation of the morning, and supposed herself nervous
or feverish; but this, if an explanation, was no cure; and through the
frequent wakings of a disturbed night, the thought of that piece of
armour which made one of her fellow creatures so blessedly calm, came
up again and again to her mind.
"I am feverish--this is nightmare," said Eleanor to herself. But it
must be good to have no such nightmare. And when the broad daylight had
come, and she was pronounced to be very ill, and the doctor was sent
for, Eleanor found her night's visions would not take their departure.
She could not get up; she was a prisoner; would she ever be free?
She was very ill; the fever gained head; and the old doctor, who was a
friend of the family, looked very grave at her. Eleanor saw it. She
knew that a battle was to be fought between the powers of life and
death; and the thought that no one could tell how the victory would be,
came like an ice wind upon flowers. Her spirit shrank and cowered
before it. Hopes and pleasures and plans, of which she was so full
yesterday, were chilled to the ground; and across the cleared pathway
of vision, what appeared? Eleanor would not look.
But the battle must be fought; and it had to be fought amid pain and
fever and weariness and the anxious looks of friends; and it was not
soon decided. And the wish for that helmet of shelter, whatever it
might be, came at times bitterly strong over Eleanor's heart. Many a
heavily drawn sigh, which her mother charged to the body's weariness,
came from the mind's longing. And in the solitude of the night, when
her breath was quick and her pulse was high and she knew everything was
going wrong, the thought came with a sting of agony,--if there was such
a helmet, and she could not have it. O to be well and strong, and need
none!--or while lying before death's door to see if it would open, O to
have that talisman that would make its opening peace! It was not at
Eleanor's hand, and she did not know where to find it. And when the
daylight came again, and the doctor looked grave, and her mother turned
away the anxious face she did not wish Eleanor to read, the cold chill
of fear crept over Eleanor's heart. She hid it there. No creature in
the house, she knew, could meet or quiet it; if indeed her explanation
of it could have been understood. She banished it as often as it was
possible; but during many days that Eleanor lay on a sick bed, it was
so frequent a visiter that her heart grew sore for its coming.
There were June roses and summer sunshine outside; and sweet breaths
came in at the open windows, telling the time of year. Julia reported
how fine the strawberries were, and went and came with words about
walks and flowers and joyous doings; while Eleanor's room was darkened,
and phials of medicine and glasses stood on the table, and the doctor
went and carne, and Mrs. Powle hardly left her by day, and at night
tile nurse slept, and Eleanor tossed and turned on her pillow and
thought of another "night" that "cometh."
The struggle with fever and pain was over at last. Then came weakness;
and though hope revived, fear would not die. Besides, Eleanor said to
herself, though she should get entirely well of this sickness, who
would guaranty her that another would not come? And must not one
come--some time--that must be final? And how should that be met? Nay,
though getting well again and out of present danger, she would have
liked to have that armour of shelter still!
"What are you crying for?" said her little sister coming suddenly into
her room one day. Eleanor was so far recovered as to be up.
"I am weak and nervous,--foolish."
"I wouldn't be foolish," said Julia.
"I do not think I am foolish," said Eleanor slowly.
"Then why do you say you are? But what is the matter with you?"
"Like all the rest of the world, child,--I want something I cannot get.
What have you there?"
"Ferns," said Julia. "Do you know what ferns are?"
"I suppose I do--when I see them."
"No, but when you don't see them; that's the thing."
"Do you, pray."
"Yes! A fern is a plant which has its seeds come on the back of the
leaf, and no flower; and it comes up curled like a caterpillar. Aren't
those pretty?"
"Where did you learn all that?"
"I know more than that. This leaf is called a frond."
"Who told you?"
"Mr. Rhys."
"Did you learn it from Mr. Rhys?"
"Yes, to be sure I did, and a great deal more. He is going to teach me
all about ferns."
"Where do you see Mr. Rhys?"
"Why! wherever I have a mind. Alfred goes walking with him, and the
other boys, and I go too; and he tells us things. I always go along
with Mr. Rhys, and he takes care of me."
"Does mamma know?"
"Yes, but papa lets Mr. Rhys do just what he pleases. Papa says Mr.
Rhys is a wonderful man."
"What is he wonderful for?" said Eleanor languidly.
"Well, I think, because he is making Alfred a good boy."
"I wonder how he has done it," said Eleanor.
"So do I. He knows how. What do you think--he punished Alfred one day
right before papa."
"Where?" said Eleanor, in astonishment.
"Down at the school. Papa was there. Papa told about it. Alfred thought
he wouldn't dare, when papa was there; and Alfred took the opportunity
to be impudent; and Mr. Rhys just took him up by his waistband and laid
him down on the floor at his feet; and Alfred has behaved himself ever
since."
"Was not papa angry?"
"He said he was at first, and I think it is likely; but after that, he
said Mr. Rhys was a great man, and he would not interfere with him."
"And how does Alfred like Mr. Rhys?"
"He likes him--" said Julia, turning over her ferns. "I like him. Mr.
Rhys said he was sorry you were sick. Now, that is a frond. That is
what it is called. Do you see, those are the seeds."
Eleanor sighed. She would have liked to take lessons of Mr. Rhys on
another subject. She half envied Julia's liberty. There seemed a great
wall built up between her and the knowledge she wanted. Must it be so
always?
"Julia, when are you going to take a walk with Mr. Rhys again?"
"To-morrow," was the quick answer.
"I will give you something to ask him about."
"I don't want it. I always have enough to ask him. We are going after
ferns; we always have enough to talk about."
"But there is a question I would like you to ask."
"What is it? Why don't you ask him yourself?"
Eleanor was silent, watching Julia's uncompromising business-like air
as she turned over her bunch of ferns. The little one was full of her
own affairs; her long locks of hair waving with every turn of her busy
head. Suddenly she looked up.
"What is your question, Eleanor?"
"You must not ask it as if from me."
"How then?"
"Just ask it--as if you wanted to know yourself; without saying
anything."
"As if I wanted to know what?"
Eleanor hesitated, and Mrs. Powle came into the room.
"What, Eleanor--what?" Julia repeated.
"Nothing. Study your ferns."
"I have studied them. This is the rachis--and down here below this,
is the rhizoma; and the little seed places that come on the back of the
frond, are thecae. I forget what Mr. Rhys called the seeds now. I'll
ask him."
