trying to gratify the boy’s wish.
“The sun will melt it soon, and I can wait,--I can wait, Walter;
it’s but a little while;” and Jamie, with a patient smile, turned
his face to the dim window and lay silent.
Higher and higher crept the sunshine till it shone through the
frostwork on the boy’s bright head; his bird awoke and carolled
blithely, but he never stirred.
“Asleep at last, poor, tired little Jamie; I’ll not wake him till
the day is warmer;” and Walter, folding the coverings closer over
the quiet figure, sat beside it, waiting till it should wake.
“Jamie dear, look up, and see how beautifully your last rose has
blossomed in the night when least we looked for it;” and Bess came
smiling in with the one white rose, so fragrant but so frail.
Jamie did not turn to greet her, for all frost had melted from the
boy’s life now; another flower had blossomed in the early dawn, and
though the patient face upon the pillow was bathed in sunshine,
little Jamie was not there to see it gleaming on the cross. God had
remembered him.
Spring showers had made the small mound green, and scattered flowers
in the churchyard. Sister Bess sat in the silent room alone, working
still, but pausing often to wipe away the tears that fell upon a
letter on her knee.
Steps came springing up the narrow stairs and Walter entered with a
beaming face, to show the first rich earnings of his pen, and ask
her to rest from her long labor in the shelter of his love.
“Dear Bess, what troubles you? Let me share your sorrow and try to
lighten it,” he cried with anxious tenderness, sitting beside her on
the little couch where Jamie fell asleep.
In the frank face smiling on her, the girl’s innocent eyes read
nothing but the friendly interest of a brother, and remembering his
care and kindness, she forgot her womanly timidity in her great
longing for sympathy, and freely told him all.
Told him of the lover she left years ago to cling to Jamie, and how
this lover went across the sea hoping to increase his little fortune
that the helpless brother might be sheltered for love of her. How
misfortune followed him, and when she looked to welcome back a
prosperous man, there came a letter saying that all was lost and he
must begin the world anew and win a home to offer her before he
claimed the heart so faithful to him all these years.
“He writes so tenderly and bears his disappointment bravely for my
sake; but it is very hard to see our happiness deferred again when
such a little sum would give us to each other.”
As she ceased, Bess looked for comfort into the countenance of her
companion, never seeing through her tears how pale it was with
sudden grief, how stern with repressed emotion. She only saw the
friend whom Jamie loved and that tie drew her toward him as to an
elder brother to whom she turned for help, unconscious then how
great his own need was.
“I never knew of this before, Bess; you kept your secret well” he
said, trying to seem unchanged.
The color deepened in her cheek; but she answered simply, “I never
spoke of it, for words could do no good, and Jamie grieved silently
about it, for he thought it a great sacrifice, though I looked on it
as a sacred duty, and he often wearied himself to show in many
loving ways how freshly he remembered it. My grateful little Jamie.”
And her eyes wandered to the green tree-tops tossing in the wind,
whose shadows flickered pleasantly above the child.
“Let me think a little, Bess, before I counsel you. Keep a good
heart and rest assured that I will help you if I can,” said Walter,
trying to speak hopefully.
“But you come to tell me something; at least, I fancied I saw some
good tidings in your face just now. Forgive my selfish grief, and
see how gladly I will sympathize with any joy of yours.”
“It is nothing, Bess, another time will do as well,” he answered,
eager to be gone lest he should betray what must be kept most
closely now.
“It never will be told, Bess,--never in this world,” he sighed
bitterly as he went back to his own room which never in his darkest
hours had seemed so dreary; for now the bright hope of his life was
gone.
“I have it in my power to make them happy,” he mused as he sat
alone, “but I cannot do it, for in this separation lies my only
hope. He may die or may grow weary, and then to whom will Bess turn
for comfort but to me? I will work on, earn riches and a name, and
if that hour should come, then in her desolation I will offer all to
Bess and surely she will listen and accept. Yet it were a generous
thing to make her happiness at once, forgetful of my own. How shall
I bear to see her waiting patiently, while youth and hope are fading
slowly, and know that I might end her weary trial and join two
faithful hearts? Oh, Jamie, I wish to Heaven I were asleep with you,
freed from the temptations that beset me. It is so easy to perceive
the right, so hard to do it.”
The sound of that familiar name, uttered despairingly, aloud, fell
with a sweet and solemn music upon Walter’s ear. A flood of tender
memories swept away the present, and brought back the past. He
thought of that short life, so full of pain and yet of patience, of
the sunny nature which no cloud could overshadow, and the simple
trust which was its strength and guide.
He thought of that last night and saw now with clearer eyes the
sacrifices and the trials silently borne for love of Bess.
The beautiful example of the child rebuked the passion of he man,
and through the magic of affection strengthened generous impulses
and banished selfish hopes.
“I promised to be kind to Bess, and with God’s help I will keep my
vow. Teach me to bear my pain, to look for help where you found it,
little Jamie;” and as he spoke, the young man gazed up at the
shining cross, striving to see in it not merely an object of the
dead boy’s love, but a symbol of consolation, hope, and faith.
“It is a noble thing to see an honest man cleave his own heart in
twain to fling away the baser part of it.”
These words came to Walter’s mind and fixed the resolution wavering
there, and as his glance wandered from the gray tower to the
churchyard full of summer stillness, he said within himself,--
“This is the hardest struggle of my life, but I will conquer and
come out from the conflict master of myself at least, and like
Jamie, try to wait until the sunshine comes again, even if it only
shine upon me, dead like him.”
It was no light task to leave the airy castles built by love and
hope, and go back cheerfully to the solitude of a life whose only
happiness for a time was in the memory of the past. But through the
weeks that bore one lover home, the other struggled to subdue his
passion, and be as generous in his sorrow as he would have been in
his joy.
It was no easy conquest; but he won the hardest of all victories,
that of self, and found in the place of banished pride and
bitterness a patient strength, and the one desire to be indeed more
generous than a brother to gentle Bess. He had truly, “cleft his
heart in twain and flung away the baser part.”
A few days before the absent lover came, Walter went to Bess, and,
with a countenance whose pale serenity touched her deeply, he laid
his gift before her, saying,--
“I owe this all to Jamie; and the best use I can make of it is to
secure your happiness, as I promised him I’d try to do. Take it and
God bless you, Sister Bess.”
“And you, Walter, what will your future be if I take this and go
away to enjoy it as you would have me?” Bess asked, with an
earnestness that awoke his wonder.
“I shall work, Bess, and in that find content and consolation for
the loss of you and Jamie. Do not think of me; this money will do me
far more good in your hands than my own. Believe me it is best to be
so, therefore do not hesitate.”
Bess took it, for she had learned the cause of Walter’s restless
wanderings and strange avoidance of herself of late, and she judged
wisely that the generous nature should be gratified, and the
hard-won victory rewarded by the full accomplishment of its
unselfish end. Few words expressed her joyful thanks, but from that
time Walter felt that he held as dear a place as Jamie in her
grateful heart, and was content.
Summer flowers were blooming when Bess went from the old home a
happy wife, leaving her faithful friend alone in the little room
where Jamie lived and died.
Years passed, and Walter’s pen had won for him an honored name.
Poverty and care were no longer his companions; many homes were open
to him, many hearts would gladly welcome him, but he still lingered
in the gloomy house, a serious, solitary man, for his heart lay
beneath the daisies of a child’s grave.
But his life was rich in noble aims and charitable deeds, and with
his strong nature softened by the sharp discipline of sorrow, and
sweetened by the presence of a generous love, he was content to
dwell alone with the memory of little Jamie, in the shadow of “the
cross upon the tower.”
THE DEATH OF JOHN.
This is not a tale, but a true history.--ED.
FROM “HOSPITAL SKETCHES.”
HARDLY was I settled again, when the inevitable bowl appeared, and
its bearer delivered a message I had expected, yet dreaded to
receive:--
“John is going, ma’am, and wants to see you, if you can come.”
“The moment this boy is asleep; tell him so, and let me know if I am
in danger of being too late.”
My Ganymede departed, and while I quieted poor Shaw, I thought of
John. He came in a day or two after the others; and, one evening,
when I entered my “pathetic room,” I found a lately emptied bed
occupied by a large, fair man, with a fine face, and the serenest
eyes I ever met. One of the earlier comers had often spoken of a
friend, who had remained behind, that those apparently worse wounded
than himself might reach a shelter first. It seemed a David and
Jonathan sort of friendship. The man fretted for his mate, and was
never tired of praising John,--his courage, sobriety, self-denial,
and unfailing kindliness of heart; always winding up with, “He’s an
out an’ out fine feller, ma’am; you see if he ain’t.”
I had some curiosity to behold this piece of excellence, and when he
came, watched him for a night or two, before I made friends with
him; for, to tell the truth, I was a little afraid of the stately
looking man, whose bed had to be lengthened to accommodate his
commanding stature; who seldom spoke, uttered no complaint, asked no
sympathy, but tranquilly observed what went on about him; and, as he
lay high upon his pillows, no picture of dying statesman or warrior
was ever fuller of real dignity than this Virginia blacksmith. A
most attractive face he had, framed in brown hair and beard, comely
featured and full of vigor, as yet unsubdued by pain; thoughtful and
often beautifully mild while watching the afflictions of others, as
if entirely forgetful of his own. His mouth was grave and firm, with
plenty of will and courage in its lines, but a smile could make it
as sweet as any woman’s; and his eyes were child’s eyes, looking one
fairly in the face with a clear, straightforward glance, which
promised well for such as placed their faith in him. He seemed to
cling to life, as if it were rich in duties and delights, and he had
learned the secret of content. The only time I saw his composure
disturbed was when my surgeon brought another to examine John, who
scrutinized their faces with an anxious look, asking of the
elder,--“Do you think I shall pull through, sir?” “I hope so, my
man.” And, as the two passed on, John’s eye still followed them,
with an intentness which would have won a clearer answer from them,
had they seen it. A momentary shadow flitted over his face; then
came the usual serenity, as if, in that brief eclipse, he had
acknowledged the existence of some hard possibility, and, asking
nothing, yet hoping all things, left the issue in God’s hands, with
that submission which is true piety.
The next night, as I went my rounds with Dr. P., I happened to ask
which man in the room probably suffered most; and, to my great
surprise, he glanced at John:--
“Every breath he draws is like a stab; for the ball pierced the left
lung, broke a rib, and did no end of damage here and there; so the
poor lad can find neither forgetfulness nor ease, because he must
lie on his wounded back or suffocate. It will be a hard struggle and
a long one, for he possesses great vitality; but even his temperate
life can’t save him; I wish it could.”
“You don’t mean he must die, Doctor?”
“Bless you, there’s not the slightest hope for him; and you’d better
tell him so before long; women have a way of doing such things
comfortably, so I leave it to you. He won’t last more than a day or
two, at furthest.”
I could have sat down on the spot and cried heartily, if I had not
learned the wisdom of bottling up one’s tears for leisure moments.
Such an end seemed very hard for such a man, when half a dozen
worn-out, worthless bodies round him were gathering up the remnants
of wasted lives, to linger on for years perhaps, burdens to others,
daily reproaches to themselves. The army needed men like
John,--earnest, brave, and faithful; fighting for liberty and
justice with both heart and hand, true soldiers of the Lord. I could
not give him up so soon, or think with any patience of so excellent
a nature robbed of its fulfilment, and blundered into eternity by
the rashness or stupidity of those at whose hands so many lives may
be required. It was an easy thing for Dr. P. to say, “Tell him he
must die,” but a cruelly hard thing to do, and by no means as
“comfortable” as he politely suggested. I had not the heart to do it
then, and privately indulged the hope that some change for the
better might take place, in spite of gloomy prophecies, so,
rendering my task unnecessary. A few minutes later, as I came in
again with fresh rollers, I saw John sitting erect, with no one to
support him, while the surgeon dressed his back. I had never
hitherto seen it done; for, having simpler wounds to attend to, and
knowing the fidelity of the attendant, I had left John to him,
thinking it might be more agreeable and safe; for both strength and
experience were needed in his case. I had forgotten that the strong
man might long for the gentler tendance of a woman’s hands, the
sympathetic magnetism of a woman’s presence, as well as the feebler
souls about him. The Doctor’s words caused me to reproach myself
with neglect, not of any real duty perhaps, but of those little
cares and kindnesses that solace homesick spirits, and make the
heavy hours pass easier. John looked lonely and forsaken just then,
as he sat with bent head, hands folded on his knee, and no outward
sign of suffering, till, looking nearer, I saw great tears roll down
and drop upon the floor. It was a new sight there; for though I had
seen many suffer, some swore, some groaned, most endured silently,
but none wept. Yet it did not seem weak, only very touching, and
straightway my fear vanished, my heart opened wide and took him in,
as, gathering the bent head in my arms, as freely as if he had been
a little child, I said,--“Let me help you bear it, John.”
Never, on any human countenance, have I seen so swift and beautiful
a look of gratitude, surprise, and comfort, as that which answered
me more eloquently than the whispered,--
“Thank you ma’am; this is right good! this is what I wanted!”
“Then why not ask for it before?”
“I didn’t like to be a trouble; you seemed so busy, and I could
manage to get on alone.”
“You shall not want it any more, John.”
Nor did he; for now I understood the wistful look that sometimes
followed me, as I went out, after a brief pause beside his bed, or
merely a passing nod, while busied with those who seemed to need me
more than he, because more urgent in their demands; now I knew that
to him, as to so many, I was the poor substitute for mother, wife,
or sister, and in his eyes no stranger, but a friend who hitherto
had seemed neglectful; for, in his modesty, he had never guessed the
truth. This was changed now; and, through the tedious operation of
probing, bathing, and dressing his wounds, he leaned against me,
holding my hand fast, and, if pain wrung further tears from him, no
one saw them fall but me. When he was laid down again, I hovered
about him, in a remorseful state of mind that would not let me rest,
till I had bathed his face, brushed his “bonny brown hair,” set all
things smooth about him, and laid a knot of heath and heliotrope on
his clean pillow. While doing this, he watched me with the satisfied
expression I so linked to see; and when I offered the little
nosegay, held it carefully in his great hand, smoothed a ruffled
leaf or two, surveyed and smelt it with an air of genuine delight,
and lay contentedly regarding the glimmer of the sunshine on the
green. Although the manliest man among my forty, he said, “Yes,
ma’am,” like a little boy; received suggestions for his comfort with
the quick smile that brightened his whole face; and now and then, as
I stood tidying the table by his bed, I felt him softly touch my
gown, as if to assure himself that I was there. Anything more
natural and frank I never saw, and found this brave John as bashful
as brave, yet full of excellences and fine aspirations, which,
having no power to express themselves in words, seemed to have
bloomed into his character and made him what he was.
After that night, an hour of each evening that remained to him was
devoted to his ease or pleasure. He could not talk much, for breath
was precious, and he spoke in whispers; but from occasional
conversations, I gleaned scraps of private history which only added
to the affection and respect I felt for him. Once he asked me to
write a letter, and, as I settled pen and paper, I said, with an
irrepressible glimmer of feminine curiosity, “Shall it be addressed
to wife, or mother, John?”
“Neither, ma’am; I’ve got no wife, and will write to mother myself
when I get better. Did you think I was married because of this?” he
asked, touching a plain ring he wore, and often turned thoughtfully
on his finger when he lay alone.
“Partly that, but more from a settled sort of look you have,--a look
which young men seldom get until they marry.”
