"Where do you suppose they are?" said Tom to Hapgood.
"I don't know. I hain't got much confidence in Ben's pluck, and I
shouldn't wonder if he had run away."
"But that is desertion."
"That's just what you may call it; and I've seen men shot for it."
The regiment remained in line several hours before the order came to move.
At daylight, while the men were still standing in the road, four soldiers,
attended by a staff officer, conducted the two missing men of Company K
into the presence of the regiment.
"These men say they belong to your regiment," said the officer, saluting
the little colonel.
Captain Benson immediately claimed them, and Fred and Ben were ordered
into the ranks.
"Cowards--are you?" said the captain. "You shall take your places in the
ranks, and at the right time we will settle this case."
"I enlisted without my father's consent, and you can't hold me if I don't
choose to stay," replied Fred Pemberton.
"Next time you must ask your father before you come. It is too late to
repent now."
"I'm going home."
"No, you're not. Sergeant, if either of those men attempt to leave the
ranks again, shoot them!" said the captain.
Fred and Ben took their places in the ranks amid the laughter and jeers of
the company.
"Who's the baby now?" said Bob Dornton.
"You have disgraced the company," added old Hapgood. "I didn't think you
would run away before the battle commenced."
"I shall keep both eyes on you, my boys, and if you skulk again, I'll obey
orders--by the Lord Harry, I will!" said the sergeant, as he glanced at
the lock of his musket. "Company K isn't going to be laughed at for your
cowardice."
At six o'clock the order came for the brigade to march. It now consisted
of only three regiments, for the time of one, composed of three months'
men, had expired while at Centreville; and though requested and importuned
to remain a few days longer, they basely withdrew, even while they were on
the very verge of the battlefield. This regiment left, and carried with it
the scorn and contempt of the loyal and true men, who were as ready to
fight the battles of their country on one day as on another.
The men knew they were going to battle now, for the enemy was only a few
miles distant. The soldier boy's heart was full of hope. He knew not what
a battle was; he could form no adequate conception of the terrible scene
which was soon to open upon his view. He prayed and trusted that he might
be able to do his duty with courage and fidelity. To say that he had no
doubts and fears would be to say that he was not human.
As the brigade toiled slowly along, he tried to picture the scene which
was before him, and thus make himself familiar with its terrors before he
was actually called to confront them. He endeavored to imagine the sounds
of screaming shells and whistling bullets, that the reality, when it came,
might not appall him. He thought of his companions dropping dead around
him, of his friends mangled by bayonets and cannon shot; he painted the
most terrible picture of a battle which his imagination could conjure up,
hoping in this manner to be prepared for the worst.
The day was hot, and the sun poured down his scorching rays upon the
devoted soldiers as they pursued their weary march. They were fatigued by
continued exertion, and some of the weary ones, when the sun approached
the meridian, began to hope the great battle would not take place on that
day. Tom Somers, nearly worn out by the tedious march, and half famished
after the scanty breakfast of hard bread he had eaten before daylight,
began to feel that he was in no condition to face the storm of bullets
which he had been imagining.
No orders came to halt at noon, though the crowded roads several times
secured them a welcome rest: but on marched the weary soldiers, till the
roar of cannon broke upon their ears; and as they moved farther on, the
rattling volleys of musketry were heard, denoting that the battle had
already commenced. These notes of strife were full of inspiration to the
loyal and patriotic in the columns. A new life was breathed into them.
They were enthusiastic in the good cause, and their souls immediately
became so big that what had been body before seemed to become spirit now.
They forgot their empty stomachs and their weary limbs. The music of
battle, wild and terrible as it was to these untutored soldiers, charmed
away the weariness of the body, and, to the quickstep of thundering cannon
and crashing musketry, they pressed on with elastic tread to the horrors
before them.
Tom felt that he had suddenly and miraculously been made over anew. He
could not explain the reason, but his legs had ceased to ache, his feet to
be sore, and his musket and his knapsack were deprived of their
superfluous weight.
"God be with me in this battle!" he exclaimed to himself a dozen times.
"God give me strength and courage!"
Animated by his trust in Him who will always sustain those who confide in
him, the soldier boy pressed on, determined not to disgrace the name he
bore. The terrible sounds became more and more distinct as the regiment
advanced, and in about two hours after the battle had opened, the brigade
arrived at the field of operations. One regiment was immediately detached
and sent off in one direction, while the other two were ordered to support
a battery on a hill, from which it was belching forth a furious storm of
shells upon the rebels.
The little colonel's sword gleamed in the air, as he gave the order to
march on the double-quick to the position assigned to him.
"Now, Tom, steady, and think of nothing but God and your country," said
old Hapgood, as the regiment commenced its rapid march. "I know something
about this business, and I can tell you we shall have hot work before we
get through with it."
"Where are the rebels? I don't see any," asked Tom, who found that his
ideas of the manner in which a battle is fought were very much at fault.
"You will see them very soon. They are in their breastworks. There! Look
down there!" exclaimed the veteran as the regiment reached a spot which
commanded a full view of the battle.
Tom looked upon the fearful scene. The roar of the artillery and the crash
of the small arms were absolutely stunning. He saw men fall, and lie
motionless on the ground, where they were trampled upon by the horses, and
crushed beneath the wheels of cannon and caisson. But the cry was, that
the army of the Union had won the field, and it inspired him with new zeal
and new courage.
Scarcely had the remnant of the brigade reached the right of the battery,
before they were ordered to charge down the valley, by Colonel Franklin,
the acting brigadier. They were executing the command with a dash and
vigor that would have been creditable to veterans, when they were ordered
to cross the ravine, and support the Eire Zouaves. The movement was made,
and Tom soon found himself in the thickest of the fight. Shot and shell
were flying in every direction, and the bullets hissed like hailstones
around him.
In spite of all his preparations for this awful scene, his heart rose up
into his throat. His eyes were blinded by the volumes of rolling smoke,
and his mind confused by the rapid succession of incidents that were
transpiring around him. The pictures he had painted were sunlight and
golden compared with the dread reality. Dead and dying men strewed the
ground in every direction. Wounded horses were careering on a mad course
of destruction, trampling the wounded and the dead beneath their feet. The
hoarse shouts of the officers were heard above the roar of battle. The
scene mocked all the attempts which the soldier boy had made to imagine
its horrors.
In front of the regiment were the famous Eire Zouaves, no longer guided
and controlled by the master genius of Ellsworth. They fought like tigers,
furiously, madly; but all discipline had ceased among them, and they
rushed wildly to the right and the left, totally heedless of their
officers. They fought like demons, and as Tom saw them shoot down, hew
down, or bayonet the hapless rebels who came within their reach, it seemed
to him as though they had lost their humanity, and been transformed into
fiends.
As soon as the regiment reached its position, the order was given to fire.
Tom found this a happy relief; and when he had discharged his musket a few
times, all thoughts of the horrors of the scene forsook him. He no longer
saw the dead and the dying; he no longer heard the appalling roar of
battle. He had become a part of the scene, instead of an idle spectator.
He was sending the bolt of death into the midst of the enemies of his
country.
"Bravo! Good boy, Tom," said old Hapgood, who seemed to be as much at ease
as when he had counselled patience and resignation in the quiet of the
tent. "Don't fire too high, Tom."
"I've got the idea," replied the soldier boy. "I begin to feel quite at
home."
"O, you'll do; and I knew you would from the first."
The shouts of victory which had sounded over the field were full of
inspiration to the men; but at the moment when the laurels seemed to be
resting securely upon our banners, the rebel line moved forward with
irresistible fury. Tom, at one instant, as he cast his eye along the line,
found himself flanked on either side by his comrades; at the next there
was a wild, indescribable tramp and roar, and he found himself alone. The
regiment was scattered in every direction, and he did not see a single man
whom he knew. There was a moving mass of Federal soldiers all around him.
The Zouaves had been forced back, and the cry of victory had given place
to the ominous sounds which betokened a defeat, if not a rout.
The rebels had been reënforced, and had hurled their fresh legions upon
our exhausted troops, who could no longer roll back the masses that
crowded upon them. The day was lost.
Tom, bewildered by this sudden and disastrous result, moved back with the
crowds around him. Men had ceased to be brave and firm; they were fleeing
in mortal terror before the victorious battalions that surged against
them.
"It's all up with us, my lad," said a panting Zouave. "Run for your life.
Come along with me."
Tom followed the Zouave towards the woods, the storm of bullets still
raining destruction around them.
CHAPTER XIV.
AFTER THE BATTLE.
Tom Somers floated with the tide of humanity that was setting away from
the scene of disaster and defeat. The panic that prevailed was even more
fearful than the battle, for wounded and dying men were mercilessly
trodden down by the feet of the horses, and run over by the wheels of the
cannon and the baggage wagons. Though the battle was ended, the rebels
still poured storms of shot and shell into the retreating, panic-stricken
host.
Tom did not know where to go, for there were panic and death on all sides
of him. The soldiers were flying in every direction, some of them into the
very arms of their remorseless enemies. But the woods seemed to promise
the most secure retreat from the fury of the Black Horse Cavalry, which
was now sweeping over the battle-field. The Zouave ran in this direction,
and our soldier boy followed him. Now that the excitement of the conflict
was over, the enthusiasm which had buoyed him up began to subside. The day
was lost; all hopes of glory had fled; and a total defeat and rout were
not calculated to add much strength to his over-tasked limbs.
He was nearly used up, and it was hard work to run--very hard work; and
nothing but the instinct of self-preservation enabled him to keep the tall
and wiry form of the Zouave in sight. They reached the ravine, where the
water was about three feet deep. The shot, and shell, and bullets still
fell in showers around them, and occasionally one of the luckless
fugitives was struck down. They crossed the stream, and continued on their
flight. An officer on horseback dashed by them, and bade them run with all
their might, or they would be taken.
"For Heaven's sake, get me some water!" said a rebel, who was wounded in
the leg, to a Zouave, who passed near him.
"You are a rebel, but I will do that for you," replied the Zouave; and he
gave him a canteen filled with water.
The rebel drank a long, deep draught, and then levelled his musket at the
head of his Samaritan enemy and fired. This transaction had occupied but a
moment, and Tom saw the whole. His blood froze with horror at the
unparalleled atrocity of the act. The Zouave, whom Tom had followed,
uttered a terrible oath, and snatching the musket from the hands of the
soldier boy, he rushed upon the soulless miscreant, and transfixed him
upon the bayonet. Uttering fierce curses all the time, he plunged the
bayonet again and again into the vitals of the rebel, till life was
extinct.
"Boy, I used to be human once," said the Zouave, when he had executed this
summary justice upon the rebel; "but I'm not human now. I'm all devil."
"What a wretch that rebel was!" exclaimed Tom, who seemed to breathe freer
now that retribution had overtaken the viper.
"A wretch! Haven't you got any bigger word than that, boy? He was a fiend!
But we mustn't stop here."
"I thought the rebels were human."
"Human? That isn't the first time to-day I've seen such a thing as that
done. Come along, my boy; come along."
Tom followed the Zouave again; but he was too much exhausted to run any
farther. Even the terrors of the Black Horse Cavalry could not inspire him
with strength and courage to continue his flight at any swifter pace than
a walk.
"I can go no farther," said he, at last.
"Yes, you can; pull up! pull up! You will be taken if you stop here."
"I can't help it. I can go no farther. I am used up."
"Pull up, pull up, my boy!"
"I can't."
"But I don't want to leave you here. They'll murder you--cut your throat,
like a dog."
"I will hide myself in the bushes till I get a little more strength."
"Try it a little longer. You are too good a fellow to be butchered like a
calf," added the generous Zouave.
But it was no use to plead with him, for exhausted nature refused to
support him, and he dropped upon the ground like a log.
"Poor fellow! I would carry you in my arms if I could."
"Save yourself if you can," replied Tom, faintly.
The kind-hearted fireman was sorry to leave him, but he knew that one who
wore his uniform could expect no mercy from the rebels. They had been too
terrible upon the battle-field to receive any consideration from those
whom they had so severely punished. He was, therefore, unwilling to trust
himself to the tender mercies of the cavalry, who were sweeping the fields
to pick up prisoners; and after asking Tom's name and regiment, he
reluctantly left him.
Tom had eaten nothing since daylight in the morning, which, added to the
long march, and the intense excitement of his first battle-field, had
apparently reduced him to the last extremity. Then, for the first time, he
realized what it was to be a soldier. Then he thought of his happy
home--of his devoted mother. What must she not suffer when the telegraph
should flash over the wires the intelligence of the terrible disaster
which had overtaken the Union army! It would be many days, if not weeks or
months, before she could know whether he was dead or alive. What anguish
must she not endure!
He had but a moment for thoughts like these before he heard the sweep of
the rebel cavalry, as they dashed down the road through the woods. He must
not remain where he was, or the record of his earthly career would soon be
closed. On his hands and knees he crawled away from the road, and rolled
himself up behind a rotten log, just in season to escape the observation
of the cavalrymen as they rode by the spot.
Here and there in the woods were the extended forms of Federals and
rebels, who had dragged their wounded bodies away from the scene of mortal
strife to breathe their last in this holy sanctuary of nature, or to
escape from the death-dealing shot, and the mangling wheels that rumbled
over the dead and the dying. Close by the soldier boy's retreat lay one
who was moaning piteously for water. Tom had filled his canteen at a brook
on the way, and he crawled up to the sufferer to lave his dying thirst. On
reaching the wounded man, he found that he was a rebel, and the fate of
the Zouave who had done a similar kindness only a short time before
presented itself to his mind.
"Water! Water! For the love of God, give me a drop of water," moaned the
dying soldier.
Tom thought of the Zouave again, and had almost steeled his heart against
the piteous cry. He turned away.
"Water! Water! If you are a Christian give me some water," groaned the
sufferer.
Our soldier boy could no longer resist the appeal. He felt that he could
not be loved on earth or forgiven in heaven if he denied the petition of
the dying rebel; but before he granted it, he assured himself that the
sufferer had no dangerous weapon in his possession. The man was deadly
pale; one of his arms hung useless by his side; and he was covered with
blood. He was a terrible-looking object, and Tom felt sick and faint as he
gazed upon him.
Placing his canteen at the lips of the poor wretch, he bade him drink. His
frame quivered as he clutched the canteen with his remaining hand. The
death damp was on his forehead; but his eye lighted up with new lustre as
he drank the grateful beverage.
"God bless you! God bless you!" exclaimed he as he removed the canteen
from his lips. "You are a Yankee," he added, as he fixed his glazing eyes
upon Tom's uniform. "Are you wounded?"
"No; I am worn out. I have eaten nothing since daylight, and not much
then. I am used up."
"Put your hand in my haversack. There is something there," gasped the
dying man.
Tom bent over him to comply with the invitation; but, with a thrill of
horror, he started back, as he listened to the death-rattle in the throat
of the rebel, and saw his eyes fixed and lustreless in death. It was an
awful scene to the inexperienced youth. Though he had seen hundreds fall
in the battle of that day, death had not seemed so ghastly and horrible to
him as now, when he stood face to face with the grim monster. For a few
moments he forgot his own toil-worn limbs, his craving hunger, and his
aching head.
He gazed upon the silent form before him, which had ceased to suffer, and
he felt thankful that he had been able to mitigate even a single pang of
the dying rebel. But not long could he gaze, awe-struck, at the ghastly
spectacle before him, for he had a life to save. The words of the
sufferer--his last words--offering him the contents of his haversack
recurred to him; but Tom's sensibilities recoiled at the thought of eating
