thousands by his daring feats. He had performed all sorts of gyrations
for the amusement of the idlers about Woodville, and he might now turn
his accomplishments to a useful purpose--indeed, make them pay for his
food and clothing.
Noddy had no idea that circus performances were not entirely
respectable; and it seemed to him that his early training had exactly
fitted him to shine in this peculiar sphere. It might not be decent
business for Mr. Grant and Bertha, but it was just the thing for him.
Whitestone was a very large town, and the circus was still there. He had
not a moment to lose; and, under the impulse of his new resolution, he
left the Glen, intending to walk up the river to the ferry, a couple of
miles distant.
Noddy went over the river, and reached the great tent of the circus
company about one o'clock. He was rather disturbed by the fear that he
might meet Squire Wriggs, or some of the constables; but all his hopes
were now centred on the circus, and he could not avoid the risk of
exposing himself. He boldly inquired for the "head man" of the
establishment; but this distinguished functionary was not on the
premises at that time; he would be there in the course of half an hour.
He walked down to a shop, and having a small sum of money in his pocket,
he obtained something to eat. On his return to the tent, the head man
was pointed out to him. Noddy, as a general rule, was not troubled with
bashfulness; and he walked resolutely up to the manager, and intimated
to him that he should like to be engaged as a performer.
"What do you want, my boy?" demanded the head man, who was quite
confident that he had mistaken the applicant's meaning, for it was
hardly possible that a youth like him could be a circus performer.
"I want a place to perform, sir," repeated Noddy, who was entirely
ignorant of the technical terms belonging to the profession.
"To perform!" laughed the manager, measuring him from head to foot with
his eye.
"Yes, sir."
"What kind of business can you do, my boy?"
"Almost anything, sir."
"Do you ride?"
"No, sir; I'm not much used to standing up on a horse, but I think I
could go it, after doing it a little while."
"Do you, indeed!" sneered the man. "Well, we don't want anybody that can
do almost any kind of business."
"I'm used to this thing, sir," pleaded Noddy.
"Used to it! I suppose you want a place as a bill-sticker, or to take
care of the horses."
"No, sir; I want to perform. If you will give me a chance to show what I
can do, I think you'll have me," persisted Noddy, not at all pleased
with the decided refusal he had received.
"Well, come in here," laughed the head man, who had no doubt that the
applicant would soon be brought to grief.
It was almost time for the doors to be opened for the afternoon
performance, and the man conducted Noddy to the ring, where he saw a
number of the riders and gymnasts, all dressed in their silks and
spangles to appear before the public.
"Here, Whippleby, is a young man that wants an engagement," said the
manager to the man who had acted as ring-master when Noddy was present.
"What can he do?"
"Almost everything; but he isn't much used to riding."
Whippleby laughed, and the manager laughed; and it was quite evident,
even to the aspirant for circus honors, that all present intended to
amuse themselves at his expense. But Noddy felt able to outdo most of
the circus people at their own profession, and he confidently expected
to turn the laugh upon them before the game was ended.
"A versatile genius," said Whippleby.
"Just try him, and see what he can do," added the manager,
significantly.
"Well, my little man, what do you say to a little ground and lofty
tumbling," said Whippleby, winking at the performers, who stood in a
circle around them.
"I'm at home in that," replied Noddy, throwing off his jacket.
"Good! You have got pluck enough, at any rate. Here, Nesmond, do
something," said the ring-master to a wiry young man of the group.
Nesmond did what Noddy had seen him do the day before; he whirled over
and over across the ring, like a hoop, striking his hands and feet
alternately on the ground.
"There, youngster, do you see that?" said Whippleby.
"Yes, sir, I see it," replied Noddy, unabashed by the work which was
expected of him.
"Now, let us see you do it."
Noddy did it, and if anything, more rapidly and gracefully than the
professional man. The men applauded, and Nesmond--"the great American
vaulter and tumbler"--looked exceedingly disconcerted when he saw his
wonderful act so easily imitated.
"Try it again, Nesmond," said Whippleby.
The distinguished athlete went on for half an hour, performing his
antics; and Noddy repeated them, though he had never before attempted
some of them. Nesmond gave it up.
"Well, young man, you can do almost everything, but you are as clumsy
and ungraceful as a bear about it. You need a little training on your
positions, and you will make a first-class tumbler," said the manager.
The men had ceased to laugh, and even looked admiringly on the prodigy
who had so suddenly developed himself. Noddy felt that his fortune was
already made, and he was almost ready to snap his fingers at the
court-house. Here was a chance for him to "work and win," and it was
entirely to his taste.
The manager then questioned him in regard to his family connections; but
as Noddy had none, his answers were very brief. He had no father nor
mother, and he had no home; he was no runaway, for there was no one
living who had any claim upon him. These answers were entirely
satisfactory to the head man.
"What salary do you expect?" asked the manager, when he had assured
himself there was no one to interfere with any arrangement he might
make.
"What do you give?" asked Noddy.
"Well, we give different salaries, depending on the men."
"You have seen what I can do--what will you give me? Talk right up, or I
shall have nothing to do with it," added Noddy, borrowing an expression
from a highly respectable horse jockey, who had a language of his own.
"I'll give you your board and clothes, and your dresses for the first
season."
"Nothing of that sort for me," replied Noddy, promptly. "I want to know
how much I am to have in hard cash."
"Very well; I'll give you five dollars a week, and you find yourself."
Five dollars a week looked like a large salary to Noddy, though it was
not one-fourth of what the distinguished Mr. Nesmond received, and he
immediately closed the bargain.
"I'll put you on the bills for the next town we visit. What's your
name?"
"Noddy Newman."
"What?"
The embryo performer repeated his name.
"That won't do; you must have a better name than that. Arthur De
Forrest--how will that suit you?"
"First rate," replied Noddy, who was very accommodating in minor
matters.
"We show in Disbury to-morrow night, and you must be ready to do your
business then, Mr. De Forrest," added the manager. "After the
performance this afternoon Mr. Whippleby will give you a few lessons."
"But where shall I get a dress?"
"I will furnish you one, and take it out of your salary. You had better
put it on when you practice, so as to get used to it."
Noddy was highly pleased with all these arrangements, and could not help
congratulating himself on the happy thought which had induced him to
join the circus. It was true, and he could not help noticing it, that
the men around him were not such people as Mr. Grant, and others whom he
had been in the habit of seeing at Woodville. All of them swore
terribly; their breath smelt of liquor, and they talked the language of
a depravity to which Noddy, with all his waywardness, was a stranger.
There were boys no older than himself in the company, but they did not
seem a whit less depraved than the older ones.
Though the novice was not a young man of high aims and purposes, he was
not much pleased with his companions. He was what they termed "green,"
and it was quite plain to him that there would be a fight before many
days had passed by, for he was too high-spirited to submit tamely to the
insults which were heaped upon him.
During the afternoon performance, he stood at the gates of the ring,
where the horses enter; and Mr. Whippleby sent him before the public for
the first time, to bring out a whip which had been left there.
"Noddy Newman!" shouted a boy among the spectators.
The young athlete heard his name, and too late he remembered that he had
exposed himself to the gaze of the constables, who might by this time be
in search of him. During the rest of the afternoon he kept himself out
of sight; but the mischief had already been done.
CHAPTER VII.
THE RING-MASTER.
When the performance was over, Noddy, with the assistance of one of his
companions, dressed himself in "trunk and tights," and appeared in the
ring to take his first lesson in graceful movements. He could turn the
somersets, and go through with the other evolutions; but there was a
certain polish needed--so the ring-master said--to make them pass off
well. He was to assume a graceful position at the beginning and end of
each act; he must recover himself without clumsiness; he must bow, and
make a flourish with his hands, when he had done a brilliant thing.
Noddy had not much taste for this branch of the profession. He did not
like the bowing and the flourishing. If the feat itself did not please
the people, he could not win them by smirking. He was much pleased with
his costume, and this kept him good-natured, under the severe training
of the ring-master, for a time. Mr. Whippleby was coarse and rough in
his manners. During the show he had been all grace and elegance, and did
not use any big words, but now he was as rough as a bear, and swore like
a pirate. He was just like a cat's paw,--he kept the sharp claws down
while the dear people were present; but now he thrust them out.
Noddy found the "business" was no joke. Mr. Whippleby did not so regard
it, now that the training had commenced; and the novice found that he
had placed himself under a very tyrannical master. He made his bows and
flourished his arms, with all the grace he could command for a time; but
he did not come up to his severe teacher's standard.
"Do that again," said Mr. Whippleby, with savage emphasis. "Don't hurry
it."
Noddy did it again, as slowly as he could; but he was apparently just as
far from perfection as before.
"If you don't do better than that, I'll put the whip around your legs!"
shouted the impatient ring-master. "One of the mules could do it
better."
"I did it as well as I could," replied Noddy, rather tartly.
"You will do it better than that, or your legs will smart. Now do it
again."
Noddy obeyed. He did not think the ring-master really intended to strike
him with the long whip he held in his hand, but supposed he was so much
in the habit of threatening the clown with the lash, that he did it now
from the force of habit. His last attempt did not satisfy Mr. Whippleby,
who stormed at him more furiously than before.
"Do you think I have nothing better to do than waste my time over a
blockhead like you? I haven't had my bitters yet. Now do it again; and
if you fail this time you will catch it."
Noddy turned his somerset; but he had hardly recovered himself before he
received a smart cut from the whip in the tenderest part of his leg.
There was a young lion in the novice, and a blow from any man was more
than he could endure. He expressed his mind in regard to the outrage
with such freedom, that Mr. Whippleby lost his temper, if he ever had
any to lose, and he began to lash the unfortunate youth in the most
brutal manner.
Noddy, finding there was no satisfaction to be obtained by facing the
ring-master, fled from the spot, leaping up on the seats where the
spectators sat. He was maddened to fury by the harsh treatment he had
received; and thirsting for vengeance, he seized whatever missiles he
could find, and hurled them at his persecutor. His legs seemed to be on
fire from the effects of the blows he had received. He rubbed them for a
moment, while he hurled the most bitter denunciations at the
ring-master.
"Now, come down, and try again," called Mr. Whippleby, who did not seem
to be much disconcerted by what had taken place, when he had in some
measure recovered his equanimity.
"No, I won't!" replied Noddy.
"Have you got enough, Mr. Arthur De Forrest?"
"I will give you enough before you get through."
While this colloquy was going on, the manager appeared in the ring.
Whippleby laughingly told him what had happened, and he seemed to be
much amused by it; but the ring-master had certainly changed his tone at
the appearance of the "head man."
"Come, my boy, come down, and let me see how well you do your business,"
said the manager.
"I've had enough of it," replied Noddy, as he returned to the ring.
"I'm not a horse, and I'm not going to be treated like one."
"That's your initiation, my boy," said Whippleby. "We always try new
beginners in that way, to find out what they are made of."
"You will find out what I'm made of, if you hit me again with that
whip."
"I know now. You won't need any more, if you try to do what you are
told."
"I'm not going to be whipped, whether I try or not," added Noddy,
doggedly.
"You shall not be whipped, my boy," said the manager. "Now show me your
ground act."
The novice was about to comply,--for he had already come to the
conclusion that the "head man" would protect him,--when he saw two men
enter the tent. They did not belong to the company, and Noddy was quite
sure he had often seen them in Whitestone.
"We don't allow visitors in here now," said the manager.
"We come on business. There is a boy here that we want to find," replied
one of the men.
"You must leave the tent," said the manager, rather sharply.
"I am a constable, and there is a boy about here that I want."
"What's his name?"
"They call him Noddy Newman."
"What do you want of him?"
"That's my business," answered the constable, rudely. "The boy came into
the ring this afternoon during the show, and I suppose he belongs to the
company."
"That's the fellow!" exclaimed the other constable, pointing to Noddy,
who was trying to take himself off without being noticed.
"That's Arthur De Forrest," interposed the manager.
"No, it isn't; I've known him this five years," said the man who had
recognized the culprit.
Both of them walked towards Noddy, with the intention, apparently, of
laying violent hands on him; but the young gentleman in "trunk and
tights" was not prepared to yield up his personal liberty, and he
retreated.
The officers were in a position where they could stop him from leaving
the tent by either of the two entrances; and Noddy, finding his exit
prevented, seized a rope which was hanging down by the centre-pole, and
climbed up out of the reach of his pursuers.
"What do you want of me?" demanded the young athlete, as he perched
himself in a comfortable position on the "slack-rope," which was
suspended to the pole.
"We shall not do you any harm, my boy," said one of the officers.
"What do you want of me?"
"There is good news for you; and you are wanted over at Squire Wriggs's
office."
"I know ye! You want to take me to the court-house. You can't humbug
me," said Noddy, fully confirmed in his suspicions by the conduct of the
men.
"We won't hurt you."
"You want to take me up."
"No, we don't; we only want to take you up to Squire Wriggs's office.
It's all for your good."
"No, you don't," replied Noddy. "You can't cheat me."
"We don't want to cheat you. We are only sent to find you. We will not
arrest you."
"I know better. You can't fool me. I heard Squire Wriggs say he wanted
to take me up to the court-house; and you don't catch me near no
court-house. I know what you mean."
"You are mistaken, my boy. Come down, and I will tell you all about it."
"When I do, you let me know," replied Noddy, who felt so secure from
arrest in his present quarters that he expressed his mind with perfect
freedom.
"We promise not to arrest you," persisted the constable who did the
talking. "We have been looking for you all day."
"You may look another day, if you like," added the defiant refugee. "You
want me for setting fire to the boat-house; but I am not to blame, if I
did do it."
"We don't know anything about the boat-house; Squire Wriggs has a lot of
money for you."
"You can't catch an old bird in any such trap as that," answered Noddy,
shaking his head significantly.
The officers used all their powers of persuasion to induce him to come
down; but Noddy, satisfied that they had been sent by Squire Wriggs, was
fully persuaded that they were trying to deceive him. The story about a
"lot of money" for a poor boy like him, who had not a friend in the
world, was too absurd, in his estimation, to be entertained for a
moment. He had heard the squire speak to Mr. Grant about thirty thousand
dollars; but such a sum was beyond his comprehension. He did not believe
any man, not even the owner of Woodville, had so much money; and of
