Allan Garland stood by the door ; and, of course, it 
was not he : therefore she could not, by any possibility, 
conceive who he was ; and she said so, in terms as ex- 
plicit as the occasion required. 
" I live in Union, Alabama, when I am at home. Don't 
you know me now, Sue?" persisted the perplexed visitor, 
who, perhaps, began to think he had entered the wrong 
house. 
If the veritable Allan Garland, however little his 
photograph resembled him, had hot stood by the door, 
she would have been rejoiced to see him, and to recog- 
nize in him her unknown friend and correspondent. As 
it was, she did not know him ; and she was candid enough 
to express her conviction without reserve, in spite of the 
disagreeable effect which her want of perception seemed 
to produce upon the mind of the stranger. 
' This is very strange," said the soldier, taking off his 
cap, and rubbing his head to quicken his faculties, which 
seemed to have led him into some unaccountable blunder. 
" Will you be kind enough to inform me who lives in 
this house?" 
" Mr. Raynes," replied Sue, quite as much mystified 
as the stranger seemed to be. 
" There is some mistake ; but I can't make out what 
it is," said the stranger. 
" I cannot wait any longer," said Somers, who had 
been riveted to the spot by the astounding revelation to 
which he had just listened. 
He had been almost paralyzed by the words of the 
rebel, in whom he promptly recognized the young man 
whose name and antecedents he had borrowed for the 
present occasion. His first impression was to take to his 
heels, and to run away ; but a certain worldly prudence 
prevented him from adopting this doubtful policy. If you 
attempt to run away from an angry dog, he will certainly 
bite you ; whereas, by facing him boldly, you may escape 
all injury. This fact, which Somers had fully exempli- 
fied in his own experience before he left Pinchbrook, was 
the foundation of his action. Seeing that the stranger 
was perplexed and annoyed by the failure of the family 
to recognize him, even after he had told them every thing 
except his name, he decided that he might safely retire 
under the plea of haste. 
 
" I beg your pardon, sir, for this intrusion," said the 
soldier, blushing with mortification as he retreated a 
pace towards the door. " You will excuse me, Miss 
Raynes, for my unwarrantable familiarity ; but I have 
made a blunder, or you have," he added rather bitterly. 
" Perhaps, when Owen comes to introduce me, you will 
know me better." 
" Owen's friends are my friends, young man ; and you 
are as welcome as my son would be, whoever you are." 
" Thank you, sir ; but, with many regrets for this in- 
trusion, I will take my leave." 
" No, no, my young friend," interposed the old man. 
" You must not leave us in this manner. It is true, we do 
not yet recognize you ; but you are none the less welcome 
on that account." 
" Thank you kindly, sir. I have deceived myself 
into the belief that I was better known here than I find 
I am. It was weak in me to thrust myself across your 
threshold without an introduction ; and, if you will par- 
don me, I will leave you, with the promise to come again 
with Owen." 
" Not yet, sir ; at least, not till you have told us who 
you are." 
'' Excuse me ; but I must go now," replied the young 
rebel with an exhibition of gentle dignity, which quite 
won the heart of Somers, as it it did that of the family. 
" Pray, give me your name, sir," interposed Sue, 
whose woman's curiosity could no longer endure the 
silence which maidenly reserve had imposed upon her, 
especially as the stranger proposed to depart without 
solving the mystery. 
" You will excuse me, Miss Raynes, if I decline for the 
present. My comrade is in a desperate hurry, and it is 
not reasonable for me to detain him any longer." 
" But, young man, you wrong me, you wrong my 
daughter, and, ahove all, you wrong my son, who is your 
friend, by leaving in this manner," said Mr. Rayues 
earnestly. " You actually charge us with a want of hos- 
pitality by this abrupt withdrawal." 
" You will pardon me, sir, for saying it j but after the 
description I have given of myself, if you do not know 
me, I am compelled to believe that it is because you do 
not wish to know me." 
" That is very unjust, and we do not comprehend the 
force of the remark." 
" Why, sir, I have written to you, and to your 
daughter, and your daughter has written to me ; and 
now you seem never to have heard of me. I have told 
you that I reside in Union, Alabama ; and that I am a 
friend of Owen." 
" We know a young man from that town very well, 
though we never saw him. His name is Allan Garland ; 
but it is impossible that you should be the person." 
"I must go, comrade," said Sorners desperately, as he 
rushed out of the door. 
 
" Wait a moment ! " exclaimed Mr. Raynes, grasping 
him by the arm ; for the old farmer seemed to think his 
presence was necessary to the perfect unravelling of the 
mystery. " It seems to me you ought to know this young 
man, if none of us do." 
" I do not, Mr. Raynes ; never saw him before in 
my life," protested Somers, feeling very much like a 
condemned criminal. 
" My name is Allan Garland," quietly continued the 
dignified young rebel.' " I am, undoubtedly, the person 
to whom you allude." 
" Impossible ! ' exclaimed Mr. Raynes, still holding 
Somers's arm with the grasp of a vice. 
"' Impossible ! ' : almost shouted the fair Sue, more 
excited than she would have been, if, through patient 
reading, she had arrived at the last chapter of a sensa- 
tion novel, where the pin is pulled out, and all the 
villains tumble down to perdition, and all the angels 
stumble upon their apotheosis. 
" Impossible ! " chimed in Mrs. Raynes, who had pre- 
served a most remarkable silence, for a woman, during 
the exciting incidents we have transcribed. 
"May I be allowed to inquire why you think it is im- 
possible?" calmly demanded the gentle rebel, who, in 
his turn, was amazed at the singular course of events. 
Sue did not know what else to do : so she sat down in 
a chair, and laughed with hysterical vehemence at the 
strange aspect of the affair. The old man opened hig 
eyes, and opened his mouth : but he did not forget to hold 
on with all his might to the arm of the unfortunate lieu- 
tenant, who was just then picturing to himself the in- 
terior of a rebel dungeon ; which view suddenly dissolved 
into an indistinct representation of a tree, from a stout 
limb of which was suspended a rope, hanging down over 
a cart, these latter appurtenances being symbolical of 
the usual rebel method of hanging a spy. 
The affair, which had been growing desperate for 
some time, had now actually become so to poor Somers. 
He placed his hand upon his revolver, in the breast- 
pocket of his coat ; but some prudential considerations 
interposed to prevent him from using it. The house was 
on a line of rebel sentinels. Whole divisions of Con- 
federate infantry, artillery, and cavalry, were encamped 
around him, and any violent movement on his part would 
have been sure to result in an ignominious disaster. The 
doughty old farmer, who was not less than, six feet three 
in his stocking feet, held on to him as a drowning man 
clings to a floating spar. It was not possible to get away 
without resorting to violence ; and if he offered any re- 
sistance to what, just then, looked like manifest destiny, 
the rebel soldier would become an ally of the farmer, and 
the women could call in the sentinels, if nothing more. 
" Really, Mr. Raynes, you are very unkind to detaio 
me, when I tell you that my leave has nearly expired," 
 
said Somers, when he had fully measured the situation ; 
which, however, was done in a tithe of the time which 
we have taken to transcribe it. 
" Young man, there is some mistake" said Mr. Raynes, 
placing a wicked emphasis on the word, which went to 
the very core of the scout's heart. " This man says he 
is Allan Garland, and you say you are Allan Garland. 
One of you is an impostor. Neither of you shall go till 
we determine which is the one. Sue, bring out your 
photograph again." 
" Oh, dear ! " gasped Somers, as, in a fit of momen- 
tary despondency, he gave himself up for lost, when the 
maiden went for the picture. 
CHAPTER XIII. 
AN UNEXPECTED ARRIVAL. 
AS SUE hastened to procure the photograph,
which she had placed in her mother's 
room after it had been fully discussed by 
herself and the supposed original. At the 
same time, her father conducted Somers into the room 
again ; and, being fully conscious of his desire to get 
away, he kept a watchful eye upon him, though he 
removed his grasp from the arm. The rebel soldier 
looked on in utter amazement at the singular proceed- 
ings of all the party, and seemed utterly unable to 
comprehend the meaning of them. 
" Here is the picture," said Sue, returning with the 
photograph in her hand ; " but I don't see that it looks 
any more like you than it does like the other gentle- 
man : ' : and she proceeded to institute a comparison 
between the new claimant and the picture. 
Somers began to cherish a faint hope again, and to be 
very grateful for the general truth, that photographs do 
not always look like the originals. This encouragement, 
 
slight as it was, gave our hero a new inspiration, and in 
a measure restored his impudence ; which, under the 
pressure of circumstances, had begun to give way. 
" I am sure it does not look at all like you," continued 
Sue, after she, had patiently balanced all the points of 
resemblance, and all the points of disagreement. 
" You should remember that the picture was taken 
more than a year ago ; and that I have been an in- 
valid for ten months of the time," suggested the rebel 
soldier. 
"That may be ; but I am sure this picture could never 
have been taken for you." 
" Let me see it, if you please ? " 
Sue handed him the card, and he glanced at it with an 
expression of great curiosity. 
"Where did you get this picture?" demanded he. 
It was sent to me by the original," replied she. 
" This is not my picture." 
" That is just what the other gentleman said ; and I 
am perfectly willing to believe both of you." 
" But I sent you a picture of myself, though this is 
not the one." 
" Well, that is very singular." 
" If you will remember, there were two in the same 
letter : the other was a young man whom Owen was 
acquainted with, and who desired something to remember 
him by. He is in a Mississippi regiment now." 
"Dear me ! what a blunder ! " exclaimed Sue, laughing 
heartily. " I am sure I took the best looking of the two 
for Allan Garland's." 
" Perhaps that is not very complimentary to me ; but 
where is the other picture?" 
" I put it in Owen's room. I told him what I had 
done with the two pictures ; but he has been at home so 
little, that I suppose he never looked at them. I will get 
the other." 
"We are beginning to get a little light on the subject," 
said Mr. Raynes, when his daughter had left the room. 
" And I think you will let a little light through my 
body with a bullet-hole," added Somers, whose last hope 
was gone again, though his impudence still remained. 
"Be patient, young man: we shall soon see the 
mystery explained, and be able to inform you whether 
you are Allan Garland or not." 
" I am sorry to put you to so much trouble, Mr. 
Raynes ; but you will remember that I was very much 
opposed to coming into your house at all ; that I wa? 
literally dragged in by yourself and your daughter." 
" And you will also remember that I saved you from 
arrest, when you gave your name as Allan Garland, of 
the Fourth Alabama. I think I have imparted to you 
some very valuable information ; and I intend to see 
what use is to be made of it, before I take my eyes 
off you." 
 
" You are very affectionate, Mr. Raynes ; and, in be- 
half of the great Southern Confederacy, I thank you for 
the zeal and loyalty which you have displayed," replied 
Somers boldly ; for it was plain that nothing but the 
most brazen impudence could save him. 
" You are a bold youth, and it is plain that you have 
brilliant talents ; I hope they have not been abused." 
" They have been, and will continue to be, used in the 
service of my suffering country." 
" I like you, and I hope every thing is all right about 
you ; but I cannot see your object in coming here under 
an assumed name." 
" Then you have decided the case against me, have 
you?" said Somers, glancing at the rival Allan. 
"Perhaps I was a little too fast," added the old man, 
mortified to find that his character for strict justice had 
been compromised by this hasty avowal. 
Sue was absent a long time ; and it was clear that the 
photograph had been mislaid. Somers was in hopes she 
would not be able to find it ; though he had but a meagre 
expectation of overthrowing the claims of his rival to the 
name of Allan Garland. It was a hot day, and the 
windows of the house were all open. His legs seemed to 
promise the only satisfactory solution to the problem ; 
and while he was considering the propriety of jumping 
out through one of the open windows, and trusting to 
them for safety, Sue returned with the photograph. 
" This looks more like you than the other ; and more 
like you than it does like the other gentleman," said 
Sue. 
The rebel soldier took the card, and acknowledged that 
it was his photograph ; at the same time, he was com- 
pelled to allow that it was but an indifferent likeness of 
himself. His hard service in the army had changed his 
appearance much. Sue gazed at the picture, and at the 
original, and her father did the same ; but both of them 
were in doubt. 
" There, sir ! I have waited patiently for you to act 
out this farce," said Somers, in deep disgust apparently. 
" You have looked at the pictures, and you are not satis- 
fied yet. I can stand it no longer ; I am tired of the 
whole thing. You have treated me very handsomely, 
and I am grateful to you for your kindness to me ; but I 
cannot and will not remain any longer." 
Somers spoke decidedly ; and was fully resolved to use 
his pistol, if occasion required. He was not willing to 
remain for a decision to be made between him and the 
other claimant. 
" I will go with you, brother Allan Garland," said the 
rebel soldier facetiously ; "I think, between us, we can 
readily decide which is the right man." 
" I am ready." 
" But we desire to he satisfied, especially in regard to 
this young man, who was suspected of being a deserter, 
and for whom I feel that I am responsible," said Mr. 
