coin; for he judged that she might be a beggar. “Now stand aside, will
you, for I am in haste.”
“So you bestow your alms upon me, as upon a beggar, Jacob Wynne,” said
the woman, with a hard, bitter laugh. As she spoke, she drew aside her
veil with an impatient movement, and allowed him a full view of her
features.
“Margaret!” he exclaimed, recoiling so hastily as to spill the contents
of the glass.
“Yes,—Margaret!” she repeated, in the same hard tone as before. “I dare
say you did not expect to see me here.”
“What fiend sent you here?” he exclaimed, angrily.
“Is it so remarkable,” she said, “that I should wish to be near you?”
“Margaret,” said Jacob, with difficulty restraining his anger
sufficiently to assume a tone of persuasion, “consider how much
attention you will attract, dressed in this uncouth style. Go home;
there’s a good woman.”
He looked uneasily in the direction where he had left his companion,
fearing that she might become a witness of this interview.
“Good woman!” she laughed, wildly. “Oh, yes, you do well to call me
that. You are doing your best to make me so.” Then changing her tone,
“So you are ashamed of my dress. I will not disgrace you any longer, if
you will give me money to buy others.”
“Well, well! we’ll talk about that when we get home. Only walk quietly
down to the boat now. You see we are attracting attention.”
“And you will come with me?” she said, with a searching look.
“I? no, not at present. I have an engagement,” said Jacob, in some
embarrassment.
“Yes, I understand,” said Margaret, bitterly. “It is with her,” and she
pointed to the tree under which his late companion was yet seated.
Jacob started.
“You may well start,” said Margaret, whose observant eye did not fail to
detect his momentary confusion.
“What do you mean?” he demanded, half defiantly.
“Jacob Wynne,” she continued, sternly, fixing her penetrating eye full
upon him, “tell me who is this woman, and what she is to you. Tell me,
for I have a right to know.”
She folded her arms and looked like an accusing spirit, as she made this
demand. The consciousness of guilt made his physical inferiority the
more conspicuous, as he met her gaze uneasily, as if meditating an
escape.
“This is no place for the discussion of such matters,” he said, in a
tone which strove to be conciliatory. “It is all right, of course. Go
home quietly, and when I return, I will answer your questions.”
He was mistaken if he thought thus to escape. Margaret was in a state of
high nervous excitement, and the fear of being overheard by the groups
who surrounded them was wholly lost sight of in the intensity of her
purpose.
“Jacob,” she said, steadily, “this is not a matter to be deferred. My
suspicions have been long excited, and now I want an explanation. I
cannot live as I have lived. Sometimes I have feared,” placing her hand
upon her brow, “that my head was becoming unsettled.”
“Your coming here to-day is no slight proof of it,” he said, hardly. “I
think you are right.”
She threw off this insinuation, cruel as it was, with hardly a thought
of what it meant. She had but one object now, and that she must
accomplish.
“Enough of this, Jacob,” she said, briefly. “You have not answered my
question. This woman,—what is she to you?”
“Suppose I do not choose to tell you,” he answered, doggedly.
“I demand an answer,” said Margaret, resolutely. “I have a right to
know.”
The weakest natures are often the most cruel, delighting in the power
which circumstances sometimes bestow upon them of torturing those who
are infinitely their superiors. There was a cruel malignity in the
scrivener’s eyes as he repeated, slowly, “You have a right to know!
Deign to inform me of what nature is this right.”
“Good heavens!” she exclaimed, startled out of herself by his
effrontery. “Have you the face to ask?”
“I have,” he said, his countenance expressing the satisfaction he felt
in the blow he meditated.
Margaret looked at him a moment, uncertain of his meaning. Then she took
a step forward and placed her hand on his arm, while she looked up in
his face with an expression which had changed suddenly from defiance to
entreaty.
“Jacob,” she said, in a softened tone, “have you forgotten the morning
when we both stood before the altar, and pledged to each other eternal
constancy? It is ten years since, years not unmarked by sorrow and
privation, but we have been the happier for being together, have we not?
You remember our little Margaret, Jacob,—how she lighted up our humble
home with her sweet, winning ways, till God saw fit to take her to
himself? If she had lived, I don’t think you would have found it in your
heart to neglect me so. Can we not be to each other what we have been,
Jacob? I may have been in fault sometimes, with my hasty temper, but I
have never swerved from my love for you.”
“You are at liberty to do so as soon as you like,” he said, coldly.
“Good heavens!” she exclaimed; “and this to your wedded wife!”
“That is a slight mistake of yours,” he returned, with a sneer, resting
his calculating eyes upon her face, as if to mark the effect of his
words.
Her hand released its hold upon his arm, and she staggered back as if
about to fall.
“My God! what do you mean? What can you mean? Tell me quickly, if you
would not have me go mad before your eyes.”
“That might be the best way of ending the matter,” said he, with
deliberate cruelty. “Nevertheless I will not refuse to gratify your
reasonable curiosity. I declare to you solemnly that you are not my
wedded wife.”
“You would deceive me,” she said, with sudden anger.
“Not in this matter, though I acknowledge having deceived you once. The
priest who performed the ceremony was so only for that occasion.”
Margaret passed her hand across her eyes as if she were trying to rouse
herself from some stupefying dream.
“Surely you are jesting, Jacob,” she said, at length. “You are only
saying this to try me. Is it not so? I will only ask you this once. Are
you in earnest?”
“I declare to you, Margaret, that you are not my wedded wife.”
“Then,” she said in a sudden burst of fury, to which she was urged by
the sharpness of her despair. “Then I have only one thing to live for
now.”
She turned away.
“What do you mean?” asked Jacob, almost involuntarily, her manner
producing a vague uneasiness.
“Revenge!”
She drew her tattered shawl closely about her, and, though the heat was
intense, actually shivered in her fierce emotion. Jacob looked after her
as she walked rapidly away, turning neither to the right nor to the
left, and a half feeling of compunction came over him. It was only for a
moment, however, for he shook it off, muttering impatiently,—
“Pshaw! what’s the use of fretting! It must have come sooner or later. I
suppose it was only natural to expect a scene. Well, I’m glad it’s over,
at any rate. Now I shall have one impediment out of my path.”
Jacob’s nature was cold and cowardly, and, as may be inferred,
essentially selfish. Destitute of all the finer feelings, it was quite
impossible to understand the pain which he had inflicted on a nature so
sensitive and high-strung as that of Margaret. Nor, had he been able to
understand, would the instinct of humanity have bidden him to refrain.
He retraced his steps to obtain another glass of water, for the one in
his hand had been spilled in the surprise of his first meeting with
Margaret.
“Did you get tired of waiting, Ellen?” he asked, as on his return he
presented the glass to his companion.
The suspicions excited in her mind by the mysterious warning had been
strengthened by his protracted absence.
“You were long absent,” she said, coldly.
“Yes,” he replied, somewhat confused. “I was unexpectedly detained.”
“Perhaps you can explain this,” she continued, handing him the paper she
had received.
He turned pale with anger and vexation, and incautiously muttered, “This
is some of Margaret’s work. Curse her!”
“Who is Margaret?” asked his companion, suspiciously.
“She,” said Jacob, hesitating, in embarrassment. “Oh, she is an
acquaintance of mine whose mind has lost its balance. You may have seen
her on the ground here. She was muffled up in a shawl and cape-bonnet.
She is always making trouble in some unexpected way.”
That this was a fabrication, Jacob’s confused manner clearly evinced.
“I wish to go home,” was the only response. Jacob offered his arm.
It was rejected. They walked on, not exchanging a word.
When they parted in New York, Jacob gave full vent to his indignation,
and hastened home to pour out his fury on Margaret, who had so seriously
interfered with his plan of allying himself with one for whom he cared
little, except that she would have brought him a small property which he
coveted. He hurried up stairs, and dashed into the room occupied by
Margaret and himself. He looked about him eagerly, but saw no one.
Margaret had disappeared.
                             CHAPTER XVIII.
                           MARGARET’S FLIGHT.
When Margaret left Staten Island after her stormy interview with Jacob
Wynne, it was with a fevered brain, and a heart torn with the fiercest
emotions. This man, whom despite his unworthiness, she had loved with
all the intensity of her woman’s nature, had spurned her affection, had
ruthlessly thrown it back upon her, and with a cold refinement of
cruelty had acknowledged without reserve the gross deception he had
practised upon her.
There are some of sensitive natures that would shrink and die under such
treatment. Margaret was differently constituted. The blow was terrible,
but she did not give way under it. It hardened her whole nature, and
excited in her a burning thirst for vengeance. Strong in hate as in
love, there sprang up in her soul a determined purpose, that, as Jacob
Wynne had ruthlessly laid waste the garden of her life, she would never
rest till she had made his as desolate as her own.
During the half-hour spent from wharf to wharf, she paced the deck of
the steamer with hasty strides, her shawl clasped tightly over her
throbbing bosom, and her face concealed as before by the capacious
sun-bonnet. She heeded not that she was the object of curious attention
on the part of her fellow-passengers. She never noticed how sedulously
the children avoided coming in her way—what glances, half of wonder,
half of awe, they cast upon the tall, stately, ill-dressed woman who
strode by them with such an impatient step. She had far other thoughts
to occupy her. She could not force herself to sit down. With her mind in
such a whirl, motion was absolutely necessary. Her hands were fiercely
clenched till the nails penetrated the skin, and caused the blood to
flow, but she neither saw the blood nor felt the injury.
At length they reached the slip. She disembarked with the other
passengers, and with the same quick, hasty, impatient strides hurried
through the streets, choosing instinctively the most obscure and
unfrequented, until she reached the lodgings occupied by Jacob and
herself.
Here she sat down for a few minutes, and looked about her.
The room was more ambitiously furnished than when first the reader was
introduced to it. Jacob’s connection with Lewis Rand had given him a
push upward, and enabled him to live more comfortably than before. But
in this prosperity Margaret had not been permitted to participate. She
had asked even humbly for money to provide herself with more comfortable
and befitting clothing, but Jacob, with cold selfishness, had refused
all her applications. He had grown tired of her, and, as we have seen,
had already formed a plan by which he hoped, through marriage, to get
possession of a small property which would place his new prosperity on a
more permanent footing. His treatment of Margaret, therefore, was only
part of a deliberate plan to rid himself of her, and thus remove the
only obstacle to the success of his suit. He had not indeed intended to
reveal his plans to her until marriage had secured the property he
coveted. We have seen how Margaret’s jealous espionage forced a
premature disclosure of his object, and even defeated it altogether.
Margaret looked about the room, which she had so long regarded as home.
Then her eye rested on herself disfigured by the faded and unsightly
garments which Jacob’s parsimony compelled her to wear, and she
smiled,—a smile of such bitter mockery, such deep and woful
despair,—that she almost shuddered to see it reflected in the mirror
opposite.
“There is no time to waste,” she muttered, slowly. “This can be my home
no longer. I must do what I have to do and be gone.”
She opened a small drawer in the bureau, and drew out a half sheet of
paper. It seemed to have been used for trying the pen, the same names
together with particular letters, being several times repeated on it.
Among the names that of Rand occurred most frequently.
Margaret smiled—this time a smile of triumph.
“Jacob Wynne! Jacob Wynne!” she repeated to herself, “what would you say
if you knew that I hold in my hand the evidence of your crime,—forgery!
forgery!”
Her eyes sparkled with vindictive joy.
“You would not sleep so quietly in your bed to-night, Jacob Wynne, if
you knew that I hold it in my power to hurl you into prison a convicted
forger! Why should I not do it? Tell me that, Jacob Wynne. Why, indeed;
shall I have compassion upon you who have had no pity for me? Never!
never!”
“When you are in prison,” she continued, in a tone of yet deeper
vindictiveness, “I will come and visit you, and taunt you with the
knowledge that it is to me you owe your disgrace. Think you that she
will smile upon you then; that she will be ready to stand before the
altar as I did?—Heaven help me!—and plight her faith to a convicted
forger?”
Margaret’s whole nature seemed changed. Her love seemed to have given
place to a deadly resentment.
She collected a few articles, and packed them in a small bundle.
Then she took one more glance—a farewell look at what, till now, had
been her home, and then pressed her hand upon her heart, while an
expression of pain distorted her features. But this was only for a
moment. By a powerful effort of self-control she checked her emotions,
and silently went out from the room.
Mile after mile walked Margaret through the crowded city streets,
turning neither to the right hand nor to the left. All gazed curiously
at her, all turned out for her. Now and then some one, more independent
than his neighbors, seemed inclined to oppose her progress, and compel
her to yield the way; but she moved steadily onwards, and he was obliged
to waive his independence, and make way for the singular woman whose
stately walk seemed so inconsistent with her miserable attire.
On, on, till the houses became farther and farther apart; on, till the
whirl of the great city is lost in the distance, and fields stretch out
on either side of the highway.
Still she moves on, never faltering, never showing signs of fatigue.
The skies grew suddenly dark. The rumbling of distant thunder was heard.
Vivid flashes of lightning played before her eyes, and dazzled her with
their blinding glare; still she moved steadily onward. A tree, shivered
by the lightning, fell across her path; she climbed over the trunk which
had been rent in twain, and continued her journey without exhibiting a
trace of surprise or alarm. There was a conflict raging in her own soul
fiercer than the conflict of the elements without; what was the
lightning that dazzled her sight to that which had seared her heart? And
why should she shrink from the shattered tree, whose own life had been
made a yet more fearful wreck?
And now the rain began to fall, not in a gentle shower, but in a fierce,
drenching deluge. It soaked through and through her miserable clothing,
and fell upon her hot skin. She did not seem to heed even that, but
still walked on—on with the same quick, steady pace, as before.
By the wayside was a small cottage, a very small one. There was but one
story, and two rooms were all it contained. It stood a few feet back
from the road. There was a small yard in front, and behind a small
garden, devoted to the cultivation of vegetables.
When Margaret came in sight of this cottage she paused,—paused a moment
irresolutely,—and then slowly entered through the open gate into the
path which led up to the front door.
She did not knock, but passing the door, stole to the window and looked
cautiously in.
The room revealed to her gaze was very plainly furnished. The floor was
clean, but had no carpet. A table and a few chairs, a clock, a stove,
and a rocking-chair, were all that the room contained.
In the rocking-chair sat an old lady, quietly engaged in knitting. Her
back was towards the window, and Margaret could therefore see nothing of
her features. At her feet reposed a gigantic cat, with her eyes half
closed, purring contentedly.
It was a picture of humble comfort and domestic happiness. The placid
look of the old lady seemed to indicate that she had no anxieties to
disturb her tranquillity. The cat, too, seemed to feel that dozing was
the great work of her existence, as, coiled up on the hearth, she
watched, with winking eyes, the rapid movements of the old lady’s
fingers.
Such was the general aspect of the room upon which the burning eyes of
Margaret now rested. She stood for brief space peering in with an air of
irresolution.
At length she opened the outer door. A moment more, and the door of the
inner room yielded to her touch, and she stood upon the threshold.
The old lady looked up from her knitting, and uttered a half exclamation
of terror as her eyes rested on the tall, forlorn woman standing before
her, with her clothes hanging in wet folds about her person, and her
hair falling in wild disorder about her face, from which she had now
removed her bonnet. The cat, too, who had been roused from her nap, and
who was as much unused to such company as her mistress, stood with her
back arched in terror, gazing in dismay at the stranger.
“Who are you?” asked the old lady, tremulously. “What do you want with
me?”
