tarnished and bent, and had lain on the pink 
cotton in that condition ever since. When 
Gypsy had looked all the things over, she took 
out this ring, the battered heart, the two gold 
buttons, and the lava stud, and turned them 
about in her fingers, hesitating. 
“ I never wear these,” she said, half aloud, 
“ and nobody will ever suspect or wonder, or 
ask where they ’re gone to ; Joy might, if she 
were here, but she isn’t. And I am sure they 
must be worth as much as ten dollars, and — 
yes. I’ll do it.” 
After that she put away the pearl-inlaid box 
and went to bed, and thought how much she 
was like the girls in the story-books. 
It chanced that Mr. Breynton was in Bur- 
lington for a day or two on business, and 
Gypsy hesitated a little about what she said 
to her mother the next day, but remembered
that Tom was in a hurry, and finally 
said it. 
Mother, I have been thinking I should like 
to go over to Vergennes this noon, and match 
the worsteds for your camp-chair.” 
“ To-day, Gypsy? ” 
“Yes’m; it is such a perfect day for it, and 
Mr. Surly says it is going to snow to-morrow. 
The only thing is, leaving you without father 
here. I don’t exactly want to.” 
“ Oh, I don’t care. It will only be a few 
hours, and I don’t need anything but what 
Patty can do for me. If you want to go, you 
had better.” 
Now, if there had been nothing but the 
worsteds or her own pleasure concerned, Gypsy 
would not have thought of going till her father 
was at home. But something more important 
than worsteds or pleasure was concerned, and 
she accepted the permission with a readiness 
that was very unlike Gypsy ; for she had been 
very generous and thoughtful ; quick to deny 
herself anything and everything, since her 
mother’s illness. Mrs. Breynton, though she 
really did not need her, noticed the difference, 
and Gypsy felt that she did, and being unable 
to explain it, was the hardest thing about this 
Vergennes undertaking. 
She started in the noon train, with a very 
stout-looking purse in her pocket, and one hand 
holding it tight. It held her money, — change 
for her fare and bills for her worsteds, — and it 
also held a battered heart, a ring, two buttons, 
and a lava stud. 
It was a bright, bleak, winter day ; the sun 
on the snow dazzled her, and the wind blew 
sharply into her face as she stepped from the 
cars and began to wander about the streets of 
Vergennes. She did not know exactly where 
to go with her jewelry, and now that it had 
come to the point, she dreaded selling it. It 
was an unpleasant thing to do. It had a mean 
look, she thought; she was not poorly dressed, 
and they would never guess that she could 
really need the money, and certainly never guess 
what it was for. Besides, she felt uneasy about 
doing such a thing without her mother’s knowl- 
edge. She wished for the twentieth time that 
Tom had not run in debt. However, it was 
rather late in the day to begin to be discouraged ;
so, after she had bought her worsteds, 
remembering that the girls in the story-books 
always took their jewelry to a pawnbroker’s, 
she stopped the first man she met, and asked 
him if he could tell her where there was a 
pawnbroker’s shop. The man put his hands 
in his pockets, and his hat on one side of his 
head, and stared, — at her face, the feather in 
her hat, her pretty cashmere dress, her ladylike 
muff, her neatly gloved hands, and said : — 
“ Dew tell, now ! ” 
“ Can you tell me where there is a pawn- 
broker’s, sir ? ” repeated Gypsy, reddening. “I 
want to sell some jewelry.” 
“Wall, I never! ” said the man; don’t 
want nary pawnbroker. Jewellers is the place 
fur sech pooty little gals. You ’ll find one right 
round the corner; very genteel jeweller, and 
fust cousin of mine, too.” 
Gypsy thanked him, and walked away as fast 
as she could. The “ fust cousin ” proved to be 
a little man with a black moustache. Whether 
his claims to gentility lay in that, or in his blue 
satin vest and flaring purple scarf-pin, or in his 
dingy, dusty shop, or in his stock of flashy 
jewelry, — largely consisting of brass and 
paste, — was not quite clear to the inquiring 
mind. Gypsy looked about her, and was sorry 
that she had come. 
“ What will you have to-day, ma’am?” asked 
the jeweller, promptly ; “ ear-rings, bracelets, — 
finest Etruscan gold, them bracelets, — fine 
assortment of diamonds, stone cameos, and this 
ruby, ma’am, — the genooine article, worth fifty 
dollars if it ’s worth a copper, but seeing it ’s you, 
now, I ’ll let you have it for a song, — I ’ll say 
ten dollars, and that ’ll be throwin’ of it away.” 
“ Oh, I wouldn’t have you throw it away on 
me, I ’m sure,” said Gypsy, with mischief in 
her eyes. “ I don’t exactly see how you could 
afford to lose forty dollars on it either. 
Besides, I didn’t come to buy anything. I came 
to sell some jewelry.” 
“Oh, you did, did you?” said the jeweller, 
with a sudden change of tone; “well, I don’t 
do much in that line. I sometimes take folks’ 
old silver and such to oblige ’em, but it isn’t 
worth nothing to me.” 
Gypsy had opened her purse, and the trinkets 
fell out upon the glass show-case. She spread 
them out, and asked how much he was willing 
to give her. The jeweller looked them over 
with ill-concealed eagerness, and took them up 
with masterly indifference. 
“ Hum ! — look as if they ’d been through the 
wars ; if I was to give you seventy-five cents 
for ’em, it would be more than they ’re worth.” 
“ Seventy-five cents ! ” exclaimed Gypsy ; 
“ why, I wouldn’t sell one of the buttons for 
that,” and she began to put them back in her 
purse. 
“Well, say a dollar, then; come now, that’s 
fair.” 
“ No, sir, I don’t think it is fair at all,” said 
Gypsy, shutting up her purse very fast. 
“ Dollar and a quarter, then, — call it a bar- 
gain.” But Gypsy walked right out of the 
shop. 
She strolled about awhile, feeling discouraged 
enough, but, Gypsy-like, more provoked that 
anybody should try to cheat her, till at last she 
stumbled upon another jeweller’s, — a handsome 
store, large and clean and well-lighted, with a 
display of watches and silver in the windows. 
So she pulled out her purse again and went in. 
There was a well-dressed man behind the 
counter, who had a very singular smile. Gypsy 
noticed it before she had shut the door, and was 
so absorbed in looking at it that she forgot 
what she had come for, and never said a 
word. 
“ How can I serve you ? ” said the man, 
politely. 
“Oh, how do you do?” said Gypsy, red- 
dening. 
“ I ’m very well, I thank you,” said the 
jeweller, his singular smile becoming so very singular 
that Gypsy was more confused than ever. 
She felt as if he were making fun of her, and she 
knew that she had said a stupid thing; so, by 
way of making up for it, with her face on fire, 
she broke out: — 
“ I want to sell a heart and some buttons for 
my brother ; that is — I mean — well, do you pay 
people for old jewelry? That ’s what I mean.” 
Well, it depended on the quality; sometimes 
he did and sometimes he did n’t; he would look 
at anything she might have and tell her. So 
out came the heart and the buttons, the ring 
and the lava stud, a second time. The jeweller 
took them up one by one, examined them care- 
fully, laid them down, and said, looking as if 
he were relieving himself of some excellent 
joke, that he would give her two dollars and a 
half for the whole. 
“Why, I expected to get ten, just as much as 
could be ! “ said Gypsy. 
“ Two dollars and a half is all they ’re worth. 
Miss,” repeated the jeweller, and his remarkable 
smile broadened and grew to such an extent 
that Gypsy’s indignation got the better of her 
politeness. 
“ I should like to know what you ’re laughing 
at, if you please ! I don’t see anything so very 
funny ! ” 
“ Oh, nothing, nothing. I beg your pardon ; 
only to think that you expected ten dollars ! 
but nothing is the matter at all.” 
“ Then you won’t give me any more than two 
dollars and a half! ” said Gypsy, faintly, her 
ripe red lips quivering with disappointment. 
“ Two dollars and a half would never pay 
the debt. Poor Tom, poor Tom ! ” 
Just then a customer opened the door; a step 
strangely familiar sounded on the floor behind 
her ; a heavy hand was laid upon her shoulder. 
Gypsy started, turned, and screamed. 
It was her father. 
hot crimson blood rushed all over her 
face, down her neck, out to the tips of her 
fingers. If he had caught her stealing, she could 
not have looked more guilty. In a minute she 
remembered herself, and tried to laugh as if 
nothing unusual were going on. 
“ Why, father ! Where on earth did you 
drop down from?” 
“ I am just on my way home from Burling- 
ton, and had a little business here. I did not 
expect to find you. What brought you over? 
and what are you buying there?” 
“ I came over to get mother some worsteds ; 
that is — yes, I ’ve been buying her some 
worsteds for her camp-chair.” 
“ But these are not worsteds.” 
Gypsy looked the other way and stood still, 
and the jeweller seemed to think that it was 
very funny. 
“What were you doing, Gypsy? buying 
some jewelry? Does your mother know about 
it? ” 
Gypsy picked up the trinkets and never said 
a word. What should she say? Her father 
began to look displeased. 
“Gypsy,” said he, gravely, “what does all 
this mean?” 
Gypsy, bewildered, frightened, hardly know- 
ing what she said, broke out: — 
“ No, sir, I wasn’t buying, I was selling, — 
just some little things that belong to me, and 
mother always lets me do what I want with my 
things, and the man wouldn’t give me but two 
dollars and a half, and that won’t half pay 
it, and — I mean, I don’t want Tom to go 
to prison, and — oh, dear, let ’s go home 
now.” 
“ Put those things back into your purse,” 
said her father, sternly. Gypsy obeyed in 
silence, and in silence they went out of the 
store and left the jeweller smiling still. 
Mr. Breynton took the road to the depot, 
walking in great strides that Gypsy could 
scarcely keep up with. For a few moments he 
said nothing to her, and his silence frightened 
her more than anything he could have said. 
“Gypsy!” he began at last — and Gypsy 
trembled all over — “ Gypsy, I don’t understand 
this thing, and I want you to explain it, the 
whole of it.” 
Gypsy knew that she must obey, and it 
seemed to her as if her breath stopped coming. 
What would Tom say? Oh, what would he? 
She spoke her thought for answer, and it was 
the best answer that she could have made : — 
“ Oh, father, I don’t know what Tom will 
say to me I He wouldn’t have had you know 
for the world, not for the world, and mother 
 
was too sick to tell, and so I had to do it all 
alone, and — ” 
“ Do what all alone?” interrupted her father, 
severely; “what is this about Tom? What 
has he done?” 
“He borrowed a little money, — I don’t be- 
lieve it was very much, but he borrowed it,” 
said Gypsy, faintly, “ and he couldn’t pay, and 
I was afraid he would have to go to prison, and 
so I thought I ’d sell my heart and things, — it 
was a real old heart, and jammed up where 
Winnie bit it and I stamped on it when we were 
little, you know,” she added, her eyes twinkling 
in spite of her fright and grief. 
“ So Tom has run in debt, and been to you 
to pay it ! ” 
Mr. Breynton’s eyes flashed, and there was a 
terrible sound in his voice. Gypsy did not 
dare to say a word. 
“ I should like to know how long this has 
been going on ! ” 
“ Oh, not long, sir, not very long, and Tom 
was so sorry, and I know he didn’t mean to. 
and I neverr cared a bit for the heart, you know, 
and the ring was all black lying out in that 
funny little chink under the fence.” 
There was a silence. Mr. Breynton strode 
rapidly on, and Gypsy had to run to keep up 
with him. 
“ I should like to know,” he said suddenly, 
“what you meant by saying that Tom wouldn’t 
have me know for the world, but would have 
told his mother if she had been fit to hear such 
a disgraceful story.” 
“Why, you know, Tom thinks you — you 
don’t take things just like mother,” said honest 
Gypsy, afraid that she was going to be disrespectful, 
but not knowing any other way than 
to tell the truth. “ Sometimes you are very 
much displeased, you know, and you talk to 
him a good deal and he gets angry, — and of 
course that’s very wrong in him; but then he 
seems to get along better with mother; and 
he said he knew he had no business to have 
