" No ; he had no chance." 
" You did not kill him instantly? " 
   He had time to ask a question." 
"What was it?" 
" He asked if I had been hired to murder him." 
" And you answered " 
"Yes." 
" Did you tell him by whom you were hired? " 
" I had no opportunity. He had just strength to ask 
the question, and then died." 
" He supposed it to be another," said Bandall. "But 
it can't be helped, and we may as well leave this place, 
or we may incur suspicion. I don't know that I care 
much for the mistake. He was an ugly fellow." 
"About the other?" 
" K'you will be on the wharf to-morrow morning, I 
will take care that the man is on deck. You could not 
 
 
fail to reoogmze him, but to avoid all mistake, I will go 
forward and speak to him." 
   And am f to receive no more than twenty dollars 
for what I have already done?" asked the Brazilian, 
discontent y. 
" Did you take nothing from the corpse? '' 
The assassin had found considerable money, and the 
thought of this tended to appease him. 
" You' are welcome to that, whatever it is, and for the 
new enterprise you shall have as much as I promised in 
the first place. You see, therefore, that you will be a 
gainer by the mistake that has taken place, while I shall 
be out of pocket by it." 
" You said you were but an agent." 
" So I am, but this money will come from me." 
Here the two villains parted company, one betaking 
himself to his ship, the other returning to the drinking- 
saloon, where he spent the remainder of   the night in 
drunken revelry. 
In the mean time the man against whose life Randall 
had plotted unsuccessfully was preparing another disappointment for the mate. 
On leaving the ship, not dreaming how important to 
him had been tlfe ten minutes by which his comrades 
had preceded him, Bill Sturdy struck for the central part 
of the city by the most direct route. 
Turning a comer, he unexpectedly fell in with a sailor 
who had been a messmate on a former voyage. Bill 
ascertained that his comrade was about to sail in two 
days for Liverpool, and from thence to New York. 
" Can your captain take another hand ? " asked Sturdy. 
   I have no doubt he would like one, for we are short- 
handed. We lost a sailor overboard just before we got 
into Rio." 
" Do you carry any passengers? '' 
" A few." 
" I shall want to secure a berth for one." 
" You don't mean to say, Bill, that you've been 
spliced?" 
" Not quite so bad as that. The passenger is a boy." 
" A son of yours ? " 
" I wish he was," said Bill, earnestly ; " but I'll tell 
you more about this, matter another time. For the pres- 
ent, keep dark. And that reminds me, can you tell me 
of any quiet, decent place where the lad and I can come 
to anchor?" 
".I know of a widow woman who will give you good 
rooms." 
Bill took down the address. 
Towards twelve o'clock he returned to the wharf at 
which the vessel was lying. While he was standing in 
the shadow of a large building the cathedral clock struck 
twelve. 
A moment after, and a youthful form appeared upon 
deck, descended the side swiftly, and stepped on the 
wharf. 
" Here I am, my lad' said Sturdy, in a low voice, 
coming out from his place of concealment. » 
" I wad afraid you wouldn't be here," whispered 
Charlie. 
" Trust me for that. And now we must be making 
sail, or the pirates will be after us." 
And this is the way Charlie took leave of the Bounc- 
ing Betsy. 
 
XXXII. 
FIBST LESSONS. 
"We will not attempt to depict the rage and vexation 
of Randall and the captain when they ascertained that 
Bill Sturdy had made his escape from the vessel and 
taken Charlie with them. For they entertained no 
doubt from the previous intimacy of the two that they 
had deserted the ship in company. They instituted as 
strict a search as they were able, and even offered a 
reward to any of the crew who should be instrumental 
in bringing back either, but particularly the boy. None 
of the sailors, however, would have betrayed our hero, 
even if they had had the opportunity. Captain Brace 
was finally obliged to put to sea without those whom he 
was so desirous of getting back into his power. He was 
compelled at the last to ship two new hands in place of 
Bill Sturdy and Antonio. 
As for BUI Sturdy, he embarked on the Livei'pool- 
bound vessel. He was desirous that Charlie should go 
as passenger, offering to pay his fare, that he might be 
spared the hardships of a boy on board ship. But to 
this arrangement our hero strongly objected. He said ho 
had no intention of being idle, and as to the hardships, 
he was willing to encounter them. Bill, therefore, with' 
 
drew his objections, and Charlie became one of the crew. 
He soon became a favorite, and as the captain and mate 
were quite different in character and disposition from 
those of the Bouncing Betsy, his voyage proved much 
more pleasant and satisfactory. 
We must ndW take leave of our young hero, well 
assured that he is in good hands, and, transferring the 
scene to Boston, inquire into the fate of our friends 
there. 
It will be remembered that Mrs. Codman, after the 
abduction of her son, was successful in obtaining the 
post of governess to a rather playful and mischievous 
young lad}  the only daughter of a wealthy merchant 
named Bowman. 
Mrs. Codman found her pupil as playful as a kitten, 
and about as fond of study. To confess the truth, Miss 
Bert Bowman was deplorably ignorant for a young lady 
of her age. Her governess, however, soon ascertained 
that it was from no want of natural capacity, but rather 
because she had been so much indulged, that nothing 
had been required of her beyond what the young lady 
chose to perform, and that was exceedingly little. In a 
private conversation with Mrs. Codman, Mr. Bowman 
explained the deficiesicies of Bert with their cause, and 
went on to say. " Now, my dear madam, I wish to 
surrender Bert to your charge entirely. I feel assured 
that I may rely upon your judgment to adopt such a 
course as may be best adapted to reconcile her to study, 
of which, at present, she has a great dread. I would 
not counsel too great strictness, at first, though I do not 
apprehend that from you. Neither perhaps ought we to 
try to advance very rapidly at first. Step by step, will 
 
be the most judicious way. In regard to hours, text' 
books, and studies generally, you will do as you think 
best." 
   '' I thank you, Mr. Bowman,'' replied Mrs. Codman, 
" for your dependence on my judgment, anS hope to 
deserve it. I hope my young pupil  who, I am con- 
vinced is not wanting in intelligence, will do justice to 
her natural capacity." 
The next day Mrs Codman commenced her under- 
taking, for such it may appropriately be called. 
"Bertha," said she, pointing to the clock, "it is 
nine o'clock. Suppose we commence our studies." 
"Just let me have another race with Topsy," said 
Bert, who was flying round the room in pursuit of the 
black kitten, who was evidently regarded by her young 
mistress as a congenial companion. 
" I am afraid I must say no, my dear child," said 
Mrs. , Codman gsntly ; " there is nothing like punctuality. So if you will just ring the bell, I will ask Jane 
to take away Topsy for the present." 
" Can't Topsy come to school with me?" asked Bert, 
disappointed. 
" I am afraid if she did my other pupil w ould not 
make very much progi'ess." 
Bert unwillingly acquiesced in the dismission of her 
favorite companion. 
" You won't keep me as long as they do in school, 
will you, LIrs. Codman?" asked Bert. " If I had to 
study four or six hours, I should certainly go into a 
a fit." 
" I dare say you would," replied her teacher, smiling. 
'  Therefore I sha'n't keep you so long. In fact, as you 
 
are the only scholar, we sha'n't bind ourselves to so 
many hours, but rather to so much learned, so that it 
will depend a good deal on how well you study.'' 
" That's good," said Bert. " Only, Mrs. Codman, 
you mustn't be too hard upon me. I don't believe I 
can get very lon lessons." 
  I mean to be quite easy at first. I shall not ask 
much, but that little I shall be strict in requiring." 
Bert wasn't quite sure how she liked the latter part 
of this remark. 
'' Before setting you any lessons, I must find out how 
much you know." 
'' I guess it won't take me long to tell you all I ever 
learned." 
'' Here is a reading-book. Let me hear you read." 
Bert took took the book, and stumbled through a 
paragraph, invariably mispronouncing all words of over 
one syllable. 
" There," said she, taking a long breath ; " I'm glad 
that is over." 
''Now," said Mrs. Codman, taking the book, "let 
me read it aloud." 
She was an excellent reader, and Bert, though she 
could not read herself, recognized the fact. 
"I wish I could read as well as that," said Bert. 
" H6w awfully you must have studied when you were a 
girl." 
" Not so hard as you think for, perhaps," said her 
teacher, smiling. " Success depends more upon a 
series of small efforts, than any great one." 
" Do you think I shidi ever read well? " asked Bert, 
doubtfully. 
 
 
"I am sure you will, if you will give a moderate 
amount of attention. Do you know anything of aritb'- 
metic." 
" Do you mean the Multiplication Table?" 
" Yes, that is a part of it." 
" Yes," said Bert, " I know son  lines about it, 
Charlie Morrill taught me them one day." 
"What are they?" 
Bert repeated these lines, which no doubt are familiar 
to many of my readers : 
Division is as bad. 
The role of Three doth trouble me, 
And Practicejnakes me mad. 
Mrs. Codman smiled. " Perhaps you will like them 
better as you grow better acquainted. Can you tell me 
how much are four times four ? " 
Bert went through a variety of motions in counting 
her fingers, and finally announced as the result of her 
computation, that four times four made twenty-nine 
" That is hardly right." 
" Fm awfbl ignorant, ain't I?" asked Bert. 
" Considerably so, I confess. But we shall be able to 
remedy that." 
" You won't make me study my eyes out? ''  
" That would be a pity. You see mine are not yet 
gone, and I don't mean to ask you to study any harder 
than I did." 
Bert looked at the eyes of her teacher which were 
quite as bright as her own, and lost her apprehensions 
on that score. 
''ril tell you why I asked," said she, after a pause. 
'' There's a girl that goes to school — she's only twelve 
years old — and she has to wear spectacles, and I heard 
somebody say it was because she studied so hard. I 
shouldn't want to be obliged to wear spectacles." 
Mrs. Codman could not forbear laughing at the idea 
of her frolicsome little scholar, with a pair of glasses 
perched upon her nose, and promised her that if she 
found there was any prospect of her being obliged to 
wear them, she would advise her at once giving up 
study. 
''Then I hope," thought Bert, "I shall heed them 
soon." 
" Now," proceeded Mrs. Codman, " I am going to 
give you short and easy lessons in reading, spelling, 
snd arithmetic. It won't take you long to get them, if 
you only try. When you have recited them, we are to 
go out and ride in the carriage." 
" O, that will be nice," exclaimed the child. " Tell 
me what the lesson is, quick." 
The lessons were got and said sooner than could have 
been expected, and so Bert had taken the first step in 
ascending the hill of learning. 
 
Bebt had plenty of capacity. She could get her lea- 
sons in an incredibly short time when there was any 
inducement. At other times she would sit for two, or 
three hours with the book 43efore her, but with her atten- 
tion straying to other things, and, as a natural conse- 
quence, would know njo more at the end of that time 
than at the beginning. Fortunately Mrs. Codman had 
the gift of patience, and though she was gentle, was, at 
the same time, firm. 
Of one thing Bert became convinced, — that study 
was not so terrible as she had imagined. At the end of 
three months she had made so great an improvement, 
that her father was equally surprised arid delighted, and 
was disposed to do full justice to Mrs. Codman's merits 
as a governess. "Who knows but you will become 
quite a learned lady in time, Bert? " he said, playfjiUy. 
" No doubt of it, papa," replied Bert. " By the time 
I am eighteen, I expect to wear green glasses and write 
books." 
" That will, indeed, be a miraculous transformation' 
And what is to become of Topsy, then? " 
" Oh, she'll be an old cat then, and won't feel any 
more like racing round than I do. She'll jast carl up in 
a chair beside me, and I will use her fur to wipe my 
pens on. She is just the right color for that, you know." 
   Quite a sensible plan, I confess. Indeed, it will be 
well for you to have something of that kind to be em- 
ployed about, as you will probably have no beaux." 
"No beaux, papa? And why am I to have no beaux» 
' I should like to know ? " 
" Because it takes two to make a bargain." 
'' Well, perhaps I sha'n't," replied Bert, tossing her 
head. " Perhaps you don't know that I have picked out 
my future husband." 
"Wliewl That is getting along faster than I had 
anticipated. May I be permitted to know who is to be 
my son-in-law ? I think I can guess, however." 
"Who?" 
" Mr. Bradley." 
