saying, " I have been called to a very urgent case. Tell 
Mabel I could not wait for dinner, and I may not be back 
to-night. I am sorry to disappoint you ; " and he wrung 
his friend's hand warmly ; then^ gathering a few important 
remedies, sprang into the wagon beside the boy, and was 
soon out of sight. Indeed, they fairly flew along the 
road. Richard learned from the boy that his mother had 
been over to Mrs. Bertrand's, and that the baby was very 
sick. Another physician had been called. Frank was to 
be in Newark at four, exactly, as Dr. Bertrand would then 
be home ; but he had no idea what the disease might be. 

Richard scarcely needed telling. The child's teething 
had been accompanied by spells of languor and restlessness, 
but no tangible illness. Margaret's inexperience had ren- 
dered her timid and easily alarmed, and Richard could not 
find it in his heart to add to her fears. On his last visit she 



 

had been unusually anxious ; but the baby appeared very 
well that day, laughing, cooing out soft, gurgling sounds, 
and raising his little arms to show how large he was. His 
mother had brought him to the gate for a last adieu, and 
the strange, baunting eyes followed Richard for hours after- 
wards. He had not expected the blow so soon. 

" Faster, Frank ! " he exclaimed, with a thrill of intense 
pain ; and the horse was urged to its utmost. They passed 
familiar places, shady gardens, and turned the well-known 
corner. The cottage was before them. 

Mrs. Wilcox met him at the door. Her eyes still showed 
traces of tears as she said, in a hurried tone, " doctor ! 
I'm afraid it is too late. He has changed so since noon. I 
think he is dying." 

Dr. Bertrand went up three steps at a time, and entered 
the open door. Beside the bed, in a low chair, sat the 
young mother with her babe in her lap. She glanced up 
with a cry of relief, while her eyes of unquestioning faith 
said more plainly than language, "At a word from you, 
danger will fold her shadowy wings, and flee away." 

Alas ! sweet, tender, confident eyes. Already they be- 
gan to show their vigil. When he noted the tense lines 
around the mouth, and the deadly pallor of the face, he 
knew what fears she had been striving against. He sat 
down beside them, and took the child's passive hand in his. 
The pulse was slow and feeble. Dark purplish shadows had 
settled under his eyes, and around the mouth were hues of 
ashen gray. The colorless lips were parted, showing his 
little pearly teeth. Only the broad forehead retained its 
transparency ; it was deathly white, with crimson stains in 
the temples. 

" When was he taken ? " Richard asked, in an under- 
breath. 

" You remember what I told you on Saturday about those 
strange attacks he had ? He was so bright then ; but all 
night he kept starting in his sleep and moaning. Sunday 




we put him in a warm bath, and after his nap he was so good ! 
I took him down stairs, and he sat a long time on father 
Wilcox's knee, laughing and crowing ; and all day Monday 
he appeared perfectly well, and so sweet it seemed as if my 
whole soul went out in love to him. Then he fretted all 
night again, and yesterday acted as he did before his teeth 
came in. First I thought I would send for you ; but he grew 
quiet, and slept till late this morning. Mrs. Wilcox consid- 
ered him better ; but at ten he was taken severely, crying 
with sudden bursts of pain, and rolling his head. His eyes 
frightened me with their wildness. Mrs. Dawson went for 
Dr. Ward. I was afraid you might be out. He put leeches 
on baby's temples, and ordered baths. I'm afraid it wasn't 
right, for he has lain this way ever since, and doesn't appear 
to know even me." Drawing a long breath, she glanced up 
questioningly. 

" It was the best thing to try." There was a death-like 
pause. How could he tell her the rest ? 

" Well," she returned, in a voice of assured faith, " what 
can I do next ? You will give him something ? " 

" Daisy," he said, with rarest tenderness, " my dear child, 
we can only wait." 

" How long ? " Her tone showed her utter unconscious- 
ness of the final ending. 

" Let me lay him on the bed ; he will be easier ; " and 
with a little gentle authority he took up the child. 

" Poor baby ! Poor Charlie ! Do you think he suffers 
much ? I tried to make him drink, but he wouldn't. Do 
you know what it is ? O, when will he be better ? " 

Dr. Bertrand gathered the slight, trembling figure to his 
heart. She was quite still, as if the rest brought a blessed 
sense of relief. After many seconds of silence, he said, 
with low, tender solemnity, 

"All pain and anguish will be over in. a few hours. 
Charlie will soon be resting in the bosom of the Saviour. 
Dear, dear Daisy ! " 




She did not faint, or cry. Her senses were stunned, be- 
wildered. She stood silent in his clasp, her heart beating 
with great, frightened bounds, as if it would burst its prison, 
her eyes looking steadfastly into vacancy. Then she said, 
vnth terrible calmness, the quiet of utter incredulity, 

" You will save him. God has so many little children in 
heaven, and I have only him." 

" My poor darling, human skill is of no avail. I could 
not have saved him yesterday ; even if I could keep him 
a few hours longer, it would only lengthen his sufferings. 
Think of the blessed rest in heaven, where there is no more 
pain. Remember who said, ' Suffer little children to come 
unto me.'" 

Then a wild, pathetic cry broke from the pale lips, and 
she struggled to throw herself beside the child. It seemed 
cruel to keep her there. Every pulse in Richard's frame 
quivered with intensest pain, and the strong arms were 
tender in their clasp, as if she had been a baby. 

He sat down, still holding her. " Daisy, my child, listen 
to me." His voice was full of that deep, electric power 
which rarely fails to attract attention. Taking her Bible 
from the stand near by, in faltering tones he read that most 
touching of all stories, the love and agony of the Shuna- 
mite woman, ending with these words: "Did I desire a 
son of my lord ? Did I not say, Do not deceive me ? " 

Some hard, dry sobs strangled in her throat, but her eyes 
were tearless, and her breath came in quick, painful gasps, 
as she said, 

" But he is my all. Grod never gave me any brothers, or 
Bisters, or parents to love.. My life was like a desert waste 
till Robert came. It seemed as if G-od sent me the baby so 
I might forgive him. And now, to be left all desolate, to 
have no one to love ! No, I can't bear it ; let me die with 
my child ; " and she struggled passionately. 

" Daisy, do not compel me to be cruel! I cannotrbear 
to have his sufferings increased by your wild, unavailing 






woe. You may sit by him and watch him if you will only 
be calm. Dear child, if I could restore him, as the prophet 
did ! But you will not even let me help you bear it." 

She ceased her frantic efforts, and answered, wearily, 
" You have been so good to me always ! only now yes, 
I will be calm." 

In answer to her imploring eyes, he seated her on the side 
of the bed, but still retained her hand. 

" Please talk to me," she said. 

He began in that low, sympathizing voice whose tender 
inflections were so well calculated to soothe and enchain the 
listener. He did not repeat the trite truisms about resigna- 
tion ; he knew just now she could not believe them. Instead, 
he talked of life and its many trials, of heaven and its 
perfect rest, of God who is always wise, and sees farther 
than our weak, faithless eyes. He spoke of the evil to 
come, of the bitter weaknesses that beset man at his best 
estate. 

" O, no ! " she exclaimed, with the earnest incredulity of 
love ; "it couldn't have been for him. I should have watched 
over him so carefully ! I had nothing else to do, you know ; 
nothing to take my love from him. I would have guarded 
him so watchfully, kept him from the slightest sin." 

" Perhaps Grod has some new duty for you. When Robert 
went away, you know He sent baby to comfort you. Can you 
not trust Him again ? " 

" It's so hard so hard. And then to be left alone ! " 
She buried her face in her hands. 

Mrs. Wilcox came up. One glance at Margaret's despair- 
ing attitude told her all. " Had you not better lie down, 
now that the doctor is here ? " she asked, kindly. 

An almost apathetical movement of the head was the only 
answer. For a long while the three watched. Then she 
went for some biscuits and tea. Margaret would have re- 
fused", but Richard held the cup before her, and she drank 
mechanically. All this time the baby had been very quiet ; 



 

now ho began to move uneasily, and purple lines settled 
rapidly about his mouth. 

" You had better go down with Mrs. Wilcox," Richard 
said, hurriedly. 

The look of alarm in her eyes asked the wordless ques- 
tion. 

" Not now," was the whispered reply. 

"How long?" An irrepressible shudder tore her frame. 

" Not before midnight ; perhaps later. But I do not like 
to have you witness this." 

" Please let me stay." 

The convulsion came on slowly, and though not of the 
severest type, racked the young mother's heart with agony. 
Richard used all the means at his command to alleviate the 
little innocent's suffering. More than once he bent closely 
over him to hide the writhing face. When the parqxysm 
passed, and he lay white and rigid, Margaret's fearful cry 
rang through the room. 

" O, he is dead ! dead ! My precious, precious baby-! " 
and she flung herself on the bed beside him. 

Not dead. There were feeble flutterings, faint indications 
of returning life. 

" He may be thus for hours. Would you not rather go 
away ? " 

" no ! no ! I will be quiet. But it is so terrible ! " 
And she clung to Richard with mute agony, as if he could 
give her strength for this fiery trial. He had never been so 
deeply moved by another's woe, and he longed, with wild 
intensity, to be able to shield her from these pangs. 

Father Wilcox came up for one last look of the beautiful 
boy so near heaven. He laid his trembling hand on the 
bowed head of the mother, and prayed that God would sus- 
tain her. Then the twilight fell softly over them, and in the 
midst of gray dusk the lamps were brought in. Still they 
watched. The convulsions returned at intervals until mid- 
night. Slowly the little life was drifting heavenward. The 





clock told off its seconds in deathly silence. Suddenly the 
baby lifted his arms and stretched them out wildly, as if 
searching for some familiar clasp. There was a little, fright- 
ened cry as Margaret clasped him to her heart, and kissed 
him with the last anguish of despairing love. A great awe 
fell uj on them. Then were the heavens opened, and the 
angels of God entered the golden gateway with a ransomed 
eoul. 

Richard took him from her, and laid him down, saying, 
brokenly, " ' I shall go to him, but he shall not return to me.' " 

Her head drooped on his breast. For the first time he 
kissed her, and in that moment took her to his heart entirely. 
Her face was pale and cold, her heavy-lidded eyes closed 
and tearless. He remembered that after a while he sum- 
moned Mrs. Wilcox, and wrapping a shawl carefully around 
the passive little figure, led her down stairs. She did not 
even moan, or make any outward sign of grief. 

The morning was breaking in the eastern skies. Clouds 
of opal and amethyst rayed off from the crimson spires, shoot- 
ing upward from the golden chariot of day. The odorous 
wind sobbed tremulously through the dewy trees, as if 
shadowy night wept tears of pain as she trailed her garments 
over the hill tops, to make room for a brighter visitant. 
The vines on the porch shook out showers of fragrance, 
grateful to the weary ones who paced up and down under 
their blossoms, in a silence too sorrowful to be broken by 
words. 

At length Margaret looked up, with weary, wistful eyes, 
