one hundred and twenty millions of people who speak the 
Arabic language. As for the tribes, the original twelve have 
been divided and subdivided until now there are near sixty. 
Some Arabs, you must remember, in the south of Arabia, 
are not Ishmaelites, but the descendants of Joktan ; others 
are the children of Keturah ; but they have intermarried, 
 
doubtless ; and the children of Ishmael are said to form now 
the great mass of the Arabian people." 
" I should not think it would have been much pleasure to 
Hagar to hear all that," said Prissy. 
"It was not said for her pleasure, but for our learning. 
However, the promise that her son should be the father of a 
great nation could not be anything but pleasant to her ; for 
children were esteemed a special boon in the East. One 
thing she ought not to have forgotten — the name her child 
should bear. Ishmad means, ' God shall hear.' That name 
might for ever remind her of those sweet words that were 
spoken to her in her f orlomness there — ' the Lord hath heard 
thy aflliction.' Amid the weary rocks of that wilderness, 
the poor slave did not think her tears had been seen ; but 
they were ; and Jesus came to speak peace to them." 
" But every poor slave's cry is not heard, I suppose," said 
liph. 
"Yes it is ! and registered; and answered when the time 
comes. For the day and the hour, my boy, we must trust 
God's wisdom, as being better than ours. As it is, God has 
given His children a message of comfort to carry to every 
suffering creatura That it is not carried, is the fault of those 
to whom the message has been committed." 
We were all silent a little while upon this. Then Daniel 
asked where the place was, of that fountain of water where 
Hagar was found % 
" Not certainly known," my uncle said. " Only that it 
was in what is called ' the south country ' — & wide tract of 
pasture ground between the hills of JudsJi on the one hand 
and the desert on the other. It is a dry land without 
springs ; and therefore from the oldest times men dug 
wells there, which remain to this day. Beer means a well ; 
and Ain or En, a living spring of water ; you can remember 
that. Hagar's well was called from that time, Beer-lahai-roi, 
' the well of Him that liveth and seeth' And Ishmael means, 
' God hears ; ' so if people had not the Bible in those times 
you'see they carried the truth about with them in the names 
of every-day things. We do the other way, I am afraid. It 
would be good for us if we knew our own well always as 
'Beer-lahai-roL' " 
" But that Angel does not come to speak to us there, uncle 
Sam." 
" Doesn't hel" said my uncle. "Ah, little Tiny, you 
are mistaken. He comes wherever there is a heart that 
wants to hear Him and will be obedient to Him — in the 
forest, or by the spring, or wherever it may be, there comes 
Jesus." 
" But that well is said to have been between Kadesh and 
Bered," said liph. "I should think it might have been 
known." 
"It was known when Moses wrote. But Kadesh and 
Bered are names now and nothing more ; we cannot be sure 
of the exact site of either of them. It doesn't matter. 
Hagar went home again, and in course of time Ishmael was 
bom. Abraham very likely thought that this son was to be 
the promised heir of the promises and of the land of Canaan. 
But it was not so. 
" Thirteen more years had passed quietly away, and Abraham was almost a hundred years old, when the angel that 
had come to Hagar came again to him. ' The Lord appeared 
to Abraham,' and told him more particularly about the promise than Abraham had ever known before. Now let us look 
at it. But first, look at the conmiand ; for the Lord's promises are always with a condition. ' Walk before me and be 
thou perfect." 
"But it isn't always that condition, uncle Sam," said 
Priscilla. 
" Isn't it? Nobody that does not walk before God— as a 
servant before his master— as a child before his father— has 
anything to do with the Lord's good promises." 
"But nobody is perfect, uncle Sam," 
" Nobody is without sin. Prissy. But the Bible must 
mean something when it says, ' Thou shalt be perfect with 
the Lord thy God ; ' and certainly nobody is perfect who has 
the least allowance of sin or makes the least compromise 
with it anywhere, or in anything ; whose heart is not all the 
 
Lord! 9, That is required of everybody ; and the heart that 
is all the Lord's, the Lord will keep. Abraham's was such a 
heart ; and with him God made his covenant. The covenaut 
had been given before ; now the Lord added two seals to it. 
The first was Abraham's change of name. He had been 
Abram ; now he was to be called Abraham, which means, 
' father of a multitude ; ' and his wife was to be Sarah, which 
is, ' princess.' And whenever afterwards the Lord took any 
one into particular favour, you may notice that it was apt 
to be marked by a change of name. 'Thou shalt be called 
by a new name,' was a promise to the church of old ; and 
Jesus says, ' To him that overcometh will I give a white 
stone, and in the stone a new name written, which no man 
knoweth saving he that receiveth it.' " 
" Uncle Sam, I don't think I know exactly what that 
means." 
" We shall not know exactly tiU we get it. Tiny. The 
other seal to the covenant was one which Abraham was to 
set, and his children after him ; it was the sign of circumcision. It was only a sign ; but it was like baptism now, the 
believer's sign of faith in the Lord and pledge of belonging 
to him. Anybody who did not choose to give it was cut off 
from the covenant, and had no right to the promises. And 
then the Lord told Abraham, that his promised child, through 
whom the blessing was to come, was not Ishmael; but 
that Sarah should have a son of her own, and with him and 
his children the covenant should stand." 
" ' Then Abraham fell upon his face and laughed,' " said 
Priscilla. 
" Fell upon his face in adoring wonder, and laughed for 
joy. This was not the laughter of one who doubted the 
Lord's word. ' He staggered not at the promise of God 
through unbelief ; but was strong in faith, giving glory to 
God ; and being fully persuaded that what he had promised 
he was able also to perform.' So the Lord told him that 
this promised son should be called 'Laughter;' he should 
be joy and a sign of joy. Nevertheless, Abraham's heart held 
very closely his first child, his thirteen-years-old boy ; and he 
prayed for a blessing upon IshmaeL And the Lord granted 
it ; indeed, the blessing given to Ishmael was as great as that 
given to Isaac, as far as the mere things of this world are 
concerned. But the covenant belonged to Isaac alone. Only 
in Isaac, and in that promised One who should come in 
Isaac's line, was the word to be true to Abraham, 'I will be 
a God unto thee, and to thy seed after thee.' Only Isaac's 
children should inherit the land of Canaan ' for an everlasting possession;' even as only those who are Christ's can 
receive ' the promise of eternal inheritance ; ' of which the 
land of Canaan was a figure." 
" But the Jews have not got the land of Canaan now," said 
Idph. 
" Nor we haven't got heaven," said my uncle. "But both 
will ' Thus saith the Lord, which giveth the sun for a light 
by day, and the ordinances of the moon and of the stars for 
a light by night : If those ordinances depart from before me, 
saith the Lord, then the seed of Israel also shall cease from 
being a nation before me for ever.' ' Yea, I will rejoice over 
them to do them good, and I will plant them in this land assuredly with my whole heart and with my whole souL'" 
" The Arab nations observe circumcision too," said my 
grandmother. 
" Yes, and claim the right of the eldest son of Abraham — 
a right to the possession of earthly territory. With the faith 
of Abraham they have nothing to do. And you know, 
children, that whether it be circumcision or baptism, the 
real thing is the Lord's inward seal set on the heart. If that 
is not washed from sin, and wholly given and marked as the 
Lord's, the /outward sign is good for nothing. So unless a 
man had the inward seal as well as the outward sign, he was 
not one of the true Israel. 'If ye be Christ's' — not otherwise—' then are ye Abraham's seed, and heirs according to 
the promise.' " 
 
Sept. 16.— SODOM. 
" The next time we hear of Abraham," said uncle Sam, " he 
was sitting in his tent door, in the heat of the day." 
" He was at the same place yet," said Daniel 
"Under the oaks of Mamre, near Hebron. The Arabs 
like to pitch their tents near to trees, that they may have 
the refreshment of the shade. Abraham had now been a 
good while at Hebron. There was plenty of pasturage and 
plenty of water, and good ground for cultivation ; and he 
and his sons were not such rovers as his Bedouin children 
are ; they tilled the soil, though they lived in tabernacles." 
" Was it very hot at Hebron ? " I asked. 
" Not very hot. Tiny, for it is good high ground ; it is just 
the country for the grape to flourish. But that means a 
good sun in the middle of the day, though night winds are 
cool. Abraham sat in his tent door. What sort of a house 
do you suppose his tent was ? Nothing like the white canvas tents of our soldiers when they are in camp. Abraham's tent was probably very like the tents of the Arab 
sheikhs; and I have been often enough in them. The 
covering of the tent is black cloth made of goat's hair, woven 
in strips three quarters of a yard wide. A number of these 
strips are sewed together, perhaps ten of them, according 
to the depth of the tent ; and the length of the pieces of 
course depends on the size that is required the other way. 
To support this tent covering, nine poles are set up ; three 
down the middle, and three on each side ; and to keep all 
steady, loops are sewed to the tent cover at the place of each 
pole top, except the one in the middle, and ropes go from 
these loops and are stretched to pins fastened in the ground 
ontde, A curtain or flap is attached to the back of the 
tent, and carried round the sides in winter ; it is hooked up 
or let down, as the want of air or too much air may make it 
desirable. The middle row of poles is about seven feet high ; 
the outer poles, five feet That is the tent. Now to divide 
off the women's portion : a woollen curtain or carpet is hung 
all across by the middle row of poles ; sometimes the curtain 
is white and sometimes it is woven in figures." 
" Had Abraham no better house than Hiat ? " said Priscilla. 
" It is a very good sort of house," said my unde. " It is 
the pleasantest one can have, in travelling through Palestine; but, to be sure, that is because the others are so 
dirty." 
" Are the tents always clean ? " my grandmother asked. 
" Not the dwellers in them, if they are Bedouins," said my 
uncle. " But you cannot help having sweet air ; and the 
ground is a clean floor. I like tents. Over the ground, 
however, a good carpet is spread, in a rich man's tent, and 
cushions laid upon that. The usual fashion in ordinary 
cases is to pile the wheat sacks and the camel bags in a huge 
heap round the middle pole of the tent ; and near this pile 
to lay the pack-saddles about for the sheikh and his friends 
or guests to lean upon — near this pUe, or a little farther 
back. It is impolite to put them near the outer side poles." 
"What is in the woman's side of the tent?" said Priscilla. 
"Ah," said my uncle, "you would not like it. Prissy, 
Everything is piled in there that is not wanted in the other 
place. All the cooking vessels ; the wheat mortar and the 
coffee mortar, and the wooden bowl into which the milk of 
the camels is drawn; the water skins, and the skins of 
butter ; the leather water bucket, and the horse's feeding 
bag." 
" Do you believe Sarah had all those things in her tent, 
uncle Sam?" 
" I guess not. Prissy ; she was the wife of so great a man. 
But yet, you will see she must have had some of them. And 
Abraham's tent may have probably been as well furnished 
 
as the best in which I have been received— though I do not 
know whether they had silk cushions and soft carpets at 
that day. I rather think not. His long spear very likely 
stood before it, as every Arab's does now ; and perhaps it was 
marked as the sheikh's spear, then as now, by the ostrich 
feathers tied to it. It is likely, I think, that Abraham's 
horses were kept somewhere else ; but before the tent is the 
Arab's place for them ; and the sheikh's tent may be known 
by the number of beautiful animals picketed in front of it, 
as well as by the feathered spear." 
"Is the women's part of the tent quite enclosed?" my 
grandmother asked. 
" No, not usually. But Sarah's seems to have been. I 
have seen in the north, near the Euphrates, a different arrangement ; the whole back part of the tent shut otf, and the 
front left open. But it is likely Abraham's tent was of the 
sort I have described, which his children use to this day." 
" Uncle Sam, how do you suppose Abraham was dressed ? 
What did he look like r' 
" Impossible to say with certainty. Prissy ; but I will tell 
you how it is with a Bedouin of the desert ; and it is not 
likely the fashions changed much more in the older time 
than they have in the later. A Bedouin sheikh of the present day wears first a coarse cotton shirt ; Abraham's was 
probably linen, for cotton was not then known in Palestine 
or Egjrpt. Over the shirt, a long gown, silk or cotton now. 
Over the gown, a mantle. There is a thin kind, and a heavier, 
worn over the first, both woollen. The outside one is called 
an abba; it is coarse and heavy, striped white and brown or 
white and black ; sometimes white and blue. No Bedouin 
wears drawers or pantaloons, of any sort ; and they usually 
go barefoot, whether walking or riding, though they do think 
a good deal of yellow boots and red shoes. Prissy. But the 
Bedouin is a hardy animal On his head he folds a square 
kerchief, in such a way that while one corner falls at the 
back, two other corners come over his shoulders; and these 
he can draw around his face if he likes, either to hide who he 
is, or to protect himself from searching hot winds, or rain or 
sun. This kercliief they wear yellow, or yellow and green ; 
and to keep it fast on, they tie a cord or bit of rope round 
the head. That is all a Bedouin's dress — except his arms ; 
and many of them wear their mantle directly over the shirt, 
without any gown at all." 
" Uncle Sam, I do not like to think of Abraham with a bit 
of rope round his head." 
" You need not. Some of the wealthy sheikhs dress very 
handsomely ; wear red and white shawls instead of a kerchief, and black abbas interwoven with gold. But Abraham, 
I think, did not. A great sheikh, whom Mr Layard visited, 
wore a crimson satin robe, a gold-embroidered cloak, and a 
rich Cashmere shawl on his head ; and his tent was spread 
with cushions of silk and furnished with luxurious carpets. 
Abraham had not just such things, but no doubt his establishment was thoroughly worthy of him ; good and ample. 
As a general thing, the Arab sheikh lives and dresses just as 
plainly as his followers. The difference between him and 
them is, that he can indulge in more bounteous hospitality, 
dress his ladies handsomely, and perhaps own one or more 
swift mares." 
" And how was Sarah dressed ? " 
" Her daughters wear a blue gown, with not much under 
it ; a red or black kerchief on the head — red while the lady 
is young ; — silver rings in the ears and nose, and glass brace- 
lets on the arms. Silver bracelets and chains too, if they can 
afford it. There are many varieties in different tribes. But 
the women's blue gown, the men's striped abha and green and 
yellow head-kerchief, are universal north of Mecca. Now
shall we go back to Abraham ? now that you can fancy what 
he looked like. 
" He sat in his tent door in the heat of the day, dressed 
somehow as I have told you, probably ; when he suddenly 
saw three strangers coming near. He did then exactly what 
a Bedouin Arab would do now. To be the guest of one, a 
real Bedouin, is to have the whole scene acted over. Once 
when I was crossing a part of Arabia I was invited to dine 
at the tent of a sheikh in the company. We went a little 
out of our way to get to his encampment. There were nine 
tents of them ; nine black tents set up in a line; the women's 
were close, and the men's tents were all open at the sidea 
As we came to the sheikh's tent, his old father, an old man 
of some eighty years, arose and came forward and bowed himself to salute us, as if we had been the most dignified people 
in the world. We went in, and mats were spread for us to 
sit upon ; water was brought to wash our hands and feet ; 
and a young man was sent to the flock to choose a kid, and 
he killed it and dressed it, and it was handed over to the 
sheikh's wife in her tent to be cooked for us. And after a 
while it came out from her hands in smoking dishes of rice 
and meat, and was placed before us ; and the sheikh himself stood up while we ate, to attend upon us and show us 
honour." 
