
"No; try again."

"Grossbeck."

"Very well; I will agree to him."

"But he might make some mistake."

"If he does, it will be in your favor, I suppose; for you nominated him,
and, of course, he will give you the benefit of any doubt," replied
Pelham.

"I want a fellow who will do it fairly. I don't wish to get in by any
mistake," said Shuffles, magnanimously.

"Neither do I? and I don't think there will be any mistakes."

"There is a chance for a great many. The fellows may get mixed between
beans and peas. When they come to vote, there will be some who don't
know beans," laughed Shuffles.

"Well, if they don't, they will know peas, which will do just as well,"
replied Pelham.

"It would not be pleasant for me to have them know peas, when they ought
to know beans."

"We will give them P.P. as a clew to the whole thing."

"P.P.? That means P's, I suppose."

"It means that, and more. P. for Pelham, and P. for peas. If they get
one right, they can't very well get the other wrong."

"That's true," answered Shuffles, silenced, rather than convinced, by
the tactics of his fellow-conspirator.

It was settled that he who knew peas must certainly "know beans."

"When shall the fellows vote?" asked Shuffles.

"After dinner to-morrow afternoon. Every fellow will be off duty an hour
in the first or second dog watch," replied Pelham, who seemed to have an
answer ready for every question. "The polls shall be kept open till
eight o'clock. The peas and beans shall be distributed before eight
bells in the forenoon watch, so that every fellow will be ready to
vote."

"Where will Grossbeck stand when he receives the ballots?"

"He won't stand anywhere in particular. We will see him together, and
give him his instructions. I think it will be better for him to walk
about the ship, and let the fellows hand him the votes on the sly, which
he must put in his pocket. He shall count them in the presence of both
of us."

"Suppose he should lose some of them?" suggested Shuffles.

"If he does, he is as likely to lose peas as beans."

"I don't want to be chosen in any such manner as by the loss of the
votes."

"I can't see that there is any more danger of his losing them than there
is of his losing his head. I see you are not entirely satisfied with the
plan."

"To tell you the truth, Pelham, I am not. There is, at least, a chance
for mistakes."

"I'm willing to do anything you like, that will make the election a
fairer one."

"I have it!" exclaimed Shuffles. "We can give each fellow two peas and
two beans, and let him vote twice."

"What good will that do?"

"I'll tell you. We want another receiver; then let each fellow vote
twice, giving a pea or a bean to both of the receivers. If the two
results don't agree, it shall not be an election."

"That's a first-rate idea, Shuffles, and I go in for it with all my
might," replied Pelham, with so much warmth that his companion was put
in the best of humor. "Who shall be the other receiver?"

"Name some one," said Shuffles, generously conceding the nomination to
his confederate.

"Perth."

"No."

Shuffles objected because Pelham had done so when he had mentioned two
names.

"Richton."

"Once more."

"McKeon."

"Right. McKeon is an honest, careful fellow," added Shuffles. "Now I
think there can be no mistake."

The minor details of the election were carefully arranged, and the boys
went below again. They gave satisfactory replies to the first
lieutenant, who questioned them in regard to the steamer they had gone
aloft to examine. Pelham thought she was a "Cunarder," but Shuffles was
confident she belonged to the Inman line; and it is quite certain
neither of them had any opinion whatever in regard to her, except that
she was going west; for the red light on her port side was visible.

On the following day, Grossbeck and McKeon, the receivers who had been
appointed, were waited upon, separately, by the two "Shackles." They
accepted the important trust which was confided to them, and each was
duly and solemnly admonished of the necessity of entire fairness. They
were informed that any discrepancy in the number of ballots in the hands
of the two receivers would cause the vote to be rejected; and they
individually promised to be both faithful and careful.

The beans and the peas were readily obtained, and were distributed among
the members of the League, with the necessary secrecy. Some of the
independent voters needed a little persuasion to induce them to vote,
when informed that the choice was between the "Shackles" only; but they
yielded the point, and entered heartily into the excitement of the
event; for, secret as were the proceedings, they were attended with no
little exhilaration of feeling.

The voting commenced in the afternoon watch. The second part of the
starboard watch, being off duty, gave in their peas and beans first. The
receivers, without even knowing all the members of the League, took
whatever was handed to them "on the sly," and looked as careless and
indifferent as though nothing was going on. The only responsibility that
rested upon them, besides the general duty of carefulness and fidelity,
was to see that no one voted twice. "Vote early and vote often" was not
countenanced; and one receiver acted as a check upon the other.

The election progressed so secretly that no occasion for suspicion was
given; and though the ballots were deposited under the eyes of the
principal and the professors they saw nothing, and had not the remotest
idea that anything wrong was in progress.

In the last half of the first dog watch, Shuffles began to be excited.
He was too much of a politician to be idle while any voting was going
on? and so far as his duty would permit, he had watched the receivers
since the balloting commenced. He had seen seven or eight vote of whose
membership in the Chain he had no previous knowledge. He saw that Pelham
had made more initiates than he had been willing to acknowledge,
apparently concealing the facts for the purpose of favoring his own
election. He observed that all the officers of his rival's quarter watch
voted, and he was almost certain that he had been defeated.

Shuffles was angry and indignant when he discovered the treacherous
shrewdness of his fellow-conspirator; but he had solemnly promised to
abide the result of the election, and he could not recede from his
position without a violation of the "honor among thieves" which is said
to exist. The poll would not be closed for half an hour; and as he had
been cheated he deemed it quite right to restore the equilibrium by a
resort to the same policy.

"Wilton, I have been cheated," said he, angrily, as he met his old crony
in the waist.

"How do you know you have?"

"I know it. I will explain by and by. Something must be done. I am
beaten as sure as you live."

"Well, I can't help it if you are. You and Pelham have fixed things to
suit yourselves, and now you must fight it out between you," replied
Wilton, as he turned on his heel, and left the mighty mischief-maker
alone and disconcerted.

"Where do all these beans come from?" said Paul Kendall, as he noticed
the rejected ballots of the Pelhamites, which they had not even taken
the trouble to throw over the rail.

"It's a new game the fellows are playing," replied Shuffles, with
apparent indifference, as he walked aft with the second lieutenant.

"What's that?" asked Paul, curiously.

"It's called 'Don't know Beans,'" answered Shuffles in deep thought.
"The fellows have a good deal of sport out of it in the off-time."

"'Don't know Beans!' I never heard of such a game before. Tell me about
it."

"You see Grossbeck and McKeon?"

"Yes."

"Well, they are the butts, as we call them. All the fellows in our
watch have some beans," added Shuffles, taking a handful of them from
his pocket.

"What do they do with them?"

"You try it yourself. Take two of these beans."

Paul took them.

"Now you must give one to Grossbeck, and the other to McKeon, without
letting any fellow see you do it. If any fellow does see you give it to
either of them, he will say, in a low tone, 'Don't know Beans,' and then
the butt must drop it on deck. When the even bell strikes, Grossbeck and
McKeon must count their beans. The one who has the most must appoint the
next two bean-pots, or butts; and the one who has the smaller number
must pick up all the beans that have been dropped on the deck. There is
fun in it; though, perhaps, you wouldn't think so."

"I will try it, at any rate."

Paul did try it, and succeeded, as all others did, in giving the beans
to the receivers without any one uttering the warning words. He was
rather pleased with the game, so suddenly invented, and the two officers
of his watch were induced to try the experiment. Then Blackburn,
Endicott, and Bennington were supplied with beans by Shuffles, who
instructed his auditors that not a word must be said about the matter to
the "butts," or to any one in the waist. The last three were as
successful as the first three. Then Thompson and Cartwright were equally
fortunate. Finally, Captain Gordon's attention was attracted, and he
descended so far from his dignity as to deposit the beans.

Shuffles was satisfied. He had procured nine votes, and he was confident
that he had thus defeated his rival. As a matter of precaution, he
directed McKeon to pick up the beans scattered in the waist; and the
"outsiders" who had cast the nine votes believed that he was the unlucky
butt, who had been beaten in the game.

"The captain and half the officers voted," whispered Grossbeck at four
bells.

"Certainly; that's all right. You and McKeon will meet Pelham and me in
the waist at eight bells," replied Shuffles, as he went below.




CHAPTER XVIII.

THE RESULT OF THE BALLOT.


The first part of the port watch went on duty at eight o'clock, when the
secret poll for the choice of a captain, under the new order of events,
was closed. Shuffles was in this watch, but as neither his "trick at the
wheel" nor his turn on the lookout came within the first hour, he had an
opportunity to attend to the important business of the League. Pelham
and the two receivers of votes belonged in the second part of the port
watch, and there was nothing to prevent them from attending the
conference which Shuffles had appointed.

While Shuffles had been teaching the "outsiders" the game of "Don't know
Beans," Pelham, as officer of the deck, remained abaft the mizzenmast,
and had failed to notice what was taking place in the waist. The
officers who were off duty, and who had unconsciously voted for
Shuffles, said nothing to those in charge of the ship. In accordance
with the requirements of man-of-war discipline, the weather side of the
deck was given up to the captain and the officers on duty, while all the
idlers were required to keep on the lee side. Captain Gordon was a
privileged person. On the weather side, even the denizens of the after
cabin did not presume to address him on any question not connected with
the discipline of the ship. When he went over to the lee side, it was
understood that he was simply a student, and even an ordinary seaman
might speak to him when he walked forward.

Shuffles had explained the game to the outsiders on the lee side, out of
the hearing of the officer of the deck; and Pelham, entirely satisfied
that he was already elected, did not trouble himself about the matter.

If "Don't know Beans" was not much of a game, it was better than
nothing, and Shuffles soon found that there was danger of his little
scheme being exposed. During the second dog watch, at supper time, and
as other opportunities were presented, he told Wilton, Monroe, Adler,
and others, that the second lieutenant, seeing so many beans on the
deck, wished to know where they came from, and that, to deceive him and
the rest of the officers, he had invented the game which he described,
and wished them to play while off duty on deck. "Our fellows" thought
this was a good joke, and the new pastime was soon understood throughout
the ship, and "butts" were appointed in each quarter watch to play it
the next day.

"The fellows have all voted, I suppose," said Pelham when the party had
obtained a good position for the conference.

"The time is out, whether they have or not," replied Grossbeck.

"All we have to do now is to count the votes," added Shuffles,
impatiently, for he was afraid his little trick would be exposed before
the result of the ballot was obtained.

"Well, let us have it counted at once," said Pelham, who, having no
doubt of the result, had no thought of offering any objection to the
fairness of the election.

"We can't count the votes here," suggested McKeon. "Some one would see
us, and want to know what we were doing."
