went down just after dusk to Peace Maythorne's room, and called Miss
Jane out into the entry.
"This is for Peace, and I made it. I don't want her to see a thing about
it till she wakes up in the morning. Could you please to fasten it up on
the wall just opposite the bed where the sun shines in? sometime after
she's gone to sleep, you know."
Miss Jane, somewhat bewildered, took the thing that Gypsy held out to
her, and held it up in the light that fell from a neighbor's half-open
door.
It was a large illuminated text, painted on Bristol board of a soft gray
shade, and very well done for a non-professional artist. The letters
were of that exquisite shade known by the artists as smalt blue, edged
heavily with gold, and round them a border of yellow, delicate sprays of
wheat. Miss Jane spelled out in German text:
"And the Inhabitants shall not say I am Sick."
"Well, thank you. I'll put it up. Peace never gets asleep till terrible
late, and I'm rather worn out with work to lie awake waitin' till she
is. But then, if you want to surprise her—I s'pose she will be
dreadful tickled—I guess I'll manage it someways."
Perhaps Miss Jane was softened into being obliging by her coming
holiday; or perhaps the mournful, longing words touched something in her
that nothing touched very often.
Gypsy and Joy were not so old but that Christmas Eve with its little
plans for the morrow held yet a certain shade of that delightful
suspense and mystery which perhaps never hangs about the greater and
graver joys of life. I fancy we drink it to the full, in the hanging up
of stockings, the peering out into the dark to see Santa Claus come down
the chimney (perfectly conscious that that gentleman is the most
transparent of hoaxes, but with a sort of faith in him all the while; we
may see him if we can lie awake long enough—who knows?) the falling
asleep before we know it, and much against our will, the waking in the
cold, gray, mysterious dawn, and pattering about barefoot to "catch" the
dreaming and defenseless family.
"I'm going to lie awake all night," Gypsy announced, as she stood
brushing out her bright, black hair; "then I'll catch you, you see if I
don't."
"But I'm going to lie awake, too," said Joy. "I was going to last
Christmas, only—I didn't."
"Sit up and see the sun dance, like Patty."
"Well, let's. I never was awake all night in my whole life."
"Nor I," said Gypsy. "I came pretty near it once, but I somehow went to
sleep along at the end."
"When was that?"
"Why, one time I had a dream, and went clear over to the Kleiner Berg
Basin, in my sleep, and got into the boat."
"You did!"
"I guess I did. The boat was unlocked and the oars were up at the barn,
and so I floated off, and there I had to stay till Tom came in the
morning."
"Why, I should have been scared out of my seventeen senses," said Joy,
creeping into bed. "Didn't you scream?"
"No. That wouldn't have done any good. See here, Joy, if you find me
going to sleep, pinch me, will you?"
"Oh, yes," said Joy, with alacrity. "I shall be awake, I know."
There was a silence. Gypsy broke it by turning her head over on the
pillow with a whisk, and opening her eyes savagely, quite indignant to
find them shut.
"Joy."
No answer.
"Joy, you're going——"
Joy's head turned over with another whisk.
"No, I'm not. I'm just as wide awake as ever I was."
Another silence.
"Gypsy!"
Gypsy jumped.
"You're going to sleep."
"It isn't any such thing," said Gypsy, sitting up and rubbing her eyes.
"I wonder if it isn't most morning," said Joy, in a tone of cheerful
indifference.
"Most morning! Mother'd say we'd been in bed just ten minutes, I
suppose."
Joy stifled a groan, and by dint of great exertions turned it into a
laugh.
"All the longer to lie awake. It's nice, isn't it?"
"Ye-es. Let's talk. People that sit up all night talk, I guess."
"Well, I guess it would be a good plan. You begin."
"I don't know anything to say."
"Well, I'm sure I don't."
Silence again.
"Joy Breynton."
"We-ell?"
"I guess I'll keep awake just as well if I—shut up—my eyes. Don't
you—"
That was the end of Gypsy's sentence, and Joy never asked for the rest
of it. Just about an hour and a half after, Gypsy heard a noise, and was
somewhat surprised to see Joy standing up with her head in the washbowl.
"What are you doing?"
"Oh, just dipping my head into the water. They say it helps keep people
awake."
"Oh—well. See here; we haven't talked much lately, have we?"
"No. I thought I wouldn't disturb you."
Gypsy made a ghastly attempt to answer, but couldn't quite do it.
At the end of another indefinite period Joy opened her eyes under the
remarkable impression that Oliver Cromwell was carrying her to the
guillotine in a cocoa-nut shell; it was really a very remarkable
impression, considering that she had been broad awake ever since she
came to bed. As soon as her eyes were opened she opened her mouth
likewise—to gasp out a little scream. For something very tall and
white was sitting on the bedpost with folded arms.
"Why, Gypsy Breynton!"
"What?"
"What are you up there for?"
"Got up so's to keep awake. It's real fun."
"Why, how your teeth chatter. Isn't it cold up there?"
"Ra-ther. I don't know but I might as well come down."
"I wonder," muttered Gypsy, drowsily, just as Joy had begun in very
thrilling words to request Oliver Cromwell to have mercy on her, and was
about preparing to jump out of the cocoa-nut shell into Niagara Falls,
"I wonder what makes people think it's a joke to lie awake."
"I don't believe they do," said Joy, with a tinge in her voice of
something that, to say the least, was not hilarious.
"Yes they do," persisted Gypsy; "all the girls in novels lie awake all
night and cry when their lovers go to Europe, and they have a real nice
time. Only it's most always moonlight, and they talk out loud. I always
thought when I got large enough to have a lover, I'd try it."
Joy dropped into another dream, and, though not of interest to the
public, it was a very charming dream, and she felt decidedly cross,
when, at the end of another unknown period Gypsy woke her up with a
pinch.
"Merry Christmas! Merry Christmas!"
"What are you merry Christmassing for? That's no fair. It isn't morning
yet. Let me alone."
"Yes, it is morning too. I heard the clock strike six ever so long ago.
Get up and build the fire."
"I don't believe it's morning. You can build it yourself."
"No, it's your week. Besides, you made me do it twice for you your last
turn, and I shan't touch it. Besides, it is morning."
Joy rose with a groan, and began to fumble for the matches. All at once
Gypsy heard a very fervent exclamation.
"What's the matter?"
"The old thing's tipped over—every single, solitary match!"
Gypsy began to laugh.
"It's nothing to laugh at," chattered Joy; "I'm frozen almost to death,
and this horrid old fire won't do a thing but smoke."
Gypsy, curled up in the warm bed, smothered her laugh as best she could,
to see Joy crouched shivering before the stove-door, blowing away
frantically at the fire, her cheeks puffed out, her hands blue as
indigo.
"There!" said Joy, at last; "I shan't work any more over it. It may go
out if it wants to, and if it don't it needn't."
She came back to bed, and the fire muttered and sputtered a while, and
died out, and shot up again, and at last made up its mind to burn, and
burned like a small volcano.
"What a noise that fire makes! I hope it won't wake up mother. Joy,
don't it strike you as rather funny it doesn't grow light faster?"
"I don't know."
"Get up and look at the entry clock; you're on the front side."
Poor Joy jumped out shivering into the cold again, opened the door
softly, and ran out. She came back in somewhat of a hurry, and shut the
door with a bang.
"Gypsy Breynton!"
"What?"
"If I ever forgive you!"
"What is the matter?"
"It's just twenty-five minutes past eleven!"
Gypsy broke into a ringing laugh. Joy could never bear to be laughed at.
"I don't see anything so terrible funny, and I guess you wouldn't if
you'd made that old—"
"Fire; I know it. Just to think!—and you shivering and blowing away at
it. I never heard anything so funny!"
"I think it was real mean in you to wake me up, any way."
"Why, I thought I heard it strike six as much as could be. Oh, dear, oh,
dear!"
Joy couldn't see the joke. But the story of that memorable night was not
yet finished.
The faint, gray morning really came at last, and the girls awoke in good
earnest, ready and glad to get up.
"I feel as if I'd been pulled through a knothole," said Joy.
"I slept with one eye open all the time I did sleep," said Gypsy,
drearily. "I know one thing. I'll never try to lie awake as long as I
live."
"Not when you have a lover go to Europe?"
"Not if I have a dozen lovers go to Europe. How is that fire going to be
built, I'd like to know?—every stick of wood burned out last night."
There was no way but to go down into the wood-shed and get some. It was
yet early, and quite dark.
"Go the back stairs," said Gypsy, "so's not to wake people up."
Joy opened the door, and jumped, with a scream that echoed through the
silent entry.
"Hush-sh! What is the matter?"
"A—a—it's a ghost!"
"A ghost! Nonsense!"
Gypsy pushed by trembling Joy and ran out. She, too, came back with a
jump, and, though she did not scream, she did not say nonsense.
"What can it be?"
It certainly did look amazingly like a ghost. Something tall and white
and ghastly, with awful arm extended. The entry was very dark.
Joy sprang into bed and covered up her face in the clothes. Gypsy stood
still and winked fast for about a minute. Then Joy heard a fall and a
bubbling laugh.
"That old Tom! It's nothing but a broom-handle and a sheet. Oh, Joy,
just come and see!"
After that, Joy declared she wouldn't go to the wood-shed alone, if she
dressed without a fire the rest of her life. So Gypsy started with her,
and they crept downstairs on tiptoe, holding their very breath in their
efforts to be still, the stairs creeking at every step. Did you ever
particularly want stairs to keep still, that they didn't creak like
thunder-claps?
The girls managed to get into the wood-shed, fill their basket, and
steal back into the kitchen without mishap. Then came the somewhat
dubious undertaking of crawling upstairs in darkness that might be felt,
with a heavy and decidedly uncertain load of wood.
"I'll go first and carry the basket," said Gypsy. "One can do it easier
than two."
So she began to feel her way slowly up.
"It's black as Egypt! Joy, why don't you come?"
"I'm caught on something—oh!" Down fell something with an awful crash
that echoed and reëchoed, and resounded through the sleeping house. It
was succeeded by an utter silence.
"What is it?" breathed Gypsy, faintly.
"The clothes-horse, and every one of Patty's clean clothes!"
Scarcely were the words off from Joy's lips, when Gypsy, sitting down on
the stairs to laugh, tipped over her basket, and every solitary stick of
that wood clattered down the uncarpeted stairs, thumped through the
banisters, bounced on the floor, rolled into the corners, thundered
against the cellar door. I don't believe you ever heard such a noise in
all your life.
Mr. and Mrs. Breynton ran from one direction, Tom from another, Winnie
from a third, and Patty, screaming, in fearful dishabille, from the
attic, and the congress that assembled in that entry where sat Gypsy
speechless on one stair, and Joy on another, the power fails me to
describe.
But this was the end of that Christmas night.
It should be recorded that the five-dollar bill and the portfolio with
purple roses on it were both forthcoming that day, and that Gypsy
entirely forgot any difference between her own little gifts and Joy's.
This was partly because she had somehow learned to be glad in the
difference, if it pleased Joy; partly because of a certain look in her
mother's eyes when she saw the picture-frame. Such a look made Gypsy
happy for days together.
That Christmas was as merry as Christmas can be, but the best part of it
all was the sight of Peace Maythorne's face as she lay twining the
gorgeous worsteds over her thin fingers, the happy sunlight touching
their colors of crimson, and royal purple, and orange, and woodland
brown, just as kindly as it was touching the new Christmas jewels over
which many another young girl in many another home sat laughing that
morning.
But Gypsy long remembered—she remembers now with dim eyes and
quivering smile—how Peace drew her face down softly on the pillow,
pointing to the blue and golden words upon the wall, and said in a
whisper that nobody else heard:
"That is best of all. Oh, Gypsy, when I woke up in the morning and found
it!"
CHAPTER IX
UP RATTLESNAKE
"I should think we might, I'm sure," said Joy pausing, with a crisp bit
of halibut on her fork, just midway between her plate and her lips.
"You needn't shake your head so, Mother Breynton," said Gypsy, her great
brown eyes pleading over her teacup with their very most irresistible
twinkle. "Now it isn't the slightest trouble to say yes, and you can
just as well say it now as any other time, you know."
"But it really seems to me a little dangerous, Gypsy,—up over those
mountain roads on livery-stable horses."
"But Tom says it isn't a bit dangerous, and Tom's been up it forty
times. Rattlesnake has the best roads of any of the mountains round
here, and there are fences by all the precipices, Tom said, didn't you,
Tom?"
"No," said Tom, coolly. "There isn't a fence. There are logs in some
places, and in some there aren't."
"Oh, what a bother you are! Well, any way it's all the same, and I'm not
a bit afraid of stable horses. I can manage any of them, from Mr. Burt's
iron-gray colt down," which was true enough. Gypsy was used to riding,
and perfectly fearless.
"But Joy hasn't ridden much, and I should never forgive myself if any
accident happened to her while her father is gone."
"Joy can ride Billy. There isn't a cow in Yorkbury safer."
Mrs. Breynton sipped her tea and thought about it.
"I want to go horsebacking, too," put in Winnie, glaring savagely at
Gypsy over his bread and milk. "I'm five years old."
"And jerked six whole buttons off your jacket this very day," said
Gypsy, eyeing certain gaps of which there were always more or less to be
seen in Winnie's attire in spite of his mother's care. "A boy who jerks
buttons like that couldn't go 'horsebacking.' You wouldn't have one left
by the time you came home,—look out, you'll have your milk over. You
tipped it over times enough this morning for one day."
"You will have your milk over; don't stand the mug up on the
napkin-ring,—no, nor on that crust of bread, either," repeated his
mother, and everybody looked up anxiously, and edged away a little from
Winnie's immediate vicinity. This young gentleman had a pleasing little
custom of deluging the united family at meal-time, at least once
regularly every day, with milk and bread-crumbs; maternal and paternal
injunctions, threats, and punishments notwithstanding, he contrived
every day some perfectly novel, ingenious, and totally unexpected method
of accomplishing the same; uniting, in his efforts, the strategy of a
Napoleon, with the unruffled composure of a Grant.
"I don't know but what I'll see what father thinks about it," Mrs.
Breynton went on, thoughtfully. "If he should be willing—"
"Good, good!" cried Gypsy, clapping her hands. "Father's in the library.
Winnie, you run up and ask him if we can't go up Rattlesnake."
"Well," said Winnie, "when I just get through eatin'. I'm goin' to make
him let me horseback as much as you or anybody else."
Winnie finished his toast with imperturbable deliberation, pushed back
his chair, and jumped up.
Splash! went a shower of milk all over him, his mother, the table, and
the carpet. Everybody jumped. Winnie gasped and stood dripping.
"Oh-oh! how did he do it? Why, Winnie Breynton!"
For there hung the mug from his waist, empty, upside down, tied to his
bib.
"In a hard knot, if you'll believe it! I never saw such a child in all
my life! Why, Winnie!"
