“You’re a coward,” said Peg, contemptuously. “Then I’ll go.”
She went down stairs, followed by the old man. She threw open the street
door, but even her courage was somewhat daunted by the sight of two
police officers, accompanied by Jack.
“That’s the man,” said Jack, pointing out Foley, who tried to conceal
himself behind Mrs. Hardwick’s more ample proportions.
“I have a warrant for your arrest,” said one of the officers, advancing
to Foley.
“Gentlemen, spare me,” he said, clasping his hands. “What have I done?”
“You are charged with uttering counterfeit coin.
“I am innocent.”
“If you are, that will come out on your trial.”
“Shall I have to be tried?” he asked, piteously.
“Of course. If you are innocent, no harm will come to you.”
Peg had been standing still, irresolute what to do. Determined upon a
bold step, she made a movement to pass the officers.
“Stop!” said Jack. “I call upon you to arrest that woman. She is the
Mrs. Hardwick against whom you have a warrant.”
“What is all this for?” demanded Peg, haughtily. “What right have you to
interfere with me?”
“That will be made known to you in due time. You are suspected of being
implicated with this man.”
“I suppose I must yield,” said Peg, sulkily. “But perhaps you, young
sir,” turning to Jack, “may not be the gainer by it.”
“Where is Ida?” asked Jack, anxiously.
“She is safe,” said Peg, sententiously.
“You won’t tell me where she is?”
“No. Why should I? I am indebted to you, I suppose, for this arrest. She
shall be kept out of your way as long as it is in my power to do so.”
Jack’s countenance fell.
“At least you will tell me whether she is well?”
“I shall answer no questions whatever,” said Mrs. Hardwick.
“Then I will find her,” he said, gaining courage. “She is somewhere in
the city, and sooner or later I shall find her.”
Peg was not one to betray her feelings, but this arrest was a great
disappointment to her. Apart from the consequences which might result
from it, it would prevent her meeting with John Somerville, and
obtaining from him the thousand dollars of which she had regarded
herself certain. Yet even from her prison-cell she might hold over him
in terrorem the threat of making known to Ida’s mother the secret
of her child’s existence. All was not lost. She walked quietly to the
carriage in waiting, while her companions, in an ecstasy of terror,
seemed to have lost the power of locomotion, and had to be supported on
either side.
CHAPTER XXIV. “THE FLOWER-GIRL.”
“BY gracious, if that isn’t Ida!” exclaimed Jack, in profound surprise.
He had been sauntering along Chestnut Street, listlessly, troubled by
the thought that though he had given Mrs. Hardwick into custody, he was
apparently no nearer the discovery of his foster-sister than before.
What steps should he take to find her? He could not decide. In his
perplexity he came suddenly upon the print of the “Flower-Girl.”
“Yes,” said he, “that is Ida, plain enough. Perhaps they will know in
the store where she is to be found.”
He at once entered the store.
“Can you tell me anything about the girl that picture was taken for?” he
asked, abruptly of the nearest clerk.
The clerk smiled.
“It is a fancy picture,” he said. “I think it would take you a long time
to find the original.”
“It has taken a long time,” said Jack. “But you are mistaken. It is the
picture of my sister.”
“Of your sister!” repeated the clerk, with surprise, half incredulous.
There was some reason for his incredulity. Jack was a stout,
good-looking boy, with a pleasant face; but Ida’s beauty was of a
delicate, refined type, which argued gentle birth,--her skin of a
brilliant whiteness, dashed by a tinge of rose,--exhibiting a physical
perfection, which it requires several generations of refined habits and
exemptions from the coarser burdens of life to produce. The perfection
of human development is not wholly a matter of chance, but is dependent,
in no small degree, upon outward conditions. We frequently see families
who have sprung from poverty to wealth exhibiting, in the younger
branches, marked improvement in this respect.
“Yes;” said Jack, “my sister.”
“If it is your sister,” said the clerk, “you ought to know where she
is.”
Jack was about to reply, when the attention of both was called by a
surprised exclamation from a lady who had paused beside them. Her eyes,
also, were fixed upon “The Flower-Girl.”
“Who is this?” she asked, hurriedly. “Is it taken from life?”
“This young man says it is his sister,” said the clerk.
“Your sister!” said the lady, her eyes bent, inquiringly, upon Jack.
In her tone, too, there was a slight mingling of surprise, and, as it
seemed, disappointment.
“Yes, madam,” said Jack, respectfully.
“Pardon me,” she said, “there is so little family resemblance, I should
hardly have supposed it.”
“She is not my own sister,” said Jack, “but I love her just the same.”
“Do you live in (sic) Philadelphia? Could I see her?” asked the lady,
eagerly.
“I live in New York, madam,” said Jack; “but Ida was stolen from us
nearly a fortnight since, and I have come here in pursuit of her. I have
not been able to find her yet.”
“Did you say her name was Ida?” demanded the lady, in strange agitation.
“Yes, madam.”
“My young friend,” said the lady, rapidly, “I have been much interested
in the story of your sister. I should like to hear more, but not here.
Would you have any objection to coming home with me, and telling me the
rest? Then we will, together, concert measures for discovering her.”
“You are very kind, madam,” said Jack, somewhat bashfully; for the lady
was elegantly dressed, and it had never been his fortune to converse
with many ladies of her rank; “I shall be very much obliged to you for
your advice and assistance.”
“Then we will drive home at once.”
Jack followed her to the street, where he saw an elegant carriage, and a
coachman in livery.
With natural gallantry, Jack assisted the lady into the carriage, and,
at her bidding, got in himself.
“Home, Thomas!” she directed the driver; “and drive as fast as
possible.”
“Yes, madam.”
“How old was your sister when your parents adopted her?” asked Mrs.
Clifton. Jack afterwards ascertained that this was her name.
“About a year old, madam.”
“And how long since was it?” asked the lady, bending forward with
breathless interest.
“Eight years since. She is now nine.”
“It must be,” said the lady, in a low voice. “If it is indeed so, how
will my life be blessed!”
“Did you speak, madam?”
“Tell me under what circumstances your family adopted Ida.”
Jack related, briefly, the circumstances, which are already familiar to
the reader.
“And do you recollect the month in which this happened?”
“It was at the close of December, the night before New Years.”
“It is--it must be she!” ejaculated the lady, clasping her hands while
tears of happy joy welled from her eyes.
“I--I do not understand,” said Jack.
“My young friend, our meeting this morning seems providential. I have
every reason to believe that this child--your adopted sister--is my
daughter, stolen from me by an unknown enemy at the time of which
you speak. From that day to this I have never been able to obtain the
slightest clew that might lead to her discovery. I have long taught
myself to look upon her as dead.”
“It was Jack’s turn to be surprised. He looked at the lady beside him.
She was barely thirty. The beauty of her girlhood had ripened into the
maturer beauty of womanhood. There was the same dazzling complexion--the
same soft flush upon the cheeks. The eyes, too, were wonderfully like
Ida’s. Jack looked, and what he saw convinced him.
“You must be right,” he said. “Ida is very much like you.”
“You think so?” said Mrs. Clifton, eagerly.
“Yes, madam.”
“I had a picture--a daguerreotype--taken of Ida just before I lost her.
I have treasured it carefully. I must show it to you.”
The carriage stopped before a stately mansion in a wide and quiet
street. The driver dismounted, and opened the door. Jack assisted Mrs.
Clifton to alight.
Bashfully, he followed the lady up the steps, and, at her bidding,
seated himself in an elegant apartment, furnished with a splendor which
excited his wonder. He had little time to look about him, for Mrs.
Clifton, without pausing to take off her street-attire, hastened down
stairs with an open daguerreotype in her hand.
“Can you remember Ida when she was brought to your house?” she asked.
“Did she look like this?”
“It is her image,” said Jack, decidedly. “I should know it anywhere.”
“Then there can be no further doubt,” said Mrs. Clifton. “It is my child
whom you have cared for so long. Oh, why could I not have known it? How
many sleepless nights and lonely days would it have spared me! But God
be thanked for this late blessing! Pardon me, I have not yet asked your
name.”
“My name is Crump--Jack Crump.”
“Jack?” said the lady, smiling.
“Yes, madam; that is what they call me. It would not seem natural to be
called by another.”
“Very well,” said Mrs. Clifton, with a smile which went to Jack’s heart
at once, and made him think her, if anything, more beautiful than Ida;
“as Ida is your adopted sister, that makes us connected in some way,
doesn’t it? I won’t call you Mr. Crump, for that would seem too formal.
I will call you Jack.”
To be called Jack by such a beautiful lady, who every day of her
life was accustomed to live in a state which he thought could not be
exceeded, even by royal state, almost upset our hero. Had Mrs. Clifton
been Queen Victoria herself, he could not have felt a profounder respect
and veneration for her than he did already.
“Now Jack,” said Mrs. Clifton, “we must take measures immediately to
discover Ida. I want you to tell me about her disappearance from your
house, and what steps you have taken thus far towards finding her out.”
Jack began at the beginning, and described the appearance of Mrs.
Hardwick; how she had been permitted to carry Ida away under false
representations, and the manner in which he had tracked her to
Philadelphia. He spoke finally of her arrest, and her obstinate refusal
to impart any information as to Ida’s whereabouts.
Mrs. Clifton listened attentively and anxiously. There were more
difficulties in the way than she had supposed.
“Do you think of any plan, Jack?” she asked, at length.
“Yes, madam,” said our hero. “The man who painted the picture of Ida may
know where she is to be found.”
“You are right,” said the lady. “I should have thought of it before. I
will order the carriage again instantly, and we will at once go back to
the print-store.”
An hour later, Henry Bowen was surprised by the visit of an elegant lady
to his studio, accompanied by a young man of eighteen.
“I think you are the artist who designed ‘The Flower-Girl,’” said Mrs.
Clifton.
“I am, madam.”
“It was taken from life?”
“You are right.”
“I am anxious to find out the little girl whose face you copied. Can you
give me any directions that will enable me to find her out?”
“I will accompany you to the place, if you desire it, madam,” said the
young man. “It is a strange neighborhood to look for so much beauty.”
“I shall be deeply indebted to you if you will oblige me so far,” said
the lady. “My carriage is below, and my coachman will obey your orders.”
Once more they were on the move. A few minutes later, and the carriage
paused. The driver opened the door. He was evidently quite scandalized
at the idea of bringing his lady to such a place.
“This can’t be the place, madam,” he said.
“Yes,” said the artist. “Do not get out, madam. I will go in, and find
out all that is needful.”
Two minutes later he returned, looking disappointed.
“We are too late,” he said. “An hour since a gentleman called, and took
away the child.”
Mrs. Clifton sank back, in keen disappointment.
“My child, my child!” she murmured. “Shall I ever see thee again?”
Jack, too, felt more disappointed than he was willing to acknowledge.
He could not conjecture who this gentleman could be who had carried away
Ida. The affair seemed darker and more complicated than ever.
CHAPTER XXV. IDA IS FOUND.
IDA was sitting alone in the dreary apartment which she was now obliged
to call home. Peg had gone out, and not feeling quite certain of her
prey, had bolted the door on the outside. She had left some work for the
child,--some handkerchiefs to hem for Dick,--with strict orders to keep
steadily at work.
While seated at work, she was aroused from thoughts of home by a knock
at the door.
“Who’s there?” asked Ida.
“A friend,” was the reply.
“Mrs. Hardwick--Peg isn’t at home,” returned Ida. “I don’t know when she
will be back.”
“Then I will come in and wait till she comes back,” said the voice
outside.
“I can’t open the door,” said Ida. “It’s fastened on the outside.”
“Yes, I see. Then I will take the liberty to draw the bolt.”
Mr. John Somerville entered the room, and for the first time in eight
years his glance fell upon the child whom, for so long a time, he had
defrauded of a mother’s care and tenderness.
Ida returned to the window.
“How beautiful she is!” thought Somerville, with surprise. “She inherits
all her mother’s rare beauty.”
On the table beside Ida was a drawing.
“Whose is this?” he inquired.
“Mine,” answered Ida.
“So you have learned to draw?”
“A little,” answered the child, modestly.
“Who taught you? Not the woman you live with?”
“No;” said Ida.
“You have not always lived with her, I am sure.”
Ida admitted that she had not.
“You lived in New York with a family named Crump, did you not?”
“Do you know father and mother?” asked Ida, with sudden hope. “Did they
send you for me?”
“I will tell you that by and by, my child; but I want to ask you a few
questions first. Why does this woman Peg lock you in whenever she goes
away?”
“I suppose,” said Ida, “she is afraid I will run away.”
“Then she knows you don’t want to live with her?”
“Oh, yes, she knows that,” said the child, frankly. “I have asked her to
send me home, but she says she won’t for a year.”
“And how long have you been with her?”
“About a fortnight.”
“What does she make you do?”
“I can’t tell what she made me do first.”
“Why not?”
“Because she would be very angry.”
“Suppose I should tell you that I would deliver you from her. Would you
be willing to go with me?”
“And you would carry me back to my mother and father?”
“Certainly, I would restore you to your mother,” said he, evasively.
“Then I will go with you.”
Ida ran quickly to get her bonnet and shawl.
“We had better go at once,” said Somerville. “Peg might return, and give
us trouble.”
“O yes, let us go quickly,” said Ida, turning pale at the remembered
threats of Peg.
Neither knew yet that Peg could not return if she would; that, at this
very moment, she was in legal custody on a charge of a serious nature.
Still less did Ida know that, in going, she was losing the chance of
seeing Jack and her mother, of whose existence, even, she was not yet
aware; and that he, to whose care she consigned herself so gladly, had
been her worst enemy.
“I will carry you to my room, in the first place,” said her companion.
“You must remain in concealment for a day or two, as Peg will,
undoubtedly, be on the lookout for you, and we want to avoid all
trouble.”
Ida was delighted with her escape, and, with the hope of soon seeing
her friends in New York, She put implicit faith in her guide, and was
willing to submit to any conditions which he might impose.
On emerging into the street, her companion summoned a cab. He had
reasons for not wishing to encounter any one whom he knew.
At length they reached his lodgings.
They were furnished more richly than any room Ida had yet seen; and
formed, indeed, a luxurious contrast to the dark and scantily-furnished
apartment which she had occupied for the last fortnight.
“Well, are you glad to get away from Peg?” asked John Somerville, giving
Ida a seat at the fire.
“Oh, so glad!” said Ida.
“And you wouldn’t care about going back?”
The child shuddered.
“I suppose,” said she, “that Peg will be very angry. She would beat me,
if she should get me back again.”
“But she sha’n’t. I will take good care of that.”
