much importance to the letter.
"If the Tallapoosa, or Ben Lomond, is in the bay, we shall soon have
her," said Mr. Hackleford, "for we are going to make the attack on the
forts within a few days."
"The attack may fail, and thus afford an opportunity for the cruiser to
come out," suggested Somers.
"Fail?"
The third lieutenant of the Chatauqua stood abashed before the look of
his superior. He did not believe that any attack made by Admiral
Farragut could fail, but it was possible for the Confederate steamer to
run the blockade, as hundreds had done before her, especially as she
could steam sixteen knots.
"I don't think the attack will fail, sir; but even a victory might
afford the Ben Lomond a chance to run out."
"I don't think there is much chance; but Captain Cascabel has your
solution of the letter under consideration. Perhaps the admiral may have
something to say about it."
Somers was not satisfied with the reception given to his revelation. He
had already formed a plan for ascertaining where the Ben Lomond was, but
the cool manner in which his communication was received prevented him
from even mentioning it.
In the afternoon, the captain's gig came up to the accommodation ladder,
and the commander, attended by Somers, seated himself in the
stern-sheets. Captain Cascabel was received with due honors on the
quarter deck of the Hartford, where the gallant admiral was walking at
the time.
When his superior had been welcomed with dignified cordiality, Captain
Cascabel introduced Somers. The admiral bowed, smiled pleasantly, and
did not look patronizingly upon the young officer, as he might have been
pardoned for doing. As he stood there on the quarter deck of the
flag-ship, he was full of genuine dignity and true manliness--a noble
representative of the American naval commander. He was of medium
stature, well formed, and of elegant proportions. He seemed to be made
of nerves and muscles, and when he moved there was an elastic spring to
his frame, which impressed the observer with the idea of energy and
vigor. He did not appear to stand on the deck, but to be poised
independently in the air, resting on the planks beneath him more because
it was the fashion to do so, than because he had any need of such
support.
Somers removed his cap, made his best bow, and blushed like a summer
rose. He was deeply impressed by the glance of the admiral, and the
atmosphere around him seemed to be full of the man at whom he gazed in
reverent admiration.
"Mr. Somers, I am happy to see you," said the admiral, in a tone so
gentle and affable that it seemed to remove the "curse" of greatness far
from him. "I have heard of you before, and I doubt not we shall be able
to make you very useful to your country."
"Thank you, sir," replied Somers, not daring to say any more, and with
the feeling of his childhood, that "boys ought to be seen, not heard."
The admiral, with this judicious commendation, turned to Captain
Cascabel, and opened conversation with him, evidently determined not to
spoil the young man by taking too much notice of him. Somers was soon at
home with the officers of the Hartford, and behaved himself with
becoming modesty and discretion. He dined with the admiral, several
other officers of distinction being present. The conversation at the
table, singularly enough, it may appear to our readers, did not relate
to the war, or even to the navy. These topics appeared to be carefully
excluded, though the reserve on this occasion was probably accidental.
Somers found sufficient pleasure in looking at and listening to the
admiral, and the other distinguished officers, though he was not
ignored, being kindly encouraged, by an occasional question, to use his
voice. But he was not forward, and his very nature prevented him from
indulging in any of that impudent familiarity which is so offensive to
elderly men, especially if they occupy high positions.
After dinner, a matter of business came up, and it soon appeared that
Captain Cascabel had given the admiral all the particulars relating to
the Ben Lomond, including the letter in cipher, which Somers had
interpreted. The conversation took place in private, with only the three
persons present who were most intimately concerned. The letter was
exhibited, and its solution explained.
"Mr. Somers, what is your plan? I am informed that you have one," said
the admiral.
"I have one, sir, but I hardly hope it will merit your approbation,"
replied the third lieutenant of the Chatauqua.
"We will hear it, if you please. By the way, our picket boats report
that a steamer came down the bay this morning, and moored inside the
Middle Ground. It may be the one mentioned in your letter--the
Tallapoosa."
"Probably it is, sir. She can now only be waiting the arrival of
Lieutenant Pillgrim, who is to command her."
"We must capture that man. State your plan, Mr. Somers."
The young officer, with no little trepidation, related the particulars
of the method he had considered for the capture of the Ben Lomond.
"Very daring and impudent, Mr. Somers," said the admiral, as he glanced
with a meaning smile at Captain Cascabel.
"Mr. Somers's forte is daring and impudence. But his scheme, besides
being based on mere theory, is absolutely fool-hardy," added the
captain, throwing a whole bucket of cold water on the young officer's
prospects.
"I do not wholly agree with you, captain. By the report of the picket
boats, there is certainly a sea-going steamer in the bay. That, in a
measure, confirms Mr. Somers's theory. Now, if the vessel is there, the
young man may bring her out if he has the ability to do so."
"What force do you require, Mr. Somers?"
"The first cutter of the Chatauqua, and twenty-four men."
"You shall have them, Mr. Somers," said the admiral. "Instead of the
first cutter, I suggest a whale-boat, which will not be much more than
half as heavy."
"That would be better, sir," replied Somers, hardly able to conceal the
joy and exultation he felt at the prospect of being permitted to carry
out his plan.
"Captain, you will permit Mr. Somers to pick his men, and afford him
every facility for the execution of his purpose."
"I will, with pleasure, sir."
"When do you wish to begin, Mr. Somers?" asked the admiral.
"To-night, sir."
"Very well. The monitors haven't arrived, captain, and it may be a
fortnight before we make the attack on the forts. The steamer may run
out in a fog or storm before that time, and I think we do well to
prevent another Tuscaloosa from preying on the commerce of the country."
"Undoubtedly, sir, if we can."
"Mr. Somers's scheme may possibly succeed, though I do not think his
chances of cutting out the steamer are very encouraging."
"I am afraid not, admiral," answered Captain Cascabel, incredulously.
"Mr. Somers, your reputation would be seriously damaged by the failure
of your enterprise. Your officers would be more unwilling to trust you
than they are now if you should meet with a disaster."
"I could not complain. I do not intend to meet with any disaster. If I
do nothing better, I shall bring my men back with me."
The admiral laughed, and seemed to be pleased with this confidence,
while Captain Cascabel shook his head.
"Mr. Somers, the risk is very great. You and your men may be prisoners
in Fort Morgan within twenty-four hours. A failure would damage, if not
ruin you. Are you still ready to undertake the work?" asked the admiral.
"I am, sir."
"Remember that everything depends upon yourself. My best wishes for your
success go with you."
Somers needed no better inspiration, and his frame seemed to jerk and
spring like that of Brave Old Salt, when he realized that he was
actually to undertake his cherished purpose.
The gig pulled back to the Chatauqua, and Somers immediately commenced
his preparations. The cordial indorsement of the admiral was enough to
silence all opposition, and to "put a stopper on the jaw-tackle of all
croakers." He was earnestly seconded by the captain and his officers. In
a short time a light whale-boat was towed up, and made fast to the boom.
Somers's first duty was to select his crew. He was to engage in a
desperate enterprise, and everything must depend upon the skill and
bravery, as well as the silence and discretion, of his force. The first
person selected was the boatswain, Tom Longstone, who, being better
acquainted with the qualities of the seamen, was intrusted with the
selection of the boat's crew. Just as soon as it was discovered that
some daring enterprise was to be undertaken by the third lieutenant, he
was beset by eager applicants for a place in the boat. Acting ensigns,
masters' mates, midshipmen, indeed, all the officers below Somers in
rank, begged to be appointed.
The young commander of the expedition was prudent and cautious, and he
accepted the services of none. Tom Longstone was the only officer to
accompany him. The boatswain would obey his orders without asking any
questions, or bothering him with any advice.
"There, Mr. Somers, I have picked out the twenty-four best men in the
ship--men that will work, fight, and hold their tongues," said Boatswain
Longstone, when he had executed the important trust committed to him.
"Thank you, boatswain. What do you think of the weather?"
"It's going to be a nasty night."
"So much the better. Let every man take his pea-jacket; apply to the
armorer for revolvers and cutlasses for each of them."
"A howitzer, Mr. Somers?"
"No; we must go as light as possible," replied Somers, as he proceeded
to instruct the boatswain in regard to certain "slings" and other
rigging that would be wanted.
Boatswain Longstone did not ask a single question about the nature or
object of the enterprise; and with the exception of the admiral, and the
captain and first lieutenant of the Chatauqua, not a man in the fleet
besides Somers knew "what was up." It was necessary to conduct the
enterprise with the utmost caution and secrecy.
The boatswain's predictions in regard to the weather proved to be
entirely correct, for at eight bells, when the first watch was set, it
was dark, foggy, and rainy. Somers had calculated upon this weather,
when he had so promptly chosen the time for his venture. It was just the
night for a difficult and dangerous enterprise, and the fog and the
darkness were its best friends. While the boatswain was carrying out the
orders given him, Somers had been engaged at the desk in his state-room,
preparing for use certain papers, including his commander's commission
in the Confederate navy, and his letter of instructions, intended for
the Ben Nevis, or Louisiana. With his knife he scratched, and with his
pen he wrote, until the documents suited his present purpose; and they
were placed in his pocket.
At two bells--nine o'clock in the evening--while the rain poured down in
torrents, Somers embarked with his force, consisting of Tom Longstone
and twenty-four as athletic and resolute fellows as ever pulled an oar
or handled a cutlass. The whale-boat was crowded, though it was of the
largest size, being thirty feet in length. The oars were carefully
muffled, and the seamen were so disposed that the oarsmen could be
relieved without noise.
Wrapping his overcoat closely around him, Somers seated himself in the
stern-sheets of the whale-boat, with the boatswain at his side. Though
profoundly impressed by the magnitude and danger of the work in which he
was engaged, he could not help thinking of the changes which had
checkered his lot, since, two years before, he had sat in the first
cutter of the Harrisburg, as an ordinary seaman. Now he was a master,
and in command of the expedition. Tom Longstone had been with him then;
he was with him now. In low tones, they talked of that eventful night,
and of the changes which had occurred since that time.
Somers was grateful for his advancement, and thanked God that he had
been enabled to perform his duty so as to merit the favor of his
superiors. And in the depths of his heart he asked God to bless his
present exertions for the good of his country. He leaned on the Good
Father even in this exciting hour, and his religious faith was the
strength of his arm.
CHAPTER XX.
THE PICKET BOAT.
Through the deep darkness and the dense fog the boat made its way. There
was not an object to be seen, on ship or shore, to guide its course; and
in front of Somers there was a patent binnacle, whose lights were
reflected on the compass, but did not even soften the gloom without,
into which he continued to gaze with the most anxious solicitude. He had
carefully estimated the currents the whale-boat would encounter, and
calculated the force of the wind, so as to determine her lee-way with
the nicest practicable accuracy.
The young commander of the expedition hoped to strike a certain point of
the land to the eastward of the fort on Mobile Point, distant five and a
half miles from the ship. Half a mile east or west of the desired point
might involve him in serious if not fatal difficulties, and everything
depended upon the accuracy of his calculations. His early experience as
a boatman at Pinchbrook Harbor was of incalculable service to him, since
nothing can supply the place of actual observation in the making of
such nice estimates as were required for success in the present
instance.
The rain poured down in torrents, and the sea was rough and uneasy; but
Somers, never for an instant turned aside from the grand object before
him by the discomforts of his situation, watched his compass and closely
observed every motion of the whale-boat. He was fired with zeal, but he
was not excited, for he knew how much depended upon cool judgment and
careful execution of the details of his work.
"Breakers ahead!" said the bowman, in a low tone; and the words were
passed aft to the officer.
Breakers were to be expected; and of course Somers was not appalled by
the announcement. The boat dashed on till she reached the broken water;
but the surf on the shore, thrown up by the storm, was absolutely
fearful. A stunning roar broke upon the ears of the young officer as the
frail craft approached the foaming billows that shattered themselves on
the beach.
"That's a heavy surf, Mr. Somers," said Tom Longstone.
"So much the better," replied the officer, cheerfully.
"This whale-boat will not be much better than a cockle-shell in that
surf."
"She will go through it, if she is well handled."
"Ay, ay, sir; of course she will."
"The rebels will not expect a boat to land in such a surf and on such a
night. We shall not be expected," replied Somers, in a loud tone, for
whispers and soft speech could not be heard above the roar of the
billows.
The commander of the expedition stood up in the stern-sheets, and
attempted to penetrate the gloom and fog in the direction of the beach;
but neither sight nor sound of the shore could be obtained. To plunge
through that boiling surf upon a rebel battery or an artillery company,
would be a sad conclusion of the night's work; but even this must be
risked, for it was not possible to obtain a single item of information
in regard to the surroundings on shore.
"Oars!" shouted Somers, when he had completed his unsatisfactory survey
shoreward, and there was not the slightest danger of his order being
heard by an enemy beyond the thundering roll of the sea. "Hold water!"
The onward progress of the boat was stopped.
"Back the starboard, pull the port oars!" added the officer, who had now
taken the management of the boat out of the hands of the coxswain.
"Oars!" he continued, when the boat was turned so as to head directly
from the shore.
"Now, my lads, pull steady, and mind the orders promptly," said the
confident young officer. "There's a heavy surf; but if you pull strong,
and mind quick, we shall be through it in a moment."
"Ay, ay, sir!" responded the blue-jackets.
"Stern, all!" continued Somers, when he had carefully observed the sweep
of the last wave.
The oarsmen backed water, and the boat moved towards the shore, stern
foremost. In a moment she was lifted up by a great billow and swept
furiously towards the beach.
"Steady!" said Somers, gazing forward over the heads of the men,
watching the approach of the next foam-crested wave.
The men were entirely cool, and their iron muscles held the boat under
perfect control. A huge roller was coming in, fiercely, rapidly, at
double or triple the speed of the whale-boat, and the first great peril
of the surf was at hand.
The danger was, as our inexperienced readers may not understand, that
the stern of the boat, suddenly struck by the swift-flying wave, would
be lifted high in air, and the bow forced under; or that the boat would
broach to, and be rolled over in the sea. In either case the boat would
be swamped, and eventually be stove on the beach. Somers saw one of
these rushing billows coming down with frightful velocity upon the
whale-boat.
"Oars!" cried he; and the men ceased backing her.
"Give way!" he added, with an energy which was at once communicated to
the muscles of the men; and they pulled steadily, as a well-disciplined
crew always does, but with a firmness and strength which caused the boat
to dart forward towards the savage roller.
She met the billow; her bow rose upon it; she passed over without being
ingulfed by it.
"Oars! Hold water! Stern, all!" continued the young officer; and again
the whale-boat moved towards the shore.
The manoeuvre described was repeated several times, until the boat had
passed through the surf, and struck heavily on the sandy beach. The men
in the bow were then ordered to jump into the water; and as the forward
part was thus lightened, the successive rollers bore the boat farther
and farther upon the beach, until the whole crew were landed. The first
step of the expedition had been safely accomplished.
Somers ordered the men to haul up the boat high and dry upon the beach.
There was not a person to be seen, or a sound to be heard, which
indicated the presence of an enemy. The young officer had now to prove
the correctness of his calculations, for as yet he knew not upon what
portion of the point he had landed. A careful survey of the ground was
therefore immediately to be made. It was necessary to have assistance in
