and she realized of its torments ! I thinlc if any man 
had loved me, had held me in his arms, had said the 
words you did to her, given me the kisses, I could 
defy all that would come afterwards. To love without 
these that is where it stings, Stephen ! " 
He glanced at her in amazement. A dim truth 
pierced his brain. Far back in the past in another 
and distant life, he had indulged in a boyish fancy for 
Joe association mostly. Did God mean to curse him 
on every hand, drag all these old things and thoughts to 
light as a punishment ? Did he owe this girl a debt that 
could be paid only in one way ? 
" Joe," his voice broken with infinite sorrow, " if 
I have sinned against you, can nothing make amends?" 
"O, Stephen! I don't mean that now. Whatever I 
may have dreamed in that old, foolish time, my eyes are 
clear to-day. You have given me all the love that.was 
in your heart for me. God made her beautiful and 
wise, me plain and ignorant. I know there are corners 
in your heart that I could never have filled, true wife as 
I might have been to you. Somewhere you outgrew 
me. It isn't so much the name, or the right, it is the 
fitness, the consciousness of perfect possession." 
"Where have you learned all this, Joe?" for he was 
startled at the light in her deep sad eyes. 
"I cannot tell you. It has been coming by slow 
degrees. May be, as we go on to the other country, 
we see more clearly." 
 
Stephen clasped the bowed figure to his heart. There 
was a struggle with the tears in his voice, as he said, 
"Heaven knows, Joe, I have always given you a 
brother's love. And wherein I have sinned, God has 
punished me sorely. I had no right to dream of her." 
" No." Joe raised her head and faced him steadily. 
" I told her so that night. That was why she went 
away. She could not stay and be nothing to you. I 
think her nature was too high and fine ever to "upbraid 
you by a look. I was wild and jealous, tortured by 
fierce passions ; but I would have fought it out by my- 
self if I had not known your secret." 
She was brave enough now. The burden she had 
carried for him she laid down at last at his feet. 
" What do you know ? " His face was deathly white, 
his hands trembled, his strong frame shook as with an 
aguish chill, and the words shivered through his pale 
lips in gasps. " That horrible secret ! And you have 
kept silence all these years ! " 
She knelt before him. She clasped his knees with 
her weak hands, and moaned, 
" I would have borne more than that for your sake, 
Stephen. Open shame and disgrace could not have 
estranged me ! " 
" And I was a coward ! But O, Joe, you don't know 
how hard it was ! It seemed as if God put his poor, 
weak life into my hands ; and then he was my father, 
too ! The sins of the fathers are to be visited upon the 
 
children, and so they come to me, to her. Is there no 
end to God's judgments ? " 
If Joe had been pale before, a deadly terror crept 
over her face now, making it ghastly. Her eyes stared 
in a wild, wandering manner, for there came into her 
mind a thought that tortured her like a thousand 
demons. What if all this while Stephen had been 
more sinned against than sinning? She crouched in a 
shapeless mass there on the step ; she stretched out her 
hands imploringly, and cried, 
" Tell me who struck the fatal blow, Stephen not 
you?" 
"My God, Joe! Did you believe that? Did you 
tell her? " 
The eyelids sank together, the whole frame lapsed 
into lifelessness, but the look of passionate pleading 
still remained. 
Stephen Dane had the weaknesses of humanity. The 
hot, indignant flash of conscious innocence, so deeply 
wronged, so outraged, came first. And then her love 
the words she had said " Open shame and disgrace 
could not have estranged me " pleaded powerfully for 
poor Joe. He stooped and gathered her in his arms ; he 
carried her to her room and laid her tenderly on the 
bed, chafing the cold hands. 
She opened her eyes in a feeble,, bewildered manner, 
shrinking as they met his, and cowering in abject 
terror. 
 
He stooped and kissed her, forgiving her fully and 
freely. Had it been as she thought, her silence would 
have proved her rare, exceeding devotion. 
" Dear Joe," he whispered, " there is no stain of blood 
on my hand. I hated the man bitterly, but it never 
came to that. His meanness and injustice exasperated 
me, and some angry words passed between us. I 
grudged him his gold, but never his life." 
"It was uncle Archy. O, Stephen ! And "the hor- 
rible dream has ended. They are both in their graves." 
" Yes. And, since we have come to it, let me justify 
myself a little, Joe." And then he told her how he 
had been discharged that fatal afternoon, and gone to 
the woods ; how he had heard the sullen plash in the 
water, and upon reaching the spot had erased that one 
trace of crime ; his finding the money ; his fears and 
resolves ; his final determination that he at least would 
not drag the poor old man to justice. Holding her 
hand all the while, when, in her utter self-abasement, 
she would have drawn it away. 
" And that I should have believed it against you ! " 
she moaned. 
" It puzzles me how you could have suspected at 
first." 
"I will tell you. When I am gone, Stephen, I want 
you to forget me. J am not worthy of the least remem- 
brance. Yet I think no crime would ever have black- 
ened you in my eyes." 
 
"Must I be less generous than you, Joe?" 
Her eyes filled with tears. What a poor, ignorant 
heathen she had been in those old times ! For now her 
pale cheek was stained with conscious shame as she de- 
tailed how she had come in possession of his secret. It 
appeared so mean and unworthy of any womanhood ! 
He strove to comfort her. It was a proof of his own 
generosity that he could put by the fierce and bitter 
pang tearing his heart, as he remembered Hope had 
listened to this story, and become homeless through its 
influence. He crowded down his agony, and made his 
voice both strong and tender for her sake. For there 
was something exceedingly sad and touching in all this 
devotion ; he could see she had not acted wholly from 
selfish motives. Her strong sense of right, though less 
fine in its perceptions than that of many others, shrank 
from so abhorrent a union as she believed this would be. 
The supper-bell rang, and Stephen went down alone. 
He was glad to send Katy to Joe, and, leaning his brow 
upon his hand, left his cup of tea untasted. He was 
not conscious of any physical want. His brain was 
busy with the strange path wherein he had walked, so 
full of mistakes and misunderstandings. Was God 
really watching over him, and giving him those things 
that were best for him? A bleak, barren, desolate life ! 
The prosperity he had craved, the wealth and the ambi- 
tions he had so madly longed for, answered sharp, and 
turned into a curse ! What if he had gone on with that 
 
old, simple life in Tregony, married Joe, reared up 
children whose needs would be simply those of the 
body? Would he have been better, happier? 
O, no, no ! He was blind still, and could not see 
clearly into God's designs. These pure longings, these 
high ambitions, that were not, after all, perverted to 
mere selfish uses, meant something. God knew when 
he placed them there. And when any soul rose out of 
its slough, and took upon it a new form, came nearer 
to the All-wise, surely he saw and cared for it, pitied 
its griefs and pardoned its mistakes. Some day he 
should know. He held fast by his faith. Bruised and 
wounded, agonizing in keenest pain, he would still be- 
lieve in the God who had brought him thus far through 
the wilderness. 
He could see wherein he had failed with Hope. He 
should have told her the truth. It was not his hand 
that had placed a bar between. But he had been 
afraid. His coward soul had shrunk from the thought 
of losing her, the one thing his heart craved. And 
God, through other agencies, had taken her away. 
Her soul was too pure and high to mate with anything 
so stained and worn as his. 
He went out and walked up and down the garden- 
path. One duty was before him, one chance of resti- 
tution still remained. He could make Joe's short life 
blessed beyond compare to her. I will confess to you 
that he shrank a little from the sacrifice at first. Hope 
 
Vennard was the only woman he had cared to call his, 
and failing in that, he desired to keep his whole life 
sacred to her. Yet Joe's confession effectually precluded 
any lingering dreams. If she could have forgiven, she 
would not have penned those cold words the last re- 
membrance of her presence that was to greet his eyes. 
Some lurking tenderness would have betrayed itself. 
Therefore, if he should ever find her, all that past 
must be a sealed book. He would never speak of it 
again. 
I cannot describe to you the struggle in the man's 
mind. But the nobler part of his nature conquered 
and there was much that was grand in Stephen Dane. 
His resolve once taken, he would not flinch. 
Katy had cried over Joe's white face, and her inability 
to eat. She had undressed her, and arranged her pil- 
lows with tender care ; and though, when she returned 
to her kitchen, Joe's wistful eyes followed her, the poor 
girl would not beg for Stephen. Unwittingly she had 
worked him misery enough. 
He came at length. The young moon was climbing 
over fleecy drifts that melted into blue. Up in the hol- 
low of the luminous sky great stars pulsed and throbbed, 
beating out the giant heart of Nature. Soft airs stole 
in through the open window, dewy sweetnesses from 
river and mead, finding their way through the city. 
Joe held out her trembling hand. "Forgive it all, 
Stephen," she said, softly. " I shall not be here long. 
 
After that, I want you to find her, and tell her how I 
sinned against you both." 
"Joe," his voice was solemn and tender, "we 
have all made mistakes. I, too, have sinned. I have 
been blind and proud. But if my love will comfort 
you, it is all yours now." 
"No." There was a little thrill of delight in her 
voice, too. " I don't want it all, Stephen. The old, 
jealous torture has died away, and I am coming to 
peace, rest. I am not ungrateful, nor ruled by any 
mean, sullen spirit. Heaven knows I ought to have 
done with all such now. And I take my share of your 
love gladly." 
" Which must be all, Joe. Let me make amends for 
the past, wherein I have made you suffer. Until God 
separates us " 
She guessed what he would have said, for her wo- 
man's intuition had been quickened. She placed her 
hand gently over his lips. 
" No, Stephen. Hope's place must be kept sacred, 
if she never comes to fill it. But she will. And hav- 
ing your love, I am content." 
" You don't quite understand it," he said, gently. 
" When I told my love, I did not dare repeat the story. 
I had a misgiving of the shock it would cause her. 
God did not mean that she should be mine." 
" We don't know what God means until it comes. 
We have only to wait. I told you before that I could 
 
not fill your heart, and a name was nothing. But you 
are princely generous, Stephen." 
"Will you take the gift?" 
"No," softly and tearfully. "Only love me to the 
end." 
They clasped hands in the silence, coming nearer to 
each other then than ever before in their whole lives. 
And both hearts yearned for the absent one. 
Far into the night Stephen Dane sat and watched his 
cousin. When the wind died down he fanned her 
gently, and with tenderest hands put aside the heavy 
hair clustering about her temples. Poor Joe, how hard 
life had been with her ! 
The next day Stephen consulted an eminent physi- 
cian. It was, as he had feared, too late for recovery. 
But Joe no longer cared for life. 
The shock and her remorse made fearful inroads upon 
her enfeebled frame. She amended a little, so that she 
came down stairs, and walked about the garden. Every 
day Stephen took her to drive. Such lovely haunts as 
he found, full of the later summer's greenery and fra- 
grance ! Rambles through quiet lanes, or by the wind- 
ing river ; tender talks, for there was nothing withheld 
now. It seemed to Joe as if she was entering heaven 
almost before her time. 
As the days wore on, an odd wish came to her. She 
wanted to see the clergyman who had read the funeral 
service that had so deeply impressed her. Stephen 
 
found him easily a Mr. Leighton, a stranger in the 
place, who had been at his post barely two months. 
A very curious mood took possession of Joe on this 
afternoon. She begged Katy to braid her hair as 
Hope used, and wreathe stems of Madeira blossoms in 
it. Her snowy wrapper was as faultless as Katy's 
fond care could make it, and the loving heart insisted 
upon her being adorned with a knot of scarlet ribbon 
at her throat "Jest as dear Miss Hope used to 
fix it." 
Joe sighed. 
" I 'clare, Miss Joe, you look handsome as a pic- 
tur' ! " 
The coming death was giving her a strange beauty. 
The features were large and irregular, but the eyes 
held in them a wonderful light ; the skin was trans- 
parent, with a slight fever flush on the cheeks. She 
had subsided into a languor of movement that was 
grace, compared with her former abruptness, and her 
voice had grown low and soft. Sitting in an easy- 
chair by the open window, she watched the vines 
swaying idly in the light air, until Katy announced, 
"Mr. Leighton." 
The young man paused an instant, then walked 
directly over to her, holding out his hand frankly. 
"Do not rise," he said in the tone she recognized so 
well. " I am glad to find you able to enjoy this lovely 
day. Have I not seen you before ? " 
 
"I was at the chapel nearly a month ago, at a 
funeral," she answered. 
" Yes, I remember now. You were kneeling, and 
your paleness attracted me. I was a stranger, and 
hardly knew the congregation." 
" I don't know why I went that day ; I was very 
wretched. Something in your voice soothed me, and 
I wanted to hear you talk again." 
"Thank you." He glanced away from her for a 
moment to a picture in an oval frame, hanging in the 
