dry, and comfortable ; and we, who had never been 
imprisoned in them, found it hard to command, for 
our sensation, the terror and agony of the miserable 
ones who suffered there. We, happy and secure in 
these dungeons, could not think of the guilty and 
wretched pair bowing themselves to the headsman's 
stroke in the gloomy chamber under the Hall of 
Aurora ; nor of the Marquis, in his night-long walk, 
breaking at last into frantic remorse and tears to know 
that his will had been accomplished. Nay, there 
upon its very scene, the whole tragedy faded from 
us ; and, seeing our wonder so cold, the custodian 
tried to kindle it by saying that in the time of the 
event these cells were much dreadfuller than now, 
which was no doubt true. The floors of the dun- 
geons are both below the level of the moat, and the 
narrow windows, or rather crevices to admit the 
light, were cut in the prodigiously thick wall just 
above the water, and were defended with four succes- 
sive iron gratings. The dungeons are some distance 
apart : that of Hugo was separated from the outer 
 
wall of the castle by a narrow passage-way, while 
Parisina's window opened directly upon the moat. 
When we ascended again to the court of the 
castle, the custodian, abetted by his wife, would have 
interested us in two memorable wells there, between 
which, he said, Hugo was beheaded ; and unabashed 
by the small success of this fable, he pointed out two 
windows in converging angles overhead, from one of 
which the Marquis, looking into the other, discov- 
ered the guilt of the lovers. The windows are now 
walled up, but are neatly represented to the credu- 
lous eye by a fresco of lattices. 
Valery mentions another claim upon the interest 
of the tourist which this castle may make, in the fact 
that it once sheltered John Calvin, who was pro- 
tected by the Marchioness Rene*e, wife of Hercules 
II. ; and my Servitore di Piazza (the one who knows 
how to read and write) gives the following account 
of the matter, in speaking of the domestic chapel 
which Renee had built in the castle : " This lady 
was learned in belles-lettres and in the schismatic 
doctrines which at that time were insinuating them- 
selves throughout France and Germany, and with 
which Calvin, Luther, and other proselytes, agitated 
the people, and threatened war to the Catholic re- 
ligion. Nationally fond of innovation, and averse to 
the court of Rome on account of the dissensions be- 
tween her father and Pope Julius II., Rene*e began 
to receive the teachings of Calvin, with whom she 
maintained correspondence. Indeed, Calvin him- 
self, under the name of Huppeville, visited her in 
 
Ferrara, in 1536, and ended by corrupting her mind 
and seducing her into his own errors, which pro- 
duced discord between her and her religious hus- 
band, and resulted in his placing her in temporary 
seclusion, in order to attempt her conversion. Hence, 
the chapel is faced with marble, paneled in relief, 
and studied to avoid giving place to saints or images, 
which were disapproved by the almost Anabaptist 
doctrines of Calvin, then fatally imbibed by the 
princess." 
We would willingly, as Prostestants, have visited 
this wicked chapel; but we were prevented from 
seeing it, as well as the famous frescoes of Dosso 
Dossi in the Hall of Aurora, by the fact that the 
prefect was giving a little dinner (pranzetto) in that 
part of the castle. W,e were not so greatly disap- 
pointed in reality as we made believe ; but our servi- 
tore di piazza (the unlettered one) was almost moved 
to lesa maestd with vexation. He had been full of 
scorching patriotism the whole morning ; but now 
electing the unhappy and apologetic custodian rep- 
resentative of Piedmontese tyranny, he bitterly as- 
sailed the government of the king. In the times of 
His Holiness the Legates had made it their pleasure 
and duty to show the whole castle to strangers. But 
now strangers must be sent away without seeing its 
chief beauties, because, forsooth, the prefect was giv- 
ing a little dinner. Presence of the Devil ! 
 
VII.
IN our visits to the different churches in Ferrara 
we noticed devotion in classes of people who are 
devout nowhere else in Italy. Not only came solid- 
looking business men to say their prayers, but gay 
young dandies, who knelt and repeated their orisons 
and then rose and went seriously out. In Venice 
they would have posted themselves against a pillar, 
sucked the heads of their sticks, and made eyes at 
the young ladies kneeling near them. This degree 
of religion was all the more remarkable in Ferrara, 
because that city had been so many years under 
the Pope, and His Holiness contrives commonly to 
prevent the appearance of religion in young men 
throughout his dominions. 
Valery speaks of the delightful society which he 
met in the gray old town ; and it is said that Ferrara 
has an unusual share of culture in her wealthy class, 
which is large. With such memories of learning 
and literary splendor as belong to her, it would be 
strange if she did not in some form keep alive the 
sacred flame. But, though there may be refinement 
and erudition in Ferrara, she has given no great 
name to modern Italian literature. Her men of 
letters seem to be of that race of grubs singularly 
abundant in Italy, men who dig out of archives and 
libraries some topic of special and momentary interest 
and print it, unstudied and uphilosophized. Their 
books are material, not literature, and it is marvelous 
 
how many of them are published. A writer on any 
given subject can heap together from them a mass 
of fact and anecdote invaluable in its way ; but it 
is a mass without life or light, and must be vivified 
by him who uses it before it can serve the world, 
which does not care for its dead local value. It re- 
mains to be seen whether the free speech and free 
press of Italy can reawaken the intellectual activity 
of the cities which once gave the land so many 
literary capitals. 
What numbers of people used to write verses in 
Ferrara ! By operation of the principle which causes 
things concerning whatever subject you happen to be 
interested in to turn up in every direction, I found 
a volume of these dead-and-gone immortals at a book- 
stall, one day, in Venice. It is a curiously yellow 
and uncomfortable volume of the year 1703, printed 
all in italics. I suppose there are two hundred odd 
rhymers selected from in that book, and how droll 
the most of them are, with their unmistakable traces 
of descent from Ariosto, Tasso, and Guarini ! What 
acres of enameled meadow there are in those pages ! 
Brooks enough to turn all the mills in the world 
go purling through them. I should say some thou- 
sands of nymphs are constantly engaged in weaving 
garlands there, and the swains keep such a piping 
on those familiar notes, Amore, dolore, crudele and 
miele. Poor little poets ! they knew no other tunes. 
Do not now weak voices twitter from a hundred 
books, in unconscious imitation of the hour's great 
 
VIII. 
I THINK some of the pleasantest people in Italy are 
the army gentlemen. There is the race's gentleness 
in their ways, in spite of their ferocious trade, and 
an American freedom of style. They brag in a 
manner that makes one feel at home immediately; 
and met in travel, they are ready to render any little 
kindness. 
The other year at Reggio ' (which is not far from 
Modena) we stopped to dine at a restaurant where 
the whole garrison had its coat off and was playing 
billiards, with the exception of one or two officers, 
who were dining. These rose and bowed as we 
entered their room, and when the waiter pretended 
that such and such dishes were out (in Italy the 
waiter, for some mysterious reason, always pretends 
that the best dishes are out), they bullied him for the 
honor of Italy, and made him bring them to us. 
Indeed, I am afraid his life was sadly harassed by 
those brave men. We were in deep despair at find- 
ing no French bread, and the waiter swore with the 
utmost pathos that there was none ; but as soon as 
his back was turned, a tightly laced little captain rose 
and began to forage for the bread. He opened every 
drawer and cupboard in the room, and finding none* 
invaded another room, captured several loaves from 
the plates laid there, and brought them back in 
triumph, presenting them to us amid the applause 
of his comrades. The dismay of the waiter, on his 
return, was ineffable. 
I 
 
Three officers, who dined with us at the table 
cFhdte of the Stella d'Oro in Ferrara (and excellent 
dinners were those we ate there), were visibly anxious 
to address us, and began not uncivilly, but still in 
order that we should hear, to speculate on our 
nationality among themselves. It appeared that we 
were Germans ; for one of these officers, who had 
formerly been in the Austrian service at Vienna, 
recognized the word bitter in our remarks on the 
beccafichi. As I did not care to put these fine fel- 
lows to the trouble of hating us for others' faults, I 
made bold to say that we were not Germans, and to 
add that bitter was also an English word. Ah ! yes, 
to be sure, one of them admitted ; when he was with 
the Sardinian army in the Crimea, he had frequently 
heard the word used by the English soldiers. He 
nodded confirmation of what he said to his comrades ; 
and then was good enough to display what English 
he knew. It was barely sufficient to impress his 
comrades ; but it led the way to a good deal of talk 
in Italian. 
" I suppose you gentlemen are all Piedmontese ? " 
I said. 
" Not at all," said our Crimean. " I am from 
Como ; this gentleman, il signor Conte, (il signor 
Conte bowed,) is of Piacenza ; and our friend across 
the table is Genoese. The army is doing a great deal 
to unify Italy. We are all Italians now, and you 
see we speak Italian, and not our dialects, to- 
gether." 
My cheap remark that it was a fine thing to see 
 
them all united under one flag, after so many ages 
of mutual hate and bloodshed, turned the talk upon 
the origin of the Italian flag ; and that led our 
Crimean to ask what was the origin of the English 
colors. 
" I scarcely know," I said. " We are Americans." 
Our friends at once grew more cordial. " Oh, 
American*!" They had great pleasure of it. Did 
we think Signor Leencolen would be reflected ? 
I supposed that he had been elected that day, 
I said. 
Ah ! this was the election day, then. Cmpeito ! 
At this the Genoese frowned superior intelligence, 
and the Crimean gazing admiringly upon him, said 
he had been nine months at Nuova York, and that 
he had a brother living there. The poor Crimean 
boastfully added that he himself had a cousin in 
America, and that the Americans generally spoke 
Spanish. The count from Piacenza wore an air of 
pathetic discomfiture, and tried to invent a trans- 
atlantic relative, as I think, but failed. 
I am persuaded that none of these warriors really 
had kinsmen in America, but that they all pretended 
to have them, out of politeness to us, and that they 
believed each other. It was very kind of them, and 
we were so grateful that we put no embarrassing 
questions. Indeed, the conversation presently took 
another course, and grew to include the whole table. 
There was an extremely pretty Italian present 
with her newly wedded husband, who turned out to 
be a retired officer. He fraternized at once with our 
 
soldiers, and when we left the table they all rose and 
made military obeisances. Having asked leave to 
light their cigars, they were smoking the sweet 
young bride blowing a fairy cloud from her rosy lips 
with the rest. " Indeed," I heard an Italian lady 
once remark, " why should men pretend to deny us 
the privilege of smoking ? It is so pleasant and 
innocent." It is but just to the Italians to say that 
they do not always deny it; and there is, without 
doubt, a certain grace and charm in a pretty fuma- 
trice. I suppose it is a habit not so pleasing in an 
ugly or middle-aged woman. 
IV. 
THROUGH BOLOGNA TO GENOA. 
I. 
WE had intended to stay only one day at Ferrara, 
but just at that time the storms predicted on the 
Adriatic and Mediterranean coasts, by Mathieu de la 
Drome, had been raging all over Italy, and the rail- 
way communications were broken in every direction. 
The magnificent work through and under the Apen- 
nines, between Bologna and Florence, had been 
washed away by the mountain torrents in a dozen 
places, and the roads over the plains of the Romagna 
had been sapped by the flood, and rendered useless, 
where not actually laid under water. 
On the day of our intended departure we left the 
hotel, with other travellers, gayly incredulous of the 
landlord's fear that no train would start for Bologna. 
At the station we found a crowd of people waiting 
and hoping, but there was a sickly cast of doubt in 
some faces, and the labeled employe's of the railway 
wore looks of ominous importance. Of course the 
crowd did not lose its temper. It sought information 
of the officials running to and fro with telegrams, in 
a spirit of national sweetness, and consoled itself 
 
with saying, as Italy has said under all circumstances 
of difficulty for centuries : Ci vuol pazienza ! At last 
a blank silence fell upon it, as the Capo-Stazione 
advanced toward a well-dressed man in the crowd, 
and spoke to him quietly. The well-dressed man 
lifted his forefinger and waved it back and forth before 
his face : 
The Well-dressed Man. Dunque, non si parte 
piu ? (No departures, then ?) 
The Capo-Stazione (waving his forefinger in like 
manner.) Non si parte piu. (Like a mournful 
echo.) 
We knew quite as well from this pantomime of 
negation as from the dialogue our sad fate, and sub- 
mitted to it. Some adventurous spirit demanded 
whether any trains would go on the morrow. The 
Capo-Stazione, with an air of one who would not 
presume to fathom the designs of Providence, re- 
sponded: "Who, knows? To-day, certainly not. 
To-morrow, perhaps. But " and vanished. 
It may give an idea of the Italian way of doing 
things to say that, as we understood, this break in 
the line was only a few miles in extent, that trains 
