
Truth compels me to say, also, that Mr. 

Benjamin Sizer has as yet neither drowned 
himself nor hung himself with a horrid rope. 
When last heard from, he was cheerfully, and 
to all appearance resignedly, engaged in the 

yacht-racing business, in which he was betting 
away his father 's fortune as fast as he con 
veniently could. Owing to the fact that his 
latest-launched boat rejoices in the name of 
The Fair Sarah Popkins (reported to be that 
of a daughter of the Snapberry Town Overseer), 
I am driven to infer that not even the 
ghost of the memory of Mrs. Colonel Maude 
Clare Jones disturbs his peaceful dreams. 

June days became July days, and it was 
warm weather at the Golden Crescent, very 
warm. Lessons flagged ; spirits drooped ; girls 
who feasted on cream-cakes and lemonade at 
eleven o'clock at night, cried with headache all 
the next day ; walks were few, and frolic less ; 
the world gave itself up to gasping at open 
windows, and sighing for rain. 

One morning Phoebe Hand did not come to 
recitation. She did not feel exactly well, Miss 
Ayre said. The next day she felt no better. 
Night came, and somebody went for the 
doctor. Morning came, and the girls clus 
tered in groups, talking about her. At noon, 
a slow, low whisper went round from one t 
another. 

" They say hush ! " 

" He is afraid so hush ! There are somi 
cases down town; don't speak of it." 

" Awful ! Why hush ! don't you know? w 


It was curious how everybody hushed her 
own lips in speaking the word, as if she could 
not become used to or bear the sound of it. It 
^ame in time to Gypsy. 

"What!" 

" Yes. Varioloid." 

Jacqueline Delancey took the first train for 
home. The other girls kept away from " The 
Parsonage," kept away from the lower floor; 
faces were pale, and the house was still. 

" Her friends send for her friends," said 
Jane. Mrs. McMunn, bewildered and fright 
ened, acted on the suggestion, and the tele 
graph carried the news. Poor Phoebe had 
neither father nor mother to be moved to 
tender anxiousness by it. The crippled orphan 
was the charge of an uncle, who, to tell the 
truth, kept her at the Golden Crescent because 
he did not know what else to do with her. He 
wrote that he was sorry to hear of his niece 's 
illness, and would come on, if there were any 
occasion; it was really impossible for him to 
break certain business engagements which 



bound him for this week; he felt sure that 
there was no danger of " anything happening " 
to Phoebe, who had a strong constitution ; but 
if there were any danger, he wished to be in 
formed at once, and was Mrs. McMunn 's very 
truly Eliphalet Hand. 

Miss Ayre moved upstairs with Mademoi 
selle. " She should be glad," she said, " to be 
of any assistance, and wished to do her duty, 
but felt that justice to the rest of the girls 
required that she should not expose herself 
rashly." Mrs. McMunn did the best that she 
could for Phoebe, but she was busy and fright 
ened. They searched the town for a nurse 
who could not come till next week. 

Upon this, Jane Bruce put on slippers and a 
soft dress, and went into the sick-room. Before 
she went, she kissed Gypsy and said good- 
by. 

" Oh dear, how can she go? " cried the girls, 
in frightened groups ; " she will have it, and 
we shall all have it and die." 

But Gypsy held up her head, with bright 



eyes, and only said : " I wish I were Jane 
Bruce; yes, I do. I call her a hero." 

The very next morning the doctor said that 
it was only typhus fever. But I believe no 
body thought that gentle Jane, who came out 
laughing and crying together to bring the news, 
was any the less a hero for that. 

Phoebe was very sick. Gypsy went in sev 
eral times to see her, but she was asleep or 
delirious. 

" She doesn't want to get well," said Jane 
one day, sadly ; " and if we can't make her 
want to, I 'm afraid she won t." 

" Doesn't want to get well ! " 

Happy Gypsy, to whom life was as sweet as 
love, and the future as bright as a dream, 
opened her great eyes wide. 

" No ; she isn't afraid to die, she thinks she 
should be happier in heaven, poor thing ! I 'm 
afraid Phcebe hasn't had a pleasant time in this 
world." 

Gypsy, making pretence to study through 
the long days (nobody made anything but pre- 



tence to study, just now), thought about this. 
Poor Phoebe ! Why didn't people make her 
have a pleasant time? Well, why? She 
why she, Gypsy Breynton, it had not been her 
business, had it? Whose, then? If anybody 's, 
why not hers? If Jane 's, why not hers? 
What was that about " Whatsoever thy hand 
findeth"? She could not remember the rest; 
but the words were in her mind, and they 
turned themselves about. 

Phoebe was worse. The girls in their groups 
grew grave; stepped about the house on tip 
toe; spoke in whispers. Miss Ayre, looking 
a little ashamed of herself, came down into 
the sick-room and went to work. The uncle 
was sent for. The doctor came twice, three 
times, four times a day. 

One afternoon Jane came out crying, and Gypsy 
tried some time to find out what was the matter. 

" Poor thing, poor thing ! " said Jane, at last. 
" She says she has been here a year and a half, 
and nobody has been sorry for her, nobody 
but me." 



Gypsy flushed to her forehead, and drew hd 
breath in fast. She did not answer Jane, but 
walked away and sat down alone. She felt as
if she were sitting alone in the world, and One 
with finger pointed at her asked a question: 
" Why was nobody sorry for her? Why ? " 

That night the sleepers at the Golden Cres 
cent were awakened by a sudden cry. Lights 
flickered past the windows, and quick steps 
sounded on the stairs, and presently silence fell 
again, and sleep. 

But in the morning the girls, with awestruck 
faces, heard that one lay dead in the house. 

Mr. Eliphalet Hand came by the early ex 
press, and with decorous, grave face wished 
that he had been sent for sooner. Jane was 
busy with flowers, and tried, she said, " to have 
things look as if the poor child 's mother were 
there to attend to them." 

Gypsy, still feeling as if that Finger pointed 
at her and her only, in all the world, went in 
by herself to look at Phoebe 's quiet face. 

The uncle, with craoe upon his hat, took 



away what was left of her, to his expensive lot 
in Laurel Hill, and went back to those business 
engagements which her death had so incon 
siderately broken in upon. 

The girls, as is the way with girls, now that 
Phoebe was dead, were convinced that they had 
always been very fond of her, and cried for her 
profusely. 

Jane mourned her as a valued friend, and 
Gypsy thought of her as an accusing angel. 

" If she had only got well, Jane ! I would 
have been sorry for her ! " 

" But isn't it a great deal better to be glad 
for her now, dear?" said Jane, looking off at 
the serene summer sky. 




IS AYRE has the typhus fever. 

People wonder a little, and 
wish that the weather would 



cool. The days grow hotter; the nights are 
sultrier ; Lou Armstrong complains of a 
headache. One morning Lou has the typhus 
fever. The doctor looks grave, but is not 
surprised ; it is an old trick of the typhus 
"Not contagious, ma 'am, not contagious; 
but an epidemic, without doubt. Let the 
young ladies keep as much as possible out of 
doors, and I would not advise their running in. 
and out of the sick-room unless they can be of 
some use." There is little need of any such 
advice, did the excellent doctor but know it 



" The young ladies " are, if possible, more 
frightened than at the varioloid rumour, and 
the closest friendships will be severely tried if 
there is much more of this. 

But Lou is not very sick, and Miss Ayre is 
better, and the fickle disease has about made 
up its mind to take a quiet departure, but 
pounces on one most unsuspecting little victim, 
by way of farewell. 

Gypsy, worn with the excitement of the 
term, and the heat, and the little shock that 
Phoebe 's death had given, wakes up one morn 
ing feeling very weak, and thinks that she will 
not go into Shakespeare. 

After dinner, Jane finds her with aching 
head, and cheeks on fire; and at night Mrs. 
McMunn thinks that the doctor had better just 
step in and look at her. 

The doctor steps in to look at her, and 
Gypsy is too sleepy to ask him what he thinks. 
She sees him pour out some medicine and go 
away, and by and by she tells Jane that she 
does not need anything; she wishes that she 



would go down and sleep with Miss Holly, and 
get a good night 's rest. But Jane does not go. 
Gypsy feels too weak to argue the matter, 
and the long night sets in. It is a very long 
night. The lamp is left lighted, and she sees 
the shadows flicker on the wall ; sees Jane ly 
ing quietly at her side, wondering a little if she 
wakes her every time she turns over, tries to 
lie still, but turns and turns again. She sees 
strange shapes gliding slowly over the ceiling, 
walking beside and around the bed, and cries 
out sometimes when they touch her. She calls 
she is afraid that she calls very often for 
water, and drinks fast, and drains the glass. 
She wonders what thr,.: it is, and if the night 
will ever be gone, and if she shall have an 
excuse from composition, and who kindled 
that fire in her head that crackles so. What 
did they want of a fire in such warm weather? 
And how did they ever put in the kindling- 
wood? By and by, she sees the lamp burn 
pale and blue, and thinks that it must be morn 
ing, and wonders if the rising-bell has rung, 


and wonders what they sent the doctor in 
before she was dressed. 

