The abrupt question rather disturbed my lady, but knowing her daughter’s
frank, impetuous nature, she felt somewhat relieved by this candor, and
answered decidedly, “I do. He is your equal in all respects; he loves
you, Jasper desires it, I approve, and you, being heart-whole, can have
no just objection to the alliance.”
“Has he spoken to you?”
“No, to your brother.”
“You wish this much, Mamma?”
“Very much, my child.”
“I will try to please you, then.” And stifling a sigh, the girl kissed
her mother with unwonted meekness in tone and manner.
“Now I am well pleased. Be happy, my love. No one will urge or distress
you. Let matters take their course, and if this hope of ours can be
fulfilled, I shall be relieved of the chief care of my life.”
A sound of girlish voices here broke on their ears, and springing up,
Octavia hurried to meet her friends, exclaiming joyfully, “They have
come! they have come!”
Two smiling, blooming girls met her at the door, and, being at an
enthusiastic age, they gushed in girlish fashion for several minutes,
making a pretty group as they stood in each other’s arms, all talking at
once, with frequent kisses and little bursts of laughter, as vents for
their emotion. Madame Mère welcomed them and then went to join Mrs.
Snowdon, leaving the trio to gossip unrestrained.
“My dearest creature, I thought we never should get here, for Papa had a
tiresome dinner party, and we were obliged to stay, you know,” cried
Rose, the lively sister, shaking out the pretty dress and glancing at
herself in the mirror as she fluttered about the room like a butterfly.
“We were dying to come, and so charmed when you asked us, for we haven’t
seen you this age, darling,” added Blanche, the pensive one, smoothing
her blond curls after a fresh embrace.
“I’m sorry the Ulsters couldn’t come to keep Christmas with us, for we
have no gentlemen but Jasper, Frank Annon, and the major. Sad, isn’t
it?” said Octavia, with a look of despair, which caused a fresh peal
of laughter.
“One apiece, my dear, it might be worse.” And Rose privately decided to
appropriate Sir Jasper.
“Where is your cousin?” asked Blanche, with a sigh of sentimental
interest.
“He is here, of course. I forget him, but he is not on the flirting
list, you know. We must amuse him, and not expect him to amuse us,
though really, all the capital suggestions and plans for merrymaking
always come from him.”
“He is better, I hope?” asked both sisters with real sympathy, making
their young faces womanly and sweet.
“Yes, and has hopes of entire recovery. At least, they tell him so,
though Dr. Ashley said there was no chance of it.”
“Dear, dear, how sad! Shall we see him, Tavia?”
“Certainly; he is able to be with us now in the evening, and enjoys
society as much as ever. But please take no notice of his infirmity, and
make no inquiries beyond the usual ‘How do you do.’ He is sensitive, and
hates to be considered an invalid more than ever.”
“How charming it must be to take care of him, he is so accomplished and
delightful. I quite envy you,” said Blanche pensively.
“Sir Jasper told us that the General and Mrs. Snowdon were coming. I
hope they will, for I’ve a most intense curiosity to see her--”
 began Rose.
“Hush, she is here with Mamma! Why curious? What is the mystery? For you
look as if there was one,” questioned Octavia under her breath.
The three charming heads bent toward one another as Rose replied in a
whisper, “If I knew, I shouldn’t be inquisitive. There was a rumor that
she married the old general in a fit of pique, and now repents. I asked
Mamma once, but she said such matters were not for young girls to hear,
and not a word more would she say. N’importe, I have wits of my
own, and I can satisfy myself. The gentlemen are coming! Am I all right,
dear?” And the three glanced at one another with a swift scrutiny that
nothing could escape, then grouped themselves prettily, and waited, with
a little flutter of expectation in each young heart.
In came the gentlemen, and instantly a new atmosphere seemed to pervade
the drawing room, for with the first words uttered, several romances
began. Sir Jasper was taken possession of by Rose, Blanche intended to
devote herself to Maurice Treherne, but Annon intercepted her, and
Octavia was spared any effort at politeness by this unexpected move on
the part of her lover.
“He is angry, and wishes to pique me by devoting himself to Blanche. I
wish he would, with all my heart, and leave me in peace. Poor Maurice,
he expects me, and I long to go to him, but must obey Mamma.” And
Octavia went to join the group formed by my lady, Mrs. Snowdon, the
general, and the major.
The two young couples flirted in different parts of the room, and
Treherne sat alone, watching them all with eyes that pierced below the
surface, reading the hidden wishes, hopes, and fears that ruled them. A
singular expression sat on his face as he turned from Octavia’s clear
countenance to Mrs. Snowdon’s gloomy one. He leaned his head upon his
hand and fell into deep thought, for he was passing through one of those
fateful moments which come to us all, and which may make or mar a life.
Such moments come when least looked for: an unexpected meeting, a
peculiar mood, some trivial circumstance, or careless word produces it,
and often it is gone before we realize its presence, leaving
aftereffects to show us what we have gained or lost. Treherne was
conscious that the present hour, and the acts that filled it, possessed
unusual interest, and would exert an unusual influence on his life.
Before him was the good and evil genius of his nature in the guise of
those two women. Edith Snowdon had already tried her power, and accident
only had saved him. Octavia, all unconscious as she was, never failed to
rouse and stimulate the noblest attributes of mind and heart. A year
spent in her society had done much for him, and he loved her with a
strange mingling of passion, reverence, and gratitude. He knew why Edith
Snowdon came, he felt that the old fascination had not lost its charm,
and though fear was unknown to him, he was ill pleased at the sight of
the beautiful, dangerous woman. On the other hand, he saw that Lady
Treherne desired her daughter to shun him and smile on Annon; he
acknowledged that he had no right to win the young creature, crippled
and poor as he was, and a pang of jealous pain wrung his heart as he
watched her.
Then a sense of power came to him, for helpless, poor, and seemingly an
object of pity, he yet felt that he held the honor, peace, and happiness
of nearly every person present in his hands. It was a strong temptation
to this man, so full of repressed passion and power, so set apart and
shut out from the more stirring duties and pleasures of life. A few
words from his lips, and the pity all felt for him would be turned to
fear, respect, and admiration. Why not utter them, and enjoy all that
was possible? He owed the Trehernes nothing; why suffer injustice,
dependence, and the compassion that wounds a proud man deepest? Wealth,
love, pleasure might be his with a breath. Why not secure them now?
His pale face flushed, his eye kindled, and his thin hand lay clenched
like a vise as these thoughts passed rapidly through his mind. A look, a
word at that moment would sway him; he felt it, and leaned forward,
waiting in secret suspense for the glance, the speech which should
decide him for good or ill. Who shall say what subtle instinct caused
Octavia to turn and smile at him with a wistful, friendly look that
warmed his heart? He met it with an answering glance, which thrilled her
strangely, for love, gratitude, and some mysterious intelligence met and
mingled in the brilliant yet soft expression which swiftly shone and
faded in her face. What it was she could not tell; she only felt that it
filled her with an indescribable emotion never experienced before. In an
instant it all passed, Lady Treherne spoke to her, and Blanche Talbot
addressed Maurice, wondering, as she did so, if the enchanting smile he
wore was meant for her.
“Mr. Annon having mercifully set me free, I came to try to cheer your
solitude; but you look as if solitude made you happier than society does
the rest of us,” she said without her usual affectation, for his manner
impressed her.
“You are very kind and very welcome. I do find pleasures to beguile my
loneliness, which gayer people would not enjoy, and it is well that I
can, else I should turn morose and tyrannical, and doom some unfortunate
to entertain me all day long.” He answered with a gentle courtesy which
was his chief attraction to womankind.
“Pray tell me some of your devices, I’m often alone in spirit, if not so
in the flesh, for Rose, though a dear girl, is not congenial, and I find
no kindred soul.”
A humorous glimmer came to Treherne’s eyes, as the sentimental damsel
beamed a soft sigh and drooped her long lashes effectively. Ignoring the
topic of “kindred souls,” he answered coldly, “My favorite amusement is
studying the people around me. It may be rude, but tied to my corner, I
cannot help watching the figures around me, and discovering their little
plots and plans. I’m getting very expert, and really surprise myself
sometimes by the depth of my researches.”
“I can believe it; your eyes look as if they possessed that gift.
Pray don’t study me.” And the girl shrank away with an air of
genuine alarm.
Treherne smiled involuntarily, for he had read the secret of that
shallow heart long ago, and was too generous to use the knowledge,
however flattering it might be to him. In a reassuring tone he said,
turning away the keen eyes she feared, “I give you my word I never will,
charming as it might be to study the white pages of a maidenly heart. I
find plenty of others to read, so rest tranquil, Miss Blanche.”
“Who interests you most just now?” asked the girl, coloring with
pleasure at his words. “Mrs. Snowdon looks like one who has a romance to
be read, if you have the skill.”
“I have read it. My lady is my study just now. I thought I knew her
well, but of late she puzzles me. Human minds are more full of
mysteries than any written book and more changeable than the cloud
shapes in the air.”
“A fine old lady, but I fear her so intensely I should never dare to try
to read her, as you say.” Blanche looked toward the object of discussion
as she spoke, and added, “Poor Tavia, how forlorn she seems. Let me ask
her to join us, may I?”
“With all my heart” was the quick reply.
Blanche glided away but did not return, for my lady kept her as well as
her daughter.
“That test satisfies me; well, I submit for a time, but I think I can
conquer my aunt yet.” And with a patient sigh Treherne turned to observe
Mrs. Snowdon.
She now stood by the fire talking with Sir Jasper, a handsome, reckless,
generous-hearted young gentleman, who very plainly showed his great
admiration for the lady. When he came, she suddenly woke up from her
listless mood and became as brilliantly gay as she had been unmistakably
melancholy before. As she chatted, she absently pushed to and fro a
small antique urn of bronze on the chimneypiece, and in doing so she
more than once gave Treherne a quick, significant glance, which he
answered at last by a somewhat haughty nod. Then, as if satisfied, she
ceased toying with the ornament and became absorbed in Sir Jasper’s
gallant badinage.
The instant her son approached Mrs. Snowdon, Madame Mère grew anxious,
and leaving Octavia to her friends and lover, she watched Jasper. But
her surveillance availed little, for she could neither see nor hear
anything amiss, yet could not rid herself of the feeling that some
mutual understanding existed between them. When the party broke up for
the night, she lingered till all were gone but her son and nephew.
“Well, Madame Ma Mère, what troubles you?” asked Sir Jasper, as she
looked anxiously into his face before bestowing her good-night kiss.
“I cannot tell, yet I feel ill at ease. Remember, my son, that you are
the pride of my heart, and any sin or shame of yours would kill me. Good
night, Maurice.” And with a stately bow she swept away.
Lounging with both elbows on the low chimneypiece, Sir Jasper smiled at
his mother’s fears, and said to his cousin, the instant they were alone,
“She is worried about E.S. Odd, isn’t it, what instinctive antipathies
women take to one another?”
“Why did you ask E.S. here?” demanded Treherne.
“My dear fellow, how could I help it? My mother wanted the general, my
father’s friend, and of course his wife must be asked also. I couldn’t
tell my mother that the lady had been a most arrant coquette, to put it
mildly, and had married the old man in a pet, because my cousin and I
declined to be ruined by her.”
“You could have told her what mischief she makes wherever she goes,
and for Octavia’s sake have deferred the general’s visit for a time. I
warn you, Jasper, harm will come of it.”
“To whom, you or me?”
“To both, perhaps, certainly to you. She was disappointed once when she
lost us both by wavering between your title and my supposed fortune. She
is miserable with the old man, and her only hope is in his death, for he
is very feeble. You are free, and doubly attractive now, so beware, or
she will entangle you before you know it.”
“Thanks, Mentor. I’ve no fear, and shall merely amuse myself for a
week--they stay no longer.” And with a careless laugh, Sir Jasper
strolled away.
“Much mischief may be done in a week, and this is the beginning of it,”
 muttered Treherne, as he raised himself to look under the bronze vase
for the note. It was gone!
Chapter III
WHO WAS IT?
Who had taken it? This question tormented Treherne all that sleepless
night. He suspected three persons, for only these had approached the
fire after the note was hidden. He had kept his eye on it, he thought,
till the stir of breaking up. In that moment it must have been removed
by the major, Frank Annon, or my lady; Sir Jasper was out of the
question, for he never touched an ornament in the drawing room since he
had awkwardly demolished a whole étagère of costly trifles, to
his mother’s and sister’s great grief. The major evidently suspected
something, Annon was jealous, and my lady would be glad of a pretext to
remove her daughter from his reach. Trusting to his skill in reading
faces, he waited impatiently for morning, resolving to say nothing to
anyone but Mrs. Snowdon, and from her merely to inquire what the note
contained.
Treherne usually was invisible till lunch, often till dinner; therefore,
fearing to excite suspicion by unwonted activity, he did not appear till
noon. The mailbag had just been opened, and everyone was busy over their
letters, but all looked up to exchange a word with the newcomer, and
Octavia impulsively turned to meet him, then checked herself and hid her
suddenly crimsoned face behind a newspaper. Treherne’s eye took in
everything, and saw at once in the unusually late arrival of the mail a
pretext for discovering the pilferer of the note.
“All have letters but me, yet I expected one last night. Major, have you
got it among yours?” And as he spoke, Treherne fixed his penetrating
eyes full on the person he addressed.
With no sign of consciousness, no trace of confusion, the major
carefully turned over his pile, and replied in the most natural manner,
“Not a trace of it; I wish there was, for nothing annoys me more than
any delay or mistake about my letters.”
He knows nothing of it, thought Treherne, and turned to Annon, who was
deep in a long epistle from some intimate friend, with a talent for
imparting news, to judge from the reader’s interest.
“Annon, I appeal to you, for I must discover who has robbed me of
my letter.”
“I have but one, read it, if you will, and satisfy yourself” was the
brief reply.
“No, thank you. I merely asked in joke; it is doubtless among my lady’s.
Jasper’s letters and mine often get mixed, and my lady takes care of his
for him. I think you must have it, Aunt.”
Lady Treherne looked up impatiently. “My dear Maurice, what a coil about
a letter! We none of us have it, so do not punish us for the sins of
your correspondent or the carelessness of the post.”
She was not the thief, for she is always intensely polite when she
intends to thwart me, thought Treherne, and, apologizing for his
rudeness in disturbing them, he rolled himself to his nook in a sunny
window and became apparently absorbed in a new magazine.
Mrs. Snowdon was opening the general’s letters for him, and, having
finished her little task, she roamed away into the library, as if in
search of a book. Presently returning with one, she approached Treherne,
and, putting it into his hand, said, in her musically distinct voice,
“Be so kind as to find for me the passage you spoke of last night. I am
curious to see it.”
Instantly comprehending her stratagem, he opened it with apparent
carelessness, secured the tiny note laid among the leaves, and,
selecting a passage at hazard, returned her book and resumed his own.
Behind the cover of it he unfolded and read these words:
    I understand, but do not be anxious; the line I left was merely
    this--“I must see you alone, tell me when and where.” No one can
    make much of it, and I will discover the thief before dinner. Do
    nothing, but watch to whom I speak first on entering, when we meet
    in the evening, and beware of that person.
Quietly transferring the note to the fire with the wrapper of the
magazine, he dismissed the matter from his mind and left Mrs. Snowdon
to play detective as she pleased, while he busied himself about his
own affairs.
It was a clear, bright December day, and when the young people separated
to prepare for a ride, while the general and the major sunned themselves
on the terrace, Lady Treherne said to her nephew, “I am going for an
airing in the pony carriage. Will you be my escort, Maurice?”
“With pleasure,” replied the young man, well knowing what was in
store for him.
My lady was unusually taciturn and grave, yet seemed anxious to say
something which she found difficult to utter. Treherne saw this, and
ended an awkward pause by dashing boldly into the subject which
occupied both.
“I think you want to say something to me about Tavie, Aunt. Am I right?”
“Yes.”
“Then let me spare you the pain of beginning, and prove my sincerity by
openly stating the truth, as far as I am concerned. I love her very
dearly, but I am not mad enough to dream of telling her so. I know that
