after a while tell him how it was, and try to make him 
find some happiness elsewhere." 
" And you couldn't love him ? " 
Her lips quivered like a child's, and the tears just filled 
her soft eyes without overflowing. 
" I had no right even to try. As soon as he spoke I 
knew how wrong it was. Perhaps I was cruel not to lis- 
ten ; but, O ! every word smote my own heart so bitterly ! 
All that first night I almost wished I had died before I
had caused him such pain. You'll tell him how sorry I 
was." 
"But Mr. St. John might release you." 
"No; I shall never so wound him. It's a fancy of mine 
that somewhere along life he has received a keen, cruel 
wrench, and though he doesn't show the scar, it bleeds 
inwardly. Shall I tear it open afresh ? " 
She was sobbing in my arms. What a strange story ! 
The incongruity of this marriage struck hard against a 
certain sense of mine, and I felt as if it should not be. 
But was it my place to interfere ? If Mr. St. John loved 
her, would he not really hate me for my officiousness? 
And then the hot blood rushed to my brow. No; my 
lips must be silent, even if they all rushed to positive 
misery. 
"My darling!" I said, trying to comfort her with 
kisses. 
" O, Miss Clifford, I've been so wretched ! but I know 
t am right. When we get to Laurelwood, I shall feel 
jalm and strong again. I can't pain him, and blight his 
ttfe. Gerald is so much younger, he may learn to forget 
 
rne. Only if he will not think me deceitfully wicked. 
Don't let him do that." 
"I will tell him the simple truth," I said, moved by the 
infinite pathos of her voice. 
"And you think I am right?" 
I would make one effort. 
" Elsie," I said, tenderly, " it would be better to let Mr. 
St. John be the judge." 
" No, no," and she shivered. " He is quite generous 
enough to yield his chance for happiness to another." 
" Are you sure that you can make him happy ? " 
" Quite sure." 
"But will you attain to the highest happiness your- 
self?" 
"I shall do right," she said, bravely. "And now, dear 
Miss Clifford, forgive all the trouble I have caused you 
and yours. In a few days we shall leave the city." 
" Let fate work out the problem," I said, fiercely, to my- 
self. If God meant that this should be, I was powerless 
to turn the course of events. I could see where Elsie's 
sense of gratitude, justice, and pity were leading her 
astray. Yet to seek to convince her was useless. For 
Gerald to make an appeal to Mr. St. John might only 
complicate matters, even if he could resolve upon such a 
etc]). It must go on to the end. 
We talked for some time, arid Elsie grew gradually 
calmer. Still I could not help believing that her regard 
for Gerald was stronger than she would admit, and might 
blossom into die deepest passion of her life. She tried to 
soften the blow to him with many kind messages to be 
given after a while, but she remained steadfast in her 
resolve of not seeing him. 
I called upon them twice before they left; and Mr. St. 
 
John made a, brief farewell visit with the ladies. Mrs. 
Lawrence tried to extort a promise that I would visit 
Laurc'lwood the next summer. 
"I can no longer tyrannize over you in the capacity of 
guardian," he said, with a short laugh that had a bitter 
flavor. 
 
CHAPTER XXV. 
" Barely from off the desert of my life 
I gather patience and severe content." 
ALEX. SMITH. 
GERALD did not submit to his fate easily. We both felt 
that Elsie was making an unwise, as well as dangerous 
experiment; and that when it was too late, she might 
learn her fatal mistake. 
"I don't doubt that Mr. St. John will try to make her 
happy; but there is so much difference in their ages and 
temperaments. And she, in her rigid endeavor to cheat 
both him and herself, would die a martyr on the cross of 
love." 
There was a settled melancholy in Gerald's deep eyes, 
and whenever he uttered such sentences, my heart was 
acutely pained. 
And then I remembered my own many pangs. I strove 
to say that I would be satisfied to know that Mr. St. John 
was happy with another, but I could not so cheat myself. 
Years and absence had not extinguished that divine pas- 
sion. Like Gerald, I had drank of its charmed waters for 
all time. There was no oblivion for me. 
Some weeks later, Gerald joined a company of friends 
who were going to Central America. I knew the change 
would prove beneficial to him. Elsie's first letter was so 
tranquil, that I felt the faintest hope for him must be at 
an end forever. 
It was quite impossible for me to return to my former 
 
quiet mode of life. Society preferred its claims, and 
would be heard. Why should I exile myself from all the 
pleasures of the world ? My friends rejoiced at my success, 
and I experienced a thrill of gratification that was not 
allied to vanity. Since this was to be the pleasure of my 
future, I would accept it in peace. 
Presently we glided over into May. The spring was 
very forward, and the warm days made us think of finding 
some airy summer resort. In the midst of these discus- 
sions I received a sudden summons elsewhere a note 
from Mr. St. John, that contained these tidings : 
" MY DEAK Miss CLIFFORD : Since our return to Laurel- 
wood, Elsie's health has gradually failed, and she is now 
seriously ill with a fever. She begs for you continually; 
and as it is for her happiness, I am emboldened to ask the 
favor. Will you come to us immediately ? With warmest 
regards from rny sister. ST. JOHN." 
To refuse was simply out of the question. I would 
have done much for the dear child's sake. I felt that she 
was noaring a fateful crisis. How would it end ? 
I telegraphed my answer, and made my preparations 
immediately. How strange that I should be going back, 
changed in many respects, yet in others the same ! Nearly 
seven years since I had first seen Laurehvood. What a 
varied life mine had been ! 
Bertha insisted that I should return as soon as possible, 
and I promised. A journey had no terror for me now, 
and yet I seemed to tremble at every step. What would 
be the result? For I felt as if I held the happiness of 
others in my hand. 
When I reached the station, I discerned a familiar figure 
pacing the platform. My heart gave a great bound, that 
 
was more of apprehension than hope. lie was waiting for 
me, and took my hand as I stepped out. 
"Miss Carrue?" I exclaimed, in my awkward agita- 
tion. 
" She is very ill indeed ; nearing the crisis. I am glad 
you have come." 
His face and manner were very grave, and there was a 
peculiar, stern resolve in every feature, that made a cow- 
ard of me. Should I never be able to shake off this man's 
power ? 
" Did you find your journey tiresome ? " 
This time his voice was soft and sweet. 
"Not particularly,  ' I responded, and then glanced up 
with one of those sudden impulses. Did we both think 
of the first time I had come hither? 
The carriage was waiting ju^t beyond. He handed me 
in, and arranged the blanket with his usual carefulness, for 
the morning air seemed rather chilly. 
"You said in your note that Elsie had not been well 
since you came to Laurelwood," I began, at length, for the 
silence grew oppressive. 
" No. Her New York season was too fatiguing, I think. 
She was very glad to come away ; and yet she has not 
been the same happy, care-free child that she was be- 
fore. Miss Carme, of all others, needs a bright, satisfying 
life." 
Did he begin to doubt his ability for making it satis- 
factory ? A perplexed look lingered about his face like a 
fluttering cloud. 
" There's something now that I don't understand ; a kind 
of fear and reticence that I never saw in her before. 
Was she much with you during the last fortnight?" 
"Very little," I replied, feeling that this was unsafe 
ground. " She was not well even then." 
 
" I feel doubly anxious for her welfare, since it was our 
proposal that she should leave her own home. My sister 
is warmly attached to her." 
It did not appear to me that there was much of the 
ardent lover in his look or tone. Would the man never 
be roused to that grand height of which I felt he was 
capable ? 
But we lapsed into silence again. Familiar sights and 
sounds stirred my heart and memory. The hope that had 
glorified the primal day of my Iffe was not dead, only 
sleeping, and I already felt that it might be called forth 
with a word. Ah, I must thrust it back into its grave. 
The time had gone by when it would have been a welcome 
and cherished guest. 
If Laurel wood had met with any change, it was only to 
grow more beautiful. I bowed my head with reverent awe, 
and let old remembrances join this new tide with a mighty 
rush. How little I had expected ever to return ! and now I 
was here. 
Mrs. Lawrence betrayed much emotion as she came for- 
ward to welcome me. She looked worn and anxious. 
"I am so glad you have come!" she uttered, in a tone 
that I could not doubt. "But Elsie is much worse than 
when we first sent. She calls for you incessantly, but I 
doubt if she will recognize you." 
" Miss Adriance has been travelling all night, and must 
have a rest before she enters the sick room," Mr. St. John 
said ; and we both smiled over the old name. It did seem 
most natural here. I felt as if I had been away on a 
long masquerade, and had but just returned to my proper 
character. 
I was compelled to yield to the kind care. After my 
breakfast, Mrs. Lawrence insisted that I should take a rest. 
Elsie was dozing and quiet, and Mr. St. John was going to 
 
watch her for a while. So it was nearly noon when I 
entered the apartment. 
The poor child lay tossing restlessly upon her pillow, the 
wide open eyes unnaturally bright with fever, and the 
cheeks glowing in their dangerous scarlet. 
"Miss Clifford has come," Mr. St. John announced, 
taking the wasted hand in his. She was very much ema- 
ciated, and her features, that had been so lovely in their 
roundness, now were sharp or sunken. 
" I wanted to see her." The voice had a hollow, wander- 
ing sound, but she looked past me, rather than at me, while 
she seemed making an effort to remember something. 
"Did you tell him, Miss Clifford?" Do you think he 
forgave? " 
The rest was incoherent muttering. I felt a guilty 
knowledge of her secret rising to my face with a flush, and 
did not dare glance around. 
"Where is she ? "Won't she take me in her arms, as she 
did once ? I'm so tired, so tired !" 
She stretched out both her hands imploringly. A be- 
seeching look lighted up the restless eyes. 
I came near and bent over her, soothed her with low 
words until she was tranquil, yet she did not appear to 
actually realize my presence. 
" Suppose you leave me with her a little while?" I said, 
in a rather decisive tone. 
Mr. St. John would fain have lingered. I knew that he 
had some dim suspicion of a secret. I could not think what 
I must do in this cruel strait, but resolved to guard her 
while it was possible. 
When we were alone I let her talk without any restraint. 
She only gave vague hints, however, and restless mutter- 
ings, mentioning no name. If I could but keep Mr. St. 
John away! 
 
At three the physician came in. An old friend that I 
had seen years before, and who appeared delighted with 
this encounter. 
"You are just the one we need," he exclaimed, after his 
first surprise had subsided. " Mrs. Lawrence is nearly wild 
with excitement and fitigue, and it would be better if she 
were not allowed in here more than a few moments at a 
time. The nurse is excellent, but she hasn't that peculiar 
soothing power over her that you possess. If we can take 
her safely through until noon to-morrow, the danger will be 
past; and this sweet life is too precious to wither like a 
flower." 
I promised to do my best, and succeeded very well 
for from that time until nine in the evening, when lie called 
again, she had said but little, though she had been exceed- 
ingly restless. One or two symptoms he thought im- 
proved. 
" Watch her closely through the night," he said, and left 
directions for every change, with the kind of remedies that 
were to be used. He also had a long conversation with 
Mr. St. John in the adjoining room. 
The nurse would have remained, but I did not care to 
have her. Mr. St. John proposed sharing my watch, but 
I was fain to dismiss him. 
"At least I shall stay within call. It is too much for 
you to be alone; and we are under great obligations to 
you." 
His tone was unnaturally cold, I thought, and he showed 
that he was laboring under some constraint. If Elsie could 
get through the night without betraying her secret ! 
Mr. St. John at length disposed of himself on the lounge 
in the adjoining room. I took my seat, having turned the 
light to a drowsy dimness, and bathed Elsie's burning 
hands, now and then cooling the throbbing brow, and 
 
turning aside the clustering hair. For a while she was 
quite calm, then she began to moan and murmur. I heard 
a step beside me. Mr. St. John looked much disturbed. 
"Please do not feel distressed," I could not help saying. 
" I am not utterly heartless," he returned, with a strange 
touch of spirit. "I cannot see you overtasking your- 
self" 
" Do not fear for me." 
Elsie started that moment and sprang up, almost into 
his arms. 
" Go away, Gerald," she said. "I cannot, cannot marry 
you ; my promise has been given to another. No, don't 
kiss my hand even. Am I cruel ? Heaven forgive me. 
I must suffer, too; but I shall be brave to bear it." 
"Elsie ! " I said, pressing my cheek against hers. 
" Don't let him hate me. O, if I had known ! But I 
never thought of his loving me. I must tear the sweet 
knowledge out of my heart. Gerald will never dream that 
I cared; and it is best best. O, is any one happy in 
this world ? " 
He looked at us both. I was quivering in every nerve, 
hardly less than she. Now that the floodgates of her soul 
were loosened, there was no reserve. The secret that she 
would confess to neither Gerald nor me was told with all 
the wildness of delirium. How much she had suffered in 
her vain endeavor to keep to what she considered her 
