boys in the same business who had earned as much money, but they
had had little care for the future, and spent as they went along,
so that few could boast a bank-account, however small.
"You'll be a rich man some time, Dick," said Henry Fosdick,
one evening.
"And live on Fifth Avenoo," said Dick.
"Perhaps so. Stranger things have happened."
"Well," said Dick, "if such a misfortin' should come upon me I
should bear it like a man. When you see a Fifth Avenoo manshun for
sale for a hundred and seventeen dollars, just let me know and I'll
buy it as an investment."
"Two hundred and fifty years ago you might have bought one for that
price, probably. Real estate wasn't very high among the Indians."
"Just my luck," said Dick; "I was born too late. I'd orter have been
an Indian, and lived in splendor on my present capital."
"I'm afraid you'd have found your present business rather
unprofitable at that time."
But Dick had gained something more valuable than money. He had
studied regularly every evening, and his improvement had been
marvellous. He could now read well, write a fair hand, and had
studied arithmetic as far as Interest. Besides this he had obtained
some knowledge of grammar and geography. If some of my boy readers,
who have been studying for years, and got no farther than this,
should think it incredible that Dick, in less than a year, and
studying evenings only, should have accomplished it, they must
remember that our hero was very much in earnest in his desire to
improve. He knew that, in order to grow up respectable, he must be
well advanced, and he was willing to work. But then the reader must
not forget that Dick was naturally a smart boy. His street education
had sharpened his faculties, and taught him to rely upon himself. He
knew that it would take him a long time to reach the goal which he
had set before him, and he had patience to keep on trying. He knew
that he had only himself to depend upon, and he determined to make
the most of himself,--a resolution which is the secret of success
in nine cases out of ten.
"Dick," said Fosdick, one evening, after they had completed their
studies, "I think you'll have to get another teacher soon."
"Why?" asked Dick, in some surprise. "Have you been offered a more
loocrative position?"
"No," said Fosdick, "but I find I have taught you all I know myself.
You are now as good a scholar as I am."
"Is that true?" said Dick, eagerly, a flush of gratification
coloring his brown cheek.
"Yes," said Fosdick. "You've made wonderful progress. I propose,
now that evening schools have begun, that we join one, and study
together through the winter."
"All right," said Dick. "I'd be willin' to go now; but when I first
began to study I was ashamed to have anybody know that I was so
ignorant. Do you really mean, Fosdick, that I know as much as you?"
"Yes, Dick, it's true."
"Then I've got you to thank for it," said Dick, earnestly. "You've
made me what I am."
"And haven't you paid me, Dick?"
"By payin' the room-rent," said Dick, impulsively. "What's that? It
isn't half enough. I wish you'd take half my money; you deserve it."
"Thank you, Dick, but you're too generous. You've more than paid me.
Who was it took my part when all the other boys imposed upon me? And
who gave me money to buy clothes, and so got me my situation?"
"Oh, that's nothing!" said Dick.
"It's a great deal, Dick. I shall never forget it. But now it seems
to me you might try to get a situation yourself."
"Do I know enough?"
"You know as much as I do."
"Then I'll try," said Dick, decidedly.
"I wish there was a place in our store," said Fosdick. "It would be
pleasant for us to be together."
"Never mind," said Dick; "there'll be plenty of other chances.
P'r'aps A. T. Stewart might like a partner. I wouldn't ask more'n a
quarter of the profits."
"Which would be a very liberal proposal on your part," said Fosdick,
smiling. "But perhaps Mr. Stewart might object to a partner living
on Mott Street."
"I'd just as lieves move to Fifth Avenoo," said Dick. "I aint got no
prejudices in favor of Mott Street."
"Nor I," said Fosdick, "and in fact I have been thinking it might be
a good plan for us to move as soon as we could afford. Mrs. Mooney
doesn't keep the room quite so neat as she might."
"No," said Dick. "She aint got no prejudices against dirt. Look at
that towel."
Dick held up the article indicated, which had now seen service
nearly a week, and hard service at that,--Dick's avocation causing
him to be rather hard on towels.
"Yes," said Fosdick, "I've got about tired of it. I guess we can
find some better place without having to pay much more. When we
move, you must let me pay my share of the rent."
"We'll see about that," said Dick. "Do you propose to move to
Fifth Avenoo?"
"Not just at present, but to some more agreeable neighborhood than
this. We'll wait till you get a situation, and then we can decide."
A few days later, as Dick was looking about for customers in the
neighborhood of the Park, his attention was drawn to a fellow
boot-black, a boy about a year younger than himself, who appeared to
have been crying.
"What's the matter, Tom?" asked Dick. "Haven't you had luck to-day?"
"Pretty good," said the boy; "but we're havin' hard times at home.
Mother fell last week and broke her arm, and to-morrow we've got to
pay the rent, and if we don't the landlord says he'll turn us out."
"Haven't you got anything except what you earn?" asked Dick.
"No," said Tom, "not now. Mother used to earn three or four dollars
a week; but she can't do nothin' now, and my little sister and
brother are too young."
Dick had quick sympathies. He had been so poor himself, and
obliged to submit to so many privations that he knew from personal
experience how hard it was. Tom Wilkins he knew as an excellent boy
who never squandered his money, but faithfully carried it home to
his mother. In the days of his own extravagance and shiftlessness
he had once or twice asked Tom to accompany him to the Old Bowery
or Tony Pastor's, but Tom had always steadily refused.
"I'm sorry for you, Tom," he said. "How much do you owe for rent?"
"Two weeks now," said Tom.
"How much is it a week?"
"Two dollars a week--that makes four."
"Have you got anything towards it?"
"No; I've had to spend all my money for food for mother and the rest
of us. I've had pretty hard work to do that. I don't know what we'll
do. I haven't any place to go to, and I'm afraid mother'll get cold
in her arm."
"Can't you borrow the money somewhere?" asked Dick.
Tom shook his head despondingly.
"All the people I know are as poor as I am," said he. "They'd help
me if they could, but it's hard work for them to get along
themselves."
"I'll tell you what, Tom," said Dick, impulsively, "I'll stand your
friend."
"Have you got any money?" asked Tom, doubtfully.
"Got any money!" repeated Dick. "Don't you know that I run a bank on
my own account? How much is it you need?"
"Four dollars," said Tom. "If we don't pay that before to-morrow
night, out we go. You haven't got as much as that, have you?"
"Here are three dollars," said Dick, drawing out his pocket-book.
"I'll let you have the rest to-morrow, and maybe a little more."
"You're a right down good fellow, Dick," said Tom; "but won't you
want it yourself?"
"Oh, I've got some more," said Dick.
"Maybe I'll never be able to pay you."
"S'pose you don't," said Dick; "I guess I won't fail."
"I won't forget it, Dick. I hope I'll be able to do somethin' for
you sometime."
"All right," said Dick. "I'd ought to help you. I haven't got no
mother to look out for. I wish I had."
There was a tinge of sadness in his tone, as he pronounced the last
four words; but Dick's temperament was sanguine, and he never gave
way to unavailing sadness. Accordingly he began to whistle as he
turned away, only adding, "I'll see you to-morrow, Tom."
The three dollars which Dick had handed to Tom Wilkins were his
savings for the present week. It was now Thursday afternoon. His
rent, which amounted to a dollar, he expected to save out of the
earnings of Friday and Saturday. In order to give Tom the additional
assistance he had promised, Dick would be obliged to have recourse
to his bank-savings. He would not have ventured to trench upon it
for any other reason but this. But he felt that it would be selfish
to allow Tom and his mother to suffer when he had it in his power
to relieve them. But Dick was destined to be surprised, and that in
a disagreeable manner, when he reached home.
CHAPTER XXI
DICK LOSES HIS BANK-BOOK
It was hinted at the close of the last chapter that Dick was
destined to be disagreeably surprised on reaching home.
Having agreed to give further assistance to Tom Wilkins, he was
naturally led to go to the drawer where he and Fosdick kept their
bank-books. To his surprise and uneasiness the drawer proved to be
empty!
"Come here a minute, Fosdick," he said.
"What's the matter, Dick?"
"I can't find my bank-book, nor yours either. What's 'come of them?"
"I took mine with me this morning, thinking I might want to put in a
little more money. I've got it in my pocket, now."
"But where's mine?" asked Dick, perplexed.
"I don't know. I saw it in the drawer when I took mine this morning."
"Are you sure?"
"Yes, positive, for I looked into it to see how much you had got."
"Did you lock it again?" asked Dick.
"Yes; didn't you have to unlock it just now?"
"So I did," said Dick. "But it's gone now. Somebody opened it with a
key that fitted the lock, and then locked it ag'in."
"That must have been the way."
"It's rather hard on a feller," said Dick, who, for the first time
since we became acquainted with him, began to feel down-hearted.
"Don't give it up, Dick. You haven't lost the money, only the
bank-book."
"Aint that the same thing?"
"No. You can go to the bank to-morrow morning, as soon as it opens,
and tell them you have lost the book, and ask them not to pay the
money to any one except yourself."
"So I can," said Dick, brightening up. "That is, if the thief hasn't
been to the bank to-day."
"If he has, they might detect him by his handwriting."
"I'd like to get hold of the one that stole it," said Dick,
indignantly. "I'd give him a good lickin'."
"It must have been somebody in the house. Suppose we go and see Mrs.
Mooney. She may know whether anybody came into our room to-day."
The two boys went downstairs, and knocked at the door of a little
back sitting-room where Mrs. Mooney generally spent her evenings. It
was a shabby little room, with a threadbare carpet on the floor, the
walls covered with a certain large-figured paper, patches of which
had been stripped off here and there, exposing the plaster, the
remainder being defaced by dirt and grease. But Mrs. Mooney had one
of those comfortable temperaments which are tolerant of dirt, and
didn't mind it in the least. She was seated beside a small pine
work-table, industriously engaged in mending stockings.
"Good-evening, Mrs. Mooney," said Fosdick, politely.
"Good-evening," said the landlady. "Sit down, if you can find
chairs. I'm hard at work as you see, but a poor lone widder can't
afford to be idle."
"We can't stop long, Mrs. Mooney, but my friend here has had
something taken from his room to-day, and we thought we'd come and
see you about it."
"What is it?" asked the landlady. "You don't think I'd take
anything? If I am poor, it's an honest name I've always had, as all
my lodgers can testify."
"Certainly not, Mrs. Mooney; but there are others in the house that
may not be honest. My friend has lost his bank-book. It was safe in
the drawer this morning, but to-night it is not to be found."
"How much money was there in it?" asked Mrs. Mooney.
"Over a hundred dollars," said Fosdick.
"It was my whole fortun'," said Dick. "I was goin' to buy a house
next year."
Mrs. Mooney was evidently surprised to learn the extent of Dick's
wealth, and was disposed to regard him with increased respect.
"Was the drawer locked?" she asked.
"Yes."
"Then it couldn't have been Bridget. I don't think she has any
keys."
"She wouldn't know what a bank-book was," said Fosdick. "You didn't
see any of the lodgers go into our room to-day, did you?"
"I shouldn't wonder if it was Jim Travis," said Mrs. Mooney, suddenly.
This James Travis was a bar-tender in a low groggery in Mulberry
Street, and had been for a few weeks an inmate of Mrs. Mooney's
lodging-house. He was a coarse-looking fellow who, from his
appearance, evidently patronized liberally the liquor he dealt out
to others. He occupied a room opposite Dick's, and was often heard
by the two boys reeling upstairs in a state of intoxication,
uttering shocking oaths.
This Travis had made several friendly overtures to Dick and his
room-mate, and had invited them to call round at the bar-room where
he tended, and take something. But this invitation had never been
accepted, partly because the boys were better engaged in the
evening, and partly because neither of them had taken a fancy to Mr.
Travis; which certainly was not strange, for nature had not gifted
him with many charms, either of personal appearance or manners. The
rejection of his friendly proffers had caused him to take a dislike
to Dick and Henry, whom he considered stiff and unsocial.
"What makes you think it was Travis?" asked Fosdick. "He isn't at
home in the daytime."
"But he was to-day. He said he had got a bad cold, and had to come
home for a clean handkerchief."
"Did you see him?" asked Dick.
"Yes," said Mrs. Mooney. "Bridget was hanging out clothes, and I
went to the door to let him in."
"I wonder if he had a key that would fit our drawer," said Fosdick.
"Yes," said Mrs. Mooney. "The bureaus in the two rooms are just
alike. I got 'em at auction, and most likely the locks is the same."
"It must have been he," said Dick, looking towards Fosdick.
"Yes," said Fosdick, "it looks like it."
"What's to be done? That's what I'd like to know," said Dick. "Of
course he'll say he hasn't got it; and he won't be such a fool as to
leave it in his room."
"If he hasn't been to the bank, it's all right," said Fosdick. "You
can go there the first thing to-morrow morning, and stop their
paying any money on it."
"But I can't get any money on it myself," said Dick. "I told Tom
Wilkins I'd let him have some more money to-morrow, or his sick
mother'll have to turn out of their lodgin's."
"How much money were you going to give him?"
"I gave him three dollars to-day, and was goin' to give him two
dollars to-morrow."
"I've got the money, Dick. I didn't go to the bank this morning."
"All right. I'll take it, and pay you back next week."
"No, Dick; if you've given three dollars, you must let me give two."
"No, Fosdick, I'd rather give the whole. You know I've got more
money than you. No, I haven't, either," said Dick, the memory of his
loss flashing upon him. "I thought I was rich this morning, but now
I'm in destitoot circumstances."
"Cheer up, Dick; you'll get your money back."
"I hope so," said our hero, rather ruefully.
The fact was, that our friend Dick was beginning to feel what is
so often experienced by men who do business of a more important
character and on a larger scale than he, the bitterness of a reverse
of circumstances. With one hundred dollars and over carefully laid
away in the savings bank, he had felt quite independent. Wealth is
comparative, and Dick probably felt as rich as many men who are
worth a hundred thousand dollars. He was beginning to feel the
advantages of his steady self-denial, and to experience the
pleasures of property. Not that Dick was likely to be unduly
attached to money. Let it be said to his credit that it had never
given him so much satisfaction as when it enabled him to help Tom
Wilkins in his trouble.
Besides this, there was another thought that troubled him. When he
obtained a place he could not expect to receive as much as he was
now making from blacking boots,--probably not more than three
dollars a week,--while his expenses without clothing would amount to
four dollars. To make up the deficiency he had confidently relied
upon his savings, which would be sufficient to carry him along for a
year, if necessary. If he should not recover his money, he would be
compelled to continue a boot-black for at least six months longer;
and this was rather a discouraging reflection. On the whole it is
not to be wondered at that Dick felt unusually sober this evening,
and that neither of the boys felt much like studying.
The two boys consulted as to whether it would be best to speak to
Travis about it. It was not altogether easy to decide. Fosdick was
