in my own room, forlornly endeavouring to work some worsted
embroidery; - though the sickness of my heart seemed to find
its way into my fingers, and it was with pain and difficulty
that they pulled the needle in and out. It was only more
difficult to sit still and do nothing; and to read was
impossible. I sat drawing the wool through the canvass-drawing
long threads of thought at the same time - when Mrs. Sandford
burst in.

"Daisy! - they say McDowell has had a bad time - they have
driven him back, or something; isn't it dreadful! - and there
you sit embroidering as quiet as can be. But bless me, child!
you haven't a bit of colour. Washington will kill us all yet."

"Who told you?"

"Doctor Barnard says it's so; it's all through the city. And
if the rebels get the better of McDowell, they'll come
straight here, Daisy, and take Washington. Oh, I wish Grant
was well enough to set right off to-morrow! but he isn't. How
can you be so quiet? I tell you, our army has been repulsed,
and how bad it is nobody knows."

"We had better wait till somebody does know," I said. "We have
had repulses before. There was Big Bethel - and Vienna - and a
great many."

"But this is McDowell and the great army; and Beauregard has
hosts at his back."

"Well! -" I said.

"But you are dreadfully pale, Daisy. How can you keep so
quiet? What are you made of?"

"I do not think they will take Washington," I said. "I am in
no hurry, for my part, to get away. Look - do you say maroon
or dark purple for this bit of grounding? I cannot make up my
mind."

Mrs. Sandford dived into the purples and browns of my coloured
wools; came back again to McDowell and Beauregard, but came
back quieted, and presently left the room. Then, I put down my
needle and laid my head on the table, and shook from head to
foot with the trembling she had given me. And a longing to see
Christian took possession of me; a sick, crying thirst for the
sight, if it were only for a minute; the impatient agony of
self-will. Necessity's bands and manacles put it down after a
time.

The next day was Sunday. I went to church alone, and with my
usual average of calm. But I heard some one say to his
neighbour, that there was a great battle going forward - with
what promise nobody knew. The words sent me home with a sort
of half breath. I avoided Mrs. Sandford, took no dinner; and
in the afternoon feverishly crept out to church again. The air
seemed to me full of bodings. Yet I heard nothing. I saw
people whisper each other, and nod; I thought good news was
given and received, and I breathed a little easier. It was not
till I was coming out from the service that any one spoke to
me. I found myself then near a gentleman whom we knew.

"Glorious news, Miss Randolph!" he half whispered. "General
Scott will dine with a good appetite to-day."

"What is the news"

"Oh, a great victory! We have not got the details yet, of
course; but it seems all is going right."

"It seems going right."

"Yes. You know we have not details yet. There's been heavy
fighting, though."

"Is it a general engagement?"

"Oh, yes! All in that could be in. And some that had no
business to be in. They say, Johnston has reinforced
Beauregard; but they are totally routed, I believe. So it is
said."

"Who says it?"

"The accounts from the battlefield, I presume. They are coming
in all the time. The Nation has triumphed. I congratulate you.
I know you are loyal. Mrs. Sand- ford will be rejoiced. Good
afternoon."

It was too sudden, too soon, and too confused. I could not
breathe freely yet. Johnston reinforced Beauregard? That was
just what Patterson was expected to prevent; ought to have
prevented. Then, probably, Patterson had done no fighting? I
was pondering, when I suddenly found Major Fairbairn beside
me. He belonged with the troops left to guard Washington.

"Oh, Major," said I, "what is the news?"

"Firing down in Virginia, -" said the major, laconically.

"Is it true, that a battle has been won by McDowell?"

"I wish it were," said he; "but in general it is safe not to
speak of a fight till it is over."

"Then it is not over?"

"I have not heard that it is."

"But they tell me a fight has been won."

"They tell every conceivable thing in war-time," said the
major. "Don't you know that? It is safe to believe nothing."

"Has Johnston joined Beauregard?"

"I am afraid he has. The advices seem to put that beyond
disbelief."

"You are afraid! Then the news means nothing to you; nothing
good, I mean?"

"The rumours mean nothing to me," said the major, smiling.
"The reliable news is really, so far, not much. It is certain
there is a battle going on, Miss Randolph, and a battle along
the whole line. And it is certain that Patterson had orders to
follow up Johnston, and keep him from troubling us. And I am
afraid it is also certain that he has not done it - confound
him! Excuse me; but a man who don't obey orders deserves to
have people swear at him, Miss Randolph."

I left the major at a corner, and before I got home, another
acquaintance informed me that the victory was undoubted,
though severely purchased, and that the city was in a state of
exultation. I did not know what to think. I said as little as
possible to Mrs. Sandford; but later in the evening Dr.
Barnard came with the details of the day, and the added
intelligence that since seven o'clock the firing had
recommenced.

"What for? if the victory is sure?" said Mrs. Sandford; and I
went to my room feeling that it was not sure. Nevertheless I
slept that night. I cannot tell why, or how. Whether it were
most akin to weariness or despair, I slept, and quietly, and
the whole night through. But I know very well that I awaked
with a full sense that it was not to quietness nor peace. I
took up my burden as I got out of bed.

My room was at the back of the house. Consequently I heard and
saw nothing of the outer world till I came down to the
breakfast-room. Nobody was there yet, and I went to the
window. The first thing I saw then made my heart stand still.
A group was gathered just before the window, on the sidewalk.
In the midst a soldier, one of a gay Zouave regiment, not at
all gay now, stood talking to a little crowd of listeners;
talking in a pouring rain, which nobody seemed to care about.
He was wet; his bright uniform was stained and draggled; he
had no musket; and his tasseled cap sat on a head which in
every line and movement expressed defeat and disgrace. So they
all listened who stood around; I read it as well as if I had
heard the words they were hearing. I saw dejection, profound
sorrow, absorbed attention, utter forgetfulness of present
bodily discomfort. I noticed that one man who carried an
umbrella had put it down, and stood listening in the rain.
Occasionally the soldier raised his arm to eke out his words
with a gesture; and then moved a step as if to go on, but they
closed around him again and staid him with eager questions or
urgings. I was very near throwing up the sash to ask what it
all was; and then I thought, what matter! I should know soon
enough, But I could not move from the window; and Mrs.
Sandford entering and seeing me there came and looked over my
shoulder. I did not know it, till I heard her -

"Good Heavens! - Daisy, my dear, what is the matter?"

"We shall hear presently," I said, turning away from the
window.

"But what is it?" - And Mrs. Sandford first took my place, and
then did what I had been tempted to do; - threw up the sash.

"What is the matter?" she said. "Is there news. Men, is there
news?"

I do not know what was answered; I did not hear; I had gone
into the middle of the room; but Mrs. Sanford closed the
window presently and came to me, looking even pale. A rare
thing for her.

"Daisy, there is trouble," she said.

"Yes, -" I answered.

"How do you know? They say - they say, the army is all cut to
pieces!"

I could not speak about it. We knew nothing yet; but Mrs.
Sandford went on -

"He says, everybody is killed. All routed and destroyed, the
army is. Can it be possible?"

I thought it was very possible: I never had doubted but that
the Southerners - as a body - were the best fighters. But I
said nothing; while Mrs. Sandford poured out sorrows and fears
and speculations in a breath. I could have smiled, but that I
could not have smiled. We stood still, looking at each other,
nobody remembering breakfast. I was thinking, if the cause was
lost, where would Mr. Thorold be then. And I ceased to hear
Mrs. Sandford.

"But Daisy!" she said suddenly - "the other army -
Beauregard's - they will be here directly to take Washington,
if all this is true; and it must be true; or that soldier
would not have been out there in the rain. They will be coming
here directly, Daisy. And, bless me! how wicked I am! You are
standing there, patient and pale, and you have had no
breakfast. Come here and let me give you some coffee. Grant
said he would be down to dinner perhaps; and how angry he
would be."

We drank cups of coffee, but I do not think either of us broke
bread.

That was a weary day. All the day long new groups were forming
and dispersing in the street, telling and talking over the
news; groups of all sorts. Soldiers discoursing to audiences
like the one in the morning; knots of officers; twos and
threes of business men; debating, inquiring, discussing; all
under the dark rain, all with downcast faces and dispirited
bearing. Late in the day Major Fairbairn called. He somewhat
reassured us. The carnage was not so great; the loss not so
tremendous, as we had at first been told; the damage done not
so absolutely overwhelming.

"Then you do not think Beauregard will come and take
Washington?" Mrs. Sandford asked.

"I don't know!" the major said, with a smile. "He must be
quick about it, or it will be too late."

"But is this a final settling of the question, Major
Fairbairn?" I inquired. "That is what I want to know."

"We have been whipped," he said, looking at me.

"Yes, I know; but the North - will they take this as a
settlement of the question?"

"The North!" echoed the Major. "Will they give up, you mean?
Not just yet! The Government does not feel like it. Do you?"

"I am so ignorant -" I answered.

"You must be, - pardon my saying so. Not at all. The sting of
the whip will make us move faster. Orders are issued already
for the reinforcement and reorganisation of the army. General
McClellan is to take command here; and we will get things upon
a new basis."

"Is McClellan the man we want?" Mrs. Sandford inquired.

"I cannot say. If he is not, we will wait for another."

"You are very cool, Major Fairbairn!" said the lady.

"It is the best plan, in July."

"But it is very hard to keep cool."

The major smiled and looked at me.

"What has Patterson been doing all this while?" I asked.
Smiles died out of the major's face.

"He has kept cool," he said. "Easy - when a man never was
warm."

"And you think, major," said Mrs. Sandford, "you really think
that the truth is not so bad as it has been reported. Why, Mr.
May was positive the rebels would come and take Washington.
You think there has not been such dreadful loss of life after
all?".

"A tenth of the story will be nearer the mark," said the
major. "But we shall know more particulars to-morrow; and I
will step in again, as I can, and let you know what I know. I
must not stay now." And with a bow to me, the major went.

I did not stop then to inquire what his bow meant. Nor did I
hear Mrs. Sandford's long string of comments and speculations,
any further than was necessary to enable me to reply from time
to time with some show of connectedness. I was eagerly
calculating chances, without any basis of data to go upon.
Trying to conjecture General Patterson's probable coming duty,
and to what it might lead. If his foe had disappeared from
before him, must he not follow on this way, where (I thought)
men were so imperatively needed? If he came, there would be
fighting for him, certainly, the next time! Beauregard would
muster again for the fray; I knew that; and it seemed the
