Lincoln told her that he had examined the documents very carefully,
that she "had not a peg to hang her claim on," and that he could not
conscientiously advise her to bring an action. Having heard this
judgment, the lady thanked him, took her papers, and was about to
depart. "Wait a moment," said Mr. Lincoln, "here is the check you gave
me." "But," said she, "Mr. Lincoln, I think you have earned that."
"No, no," he answered, insisting on her receiving it, "that would not
be right. I can't take pay for doing my duty."
He was quite as prompt and just in accepting unprofitable duty as in
declining its profitable opposite. During all the early part of his
legal practice in Springfield, it was considered an unpopular and
politically dangerous business for a lawyer to defend any fugitive
slave on trial for surrender to the South, and even the brave Col.
Baker, in those days also practicing there, on one occasion directly
refused to defend such a case, saying that as a political man he could
not afford it. But the luckless applicant, having consulted with an
abolitionist friend, went next to Lincoln, and got him. "He's not
afraid of an unpopular case," said the friend; "when I go for a lawyer
to defend an arrested fugitive slave, other lawyers will refuse me; but
if Mr. Lincoln is at home, he will always take up my case."
On a few occasions after having even entered into the trial of a case,
Mr. Lincoln would find that, as sometimes happens, he had been deceived
by his own client, and that he really had not the right on his side.
When this was the case, he could as it were be seen to wilt at once,
and whatever further he might do in the case was only mechanical. In
such a case, having an associate, and having refused to argue it, the
associate argued the case and won it, and then offered to divide with
Mr. Lincoln the fee of $900; but Lincoln would not take a cent. Once
in defending a man sued for delivering lambs instead of sheep, the
testimony clearly showed that such delivery had been made. Instead of
trying to confuse the witnesses or becloud the evidence, Mr. Lincoln
ascertained how many such lambs had been delivered, and quietly told
the jury that they must give a verdict against his client. He simply
cautioned them to be just in fixing the damages. When he had recovered
a verdict against a railroad company, and a certain offset against
his client was to be deducted, he interrupted the final decision just
in time to have the offset made larger by a certain amount which he
had just found out ought to be added to it. His careful and primitive
scrupulousness was just as marked in dealing with any associates in a
case. When he received a joint fee his invariable custom was to divide
it properly, and tie up in a separate parcel each associate's part of
the very money received, duly labelled and directed.
In 1841 Mr. Lincoln argued before the Supreme Court of Illinois, the
case of Nance, a negro girl, who had been sold within the state. A note
had been given in payment for her, and the suit was brought to recover
upon this note. Mr. Lincoln, defending, proved that Nance was free, and
that thus nothing had been sold; so that the note was void. The Court
below had sustained the note, but the Supreme Court, in accordance with
Mr. Lincoln's argument, reversed this judgment. The decision made Nance
free, and put a stop to sales of human beings in Illinois.
Another remarkable case in which he was engaged, was, the defence of
young Armstrong from a charge of murder. This Armstrong was the son
of a man who had befriended and employed Mr. Lincoln in youth, and
the present charge was, that he had killed a certain person who had
unquestionably died from injuries received in a camp-meeting riot where
young Armstrong was present. The father was dead, and the mother aged
and poor; a chain of apparently perfectly conclusive circumstantial
evidence had been forged, which had convinced the community of
Armstrong's guilt; indeed, had he not been safely secured in a strong
jail he would have been lynched. Neither the youth nor his old mother
had any money. The people and the newspapers were furious against the
prisoner; and his fate appeared absolutely certain even to himself,
when Mr. Lincoln, hearing of the matter in some way, volunteered
for the defence, and was gladly accepted. When the trial came on,
the evidence for the prosecution was given, and constituted what
appeared to the audience a perfectly conclusive proof of guilt. Lincoln
cross-examined very lightly, only correcting up and ascertaining a few
places and dates; and his own witnesses were only to show comparatively
good previous character for the prisoner.
The prosecutor, sure of his prey, made only a short and formal
argument. Mr. Lincoln followed for the defence. He began slowly,
calmly, carefully. He took hold of the heart of the evidence for the
state--that of the chief witness. He pointed out first one discrepancy,
and then another, and then another. He came at last to that part of
the evidence where this principal witness had sworn positively that he
had been enabled by the light of the moon to see the prisoner give the
fatal blow with a slung shot; and taking up the almanac he showed that
at the hour sworn to on the night sworn to the moon had not risen;
that the whole of this evidence was a perjury.
The audience, gradually stirred and changed in the temper of their
minds by the previous series of skilfully displayed inconsistencies,
rising from hate into sympathy, flamed suddenly up at this startling
revelation, and the verdict of "not guilty" was almost visible in the
faces of the jury. But this was not all. Turning upon the infamous
man who had sought to swear away another's life, Mr. Lincoln, now
fully kindled into his peculiarly slow but intensely fiery wrath, held
him up to the view of court and jury and audience, in such a horrid
picture of guilt and shame that the miserable fellow, stunned and
confounded, actually fled from the face of the incensed lawyer out of
the court room. And in conclusion, Mr. Lincoln appealed to the jury to
lay aside any temporary prejudices, and to do simple justice. And he
referred to the motive of his own presence there,--to his gratitude for
the kindness of the prisoner's father in past years, in a manner so
affecting as to bring tears from many eyes. In less than half an hour
the jury returned a verdict of not guilty, and the young man was set
free, his life saved and his character restored.
When he went for the second time into public life, on the passage of
the Nebraska Bill in 1854, he was becoming eminent in the difficult and
lucrative department of patent law. But his fellow lawyers used to call
his fees "ridiculously small." Indeed, he never took but one large fee,
and that his friends insisted on his taking. This was $5,000 from the
Illinois Central Railroad Company, one of the richest corporations in
the country, and for very valuable services in a very important case.
Once before this he had received what he thought a large fee, and he
made a good use of it. The sum was five hundred dollars, and a friend
who called to see him the next morning, found him counting it over and
over, and piling it up on the table to look at. "Look here," he said,
"see what a heap of money I've got from the ---- case! Did you ever see
anything like it! Why, I never had so much money in my life before,
put it all together!" Then he added, that if he could only get another
$250 to put with it, he would at once buy a quarter-section of land,
and settle it on his old step-mother. This was an odd use to make of
a man's first important gains in money, and his friend, who at once
loaned him the required additional amount, tried to make him give the
land for the old lady's life only. But Lincoln insisted on his own
plan, saying, "I shall do no such thing. It is a poor return at the
best, for all the good woman's devotion and fidelity to me, and there
isn't going to be any half-way work about it."
Mr. Lincoln was a great favorite at the bar, his good nature, his
kindness, and his unfailing flow of stories, making him a most welcome
guest on every circuit.
He never took technical advantages, but on the other hand often
showed an adversary some error in matter of form, and suggested to
him how to cure it. His forensic habits were excessively simple, but
very effective. The most telling of all of them was to be in the
right; for when juries know that a lawyer habitually refuses to be
on the wrong side, habitually breaks down if on that side, simply
from consciousness of the fact, and habitually makes strong and clear
arguments if on the right side, they are prepossessed in favor of
that lawyer before he says a word. He did not make speeches to the
jury, he talked with them; often in warm weather taking off his coat
for coolness, selecting some intelligent looking juryman, reasoning
with him until convinced, then taking another, and so on. He did not
browbeat witnesses, but kept them comfortable and good humored. In
short, Mr. Lincoln was decidedly and deservedly a powerful as well as
a successful lawyer. He must have been of great professional powers
to maintain himself, and rise to the leadership of the bar, with the
competitors he had. Among these were Mr. Douglas, Secretary Browning,
Senator Trumbull, Governor Yates, Judge Davis of the U. S. Supreme
Court, Col. Baker, Gen. Hardin, Gov. Bissell, Gen. Shields, Senator
Washburn, N. B. Judd, Gen. Logan, and others. He became recognized by
his fellow-citizens as "the first lawyer in Illinois," and one of the
judges on the bench described him as "the finest lawyer he ever knew,"
and another as "one of the ablest he had ever known."
Like so many of his profession, Mr. Lincoln was very early a
politician. Indeed, his devotion to politics interfered very
considerably with his gains, and delayed his eminence in his
profession. The value to his fellow-countrymen of the political results
which he was the means of bringing to pass, is, however, so infinitely
beyond any money value, that no regret can be felt at his ambition.
Mr. Lincoln's popularity among his neighbors, his assiduous study of
the newspapers, his intense and untiring meditations and reasonings
on the political questions of the day, brought him into the political
field pretty early and pretty well prepared. It was in 1832, when he
was twenty-three years old, that his first candidacy and his first
speech took place. The story and speech all together are so short
that they can be inserted here in full. On the day of election, then,
Mr. Lincoln's opponent spoke first, and delivered a long harangue of
the regular political sort. Lincoln, who followed him, completed his
oration in just seventy-nine words--less than one minute's talking.
This is what he said: "Gentlemen, fellow citizens:--I presume you know
who I am; I am humble Abraham Lincoln. I have been solicited by many
friends to become a candidate for the Legislature. My politics can be
briefly stated. I am in favor of a national bank, I am in favor of the
internal improvement system, and a high protective tariff. These are my
sentiments and political principles. If elected I shall be thankful, if
not, it will be all the same."
He was beaten, however, in spite of his terseness. But in his own
district he received all but seven out of 284 votes; and he was never
beaten again in any election by the people.
His actual political career, not counting this defeat, began in 1834,
when he was chosen member of the State Legislature, and being too poor
to afford a horse, walked over a hundred miles to Vandalia to take
his seat. He remained a member for four successive terms of two years
each. Mr. Douglas became a member two years after him, in 1836; the
two men quickly became party leaders on their respective sides of the
house, and thus their political courses and their political rivalries
began almost together. At the two latter of his four legislative terms,
Mr. Lincoln was the Whig candidate for Speaker, and once lacked only
one vote of being elected. Mr. Lincoln's eight years' service in the
State Legislature was busy and useful, and gave him an assured and high
position in his party. The work done was usually of a local character,
of course, its most important departments being that of the improvement
of internal communication by railroad and canal, and that of education.
But even on the question of slavery, the one significant occasion for
utterance which arose was promptly improved, and in such a manner as
to show both the settled feelings and convictions of Lincoln's mind
on the subject, and his characteristic practice of restricting his
official utterances strictly to the exigencies of the case. His dislike
of slavery was not only the consequence of his inborn sense of justice
and kindly feelings, but was his direct inheritance from his parents,
who left Kentucky and settled in Indiana expressly to bring up their
family on free instead of slave soil. In March, 1839, some strong
pro-slavery resolutions were passed by the Legislature of Illinois,
and by large majorities in both houses. This, the few anti-slavery
members could not prevent. But Mr. Lincoln and Mr. Dan Stone took the
most decided stand in their power on the other side, by putting on
record on the House journals a formal protest against the resolutions.
In this protest, they declared views that would to-day be considered
very conservative, about legal or political interference with slavery;
but they also declared in the most unqualified manner, and in so many
words, their belief "that the institution of slavery is founded on both
injustice and bad policy."
At the end of his fourth term, Mr. Lincoln declined a further
nomination, finding it absolutely necessary to devote more time than
hitherto to his own private affairs. When he thus left the Legislature
of his own accord, he was virtually the leader of his party in the
State, having reached that creditable and influential though unofficial
position by his own good qualities, in the eight years of his life
ending with his thirty-fifth. It was a great achievement for a man no
older, and so destitute of outside help.
For four years Mr. Lincoln now remained a hard-working lawyer,
although he did a good deal of political work besides, particularly in
"stumping" Illinois and Indiana in the Presidential canvass of 1844.
In this campaign Mr. Lincoln made many strong and effective speeches
for Henry Clay, and though his candidate was beaten, his own reputation
as a politician and speaker was much increased. In 1846 he was elected
to Congress as a Whig, and his extreme popularity at home is shown
by the fact that his own majority on this occasion was 1,511 in the
Springfield district, while Mr. Clay's had been only 914.
During this congressional term, Mr. Lincoln met the grinding of the
great question of the day--the upper and nether millstone of slavery
and freedom revolving against each other. Lincoln's whole nature
inclined him to be a harmonizer of conflicting parties, rather than a
committed combatant on either side. He was firmly and from principle an
enemy to slavery, but the ground he occupied in Congress was in some
respects a middle one between the advance guard of the anti-slavery
army and the spears of the fire-eaters. He voted with John Quincy Adams
for the receipt of anti-slavery petitions; he voted with Giddings for
a committee of inquiry into the constitutionality of slavery in the
District of Columbia, and the expediency of abolishing slavery in that
district; he voted for the various resolutions prohibiting slavery in
the territories to be acquired from Mexico, and he voted forty-two
times for the Wilmot Proviso. On one occasion, he offered a plan
for abolishing slavery in the District of Columbia, by compensation
from the national treasury, with the consent of a majority of the
citizens. He opposed the annexation of Texas, but voted for the bill
to pay the expenses of the war. He voted against paying for slaves as
property, when that question came up in the celebrated Pacheco case,
and thus recorded his denial of the right of owning men, or of its
acknowledgment by the nation.
During this term of service in Congress, Mr. Lincoln was a laborious
and faithful public servant; always present to vote, and always ready
for business; and his speeches, homely and rough as they were, showed
so much broad strong sense, natural rectitude, sincerity, and power of
reasoning, as to give him a good position as a debater. He declined a
re-election; tried for but did not obtain the commissionership of the
Land Office at Washington; declined appointments as Secretary and as
Governor of Oregon Territory; returned to his home and his work; was
unsuccessful as candidate for the United States Senate in the Illinois
Legislature of 1849-50; and labored industriously at his profession,
until the repeal of the Missouri Compromise, the Kansas Nebraska Bill,
and the violences and iniquities connected with them, called him once
more into public life.
He now took the field, heart and soul against the plot to betray
our territories into slavery, and to perpetuate the power of that
institution over the whole country. Henceforth he was all his life a
public man; first a prominent champion in the decisively important
state of Illinois, and afterwards the standard bearer and the martyr of
Freedom in America.
That contest in Illinois, in which the political doctrines of Mr.
Douglas were the central theme of discussion, and in which he himself
on one side and Mr. Lincoln on the other, were the leading speakers
and the controlling minds, was an important act in that great drama
of emancipation which culminated in the Rebellion. In Mr. Lincoln's
life it was if possible still greater in comparative importance; for
his debates with Douglas determined his reputation as a speaker and a
public man, and lifted him to the position from which he stepped into
the presidential chair.
During other previous and subsequent portions of his life, other traits
of Mr. Lincoln's character were often and clearly exemplified. But at
no time was he nearly as plainly and strikingly prominent as a power,
as during his contest with that bold and energetic politician and
remarkably ready and forcible debater, Stephen A. Douglas.
Their first great public duel, as it may be called, was at Springfield,
in October, 1854, just after the passage of the Nebraska bill. The
country was all aflame with excitement. Every fibre of justice, honor,
honesty, conscience that there was in the community was in that
smarting and vibrating state which follows the infliction of a violent
blow, and Douglas had come back to his own state to soothe down the
irritation and to defend his wicked and unpopular course before the
aroused tribunal of his fellow citizens.
He was to defend his course and conduct to a great audience assembled
at the State fair, and Mr. Lincoln was to answer him.
Never was there a greater contrast between two men. Douglas might be
called a brilliant impersonation of all the mere worldly forces of
human nature. He had a splendid physique, with all the powers of
the most captivating oratory, the melody of a most astonishing voice
which ran with ease through every gamut of human feeling, grave, gay,
pathetic, passionate, enthusiastic; now rising with irresistible
impetuosity, now mocking with gay and careless defiance, and with
this voice and this person, he was master of all those shadings and
delicacies of sophistry by which the worse can be made to appear the
better reason. He knew well how to avoid answering a telling argument
by a dazzling glitter of side issues--to make a plain man believe
he had got his difficulty solved, when he had been only skilfully
bewitched, and made to forget where it was. In a popular audience he
had something for every one. Gaiety, gallantry and compliments for
ladies, assured confidence for doubters, vehement assertions for timid
people, stormy brow-beatings, and lion roars of denunciation, to finish
