confess took at least quarter of an hour, had carefully brushed his
hair, and dusted his clothes, he certainly looked remarkably well. Dick
was not vain, but he was anxious to appear to advantage on his first
appearance in society. It need not be added that Fosdick also was neatly
dressed, but he was smaller and more delicate-looking than Dick, and not
likely to attract so much attention.
As the boys were descending the stairs they met Miss Peyton.
"Really, Mr. Hunter," said that young lady, "you look quite dazzling
this evening. How many hearts do you expect to break this evening?"
"I'm not in that line of business," said Dick. "I leave all that to
you."
"You're too bad, really, Mr. Hunter," said Miss Peyton, highly pleased,
nevertheless. "I never think of such a thing."
"I suppose I must believe you," said Dick, "but why is it that Mr.
Clifton has looked so sad lately?"
"Mr. Clifton would not think of poor me," said Miss Peyton.
"If you only knew what he said about you the other day."
"Do tell me."
"I couldn't."
"If you will, I'll give you--"
"Thank you," interrupted Dick, gravely; "but I never accept kisses from
ladies over six years old."
"How can you say so, Mr. Hunter?"
"I'm sorry to disappoint you, Miss Peyton, but I really couldn't."
"As if I ever thought of such a thing!" said Miss Peyton, in affected
horror.
"I appeal to my friend Fosdick."
"Did I say so, Mr. Fosdick?"
Fosdick smiled.
"You mustn't appeal to me, Miss Peyton. You and Mr. Hunter are so
brilliant that I don't pretend to understand you."
"Then you won't tell me what Mr. Clifton said. It is too bad. I shan't
sleep to-night for thinking of it."
"Suppose you ask Mr. Clifton."
"I don't know but I will."
Miss Peyton went into the parlor, her heart fluttering with the thought
that she had made a conquest of the gentleman referred to. As Mr.
Clifton was a clerk on a small salary, continually in debt, and with no
expectations, he could not be considered a very brilliant match; but
Miss Peyton was not very particular, and she would have readily changed
her name to Clifton if the chance should present itself. As we may not
have occasion to refer to her again, it may be as well to state that Mr.
Clifton's pecuniary affairs came to a crisis some months afterwards. He
had always been in the habit of laughing at Miss Peyton; but in his
strait he recollected that she was mistress of a few thousand dollars
over which she had absolute control. Under these circumstances he
decided to sacrifice himself. He accordingly offered his heart and hand,
and was promptly accepted. Miss Peyton informed him that he was "the
object of her heart's tenderest affection, her first and only love." Mr.
Clifton expressed no doubt of this, though he was aware that Miss Peyton
had been laying her snares for a husband for nearly ten years.
The marriage took place at the boarding-house, Dick and Fosdick being
among the invited guests.
Mr. Clifton with his wife's money bought a partnership in a retail store
on Eighth Avenue, where it is to be hoped he is doing a good business.
Any one desirous of calling upon him at his place of business is
referred to the New York City Directory for his number. Whether Mr. and
Mrs. Clifton live happily I cannot pretend to say, not being included in
the list of their friends; but I am informed by my friend Dick, who
calls occasionally, that Mrs. Clifton is as fascinating now as before
her marriage, and very naturally scorns the whole sisterhood of old
maids, having narrowly escaped becoming one herself.
CHAPTER XXI.
IDA GREYSON'S PARTY.
When Dick and his friend reached Mr. Greyson's house, two carriages
stood before the door, from each of which descended young guests, who,
like themselves, had been invited to the party. One of these brought two
young girls of twelve, the other two boys of twelve and fourteen, and
their sister of ten. Entering with this party, the two boys felt less
embarrassed than if they had been alone. The door was opened by a
servant, who said, "Young ladies' dressing-room, second floor, left-hand
room. Young gentlemen's dressing-room opposite."
Following directions, the boys went upstairs and entered a spacious
chamber, where they deposited their outer garments, and had an
opportunity to arrange their hair and brush their clothes.
"Is your sister here this evening?" asked one of the boys, addressing
Dick.
"No," said Dick, soberly; "she couldn't come."
"I'm sorry for that. She promised to dance with me the first Lancers."
"Wouldn't I do as well?" asked Dick.
"I don't think you would," said the other, laughing. "But I'll tell you
what,--you shall dance with my sister."
"I will, with pleasure," said Dick, "if you'll introduce me."
"Why, I thought you knew her," said the other, in surprise.
"Perhaps I did," said Dick; "but I exchanged myself off for another boy
just before I came, and that makes a difference, you know. I shouldn't
have known you, if you hadn't spoken to me."
"Do you know me now?" asked the other boy, beginning to understand that
he had made a mistake.
"You live on Twenty-First Street,--don't you?"
"Yes," was the unexpected reply, for Dick had by a curious chance
guessed right. "You're Henry Cameron, after all."
"No," said Dick; "my name is Richard Hunter."
"And mine is Theodore Selden; but I suppose you knew that, as you knew
where I live. If you're ready, we'll go downstairs."
"Come, Fosdick," said Dick.
"We're going to have the Lancers first," said Theodore. "Ida told my
sister so. Have you a partner engaged?"
"No."
"Then I'll introduce you to my sister. Come along."
I may explain here that Dick, and Fosdick also, had several times danced
the Lancers in the parlor at the boarding-house in the evening, so that
they felt reasonably confident of getting through respectably. Still his
new friend's proposal made Dick feel a little nervous. He was not
bashful with boys, but he had very little acquaintance with girls or
young ladies, and expected to feel ill at ease with them. Still he could
not think of a good reason for excusing himself from the promised
introduction, and, after going up to Ida in company with his new friend,
and congratulating her on her birthday (he would not have known how to
act if Theodore had not set him an example), he walked across the room
to where one of the young ladies who had entered at the time he did was
seated.
"Alice," said Theodore, "this is my friend Mr. Hunter, who would like to
dance with you in the first Lancers."
Dick bowed, and Alice, producing a card, said, "I shall be most happy.
Will Mr. Hunter write his name on my card?"
Dick did so, and was thankful that he could now write a handsome hand.
"Now," said Theodore, unceremoniously, "I'll leave you two to amuse each
other, while I go off in search of a partner."
"I'm in for it," thought Dick, seating himself on the sofa beside Alice.
"I wish I knew what to say."
"Do you like the Lancers?" inquired the young lady.
"Yes, I like it," said Dick, "but I haven't danced it much. I'm afraid I
shall make some mistakes."
"I've no doubt we shall get along well," said Alice. "Where did you
learn?"
"I learned at home," said Dick.
"I thought I had not met you at Dodworth's. I attended dancing school
there last winter."
"No," said Dick; "I never took lessons."
"Don't you like Ida Greyson?" inquired Alice.
"Yes, I like her very much," said Dick, sincerely.
"She's a sweet girl. She's a very intimate friend of mine. Who is that
boy that came into the room with you?"
"His name is Henry Fosdick."
"He's going to dance with Ida. Come, let us hurry and get in the same
set."
Dick offered his arm, and, as the sets were already being formed, led
his partner to the upper end of the room, where they were just in time
to get into the same set with Ida.
Theodore, with a girl about his own age, had already taken his position
opposite Dick. Fosdick and Ida were the first couple, and opposite them
Isaac and Isabella Selden, cousins of Theodore and Alice.
They had scarcely taken their places when the music struck up. Dick felt
a little flustered, but determined to do his best. Being very quick in
learning figures, and naturally gracefully in his movements, he got
through very creditably, and without a mistake.
"I thought you expected to make mistakes," said Alice Selden, as Dick
led her back to her seat. "I think you dance very well."
"It was because I had such a good partner," said Dick.
"Thank you for the compliment," said Alice, courtesying profoundly.
"Seems to me you're very polite, Alice," said Theodore, coming up.
"Mr. Hunter was paying me a compliment," said Alice.
"I wish you'd tell me how," said Theodore to Dick.
"I wish he would," interrupted Alice. "All your compliments are of the
wrong kind."
"It isn't expected that brothers should compliment their sisters," said
Theodore.
Mrs. Greyson came into the room during the dancing, and was pleased to
see that Dick and Henry Fosdick, instead of sitting awkwardly in the
corner, were taking their part in the evening's amusement. Dick made an
engagement with Alice for another dance later in the evening, but danced
the second with Ida Greyson, with whom, by this time, he felt very well
acquainted.
[Illustration]
"I didn't know you knew Alice Selden," said Ida. "Where did you meet
her?"
"Her brother Theodore introduced me this evening. I did not know her
before."
"You haven't been here lately, Dick," said Ida, familiarly.
"No," said he. "It's because I've been very busy."
"You don't work in the evening,--do you?"
"I study in the evening."
"What do you study, Dick?"
"French, for one thing."
"Can you speak French?"
"A little. Not much."
"I'm going to try you 'Comment vous portez-vous, monsieur?'"
"'Très bien, mademoiselle. Et vous?'"
"That's right," said Ida, gravely. "I can't talk much yet myself. Who
teaches you?"
"I have a private teacher."
"So have I. She comes twice a week. When I don't know my lesson, she
boxes my ears. Is your teacher cross?"
"No," said Dick, laughing. "He doesn't box my ears."
"That's because you're so large. I wish I could have you for my teacher.
I'd ask papa, if you could only speak it like a native."
"So I can," said Dick.
"You can, really?"
"Yes, like a native of New York."
Ida laughed, and was afraid that wouldn't do.
When the dance was over, and Dick was leading Ida to her seat, a
surprise awaited him. A boy came forward hastily, and said in a tone
blending amazement with gratification, "Is it possible that this is Dick
Hunter?"
"Frank Whitney!" exclaimed Dick, clasping his hand cordially. "How came
you here?"
"Just the question I was going to ask you, Dick. But I'll answer first.
I am spending a few days with some cousins in Thirty-Seventh Street.
They are friends of the Greysons, and were invited here this evening,
and I with them. I little dreamed of meeting you here. I must say, Dick,
you seem quite at home."
"Mr. Greyson has been a kind friend of mine," said Dick, "and I've met
Ida quite often. But I felt a little nervous about coming to this party.
I was afraid I'd be like a cat in a strange garret."
"You're a wonderful boy, Dick. You look as if you had been used to such
scenes all your life. I can hardly believe you're the same boy I met in
front of the Astor House a little more than a year ago."
"If I'm changed, it's because of what you said to me then, you and your
father. But for those words I might still have been Ragged Dick."
"I'm glad to hear you say that, Dick; but, for all that, a great deal of
credit is due to yourself."
"I've worked hard," said Dick, "because I felt that I had something to
work for. When are you going to enter college?"
"I expect to apply for admission in about two months."
"At Columbia College?"
"Yes."
"I am glad of that. I shall hope to see you sometimes."
"You will see me often, Dick."
Here the music struck up, and the boys parted. It is unnecessary to
speak farther of the events of the evening. Dick made several other
acquaintances, and felt much more at ease than he had anticipated. He
returned home, feeling that his first party had been a very agreeable
one, and that he had on the whole appeared to advantage.
CHAPTER XXII.
MICKY MAGUIRE RETURNS FROM THE ISLAND.
For three months Micky Maguire was not seen in his accustomed haunts.
During his involuntary residence at the Island he often brooded over the
treachery of Gilbert, to whom his present misfortune was due. He felt
that he had been selfishly left to his fate by his equally guilty
confederate. It had certainly been a losing speculation for poor Micky.
He had received but a paltry dollar for his services, and in return he
was deprived of his liberty for three months.
The disgrace of being sent to the Island Micky did not feel as Dick
would have done. He had been there too many times to care for that. But
he did not like the restraints of the place, and he did like the free
and independent life of the streets from which for a time he was
debarred.
The result of Micky's brooding was a strong thirst for vengeance upon
the author of his misfortunes. He could do nothing at present, but only
bide his time.
Meanwhile things went on pretty much as usual at the establishment in
Pearl Street. Gilbert liked Dick no better than he had done. In fact, he
disliked him more, but, seeing the friendly relations between Dick and
his employer, found it prudent to treat him well whenever Mr. Rockwell
was by. At other times he indulged in sneers and fault-finding, which
Dick turned off good-humoredly, or returned some droll answer, which
blunted the edge of the sarcasm, and made the book-keeper chafe with the
feeling that he was no match for the boy he hated. Dick, by faithful
attention to his duties, and a ready comprehension of what was required
of him, steadily advanced in the good opinion of every one except
Gilbert.
"Keep on as you have begun, Richard," said Mr. Murdock to him, "and
you'll be a member of the firm some time."
"Do you really think so, Mr. Murdock?" asked Dick, with a flush of
gratification.
"I really do. You have excellent abilities, Mr. Rockwell likes you, and
you have only to continue steady and faithful, and you'll be sure to
rise."
"You know what I was, Mr. Murdock."
"You are none the worse for that, Richard. It is a great credit to a boy
to earn his own living when circumstances force it upon him. If his
employment is an honest one, it is an honorable one."
By such remarks as these Dick was encouraged, and he felt that Mr.
Murdock was a true friend to him. Meanwhile a way was opening for his
advancement.
One day Micky Maguire appeared in his old haunts. The second day he met
Gilbert in the street; but the book-keeper took not the slightest notice
of him. That touched Micky's pride, and confirmed him in his resolution.
He decided to make known to Mr. Rockwell Gilbert's share in the little
plot, thinking that this would probably be the best method of injuring
him.
He ascertained, by means of a directory, with some difficulty, for
Micky's education was rather slight, the residence of Mr. Rockwell, and
about eight o'clock in the evening ascended the steps and rang the bell.
He might have gone to his place of business, but Gilbert would be there,
and he preferred to see Mr. Rockwell at home.
The servant stared at the odd and not particularly prepossessing figure
before her.
"Is Mr. Rockwell at home?" asked Micky.
"Yes."
"I want to see him."
"Did he tell you to call?"
"It's on particular business," said Micky.
"Stop here and I'll tell him," said the girl.
"There's a boy at the door wants to see you, Mr. Rockwell," said the
girl.
"Did you ask him in?"
"No sir. He looks like a suspicious carakter," said Bridget, laying the
stress on the second syllable.
Mr. Rockwell rose, and went to the door.
"What is your business?" he asked.
"It's about Dick,--Ragged Dick we used to call him," said Micky.
"You mean Richard Hunter."
"Yes," said Micky. "He was took up for stealin' a gentleman's
pocket-book three months ago."
"But he was proved innocent," said Mr. Rockwell, "so, if you have
anything to say against him, your time is thrown away."
"I know he was innocent," said Micky; "another boy took it."
"Who was he?"
