CHAPTER XVII.
THE GOLD RESTORED.
Levi could see no good reason why Dock Vincent and the steward of the
yacht should be such deadly enemies as to draw pistols on each other.
He had come on board for a travelling bag, which Bessie had left in her
state-room, and he was not prepared for the scene that met his view in
the cabin.
"What are you about, Augustus?" demanded he.
But the steward was obliged to attend to the ugly customer opposite him
at the table, and he made no reply--a piece of rudeness, however, which
he regretted as an absolute necessity.
"Captain Dock Vincent, I will trouble you to lay your weapon on the
table," said the steward. "If you don't do it, I will fire."
Dock did it.
"Pardon me, Captain Fairfield, for my rudeness in not replying to your
question," continued Augustus.
"I asked you what you were about," repeated Levi.
"I was about to shoot this ruffian, and I should have done so if I had
not happened to observe, in good time, that his weapon was not in
condition to go off."
Dock Vincent rose from his seat, leaving his revolver on the table.
Probably he had not expected to use it, believing the sight of it would
be sufficient to intimidate the steward, and induce him to give up the
three bags of gold. He looked at the colored man, then at Levi. The
former had dropped his revolver, seeing which the ruffian walked
towards the cabin door. As the movement was not opposed, he ran up the
steps, jumped into his boat, and pulled for the Caribbee.
Levi again impatiently demanded an explanation of the scene he had
witnessed. The steward, commencing back at the day of the examination,
related, in his prolix and grandiloquent speech, all the events in
which he had been the chief actor, up to the current incident of the
day. He did not confess that he had been tempted to steal the money,
for he regarded the overcoming of the temptation as a sufficient
virtue, without the humiliation of exposing his own weakness.
"Then the gold is on board now!" exclaimed the astonished Levi.
"Yes, sir; it is concealed in the run," replied Augustus.
"Why didn't you tell me of all this before?"
"Because I wished to find the men that stole the money. I thought I
could do it better alone than I could with the constables, or anybody
else," answered Augustus; but he hung his head as he thought of the
dishonest purpose he had cherished.
He had resisted the temptation, but his conscience was sensitive enough
to make him regret that he had even been tempted to steal.
Levi was thoughtful and troubled. The triumphant vindication of his
captain which the steward had promised himself to bring about was not
likely to be realized. The gold was on board of the yacht, and could be
restored to Mr. Fairfield; but the vessel had been searched for it, and
restoring it looked more like confirming the vile charge against him
than like disproving it. Perhaps it would be better for his reputation
to keep the money until the return of Ben Seaver; but Levi could not
believe it was right to retain the gold even a single day. He was
honest and true, and he determined to do his duty before God and man,
letting his reputation take care of itself.
He directed the steward to bring out the bags from their hiding-place.
The name on the tow-cloth, in his uncle's cramped writing, assured him
there could be no mistake in regard to the ownership. The steward told
him there was thirty-eight hundred and fifty dollars in the bags--one
hundred and fifty dollars less than the sum lost. The robbers had
probably taken out one hundred dollars for present use, and fifty for
the snare which was to intrap the captain of the yacht. One of the bags
had been emptied, and its contents distributed among the other three.
The gold was transferred to the boat, the cabin doors and forward
scuttles were locked, and Levi, accompanied by the steward, pulled
ashore, and landed at Mr. Watson's house.
The exciting story of the recovery of the money was repeated, and the
young skipper declared his intention to restore the bags to Mr.
Fairfield. Mr. Watson volunteered to go with him on this interesting
errand. With the bags in his hands, Levi entered the kitchen, where his
uncle was seated, followed by his constant friend.
"There is your money, uncle Nathan," said he, as he placed the bags on
the table.
"What! the gold?" demanded the miser, with breathless eagerness.
"Yes, sir, the gold," replied Levi.
"All of it?" gasped the old man, rising from his chair, while his frame
trembled under the excitement of the moment.
"All but one hundred and fifty dollars."
"I think you ought to give me back the whole on't, Levi."
"Fifty dollars more of it is in the hands of Squire Saunders."
"But then there's a hund'ed gone," added the old man, as he clutched
the bags, and raised them to test their weight.
"I suppose the thieves took a hundred dollars of the money," said Levi.
"Who's the thieves?"
"I don't know who they are; but I think they will be discovered in due
time. The steward of the yacht found these bags in the old fish-house
that was burned."
Mr. Watson and Levi had agreed that the ends of justice would best be
answered by saying no more than this at present. Both of them were
satisfied that Dock Vincent was one of the robbers, but unfortunately
there was no evidence that connected him with the crime. Though he had
gone on board the yacht, and demanded the gold of the steward, he had
done so in the name of the owner; and the act was consistent with his
position as the agent of Mr. Fairfield.
The old man asked a great many questions, but he obtained only the
facts; all theories and suspicions were suppressed. Mr. Watson had sent
the steward for Mr. Gayles, and before they left the miser's house he
arrived; and the party proposed to visit the fish-house, and examine
the premises, in search of any evidence that might be obtained.
Though Mr. Fairfield was overjoyed to find his gold, his satisfaction
did not prevent him from growling sorely at the loss of the hundred
dollars. He insisted that Levi ought to make it up to him. He followed
the party out of the house, and would have gone to the ruins of the
Hotel de Poisson with them, if Dock Vincent, who had just landed, had
not joined him.
The steward told his story over again; and the metallic parts of the
lantern, which still remained there, were a partial confirmation of the
truth of it. Mr. Gayles took possession of these pieces, hoping to be
able to prove something by them. While they were still discussing the
matter, Dock Vincent and Mr. Fairfield joined them.
"If you make up that hund'ed dollars, Levi, I won't say nothin' more
about it," whined the old man.
"I shall not do so, uncle Nathan," replied Levi.
"Certainly not," added Mr. Watson.
"He ought to do it," interposed Dock. "He stole the money, and the
least he can do is to give it all back."
"I do not wish to hold any conversation with you on the subject,"
answered the merchant, coldly.
"I suppose you don't," sneered Dock. "It has all turned out just as I
said it would. Levi stole the money, and got that black steward to help
him when he was like to be found out. I knew, all the time, that money
was on board the yacht; and Squire Fairfield may thank me for getting
it for him. I made the steward own up that the gold was on board; and
after that Levi didn't dare to keep it any longer. I suppose you don't
want to say anything more about it after that."
"Not to you," added Mr. Watson, as he walked away, followed by his
companions.
"There, Squire Fairfield, you can see them sneaking off like
sheep-stealers," said Dock. "It's just as I tell you, you may depend
upon it; and if Levi don't make up that hundred, I should put him
through a course of sprouts."
"He ought to gim me the whole of the money," replied Mr. Fairfield, who
accepted Dock's explanation in regard to the recovery of the gold.
"I reckon you'll get it yet. But, Squire Fairfield, I expect I shall
get off in two or three days now, and I want that money I spoke to you
about," added Dock, as they walked towards the road. "I am going to
sail for New York first, buy the goods there, and then go to Australia.
You are going to make thirty thousand dollars out of me, and you can
afford to accommodate me a little. I expect you will get the whole
thirty thousand before I sail from New York; I know you will."
Dock talked half of that night to the old man, and finally persuaded
him to raise the sum he required. The gold which had been restored to
him made up a large portion of it, and the next day he obtained the
rest. The emigrant had sold his house, and disposed of his furniture to
the buyer, who was to have possession as soon as Dock sailed.
While Mr. Fairfield and his villanous companion were discussing the
loan, Mr. Gayles called at Dock's house, after dark, to borrow a
lantern, having ascertained that he had recently purchased one at a
store in town.
"We haven't any lantern now," replied Mrs. Vincent.
"I thought you had one. Captain Vincent bought one not long ago," added
the constable.
"Well, he hasn't any now. I'm sure I don't know what's become of it. It
may be he left it on board of the vessel. He never said what had become
of it."
Without having proved the fact, Mr. Gayles was satisfied that Dock's
lantern was the one broken by the steward when he fell from the loft of
the fish-house. The parts he had taken from the ruins corresponded, in
size and form, with one which the shopkeeper declared was like that he
had sold Dock. The constable worked hard to obtain evidence enough to
warrant the arrest of Dock before he sailed for Australia; but Squire
Cleaves declared that the lantern was not sufficient.
On the day after Dock obtained the money from Mr. Fairfield, he moved
his family on board of the Caribbee, which had already cleared at the
custom-house. Mr. Gayles was alarmed lest he should escape, and
hastened to Squire Cleaves for advice.
"We must not let him go," said the lawyer. "Where is that colored man,
Mr. Ebénier?"
"I saw him at Mr. Watson's house ten minutes ago."
"Bring him to me."
The steward was brought to him, and he was induced to make a charge
against Dock of assault and battery. A warrant was obtained, and Mr.
Gayles, with a sufficient posse, went to the Caribbee to arrest him.
His wife, and a man whose name was not known, but who was said to be a
passenger in the schooner, declared that he had gone to New York on
business, and the vessel would not sail till his return. Certainly Dock
was not on board, and it was ascertained at the depot that he had taken
the train for Boston.
CHAPTER XVIII.
MAT MOGMORE.
Mr. Gayles watched the Caribbee night and day; but he saw nothing of
Dock Vincent. Mr. Fairfield said his neighbor and friend had informed
him, several days before, of his intention to go to New York. The
constable was forced to believe that the people on board his vessel had
told the truth, and he could only wait for his return. Of course the
Caribbee would not sail on her long voyage without him, and there
seemed to be but little danger of losing his man.
The only strange circumstance was, that Dock had sent his family on
board of the vessel; but he had not much consideration for his wife and
children, and would not scruple to add a week of confinement to the
three or four months' duration of the proposed voyage. The man on
board, who was said to be a passenger, and was a stranger in Rockport,
appeared to take a lively interest in the affairs of the vessel and her
owner. It was surmised that, as Dock was not a skilful navigator, he
had been employed to furnish the science for the vessel. Neither he nor
any one on board professed to know when Dock would return, or when the
Caribbee would sail.
On Monday evening, when Dock had been gone three days, Levi had taken
tea at Mr. Watson's, and was reading the daily paper, which the
merchant had brought from Boston.
"That's too bad!" suddenly exclaimed the young skipper, dropping the
paper, and looking at Bessie.
"What's too bad, Levi?" she asked.
"There's to be a yacht race in Portland harbor to-morrow, at eleven
o'clock, to sail for a silver pitcher."
"I do not see anything wicked in that," laughed Bessie.
"Nor I; but it is wicked that I did not know of it before. I am sure
The Starry Flag will beat anything of her size this side of New York;
and I am provoked to think I did not know of this race sooner, for a
silver pitcher would be a very handsome ornament for our cabin."
"Is it too late now?" asked Mr. Watson.
"The race comes off at eleven, to-morrow forenoon, and five yachts have
already entered," answered Levi, glancing at the paper again.
"Well, haven't you time to sail down there before the race?"
"If we sail to-night we have time enough. We can get there in ten hours
with a good breeze; with a stiff one, in six," replied Levi, beginning
to be excited.
"How is the wind now?"
"About west--a six-knot breeze."
"Let us start at once, then. I had as lief sleep on board the yacht as
on shore," said Mr. Watson.
"O, do go!" exclaimed Bessie.
"Do go!" repeated Mr. Watson, laughing. "Do you expect to sail in a
regatta, Bessie?"
"To be sure I do! I must go, father! I have been longing, ever since we
had the yacht, to sail in a real live race."
"But, Bessie, we must make a night run to Portland."
"So much the better! I shall enjoy it above all things. My state-room
on board is just as good as my chamber up stairs, and I like it
better."
"Your aunt Mary is sick, and cannot go with you," suggested her father,
alluding to Mrs. McGilvery.
"But you are going, father," persisted Bessie.
"True, I am; but----"
"Do let me go, father."
"I suppose you must go if you insist upon it."
"I do insist with all my might!" exclaimed Bessie, delighted with the
prospect.
"It will take us a couple of hours to get ready," said Levi, as he
looked at his watch; "but we can get off by ten o'clock. The only
difficulty I can see is, that yachts must be entered on the day before
the race;" and he picked up the newspaper again.
"We must get over that somehow," replied Mr. Watson, who seemed to be
quite as much interested as Levi and his daughter.
"How? With the best breeze we can expect, we can hardly reach Portland
before six in the morning."
"While you are getting the yacht ready, I will ride over to Gloucester,
and telegraph to a friend of mine in Portland, who will have The Starry
Flag entered to-night."
"That will do it splendidly!" exclaimed Bessie, delighted to have the
obstacle removed.
"The cook and steward are on board, but the hands are all at home,"
said Levi. "I will go and find them."
Mr. Watson rang the bell, and ordered the horse and buggy. Bessie went
to her room to prepare for the cruise, and Levi hastened over to Mr.
Mogmore's house, where he found Mat, whom he sent to look up the other
three hands. The young skipper pulled off to the yacht. The water tanks
were examined, and found to contain a week's supply at least. The
steward was sent on shore, with directions to bring off the men, and a
stock of ice and fresh provisions, after he had put the two state-rooms
in order.
By the time Augustus had procured his steak, chops, butter, milk, and
ice, the four hands had assembled at the landing-place, in readiness to
go on board.
"Hurry up, now!" said the steward. "Captain Fairfield is waiting for
us."
"There!" exclaimed Mat Mogmore, "I have forgotten one thing. The
captain told me to see Mr. Gayles, and tell him the yacht was going to
Portland; and I did not think of it till this minute."
"We can't wait for you," replied the steward, impatiently.
"You needn't wait. I will get some one to put me on board. Go ahead!"
And Mat ran up the rocks, and hastened towards Mr. Gayles's house.
But he hurried only a moment, till the darkness concealed his form from
his shipmates. Instead of going up to the town, he returned to the
landing-place as soon as the boat had left. While he stood on the
rocks, the clock struck nine. A few moments later, a boat, containing
one man, pulled up to the Point.
"Is it all right?" asked the person in the boat.
"All right," answered Mat Mogmore, as he stepped into the boat. "We
have no time to lose; Mr. Watson will return soon."
Mat took one of the oars, and they rowed over to the landing-place, in
the rear of Mr. Watson's house. Mat went up to the side door and rang
the bell. He was admitted to the entry, and told the servant he wished
to see Miss Watson. Bessie, who was now all ready, came down stairs
with her travelling bag in her hand.
"Captain Fairfield sent me on shore for you," said Mat.
"Where is my father?" asked Bessie.
"He is on board. He was in a hurry to see the captain, and went on
board with the steward. The yacht is all ready to sail now, as soon as
you go on board."
It was not exactly like Levi to send one of his hands after her; but
the yacht was going off in a hurry, and he must be very busy. It was
strange that her father did not come home before he went on board; but
perhaps he had learned something more about the race, and was in haste
to inform Levi of it. She was only afraid that the trip would be
abandoned. Her mother came to the entry, told her to "wrap up warm," be
careful not to take cold, and then kissed her with an affectionate
adieu. Mat Mogmore led the way down to the boat, and assisted her to a
seat in the stern-sheets.
The night was clear; but it was quite dark, and the darkness on the
water is deeper, and more dense, to a person unaccustomed to the sea,
than on the land. Bessie was not afraid; but after the boat had gone a
