
"On the ground ?"

"I told you, Mr. Thorold. I do not find that my orders allow
me to go there. I must do nothing that I cannot do in my
King's name."

"That is "

"As His servant  on His errands  following where He leads
me."

"I never heard it put so before," said Thorold. "It bears the
stamp of perfection  only an impossible perfection."

"No " said I.

"To ordinary mortals," he rejoined, with one of his quick
brilliant flashes of the eye. Then as it softened and changed
again, 

"Miss Randolph, permit me to ask a not irrelevant question 
Are you happy?"

And with the inquiry came the investigating look, keen as a
razor or a rifle ball. I could meet it though; and I told him,
it was this made me happy. For the first time his face was
troubled. He turned it from me and dropped the conversation. I
let it drop too; and we walked side by side and silently the
remainder of the steep way; neither of us, I believe, paying
much attention to what there was to be seen below or around
us. At the top however this changed. We found a good place to
rest, and sat there a long time looking at the view; Thorold
pointing out its different features, and telling me about them
in detail; his visits to them, and exploration of the region
generally. And we planned imaginary excursions together; one
especially to the top of the Crow's Nest, with an imaginary
party, to see the sun rise. We would have to go up of course
over night; we must carry a tent along for shelter, and camp
beds, and cooking utensils, at least a pot to boil coffee; and
plenty of warm wraps and plenty of provisions, for people
always eat terribly in cold regions, Thorold said. And
although the top of the Crow's Nest is not Arctic by any
means, still it is cool enough even in a warm day, and would
be certainly cool at night. Also the members of our party we
debated; they must be people of good tempers and travelling
habits, not to be put out for a little; people with large
tastes for enjoyment, to whom the glory of the morning would
make amends for all the toil of the night; and good talkers,
to keep up the tone of the whole thing. Meanwhile, Thorold and
I heartily enjoyed Number Four; as also I did his explanations
of fortifications, which I drew from him and made him apply to
all the fortifications in sight or which I knew. And when the
sun's westing told us it was time to go home, we went down all
the way talking. I have but little remembrance of the path.
The cool bright freshness of the light in the trees, and its
brilliant gleams in the distance after it had left our
hillside,  I remember that. I have an impression of the calm
clear beauty that was under foot and overhead, that afternoon;
but I saw it only as I could see it while giving my thought to
something else. Sometimes, holding hands, we took runs down
the mountain side; then walked demurely again when we got to
easier going. We had come to the lower region at last and were
not far from the gate, talking earnestly and walking close
together, when I saw Thorold touch his cap. I do not know what
made me ask, "Was that anybody I knew?".

"I believe it was your friend Dr. Sandford," he said, smiling
into my face with a smile of peculiar expression and peculiar
beauty. I saw something had pleased him, pleased him very
much. It could not have been Dr. Sandford. I cannot say I was
pleased, as I had an intuitive assurance the doctor was not.
But Thorold's smile almost made amends.

That evening the doctor informed us he had got intelligence
which obliged him to leave the Point immediately; and as he
could go with us part of the way to Niagara, we had better all
set off together. I had lost all my wish to go to Niagara; but
I said nothing. Mrs. Sandford said there was nothing to be
gained by staying at the Point any longer, as I would not go
to the hops. So Monday morning we went away.

CHAPTER XVIII.

SOUTH AND NORTH.


We made a round of pleasure after leaving West Point. That is,
it was a round of pleasure to the rest of the party. I had
left my best pleasure behind me. Certainly I enjoyed Catskill,
and Trenton Falls, and Niagara, after some sort; but there was
nothing in them all like my walk to Number Four. West Point
had enough natural beauty to satisfy; any one, I thought, even
for all summer; and there I had besides what I had not
elsewhere and never had before, a companion. All my earlier
friends were far older than I, or beneath me in station.
Preston was the single exception; and Preston and I were now
widely apart in our sympathies; indeed always had been. Mr.
Thorold and I talked to each other on a level; we understood
each other and suited each other. I could let out my thoughts
to him with a freedom I never could use with anybody else.

It grieved me a little that I had been forced to come away so
abruptly that I had no chance of letting him know. Courtesy, I
thought, demanded of me that I should have done this; and I
could not do it; and this was a constant subject of regret to
me.

At the end of our journey I came back to school. Letters from
my father and mother desired that I would do so, and appointed
that I was to join them abroad next year. My mother had
decided that it was best not to interfere with the regular
course of my education; and my father renewed his promise that
I should have any reward I chose to claim, to comfort me for
the delay. So I bent myself to study with new energies and new
hope.

I studied more things than school books that winter. The bits
of political matter I had heard talked over at West Point were
by no means forgotten; and once in a while, when I had time
and a chance, I seized one of the papers from Mme. Ricard's
library table and examined it. And every time I did so,
something urged me to do it again. I was very ignorant. I had
no clue to a great deal that was talked of in these prints;
but I could perceive the low threatening growl of coming ill
weather, which seemed to rise on the ear every time I
listened. And a little anxiety began to grow up in my mind.
Mme. Ricard, of course, never spoke on these subjects and
probably did not care about them. Dr. Sandford was safe in
Washington. I once asked Miss Cardigan what she thought.
"There are evil men abroad, dear," she said. "I don't know
what they will be permitted to do."

"Who do you hope will be elected?" I asked.

"I don't vote myself," said Miss Cardigan; "so I do not fash
myself much with what I can't help; but I hope the man will be
elected that will do the right thing."

"And who is that?" I asked. "You do not want slavery to be
allowed in the territories?"

"I? Not I!" said Miss Cardigan. "And if the people want to
keep it out of them, I suppose they will elect Abraham
Lincoln. I don't know if he is the right man or no; but he is
on the right side. 'Break every yoke, and let the oppressed go
free.' That is my maxim, Daisy."

I pondered this matter by turns more and more. By and by there
began to be audible mutterings of a storm in the air around
me. The first I heard was when we were all together in the
evening with our work, the half hour before tea.

"Lincoln is elected"  whispered one of the girls to another.

"Who cares?" the other said aloud.

"What if he is?" asked a third.

"Then," said a gentle, graceful looking girl, spreading her
embroidery out on her lap with her slim white fingers,  "then
there'll be fighting."

It was given, this announcement, with the coolest matter-of-
fact assurance.

"Who is going to fight?" was the next question.

The former speaker gave a glance up to see if her audience was
safe, and then replied as coolly as before.

"My brother, for one."

"What for, Sally?"

"Do you think we are going to have these vulgar Northerners
rule over us? My cousin Marshall is coming back from Europe on
purpose that he may be here and be ready. I know my aunt wrote
him word that she would disinherit him if he did not."

"Daisy Randolph  you are a Southerner," said one of the
girls.

"Of course, she is a Southerner," said Sally, going on with
her embroidery. "She is safe."

But if I was safe, I was very uncomfortable. I hardly knew why
I was so uncomfortable. Only, I wished ardently that troubles
might not break out between the two quarters of the country. I
had a sense that the storm would come near home. I could not
recollect my mother and my father, without a dread that there
would be opposing electricities between them and me.

I began to study the daily news more constantly and carefully.
I had still the liberty of Mme.'s library, and the papers were
always there. I could give to them only a few minutes now and
then; but I felt that the growl of the storm was coming nearer
and growing more threatening. Extracts from Southern papers
seemed to me very violent and very wrong-headed; at the same
time I knew that my mother would endorse them and Preston
would echo them. Then South Carolina passed the ordinance of
secession. Six days after, Major Anderson took possession of
Fort Sumter in Charleston Harbour, and immediately the fort he
had left and Castle Pinckney were garrisoned by the South
Carolinians in opposition. I could not tell how much all this
signified; but my heart began to give a premonitory beat
sometimes. Mississippi followed South Carolina; then United
States' forts and Arsenals were seized in North Carolina and
Georgia, and Alabama, one after the other. The tone of the
press was very threatening, at least of the Southern press.
And not less significant, to my ear, was the whisper I
occasionally heard among a portion of our own little
community. A secret whisper, intense in its sympathy with the
seceding half of the nation, contemptuously hostile to the
other part, among whom they were at that very moment receiving
Northern education and Northern kindness. The girls even
listened and gathered scraps of conversation that passed in
their hearing, to retail them in letters sent home; "they did
not know," they said, "what might be of use." Later, some of
these letters were intercepted by the General Government and
sent back from Washington to Mme. Ricard. All this told me
much of the depth and breadth of feeling among the community
of which these girls formed a part; and my knowledge of my own
father and mother, aunt Gary and Preston, and others, told me
more. I began to pray that God would not let war come in the
land.

Then there was a day, in January I think, when a bit of public
news was read out in presence of the whole family; a thing
that rarely happened. It was evening, and we were all in the
parlour with our work. I forget who was the reader, but I
remember the words. " 'The steamer, "Star of the West," with
two hundred and fifty United States troops on board for Fort
Sumter, was fired into' (I forget the day) 'by the batteries
near Charleston.' Young ladies, do you hear that? The steamer
was fired into. That is the beginning."

We looked at each other, we girls; startled, sorry, awed, with
a strange glance of defiance from some eyes, while some flowed
over with tears, and some were eager with a feeling that was
not displeasure. All were silent at first. Then whispers
began.

"I told you so," said Sally.

"Well, they have begun it," said Macy, who was a new York
girl.

"Of course. What business had the 'Star of the West' to be
carrying those troops there? South Carolina can take care of
her own forts."

"Daisy Randolph, you look as solemn as a preacher," said
another. "Which side are you on?"

"She is on the right side," said another.

"Of course," said Sally. "She is the daughter of a Southern
gentleman!"

"I am not on the side of those who fire the first shot," I
said.

"There is no other way," said Sally, coolly. "If a rat comes
in your way, you must shoot him. I knew it had got to come. I
have heard my uncle talk enough about that."

"But what will be the end of it?" said another.

"Pooh! it will end like smoke. The Yankees do not like
fighting  they would rather be excused if you please. Their
forte is quite in another line  out of the way of powder."

I wondered if that was true. I thought of Thorold, and of
Major Blunt. I was troubled; and when I went to see Miss
Cardigan, next day, I found she could give me little comfort.

"I don't know, my dear," she said, "what they may be left to
do. They're just daft down there; clean daft."

"If they fight, we shall be obliged to fight," I said, not
liking to ask her about Northern courage; and, indeed, she was
a Scotswoman, and what should she know?

"Ay, just that," she replied; "and fighting between the two
parts of one land is even the worst fighting there can be.
Pray it may not come, Daisy; but those people are just daft."

The next letters from my mother spoke of my coming out to them
as soon as the school year should be over. The country was
likely to be disturbed, she said; and it would not suit with
my father's health to come home just now. As soon as the
school year should be over, and Dr. Sandford could find a
proper opportunity for me to make the journey, I should come.

I was very glad; yet I was not all glad. I wished they could
have come to me rather. I was not, I hardly knew why I was
not, quite ready to quit America while these troubles
threatened. And as days went on, and the cloud grew blacker,
my feeling of unwillingness increased. The daily prints were
