"I'm sure he is doing no more than his duty," persisted Grace, stoutly.
"It appears that Mr. Lowington thinks he is right, or he would not send
the ship to sea. I am really sorry to hear you speak so unkindly of
your captain, for I must say that I cannot believe a word you say about
him."
"Thank you," replied Perth, dryly.
"I think you are sincere in your belief," added she. "Paul Kendall says
that the captain is right."
"Well, he is commodore, you know, and must believe everything the
principal says," laughed Perth. "It is not quite proper for any of us
to have opinions of our own, but you see some of us have them."
Perth was certainly good-natured, whatever else he was, and as Grace
said no more, he touched his cap, and passed on. The devoted admirer of
Shuffles's nobleness and goodness was greatly disconcerted by the blunt
statements of the second master, who had declared that the ship's
company were almost in a state of mutiny against the captain. She
continued her inquiries among other officers; but, though some of them
thought it was quite unnecessary to go to sea, they all spoke very
handsomely of Shuffles. It was plain enough that Perth had injured
himself more than the object of his calumny, by what he had said.
"Are you ready to go to sea, Miss Arbuckle?" asked the captain, as he
came on deck, and touched his cap to her.
"I am quite ready; indeed, I am afraid I am more ready than many others
on board of this ship," she replied. "I am sorry to hear that some of
the officers and seamen are very much displeased at the idea of going
to sea."
"So far as the seamen are concerned, it is their own fault, for they
have not done their duty," added the captain.
"Not the fault of all of them, I hope."
"Not all, certainly; but if they don't know their stations, they must
learn them. If you are all ready to go, I think we will be off," said
Shuffles, as he glanced at his watch. "You will get the ship under way,
if you please, Mr. Goodwin," he added, addressing the first lieutenant,
who was standing near him.
"I really hope there will be no trouble, Captain Shuffles," continued
Grace.
"There can be no trouble. All sailors grumble, you know, Miss Arbuckle,
and our boys imitate their elders in this respect. They will growl for
a while, but just as soon as they work the ship with skill and
promptness, we shall put into Brest, and make our trip down the Rhine.
I think we shall not be at sea beyond a couple of days."
"I hope not, for the sake of the crew."
"All hands, weigh anchor, ahoy!" shouted the boatswain, as his sharp
pipe rang through the ship.
Less than thirty of the seamen answered to the call, and it was
apparent that a very large majority of them had chosen to follow the
evil counsels of the runaways, or the foolish counsels of other
discontented spirits. It was the first time since the ship went into
commission that any considerable number of the crew had failed to
respond to the call. Shuffles was confounded, and the first lieutenant
actually turned pale. It looked like such a mutiny as the Chain League
had planned.
"Pipe again," said Shuffles, as quietly as he could.
Again the boatswain sounded the call, and repeated the order, but with
no better success than before. Not another seaman appeared upon deck.
"What does this mean?" said the commodore to the captain.
"As near as I can interpret it, the greater part of the crew do not
intend to obey orders," replied Shuffles.
"It certainly looks so."
"Mr. Goodwin, will you inquire of those who obeyed the order, whether
their shipmates heard the call?" continued the captain, laboring very
hard to appear cool and collected, as a commander ought to be in every
emergency.
Paul Kendall's curiosity prompted him to follow the executive officer
to the waist, where the seamen who had obeyed the call were waiting for
orders. He was unwilling to believe the evidence of his senses, though
he knew that there was considerable disaffection on board.
"Did the rest of the crew hear the boatswain's pipe?" asked Goodwin of
the faithful few.
"Yes, sir," replied Tremere.
"Where are they now?"
"In the mess-rooms."
"Why don't they obey?"
"They say they don't want to go to sea: they say they haven't done
anything to deserve punishment, and they object to being punished,"
replied the spokesman.
"What do they mean by being punished?" asked the commodore.
"Sent to sea. Mr. Lowington promised us a trip down the Rhine; and now
that excursion is given up. The fellows say the ship is bound to
Belfast, to convey the Arbuckles home. They say they are willing to do
their duty, if they can have fair play."
"What do the seamen intend to do?" asked Paul.
"Nothing, sir. They say they will give their reasons when called upon."
"Probably they will, when called upon," said Paul, who had very high
ideas of discipline.
The executive officer returned, and explained the situation to the
captain. It was impossible to get the ship under way with less than
thirty seamen, and he felt that his powers were exhausted. Fortunately,
Mr. Lowington, who had heard the boatswain's pipe, came on deck at this
critical moment.
"Didn't I hear the boatswain's pipe?" asked the principal, surprised to
find only a few hands in the waist.
"Yes, sir; we have called all hands twice, and only about thirty answer
the call."
"It was a mistake to call more than once," replied Mr. Lowington, who
did not seem to be taken aback by the astounding intelligence. "What's
the matter?"
The captain explained, reporting the statements made by the faithful
ones in the waist.
"A mutiny, then--is it?" added the principal, with a smile. "Well, I am
glad it is no worse."
"The mutineers are willing to explain, when called upon for an
explanation," added Paul, who was indignant at the conduct of the
malcontents.
"We don't usually call for explanations in such cases on board ship,"
said the principal. "It is plain enough that this is only a second
edition of the confusion of this afternoon. The young gentlemen have
been listening to evil advice."
"What shall be done, sir?" inquired the captain, rather nervously, in
spite of his laborious efforts to keep cool.
"Mutiny is mutiny," replied the principal; "but in this case, I think
we need not treat it with the severity which prevails in the navy. The
students below say, and probably believe, that the excursion to the
Rhine has been abandoned, and that the ship is bound to Belfast. Though
they are mistaken, we can only tell them so when they return to their
duty. We will go to sea, as we intended."
"How can we go to sea with a crew of less than thirty?" asked Shuffles.
"Keep perfectly calm, Captain Shuffles. I am willing to grant that, in
a man-of-war, with men in a state of mutiny, the case would be a very
serious one. I do not so regard it in the present instance, but we will
profit by the lesson it may teach. For an officer to permit a sailor to
see that he is disconcerted is yielding too much. Therefore, young
gentlemen, I wish you all to be perfectly composed, whatever happens.
This affair is rather ludicrous than otherwise, since the mutineers
declare that they are ready to explain when called upon to do so, which
is very kind and condescending on their part," the principal proceeded,
addressing the officers who had gathered around him for the solution of
what seemed to them a very difficult and trying problem.
But they were not permitted to hear the solution, for the principal
invited the commodore and the captain into the main cabin, to discuss
the matter, desiring, even in the present embarrassing situation, to
have everything done in accordance with his ideas of discipline. He
meant that the captain should be the apparent, if he could not be the
real, manager of the difficult affair.
"How many hands responded to the boatswain's call?" asked the
principal, when the party were seated.
"Less than thirty," answered Shuffles.
"Twenty-eight. I had the curiosity to count them," interposed Paul.
"Twenty-eight," repeated the principal. "Very well; we can--"
"I hope you will excuse me, sir," said Shuffles, interrupting him. "If
this state of thing is caused by any dislike to me, sir, I am willing
to resign."
"So far as I know, you have done your duty, Shuffles; and to permit you
to resign would be to abandon the plan of the Academy Ship, and
acknowledge that discipline is an impracticable thing. You cannot
resign."
"Many of the fellows dislike me," added the captain.
"That is not your fault, as I understand the matter. That the runaways,
who, I suspect, are at the root of this mischief, should be prejudiced
against you, was to be expected. If others are also, it is because they
are misinformed. You can afford to wait till time justifies your good
intentions."
"I am willing to own that I have no desire to resign. I like the place,
but I am willing to sacrifice my own wishes for the peace of the ship."
"Peace is not to be bought on any such terms. Say nothing more about
resigning. Twenty-eight hands, you say, are ready to obey orders."
"Yes, sir."
"On an emergency, the captain and four lieutenants can officer the
ship. Masters, midshipmen, and pursers must do duty as seamen. They
will gladly consent to do so. Let it be voluntary on their part. How
many will that make?"
"Thirty-eight."
"Peaks, Bitts, and Leach will make forty-one. The Josephine is fully
manned, and can spare us nine more. That will make fifty. If we lay
aside the school work, we can sail the ship round the world with that
number."
Shuffles displayed a smile of satisfaction at this solution.
"But we will procure the services of a tug-boat to tow us to sea, so
that there will be no hard work in getting clear of the harbor," added
the principal. "Send Leavitt in the second cutter to the Josephine for
the extra hands, and let Foster go in the third for one of the
steam-tugs up by the jetties. Above all things, Captain Shuffles, do
not mention your plans to any person."
"I will not, sir," replied Shuffles, as he hastened on deck to put in
force the solution of the problem.
"What is to be the result of this, Mr. Lowington?" asked Paul.
"I don't know--nothing serious, however. The young gentlemen are
waiting very impatiently in their mess-rooms to be called and asked for
the explanation, which I doubt not is a very plausible one. Let them
wait," continued the principal, leading the way to the deck, where he
sat down with the Arbuckles, and was soon busy in conversation with
them, as though nothing had happened.
CHAPTER V.
THE ORDER OF THE FAITHFUL.
The appearance of Captain Shuffles on deck produced a decided sensation
among the officers, some of whom believed that the mutineers would be
dragged from the mess-rooms by the adult forward officers, and tied up
to the rigging. The decided character of the principal certainly
pointed to the most decided measures. Something terrible was to be
expected, and the young gentlemen were astonished when Mr. Lowington
came on deck, immediately after the captain, seated himself with the
Arbuckles, and began to converse with them as pleasantly as though no
mutiny had ever been dreamed of.
The captain called the officers around him, and all of them eagerly
obeyed the summons.
"We are going to sea immediately," said he, with none of the anxiety
which was visible in his face before. "As we are short-handed, I have a
favor to ask. Those below the rank of lieutenant, who are willing to
serve as seamen until the discipline of the ship can be restored, will
signify it by walking over to the starboard side."
All below the grade indicated, with a single exception, promptly
marched over to the other side of the ship. The four lieutenants
stepped out of the way, so that the single dissenter might stand alone.
It is hardly necessary to say that Perth was the person who was so
largely in the minority among the officers.
"You decline to serve with the other masters?" said Shuffles.
"I prefer to be excused. I have had considerable experience as a
seaman, and would like a little more as an officer," replied Perth,
politely.
"We shall dispense with the services of all the officers except the
lieutenants," added the captain. "There will be nothing for you to do,
but you shall not be compelled to serve as a seaman."
"Permit me to take his place," interposed Gordon, the senior past
officer.
"Thank you, Gordon," replied Shuffles.
"Please enroll me also as a seaman," added Haven, good-naturedly.
"And me also," laughed Paul.
"I suggest that the past officers take the places of the second, third,
and fourth lieutenants, who shall do duty as seamen," said Leavitt, the
second officer.
"By all means," added Foster, the third.
"With all my heart," followed Prescott, the fourth.
The captain adopted this suggestion, and Gordon, as second lieutenant,
was sent off to the Josephine in the second cutter, which was pulled by
three masters and the three midshipmen. When it was ready to leave, Mr.
Lowington stepped into the boat, for he desired to satisfy himself that
the crew of the consort were not also demoralized. Haven in the third
cutter, with a volunteer crew, left the ship to procure a tug-steamer.
Peaks, Bitts, Leach, and the head steward had been privately requested
to be on deck, in case any unexpected demonstration was made by the
mutineers.
In the steerage everything was very quiet. The sensation below was
decidedly superior to that on deck. The rebels were patiently waiting
to be called upon for an explanation of their remarkable conduct.
Probably none of them even noticed that the grating had been put upon
the main hatch by the cautious Peaks, to prevent them from leaving the
steerage. The boatswain's call had sounded twice, and they supposed the
faculty of the Academy were consulting upon the proper measures to be
taken. Most of them believed that they would be invited on deck, where
the principal would "preach" to them, as usual, and thus afford them an
opportunity to state their grievances. Perhaps, with the exception of
the runaways, they were willing to return to their duty after they had
recorded their protest. The principal still purposed to let them wait.
The third cutter, all of whose volunteer crew wore shoulder-straps,
came up to the gangway of the Josephine, which, like the ship, was all
ready to weigh anchor.
"You come with a very nobby crew," said Mr. Fluxion, as the principal
stepped upon the deck of the consort.
"The ship is in a state of mutiny," replied Mr. Lowington, with a smile
upon his face, which softened the astounding declaration.
"Mutiny!" exclaimed Mr. Fluxion.
"Precisely so. We called all hands to weigh anchor, and less than
thirty answered to the summons. We learned from them that the rest of
the crew refused to do duty till their grievances were heard. Do you
know of anything of this kind on board of your vessel?"
"We haven't called all hands yet, for we don't begin to get under way
till the ship mans the capstan. It is possible that we shall have the
same difficulty."
"Let your captain get under way at once, for the ship will be towed
out. If your crew is all right, I should like to transfer a few seamen
to the ship, for we are rather short-handed," added the principal.
Mr. Fluxion called Captain Terrill, and the order was given to pipe all
hands. As the boatswain's whistle sounded, the principal and the
vice-principal descended to the cabin. Mr. Lowington had begun to
explain his method of dealing with the difficulty, when a messenger
from the captain reported that twelve seamen refused to answer the
summons.
"Ascertain who they are, and get under way without disturbing them,"
said the principal, after the messenger had retired.
"That's a novel way to deal with a mutiny," added Mr. Fluxion, who was
always in favor of decisive measures.
Mr. Lowington stated his views fully, and explained his plan. Though
the vice-principal did not agree with him in regard to his corrective
measures, he consented to adopt them. When they went on deck, the
captain handed Mr. Fluxion a list of the names of the Josephine's
mutineers. They were the twelve runaways who had been transferred to
the consort. Little had succeeded in inducing them to engage in the
plot, but the rest of the crew would not follow their vicious example,
even with the assurance that the mutiny was general on board of the
ship. Under these circumstances, none of the crew of the Josephine
could be spared for service in the Young America, and the boat returned
without them. The principal decided that the ship could be handled with
the available force, which might include a portion of the cooks and
stewards, some of whom were sailors.
The tug-boat had come alongside when the cutter reached the ship. In
order to give any rebel, who had repented, an opportunity to return to
his duty, the grating was removed from the main hatch, and the
boatswain again called all hands to weigh anchor. Only two of them,
however, answered the call. The capstan was manned by the faithful
thirty, reënforced by the officers and the men on board. A long hawser
had been passed from the bow to the steamer, and as soon as the anchor
was up to the hawse-hole, the signal was given to go ahead. The
Josephine followed as promptly as though every seaman on board
performed his duty, though the sails were not set with the usual
precision. The little squadron went off to the north-west, carrying its
double mutiny with it.
As soon as the ship began to move, after the anchor was secured, the
officers devoted themselves to the duty of stationing the crew. They
were divided into two watches, and their places for making and taking
in sail, reefing and tacking, were assigned to them. As the officers
