strong woman could be found " 
She rose and went to the window. It was dark and lower- 
ing without : not a star visible, and bitter blasts moaning up 
and down, like forlorn ghosts. If she dared to go over to the 
trustee-meeting and ask for this pittance fifty odd dollars it 
would keep them a month longer, give her her son that while, 
and something might happen. 
But it was a long, lonesome walk, and suddenly she felt 
weak as if deserted by both God and man. 
"Yes," he went on huskily, "we may as well look the 
matter in the face. The luck is all against me here. I will 
go somewhere and take a fresh start at anything that offers. I 
will not set up for a genius or a philanthropist," with a fierce, 
scornful smile that was very sad in its desperation. "I'll make 
a new home and come for you then, for I shall never, never 
part with you." 
She came back to the fire, and standing behind him, clasped 
her arms around his neck. "God help me to give up this 
idol," she prayed inwardly, "this sin of Achan in the camp." 
"As you will," she returned, humbly. 
" It will not be for long '' hopefully. 
And yet he knew that business was dull everywhere, and 
that a stranger's chance was a slender one at best. 
" I will see that you have credit while I am gone. And if 
some one could help you care for him until " 
He felt the tear dropping on his cheek. With that he drew 
the head down and kissed the wet eyelids, and for many mo 
ments neither spoke. 
For their lives had come to such a dreary, desperate pass. 
He desiring to do the best had fallen upon the worst ; and yet 
had there not been foul selfishness within ? 
The wind swept up without in broad gusts. Even the fire 
seemed to burn dully. 
They paid little heed to the carriage going past over the 
frozen ground, making hollow echoes, nor even noticed that 
the h'orses were stopped, and voices raised rather high in con 
versation. 
 
Then some one strode up the path, and feet were vigorously 
stamped on the stone beyond the porch a habit with Janet 
McRae, and not any disdainful shaking off of the dust. 
Anah Hurst started, wiped her eyes with the corner of her 
apron, and trembled at the authoritative knock. Victor an 
swered it, leaving his mother standing in the middle of the 
floor. 
"Does the Reverend John Hurst reside here?" 
The tone was so fresh and breezy, that it was like a waft of 
some inspiriting mountain air. 
' ' Yes ;" and Victor ushered in two persons, tall and well 
enveloped in winter travelling-gear, but faces that he had never 
seen before. 
"And is this Anah Hurst ? I think I should know the face, 
although you're worn and thin. But you've forgotten me 
Janet McRae. I was at your father's house once before you 
were married." 
Three and twenty years ago. She remembered now some 
distant cousins. 
" And this is my friend Doctor Trewartha." 
Anah Hurst blushed and stammered in her amazement, like 
any girl. 
"I suppose it is a great surprise. No doubt I ought to 
have come long ago ; but to tell the truth, I was a little vexed 
with your father the last time I saw him. I was quite willing 
to take you ; for, if you remember, Sandy and I never had any 
children, but your father kept up a stubborn old feud with our 
branch of the McRaes. A whimsical old fellow, with nothing 
Scotch about him save that. And so I've come at last, after 
discouragements that would have daunted any other woman. 
A few miles below the town there must be a misplaced switch, 
and from its effects we stood on the road good two hours, 
"waiting for them to clear away the debris." 
She paused then to take breath. Victor glanced at her in 
astonishment. A woman past sixty, but with a fresh, fair look, 
 
as if she would never be quite done with youth. Nearly as tall 
as her companion, but erect as any stately pine : her blue eyes 
still sharp and bright, her face unwrinkled, the mouth shutting 
firmly over sound white teeth, the lips full and rosy. Not a 
particularly handsome woman, with the large features, square 
jaw, and high cheek-bones ; but remarkable for her vigor, 
wholesomeness, and buoyant energy. 
"Yes, you were married, and your father died. I heard of 
that," nodding her head and approaching the fire where Victor 
had placed two chairs. "You've gone your way and I've gone 
mine ; but I think it would have been better if your father had 
listened to me ;" sharply, holding her head loftily as she sat 
down. 
" Well, we are the last of the family now, so it is best to let 
by-gones be by-gones. I am an old woman, and you are not 
as young as you were twenty years ago. This is your son ?" 
"This is my son Victor." 
In spite of all she had to remember, she uttered the words 
with a little pride. 
"I have had no children." And Anah Hurst guessed the 
pain that came in the strong woman's heart. "Perhaps it is 
as well. They bring care and trouble from the hour of their 
birth. There's not much of the old blood in him you and 
your father were famous for mixing it. I should say there was 
more Saxon than Scotch about him ; but he is a fine, well- 
grown lad. I need hardly tell you, Doctor Trewartha, after 
having been so remiss, that this is Mrs. Hurst and her son." 
Trewartha rubbed his hands together in the glow of the fire 
light. A manly man, strong, healthy, heartsome, with none 
of the city nervousness and anxiety about him a man used to 
good cheer and generous thoughts. The evident air of pros 
perity struck Victor in a very vivid fashion. 
Janet McRae must needs tell all her own story first. 
" So I asked Doctor Trewartha, who is my right-hand man 
for Mr. McRae died fifteen years ago, as you heard, doubt- 
  
less, at the time ; you were living at Northfield then to come 
and help me hunt you up, being the last of k'" We should 
have been here by mid-afternoon but for the mishaps on the 
road. I dare say you are much surprised ; but when I take a 
whim in my head I follow it out, sharp. I never yet saw the 
use of sitting a month or two in private contemplation as to 
which foot you should put forward first. And now, Anah Hurst, 
if you're satisfied to take up acquaintance with an old kins 
woman, give me your hand." 
Anah responded gratefully. The strength and cheerful 
voice seemed to revivify her. 
"A very bird's claw," she said, pressing the thin fingers. 
"You need mountain air, and good, wholesome food. You've 
been in trouble, I hear ?" dropping her voice a trifle. 
Anah Hurst had a vague, confused feeling, like some shy, 
prisoned creature, whose cage-doors are opened, and who sees 
endless vistas of green fields beyond. 
"Yes," she answered, with a sigh, turning her eyes away 
from the too glowing vision. 
"Mr. Hurst is still alive?" 
"A little better, we think." 
"His attack was paralysis ?" 
"Yes." 
"Over- work and meagre diet, I suppose. Clergymen have 
no right to be poor !" in a vigorous, almost scornful tone. 
"If the world makes them so?" And Victor Hurst turned 
his clear-cut face around suddenly. 
"Being poor, they have no business with preaching and the 
like. The world has too much of it already. People want 
work and bread instead of sermons." 
"But they die at last," said Doctor Trewartha. 
"Yes, I know!" with a fierce nod. "But T doubt the 
death-bed glorifying when a man has been a thief, and a liar, 
and a drunkard. They need to be taught how to live, how to 
take care of their souls and bodies. God will watch over the rest." 
 
Trewartha drew his chair nearer Victor when he saw the 
young man's ^nitted brow. It would not do to have a quarrel 
in the very beginning ; and knowing Janet McRae so well, he 
was anxious that these people should be better acquainted with 
her before they judged. 
" How long has your father been ill ?" he asked. 
"Eight months," briefly. 
"There has been some change, of course ?" 
"Yes." 
' ' What were the particulars of the first seizure ?" 
Victor began to think, and the talk of the woman floated out 
of his brain. Something in Trewartha interested him strangely. 
Mrs. McRae plied Anah with questions. She had heard that 
Mr. Hurst was quite well-to-do before he took up preaching 
for many years she had lost sight of them altogether. Where 
had they lived ? what had they done ? 
Anah made her story as short as possible. She was a 
reticent woman by nature, and there was a good deal of the 
old pride left in her, in spite of the daily warfare. After all, 
how much does religion change human nature? 
" You've had only the one child ?" drawing her chair nearer 
to Anah, and speaking in a low tone. 
"That is all." 
"And you have known little about managing him, I take it. 
I saw his name in the Trades' riots," dropping her voice to a 
whisper. "As if bread wasn't more to starving men than all 
your fine speeches and principles." 
"He went astray," Anah said, with a face of deepening 
pain. 
" He knew nothing of the business, of the rights and 
wrongs," she returned, sharply. "And yet he showed spirit, 
energy. He is in the wrong place, Anah Hurst." 
" I know it, I know it," piteously. 
" It was the old war upon wind-mills. Men never learn 
anything by experience women either, for that matter. When 
 
times are dull wages will be low. The law of supply and 
demand regulates these things. So it was foolhardy in him to 
lead a movement at that time. But he doesn't look as if he 
belonged to the rabble. Is it the Hurst blood ?" 
Anah flushed distressfully. 
" We'll talk it all over some day. I have a good deal to say 
to you, and I know that I have dropped down upon you most 
unceremoniously. But I declared this morning that I wouldn't 
rest until I'd seen you, and I would take as much pains to 
keep truth with myself as any other person. Then I cannot 
bear to be crossed and thwarted by puny mischances. I shall 
rest the more soundly for my ride out here. Doctor Tre 
wartha, how nearly up is our time ?" 
Trewartha pulled out his watch, a solid, old-fashioned, gold 
repeater, with a massive chain, plain as a cable-cord. 
"Fifteen minutes. You told the man to come in an hour?" 
"Yes." 
"I would ask you to see my husband," Mrs. Hurst said slowly 
" but he sleeps soundly the first part of the night. Still " 
"No, wait until to-morrow," interrupted Mrs. McRae. 
"We shall come again. Doctor Trewartha has his- head full 
of quips and quirks about diseases. Most of all, you want 
to get out of this place. There's nothing like mountain air 
for the bodies and souls of men. I'm glad to have found you 
before it was too late." 
"I should like to see your husband. From what your son 
has told me, I should think his case peculiar, to say the least. 
And if I could be of any service " 
"Thank you," Mrs. Hurst murmured. 
The four rose and stood in a group, making a picture of 
striking contrasts. Victor felt it keenly. A question of wealth, 
merely. But the ease and grace and air of superiority was 
theirs. Poverty was a cloud upon his mother's refinement: it had 
taken the bright red blood out of her veins, the roundness 
from her figure, the happy, satisfied smile from her face. What 
if John Hurst had let those poor souls down yonder go whither 
they would, and thought more of his own comfort ? 
"So I shall come in again to-morrow," Mrs. McRae began 
to repeat. "You will be better able to judge then how' far 
you care to take up acquaintance with an old kinswoman. 
That is the carriage, Doctor Trewartha. " 
They all heard the rattle of the wheels. Mrs. McRae retied 
her bonnet-strings ; drew her thick, soft fur mantle about 
her throat ; and then half crushed Anah Hurst's thin hand in 
hers so firm and warm ; and smiled on her in a cordial fashion 
that was absolutely fascinating. This life had been so full and 
generous : hers so meagre and bald. 
"Good-night, friends. It is not a good-by until you decree 
that our ways lie separate." 
The long ray of light from the half-curtained window was 
all that broke the dead blankness outside. How bitterly cold 
and drear it was ! Yet Trewartha's tone almost made a spring 
dawn of it. 
Anah Hurst opened the hand that ached with the pressure 
so recently given it, and began to straighten out something 
a fifty dollar note. 
"Charity !" Victor said, in a great and unreasonable tumult 
of soul. 
" It is the Lord ;" and she bowed her head reverently. 
But Victor saw no God in the hand. 
A hard, dogmatic, purse-proud woman, who had hunted 
up some needy relatives to swell the list of her worshippers, and 
add to the insense on the shrine of her self-love. 
" HE has answered my prayer at last, and raised up friends 
in our need," she went on, in a low, grateful tone, that was 
thanksgiving in itself. 
Victor looked at the saint-like face. How much she had 
borne, and how meekly. Was there, of a truth, an under 
current that he knew nothing about that sometimes saw God 
face to face ? 
 
"I was not aware that you had any connections living," 
he said, presently. 
"I knew not whether they were living or dead. I remem 
ber that Mrs. McRae came to our house once, sometime 
before my father died, and that the two had a dispute, 
parting bad friends. My father was hot and unreasonable 
when roused. They were distant cousins, and she married 
one of the relatives. The family never was large." 
"But rich," Victor said, in a half-repressed contempt. 
"They were thrifty, hard-working people ;" and she sighed a 
little. Her father had never troubled himself about the small 
details of economy or management in any shape. 
" I like Doctor Trewartha. Can he be a relative?" 
"I hardly think so." Then she turned and studied her 
son's face. 
"Victor," she began again, falteringly, "whatever good 
or pleasure may come out of this visit, whatever friendship 
may be proffered, do not refuse. For what Janet McRae gives 
she gives ungrudgingly." 
She looked so worn and weary, so tired with the buffetings 
of many storms, that his heart was moved with infinite pity. 
" Mother," he cried, thrusting down a great wave of passion 
that in another soul might have made tears, "God knows that 
I have brought you pain enough following my own devices. 
I have never been the comfort that a son should be. I thought 
myself so much wiser than he" nodding to the closed room 
beyond, "and went to meddling with souls as well as bodies, 
and have failed miserably. Nothing that I ever touched pros 
pered. And since I have shown myself so weak, so easily led 
astray, I will take the destiny of no other human creature in 
my hands. If Janet McRae chooses to befriend you and my 
father, no word of mine shall anger or frustrate good inten 
tions. Let her come as she will. I have dragged you nearly 
to starvation." 
She noticed that he left himself out. Yes, he would be too 
 
proud to live on Mrs. McRae's money, if it ever came to that ; 
and somehow the cordial clasps of the hand had meant a good 
deal to her, gone to the depths of her soul. It would be as 
well, perhaps, for him to carve out his own fortune if he 
could ever find the right place. 
"We all make mistakes ;" with pathetic submission. 
" But mine was such a senseless blunder. And yet I think I 
had a little right on my side, at all events. I was true to my 
order at last ;" with a kind of scornful pity. 
Was it his order? John Hurst, in the narrowness of human 
wisdom, had put him there, but the soul would go on strug 
