friendship wrung from the young wife at this period.
Lady Anne Barnard, authoress of 'Auld Robin Grey', a friend whose
age and experience made her a proper confidante, sent for the
broken-hearted, perplexed wife, and offered her a woman's sympathy.
To her Lady Byron wrote many letters, under seal of confidence, and
Lady Anne says: 'I will give you a few paragraphs transcribed from
one of Lady Byron's own letters to me. It is sorrowful to think that
in a very little time this young and amiable creature, wise, patient,
and feeling, will have her character mistaken by every one who reads
Byron's works. To rescue her from this I preserved her letters, and
when she afterwards expressed a fear that anything of her writing
should ever fall into hands to injure him (I suppose she meant by
publication), I safely assured her that it never should. But here this
letter shall be placed, a sacred record in her favour, unknown to
herself.
 'I am a very incompetent judge of the impression which the last Canto
 of "Childe Harold" may produce on the minds of indifferent readers.
 'It contains the usual trace of a conscience restlessly awake, though
 his object has been too long to aggravate its burden, as if it could
 thus be oppressed into eternal stupor. I will hope, as you do, that it
 survives for his ultimate good.
 'It was the acuteness of his remorse, impenitent in its character,
 which so long seemed to demand from my compassion to spare every
 semblance of reproach, every look of grief, which might have said to
 his conscience, "You have made me wretched."
 'I am decidedly of opinion that he is responsible. He has wished to
 be thought partially deranged, or on the brink of it, to perplex
 observers and prevent them from tracing effects to their real causes
 through all the intricacies of his conduct. I was, as I told you, at
 one time the dupe of his acted insanity, and clung to the former
 delusions in regard to the motives that concerned me personally, till
 the whole system was laid bare.
 'He is the absolute monarch of words, and uses them, as Bonaparte did
 lives, for conquest, without more regard to their intrinsic value,
 considering them only as ciphers, which must derive all their import
 from the situation in which he places them, and the ends to which he
 adapts them, with such consummate skill.
 'Why, then, you will say, does he not employ them to give a better
 colour to his own character? Because he is too good an actor to
 over-act, or to assume a moral garb, which it would be easy to strip
 off.
 'In regard to his poetry, egotism is the vital principle of his
 imagination, which it is difficult for him to kindle on any subject
 with which his own character and interests are not identified; but by
 the introduction of fictitious incidents, by change of scene or time,
 he has enveloped his poetical disclosures in a system impenetrable
 except to a very few; and his constant desire of creating a sensation
 makes him not averse to be the object of wonder and curiosity, even
 though accompanied by some dark and vague suspicions.
 'Nothing has contributed more to the misunderstanding of his real
 character than the lonely grandeur in which he shrouds it, and his
 affectation of being above mankind, when he exists almost in their
 voice. The romance of his sentiments is another feature of this mask
 of state. I know no one more habitually destitute of that enthusiasm
 he so beautifully expresses, and to which he can work up his fancy
 chiefly by contagion.
 'I had heard he was the best of brothers, the most generous of
 friends, and I thought such feelings only required to be warmed and
 cherished into more diffusive benevolence. Though these opinions are
 eradicated, and could never return but with the decay of my memory,
 you will not wonder if there are still moments when the association of
 feelings which arose from them soften and sadden my thoughts.
 'But I have not thanked you, dearest Lady Anne, for your kindness in
 regard to a principal object,--that of rectifying false impressions.
 I trust you understand my wishes, which never were to injure Lord
 Byron in any way; for, though he would not suffer me to remain his
 wife, he cannot prevent me from continuing his friend; and it was from
 considering myself as such that I silenced the accusations by which my
 own conduct might have been more fully justified.
 'It is not necessary to speak ill of his heart in general; it is
 sufficient that to me it was hard and impenetrable,--that my own must
 have been broken before his could have been touched. I would rather
 represent this as my misfortune than as his guilt; but, surely,
 that misfortune is not to be made my crime! Such are my feelings; you
 will judge how to act.
 'His allusions to me in "Childe Harold" are cruel and cold, but
 with such a semblance as to make me appear so, and to attract all
 sympathy to himself. It is said in this poem that hatred of him will
 be taught as a lesson to his child. I might appeal to all who have
 ever heard me speak of him, and still more to my own heart, to witness
 that there has been no moment when I have remembered injury otherwise
 than affectionately and sorrowfully.
 'It is not my duty to give way to hopeless and wholly unrequited
 affection; but, so long as I live, my chief struggle will probably
 be not to remember him too kindly. I do not seek the sympathy of the
 world, but I wish to be known by those whose opinion is valuable and
 whose kindness is dear to me. Among such, my dear Lady Anne, you will
 ever be remembered by your truly affectionate
  'A. BYRON.'
On this letter I observe Lord Lindsay remarks that it shows a noble
but rather severe character, and a recent author has remarked that it
seemed to be written rather in a 'cold spirit of criticism.' It seems
to strike these gentlemen as singular that Lady Byron did not enjoy the
poem! But there are two remarkable sentences in this letter which have
escaped the critics hitherto. Lord Byron, in this, the Third Canto
of 'Childe Harold,' expresses in most affecting words an enthusiasm
of love for his sister. So long as he lived he was her faithful
correspondent; he sent her his journals; and, dying, he left her and
her children everything he had in the world. This certainly seems like
an affectionate brother; but in what words does Lady Byron speak of
this affection?
'I had heard he was the best of brothers, the most generous of
friends. I thought these feelings only required to be warmed and
cherished into more diffusive benevolence. THESE OPINIONS ARE
ERADICATED, AND COULD NEVER RETURN BUT WITH THE DECAY OF MEMORY.'
Let me ask those who give this letter as a proof that at this time no
idea such as I have stated was in Lady Byron's mind, to account for
these words. Let them please answer these questions: Why had Lady Byron
ceased to think him a good brother? Why does she use so strong a word
as that the opinion was eradicated, torn up by the roots, and could
never grow again in her except by decay of memory?
And yet this is a document Lord Lindsay vouches for as authentic, and
which he brings forward in defence of Lord Byron.
Again she says,'Though he would not suffer me to remain his wife, he
cannot prevent me from continuing his friend.' Do these words not say
that in some past time, in some decided manner, Lord Byron had declared
to her his rejection of her as a wife? I shall yet have occasion to
explain these words.
Again she says, 'I silenced accusations by which my conduct might have
been more fully justified.'
The people in England who are so very busy in searching out evidence
against my true story have searched out and given to the world an
important confirmation of this assertion of Lady Byron's.
It seems that the confidential waiting-maid who went with Lady Byron
on her wedding journey has been sought out and interrogated, and, as
appears by description, is a venerable, respectable old person, quite
in possession of all her senses in general, and of that sixth sense of
propriety in particular, which appears not to be a common virtue in our
days.
As her testimony is important, we insert it just here, with a
description of her person in full. The ardent investigators thus
speak:--
 'Having gained admission, we were shown into a small but neatly
 furnished and scrupulously clean apartment, where sat the object
 of our visit. Mrs. Mimms is a venerable-looking old lady, of short
 stature, slight and active appearance, with a singularly bright and
 intelligent countenance. Although midway between eighty and ninety
 years of age, she is in full possession of her faculties, discourses
 freely and cheerfully, hears apparently as well as ever she did,
 and her sight is so good that, aided by a pair of spectacles, she
 reads the Chronicle every day with ease. Some idea of her competency
 to contribute valuable evidence to the subject which now so much
 engages public attention on three continents may be found from her
 own narrative of her personal relations with Lady Byron. Mrs. Mimms
 was born in the neighbourhood of Seaham, and knew Lady Byron from
 childhood. During the long period of ten years she was Miss Milbanke's
 lady's-maid, and in that capacity became the close confidante of her
 mistress. There were circumstances which rendered their relationship
 peculiarly intimate. Miss Milbanke had no sister or female friend
 to whom she was bound by the ties of more than a common affection;
 and her mother, whatever other excellent qualities she may have
 possessed, was too high-spirited and too hasty in temper to attract
 the sympathies of the young. Some months before Miss Milbanke was
 married to Lord Byron, Mrs. Mimms had quitted her service on the
 occasion of her own marriage with Mr. Mimms; but she continued to
 reside in the neighbourhood of Seaham, and remained on the most
 friendly terms with her former mistress. As the courtship proceeded,
 Miss Milbanke concealed nothing from her faithful attendant; and
 when the wedding-day was fixed, she begged Mrs. Mimms to return and
 fulfil the duties of lady's-maid, at least during the honeymoon. Mrs.
 Mimms at the time was nursing her first child, and it was no small
 sacrifice to quit her own home at such a moment, but she could not
 refuse her old mistress's request. Accordingly, she returned to Seaham
 Hall some days before the wedding, was present at the ceremony, and
 then preceded Lord and Lady Byron to Halnaby Hall, near Croft, in the
 North Riding of Yorkshire, one of Sir Ralph Milbanke's seats, where
 the newly married couple were to spend the honeymoon. Mrs. Mimms
 remained with Lord and Lady Byron during the three weeks they spent at
 Halnaby Hall, and then accompanied them to Seaham, where they spent
 the next six weeks. It was during the latter period that she finally
 quitted Lady Byron's service; but she remained in the most friendly
 communication with her ladyship till the death of the latter, and for
 some time was living in the neighbourhood of Lady Byron's residence
 in Leicestershire, where she had frequent opportunities of seeing her
 former mistress. It may be added that Lady Byron was not unmindful of
 the faithful services of her friend and attendant in the instructions
 to her executors contained in her will. Such was the position of Mrs.
 Mimms towards Lady Byron; and we think no one will question that
 it was of a nature to entitle all that Mrs. Mimms may say on the
 subject of the relations of Lord and Lady Byron to the most respectful
 consideration and credit.'
Such is the chronicler's account of the faithful creature whom nothing
but intense indignation and disgust at Mrs. Beecher Stowe would lead
to speak on her mistress's affairs; but Mrs. Beecher Stowe feels none
the less sincere respect for her, and is none the less obliged to her
for having spoken. Much of Mrs. Mimms's testimony will be referred to
in another place; we only extract one passage, to show that while Lord
Byron spent his time in setting afloat slanders against his wife, she
spent hers in sealing the mouths of witnesses against him.
Of the period of the honeymoon Mrs. Mimms says:--
 'The happiness of Lady Byron, however, was of brief duration; even
 during the short three weeks they spent at Halnaby, the irregularities
 of Lord Byron occasioned her the greatest distress, and she even
 contemplated returning to her father. Mrs. Mimms was her constant
 companion and confidante through this painful period, and she does not
 believe that her ladyship concealed a thought from her. With laudable
 reticence, the old lady absolutely refuses to disclose the particulars
 of Lord Byron's misconduct at this time; she gave Lady Byron a solemn
 promise not to do so.
        *       *       *       *       *
 'So serious did Mrs. Mimms consider the conduct of Lord Byron, that
 she recommended her mistress to confide all the circumstances to her
 father, Sir Ralph Milbanke, a calm, kind, and most excellent parent,
 and take his advice as to her future course. At one time Mrs. Mimms
 thinks Lady Byron had resolved to follow her counsel and impart her
 wrongs to Sir Ralph; but on arriving at Seaham Hall her ladyship
 strictly enjoined Mrs. Mimms to preserve absolute silence on the
 subject--a course which she followed herself;--so that when, six weeks
 later, she and Lord Byron left Seaham for London, not a word had
 escaped her to disturb her parents' tranquility as to their daughter's
 domestic happiness. As might be expected, Mrs. Mimms bears the
 warmest testimony to the noble and lovable qualities of her departed
 mistress. She also declares that Lady Byron was by no means of a cold
 temperament, but that the affectionate impulses of her nature were
 checked by the unkind treatment she experienced from her husband.'
We have already shown that Lord Byron had been, ever since his
separation, engaged in a systematic attempt to reverse the judgment of
the world against himself, by making converts of all his friends to a
most odious view of his wife's character, and inspiring them with the
zeal of propagandists to spread these views through society. We have
seen how he prepared partisans to interpret the Fourth Canto of 'Childe
Harold.'
This plan of solemn and heroic accusation was the first public attack
on his wife. Next we see him commencing a scurrilous attempt to turn
her to ridicule in the First Canto of 'Don Juan.'
It is to our point now to show how carefully and cautiously this Don
Juan campaign was planned.
Vol. IV. p. 138, we find Letter 325 to Mr. Murray:--
  'VENICE: January 25, 1819.
 'You will do me the favour to print privately, for private
 distribution, fifty copies of "Don Juan." The list of the men to whom
 I wish it presented I will send hereafter.'
The poem, as will be remembered, begins with the meanest and foulest
attack on his wife that ever ribald wrote, and puts it in close
neighbourhood with scenes which every pure man or woman must feel
to be the beastly utterances of a man who had lost all sense of
decency. Such a potion was too strong to be administered even in a
time when great license was allowed, and men were not over-nice. But
Byron chooses fifty armour-bearers of that class of men who would
find indecent ribaldry about a wife a good joke, and talk about the
'artistic merits' of things which we hope would make an honest boy
blush.
At this time he acknowledges that his vices had brought him to a state
of great exhaustion, attended by such debility of the stomach that
nothing remained on it; and adds, 'I was obliged to reform my way of
life, which was conducting me from the yellow leaf to the ground with
all deliberate speed.'[13] But as his health is a little better he
employs it in making the way to death and hell elegantly easy for other
young men, by breaking down the remaining scruples of a society not
over-scrupulous.
[Footnote 13: Vol. iv. p 143.]
Society revolted, however, and fought stoutly against the nauseous
dose. His sister wrote to him that she heard such things said of it
that she never would read it; and the outcry against it on the part
of all women of his acquaintance was such that for a time he was quite
overborne; and the Countess Guiccioli finally extorted a promise from
him to cease writing it. Nevertheless, there came a time when England
accepted 'Don Juan,'--when Wilson, in the 'Noctes Ambrosianæ,' praised
it as a classic, and took every opportunity to reprobate Lady Byron's
conduct. When first it appeared the 'Blackwood' came out with that
indignant denunciation of which we have spoken, and to which Byron
replied in the extracts we have already quoted. He did something more
than reply. He marked out Wilson as one of the strongest literary men
of the day, and set his 'initiated' with their documents to work upon
him.
One of these documents to which he requested Wilson's attention was the
private autobiography, written expressly to give his own story of all
the facts of the marriage and separation.
In the indignant letter he writes Murray on the 'Blackwood' article,
Vol. IV., Letter 350--under date December 10, 1819--he says:--
 'I sent home for Moore, and for Moore only (who has my journal also),
 my memoir written up to 1816, and I gave him leave to show it to
 whom he pleased, but not to publish on any account. You may read
 it, and you may let Wilson read it if he likes--not for his public
 opinion, but his private, for I like the man, and care very little
 about the magazine. And I could wish Lady Byron herself to read
 it, that she may have it in her power to mark anything mistaken or
 misstated. As it will never appear till after my extinction, it would
 be but fair she should see it; that is to say, herself willing. Your
 "Blackwood" accuses me of treating women harshly; but I have been
 their martyr; my whole life has been sacrificed to them and by them.'
It was a part of Byron's policy to place Lady Byron in positions before
the world where she could not speak, and where her silence would be
set down to her as haughty, stony indifference and obstinacy. Such was
the pretended negotiation through Madame de Staël, and such now this
apparently fair and generous offer to let Lady Byron see and mark this
manuscript.
The little Ada is now in her fifth year--a child of singular
sensibility and remarkable mental powers--one of those exceptional
children who are so perilous a charge for a mother.
Her husband proposes this artful snare to her,--that she shall mark
what is false in a statement which is all built on a damning lie, that
she cannot refute over that daughter's head,--and which would perhaps
be her ruin to discuss.
Hence came an addition of two more documents, to be used 'privately
among friends,'[14] and which 'Blackwood' uses after Lady Byron is
safely out of the world to cast ignominy on her grave--the wife's
letter, that of a mother standing at bay for her daughter, knowing that
she is dealing with a desperate, powerful, unscrupulous enemy.
  'KIRKBY MALLORY: March 10, 1820.
