she does. He is good-natured to us boys, and a 
capital fellow for fun, but I wish Kathie had a 
nice home — ” 
“ Isn’t her home pleasant ? Mrs. Alston appears 
to be a very kind woman.” 
“ Oh, I like her and Kathies Aunt Euth, but it is 
sad to be poor, and to have to work hard.” 
“Yes, indeed,” Jessie said. 
“ Kathie ’s always thinking of her Aunt Ruth, and 
wishing she was well. It s real hard to be sick and 
lame.” 
“ I have met Miss Conover several times, and I 
think she bears her burdens very patiently.” 
“ But it ’s hard, all the same.” 
“Yes, Charlie, it is”; and Jessie drooped her 
thoughtful brown eyes. 
There was a pause, and presently Charlie began 
again : “ Jessie, do you think we could do anything 
to make Miss Conover happier.” 
“ I don’t know, Charlie ; have you thought of any 
plan ? ” 
 
“ Only ” — Charlie hesitated a little — “ if we 
could take her out to ride.” 
“ Do you think she would go ? ” 
“ Why, yes ” ; and then Charlie repeated the few 
words that had passed between him and Kathie. 
‘'We might do that. Dolly is so gentle that no 
one would be afraid with her. Sleigh-riding did you 
mean ? ” 
“ Yes. Wouldn’t it be nice ? Kathie would feel 
so delighted.” 
“ Suppose we go next week, the first nice day ? 
We will take the two-seat sleigh, and invite both 
Kathie and her aunt.” 
“ Splendid ! ” said Charlie. 
“ And I can do it very nicely. Mrs. Thomas asked 
me the other day whom she could get to do some 
fine needlework. I ’ll go and see if Miss Conover 
can undertake it, and then we will ask them to drive 
with us.” 
“ Just the thing. 
Then he came to kiss Jessie, and went off to bed 
thankful that he had discovered a way of making 
some one happy, and, most of all, Kathie. 
The next day being Sunday there was no playing 
 
or snow-balling. It was cold but clear, and sunny as 
a midsummer day. The children were none the worse 
for their ice-palace party ; even Freddy, when he woke 
up, was as bright as a daisy. 
Sunday was always a long day to Eob. He went 
to church in the morning with his mother and Kathie, 
and to Sunday school in the afternoon ; but it seemed 
as if he had read every book in the house and heard 
everything. 
“ Oh dear,” he said after supper, as Kathie was 
washing up the dishes, — for on Sunday they had a fire 
in the parlor, as the room fronted the street, and look- 
ing at the people passing made a pleasant break in 
Aunt Euth’s monotonous days, — “O dear, I don’t 
know what to do with myself ! ” 
“ You ’ll have to fight a giant,” Kathie answered, 
soberly. 
“ Let ’s hear about that, Kathie ” ; and, for a won- 
der, Eob was quite interested. 
“ You know I was telling you the other day that 
Aunt Euth said our evil tempers and feelings soon 
grew to be giants if we didn’t make war upon them. 
And that part of fairy-stories is true, for some people 
do set out to kill giants.” 
 
“ Which one shall I go at ? ” 
“ I think, Rob,” — and Katlne hesitated a little, — 
“that the Sunday giant is Restlessness,” 
“ I can’t help it. I ’m a boy, and I can’t be still.” 
“ Not if you try very hard ? ” Katliie smiled hei 
sweetest. 
“ Well — ” Rob looked rather undecided. “ About 
the Monday giant then?” 
Katliie laughed. “ Are you going to have a giant 
for every day ? ” she asked. 
“ I dare say you could find a dozen.” 
“ But, Rob, I ’m not trying to ; I love you dearly.” 
“ Giant number two ? Go on.” 
“ One giant is Thoughtlessness. He ’s troubled 
me a good deal too.” 
“ Well, number three ? ” 
“You Te — pretty — boisterous, sometimes,” Katliie 
said, slowly. 
“ I can’t help that, Katliie, I positively can’t. I 
think everything makes more noise with me than with 
any other fellow in the world. If I touch a chair, it’s 
sure to fall over ; if I go for coal, ever so many pieces 
drop out ; and water always slops over, and I catch 
my foot in the carpet, and — and — I 'm a bother 
 
generally. I wish I was n’t. I ; d rather be a nice 
fellow like Charlie Darrell.” 
That was a great admission for Rob to make. 
Generally he thought himself as good as anybody. 
“ But, Rob, dear, one can take pains.” 
“ I always forget ” ; and Rob brought his fist down 
on the table so vigorously that all the dishes rattled. 
“ Katliie,” said her mother, looking in, “ what is the 
matter ? ” 
“ There, that ’s just it. I seem bound to make a 
noise anyhow. I was only telling Kathie some- 
thing.” 
“ Don’t tell quite so loud. I thought the dishes 
were broken.” 
“ Now I ’in all done,” said Kathie, cheerily. “ Rob, 
I ’m pretty bad about remembering, so I made up my 
mind to fight that giant. Every time that I forget I 
just stop and do something that isn’t so pleasant by 
way of punishment.” 
“ Like what ? ” Rob was fond of illustrations. 
“ Well, the other morning I couldn’t find my 
lunch-basket, and when I went to school I saw 
that Miss Moore had hung it up amongst the mis- 
laid articles. I felt pretty badly, for I didn’t mean to 
get one discredit this quarter ; but I thought that 
wasn’t quite enough, so I made myself stay in while 
the others were having a good time. It was real 
hard. And since, when I ’ve left some things un- 
done, or forgotten what mamma told me, I go and 
do whatever is the greatest hardship.” 
Rob whistled thoughtfully. It wasn’t exactly a 
Sunday tune, to be sure ; but he was doing some 
pretty good thinking. 
“ Kathie,” he said presently, “ everybody likes you 
so. Charlie Darrell wishes you were his sister.” 
“ I ’m not going to be anybody’s sister but yours, 
dear old Rob ” ; and Kathie gave the curly, chestnut- 
colored head a fond squeeze, and then kissed the 
warm, rosy lips. 
Rob winked away some tears. “ Is it easy to be 
good, Kathie ? ” 
“ Not — very ; but I guess the more you do of it 
the easier it conies. And then it makes others so 
much happier.” 
Rob put his feet on the stove-hearth and his elbows 
on his knees, and was lost in a brown study. " I think 
I ’ll look after some of the giants,” he said, lighting 
his lamp to go to bed. 
 
CHAPTER V. 
A PLEASANT SURPRISE. 
On Monday afternoon Katliie hurried home from 
school to help her mother finish some sewing. She 
had hardly seated herself and found her thimble and 
scissors, when there was a jingle of bells before the 
door. She sprang up and ran to the window. 
“ Oh mamma, it’s Charlie and Miss Jessie Darrell! 
and Miss Jessie ’s coming in. O mamma, if we 
only had a fire in our parlor ! ” 
“ Never mind about that, my dear ; go to the door 
at once.” 
Kathie obeyed, thinking that there didn’t a great 
many people live in their kitchens altogether. 
Miss Jessie was smiling and social. She wished 
Kathie good afternoon, and asked if she could see her 
aunt, Miss Conover. 
So there was no other course but to invite her into 
the kitchen. She wore a beautiful gray empress- 
cloth that looked like heavy silk, trimmed with 
 
scarlet velvet ; lier cloak was lovely pearl-colored 
material, with tiny blue and scarlet dots ; and Katliie 
knew that she had an elegant velvet one beside. Her 
white French felt hat was trimmed with bands of 
scarlet velvet and a dainty scarlet plume. She looked 
so very pretty that she almost shamed the plain, 
faded room. 
And yet she never appeared to notice it at all. 
She sat down in the rush-bottomed chair and made 
herself quite at home, inquiring very cordially how 
both ladies were, and talking of the fine weather and 
the delightful sleigh-riding. Then she asked Miss 
Conover about the embroidering. 
“Mrs. Thomas will have quite a good deal,” she 
said, “ and she is willing to pay liberally to some one 
who will do it neatly ; and so I thought I ’d see you 
about it.” 
Miss Jessie’s sweet voice and gracious manner 
made this seem a real compliment. Aunt Ruth 
colored with a flush of gratified feeling. 
“ I could undertake it after a week or two,” she 
answered. Then she asked Katliie to get some pieces 
of needlework from a drawer in the front room. 
“These are very handsomely done,” M’js Jessie 
 
said ; “ I know Mrs. Thomas will be pleased to have 
hers in such neat hands. I ’ll tell her to-morrow.” 
Aunt Ruth thanked her for the kind interest. 
“ Are you as well as you were in the summer ? ” 
Miss Jessie asked next. 
“ Not quite,” said Aunt Ruth ; “ I can’t have as 
much air and exercise. In this slippery weather I 
don’t, dare to go out at all.” 
“ It would be a great deprivation to me, and I dare 
say it is to you. And, now that it happens to be so 
very convenient, suppose you and Kathie should take 
a little ride with us ? We were just going out for 
pleasure.” 
“ Oh ! ” exclaimed Kathie, her eyes as bright as 
stars. Aunt Ruth looked rather doubtful. 
“ Please don’t disappoint me. Charlie will be 
delighted to have a sleigh full, and our horse is very 
gentle. It isn’t bitterly cold either, and, now that 
the weather is beginning to moderate, the sleighing 
may soon come to an end.” 
Jessie’s face was so sweet and .entreating that 
Aunt Ruth found it very hard to resist. 
“ I ’m quite a trouble,” she answered, “ and Rob 
isn’t here to help.” 
 
“ But I could,’ exclaimed Kathie, eagerly. “ Oh 
Aunt Ruth, please do go. I ’ve been wishing some- 
thing nice would happen to you, and this is splen- 
did.” 
“ I heard of your being a fairy godmother the 
other day, so I suppose you have only to desire any- 
thing and it comes to pass. I think I must have 
happened in in answer to your wish.” 
Miss Jessie smiled in such a lovely fashion that 
Kathie’s heart was won. 
“ I ’d like to be able to wish nice things for 
everybody, and have them come to pass,” she said. 
“ You ’ll have to get your wand and touch Aunt 
Ruth, so that she can be transported to the sleigh.” 
“ This wand,” said Katliie ; and her arms were 
around Aunt Ruth’s neck, while the eager lips kissed 
a reluctant assent. 
“ I ’m afraid Miss Jessie will think us a good deal 
of trouble.” 
“ Oh no, indeed. Katliie, will you run and tell 
Charlie to tie the horse and come in a moment ? ” 
Katliie was off like a flash. 
“ I thought you weren’t ever coming,” Charlie ex- 
claimed, for he had begun to grow impatient. “ But 
 
I ’m so glad. Now, Dolly, we ’ll be off in a 
trice.” 
Mrs. Alston bundled lier sister up nice and warm, 
and Charlie helped her into the sleigh with the air of 
a gentleman. Jessie took a seat behind her, saying, 
“ We ’ll put Kathie in front to keep off the wind ” ; at 
which Charlie laughed. 
There was Kathie in her scarlet and white hood, 
looking pretty enough for any fairy in the land. 
Charlie tucked her in with a soft blanket and drew 
up the wolf-skin. 
“ I suppose Charlie drives a good deal,” Aunt Ruth 
said. The first dash rather started her. 
“ O yes. Papa trusts him with all our horses 
except one. We have a very fiery fast horse that 
is rather beyond Charlie.” 
“ You won ’t mind if we go fast ; will you. Aunt 
Ruth ? ” Kathie asked, after she and Charlie had been 
indulging in a whispered consultation. 
“ No ” ; and Aunt Ruth smiled. She was begin- 
ning to feel quite courageous. 
Dolly pricked up her ears, shook her glossy mane, 
and started off, skimming over the snow like a bird. 
The roads were in a very fine condition, and the air 
 
keen and bracing without the sting of the coldest 
days. A faint pink came to Aunt Ruth’s cheeks. 
Her memory went back to the time when she had 
been as young as Miss Jessie, and enjoying a happy, 
care-free life. Brave Brother Robert had been her es- 
cort in those days, — dear Rob sleeping somewhere 
under an Indian sky, the fortune lost, and generous- 
hearted Fred Alston dead. What changes there had 
been since Rob left them, ten years before ! 
Kathie was wild with delight. For children the 
present is all sufficient, and to see Dolly flying along, 
her slender legs looking like a mere thread, and 
hear Charlie Darrell’s pleasant voice, was enjoyment 
enough. The warm blood seemed to race from pulse 
to pulse, her heart beat rapidly with her great joy, 
and the fresh wind made her rosy cheeks rosier than 
ever. Down the south went the sun, and presently 
dropped out of sight. They were homeward bound. 
Miss J essie took good care that Aunt Ruth should be 
comfortable. 
“ Hasn’t it been splendid!” ejaculated Kathie, in 
a breathless fashion. “O Miss Jessie, I ’m so 
thankful ! ” 
“ And I am very glad to have given you so much 
pleasure. Some time we will try it again.” 
 
Charlie thought that he. would like to have Kathie 
know how much of the plan was his, but he didn’t 
see any good way of telling it. 
So they were both helped out, and Rob was there
to receive them. He had half a mind to drive back 
with Charlie, but on the whole he concluded it was 
best to resist the temptation, as his mother was pre- 
