Faith,"  Uncle Eobert said, presently, "though your 
mamma was quite sure she would not be able to 
endure the journey. She appeared to be improving 
the last time I was here, and I had counted so 
strongly upon a merry Christmas party. Then it 
will be too bad to leave her here alone." 

" She is not going to stay here alone," replied 
Kathie, in a low, grave tone. . 





" Not alone ? Why, Kathie, " 

" I am going to stay with her " ; and Kathie put her 
head down on Uncle Eobert's breast. 

" Not come home for Christmas ! " echoed Uncle 
Eobert, in surprise. 

" No " ; and then Kathie told him all her story, her 
own half-formed resolves and her conversation with 
Dr. Markham. Yery truthfully and simply too, touch- 
ing upon the disappointment which she still felt with 
all a child's keenness. 

" My dear, noble girl, I have not a word to say. 
Of course Aunt Euth would very willingly spare you, 
and the holidays at home will lose half their enjoy- 
ment. But under the circumstances it is best to stay 
right on, and Aunt Euth needs the comfort. Poor 
child ! it has been harder than any of us imagined in 
the beginning." 

And then the tender lips kissed Kathie many 
times. A brave, unselfish child indeed ! 

" We shall have to keep the Christmas until you 
do come home, even if it is out of date. But I have 
promised the boys a tree and wax lights innumera- 
ble." 

" I wish you would invite some of the children in 



 

to see it. And I 'd like to fly through, the ceiling for 
five minutes and hear all the exclamations. How 
Freddy will enjoy it ! " 

"And Mr. Meredith is coming. He was up on 
Saturday and returned with us." 

" Did he tell you about General Mackenzie ? I 
liked him so much. He made me think of you con- 
tinually, only he is a great deal older. And I wrote 
you that I went to an opera ? " 

"Yes. I am glad that you have had such a 
pleasant time." 

" And I haven't been scarcely a bit homesick. 
Only now and then when I think of you all, and go 
to bed without a host of fond good-nights, it seems 
lonesome. Only if Aunt Euth can live 

" My darling, I hope she will. I pray for it hourly. 
Yet she does not look nearly so well as a fortnight 
ago, though that may be owing to her recent opera- 
tion. We have no one to lose, have we, Kathie ? " 

" Not one." 

He held her tightly to his heart. Of all the duties 
he had taken upon himself since his return, the 
pleasantest was being a father to this fatherless little 
girl. 





"And how does the purse hold out?' : he asked, 

gayly. 

" I am growing extravagant, I 'm afraid. There 
are so many lovely things in the shop windows, and 
books that I want to read ' 

" I shall have to examine your collection. I dare 
say it is sufficient to stock my Christmas-tree." 

She laughed at this, though she had quite a 
formidable pile in one of the large bureau drawers. 
Some of them should go to Eob and Freddy. 

At last Uncle Eobert was forced to say good night. 
It was so like old times that Kathie clung to him 
and could hardly bear to unclasp her arms. But 
then there was to be a to-morrow. 

A very gay, happy time they had, to be sure. For 
a week the nurse was with Aunt Euth constantly, 
and the room was kept dark and quiet, so Kathie 
found herself at liberty to follow her own devices. 
The weather, which had been quite mild, turned very 
cold, and everybody was seized with a skating fit. 
Miss Jessie and she had kept up a constant visiting, 
but now they went to Central Park, their party in- 
creased by Mr. Meredith and Miss Ada. 

Ada was wonderfully elegant. She wore the 



 

prettiest, daintiest skating costume that could be 
imagined, and slie was quite a proficient in the art. 
Kathie could do nothing but look on, for she had 
only tried two or three times with the other girls' 
skates at school, and had not made out very much. 
Ada glided hither and thither, followed by a host of 
admiring eyes. 

" Oh, I wish I could skate ! ' : exclaimed Kathie, 
longingly. 

" My dear little girl, you shall have a chance to 
learn, at least. We will run up to-morrow morning 
and take our first lesson," answered Uncle Robert. 

Mr. Meredith was on the ice awhile, but presently 
he left Ada to some of her boyish gallants, and re- 
joined the party standing on the bridge, telling Miss 
Jessie that it was a great oversight in not bringing 
her skates, and that he had half a mind to borrow a 
pair. 

" Not to-day," she returned, smilingly. " But what 
a lovely skater your little niece is ! ' 

" She is up in all the accomplishments," he re- 
turned, dryly. Then he patted Kathie's rosy cheek 
and commiserated her a little. 

" She is going to try to-morrow morning," Uncle 




Eobert exclaimed. " I must invest in two pairs of 
skates to-night, though I don't know as I shall be 
able to stand up on them. Skating is wellnigh a 
lost art with me." 

" And I 'll bring Miss Jessie," said Mr. Meredith. 
" We will have a nice quiet time to ourselves before 
the crowd begins." 

That evening they all went to a concert. The 
Meredith family carriage took them and brought 
them back, and Ada fancied that she made quite an 
impression. 

But the morning Ada knew nothing about. They 
had a very comical time, though it must be confessed 
that Kathie did very well and distinguished herself 
by not more than half a dozen tumbles. Uncle 
Eobert was rather awkward, but Miss Jessie skated 
beautifully, and they all enjoyed it very much. 

A few days afterward Kathie went to tea at Ada's. 
The play in the nursery with the children was very 
delightful indeed, and Kathie told them some laugh- 
able little stories. They coaxed her into taking sup- 
per with them, and had Ada's beautiful china set. 
Kathie poured the tea, which they all thought a great 
treat. 



 

" How very childish you are ! " Ada said, with dig- 
nity. " Why, I gave up playing with them long ago. 
They never expect it of me." 

" They 're so sweet that I can't help loving them/' 
returned Kathie, deprecatingly. 

" And a great bore ! " 

Kathie was silent. There were some subjects on 
while she and Ada did not agree. 

" Is Miss Darrell going home when your uncle 
does ? " Ada asked, presently. 

"Yes." She almost said, "And Mr. Meredith is 
goin with them," but checked herself from some 

O o ' 

inward impulse. 

" I suppose she is engaged to your uncle." 

" Engaged ! " Kathie repeated, in completest sur- 
prise. 

" Yes, engaged ! "What a little innocent you are, 
Kathie Alston ! Why, I should have guessed it a 
long time ago if I had seen them together. And 
then his bringing her to the city, - - lovers always do 
such things, you know. Besides, I think he is very 
devoted." 

Kathie was struck dumb momentarily. Only it 
really did seem to her that of the two Mr. Meredith 





had shown the most devotion. He had been very 
solicitous for Miss Jessie's comfort, wrapping her 
well from the cold, and afraid she would fatigue her- 
self skating too long, while Uncle Eobert treated her 
like a friend or sister. Her brain seemed to be in a 
great maze of confusion. 

" Then you don't like it ? " said Ada, who had been 
watching the thoughtful face. 

" Why, I like Miss Jessie very much ; and if it 
were true, yes, I think it would be real nice." 

" "Well, it is true ; no one could have a doubt 
about it," returned Ada, in a very positive manner ; 
" mamma was speaking of it - 

"Why, how did she know?" interrupted Kathie, 
with fresh amaze. 

" Uncle Edward has mentioned Miss Darrell sev- 
eral times, and you know we all went to the concert. 
She is very pretty and pleasant, but mamma thinks 
it would be a rather unfortunate thing for you all." 

Ada had been present at a trifling conversation 
between her parents on the subject, and she was 
makinor the most of her knowledge. 


"Why, she would be our aunt, you know," said 
Kathie, with pleasant frankness. 



 

" But she would come to live at Cedarwood, and 
be mistress." 

" There 's plenty of room, I am sure." 

" Oh, what a goose you are, Kathie ! She might not 
want your mother nor your Aunt Euth there, and 
she might not like to have her husband spend so 
much money on you all. You know you wouldn't 
have any real claim then, neither would it be your 
house." 

" I don't believe Miss Jessie would feel so at all," 
said Kathie, indignantly. 

" But your mother would have a good deal of deli- 
cacy about it, and I should think it would be real 
hard to be poor again. Then, you know, he could 
n't leave his fortune to you, and he would be very 
likely to have children of his own." 

Poor Kathie ! Her vision of pleasant years 
gloomed over, though she couldn't believe marry- 
ing Miss Jessie would make such a difference. 

" It is too bad, Kathie," Ada went on, sympathiz- 
ingly ; " I should not even like Uncle Edward to 
marry, for he gives me so many pretty things, and 
takes me out, and when I am a young lady it will be 
so nice to have him, for he is a good deal younger 



