to like to do it." 

Is that all ? " 

That is all about that." 

" Then, if you will mind your affairs, Ma 
tilda, I will try and mind mine. And I will 
be much obliged to you." 

" Then you will not help me ? " 

" Help in what ? " 

" There is a poor woman, Maria," said her 
little sister lowering her voice, " a poor old 
woman, who has no one to take care of her, 
and hardly anything to live upon. She lives, 
you can't think how she lives ! in the most 
miserable little house, dirty and all ; and with 
out fire or anybody to sweep her room or 
make her bed or make a cup of tea for her. 
If you would help me, we might do something 
to make her comfortable." 

" Where is she ? " 




" In Lilac lane." 

" Have you been to see her ? " 

Yes." 

" What do you think aunt Candy would 
say if she knew it ? " 

" Will you help me, Maria ? " 

" Help make her bed and sweep her room ? " 

" Yes, and get her a cup of tea sometimes, 
and a clean supper." 

"A clean supper!" exclaimed Maria. 
" Well ! Yes, I guess I'll help you, when I 
have nothing of my own to do. When the 
dinner gets itself, and the house stays swept 
and dusted, and aunt -Candy lives without 
cakes for breakfast." 

Matilda was silent. 

But I'll tell you what, Matilda," said her 
sister, " aunt Candy will never let you do 
this sort of work. You may as well give it 
up peaceably, and not worry yourself nor any 
body else. She'll never let you go into Lilac 
lane not to speak of getting dirty people's 
dinners. You may as well quit it.' 



 

Don't tell her, Maria." 

" You'll tell her yourself, first thing," said 
Maria scornfully. 

Matilda had to go upstairs soon to her 
reading in her aunt's room. It was even 
more unintelligible, the reading, this time 
than before ; because Matilda's head was 
running so busily on something else. 

" You do not read well, child," said her aunt. 

" No, ma'am. I do not understand it." 

" But it is about what you have just done, 
Matilda. It is about the ordinance of baptism, and the life proper to a person who has 
been received into the church. You ought 
to understand that." 

" I do understand it, in the Bible." 

" What does the Bible say about it ? " 

" It says, ' My sheep hear my voice : 
and I know them, and they follow me.' " 

"What do you mean by 'following 
Him ' ? " 

" Why, living the sort of life he lived, and 
doing what he tells us to do." 



 

" How do you propose to live the sort of 
life He lived ? It's almost blasphemy." 

" Why no, aunt Candy ; he tells us to do 
it." 

Do what ? " 

" Live the sort of life he lived.' He says 
we must follow him." 

" Well how, for instance ? In what ? " 

" You know how Tie lived," said Matilda. 
" He helped people, and he taught people, and 
he cured people ; he was always doing good to 
people, and trying to make them good. Especially poor, miserable people, that nobody 
cared for." 

" Trying to make them good ! " said Mrs. 
Candy. " As if His omnipotence could not 
have made them good in a minute." 

" Then why didn't he ? " said Matilda simply. " It sounds as if he was trying to make 
them good." 

" Well, child, it's no use talking ; I wish 
I had had the training of you earlier," said 
Mrs. Candy. " You are so prepossessed with 



 

ideas that border on fanaticism, that it is a 
hard matter to get you into right habits 
of thinking. Come here and take your 
darning." 

So Matilda did. The darning was not 
wearisome at all to-day, so busy her thoughts 
were with the question of Mrs. Eldridge; 
how much or how little Matilda ought to do 
for her, how much she could, and what were 
the best arrangements to be set on foot. So 
intent she was on these questions, that the 
darning was done with the greatest patience, 
and therefore with the greatest success. Mrs. 
Candy and her daughter even looked at each 
other and smiled over the demure, thoughtful 
little face of the workwoman ; and Matilda 
got praise for her work. 

She had made up her mind meanwhile 
that " she hath done what she could " 
should be her rule to go by. So as the after 
noon was fair and Mrs. Candy and her 
daughter both gone to make a visit at some 
miles' distance, Matilda sallied forth. 



 

" Did she give you leave ? " Maria asked, 
as she saw her sister getting ready. 

No." 

" She wants you to ask leave always." 

" I never used to do that," said Matilda. 
Her voice choked before she could finish her 
sentence. 

" You will get into trouble." 

" One trouble is better than another, 
though," said Matilda ; and she went. 

She went first to Mr. Sample's, and asked 
how much a pound of tea cost. 

" The last I sent your aunt," said Mr. Sample, " was one fifty a pound ; and worth it. 
Don't she approve the flavour?" 

" I believe so. But I want a little of 
another kind, Mr. Sample if you have any 
that is good, and not so high." 

" I have an excellent Oolong here for a 
dollar. Will you try that ? " 

" Please give me a quarter of a pound." 

" She will like it," said Mr. Sample, weighing the quantity and putting it up ; " it really 




has as much body as the other sort, and I 
think it is very nearly as good. The other is 
fifty cents a pound more. Tell Mrs. Candy, 
I can serve her with this if she prefers." 

" I want a loaf of bread too, if you 
please." 

Baking failed ? " said Mr. Sample. 
" Here Jem, give this little girl a loaf," 

He himself went to attend another customer, so Matilda paid for her purchases with 
out any more questions being asked her. 
She went to another store- for a little butter, 
and there also laid in a few herrings ; and 
then with a full basket and a light heart took 
the way to Lilac lane. 






CHAPTER III.  

MRS. ELDRIDGE was as she had left 
her yesterday : a trifle more forlorn, 
perhaps. The afternoon being bright and 
sunny, made everything in the house look 
more grimy and dusty for the contrast. Matilda shrank from having anything to do with 
it. But yet, the consciousness that she 
carried a basket of comfort on her arm 
was a great help. 

" Good morning, Mrs. Eldridge ; how do 
you do ? " she said cheerily. 

" Is it that little gal ? " 

" Yes, it is I, Mrs. Eldridge. I said I would 
come back. How do you do, to-day? " 

" I'm most dead," said the poor woman. 
Matilda was startled; but looking again, 
could not see that her face threatened any- 




thing like it. She rather thought Mrs. Eldridge was tired of life; and she did not 
wonder. 

" You don't feel sick, do you ? " 

"No" the woman said with a long 
drawn sigh. " There ain't no sickness got 
hold o' me yet. There's no one as'll care 
when it comes." 

" Would you like a cup of tea this after 
noon?" 

" Tea? " said the poor woman, " I don't 
have no tea, child. Tea's for the folks as has 
money ; or somebody to care for 'em." 

" But I care for you," said Matilda gently. 
" And the Lord Jesus cares. And he 
gave me the money to get some tea, and 
I've got it. Now I'm going to make a 
fire in the stove. Is there any wood any 
where ? " 

" Fire ? " said Mrs. Eldridge. 

" Yes. To boil the kettle, you know. Is 
there any wood anywhere ? " 

" Have you got some tea? " 



 

" Yes, and now I want to make the kettle 
boil. Where can I get some wood ? " 

" Kettle ? " said the old woman. "I hain't 
no kettle." 

" No tea-kettle ? " 

" No. It's gone. There ain't none." 

" What is there then, that I can boil some 
water in ? " 
