Certainly the author knows no original fully answering to the character
of Mrs. Cerulean, though she has heard such an one described; and,
doubtless, there are traits in her equally attributable to all fair
enthusiasts who mistake the influence of their own personal charms and
fascinations over the other sex, for real superiority of intellect.
There are happily several young women whose vigorous self-sustaining
career, in opening paths of usefulness alike for themselves and others,
are like that of Ida Van Arsdel; and the true experiences of a lovely
New York girl first suggested the character of Eva; yet both of them
are, in execution, strictly imaginary paintings, adapted to the story.
In short, some real character, or, in many cases, some two or three,
furnish the germs, but the germs only, out of which new characters are
developed.
In close: The author wishes to dedicate this Story to the many dear,
bright young girls whom she is so happy as to number among her choicest
friends. No matter what the critics say of it, if they like it; and
she hopes from them, at least, a favorable judgment.
 
It appears to me that the world is returning to its second childhood,
and running mad for Stories. Stories! Stories! Stories! everywhere;
stories in every paper, in every crevice, crack and corner of the house.
Stories fall from the pen faster than leaves of autumn, and of as many
shades and colorings. Stories blow over here in whirlwinds from England.
Stories are translated from the French, from the Danish, from the
Swedish, from the German, from the Russian. There are serial stories for
adults in the Atlantic, in the Overland, in the Galaxy, in
Harper's, in Scribner's. There are serial stories for youthful
pilgrims in Our Young Folks, the Little Corporal, "Oliver Optic,"
the Youth's Companion, and very soon we anticipate newspapers with
serial stories for the nursery. We shall have those charmingly
illustrated magazines, the Cradle, the Rocking Chair, the First
Rattle, and the First Tooth, with successive chapters of "Goosy Goosy
Gander," and "Hickory Dickory Dock," and "Old Mother Hubbard," extending
through twelve, or twenty-four, or forty-eight numbers.
I have often questioned what Solomon would have said if he had lived in
our day. The poor man, it appears, was somewhat blasé with the
abundance of literature in his times, and remarked that much study was
weariness to the flesh. Then, printing was not invented, and "books"
were all copied by hand, in those very square Hebrew letters where each
letter is about as careful a bit of work as a grave-stone. And yet, even
with all these restrictions and circumscriptions, Solomon rather testily
remarked, "Of making many books there is no end!" What would he have
said had he looked over a modern publisher's catalogue?
It is understood now that no paper is complete without its serial story,
and the spinning of these stories keeps thousands of wheels and spindles
in motion. It is now understood that whoever wishes to gain the public
ear, and to propound a new theory, must do it in a serial story. Hath
any one in our day, as in St. Paul's, a psalm, a doctrine, a tongue, a
revelation, an interpretation--forthwith he wraps it up in a serial
story, and presents it to the public. We have prison discipline,
free-trade, labor and capital, woman's rights, the temperance question,
in serial stories. We have Romanism and Protestantism, High Church, and
Low Church and no Church, contending with each other in serial stories,
where each side converts the other, according to the faith of the
narrator.
We see that this thing is to go on. Soon it will be necessary that every
leading clergyman should embody in his theology a serial story, to be
delivered from the pulpit Sunday after Sunday. We look forward to
announcements in our city papers such as these: The Rev. Dr. Ignatius,
of the Church of St. Mary the Virgin, will begin a serial romance, to be
entitled "St. Sebastian and the Arrows," in which he will embody the
duties, the trials, and the temptations of the young Christians of our
day. The Rev. Dr. Boanerges, of Plymouth Rock Church, will begin a
serial story, entitled "Calvin's Daughter," in which he will discuss the
distinctive features of Protestant theology. The Rev. Dr. Cool Shadow
will go on with his interesting romance of "Christianity a Dissolving
View,"--designed to show how everything is, in many respects, like
everything else, and all things lead somewhere, and everything will
finally end somehow, and that therefore it is important that everybody
should cultivate general sweetness, and have the very best time possible
in this world.
By the time all these romances get to going, the system of teaching by
parables, and opening one's mouth in dark sayings, will be fully
elaborated. Pilgrim's Progress will be no where. The way to the
celestial city will be as plain in everybody's mind as the way up
Broadway--and so much more interesting! Finally all science and all art
will be explained, conducted, and directed by serial stories, till the
present life and the life to come shall form only one grand romance.
This will be about the time of the Millennium.
Meanwhile, I have been furnishing a story for the Christian Union, and
I chose the subject which is in everybody's mind and mouth, discussed on
every platform, ringing from everybody's tongue, and coming home to
every man's business and bosom, to wit:
My Wife and I.
I trust that Miss Anthony and Mrs. Stanton, and all the prophetesses of
our day, will remark the humility and propriety of my title. It is not I
and My Wife--oh no! It is My Wife and I. What am I, and what is my
father's house, that I should go before my wife in anything?
"But why specially for the Christian Union?" says Mr. Chadband. Let us
in a spirit of Love inquire.
Is it not evident why, O beloved? Is not that firm in human nature which
stands under the title of MY WIFE AND I, the oldest and most venerable
form of Christian union on record? Where, I ask, will you find a better
one?--a wiser, a stronger, a sweeter, a more universally popular and
agreeable one?
To be sure, there have been times and seasons when this ancient and
respectable firm has been attacked as a piece of old fogyism, and
various substitutes for it proposed. It has been said that "MY WIFE AND
I" denoted a selfish, close corporation inconsistent with a general,
all-sided diffusive, universal benevolence; that MY WIFE AND I, in a
millennial community, had no particular rights in each other more than
any of the thousands of the brethren and sisters of the human race. They
have said, too, that MY WIFE AND I, instead of an indissoluble unity,
were only temporary partners, engaged on time, with the liberty of
giving three months' notice, and starting off to a new firm.
It is not thus that we understand the matter.
MY WIFE AND I, as we understand it, is the sign and symbol of more than
any earthly partnership or union--of something sacred as religion,
indissoluble as the soul, endless as eternity--the symbol chosen by
Almighty Love to represent his redeeming, eternal union with the soul of
man.
A fountain of eternal youth gushes near the hearth of every household.
Each man and woman that have loved truly, have had their romance in
life--their poetry in existence.
So I, in giving my history, disclaim all other sources of interest. Look
not for trap-doors, or haunted houses, or deadly conspiracies, or
murders, or concealed crimes, in this history, for you will not find
one. You shall have simply and only the old story--old as the first
chapter of Genesis--of Adam stupid, desolate, and lonely without Eve,
and how he sought and how he found her.
This much, on mature consideration I hold to be about the sum and
substance of all the romances that have ever been written, and so long
as there are new Adams and new Eves in each coming generation, it will
not want for sympathetic listeners.
So I, Harry Henderson--a plain Yankee boy from the mountains of New
Hampshire, and at present citizen of New York--commence my story.
My experiences have three stages.
First, My child-wife, or the experiences of childhood.
Second, My shadow-wife, or the dreamland of the future.
Third, my real wife, where I saw her, how I sought and found her.
In pursuing a story simply and mainly of love and marriage, I am
reminded of the saying of a respectable serving man of European
experiences, who speaking of his position in a noble family said it was
not so much the wages that made it an object as "the things it enabled
a gentleman to pick up." So in our modern days as we have been
observing, it is not so much the story, as the things it gives the
author a chance to say. The history of a young American man's progress
toward matrimony, of course brings him among the most stirring and
exciting topics of the day, where all that relates to the joint
interests of man and woman has been thrown into the arena as an open
question, and in relating our own experiences, we shall take occasion to
keep up with the spirit of this discussing age in all these matters.
[Illustration: MY CHILD-WIFE.
"The big boys quizzed me, made hideous faces at me from behind their
spelling-books, and great hulking Tom Halliday threw a spit-ball that
lodged on the wall just over my head, by way of showing his contempt for
me; but I looked at Susie, and took courage."]
CHAPTER II.
MY CHILD-WIFE.
The Bible says it is not good for man to be alone. This is a truth that
has been borne in on my mind, with peculiar force, from the earliest of
my recollection. In fact when I was only seven years old I had selected
my wife, and asked the paternal consent.
You see, I was an unusually lonesome little fellow, because I belonged
to the number of those unlucky waifs who come into this mortal life
under circumstances when nobody wants or expects them. My father was a
poor country minister in the mountains of New Hampshire with a salary of
six hundred dollars, with nine children. I was the tenth. I was not
expected; my immediate predecessor was five years of age, and the
gossips of the neighborhood had already presented congratulations to my
mother on having "done up her work in the forenoon," and being ready to
sit down to afternoon leisure.
Her well-worn baby clothes were all given away, the cradle was peaceably
consigned to the garret, and my mother was now regarded as without
excuse if she did not preside at the weekly prayer-meeting, the monthly
Maternal Association, and the Missionary meeting, and perform besides
regular pastoral visitations among the good wives of her parish.
No one, of course, ever thought of voting her any little extra salary on
account of these public duties which absorbed so much time and attention
from her perplexing domestic cares--rendered still more severe and
onerous by my father's limited salary. My father's six hundred dollars,
however, was considered by the farmers of the vicinity as being a
princely income, which accounted satisfactorily for everything, and had
he not been considered by them as "about the smartest man in the State,"
they could not have gone up to such a figure. My mother was one of
those gentle, soft-spoken, quiet little women who, like oil, permeate
every crack and joint of life with smoothness.
With a noiseless step, an almost shadowy movement, her hand and eye were
every where. Her house was a miracle of neatness and order--her children
of all ages and sizes under her perfect control, and the accumulations
of labor of all descriptions which beset a great family where there are
no servants, all melted away under her hands as if by enchantment.
She had a divine magic too, that mother of mine; if it be magic to
commune daily with the supernatural. She had a little room all her own,
where on a stand always lay open the great family Bible, and when work
pressed hard and children were untoward, when sickness threatened, when
the skeins of life were all crossways and tangled, she went quietly to
that room, and kneeling over that Bible, took hold of a warm, healing,
invisible hand, that made the crooked straight, and the rough places
plain.
"Poor Mrs. Henderson--another boy!" said the gossips on the day that I
was born. "What a shame! poor woman. Well, I wish her joy!"
But she took me to a warm bosom and bade God bless me! All that God sent
to her was treasure. "Who knows," she said cheerily to my father, "this
may be our brightest."
"God bless him," said my father, kissing me and my mother, and then he
returned to an important treatise which was to reconcile the decrees of
God with the free agency of man, and which the event of my entrance into
this world had interrupted for some hours. The sermon was a perfect
success I am told, and nobody that heard it ever had a moment's further
trouble on that subject.
As to me, my outfit for this world was of the scantest-a few yellow
flannel petticoats and a few slips run up from some of my older sisters
cast off white gowns, were deemed sufficient.
The first child in a family is its poem--it is a sort of nativity play,
and we bend before the young stranger, with gifts, "gold, frankincense
and myrrh." But the tenth child in a poor family is prose, and gets
simply what is due to comfort. There are no superfluities, no
fripperies, no idealities about the tenth cradle.
As I grew up I found myself rather a solitary little fellow in a great
house, full of the bustle and noise and conflicting claims of older
brothers and sisters, who had got the floor in the stage of life before
me, and who were too busy with their own wants, schemes and plans, to
regard me.
I was all very well so long as I kept within the limits of babyhood.
They said I was the handsomest baby ever pertaining to the family
establishment, and as long as that quality and condition lasted I was
made a pet of. My sisters curled my golden locks and made me wonderful
little frocks, and took me about to show me. But when I grew bigger, and
the golden locks were sheared off and replaced by straight light hair,
and I was inducted into jacket and pantaloons, cut down by Miss Abia
Ferkin from my next brother's last year's suit, outgrown--then I was
turned upon the world to shift for myself. Babyhood was over, and
manhood not begun--I was to run the gauntlet of boyhood.
My brothers and sisters were affectionate enough in their way, but had
not the least sentiment, and as I said before they had each one their
own concerns to look after. My eldest brother was in college, my next
brother was fitting for college in a neighboring academy, and used to
walk ten miles daily to his lessons and take his dinner with him. One of
my older sisters was married, the two next were handsome lively girls,
with a retinue of beaux, who of course took up a deal of their time and
thoughts. The sister next before me was four years above me on the lists
of life, and of course looked down on me as a little boy unworthy of her
society. When her two or three chattering girl friends came to see her
and they had their dolls and their baby houses to manage, I was always
in the way. They laughed at my awkwardness, criticised my nose, my
hair, and my ears to my face, with that feminine freedom by which the
gentler sex joy to put down the stronger one when they have it at
advantage. I used often to retire from their society swelling with
impotent wrath, at their free comments. "I won't play with you," I would
exclaim. "Nobody wants you," would be the rejoinder. "We've been wanting
to be rid of you this good while."
But as I was a stout little fellow, my elders thought it advisable to
devolve on me any such tasks and errands as interfered with their
comfort. I was sent to the store when the wind howled and the frost bit,
and my brothers and sisters preferred a warm corner. "He's only a boy,
he can go, or he can do or he can wait," was always the award of my
sisters.
My individual pursuits, and my own little stock of interests, were of
course of no account. I was required to be in a perfectly free,
disengaged state of mind, and ready to drop every thing at a moment's
warning from any of my half dozen seniors. "Here Hal, run down cellar
and get me a dozen apples," my brother would say, just as I had half
built a block house. "Harry, run up stairs and get the book I left on
the bed--Harry, run out to the barn and get the rake I left there--Here,
Harry, carry this up garret--Harry, run out to the tool shop and get
that"--were sounds constantly occurring--breaking up my private
cherished little enterprises of building cob-houses, making mill dams
and bridges, or loading carriages, or driving horses. Where is the
mature Christian who could bear with patience the interruptions and
crosses in his daily schemes, that beset a boy?
Then there were for me dire mortifications and bitter disappointments.
If any company came and the family board was filled and the cake and
preserves brought out, and gay conversation made my heart bound with
special longings to be in at the fun, I heard them say, "No need to set
a plate for Harry--he can just as well wait till after." I can recollect
many a serious deprivation of mature life, that did not bring such
bitterness of soul as that sentence of exclusion. Then when my sister's
admirer, Sam Richards, was expected, and the best parlor fire lighted,
and the hearth swept, how I longed to sit up and hear his funny stories,
how I hid in dark corners, and lay off in shadowy places, hoping to
escape notice and so avoid the activity of the domestic police. But no,
"Mamma, mustn't Harry go to bed?" was the busy outcry of my sisters,
desirous to have the deck cleared for action, and superfluous members
finally disposed of.
Take it for all in all--I felt myself, though not wanting in the supply
of any physical necessity, to be somehow, as I said, a very lonesome
little fellow in the world. In all that busy, lively, gay, bustling
household I had no mate.
"I think we must send Harry to school," said my mother, gently, to my
father, when I had vented this complaint in her maternal bosom. "Poor
little fellow, he is an odd one!--there isn't exactly any one in the
house for him to mate with!"
So to school I was sent, with a clean checked apron, drawn up tight in
my neck, and a dinner basket, and a brown towel on which I was to be
instructed in the wholesome practice of sewing. I went, trembling and
blushing, with many an apprehension of the big boys who had promised to
thrash me when I came; but the very first day I was made blessed in the
vision of my little child-wife, Susie Morril.
Such a pretty, neat little figure as she was! I saw her first standing
in the school-room door. Her cheeks and neck were like wax; her eyes
clear blue; and when she smiled, two little dimples flitted in and out
on her cheeks, like those in a sunny brook. She was dressed in a pink
gingham frock, with a clean white apron fitted trimly about her little
round neck. She was her mother's only child, and always daintily
dressed.
"Oh, Susie dear," said my mother, who had me by the hand, "I've brought
a little boy here to school, and will be a mate for you."
How affably and graciously she received me--the little Eve--all smiles
and obligingness and encouragement for the lumpish, awkward Adam. How
