mingled with a sense of relief from the heat, our friends felt the boat
tremble away from her moorings and set forth upon her trip.
“Ah! if we had only taken the day boat!” moaned Isabel. “Now, we shall
see nothing of the river landscape, and we shall never be able to put
ourselves down when we long for Europe, by declaring that the scenery of
the Hudson is much finer than that of the Rhine.”
Yet they resolved, this indomitably good-natured couple, that they would
be just even to the elements, which had by no means been generous to
them; and they owned that if so noble a storm had celebrated their
departure upon some storied river from some more romantic port than New
York, they would have thought it an admirable thing. Even whilst they
contented themselves, the storm passed, and left a veiled and humid sky
overhead, that gave a charming softness to the scene on which their eyes
fell when they came out of the saloon again, and took their places with
a largely increased companionship on the deck.
They had already reached that part of the river where the uplands begin,
and their course was between stately walls of rocky steepness, or wooded
slopes, or grassy hollows, the scene forever losing and taking grand
and lovely shape. Wreaths of mist hung about the tops of the loftier
headlands, and long shadows draped their sides. As the night grew,
lights twinkled from a lonely house here and there in the valleys; a
swarm of lamps showed a town where it lay upon the lap or at the foot of
the hills. Behind them stretched the great gray river, haunted with many
sails; now a group of canal-boats grappled together, and having an air
of coziness in their adventure upon this strange current out of their
own sluggish waters, drifted out of sight; and now a smaller and
slower steamer, making a laborious show of keeping up was passed, and
reluctantly fell behind; along the water’s edge rattled and hooted the
frequent trains. They could not tell at any time what part of the river
they were on, and they could not, if they would, have made its beauty a
matter of conscientious observation; but all the more, therefore, they
deeply enjoyed it without reference to time or place. They felt some
natural pain when they thought that they might unwittingly pass the
scenes that Irving has made part of the common dream-land, and they
would fair have seen the lighted windows of the house out of which
a cheerful ray has penetrated to so many hearts; but being sure of
nothing, as they were, they had the comfort of finding the Tappan Zee
in every expanse of the river, and of discovering Sunny-Side on every
pleasant slope. By virtue of this helplessness, the Hudson, without
ceasing to be the Hudson, became from moment to moment all fair and
stately streams upon which they had voyaged or read of voyaging, from
the Nile to the Mississippi. There is no other travel like river travel;
it is the perfection of movement, and one might well desire never to
arrive at one’s destination. The abundance of room, the free, pure air,
the constant delight of the eyes in the changing landscape, the soft
tremor of the boat, so steady upon her keel, the variety of the little
world on board,--all form a charm which no good heart in a sound body
can resist. So, whilst the twilight held, well content, in contiguous
chairs, they purred in flattery of their kindly fate, imagining
different pleasures, certainly, but none greater, and tasting to its
subtlest flavor the happiness conscious of itself.
Their own satisfaction, indeed, was so interesting to them in
this objective light, that they had little desire to turn from its
contemplation to the people around them; and when at last they did so,
it was still with lingering glances of self-recognition and enjoyment.
They divined rightly that one of the main conditions of their present
felicity was the fact that they had seen so much of time and of the
world, that they had no longer any desire to take beholding eyes, or
to make any sort of impressive figure, and they understood that their
prosperous love accounted as much as years and travel for this result.
If they had had a loftier opinion of themselves, their indifference to
others might have made them offensive; but with their modest estimate
of their own value in the world, they could have all the comfort of
self-sufficiency, without its vulgarity.
“O yes!” said Basil, in answer to some apostrophe to their bliss from
Isabel, “it’s the greatest imaginable satisfaction to have lived
past certain things. I always knew that I was not a very handsome or
otherwise captivating person, but I can remember years--now blessedly
remote--when I never could see a young girl without hoping she would
mistake me for something of that sort. I couldn’t help desiring that
some fascination of mine, which had escaped my own analysis, would have
an effect upon her. I dare say all young men are so. I used to live
for the possible interest I might inspire in your sex, Isabel. They
controlled my movements, my attitudes; they forbade me repose; and yet
I believe I was no ass, but a tolerably sensible fellow. Blessed be
marriage, I am free at last! All the loveliness that exists outside of
you, dearest,--and it’s mighty little,--is mere pageant to me; and I
thank Heaven that I can meet the most stylish girl now upon the
broad level of our common humanity. Besides, it seems to me that our
experience of life has quieted us in many other ways. What a luxury it
is to sit here, and reflect that we do not want any of these people to
suppose us rich, or distinguished, or beautiful, or well dressed, and do
not care to show off in any sort of way before them!”
This content was heightened, no doubt, by a just sense of their contrast
to the group of people nearest there,--a young man of the second or
third quality--and two young girls. The eldest of these was carrying
on a vivacious flirtation with the young man, who was apparently an
acquaintance of brief standing; the other was scarcely more than a
child, and sat somewhat abashed at the sparkle of the colloquy. They
were conjecturally sisters going home from some visit, and not skilled
in the world, but of a certain repute in their country neighborhood for
beauty and wit. The young man presently gave himself out as one who, in
pursuit of trade for the dry-goods house he represented, had travelled
many thousands of miles in all parts of the country. The encounter was
visibly that kind of adventure which both would treasure up for future
celebration to their different friends; and it had a brilliancy and
interest which they could not even now consent to keep to themselves.
They talked to each other and at all the company within hearing,
and exchanged curt speeches which had for them all the sensation of
repartee.
Young Man. They say that beauty unadorned is adorned the most.
Young Woman (bridling, and twitching her head from side to side, in the
high excitement of the dialogue). Flattery is out of place.
Young Man. Well, never mind. If you don’t believe me, you ask your
mother when you get home.
(Titter from the younger sister.)
Young Woman (scornfully). Umph! my mother has no control over me!
Young Man. Nobody else has, either, I should say. (Admiringly.)
Young Woman. Yes, you’ve told the truth for once, for a wonder. I’m
able to take care of myself,--perfectly. (Almost hoarse with a sense of
sarcastic performance.)
Young Man. “Whole team and big dog under the wagon,” as they say out
West.
Young Woman. Better a big dog than a puppy, any day.
Giggles and horror from the younger sister, sensation in the young man,
and so much rapture in the young woman that she drops the key of her
state-room from her hand. They both stoop, and a jocose scuffle for it
ensues, after which the talk takes an autobiographical turn on the part
of the young man, and drops into an unintelligible murmur. “Ah! poor
Real Life, which I love, can I make others share the delight I find in
thy foolish and insipid face?”
Not far from this group sat two Hebrews, one young and the other old,
talking of some business out of which the latter had retired. The
younger had been asked his opinion upon some point, and he was expanding
with a flattered consciousness of the elder’s perception of his
importance, and toadying to him with the pleasure which all young men
feel in winning the favor of seniors in their vocation. “Well, as I was
a-say’n’, Isaac don’t seem to haf no natcheral pent for the glothing
business. Man gomes in and wands a goat,”--he seemed to be speaking of a
garment and not a domestic animal,--“Isaac’ll zell him the goat he wands
him to puy, and he’ll make him believe it ‘a the goat he was a lookin’
for. Well, now, that’s well enough as far as it goes; but you know and
I know, Mr. Rosenthal, that that ‘s no way to do business. A man gan’t
zugzeed that goes upon that brincible. Id’s wrong. Id’s easy enough to
make a man puy the goat you want him to, if he wands a goat, but the
thing is to make him puy the goat that you wand to zell when he don’t
wand no goat at all. You’ve asked me what I thought and I’ve dold you.
Isaac’ll never zugzeed in the redail glothing-business in the world!”
“Well,” sighed the elder, who filled his armchair quite full, and
quivered with a comfortable jelly-like tremor in it, at every pulsation
of the engine, “I was afraid of something of the kind. As you say,
Benjamin, he don’t seem to have no pent for it. And yet I proughd him up
to the business; I drained him to it, myself.”
Besides these talkers, there were scattered singly, or grouped about in
twos and threes and fours, the various people one encounters on a Hudson
River boat, who are on the whole different from the passengers on other
rivers, though they all have features in common. There was that man of
the sudden gains, who has already been typified; and there was also the
smoother rich man of inherited wealth, from whom you can somehow know
the former so readily. They were each attended by their several retinues
of womankind, the daughters all much alike, but the mothers somewhat
different. They were going to Saratoga, where perhaps the exigencies
of fashion would bring them acquainted, and where the blue blood of a
quarter of a century would be kind to the yesterday’s fluid of warmer
hue. There was something pleasanter in the face of the hereditary
aristocrat, but not so strong, nor, altogether, so admirable;
particularly if you reflected that he really represented nothing in the
world, no great culture, no political influence, no civic aspiration,
not even a pecuniary force, nothing but a social set, an alien
club-life, a tradition of dining. We live in a true fairy land after
all, where the hoarded treasure turns to a heap of dry leaves. The
almighty dollar defeats itself, and finally buys nothing that a man
cares to have. The very highest pleasure that such an American’s money
can purchase is exile, and to this rich man doubtless Europe is a
twice-told tale. Let us clap our empty pockets, dearest reader, and be
glad.
We can be as glad, apparently, and with the same reason as the poorly
dressed young man standing near beside the guard, whose face Basil and
Isabel chose to fancy that of a poet, and concerning whom, they romanced
that he was going home, wherever his home was, with the manuscript of
a rejected book in his pocket. They imagined him no great things of a
poet, to be sure, but his pensive face claimed delicate feeling for him,
and a graceful, sombre fancy, and they conjectured unconsciously caught
flavors of Tennyson and Browning in his verse, with a moderner tint from
Morris: for was it not a story out of mythology, with gods and heroes of
the nineteenth century, that he was now carrying back from New York
with him? Basil sketched from the colors of his own long-accepted
disappointments a moving little picture of this poor imagined poet’s
adventures; with what kindness and unkindness he had been put to shame
by publishers, and how, descending from his high, hopes of a book, he
had tried to sell to the magazines some of the shorter pieces out of the
“And other Poems” which were to have filled up the volume. “He’s going
back rather stunned and bewildered; but it’s something to have tasted
the city, and its bitter may turn to sweet on his palate, at last, till
he finds himself longing for the tumult that he abhors now. Poor fellow!
one compassionate cut-throat of a publisher even asked him to lunch,
being struck, as we are, with something fine in his face. I hope he’s
got somebody who believes in him, at home. Otherwise he’d be more
comfortable, for the present, if he went over the railing there.”
So the play of which they were both actors and spectators went on about
them. Like all passages of life, it seemed now a grotesque mystery,
with a bluntly enforced moral, now a farce of the broadest, now a latent
tragedy folded in the disguises of comedy. All the elements, indeed,
of either were at work there, and this was but one brief scene of
the immense complex drama which was to proceed so variously in such
different times and places, and to have its denouement only in eternity.
The contrasts were sharp: each group had its travesty in some other; the
talk of one seemed the rude burlesque, the bitter satire of the next;
but of all these parodies none was so terribly effective as the two
women, who sat in the midst of the company, yet were somehow distinct
from the rest. One wore the deepest black of widowhood, the other was
dressed in bridal white, and they were both alike awful in their mockery
of guiltless sorrow and guiltless joy. They were not old, but the soul
of youth was dead in their pretty, lamentable faces, and ruin ancient as
sin looked from their eyes; their talk and laughter seemed the echo of
an innumerable multitude of the lost haunting the world in every land
and time, each solitary forever, yet all bound together in the unity of
an imperishable slavery and shame.
What a stale effect! What hackneyed characters! Let us be glad the night
drops her curtain upon the cheap spectacle, and shuts these with the
other actors from our view.
Within the cabin, through which Basil and Isabel now slowly moved, there
were numbers of people lounging about on the sofas, in various attitudes
of talk or vacancy; and at the tables there were others reading
“Lothair,” a new book in the remote epoch of which I write, and a very
fashionable book indeed. There was in the air that odor of paint and
carpet which prevails on steamboats; the glass drops of the chandeliers
ticked softly against each other, as the vessel shook with her
respiration, like a comfortable sleeper, and imparted a delicious
feeling of coziness and security to our travellers.
A few hours later they struggled awake at the sharp sound of the pilot’s
bell signaling the engineer to slow the boat. There was a moment of
perfect silence; then all the drops of the chandeliers in the saloon
clashed musically together; then fell another silence; and at last came
wild cries for help, strongly qualified with blasphemies and curses.
“Send out a boat!” “There was a woman aboard that steamboat!” “Lower
your boats!” “Run a craft right down, with your big boat!” “Send out a
boat and pick up the crew!” The cries rose and sank, and finally ceased;
through the lattice of the state-room window some lights shone faintly
on the water at a distance.
“Wait here, Isabel!” said her husband. “We’ve run down a boat. We don’t
seem hurt; but I’ll go see. I’ll be back in a minute.”
Isabel had emerged into a world of dishabille, a world wildly unbuttoned
and unlaced, where it was the fashion for ladies to wear their hair down
their backs, and to walk about in their stockings, and to speak to
each other without introduction. The place with which she had felt so
familiar a little while before was now utterly estranged. There was no
motion of the boat, and in the momentary suspense a quiet prevailed,
in which those grotesque shapes of disarray crept noiselessly round
whispering panic-stricken conjectures. There was no rushing to and
fro, nor tumult of any kind, and there was not a man to be seen, for
apparently they had all gone like Basil to learn the extent of the
calamity. A mist of sleep involved the whole, and it was such a
topsy-turvy world that it would have seemed only another dream-land,
but that it was marked for reality by one signal fact. With the rest
appeared the woman in bridal white and the woman in widow’s black, and
there, amidst the fright that made all others friends, and for aught
that most knew, in the presence of death itself, these two moved
together shunned and friendless.
Somehow, even before Basil returned, it had become known to Isabel and
the rest that their own steamer had suffered no harm, but that she had
struck and sunk another convoying a flotilla of canal boats, from which
those alarming cries and curses had come. The steamer was now lying by
for the small boats she had sent out to pick up the crew of the sunken
vessel.
“Why, I only heard a little tinkling of the chandeliers,” said one of
the ladies. “Is it such a very alight matter to run down another boat
and sink it?”
She appealed indirectly to Basil, who answered lightly, “I don’t think
you ladies ought to have been disturbed at all. In running over a common
tow-boat on a perfectly clear night like this there should have been no
noise and no perceptible jar. They manage better on the Mississippi, and
both boats often go down without waking the lightest sleeper on board.”
The ladies, perhaps from a deficient sense of humor, listened with
undisguised displeasure to this speech. It dispersed them, in fact; some
turned away to bivouac for the rest of the night upon the arm-chairs
and sofas, while others returned to their rooms. With the latter went
Isabel. “Lock me in, Basil,” she said, with a bold meekness, “and if
anything more happens don’t wake me till the last moment.” It was hard
to part from him, but she felt that his vigil would somehow be useful
to the boat, and she confidingly fell into a sleep that lasted till
daylight.
Meantime, her husband, on whom she had tacitly devolved so great a
responsibility, went forward to the promenade in front of the saloon, in
hopes of learning something more of the catastrophe from the people whom
he had already found gathered there.
A large part of the passengers were still there, seated or standing
about in earnest colloquy. They were in that mood which follows great
excitement, and in which the feeblest-minded are sure to lead the talk.
At such times one feels that a sensible frame of mind is unsympathetic,
and if expressed, unpopular, or perhaps not quite safe; and Basil,
warned by his fate with the ladies, listened gravely to the voice of the
common imbecility and incoherence.
The principal speaker was a tall person, wearing a silk travelling-cap.
He had a face of stupid benignity and a self-satisfied smirk; and he was
formally trying to put at his ease, and hopelessly confusing the loutish
youth before him. “You say you saw the whole accident, and you’re
probably the only passenger that did see it. You’ll be the most
important witness at the trial,” he added, as if there would ever be any
trial about it. “Now, how did the tow-boat hit us?”
“Well, she came bows on.”
“Ah! bows on,” repeated the other, with great satisfaction; and a little
murmur of “Bows on!” ran round the listening circle.
“That is,” added the witness, “it seemed as if we struck her amidships,
and cut her in two, and sunk her.”
“Just so,” continued the examiner, accepting the explanation, “bows on.
Now I want to ask if you saw our captain or any of the crew about?”
“Not a soul,” said the witness, with the solemnity of a man already on
oath.
“That’ll do,” exclaimed the other. “This gentleman’s experience
