ashamed to say this now, for I suspect that a man 
with one arm, who indulged himself in going about 
under that broiling sun of July, peddling starch, was 
very probably an impostor. He computed a good 
day's profits of seventy-five cents, and when asked 
if that was not very little for the support of a sick 
wife and three children, he answered with a quaint 
effort at impressiveness, and with a trick, as I im- 
agined, from the manner of the regimental chaplain, 
"You've done your duty, my friend, and more'n 
your duty. If every one did their duty like that, we 
should get along." So he took leave, and shambled 
out into the furnace-heat, the sun beating upon his 
pale face, and his linen coat hugging him close, but 
with his basket lighter, and I hope his heart also. 
At any rate, this was the sentiment which cheap phi- 
lanthropy offered in self-gratulation, as he passed out 
of sight : " There ! you are quits with those maimed 
soldiers at last, and you have a country which you 
have paid for with cold victuals as they with blood." 
We have been a good deal visited by one dis- 
banded volunteer, not to the naked eye maimed, nor 
apparently suffering from any lingering illness, yel 
who bears, as he tells me, a secret disabling wound 
in his side from a spent shell, and who is certainly a 
prey to the most acate form of shifrlessness. I do 
not recall with exactness the date of our acquaint- 
ance, but it was one of those pleasant August after- 
noons when a dinner eaten in peace fills the di- 
gester with a millennial tenderness for the race too 
rarely felt in the nineteenth century. At such a 
moment it is a more natural action to loosen than to 
tighten the purse-strings, and when a very neatly 
dressed young man presented himself at the gate, 
and, in a note of indescribable plaintiveness, asked 
if I had any little job for him to do that he might 
pay for a night's lodging, I looked about the small 
domain with a vague longing to find some part of it 
in disrepair, and experienced a moment's absurd 
relief when he hinted that he would be willing to 
accept fifty cents in pledge of ftiture service. Yet 
this was not the right principle : some work, real or 
apparent, must be done for the money, and the 
veteran was told that he might weed the strawberry 
bed, though, as matters then stood, it was clean 
enough for a strawberry bed that never bore any- 
thing. The veteran was neatly dressed, as I have 
said : his coat, which was good, was buttoned to the 
throat for reasons that shall be sacred against curios- 
ity, and he had on a perfectly clean paper collar ; he 
was a handsome young fellow, with regular features, 
and a solicitously kept imperial and mustache ; his 
hair, when he lifted his hat, appeared elegantly oiled 
 
and brushed. I did not hope &om this figure that 
the work done would be worth the money paid, and, 
as nearly as I can compute, the weeds he took from 
that bed cost me a cent apiece, to say nothing df a 
cup of tea given him in grace at the end of his 
labors. 
My acquaintance was, as the reader will be glad 
to learn, a native American, though it is to be re- 
gretted, for the sake of facts which his case went far 
to establish, that he was not a New-Englander by 
birth. The most that could be claimed was, that he 
pame to Boston from Delaware when very yoimg, 
and that there on that brine-washed granite he had 
grown as perfect a flower of helplessness and indo- 
lence, as fine a fiTiit of maturing civilization, as ever 
expanded or ripened in Latin lands. He hved, not 
only a protest in flesh and blood against the tendency 
of democracy to exclude mere beauty from our sys- 
tem, but a refiitation of those Old World observers, 
who deny to our vulgar and bustling communities 
the refining and elevating grace of Repose. There 
was something veiy curious and original in his 
character, from which the sentiment of shame was 
absent, but which was not lacking in the fine in- 
stincts of personal cleanliness, of dress, of style. 
There was nothing of the rowdy in him ; he was 
gentle as an Italian noble in his manners: what 
other traits they may have had in common, I do not 
know ; perhaps an amiable habit of illusion. He 
was always going to bring me his discharge papers, 
but he never did, though he came often and had 
many a pleasant night's sleep at my cost. If some- 
times he did a little work, he spent great part of the 
time contracted to me in the kitchen, where it was 
understood, quite upon his own agency, that his 
wages included board. At other times, he called for 
money too late in the evening to work it out that 
day, and it has happened that a new second girl, 
deceived by his genteel appearance in the uncertain 
light, has shown him into the parlor, where I have 
found' him to his and my own great amusement, as 
the gentleman who wanted to see me. Nothing else 
seemed to raise his ordinarily dejected spirits so much. 
We all know how pleasant it is to laugh at people be- 
hind their backs ; but this veteran afforded me at a 
very low rate the luxury of a fellow-being whom one 
might laugh at to his face as much as one liked. 
Yet with all his shamelessness, his pensiveness, his 
elegance, I felt that somehow our national triumph 
was not complete in him, — that there were yet more 
finished forms of self-abasement in the Old World, 
till one day I looked out of the window and saw at a 
little distance my veteran digging a cellar for an 
Irishman. I own that the spectacle gave me a shock 
of pleasure, and that I ran down to have a nearer 
view of what human eyes have seldom, if ever, be- 
held, — an American, pure blood, handhng the pick, 
the shovel, and the wheelbarrow, while an Irishman 
directed his labors. Upon inspection, it appeared 
that none of the trees grew with their roots in the 
air, in recognition of this great reversal of the 
natural law ; all the French-roof houses stood, right 
 
side up. The phenomenon may become more com- 
mon in ftitxire, unless the American race accom- 
plishes its destiny of dying out before the more pop- 
nlatory foreigner, but as yet it graced the veteran 
with an exquisite and signal distinction. He, how- 
ever, seemed to feel unpleasantly the anomaly of his 
case, and opened the conversation by saying that he 
should not work at that job to-morrow, it hurt his 
side ; and went on to complain of the inhumanity of 
Americans to Americans. "Why," said he, "they'd 
rather give out their jobs to a nigger than to one of 
their own kind. I was beatin' carpets for a gentle- 
man on the Avenue, and the first thing I know he 
give most of 'em to a nigger. I beat seven of 'em 
in one day, and got two dollars ; and the nigger beat 
'em by the piece, and he got a dollar an' a half 
apiece. My luck ! " 
Here the Irishman glanced at his hireling, and the 
rueftd veteran hastened to pile up another wheel- 
barrow with earth. If ever we come to reverse 
positions generally with our Irish brethren, there is 
no doubt but they will get more work out of us than 
we do from them at present. 
It was shortly after this that the veteran offered to 
do second girl's work in my house if I would take 
him. The place was not vacant ; and as the sum- 
mer was now drawing to a close, and I feared to be 
left with him on my hands for the winter, it seemed 
well to speak to him upon the subject of economy. 
The next time he called, I had not about me the 
exact sum for a night's lodging, — fifty cents, namely, 
— and asked him if he thought a dollar would do. 
He smiled sadly, as if he did not like jesting upon 
such a very serious subject, but said he allowed to 
work it out, and took it. 
" Now, I hope you won't think I am interfering 
with your affairs," said his benefactor, " but I really 
think you are a very poor financier. According to 
your own account, you have been going on from 
year to year for a long time, trusting to luck for a 
night's lodging. Sometimes I suppose you have to 
sleep out-of-doors." 
" No, never ! " answered the veteran, with some- 
thing like scorn. "I never sleep out-doors. I 
wouldn't do it." 
" Well, at any rate, some one has to pay for your 
lodging. Don't you think you'd come cheaper to 
yom- friends, if, instead of going to a hotel every 
night, you'd take a room somewhere, and pay for it 
by the month ? " 
" I've thought of that. If I could get a good bed, 
I'd try it awhile anyhow. You see the hotels have 
raised. I used to get a lodgin' and a nice breakfast 
for a half a dollar, but now it is as much as you can 
do to get a lodgin' for the money, and it's just as 
dear in the Port as it is in the city. I've tried hotels 
pretty much everywhere, and one's about as bad as 
another." 
If he had been a travelled Englishman writing a 
book, he could not have spoken of hotels with greater 
disdain. 
" You see, the trouble with me is, I ain't got any 
 
relations around here. Now," he added, with the 
life and eagerness of an inspiration, " if I had a 
mother and sister livin' down at the Port, say, I 
wouldn't go hunting about for these mean little jobs 
everywheres. I'd just lay round home, and wait till 
something come up big. What I want is a home." 
At the instigation of a malignant spirit I asked 
the homeless orphan, " Why don't you get married, 
then?" 
He gave me another smile, sadder, fainter, sweeter 
than before, and said : " When would you like to see 
me again, so I could work out this dollar ? " 
A sudden and unreasonable disgust for the charac- 
ter which had given me so much entertainment suc- 
ceeded to my past delight. I felt, moreover, that I 
had bought the right to use some frankness with the 
veteran, and I said to him : " Do you know now, I 
shouldn't care if I never saw you again ? " 
I can only conjecture that he took the confidence 
in good part, for he did not appear again after that. 
 
Walking for walking's sake I do not like. The 
diversion appears to me one of the most factitious 
of modern enjoyments; and I cannot help looking 
upon those who pace their five miles in the teeth of 
a north wind, and profess to come home all the live- 
lier and better for it, as guilty of a venial hypocrisy. 
It is in nature that after such an exercise the bones 
should ache and the flesh tremble ; and I suspect 
that these harmless pretenders are all the while pay- 
ing a secret penalty for their bravado. With a 
pleasant end in view, or with cheerful companion- 
ship, walking is far from being the worst thing in 
life ; though doubtless a truly candid person must 
confess that he would rather ride under the same 
circumstances. Yet it is certain that some sort of 
recreation is necessary after a day spent within doors ; 
and one is really obliged nowadays to take a little 
walk instead of medicine ; for one's doctor is sure to 
have a mania on the subject, and there is no more 
getting pills or powders out of him for a slight indi- 
gestion than if they had all been shot away at the 
rebels during the war. For this reason I sometimes 
go upon a pedestrian tour, which is of no great ex- 
tent in itself, and which I moreover modify by keep- 
ing always within sound of the horse-car bells, or 
easy reach of some steam-car station. 
I fear that I should find these rambles dull, but 
that their utter lack of interest amuses me. I will 
be honest with the reader, though, and any Master 
Pliable is free to forsake me at this point; for I 
cannot promise to be really livelier than my walk. 
There is a Slough of Despond in fiill view, and not 
a Delectable Mountain to be seen, unless you choose 
so to call the high lands about Waltham, which we 
shall behold dark blue against the western sky pres- 
ently. As I sally forth upon Benicia Street, the 
whole suburb of Charlesbridge stretches about me, 
— a vast space upon which I can embroider any 
fiincy I like as I saunter along. I have no associa- 
tions with it, or memories of it, and, at some seasons, 
I might wander for days in the most frequented parts 
of it, and meet hardly any one I know. It is not, 
however, to these parts that I commonly turn, but 
northward, up a street upon which a flight of French- 
roof houses suddenly settled a year or two since, with 
families in them, and many outward signs of per- 
manence, though their precipitate arrival might cast 
some doubt upon this. I have to admire their uni- 
form neatness and prettiness, and I look at their 
dormer-windows with the envy of one to whose 
weak sentimentality dormer-windows long appeared 
the supreme architectural happiness. But, for all 
my admiration of the houses, I find a variety that is 
pleasanter in the landscape, when I reach, beyond 
them, a little bridge which appears to span a small 
stream. It unites banks hned with a growth of trees 
and briers nodding their heads above the neighboring 
levels, and suggesting a quiet water-course ; though 
in fact it is the Fitchburg Railroad that purls be- 
tween them, with rippling freight and passenger 
trains and ever-gurgling locomotives. The banks 
take the earhest green of spring upon their south- 
ward slope, and on a Sunday morning of May, when 
the bells are lamenting the Sabbaths of the past, I 
find their sunny tranquillity sufficient to give me a 
slight heart-ache for I know not what. If I descend 
them and follow the railroad westward half a mile, I 
come to vast brick-yards, which are not in them- 
selves exciting to the imagination, and which yet, 
from an irresistible association of ideas, remind me 
of Egypt, and are forever newly forsaken of those 
who made bricks without straw ; so that I have no 
trouble in erecting temples and dynastic tombs out 
of the kilns ; while the mills for grinding the clay 
serve me very well for those sad-voiced gakias or 
wheel-pumps which the Howadji Curtis heard wail- 
ing at their work of drawing water from the Nile. 
A little farther on I come to the boarding-house 
built at the railroad side for the French Canadians 
who have by this time succeeded the Hebrews in 
the toil of the brick-yards, and who, as they loiter in 
windy-voiced, good-humored groups about the doors 
of their lodgings, insist upon bringing before me the 
town of St. Michel at the mouth of the great Mont 
Cenis tunnel, where so many peasant folk like them 
are always amiably quarreling before the cdbarett 
when the diligence comes and goes. Somewhere, 
there must be a gendarme with a cocked hat and a 
sword on, standing with folded arms to represent the 
Empire and Peace among that rural population ; if I 
looked in-doors, I am sure I should see the neatest 
of landladies and landladies' daughters and nieces in 
high black silk caps, bearing hither and thither 
smoking bowls of bouillon and cafe-au-lait. Well, it 
takes as little to make one happy as miserable, thank 
Heaven ! and I derive a cheerfiilness from this scene 
which quite atones to me for the fleeting desolation 
suflPered from the sunny verdure on the railroad 
bank. With repaired spirits I take my way up 
