" No." 
There was a pause, in which the young lady 
seemed to be waiting for a leading question, like a 
puzzled scholar. If she were, she had none. Sip 
sat with her dogged smile, and snapped little paper 
balls into the fire. 
" I thought it rather close in the mills." 
" Yes .? " 
"And — dirty. And — there was one very 
warm room ; the overseer advised me not to go in." 
" It was very good advice." 
" I went into the Company boarding-house too." 
"For the first time?" 
" For the first time. I went to inquire after 
you. The landlady took me about. Now I think 
of it, she invited me to tea." 
" Why didn't you stay .? " 
" Why, to tell the truth, the — tablecloth was 
— rather dirty." 
" Oh ! " 
" And I saw her wipe her face on — the dish- 
towel. Do the girls often sleep six in a room .' 
They had no wash-stands. I saw some basins 
set on trunks. They carried all the water up and 
down stairs themselves ; there were two or three 
flights. There wasn't a ventilator in the house. 
I saw a girl there sick." 
" Sick ? O, Bert Bush. Yes. Pleurisy. She 's 
going to work her notice when she gets about 
again. Given out." 
" She coughed while I was there. I thought 
her room was rather cold. I thought all the 
rooms were rather cold. I didn't seem to see 
any fire for anybody, except in the common 
sitting-room. But tjie bread was sweet." 
" Yes, the bread was sweet." 
"And the gingerbread." 
" Very sweet." 
" And, I suppose, the board — 
" The board is quarter of a dollar cheaper than 
in other places." 
Sip stopped snapping paper balls into the fire, 
and snapped instead one of her shrewd, sidewise 
glances at her visitor's face. 
The fine, fair, finished face ! How puzzled it 
looked ! Sip smiled. 
Catty had crept around while they were talk- 
ing, and sat upon the floor by Miss Kelso's chair. 
She was still amusing herself with the young 
lady's dress, passing her wise fingers to and fro 
across its elegant surface, and nodding to herself 
in her dull way. Miss Kelso's hand, the one with 
the rings, lay upon her lap, and Catty, attracted 
suddenly by the blaze of the jewels, took it up. 
She took it up as she would a novel toy, examined 
it for a few moments with much pleasure, then 
removed the rings and dropped them carelessly, 
and laid her cheek down upon the soft flesh. It 
was such a dusty cheek, and such a beautiful, 
bare, clean hand, that Sip started anxiously to 
speak to Catty, but saw that Perley sat quite still, 
and that her earnest eyes were full of sudden tears: 
" You will not let me say, you know, that I am 
sorry for you. I have been trying all the even- 
ing. I can't come any nearer than this." This 
she said smiling. 
" Look here ! " said Sip ; her brown face worked 
and altered. She said, " Look here ! " again, and 
stopped. " That 's nigh enough. I 'll take that. 
I like that. I like you. Look here ! I never 
said that to one of your kind of folks before ; I 
like you. Generally I hate your kind of folks." 
" Now that," said Miss Kelso, musing, " per- 
plexes me. We feel no such instinct of aversion 
to you. As far as I understand ' my kind of 
folks,' they have kindly hearts, and they have it 
in their hearts to feel very sorry for the poor." 
" Who wants their pity .' And who cares 
what 's in their hearts ? " 
Sip had hardened again like a little growing 
prickly nut. The subject and her softer mood 
dropped away together. 
" Sip," said Perley, fallen into another revery, 
"you see how little I know — " 
Sip nodded. 
" About — people who work and — have a 
hard time." 
" They don't none of 'em know. That 's why 
I hate your kind of folks. It ain't because they 
don't care, it 's because they don't know ; nor 
they don't care enough to know." 
" Now I have always been brought up to 
believe," urged Miss Kelso, " that our factory- 
people, for instance, had good wages." 
" I never complained of the wages. Hayle 
and Kelso couldn't get a cotton-weaver for 
three dollars a week, like a paper-factory I 
know about in Cincinnati. I knew a girl as 
worked to Cincinnati. Three dollars a week, 
and board to come out of it ! Cotton-weaving 's 
no play, and cotton-weavers are no 
fools." 
" And I always thought," continued Miss Kelso, 
"that such people were — why, happy and
comfortable, you know. Of course, I knew they must 
economize, and that, but — " 
She looked vaguely over at the supper-table ; 
such uncertain conceptions as she might hitherto 
be said to have had of " economizing " 
acquiring suddenly the form of thick, black mo- 
lasses, a little sticky, to be sure, but tangible. 
Sip made no reply, and Perley, suddenly aware 
of the lateness of the hour, started in dismay to 
take her leave. It occurred to her that the sticky 
stone-china dishes were yet to be washed, and 
that she had done a thoughtless thing in imposing, 
for a novel evening's entertainment, upon 
the scanty leisure of a worn-out factory-girl. 
She turned, however, neither an entertained 
nor a thoughtless face upon Sip when she tried 
to rise from her chair. Catty had fallen asleep, 
with her dirty cheek upon the shining hand, from 
which the rings were gone. Her ugly lower lip 
protruded, and all the repulsive lines about her 
eyes came out. Her long fingers moved a little, 
as is often the way with the deaf and dumb in 
sleep, framing broken words. Even in her 
dreams, this miserable creature bore about her a 
dull sense of denial and distress. Even in her 
dreams she listened for what she never heard, 
and spoke that which no man understood. 
"Mother used to say," said Sip, under her 
breath, "that it was the noise." 
" The noise .? " 
"The noise of the wheels. She said they 
beat about in her head. She come home o' 
nights, and says to herself, ' The baby 'll never 
hear in this world unless she hears the wheels ' ; 
and sure enough " (Sip lifted her face to Perley's, 
with a look of awe), "it is true enough that 
Catty hears the wheels ; but never anything 
besides." 
CHAPTER V. 
BUB MELL. 
IT was a March night, and a gray night, and a 
wild night ; Perley Kelso stepped out into 
it, from the damp little stone house, with
something of the confusion of the time upon her. Her 
head and heart both ached. She felt like a 
stranger setting foot in a strange land. Old, 
home-like boundary lines of things to which her 
smooth young life had rounded, wavered before 
her. It even occurred to her that she should 
never be very happy again, for knowing that 
factory-girls ate black molasses and had the cotton- 
cough. 
She meant to tell Maverick about it. She 
might have meant many other things, but for 
being so suddenly and violently jerked by the 
elbow that she preserved herself with difficulty 
from a smart fall into the slushy street. Striking 
out with one hand to preserve her balance, she 
found herself in the novel position of collaring 
either a very old young child or a very young 
old man, it was impossible at first sight to tell 
which. Whatever he was, it was easy at first 
sight to tell that he was filthy and ragged. 
" Le' go ! " yelled the old young creature, 
writhing. " Le' go, I say, dern yer ! Le' me be ! " 
Perley concluded, as her eyes wonted to the 
dark street, that the old young creature was by 
right a child. 
" If yer hadn't le' go I 'd 'a' made yer, yer 
bet," said the boy, gallantly. " Pretty way to 
treat a cove as doin' yer a favor. You bet. 
Hi-igh ! " 
This, with a cross between a growl of defiance 
and a whine of injury. 
" Guess what I 've got o' yourn ! You couldn't. 
You bet." 
" But I don't bet," said Perley, with an amused 
face. 
" Yer don't ? I do. Hi-igh ! Don't I though .? 
You bet ! Now what do you call that t Say ! " 
"I call that my glove. I did not miss it till 
this minute. Did you pick it up ? Thank you." 
" You needn't thank me till you 've got you 
needn't," said the child. " I 'm a cove as knows 
a thing or two. I want ten cents. You bet I do." 
" Where do you live .' " asked Perley. 
He lived down to East Street. Fust Tene- 
ment. No. 6. What business was it of hern, 
he'd like to know. 
" Have you a father and mother .' " 
Lor yes ! Two of 'em. Why shouldn't he ?
" I believe I will go home with you," said 
Perley, " it is so near by ; and — I suppose you are 
poor. " 
Lor, yes. She might bet. 
"And I can make it right about the recovery 
of the glove when I get there .'' " 
" N-n-oo you don't ! " promptly, from the cove 
as knew a thing or two. "You'll sling over 
to the old folks, I 'll bet. You don't come 
that ! " 
" But," suggested Perley, " I can, perhaps, 
give your father and mother a much larger 
sum of money than I should think it best to 
give you. If they are poor, I should think you 
would be glad that they should have it. And 
I can't walk in, you know, and give your father 
and mother money for nothing." 
" You give me ten cents," said this young old 
man, stoutly, "or what do you s'pose I 'll do with 
this 'ere glove ? Guess now ! " 
Perley failed to guess now. 
" I 'll cut 'n' run with it. I 'll cut 'n' run like 
mad. You bet. I 'II snip it up with a pair of 
shears I know about. I 'll jab holes in it with 
a jackknife I 've got. No, I won't. I 'll swop 
it off with my sister, for a yaller yaggate I 've got 
my eye on in the 'pothecarry's winder. My sis- 
ter 's a mill-gal. She 'll wear it on one hand to 
meetin', an' stick the t'other in her muff. That 's 
what I 'll do. How 'll you like that .? Hi-igh ! 
You bet ! " 
"At least, I can go home with you,'' said 
Perley, absently effecting an exchange between 
her glove and a fresh piece of ten-cent scrip, 
which the boy held up in the light from a shop- 
window, and tested with the air of a middle-aged 
counterfeiter ; " you ought to have been at home 
an hour ago." 
" Lor now," said this promising youth, " I was 
just thinkin' so ought you." 
" What is your name ." asked Perley, as they 
turned their two faces (one would have been 
struck, seeing them together, with thinking how 
much younger the woman looked than the child), 
toward East Street, the First Tenement, and 
No. 6. 
" My name 's Bub. Bub Mell. They used to 
call me Bubby, for short, till I got so large they 
give it up." 
" How old are you .' " 
"Eight last Febiverry." 
" What do you do ? " 
" Work -to the Old Stone." 
" But I thought no children under ten years 
of age were allowed to work in the mills." 
" You must be green ! " said Bub. 
" But you go to school ? " 
"I went to school till I got so large they 
give it up." 
" But you go a part of the time, of course ! " 
" No, I don't neither. Don't you s'pose I 
knows .'' " 
" What is that you have in your mouth .' " 
asked Perley, suddenly. 
Bub relieved himself of a quid of fabulous size, 
making quite superfluous the concise 
reply, " Terbaccer." 
"I never saw such a little boy as you chew 
tobacco before," said Perley, gasping. 
" You must be green ! I took my fust swag a 
year and a half ago. We all does. I 'm just 
out, it happens," said Bub, with a candid smile. 
" That 's what I wanted your ten cents for. 
I smokes too," added Bub, with an air of 
having tried not to mention it, for modesty's 
sake, but of being tempted overmuch. "You 
bet I do ! Sometimes it 's pipes, and sometimes 
it 's ends. As a gener'l thing, give me a pipe." 
" What else do you do ? " demanded Perley, 
faintly. 
"What else?" Bub reflected, with his old, 
old head on one side. He bet on marbles. 
He knew a tip-top gin-sling, when he see it, well 
as most folks. He could pitch pennies. He 
could ketch a rat ag'in any cove on East Street. 
Lor ! couldn't he ? 
" But what else ? " persisted Perley. 
Bub was puzzled. He thought there warn't 
nothin' else- After that he had his supper. 
" And after that ? " 
Lor. After that he went to bed. 
" And after that ? " 
After that he got up and went in. 
" Went in where ? " 
She must be green. Into the Old Stone. 
Spoolin', you know. 
Did he go to church.' 
She might bet he didn't ! Why, when 
should he ketch the rats.' 
Nor Sunday school.' 
He went to the Mission once. Had a card 
with a green boy onto it. Got so old he give 
it up. 
What did he expect, asked Perley, in a 
sudden, severe burst of religious enthusiasm, 
