
"Which means that they wouldn't make you first lieutenant."

"It don't mean that. It means that a majority of the fellows--all of
them in the steerage--voted for a fellow for captain whom they did
not like, and who, they knew, was not fit for the place, out of spite
to the officers. If they had voted on their own judgment, instead of
following Scott's lead--"

"They would have elected you," laughed Wainwright.

"No; they would have chosen Lincoln captain."

"But they did choose him commodore."

"And shoved Cumberland down to first lieutenant."

"And you down to first purser--the ship's chief clerk."

"I think I ought to have had a better position than the one I got."

"But you have your merit-rank; and it looks now as though your plan was
intended to save yourself from a bad fall, rather than to keep Cantwell
from being captain."

"I wasn't thinking of myself at all."

"All the fellows say that you nominated yourself for first lieutenant."

"I suppose all the officers wanted to get as good places as they could."

"If that was what they were driving at, they needn't blame the fellows
in the steerage for taking things into their own hands."

"I say, Wainwright, can't a fellow join the secret society?"

"That depends upon who the fellow is."

"One about my size."

"Yes, if the society will take him in."

"Will they take me in?"

"I don't know."

"I want to join."

"Because you want to be captain, or something of that sort," laughed
the second purser. "I don't believe it would do you any good. Are you
willing to vote for Cantwell for commodore next month?"

"No! I am not. Is that your game?"

"I didn't say it was."

"If it is, I won't join."

"No one has asked you to do so."

"Cantwell for commodore!" exclaimed De Forrest, in disgust, as he
walked away from his companion.

In ten minutes he had told half of the officers that the secret society
intended to make Cantwell commodore next month, and when his duties
as first purser required him to visit the main cabin soon after, he
revealed the momentous secret to Mr. Lowington.

"If this is a secret society, how do you know?" asked the principal.

"Wainwright, who is a member, said as much to me," replied the purser.

The second purser was called.

"I have heard a great deal about your secret society, Wainwright,"
continued the principal. "You have just had a meeting on the island?"

"Yes, sir."

"I do not believe in secret societies for political purposes. Do you
intend to make Cantwell commodore next month?"

"We have no such plan at present."

"Didn't you ask me, when I spoke of joining, if I would vote for
Cantwell for commodore?" asked De Forrest.

"I did."

"I think that's enough, sir," added the first purser.

"If Cantwell is using this society to make himself commodore, it is
time to suppress the society."

"Cantwell is not a member of it, sir," replied Wainwright. "It was got
up simply to defeat the plan of the officers to control the election.
At the meeting on the island to-day, not a word was said about the
elections in any way. If the nominations are fairly made next time, I
don't believe the society will meddle with them."

"I hope not," added Mr. Lowington.

"If the officers nominate in the cabin, without consulting the seamen,
very likely the society will do something."

"In that case, I should not object; for a secret society in the
steerage is no worse than one in the cabin."

"But what is the society for?" asked De Forrest, dissatisfied with the
situation.

"Simply for fun, for amusement--nothing else." replied Wainwright.

"Where do you meet?" asked the principal, curiously.

"We met in that old fish-house on the island. We have no place in the
ship. I was going to ask you, sir, if we might fit up a place in the
hold," added Wainwright.

"The hold is not a fit place for any meeting. I can do better, if
assured that your society is a proper one."

"I think it is, sir. There is nothing in it contrary to the rules of
the ship. In all the colleges there are secret societies, such as the
Φ. Β. Κ."

"You may have the main cabin one evening in a week."

"Thank you, sir. We shall be very grateful to you," replied Wainwright,
utterly confounded by the generosity of the principal.

De Forrest was disgusted, and went away with "a flea in his ear." Of
course the action of the principal was immediately known among all
the officers. Cumberland only laughed, while others looked grave, and
proposed that they should get up a society among the officers. The
proposition was hailed with a shout of satisfaction, and a committee
appointed to prepare a plan. Wainwright hastened to Scott with the
pleasant news he had to tell, and the main cabin was obtained for
that evening. As the instructors spent most of their unoccupied time
on deck, this was no hardship to them. The lodge opened again, with
those present who had taken the second degree. In older to make the
thing more ludicrous than before, the officers enveloped themselves in
blankets, sheets, and such other fantastic apparel as they could lay
hands upon, and each one placed his small tin wash-bowl on his head,
the handle of which stuck out like a queue behind. The curtain over the
skylight was drawn so that no one on deck could see into the cabin.
The pantry was built out from the bulkhead, which separated it from
the main cabin, into the steerage, forming a space, or gangway, four
feet wide, between the pantry and the mess-rooms, from winch one of the
doors opened into the cabin. A blanket was extended across from the
front of the pantry, before the starboard door, making an apartment
four feet square, in which the O. L. M. was stationed. The candidate
was admitted to this place, and when the bag was drawn over his head,
he was conducted into the lodge. The ceremonies were performed with
even more spirit than in the old fish-house, and the roars of laughter
that went up from the main cabin assured those within hearing that the
members were having a good time. All the rest in the ship who had taken
their first degree were "elevated" to the second on this occasion. At
the close of the initiation, a vote of thanks to the principal was
unanimously passed, for his kindness in granting the society the use
of the cabin; and after some debate, he was also elected an honorary
member of the order, with the privilege of attending any and all its
meetings--a privilege of which, however, he magnanimously declined to
avail himself.

The next morning the squadron sailed for Cronstadt, and, as the weather
was beautiful, the trip was a very pleasant one. The gulf was lively
with steamers, and sailing vessels of all kinds, from the smallest
Russian fishing shallop up to the largest man-of-war. There were
iron-clads and steamers of all sizes belonging to the Russian navy, and
the students gazed with interest at half a dozen monitors. These war
vessels were all engaged in various manœuvres and evolutions for
practice.

"What flag is that, Mr. Lowington?" asked Captain Cantwell, as a vessel
passed them.

"The Russian flag," replied the principal, surprised that the captain
of the ship should ask such a question.

"But I thought that on the men-of-war was the Russian flag."

"Both of them."

"I saw this white flag, crossed with a stripe of blue from the corners,
on the Russian fleet which came to America several years ago, and I
supposed that was the Russian flag."

"It is the Russian man-of-war flag. The Russian merchant flag consists,
as you see, of three equal strips of bunting, extending lengthwise--the
top one white, the bottom red, and the middle one blue. The Russian
royal standard is a yellow flag, with the double eagle in the middle.
Most of the European nations have several flags. You will find diagrams
of all these flags, standards, and jacks, in several volumes in the
library."

"Thank you, sir. I will study them," replied Cantwell, touching his cap.

In the afternoon, as seven bells struck, the squadron was approaching
Cronstadt. The channel was indicated by a light-house on the port
side, and a light-ship on the starboard. The water in the vicinity was
covered with fishing boats, from which men were engaged with lines,
seines, and hoop-nets. Around the town are several islands, all of them
fortified, some of them having three-story forts, and others extensive
earthworks. In 1854 the Baltic squadron, under Sir Charles Napier,
visited this locality, but made no attack, though the British vessels
found a channel by which it was possible to pass the fortifications;
but it has since been closed. The town, which contains a population of
thirty-seven thousand (two thirds of it constituting the garrison), is
built on an island, and is cut up by two canals, one leading to the
"Merchants Harbor," and the other to the naval repairing dock South of
the town is an immense harbor, capable of holding thousands of vessels.

Cronstadt is Russia's principal naval station, and contains vast
manufactories and storehouses belonging to the government. Scores of
old seventy-four gun ships, built of wood, and now practically useless
for modern warfare, are laid up here. The town is the port of St.
Petersburg, seventeen miles distant and all large vessels are obliged
to discharge and load here, though most of the steamers from foreign
countries run up to the city. The bar of the River Neva has only from
eight to ten feet of water.

The squadron ran into Merchants' Harbor, and came to anchor there.
Within it, vessels were loading and unloading at the very doors of the
warehouses. The students were allowed to land at once, but there was
little to be seen in the town, which is simply a commercial place,
though the government buildings are lofty and substantial structures.
A better idea of the fortifications was, however, obtained, and the
boys realized that St. Petersburg was safe from capture by sea, until
something even more terrible than iron-clads should be invented.




CHAPTER VIII.

THE LECTURE ON RUSSIA.


On the day after the arrival of the squadron at Cronstadt, when the
usual recitations of the day had been completed, all hands were
summoned to the steerage of the ship to listen to the preliminary
lecture on Russia. As the students knew less of this vast country than
of most of the others of Europe, they were more interested in the
exercise than usual. Mr. Mapps had a large map of Russia in Europe
suspended to the foremast, upon which he had drawn the railroads
completed up to that time, and made such other additions as the recent
changes in the country demanded.

"Russia is probably the largest empire, territorially, that exists now,
or ever has existed," the professor began.

"Can you tell us how to pronounce the name?" asked Commodore Lincoln.

"I do not speak Russian, but Professor Badois does, and I have asked
him to give us the name in Russian characters or letters," replied Mr.
Mapps, pointing to a large sheet of printing paper, upon which this
name and certain statistics were written. "Here it is--РОССІЯ."

"That R is backward," suggested the commodore.

"No," interposed the professor of languages; "that letter has the
value of ya in English. The first letter is the same as the English R;
the C's have the value of S, and the I sounds like long E. In Russian
the name is pronounced as though it were spelled Ro-see´-ya."

"It looks like poke ear," laughed Scott.

"You will not be able to read even a word of Russian, the letters are
so different from ours," added Mr. Badois.

"Like other countries, it has different names in different languages,"
continued Mr. Mapps. "In German, it is Russland; in French, Russie; in
Italian, Russia, but pronounced Roo´-see-ah; in Spanish, Rusia. The
best English authorities pronounce it Rush´ee-a, though it is often
given with the u like oo. It was formerly called Muscovy. It has
an area, in Europe and Asia, of about seven and one quarter millions of
square miles; or one seventh of all the land on the globe. The United
States,--including Alaska, has about one half as much territory; but
Russia in Europe contains only one third of this vast area. It has a
population of seventy-four millions--I give you the figures in round
numbers,--of whom four millions only are in Asia. It has about double
the population of the United States, which would give the same number
of people to the square mile, on the average. Russia consists mostly
of two great plains rather indefinitely separated by the water-shed
between the rivers that flow south into the Black and Caspian Seas,
and those which flow north and west into the Baltic and the Arctic
Ocean. The Valdai Hills, in the west-central part, which are not over
a thousand feet above the level of the sea, are the only elevations
or any consequence, except on or near the frontiers, where we find
the Ural and Caucasus ranges. Some portions of the country are uneven,
as Russian Poland and the Crimea; but there is very little variety of
scenery in the greater part of this vast region. In such a country you
would, of course, expect to find large rivers. The largest of these
is the Volga, twenty-two hundred miles long, and navigable to within
fifty miles of its source. The Don and the Dnieper are about a thousand
miles long. The Ural, the Dwina, the Petchora, and the Vistula are
important rivers. Russia contains thousands of lakes, most of them
in the northern and north-western part. Lake Ladoga, the largest in
Europe, is about the size of Lake Ontario; Onega is half as large;
