
 

" No, it isn't that " ; with an ingenuous blush. 
" And we talked of you while in Washington, and all 
the old times ; and O, I met a friend of yours when I 
went on, a Mr. Miller, who was present at your marriage." 



" Yes, he was here a few evenings since and told 
us. Kathie, you are quite a heroine." 

" I don't know what for," she said, simply. 

Mr. Meredith could have answered easily, but he 
did not wish to disturb the soft bloom of the peach 
before its midsummer ripening. It was her sweet 
unconsciousness of self, the bright, ready grace in 
ministering, that gave a beauty to the trifles of her 
daily life, and the spiritual correspondence back of 
it all. 

" And you have had a nice time ? " 

"It has been more than nice," returned Kathie; 
" delightful, and just crowded full of enjoyment." 

" Let them come up stairs and take off their wrap- 
pings," said matronly Jessie. " And Edward, if you 
will just call to Bridget, so that she can have things 
ready." 

Mr. Meredith made a most ridiculous face, as if to 
Kathie's sympathy. 





Jessie ran lightly up the stairs. The front room 
was a guest-chamber par excellence, and the folding- 
doors between this and her own room were thrown 
open. They looked so neat and pretty, with carpets 
of a soft rose-color and drab, and all the toilet mats 
embroidered with the same shades. The white cur- 
tains at the windows were plain muslin, with a bit 
of rose-color in the hems, while the ground-glass 
vases and scent-bottles were in purest white as well. 

" Why, it looks like a fairy palace," declared Ka- 
thie. " And O, here are some flowers ! " 

"You wouldn't believe what a pretty conservatory 
I have down in the back parlor. I could not give up 
every nook to furniture. And here is my sewing- 



room.' 



A little nest off of Jessie's apartment, just as cosey 
as it could be, with a pretty willow workstand and a 
sewing-machine. There were some brackets and pic- 
tures against the walls, the latter Jessie's handiwork. 

Aunt Ruth and Kathie had to inspect and admire 
everything. And here was another tiny vase of 
flowers. 

" I don't wart to fall into the mistake of putting 
every pretty article in iny parlor for chance visitors 



 

to inspect. I desire little bits of beauty for myself; 
and as I sit and sew here, and listen to birdie singing 
or see a stray flower blossom, I feel as if life was an 
every-day glory, and not detached fragments of pleas- 
ure that you have hard work to piece together, and 
are in a continual fever lest the joinings will show." 

" You are taking it up in the right way," said Aunt 
Ruth, with her sweet smile. " If we could all come 
to understand that the interior part of life, holding 
home and love, was so much more satisfying than 
outside show." 

" Are you never coming down ? The General and 
I are half starved to death. We shall have to reor- 
ganize the regiment and appoint a new quarter- 
master." 

They all marched down to the front basement, 
which served as dining-room. And even here Jes- 
sie's cunning hand was plainly visible. Bridget was 
quiet and tidy, and though her serving might not 
have had the grace of a French waiter, it was more 
lady-like than one might expect from a coarse-handed 
emigrant who had run wild and lived in the fields. 

The journey and its wonders had to be told over, 
and Kathie's thorough delight made it very enter 



 

taining. They sat a long while over their dessert, tor 
there seemed no hurry, as is often the case. 

" I have at last persuaded Bridget to eat her dinner 
as soon as she brings on the dessert. Sometimes she 
even goes so far as to wash up the dishes when we 
have company, and now she thinks it so much nicer 
than dawdling and hanging about," Jessie said to 
Aunt Euth. 

" Have you had much trouble ? " 

Jessie laughed. " Bridget gave me notice at the 
end of the first fortnight. She had never lived in a 
house where there wasn't a chambermaid, and she 
couldn't do so much work ; but I believe she thinks 
now that there is very little to do." 

" Jessie will soon be qualified to write ' What I 
know about Housekeeping, ' said Mr. Meredith, 
laughingly. 

"It will be very much needed," returned Aunt 
Euth. 

The gentlemen stayed down to smoke a little 
while, and Jessie took her guests back to the parlor. 
Kathie was tired and sleepy, and laid her hea<i in 
Aunt Euth's lap while the two ladies talked, "n- 
deed, she was really glad to go to bed. 



 

They spent most of the next day resting up. Mr. 
Meredith came home early and took them to the 
Park for a drive, and then went out with the Gen- 
eral in the evening. 

" I wish you would tell me about Ada," Kathie 
said. " I should like to go and call upon her if " 

" If what ? " Jessie asked, curiously. 

" If she would like it." 

" I think she would feel a good deal hurt if you 
did not. I am very sorry to see Ada take her re- 
verse of fortune in so sore and hard a manner." 

" But it must be a very sad thing." 

" It is, indeed. It would be exceedingly trying to 
me, and I am not so dependent upon outside sur- 
roundings. But Ada refuses utterly to be comforted. 
She will not even accept the pleasures she might 
have. She does not exert herself to make home 
happy, and persuades herself that she is cut off from 
everything beyond." 

" But what does she do ? " asked Kathie. 

" She reads a little, practises her music some, and 
spends a good deal of her time in crying. You see, 
nothing really interests her. She had expected to 
devote her whole winter to dressing and society. It 
is a great pity that she went to Saratoga last summer." 



"Her friends haven't all given her up! That 
would be too cruel." 

" I dare say there are many who would still be 
cordial, but she is very proud. I am not sure, Ka- 
thie, that learning to take is not just as necessary a 
lesson in this world as learning to give. To accept 
the pleasures friends are willing to put in our way, 
even if we cannot return in kind." 

" Yes,' Kathie said, thinking it over. " It makes 
you feel so happy when a person accepts anything 
cordially." 

" She is pale and thin and nervous to the last de- 
gree. Edward begged her to come up here for a visit, 
and took us both to a concert ; but she would not 
stay, and, if she had, I should have been puzzled how 
to entertain her. She has not the slightest resource, 
and will not make any effort. Mrs. Meredith has so 
much upon her hands that she cannot be looking 
after Ada as if she were a little child. What a pity 
to bring up a girl so entirely helpless ! ' 

" Don't you suppose that Mr. Meredith will be rich 
again some day ? " Kathie asked. 



 

" It will be years before they can go back again 
to the old style. Ada will be a faded invalid, good 
for nothing at all, unless she rallies soon. O Kathie, 
I am thankful every day for the full, fresh, country 
life I have had, and I do believe I enjoy all manner 
of refined pleasures with as great a zest as any one. 
Why, I went to a magnificent party on Christmas 
eve a grand Fifth Avenue affair, - - and felt won- 
derfully at home, even if I had not been polished by 
Saratoga." 

Kathie laughed gayly at that. 

" The Merediths were invited as well, but Mrs. 
Meredith said they could not return anything of the 
kind, so they would not go. It was a very dear 
friend of Edward's, and he would not hear of our 
declining." 

" But you liked it." 

" Yes, a good deal, as one likes a curious entertain- 
ment. There was a great crowd, and every now and 
then some lovely train was stepped on and half ru- 
ined. There were flowers and pictures and an elegant 
supper, with one of the finest bands in the city for 
music. The ladies talked languidly, danced languid- 
ly, walked about as if they were half tired to death. 



 

With all the beauty there was nothing fresh and stir- 
ring that took hold of your heart and made you feel 
as if you had had a good time. I was glad to get out 
without damaging my beautiful dress that Edward 
made me spend over two hundred dollars upon." 

" Oh ! " exclaimed Kathie, with a long breath. 

" And that was absolutely nothing in the way of 
cost. I really don't think it paid, except that I have 
the dress. But last week we were invited to the 
same house to a small dinner. There were eleven 
guests, very charming, educated people. One lady 
sang in the most exquisite manner, and another read. 
I had for cavalier a gentleman fresh from China, who 
entertained me delightfully, and I felt afterward as 
if I had actually been somewhere." 

Kathie's eyes kindled at this. 

" So I have resolved in my life to have all the real 
enjoyment that I can. The shams and make-believes 
I shall let go." 

" But I thought they used to be very happy at 
Mrs. Meredith's." 

" So they did. Their pleasures were very expen- 
sive, though, and now all plainer ones look common. 
But if you would like to go, perhaps you had better 



 

get ready, and I will take you. Afterward we can 
ramble around and look at some pictures." 

Aunt Euth did not mind being left at home, so 
Jessie and her guest started out, taking the horse-cars 
for some distance. 

" The house is very pretty," said Kathie, ascending 
the high stone stoop. It didn't look as if they were 
very much reduced. 

Inside Kathie recognized some of the old furniture 
and pictures, though she missed the elegance of the 
other drawing-room. Mrs. Meredith came in rather 
flurried, but handsome in attire. 

" O Miss Kathie," she exclaimed, cordially, " how 
do you do ? Why, this is quite a surprise. How 
