not have let Kent alone.
"There's a chance for you to make some money," exclaimed a voice in the
crowd. "Six or seven hundred dollars, and you're grumbling about being
out of work! It's a golden opportunity, and you'll never find another
like it."
That turned the laugh upon Kent. Rob walked off presently. Turning into
a quiet street, he nearly ran over two men who stood talking.
"The trouble is that you can hardly find a substitute. Most of the
able-bodied men who will go have enlisted or been drafted. The look is
mighty poor!"
That startled Rob again. He began to feel pretty sober now. What if--
Kathie and Aunt Ruth had gone out into the garden, and were taking up
some flowers for winter.
"O Rob!" exclaimed Kathie, with a cry, "is there any news? It's the
worst, I know," answering her own question, her breath almost strangling
her.
"Yes, it is the worst!"
"Uncle Robert has been drafted!" Kathie dropped her trowel and flew to
her mother. "But he won't go," she sobbed; "do you think he will? How
can we spare him?"
"It would be no worse for us than for hundreds of others," replied her
mother. "Kathie, my darling, be brave until we know, at least."
"Where is he?"
"He went to Connor's Point with Mr. Langdon. Hush, dear, don't cry."
Kathie wiped away her tears. "It is very hard," she said. "I never
realized before how hard it was."
But the flowers lost their charm. Kathie put away her implements, laid
off her garden-dress, as she called it,--a warm woollen sack and
skirt,--and sat down, disconsolately enough, to practise her music. Next
week she was going to school.
She heard Uncle Robert's voice on the porch at the side entrance. Rob
was talking in great earnest; but somehow she couldn't have gone out, or
trusted the voice still so full of tears.
He came in at length. "You have heard the news, Kitty?"
She rose and went to his arms, hid her face upon his shoulder. "O Uncle
Robert!"
"What ought I to do, little one?"
It was such a solemn question that she could not answer it readily,
selfishly.
"Rob came very near getting into a row on my behalf. It was rather
funny. Poor boy! I believe he would go willingly in my stead."
The story interested Kathie a good deal, and turned the current of her
feelings somewhat. Then one or two of the neighbors came in, and they
had no more quiet until they gathered round the supper-table. Freddy
thought it a great honor to be drafted.
"Is it true that there is a scarcity of substitutes?" asked Rob of his
uncle.
"I believe it is. Mr. Langdon put in one about a month ago, and paid a
thousand dollars."
"But you could afford that," said Rob, decisively.
"What about the cowardice of the proceeding?"
Rob colored. The matter appeared so different to him now.
"O Uncle Robert!"--in a most deprecating tone.
"I will not perplex you, nor keep you in suspense," he said, gravely.
"If your father was alive I think I should not hesitate a moment. The
country is at her sorest need, and calls upon her loyal children for
assistance. It is the duty of every man who can be spared to answer the
call, to swell the list so that the struggle may be brief. It seems to
me that another year will certainly see our war ended, now that we have
such brave and able generals in the field, but if the stress should be
any greater, I must respond. Now, however, I shall do my best to
procure a substitute."
They all drew a relieved breath. Kathie looked up with a tender light in
her eyes.
"I am so glad!" she said afterward, nestling beside him upon the sofa.
"Did it surprise you when you heard that you were drafted?"
"I must confess that it did. I had a presentiment that I should escape,
so it seems such things are not always to be depended upon."
Kathie was silent for some time, her eyes engrossed with a figure in the
carpet.
"Well, Miss Thoughtful, what is it now? Are you not satisfied to have me
stay, or am I less of a hero in your eyes?"
"No, Uncle Robert. I was only thinking of the men who were compelled to
go and did not want to, who had families to leave--"
"My darling, it is not necessary to lay the cares of others so deeply to
heart. Instead, we must do all we can for those who are left behind."
"I don't think a draft quite a fair thing, after all," declared Rob,
coming out of a brown study.
Mrs. Alston entered the room. "Mr. Morrison is over here and wishes to
see you,--Ethel's father."
Uncle Robert rose and went out.
In the mean while Aunt Ruth and Rob had quite a warm discussion
concerning the draft. Kathie somehow felt very tender-hearted, and was
silent.
Presently they heard steps in the hall and the door opened.
"I have brought Mr. Morrison in to see you all," Mr. Conover said, "and
to explain to you that he desires to go in my stead, a willing
substitute."
There was something very solemn and withal sweet in Uncle Robert's
voice. Rob winked away a tear, Kathie walked over to Mr. Morrison and
laid her hand in his,--a pretty white hand if she did dust the rooms and
do gardening with it.
"It is so very kind and generous in you," she began, falteringly,
thinking of another love and another substitute.
"No, Miss Kathie, it isn't all pure generosity, so don't praise me too
soon. If I'd been real lucky about getting work, maybe I shouldn't have
taken the idea so strongly into my mind, or if poor Ethel's mother had
lived. But times are unsettled, and business of all kinds is so very
dull that I'd half made up my mind to 'list and get the bounty. That
would be something for my little girl in case she didn't have me. Then
when I heard talk of the draft I thought to myself, 'If Mr. Conover gets
taken I'll offer to go in his place'; and so I waited. Being an
Englishman, I am not liable, you know."
"And that makes it the more noble," returned Kathie, softly. "It was so
good to--to think of him"; and her voice sank to a whisper.
"You have all been so kind to my poor old mother, and to me, for that
matter, as well. I seem to owe some sort of duty to you first."
"Did you mean to enlist any way?" asked Kathie.
"Yes, miss, it would have come to that; for, said I, 'Here is a country
and a government battling in a good cause, begging for men, and willing
to provide for the little ones they may leave behind.' Though I should
be no skulk, nor eye-server, Miss Kathie, if I did go for the money."
"We should never think that of you," returned Uncle Robert, warmly.
"So I'll be glad to go in your place, sir, if it's any favor; and if
you'll look after Ethel a little, if anything should happen to me. If
I'm too bold in asking--"
"No," said Aunt Ruth; "it will be a sacred duty, and a pleasure as well;
but we shall count upon your return."
"Life is uncertain with us all," was the grave reply. With that he rose
and bowed. Uncle Robert left the room with him, for he had much more to
say.
"I couldn't have uttered a word," exclaimed Rob, his voice still a
little tremulous. "Why, it's just like a dream! There are noble and
heroic men who may go to war even for the money, though I think they are
a good deal sneered at,--subs, as the boys call them; but I shall never
ridicule them again,--never, although bad men may do the same thing."
"It is not quite the same," subjoined Kathie.
"No, the motive makes a great difference."
Uncle Robert returned and took his seat between the children. He
appeared to be invested with a new virtue in their eyes, as if he had
just escaped an imminent and deadly peril. And there is something in the
simplest act of chivalry that touches one's soul.
"It was so good in Mr. Morrison to think of you," Rob said, after a
while.
"Yes; going farther back, I don't know but we owe it all to Kathie. If
she had not thought of our trusty and efficient gardener, we should
never have known his brother. The lodge has made a charming home for
them, and they feel deeply grateful."
"It is worse to go away to war than I imagined," Rob continued, gravely
following out his own musings.
"You have been looking at the glory and listening to the music, my boy;
but there is quite another side to it. It is one thing to go out as a
mounted officer, in glittering uniform, with a servant to wait upon you,
and if you fall in battle to have whole cities weep your loss, and quite
another to tramp as a common soldier, often weary and footsore, to be
subject to the caprice of those in authority, to work night and day
sometimes, to stand in the front rank and be swept down by a terrific
charge, be trampled under foot and thrown into a nameless grave, perhaps
forever lost to your kindred. It is no light matter, Rob, and requires a
good deal of courage when a man does it intelligently."
"You wouldn't have gone out as a private, though!"
A grave smile crossed Uncle Robert's face "I should not have gone for
the glory, but the duty. Yes, Rob, I should have taken my place in the
ranks, and if the great Captain of all had said, 'Friend, come up
higher,' I should have trusted through his grace to be ready for the
promotion. But one goes in my stead."
Kathie thought of the One who had gone in the place of us all, been
mocked, derided, spit upon, and put to a cruel death. Maybe the rest
remembered it too, for there was no more talking. Their hearts were too
full.
CHAPTER III.
TRUE TO ONE'S COLORS.
THERE was a week of great excitement at Brookside. Head-quarters were
established on the confines of the town to render it accessible to
Taunton and the adjacent places. Hundreds thronged the camp daily;
uniforms were sent down, and drilling commenced in good earnest.
Kathie began school on Monday morning. A large, pleasant room had been
obtained, and Mrs. Wilder opened with ten young ladies, though nearly as
many more had been enrolled.
"I feel as if I were drafted," she declared to Uncle Robert. "I know it
is my duty to go and do the best that I can, but I would so much rather
have remained at home."
"You find, then, that no one is quite exempt from the warfare?" and he
smiled. "Still, I think I can trust you to be a good soldier."
"I am second in the regiment," she said. "Mr. Morrison must always stand
first."
It seemed very quiet and lonesome in that large room, where you were put
upon your honor not to speak, and the silence was broken only by the
recitations, or some remark of Mrs. Wilder. A long, dull day, though the
session closed at two, there being no intermission.
Lottie Thorne was the only girl Kathie was well acquainted with. That
ambitious young lady had pleaded very hard for boarding-school, and,
being disappointed, was rather captious and critical. Emma Lauriston sat
next to her, and Kathie fancied she might like her very much. She had
met her in the summer at the rowing-matches.
But she was glad enough to get home. Rob had his head full of Camp
Schuyler, and Freddy had arrayed himself in gorgeous regimentals and sat
out on a post drumming fearfully.
"I want a little more talk about this substitute business," said Uncle
Robert, at the table. "Mr. Morrison offered to go for seven hundred
dollars. He has three hundred of his own. Now what do you think we ought
to give him?"
He addressed the question more particularly to Rob and Kathie.
Rob considered. In his boy's way of thinking he supposed what any one
asked was enough.
"Would a thousand dollars be too much?" Kathie ventured, timidly. "It
doesn't seem to me that any money could make up to Ethel for--"
There Kathie stopped.
"He will come back," exclaimed Rob.
"We were talking over Ethel's future this morning. Mr. Morrison would
like to have her educated for a teacher. I am to be appointed her
guardian in case of any misfortune."
"It ought not to be less than a thousand," said Aunt Ruth.
"I thought so myself. And I believe I shall pledge my word to provide a
home for Ethel in case of any change at her uncle's."
Kathie's deep, soft eyes thanked him.
The next day the bargain was concluded. Mr. Morrison handed his small
sum over to Mr. Conover for safe-keeping, and the whole amount, thirteen
hundred dollars, was placed at interest. Then he reported himself at
Camp Schuyler for duty.
Kathie tried bravely to like her school, but home was so much dearer and
sweeter. It was quite hard after her desultory life, and spasmodic
studying made so very entertaining by Uncle Robert's explanations, to
come down to methodical habits and details. She meant to be a good
soldier, even if it did prove difficult in the early marches.
But this week was one of events. On Thursday afternoon Mr. Meredith
surprised them all again. It seemed to Kathie that there was something
unusual in his face. Uncle Robert was absent on important business, and
at first he appeared rather disappointed.
"It is such a glorious afternoon, Kitty, that I think you will have to
invite me out to drive, by way of comfort. Are the ponies in good
order?"
"Yes, and at home. How fortunate that Rob did not take them!"
Kathie ordered them at once.
"You have had great doings here. So you came near losing your dear
uncle, my child?"
Kathie winked away a tear. There would always be a tender little spot in
her heart concerning the matter.
"It is best under the circumstances," was Mr. Meredith's grave comment.
"I should not want him to go."
They took their seats in the phaeton. "Where shall we drive?" Kathie
asked. "To--" breaking off her sentence with a little blush.
"Miss Darrell is away from home. It is owing to that circumstance that
you are called upon to entertain me"; and he laughed a little, but less
gayly than usual.
It was a soft, lovely autumn day, full of whisperings of oaks and pines
and cedars, fragmentary chirps of birds, and distant river music, Kathie
drew a few long breaths of perfect content, then with her usual
consideration for others she stole a shy glance to see if Mr. Meredith
was enjoying it as well, he was so very quiet.
"I am afraid something troubles you," she said, softly; and her voice
sounded as if it might have been a rustle of maple branches close at
hand. "Is it about Uncle Robert?"
"No, child," in a grave, reflective tone; "it is--about myself."
She did not like to question him as she would have done with Uncle
Robert.
"Kitten," he began, presently, "I have been thinking this good while,
and thinking slowly. A great many things puzzle me, and all my
perplexities have culminated at last in one grand step; but whether I am
quite prepared for it--"
The sentence was a labyrinth to Kathie, and she was not quite sure that
she held the clew.
"I am going to enlist--at least, I am going out for three months--with
my regiment. They have volunteered, most of them."
"And what troubles you?" in her sweet, tender voice, and glancing up
with an expression that no other eyes save Kathie Alston's could have
had.
"Child," he asked, "how did you stand fire last winter when you were so
suddenly brought to the front? About the singing, I mean."
She understood. He referred to the Sunday evening at Mrs. Meredith's
when she had refused to join Ada in singing songs. The remembered pain
still made her shiver.
"There is something about you, Kathie, just a little different from
other children,--other girls. You often carry it in your face; and for
the life of me I cannot help thinking how the wise virgins must have
been illuminated with their tiny lamps while the others stood in
darkness. Is it a natural gift or grace?"
She knew now what he meant. She was called upon to give testimony here,
and it was almost as hard as in Mrs. Meredith's grand drawing-room. She
felt the warm blood throbbing through every pulse.
"You did a brave thing that night, little girl. I shall never forget
it--never. Can you answer my question? What is it?"
She could only think of one thing, one sentence, amid the whirl and
confusion of ideas and the girlish shrinking back,--"The love of Christ
constraineth us."
"It wasn't merely your regard for your mother or Uncle Robert?"
"It was all,"--in her simple, earnest fashion.
"I'm going out there, Kathie," nodding his head southward, "to stand
some pretty hard fire, doubtless. I am not afraid of physical pain, nor
the dropping out of life, though existence never was sweeter than now;
but if, in the other country, the record of my useless years rises sharp
against me, what shall I answer? I have never tried to do anything for
the glory of God! Child, you shame all our paltry lives!"
"O, don't!" with a suggestion of pain in her voice; "what I can do is
such a very little."
She would never know how the simple acts of her life, springing from the
hidden centre that was deeper even than her every-day thought, was to
bear fruit on wide-spread branches.
"And yet we--I--do nothing. I should have to go empty-handed."
She cast about for some words of comfort. As girl or woman Kathie Alston
would never be able to realize all the frivolousness, to say nothing of
vanity, selfishness, and deeper sins, crowded into this man's life,
which still looked so fair by outward comparison with others.
"Ever since Mr. Morrison offered to go in Uncle Robert's place this
verse has been lingering in my mind: 'Greater love hath no man than
this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.' It seems to me that
it doesn't mean physical life altogether, but all the times and places
when we take something precious out of our own lives and put it into
that of others. And every man who goes now may be called upon to suffer
in some other's stead. If he do it bravely, is it not a little of the
