This brought back the dusty toilers, who sent in a report 
and ceased from their labors. The Governor was always com- 
fortable about it ; he said Mrs. O'Flannigan would hold him 
for the Brigade's board anyhow, and he intended to get what 
entertainment he could out of the boys ; he said, with his old- 
time pleasant twinkle, that he meant to survey them into Utah 
and then telegraph Brigham to hang them for trespass ! 
The surveyors brought back more tarantulas with tliem, 
and so we had quite a menagerie arranged along the shelves 
of the room. Some of these spiders could straddle over a* 
common saucer with their hairy, muscular legs, and when 
their feelings were hurt, or their dignity olfended, they were 
the wickedest-looking desperadoes the animal world can fur- 
nish. If their glass pris- 
on-houses were touched 
ever so lightly they were np and spoiling 
for a light in a minute. 
Starchy ? — proud ? Indeed, they would take 
up a straw and pick their teeth like a member of Congress. 
There was as usual a furious " zephyr " blowing the hrst 
night of the brigade's return, and about midnight the roof 
of an adjoining stable blew off, and a corner of it came crasli- 
ino; throuojh the side of our ranch. There Mas a simultane- 
oils avrakening, and a tumultuous muster of the brigade in 
the dark, and a general tumbling and sprawling over each 
other in the narrow aisle between the bed-rows. In the 
midst of the turmoil. Bob II sprung up out of a sound 
sleep, and knocked down a shelf with his head. Instantly he 
shouted : 
" Turn out, boys — the tarantulas is loose ! " 
Ko warning ever sounded so dreadful. Nobody tried, any 
loQger, to leave the room, lest he might step on a tarantula. 
E't'ery man groped for a trunk or a bed, and jumped on it. 
Then followed the strangest silence — a silence of grisly sus- 
pense it was, too — waiting, expectancy, fear. It was as dark 
as pitch, and one had to imagine the spectacle of those four- 
teen scant-clad men roosting gingerly on trunks and beds, for 
not a thing could be seen. Then came occasional little inter- 
ruptions of the silence, and one could recognize a man and 
tell his locality by his voice, or locate any other sound a suf- 
ferer made by his gropings or changes of position. The occa- 
sional voices were not given to much speaking — you simply 
heard a gentle ejaculation of " Ow ! " followed by a solid 
thump, and you knew the gentleman had felt a haiiy blanket 
, or something touch his bare skin and had skipped from a bed 
to the floor. Another silence. Presently you would hear a 
gasping A'oice say : 
" Su-su-something's crawling up the back of my neck ! " 
Every now and then you could hear a little subdued scram- 
ble and a sorrowful " O Lord ! " and then you knew that some- 
body was getting away from something he took for a taran- 
tula, and not losing any time about it, either. Directly a voice 
in the corner rang out wild and clear : 
" I've got him ! I've got him ! " [Pause, and probable 
change of circumstances.] " No, he's got me ! Oh, ain't they 
never going to fetch a lantern ! " 
The lantern came at that moment, in the hands of Mrs. 
O'Flannigan, whose anxiety to know the amount of damage 
done by the assaulting roof had not prevented her waiting a 
judicious interval, after getting out of bed and lighting up, to 
see if the wind was done, noM', up stairs, or had a larirer contract. 
The hmdscape presented when the lantern flashed into the 
room was picturesque, and might have been funny to some 
people, but was not to us. Although we were perched so 
strangely upon boxes, trunks and beds, and so strangely at- 
tired, too, we were too earnestly distressed and too genuinely 
miserable to see any fun about it, and there vvas not the sem- 
blance of a smile anywhere visible. I know I am not capa- 
ble of suffering more than I did during those few minutes of 
suspense in the dark, surrounded by those creeping, bloody- 
minded tarantulas. I had skipped from bed to bed and from 
hex to box in a cold agony, and every time I touched anything 
that was furzy I fancied I felt the fangs. I had rather go to 
war than live that episode over again. Xobody was hurt. The 
man who thought a tarantula had " got him " was mistaken — 
onlv a crack in a box had cauffht his fincer. Not one of those 
escaped tarantulas was ever seen again. There were ten or 
twelve of them. We took candles and hunted the place high 
and low for them, but with no success. Did we go hack to 
bed then ? "We did nothino; of the kind, Monev could not 
have persuaded us to do it. We sat up the rest of the night 
playing cribbage and keeping a sharp lookout for the enemy. 
CHAPTER XXIT. 
IT was the end of August, and the skies were cloudless and 
the weather superb. In two or three weeks I had grown 
wonderfully fascinated with the curious new country, and 
concluded to put off my return to " the States " awhile. I 
had grown well accustomed to wearing a damaged slouch Ixit, 
blue woolen shirt, and pants crammed into boot-tops, and 
gloried in the absence of coat, vest and braces. I felt rowdy- 
ish and "bully," (as the historian Josephus phrases it, in his 
fine chapter upon the destruction of the Temple). It seemed 
to me that nothing could be so fine and so romantic. I had 
become an officer of the government, but that was for mere 
sublimity. The office was an unique sinecure. I had nothing 
to do and no salary. I was private Secretary to his majesty 
the Secretary and there was not yet writing enough for two 
of us. So Johnny K and I devoted our time to amuse- 
ment. He was the young son of an Ohio nabob and was out 
there for recreation. He got it. We had heard a world of 
talk about the marvellous beauty of Lake Tahoe, and finally 
curiosity drove us thither to see it. Three or four members 
of the Brigade had been there and located some timber lands 
on its shores and stored up a quantity of provisions in their 
camp. We strapped a couple of blankets on our shoulders 
and took an axe apiece and started — for we intended to take 
up a wood ranch or so ourselves and become wealthy. We 
were on foot. The reader will find it advantageous to go 
horseback. We were told that the distance was eleven miles. 
We tramped a long time on level ground, cand then toiled 
laboriously up a mountain about a thousand miles high and 
looked over. !No lake there. We descended on the other 
side, crossed the valley and toiled up another mountain three 
or four thousand miles high, apparently, and looked over again. 
No lake yet. We sat down tired and perspiring, and hired a 
couple of Chinamen to curse those people who had beguiled 
us. Thus refreshed, we presently resumed the march with 
renewed vigor and determination. We plodded on, two or 
three hours longer, and at last the Lake burst upon us — a 
noble sheet of blue water lifted six thousand three hundred 
feet above the level of the sea, and walled in by a rim of snow- 
clad mountain peaks that towered aloft full three thousand feet 
higher still ! It was a vast oval, and one would have to use 
up eighty or a hundred good miles in traveling around it. As 
it lay there with the shadows of the mountains brilliantly 
photographed upon its still surface I thought it must surely 
be the fairest picture the whole earth affords. 
We found the small skift' belonging to the Brigade boySy 
and without loss of time 
set out across a deep bend 
of the lake toward the land- 
marks that signified the locality of the camp. I got 
Johnny to row — not because I mind exertion myself, 
but because it makes me sick to ride backwards 
when I am at work. But 
I steered. A three-mile pull brought us to 
the camp just as the night fell, and we p 
stepped ashore very tired and wolfishly hun- 
gry. In a "cache" among the rocks we found 
the provisions and the cooking utensils, and then, all fatigued 
as I was, I sat down on a boulder and superintended while 
Johnny gathered wood and cooked supper. Many a man who 
had gone through what I had, would have wanted to rest. 
It was a delicious supper — hot bread, fried bacon, and 
black coifee. It was a delicious solitude we were in, too. 
Three miles away was a saw-mill and some workmen, but 
there were not lifteen other human beings throughout the 
wide circumference of the lake. As the darkness closed down 
and the stars came out and spangled the great mirror with 
jewels, we smoked meditatively in the solemn hush and forgot 
our troubles and our pains. In due time we spread our 
blankets in the warm sand between two large boulders and 
soon feel asleep, careless of the procession of ants that passed 
dn through rents in our clothing and explored our persons. 
Nothing could disturb the sleep that fettered us, for it had 
been fairly earned, and if our consciences had any sins on 
them they had to adjourn court for that night, any way. The 
wind rose just "as we were losing consciousness, and we were 
lulled to sleep by the beating of the surf upon the shore. 
It is always very cold on that lake shore in the night, but 
we had plenty of blankets and were warm enough. We never 
moved a muscle all night, but waked at 
early dawn in the original positions, and 
got up at once, thoroughly refreshed, 
free from soreness, and brim full of 
friskiness. There is no end of wholesome medicine in such an experience. 
That morning we could have whipped 
ten such people as we were the day 
before — sick ones at any rate. But the 
world is slow, and people will go to 
" water cures " and " movement cures " 
and to foreign lands for health. Three 
months of camp life on Lake Tahoe 
would restore an Egyptian mummy to 
his pristine vigor, and give him an appetite like an alligator. 
I do not mean the oldest and driest mummies, of course, but the 
fresher ones. The air up there in the clouds is very pure and 
line, bracing and delicious. And why shouldn't it be? — it is 
the same the angels breathe. I think that hardly any amount 
of fatigue can be gathered together that a man cannot sleep off 
in one night on the sand by its side. Not under a roof, but 
under the sky ; it seldom or never rains there in the summer 
time. I know a man who went there to die. But he made a 
failure of it. He was a skeleton when he came, and could 
barely stand. He had no appetite, and did nothing but read 
tracts and reflect on the future. Three months later he was 
sleeping out of doors regularly, eating all he could hold, three 
times a day, and chasing game over mountains three thousand 
feet high for recreation. And he was a skeleton no longer, 
but weighed part of a ton. This is no fancy sketch, but the 
truth. His disease was consumption. I confidently commend 
his experience to other skeletons. 
I superintended again, and as soon as we had eaten break- 
fast we got in the boat and 
skirted along the lake shore 
about three miles and disem- 
barked. We liked the appearance of the place, and so we 
claimed some three hundred 
acres of it and stuck our " notices " on a tree. It was yellow 
pine timber land — a dense forest 
of trees a hundred feet hicrh and 
from one to five feet through at 
the butt. It was necessary to fence our property or m'c could 
not hold it. That is to say, it was necessary to cut down trees here 
and there and make them fall in such a way as to form a sort of. 
enclosure (with pretty wide gaps 
in it). "We cut down three trees apiece, and found it such 
heart-breaking work that we decided to "rest our case" on 
those ; if they held the property, well and good ; if they 
didn't, let the property spill out through the gaps and go ; it 
was no use to work ourselves to death merely to save a few 
acres of land. Next day we came back to build a lioiise — 
for a house was also necessary, in order to hold the property. 
We decided to build a substantial log-house and excite the 
envy of the Brigade boys ; but by the time we had cut and 
trimmed the first log it seemed unnecessary to be so elaborate, 
and so we concluded to build it of saplings. However, two 
saplings, duly cut and trimmed, compelled recognition of the 
fact that a still modester architecture would satisfy the law, 
and so we concluded to build a "brush" house. We devoted 
the next day to this work, but we did so much "sitting 
around " and discussing, that by the middle of the afternoon 
we had achieved only a half-way sort of affair which one of us 
had to watch while the other 
cut brush, lest if both turned 
our backs we might not be able to find it again, it had 
such a strong family resemblance to the surrounding 
vegetation. But we were satisfied with it. 
We were land owners 
now, duly seized and pos- 
sessed, and within the pro- 
tection of the law. Therefore we decided to take up 
our residence on our own 
domain and enjoy that large sense of 
independence which only such an experience can bring. Late the next afternoon, 
after a good long rest, we sailed 
away from the Brigade camp with all 
the provisions and cooking utensils we could carry ofi— borrow 
is the more accurate word — and just as the night was falling 
we beached the boat at our own landing. 
OUR HOUSE. 
OHAPTEE XXIII. 
IF there is any life that is happier than the life we led on our 
timber ranch for the next two or three weeks, it must be 
a sort of life which I have not read of in books or experienced 
in person. We did not see a human being but ourselves during 
the time, or hear any sounds but those that were made by the 
wind and the waves, the sighing of the pines, and now and 
then the far-off thunder of an avalanche. The forest about us 
was dense and cool, the sky above us was cloudless and bril- 
liant with sunshine, the broad lake before us was glassy and 
clear, or rippled and breezy, or black and storm-tossed, accord- 
ing to !Nature's mood ; and its circling border of mountain 
domes, clothed with forests, scarred with land-slides, cloven by 
canons and valleys, and helmeted with glittering snow, fitly 
framed and finished the noble picture. The view was always 
fascinating, bewitching, entrancing. The eye was never tired 
of gazing, night or day, in calm or storm ; it suffered but one 
grief, and that was that it could not look always, but must close 
sometimes in sleep. 
We slept in the sand close to the water's edge, between two 
protecting boulders, which took care of the stormy night-winds 
for us. We never took any paregoric to nxake us sleep. At 
the first break of dawn we were always up and running foot- 
races to tone down excess of physical vigor and exuberance of 
spirits. That is, Johnny was — but I held his hat. While 
smoking the pipe of peace after breakfast we watched the sen- 
tinel peaks put on the glory of the sun, and followed the conquering
light as it swept down among the shadows, and set the 
captive crags and forests free. We watched the tinted pictures 
grow and brighten npon the water till every little detail of 
forest, precipice and pinnacle was wrought in and finished, and 
the miracle of the enchanter complete. Then to " business." 
That is, drifting around in the boat. We were on the 
north sliore. There, the rocks on the bottom are sometimes 
gray, sometimes whitet 
This gives the marvelous, 
transparency of the water 
a fuller advantage than it 
has elsewhere on the lake. 
"We usually pushed out a 
hundred yards or so from 
shore, and then lay down 
on the thwart's, in the 
sun, and let the boat 
drift by the hour whither it would. We 
seldom talked. It interrupted the Sabbath 
stillness, and marred the dreams the luxurious rest and indolence 
brought. The shore 
all along was indented with deep, curved bays and coves, 
bordered by narrow sand-beaches ; and where the sand ended, 
the steep mountain-sides rose right up aloft into space — rose 
up like a vast wall a little out of the perpendicular, and 
thickly wooded with tall pines. 
So singularly clear was the water, that where it was only 
twenty or thirty feet deep the bottom was so perfectly distinct 
that the boat seemed floating in the air ! Yes, where it was 
even eighty feet deep. Every little pebble was distinct, every 
speckled trout, every hand's-breadth of sand. Often, as we lay 
on our faces, a granite boulder, as large as a village church, 
