under the earth, there is nothing mightier than a priest, 
except God ; and, to be exact, God himself must obey 
the priest in the mass." And then, in words whicli I 
do not care to translate, the priest is made greater than 
the Virgin Mary, because Christ was only born of the 
Virgin once, while the priest " with five words, as often 
and wherever he will," can " bring forth the Saviour of the 
world." So to-day keeps firm hold of the traditions of 
a hundred years ago, and ultramontanism wisely de- 
fends the last citadel where the Middle- Age super- 
stition makes a stand, — the popular veneration for the 
clergy. 
And the clergy take good care to keep up the pomps 
and shows even here in sceptical Munich. It was my 
inestimable privilege the other morning — it was All- 
Saints' Day — to see the archbishop in the old Frauen- 
kirche, the ancient cathedral, where hang tattered ban- 
ners that were captured from the Turks three centuries 
ago, — to see him seated in the choir, overlooked by 
saints and apostles carved in wood by some forgotten 
artist of the fifteenth century. I supposed he was at 
least an archbishop, from the retinue of priests who 
attended and served him, and also from his great size. 
When he sat down, it required a dignitary of considerable 
rank to put on his hat ; and, when he arose to speak a few 
precious words, the effect was visible a good many yards 
from where he stood. At the close of the service he 
went in great state down the centre aisle, preceded by 
the gorgeous beadle — a character that is always awe- 
inspiring to me in these churches, being a cross between 
a magnificent drum-major and a verger — and two per- 
sons in livery, and followed by a train of splendidly- 
attired priests, six of whom bore up his long train of 
purple silk. The whole cortege was resplendent in 
embroidery and ermine ; and as the great man swept 
out of my sight, and was carried On a priestly wave into 
his shining carriage, and the noble footman jumped up 
behind, and he rolled away to his dinner, I stood lean- 
ing against a pillar, and reflected if it could be possible 
that that religion could be any thing but genuine which 
had so much genuine ermine. And the organ-notes, 
rolling down the arches, seemed to me to have a very 
ultramontane sound. 
CHANGING QUARTERS. 
PERHAPS it may not interest you to know how we 
moved, that is, changed our apartments. I did not 
see it mentioned in the cable despatches, and it may not be 
generally known, even in Germany ; but, then, the cable 
is so occupied with relating how his Serenity this, and his 
Highness that, and her Loftiness the other one, went out 
doors and came in again, owing to a slight superfluity of 
the liquid element in the atmosphere, that it has no time 
to notice the real movements of the people. And yet, 
so dry are some of these little German newspapers of 
news, that it is refreshing to read, now and then, that the 
king, on Sunday, walked out with the Duke of Hesse 
after dinner (one would like to know if they also had 
sauer-kraut and sausage), and that his prospective mother- 
in-law, the Empress of Russia, who was here the other 
day, on her way home from Como, where she was nearly 
drowned out by the inundation, sat for an hour on Sun- 
day night, after the opera, in the winter garden of the 
palace, enjoying the most easy family intercourse. 
But about moving. Let me tell you that to change 
quarters in the face of a Munich winter, which arrives 
here the 1st of November, is like changing front to the 
enemy just before a battle ; and, if we had perished in the 
attempt, it might have been put upon our monuments, as 
it is upon the out-of-cannon-cast obelisk in the Karolina 
Platz, erected to the memory of the thirty thousand Ba- 
varian soldiers who fell in the disastrous Russian winter 
campaign of Napoleon, fighting against all the interests 
 
of Grermany, — " they, too, died for their Fatherland." 
Bavaria happened also to fight on the wrong side at Sa- 
dowa, and I suppose that those who fell there also died 
for Fatherland : it is a way the Germans have of doing, 
and they mean nothing serious by it. But, as I was say- 
ing, to change quarters here as late as November is a 
little difficult, for the wise ones seek to get housed for 
the winter by October : they select the sunny apartments, 
get on the double-windows, and store up wood. The 
plants are tied up in the gardens, the fountains are cov- 
ered over, and the inhabitants go about in furs and the 
heaviest winter clothing long before we should think of 
doing so at home. And they are wise : the snow comes 
early, and, besides, a cruel fog, cold as the grave and 
penetrating as remorse, comes down out of the near 
Tyrol. One morning early in November, I looked out 
of the window to find snow falling, and the ground cov- 
ered with it. There was dampness and frost enough in 
the air to make it cling to all the tree-twigs, and to take 
fantastic shapes on all the queer roofs and the slenderest 
pinnacles and most delicate architectural ornamenta- 
tions. The city spires had a mysterious appearance in 
the gray haze ; and above all, the round-topped towers of 
the old Frauen Kircke, frosted with a little snow, loomed 
up more grandly than ever. When I went around to 
the Hof Garden, where I late had sat in the sun, and 
heard the brown horse-chestnuts drop on the leaves, the 
benches were now full of snow, and the fat and friendly 
fruit-woman at the gate had retired behind glass windows 
into a little shop, which she might well warm by her 
own person, if she radiated heat as readily as she used 
to absorb it on the warm autumn days, when I have 
marked her knitting in the sunshine. 
But we are not moving. The first step we took was 
to advertise our wants in the " Neueste Nachrichten," 
(" Latest News ") newspaper. We desired, if possible, 
admission into some respectable German family, where 
we should be forced to speak German, and in which our 
society, if I may so express it, would be some compensa- 
tion for our bad grammar. We wished also to live in 
the central part of the city, — in short, in the immediate 
neighborhood of all the objects of interest (which are 
here very much scattered), and to have pleasant rooms. 
In Dresden, where the people are not so rich as in Mu- 
nich, and where different customs prevail, it is custom- 
ary for the best people, I mean the families of university 
professors, for instance, to take in foreigners, and give 
them tolerable food and a liberal education. Here it is 
otherwise. Nearly all families occupy one floor of a 
building, renting just rooms enough for the family, so 
that their apartments are not elastic enough to take in 
strangers, even if they desire to do so. And generally 
they do not. Munich society is perhaps chargeable with 
being a little stiff and exclusive. Well, we advertised 
in the " Neueste Naehrichten." This is the liberal paper 
of Munich. It is a poorly-printed, black-looking daily 
sheet, folded in octavo size, and containing anywhere 
from sixteen to thirty-four pages, more or less, as it hap- 
pens to have advertisements. It sometimes will not have 
more than two or three pages of reading matter. There 
will be a scrap or two of local news, the brief telegrams 
taken from the official paper of the day before, a bit or 
two of other news, and perhaps a short and slashing edi- 
torial on the ultramontane party. The advantage of 
printing and folding it in such small leaves is, that the 
size can be varied according to the demands of adver- 
tisements or news (if the German papers ever find out 
what that is) : so that the publisher is always giving, 
every day, just what it pays to give that day; and the 
reader has his regular quantity of reading matter, and 
does not have to pay for advertising space, which in 
journals of unchangeable form cannot always be used 
profitably. This little journal was started something 
like twenty years ago. It probably spends little for news, 
has only one or, at most, two editors, is crowded with 
advertisements, which are inserted cheap, and costs, de- 
livered, a little over six francs a year. It circulates in 
the city some thirty-five thousand. There is another 
little paper here of the same size, but not so many leaves, 
called " The Daily Advertiser," with nothing but adver- 
tisements, principally of theatres, concerts, and the daily 
sights, and one page devoted to some prodigious yarn, 
generally concerning America, of which country its read- 
ers must get the most extraordinary and frightful impres- 
sion. The " Nachrichten " made the fortune of its first 
owner, who built himself a fine house out of it, and 
retired to enjoy his wealth. It was recently sold for one 
hundred thousand guldens ; and I can see that it is piling 
up another fortune for its present owner. The Germans, 
who herein show their good sense and the high state of 
civilization to which they have reached, are very free 
advertisers, going to the newspapers with all their wants, 
and finding in them that aid which all interests and all 
sorts of people, from kaiser to kerl, are compelled, in 
these days, to seek in the daily journal. Every German 
town of any size has three or four of these little journals 
of flying leaves, which are excellent papers in every 
respect, except that they look like badly-printed, hand- 
bills, and have very little news and no editorials worth 
speaking of. An exception to these in Bavaria is the 
" Allgemeine Zeitung " of Augsburg, which is old and 
immensely respectable, and is perhaps, for extent of cor- 
respondence and splendidly-written editorials on a great 
variety of topics, excelled by no journal in Europe 
except " The London Times.'* It gives out two editions 
daily, the evening one about the size of " The New-York 
Nation ; " and it has all the telegraphic news. It is 
absurdly old-grannyish, and is malevolent in its pre- 
tended conservatism and impartiality. Yet it circulates 
over forty thousand copies, and goes all over Germany. 
But were we not saying something about moving? 
The truth is, that the best German families did not re- 
spond to our appeal with that alacrity which we had no 
right to expect, and did not exhibit that anxiety for our 
society which would have been such a pleasant evidence 
of their appreciation of the honor done to the royal city 
of Munich by the selection of it as a residence during 
the most disagreeable months of the year by the adver- 
tising undersigned. Even the young king, whose ap- 
proaching marriage to the Russian princess, one would 
think, might soften his heart, did nothing to win our 
regard, or to show that he appreciated our residence 
" near " his court, and, so far as I know, never read with 
any sort of attention our advertisement, which was com- 
posed with as much care as Goethe's Faust, and prob- 
ably with the use of more dictionaries. And this, when 
he has an extraordinary large Kesidenz, to say nothing 
about other outlying palaces and comfortable places to 
live in, in which I know there are scores of elegantly- 
furnished apartments, which stand idle almost the year 
round, and might as well be let to appreciative strangers, 
who would accustom the rather washy and fierce fres- 
cos on the walls to be stared at. I might have selected 
rooms, say on the court which looks on the exquisite 
bronze fountain, Perseus with the head of Medusa, a 
copy of the one in Florence by Benvenuto Cellini, where 
we could have a southern exposure. Or we might, so it 
would seem, have had rooms by the winter garden, 
where tropical plants rejoice in perennial summer, and 
blossom and bear fruit while a northern winter rage 
without. Yet the king did not see it " by those lamps ; " 
and I looked in vain on the gates of the Residenz for 
the notice so frequently seen on other houses, of apart- 
ments to let. And yet we had responses. The day 
after the announcement appeared, our bell rang per- 
petually ; and we had as many letters as if we had 
advertised for wives innumerable. The German notes 
poured in upon us in a flood ; each one of them contain- 
ing an offer tempting enough to beguile an angel out of 
paradise, at least, according to our translation : they 
proffered us chambers that were positively overheated 
by the flaming sun (which, I can take my oath, only 
 
ventures a few feet above the horizon at this season), 
which were friendly in appearance, splendidly furnished, 
and near to every desirable thing, and in which, usually, 
some American family had long resided, and experienced 
a content and happiness not to be felt out of Germany. 
I spent some days in calling upon the worthy frauen 
who made these alluring offers. The visits were full of 
profit to the student of human nature, but profitless 
otherwise. I was ushered into low, dark chambers, small 
and dreary, looking towards the sunless north, which 
I was assured were dehsrhtful and even elegant. I was 
taken up to the top of tall houses, through a smell of 
cabbage that was appalling, to find empty and dreary 
rooms, from which I fled in fright. We were visited by 
so many people who had chambers to rent, that we were 
impressed with the idea that all Munich was to let ; and 
yet, when we visited the places offered, we found they 
were only to be let alone. One of the frauen who did 
us the honor to call, also wrote a note, and enclosed 
a. letter that she had just received from an American- 
gentleman (I make no secret of it that he came from 
Hartford), in which were many kindly expressions for 
her welfare, and thanks for the aid he had received in 
his study of German ; and yet I think her chambers are 
the most uninviting in the entire city. There were 
people who were willing to teach us German, without 
rooms or board ; or to lodge us without giving us German 
or food ; or to feed us, and let us starve intellectually, and 
lodge where we could. 
But all things have an end, and so did our hunt for 
lodgings. I chanced one day in my walk to find, with no 
help from the advertisement, very nearly what we desired, 
— cheerful rooms in a pleasant neighborhood, where 
the sun comes when it comes out at all, and opposite the 
Glass Palace, through- which the sun streams in the after- 
noon with a certain splendor, and almost next door to 
the residence and laboratory of the famous chemist, 
Prof Liebig ; so that we can have our feelings analyzed 
whenever it is desirable. When we had set up our 
household gods, and a fire was kindled in the tall white 
porcelain family monument, that is called here a stove, 
— and which, by the way, is much more agreeable than 
your hideous, black, and air-scorching cast-iron stoves, — 
and seen that the feather-beds under which we were 
expected to lie were thick enough to roast the half of 
the body, and short enough to let the other half freeze, 
we determined to try for a season the regular German 
cookery, our table heretofore having been served with 
food cooked in the English style with only a slight Ger- 
man flavor. A week of the experiment was quite 
enough. I do not mean to say that the viands served 
us were not good, only that we could not make up our 
minds to eat them. The Germans eat a great deal of 
meat ; and we were obliged to take meat when we pre- 
ferred vegetables. Now, when a deep dish is set before 
you wherein are chunks of pork reposing on stewed 
potatoes, and another wherein a fathomless depth of 
sauer-kraut supports coils of boiled sausage, which, con- 
sidering that you are a mortal and responsible being, 
and have a stomach, will you choose ? Here in Munich, 
nearly all the bread is filled with anise or caraway seed : 
it is possible to get, however, the best wheat bread we 
have eaten in Europe, and we usually have it ; but one 
must maintain a constant vigilance against the inroads 
of the fragrant seeds. Imagine, then, our despair, when 
one day the potato, the one vegetable we had always 
eaten with perfect confidence, appeared stewed with 
caraway-seeds. This was too much for American human 
nature, constituted as it is. Yet the dish that finally 
sent us back to our ordinary and excellent way of living 
is one for which I have no name. It may have been 
compounded at different times, have been the result of 
many tastes or distastes : but there was, after all, a unity 
in it that marked it as the composition of one master 
