arrangement of her own house. The only reason 
the Mistress could give, when she rearranged her 
apartment, for hanging a picture in what seemed 
the most inappropriate place, was that it had 
never been there before. Woman has no respect 
for tradition, and because a thing is as it is is 
sufficient reason for changing it. When she gets 
into law, as she has come into literature, we shall 
gain something in the destruction of all our vast 
and musty libraries of precedents, which now 
fetter our administration of individual justice. It 
is Mandeville's opinion that women are not so 
sentimental as men, and are not so easily touched 
with the unspoken poetry of nature ; being less 
poetical, and having less imagination, they are 
more fitted for practical affairs, and would make 
less failures in business. I have noticed the 
almost selfish passion for their flowers which old 
gardeners have, and their reluctance to part with 
a leaf or a blossom from their family. They love 
the flowers for themselves. A woman raises 
flowers for their use. She is destruction in a 
conservatory. She wants the flowers for her 
lover, for the sick, for the poor, for the Lord on 
Easter day, for the ornamentation of her house. 
She delights in the costly pleasure of sacrificing 
them. She never sees a flower but she has an 
intense but probably sinless desire to pick it. 
It has been so from the first, though from the 
first -she has been thwarted by the accidental 
superior strength of man. Whatever she has 
obtained has been by craft, and by the same coaxing which the sun uses to draw the blossoms out 
of the apple-trees. I am not surprised to learn 
that she has become tired of indulgences, and 
wants some of the original rights. We are just 
beginning to find out the extent to which she has 
been denied and subjected, and especially her condition among the primitive and barbarous races. 
I have never seen it in a platform of grievances, 
but it is true that among the Fijians she is not, 
unless a better civilization has wrought a change 
in her behalf, permitted to eat people, even her 
own sex, at the feasts of the men ; the dainty 
enjoyed by the men being considered too good 
to be wasted on women. Is anything wanting to 
this picture of the degradation of woman ? By a 
refinement of cruelty she receives no benefit 
whatever from the missionaries who are sent out 
by what to her must seem a new name for 
Tan-talus the American Board. 
I suppose the Young Lady expressed a nearly 
universal feeling in her regret at the breaking up 
of the winter-fireside company. Society needs 
 
a certain seclusion and the sense of security. 
Spring opens the doors and the windows, and 
the noise and unrest of the world are let in. 
Even a winter thaw begets a desire to travel, and 
summer brings longings innumerable, and dis 
turbs the most tranquil souls. Nature is, in fact, 
a suggester of uneasiness, a promoter of pilgrim 
ages and of excursions of the fancy which never 
come to any satisfactory haven. The summer in 
these latitudes is a campaign of sentiment and 
a season, for the most part, of restlessness and 
discontent. We grow now in hot-houses roses 
which, in form and color, are magnificent, and 
appear to be full of passion ; yet one simple June 
rose of the open air has for the Young Lady, 
I doubt not, more sentiment and suggestion of 
love than a conservatory full of them in January. 
And this suggestion, leavened as it is with the 
inconstancy of nature, stimulated by the promises 
which are so often like the peach-bloom of the 
Judas-tree, unsatisfying by reason of its vague 
possibilities, differs so essentially from the more 
limited and attainable and home-like emotion 
born of quiet intercourse by the winter fireside, 
 
that I do not wonder the Young Lady feels as if 
some spell had been broken by the transition of 
her life from in-doors to out-doors. Her secret, 
if secret she has, which I do not at all know, is 
shared by the birds and the new leaves and the 
blossoms on the fruit trees. If we lived else 
where, in that zone where the poets pretend 
always to dwell, we might be content, perhaps 
I should say drugged, by the sweet influences 
of an unchanging summer ; but not living else 
where, we can understand why the Young Lady 
probably now looks forward to the hearthstone 
as the most assured centre of enduring attach 
ment 
If it should ever become the sad duty of this bi 
ographer to write of disappointed love, I am sure 
he would not have any sensational story to tell 
of the Young Lady. She is one of those women 
whose unostentatious lives are the chief blessing 
of humanity ; who, with a sigh heard only by 
herself and no change in her sunny face, would 
put behind her all the memories of winter even 
ings and the promises of May mornings, and 
give her life to some ministration of human kind- 
 
ness with an assiduity that would make her occu 
pation appear like an election and a first choice. 
The disappointed man scowls, and hates his race, 
and threatens self-destruction, choosing oftener 
the flowing bowl than the dagger, and becoming 
a reeling nuisance in the world. It would be 
much more manly in him to become the secre- 
tary of a Dorcas society. 
I suppose it is true that women work for 
others with less expectation of reward than men, 
and give themselves to labors of self-sacrifice 
with much less thought of self. At least, this is 
true unless woman goes into some public per 
formance, where notoriety has its attractions, and 
mounts some cause, to ride it man-fashion, when 
I think she becomes just as eager for applause 
and just as willing that self-sacrifice should result 
in self-elevation as man. For her, usually, are 
not those unbought " presentations " which are 
forced upon firemen, philanthropists, legislators, 
railroad-men, and the superintendents of the 
moral instruction of the young. These are 
almost always pleasing and unexpected tributes 
to worth and modesty, and must be received with 
 
satisfaction when the public service rendered has 
not been with a view to procuring them. We 
should say that one ought to be most liable to 
receive a " testimonial " who, being a superintendent of any sort, did not superintend with a 
view to getting it. But "testimonials" have 
become so common that a modest man ought 
really to be afraid to do his simple duty, for fear 
his motives will be misconstrued. Yet there are 
instances of very worthy men who have had 
things publicly presented to them. It is the 
blessed age of gifts and the reward of private 
virtue. And the presentations have become so 
frequent that we wish there were a little more 
variety in them. There never was much sense 
in giving a gallant fellow a big speaking-trumpet 
to carry home to aid him in his intercourse with 
his family ; and the festive ice-pitcher has become 
a too universal sign of absolute devotion to the 
public interest. The lack of one will soon be 
proof that a man is a knave. The legislative 
cane with the gold head, also, is getting to be 
recognized as the sign of the immaculate public 
servant, as the inscription on it testifies, and the 
steps of suspicion must erelong dog him who 
does not carry one. The " testimonial " business 
is, in truth, a little demoralizing, almost as much 
so as the " donation " ; and the demoralization 
has extended even to our language, so that a per 
fectly respectable man is often obliged to see 
himself " made the recipient of" this and that. 
It would be much better, if testimonials must be, 
to give a man a barrel of flour or a keg of oys 
ters, and let him eat himself at once back into 
the ranks of ordinary men. 
III. 
WE may have a testimonial class in time, a 
sort of nobility here in America, made so by pop 
ular gift, the members of which will all be able 
to show some stick or piece of plated ware or 
massive chain, "of which they have been the 
recipients." In time it may be a distinction not 
to belong to it, and it may come to be thought 
more blessed to give than to receive. For it 
must have been remarked that it is not always to 
the cleverest and the most amiable and modest 
 
man that the deputation comes with the inevita 
ble ice-pitcher (and "salver to match"), which 
has in it the magic and subtle quality of making 
the hour in which it is received the proudest of 
one's life. There has not been discovered any 
method of rewarding all the deserving people 
and bringing their virtues into the prominence 
of notoriety. And, indeed, it would be an unrea 
sonable world if there had, for its chief charm 
and sweetness lie in the excellences in it which 
are reluctantly disclosed ; one of the chief pleas 
ures of living is in the daily discovery of good 
traits, nobilities, and kindliness both in those 
we have long known and in the chance pas 
senger whose way happens for a day to lie with 
ours. The longer I live the more I am imp'ressed with the excess of human kindness over 
human hatred, and the greater willingness to 
oblige than to disoblige that one meets at every 
turn. The selfishness in politics, the jealousy in 
letters, the bickering in art, the bitterness in 
theology, are all as nothing compared to the 
sweet charities, sacrifices, and deferences of private life. The people are few whom to know 
intimately is to dislike. Of course you want to 
hate somebody, if you can, just to keep your pow 
ers of discrimination bright, and to save yourself 
from becoming a mere mush of good-nature ; but 
perhaps it is well to hate some historical person 
who has been dead so long as to be indifferent 
to it. It is more comfortable to hate people 
we have never seen. I cannot but think that 
Judas Iscariot has been of great service to the 
world as a sort of buffer for moral indignation 
which might have made a collision nearer home 
but for his utilized treachery. I used to know a 
venerable and most amiable gentleman and schol 
ar, whose hospitable house was always overrun 
with wayside ministers, agents, and philanthro 
pists, who loved their fellow-men better than they 
loved to work for their living ; and he, I suspect, 
kept his moral balance even by indulgence in 
violent but most distant dislikes. When I met 
him casually in the street, his first salutation 
was likely to be such as this : "What a liar that 
Alison was ! Don't you hate him ? " And then 
would follow specifications of historical inveracity 
enough to make one's blood run cold. When he 
 
was thus discharged of his hatred by such a conductor, I presume he had not a spark left for 
those whose mission was partly to live upon him 
and other generous souls. 
Mandeville and I were talking of the unknown 
people, one rainy night by the fire, while the 
Mistress was fitfully and interjectionally playing 
with the piano-keys in an improvising mood. 
Mandeville has a good deal of sentiment about 
him, and without any effort talks so beautifully 
sometimes that I constantly regret I cannot 
report his language. He has, besides, that sym 
pathy of presence I believe it is called mag 
netism by those who regard the brain as only 
a sort of galvanic battery which makes it a 
greater pleasure to see him think, if I may say 
so, than to hear some people talk. 
It makes one homesick in this world to think 
that there are so many rare people he can 
never know ; and so many excellent people that 
scarcely any one will know, in fact. One discovers a friend by chance, and cannot but feel regret 
that twenty or thirty years of life maybe have 
been spent without the least knowledge of him. 
 
When he is once known, through him opening is 
made into another little world, into a circle of 
culture and loving hearts and enthusiasm in a 
dozen congenial pursuits, and prejudices per 
haps. How instantly and easily the bachelor 
doubles his world when he marries, and enters 
into the unknown fellowship of the to him con 
tinually increasing company which is known in 
popular language as " all his wife's relations." 
Near at hand daily, no doubt, are those worth 
knowing intimately, if one had the time and the 
opportunity. And when one travels he sees 
what a vast material there is for society and 
friendship, of which he can never avail himself. 
Car-load after car-load of summer travel goes by 
one at any railway-station, out of which he is sure 
he could choose a score of life-long friends, if the 
conductor would introduce him. There are faces 
of refinement, of quick wit, of sympathetic kind 
ness, interesting people, travelled people, en 
tertaining people, as you would say in Boston, 
" nice people you would admire to know," whom 
you constantly meet and pass without a sign of 
recognition, many of whom are no doubt your 
 
long-lost brothers and sisters. You can see that 
they also have their worlds and their interests, and 
they probably know a great many " nice " people. 
The matter of personal liking and attachment is 
a good deal due to the mere fortune of associa 
tion. More fast friendships and pleasant acquaint 
anceships are formed on the Atlantic steamships 
between those who would have been only indif 
ferent acquaintances elsewhere, than one would 
think possible on a voyage which naturally makes 
one as selfish as he is indifferent to his personal 
appearance. The Atlantic is the only power on 
earth I know that can make a woman indifferent 
to her personal appearance. 
Mandeville remembers, and I think without 
detriment to himself, the glimpses he had in the 
White Mountains once of a young lady of whom 
his utmost efforts could only give him no further 
information than her name. Chance sight of her 
on a passing stage or amid a group on some 
mountain lookout was all he ever had, and he 
did not even know certainly whether she was the 
perfect beauty and the lovely character he thought 
her. He said he would have known her, however, 
at a great distance ; there was in her form that 
ravishing mingling of grace and command of 
which we hear so much, and which turns out to 
be nearly all command after the "ceremony" ; or 
perhaps it was something in the glance of her eye 
or the turn of her head, or very likely it was a 
sweet inherited reserve or hauteur that captivated 
