violin. He was elated with the thought of his coming freedom, and for
the first time since he landed in America the future looked bright to
him.
CHAPTER XIV
THE TAMBOURINE GIRL
Arriving at Trinity Church, Phil turned into Wall Street, looking about
him in a desultory way, for he was at present out of business. Men and
boys were hurrying by in different directions, to and from banks and
insurance offices, while here and there a lawyer or lawyer’s clerk might
be seen looking no less busy and preoccupied. If Phil had had three
thousand dollars instead of three, he, too, might have been interested
in the price of gold and stocks; but his financial education had
been neglected, and he could not have guessed within twenty the day’s
quotations for either.
As he walked along his attention was suddenly drawn to a pair of
Italians, a man and a girl of twelve, the former turning a hand-organ,
the latter playing a tambourine. There was nothing unusual in the group;
but Phil’s heart beat quick for in the girl he thought he recognized a
playmate from the same village in which he was born and bred.
“Lucia!” he called, eagerly approaching the pair.
The girl turned quickly, and, seeing the young fiddler, let fall her
tambourine in surprise.
“Filippo!” she exclaimed, her eyes lighting up with the joy with which
we greet a friend’s face in a strange land.
“Why did you drop your tambourine, scelerata?” demanded the man,
harshly.
Lucia, a pretty, brown-faced girl, did not lose her joyful look even at
this rebuke. She stooped and picked up the tambourine, and began to play
mechanically, but continued to speak to Filippo.
“How long are you in the city?” asked Phil, speaking, of course, in his
native language.
“Only two weeks,” answered Lucia. “I am so glad to see you, Filippo.”
“When did you come from Italy?”
“I cannot tell. I think it is somewhere about two months.”
“And did you see my mother before you came away?” asked Phil, eagerly.
“Yes, Filippo, I saw her. She told me if I saw you to say that she
longed for her dear boy to return; that she thought of him day and
night.”
“Did she say that, Lucia?”
“Yes, Filippo.”
“And is my mother well?” asked Phil, anxiously, for he had a strong love
for his mother.
“She is well, Filippo--she is not sick, but she is thin, and she looks
sad.”
“I will go and see her some day,” said Phil. “I wish I could see her
now.”
“When will you go?”
“I don’t know; when I am older.”
“But where is your fiddle, Filippo?” asked Lucia. “Do you not play?”
Filippo glanced at the organ-grinder, whom he did not dare to take into
his confidence. So he answered, evasively:
“Another boy took it. I shall get another this afternoon.”
“Are you with the padrone?”
“Yes.”
“Come, Lucia,” said the man, roughly, ceasing to play, “we must go on.”
Lucia followed her companion obediently, reluctant to leave Phil,
with whom she desired to converse longer; but the latter saw that her
guardian did not wish the conversation to continue, and so did not
follow.
This unexpected meeting with Lucia gave him much to think of. It carried
back his thoughts to his humble, but still dear, Italian home, and the
mother from whom he had never met with anything but kindness, and a
longing to see both made him for the moment almost sad. But he was
naturally of a joyous temperament, and hope soon returned.
“I will save money enough to go home,” he said to himself. “It will not
take very much--not more than fifty dollars. I can get it soon if I do
not have to pay money to the padrone.”
As may be inferred, Phil did not expect to return home in style. A
first-class ticket on a Cunarder was far above his expectations. He
would be content to go by steerage all the way, and that could probably
be done for the sum he named. So his sadness was but brief, and be soon
became hopeful again.
He was aroused from his thoughts of home by a hand laid familiarly on
his shoulder. Turning, he saw a bootblack, whose adventures have
been chronicled in the volume called “Ragged Dick.” They had become
acquainted some three months before, Dick having acted as a protector to
Phil against some rough boys of his own class.
“Been buyin’ stocks?” asked Dick.
“I don’t know what they are,” said Phil, innocently.
“You’re a green one,” said Dick. “I shall have to take you into my
bankin’ house and give you some training in business.”
“Have you got a bankin’ house?” asked Phil, in surprise.
“In course I have. Don’t you see it?” pointing to an imposing-looking
structure in front of which they were just passing. “My clerks is all
hard to work in there, while I go out to take the air for the benefit of
my constitushun.”
Phil looked puzzled, not quite understanding Dick’s chaffing, and looked
rather inquiringly at the blacking box, finding it a little difficult to
understand why a banker on so large a scale should be blacking boots in
the street.
“Shine your boots, sir?” said Dick to a gentleman just passing.
“Not now; I’m in a hurry.”
“Blackin’ boots is good exercise,” continued Dick, answering the doubt
in Phil’s face. “I do it for the benefit of my health, thus combinin’
profit with salubriousness.”
“I can’t understand such long words,” said Phil. “I don’t know much
English.”
“I would talk to you in Italian,” said Dick, “only it makes my head
ache. What’s come of your fiddle? You haven’t sold it, and bought Erie
shares, have you?”
“A boy stole it from me, and broke it.”
“I’d like to lick him. Who was it?”
“I think his name was Tim Rafferty.”
“I know him,” said Dick. “I’ll give him a lickin’ next time I see him.”
“Can you?” asked Phil, doubtfully, for his enemy was as large as Dick.
“In course I can. My fists are like sledge-hammers. Jest feel my
muscle.”
Dick straightened out his arm, and Phil felt of the muscle, which was
hard and firm.
“It’s as tough as a ten-year-old chicken,” said Dick. “It won’t be
healthy for Tim to come round my way. What made him steal your fiddle?
He ain’t goin’ into the musical line, is he?”
“He was angry because I didn’t want to lend it to him.”
Just then Tim Rafferty himself turned the corner. There was a lull in
his business, and he was wandering along the street eating an apple.
“There he is,” said Phil, suddenly espying his enemy.
Dick looked up, and saw with satisfaction that Phil was right. Tim had
not yet espied either, nor did he till Dick addressed him.
“Are you round collectin’ fiddles this mornin’?” he asked.
Tim looked up, and, seeing that his victim had found an able champion,
felt anxious to withdraw. He was about to turn back, but Dick advanced
with a determined air.
“Jest stop a minute, Tim Rafferty,” said he. “I’m a-goin’ to intervoo
you for the Herald. That’s what they do with all the big rascals
nowadays.”
“I’m in a hurry,” said Tim.
“That’s what the pickpocket said when the cop was gently persuadin’ him
to go to the Tombs, but the cop didn’t see it. I want the pleasure of
your society a minute or two. I hear you’re in the music business.”
“No, I’m not,” said Tim, shortly.
“What made you borrer this boy’s fiddle, then?”
“I don’t know anything about it,” said Tim, in a fright.
“Some folks forgets easy,” returned Dick. “I know a man what went into
Tiffany’s and took up a watch to look at, and carried it off, forgettin’
to pay for it. That’s what he told the judge the next day, and the judge
sent him to the island for a few months to improve his memory. The air
over to the island is very good to improve the memory.”
“You ought to know,” said Tim, sullenly; “you’ve been there times
enough.”
“Have I?” said Dick. “Maybe you saw me there. Was it the ninth time you
were there, or the tenth?”
“I never was there,” said Tim.
“Maybe it was your twin brother.” suggested Dick. “What made you break
my friend’s fiddle? He wouldn’t have minded it so much, only it belonged
to his grandfather, a noble count, who made boots for a livin’.”
“I don’t believe he had a fiddle at all,” said Tim.
“That’s where your forgetfulness comes in,” said Dick “Have you forgot
the lickin’ I gave you last summer for stealin’ my blackin’ box?”
“You didn’t lick me,” said Tim.
“Then I’ll lick you harder next time,” said Dick.
“You ain’t able,” said Tim, who, glancing over his shoulder, saw the
approach of a policeman, and felt secure.
“I will be soon,” said Dick, who also observed the approach of the
policeman. “I’d do it now, only I’ve got to buy some gold for a friend
of mine. Just let me know when it’s perfectly convenient to take a
lickin’.”
Tim shuffled off, glad to get away unharmed, and Dick turned to Phil.
“I’ll give him a lickin’ the first time I catch him, when there isn’t a
cop around,” he said.
Phil left his friend at this point, for he saw by the clock on Trinity
spire that it was time to go back to join Paul Hoffman, as he had
agreed. I may here add that Phil’s wrongs were avenged that same
evening, his friend, Dick, administered to Tim the promised “lickin’”
 with such good effect that the latter carried a black eye for a week
afterwards.
CHAPTER XV
PHIL’S NEW PLANS
As the clock struck twelve Phil reached the necktie stand of his friend,
Paul Hoffman.
“Just in time,” said Paul. “Are you hungry?”
“A little.”
“That’s right. You’re going to dine with me; and I want you to bring a
good appetite with you.”
“What will your mother say?” asked Phil, doubtfully.
“Wait and see. If you don’t like what she says you can go off without
eating. Where have you been?”
“I went down to Wall Street.”
“On business?” inquired Paul, with a smile.
“No,” said Phil, seriously. “I saw Lucia.”
“Who is she?”
“I forgot. You don’t know Lucia. She lived in my home in Italy, and I
used to play with her. She told me of my mother.”
“That’s lucky, Phil. I hope your mother is well.”
“She is not sick, but she is thin. She thinks of me,” said Phil.
“Of course she does. You will go home and see her some day.”
“I hope so.”
“Of course you will,” said Paul, confidently.
“I saw the boy who stole my fiddle,” continued Phil.
“Tim Rafferty?”
“Yes.”
“What did he say?”
“I was with a bootblack--the one they call ‘Ragged Dick.’ Do you know
him?”
“Yes; I know Dick. He is a bully fellow, always joking.”
“Dick wanted to lick him, but a policeman came, and he went away.”
“Does Dick know that he stole your fiddle?”
“Yes.”
“Then he will be sure to punish him. It will save me the trouble.”
The walk was not long. Soon they were at Paul’s door.
“I have brought company to dinner, mother,” said Paul, entering first.
“I am glad to see you, Phil,” said Mrs. Hoffman. “Why have you not come
before?”
“How is that, Phil? Will you stay now?” said Paul.
Mrs. Hoffman looked at Paul inquiringly.
“Phil was afraid he would not be welcome,” he exclaimed.
“He is always welcome,” said Mrs. Hoffman.
“Where is your fiddle?” asked Jimmy.
“A boy took it,” said Phil, “and threw it into the street, and a wagon
went over it and broke it.”
Jimmy was quite indignant for his friend, when the story had been told.
“It’s lucky for Tim Rafferty that he is not here,” said Paul, “or he
might suffer.”
“If I was a big boy I’d lick him,” said Jimmy, belligerently.
“I never saw you so warlike before, Jimmy,” said Paul.
To Phil this sympathy seemed pleasant. He felt that he was in the midst
of friends, and friends were not so plentiful as not to be valued.
“What are you going to have for dinner, mother?” asked Paul.
“I am sorry, Paul, that I have no warm meat. I have some cold roast
beef, some hot potatoes, and an apple pudding.”
“You needn’t apologize, mother. That’s good enough for anybody. It’s as
good as Phil gets at his boarding house, I am sure. He has got rather
tired of it, and isn’t going to stay.”
“Are you going to leave the padrone?” asked Mrs. Hoffman, with interest.
“Si, signora,” said Phil.
“Will he let you go?”
“I shall run away,” said Phil.
“You see, mother, Phil would be sure of a beating if he went home
without his fiddle. Now he doesn’t like to be beaten, and the padrone
gives harder beatings than you do, mother.”
“I presume so,” said Mrs. Hoffman, smiling. “I do not think I am very
severe.”
“No, you spoil the rod and spare the child.”
“Is Phil going to stay in the city?”
“No; the padrone would get hold of him if he did. He is going to New
Jersey to make his fortune.”
“But he will need a fiddle.”
“I am going to lend him money enough to buy one. I know a pawnbroker who
has one for sale. I think I can get it for three or four dollars. When
Phil gets it he is going around giving concerts. How much can you make
in a day, Phil?”
“Sometimes I make two dollars,” answered Phil.
“That is excellent, especially when you are your own padrone. You will
be able to save up money. You will have to buy a pocketbook, Phil.”
“Where will you sleep, Phil?” asked Jimmy, interested.
Phil shrugged his shoulders. He had not thought of that question
particularly.
“I don’t know,” he said. “I can sleep anywhere.”
“Of course he will stop at the first-class hotels, Jimmy,” said Paul,
“like all men of distinction. I shouldn’t wonder if he married an
heiress in six months, and went back to Italy on a bridal tour.”
“He is too young to be married,” said Jimmy, who, it will be perceived,
understood everything literally.
“I don’t know but he is,” said Paul, “but he isn’t too old to be hungry.
So, mother, whenever dinner is ready we shall be.”
“It is all ready except peeling the potatoes, Paul.”
“We can do that ourselves. It is good exercise, and will sharpen our
appetites. You will have to eat fast or there won’t be much left. Jimmy
is the most tremendous eater I ever saw, and won’t leave much for the
rest of us, if we give him the chance.”
“Now, Paul,” expostulated Jimmy, feeling aggrieved at this charge, “you
know I don’t eat as much as you do.”
“Hear him talk, Phil. I don’t eat more than enough to keep a fly alive.”
“It must be a pretty large fly, Paul,” said Jimmy, slyly.
“Good joke, Jimmy. Mother, you must give Jimmy twelve potatoes to-day
instead of the ten he usually eats.”
“Oh, Paul, how can you tell such stories?” exclaimed Jimmy, shocked at
such an extravagant assertion. Phil laughed, for there was something
ludicrous in the idea of Jimmy, who was a slight boy of seven, making
away with such a large quantity, and the little boy began to see that it
was a joke at his expense.
The dinner went off well. All had a good appetite, and did full justice
to Mrs. Hoffman’s cookery. The pudding in particular was pronounced a
success. It was so flaky and well-seasoned, and the sauce, flavored
with lemon, was so good, that everyone except Mrs. Hoffman took a
second piece. For the first time since he had left Italy, Phil felt
the uncomfortable sensation of having eaten too much. However, with the
discomfort was the pleasant recollection of a good dinner, and to the
mind of the little fiddler the future brightened, as it is very apt to
do under such circumstances, and he felt ready to go out and achieve his
fortune.
“Why won’t you stop with us to-night, Phil, and start on your journey
to-morrow?” asked Mrs. Hoffman. “I am sure Jimmy would be glad of your
company.”
“Yes, Phil, stay,” said Paul.
Phil hesitated. It was a tempting invitation, but, on the other hand, if
he remained in the city till the next day he might be in danger from the
padrone.
He expressed this fear.
“I am afraid the padrone would catch me,” he said.
“No, he won’t. You can go out with me and buy the fiddle now, and then
come back and play to mother and Jimmy. To-morrow morning I will go with
you to the Jersey City Ferry myself, and if we meet the padrone, I’ll
give him a hint to be off.”
Phil still hesitated, but finally yielded to the united request. But it
was now one o’clock, and Paul must be back to his business. Phil took
his cap and went with him to purchase the fiddle, promising to come back
directly.
They went into Chatham Street, and soon halted before a small shop,
in front of which were three gilt balls, indicating that it was a
pawnbroker’s shop.
