itage. He did not look like the same man. The 
change in his appearance was marvelous to behold. 
As his eyes ranged about the room they rested 
on me. I had turned my head partly aside, hoping 
I would not be recognized. But he saw me, and 
coming over to where I was, said, 
"You know old .Wilson, who worked in the 
bindery?" 
I answered that I did. 
" Have you seen him here to-night ?" 
I said no. 
" Have you been here long ?" he then asked. 
" Half an hour," I replied. 
He stood for some moments, and then said, 
" Hiram, I 'd like to have a few words with you." 
Glad of the opportunity to escape from the tempter, 
who had me already half bound, I started up, saying, 
" I am at your service." 
I saw a heavy frown darken the face of the man 
with whom I had been talking. 
"You are not going?" he exclaimed in a tone of 
repressed anger and surprise. 
"Yes," I replied. "Good-evening;" and I went 
out with Jacobs, feeling a strange sense of relief and 
safety, like one escaped from imminent peril. We 
walked for a hundred yards or so in silence, I wait 
ing anxiously to hear what old Jacobs had to talk 
to me about. 
" Hiram," he said, at length, in a very serious but 
kind and almost confidential way, "I want you to 
help me." 
"To help you?" I returned, surprised at his 
speech. 
" Yes ; you can do it if you will." 
" Then I will !" was my strongly-uttered response 
"To help me do a good office for a weak fellow 
creature who has fallen among " 
He checked himself, not uttering the word that 
was on his tongue. 
" I have done, I fear, much harm in my time, Ja 
cobs," I replied, "and if you will now show me 
how I can do any good, I shall be glad of the oppor 
tunity." 
" Why, Hiram !" the old man exclaimed, stopping 
and turning round upon me. " Let me take your 
hand!" and he gave me a grip that almost made 
the bones snap. " The greater the sinner, the greater 
the saint, I 've heard said. You 've been an awful 
sinner, Hiram, for you sinned against light and 
knowledge. But if you have repented, just come 
over to our side, and we 'll put you high up in the 
calendar." 
 
I felt somehow stronger and safer for this speech 
of the old man. 
" I don 't  expect to get very high up," I made an 
swer. " Indeed, I 'd rather keep out of sight. But 
what is it you want me to do ?" 
"I'm after poor old Wilson," he said, "lie 's 
broken his pledge and gone off on a spree. I 've 
been looking for him in one saloon after another for 
an hour past, but can t find him. Joe 's out after him 
too." 
"Joe Wilson? His son?" 
"Yes. Joe 's a member of the Harvey-street 
League, and as fine and steady a fellow as you 'd wish 
to see. Hasn 't tasted liquor for over two months." 
" Glad from my heart to hear it," I replied, in all 
sincerity. 
" And I'm glad from my heart to hear you say so," 
returned the old man. " But we must find Wilson. 
He 's in some of these taverns, but there are so many 
of them that one might almost as well look for a 
needle in a haystack. Just two hundred within four 
or five squares !" 
I went into the old man 's service, promising to 
visit every tavern in a specified area, and to bring out 
Wilson if I came across him. I was to take him, if 
found, to the hall or meeting-room of the Harvey- 
street League, the direction of which Jacobs gave me. 
As I turned from the old pressman to commence 
my search, I was conscious of a new state of feeling 
and a sense of rest. Since I had come out of prison 
  
my soul had been like a ship tossed on troubled 
waters, and therefore this calm and restful state that 
fell so suddenly upon my spirit was something I 
could not but observe. With it came a feeling of 
concern for Wilson, who, but for his one great fail 
ing, was a man well esteemed by every one. 
Two hundred drinking-saloons within an area of 
four or five blocks ! Could that be possible ? I 
thought Jacobs must be in error, but ere I had been 
long in search of Wilson I began to realize how 
fully up to the truth had been his assertion. Into 
one after another I went, hurriedly looking through 
each for the man I was seeking, and as I went I saw 
with new eyes and from a new standpoint. So 
many young men, clerks and mechanics, the promise 
of our mercantile and industrial life ! And here they 
were side by side, and too often in free intercourse 
with the vicious and debased. I saw a fair-faced 
young man, the son of a well-known merchant, 
drinking with a notorious corner-lounger who had 
twice found it convenient to be absent from the city 
while certain police matters were being investigated. 
I saw another young man, clerk in a large Market- 
street house, laughing and talking familiarly with a 
miserable fellow who was bad and base enough for 
almost anything, and I saw them go out together, 
evidently with a common purpose. I saw a weak 
boy of eighteen, the only son of a wealthy and good 
citizen, treated by a gambler 's stool pigeon I knew 
him well and then drawn away from the saloon. I 
 
had little question as to where they would be in less 
than half an hour. 
I saw what I had seen over and over hundreds of 
times before, but how different the impression made 
upon me now ! Then I was interested in the gain, 
and when I looked at the thirsty crew, young and 
old, rich and poor, steady and debased, that thronged 
our bar-room, it was with the feeling of a sportsman 
when he sees his game. My business was to bring 
them down and bag their money. 
But I was seeing with other eyes now. I had 
not come for game, but for rescue, to save, not to 
destroy, and I was moved with concern by what I 
saw. As some idea of the extent of the traffic in 
liquor grew upon me, estimating, as I could not help 
doing, the whole city by the four or five blocks 
through which I was ranging, I felt almost appalled 
at its magnitude. Few of the saloons into which I 
went had less than three or four persons inside, often 
a dozen, and they were going and coming all the 
while. Take eight thousand of these, and give 
twenty visitors to each in a single night many had 
hundreds and the number is a hundred and sixty 
thousand. But one person will often go to two or 
three saloons in an evening, and this would reduce 
the actual number of individuals to sixty or eighty 
thousand. But what an aggregate ! One tenth of 
the whole number of our people to be found every 
night in taverns, saloons, restaurants and whisky- 
shops ! 
  
In spite of myself I could not help running these 
figures through my mind. And as I did so I re 
called the words of the prison agent, and felt amazed 
at the marvelous indifference of the people. All 
this was under sanction of law. The commonwealth 
had sold for money, and to any and all who applied, 
the right to set up places for the sale of liquor in our 
city, and with the full knowledge that such places 
work the saddest of evils, that they were nurseries 
of pauperism and crime, moral pest-houses, stum 
bling-blocks for the weak and unwary, and often hot 
beds of infamies too deep to mention. And against 
all this the citizens had no remedy. Two hundred 
thousand dollars received by the State treasurer for 
the privilege of doing all this evil, and in its hope 
less task of repairing the evil, the city spending over 
a million each year, drawn from the industry of its 
citizens ! 
How long, I said to myself, will the patience or 
indifference of the people endure all this ? 
But I had not meant to give so long a digression. 
It was one thing to hear all this from the prison 
agent when I was locked up in a cell, chafing at re 
straint and rebellious toward the law. It was an 
other thing to think it over for myself under new 
circumstances, and to look at the evil from a new 
standpoint. 
I went from tavern to tavern searching for Wilson. 
I had gone in and out of some thirty or forty, and 
was beginning to despair of finding him. At length 
 
I stood at the entrance of a two-story mean-looking 
dram-shop with a broken lamp in front, hesitating 
whether to go in or not, when some one pushed 
open the door. I got a momentary glimpse of the 
inmates, and thought one of them looked like the 
man for whom I was in search, so I went in. 
It was a poorly fitted-up place, with a few kegs, 
bottles and glasses, and half a dozen vile-looking 
men standing at the bar or moving about the room. 
I saw Wilson as soon as I entered. He was asleep 
in a chair, and one of the men present was standing 
over him with something in his hand that he put 
quickly out of sight as he saw me. 
" Hallo, comrade !" exclaimed some one, in a 
familiar voice. 
I looked to the bar, from which the words came, 
and saw behind it the well-remembered face of one 
of my county-prison associates the hardened fellow 
who had declared his intention to buy a license as 
soon as he got out and go into the liquor trade. 
And here he was. " Comrade !" How like the stroke 
of a lash, cutting and smarting, fell the word on my 
ears ! I did not think it safe to ignore him, for he 
was a wicked brute, and there were fellows just like 
him present some of them old prison-birds, I 
doubted not. So I went up to the bar and gave him 
a not very cordial response. He reached out his 
hand, but I managed not to take it. He set down a 
decanter of whisky, but I declined, saying I had al 
ready taken enough. He scowled a little. 
  
As soon as I could I turned from him and went 
to the sleeping old man, and putting my hand on 
him, called him by name. 
" You know the old soaker?" said my prison friend, 
coming from behind the bar and looking at us with 
a half-ill-natured curiosity. 
I did not reply, but called in a louder voice, shak 
ing Wilson as I did so. It took me some time to get 
him fairly awake. At last he knew me, and ex 
claimed, 
" Why, bless my soul, Hiram, is this you ?" He 
got up and stood looking at me in a pleased way. 
" And so you re out again ! Well, well ! Glad 
to see you, Hiram !" and he thrust forth his hand. 
I took it, giving him a strong pull toward the door 
as I did so, and saying, 
" Come with me, Wilson. I want you for some 
thing." 
But he held back. 
" Come," I repeated. 
" Not till we have a drink," he replied. " It 's a 
good while since you and I drank together, Hiram. 
What 'll you take?" 
"Nothing to-night, thank you, Wilson. Had 
enough. Come." 
I saw my prison friend glance toward a couple of 
the inmates of his den, and they moved quietly be 
tween us and the door. 
" Oh, I 'll stand the treat," responded Wilson, and 
he turned toward the bar. " What 'll you have ?" 
 
I was at a loss whether it were best to humor him 
or not. My prison friend went behind the bar and 
looked toward the decanters. 
" We don 't  want anything more to-night, neither 
of us," I said. 
" We don 't  ? Well, now, that 's a good joke !" Wil 
son answered, with a tipsy laugh. " Hiram Jones 
says we don 't  want anything more to-night. Never 
heard him say that before in my born days. Good 
for Hiram !" 
I began to feel uneasy. The men in the bar-room 
came gathering around us, and I saw evil in their 
bad faces. 
" Why don 't  you drink with him ?" asked one of 
them in a tone that meant mischief. 
"Because, as just said, we 've both had enough," I 
returned, controlling my voice as best I could. 
He laughed an ugly laugh. Wilson was moving 
toward the bar. I put my hand on him, and leaning 
to his ear, said, " Joe 's looking for you." 
He stood still instantly, not answering for some 
moments. I saw his head droop. 
"Come!" I said again. He was passive now, 
going with me toward the door. But the men, see 
ing this, went round and intercepted us. 
" Where are you going to take him ?" demanded 
one of them. 
" Home," I replied. 
He cursed me. Out of his eyes flashed a cruel 
light. 
" His son is looking for him," I said. " Let him 
go out, won t you ?" 
He cursed me again and put his back to the door. 
A sudden indignation fired me. I caught him by 
the collar, and with a wrench drew him forward and 
then flung him across the bar-room. It was a madly 
desperate act in such a place and in such company. 
I was beaten down in almost a second of time. I 
did not know much of what followed until I found 
myself in a station-house. In the morning, spite of 
all I could say in my own behalf, which went for 
little or nothing against the sworn testimony of some 
of the very men who had assaulted me, I was com 
mitted for drunkenness and rioting. 
Old Wilson, as I learned, had been knocked about 
some, but not much hurt. He got off with a few 
bruises, considerably scared, and made his way 
home. On the next day he took the pledge again 
and went to work. 
My cup was full full of bitter wine. 
" Here again !" exclaimed the prison agent, on 
coming to my cell an hour after its iron door had 
shut me in. 
I told him all. He listened with deep interest. 
" It curses everybody," was his response when I 
had finished. Then he added, " And so you do not 
intend going back into your old business ?" 
" Not if I starve !" was my reply. 
He took the name of old Jacobs, president of the 
Harvey-street League, and went away, saying that 
 
