Matilda's supper. That made a nice diversion. I think David was glad of
it. At any rate he made himself useful; brought up the little table to
Matilda's side; set the tea-pot out of her way and spread her napkin on
her lap. Then, hearing that Mrs. Laval was detained downstairs, he took
the management of things upon himself. He made Matilda's cup of tea; he
spread bread and butter; he opened oysters. Nobody could have done it
better; but it was always acknowledged that David Bartholomew was born
a gentleman. Matilda enjoyed it hugely. She was ready for her oysters,
as a little convalescent child should be; and bread and butter was
good; but to have David helping her and ministering to her gave to both
an exquisite flavour. He was so nice about it, and it was so kind of
him.
"That other supper has been sadly put off, hasn't it?" he said as he
opened Matilda's last oyster.
"What supper?" said Matilda.
"The supper we had arranged so finely, a long while ago. The
celebration of your good woman's moving in."
"My good woman?--O, you mean Mrs. Staples. She hasn't moved in yet?"
"No! we waited for you to get well."
"Waited all this while!" said Matilda. "David, I wonder when I shall be
able to go out?"
"Not in a good while, Tilly, to any such entertainment as that. I dare
say you can go driving in the Park in two or three weeks."
"But she cannot wait all that while!" said Matilda; and then she
stopped. If not, then the moving of Mrs. Staples, and all the delight
of the supper to be prepared for her, and the pleasure of seeing her
pleasure, must be for others; not for the little planner and contriver
of the whole. For a minute Matilda felt as if she could not give it up;
this rare and exquisite joy; such a chance might not come again in a
very long while. She wanted to see how the stove would work; she wanted
to hear the kettle sing, and to set the table with the new cups and
saucers, and to make the tea that first time, and give the in comers a
welcome. Could all that be lost? It seemed very hard. Matilda's eyes
filled with tears.
"What is the matter?" said David kindly.
Matilda struggled to speak. She knew what she must say; but at first
she could hardly get the words out. She hesitated, and David repeated
his question.
"It won't do for them to wait so long," she said, lifting her eyes to
his face.
"Who? your poor people there? Well, it does seem a pity, looking at the
place where they are now."
"It won't do," Matilda repeated. "It is best for them to go right in,
David. But I can't manage it. I can't do anything."
"Will you trust me?"
"O yes! if you'll do it. But won't it be a great trouble to you, David?"
"On the contrary, I shall like it capitally. You tell me exactly what
you want done, and I'll attend to it."
"O thank you! Then you'll have to get the supper things, David."
"Yes, I know all about that."
"And get Mr. Wharncliffe to tell Mrs. Staples."
"Yes."
"And--can you buy some calico for me?"
"Certainly. But I'd put something warmer on them than calico, Tilly."
"What?"
"I don't know," said David laughingly; "I don't know what women wear.
But I suppose I can find out. Something warm, Tilly; the air is
snapping and biting out of doors, I can tell you."
"O well, do see about it as soon as you can, David, and let them move
in by Saturday; can't you?"
David promised. And when he was gone, and Matilda was alone in bed
again at night, she fought out her whole fight with disappointment.
Rather a hard fight it was. Matilda did not see why, when she was about
a very good thing, so much of the pleasure of it should have been taken
away from her. Why could not her sickness have been delayed for one
week? and now the very flower and charm of her scheme must fall into
the hands of others. She dwelt upon the details, from which she had
looked for so much pleasure, and poured out hearty tears over them. She
was as much in the dark nearly as Job had been; as much at a loss to
know why all this should have befallen her. All the comfort she could
get at was in imagining the scenes she could not now see, and fancying
all over and over to herself how Sarah and her mother would look and
feel.
After that day Matilda's improvement was steady. Soon she had Norton
and Judy and even David running in and out at all hours, to see her or
to tell her something.
"Great news," said Norton bursting in as usual one evening. "What do
you think, Pink? David and Judy have been to be catechized."
"Catechized?" Matilda repeated. "Do they learn the catechism?"
"Not yours, I promise you," said Norton. "No, not exactly. But they
have been to a Jewish catechizing; to be examined in the Jews'
Scriptures, you know, and all that. They ought to have been catechized,
it seems, when they were younger; but David and Judy have been
travelling about and there has been no chance. Now they've got it! And
O how Davy has been studying his Bible."
"His Bible is just like ours, isn't it?--all but the New Testament?"
"He thinks that's a pretty large 'all but.'"
"But the rest is just the same as ours?"
"I suppose so; yes, I believe so. And they have had a great time, and
Davy has come off with a blue ribband or something, and been greatly
distinguished."
"Well?" said Matilda eagerly.
"Well. They all went to it, grandma and aunt Judy, and they don't know
whether they are most pleased or most vexed."
"Vexed?" repeated Matilda.
"Yes. You see, their Jew friends and relations are getting great hold
of Davy; and now I suppose he will be more of a Jew than ever."
"How will that make him different?" said Matilda, puzzled.
"Different?" said Norton. "Why, you don't think Jews are like all the
rest of the world, do you?"
"I don't know," Matilda answered. "I think--if I was a Jew--I would
like it."
To which Norton answered at first with a questioning frown; then
cleared his brow and laughed.
"You'd like anything that made you different from the rest of the
world," he said. "But you're a Pink! and that makes it of course."
"You used to say I was a brick," said Matilda.
"So you are. I'll fight any boy that says you aren't."
But that made Matilda laugh so much that Mrs. Laval, coming in, was
afraid she would fatigue herself; and she sent Norton away. Matilda
after this was very curious and a little anxious to see David, and find
out what change his being "more of a Jew than ever" would have made in
him. When he came, she could not find any change. It was Saturday
evening, after tea; so rather late. He came to bring her the news she
wanted.
"Well, it's done, Matilda," he said as he entered.
"And all right, David?"
"Right as can be. Don't you get excited, and I will tell you all about
it."
"You are very kind, David," said Matilda, trying to be quiet; but there
were two pink spots on her pale cheeks.
"The carpet was down, and made the place look like another thing. Then
Mrs. Leary had brightened up the bureau and the chairs and table, and
blacked the stove and made a fire. It seemed quite like a home waiting
for somebody. Mrs. Leary folded her arms, and made me take notice what
she had done, and 'expicted I would consider it,' she said."
"Expected you would consider it?" said Matilda.
"Yes. Don't you know what that means? Expected I would pay her for her
trouble."
"Ah!" said Matilda. "Did you?"
"Yes, of course. But I made her make up the bed and fill the kettle
before she had done. 'An' sure it was iligant, and fit for society,'
she said; whatever that meant."
"Fit for company, I suppose, David. But who made the coffee?"
"Wait a bit: I'm coming to that. I was in a puzzle about it; for I
wasn't sure of Mrs. Leary, and Norton and I didn't know enough."
"Norton? was Norton there?"
"To be sure; at first. He and I got everything else together. Mrs.
Leary had washed the china and the tin ware; and we bought cheese, and
tea and coffee, and herring, and buns, and gingerbread."
"And bread?" said Matilda, looking in tensely interested.
"No; buns. And soap we ordered in too, Tilly; Norton is great on soap.
I should never have thought of it. And when we had done all we could
think of, we sat down to watch the fire and guard the things till some
body came. And we got talking about something else and forgot where we
were; when all of a sudden the door pushed softly open and a girl came
in--"
"Sarah!" cried Matilda.
"Wait. There came in this girl, and stood there, looking. And we
looked. 'Is this Mrs. Leary's?' she asked. 'No,' said I; 'the rest of
the house is. Mrs. Leary's, I believe; but this room belongs to Mrs.
Staples.' 'And you're Sarah, aren't you?' Norton cried out. I wish you
had seen the girl, Tilly! She came a little way further in, and stopped
and looked round, and had all the work in the world to keep herself
from breaking down and crying. Her face flushed all over. She wanted to
know if we were sure if there was no mistake? So I told her about you,
and how you were sick, and how you had commissioned us to get ready all
these things; and Norton shewed her where to hang her bonnet and shawl;
for she was in a bewildered state. And then I bethought me and told her
we wanted somebody to make the coffee. I think, Tilly, she was as near
the condition of Aladdin, when he got into the magician s cave, as ever
a mortal could be in this actual world. But she went to work, and that
helped her to feel she was not dreaming, I suppose. She made the
coffee,--and all the while I could see her fingers trembling;--and she
cooked the herring; and I stood it, herring smoke and all; it was the
best fun I've seen this winter--"
"Since Christmas," Matilda put in, but her own eyes were very bright
and glittering.
"Christmas was nothing to it!"
"I wish I had been there."
"I wish you had. There was nothing else wanting. And I wish you could
have seen Sarah's eyes; I think she was afraid to look around her. She
would give a glance at something, the chest of drawers, or the bed, and
then the tears would spring and she would have just as much as she
could do to mind her cooking and not break down. I didn't know coffee
smelt so good, Tilly."
"Doesn't it!"
"You know about that, eh? Well, we were all ready, and Sarah set the
table, but Norton and I had to bring out the buns and gingerbread and
the cheese; for I don't think she would have dared. And then the door
opened once more, and in came Mr. Wharncliffe, and Sarah's mother and
those two poor little imps of boys."
"I don't know much about them," said Matilda.
"I know they are very ragged. Of course, how could they help it? The
mother looked as if she would easily fall to pieces too. But I saw the
smell of the coffee brightened her up."
"And then you came away, I suppose?"
"Yes, of course. Mr. Wharncliffe just saw that everything was right and
looked after the coal and things; and then we left them to take their
supper in peace."
"I'm so glad!" said Matilda, heaving a deep sigh. "And I am very much
obliged to you, David."
"For nothing," said David. "I had a good time, I can tell you. I should
just like to do the whole thing over again. Why, it didn't cost much."
"Only Mr. Wharncliffe says we have to be very careful to know about
people first, before we give them things; there are so many deceivers."
"Yes, I know that," said David. He stood looking into the light and
thinking. Matilda wondered what he was thinking about; she could not
ask him as she would Norton.
"It isn't right!" he broke out.
"What, David?"
"It isn't right that there should be such a difference in people; we
here, and they there."
"Mr. Wharncliffe says there must be a difference. Some people are
clever and industrious, and others are idle and lazy; and that makes
differences."
"That ought," said David; "but then the people that are not idle or
lazy, but sick or unfortunate, like these people; they ought not to be
left in hunger and cold and rags."
"So I think," said Matilda eagerly; and then she stopped; for she was
not so free with David as to tell him all her thoughts; at least not
unless he asked for them.
"It puzzles me," David went on. "I can't see my way out of the puzzle;
only I am sure there is wrong somewhere."
"And it must be right for each of us to do all he can to help," said
Matilda.
David shook his head. "One goes very little way."
"But that is all we can do. And if every one would--"
"Every one will not, Tilly; there it is."
"No. I know it; but still, David, people have to do so."
"So how?"
"Why, each one by himself, I mean."
"Well," said David, smiling, "that's safe for you. I mean to study the
subject."
CHAPTER VII.
Matilda was slow in getting over her sickness. It would not do to think
of lessons or let her do anything that would weary her. Instead of
that, she was taken to drive, and supplied with materials and patterns
for worsted work, and had books at command. Whatever would please her,
in short; at least whatever Mrs. Laval could think of; for Matilda made
no demands on anybody. She was very happy; feeling well but weak, just
so as to draw out everybody's kindness; and obliged to be quiet enough
to thoroughly enjoy her happiness. She made great progress in the
affections of the family during this rime; they found a sweetness and
grace and modesty in her that presently seemed like to make her the
house darling. "She is not selfish," said Mrs. Lloyd. "She is really a
very graceful little thing," said Mrs. Bartholomew. "She is honest,"
said David. "She is the gentlest, most dutiful child in the world,"
said Mrs. Laval; but Mrs. Laval did not say much about it. She was
growing excessively fond of Matilda. Norton declared she was a brick.
Judy said nothing. Then they would begin again. "She is a thoroughly
courteous child," said Mrs. Lloyd. "I do think she is a good little
thing," said Mrs. Bartholomew. "She has her own opinions," said Norton,
who liked her the better for it. "They are not bad opinions either,"
remarked David.
"Aren't they!" put in Judy. "Wise and extremely courteous she was
about the liqueur glasses, don't you think so?"
"What about the liqueur glasses?" Mrs. Lloyd demanded; and though
Norton and David both tried to stop the recital, out it would come, for
the second time. Judy would not be stopped. Mrs. Lloyd seemed rather
serious but by no means as much disgusted as Judy would have liked.
"She had her own opinions, as Norton says," David remarked; "but she
behaved perfectly well about the whole affair; perfectly courteous,
Judy."
"Very ridiculous, though, for such a child," his mother added.
"How should she be courteous?" said Judy, scornfully. "She has had no
sort of bringing up."
"I should be glad to see you as courteous, and as graceful about it,"
said Mrs. Bartholomew. Whereat Judy tossed her head spitefully and
meditated mischief.
They did not know how it was. All was true they had said respecting
Matilda's manners; and this was the secret of them; she was most simply
trying to live up to her motto. For this Matilda studied her Bible,
watched, and prayed. It was not herself she was thinking of, or trying
to please; her obedience and her pleasantness and her smallest actions
were full of the very spirit of reverence and good-will; no wonder it
was all done gracefully. The days and weeks of sickness and feebleness
had been a good time for the little girl, and the kindness she received
made her heart very tender. She sought ways to please; above all, ways
to please God. It was in doing "all in the name of the Lord Jesus" that
her manners became so lovely and her presence so welcome to almost all
the family; and her happy little face was an attraction for even old
Mrs. Lloyd, who did not confess to finding many things in the whole
world attractive now. But Judy vowed in secret she would disturb this
opinion of Matilda, if she could manage it.
So she chose her time. Mrs. Lloyd, and indeed all the elders of the
family, were extremely particular and punctilious about table manners;
exacting the utmost care and elegance in everything that was done. One
Sunday there was company at dinner; only one or two gentlemen who were
familiar friends, however, so that the young people were not debarred
their weekly pleasure and privilege of dining with their grandmother.
Judy managed to place herself next to Matilda, and held her position,
though Norton as openly as he dared reminded her she had no right to be
there. It was impossible to make a disturbance and he was obliged to
give up the point. Matilda wondered at what she supposed an uncommon
mark of favour in Judy; and resolved to be as nice a neighbour as she
could. There was not much chance, for of course talking, except a low
word now and then, was out of the question. It happened that one of the
servants was for some reason out of the way, and there was not the
usual abundant service of the table. Just when everybody was helped,
Judy somewhat officiously handed somebody's plate to Matilda to be
passed for some oysters. The plate came back to her full; it had meat
and gravy and oysters and maccaroni on it, and was heavy as well as
full. Carefully giving it, as she thought, into Judy's hand, Matilda
was dismayed to find it seemingly slip from her own; and down it went,
taking impartially Judy's dress and her own in its way. Turkey gravy
and oysters lodged on Judy's blue silk; while the maccaroni, rich with
butter and cheese, made an impression never to be effaced on Matilda's
crimson. The little girl absolutely grew pale as she looked down at the
disastrous state of things, and then up at Judy. Judy's eyes were
