the evident intention of leaving the house.
"Did he strike you, Robert?" she asked, through the open window, with
more of indignation than terror in her manner.
"Not he," replied Robert. "I can keep out of his way easy enough."
"Don't go near him again--that's a good boy. There's no knowing what he
may do. He's as ugly as sin when he has had two or three glasses and
wants more."
"But where are you going, mother?" asked the boy.
"I don't know where to go yet; but I'm not going to stay here to-day. I
can't bear it any longer. You will keep out of his way--won't you,
Robert?"
"I'm not afraid of him; but I'm going out a fishing as soon as the tide
makes enough to get the boat off."
"Well, I'll go up and spend the day with Mrs. Paine," added Mrs. Taylor.
"I hope your father will get over it before night."
"I've got about enough of this, mother; and if it wasn't for you, I'd
clear out this very day."
"Don't leave me yet, Robert," pleaded the poor woman. "I mean to leave
him myself if he don't behave better. He shan't abuse you."
"I don't mean he shall. But I think I can take care of myself better
than you can of yourself."
Mrs. Taylor did not think so; but she did not dispute the point. The
approach of Ezekiel caused the youth to beat another retreat; but, from
the other side of the street, he saw his mother leave the house and walk
towards the village. Satisfied that she was safe from the wrath of her
brutal husband, he soon followed her, though he did not overtake her,
for his course, after a short distance, led him in another direction.
"I'm glad that man is not my father," muttered Robert to himself, as he
walked towards the village.
A knowledge of this fact had come to him only a few days before, and it
was a great relief to him, for certainly there was no meaner man in
Camden than Ezekiel Taylor. He was sorry that he had ever been permitted
even to bear his name. He was sixteen years old, though, for his age, he
was rather short. But he was a stout, wiry, athletic little fellow. He
was just as much puzzled as the rest of the town's people to know how
his mother contrived to feed and clothe herself and him, when it was
patent to everybody that her husband spent all that he earned for rum.
She always had money enough to buy a beefsteak and to pay her store
bill. When everything seemed to have "gone to the dogs," and his last
suit of clothes was out at the elbows, she astonished him by getting a
new suit. The coat had very brief skirts, after the fashion then
prevailing. On his short, stubbed form, it gave him a peculiar
appearance, which promptly attracted the attention of his companions,
when he went to church and Sunday school, after a long absence caused by
the want of suitable clothing. The boys called him "Bob Taylor;" but
when this coat appeared, they cut off one syllable, and made his
cognomen "Bobtail," which soon became "Little Bobtail," for he was often
called little Bob Taylor before, by the larger boys.
Robert was disposed to resent all these liberties with his name; but as
Squire Gilfilian, the hotel keeper, and the deputy collector of the
port, good-naturedly adopted the fashion of the youngsters, he was
compelled to acquiesce. After all, there was not much difference between
Little Bobtail and little Bob Taylor, certainly not enough to quarrel
about.
Robert went to the post-office, not because he expected any
letters,--for he had no correspondence,--but because a great many people
went there when the mail arrived. He was always ready to make a quarter
when an opportunity presented. He spent half his time on the water in
the summer, and knew all about a boat. Sometimes the strangers at the
hotel wanted him to go out with them, and indicate the best places to
catch cod, haddock, and mackerel, and sometimes there was an errand to
be done.
"Little Bobtail!" shouted the post-master through his window, as Robert
entered the office.
He went up to the window, and asked what was wanted.
"Here is a letter for Squire Gilfilian, who was in a desperate hurry to
get it, if one came," added the post-master. "Will you carry it up to
his office?"
"Yes, sir," replied Little Bobtail, promptly.
"Here is another for Captain Chinks. I think he is at the squire's
office, for they just went up the street together. You may as well take
it along."
Robert took the two letters, and hastened to the squire's office. As he
entered, Captain Chinks came out of the rear apartment, where the lawyer
held his private conferences with his clients.
"Here's a letter for you, sir," said Robert, as he handed one of them to
the captain, who immediately tore it open.
"Thank you, Little Bobtail," said Captain Chinks, taking a quarter in
scrip from his vest pocket, and giving it to him.
"I am very much obliged to you, Captain Chinks," replied Robert, glad to
earn a quarter so easily. "Is Squire Gilfilian in that room?"
"Yes; but he's busy."
"I have a letter for him."
"Put it on the table, and he will find it when he comes out; on his
writing desk there."
Little Bobtail tossed the letter on the desk, and left the office,
thinking only of the quarter he had just made, and how he should invest
it to the best advantage in provisioning the old boat with which he
intended to go a fishing that day. A sheet of gingerbread and a "hunk of
cheese," as he expressed it, seemed to suit the emergencies of the
occasion; and after purchasing these articles, he walked down the road
leading to the Portland steamboat wharf. He had gone but a short
distance before he overtook Captain Chinks, who was reading the letter
he just received as he walked along the plank sidewalk.
Captain Chinks, who was, possibly, a distant relative of him of the
horse-marines, though his name had become corrupted, was a man of
doubtful reputation. The officials of the custom-house kept a sharp eye
upon him, and endeavored to connect him with certain irregular
transactions, whereby sundry cases of brandy and sundry boxes of cigars
had come into Camden without paying tribute to the majesty of the
custom-house. The goods were seized, and duly confiscated; but there was
a link wanting in the chain of testimony which connected Captain Chinks
with the affair. Robert supposed he had been consulting Squire Gilfilian
about the matter; and the youth judged from the angry look of the
captain that the lawyer had not been able to afford him any
satisfaction.
Captain Chinks read his letter, and made his way down to the steamboat
wharf. As Bobtail ran his old boat by the end of the pier, he saw the
man of doubtful reputation go on board of the steamer, and noticed him
on her deck when she started.
That afternoon Robert sold a good mess of fish at the market, and went
home to the cottage, which was on the road leading to the steamboat
wharf. Ezekiel was not there, but his mother was. As the tippler could
not obtain the liquor for a spree, he had become sober. He went to work
the next day, and a temporary peace was patched up. He offered no
violence to the boy while he was sober, but this was only for a brief
period. In a few days he obtained another jug of rum, and Robert and his
mother were obliged to abandon the house to him.
On this afternoon Robert went to the post-office as usual. He had not
been on the water since the day he had carried the letters to Squire
Gilfilian's office, for the reason that he could not obtain a boat, for
he was not the owner of the old craft in which he generally sailed. She
belonged to a boatman by the name of Prince, who managed a larger
Newport boat, in which he conveyed passengers from the hotel, and
others, upon excursions on the bay. Anybody who wanted the old boat took
her, without the formality of asking the owner's leave, though Robert,
being a boy, was not quite so independent as others; but Prince was a
good fellow, and allowed him to use her whenever she was not taken by
somebody else. But Robert had borrowed her for the day, and secured her
near the cottage the night before, so that she could not be used till
the tide served.
"Little Bobtail!" shouted the post-master.
"What, sir?"
"Didn't I give you a letter for Squire Gilfilian, about a week ago?"
"Yes, sir, you did."
"What did you do with it?"
"Laid it on the desk in his office," replied Robert, wondering what all
these questions could mean.
"He never got it."
"Didn't he? Well, I put it on his desk," added the boy, startled and
annoyed at the situation.
Just then the squire himself entered the office, and confirmed the
statement of the post-master. The lawyer questioned Little Bobtail
sharply, perhaps rather from his professional habit than because he
suspected the youth of anything wrong.
"I put it on your desk, sir; and that is all I know about it. Captain
Chinks was in your office at the time, and he told me to put it on the
desk," said Robert, stoutly.
"Now I remember, I gave Bobtail a letter for Captain Chinks at the same
time," added the post-master.
"Yes, sir; and I gave it to him in the squire's office."
"Well, we will look the matter up when Captain Chinks comes back. He has
been away a week now," added the lawyer.
Robert was vexed. He was not directly accused of stealing the letter,
but he did not like the sharp questions which the squire asked him. He
left the office, and, after buying a sheet of gingerbread and some
cheese, he hastened down to the old boat, which was now afloat. He had
put a bucket of clams into her the night before, for bait, and otherwise
prepared the boat for a cruise. The wind was pretty fresh from the
westward, and he went off wing-and-wing before it. He tried the usual
places, but the fish did not bite, and he kept sailing farther and
farther out from the shore; but he caught hardly any fish. He was in no
hurry to go home, for Ezekiel was in his tantrums, and his mother had
gone to Rockport to spend two or three days. The wind, instead of
subsiding as the day advanced, increased in force. The sea was heavy out
in the bay, and it was utterly impossible to beat the old boat up to
windward, for she made more leeway than headway.
"No matter; I'll make a night of it," said he to himself, when he
realized that it was impossible for him to beat back to Camden.
The bay is full of islands, and Little Bobtail concluded to get under
the lee of one of them, and wait for better weather. He took in his jib
and mainsail, and the old boat went along very well, taking in very
little water. The sun went down, and it was dark before he had made a
harbor. He was approaching Blank Island, where he knew a good place to
anchor for the night, when he discovered a large sail-boat, drifting
down the bay. Her sails were all lowered, but had not been secured, and
were flapping about in the wind.
"Boat, ahoy!" shouted Little Bobtail.
No answer came to his repeated hails; and, throwing the old craft up
into the wind, he awaited the approach of the abandoned boat. Placing
himself In the bow, with the painter in his hand, he leaped on board of
the stranger, as she drifted upon his old craft. The abandoned boat was
worthy to be called a yacht. She was about thirty-two feet in length,
with eleven feet beam. Two thirds of her length was decked over, with a
trunk cabin, in which were transoms large enough for four berths, with a
cook-room forward. She was handsomely fitted up, and Little Bobtail
wondered how she happened to be adrift. He hoisted the mainsail, and in
a few moments ran her into a little bay under the lee of Blank Island,
where he anchored her. As she had an anchor it was evident that she had
not broken away from her anchorage. Having secured the old boat at a
safe distance from the yacht, the young boatman had an opportunity to
examine his prize, for such it proved to be.
CHAPTER IV.
THE JANTY YACHT.
It was very dark, and Little Bobtail was unable to obtain a very clear
idea of the craft he had picked up; but he had brought her to a secure
anchorage under the lee of Blank Island, and, quite exhausted with his
energetic efforts, both in boarding the yacht and in mooring the boats,
he was content to rest himself for a while on the cushioned seats of the
standing-room. The fresh wind which had blown all day had not permitted
him to pay much attention to the dietary department, which is always an
important one in a boat; and, not being over sentimental, he was
positively hungry. Even the half of his sheet of gingerbread and his
"hunk of cheese" remained untouched.
Little Bobtail was an ingenious youth, and when he anchored the old boat
he had taken a line from her stern to the yacht, so that he could haul
the former alongside the latter at his pleasure. By this means he was
enabled to recover his provision box and jug of cold water without any
difficulty. He devoured the balance of what had been intended only for
his dinner, which, expanded into both dinner and supper, did not half
cover the needs of the occasion. He was still hungry, but he had
recovered his breath, and was in condition to make another effort, if
another were required of him.
We confess that we have written very coolly and composedly of the event
in Little Bobtail's experience which had just transpired, hardly
attempting to describe his wonder and exhilaration; but it is not to be
supposed that he was unmoved by the discovery and recovery of the
abandoned yacht. He was so tremendously excited, that he had worked all
the breath out of his body, and had hardly an opportunity to consider
the nature and extent of his achievement till he had regained his wind,
and partially filled the vacuum in his stomach, which prudent Nature
abhors.
We said he was ready for another effort; but before he put forth his
strength again, he indulged in a series of speculations in regard to the
immediate history of the yacht he had picked up under such singular
circumstances. He had not been into the cabin yet to obtain whatever
evidence might be available in solving the problem; he had not yet had
time to do so. But people speculate and construct theories even before
there are any premises on which to base them.
The yacht was fine enough to be a pleasure craft, and he leaped at once
to the conclusion that some gay party had landed on an island to have a
good time, and, having run the yacht aground, the fresh breeze had blown
her off as the tide rose. Entirely satisfied with this solution, the
history of the fair craft seemed to be no longer a mystery to him. In
the morning he would run her over to Camden and anchor there. The owner
would soon appear; and, as he was fairly entitled to salvage, he thought
he could reasonably hope to receive as much as ten dollars for his
services, for the yacht might have been thrown upon the rocks and
utterly smashed, if he had not picked her up. Indeed, she was not three
miles from Deer Island when he discovered her, and in an hour or two
more nothing could have saved her from destruction.
To Little Bobtail ten dollars was a vast sum of money, and the very
first thought of obtaining it suggested, as the next one, the use to
which it should be applied. That old tub of a boat in which he had been
sailing all day could be bought for thirty dollars. It is true she was
not much of a boat; but it would afford Little Bobtail almost as much
pleasure to repair her and put a proper keel upon her, so that he could
beat to windward in her, as it would to sail her. Prince, who owned her,
would take ten dollars as the first payment, and in time he could earn
enough with her to pay the other twenty. Altogether the dream was a
brilliant one to him, and as he gazed through the gloom of the night at
the old tub, his fancy kindled with the glowing future. He wished the
old thing was bigger, so that he could have a cabin and a place to sleep
in her, when the drunken fury of Ezekiel drove him from the cottage.
Now, really, our hero did not think half so much of the janty yacht he
had captured as he did of the old tub, and we do not know that he would
have taken the trouble to enter her cabin before he wanted a place to
sleep, if he had not been hungry. Half a sheet of gingerbread and "half
a hunk of cheese" for supper were altogether insufficient for a growing
boy. If the party which had lost the yacht had been on a pleasure
excursion, of course they had brought provisions with them; for, to the
imagination of a boy of sixteen, eating is one of the chief pleasures of
existence, especially on the salt water. If the excursionists had gone
on shore,--as they must have done, since they were not on
board,--probably they had taken their provisions with them. It was a
startling thought; but then perhaps the yacht had broken adrift before
they were removed from the lockers. The alternative was very pleasant to
Little Bobtail, though it suggested the miserable condition of the
excursionists left on the island, perhaps to pass the night there,
without food. Our hero thought they could stand it better without any
supper than he could, for he had had only half a dinner, and besides,
everybody thinks his own misfortunes are infinitely more trying than
those of other people. But we must do our young skipper the justice to
add that he sympathized with the excursionists in case they had no
supper.
The doors of the cabin were closed, but they were not locked. Little
Bobtail threw them open, and gazed down into the darkness. He could not
see anything but the faint light through the round ports in the trunk.
He descended the steps, and then stumbled against some boxes. Feeling
his way overhead, he placed his hand upon a lantern suspended from
above.
"All right!" exclaimed he. "That lantern is the right thing in the right
place. We will have some light on the subject."
He was an early riser, and made the fire in the cook-stove every morning
at home, which may account for the fact that he had a quantity of
matches in his pocket. He always carried them with him, for he had been
blown off once before, when he had a boat full of fish, and had to go
hungry all night because he could not make a fire to cook one or two of
them. Besides, when he sailed with strangers or with town's people, most
of them smoked, and he often found that a match was the one thing needed
in a boat. On account of this wise forecast and this prudent habit,
Little Bobtail had plenty of matches in his pocket; and having them, he
lighted one, and communicated the flame to the lamp in the lantern.
Excitedly he waited the revelations which the lamp was to make to him.
It was a beautiful cabin. The transoms were all cushioned, and there was
a table between them. Forward was the door which opened into the
cook-room. Over the table was a rack for bottles and glasses, and there
was a score of lockers filled with dishes and other table ware, with
charts, books, compasses, and other nautical necessaries. A handsome
spy-glass hung on a pair of brackets. At the end of the transoms were
