we?"
"Yes, that's so. If either gained anything for the moment, he lost it
again," replied Donald.
"Then, if we made exactly the same time to Turtle Head, it seems to me
the merits of the two boats are about the same."
"Not exactly, commodore. You forgot that the Skylark has to give time to
the Sea Foam--one and three-tenths seconds per mile; or about eight
seconds from here to the Head."
"That's next to nothing," laughed Robert. "But I was a length ahead of
you."
"I let you gain that, so that I could go to windward of you."
"You made your first point by running nearer to the rocks than I like to
go, by which you cut off a little of the distance; and inches counted in
so close a race."
"That's part of the game in sailing a race."
"I know that, and it's all perfectly fair. I lost half my time when the
squall came. I thought it was going to be heavier than it proved to be."
"I threw the Sea Foam up into the wind when it came," said Donald.
"But you didn't drop your peak, and I lost two minutes in doing it. Now,
Don John, I can put my finger on the four minutes by which you beat me;
and I don't think there is any difference between the two yachts."
"You forget the allowance."
"That's nothing. In all future regattas the result will depend more upon
the sailing than upon the boats."
"I think you are quite right, Bob; and the fellow who makes the most
mistakes will lose the race. But when the Maud is done she is going to
beat you right along, if she has anything like fair play," laughed
Donald.
"She may if she can," replied Robert.
The reputation of Ramsay & Son, boat builders, was greatly increased by
the result of the race. If Edward Patterdale was a little mortified to
have it demonstrated that the Sea Foam had lost the first prize by his
own want of skill and tact in sailing her, he was consoled by the fact
that Commodore Montague, who had the credit of being the best skipper in
Belfast, had been beaten by his yacht. When the shower was over the
party went on shore, and Donald hastened to the shop to attend to
business. He found that his men had done a good day's work in his
absence, and he related to Kennedy all the particulars of the two
races.
"It would have been a bad egg for you if you had not been present," said
Kennedy, much interested in the story. "In these regattas the sailing of
the yacht is half the battle, and these young fellows may ruin your
reputation as a boat-builder, if you don't look out for them."
"When I heard Ned Patterdale say he was disappointed in the Sea Foam, I
felt that our business was nearly ruined. I think I have done a good
thing for our firm to-day."
"So you have, Donald; and when the Maud is finished, I hope you will
sail her yourself in the first race she enters."
"I will, if Sam Rodman consents."
Donald paid off his men that night from the money received from Mr.
Rodman. The next week he employed another hand, and worked diligently
himself. Every day his mother came out to see how the work progressed,
as she began to have some hope herself of the success of the firm of
Ramsay & Son. Donald paid her all the fees he received for measuring
yachts, and thus far this had been enough to support the family. She
did not inquire very closely into the financial affairs of the concern,
and the active member of it was not very communicative; but she had
unbounded confidence in him, and while he was hopeful she was satisfied.
It would be tedious to follow the young builder through all the details
of his business. The frame of the Maud was all set up in due time, and
then planked. By the first of August, when the vacation at the High
School commenced, she was ready to be launched. All the joiner work on
deck and in the cabin was completed, and had received two coats of
paint. Mr. Rodman had paid a hundred dollars every week on account,
which was more than Donald needed to carry on the work, and the affairs
of Ramsay & Son were in a very prosperous condition.
On the day of the launch, the Yacht Club attended in a body, and all the
young ladies of the High School were present. Miss Maud Rodman, with a
bottle in her hand, had consented formally to give her own name to the
beautiful craft. Nellie Patterdale was to be on deck with her, attended
by Donald and Sam Rodman. The boarding at the end of the shop had been
removed, to allow the passage of the yacht into her future element. The
ways had been laid down into the water, and well slushed. It was high
tide at ten o'clock, and this hour had been chosen for the great event.
"Are you all ready, Mr. Kennedy?" asked Donald.
"All ready," replied the workman.
"Let her slide!" shouted the boat-builder.
A few smart blows with the hammers removed the dog-shores and the
wedges, and the Maud began to move very slowly at first. Those on deck
were obliged to stoop until the hull had passed out of the shop.
"Now stand up," said Donald, as the yacht passed the end of the shop;
and he thrust a long pole, with a flag attached to the end, into the
mast hole.
The boat increased her speed as she advanced, and soon struck the water
with a splash.
"Now break the bottle, Maud," added Donald.
"I give this yacht the name of Maud," said Miss Rodman, in a loud tone,
as she broke the bottle upon the heel of the bowsprit.
"Won't she tip over, Don John?" asked Nellie.
"Not at all; nearly all her ballast has been put into her, and she will
stand up like a queen on the water," answered Donald, proudly, as he
realized that the launch was a perfect success.
Loud cheers from the crowd on shore greeted the yacht as she went into
the embrace of her chosen element. The ladies waved their handkerchiefs,
and the gentlemen their hats. Maud and Nellie returned the salute, and
so did Sam Rodman; but Donald was too busy, just then, even to enjoy his
triumph. As the hull slid off into the deep water, the boat-builder
threw over the anchor, and veered out the cable till her headway was
checked. The Maud rested on the water as gracefully as a swan, and the
work of the day was done.
Hardly had the yacht brought up at her cable, when the Juno, in which
Laud Cavendish had been laying off and on where he could see the launch,
ran alongside of her.
"Keep off!" shouted Donald; "you will scrape her sides."
"No; hold on, Don John; I have a cork fender," replied Laud, as he threw
his painter on board of the Maud. "Catch a turn--will you?"
"Don't let him come on board, if you can help it," whispered Nellie
Patterdale. "He is a terrible bore."
"I can help it," replied Donald, as, with a boat-hook he shoved off the
bow of the Juno.
Then, for the first time, he observed that Laud had a passenger, a man
whom he remembered to have seen before, though he did not think where.
"What are you about, Don John?" demanded Laud.
"Keep off, then," replied Donald. "We don't want any visitors on board
yet. We are going to haul her up to the wharf at once."
"But I came off to offer the ladies a passage to the shore," said Laud.
"They don't want any passage to the shore."
"Good morning, Miss Patterdale," added Laud, as Nellie went to the rail
near the Juno. "Allow me to offer you a place in this boat to convey you
to the shore."
"Thank you, Mr. Cavendish; I intend to remain where I am," replied she,
rather haughtily.
"I shall be happy to take you out to sail, if you will do me the honor
to accompany me; and Miss Rodman, too, if she will go."
"No, I thank you; I am otherwise engaged," answered Nellie, as she
retreated to the other side of the yacht.
"I say, Donald, let me come on board," asked Laud, who was desperately
bent upon improving his acquaintance with Nellie Patterdale.
"Not now; you can come on board at the wharf."
Donald was resolute, and Laud, angry at his rebuff, filed away.
"Here is a man that wants to see you, Don John," shouted Laud, as he ran
his boat up to the Maud again.
"I can't see him now," replied Donald.
Kennedy now came alongside in the skiff, bringing a warp-line from the
shore, by which the Maud was hauled up to the wharf. The spectators went
on board, and examined the work. Many of them crawled into the cabin and
cook-room, and all of them were enthusiastic in their praise, though a
few seasoned it with wholesome criticism. Some thought the cabin ought
to be longer, evidently believing that it was possible to put a quart of
water into a pint bottle; others thought she ought to be rigged as a
schooner instead of a sloop, which was a matter of fancy with the owner;
but all agreed that she was a beautiful yacht. In honor of the event,
and to please the young people, Mr. Rodman had prepared a collation at
his house, to which the members of the Yacht Club and others were
cordially invited. Kennedy and the other men who worked on the Maud were
included in the invitation, and the afternoon was to be a holiday. Laud
Cavendish, who had moored the Juno and come on shore, liberally
interpreted the invitation to include himself, and joined the party,
though he was not a member of the club. Some people have a certain
exuberance on the side of their faces, which enables them to do things
which others cannot do.
"I want to see you, Don John," said Laud, as the party began to move
from the wharf towards the mansion of Mr. Rodman.
"I'll see you this evening," replied Donald, who was anxious to gain a
position at the side of Miss Nellie Patterdale.
"That will be too late. You saw the man in the Juno with me--didn't
you?" continued Laud, proceeding to open his business.
"I saw him."
"Did you know him?"
"No; though I thought I had seen him before," replied Donald, as they
walked along in the rear of the party.
"He is the man who was beaten within an inch of his life over to
Lincolnville, a while ago."
"Hasbrook?"
"Yes, his name is Jacob Hasbrook."
"He was with us in the library of Captain Patterdale the day we were
there, when the man had a sun-stroke."
"Was he? Well, I don't remember that. Folks say he is a big rascal, and
the licking he got was no more than he deserved. He was laid up for a
month after it; but now he and the sheriff are trying to find out who
did it."
Donald was interested, in spite of himself, and for the time even forgot
the pleasant smile of Nellie, which was a great deal for him to forget.
"Has he any idea who it was that beat him?"
"I don't know whether he has or not. He only asks questions, and don't
answer any. You know I met you over to Turtle Head the morning after the
affair in Lincolnville."
"I remember all about it," answered Donald.
"I saw you in the Juno afterwards. By the way, Don John, you didn't
tell me how you happened to be in the Juno at that time. I don't
recollect whether you had her at Turtle Head, or not. I don't think I
saw her there, at any rate."
"No matter whether you did or not. Go on with your story, for we are
almost to Mr. Rodman's house," replied Donald, impatiently.
"Well, after I left you, I ran over towards Saturday Cove," continued
Laud. "You know where that is."
"Of course I do."
This was the place towards which Captain Shivernock had gone in the
sail-boat, and where Laud had probably seen him, when he gave him the
money paid for the Juno. Laud did not say that this was the time and
place he had met the captain, but Donald was entirely satisfied on this
point.
"From Saturday Cove I ran on the other tack over to Gilky's Harbor,"
added Laud.
"Did you see anybody near the cove?"
"I didn't say whether I did or not," replied Laud, after some
hesitation, which confirmed Donald's belief that he had met the captain
on this occasion. "Never mind that. Off Gilky's Harbor I hailed Tom
Reed, who had been a-fishing. It seems that Tom told Hasbrook he saw me
that forenoon, and Hasbrook has been to see me half a dozen times about
it. I don't know whether he thinks I am the fellow that thrashed him, or
not. He has pumped me dry about it. I happened to let on that I saw you,
and Hasbrook wants to talk with you."
By this time they reached Mr. Rodman's house, and to the surprise of
Donald, Laud Cavendish coolly walked into the grounds with him.
CHAPTER XI.
THE WHITE CROSS OF DENMARK.
Laud Cavendish was at Donald's side when they entered the grounds of Mr.
Rodman, where the tables were spread under the trees in the garden. As
the collation was in honor of the launch of the Maud, of course the
young boat-builder was a person of no little consequence, and being with
him, Laud was permitted to enter the grounds unchallenged; but they soon
separated.
Donald was disturbed by what Laud had told him, and he did not wish to
answer any questions which might be put to him by Hasbrook, who was
evidently working his own case, trying to ascertain who had committed
the outrage upon him. He did not wish to tell whom he had seen on that
Saturday forenoon, and thus violate the confidence of Captain
Shivernock. But he was entirely satisfied that the captain had nothing
to do with it, for he had not left his house until after the deed was
done, according to the testimony of Sykes and his wife, whom he had
separately interviewed. To decline to answer Hasbrook's questions, on
the other hand, was to excite suspicion. He could not tell any lies
about the case. If he could, it would have been easily managed; as it
was, the situation was very awkward. But he had not time to think much
of the matter, for one and another began to congratulate him upon the
success of the launch, the fine proportions and the workmanship of the
Maud. The praise of Captain Patterdale was particularly agreeable to
him; but the best news he heard was that Major Norwood intended to have
a yacht built for his son, and would probably give the job to Ramsay &
Son.
"Well, Don John, you are a real lion," laughed Nellie Patterdale, when,
at last, the young boat-builder obtained a place at her side, which had
been the objective point with him since he entered the grounds.
"Better be a lion than a bear," replied Donald.
"Everybody says you have built a splendid yacht, and Maud is delighted
to have it named after her."
"I think the Sea Foam ought to have been called the Nellie," added
Donald.
"Pooh! I asked Ned to call her the Sea Foam."
"If I ever build a yacht on my own account, I shall certainly name her
the Nellie Patterdale," continued Donald, though the remark cost him a
terrible struggle.
"I thank you, Don John; but I hope you will never build one on your own
account, then," answered she, with a slight blush.
"Why, wouldn't you like to have a boat named after you?" asked he,
rather taken aback at her reply.
"I shouldn't like to have my whole name given to a boat. It is too
long."
"O, well! Then I shall call her the Nellie."
"You are too late, Don John," laughed Laud Cavendish, who was standing
within hearing distance, and who now stepped forward, raised his hat,
bowed, and smirked. "I have already ordered the painter to inscribe that
word on the bows and stern of the Juno, for I never liked her present
name."
Nellie blushed deeper than before, but it was with anger this time,
though she made no reply to Laud's impudent remark. At this moment Mr.
Rodman invited the party to gather around the tables and partake of the
collation.
"Will Miss Patterdale allow me to offer her my arm?" added Laud, as he
thrust his elbow up before her.
"No, I thank you," she replied, walking towards the tables, but keeping
at Donald's side.
The boat-builder had not the courage to offer her his arm, though some
of the sons of the nabobs had done so to the ladies; but he kept at her
side. Laud was desperate, for Nellie seemed to be the key of destiny to
him. If he could win her heart and hand, or even her hand without the
heart, his fortune would be made, and the wealth and social position of
which cruel fate had thus far robbed him would be obtained. Though she
snubbed him, he could not see it, and would not accept the situation. If
Donald had not been there, she would not have declined his offered arm;
and he regarded the boat-builder as the only obstacle in his path.
"I wish you had not invited that puppy, Don John," said Nellie, as they
moved towards the tables; and there was a snap in her tones which
emphasized the remark.
"I didn't invite him," replied Donald, warmly.
"He came in with you, and Mr. Rodman said you must have asked him."
"Indeed, I did not; I had no right to invite him," protested Donald.
Nellie immediately told this to the host of the occasion, and in doing
so she left Donald for a moment.
"Why don't you get out of the way, Don John, when you see what I am up
to?" said Laud, in a low tone, but earnestly and indignantly, as though
Donald had stepped between him and the cheerful destiny in which his
imagination revelled.
"What are you up to?"
"I told you before that I liked Nellie, and you are all the time coming
between me and her. She would have taken my arm if you had stepped
aside."
"I don't choose to step aside," added Donald.
"I want to get in there, Don John," added Laud, in a milder tone.
"Paddle your own canoe."
"You don't care anything about her."
"How do you know I don't?"
"Do you?"
"That's my affair."
"She don't care for you."
"Nor you, either."
"Perhaps not now, but I can make it all right with her," said Laud, as
he twirled his colored mustache, which he probably regarded as a
lady-killer. "Besides, you are not old enough to think of such things
