questioning God why all these things came upon us. I 
don't mean that I am impatient or especially doubtful, but 
I do not feel so much at rest." 
" This is a trial of faith, Jessie. Some dark days come 
into all lives. Can you not hold fast by God, and believe 
that He who loved us and gave himself for us knows what 
is best ? Our dim eyes cannot always see through the 
clouds, and our faith is sometimes slow to perceive." 
" He doesn't seem as near to me as at dear old Home 
Nook. I sometimes feel myself drifting away, and long to 
clasp some strong support a stay that will be sure and 
vital. Then the cares and work come pressing, and I 
almost lose my hold." 
" Yes," Mrs. Rachel said, with a faint smile, " the carea 
of this world choke out the good seed, you know." 
" And what must I do ? " 
She asked the question with simple earnestness, and the 
shy, soft eyes were downcast. 
"I often think of the old scriptural injunction, 'Pray 
without ceasing.' It is only by keeping close to God that 
we are safe. And yet it seems to me that if you have 
thought so much of this, you have not strayed very far." 
Madge and Miss Hetty emerged from the kitchen, the 
maid bright and glowing, pulling down her sleeves, and 
giving her shining ringlets a twist. 
" I don't believe this little cubby ever was so gay be- 
fore," declared Miss Hetty. "It's been a regular state 
dinner. You are so entertaining and hopeful ! The storm 
has only gone over you, my dear, not wet you a bit, and 
you've come out in the blue sky, and the rainbow, and all 
the promise of things to be." 
" I can't help feeling bright and happy. I suppose I
ought to be sorrowful, and croon dismally over my lost 
estate; and yet I have a sort of presentiment that we shall 
 come back some day." 
"I hope it will be in my time," added Mrs. Kachel, with 
a sweet smile. 
Afterwards Madge set out for a ramble, but Jessie pre- 
ferred to stay in and finish her talk. A pleasant one it 
was, gradually growing clearer and more comforting, 
sweetening and strengthening the life she had to brave, 
ennobling the petty duties, and touching them with an 
illuminating beam, giving a deeper meaning and sanctity 
to the trial that had been laid upon them all. 
Madge did not return until evening, and Jessie was 
startled at finding their old friend, Charlie Westlake, her 
escort. The explanation was simple enough. Madge had 
been drinking tea with the Kenneths, and Charlie had 
dropped in through the course of the evening. For almost 
a year the girls had not seen him, as he was in college ; 
but when he clasped Jessie's hand, she felt that he had 
not changed with their fallen fortunes. 
A fair, frank face this of Charlie Westlake's, with the 
immaturity of twenty years that had left him still boyish 
and impulsive. Yet there was a latent nobleness in his 
broad brow and clear eyes, and the girlishly rounded chin 
was redeemed by the firm lines about the mouth. Life 
held no special meaning for him now, perhaps, but there 
was much that could be roused into ambition and strength. 
But there was a curious, absorbed expression in Madge's 
face that her sister never remembered seeing there before, 
a kind of introspection, as if she was glancing at some 
thought that richly satisfied, and a strange depth and 
tremor in her voice. The inexplicable quiet was not pain, 
nor sadness, but a dreamy, restful peace. 
"You're tired to death," said Miss Hetty, with kindest 
solicitude, after Mr. Westlake had taken his departure. 
w I've put the room all in order, and aired it until it is 
quite cool and pleasant ; so now you must go to bed. You 
will be bright as a bird again in the morning." 
Madge made no demur. With a tender good night. 
 
both girls went lightly up the narrow stairs. The room 
was quaintly furnished, like the rest of the house, and the 
capacious high-post bedstead, with carved head-board, was 
mahogany, rich with the coloring of age, and the white 
adornments were in strong contrast. 
"How odd!" Madge exclaimed; and then she lapsed 
into silence, and commenced her preparations slowly. 
"Did you have a pleasant time!" Jessie asked. 
" O, yes. I ventured on a few calls besides. Jessie, the 
loss of fortune does make a difference with some people." 
" And that is why you are unhappy ? " with the quick 
pang of apprehension. 
"Unhappy!" and she laughed, softly, like the ripple of 
a brook blown about by summer winds. " Why, I am not 
unhappy." 
The glowing eyes and flushed face attested this. 
" But you are so so strange ! " 
" Am I ? " in a vague, careless way. 
Jessie was puzzled. Then she and Madge read their 
chapter alternately, and knelt to say their prayers with 
their arms around each other's neck. Madge lingered a 
long while. 
At last the light was out, and the rays of the young 
moon came stealing through the open window. Jessie 
could not sleep. The tranquillity of a few hours before 
had vanished, and though she was not troubled, a spell 
seemed to quiver through every nerve a presentiment 
that was too deep for pleasure and too calm for pain. 
A soft hand came stealing over her shoulder presently, 
and a low, tremulous voice said, 
" Jessie, are you asleep ? " 
" No," was the quiet answer. 
" I want to tell you a secret something odd and 
strange, and, O, so sweet ! " with a lingering intonation. 
"Charlie Westlake loves me, and I love him. We are 
engaged." 
"O, Madge !" in a tone of fright and pain. "And with 
out mamma's knowledge ! " 
"It is to be as she and papa say. I am sixteen, and he 
is twenty ; so, of course, we will have some years of waiting. 
He has one more term in college, and will then study a 
profession. I don't mind. It is very, very sweet, Jessie. 
And it all came from a talk about the fortune." 
Jessie was too much amazed to reply. So long indeed 
was the silence that Madge lapsed into blissful dreams ; 
but Jessie watched until the moon had trailed her white 
glory across the sky and fallen asleep amid the golden 
tan. 
 
CHAPTER Vltt. 
LOOKING AT THE FUTUBE. 
ALTHOUGH Jessie Ashburton's slumbers were in one 
sense refreshing, they were far from being tranquil. 
Snatches of strange and troubled dreams crossed her brain, 
and she awoke at early dawn, while the birds were still at 
their matins. Madge was sleeping peacefully, the fair 
face delicately flushed, and her own soft, vague smile part- 
ing the lips. 
Had Madge actually confessed that wild and childish 
romance of the night before, or had it been a part of 
Jessie's fancy ? It really seemed as if it could not be true, 
or, being true, might fail of possibility. Six months ago 
Jessie would hardly have doubted; but now all was so 
changed ! And then they were both so young ! 
She rose, and sat a long while by the open window. 
She could see the outline of the Hudson through the 
spaces between clumps of trees and clusters of houses, and 
the Palisades rising on the opposite shore, blue and dusky 
in the morning light, with the fleecy clouds of rose and 
pearl crowning them. All was so serene, so full of peace, 
that Jessie forgot the mere worldly troubles, and lifted 
her heart to God. It seemed then as if all things were 
indeed possible; that out of this chaos of shadow, and 
doubt, and dim foreboding, the promise of beauty asked 
for might still be realized. 
How long she lingered there drinking in heavenly 
peace and comfort she hardly knew. She heard the ener- 
getic Miss Hetty stirring about down stairs, and rejoined 
her presently, leaving Madge still asleep. 
She and Miss Hetty had quite an entertaining tim 
comparing housekeeping notes. Amid this the breakfast 
was prepared, and Mis. Rachel assisted in her morning 
duties. Just at this moment Madge came flying down, 
bright and rosy, and the day was fairly begun. 
Madge was quite like her olden self, it must be con- 
fessed. During the morning several of the neighbors 
came in to call upon them ; and until the moment of 
starting, the sisters had not exchanged a word upon the 
subject that occupied the thoughts of both almost ex 
clusively. 
Miss Hetty proposed to walk to the station with them. 
" But this isn't half a visit," she said, in her brisk fashion. 
" I do not see why you couldn't come up and stay a week. 
Philip could do very well without you." 
Jessie did not like to promise. The picture of Philip 
in solitude was not a satisfying one. 
" Well, you know you're welcome any time, and not 
only you two, but any of the others. Remember to give 
my love to them all, and especially to your dear mamma. 
God bless you all, and watch over you.'* 
Mrs. Rachel's farewell was very tender, She longed for 
some power to restore their fallen fortunes, and yet she 
felt that God knew best, and that in his infinite mercy he 
would make manifest the right path. 
As they were crossing the platform, Charlie Westlake 
sauntered up from the opposite direction. He would have 
been loath to confess to any one but Madge that he had 
resolved to linger in the vicinity all the afternoon, in the 
hope of meeting them at last. 
Jessie looked very grave. The kind of elder-sisterly 
feeling that she exercised over Madge seemed strong upon 
her, and yet she was helpless. 
"This is real nice," Charlie exclaimed. "I am going 
down to the city, too ; so I suppose you will give them 
into my charge, Miss Hetty, and I'll promise to see that 
they reach their destination safely." 
 
His frank manner and winsome smile won Miss Hetty's 
heart. Besides, she was certain that he was too noble 
to forget his old friends. As for anything beyond the 
merest boyish friendship, that would never have entered 
her head. 
" Yes, I am glad, Mr. Westlake," she replied, unsuspi- 
ciously. " They're precious enough to a good many yet." 
Madge colored violently, and turned her head. Charlie 
had promised to see her again, it was true ; but she had 
meant first to have a good long talk with Jessie. 
However, there was no help for it. Charlie went for 
their tickets with a very mannish air. They said good by 
to Miss Hetty, and took their seats, Madge with a peculiar 
consciousness, as if she really had been guilty of deceit. 
And so they were all rather awkward, but the noise of the 
car was an apology for conversation. 
At last they reached their own little cottage. 
" Why, how pretty it is ! " Charlie said, thankful there 
was something that he could talk about. "One does 
not often see anything like this in New York, unless it is 
on a grand scale. You don't miss the river either, though 
the Long Island hills are not much like our own Palisades." 
Jessie found her key, and ushered him in. None of 
their bygone friends had yet seen their simple home. It 
did look pretty, and she was very glad. 
Charlie Westlake could not resist the pleasure of mak- 
ing himself quite at ease. It had been so in the old Home 
Nook days. His own elegant home had always suffered 
by contrast. He liked the air, the geniality, the pleasant 
interchange of feeling that he had always found among 
the Ashburtons. 
" Only one misses your mother out of it all," he said, 
with his bright smile. 
Jessie hardly knew whether it was proper to leave the 
lovers for an explanation or not. Finally, generosity 
triumphed over prudence. She went ostensibly to open 
the windows, and see that nothing had been disturbed 
Then she cut some fresh flowers and filled the vases, for 
Philip would soon return. 
She took one in her hand when she went back to the 
parlor. Madge was in tears, but they were not those of 
sorrow, for she smiled softly through them. 
"Jessie," and Charlie Westlake rose and came towards 
hot, " we both have something to tell you, though Madge 
says she confessed it in part last night. I have always 
loved her ; it seems to me that you must know that. And 
when at college I first heard of your loss, I cannot tell how 
glad I was to think that I could make it up in part to 
Madge." 
 But you are both so young : " Jessie replied, trembling- 
ly, shrinking from the responsibility thus thrust upon her. 
"Yes ; but I believe I have loved Madge ever since she 
could walk; so it's no new thing. And I once heard Mrs. 
Ashburton say that bhe was married before she was seven- 
teen;" and he smiled archly. "We do not contemplate 
anything like that, for I have another year in college, and 
my law studies besides. So Madge can take plenty of 
time to consider whether she likes me or not." 
"But you may change," Jessie said, suddenly. 
And just then it seemed quite impossible that one so 
young and inexperienced, exposed to the temptations and 
fascinations of society, could remain true of heart and 
purpose. 
" You do not know me at all if you think that, Jessie. 
If we had all gone on the same as before, I might not 
have spoken yet a while ; indeed, I never felt how near 
Madge was to me until the misfortunes came. And then 
I resolved that I would find you during vacation and tell 
my story. There are long years of waiting before ua 
both, Jessie ; but will you not let me be a brother to you 
in the meanwhile, and prove myself worthy of a place in 
your dear household ? " 
 
No one could distrust that noble and ingenuous face ; 
and somehow his simple devotion almost brought the tears 
to Jessie's eyes. 
" It is not for me to decide altogether ; " and she smiled 
faintly. "Papa, mamma, and your own mother." 
" I met Madge so entirely by accident yesterday that I 
ipoke in an unguarded moment. I have explained to her 
that I shall see Mr. and Mrs. Ashburton as soon as possi- 
ble, and plead my case. I think they will not prove severe 
in their decision." 
" I fancy that your mother will not like it." 
Jessie spoke with painful hesitation. She remembered 
too well the cool recognitions which Mrs. Westlake had 
bestowed upon her. 
Madge started forward. Until this moment she had 
never considered Mrs. Westlake. 
" I think mother will consent to whatever is important 
for my happiness as this will be. Of course, the fortune 
being in my mother's right, I really have no claim upon it, 
you know ; so I mean to work day and night until I am in 
a position to care for a wife," he said, proudly. "Do not 
anticipate trouble so far off;" and he tried to laugh lightly. 
He knew still better than Jessie that there would be 
long and bitter opposition from this source. He had come 
home to find the Ashburtons dropped completely from his 
mother's list. The kind little messages which he had sent 
so often had never been delivered, and while he had been 
pleasing himself with various fond fancies, his mother 
believed that she had made herself understood with the 
Ashburtons. They had too much pride and delicacy to 
welcome him with the olden warmth when she had put 
such a distance between them. 
The subject had not been a happy one between mother 
and son, yet she trusted to time to eradicate the boyish 
penchant. And here was his cousin May, an heiress, ready 
to be won in a year or two. It would be folly to throw 
one's self away in so foolish a fashion. 
After the first warm talk about the Ashburtons, she 
