declared necessary on account of the chill of the evening.
“I never saw an Eastern man,” said Jeff, “who knew how to drink from
a jug with one hand. It’s as easy as lying. So.” He grasped the handle
with the right hand, threw the jug back upon his arm, and applied
his lips to the nozzle. It was an act as graceful as it was simple.
“Besides,” said Mr. Thompson, setting it down, “it puts every man on his
honor as to quantity.”
Early to turn in was the rule of the camp, and by nine o’clock everybody
was under his blanket, except Jeff himself, who worked awhile at his
table over his field-book, and then arose, stepped outside the tent
door and sang, in a strong and not unmelodious tenor, the Star Spangled
Banner from beginning to end. It proved to be his nightly practice to
let off the unexpended steam of his conversational powers, in the words
of this stirring song.
It was a long time before Philip got to sleep. He saw the fire light,
he saw the clear stars through the tree-tops, he heard the gurgle of the
stream, the stamp of the horses, the occasional barking of the dog which
followed the cook’s wagon, the hooting of an owl; and when these failed
he saw Jeff, standing on a battlement, mid the rocket’s red glare, and
heard him sing, “Oh, say, can you see?” It was the first time he had
ever slept on the ground.
CHAPTER XVII.
     ----“We have view’d it,
     And measur’d it within all, by the scale
     The richest tract of land, love, in the kingdom!
     There will be made seventeen or eighteeen millions,
     Or more, as’t may be handled!”
          The Devil is an Ass.
Nobody dressed more like an engineer than Mr. Henry Brierly. The
completeness of his appointments was the envy of the corps, and the
gay fellow himself was the admiration of the camp servants, axemen,
teamsters and cooks.
“I reckon you didn’t git them boots no wher’s this side o’ Sent Louis?”
 queried the tall Missouri youth who acted as commissary’s assistant.
“No, New York.”
“Yas, I’ve heern o’ New York,” continued the butternut lad, attentively
studying each item of Harry’s dress, and endeavoring to cover his design
with interesting conversation. “‘N there’s Massachusetts.”,
“It’s not far off.”
“I’ve heern Massachusetts was a-----of a place. Les, see, what state’s
Massachusetts in?”
“Massachusetts,” kindly replied Harry, “is in the state of Boston.”
“Abolish’n wan’t it? They must a cost right smart,” referring to the
boots.
Harry shouldered his rod and went to the field, tramped over the prairie
by day, and figured up results at night, with the utmost cheerfulness
and industry, and plotted the line on the profile paper, without,
however, the least idea of engineering practical or theoretical. Perhaps
there was not a great deal of scientific knowledge in the entire corps,
nor was very much needed. They were making, what is called a preliminary
survey, and the chief object of a preliminary survey was to get up an
excitement about the road, to interest every town in that part of the
state in it, under the belief that the road would run through it, and to
get the aid of every planter upon the prospect that a station would be
on his land.
Mr. Jeff Thompson was the most popular engineer who could be found
for this work. He did not bother himself much about details or
practicabilities of location, but ran merrily along, sighting from the
top of one divide to the top of another, and striking “plumb” every town
site and big plantation within twenty or thirty miles of his route. In
his own language he “just went booming.”
This course gave Harry an opportunity, as he said, to learn the
practical details of engineering, and it gave Philip a chance to see the
country, and to judge for himself what prospect of a fortune it offered.
Both he and Harry got the “refusal” of more than one plantation as they
went along, and wrote urgent letters to their eastern correspondents,
upon the beauty of the land and the certainty that it would quadruple in
value as soon as the road was finally located. It seemed strange to them
that capitalists did not flock out there and secure this land.
They had not been in the field over two weeks when Harry wrote to his
friend Col. Sellers that he’d better be on the move, for the line was
certain to go to Stone’s Landing. Any one who looked at the line on
the map, as it was laid down from day to day, would have been uncertain
which way it was going; but Jeff had declared that in his judgment the
only practicable route from the point they then stood on was to follow
the divide to Stone’s Landing, and it was generally understood that that
town would be the next one hit.
“We’ll make it, boys,” said the chief, “if we have to go in a balloon.”
And make it they did. In less than a week, this indomitable engineer had
carried his moving caravan over slues and branches, across bottoms and
along divides, and pitched his tents in the very heart of the city of
Stone’s Landing.
“Well, I’ll be dashed,” was heard the cheery voice of Mr. Thompson, as
he stepped outside the tent door at sunrise next morning. “If this don’t
get me. I say, yon Grayson, get out your sighting iron and see if you
can find old Sellers’ town. Blame me if we wouldn’t have run plumb by it
if twilight had held on a little longer. Oh! Sterling, Brierly, get up
and see the city. There’s a steamboat just coming round the bend.” And
Jeff roared with laughter. “The mayor’ll be round here to breakfast.”
The fellows turned out of the tents, rubbing their eyes, and stared
about them. They were camped on the second bench of the narrow bottom of
a crooked, sluggish stream, that was some five rods wide in the present
good stage of water. Before them were a dozen log cabins, with stick
and mud chimneys, irregularly disposed on either side of a not very
well defined road, which did not seem to know its own mind exactly, and,
after straggling through the town, wandered off over the rolling prairie
in an uncertain way, as if it had started for nowhere and was quite
likely to reach its destination. Just as it left the town, however, it
was cheered and assisted by a guide-board, upon which was the legend “10
Mils to Hawkeye.”
The road had never been made except by the travel over it, and at this
season--the rainy June--it was a way of ruts cut in the black soil, and
of fathomless mud-holes. In the principal street of the city, it had
received more attention; for hogs, great and small, rooted about in
it and wallowed in it, turning the street into a liquid quagmire which
could only be crossed on pieces of plank thrown here and there.
About the chief cabin, which was the store and grocery of this mart of
trade, the mud was more liquid than elsewhere, and the rude platform
in front of it and the dry-goods boxes mounted thereon were places
of refuge for all the loafers of the place. Down by the stream was a
dilapidated building which served for a hemp warehouse, and a shaky
wharf extended out from it, into the water. In fact a flat-boat was
there moored by it, it’s setting poles lying across the gunwales. Above
the town the stream was crossed by a crazy wooden bridge, the supports
of which leaned all ways in the soggy soil; the absence of a plank here
and there in the flooring made the crossing of the bridge faster than a
walk an offense not necessary to be prohibited by law.
“This, gentlemen,” said Jeff, “is Columbus River, alias Goose Run. If it
was widened, and deepened, and straightened, and made, long enough, it
would be one of the finest rivers in the western country.”
As the sun rose and sent his level beams along the stream, the thin
stratum of mist, or malaria, rose also and dispersed, but the light was
not able to enliven the dull water nor give any hint of its apparently
fathomless depth. Venerable mud-turtles crawled up and roosted upon the
old logs in the stream, their backs glistening in the sun, the first
inhabitants of the metropolis to begin the active business of the day.
It was not long, however, before smoke began to issue from the city
chimneys; and before the engineers had finished their breakfast they
were the object of the curious inspection of six or eight boys and men,
who lounged into the camp and gazed about them with languid interest,
their hands in their pockets every one.
“Good morning; gentlemen,” called out the chief engineer, from the
table.
“Good mawning,” drawled out the spokesman of the party. “I allow
thish-yers the railroad, I heern it was a-comin’.”
“Yes, this is the railroad; all but the rails and the ironhorse.”
“I reckon you kin git all the rails you want oaten my white oak timber
over, thar,” replied the first speaker, who appeared to be a man of
property and willing to strike up a trade.
“You’ll have to negotiate with the contractors about the rails, sir,”
 said Jeff; “here’s Mr. Brierly, I’ve no doubt would like to buy your
rails when the time comes.”
“O,” said the man, “I thought maybe you’d fetch the whole bilin along
with you. But if you want rails, I’ve got em, haint I Eph.”
“Heaps,” said Eph, without taking his eyes off the group at the table.
“Well,” said Mr. Thompson, rising from his seat and moving towards his
tent, “the railroad has come to Stone’s Landing, sure; I move we take a
drink on it all round.”
The proposal met with universal favor. Jeff gave prosperity to Stone’s
Landing and navigation to Goose Run, and the toast was washed down with
gusto, in the simple fluid of corn; and with the return compliment that
a rail road was a good thing, and that Jeff Thompson was no slouch.
About ten o’clock a horse and wagon was descried making a slow approach
to the camp over the prairie. As it drew near, the wagon was seen to
contain a portly gentleman, who hitched impatiently forward on his seat,
shook the reins and gently touched up his horse, in the vain attempt to
communicate his own energy to that dull beast, and looked eagerly at the
tents. When the conveyance at length drew up to Mr. Thompson’s door, the
gentleman descended with great deliberation, straightened himself
up, rubbed his hands, and beaming satisfaction from every part of his
radiant frame, advanced to the group that was gathered to welcome him,
and which had saluted him by name as soon as he came within hearing.
“Welcome to Napoleon, gentlemen, welcome. I am proud to see you here Mr.
Thompson. You are, looking well Mr. Sterling. This is the country, sir.
Right glad to see you Mr. Brierly. You got that basket of champagne? No?
Those blasted river thieves! I’ll never send anything more by ‘em. The
best brand, Roederer. The last I had in my cellar, from a lot sent me
by Sir George Gore--took him out on a buffalo hunt, when he visited our
country. Is always sending me some trifle. You haven’t looked about any
yet, gentlemen? It’s in the rough yet, in the rough. Those buildings
will all have to come down. That’s the place for the public square,
Court House, hotels, churches, jail--all that sort of thing. About where
we stand, the deepo. How does that strike your engineering eye, Mr.
Thompson? Down yonder the business streets, running to the wharves. The
University up there, on rising ground, sightly place, see the river for
miles. That’s Columbus river, only forty-nine miles to the Missouri. You
see what it is, placid, steady, no current to interfere with navigation,
wants widening in places and dredging, dredge out the harbor and raise
a levee in front of the town; made by nature on purpose for a mart. Look
at all this country, not another building within ten miles, no other
navigable stream, lay of the land points right here; hemp, tobacco,
corn, must come here. The railroad will do it, Napoleon won’t know
itself in a year.”
“Don’t now evidently,” said Philip aside to Harry. “Have you breakfasted
Colonel?”
“Hastily. Cup of coffee. Can’t trust any coffee I don’t import
myself. But I put up a basket of provisions,--wife would put in a few
delicacies, women always will, and a half dozen of that Burgundy, I was
telling you of Mr. Briefly. By the way, you never got to dine with me.”
 And the Colonel strode away to the wagon and looked under the seat for
the basket.
Apparently it was not there. For the Colonel raised up the flap, looked
in front and behind, and then exclaimed,
“Confound it. That comes of not doing a thing yourself. I trusted to the
women folks to set that basket in the wagon, and it ain’t there.”
The camp cook speedily prepared a savory breakfast for the Colonel,
broiled chicken, eggs, corn-bread, and coffee, to which he did ample
justice, and topped off with a drop of Old Bourbon, from Mr. Thompson’s
private store, a brand which he said he knew well, he should think it
came from his own sideboard.
While the engineer corps went to the field, to run back a couple of
miles and ascertain, approximately, if a road could ever get down to the
Landing, and to sight ahead across the Run, and see if it could ever get
out again, Col. Sellers and Harry sat down and began to roughly map out
the city of Napoleon on a large piece of drawing paper.
“I’ve got the refusal of a mile square here,” said the Colonel, “in
our names, for a year, with a quarter interest reserved for the four
owners.”
They laid out the town liberally, not lacking room, leaving space
for the railroad to come in, and for the river as it was to be when
improved.
The engineers reported that the railroad could come in, by taking a
little sweep and crossing the stream on a high bridge, but the grades
would be steep. Col. Sellers said he didn’t care so much about the
grades, if the road could only be made to reach the elevators on the
river. The next day Mr. Thompson made a hasty survey of the stream for a
mile or two, so that the Colonel and Harry were enabled to show on
their map how nobly that would accommodate the city. Jeff took a little
writing from the Colonel and Harry for a prospective share but Philip
declined to join in, saying that he had no money, and didn’t want to
make engagements he couldn’t fulfill.
The next morning the camp moved on, followed till it was out of sight
by the listless eyes of the group in front of the store, one of whom
remarked that, “he’d be doggoned if he ever expected to see that
railroad any mo’.”
Harry went with the Colonel to Hawkeye to complete their arrangements,
a part of which was the preparation of a petition to congress for the
improvement of the navigation of Columbus River.
CHAPTER XVIII.
Eight years have passed since the death of Mr. Hawkins. Eight years are
not many in the life of a nation or the history of a state, but they may
be years of destiny that shall fix the current of the century following.
Such years were those that followed the little scrimmage on Lexington
Common. Such years were those that followed the double-shotted demand
for the surrender of Fort Sumter. History is never done with inquiring
of these years, and summoning witnesses about them, and trying to
understand their significance.
The eight years in America from 1860 to 1868 uprooted institutions that
were centuries old, changed the politics of a people, transformed the
social life of half the country, and wrought so profoundly upon the
entire national character that the influence cannot be measured short of
two or three generations.
As we are accustomed to interpret the economy of providence, the life of
the individual is as nothing to that of the nation or the race; but who
can say, in the broader view and the more intelligent weight of values,
that the life of one man is not more than that of a nationality, and
that there is not a tribunal where the tragedy of one human soul shall
not seem more significant than the overturning of any human institution
whatever?
When one thinks of the tremendous forces of the upper and the nether
world which play for the mastery of the soul of a woman during the few
years in which she passes from plastic girlhood to the ripe maturity of
womanhood, he may well stand in awe before the momentous drama.
What capacities she has of purity, tenderness, goodness; what capacities
of vileness, bitterness and evil. Nature must needs be lavish with the
mother and creator of men, and centre in her all the possibilities of
life. And a few critical years can decide whether her life is to be
full of sweetness and light, whether she is to be the vestal of a holy
temple, or whether she will be the fallen priestess of a desecrated
shrine. There are women, it is true, who seem to be capable neither of
rising much nor of falling much, and whom a conventional life saves from
any special development of character.
But Laura was not one of them. She had the fatal gift of beauty, and
that more fatal gift which does not always accompany mere beauty, the
power of fascination, a power that may, indeed, exist without beauty.
She had will, and pride and courage and ambition, and she was left to
be very much her own guide at the age when romance comes to the aid of
passion, and when the awakening powers of her vigorous mind had little
object on which to discipline themselves.
The tremendous conflict that was fought in this girl’s soul none of
those about her knew, and very few knew that her life had in it anything
unusual or romantic or strange.
Those were troublous days in Hawkeye as well as in most other Missouri
towns, days of confusion, when between Unionist and Confederate
occupations, sudden maraudings and bush-whackings and raids, individuals
escaped observation or comment in actions that would have filled the
town with scandal in quiet times.
Fortunately we only need to deal with Laura’s life at this period
historically, and look back upon such portions of it as will serve to
reveal the woman as she was at the time of the arrival of Mr. Harry
Brierly in Hawkeye.
The Hawkins family were settled there, and had a hard enough struggle
with poverty and the necessity of keeping up appearances in accord
with their own family pride and the large expectations they secretly
cherished of a fortune in the Knobs of East Tennessee. How pinched they
were perhaps no one knew but Clay, to whom they looked for almost their
whole support. Washington had been in Hawkeye off and on, attracted away
occasionally by some tremendous speculation, from which he invariably
returned to Gen. Boswell’s office as poor as he went. He was the
inventor of no one knew how many useless contrivances, which were not
worth patenting, and his years had been passed in dreaming and planning
to no purpose; until he was now a man of about thirty, without a
profession or a permanent occupation, a tall, brown-haired, dreamy
person of the best intentions and the frailest resolution. Probably
however the eight years had been happier to him than to any others in
his circle, for the time had been mostly spent in a blissful dream of
the coming of enormous wealth.
He went out with a company from Hawkeye to the war, and was not wanting
in courage, but he would have been a better soldier if he had been less
engaged in contrivances for circumventing the enemy by strategy unknown
