five little children always tumbled into their five 
little beds on Saturday night, as fresh and. clean 
as it was possible to make them. Not that this 
was the only cleansing time in the week, for 
they were taught to jump into their bath-tubs 
daily, but on Saturday more time was given to 
the work, and it was made pleasant with nice 
soaps, soft towels, and all the little luxuries that 
children love ; for children are made as happy 
by gentle purification as other little animals, and 
it is a mistake to suppose they dread the water. 
It is the rough hand they dread ; to be caught 
up roughly, smeared with coarse soap, sent into 
a shivering fit with cold water, rubbed the wrong 
way with torturing towels, rasped against the 
grain with stiff hair-brushes, and left to stand on 
an icy oil-cloth, naturally excites their terror. I 
imagine there are few grown persons who could 
endure it with equanimity. But Aunt Faith had 
no such method. She made the bathing-hour a 
happy time, and showed the little children all the 



 

luxuries of personal neatness, so that as they 
grew older, they kept up themselves all the 
habits she had taught them, as matters of 
necessity for their own comfort. 

Thus, trained in these habits, the children 
grew into men and women with physical health 
to help them in their contest with evil. And it 
is a great help. Aunt Faith knew that all "the 
cleanliness in the world could not compensate 
for the lack of godliness, but she reasoned that 
while first attention should be paid to the inside 
of the platter, certainly second attention should 
be given to the outside that both may be clean 
together. A clean heart in a clean body, she 
thought, was better than a clean heart in a dirty 
body ; health and steady nerves help a man to 
be orderly and even-tempered, while nervousness, 
dyspepsia and weakness are so many additional 
temptations besetting him on every side. 

This July Sunday, the cousins started from the 
old stone house with time enough for a leisurely 
walk amid the music of the bells, arriving at the 




church-door before the service commenced, with- 
out hurry, quiet and composed, and ready to 
join in the worship without distracting thoughts. 
The church was full, Aunt Faith had two pews, 
one for herself with Gem and Tom, another 
immediately behind for Sibyl, Bessie, and Hugh. 
As the organ was pealing out the opening volun- 
tary, a young girl came up the aisle and entered 
the first seat ; Aunt Faith looked up. and recog- 
nizing Margaret Brown, she smiled and pressed 
he:- hand cordially. When she visited Margaret, 
she asked her to accept a seat in her pew when- 
ever she desired to come to that church, but the 
invitation had passed from her mind among the 
occupations of her busy life, so "that she was 
surprised as well as pleased when the young girl 
appeared. Aunt Faith had no respect for 
persons ; she thought of them only as so many 
souls sent into the world, all equally dear to the 
Creator, and precious to the Saviour of mankind. 
That there were great differences in their lot on 
earth, that some were more easily tempted than 
others, that some had apparently small chance 
for improvement and religious privileges while 
others found all ready to their hand, that some 
suffered trouble, affliction, sickness and hard labor 
while others seemed to pass through life without 
a cloud, she well knew, but she did not attempt 
to explain it. She left it all in the hands of a 
Higher Wisdom and addressed herself to the 
evident duty that lay before her. Some of her 
friends said that she was narrow minded, that 
she had no interest in the progress of humanity ; 
it is true that she cared more about having the 
children of the Irish laborer, down on the flats, 
washed and comfortably dressed, than about an 
essay on philanthropy, and took more pleasure 
in aiding Margaret Brown than in talking about 
the sufferings of human nature ; but perhaps she 
was none the worse for that. Once when an 
enthusiastic lady called to ask her aid in establish- 
ing an International Society for Reform, Aunt 
Faith listened quietly, and then said, "I will 
join you, Mrs. B , when I have the leisure 


time at my disposal." She never found the time, 
but in her answer, she was not insincere. If she 
had been left unemployed, she might have joined 
some organization for religious work, and esteemed 
it a pleasant privilege, but as it was, her daily 
home duties stood first, and as long as they 
surrounded her, she did not lift her eyes beyond. 

The minister was an old man, who had officia- 
ted in the same church many years of his life, 
and hoped to die, as he expressed it, " in the 
harness." The people loved him, and respected 
his wishes with more unanimity than they might 
have given to a younger man ; there was no dis- 
cord, no restless desire for novelty among the 
congregation, and the various good works con- 
nected with the church moved forward at a 
steady pace, growing with the growth of the 
town, but not running into any violent extremes 
to the right hand or the left. 

Mr. Hays, the venerable minister, was a gen- 
tle, kind-hearted man ; the children in the Sun- 
day school listened to him with attention, and 
 

their parents loved to hear his sermons. He had 
the rare faculty of interesting children, and when 
he addressed them, the teachers had no difficulty 
in keeping their classes in order, because the 
children really wished to hear what he said. 
In church, among older hearers, the effect 
was the same ; his sermons were simple, but all 
liked to hear them. As he grew older, he seemed 
to think more and more of the beautiful words, 
'* God so loved the world that He gave His only 
begotten Son ; " on this text all that he said and 
did was founded, and he never wearied of telling 
his hearers about this great love, and urging 
them to give their reverent affection in return. 

" If we were all like Mr. Hays, the world 
would be a very different place, Aunt Faith," 
said Hugh, as they walked home together ; " I 
suppose he has had nothing but love all his life." 

"You are greatly mistaken, Hugh. He has 
endured severe suffering, and no doubt the want 
of earthly affection has taught him to appreciate 
the dearer worth of heavenly love." 



"I thought he had lived here in Westerton for 
forty years without anything to disturb his quiet," 
said Hugh. 

" Because his troubles came to him long ago, 
they were none the less heavy to bear, Hugh. 
Before he came here, a half-brother to whom he 
had trusted all his little fortune, disappeared, 
canwing the whole with him ; and not only that, 
but upon hearing of his loss, the young girl to 
whom he was engaged, broke her promise and 
married another. Thus he was left doubly be- 
reft ; not only forsaken and injured, but also 
wounded by the discovery of treachery in those 
he trusted with all his heart." 

"I could never recover from such a blow," 
said impulsive Hugh ; " the thought of being 
deceived and betrayed by those we love and trust 
is fearful to me." 

"It was fearful to Mr. Hays also, Hugh ; after 
a short time he came to Westerton, and threw 
his whole strength into his work. It may have 
been a hard struggle at first, but you can your- 



 

self see how he has conquered at last ; love is 
the groundwork of all he says and all he does, 
and his sufferings instead of turning his heart 
into bitterness, seem rather to have given it a 
new sweetness." 

" Yes, that is why I like Mr. Hays. He is not 
censorious. He does not denounce sin so con- 
tinually that he has no time to tell of forgiveness ; 
he does not keep us so constantly trembling over 
the past that we have not the courage to hope 
for better things in the future ; I like him for 
that." 

Aunt Faith did not reply. She knew when to 
be silent, and she had long hoped that the gen- 
tle, fervent words of the good old man would yet 
bring her impulsive nephew into the right path. 
She knew that much harm was sometimes done 
by. too much urging, and when she saw that Mr. 
Hays' words had made an impression upon Hugh, 
she left the impression to sink by its own weight. 

The Sunday-noon meal at the old stone house 
was always a simple lunch, prepared the previous 
clay in order to give the servants full liberty 
to attend church. It was, however, abundant 
and attractive. In the winter, Aunt Faith added 
a hot soUp, prepared by her own hands, but at 
this season of the year, cold dishes were the most 
appetizing. Directly after lunch the family dis- 
persed, Sibyl, Bessie, and Hugh going to their 
rooms, and Aunt Faith remaining in the sittinsf- 
room with Tom and Gem while they looked over 
their Sunday school lessons. At half-past two, 
the children started for the church, and then 
Aunt Faith rested quietly on the sofa until it 
was time to prepare for afternoon service at the 
chapel where Mr. Leslie officiated, a mission in 
whose welfare she was much interested. There 
was never any regularity about attending this 
afternoon service ; sometimes Aunt Faith would 
go alone, sometimes Sibyl would accompany her. 
and sometimes the three cousins would all go. 
This afternoon they all came down, and Aunt 
Faith welcomed them pleasantly; she knew that 
Hugh might have been influenced by the beauty 
of the weather, Bessie by Hugh's companionship, 
and Sibyl by the opportunity of seeing Mr. Les- 
lie ; but she believed that all her children were 
truly reverent at heart, and she had large faith 
in the solemn influence of the house of God, so 
she always encouraged them to go to church 
whenever they would, and on this occasion she 
made the walk pleasant with her cheerful con- 
versation. 

The chapel stood in one of the suburbs of 
Westerton, where the houses of the railroad 
workmen were crowded together in long rows, 
with the smoke from the mills and shops hang- 
ing in a cloud over them all the week. Busy, 
grimy men lived there, careless, tired women, 
and a throng of children, some neglected, some . 
apparently well-tended, but all poor. In the 
midst of this bustle and smoke Mr. Leslie 
lived and worked. When he first came to 
Westerton, this chapel was almost deserted, but 
now it was filled with a congregation of its 
own, a congregation drawn from the neighboring 
houses, the laborers and their families whose 
zeal and liberty according to their means, might 
have put to shame many a church record in the 
rich quarters of the town. 

Aunt Faith and her party entered the door as 
the little bell rang out its last note, and took 
their seats upon the benches, for there were no 
pews, and the sittings were free to all. The 
organ was played by a young workman, a Ger- 
man, with the national taste for music, and when 
the hymn was given out, the congregation as 
with one voice took up the strain, and in a 
powerful burst of melody, carried the woids, as 
it were, high towards heaven. The music was 
inspiring, as true congregational music always is. 
All sang the air, but the harmony was well sup- 
plied by the organ ; all sang, men, women, and 
children, and if there were any discordant voices, 
they were lost in the powerful melody. Hugh 
liked to sing, and he liked the simple hymns 
which Mr. Leslie always selected for his congregation 
; so he found all the places and sang with 



 

real enjoyment, while Bessie, looking over the 
same book, joined in after awhile in her low 
alto, as if borne along by his example. Then 
came the sermon, and, as Mr. Leslie gave out 
his text, Aunt Faith recognized it as one of the 
verses which she had read in the morning, — St. 
John, the seventeenth chapter, and the fifteenth 
verse, " I pray not that thou shouldest take 
them out of the world, but that thou shouldest 
keep them from the evil." " My friends," said 
Mr. Leslie, speaking as usual without notes, 
" we often hear and read of the great desire felt 
by Christians of this and all ages to leave this 
world, this world of sickness and sorrow, of labor 
and poverty, and enter immediately into another 
life. Young persons who have lost clear friends 
wish to go and join them, for life looks dreary 
without love, and the days seem very long when 
they are not broken by the sound of that well- 
