ever cured, it will be by this means.' Miss Sanford was not
unpropitious to my advances. I will not insult your common-sense by
pretending that her evident partiality flattered or attracted
me--much less that I ever felt one throb of tenderness for her.
Since I could never love another woman, what difference did it make
who bore my name and kept my house? It were better--so I
reasoned--to marry one whose supreme self-love would prevent
her from divining my indifference and its cause, who was
shallow-hearted, insensitive, and obtuse of wit, than one who,
gauging my feelings by her own, would expect a devotion I could not
feign--
"But I cannot talk of Miss Sanford and my new bonds, here, and now!
I thought myself armed at every point for self-justification when I
came to you. One ray from your eyes showed me my error."
"Perjury! dishonor!" reiterated Jessie, without moving the eyes that
were fast filling with disdain. "It is from these that I am to save
you? You perjured yourself when you told that girl that you loved
her--and tell it to her you did, or she would not have accepted your
hand. Other men have sought her in marriage, and she would be
exacting as to the form of your proposal. You dishonored yourself
and the name of wedded love in every vow you made her. From this
sin, at least, I am free. When I promised to marry Roy Fordham, I
thought I understood my own feelings. And my heart was his! If I
could forget the mad, wicked dream that divides me from that season
of purity and gladness, I would peril my soul to do it! You speak of
the sanctity of my engagement; of the integrity that bids you hold
fast to yours. We will pass over the first. It was a sacred thing,
and a precious, once, before the serpent left his loathsome trail
upon it. But where was your integrity when you talked to me of love,
just now? when you deliberately prefaced the announcement of your
betrothal by the declaration that the memory of me must always be
more to you than any earthly possession? Was this loyal? Was it
honorable, or even honest? I believe that I have loved you, Orrin
Wyllys! I believe, moreover, that you have tried to win my love--for
what end the Maker of us both alone knows. If I have been weak, you
have been wicked. I see it all now--step by step! fall after fall!
And to crown the injury you have done me with insult, you adjure me
to save you from temptation to perjury by heaping lie upon lie, in
continuing to assert by actions, if not by direct protestation, that
I love a man to whom I am indifferent. You have sold yourself for
Hester Sanford's millions. You would have me sell myself, soul and
body, for expediency and convenience--and to avert Roy Fordham's
lasting enmity. That is the case, stripped of sentimental verbiage."
"Jessie!"
"I have no affection for him, or for any one else! No faith! no
hope!" she pursued, towering above him like a lost but menacing
spirit. "You saved my life this morning. You make of that benefit a
wrong to-night, by robbing life of all that it held of sweetness and
comfort; by showing me what a coarse bit of gilded clay I--poor
fool! have worshipped. I wish you had let me drown!"
"Jessie! are you mad?"
He had arisen with her, and would have drawn nearer to her side, but
she waved him off. There was a terrible beauty in her wrath that
fascinated him, in spite of her cutting words.
"I was a happy, trustful child when you crossed my path. I am a
hard, bitter, suspicious woman--and the change is your work. You
have humbled me forever in my own eyes, by letting me into the dark
secrets of my instability and idiotic credulity. I care not what
others think of me. I shall write to Mr. Fordham before I sleep, and
release him; if he still considers himself bound to me, shall tell
him plainly that my love is dead--and my heart!"
"You will judge me more mercifully, and yourself more justly one
day, Jessie. Your self-reproaches pain me more than do your
vituperations against myself. Nothing you can say in your present
mood can alter my feelings for you. You have had much to try
you, to-day, my poor child! When you are cooler, you will
retract--mentally at least--the charges you have brought against one
whose heart is now--and always will be--your own. You know me better
than you think. I can wait for time and your sober reason to right
me. Implacable as I know Fordham to be, under his impassive
demeanor, he will be more lenient to what he will esteem my breach
of trust--the wrong I have done him--when once he has heard my
defence, than you are at this moment."
"You suppose, then, that I am going to lodge a complaint against
you?" she said, contemptuously. "I shall not mention your name. I
should be ashamed to own who was the cause of my folly. You have
nothing to dread from your cousin's anger."
And, although his last remark was a "feeler," designed to elicit
such an assurance, this speech stung him more sharply than had the
volley of invectives that preceded it.
Mr. Kirke and Eunice did not return until midnight. Jessie had the
evening to herself, and the letter to Roy was sent to the
post-office before she went to bed.
It was short and decisive to unkindness:
     "When I wrote to you, last week," was the unceremonious
     commencement,--"I said that I would await your reply before
     sending another letter. I believed that the information
     contained in the former would be the means of terminating our
     engagement. I have learned since that the story was a
     malicious or idle exaggeration. My mother died, as she had
     lived, a sane woman. But this matters little so far as our
     relation to one another is concerned. Another, and an
     insuperable obstacle to our union, exists in the change of my
     feelings toward yourself. If I ever loved you--I think,
     sometimes, I never did--I love you no longer. Months of doubt
     and suffering have brought me to the determination to confess
     this without reserve. I offer no extenuation of my fickleness.
     I ought to have remained constant, but I have not. May you
     choose more happily and wisely in the future!
     "I write this without conference with my father or sister,--in
     the knowledge, also, that my change of purpose and prospects
     will be a sorrow and a surprise to both. But I cannot hesitate
     or draw back. I need hardly say that I have entered into
     pledges with no one else. No one desires that I should, or
     seeks to win my affections. It rests with you to give me the
     release I ask of your generosity and humanity, or to hold me to
     the letter of my bond. If, having learned the extent of the
     change that has come over me since I gave it, you insist upon
     the fulfilment of my promise, I shall submit to your decision.
     "Foreseeing what your action will be, it only remains for me to
     add that your gifts and letters await your order.
    "JESSAMINE KIRKE."
CHAPTER XV.
The September nights were cool among the mountains, and as Mr. Kirke
and his elder daughter drove home through the moonlight, between
eleven and twelve o'clock, from the visit of mercy they had been
paying on the other side of the ridge, there were white blankets of
mist upon the meadows, and filling up the valleys along which their
route lay.
The fire was out in the kitchen, and Patsey had been asleep for two
hours and more, having made up her mind that her master would not
return until the morrow. There was still a light in Jessie's
chamber, and she came down, wide-awake and dressed, to admit
the travellers. The servant man slept in a room over the stable,
and, after calling to him two or three times without arousing him,
the worthy clergyman took pity upon his weariness after his hard
day's work, and groomed his horse himself. Eunice exclaimed at
the dampness of his overcoat in helping him remove it, and
Jessie--instructed in such appliances to health and comfort by her
watery adventure, the telling of which she reserved for a more
convenient season--prescribed a glass of brandy-and-water. Mr. Kirke
needed nothing except a night's rest, he assured them both; pinched
Jessie's cheek, in kissing her "good-night," and rallied her upon
her anti-temperance proclivities, then ascended to his chamber. He
came down late to breakfast, the next morning; owned that sleep had
proved obdurate to his wooing; that he had had something very like
an ague during the night, and that it was a violent headache which
deprived him of appetite.
When he arose from table, Jessie coaxed him, almost in the old
winsome way he could never resist, into the parlor; made him lie
upon the sofa; tucked a shawl warmly about his shoulders, and
sitting down of her own accord to the piano, played plaintive,
soothing airs until he fell asleep.
This was the beginning of the spell of fever that, within twelve
hours, laid him upon his bed, and which, ten days later, assumed a
typhoid form.
His daughters were his nurses, by day and night. Offers of watchers
poured in from the few gentle and the many simple who were his
parishioners and neighbors; but the sisters courteously and
gratefully declined them all. Their patient was all-deserving of the
name, and needed no other care than they could give him. He slept
much, and suffered little pain, and their light household tasks
allowed one or the other to be constantly with him. Thus, to the
kindly applicants; while to each other and their parent they said
that love would not allow them to delegate a duty so dear and pious
even to the true friends who sought to divide their labors. No man
ever had more tender and gentle custodians. There was no perceptible
difference in the assiduity and skill of the two, but visitors were
unanimous in the expression of the opinion that their anxious vigils
told more visibly upon Jessie than upon her sister. She wasted
almost as rapidly as the sick man, while her eyes were settled in
their mournfulness, and she seemed to forget how to smile days
before the physician expressed any doubt as to the sequel of her
parent's illness.
He had been confined to his room three weeks, when, on the morning
of the 27th of September, Jessie met the doctor on the stairs, as
she was carrying in a bowl of beef tea she had just made.
"Ah, doctor! I did not know you were here!" she said, more
cheerfully than he had heard her speak for several days, unless when
within her father's hearing. "Papa is more comfortable--is he not?"
"He is more quiet, certainly. Can I see you for a moment, my dear,
when you have taken that in? I shall wait for you in the parlor."
He spoke very gravely, averting his eyes as he finished; and hope
went suddenly and completely out of the daughter's heart.
She bore the basin carefully and steadily into the chamber, up to
the bedside of the patient, and called his name clearly:
"Papa, dear, will you take a little of this for me?"
She watched him narrowly as he aroused himself to respond.
"He sleeps all the time, to-day," whispered Eunice.
There was a dull glow in his half-open eyes, and he put his hand to
his head, confusedly, staring in his younger daughter's face, as she
repeated her request.
"It is Jessie, papa! You have been dreaming, and are not yet awake.
Here is your beef tea. May I give you a spoonful or two?"
"I thought you were your mother, child!" he said, smiling faintly
but lovingly at her. "I was dreaming, as you say."
She fed him as she would an infant, but he would take only a few
spoonfuls of the nourishment, turned his face away, and fell asleep
again instantly.
The doctor's delicate and unenviable duty was half done for him
before she joined him in the lower room.
"You consider my father worse?" was the address with which she
opened the interview.
"I grieve to say that I do."
"Can nothing be done for him?"
He hesitated.
"I am answered!" she said, hastily. "Don't shelter yourself behind
the hateful, worthless subterfuge about hope ceasing only with life.
Tell me, instead, how long--"
The rest of the sentence was beyond her powers of utterance. But she
did not succumb in aspect, after the wordless struggle died away in
a quiver of the unmoistened lips. She was very white, but very
still. The doctor congratulated himself upon the sagacity that had
led him to choose this one of the twain as the recipient of his
unwelcome intelligence. Jessie was his favorite, and he had always
contended that hers was the stronger, as well as the more sprightly
nature of the two. Since she was so collected--so well prepared for
the sad probability--if not the fell certainty--he could be
entirely frank.
"The symptoms are of general congestion," he said. "If this should
advance rapidly, we cannot hope to have him with us more than
twenty-four hours, at the utmost. I shall return, presently, with
Dr. Trimble. But his verdict will, I think, coincide with mine. The
indications are distinct. Your father will probably be unconscious
much of the time, and suffer little, if at all. No one can doubt his
fitness for the great change. I have known him for over thirty
years, and I can testify that he has walked humbly and closely with
his GOD. He has instructed you so carefully, Jessie, my dear, that
you, do not require to be told where to look for consolation, for
grace, and strength, in this trying hour--"
A motion of prohibition that had in it none of the grace of
entreaty, checked his formula.
"You will not be long absent?" asked a voice from between the rigid
lips.
The circles under her eyes were blacker and broader each second.
"I shall be in again as soon as I can find Dr. Trimble. You had
better take Miss Eunice into your confidence without delay. She
might think it strange--might take it hard if anything were to
happen, you know--"
"Yes! I know!"
That shut his mouth, and rid her of his presence.
The day was warm for the season--so sultry that the cirrus clouds
swimming in the blue ether, looked soft to April tearfulness. How
still it was, as Jessie stood in the open oriel-window, and let her
eyes roam through garden and church-yard,--ever returning, without
volition of hers, to the gap in the long lines of gravestones next
her mother's tomb! Had Nature swooned all over the broad earth? Was
there nothing real left in creation save the fact of her great woe?
"My father is dying!" she said, aloud and distinctly.
And, again--"I suppose this is what people mean when they talk of
not realizing a sorrow!"
As if aught but overwhelming appreciation of the might of a present
calamity could crush the heart into deadness.
She was picking the faded leaves from the creepers, and crumbling
them into dust, when Eunice came in. Jessie's protracted absence
after the conference with the doctor had excited her apprehensions,
and she stole down, while her father slept, to inquire into the
cause. Immeasurably relieved at sight of her sister's attitude and
occupation, she smiled as she aroused her from her reverie.
"I could not think what had become of you, dear! What does Dr.
Winters think of father?"
"Sit down, Eunice, and I will tell you!" said Jessie, dreamy pity in
her eyes, but no change in her hard, hollow voice.
Eunice sank into the nearest chair, laying her hand quickly upon her
heart.
"You cannot mean--"
"That he is dying? Yes!" interrupted the other; and in the same
awful composure, she repeated the doctor's verdict, verbatim.
"Now"--she concluded--"I will go back to him. You may come
presently, when you have had time to think over the matter."
The beryl eyes were washed with many tears before they again met
Jessie's across the sick-bed, but, after that, Eunice bore herself
bravely. Hour after hour, they sat in the hushed upper chamber,
facing their nearing desolation, without a plaint or an audible
sigh. Below stairs, all was silent as the grave. Patsey, with an
indefinable idea that the house should be set in order for the
coming of the grim guest, had dusted the furniture, set back the
chairs in straight rows against the walls in parlor and dining-room,
and closed all the blinds on the lower floor; made her kitchen neat
as Miss Eunice could have wished; then seated herself upon the upper
step of the side porch, her arms wrapped in her clean apron.
Jessie's orders were positive that no one besides the doctors should
be admitted, and as the servant's lookout commanded the front gate,
she intercepted the many callers who flocked to the Parsonage, at
the swift rumor of the pastor's extreme illness.
"We will keep him to ourselves while he stays with us!" the younger
sister had answered the other's fear lest this proceeding should
give offence to "the people." "He has belonged to them for thirty
years. At the last, we may surely claim him!"
"But they love him dearly!" expostulated Eunice. "He is their
spiritual father and guide."
"He is our all!" was the curt reply, and Eunice forbore to argue
further.
In the midst of her grief, she was slightly afraid of Jessie. The
wide eyes that were caverns of gloom; the tuneless accents that
never shook or varied, cowed her into quiet and obedience.
There was little to be done. The sick man slept--if it were
sleep--except when aroused to take medicine or food. At these
periods, he recognized his children, and spoke coherently, although
briefly. His kind heart and gentle breeding were with him to the
end. His utterances were of thankfulness for the services they
rendered, and love for those who bent over him, that not a word
should be lost of that they felt, at each awakening, might be the
last sentence they should ever hear from him.
He spoke once intelligibly and calmly of the nearing separation.
"I am going fast!" he said to Eunice, who was lifting his head upon
her arm that she might adjust the pillow. "The Father is very good.
The 'precious blood' avails--even for me--for me! I go empty-handed,
but rich--for there is the 'unspeakable gift!'" Closing his eyes he
murmured softly to himself.
