figures of nuns; and in the narrow, crooked streets meet dark-browed
people with great Spanish eyes and coal-black hair. The current of life
here has the indolent, dreamy stillness that characterizes life in Old
Spain. In Spain, when you ask a man to do any thing, instead of
answering as we do, "In a minute," the invariable reply is, "In an
hour;" and the growth and progress of St. Augustine have been according.
There it stands, alone, isolated, connected by no good roads or
navigation with the busy, living world. Before 1835, St. Augustine was
a bower of orange-trees. Almost every house looked forth from these
encircling shades. The frost came and withered all; and in very few
cases did it seem to come into the heads of the inhabitants to try
again. The orange-groves are now the exception, not the rule; and yet
for thirty years it has been quite possible to have them.
As the only seaport city of any size in Florida, St. Augustine has many
attractions. Those who must choose a Southern home, and who are so
situated that they must remain through the whole summer in the home of
their choice, could not do better than to choose St. Augustine. It is
comparatively free from malarial fevers; and the sea-air tempers the
oppressive heats of summer, so that they are quite endurable.
Sea-bathing can be practised in suitable bathing-houses; but the sharks
make open sea-bathing dangerous. If one comes expecting a fine view of
the open ocean, however, one will be disappointed; for Anastasia
Island--a long, low sand-bar--stretches its barren line across the whole
view, giving only so much sea-prospect as can be afforded by the arm of
the sea--about two miles wide--which washes the town. Little as this may
seem of the ocean, the town lies so flat and low, that, in stormy
weather, the waves used to be driven up into it, so as to threaten its
destruction. A sea-wall of solid granite masonry was deemed necessary to
secure its safety, and has been erected by the United-States Government.
This wall affords a favorite promenade to the inhabitants, who there
enjoy good footing and sea-breezes.
What much interested us in St. Augustine was to see the results of such
wealth and care as are expended at the North on gardening being brought
to bear upon gardens in this semi-tropical region. As yet, all that we
have seen in Florida has been the beginning of industrial experiments,
where utility has been the only thing consulted, and where there has
been neither time nor money to seek the ornamental. Along the St. John's
you can see, to-day, hundreds of places torn from the forest, yet
showing the unrotted stumps of the trees; the house standing in a glare
of loose white sand, in which one sinks over shoes at every step. If
there be a flower-garden (and, wherever there is a woman, there will
be), its prospects in the loose sliding sands appear discouraging.
Boards and brick-edgings are necessary to make any kind of boundaries;
and a man who has to cut down a forest, dig a well, build a house, plant
an orange-grove, and meanwhile raise enough garden-stuff to pay his way,
has small time for the graces.
But here in St. Augustine are some families of wealth and leisure,
driven to seek such a winter-home, who amuse themselves during their
stay in making that home charming; and the results are encouraging.
In the first place, the slippery sand-spirit has been caught, and
confined under green grass-plats. The grass problem has been an earnest
study with us ever since we came here. What grass will bear a steady
blaze of the sun for six months, with the thermometer at a hundred and
thirty or forty, is a question. It is perfectly easy, as we have proved
by experiment, to raise flattering grass-plats of white clover, and even
of the red-top, during the cool, charming months of January, February,
and March; but their history will be summed up in the scriptural
account--"which to day is, and to-morrow is cast into the oven"--as soon
as May begins.
The chances of an enduring sod for ornamental purposes are confined to
two varieties,--the broad and the narrow leafed Bermuda grasses. These
have roots that run either to the centre of the earth, or far enough in
that direction for practical purposes; and are, besides, endowed with
the faculty of throwing out roots at every joint, so that they spread
rapidly. The broad-leafed kind is what is principally employed in St.
Augustine; and we have seen beautifully-kept gardens where it is cut
into borders, and where the grass-plats and croquet-grounds have been
made of it to admirable advantage. A surface of green in this climate is
doubly precious to the eye.
We were visiting in a house which is a model for a hot climate. A wide,
cool hall runs through the centre; and wide verandas, both above and
below, go around the whole four sides. From these we could look down at
our leisure into the foliage of a row of Magnolia grandiflora, now in
blossom. Ivy, honeysuckles, manrundia, and a host of other
climbing-plants, make a bower of these outside corridors of the house.
The calla-lilies blossom almost daily in shaded spots; and beds of
fragrant blue violets are never without flowers. Among the ornamental
shrubbery we noticed the chaparral,--a thorny tree, with clusters of
yellow blossoms, and long, drooping, peculiar leaves, resembling in
effect the willow-leafed acacia. The banana has a value simply as an
ornamental-leaf plant, quite apart from the consideration of its fruit,
which one can buy, perhaps, better than one can raise, in this part of
Florida; but it is glorious, when the thermometer is going up into the
hundreds, to see the great, fresh, broad, cool leaves of the banana-tree
leaping into life, and seeming to joy in existence. In groups of
different sizes, they form most beautiful and effective shrubbery. The
secret of gardening well here is to get things that love the sun. Plants
that come originally from hot regions, and that rejoice the hotter it
grows, are those to be sought for. The date-palm has many beautiful
specimens in the gardens of St. Augustine. A date-palm, at near view, is
as quaint and peculiar a specimen of Nature as one can imagine. Its
trunk seems built up of great scales, in which ferns and vines root
themselves, and twine and ramble, and hang in festoons. Above, the
leaves, thirty feet long, fall in a feathery arch, and in the centre,
like the waters of a fountain, shoot up bright, yellow, drooping
branches that look like coral. These are the flower-stalks. The fruit,
in this climate, does not ripen so as to be good for any thing.
One gentleman showed me a young palm, now six feet high, which he had
raised from a seed of the common shop date, planted four years ago. In
this same garden he showed me enormous rose-trees, which he had formed
by budding the finest of the Bourbon ever-blooming roses in the native
Florida rose. The growth in three years had been incredible; and these
trees are an ever-springing fountain of fresh roses. There is a
rose-tree in St. Augustine, in a little garden, which all the
sight-seers go to see. It is a tree with a trunk about the size of an
ordinary man's arm, and is said to have had a thousand roses on it at a
time. Half that number will answer our purpose; and we will set it down
at that. Rose-slugs and rose-bugs are pests unheard of here. The rose
grows as in its native home. One very pretty feature of the houses here
struck me agreeably. There is oftentimes a sort of shaded walk under
half the house, opening upon the garden. You go up a dusty street, and
stand at a door, which you expect will open into a hall. It opens, and a
garden full of flowers and trees meets your view. The surprise is
delightful. In one garden that we visited we saw a century-plant in
bud. The stalk was nineteen feet high; and the blossoms seemed to
promise to be similar to those of the yucca. The leaves are like the
aloe, only longer, and twisted and contorted in a strange, weird
fashion. On the whole, it looked as if it might have been one of the
strange plants in Rappicini's garden in Padua.
The society in St. Augustine, though not extensive, is very delightful.
We met and were introduced to some very cultivated, agreeable people.
There is a fair prospect that the city will soon be united by railroad
to Jacksonville, which will greatly add to the facility and convenience
of living there. We recrossed the railroad at Tekoi, on our way home, in
company with a party of gentlemen who are investigating that road with a
view of putting capital into it, and so getting it into active running
order. One of them informed me that he was also going to Indian River to
explore, in view of the projected plan to unite it with the St. John's
by means of a canal. Very sensibly he remarked, that, in order to really
make up one's mind about Florida, one should see it in summer; to which
we heartily assented.
By all these means this beautiful country is being laid open, and made
accessible and inhabitable as a home and refuge for those who need it.
On the steamboat, coming back, we met the Florida Thoreau of whom we
before spoke,--a devoted, enthusiastic lover of Nature as she reveals
herself in the most secluded everglades and forests. He supports
himself, and pays the expenses of his tours, by selling the curiosities
of Nature which he obtains to the crowd of eager visitors who throng the
hotels in winter. The feathers of the pink curlew, the heron, the crane,
the teeth of alligators, the skins of deer, panther, and wild-cat, are
among his trophies. He asserted with vehemence that there were
varieties of birds in Florida unknown as yet to any collection of
natural history. He excited us greatly by speaking of a pair of pet pink
curlews which had been tamed; also of a snow-white stork, with sky-blue
epaulet on each shoulder, which is to be found in the everglades. He was
going to spend the whole summer alone in these regions, or only with
Indian guides; and seemed cheerful and enthusiastic. He should find
plenty of cocoanuts, and would never need to have a fever if he would
eat daily of the wild oranges which abound. If one only could go in
spirit, and not in flesh, one would like to follow him into the
everglades. The tropical forests of Florida contain visions and wonders
of growth and glory never yet revealed to the eye of the common
traveller, and which he who sees must risk much to explore. Our best
wishes go with our enthusiast. May he live to tell us what he sees!
  [Illustration]
OUR NEIGHBOR OVER THE WAY.
      MANDARIN, May 14, 1872.
Our neighbor over the way is not, to be sure, quite so near or so
observable as if one lived on Fifth Avenue or Broadway.
Between us and his cottage lie five good miles of molten silver in the
shape of the St. John's River, outspread this morning in all its
quivering sheen, glancing, dimpling, and sparkling, dotted with
sail-boats, and occasionally ploughed by steamboats gliding like white
swans back and forth across the distance.
Far over on the other side, where the wooded shores melt into pearly
blue outlines, gleams out in the morning sun a white, glimmering spot
about as big as a ninepence, which shows us where his cottage stands.
Thither we are going to make a morning visit. Our water-coach is now
approaching the little wharf front of our house: and we sally forth
equipped with our sun-umbrellas; for the middle of May here is like the
middle of August at the North. The water-coach, or rather omnibus, is a
little thimble of a steamer, built for pleasuring on the St. John's,
called "The Mary Draper." She is a tiny shell of a thing, but with a
nice, pretty cabin, and capable of carrying comfortably thirty or forty
passengers. During the height of the travelling-season "The Mary Draper"
is let out to parties of tourists, who choose thus at their leisure to
explore the river, sailing, landing, rambling, exploring, hunting,
fishing, and perhaps inevitably flirting among the flowery nooks and
palmetto-hammocks of the shore. We have seen her many a time coming
gayly back from an excursion, with the voice of singing, and laugh of
youths and maidens, resounding from her deck, flower-wreathed and
flower-laden like some fabled bark from the fairy isles. But now, in the
middle of May, the tourists are few; and so "The Mary Draper" has been
turned into a sort of errand-boat, plying up and down the river to serve
the needs and convenience of the permanent inhabitants. A flag shown
upon our wharf brings her in at our need; and we step gayly on board, to
be carried across to our neighbors.
We take our seats at the shaded end of the boat, and watch the
retreating shore, with its gigantic live-oaks rising like a dome above
the orange-orchards, its clouds of pink oleander-trees that seem every
week to blossom fuller than the last; and for a little moment we can
catch the snow-white glimmer of the great Cape jessamine-shrub that
bends beneath the weight of flowers at the end of our veranda. Our
little cottage looks like a rabbit's nest beside the monster oaks that
shade it; but it is cosey to see them all out on the low veranda,--the
Professor with his newspapers, the ladies with their worsteds and
baskets, in fact the whole of our large family,--all reading, writing,
working, in the shady covert of the orange-trees.
From time to time a handkerchief is waved on their part, and the signal
returned on ours; and they follow our receding motions with a spyglass.
Our life is so still and lonely here, that even so small an event as our
crossing the river for a visit is all-absorbing.
But, after a little, our craft melts off into the distance, "The Mary
Draper" looks to our friends no larger than a hazel-nut, and the trees
of the other side loom up strong and tall in our eyes, and grow clearer
and clearer; while our home, with its great live-oaks and its
orange-groves, has all melted into a soft woolly haze of distance. Our
next neighbor's great whitewashed barn is the only sign of habitation
remaining; and that flashes out a mere shining speck in the distance.
Now the boat comes up to Mr. ----'s wharf; and he is there to meet and
welcome us.
One essential to every country-house on the St. John's is this accessory
of a wharf and boathouse. The river is, for a greater or less distance
from the shore, too shallow to admit the approach of steamboats; and
wharves of fifty or a hundred feet in length are needed to enable
passengers to land.
The bottom of the river is of hard, sparkling white sand, into which
spiles are easily driven; and the building and keeping-up of such a
wharf is a trifling trouble and expense in a land where lumber is so
plentiful.
Our friend Mr. ---- is, like many other old Floridian residents,
originally from the North. In early youth he came to Florida a condemned
and doomed consumptive, recovered his health, and has lived a long and
happy life here, and acquired a handsome property.
He owns extensive tracts of rich and beautiful land on the west bank of
the St. John's, between it and Jacksonville, destined, as that city
grows and extends, to become of increasing value. His wife, like himself
originally of Northern origin, has become perfectly acclimated and
naturalized by years' residence at the South; and is to all intents and
purposes, a Southern woman. They live all the year upon their place;
those who formerly were their slaves settled peaceably around them as
free laborers, still looking up to them for advice, depending on them
for aid, and rendering to them the willing, well-paid services of
freemen.
Their house is a simple white cottage, situated so as to command a noble
view of the river. A long avenue of young live-oak-trees leads up from
the river to the house. The ground is covered with a smooth, even turf
of Bermuda grass,--the only kind that will endure the burning glare of
the tropical summer. The walls of the house are covered with roses, now
in full bloom. La Marque, cloth-of-gold, and many another kind, throw
out their splendid clusters, and fill the air with fragrance. We find
Mrs. ---- and her family on the veranda,--the usual reception-room in a
Southern house. The house is the seat of hospitality; every room in it
sure to be full, if not with the members of the family proper, then with
guests from Jacksonville, who find, in this high, breezy situation, a
charming retreat from the heat of the city.
One feature is characteristic of Southern houses, so far as we have
seen. The ladies are enthusiastic plant-lovers; and the veranda is lined
round with an array of boxes in which gardening experiments are carried
on. Rare plants, slips, choice seedlings, are here nurtured and cared
for. In fact, the burning power of the tropical sun, and the scalding,
fine white sand, is such, that to put a tender plant or slip into it
seems, in the words of Scripture, like casting it into the oven; and so
there is everywhere more or less of this box-gardening.
The cottage was all in summer array; the carpets taken up and packed
away, leaving the smooth, yellow pine floors clean and cool as the
French parquets.
The plan of the cottage is the very common one of Southern houses. A
wide, clear hall, furnished as a sitting-room, opening on a veranda on
either end, goes through the house; and all the other rooms open upon
it. We sat chatting, first on the veranda; and, as the sun grew hotter,
retreated inward to the hall, and discussed flowers, farm, and dairy.
On the east bank of the St. John's, where our own residence is,
immediately around Mandarin, the pasturage is poor, and the cattle
diminutive and half starved. Knowing that our neighbor was an old
resident, and enthusiastic stock-raiser and breeder, we came to him for
knowledge on these subjects. Stock-breeding has received a great share
of attention from the larger planters of Florida. The small breed of
wild native Florida cattle has been crossed and improved by foreign
stock imported at great expense. The Brahmin cattle of India, as coming
from a tropical region, were thought specially adapted to the Floridian
climate, and have thriven well here. By crossing these with the Durham
and Ayrshire and the native cattle, fine varieties of animals have been
obtained. Mr. ---- showed me a list of fifty of his finest cows, each
one of which has its distinguishing name, and with whose pedigree and
peculiarities he seemed well acquainted.
In rearing, the Floridian system has always been to make every thing
subservient to the increase of the herd. The calf is allowed to run with
the cow; and the supply of milk for the human being is only what is over
and above the wants of the calf. The usual mode of milking is to leave
the calf sucking on one side, while the milker sits on the other, and
gets his portion. It is an opinion fixed as fate in the mind of every
negro cow-tender, that to kill a calf would be the death of the mother;
and that, if you separate the calf from the mother, her milk will dry
up. Fresh veal is a delicacy unheard of; and once, when we suggested a
veal-pie to a strapping Ethiopian dairy-woman, she appeared as much
shocked as if we had proposed to fricassee a baby. Mr. ----, however,
expressed his conviction that the Northern method of taking off the
calf, and securing the cow's milk, could be practised with success, and
had been in one or two cases. The yield of milk of some of the best
blood cows was quite equal to that of Northern milkers, and might be
kept up by good feeding. As a rule, however, stock-raisers depend for
their supply of milk more on the number of their herd than the quantity
given by each. The expenses of raising are not heavy where there is a
wide expanse of good pasture-land for them to range in, and no necessity
for shelters of any kind through the year.
Mr. ---- spoke of the river-grass as being a real and valuable species
of pasturage. On the west side of the river, the flats and shallows
along by the shore are covered with a broad-leaved water-grass, very
tender and nutritious, of which cattle are very fond. It is a curious
