parley here. We must get her in somewhere.”
And she pushed open a gate as she spoke. It swung back on one hinge
and struck the fence with a bang, disclosing a yard that beggared
description in its disorder and filth. In the back part of this yard
was a one-and-a-half-story frame building, without windows, looking more
like an old chicken-house or pig-stye than a place for human beings
to live in. The loft over the first story was reached by ladder on the
outside. Above and below the hovel was laid off in kind of stalls or
bunks furnished with straw. There were about twenty of these. It was
a ten-cent lodging-house, filled nightly. If this wretched hut or
stye--call it what you will--had been torn down, it would not have
brought ten dollars as kindling-wood. Yet its owner, a gentleman (?)
living handsomely up town, received for it the annual rent of two
hundred and fifty dollars. Subletted at an average of two dollars a
night, it gave an income of nearly seven hundred dollars a year. It was
known as the “Hawk’s Nest,” and no bird of prey ever had a fouler nest
than this.
As the gate banged on the fence a coarse, evil-looking man, wearing a
dirty Scotch cap and a red shirt, pushed his head up from the cellar of
the house that fronted on the street.
“What’s wanted?” he asked, in a kind of growl, his upper lip twitching
and drawing up at one side in a nervous way, letting his teeth appear.
“We want to get this girl in for a little while,” said Pinky. “We’ll
take her away when she comes round. Is anybody in there?” and she
pointed to the hovel.
The man shook his head.
“How much?” asked Pinky.
“Ten cents apiece;” and he held out his hand.
Pinky gave him thirty cents. He took a key from his pocket, and opened
the door that led into the lower room. The stench that came out as the
door swung back was dreadful. But poor Flora Bond was by this time so
relaxed in every muscle, and so dead to outward things, that it was
impossible to get her any farther. So they bore her into this horrible
den, and laid her down in one of the stalls on a bed of loose straw.
Inside, there was nothing but these stalls and straw--not a table or
chair, or any article of furniture. They filled up nearly the entire
room, leaving only a narrow passage between them. The only means of
ventilation was by the door.
As soon as Pinky and her companion in this terrible wickedness were
alone with their victim, they searched her pocket for the key of her
traveling-bag. On finding it, Pinky was going to open it, when the other
said,
“Never mind about that; we can examine her baggage in safer place. Let’s
go for the movables.”
And saying this, she fell quickly to work on the person of Flora,
slipping out the ear-rings first, then removing her breast-pin and
finger-rings, while Pinky unbuttoned the new gaiter boots, and drew off
both boots and stockings, leaving upon the damp straw the small, bare
feet, pink and soft almost as a baby’s.
It did not take these harpies five minutes to possess themselves of
everything but the poor girl’s dress and undergarments. Cloth oversack,
pocket-book, collar, linen cuffs, hat, shoes and stockings--all these
were taken.
“Hallo!” cried the keeper of this foul den as the two girls hurried out
with the traveling-bag and a large bundle sooner than he had expected;
and he came quickly forth from the cellar in which he lived like a cruel
spider and tried to intercept them, but they glided through the gate
and were out of his reach before he could get near. He could follow them
only with obscene invectives and horrible oaths. Well he knew what had
been done--that there had been a robbery in the “Hawk’s Nest,” and he
not in to share the booty.
Growling like a savage dog, this wretch, in whom every instinct of
humanity had long since died--this human beast, who looked on innocence
and helplessness as a wolf looks upon a lamb--strode across the yard and
entered the den. Lying in one of the stalls upon the foul, damp straw
he found Flora Bond. Cruel beast that he was, even he felt himself
held back as by an invisible hand, as he looked at the pure face of the
insensible girl. Rarely had his eyes rested on a countenance so full of
innocence. But the wolf has no pity for the lamb, nor the hawk for the
dove. The instinct of his nature quickly asserted itself.
Avarice first. From the face his eyes turned to see what had been left
by the two girls. An angry imprecation fell from his lips when he saw
how little remained for him. But when he lifted Flora’s head and unbound
her hair, a gleam of pleasure came info his foul face. It was a full
suit of rich chestnut brown, nearly three feet long, and fell in thick
masses over her breast and shoulders. He caught it up eagerly, drew it
through his great ugly hands, and gloated over it with something of a
miser’s pleasure as he counts his gold. Then taking a pair of scissors
from his pocket, he ran them over the girl’s head with the quickness and
skill of a barber, cutting close down, that he might not lose even the
sixteenth part of an inch of her rich tresses. An Indian scalping his
victim could not have shown more eagerness. An Indian’s wild pleasure
was in his face as he lifted the heavy mass of brown hair and held it
above his head. It was not a trophy--not a sign of conquest and triumph
over an enemy--but simply plunder, and had a market value of fifteen or
twenty dollars.
The dress was next examined; it was new, but not of a costly material.
Removing this, the man went out with his portion of the spoils, and
locked the door, leaving the half-clothed, unconscious girl lying on
the damp, filthy straw, that swarmed with vermin. It was cold as well as
damp, and the chill of a bleak November day began creeping into her warm
blood. But the stupefying draught had been well compounded, and held her
senses locked.
Of what followed we cannot write, and we shiver as we draw a veil over
scenes that should make the heart of all Christendom ache--scenes that
are repeated in thousands of instances year by year in our large cities,
and no hand is stretched forth to succor and no arm to save. Under
the very eyes of the courts and the churches things worse than we have
described--worse than the reader can imagine--are done every day. The
foul dens into which crime goes freely, and into which innocence is
betrayed, are known to the police, and the evil work that is done
is ever before them. From one victim to another their keepers pass
unquestioned, and plunder, debauch, ruin and murder with an impunity
frightful to contemplate. As was said by a distinguished author,
speaking of a kindred social enormity, “There is not a country
throughout the earth on which a state of things like this would not
bring a curse. There is no religion upon earth that it would not deny;
there is no people on earth that it would not put to shame.”
And we are Christians!
No. Of what followed we cannot write. Those who were near the “Hawk’s
Nest” heard that evening, soon after nightfall, the single wild,
prolonged cry of a woman. It was so full of terror and despair that even
the hardened ears that heard it felt a sudden pain. But they were used
to such things in that region, and no one took the trouble to learn what
it meant. Even the policeman moving on his beat stood listening for only
a moment, and then passed on.
Next day, in the local columns of a city paper, appeared the following:
“FOUL PLAY.--About eleven o’clock last night the body of a beautiful
young girl, who could not have been over seventeen years of age, was
discovered lying on the pavement in----street. No one knew how she came
there. She was quite dead when found. There was nothing by which she
could be identified. All her clothes but a single undergarment had been
removed, and her hair cut off close to her head. There were marks of
brutal violence on her person. The body was placed in charge of the
coroner, who will investigate the matter.”
On the day after, this paragraph appeared:
“SUSPICION OF FOUL PLAY.--The coroner’s inquest elicited nothing in
regard to the young girl mentioned yesterday as having been found dead
and stripped of her clothing in----street. No one was able to identify
her. A foul deed at which the heart shudders has been done; but the
wretches by whom it was committed have been able to cover their tracks.”
And that was the last of it. The whole nation gives a shudder of fear at
the announcement of an Indian massacre and outrage. But in all our large
cities are savages more cruel and brutal in their instincts than the
Comanches, and they torture and outrage and murder a hundred poor
victims for every one that is exposed to Indian brutality, and there
comes no succor. Is it from ignorance of the fact? No, no, no! There is
not a Judge on the bench, not a lawyer at the bar, not a legislator at
the State capital, not a mayor or police-officer, not a minister who
preaches the gospel of Christ, who came to seek and to save, not an
intelligent citizen, but knows of all this.
What then? Who is responsible? The whole nation arouses itself at news
of an Indian assault upon some defenseless frontier settlement, and the
general government sends troops to succor and to punish. But who takes
note of the worse than Indian massacres going on daily and nightly in
the heart of our great cities? Who hunts down and punishes the human
wolves in our midst whose mouths are red with the blood of innocence?
Their deeds of cruelty outnumber every year a hundred--nay, a
thousand--fold the deeds of our red savages. Their haunts are known, and
their work is known. They lie in wait for the unwary, they gather in the
price of human souls, none hindering, at our very church doors. Is no
one responsible for all this? Is there no help? Is evil stronger than
good, hell stronger than heaven? Have the churches nothing to do in this
matter? Christ came to seek and to save that which was lost--came to
the lowliest, the poorest and the vilest, to those over whom devils had
gained power, and cast out the devils. Are those who call themselves
by his name diligent in the work to which he put his blessed hands?
Millions of dollars go yearly into magnificent churches, but how
little to the work of saving and succoring the weak, the helpless, the
betrayed, the outcast and the dying, who lie uncared for at the mercy
of human fiends, and often so near to the temples of God that their
agonized appeals for help are drowned by the organ and choir!
CHAPTER IX.
THE two girls, on leaving the “Hawk’s Nest” with their plunder, did
not pass from the narrow private alley into the small street at its
termination, but hurried along the way they had come, and re-entered the
restaurant by means of the gate opening into the yard. Through the back
door they gained a small, dark room, from which a narrow stairway led
to the second and third stories of the rear building. They seemed to be
entirely familiar with the place.
On reaching the third story, Pinky gave two quick raps and then a single
rap on a closed door. No movement being heard within, she rapped again,
reversing the order--that is, giving one distinct rap, and then two in
quick succession. At this the door came slowly open, and the two girls
passed in with their bundle of clothing and the traveling-bag.
The occupant of this room was a small, thin, well-dressed man,
with cold, restless gray eyes and the air of one who was alert and
suspicious. His hair was streaked with gray, as were also his full beard
and moustache. A diamond pin of considerable value was in his shirt
bosom. The room contained but few articles. There was a worn and faded
carpet on the floor, a writing-table and two or three chairs, and
a small bookcase with a few books, but no evidence whatever of
business--not a box or bundle or article of merchandise was to be seen.
As the two girls entered he, shut the door noiselessly, and turned the
key inside. Then his manner changed; his eyes lighted, and there was an
expression of interest in his face. He looked toward the bag and bundle.
Pinky sat down upon the floor and hurriedly unlocked the traveling-bag.
Thrusting in her hand, she drew out first a muslin nightgown and threw
it down, then a light shawl, a new barege dress, a pair of slippers,
collars, cuffs, ribbons and a variety of underclothing, and last of all
a small Bible and a prayer-book. These latter she tossed from her with a
low derisive laugh, which was echoed by her companion, Miss Peter.
The bundle was next opened, and the cloth sacque, the hat, the boots
and stockings and the collar and cuffs thrown upon the floor with the
contents of the bag.
“How much?” asked Pinky, glancing up at the man.
They were the first words that had been spoken. At this the man knit
his brows in an earnest way, and looked business. He lifted each article
from the floor, examined it carefully and seemed to be making a close
estimate of its value. The traveling-bag was new, and had cost probably
five dollars. The cloth sacque could not have been made for less than
twelve dollars. A fair valuation of the whole would have been near forty
dollars.
“How much?” repeated Pinky, an impatient quiver in her voice.
“Six dollars,” replied the man.
“Six devils!” exclaimed Pinky, in a loud, angry voice.
“Six devils! you old swindler!” chimed in Miss Peter.
“You can take them away. Just as you like,” returned the man, with cool
indifference. “Perhaps the police will give you more. It’s the best I
can do.”
“But see here, Jerkin,” said Pinky: “that sacque is worth twice the
money.”
“Not to me. I haven’t a store up town. I can’t offer it for sale in the
open market. Don’t you understand?”
“Say ten dollars.”
“Six.”
“Here’s a breast-pin and a pair of ear-rings,” said Miss Peter; “we’ll
throw them in;” and she handed Jerkin, as he was called, the bits of
jewelry she had taken from the person of Flora Bond. He looked at them
almost contemptuously as he replied,
“Wouldn’t give you a dollar for the set.”
“Say eight dollars for the whole,” urged Pinky.
“Six fifty, and not a cent more,” answered Jerkin.
“Hand over, then, you old cormorant!” returned the girl, fretfully.
“It’s a shame to swindle us in this way.”
The man took out his pocket-book and paid the money, giving half to each
of the girls.
“It’s just a swindle!” repeated Pinky. “You’re an old hard-fisted
money-grubber, and no better than a robber. Three dollars and a quarter
for all that work! It doesn’t pay for the trouble. We ought to have had
ten apiece.”
“You can make it ten or twenty, or maybe a hundred, if you will,” said
Jerkin, with a knowing twinkle in his eyes. He gave his thumb a little
movement over his shoulder as he spoke.
“That’s so!” exclaimed Pinky, her manner undergoing a change, and her
face growing bright--at least as much of it as could brighten. “Look
here, Nell,” speaking to Miss Peter, and drawing a piece of paper from
her pocket, “I’ve got ten rows here. Fanny Bray gave me five dollars to
go a half on each row. Meant to have gone to Sam McFaddon’s last night,
but got into a muss with old Sal and Norah, and was locked up.”
“They make ten hits up there to one at Sam McFaddon’s,” said Jerkin,
again twitching his thumb over his shoulder. “It’s the luckiest office I
ever heard of. Two or three hits every day for a week past--got a lucky
streak, somehow. If you go in anywhere, take my advice and go in there,”
 lifting his hand and twitching his thumb upward and over his shoulder
again.
The two girls passed from the room, and the door was shut and locked
inside. No sooner had they done so than Jerkin made a new examination of
the articles, and after satisfying himself as to their value proceeded
to put them out of sight. Lifting aside a screen that covered the
fireplace, he removed from the chimney back, just above the line of
sight, a few loose bricks, and through the hole thus made thrust the
articles he had bought, letting them drop into a fireplace on the other
side.
On leaving the room of this professional receiver of stolen goods, Pinky
and her friend descended to the second story, and by a door which had
been cut through into the adjoining property passed to the rear building
of the house next door. They found themselves on a landing, or little
square hall, with a stairway passing down to the lower story and another
leading to the room above. A number of persons were going up and coming
down--a forlorn set, for the most part, of all sexes, ages and colors.
Those who were going up appeared eager and hopeful, while those who were
coming down looked disappointed, sorrowful, angry or desperate. There
was a “policy shop” in one of the rooms above, and these were some of
its miserable customers. It was the hour when the morning drawings
of the lotteries were received at the office, or “shop,” and the poor
infatuated dupes who had bet on their favorite “rows” were crowding in
to learn the result.
Poor old men and women in scant or wretched clothing, young girls with
faces marred by evil, blotched and bloated creatures of both sexes, with
little that was human in their countenances, except the bare features,
boys and girls not yet in their teens, but old in vice and crime, and
drunkards with shaking nerves,--all these were going up in hope and
coming down in disappointment. Here and there was one of a different
quality, a scantily-dressed woman with a thin, wasted face and hollow
eyes, who had been fighting the wolf and keeping fast hold of her
integrity, or a tender, innocent-looking girl, the messenger of a weak
and shiftless mother, or a pale, bright-eyed boy whose much-worn but
clean and well-kept garments gave sad evidence of a home out of which
prop and stay had been removed. The strong and the weak, the pure and
the defiled, were there. A poor washerwoman who in a moment of weakness
has pawned the garments entrusted to her care, that she might venture
upon a “row” of which she had dreamed, comes shrinking down with a pale,
frightened face, and the bitterness of despair in her heart. She has
lost. What then? She has no friend from whom she can borrow enough money
to redeem the clothing, and if it is not taken home she may be arrested
as a thief and sent to prison. She goes away, and temptation lies close
at her feet. It is her extremity and the evil one’s opportunity. So far
she has kept herself pure, but the disgrace of a public prosecution and
a sentence to prison are terrible things to contemplate. She is in peril
of her soul. God help her!
Who is this dressed in rusty black garments and closely veiled, who
comes up from the restaurant, one of the convenient and unsuspected
entrances to this robber’s den?--for a “policy-shop” is simply a robbery
shop, and is so regarded by the law, which sets a penalty upon the
“writer” and the “backer” as upon other criminals. But who is this
veiled woman in faded mourning garments who comes gliding as noiselessly
as a ghost out from one of the rooms of the restaurant, and along the
narrow entry leading to the stairway, now so thronged with visitors?
Every day she comes and goes, no one seeing her face, and every day,
