years older, mark my words."
Dr. Meade was brimful of joy also. He kissed Charlie, and laughed at
her for running away, and was much astonished to find how fortunate she
had been But Joe was everybody's idol.
"I think some of you ought to be spared," exclaimed the good doctor.
"I don't see where you were all stowed last night. I have two or three
rooms at your service; and, indeed, am quite willing to take you all
in. But, anyhow, Kit and Joe might come for lodgings."
"We put them in the flower-room," said Charlie.
"Which accounts for their blooming appearance, I suppose;" and the
doctor pinched Charlie's ear.
Between themselves, they had endless talks. It seemed as if all the
stories would never get told. And, strangely enough, they came to pity
poor Flossy, who, among them all, had the only lasting sorrow.
Charlie took to Mr. Darol at once; and before the day ended they were
all fast friends.
"I think yours is a most remarkable family," he said to Florence.
"There is not one of the children but what you might be proud of
anywhere."
"I am so glad you can love them!" and the grateful tears were in her
eyes.
"And, when we return home, it seems as if we ought to take Charlie.
There she will have just the position she needs."
"O Edmund! I don't deserve that you should be so good to me. I was
longing to ask it. But I have been so weak and foolish!"
"My darling, that is past. I will say now, that my only misgiving about
you has been the apparent forgetfulness of old family ties. But I knew
you were young when you left your home, and that Mrs. Osgood insisted
upon this course; besides, I never could tell how worthy they were of
fond remembrance."
"And did not dream that I could be so basely ungrateful!" she answered
in deepest shame. "I abhor myself: I have forfeited your respect."
"Hush, dear! Let it all be buried in our child's grave. Perhaps his
death was the one needful lesson. And now that we have found them all,
we must try to make amends."
Florence sobbed her deep regret, nestling closely to his heart.
"Your brother Hal interests me so much! It seems that he will always
feel the result of his accident in some degree, on account of a
strained tendon. He has such a passionate love for flowers, and the
utmost skill in their care and culture. But he ought to have a wider
field for operations."
"Oh!" she said, "if we could help him. Charlie has worked her way so
energetically, that she only needs counsel and guidance. Kit and Dot
are still so young!"
"I don't wonder Uncle Paul was attracted. There is something very
bright and winsome about Charlie. I had to laugh at her naïve
confession of being a black sheep."
"She used to be so boyish and boisterous! not half as gentle as dear
Hal."
"But it seems to be toned down to a very becoming piquancy;" and he
smiled.
"How very odd that she should have met your uncle!" Florence said
musingly. "How surprised he will be!"
Dr. Meade came over again that evening, and insisted upon the boys
accepting his hospitality; so Joe and Kit were packed into the sleigh,
and treated sumptuously.
Granny continued to improve, and could sit up for quite a while. She
enjoyed having them all around her so much! It was like the old time,
when the gay voices made the house glad.
And so the days passed, busy, and absolutely merry.
Charlie and Florence helped cook, and Joe insisted upon showing
how he could wash dishes. On Sunday they all went to church except
Dot,--Granny would have it so.
On Monday Mr. Darol came. Charlie had given him very explicit
directions, but she was hardly expecting him so soon. Sitting by the
window she saw him coming down the street in a thoughtful manner, as if
he were noting the landmarks.
"O Mr. Darol!" and she sprang to the door, nearly overturning Dot.
"Yes: you see I have been as good as my word. How bright you look! So
there was nothing amiss at home?"
"Indeed there was! but, in spite of it, we have all been so happy! For
everybody came home at Christmas, even Joe, whom they thought drowned.
This is my little sister Dot. And oh, this is my brother Hal!"
Mr. Darol clasped the hand of one, and gave the other a friendly pat on
the soft golden hair.
"I dare say Charlie has told you all about me: if she has not she is a
naughty girl. Why"--
For in the adjoining room sat Florence, close to Granny's chair. No
wonder he was amazed.
"That's Florence, and you've seen her before. And Mr. Edmund Darol is
here," went on Charlie in a graciously explanatory manner.
"They are my brothers and sisters," said Florence with a scarlet flush.
He looked at her in deep perplexity.
"Mrs. Osgood adopted Florence," Charlie interposed again. "It was all
her fault; for she would not allow the relation to be kept up, and"--
"This is your grandmother?" he interrupted almost sharply, feeling
unconsciously bitter against Florence.
"This is dear Granny."
He took the wrinkled hand, not much larger than a child's, for all it
had labored so long and faithfully.
"Mrs. Kenneth," he said, "I am proud to make your acquaintance. One
such child as Charlie would be glory enough."
Charlie fairly danced with delight to see Granny so honored in her old
days. And as for the poor woman, she was prouder than a queen.
"You've been so good to her!" she murmured tremulously, nodding her
head at Charlie.
"She is a brave girl, even if she did run away. I have used my best
efforts to make her sorry for it."
"But oh! Mr. Darol, the work was all undone as soon as I came home.
For when I found them sick, and full of trouble, it seemed so good to
be able to take care of myself, that I think running away the most
fortunate step of my whole life."
"I am afraid that we shall never bring you to a proper state of
penitence;" and he laughed.
"You were so good to her!" said Granny again, as if she had nothing but
gratitude in her soul.
"It was a great pleasure to me. But I never dreamed that I had made the
acquaintance of one of your family before."
"He will never like me so well again," thought Florence; "but that is
part of my punishment. I have been full of pride and cowardice."
Mr. Darol made himself at home in a very few moments, for he was
interested beyond measure.
"It is a poor place," ruminated Charlie, glancing round; "but we
cannot help it, I'm sure. All of us have done our best."
Then she dismissed the subject with her usual happy faculty, and became
wonderfully entertaining; so much so, indeed, that, when Mr. Darol
glanced at his watch, he said,--
"In about half an hour my train goes down to the city. I have not
said half that I wanted to. I have not seen your brother Joe, nor the
hot-house; and what am I to do?"
"Stay," replied Charlie; and then she colored vividly. "Our house is so
small that it will not hold any more; but Dr. Meade has already taken
in Kit and Joe, and he is just splendid!"
Mr. Darol laughed.
"Are there any hotel accommodations?"
"Oh, yes! at the station."
"Then I think I will remain; for my visit isn't half
finished, and I am not satisfied to end it here."
Charlie was delighted.
After that they went up to the flower-room. It seemed to improve every
day, and was quite a nest of sweets.
"So Miss Charlie hasn't all the family genius," said Mr. Darol. "It is
not every one who can make flowers grow under difficulties."
"They were nipped a little about the middle of the month. One night my
fire went out."
"And it blighted the flowers he meant to cut in a few days," explained
Charlie, "so that at first there did not seem a prospect of a very
merry Christmas."
And Charlie slipped her hand within Mr. Darol's, continuing, in a
whisper, "I can never tell you how glad I was to have the money. It was
like the good fortune in a fairy story."
He looked at the beaming, blushing face with its dewy eyes. Ah! he
little guessed, the day he first inspected Charlie Kenneth's drawings,
that all this pleasure was to arise from a deed of almost Quixotic
kindness.
Yet he wondered more than ever how she had dared to undertake such a
quest. Strangely courageous, earnest, and simple-hearted, with the
faith of a child, and the underlying strength of a woman,--it seemed as
if there might be a brilliant and successful future before her.
And this delicate brother with a shadow in his eyes like the drifts
floating over an April sky,--he, too, needed a friend to give him a
helping hand. Who could do it better than he, whose dearest ones were
sleeping in quiet, far-off graves?
CHAPTER XXI.
  HOW THE DREAMS CAME TRUE.
Charlie insisted upon Mr. Darol remaining to supper; and he was nothing
loth.
"Dear me!" exclaimed Dot, "we shall have to echo the crow's suggestive
query,--
    'The old one said unto his mate,
    "What shall we do for food to ate?"'"
"Make some biscuit or a Johnny-cake," said Charlie, fertile in
expedients. "Dot, I've just discovered the bent of your budding mind."
"What?" asked the child, tying on a large apron.
"Keeping a hotel. Why, it's been elegant for almost a week!--a perfect
crowd, and not a silver fork or a goblet, or a bit of china; rag-carpet
on the floor, and a bed in the best room. Nothing but happiness inside
and out! Even the ravens haven't cried. You see, it isn't money, but a
contented mind, a kitchen apron, a saucepan, and a genius for cooking."
"But you must have something to cook," was Dot's sage comment.
"True, my dear. Words of priceless wisdom fall from your young
lips,--diamonds and pearls actually! Now, if you will tell me what to
put in a cake"--
"A pinch of this, and a pinch of that," laughed Dot. "I am afraid to
trust your unskilful hands; so you may wait upon me. Open the draught,
and stir the fire: then you may bring me the soda and the sour milk,
and beat the eggs--oh, there in the basket!"
"Dot, my small darling, spare me! I am in a hopeless confusion.
Your brain must be full of shelves and boxes where every article is
labelled. One thing at a time."
"The fire first, then."
Dot sifted her flour, and went to work. Charlie sang a droll little
song for her, and then set the table. Their supper was a decided
success. Edmund came in, and was delighted to see his uncle. There was
hero Joe, gay as a sky-full of larks. It didn't seem as if any of them
had ever known trouble or sorrow. Even Granny gave her old chirruping
laugh.
The next day they had some serious talks. Hal and Mr. Darol slipped
into a pleasant confidence.
"I've been thinking over your affairs with a good deal of interest,"
he said. "It seems to me that you need a larger field for profitable
operations. I should not think Madison quite the place for a brilliant
success. You need to be in the vicinity of a large city. And, since
three of the others will be in New York principally, it certainly
would be better for you. Would your grandmother object to moving?"
"I don't know," Hal answered thoughtfully.
"Floriculture is becoming an excellent business. Since you have such a
decided taste for it, you can hardly fail. I should recommend Brooklyn,
Jersey City, or Harlem. Besides the flowers, there is a great demand
for bedding-plants. You haven't any other fancy?" and he studied Hal's
face intently.
Hal's lip quivered a moment. "It was my first dream, and I guess the
best thing that I can do. I could not endure hard study, or any thing
like that. Yes, I have decided it."
"I wish you would make me a visit very soon, and we could look around,
and consider what step would be best. You must forgive me for taking a
fatherly interest in you all. I love young people so much!"
Hal's eyes sparkled with delight. He did not wonder that Charlie had
told her story so fearlessly to him.
"You are most kind. I don't know how to thank you."
"You can do that when you are successful;" and he laughed cordially.
They had all taken Flossy's husband into favor, and their regard was
fully returned by him. Indeed, they appeared to him a most marvellous
little flock. As for Florence, the awe and strangeness with which she
had first impressed them was fast wearing off. As her better soul
came to light, she seemed to grow nearer to them, as if the years of
absence were being bridged over. Fastidious she would always be in some
respects, but never weakly foolish again. She had come to understand
a few of the nobler truths of life, learned through suffering,--that
there was a higher enjoyment than that of the senses, or the mere
outward uses of beauty.
They all appreciated the manner in which she made herself at home. They
gave her the best they had, to be sure; and she never pained them by
any thoughtless allusion to her luxuries. She had not lost her old art
with the needle, and Dot's dresses were renovated in such a manner that
she hardly knew them.
Granny would never allow her to regret her going with Mrs. Osgood.
"It was all right," she would say cheerfully. "The good Lord knew what
was best. I don't mind any of it now,--the losses and crosses, the
sorrows and sicknesses, and all the hard work. Your poor father would
be glad if he could see you, and I've kept my promise to him. So don't
cry, dearie. If you hadn't gone away, I shouldn't 'a' known how sweet
it was to have you come back."
Florence and Mr. Darol made their preparations to return. They decided
to take Charlie back with them, and install her in her new home; though
Charlie did not exactly like the prospect of having her visit abridged.
"I meant to stay all this week," she said decisively. "I cannot have
another vacation until next summer."
"But you will go back with me to my sad house, and help me to forget
my baby's dead face," Florence returned beseechingly. "O Charlie! I do
mean to be a true and fond sister to you if you will let me."
So Charlie consented; though she would much rather have staid, and had
a "good time" with Dot and Hal.
"If Florence was not here, I should like to perch myself on a
chair-back, and whistle 'Hail Columbia' to all the world. Dear old
shoe! What sights of fun we have had in it! I am rather sorry that I'll
soon be a woman. Oh, dear! You always do have some trouble, don't
you?"
"Charlie, Charlie!" and Dot shook her small forefinger.
Joe was going too. "But I shall be back in a few days," he said to
Granny.
"O Joe! if you wouldn't go to sea any more,--and when you've been
a'most drowned"--
"O Granny! best mother in the world, do not feel troubled about me. We
are a family of geniuses, and I am the duckling that can't stay brooded
under mother-wings. It's my one love, and I should be a miserable fish
if you kept me on dry land. I have been offered a nice position to go
to Charleston; and as I am not rich, and have not the gout, I can't
afford to retire on a crust. But you'll see me every little while; and
you'll be proud enough of me when I get to be a captain."
Granny felt that she could not be any prouder of him if he was a king.
There was a great thinning-out again. Kit bemoaned the lonesomeness of
the place; but Dot's housewifely soul was comforted with the hope of a
good clearing-up time.
In two days Joe returned.
"Florence is as elegant as a queen," he reported; "not the grandest or
richest, but every thing in lovely style. Charlie went wild over the
pictures. And there are great mirrors, and marble statues, and carpets
as soft as spring-hillsides. You never imagined, Granny, that one of us
would attain to such magnificence, did you?"
Granny listened in wide-eyed wonder, and bobbed her little curls.
"And Darol's a splendid fellow! Flossy always did have the luck!"
That night Hal and Joe slept in the old room, which Joe declared seemed
good.
"We had a long talk about you, Hal. Mr. Paul Darol is wonderfully
interested in you. He is just as good and generous as he can be, and
has two beautiful rooms at a hotel. You know, in the old dream, it was
Flossy who was to meet with a benevolent old gentleman: instead, it
has been Charlie, the queer little midget. What a youngster she has
been!"
"She is as good as gold."
"Mr. Darol thinks her the eighth wonder of the world. But he wants you
to have the green-house; and I said I intended to help you to it. When
he found that we did not mean to take any thing as a gift, he offered
to loan the whole amount, to be paid as you were prospered."
"How very, very generous!" said Hal with a long breath.
"It was most kind; but you cannot do much here. I believe I like the
Brooklyn project best."
"I wonder if Granny would consent to leave Madison?"
"I think she will. You see, I can spend a good deal of time with you
then."
Joe was to start again the middle of January. Granny fretted at first;
but dear, merry Joe finally persuaded her that it was the best thing in
the world.
Hal could not help shedding a few quiet tears, but then they had a
glowing letter from Charlie. She and Florence had actually been to call
on Mrs. Wilcox in their own carriage. They had taken her and Mary Jane
a pretty gift; and Mrs. Wilcox was, to use her own expression, "clear
beat." And Charlie declared that she was living like a princess. She
could come home, and spend almost any Sunday with them.
