then a classical nose, often a mass of Oriental black hair; but
unfortunately, so far, I have never seen the attractions united in the
same person. Sometimes, however, on Sunday afternoons, you will meet
young girls walking together on the Shell Road, with roses in their
glossy hair, and as their dark eyes meet yours, you are reminded of
Italy.”
“I have never been in Italy,” said Sara, shortly.
The reflection of an inward smile crossed John Hoffman’s face.
“But where is the rose-tree?” I said.
“Here, madam. Do you see that little shop with the open window? Notice
the old man sitting within at the forge. He is a fine old Spanish
gentleman and lock-smith, and my very good friend. Señor Oliveros, may
we see the rose-tree?”
The old man looked up from some delicate piece of mechanism, and, with a
smile on his fine old face, waved us toward the little garden behind the
shop. There it stood, the pride of St. Augustine, a rose-tree fifteen
feet high, seventeen feet in circumference, with a trunk measuring
fifteen inches around and five inches through, “La Sylphide,” yielding
annually more than four thousand beautiful creamy roses.
“What a wealth of bloom!” said Sara, bending toward a loaded branch.
“‘La Sylphide,’ like other sylphs, is at her best when only half
opened,” said John, selecting with careful deliberation a perfect rose
just quivering between bud and blossom, and offering it to Sara.
“No; I prefer this one,” she answered, turning aside to pluck a passée
flower that fell to petals in her hand. An hour later I saw the perfect
rose in Iris Carew’s hair.
“Niece Martha,” said Aunt Diana energetically, appearing in my room
immediately after breakfast, “I do not approve of this division of our
party; it is not what we planned.”
“What can I do, aunt? Sara ought not to pay hotel prices--”
“I am not speaking of Miss St. John; she can stay here if she pleases,
of course, but you must come to us.”
“Sara might not like to be left alone, aunt. To be sure,” I continued,
not without a grain of malice, “Mr. Hoffman is here, so she need not, he
too lonely, but--”
“John Hoffman here?”
“Yes; we came here at his recommendation.”
Aunt Di bit her lips in high vexation; next to Mokes she prized John,
who, although a person of most refractory and fatiguing ways, was yet
possessed of undoubted Knickerbocker antecedents. She meditated a
moment.
“On the whole you are right, Niece Martha,” she said, coming to surface
again; “but we shall, of course, keep together as much as possible. For
this morning I have planned a visit to the old Spanish fort; Captain
Carlyle will accompany us.”
“And who is Captain Carlyle?”
“A young officer stationed here; he introduced himself to the Professor
last evening, and afterward mistook me for Mrs. Van Auden, of
Thirty-fourth Street. It seems he knows her very well,” continued Aunt
Di, with a swallow of satisfaction. (Ah, wise young Captain! Mrs. Van
Auden’s handsome face was at least ten years younger than Aunt Diana’s.)
“I saw Iris glancing after a uniform last night as we came around the
Plaza,” I said, smiling.
But Aunt Di was true to her colors, and never saw or heard any thing
detrimental to her cause.
It was a lovely February morning; the telegraph reported zero weather in
New York, but here the thermometer stood at seventy, with a fresh
sea-breeze. We stepped up on to the sea-wall at the Basin, where the
sail-boats were starting out with pleasure parties for the North Beach.
Iris had her Captain; Aunt Diana followed closely arm in arm with Mokes;
Miss Sharp, jubilant, had captured the Professor; Sara and I were
together as usual, leaving John Hoffman to bring up the rear with his
morning cigar.
“The material of this wall,” began the Professor, rapping it with his
cane, “is that singular conglomerate called coquina, which is quarried
yonder on Anastasia Island; but the coping is, as you will perceive,
granite.”
“How delightful to meet the dear old New England stone down here!”
exclaimed Miss Sharp, tapping the granite with an enthusiastic gaiter.
“The wall was completed in 1842 at a cost of one hundred thousand
dollars, having been built by the United States government,” continued
the Professor.
“And why, nobody knows,” added John, from behind.
“To keep the town from washing away, I suppose,” said Sara.
“Of course; but why should the United States government concern itself
over the washing away of this ancient little village with its eighteen
hundred inhabitants, when it leaves cities with their thousands unaided?
The one dock has, as you see, fallen down; a coasting schooner once a
month or so is all the commerce, and yet here is a wall nearly a mile in
length, stretching across the whole eastern front of the town, as though
vast wealth lay behind.”
“The town may grow,” I said.
“It will never be any thing more than a winter resort, Miss Martha.”
“At any rate, the wall is charming to walk upon,” said Iris, dancing
along on her high-heeled boots; “it must be lovely here by moonlight.”
“It is,” replied the Captain, with a glance of his blue eyes. He was a
marvel of beauty, this young soldier, with his tall, well-knit, graceful
form, his wavy golden hair, and blonde mustache sweeping over a mouth of
child-like sweetness. He had a cleft in his chin like the young Antinous
that he was, while a bold profile and commanding air relieved the
otherwise almost too great loveliness of a face which invariably
attracted all eyes. Spoiled? Of course he was; what else could you
expect? But he was kind-hearted by nature, and endowed with a vast fund
of gallantry that carried him along gayly on the topmost wave.
“There is a new moon this very night, I think,” observed Aunt Diana,
suggestively, to Mokes.
But Mokes “never could walk here after dark; dizzy, you know--might fall
in.”
“Oh, massive old ruin!” cried Iris, as we drew near the fort; “how grand
and gray and dignified you look! Have you a name, venerable friend?”
“This interesting relic of Spanish domination was called San Juan de
Pinos--” began the governess, hastily finding the place in her
guide-book.
“Oh no, Miss Sharp,” interrupted Aunt Diana, who had noticed with
disapprobation the clinging of the lisle-thread glove to the Professor’s
lank but learned arm. “You are mistaken again; it is called Fort
Marion.”
“It used to be San Marco,” said John.
“I vote for San Marco; Marion is commonplace,” decided Iris, sweeping
away the other names with a wave of her dainty little glove.
“A magnificent specimen of the defensive art of two centuries ago,”
began the Professor, taking up a position on the water-battery, and
beginning to point out with his cane. “It is built, you will observe, in
a square or trapezium--”
“Let us go up and have a dance on the top,” said Iris.
“This is very instructive,” murmured Aunt Diana, moving nearer to her
niece. “Miss Sharp, pray call your pupil’s attention to this remarkable
relic.” For Mokes had seated himself sulkily on one of the veteran
cannon which frowned over the harbor like toothless old watch-dogs.
There was no objection to an army Antinous as a picturesque adjunct,
Aunt Diana thought; but it was well known that there was very little
gold in the service outside of the buttons, while here at hand was a
Crœsus, a genuine live Crœsus, sitting sulky and neglected on his
cannon!
“Oh, certainly,” said Miss Sharp, coming to the rescue. “Iris, my child,
you observe that it is in the form of a trapezoid--”
“Trapezium,” said the Professor--“trapezium, Miss Sharp, if you please.”
“‘That daring young man on a--’” chanted the Captain under his breath,
as if in confidence to the southeast tower.
“In the salient angles of the bastions are four turrets or bartizans,”
continued the Professor.
“Oh yes; how interesting!” ejaculated the governess, clasping her
lisle-threads together. “Partisans!”
“Bar-ti-zans,” repeated the Professor, with cutting distinctness. “The
moat, as you will notice, is fortified by an internal barrier, and there
is an outer wall also which extends around the whole, following its
various flexuses. By close observation we shall probably be able to
trace the lines of the abatis, scarp, counterscarp, and fraise, all
belonging to the period of mediæval fortification.”
“The Great Work is evidently to the fore now,” whispered Sara, as we sat
together on a second cannon.
“The lunette, now, is considered quite a curiosity,” said the Captain,
briskly breaking in. “Miss Carew, allow me to show it to you.”
“Lunette!” said the Professor, with lofty scorn.
“That is what we call it down here, Sir,” replied Antinous, carelessly.
“Miss Iris, there, is an odd little stairway there--”
“Lunette!” repeated the Professor again. “But that is an example of the
lamentable ignorance of the age. Why, that is a barbacan, the only
remaining specimen in the country, and, indeed, hard to be excelled in
Europe itself.”
“I have heard it described as a demi-lune,” I remarked, bringing forward
my one item, the item I had been preserving for days. (I try to have
ready a few little pellets of information; I find it is expected, now
that I am forty years old.) The Professor took off his tall silk hat and
wiped his forehead despairingly. “Demi-lune!” he repeated--“demi-lune!
The man who said that must be a--”
“Demi-lunatic,” suggested John. “Forgive me, Miss Martha; it isn’t mine,
it’s quoted.”
We crossed a little draw-bridge, and passed through the ruined outwork,
barbacan, lune, or demi-lune, whichever it was. Iris and the Captain had
disappeared. At the second draw-bridge we came face to face with the
main entrance, surmounted by a tablet bearing an inscription and the
Spanish coat of arms.
“It seems to be two dragons, two houses for the dragons, and a supply of
mutton hung up below,” said Sara, irreverently making game of the royal
insignia of Spain. “Oh dear!” she sighed in an under-tone, “I ought to
have all this written down.”
“Here are the main facts, Miss St. John,” said John Hoffman, taking out
his notebook. “I collected them several years ago out of piles of
authorities; they are authentic skeletons as far as they go, and you can
fill them out with as many adjectives, fancies, and exclamation points
as you please.” He walked on, joining the others in the inner
court-yard, where the Professor, the old sergeant in charge, the piles
of cannon-balls, and all the ruined doorways were engaging in a wild
mêlée of information. Left alone, Sara and I read as follows: “Fort here
as far back as 1565. Enlarged several times, and finally finished much
as it now stands in 1755. The Appalachian Indians worked on it sixty
years; also Mexican convicts. The inscription over the entrance says
that the fort was finished when Ferdinand Sixth was King of Spain, and
Hereda Governor of Florida. It has been many times attacked, twice
besieged, never taken. Occupied in 1862 by the Fourth New Hampshire
regiment.”
We had read so far when Aunt Diana came out through the sally-port.
“Have you seen Iris?” she asked. “The sergeant is going to show us the
window through which the Coochy escaped.”
“The Coochy?”
“A cat, I believe; some kind of a wild-cat,” said Aunt Diana, vaguely,
as her anxious eyes scanned every inch of the moat and outworks in
search of the vanished niece. At length she spied a floating blue
ribbon. “There they are, back in that--in that illumined thing.”
“Oh, Aunt Di! Why, that is the demi-lune.”
“Well, whatever it is, do call Iris down directly.”
I went after the delinquents, discovering after some search the little
stone stairway, nicely masked by an innocent-looking wall, where was a
second stone tablet containing the two dragons, their two houses, and
the supply of mutton hung up below. There on the topmost grassy stair
were the two young people, and had it not been for that floating blue
ribbon, there they might have remained in ambush all the morning.
“Come down,” I cried, looking up, laughingly, from the foot of the
stair--“come down, Iris. Aunt Di wishes you to see the escaped cat.”
“I don’t care about cats,” pouted Iris, slowly descending. “I am glad he
escaped. Let him go; I do not want to see him.”
“Iris,” began Aunt Di, “pray what has occupied you all this time?”
“The study of fortifications, aunt; you have no idea how interesting it
is--that demi-lune.”
“Many persons have found it so,” observed John.
“We could not quite decide whether it was, after all, a demi-lune or a
barbacan,” pursued Iris.
“Many persons have found the same difficulty; indeed, visit after visit
has been necessary to decide the question, and even then it has been
left unsettled,” said John, gravely.
Following Aunt Diana, we all went into a vaulted chamber lighted by a
small high-up window, or rather embrasure, in the heavy stone wall.
“Through that window the distinguished Seminole chieftain Coa-coo-chee,
that is for to say, the Wild-cat, made his celebrated escape by starving
himself to an atomy, squirming up, and squeezing through,” announced
the sergeant, who stood in front as torch-bearer.
“Then it wasn’t a cat, after all,” said Iris.
“Only in a Pickwickian sense,” said John.
“Now I thought all the while it was Osceola,” said Sara, wearily.
“The Seminole war--” began the Professor.
“Captain, I am sure you know all about these things,” said Iris; “pray
tell me who was this Caloochy.”
“Well,” said Antinous, hesitating, “I believe he was the son of--son of
King Philip, and he had something to do with the Dade massacre.”
“King Philip? Oh yes, now I know,” said Iris. “Chapter twenty-seven,
verse five: ‘Philip, while hiding at Mount Hope, was heard to exclaim,
Alas, I am the last of the Wampanoags! Now indeed am I ready to die.’”
“Oh no, Iris dear,” said Miss Sharp, hastily correcting; “that was the
New England chieftain. This Philip was a Seminole--Philip of the
Withlacoochee.”
“Osceola is in it somewhere, I feel convinced,” persisted Sara; “he is
always turning up when least expected, like the immortal Pontiac of the
West. There is something about the Caloosahatchee too.”
“Are you not thinking of the distinguished chieftains Holatoochee and
Taholoochee, and the river Chattahoochee?” suggested John.
“For my part, I can’t think of any thing but the chorus of that
classical song, The Ham-fat Man, ‘with a hoochee-koochee-koochee,’ you
know,” whispered the Captain to Iris.
“Don’t I!” she answered. “I have a small brother who adores that melody,
and plays it continually on his banjo.”
The next thing, of course, was the secret dungeon, and we crossed the
court-yard, where the broad stone way led up to the ramparts, occupied
during the late war by the tents of the United States soldiers, who
preferred these breezy quarters to the dark chambers below. We passed
the old chapel with its portico, inner altar, and niches for holy-water;
the hall of justice. The furnace for heating shot was outside, and the
southeast turret still held the frame-work for the bell which once rang
out the hours over the water.
Standing in the gloomy subterranean dungeon, we listened to the old
sergeant’s story--the fissure, the discovery of the walled-up entrance,
the iron cage, and the human bones.
“Oh, do come out,” I said. “Your picturesque Spaniards, Sara, are too
much for me.”
“But who were the bones, I wonder?” mused Iris.
“Yes,” said Aunt Diana, “who were they? Mr. Mokes, what do you think?”
Mokes thought “they were rascals of some kind, you know--thieves,
perhaps.”
“Huguenots,” from John.
“Recreant priests,” from myself.
“The architect of the fort, imprisoned that the secrets of its
construction might die with him,” suggested Miss Sharp.
“A prince of the blood royal, inconvenient to have around, and therefore
sent over here to be out of the way,” said Iris.
“For my part, I feel convinced that the bones were the mortal remains of
‘Casper Hauser,’ the ‘Man with the Iron Mask,’ and ‘Have we a Bourbon
among us,’” said Sara. Mokes looked at her. He never was quite sure
whether she was simply strong-minded or a little out of her head. He did
not know now, but decided to move a little farther away from her
vicinity.
The Professor had left us some time before, and as we came out through
the sally-port we saw him down in the moat in company with the
fiddler-crabs, an ancient horse, and two small darkies.
“I have discovered the line of the counterscarp!” he cried, excitedly.
“This is undoubtedly the talus of the covered way. If we walk slowly all
around we may find other interesting evidences.”
But there was mud in the moat, not to speak of the fiddlers, whose
peculiarity is that you never can tell which way they are going--I don’t
believe they know themselves; and so our party declined the interesting
evidences with thanks, and passing the demi-lune again, went down to the
sea-wall. Miss Sharp looked back hesitatingly; but Aunt Diana had her
eye upon her, and she gave it up.
In the afternoon all the party excepting myself went over to the North
Beach in a sail-boat. I went down to the Basin to see them off.
“Osceola” was painted on the stern of the boat. “Of course!” said
Sara. She longed to look out over the broad ocean once more, otherwise
she would hardly have consented to go without me. The boat glided out on
the blue inlet, and Miss Sharp grasped the professor’s arm as the
mainsail swung round and the graceful little craft tilted far over in
the fresh breeze.
“If you are frightened, Miss Sharp, pray change seats with me,” I heard
Aunt Diana say. The Captain was not there, but Mokes was; and John
Hoffman was lying at ease on the little deck at the stern, watching the
flying clouds. The boat courtesied herself away over the blue, and, left
alone, I wandered off down the sea-wall, finding at the south end the
United States Barracks, a large building with broad piazzas overlooking
the water, and a little green parade-ground in front, like an oasis in
the omnipresent sand. At the north end of the wall floated the flag of
old San Marco, here at the south end floated the flag of the barracks,
and the two marked the limits of the Ancient City. The post is called
