Ferris should do to-day what he had yesterday said 
he would not do ; perhaps as women they could not 
find such a thing strange ; but it vexed him more 
and more as he went about all afternoon thinking 
of his inconsistency, and wondering whether he had 
not acted rashly. 
IV. 
THE palace in which Mrs. Vervain had taken an 
apartment fronted on a broad campo, and hung its 
empty marble balconies from gothic windows above 
a silence scarcely to be matched elsewhere in Ven 
ice. The local pharmacy, the caffe, the grocery, 
the fruiterer s, the other shops with which every 
Venetian campo is furnished, had each a certain 
life about it, but it was a silent life, and at midday 
a frowsy-headed woman clacking across the flags in 
her wooden-heeled shoes made echoes whose garrul 
ity was interrupted by no other sound. In the 
early morning, when the lid of the public cistern in 
the centre of the campo was unlocked, there was 
a clamor of voices and a clangor of copper vessels, 
as the housewives of the neighborhood and the lo 
cal force of strong-backed Friulan water-girls drew 
their day's supply of water ; and on that sort of 
special parochial holiday, called a sagra, the campo 
hummed and clattered ad shrieked with a multi 
tude celebrating the day around the stands where 
pumpkin seeds and roast pumpkin and anisette- 
water were sold, and before the movable kitchen 
where cakes were fried in caldrons of oil, and up 
roariously offered to the crowd by the cook, who 
did not suffer himself to be embarrassed by the 
 
rival drama of adjoining puppet-shows, but contin 
ued to bellow forth his bargains all day long and 
far into the night, when the flames under his ket 
tles painted his visage a fine crimson. The sagra 
once over, however, the campo relapsed into its 
habitual silence, and no one looking at the front of 
the palace would have thought of it as a place for 
distraction-seeking foreign sojourners. But it was 
not on this side that the landlord tempted his 
tenants ; his principal notice of lodgings to let wag 
affixed to the water-gate of the palace, which opened 
on a smaller channel so near the Grand Canal 
that no wandering eye could fail to see it. The 
portal was a tall arch of Venetian gothic tipped 
with a carven flame ; steps of white Istrian stone 
descended to the level of the lowest ebb, irregularly 
embossed with barnacles, and dabbling long fringes 
of soft green sea-mosses in the rising and falling 
tide. Swarms of water-bugs and beetles played 
over the edges of the steps, and crabs scuttled side- 
wise into deeper water at the approach of a gon 
dola. A length of stone-capped brick wall, to 
which patches of stucco still clung, stretched from 
the gate on either hand under cover of an ivy that 
flung its mesh of shining green from within, where 
there lurked a lovely garden, stately, spacious for 
Venice, and full of a delicious, half -sad surprise for 
wli so opened upon it. In the midst it had a 
broken fountain, with a marble naiad standing on 
a shell, and looking saucier than the sculptor 
 
meant, from having lost the point of her nose ; 
nymphs and fauns, and shepherds and shejjierdesses, 
her kinsfolk, coquetted in and out among the green 
ery in flirtation not to be embarrassed by the frac 
ture of an arm, or the casting of a leg or so ; one 
lady had no head, but she was the boldest of all. 
In this garden there were some mulberry and pome 
granate trees, several of which hung about the 
fountain with seats in their shade, and for the rest 
there seemed to be mostly roses and oleanders, with 
other shrubs of a kind that made the greatest show 
of blossom and cost the least for tendance. A wide 
terrace stretched across the rear of the palace, drop 
ping to the garden path by a flight of balustraded 
steps, and upon this terrace opened the long win 
dows of Mrs. Vervain's parlor and dining-room. 
Her landlord owned only the first story and the 
basement of the palace, in some corner of which he 
cowered with his servants, his taste for pictures and 
bric-a-brac, and his little branch of inquiry into 
Venetian history, whatever it was, ready to let 
himself or anything he had for hire at a mo 
ment's notice, but very pleasant, gentle, and un 
obtrusive ; a cheat and a liar, but of a kind heart 
and sympathetic manners. Under his protection 
Mrs. Vervain set up her impermanent household 
gods. The apartment was taken only from week 
to week, and as she freely explained to the pa 
drone hovering about with offers of service, she 
knew herself too well ever to unpack anything that 
 
would not spoil by remaining packed. She made 
her trunks yield all the appliances necessary for 
an invalid's comfort, and then left them in a 
state to be strapped and transported to the station 
within half a day after the desire of change or the 
exigencies of her feeble health caused her going. 
Everything for housekeeping was furnished with 
the rooms. There was a gondolier and a sort of 
house-servant in the employ of the landlord, of 
whom Mrs. Vervain hired them, and she caressingly 
dismissed the padrone at an early moment after her 
arrival, with the charge to find a maid for herself 
and daughter. As if she had been waiting at the 
next door this maid appeared promptly, and be 
ing Venetian, and in domestic service, her name 
was of course Nina. Mrs. Vervain now said to 
Florida that everything was perfect, and content 
edly began her life in Venice by telling Mr. Ferris, 
when he came in the evening, that he could bring 
Don Ippolito the day after the morrow, if he liked. 
She and Florida sat on the terrace waiting for 
them on the morning named, when Ferris, with the 
priest in his clerical best, came up the garden path 
in the sunny light. Don Ippolito's best was a little 
poverty-stricken ; he had faltered a while, before 
leaving home, over the sad choice between a shabby 
cylinder hat of obsolete fashion and his well-worn 
three-cornered priestly beaver, and had at last put 
on the latter with a sigh. He had made his ser 
vant polish the buckles of his shoes, and instead of 
 
a band of linen round his throat, he wore a strip of 
cloth covered with small white beads, edged above 
and below with a single row of pale blue ones. 
As lie mounted the steps with Ferris, Mrs. Ver 
vain came forward a little to meet them, while 
Florida rose and stood beside her chair in a sort of 
proud suspense and timidity. The elder lady was 
in that black from which she had so seldom been 
able to escape ; but the daughter wore a dress of 
delicate green, in which she seemed a part of the 
young season that everywhere clothed itself in the 
same tint. The sunlight fell upon her blonde 
hair, melting into its light gold ; her level brows 
frowned somewhat with the glance of scrutiny 
which she gave the dark young priest, who was 
making his stately bow to her mother, and trying 
to answer her English greetings in the same tongue. 
; My daughter," said Mrs. Vervain, and Don 
Ippolito made another low bow, and then looked at 
the girl with a sort of frank and melancholy won 
der, as she turned and exchanged a few words with 
Ferris, who was assailing her seriousness and hau 
teur with unabashed levity of compliment. A quick 
light flashed and fled in her cheek as she talked, 
and the fringes of her serious, asking eyes swept 
slowly up and down as she bent them upon him a 
moment before she broke abruptly, not coquettishly, 
away from him, and moved towards her mother, 
while Ferris walked off to the other end of the ter 
race, with a laugh. Mrs. Vervain and the priest 
 
were trying each other in French, and not making 
great advance ; he explained to Florida in Italian, 
and she answered him hesitatingly ; whereupon he 
praised her Italian in set phrase. 
" Thank you," said the girl sincerely, " I have 
tried to learn. I hope," she added as before, " you 
can make me see how little I know." The depre 
cating wave of the hand with which Don Ippolito 
appealed to her from herself, seemed arrested mid 
way by his perception of some novel quality in her. 
He said gravely that he should try to be of use, and 
then the two stood silent. 
" Come, Mr. Ferris," called out Mrs. Vervain, 
"breakfast is ready, and I want you to take me 
in." 
" Too much honor," said the painter, coming for 
ward and offering his arm, and Mrs. Vervain led 
the way indoors. 
" I suppose I ought to have taken Don Tppolito's 
arm," she confided in under-tone, " but the fact is, 
our French is so unlike that we don 't understand 
each other very well." 
"Oh," returned Ferris, " I've known Italians and 
Americans whom Frenchmen themselves couldn t 
understand." 
" You see it's an American breakfast," said Mrs. 
Vervain with a critical glance at the table before 
she sat down. " All but hot bread ; that you cant 
have," and Don Ippolito was for the first time in 
his life confronted by a breakfast of hot beef-steak, 
 
f&gt; 
eggs and toast, fried potatoes, and coffee with milk, 
with a choice of tea. He subdued all signs of the 
wonder he must have felt, and beyond cutting his 
meat into little bits before eating it, did nothin^ to 
o o 
betray his strangeness to the feast. 
The breakfast had passed off very pleasantly, 
with occasional lapses. " We break down under 
the burden of so many languages," said Ferris. " It 
is an embarras de richesses. Let us fix upon a com 
mon maccheronic. May I trouble you for a poco 
piu di sugar dans mon cafe, Mrs. Vervain ? What 
do you think of the bellazza de ce weather magni- 
fique, Don Ippolito ? " 
" How ridiculous ! " said Mrs. Vervain in a tone 
of fond admiration aside to Don Ippolito, who 
smiled, but shrank from contributing to the new 
tongue. 
" Very well, th-n," said the painter. " I shall 
stick to my native Bergamask for the future ; and 
Don Ippolito may translate for the foreign ladies." 
He ended by speaking English with everybodv ; 
Don Ippolito eked out his speeches to Mrs. Vervain 
in that tongue with a little French ; Florida, con 
scious of Ferris's ironical observance, used an em 
barrassed but defiant Italian with the priest. 
" I in so pleased ! " said Mrs. Vervain, rising 
when Ferris said that he must go, and Florida 
shook hands with both guests. 
"Thank you, Mrs. Vervain ; I could have gone 
before, if I d thought you would have liked it," an 
swered the painter. 
 
" Oh nonsense, now," returned the lady. " You 
know what I mean. I'm perfectly delighted with 
him," she continued, getting Ferris to one side, 
" and I know he must have a good accent. So very 
kind of you. Will you arrange with him about the 
pay ? SU ch a shame ! Thanks. Then I needn 't 
say anything to him about that. I'm so glad I had 
him to breakfast the first day ; though Florida 
thought not. Of course, one needn 't keep it 
up. But seriously, it isn t an ordinary case, you 
know." 
Ferris laughed at her with a sort of affection 
ate disrespect, and said good-by. Don Ippolito lin 
gered for a while to talk over the proposed lessons, 
and then went, after more elaborate adieux. Mrs. 
Vervain remained thoughtful a moment before she 
said : 
" That was rather droll, Florida." 
" What, mother ? " 
"His cutting his meat into small bites, before he 
began to eat. But perhaps it's the Venetian cus 
tom. At any rate, my dear, he's a gentleman in 
virtue of his profession, and I couldn t do less than 
ask him to breakfast. He has beautiful manners ; 
and if he must take snuff, I suppose it's neater to 
carry two handkerchiefs, though it does look odd. 
I wish he would n t take snuff." 
"I don 't see why we need care, mother. At any 
rate, we cannot help it." 
" That's true, my dear. And his nails. Now, 
 
when they re spread out on a book, you know, to 
keep it open, won 't it be unpleasant? " 
" They seem to have just such fingernails all over 
Europe except in England." 
" Oh, yes ; I know it. I dare say we shouldn 't 
care for it in him, if he didn 't seem so very nice 
otherwise. How handsome he is ! " 
V. 
IT was understood that Don Ippolito should come 
every morning at ten o clock, and read and talk 
with Miss Vervain for an hour or two ; but Mrs. 
Vervain's hospitality was too aggressive for the let 
ter of the agreement. She oftener had him to 
breakfast at nine, for, as she explained to Ferris, 
she could not endure to have him feel that it was 
a mere mercenary transaction, and there was no 
limit fixed for the lessons on these days. When 
she could, she had Ferris come, too, and she missed 
him when he did not come. " I like that bluntness 
of his," she professed to her daughter, " and I don 't 
mind his making light of me. You are so apt to 
be heavy if you're not made light of occasionally. 
I certainly shouldn 't want a son to be so respectful 
and obedient as you are, my dear." 
The painter honestly returned her fondness, and 
with not much greater reason. He saw that she 
took pleasure in his talk, and enjoyed it even when 
she did not understand it ; and this is a kind of 
flattery not easy to resist. Besides, there was very 
little ladies society in Venice in those times, and 
Ferris, after trying the little he could get at, had 
gladly denied himself its pleasures, and consorted 
with the young men he met at the caffes, or in the 
 
Piazza. But when the Vervains came, they re 
called to him the younger days in which he had de 
lighted in the companionship of women. After so 
long disuse, it was charming to be with a beautiful 
girl who neither regarded him with distrust nor ex 
pected him to ask her in marriage because he sat 
alone with her, rode out with her in a gondola, 
walked with her, read with her. All young men 
like a house in which no ado is made about their 
coming and going, and Mrs. Vervain perfectly un 
derstood the art of letting him make himself at 
home. He perceived with amusement that this 
amiable lady, who never did an ungraceful thing 
