"And you, I suppose, are old and judicious."
"Thank you.  I will own to the last, and the first will come in time."
"Isn't it singular, Harry, that my sister should have so much
conceit, whereas I am remarkably modest?"
"I never discovered it, Oscar," said Harry, smiling.
"That is right, Mr. Walton," said Maud.  "I see you are on my side.
Look after my brother, Mr. Walton.  He needs an experienced friend."
"I am afraid I don't answer the description, Miss Maud."
"I don't doubt you will prove competent.  I wish you a pleasant walk."
"My sister's a jolly girl, don't you think so?" asked Oscar, as Maud
left the room.
"That isn't exactly what I should say of her, but I can describe her
as even more attractive than her brother."
"You couldn't pay her a higher compliment.  But come; we'll take a
walk on the Common."
They were soon on the Common, dear to every Bostonian, and sauntered
along the walks, under the pleasant shade of the stately elms.
"Look there," said Oscar, suddenly; "isn't that Fitz Fletcher?"
"Yes," said Harry, "but he doesn't see us."
"We'll join him.  How are you, Fitz?"
"Glad to see you, Oscar," said Fletcher, extending a gloved band,
while in the other he tossed a light cane.  "When did you arrive?"
"Only this morning; but you don't see Harry Walton."
Fletcher arched his brows in surprise, and said coldly, "Indeed, I
was not aware Mr. Walton was in the city."
"He is visiting me," said Oscar.
Fletcher looked surprised.  He knew the Vincents stood high socially,
and it seemed extraordinary that they should receive a printer's
devil as a guest.
"Have you given up the printing business?" he asked superciliously.
"No; I only have a little vacation from it."
"Ah, indeed!  It's a very dirty business.  I would as soon be a
chimney-sweep."
"Each to his taste, Fitz," said Oscar.  "If you have a taste for
chimneys, I hope your father won't interfere."
"I haven't a taste for such a low business," said Fletcher,
haughtily.  "I should like it as well as being a printer's devil
though."
"Would you?  At any rate, if you take it up, you'll be sure to be
well sooted."
Fletcher did not laugh at the joke.  He never could see any wit in
jokes directed at himself.
"How long are you going to stay at that beastly school?" he asked.
"I am not staying at any beastly school."
"I mean the Academy."
"Till I am ready for college.  Where are you studying?"
"I recite to a private tutor."
"Well, we shall meet at 'Harvard' if we are lucky enough to get in."
Fletcher rather hoped Oscar would invite him to call at his house,
for he liked to visit a family of high social position; but he waited
in vain.
"What a fool Oscar makes of himself about that country clod-hopper!"
thought the stylish young man, as he walked away.  "The idea of
associating with a printer's devil!  I hope I know what is due to
myself better."
CHAPTER XXVII.
THE OFFICE OF THE "STANDARD."
On the day after Thanksgiving, Harry brought out from his carpet-bag
his manuscript story, and started with Oscar for the office of the
"Weekly Standard." He bought the last copy of the paper, and thus
ascertained the location of the office.
Oscar turned the last page, and ran through a sketch of about the
same length as Harry's.
"Yours is fully as good as this, Harry," he said.
"The editor may not think so."
"Then he ought to."
"This story is by one of his regular contributors, Kenella Kent."
"You'll have to take a name yourself,--a nom de plume, I mean."
"I have written so far over the name of Franklin."
"That will do very well for essays, but is not appropriate for
stories."
"Suppose you suggest a name, Oscar."
"How will 'Fitz Fletcher' do?"
"Mr. Fletcher would not permit me to take such a liberty."
"And you wouldn't want to take it."
"Not much."
"Let me see.  I suppose I must task my invention, then.  How will Old
Nick do?"
"People would think you wrote the story."
"A fair hit.  Hold on, I've got just the name.  Frank Lynn."
"I thought you objected to that name."
"You don't understand me.  I mean two names, not one.  Frank Lynn!
Don't you see?"
"Yes, it's a good plan.  I'll adopt it."
"Who knows but you may make the name illustrious, Harry?"
"If I do, I'll dedicate my first boot to Oscar Vincent."
"Shake hands on that.  I accept the dedication with mingled feelings
of gratitude and pleasure."
"Better wait till you get it," said Harry, laughing.  "Don't count
your chickens before they're hatched."
"The first egg is laid, and that's something.  But here we are at the
office."
It was a building containing a large number of offices.  The names of
the respective occupants were printed on slips of black tin at the
entrance.  From this, Harry found that the office of the "Weekly
Standard" was located at No. 6.
"My heart begins to beat, Oscar," said Harry, naturally excited in
anticipation of an interview with one who could open the gates of
authorship to him.
"Does it?" asked Oscar.  "Mine has been beating for a number of
years."
"You are too matter-of-fact for me, Oscar.  If it was your own story,
you might feel differently."
"Shall I pass it off as my own, and make the negotiation?"
Harry was half tempted to say yes, but it occurred to him that this
might prove an embarrassment in the future, and he declined the
proposal.
They climbed rather a dark, and not very elegant staircase, and found
themselves before No. 6.
Harry knocked, or was about to do so, when a young lady with long
ringlets, and a roll of manuscript in her hand, who had followed them
upstairs advanced confidently, and, opening the door, went in.  The
two boys followed, thinking the ceremony of knocking needless.
They found themselves in a large room, one corner of which was
partitioned off for the editor's sanctum.  A middle-aged man was
directing papers in the larger room, while piles of papers were
ranged on shelves at the sides of the apartment.
The two boys hesitated to advance, but the young lady in ringlets
went on, and entered the office through the open door.
"We'll wait till she is through," said Harry.
It was easy to hear the conversation that passed between the young
lady and the editor, whom they could not see.
"Good-morning, Mr. Houghton," she said.
"Good-morning.  Take a seat, please," said the editor, pleasantly.
"Are you one of our contributors?"
"No, sir, not yet," answered the young lady, "but I would become so."
"We are not engaging any new contributors at present, but still if
you have brought anything for examination you may leave it."
"I am not wholly unknown to fame," said the young lady, with an air
of consequence.  "You have probably heard of Prunella Prune."
"Possibly, but I don't at present recall it.  We editors meet with so
many names, you know.  What is the character of your articles?"
"I am a poetess, sir, and I also write stories."
"Poetry is a drug in the market.  We have twice as much offered us as
we can accept.  Still we are always glad to welcome really
meritorious poems."
"I trust my humble efforts will please you," said Prunella.  "I have
here some lines to a nightingale, which have been very much praised
in our village.  Shall I read them?"
"If you wish," said the editor, by no means cheerfully.
Miss Prune raised her voice, and commenced:--
  "O star-eyed Nightingale,
  How nobly thou dost sail
  Through the air!
  No other bird can compare
  With the tuneful song
  Which to thee doth belong.
  I sit and hear thee sing,
  While with tireless wing
    Thou dost fly.
  And it makes me feel so sad,
  It makes me feel so bad,
    I know not why,
  And I heave so many sighs,
  O warbler of the skies!"
"Is there much more?" asked the editor.
"That is the first verse.  There are fifteen more," said Prunella.
"Then I think I shall not have time at present to hear you read it
all.  You may leave it, and I will look it over at my leisure."
"If it suits you," said Prunella, "how much will it be worth?"
"I don't understand."
"How much would you be willing to pay for it?"
"Oh, we never pay for poems," said Mr. Houghton.
"Why not?" asked Miss Prune, evidently disappointed.
"Our contributors are kind enough to send them gratuitously."
"Is that fostering American talent?" demanded Prunella, indignantly.
"American poetical talent doesn't require fostering, judging from the
loads of poems which are sent in to us."
"You pay for stories, I presume?"
"Yes, we pay for good, popular stories."
"I have one here," said Prunella, untying her manuscript, "which I
should like to read to you."
"You may read the first paragraph, if you please.  I haven't time to
hear more.  What is the title?"
"'The Bandit's Bride.'  This is the way it opens:--
"'The night was tempestuous.  Lightnings flashed in the cerulean sky,
and the deep-voiced thunder rolled from one end of the firmament to
the other.  It was a landscape in Spain.  From a rocky defile gayly
pranced forth a masked cavalier, Roderigo di Lima, a famous bandit
chief.
"'"Ha! ha!" he laughed in demoniac glee, "the night is well fitted to
my purpose.  Ere it passes, Isabella Gomez shall be mine."'"
"I think that will do," said Mr. Houghton, hastily.  "I am afraid
that style won't suit our readers."
"Why not?" demanded Prunella, sharply.  "I can assure you, sir, that
it has been praised by excellent judges in our village."
"It is too exciting for our readers.  You had better carry it to 'The
Weekly Corsair.'"
"Do they pay well for contributions?"
"I really can't say.  How much do you expect?"
"This story will make about five columns.  I think twenty-five
dollars will be about right."
"I am afraid you will be disappointed.  We can't afford to pay such
prices, and the 'Corsair' has a smaller circulation than our paper."
"How much do you pay?"
"Two dollars a column."
"I expected more," said Prunella, "but I will write for you at that
price."
"Send us something suited to our paper, and we will pay for it at
that price."
"I will write you a story to-morrow.  Good-morning, sir."
"Good-morning, Miss Prune."
The young lady with ringlets sailed out of the editor's room, and
Oscar, nudging Harry, said, "Now it is our turn.  Come along.  Follow
me, and don't be frightened."
CHAPTER XXVIII.
ACCEPTED.
The editor of the "Standard" looked with some surprise at the two
boys.  As editor, he was not accustomed to receive such young
visitors.  He was courteous, however, and said, pleasantly:--
"What can I do for you, young gentlemen?"
"Are you the editor of the 'Standard'?" asked Harry, diffidently.
"I am.  Do you wish to subscribe?"
"I have already written something for your paper," Harry continued.
"Indeed!" said the editor.  "Was it poetry or prose?"
Harry felt flattered by the question.  To be mistaken for a poet he
felt to be very complimentary.  If he had known how much trash weekly
found its way to the "Standard" office, under the guise of poetry, he
would have felt less flattered.
"I have written some essays over the name of 'Franklin,'" he hastened
to say.
"Ah, yes, I remember, and very sensible essays too.  You are young to
write."
"Yes, sir; I hope to improve as I grow older."
By this time Oscar felt impelled to speak for his friend.  It seemed
to him that Harry was too modest.
"My friend is assistant editor of a New Hampshire paper,--'The
Centreville Gazette,'" he announced.
"Indeed!" said the editor, looking surprised.  "He is certainly young
for an editor."
"My friend is not quite right," said Harry, hastily.  "I am one of
the compositors on that paper."
"But you write editorial paragraphs," said Oscar.
"Yes, unimportant ones."
"And are you, too, an editor?" asked the editor of the "Standard,"
addressing Oscar with a smile.
"Not exactly," said Oscar; "but I am an editor's son.  Perhaps you
are acquainted with my father,--John Vincent of this city."
"Are you his son?" said the editor, respectfully.  "I know your
father slightly.  He is one of our ablest journalists."
"Thank you, sir."
"I am very glad to receive a visit from you, and should be glad to
print anything from your pen."
"I am not sure about that," said Oscar, smiling.  "If I have a talent
for writing, it hasn't developed itself yet.  But my friend here
takes to it as naturally as a duck takes to water."
"Have you brought me another essay, Mr. 'Franklin'?" asked the
editor, turning to Harry.  "I address you by your nom de plume, not
knowing your real name."
"Permit me to introduce my friend, Harry Walton," said Oscar.
"Harry, where is your story?"
"I have brought you in a story," said Harry, blushing.  "It is my
first attempt, and may not suit you, but I shall be glad if you will
take the trouble to examine it."
"With pleasure," said the editor.  "Is it long?"
"About two columns.  It is of a humorous character."
The editor reached out his hand, and, taking the manuscript, unrolled
it.  He read the first few lines, and they seemed to strike his
attention.
"If you will amuse yourselves for a few minutes, I will read it at
once," he said.  "I don't often do it, but I will break over my
custom this time."
"Thank you, sir," said Harry.
"There are some of my exchanges," said the editor, pointing to a pile
on the floor.  "You may find something to interest you in some of
them."
They picked up some papers, and began to read.  But Harry could not
help thinking of the verdict that was to be pronounced on his
manuscript.  Upon that a great deal hinged.  If he could feel that he
was able to produce anything that would command compensation, however
small, it would make him proud and happy.  He tried, as he gazed
furtively over his paper at the editor's face, to anticipate his
decision, but the latter was too much accustomed to reading
manuscript to show the impression made upon him.
Fifteen minutes passed, and he looked up.
"Well, Mr. Walton," he said, "your first attempt is a success."
Harry's face brightened.
"May I ask if the plot is original?"
"It is so far as I know, sir.  I don't think I ever read anything
like it."
"Of course there are some faults in the construction, and the
dialogue might be amended here and there.  But it is very creditable,
and I will use it in the 'Standard' if you desire it."
"I do, sir."
"And how much are you willing to pay for it?" Oscar struck in.
The editor hesitated.
"It is not our custom to pay novices just at first," he said.  "If
Mr. Walton keeps on writing, he would soon command compensation."
Harry would not have dared to press the matter, but Oscar was not so
diffident.  Indeed, it is easier to be bold in a friend's cause than
one's own.
"Don't you think it is worth being paid for, if it is worth
printing?" he persisted.
"Upon that principle, we should feel obliged to pay for poetry," said
the editor.
"Oh," said Oscar, "poets don't need money.  They live on flowers and
dew-drops."
The editor smiled.
"You think prose-writers require something more substantial?"
"Yes, sir."
