to believe that it was not prudent to borrow money of Squire Moses, for
he was "tricky" as well as hard.
In the course of that day Mr. Bennington paid every dollar of his
indebtedness in Rockhaven. Those who had refused him credit were profuse
in their apologies, and some of them confessed that they were "put up to
it" by Squire Moses.
The next day the Orion departed, with all her party, for New York.
Mr. Hamilton paid the bill, which amounted to over seven hundred
dollars, without a question, and promised to come again the next season.
Leopold assisted the party in going on board of the yacht, and shook
hands at parting with Rosabel. He watched the vessel, with the beautiful
girl waving her handkerchief to him, till she was out of sight. He was
sorry to have her go, for it was a pleasure for him to look at her. He
had sailed her to High Rock the day before, and she had said a great
many pleasant things to him. It was a quiet time at the Sea Cliff House
after the departure of the New York guests, but Leopold missed Rosabel
more than all others, and even then began to look forward to her
return.
CHAPTER XVIII.
THE COMING WAVE.
By the middle of July the Sea Cliff House was full. The report of the
New Yorkers among their friends that this hotel was the best on the
coast, induced a great many families and others to seek accommodations
at the house. By the first of August Mr. Bennington was obliged to
"colonize" his guests in the neighboring houses. The season was a
decidedly successful one to him, and his profits more than realized his
anticipations. In the fall he paid off the mortgage on his furniture,
and the note he owed to the widow Wormbury, and still had a large
balance in the bank. The Island House had hardly any business, for
people preferred to go to the Sea Cliff, even if they had to take rooms
outside of the hotel. Ethan did not make any money that season.
Leopold had all he could do in the boat, and made a small fortune for
himself by taking out parties. He raised his price to six dollars a day,
so that he could pay Stumpy two dollars a day for his services. The
affairs of Mrs. Wormbury were therefore in excellent condition.
After the season was finished, a man came over from Rockland and took
rooms at the Sea Cliff House. He inquired if there was such a person in
the place as Joel Wormbury. The guest was very much surprised to learn
that he was dead, and in the course of the day went to see his family.
He had come to offer Joel a situation on a plantation in Cuba, where he
had first met and known the deceased. The visitor was an engineer, by
the name of Walker, and had instructed Joel in his business, so that he
was able to run an engine on a plantation. Joel had told him his story.
He had been picked up by a passenger steamer, and carried to Liverpool.
There, after he had been drinking, he was induced to ship as a seaman in
a bark bound to Havana, where he first met Walker. He ran away from the
vessel, and went with his new friend to the plantation where the latter
was employed.
Joel was a mechanic, and understood an engine very well. Instructed in
the details of the business by Walker, he obtained a situation at very
good wages. He had written to his wife, but for some reason unknown his
letters failed to reach their destination. After working two years on
the plantation, he determined to go home, and ascertain what had become
of his family. Walker had gone with him to Havana, where Joel changed
his money into American gold, and embarked in the Waldo. That was the
last his friend had heard of him. Walker had come home on a visit to his
relatives in the interior of the state, and wished Joel to return with
him.
The mystery was solved; and the visitor declared that his friend had not
drank a drop of liquor during the two years he was in Cuba.
It was a great satisfaction to Mrs. Wormbury and her children to hear
this good report of the deceased husband and father; and Walker left,
sincerely grieved at the death of his friend, whom he highly esteemed.
In the winter Leopold went to the "academy," and studied hard to improve
his mind and increase his knowledge. He applied himself diligently to
German, under the instruction of Herr Schlager, so that he could talk in
that language with Rosabel when she came the next season, for it must be
confessed that he thought a great deal of her.
The spring came, bringing nearer to Leopold the coming of Rosabel. In
June a letter from the honorable Mr. Hamilton arrived, announcing the
intended visit of the family to the Sea Cliff House, and fixing the time
at about the first of July. He engaged his own rooms, and three others
for his party and they were to come in the Orion. This was the best of
news to Leopold. He was a year older than when he had last seen Rosabel,
and had grown much taller and stouter. An incipient mustache was coming
on his upper lip,--though he was not yet eighteen,--on which he bestowed
some attention. The young ladies in the academy had declared among
themselves that he was the handsomest young man in Rockhaven; and with
this indorsement there can be no doubt that he was a very good-looking
fellow. He dressed himself neatly, out of his own funds, and was very
particular in regard to his personal appearance.
As the first of July approached, he was even more particular than usual.
The dawning mustache was carefully trained, so that each hair was in the
most eligible position to produce an effect. For a boating dress, he
wore a gray woolen shirt, trimmed with pink, and secured in front with
black studs. But even in this garb, with his hair nicely combed, his
mustache adjusted, his broad shirt-collar, open down to his breast, and
held in place by a black handkerchief, tied in true sailor style,--in
this garb, even, he was a fellow upon whom a young lady would bestow a
second and even a third look, if the circumstances were favorable.
From early morning till dark, on the first day of July, Leopold kept an
eye on the sea-board side of the town, looking out for the Orion. She
did not appear; but on the afternoon of the next day, he discovered the
yacht as she rounded the point on which stood the light-house. Captain
Bounce knew his way into the river this time, and in a few moments more
the Orion reached the anchorage off the wharf. As soon as Leopold
recognized the vessel, he hastened to the Rosabel, his heart beating
wildly with the pleasant excitement of the occasion. Embarking in the
sloop, he was soon alongside the Orion. The accommodation-steps were
placed over the side for him, and he ascended to the deck.
"I am glad to see you, Leopold," said Mr. Hamilton, extending his hand
to the boatman.
"Thank you sir; we are all glad to see you and your family here again,"
replied Leopold, as he glanced towards the quarter-deck in search of
Rosabel. "Are Mrs. Hamilton and your daughter on board?"
"Yes, both of them; but I have a smaller party than I had last year."
At this moment Leopold saw Rosabel emerging from the companion-way. His
brown face flushed as he approached her, and she was as rosy as a
country girl when she offered him her little gloved hand, which he
gratefully clasped in his great paw.
"I am very glad to see you again, Miss Hamilton," said Leopold; and
certainly he never uttered truer words in his life.
"And I am delighted to see you again, Leopold," she replied gazing
earnestly into his handsome brown face, and then measuring with her eye
his form from head to foot. "How tall and large you have grown!"
We are inclined to believe, from the looks she bestowed upon him, that
she fully indorsed the opinion of the young ladies of the academy.
Rosabel was taller, more mature, and even more beautiful than when he
had seen her last. She was dressed to go on shore; but as soon as she
saw Leopold and the Rosabel, a new idea seemed to take possession of her
mind.
"I want to go to High Rock this minute!" exclaimed the fair girl. "I
have been thinking about the place every day since I was here last year;
and I want to go there before I land at Rockhaven."
Her father objected, her mother objected, and the grim old skipper of
the Orion declared there would be a shower and a squall, if not a
tempest, before night. But Rosabel, though a very good girl in the main,
was just a little wilful at times. She insisted, and Leopold was engaged
to convey her to the romantic region. He was seventeen and she was
fifteen; and no young fellow was ever happier than he was as he took
his place at the helm with Rosabel opposite him in the standing-room.
No other member of the party was willing to join her in the excursion,
for Belle Peterson and Charley Redmond were not passengers in the yacht
this time. If Leopold had been a young New Yorker, perhaps her father
and mother would have objected to her going alone with him. As it was,
they regarded him, in some sense, as a servant, and they intrusted her
to his care as they would have done with a conductor on the train, or
with the driver of the stage. He was simply the boatman to them--a very
good-looking fellow, it is true, but not dangerous, because he was not
the young lady's social equal. He always treated her with the utmost
respect and deference.
The breeze was fresh, and in a few moments Leopold landed her on the
narrow beach beneath the lofty rock. The maiden left the boat, climbed
the high rock, and wandered about among the wild cliffs and chasms, all
alone, for Leopold could not leave the inanimate Rosabel--which the rude
sea might injure--to follow the animate and beautiful Rosabel in her
ramble on the shore.
She was gone an hour, and then an other hour. He called to her, but she
came not, and even the warning of the muttering thunder did not hasten
her return. But she came at last, and Leopold hastened to get under way,
though he feared that the storm would be down upon him before he could
reach the Orion.
"We are going to have a tremendous shower," said Leopold, anxiously, as
he shoved off the boat.
"I'm not afraid; and if I get wet, it won't hurt me," replied Rosabel,
who actually enjoyed the flashing lightning and the booming thunder, and
gazed with undaunted eyes upon the black masses of cloud that were
rolling up from the south-east and from the north-west.
"It looks just exactly as it did on the day the Waldo was wrecked,"
added Leopold. "It blew a perfect hurricane then, and it may to-day."
"If you are alarmed, Leopold, we can return," suggested Rosabel.
"We can hardly do that, now, for the tide has risen so high that the
beach is nearly covered, and my boat would be dashed to pieces, if we
have much of a squall."
"Do you think there is any danger?" asked the fair maiden, who was
deeply impressed by the earnest manner of the boatman.
"I hope not," replied he, more cheerfully, for he did not wish to alarm
her. "If I can only get into Dipper Bay, which is hardly half a mile
from here, we shall be all right; and we may have time to run into the
river."
Dipper Bay was a little inlet, almost landlocked, in which the water was
deep enough to float his sloop at this time of tide, and its high rocky
shores would afford him a perfect protection from the fury of any
squall, or even hurricane. But Leopold felt that his chances of reaching
this secure haven were but small, for the breeze was very light.
The Rosabel was but a short distance from the shore when the wind
entirely subsided, and the long rollers were as smooth as glass. The
lightning glared with fearful intensity, and the thunder boomed like the
convulsions of an earthquake. By this time Rosabel, who had before
enjoyed the sublimity of the coming storm, now began to realize its
terrors, and to watch the handsome boatman with the deepest anxiety.
The sails flapped idly in the motionless air, and Dipper Bay was still
half a mile distant.
"Don't be alarmed, Miss Hamilton," said Leopold, as he threw off his
coat and vest, dropped his suspenders from his shoulders, and rolled up
his shirt sleeves above the elbows. "If the squall will keep off only a
few moments, we shall be in a safe place."
The skipper evidently "meant business;" and, shipping the long oars, he
worked with a zeal which seemed to promise happy results, and Rosabel
began to feel a little reassured. But the sloop was too large and too
broad on the beam to be easily rowed, and her progress was necessarily
very slow.
"Can't I help you, Leopold?" asked the maiden, when she saw what a
tremendous effort the boatman was making.
"You may take the tiller and steer for Dip Point, if you please,"
replied Leopold, knowing that his beautiful passenger would be better
satisfied if she could feel that she was doing something.
Leopold plied his oars with all the vigor of a manly frame, intent upon
reaching the little bay, where the high rocks would shelter his craft
from the fury of the storm. Then a breeze of wind came and he resumed
his place at the tiller. He had almost reached the haven when he saw
coming down over the waters a most terrific squall. Before he could haul
down his mainsail, the tempest struck the Rosabel. He placed his fair
charge in the bottom of the boat, which the savage wind was driving
towards the dangerous rocks. Before he could do anything to secure the
sail, the main-sheet parted at the boom. He cast off the halyards; but
the sail was jammed, and would not come down.
The Rosabel was almost upon the rocks. Seizing an oar, Leopold,
satisfied that he could do nothing to save the boat, worked her away
from the rocks, so that she would strike upon the narrow beach he had
just left. The fierce squall was hurling her with mad speed upon the
shore. By the most tremendous exertion, and at the imminent peril of his
life, he succeeded in guiding her to the beach, upon which she struck
with prodigious force, crushing in her keel and timbers beneath the
shock. Without a word of explanation, he grasped the fair Rosabel in
his arms, and leaped into the angry surges, which were driven high upon
the rocks above him. The tide had risen so that there was hardly room
under the cliff for him to stand; but he bore her to this only partial
refuge from the fury of the storm.
The tempest increased in violence, and the huge billows rolled in with
impetuous fury upon him. Grasping his fair burden in his arms, with
Rosabel clinging to him in mortal terror, he paused a moment to look at
the angry sea. There was a narrow shelf of rock near him, against which
the waves beat with terrible violence. If he could only get beyond this
shelf, which projected out from the cliffs, he could easily reach the
Hole in the Wall, where Harvey Barth had saved himself in just such a
storm. He had borne Rosabel some distance along the beach, both drenched
by the lashing spray, and his strength was nearly exhausted. The
projecting shelf was before him, forbidding for the moment his further
progress.
[Illustration: THE COMING WAVE. Page 345].
Placing his left foot on a rock, his fair but heavy burden on his knee,
clasping her waist with his left hand, while his right was fastened for
support in a crevice of the cliff, he paused for an instant to recover
his breath, and watch for a favorable chance to escape from his perilous
position. Rosabel, in her terror, had thrown her arms around his neck,
clinging to him with all her might. When he paused, she felt, reposing
on his powerful muscles, that she was safe--she confessed it afterwards;
though, in that terrible sea, and near those cruel rocks, the strength
of the strongest man was but weakness. Leopold waited. If the sea would
only recede for an instant, it would give him the opportunity to reach
the broader beach beyond the shelf, over which he could pass to the Hole
in the Wall. It was a moment of hope, mingled with a mighty fear.
A huge billow, larger than any he had yet seen, was rolling in upon him,
crested and reeking with foam, and might dash him and his feeble charge,
mangled and torn, upon the jagged rocks. Still panting from the violence
of his exertion, he braced his nerves and his stout frame to meet the
terrible shock.
With every muscle strained to the utmost tension, he waited THE COMING
WAVE. In this attitude, with the helpless maiden clinging to him for
life, with the wreck of his fine yacht near, he was a noble subject for
an inspired artist.
The coming wave buried him and the fair maiden in its cold embrace. It
broke, and shattered itself in torrents of milky foam upon the hard
rocks. But the larger and higher the wave, the farther it recedes.
Leopold stood firm, though he was shaken in every fiber of his frame by
the shock. The retiring water--retiring only for an instant, to come
again with even greater fury--gave him his opportunity, and he improved
it. Swooping like a strong eagle, beneath the narrow shelf of rock, he
gained the broader sands beyond the reach of the mad billows. It blew a
hurricane for some time. The stranded yacht was ground into little
pieces by the sharp rocks; but her skipper and his fair passenger were
safe.
On the identical flat rock in the Hole in the Wall where the steward of
the Waldo had seated himself, after the wreck, Leopold placed his
precious burden. He sat down by her side, utterly exhausted, and unable
to speak. He breathed very hardly, groaning heavily at each
respiration, for he had exerted himself to the verge of human endurance.
"O, Leopold," gasped poor Rosabel, gazing with tender interest upon her
preserver, "you have saved me, but you have killed yourself!"
The gallant young man tried to speak, but he could only smile in his
agony. Taking her hand, he pressed it, to indicate his satisfaction at
what he had done.
"What shall I do?" cried the poor girl.
Leopold could only press her hand again; but she felt that she must do
something for him. Throwing off her wet gloves, she began to rub his
temples, to which he did not object. But in a few minutes more he was
able to speak.
"I am only tired," gasped the boatman. "I shall be all right in a few
moments."
Then the rain began to pour down in torrents. Leopold rose from the
rock, and conducted Rosabel to an overhanging cliff, in the ravine,
which partially sheltered them from the storm. The wind continued to
howl, as though the squall had ended in a gale; but the rain soon ceased
to fall, and Leopold helped his fair companion to the summit of the
cliff.
"There is nothing left of the Rosabel," said Leopold, as he gazed down
upon the white-capped billows which lashed the jagged rocks below. "She
went to pieces like an egg-shell."
"Never mind the boat, Leopold. I am so thankful that our lives were
spared," replied Rosabel.
"O, I don't care for the boat. I only thank God that you were saved. I
thought we should both be dashed in pieces on the rocks."
"I should have been, if you had not been so strong and brave, Leopold.
You might have left me, and saved yourself, without much trouble."
"Left you!" exclaimed Leopold, gazing into her beautiful face. "I would
rather have been ground up into inch pieces on the rocks, than do that,
Miss Hamilton!"
Rosabel believed him, and the tears flowed down her cheeks, as she
brushed away from her eyes the auburn locks, soaked with salt water, and
