array of Lynches, and with it he had left upon the 
forehead of each victim a peculiar mark — a cross, 
deeply incised. Said he: 
“The cross of the Mysterious Avenger is known in 
Europe, in America, in China, in Siam, in the Tropics, 
in the Polar Seas, in the deserts of Asia, in all the 
earth. Wherever in the uttermost parts of the globe 
a Lynch has penetrated , there has the Mysterious Cross 
been seen, and those who have seen it have shuddered 
and said, ‘It is his mark; he has been here!' You 
have heard of the Mysterious Avenger — look upon 
him, for before you stands no less a person ! But 
beware — breathe not a word to any soul. Be silent, 
and wait. Some morning this town will flock aghast 
to view a gory corpse ; on its brow will be seen the 
awful sign, and men will tremble and whisper, ‘ He 
has been here — it is the Mysterious Avenger’s mark!’ 
You will come here, but I shall have vanished ; you 
will see me no more.” 
This ass had been reading the “ Jibbenainosay,” no 
doubt, and had had his poor romantic head turned by 
it; but as I had not yet seen the book then, I took his 
inventions for truth, and did not suspect that he was a 
plagiarist. 
However, we had a Lynch living in the town ; and 
the more I reflected upon his impending doom, the 
more I could not sleep. It seemed my plain duty to 
save him, and a still plainer and more important duty 
to get some sleep for myself, so at last I ventured to 
go to Mr. Lynch and tell him what was about to hap- 
pen to him — under strict secrecy. I advised him to 
‘‘fly,” and certainly expected him to do it. But he 
laughed at me ; and he did not stop there ; he led me 
down to the carpenter’s shop, gave the carpenter a 
jeering and scornful lecture upon his silly pretensions, 
slapped his face, made him get down on his knees and 
beg — then went off and left me to contemplate the 
cheap and pitiful ruin of what, in my eyes, had so 
lately been a majestic and incomparable hero. The 
carpenter blustered, flourished his knife, and doomed 
this Lynch in his usual volcanic style, the size of his 
fateful words undiminished ; but it was all wasted upon 
me ; he was a hero to me no longer, but only a poor, 
foolish, exposed humbug. I was ashamed of him, and 
ashamed of myself ; I took no further interest in him, 
and never went to his shop any more. He was a 
heavy loss to me, for he was the greatest hero I had 
ever known. The fellow must have had some taicnt : 
for some of his imaginary murders were so vividly 
and dramatically described that I remember all their 
details yet. 
The people of Hannibal are not more changed than 
is the town. It is no longer a village; it is a city, with 
a Mayor, and a council, and water-works, and probably 
a debt. It has fifteen thousand people, is a thriving 
and energetic place, and is paved like the rest of the 
West and South — where a well-paved street and a 
good sidewalk are things so seldom seen that one 
doubts them when he does see them. The customary 
half-dozen railways center in Hannibal now, and there 
is a new depot, which cost a hundred thousand dollars. 
In my time the town had no specialty, and no com- 
mercial grandeur ; the daily packet usually landed a 
passenger and bought a catfish, and took away another 
passenger and a hatful of freight; but now a huge 
commerce in lumber has grown up, and a large mis- 
cellaneous commerce is one of the results. A deal of 
money changes hands there now. 
Bear Creek — so called, perhaps, because it was 
always so particularly bare of bears — is hidden out of 
sight now, under islands and continents of piled lum- 
ber, and nobody but an expert can find it. I used to 
get drowned in it every summer regularly, and be 
drained out, and inflated and set going again by some 
chance enemy; but not enough of it is unoccupied 
now to drown a person in. It was a famous breeder 
of chills and fever in its day. I remember one summer 
when everybody in town had this disease at once. 
Many chimneys were shaken down, and all the houses 
were so racked that the town had to be rebuilt. The 
chasm or gorge between Lover’s Leap and the hill west 
of it is supposed by scientists to have been caused by 
glacial action. This is a mistake. 
There is an interesting cave a mile or two below 
Hannibal, among the bluffs. I would have liked to 
revisit it, but had not time. In my time the person 
who then owned it turned it into a mausoleum for his 
daughter, aged fourteen. The body of this poor child 
was put into a copper cylinder filled with alcohol, and 
this was suspended in one of the dismal avenues of the 
cave. The top of the cylinder was removable; and it 
was said to be a common thing for the baser order of 
tourists to drag the dead face into view and examine it 
and comment upon it. 
CHAPTER LVI. 
A QUESTION OF LAW 
T HE slaughter-house is gone from the mouth of 
Bear Creek and so is the small jail (or “ cala- 
boose ”) which once stood in its neighborhood. A 
citizen asked, “ Do you remember when Jimmy Finn, 
the town drunkard, was burned to death in the cala- 
boose ?” 
Observe, now, how history becomes defiled, through 
lapse of time and the help of the bad memories of 
men. Jimmy Finn was not burned in the calaboose, 
but died a natural death in a tan vat, of a combination 
of delirium tremens and spontaneous combustion. 
When I say natural death, I mean it was a natural death 
for Jimmy Finn to die. The calaboose victim was not 
a citizen; he was a poor stranger, a harmless, whisky- 
sodden tramp. I know more about his case than any- 
body else; I knew too much of it, in that bygone 
day, to relish speaking of it. That tramp was wander- 
ing about the streets one chilly evening, with a pipe in 
his mouth, and begging for a match; he got neither 
matches nor courtesy; on the contrary, a troop of 
bad little boys followed him around and amused them- 
selves with nagging and annoying him. I assisted ; but 
at last, some appeal which the wayfarer made for for- 
bearance, accompanying it with a pathetic reference to 
his forlorn and friendless condition, touched such sense 
of shame and remnant of right -feeling as were left in 
me, and I went away and got him some matches, and 
then hied me home and to bed, heavily weighted as to 
conscience, and unbuoyant in spirit. An hour or two 
afterward the man was arrested and locked up in the 
calaboose by the marshal — large name fora constable, 
but that was his title. At two in the morning, the 
church-bells rang for fire, and everybody turned out, 
of course — I with the rest. The tramp had used his 
matches disastrously ; he had set his straw bed on fire, 
and the oaken sheathing of the room had caught. 
When I reached the ground, two hundred men, 
women, and children stood massed together, transfixed 
with horror, and staring at the grated windows of the 
jail. Behind the iron bars, and tugging frantically at 
them, and screaming for help, stood the tramp; he 
seemed like a black object set against a sun, so white 
and intense was the light at his back. That marshal 
could not be found, and he had the only key. A 
battering-ram was quickly improvised, and the thunder 
of its blows upon the door had so encouraging a sound 
that the spectators broke into wild cheering, and be- 
lieved the merciful battle won. But it was not so. 
The timbers were too strong; they did not yield. It 
was said that the man’s death-grip still held fast to the 
bars after he was dead ; and that in this position the 
fires wrapped him about and consumed him. As to 
this, I do not know. What was seen, after I recog- 
nized the face that was pleading through the bars, was 
seen by others, not by me. 
I saw that face, so situated, every night for a long 
time afterward ; and I believed myself as guilty of the 
man’s death as if I had given him the matches purposely 
that he might burn himself up with them. I 
had not a doubt that I should be hanged if my connection 
with this tragedy were fovmd out. The happenings 
and the impressions of that time are burned into 
my memory, and the study of them entertains me as 
much now as they themselves distressed me then. If 
anybody spoke of that grisly matter, I was all ears in a 
moment, and alert to hear what might be said, for I 
was always dreading and expecting to find out that I 
was suspected; and so fine and so delicate was the 
perception of my guilty conscience that it often de- 
tected suspicion in the most purposeless remarks, and 
in looks, gestures, glances of the eye, which had no 
significance, but which sent me shivering away in a 
panic of fright, just the same. And how sick it made 
me when somebody dropped, howsoever carelessly and 
barren of intent, the remark that “murder will out!” 
For a boy of ten years, I was carrying a pretty weighty 
cargo. 
All this time I was blessedly forgetting one thing — - 
the fact that I was an inveterate talker in my sleep. 
But one night I awoke and found my bed-mate — my 
younger brother — sitting up in bed and contemplating 
me by the light of the moon. I said: 
“ What is the matter?” 
“ You talk so much I can’t sleep.” 
I came to a sitting posture in an instant, with my 
kidneys in my throat and my hair on end. 
“ What did I say? Quick — out with it — what* did 
I say?” 
“ Nothing much.” 
"It’s a lie — you know everything!” 
"Everything about what?” 
“ You know well enough. About that” 
"About what ? I don’t know what you are talking 
about. I think you are sick or crazy or something. 
But anyway, you’re awake, and I’ll get to sleep while 
I’ve got a chance.” 
He fell asleep and I lay there in a cold sweat, turning 
this new terror over in the whirling. chaos which 
did duty as my mind. The burden of my thought 
was, How much did I divulge? How much does he 
know? What a distress is this uncertainty! But by 
and by I evolved an idea — I would wake my brother 
and probe him with a supposititious case. I shook 
him up, and said: 
"Suppose a man should come to you drunk ” 
“This is foolish — I never get drunk.” 
"I don’t mean you, idiot — I mean the man. Sup- 
pose a man should come to you drunk, and borrow a 
knife, or a tomahawk, or a pistol, and you forgot to 
tell him it was loaded, and ” 
"How could you load a tomahawk?” 
"I don’t mean the tomahawk, and I didn’t say the 
tomahawk; I said the pistol. Now, don’t you keep 
breaking in that way, because this is serious. There’s 
been a man killed.” 
" What ! In this town ?” 
"Yes, in this town.” 
"Well, go on — I won’t say a single word.” 
"Well, then, suppose you forgot to tell him to be 
careful with it, because it was loaded, and he went off 
and shot himself with that pistol — fooling with it, you 
know, and probably doing it by accident, being drunk. 
Well, would it be murder?” 
"No — suicide.” 
"No, no! I don’t mean his act, I mean yours. 
Would you be a murderer for letting him have that 
pistol?” 
After deep thought came this answer: 
"Well, I should think I was guilty of something — 
maybe murder — yes, probably murder, but I don’t 
quite know.” 
This made me very uncomfortable. However, it 
was not a decisive verdict. I should have to set out 
the real case — there seemed to be no other way. But 
I would do it cautiously, and keep a watch out for 
suspicious effects. I said : 
“I was supposing a case, but I am coming to the 
real one now. Do you know how the man came to be 
burned up in the calaboose?” 
“ N °,” 
“ Haven't you the least idea?” 
'' Not the least.” 
'' Wish you may die in your tracks if you have?” 
“ Yes, wish I may die in my tracks.” 
“Well, the way of it was this. The man wanted 
some matches to light his pipe. A boy got him some. 
The man set fire to the calaboose with those very 
matches, and burnt himself up.” 
“ Is that so?” 
“Yes, it is. Now, is that boy a murderer, do you 
think?” 
“ Let me see. The man was drunk?” 
“ Yes, he was drunk.” 
“Very drunk?” 
“Yes.” 
“ And the boy knew it?” 
“ Yes, he knew it.” 
There was a long pause. Then came this heavy verdict : 
“ If the man was drunk, and the boy knew it, the 
boy murdered that man. This is certain.” 
Faint, sickening sensations crept along all the fibers 
of my body, and I seemed to know how a person feels 
who hears his death sentence pronounced from the 
bench. I waited to hear what my brother would say 
next. I believed I knew what it would be, and I was 
right. He said : 
"I know the boy.” 
I had nothing to say ; so I said nothing. I simply 
shuddered. Then he added; 
'' Yes, before you got half through telling about the 
thing, I knew perfectly well who the boy was ; it was 
BenCoontz!” 
I came out of my collapse as one who rises from the 
dead. I said, with admiration : 
“Why, how in the world did you ever guess it?” 
“ You told me in your sleep.” 
I said to myself, “ How splendid that is! This is a 
habit which must be cultivated.” 
My brother rattled innocently on : 
“When you were talking in your sleep, you kept 
mumbling something about 4 matches,’ which I couldn’t 
make anything out of ; but just now, when you began 
to tell me about the man and the calaboose and the 
matches, I remembered that in your sleep you men- 
tioned Ben Coontz two or three times ; so I put this 
and that together, you see, and right away I knew it 
was Ben that burnt that man up.” 
I praised his sagacity effusively. Presently he asked : 
“ Are you going to give him up to the law?” 
“No,” I said, “I believe that this will be a lesson 
to him. I shall keep an eye on him, of course, for 
that is but right; but if he stops where he is and re- 
forms, it shall never be said that I betrayed him.” 
” How good you are !” 
” Well, I try to be. It is all a person can do in a 
world like this.” 
And now, my burden being shifted to other shoul- 
ders, my terrors soon faded away. 
The day before we left Hannibal, a curious thing 
fell under my notice — the surprising spread which 
longitudinal time undergoes there. I learned it from 
one of the most unostentatious of men — the colored 
coachman of a friend of mine, who lives three miles 
from town. He was to call for me at the Park Hotel 
