dicott!" 
I turned and stood an instant, speechless with 
surprise. When I could get my breath I held 
out both hands and said "Oh, Louis Duncan I " 
"Then you don't quite- -hate the sight of 
me?" 
" If you only knew," I answered eagerly. 
If you could know how anxious every one has 
felt, and how thankful we all are that you are 
alive ! O, come home with me ! ' 
"Thankful! I had better be dead! But I 
am not." 
He was very thin and pale, and had a worn, 
tired look. My heart ached for him. 
"No," I said, "it is better that you are alive. 
Stephen has been searching for you. He was 
here last week." 
Louis turned deadly pale at that. 
" Come," I urged. 
"I have been haunting your house all the 
afternoon. I thought I should have to go with- 
out seeing you. You have heard of course." 
" Everything, I believe." 
" I know how Stephen feels. His life has 
been so perfect ! His temper is angelic ! And 
yet Rose- -I did mean to do better. I re- 
solved" 
"In your own strength ; ' I said softly. "God 
let you see how weak that was. And yet you 
must not be cast down. Even Christians have 
to try many times. But there is the promise. 
And God saves to the uttermost, to the fartherest 
weakness, the blackest sin." 
 
"I was so angry. I just understood how they 
had been cheating me all along, and what a 
fool I had been. They added taunts and insults. 
I struck out blindy and madly, not caring. 
Was it God who saved me from the commission 
of an awful crime ? I fled thinking myself a 
murderer. I hid in lanes and by-ways for three 
miserable days, knowing how Cain felt when he 
said his punishment was greater than he could 
bear. If Kelsey had died I think I should have 
thrown myself into the river. Then I saw in a 
paper that he had been only temporarily injured. 
The affair was headed- -'A gambling brawl,' 
and even though I felt relieved, the disgrace 
stung me so keenly.'' 
" But it has been forgotten by this time. And 
Stephen means that you shall stay with him for 
some months at least. You can redeem all the 
past. Oh, try." I pleaded earnestly. 
" Tell me about Stephen ? ' he said tremu- 
lously. 
I went briefly over the incidents of his return, 
but I did lay great stress upon Stephen's anxiety, 
his willingness to forgive the past, for I knew he 
would be less severe now than a month ago. 
I pictured the home, and the pleasure there 
might be for both in it." 
And your sister is there," lie replied in an 
odd tone of voice that was more comment than 
inquiry. 
" Yes." Did he guess? "Oh," I said, ""it 
may be perhaps it is wrong for me to hint it 
-but he likes her very much." 
" Yes," this time almost harshly. 44 I under- 
stand. She is pretty and bright, and good 
but I wish it were you instead. I thought you 
liked him. You used to take his part. Oh, 
Rose, if you were to be there I believe I should 
go. If you were my sister you might save me. 
You are so sweet, so patient ; you know so 
many tender ways." 
" Why, I should be your sister then," I said, 
trembling in shame and confusion, for what, 
I hardly knew. 
" You are so different from most people. I 
think Stephen would be gentler with you " 
" Hush, he knows best. Come home with me 
and talk to papa. What have you been doing 
all this while?" 
" Earning my living for a change," and he 
laughed bitterly. 4k l can go West. Not that I 
mean to relinquish my fortune, but since I have 
disgraced them all " 
" No, no;' I rejoined firmly. "You must 
not go." 
"What then? 
" Return to Stephen directly. Redeem the past 
with a brave, true, upright manhood. You can 
do it. I do not believe you will ever be tempted 
in that way again." 
" You are right there. If you could know 
how I have governed myself during the past 
two months. I feel as if half my temper was 
gone, --since that awful night. But to go back 
to humble myself to him v 
" Have you not hurt his pride cruelly ? ' I 
said. 
Louis was silent. 
" Oh, please do go for my sake," I entreated. 
Let papa ' 
" No," hoarsely. " I couldn't talk to any one 
but you. I was wild to see you. I wanted to 
know what you thought- -if I was past redemp- 
tion" 
''No, you are not. You do not understand 
how some of these very faults may be transformed 
into virtues. Is it not braver to struggle than 
to give up like a coward in despair." 
' I never was cowardly." 
Prove your bravery by going to Stephen. 
Start anew. God will give you strength and 
grace. I know you can succeed." 
He glanced at me long and earnestly. There 
was a strange wistfulness in his face that 
touched me. 
" Promise ! ' I took his cold hand in mine. 
" No, I cannot- quite. I must think of it. 
And I must go, also, I have kept you too long 
in the cold. v 
"But where are }~ou going?' 
" I shall take the train at seven ; ' evasively. 
I pleaded again, warmly, earnestly. I fancied 
that I saw tears in his eyes, but he would 
not promise me positively. 
We said a lingering good-bye in the starlight. 
I felt assured that he must come to a better 
sense of the matter. 
Then I hurried home. They were through 
supper. Papa was putting on his overcoat. 
'I was just coming for you. Why how 
excited you look ! Is Mrs. Aitken worse ? " 
" No, I have been walking rapidly. 
" Let me pour your tea ; ' began Nelly. " I 
was head of the table, and felt quite grand." 
I tried to be composed. I had promised not 
to say a word about the meeting, but it seemed 
strange to have such an important secret in my 
keeping. 
Before I went to bed that night I wrote to 
Stephen. I never could remember what I said, 
for I sealed the letter without reading it over, 
and sent it when Nelly w r ent to school. But I 
begged him to be patient and merciful to Louis. 
Nothing else of importance happened in my 
week of house-keeping. Thursday evening we 
received a letter from Fan that was sketchy and 
funny and incoherent. I felt that she must 
really be in love. How strangely the links of 
life join, I said to myself. 
We were glad enough to get them home on 
Saturday afternoon. Edith had a slight cold, 
but Fan was bright and rosy and glowing in 
her descriptions. She had never had such fun 
in her life. They had bought carpets, furniture, 
pictures, ornaments ; the Duncan family silver 
was wonderful to behold, and the house delight- 
ful, just old fashioned enough not to be grand. 
Mrs. Whitcomb was installed house-keeper and 
was as much in love with Stephen as every- 
body else. We were all to make visits as often 
as we could, and during vacation he meant to 
have the whole family. 
He sent papa a set of new books which were 
just what he had been wishing for. 
"Oh," exclaimed Xelly, "it will be splendid 
to go to New York like everybody else. Chil- 
dren, we must begin to save our money." 
"Are there any tidings of Louis?' I asked 
with my heart in my throat. 
"Xo. Mr. Duncan intends to begin a search 
himself next week. He is resolved to find him." 
After supper papa came round to Fanny and 
played with her golden hair and watched her as 
she talked. How much he loved her ! Did he 
feel that there might be a rival ere long, a 
break in the chain of girls ? Yet she seemed so 
gladly, so unconsciously happy. 
It was the children's bed time at last. They 
kissed round and round as if they were never to 
see anybody again. I had to hurry them finally, 
their good night was so lingering. 
" Fanny," papa said, " will you come in my 
study a few moments." 
She put her hand over his shoulder, and his 
arm was around her waist. I saw them cross 
the hall, making such a pretty picture that I 
smiled. Then the door shut. 
This was what happened. 
They walked together to the library table. 
Papa took up a letter, fingered it idly and stud- 
ied Fan's sweet young face. 
"I did not mean to speak of this until Mon- 
day, he began, "but I have a feeling that it 
may be best finished at once. I received a letter 
a few days ago,- -in which there was an en- 
closure for you this." 
He took out a folded paper and handed it to 
her. She opened it wonderingiy. Out fell a 
faded rose with two or three buds. 
She gave a low cry and hid her face on papa's 
shoulder. He smoothed the golden hair and 
presently said in a tremulous tone- 
4 'Will you read my letter? I should like to 
have you." 
She raised her scarlet face, still keeping her 
eyes averted. It was some seconds before she 
could begin to distinguish the words. 
A manly straight-forward appeal to papa from 
Winthrop Ogden. He confessed to having spoken 
hastily in the summer, and promising to wait 
long enough to convince Miss Endicott that he 
was in earnest. His mind had not wavered 
from that hour, and now he asked papa's per- 
mission to visit her and try his fate, convinced 
that his love was loyal and earnest. His family 
admired Miss Endicott, and such an engagement 
would meet with their approval, he knew. 
Might he hope for an answer soon? 
"My darling! " 
Oh papa ! ' and the fair head went down 
again. 
" Shall I send this young interloper about his 
business ? ' 
There was no answer except as the soft arms 
crept up round his neck. 
"My dear child, what is it?' finding a little 
place in the forehead to kiss. 
" Can I- -do- ' and the faltering voice paused. 
" Just as you like, my darling. While I 
should be sorry to give you to another, and 
there was a pathetic little break in the voice ; 
" still the young man is unexceptionable. I 
believe the Chur chills would welcome you 
warmly. And marrying and being given in 
" Then- -papa- and the remainder of the 
answer was a long, tender kiss. 
"I thought perhaps- -Stephen Duncan '' 
"Oh, papa, he doesn't love me --in that way. 
But I know Ins secret, that is I once saw it 
gleam out like a tiny snow-drop in tlie sun. I 
am not to be the only happy girl in the world." 
Papa looked a little puzzled, then he sighed. 
"Why," said he dolorously "there will be 
only five left!" 
 
CHAPTER XIV. 
IT seemed so strange the next day to look 
at Fan and think what had happened to 
her. I was glad to have it Sunday. The 
very church bells appeared to have caught a 
deeper tone, an awe and sacredness, a being set 
apart as it were from the ordinary uses. It was 
sweet and beautiful to me, and I was filled with 
a kind of quiet excitement, a great throbbing 
and trembling in every nerve, as if I stood on 
the threshold of a new life. Other girls had 
been engaged or had lovers, but it did not enter 
into my soul like this. 
She was sweet and dreamy, saying very little. 
When she sang in Church her voice had a 
peculiar tremulousness in it, as if it swept 
through great waves of feeling. Mamma was 
very tender to her. When their eyes met ifc 
was with a mutual understanding made manifest 
 
in the simplest glance. I did not feel jealous. 
She and papa surely had the first right to the 
mystery and blessedness of the new relation. 
Papa watched her with wistful eyes, as if he 
could hardly resolve to relinquish her. 
Thus two or three days passed. We were up 
in our room, I dusting, and Fan folding some 
clothes, and laying ribbons orderly in a pretty 
box. 
" That is so lovely, ' and she shook out a 
delicate blonde blue. "Mr. Duncan chose it 
for me. We went shopping one day with Mrs. 
TVhitcomb, to buv some table linen. It was 
such fun! I told him he wasted his money in 
riotous living, the fine linen being a sure sign." 
Just then our heads met, mine going down 
and her's coming up. "we laughed and looked 
at each other in great confusion. 
" O Fan, ' I said just under my breath. 
"My dear old darling! I want to tell you - 
" I have gussed," I said quickly with conscious 
color. "It is just right, you and Stephen will 
be so happy. ' 
"Stephen!' and she looked at me in sur- 
prise. "And papa thought so too!' at which 
she laughed gayly. 
 
" Isn't it Stephen?' in blank amazement. 
"Why, no, and mamma has not even hinted?' 
"It cannot be Dick Fairlie, ' I said wonder- 
ingly. "I am sure Jennie ' 
