some neglected corner.
Maggie felt certain that Mrs. Wouvermans was on the watch to find
fault with her--that she wanted to condemn her, for she had gone to
service with the best of resolutions. Her mother was poor and she
meant to help her; she meant to be a good girl, and, in her own mind,
she thought she was a very good girl to do so much work, and remember
so many different things in so many different places, and forget so
few things.
Maggie praised herself to herself, just as you do, my young lady,
when you have an energetic turn in household matters, and arrange and
beautify, and dust, and adorn mamma's parlors, and then call on mamma
and papa and all the family to witness and applaud your notability.
At sixteen or seventeen, household virtue is much helped in its
development by praise. Praise is sunshine; it warms, it inspires, it
promotes growth: blame and rebuke are rain and hail; they beat down
and bedraggle, even though they may at times be necessary. There was
a time in Maggie's life when a kind, judicious, thoughtful, Christian
woman might have kept her from falling, might have won her confidence,
become her guide and teacher, and piloted her through the dangerous
shoals and quicksands which beset a bright, attractive, handsome young
girl, left to make her own way alone and unprotected.
But it was not given to Aunt Maria to see this opportunity; and, under
her system of management, it was not long before Maggie's temper grew
fractious, and she used to such purpose the democratic liberty of
free speech, which is the birthright of American servants, that Mrs.
Wouvermans never forgave her.
Maggie told her, in fact, that she was a hard-hearted, mean, selfish
woman, who wanted to get all she could out of her servants, and to
give the least she could in return; and this came a little too near
the truth ever to be forgotten or forgiven. Maggie was summarily
warned out of the house, and went home to her mother, who took her
part with all her heart and soul, and declared that Maggie shouldn't
live out any longer--she should be nobody's servant.
This, to be sure, was silly enough in Mary, since service is the law
of society, and we are all more or less servants to somebody; but
uneducated people never philosophize or generalize, and so cannot help
themselves to wise conclusions.
All Mary knew was that Maggie had been scolded and chafed by Mrs.
Wouvermans; her handsome darling had been abused, and she should get
into some higher place in the world; and so she put her as workwoman
into the fashionable store of S. S. & Co.
There Maggie was seen and coveted by the man who made her his prey.
Maggie was seventeen, pretty, silly, hating work and trouble, longing
for pleasure, leisure, ease and luxury; and he promised them all. He
told her that she was too pretty to work, that if she would trust
herself to him she need have no more care; and Maggie looked forward
to a rich marriage and a home of her own. To do her justice, she loved
the man that promised this with all the warmth of her Irish heart. To
her, he was the splendid prince in the fairy tale, come to take her
from poverty and set her among princes; and she felt she could not
do too much for him. She would be such a good wife, she would be so
devoted, she would improve herself and learn so that she might never
discredit him.
Alas! in just such an enchanted garden of love, and hope, and joy, how
often has the ground caved in and let the victim down into dungeons of
despair that never open!
[Illustration: GOING TO THE BAD.
"The sweet-faced woman calls the attention of her husband. He frowns,
whips up the horse, and is gone.... Bitterness possesses Maggie's
soul.... Why not go to the bad?"--p. 327.]
Maggie thinks all this over as she pursues her cheerless, aimless
way through the cold cutting wind, and looks into face after face that
has no pity for her. Scarcely knowing why she did it, she took a car
and rode up to the Park, got out, and wandered drearily up and down
among the leafless paths from which all trace of summer greenness had
passed.
Suddenly, a carriage whirred past her. She looked up. There he
sat, driving, and by his side so sweet a lady, and between them a
flaxen-haired little beauty, clasping a doll in her chubby arms!
The sweet-faced woman looks pitifully at the haggard, weary face, and
says something to call the attention of her husband. An angry flush
rises to his face. He frowns, and whips up the horse, and is gone. A
sort of rage and bitterness possess Maggie's soul. What is the use of
trying to do better? Nobody pities her. Nobody helps her. The world is
all against her. Why not go to the bad?
CHAPTER XXXV.
A SOUL IN PERIL.
It will be seen by the way in which we left poor Maggie that she
stood in just one of those critical steep places of life where a
soul is in pain and peril; where the turning of a hair's breadth may
decide between death and life. And it is something, not only to the
individual, but to the whole community, what a woman may become in one
of these crises of life.
Maggie had a rich, warm, impulsive nature, full of passion and energy;
she had personal beauty and the power that comes from it; she had in
her all that might have made the devoted wife and mother, fitted to
give strong sons and daughters to our republic, and to bring them up
to strengthen our country. But, deceived, betrayed, led astray by the
very impulses which should have ended in home and marriage, with even
her best friends condemning her, her own heart condemning her, the
whole face of the world set against her, her feet stood in slippery
places.
There is another life open to the woman whom the world judges and
rejects and condemns; a life short, bad, desperate; a life of revenge,
of hate, of deceit; a life in which woman, outraged and betrayed by
man, turns bitterly upon him, to become the tempter, the betrayer, the
ruiner of man,--to visit misery and woe on the society that condemns
her.
Many a young man has been led to gambling, and drinking, and
destruction; many a wife's happiness has been destroyed; many a mother
has wept on a sleepless pillow over a son worse than dead,--only
because some woman, who at a certain time in her life might have been
saved to honor and good living, has been left to be a vessel of wrath
fitted to destruction. For we have seen in Maggie's history that there
were points all along, where the girl might have been turned into
another and a better way.
If Mrs. Maria Wouvermans, instead of railing at her love of feathers
and flowers, watching for her halting, and seeking occasion against
her, had only had grace to do for her what lies in the power of
every Christian mistress; if she had won her confidence, given her
motherly care and sympathy, and trained her up under the protection of
household influences, it might have been otherwise. Or, supposing that
Maggie were too self-willed, too elate with the flatteries that come
to young beauty, to be saved from a fall, yet, after that fall, when
she rose, ashamed and humbled, there was still a chance of retrieval.
Perhaps there is never a time when man or woman has a better chance,
with suitable help, of building a good character than just after a
humiliating fall which has taught the sinner his own weakness, and
given him a sad experience of the bitterness of sin.
Nobody wants to be sold under sin, and go the whole length in
iniquity; and when one has gone just far enough in wrong living to
perceive in advance all its pains and penalties, there is often an
agonized effort to get back to respectability, like the clutching
of the drowning man for the shore. The waters of death are cold and
bitter, and nobody wants to be drowned.
But it is just at this point that the drowning hand is wrenched off;
society fears that the poor wet wretch will upset its respectable
boat; it pushes him off, and rows over the last rising bubbles.
And this is not in the main because men and women are hard-hearted
or cruel, but because they are busy, every one of them, with their
own works and ways, hurried, driven, with no time, strength, or
heart-leisure for more than they are doing. What is one poor soul
struggling in the water, swimming up stream, to the great pushing,
busy, bustling world?
Nothing in the review of life appears to us so pitiful as the absolute
nothingness of the individual in the great mass of human existence.
To each living, breathing, suffering atom, the consciousness of what
it desires and suffers is so intense, and to every one else so faint.
It is faint even to the nearest and dearest, compared to what it is
to one's self. "The heart knoweth its own bitterness, and a stranger
intermeddleth not therewith."
Suppose you were suddenly struck down to-day by death in any of its
dreadful forms, how much were this to you, how little to the world!
how little even to the friendly world, who think well of you and wish
you kindly! The paper that tells the tale scarcely drops from their
hand; a few shocked moments of pity or lamentation, perhaps, and then
returns the discussion of what shall be for dinner, and whether the
next dress shall be cut with flounces or folds: the gay waves of life
dance and glitter over the last bubble which marks where you sank.
So we have seen poor Maggie, with despair and bitterness in her heart,
wandering, on a miserable cold day, through the Christmas rejoicings
of New York, on the very verge of going back to courses that end
in unutterable degradation and misery; and yet, how little it was
anybody's business to seek or to save her.
"So," said Mrs. Wouvermans, in a tone of exultation, when she heard
of Maggie's flight, "I hope, I'm sure, Eva's had enough of her fine
ways of managing! Miss Maggie's off, just as I knew she'd be. That
girl is a baggage! And now, of course, nothing must do but Mary must
be off to look for her, and then Eva is left with all her house on her
hands. I should think this would show her that my advice wasn't so
altogether to be scorned."
Now, it is not to be presumed that Mrs. Wouvermans really was so cruel
as to exult in the destruction of Maggie, and the perplexity and
distress of her mother, or in Eva's domestic discomfort; yet there was
something very like this in the tone of her remarks.
Whence is the feeling of satisfaction which we have when things that
we always said we knew, turn out just as we predicted? Had we really
rather our neighbor would be proved a thief and a liar than to be
proved in a mistake ourselves? Would we be willing to have somebody
topple headlong into destruction for the sake of being able to say, "I
told you so"?
Mrs. Wouvermans did not ask herself these pointed questions, and so
she stirred her faultless coffee without stirring up a doubt of her
own Christianity--for, like you and me, Mrs. Wouvermans held herself
to be an ordinarily good Christian.
Gentle, easy Mrs. Van Arsdel heard this news with acquiescence. "Well,
girls, so that Maggie's run off and settled the question; and, on the
whole, I'm not sorry, for that ends Eva's responsibility for her; and,
after all, I think your aunt was half right about that matter. One
doesn't want to have too much to do with such people."
"But, mamma," said Alice, "it seems such a dreadful thing that so
young a girl, not older than I am, should be utterly lost."
"Yes, but you can't help it, and such things are happening all the
time, and it isn't worth while making ourselves unhappy about it. I'm
sure Eva acted like a little saint about it, and the girl can have no
one to blame but herself."
"I know," said Alice; "Eva told me about it. It was Aunt Maria, with
her usual vigor and activity, who precipitated the catastrophe. Eva
had just got the girl into good ways, and all was going smoothly, when
Aunt Maria came in and broke everything up. I must say, I think Aunt
Maria is a nuisance."
"Oh, Alice, how can you talk so, when you know that your aunt is
thinking of nothing so much as how to serve and advance you girls?"
"She is thinking of how to carry her own will and pleasure; and we
girls are like so many ninepins that she wants to set up or knock down
to suit her game. Now she has gone and invited those Stephenson girls
to spend the holidays with her."
"Well, you know it's entirely on your account, Alice,--you girls. The
Stephensons are a very desirable family to cultivate."
"Yes; it's all a sort of artifice, so that they may have to invite us
to visit them next summer at Newport. Now, I never was particularly
interested in those girls. They always seemed to me insipid sort of
people; and to feel obliged to be very attentive to them and cultivate
their intimacy, with any such view, is a sort of maneuvering that is
very repulsive to me; it doesn't seem honest."
"But now your aunt has got them, and we must be attentive to them,"
pleaded Mrs. Van Arsdel.
"Oh, of course. What I am complaining of is that my aunt can't let
us alone; that she is always scheming for us, planning ahead for us,
getting people that we must be attentive to, and all that; and then,
because she's our aunt and devoted to our interests, our conscience
is all the while troubling us because we don't like her better. The
truth is, Aunt Maria is a constant annoyance to me, and I reproach
myself for not being grateful to her. Now, Angelique and I are on
a committee for buying the presents for the Christmas-tree of our
mission-school, and we shall have to go and get the tree up; and it's
no small work to dress a Christmas-tree--in fact, we shall just have
our hands full, without the Stephensons. We are going up to Eva's
this very morning, to talk this matter over and make out our lists of
things; and, for my part, I find the Stephensons altogether de trop."
Meanwhile, in Eva's little dominion, peace and prosperity had returned
with the return of cook to the kitchen cabinet. A few days' withdrawal
of that important portion of the household teaches the mistress many
things, and, among others, none more definitely than the real dignity
and importance of that sphere which is generally regarded as least and
lowest.
Mary had come back disheartened from a fruitless quest. Maggie had
indeed been at Poughkeepsie, and had spent a day and a night with a
widowed sister of Mary's, and then, following a restless impulse, had
gone back to New York--none knew whither; and Mary was going on with
her duties with that quiet, acquiescent sadness with which people of
her class bear sorrow which they have no leisure to indulge. The girl
had for two or three years been lost to her; but the brief interval
of restoration seemed to have made the pang of losing her again still
more dreadful. Then, the anticipated mortification of having to tell
Mike of it, and the thought of what Mike and Mike's wife's would
say, were a stinging poison. Though Maggie's flight was really due
in a great measure to Mike's own ungracious reception of her and his
harsh upbraidings, intensified by what she had overheard from Mrs.
Wouvermans, yet Mary was quite sure that Mike would receive it as a
confirmation of his own sagacity in the opinion he had pronounced.
The hardness and apathy with which even near relations will consign
their kith and kin to utter ruin is one of the sad phenomena of life.
Mary knew that Mike would say to her, "Didn't I tell you so? The
girl's gone to the bad; let her go! She's made her bed; let her lie in
it."
It was only from her gentle, sympathetic mistress that Mary met with a
word of comfort. Eva talked with her, and encouraged her to pour out
all her troubles and opened the door of her own heart to her sorrows.
Eva cheered and comforted her all she could, though she had small
hopes, herself.
She had told Mr. Fellows, she said, and Mr. Fellows knew all about New
York--knew everybody and everything--and if Maggie were there he would
be sure to hear of her; "and if she is anywhere in New York I will go
to her," said Eva, "and persuade her to come back and be a good girl.
And don't you tell your brother anything about it. Why need he know?
I dare say we shall get Maggie back, and all going right, before he
knows anything about it."
Eva had just been talking to this effect to Mary in the kitchen, and
she came back into her parlor, to find there poor, fluttering, worried
little Mrs. Betsey Benthusen, who had come in to bewail her prodigal
son, of whom, for now three days and nights, no tidings had been heard.
"I came in to ask you, dear Mrs. Henderson, if anything has been heard
from the advertising of Jack? I declare, I haven't been able to sleep
since he went, I am so worried. I dare say you must think it silly of
me," she said, wiping her eyes, "but I am just so silly. I really
had got so fond of him--I feel so lonesome without him." "Silly, dear
friend!" said Eva in her usual warm, impulsive way, "no, indeed; I
think it's perfectly natural that you should feel as you do. I think,
for my part, these poor dumb pets were given us to love; and if we
do love them, we can't help feeling anxious about them when they are
gone."
"You see," said Mrs. Betsey, "if I only knew--but I don't--if I knew
just where he was, or if he was well treated; but then, Jack is a dog
that has been used to kindness, and it would come hard to him to have
to suffer hunger and thirst, and be kicked about and abused. I lay
and thought about things that might happen to him, last night, till I
fairly cried"--and the tears stood in the misty blue eyes of the faded
little old gentlewoman, in attestation of the possibility. "I got so
wrought up," she continued, "that I actually prayed to my Heavenly
Father to take care of my poor Jack. Do you think that was profane,
Mrs. Henderson?--I just could not help it."
"No, dear Mrs. Betsey, I don't think it was profane; I think it was
just the most sensible thing you could do. You know our Saviour says
that not a sparrow falls to the ground without our Father, and I'm
sure Jack is a good deal larger than a sparrow."
"Well, I didn't tell Dorcas," said Mrs. Betsey, "because she thinks
I'm foolish, and I suppose I am. I'm a broken-up old woman now, and
I never had as much strength of mind as Dorcas, anyway. Dorcas has a
very strong mind," said little Mrs. Betsey in a tone of awe; "she
has tried all she could to strengthen mine, but she can't do much with
me."
Just at this instant, Eva, looking through the window down street,
saw Jim Fellows approaching, with Jack's head appearing above his
shoulder in that easy, jaunty attitude with which the restored lamb
is represented in a modern engraving of the Good Shepherd.
There he sat, to be sure, with a free and easy air of bright, doggish
vivacity; perched aloft with his pink tongue hanging gracefully out of
his mouth, and his great, bright eyes and little black tip of a nose
gleaming out from the silvery thicket of his hair, looking anything
