misfortunes, or seem to give credence to them.
Sam stood at the counter waiting while the proprietor was making
change for another customer. He was considering what he could best say
to propitiate his creditor.
"Now, then," said the man behind the counter, a little impatiently,
for another had come up behind Sam, "where's your ticket?"
"Here, sir," said Sam, laying it on the counter.
"Fifty cents. Pay quick, and don't keep me waiting."
"I am very sorry, sir," Sam began, faltering, "but--"
"But what!" exclaimed the proprietor, with an ominous scowl.
"I can't pay you now."
"Can't pay me now!" repeated the other, angrily; "what do you mean?"
"I've lost my money," said Sam, feeling more and more uncomfortable.
By this time the patience of the restaurant-keeper was quite gone.
"What business had you to come in here and order an expensive
breakfast when you had no money?" he demanded, furiously.
"I thought I had some money," said Sam, fervently wishing himself back
at the deacon's for the first time since his arrival in the city.
"How could you think you had some when you hadn't any?"
"I had some last night," said Sam, eagerly; "but I slept in Mr.
Brown's room, and he must have robbed me in the night."
"That's a likely story!" sneered the proprietor. "What do you think of
it, Mr. Jones?" he asked, turning to a customer, whom he knew by
name.
Mr. Jones shrugged his shoulders.
"Too thin!" he replied, briefly.
"Of course it is," said the proprietor, angrily. "This boy's evidently
a beat."
"A what?" inquired Sam, who had not been in the city long enough to
understand the meaning of the term.
"A dead beat; but you don't play any of your games on me, young man.
I've cut my eye-teeth, I have. You don't swindle me out of a
fifty-cent breakfast quite so easily. Here, John, call a policeman."
"Oh, don't call a policeman!" exclaimed Sam, terror-stricken. "It's
true, every word I've told you. I'm from the country. I only got to
the city yesterday, and I've been robbed of all my money, over six
dollars. I hope you'll believe me."
"I don't believe a word you say," said the restaurant-keeper, harshly.
"You are trying to come it over me. I dare say you've been round the
streets half your life."
"I think you are wrong, Mr. Chucks," said another customer, who was
waiting to pay his bill. "He's got a country look about him. He don't
look like one of the regular street boys. Better let him go. I
wouldn't call a policeman."
"I ought to," grumbled the proprietor. "Fancy his impudence in
ordering a fifty-cent breakfast, when he hadn't a cent to pay his
bill."
"I wouldn't have come in, if I had known," said Sam.
"Don't tell me," said the man, sharply, "for I don't believe it. Do
you think I can afford to give you breakfast for nothing?"
"I'll pay you as soon as I get some money," said Sam. "Only don't send
me to prison."
"I won't give you in charge this time, though I ought to; but I'll
give you something to settle your breakfast. Here, Peter, you waited
on this young man, didn't you?"
"Yes, sir."
"He hasn't paid for his breakfast, and pretends he hasn't got any
money. Bounce him!"
If Sam was ignorant of the meaning of the word "bounce," he was soon
enlightened. The waiter seized him by the collar, before he knew what
was going to happen, pushed him to the door, and then, lifting his
foot by a well-directed kick, landed him across the sidewalk into the
street.
This proceeding was followed by derisive laughter from the other
waiters who had gathered near the door, and it was echoed by two
street urchins outside, who witnessed Sam's ignominious exit from the
restaurant.
Sam staggered from the force of the bouncing, and felt disgraced and
humiliated to think that the waiter who had been so respectful and
attentive should have inflicted upon him such an indignity, which he
had no power to resent.
"I wish I was back at the deacon's," he thought bitterly.
"How do you feel?" asked one of the boys who had witnessed Sam's
humiliation, not sympathetically, but in a tone of mockery.
"None of your business!" retorted Sam, savagely.
"He feels bad, Mickey," said the other. "He's heard bad news, and
that's what made him in such a hurry."
Here both the boys laughed, and Sam retorted angrily, "I'll make you
feel bad, if you aint careful."
"Hear him talk, Mickey,--aint he smart?"
"I'll make you both smart," said Sam, beginning to roll up his
sleeves; for he was no coward, and the boys were only about his own
size.
"He wants to bounce us, like he was bounced himself," said Pat Riley.
"How did it feel, Johnny?"
Sam gave chase, but his tormentors were better acquainted with the
city than he, and he did not succeed in catching them. Finally he gave
it up, and, sitting down on a convenient door-step, gave himself up to
melancholy reflections.
CHAPTER XV.
ANY WAY TO MAKE A LIVING.
Boys who have a good home are apt to undervalue it. They do not
realize the comfort of having their daily wants provided for without
any anxiety on their part. They are apt to fancy that they would like
to go out into the great world to seek their fortunes. Sometimes it
may be necessary and expedient to leave the safe anchorage of home,
and brave the dangers of the unknown sea; but no boy should do this
without his parents' consent, nor then, without making up his mind
that he will need all his courage and all his resolution to obtain
success.
Sam found himself penniless in a great city, and with no way open,
that he could think of, to earn money. Even the business of the
boot-black, humble as it is, required a small capital to buy a brush
and box of blacking. So, too, a newsboy must pay for his papers when
he gets them, unless he is well known. So Sam, sitting on the
door-step, felt that he was in a tight place. Where was he to get his
dinner from? He did not care to repeat his operation of the morning,
for it was not pleasant to be "bounced."
"I wonder if I couldn't get a chance in a store," he thought. "That
wouldn't need any money. There seems to be a lot of stores in the
city. I guess there must be a place for me somewhere."
This thought encouraged Sam. He rose from his lowly seat, and
determined to look about for a place. Presently he came to a
real-estate office. Sam did not understand very well what kind of a
business that was, but on the window a piece of paper was pasted, on
which was written, "A Boy Wanted."
"I guess I'll go in," thought Sam. "Maybe they'll take me."
There were three boys ahead of him; but they were not very
eligible-looking specimens. So they were dismissed with small
ceremony, and Sam was beckoned to the desk.
"I suppose you have come about the place," said a man with black
whiskers, and a pen behind his ear.
"Yes," answered Sam.
"How old are you?"
"Twelve."
"Rather young. Still you are large of your age."
"I am pretty strong," said Sam, anxious to succeed in his
application.
"There isn't any work to be done that requires strength," said the
black-whiskered man. "How is your education?"
"Pretty good," said Sam, with hesitation.
"Do you live in the city?"
"Yes, sir."
"With your parents?"
"No, sir. They are dead."
"That is an objection. Perhaps, however, you live with an aunt or
uncle. That will answer as well."
"Yes," said Sam, determined to obviate this objection. "I live with my
uncle."
"Where does he live?"
"In New York," answered Sam.
"Don't you understand me? I mean to ask the street and number."
Sam was posed. He could not at the moment think of the name of any
street except Broadway. But it would not do to hesitate. So he said
promptly, "He lives at No. 656 Broadway."
"What is his business?" inquired the black-whiskered man.
"He keeps a store," answered Sam, feeling that he was getting deeper
and deeper into the mire.
"What sort of a store?"
"A grocery store."
"What, at 656 Broadway?" demanded the other, in surprise. "I didn't
know there was a grocery store in that neighborhood."
"Oh, murder!" thought Sam. "I'm found out."
He made no answer, because he could not think of any.
"Why don't your father give you a place in his own store?" asked the
real-estate agent, with some suspicion in his tone.
"He's got all the help he wants," said Sam, quickly.
Here another boy entered the office, a boy neatly dressed, and
intelligent in appearance.
"Sit down a moment," said the agent to Sam, "while I speak with this
other lad."
Sam took a seat, and listened to the conversation with the other boy.
The conclusion of the matter was, that the other boy was engaged and
Sam was obliged to go out to offer his services in some other
quarter.
"What a lot of lies I had to tell!" he reflected. "What's the use of
their asking so many questions? I don't see. I'll have to try
somewhere else."
As Sam was sauntering along he was accosted by a tall man, evidently
from the country.
"Boy, can you direct me to the 'Tribune' office?"
"Yes, sir," said Sam, "but it's some ways from here. It'll be worth
ten cents to lead you there."
The gentleman hesitated.
"Well," he said after a pause, "I'll give it to you."
"Will you give it to me now?" asked Sam.
"I will pay you when you have done your work."
"The reason I asked was, because I showed a man the other day, and
then he wouldn't pay me."
"That was mean," said the stranger. "I hope you don't think I would
serve you so."
"Oh, no, sir. You're a gentleman," said Sam. "You wouldn't cheat a
poor boy that hasn't had any breakfast this mornin'."
"Dear me! you don't say so?" ejaculated the compassionate stranger,
shocked at Sam's fiction. "Here, take this twenty-five cents. Do you
often have to go without your breakfast?"
"Often, sir," said Sam, unblushingly. "It's hard times for poor boys
like me."
"There's another quarter," said the stranger, his compassion still
more deeply moved.
Sam did feel some compunction now, for he was about to make a very
poor return for the kindness of his new acquaintance. The fact was, he
had not the slightest idea where the "Tribune" office was, and he had
therefore undertaken what he was unable to perform. But he had gone
too far to recede. Besides, he did not feel prepared to give up the
money which he had obtained through false pretences. So counterfeiting
a confidence which he did not feel he led the way up Centre street,
saying, "This way, sir. I'll lead you right to the office."
"I never was at the office," said the stranger, "though I've been a
subscriber to the weekly 'Tribune' for ten years."
"That's a good while," said Sam.
"It is indeed, my boy. I live in Illinois, more than a thousand miles
from this city. Indeed, I have never been in New York before."
"Haven't you?"
"No; now you, I suppose, my young friend, know your way all about the
city."
"Of course I do," said Sam, in an off-hand manner.
"If I had more time, I would get you to guide me round the city," said
the stranger.
"Wouldn't I lead you a wild-goose chase, old gentleman?" thought Sam.
"You'd be pretty well taken in, I guess."
"I am obliged to go away to-night," continued the old gentleman, "but
I thought I would renew my subscription to the 'Tribune' before I
went."
"All right, sir; it's a nice paper," said Sam, who had never read a
line in the "Tribune."
"So I think. Are we almost at the office?"
"Almost," said Sam. "If you don't mind waiting I'll run over and speak
to my cousin a minute."
There was a boot-black on the opposite side of the street. It struck
Sam, who did not like to deceive so generous a patron, that he could
obtain the information he needed of this boy.
"Can you tell me where the 'Tribune' office is?" he asked hurriedly.
The boot-black had no more scruples about lying than Sam, and
answered, glibly, pointing to the Tombs prison, a little farther on,
"Do you see that big stone buildin'?"
"Yes," said Sam.
"That's it."
"Thank you," said Sam, feeling relieved, and never doubting the
correctness of this statement.
He returned to the stranger, and said, cheerfully, "We're almost
there."
"Is that boy your cousin?" asked his acquaintance.
"Yes," said Sam.
"He blacks boots for a living."
"Yes, sir."
"Does he do well at it?"
"Pretty well."
"Did you ever black boots?"
"No, sir," answered Sam, telling the truth by way of variety.
"That's the Tribune office," said Sam, a moment later, pointing to the
gloomy-looking prison.
"Is it?" echoed the stranger, in surprise. "Really, it's a very
massive structure."
"Yes," said Sam, mistaking the word employed, "it's very massy."
"It doesn't look much like a newspaper office."
For the first time Sam began to suspect that he had been deceived, and
he naturally felt in a hurry to get away.
"You go right in," he said, confidently, "and they'll attend to you
inside. Now I'll go and get some breakfast."
"To be sure. You must be hungry."
The stranger walked up the massive steps, and Sam hurried away.
"I wonder what place that is, anyhow," he said to himself. "Now I've
got money enough for dinner."
For a country boy Sam was getting along fast.
CHAPTER XVI.
SAM MEETS BROWN AND IS UNHAPPY,
Never doubting Sam's assurance, the stranger entered the gloomy
building, the lower part of which is divided into court-rooms. Out of
one of these a man came, to whom he addressed this question: "Where is
the counting-room?"
"The counting-room!" repeated the man, staring. "There isn't any here,
that I know of."
"I want to subscribe for the weekly edition," explained the man from
Illinois.
"It strikes me you're a weakly edition of a man yourself," thought the
other. "He must be a lunatic," was the next thought. "I may as well
humor him."
"Go in at that door," he said.
The stranger entered as directed, and at once recognized it as a
court-room.
"It is very singular that there should be a courtroom in the 'Tribune'
office," he thought. He took a seat, and whispered to a man at his
side: "Can you tell me where the 'Tribune' office is?"
"Printing-house Square," was the whispered reply.
"Where's that?"
"Not much over a quarter of a mile from here."
"The boy deceived me," thought the stranger indignantly, "and I gave
him fifty cents for doing it. He must be a young rascal."
"What building is this?" he asked, still in a whisper.
"The Tombs."
"What, the prison!"
"Yes; didn't you know it?" asked the informant, in surprise.
"I am a stranger in the city," said the Illinois man apologetically.
"Did you want to go to the 'Tribune' office?"
"Yes; I wished to subscribe for the paper."
"I am going that way. I will show you if you desire it."
"Thank you. I shall consider it a favor."
So the two retraced their steps, and this time our Illinois friend
found the office of which he was in quest. He came near finding Sam
also, for as he stood in front of French's Hotel, he saw his recent
acquaintance approaching, and quickly dodged inside the hotel till he
had passed. A boot-black to whom he had been speaking followed him in
surprise.
"I say, what's up, Johnny?" he asked. "Yer didn't see a copp, did
yer?"
"No, it's that man that just went by."
"Who's he?"
"He's the man I ran away from," said Sam, not caring to tell the
truth.
