fidently to Mrs. Dawson. 

In truth, her progress did seem miraculous, but 
through it all Catherine's heart grew heavier. What 
would the future bring to this poor child? 

"Catherine," she exclaimed, coming out into the 
little kitchen, "it is four weeks, since I left Woodlea, 
four weeks this very morning. It seems almost a cen- 
tury." 

" Sickness is always tiresome," was the response. 

' ' And I had not been ill before, in a long while. But, 
if. that were all — " 

"Oh, bairn, you will only excite yourself, talking 
over the pain and trouble." 

" No, Catherine, I air><not going to talk of that, 
though I want to ask you — to Hke a journey with me." 

"Where?" and Catherine paused in the midst of her 
pudding. 

"Not very far. To start this afternoon, and come 
back in the edg^of the evening, perhaps." 

" You will not be afraid ? " 

" Catherine, I think Jasper Cameron has some new 
idea, if you mean that I might be afraid of him. If I 
had fancied before, that he really loved me, I should be 
doubtful now. He seems to be following out some 



resolve, and I cannot fathom him at all. Only one 
thing am I sore of — that at each interview I dislike 
and distrust him more than ever, and feel confident 
that he does not care for my love. He is leagued 
against me, and my other enemy is a beautiful woman." 

Catherine paused in astonishment, and let the soft 
batter from her wooden spoon drip over the carpet. 

" Miss Dora, are, you losing your senses ?" 

" No, Catherine, but I see the plot now. I am not 
as blind as they think. When Mr. Tremaine was young 
he loved this woman. She was a connection of his, and 
very, very handsome. I have seen her picture. She 
jilted him then, and married a man who was fabulously 
wealthy, I believe. Now she is a widow, and has re- 
turned, gone to Woodlea to stay. She is there, trying 
all her winsome arts to gain Ralph, and Mr. Cameron 
is leagued with her to keep me away ! " 

Dora's eyes were restlessly bright, and a scarlet spot 
shone on either cheek. 

'  Child, you are dreaming." 

" No, I am not. Jasper Cameron told me, but he 
little imagined that I should guess it all." 

" Do you believe that any woman would go there 
now, of all times, to stay?" Catherine said aghast, for 
she really began to fear for Dora's mind. 

" Oh, they are in some sort connections, and her 
mother is there also. He, Ralph I mean, calls her aunt, 
but this handsome Mrs. Merrivour is not really his 





cousin. Her husband died six months or so ago, abroad, 
and Mr, Cameron said she had just returned. Yes, 
that is it. They want to keep me away. Will you go, 
Catherine?" 

She glanced at her with feverish anxiety, and her 
thin fingers interlaced each other. 

"Can you stand the journey? And when you are 
there, what will you do?" the wqman asked in slow 
amaze. 

"I want to see him, Catherine, my own precious 
husband. I must tell him of this plot, and beg him to 
wait a little. I think there is some way out of this 
labyrinth. ,, 

" But suppose we sent for him to come here ?" 

" Oh, he would not come, Catherine, you know that 
well. And there is nothing in my going to him," she 
went on sharply. "I am his wife, before God, but I 
shall not ask him to take me back until I am quite free, 
and can go honorably, so you need not be afraid." 

"lam most afraid that your strength will not hold 
out. And if it should be different from what you 
think — " 

" I shall go," Dora answered, resolutely, "even if it 
be alone. No, you cannot dissuade me." 

Catherine did not try, for Dora's face wore its most 
determined look, but she secretly hoped there would be 
a shower, or that Dora would come to think differently 
of the matter. 



All in vain, however. Dora kept strangely bright 
and active, arranged her hair and dress with much in- 
terest, ^nd though there were groups of hazy clouds in 
the sky, there was no appearance of rain. Catherine 
made herself ready, reluctantly, and the carriage came 
for their usual drive. 

Dora had well nigh disguised herself, by putting 
Catherine's choice linen duster over her dress, and it 
enveloped nearly her whole figure. A thick veil hid 
her face from any too curious gaze, and she felt as if 
she might travel quite unknown. Her spirits were in a 
strange flutter, between her highly nervous state and the 
wild expectancy of her mood. Indeed, she did not 
realize the tense strain on every nerve, or dream of 
what a reaction might bring. And now that she had 
resolved to see Mr. Tremaine, something akin to hope 
stirred every pulse. 

On the route, many well-known objects met her 
eye, but she did not allow any one of them to tempt 
her into a familiar glance. It was Catherine who 
bought the tickets and gave them to the conductor, 
shielding her, in every possible manner, from notice or 
remark. 

"Let us take the back road," Dora whispered, ap- 
prehensively. " It is shady, and we shall escape this 
host of travellers. Besides, I do not wish to go to the 
hall or through the lawn." 

Catherine yielded to the pressure on her arm. The 


scene was so quiet and lovely that Dora paused, now 
and then, involuntarily. The murmur of the river, 
fretting its way along the rocky shores, the song of a 
homeward-bound bird, the faint rustle among the trees, 
were so many tender-voices that touched her heart. 

Up the shadowy road, the two found their way. This 
took in a view of the rear, pleasant gardens, and 
miniature, orchards hedged about with evergreens. 
Then clumps of hemlock and cedars, growing more and 
more dense. Dora took long breaths of the resinous 
fragrance. Every step was familiar and delightful. 
At length they paused. Dora was panting, and her 
face flushed and paled alternately. 

" Sit down," said Catherine. " Sit down and rest. 
See, you are all of a tremble." 

Dora leaned her head on Catherine's knee. She had 
only to go up this little, well-worn path, and there 
would be the old picture before her eyes. Why should 
she shrink? 

"We must go on;" she exclaimed presently, in a 
husky tone, turning away her face, that Catherine might 
not see the tears — for she felt miserably weak and 
desparing. 

Through the narrow path they threaded their way, 
coming to a grove of Norway firs and pines. This led 
to a little summer-house — not the one where the roses 
bloomed. They were all gone now. The earliest one 
gathered — where was that ? 



Dora crept cautiously along the winding walks until 
the house was well in view. A side balcony on which 
the library opened — and the shutters were thrown wide 
apart now, the window draperies serving only as a deli- 
cate foil. She took one long, eager glance, not even 
breathing, until she felt a painful constriction of the 
throat. 

There were three persons in the room, and she saw 
them all quite plainty. A rather pensive, elderly woman, 
tojing with a fan, quite at home in the green and golden 
damask arm cBair, her favorite seat. Then that regal 
Edith Merrivour ! 

Dora grew icy cold as she gazed. Beauty was a 
tame word. She might have stepped from some paint- 
er's canvas, or come fresh from the hands of a roj'al 
sculptor, so perfect was every outline — the arrange- 
ment of the abundant hair, the beautiful poise of the 
head, the grace of the snowy neck, the droop of the 
shoulders — indeed the whole contour. The thin, black 
dress she wore was like gossamer, revealing the neck 
and arms, and just at her throat was fastened a white, 
half-blown rose and bud. 

She sat on a tete-a-tete, with Ralph Tremaine beside 
her, reading. Occasionally she glanced up, her large 
entrancing e}~es raised a moment, then lowered, the 
face retaining its position a trifle longer, and just within 
range of his. It seemed, at first, as if Dora must shriek 
with pain, so deep, so like a sword-thrust, was the sight 
to her. 





 



Mr. Tremaine being partly in the shadow, she could 
not clearly see whether time and anxiety had changed 
him or not. But the picture maddened her. Should 
she rush in and confront them, upraid him with perfidy? 

Years ago, he had loved this woman. Now she 
shared his leisure hours, and was fast leading him to 
forget the higher claims of his wife. His wife ! What 
an easy thing it would be to repudiate her now ; the 
law would sustain him in it, of course. Should she 
leave them to drift on to a blissful fate ? This beauti- 
ful siren, in whose glance and smiles he would soon 
forget poor little Dora ! 

It was not all jealous love that rent her soul. Higher 
than human law and public opinion, was based her right 
to his fidelity. Though they might never call each 
other husband and wife again, by her love and suffering, 
by the future in store for her, and one link strpnger 
even than earthty mandate, if his were the brave and 
noble soul that she had always believed it, he must be 
true. In any drear extremity, this would be an ancnor 
to which she could cling. Somehow, at this moment 
she felt her right to him so strongly — this fateful mo- 
ment, when he seemed wavering in his allegianee. 

The reading was ended. The little group paused to 
talk, each one adding a sentence. The lady in the 
chair smiled in a kind of satisfied, motherly fashion, as 
she glanced at the others, and waved her fan languidly. 
Was she thinking of the time, when her beautiful daugh- 



ter should reign mistress here, when that grave, 
thoughtful man should be her son indeed? 

Unconsciously Dora, was not far from right. Mrs. 
Lester was dreaming over the past. If Edith's father 
had not interfered, and she had married Ralph, how 
pleasantly they might all be living in this old house. 
Ralph had prospered wonderfully, and Edith's husband, 
after being a most uncomfortable man to live with, had 
hampered her by his death, as much and more than was 
decent for a man of his means. Poor Edith had never 
been happy. And, then, how strange that this story 
should come out about Ralph's wife, just after Edith was 
left a widow ! 

There might be a peculiar providence in it all, and 
Mrs. Lester gave thanks inwardly that Mr. Merrivour 
was dead, and they were here with dear Ralph, the best 
and tepderest-hearted fellow in the world. As for ]^rs. 
Tremaine, she had proved herself a deceitful, intriguing 
girl, of no principle whatever, and had treated Ralph 
shamefully, so she was hardly worth a thought. 

Poor outcast! This woman's complacency seemed 
to stir every drop of angry blood in her veins, as if 
by some occult spirit of divination. Then she turned 
to the other two. Chatting and smiling, every new 
poise of her head, and every movement, even to the 
change of her hand, were full of fascination. Dora 
watched like one in a spell, hating more bitterly with 
each passing moment. 






They both rose and sauntered out on the balcony. 
