"My wife and I have had a disagreement--we quarrel dreadfully, you
know--and you must decide between us."

"Indeed! What's the trouble now?" said Mr. Elliott, looking from one
to the other.

"Well, you see, we've been discussing the party question, and are at
daggers' points."

The light which had spread over Mr. Elliott's countenance faded off
quickly, and Mr. Birtwell saw it assume a very grave aspect. But he
kept on:

"You never heard anything so preposterous. Mrs. Birtwell actually
proposes that we give a coldwater-and-lemonade entertainment. Ha!
ha!"

The smile he had expected to provoke by this sally did not break
into the clergyman's face.

"But I say," Mr. Birtwell added, "do the thing right, or don't do it
all."

"What do you call right?" asked Mr. Elliott.

"The way it is done by other people--as we did it last year, for
instance."

"I should be sorry to see last year's entertainment repeated if like
consequences must follow," replied Mr. Elliott, becoming still more
serious.

Mr. Birtwell showed considerable annoyance at: this.

"I have just come from a visit to your friend Mrs. Voss," said the
clergyman.

"How is she?" Mrs. Birtwell asked, anxiously.

"I do not think she can last much longer," was replied.

Tears came into Mrs. Birtwell's eyes and fell over her cheeks.

"A few days at most--a few hours, maybe--and she will be at rest.
She spoke of you very tenderly, and I think would like to see you."

"Then I will go to her immediately," said Mrs. Birtwell, rising.
"You must excuse me, Mr. Elliott. I will take the carriage and go
alone," she added, glancing toward her husband.

The two men on being left alone remained silent for a while. Mr.
Birtwell was first to speak.

"I have always felt badly," he said, "about the death of Archie
Voss. No blame attaches to us of course, but it was unfortunate that
he had been at our house."

"Yes, very unfortunate," responded the clergyman. Something in his
voice as well as in his manner awakened an uncomfortable feeling in
the mind of Mr. Birtwell.

They were silent again, neither of them seeming at his ease.

"I had hoped," said Mr. Elliott, breaking at length this silence,
"to find you by this time over upon our side."

"The cold-water side, you mean?" There was perceptible annoyance in
Mr. Birtwell's tone.

"On the side of some reform in our social customs. Why can't you
join with your excellent wife in taking the initiative? You may
count on me to endorse the movement and give it my countenance and
support."

"Thank you, Mr. Elliott, but I'm not your man," returned Mr.
Birtwell. He spoke with decision. "I have no desire to be counted in
with reformers."

"Think of the good you might do."

"I am not a philanthropist."

"Then think of the evil you might prevent."

"The good or the evil resulting from my action, take which side I
may, will be very small," said Mr. Birtwell, with an indifference of
manner that showed his desire to drop the subject. But Mr. Elliott
was only leading the way for some plainer talk, and did not mean to
lose his opportunity.

"It is an error," he said, "to make light of our personal influence
or the consequences that may flow from what we do. The hand of a
child is not too weak to hold the match that fires a cannon. When
evil elements are aggregated, the force required to release them is
often very small. We may purpose no wrong to our neighbor in the
indulgence of a freedom that leads him into fiery temptation; but if
we know that our freedom must of necessity do this, can we escape
responsibility if we do not deny ourselves?"

"It is easy to ask questions and to generalize," returned Mr.
Birtwell, not hiding the annoyance he felt.

"Shall I come down to particulars and deal in facts?" asked Mr.
Elliott.

"If you care to do so."

"I have some facts--very sad and sorrowful ones. You may or may not
know them--at least not all. But you should know them, Mr.
Birtwell."

There was no escape now.

"You half frighten me, Mr. Elliott. What are you driving at?"

"I need not refer," said the clergyman, "to the cases of Archie Voss
and Mr. Ridley."

Mr. Birtwell raised his hands in deprecation.

"Happily," continued Mr. Elliott, "Mr. Ridley has risen from his
fall, and now stands firmer, I trust, than ever, and farther away
from the reach of temptation, resting not in human but in divine
strength. Archie is in heaven, where before many days his mother
will join him."

"Why are you saying this?" demanded Mr. Birtwell. "You are going too
far." His face had grown a little pale.

"I say it as leading to something more," replied the clergyman. "If
there had been no more bitter fruit than this, no more lives
sacrificed, it would have been sad enough. But--"

"Sir, you are trifling," exclaimed Mr. Birtwell, starting from his
chair. "I cannot admit your right to talk to me in this way."

"Be calm, my dear sir," answered Mr. Elliott, laying his hand upon
his companion. "I am not trifling with you. As your warm personal
friend as well as your spiritual counselor, I am here to-night to
give a solemn admonition, and I can best do this through the
communication of facts--facts that stand on record for ever
unchangeable whether you know them or not. Better that you should
know them."

Mr. Birtwell sat down, passive now, his hand grasping the arms of
his chair like one bracing himself for a shock.

"You remember General Abercrombie?"

"Yes."

"Do you know what has become of him?"

"No. I heard something about his having been dismissed from the
army."

"Did you hear the cause?"

"It was drunkenness, I believe."

"Yes, that was the cause. He was a fine officer and a man of high
character, but fell into habits of intemperance. Seeing himself
drifting to certain ruin, he made a vigorous effort to reform his
life. Experience told him that his only safety lay in complete
abstinence, and this rule he adopted. For many months he remained
firm. But he fell at your house. The odor of wine that pervaded all
the air and stirred within him the long-sleeping appetite, the
freedom he saw around him, the invitations that met him from
distinguished men and beautiful women, the pressure of a hundred
influences upon his quickened desires, bore him down at last, and he
fell.

"I heard the whole sad story to-day," continued Mr. Elliott. He did
not even attempt to struggle up again, but abandoned himself to his
fate. Soon after, he was removed from the command of this department
and sent off to the Western frontier, and finally court-martialed
and dismissed from the army.

"To his wife, who was deeply attached to him, General Abercrombie
was when sober one of the kindest and most devoted of husbands, but
a crazy and cruel fiend when drunk. It is said that on the night he
went home from your house last winter strange noises and sudden
cries of fear were heard in their room, and that Mrs. Abercrombie
when seen next morning looked as if she had just come from a bed of
sickness. She accompanied him to the West, but I learned today that
since his dismissal from the army his treatment of her has been so
outrageous and cruel that she has had to leave him in fear of her
life, and is now with her friends, a poor broken-hearted woman. As
for the general, no one seems to know what has become of him."

"And the responsibility of all this you would lay at my door?" said
Mr. Birtwell, in a husky voice, through which quivered a tone of
anger. "But I reject your view of the case entirely. General
Abercrombie fell because he had no strength of purpose and no
control of his appetite. He happened to trip at my house--that is
all. He would have fallen sooner or later somewhere."

"Happened to trip! Yes, that is it, Mr. Birtwell; you use the right
word. He tripped at your house. But who laid the stone of stumbling
in his path? Suppose there had been no wine, served to your guests,
would he have stumbled on that fatal night? If there had been no
wine served, would Archie Voss have lost his way in the storm or
perished in the icy waters? No, my friend, no; and if there had been
no wine served at your board that night, three human lives which
have, alas! been hidden from us by death's eclipse would be shedding
light and warmth upon many hearts now sorrowful and desolate. Three
human lives, and a fourth just going out. There is responsibility,
and neither you nor I can escape it, Mr. Birtwell, if through
indifference or design we permit ourselves to become the instruments
of such dire calamities."

Mr. Birtwell had partly risen from his chair in making the weak
defence to which this was a reply, but now sunk back with an
expression that was half bewilderment and half terror on his
countenance.

"In Heaven's name, Mr. Elliott, what does all this mean?" he cried.
"Three lives and a fourth going out, and the responsibility laid at
my door!"

"It is much easier to let loose an evil power than to stay its
progress," said Mr. Elliott. "The near and more apparent effects we
may see, rarely the remote and secondary. But we know that the
action of all forces, good or evil, is like that of expanding
wave-circles, and reaches far beyond, our sight. It has done so in
this case. Yes, Mr. Birtwell, three lives, and a fourth now
flickering like an expiring candle.

"I would spare you all this if I dared, if I could be
conscience-clear," continued Mr. Elliott. "But I would be faithless
to my duty if I kept silent. You know the sad case of Mrs. Carlton?"

"You don't mean to lay that, too, at my door!" exclaimed Mr.
Birtwell.

"Not directly; it was one of the secondary effects. I had a long
conversation with Dr. Hillhouse to-day. His health has failed
rapidly for some months past, and he is now much broken down. You
know that he performed the operation which cost Mrs. Carlton her
life? Well, the doctor has never got over the shock of that
catastrophe. It has preyed upon his mind ever since, and is one of
the causes of his impaired health."

"I should call that a weakness," returned Mr. Birtwell. "He did his
best. No one is safe from accidents or malign influences. I never
heard that Mr. Carlton blamed him."

"Ah, these malign influences!" said the clergyman. "They meet us
everywhere and hurt us at every turn, and yet not one of them could
reach and affect our lives if some human hand did not set them free
and send them forth among men to, hurt and to destroy. And now let
me tell you of the interview I had with Dr. Hillhouse to-day. He has
given his consent, but with this injunction: we cannot speak of it
to others."

"I will faithfully respect his wishes," said Mr. Birtwell.

"This morning," resumed Mr. Elliott, "I received a note from the
doctor, asking me to call and see him. He was much depressed, and
said he had long wanted to have a talk with me about something that
weighed heavily on his mind. Let me give you his own words as nearly
as I am able to remember them. After some remarks about personal
influence and our social responsibilities, he said:

"'There is one thing, Mr. Elliott, in which you and I and a great
many others I could name have not only been derelict of duty, but
serious wrongdoers. There is an evil in society that more than all
others is eating out its life, and you and I have encouraged that
evil even by our own example, calling it innocent, and so leading
the weak astray and the unwary into temptation.'

"I understood what he meant, and the shock of his including
accusation, his 'Thou art the man,' sent a throb of pain to my
heart. That I had already seen my false position and changed front
did not lessen the shock, for I was only the more sensitive to pain.

"'Happily for you, Mr. Elliott,' he went on. 'no such bitter fruit
has been plucked by your hands as by mine, and I pray God that it
may never be. For a long time I have carried a heavy load here'--he
drew his hand against his breast--'heavier than I have strength to
bear. Its weight is breaking me down. It is no light thing, sir, to
feel at times that you are a murderer.'

"He shivered, and there passed across his face a look of horror. But
it was gone in a moment, though an expression of suffering remained.

"'My dear doctor.' I interposed, 'you have permitted yourself to
fall into a morbid state. This is not well. You are overworked and
need change and relaxation.'

"'Yes,' he replied, a little mournfully 'I am overworked and morbid
and all that, I know, and I must have change and relaxation or I
shall die. Ah, if I could get rid of this heavy weight!' He laid his
hand upon his breast again, and drew a deep inspiration. 'But that
is impossible. I must tell you all about it, but place upon you at
the same time an injunction of silence, except in the case of one
man, Mr. Spencer Birtwell. He is honorable and he should know, and I
can trust him.

"'You remember, of course, the entertainment he gave last winter and
