demonstrated the folly of such an affection, and I have 
compelled myself to read them over slowly, word for 
word, when alone in my own room, and yet I love 
her ! Ignorant, I know she would shame me ; shal- 
low, I know she could not satisfy me ; as a wife she 
would inevitably drag me down to misery, and yet I 
love her ! I had not been on the island a week before 
I saw her, and marked her beauty. Months before 
you invited her to the fort I had become infatuated 
with her singular loveliness ; but, in some respects, 
a race of the blood-royal could not be prouder than 
these French fishermen. They will accept your money, 
they will cheat you, they will tell you lies for an extra 
shilling ; but make one step toward a simple acquaint- 
ance, and the door will be shut in your face. They 
will bow down before you as a customer, but they will 
 
not have you for a friend. Thus I found it impossible 
to reach Jeannette. I do not say that I tried, for all 
the time I was fighting myself; but I went far enough 
to see the barriers. It seemed a fatality that you 
should take a fancy to her, have her here, and ask me 
to admire her, admire the face that haunted me by 
day and by night, driving me mad with its beauty. 
" I realized my danger, and called to my aid all the 
pride of my race. I said to my heart, ' You shall not 
love this ignorant half-breed girl to your ruin.' I rea- 
soned with myself, and said, ' It is only because you 
are isolated on this far-away island. Could you pre- 
sent this girl to your mother ? Could she be a com- 
panion for your sisters ? ' I was beginning to gain 
a firmer control over myself, in spite of her presence, 
when you unfolded your plan of education. Fatality 
again. Instantly a crowd of hopes surged up. The 
education you began, could I not finish ? She was but 
young; a few years of careful teaching might work 
wonders. Could I not train this forest flower so that 
it could take its place in the garden? But, when I 
actually saw this full-grown woman unable to add the 
simplest sum or write her name correctly, I was again 
ashamed of my infatuation. It is one thing to talk 
of ignorance, it is another to come face to face with it. 
Thus I wavered, at one moment ready to give up all 
for pride, at another to give up all for love. 
" Then came the malicious suggestion of negro blood. 
 
Could it be proved, I was free ; that taint I could not 
pardon. [And here, even as the surgeon spoke, I 
noticed this as the peculiarity of the New England 
Abolitionist. Theoretically he believed in the equality 
of the enslaved race, and stood ready to maintain the 
belief with his life, but practically he held himself 
entirely aloof from them; the Southern creed and 
practice were the exact reverse.] I made inquiries 
of Father Piret, who knows the mixed genealogy of 
the little Trench colony as far back as the first voya- 
geurs of the fur trade, and found as I, shall I say 
hoped or feared ? that the insinuation was utterly 
false. Thus I was thrown back into the old tumult. 
" Then came that evening in this parlor when Jean- 
nette made the coffee and baked little cakes over the 
coals. Do you remember the pathos with which she 
chanted File, file, pauvre Marie; File, jtte, pour le 
prisonnier ? Do you remember how she looked when 
she repeated ' Ivry ' ? Did that tender pity, that ring- 
ing inspiration, come from a dull mind and shallow* 
heart? I was avenged of my enforced disdain, my 
love gave itself up to delicious hope. She was capable 
of education, and then ! I made a pretext of old 
Antoine's cough in order to gain an opportunity of 
speaking to her alone ; but she was like a thing pos- 
sessed, she broke from me and sprang over the icy 
cliff, her laugh coming back on the wind as I followed 
her down the dangerous slope. On she rushed, jump- 
ing from rock to rock, waving her hand in wild glee 
when the moon shone out, singing and shouting with 
merry scorn at my desperate efforts to reach her. It 
was a mad chase, but only on the plain below could 
I come up with her. There, breathless and eager, I 
unfolded to her my plan of education. I only went 
so far as this : I was willing to send her to school, 
to give her opportunities of seeing the world, to pro- 
vide for her whole future. I left the story of my love 
to come afterward. She laughed me to scorn. As 
well talk of education to the bird of the wilderness ! 
She rejected my offers, picked up snow to throw in 
my face, covered me with her French sarcasms, danced 
around me in circles, laughed, and mocked, until I was 
at a 'loss to know whether she was human. Finally, 
as a shadow darkened the moon, she fled away ; and 
when it passed she was gone, and I was alone on the 
snowy plain. 
" Angry, fierce, filled with scorn for myself, I deter- 
mined resolutely to crush out my senseless infatuation. 
I threw myself into such society as we had ; I assumed 
an interest in that inane Miss Augusta; I read and 
studied far into the night ; I walked until sheer fatigue 
gave me tranquillity ; but all I gained was lost in that 
encounter at the Arch : you remember it ? When I 
saw her on that narrow bridge, my love burst its bonds 
again, and, senseless as ever, rushed to save her, to 
save her, poised on her native rocks, where every inch 
 
was familiar from childhood ! To save her, sure- 
footed and light as a bird ! I caught her. She strug- 
gled in my arms, angrily, as an imprisoned animal 
might struggle, but so beautiful ! The impulse came 
to me to spring with her into the gulf below, and so 
end the contest forever. I might have done it, I 
cannot tell, but, suddenly, she wrenched herself out 
of my arms and fled over the Arch, to the farther side. 
I followed, trembling, blinded, with the violence of my 
emotion. At that moment I was ready to give up my 
life, my soul, into her hands. 
" In the woods beyond she paused, glanced over her 
shoulder toward me, then turned eagerly. ' Voilci? she 
said, pointing. I looked down and saw several silver 
pieces that had dropped from my pocket as I sprang 
over the rocks, and, with an impatient gesture, I thrust 
them aside with my foot. 
"' Nonj she cried, turning toward me and stooping 
eagerly, 'so much! O, so much! See! four shil- 
lings ! ' Her eyes glistened with longing as she held 
the money in her hand and fingered each piece lov- 
ingly. 
"The sudden revulsion of feeling produced by her 
words and gesture filled me with fury. ' Keep it, and 
buy yourself a soul if you can ! ' I cried ; and turning 
away, I left her with her gains. 
" ' Merci, monsieur? she answered gayly, all unmind- 
ful of my scorn ; and off she ran, holding her treasure 
 
 
tightly clasped in both hands. I could hear her sing- 
ing far down the path. 
"It is a bitter thing to feel a scorn for yourself! 
Did I love this girl who stooped to gather a few shil- 
lings from under my feet ? Was it, then, impossible 
for me to conquer this ignoble passion ? No ; it could 
not and it should not be ! I plunged again into all 
the gayety; I left myself not one free moment; if 
sleep came not, I forced it to come with opiates ; 
Jeannette had gone to the fishing-grounds, the weeks 
passed, I did not see her. I had made the hardest 
struggle of all, and was beginning to recover my self- 
respect when, one day, I met her in the woods with 
some children ; she had returned to gather blueberries. 
I looked at her. She was more gentle than usual, and 
smiled. Suddenly, as an embankment which has with- 
stood the storms of many winters gives way at last in 
a calm summer night, I yielded. Without one outward 
sign, I laid down my arms. Myself knew that the 
contest was over, and my other self rushed to her feet. 
"Since then I have often seen her; I have made 
plan after plan to meet her; I have degrading 
thought ! paid her to take me out in her canoe, under 
the pretence of fishing. I no longer looked forward ; 
I lived only in the present, and thought only of when 
and where I could see her. Thus it has been until this 
morning, when the orders came. Now, I am brought 
face to face with reality ; I must go ; can I leave her 
 
behind ? For hours I have been wandering in the 
woods. Aunt Sarah, it is of no use, I cannot live 
without her ; I must marry her." 
" Marry Jeannette ! " I exclaimed. 
" Even so." 
" An ignorant half-breed ? " 
" As you say, an ignorant half-breed." 
" You are mad, Eodney." 
" " I know it." . 
I will not repeat all I said ; but, at last, silenced, if 
not convinced, by the power of this great love, I started 
with him out into the wild night to seek Jeannette. 
We went through the village and round the point, 
where the wind met us, and the waves broke at our 
feet with a roar. Passing the row of cabins, with their 
twinkling lights, we reached the home of Jeannette 
and knocked at the low door. The Indian mother 
opened it. I entered, without a word, and took a seat 
near the hearth, where a drift-wood fire was burning. 
Jeannette came forward with a surprised look. "You 
little think what good fortune is coming to you, child," 
I thought, as I noted her coarse dress and the poor 
furniture of the little room. 
Eodney burst at once into his subject. 
"Jeannette," he said, going toward her, "I have come 
to take you away with me. You need not go to school; 
I have given up that idea, I accept you as you 
are. You shall have silk dresses and ribbons, like the 
 
ladies at the Mission-House this summer. You shall 
see all the great cities, you shall hear beautiful music. 
You shall have everything you want, money, bright 
shillings, as many as you wish. See! Mrs. Corlyne 
has come with me to show you that it is true. This 
morning we had orders to leave Mackinac ; in a few 
days we must go. But listen, Jeannette ; I will 
marry you. You shall be my wife. Do not look so 
startled. I mean it; it is really true." 
" Qu'est-ce-que-c'est ? " said the girl, bewildered by 
the rapid, eager words. 
"Dr. Prescott wishes to marry you, child," I ex- 
plained, somewhat sadly, for never had the disparity 
between them seemed so great. The presence of the 
Indian mother, the common room, were like silent 
protests. 
" Marry ! " ejaculated Jeannette. 
" Yes, love," said the surgeon, ardently. " It is quite 
true ; you shall be my wife. Father Piret shall marry 
us. I will exchange into another regiment, or, if ne- 
cessary, I will resign. Do you understand what I am 
saying, Jeannette? See! I give you my hand, in 
token that it is true." 
But, with a quick bound, the girl was across the 
room. " What ! " she cried. " You think I marry you ? 
Have you not heard of Baptiste ? Know, then, that 
I love one finger of him more than all you, ten times, 
hundred times." 
 
"Baptiste?" repeated Eodney. 
" Oui, mon cousin, Baptiste, the fisherman. "We 
marry soon tenez la fete de Saint Andr&" 
Eodney looked bewildered a moment, then his face 
cleared. " Oh ! a child engagement ? That is one of 
your customs, I know. But never fear; Father Piret 
will absolve you from all that. Baptiste shall have 
a fine new boat ; he will let you off for a handful of 
silver-pieces. Do not think of that, Jeannette, but 
come to me " 
" Je vous abkorre ; je, voiis d&este," cried the girl 
with fury as he approached. " Baptiste not love me ? 
He love me more than boat and silver dollar, more 
than all the world ! And I love him ; I die for him ! 
Allez-vous-en, traitre ! " 
Eodney had grown white; he stood before her, 
motionless, with fixed eyes. 
" Jeannette," I said in French, " perhaps you do not 
understand. Dr. Prescott asks you to marry him ; 
Father Piret shall marry you, and all your friends 
shall come. Dr. Prescott will take you away from 
this hard life ; he will make you rich ; he will support 
your father and mother in comfort. My child, it is 
wonderful good fortune. He is an educated gentle- 
man, and loves .you truly." 
" What is that to me ? " replied Jeannette, proudly. 
"Let him go, I care not." She paused a moment. 
Then, with flashing eyes, she cried, " Let' him go with 
 
his fine new boat and silver dollars ! He does not 
believe me ? See, then, how I despise him ! " And, 
rushing forward, she struck him on the cheek. 
Eodney did not stir, but stood gazing at her while 
the red mark glowed on his white face. 
"You know not what love is," said Jeannette, with 
indescribable scorn. " You ! You ! Ah, mon Baptiste, 
ou es-tu? But thou wilt kill him, kill him for his 
boats and silver dollars ! " 
" Child ! " I said, startled by her fury. 
" I am not a child. Je suis femme, moi I " replied 
Jeannette, folding her arms with haughty grace. 
"Allez!" she said, pointing toward the door. We 
were dismissed. A queen could not have made a 
more royal gesture. 
Throughout the scene the Indian mother had not 
stopped her knitting. 
In four days we were afloat, and the little white fort 
was deserted. It was a dark afternoon, and we sat 
clustered on the stern of the steamer, watching the flag 
come slowly down from its staff in token of the de- 
parture of the commanding officer. " Isle of Beauty, 
fare thee well," sang the major's fair young wife, with 
the sound of tears in her sweet voice. . 
"We shall return," said the officers. But not one 
of them ever saw the beautiful island again. 
Eodney Prescott served a month or two in Florida, 
 
"taciturn and stiff as ever," Archie wrote. Then he 
resigned suddenly, and went abroad. He has never 
returned, and I have lost all trace of him, so that I 
cannot say, from any knowledge of my own, how long 
the feeling lived, the feeling that swept me along in 
its train down to the beach- cottage that wild night. 
Each man who reads this can decide for himself. 
Each woman has decided already. 
Last year I met an islander on the cars, going east- 
ward. It was the first time he had ever been "be- 
low " ; but he saw nothing to admire, that dignified 
citizen of Mackinac ! 
" What has become of Jeannette Leblanc ? " I 
asked. 
" Jeannette ? O, she married that Baptiste, a lazy, 
good-for-nothing fellow ! They live in the same little 
cabin round the point, and pick up a living most any- 
how for their tribe of young ones." 
"Are they happy?" 
" Happy ? " repeated my islander, with a slow stare. 
" Well, I suppose they are, after their fashion ; I don't 
know much about them. In my opinion, they are a 
shiftless set, those French half-breeds round the point." 
