secured seats on the outside.
“This is the coupé in Spain, but it is the banquette in
Switzerland,” said he, when they were seated. “It is
called the dickey in England.”
“But the box for three passengers, with windows in
the front of the diligence, is always the coupé,” added
Sheridan.
“Not in Spain: that is called the berlina here. The
middle compartment, holding four or six, is el interior;
and la rotundo, in the rear, like an omnibus, holds six.
The last is used by the common people because it is
the cheapest.”
“But this seat is not long enough for four,” protested
Murray, when the conductor directed another officer to
mount the coupé”.
“Come up, commodore: I think we can make room
for you,” added Sheridan.
“This is a long team,” said Commodore Cantwell,
when they were seated,—“ten mules and horses.”
“I have travelled with sixteen,” added the doctor.
On a seat wide enough for two, under the windows
of the berlina, the driver took his place. His reins
were a couple of ropes reaching to the outside ends of
the bits of the wheel–horses. He was more properly
the brakeman, since he had little to do with the team,
except to yell at the animals. On the nigh horse or
mule, as he happened to be, rode a young man who
conducted the procession. He is called the delantero.
The zagal is a fellow who runs at the side of the
animals, and whips them up with a long stick. The
mayoral is the conductor, who is sometimes the driver;
but in this case he seemed to have the charge of all
the diligences.
“Oja! oja!” (o–ha) yelled the driver. The zagal
began to hammer the brutes most unmercifully, and the
team started at a lively pace.
“That’s too bad!” exclaimed Sheridan, when he saw
the zagal pounding the mules over the backbone with
his club, which was big enough to serve for a bean–pole.
“I agree with you, captain, but we can’t help ourselves,”
added the doctor. “That villain will keep it
up till we get to the end of our journey.”
The dilijencia passed out of the town, and went
through a wild country with no signs of any inhabitants.
The road was as bad as a road could be, and
was nothing but a track beaten over the fields, passing
over rocks and through gullies and pools of water.
Carts, drawn by long strings of mules or donkeys,
driven by a peasant with a gun over his shoulder, were
occasionally met; but the road was very lonely. Half
way to Loxa they came to a river, over which was a
narrow bridge for pedestrians; but the dilijencia had
to ford the stream.
At this point the horses and mules were changed;
and some of the students went over the bridge, and
walked till they were overtaken by the coaches. At
three o’clock they drove into Loxa. The streets of
the town are very steep and very narrow; and the zagal
had to crowd the team over to the opposite side, in
order to get the vehicle around the corners. The
students on the outside could have jumped into the
windows of the houses on either side, and people on
the ground often had to dodge into the doorways, to
keep from being run over. From this place the party
proceeded to Granada by railroad. Crossing a part of
this city, which is a filthy hole, the party went to the
Hotel Washington Irving, and the Hotel Siete Suelos,
both of which are at the very gate of the Alhambra.
The doctor and his friends were quartered at the
former hotel, which is a very good one, but more expensive
than the Siete Suelos on the other side of the
street. They are both in the gardens of the Alhambra,
the avenues of which are studded with noble elms, the
gift of the Duke of Wellington.
“And this is the Alhambra,” said Capt. Sheridan, as
the trio came out for a walk, after dinner.
“What is the meaning of the name of that hotel?”
“Hotel de los Siete Suelos,—the hotel of the seven
stories, or floors.”
“But it hasn’t more than four or five.”
“Haven’t you read Irving’s Alhambra? He mentions
a tower with this name, in which was the gate
where Boabdil left the Alhambra for the last time. It
was walled up at the request of the Moor.”
The party walked about the gardens till it was dark.
The next morning, before the ship’s company were
ready, the doctor and the three highest officers entered
the walled enclosure.
“This is the Tower of Justice,” said the doctor, as
they paused at the entrance. “It is so called because
the Moorish kings administered the law to the people
here. You see the hand and the key carved over the
door. If you ask the grandson of Mateo Ximenes,
who is a guide here, what it means, he will tell you
the Moors believed that, when this hand reached
down and took the key, the Alhambra might be captured;
but not till then. Then he will tell you that
they were mistaken; and give glory to the Spaniards.
The key was the Moslem symbol for wisdom and
knowledge; and the hand, of the five great commandments
of their religion.”
The party entered the tower, in which is an altar,
and passed into the square of the cisterns. Charles V.
began to build a huge palace on one side of it; but
the fear of earthquakes induced him to desist. He
destroyed a portion of the Moorish palace to make
room for it. The visitors entered an office where they
registered their names, paid a couple of pesetas, and
received a plan of the palace. The first names in the
book are those of Washington Irving and his Russian
companion.
“This is the Court of the Myrtles,” said the doctor,
as they entered the first and largest court of the
palace. “It is also called ‘the Court of Blessing,’
because the Moors believed water was a blessing; and
this pond contains a good deal of it.”
“My guide–book does not call it by either of these
names,” said Commodore Cantwell, who had Harper’s
Guide in his hand. “It says here it is ‘the Patio de la
Alberca,’ or fish–pond.”
“And so says Mr. Ford, who is the best authority on
Spain. We must not try to reconcile the differences in
guide–books. We had better call it after the myrtles
that surround the tank, and let it go at that. This
court is the largest of the palace, though it is only one
hundred and forty by seventy–five feet. But the Alhambra
is noted for its beauty, and not for its size. We
will now pass into the Court of the Lions,” continued
the doctor, leading the way. “This is the most celebrated,
as it is the most beautiful, part of the palace.”
“I have seen many pictures of it, but I supposed it
was ten times as large as it is,” said Sheridan.
“It is about one hundred and twenty by seventy feet.
There are one hundred and twenty–four columns around
the court. Now we must stop and look at the wonderful
architecture and exquisite workmanship. Look at
these graceful arches, and examine that sort of lace–work
in the ceilings and walls.”
While they were thus occupied, the ship’s company
came into the court, and the principal called them
together to hear Professor Mapps on the history of
the Alhambra.
 “In 1238 Ibnu–I–Ahamar founded the kingdom of Granada, and he built the
 Alhambra for his palace and fortress. In Arabic it was Kasr–Alhamra,
 or Red Castle; and from this comes the present name. The Vermilion
 Tower was a part of the original fortress. Under this monarch, whose
 title was Mohammed I., Granada became very prosperous and powerful.
 When the Christians captured Valencia, the Moors fled to Granada, and
 fifty thousand were added to the population of the kingdom; and it
 is estimated that a million more came when Seville and Cordova were
 conquered by the Castilians. The work of this king was continued by his
 successors; and the Alhambra was finished in 1333 by Yosuf I. He built
 the Gate of Judgment, Justice, or Law, as it is variously called, and
 the principal parts of the palace around you. The city was in its glory
 then, and is said to have had half a million inhabitants. But family
 quarrels came into the house of the monarch, here in the Alhambra; and
 this was the beginning of the decline of the Moorish power.
 “Abul–Hassan had two wives. One of them was Ayesha; and the other was
 a very beautiful Christian lady called Zoraya, or the Morning Star.
 Ayesha was exceedingly jealous of the other; and fearing that the son of
 the Morning Star, instead of her own, might succeed to the crown, she
 organized a powerful faction. On Zoraya’s side were the Beni–Serraj,
 whom the Spaniards called the Abencerrages. They were the descendants
 of a vizier of the King of Cordova,—Abou–Serraj. Abou–Abdallah was the
 eldest son of Ayesha; and in 1482 he dethroned his father. The name
 of this prince became Boabdil with the Spaniards; and so he is called
 in Mr. Irving’s works. As soon as he came into power, his mother, and
 the Zegris who had assisted her, persuaded him to retaliate upon the
 Abencerrages for the support they had given to Zoraya. Under a deceitful
 plea, he gathered them together in this palace, where the Zegris were
 waiting for them. One by one they were called into one of these courts,
 and treacherously murdered. Thus was Granada deprived of its bravest
 defenders; and the Moors were filled with indignation and contempt for
 their king. While they were quarrelling among themselves, Ferdinand and
 Isabella advanced upon Granada. They had captured all the towns and
 strong fortresses; and there was nothing more to stay their progress.
 For nine months the sovereigns besieged the city before it fell. It was
 a sad day for the Moors when the victors marched into the town. There
 is a great deal of poetry and romance connected with this palace and
 the Moslems who were driven out of it. You should read Mr. Lockhart’s
 translation of the poems on these subjects, and the works of Prescott
 and Irving.”
When the professor had completed his account, the
doctor’s party passed in to the right, entering one of
the apartments which surround the court on three of its
sides.
“That’s as mean a lot of lions as I ever saw,” said
Murray, who had lingered at the fountain which gives
its name to the court.
“The sculpture of the lions is certainly very poor;
but we can’t have every thing,” replied the doctor.
“This is the Hall of the Abencerrages; and it gets its
name from the story Mr. Mapps has just told you.
Some say these nobles were slain in this room; and
others, that they were beheaded near the fountain in
the court, where the guides point out a dark spot as the
stain of blood. You must closely examine the work in
this little room if you wish to appreciate it.”
They returned to the Court of the Lions, and, crossing
it, entered the Hall of the Two Sisters. The students
expected to hear some romance told of these
two ladies; but they proved to be two vast slabs in
the floor. This room and that of the Abencerrages
were probably the sleeping apartments of the monarch’s
family; and several small chambers, used for baths and
other purposes, are connected with them. On each
side of them are raised platforms for the couches. At
the farther end of the court is the council–hall of justice.
It is long and narrow, seventy–five by sixteen feet; and
is very elaborately ornamented.
At the northern end of the Court of Myrtles, is the
Hall of Ambassadors, which occupies the ground floor
of the Tower of Comares. It is the largest apartment
of the palace, seventy–five by thirty–seven feet. This
was the throne–room, or hall of audience, of the monarchs.
The doctor again insisted that his pupils should
scrutinize the work; and he called their attention to the
horseshoe arches and various other forms and shapes,
to the curious niches and alcoves, to the delicate coloring
in the ceilings and on the walls, and to the interlacing
designs, in the portions of the palace they visited.
They had now seen the principal apartments on the
ground floor; and they ascended to the towers, the open
galleries of which are a peculiarity in the construction
of the edifice. They were shown the rooms occupied
by Washington Irving when he “succeeded to Boabdil,”
and became an inhabitant of the Alhambra; but the
Alhambra is a thing to be seen, and not described.
They visited the Royal Chapel, the fortress, and for
two days they were busy as bees, though one day was
enough to satisfy most of the students.
On the third day of their sojourn at the Alhambra,
the doctor’s party visited the Generalife. The name
means “The Garden of the Architect,” who was probably
an employee of the king; but the palace was purchased
and used as a pleasure–house by one of the
kings. The sword of Boabdil is shown here. The
gardens, which are about all the visitor sees, are more
quaint than beautiful. The walks are hedged in with
box, and the cypress–trees are trimmed in square
blocks, as in the gardens of Versailles. Passing
through these, the visitor ascends a tower on a hill,
which commands a magnificent view of Granada and
the surrounding country.
The abundance of water in and around the Alhambra
attracts the attention of the tourist. The walks
have a stream trickling down the hill on each side. It
comes from the snow–crowned Sierra Nevadas; and, the
warmer the weather, the faster do the ice and snow
melt, and the greater is the flow of the water. In the
Alhambra and in the Generalife these streams of water
are to be met at almost every point.
One day was given to the city of Granada, though
the visitor cares but little for any thing but the Alhambra.
Without mentioning what may be seen in the
cathedral in detail, there is one sight there which is
almost worth the pilgrimage to the city; and that is the
tomb of Ferdinand and Isabella. Dr. Winstock ordered
a carriage for the purpose of taking his charge
to the church.
When the team appeared at the door of the hotel,
the students were very much amused at its singular
character; for it was a very handsome carriage, but it
was drawn by mules. The harness was quite elaborate
and elegant; yet to be drawn by these miserable mules
seemed to some of the party to be almost a disgrace.
But the doctor said that they had been highly honored,
since they had been supplied with what was doubtless
the finest turnout to be had. These mules were very
large and handsome for their kind, and cost more
money than the finest horses. After this explanation,
they were satisfied to ride behind a pair of mules.
There are plenty of pictures and sculptures in the
cathedral; but the party hastened to the royal chapel
built by order of the sovereigns, which became their
burial–place. The mausoleum is magnificent beyond
description. It consists of two alabaster sepulchres in
the centre of the chapel, on one of which are the forms
of Ferdinand and Isabella, and on the other those of
Crazy Jane and Philip, the parents of Charles V. But
the lion of the place, to the students, was the vault
below the chapel, to which they were conducted, down
a narrow staircase of stone, by the attendant. On a
low dais in the middle of the tomb were two very ordinary
coffins, not differing from those in use in New
England, except that they were strapped with iron
bands.
“This one, marked ‘F,’ contains the remains of Ferdinand,”
said the doctor, in a low tone. “The other
has an ‘I’ upon it, and holds all that time has left of
the mortal part of Isabella, whose patronage enabled
Columbus to discover the New World.”
“Is it possible that the remains of Ferdinand and
Isabella are in those coffins?” exclaimed Sheridan.
“There is not a doubt of the fact. Eight years ago
the late queen of Spain visited Granada, and caused
mass to be said for the souls of these sovereigns at the
same altar used by them at the taking of the city.
Some of the guides will tell you that these coffins
were opened at this time, and the remains of the king
