“hundreds” and “thousands” were mere fanciful forms of speech, and that
no such sums really existed in the world. He never had supposed for
a moment that so large a sum as a hundred dollars was to be found in
actual money in any one’s possession. If his notions of hidden treasure
had been analyzed, they would have been found to consist of a handful of
real dimes and a bushel of vague, splendid, ungraspable dollars.
But the incidents of his adventure grew sensibly sharper and clearer
under the attrition of thinking them over, and so he presently found
himself leaning to the impression that the thing might not have been a
dream, after all. This uncertainty must be swept away. He would snatch a
hurried breakfast and go and find Huck. Huck was sitting on the gunwale
of a flatboat, listlessly dangling his feet in the water and looking
very melancholy. Tom concluded to let Huck lead up to the subject. If
he did not do it, then the adventure would be proved to have been only a
dream.
“Hello, Huck!”
“Hello, yourself.”
Silence, for a minute.
“Tom, if we’d ‘a’ left the blame tools at the dead tree, we’d ‘a’ got
the money. Oh, ain’t it awful!”
“‘Tain’t a dream, then, ‘tain’t a dream! Somehow I most wish it was.
Dog’d if I don’t, Huck.”
“What ain’t a dream?”
“Oh, that thing yesterday. I been half thinking it was.”
“Dream! If them stairs hadn’t broke down you’d ‘a’ seen how much dream
it was! I’ve had dreams enough all night--with that patch-eyed Spanish
devil going for me all through ‘em--rot him!”
“No, not rot him.  Find  him! Track the money!”
“Tom, we’ll never find him. A feller don’t have only one chance for such
a pile--and that one’s lost. I’d feel mighty shaky if I was to see him,
anyway.”
“Well, so’d I; but I’d like to see him, anyway--and track him out--to his
Number Two.”
“Number Two--yes, that’s it. I been thinking ‘bout that. But I can’t make
nothing out of it. What do you reckon it is?”
“I dono. It’s too deep. Say, Huck--maybe it’s the number of a house!”
“Goody!... No, Tom, that ain’t it. If it is, it ain’t in this one-horse
town. They ain’t no numbers here.”
“Well, that’s so. Lemme think a minute. Here--it’s the number of a
room--in a tavern, you know!”
“Oh, that’s the trick! They ain’t only two taverns. We can find out
quick.”
“You stay here, Huck, till I come.”
Tom was off at once. He did not care to have Huck’s company in public
places. He was gone half an hour. He found that in the best tavern, No.
2 had long been occupied by a young lawyer, and was still so occupied.
In the less ostentatious house, No. 2 was a mystery. The tavern-keeper’s
young son said it was kept locked all the time, and he never saw anybody
go into it or come out of it except at night; he did not know any
particular reason for this state of things; had had some little
curiosity, but it was rather feeble; had made the most of the mystery
by entertaining himself with the idea that that room was “ha’nted”; had
noticed that there was a light in there the night before.
“That’s what I’ve found out, Huck. I reckon that’s the very No. 2 we’re
after.”
“I reckon it is, Tom. Now what you going to do?”
“Lemme think.”
Tom thought a long time. Then he said:
“I’ll tell you. The back door of that No. 2 is the door that comes out
into that little close alley between the tavern and the old rattle trap
of a brick store. Now you get hold of all the doorkeys you can find, and
I’ll nip all of auntie’s, and the first dark night we’ll go there and
try ‘em. And mind you, keep a lookout for Injun Joe, because he said he
was going to drop into town and spy around once more for a chance to get
his revenge. If you see him, you just follow him; and if he don’t go to
that No. 2, that ain’t the place.”
“Lordy, I don’t want to foller him by myself!”
“Why, it’ll be night, sure. He mightn’t ever see you--and if he did,
maybe he’d never think anything.”
“Well, if it’s pretty dark I reckon I’ll track him. I dono--I dono. I’ll
try.”
“You bet I’ll follow him, if it’s dark, Huck. Why, he might ‘a’ found
out he couldn’t get his revenge, and be going right after that money.”
“It’s so, Tom, it’s so. I’ll foller him; I will, by jingoes!”
“Now you’re  talking ! Don’t you ever weaken, Huck, and I won’t.”
CHAPTER XXVIII
THAT night Tom and Huck were ready for their adventure. They hung about
the neighborhood of the tavern until after nine, one watching the alley
at a distance and the other the tavern door. Nobody entered the alley or
left it; nobody resembling the Spaniard entered or left the tavern
door. The night promised to be a fair one; so Tom went home with the
understanding that if a considerable degree of darkness came on, Huck
was to come and “maow,” whereupon he would slip out and try the keys.
But the night remained clear, and Huck closed his watch and retired to
bed in an empty sugar hogshead about twelve.
Tuesday the boys had the same ill luck. Also Wednesday. But Thursday
night promised better. Tom slipped out in good season with his aunt’s
old tin lantern, and a large towel to blindfold it with. He hid the
lantern in Huck’s sugar hogshead and the watch began. An hour before
midnight the tavern closed up and its lights (the only ones thereabouts)
were put out. No Spaniard had been seen. Nobody had entered or left the
alley. Everything was auspicious. The blackness of darkness reigned,
the perfect stillness was interrupted only by occasional mutterings of
distant thunder.
Tom got his lantern, lit it in the hogshead, wrapped it closely in the
towel, and the two adventurers crept in the gloom toward the tavern.
Huck stood sentry and Tom felt his way into the alley. Then there was
a season of waiting anxiety that weighed upon Huck’s spirits like a
mountain. He began to wish he could see a flash from the lantern--it
would frighten him, but it would at least tell him that Tom was alive
yet. It seemed hours since Tom had disappeared. Surely he must have
fainted; maybe he was dead; maybe his heart had burst under terror and
excitement. In his uneasiness Huck found himself drawing closer
and closer to the alley; fearing all sorts of dreadful things, and
momentarily expecting some catastrophe to happen that would take away
his breath. There was not much to take away, for he seemed only able to
inhale it by thimblefuls, and his heart would soon wear itself out, the
way it was beating. Suddenly there was a flash of light and Tom came
tearing by him: “Run!” said he; “run, for your life!”
He needn’t have repeated it; once was enough; Huck was making thirty or
forty miles an hour before the repetition was uttered. The boys never
stopped till they reached the shed of a deserted slaughter-house at the
lower end of the village. Just as they got within its shelter the storm
burst and the rain poured down. As soon as Tom got his breath he said:
“Huck, it was awful! I tried two of the keys, just as soft as I could;
but they seemed to make such a power of racket that I couldn’t hardly
get my breath I was so scared. They wouldn’t turn in the lock, either.
Well, without noticing what I was doing, I took hold of the knob, and
open comes the door! It warn’t locked! I hopped in, and shook off the
towel, and,  Great Caesar’s Ghost! ”
“What!--what’d you see, Tom?”
“Huck, I most stepped onto Injun Joe’s hand!”
“No!”
“Yes! He was lying there, sound asleep on the floor, with his old patch
on his eye and his arms spread out.”
“Lordy, what did you do? Did he wake up?”
“No, never budged. Drunk, I reckon. I just grabbed that towel and
started!”
“I’d never ‘a’ thought of the towel, I bet!”
“Well, I would. My aunt would make me mighty sick if I lost it.”
“Say, Tom, did you see that box?”
“Huck, I didn’t wait to look around. I didn’t see the box, I didn’t see
the cross. I didn’t see anything but a bottle and a tin cup on the floor
by Injun Joe; yes, I saw two barrels and lots more bottles in the room.
Don’t you see, now, what’s the matter with that ha’nted room?”
“How?”
“Why, it’s ha’nted with whiskey! Maybe  all  the Temperance Taverns have
got a ha’nted room, hey, Huck?”
“Well, I reckon maybe that’s so. Who’d ‘a’ thought such a thing? But
say, Tom, now’s a mighty good time to get that box, if Injun Joe’s
drunk.”
“It is, that! You try it!”
Huck shuddered.
“Well, no--I reckon not.”
“And I reckon not, Huck. Only one bottle alongside of Injun Joe ain’t
enough. If there’d been three, he’d be drunk enough and I’d do it.”
There was a long pause for reflection, and then Tom said:
“Lookyhere, Huck, less not try that thing any more till we know Injun
Joe’s not in there. It’s too scary. Now, if we watch every night, we’ll
be dead sure to see him go out, some time or other, and then we’ll
snatch that box quicker’n lightning.”
“Well, I’m agreed. I’ll watch the whole night long, and I’ll do it every
night, too, if you’ll do the other part of the job.”
“All right, I will. All you got to do is to trot up Hooper Street a
block and maow--and if I’m asleep, you throw some gravel at the window
and that’ll fetch me.”
“Agreed, and good as wheat!”
“Now, Huck, the storm’s over, and I’ll go home. It’ll begin to be
daylight in a couple of hours. You go back and watch that long, will
you?”
“I said I would, Tom, and I will. I’ll ha’nt that tavern every night for
a year! I’ll sleep all day and I’ll stand watch all night.”
“That’s all right. Now, where you going to sleep?”
“In Ben Rogers’ hayloft. He lets me, and so does his pap’s nigger man,
Uncle Jake. I tote water for Uncle Jake whenever he wants me to, and any
time I ask him he gives me a little something to eat if he can spare it.
That’s a mighty good nigger, Tom. He likes me, becuz I don’t ever act as
if I was above him. Sometime I’ve set right down and eat  with  him. But
you needn’t tell that. A body’s got to do things when he’s awful hungry
he wouldn’t want to do as a steady thing.”
“Well, if I don’t want you in the daytime, I’ll let you sleep. I won’t
come bothering around. Any time you see something’s up, in the night,
just skip right around and maow.”
CHAPTER XXIX
THE first thing Tom heard on Friday morning was a glad piece of
news--Judge Thatcher’s family had come back to town the night before.
Both Injun Joe and the treasure sunk into secondary importance for a
moment, and Becky took the chief place in the boy’s interest. He saw her
and they had an exhausting good time playing “hispy” and “gully-keeper”
 with a crowd of their schoolmates. The day was completed and crowned in
a peculiarly satisfactory way: Becky teased her mother to appoint
the next day for the long-promised and long-delayed picnic, and she
consented. The child’s delight was boundless; and Tom’s not more
moderate. The invitations were sent out before sunset, and straightway
the young folks of the village were thrown into a fever of preparation
and pleasurable anticipation. Tom’s excitement enabled him to keep
awake until a pretty late hour, and he had good hopes of hearing Huck’s
“maow,” and of having his treasure to astonish Becky and the picnickers
with, next day; but he was disappointed. No signal came that night.
Morning came, eventually, and by ten or eleven o’clock a giddy and
rollicking company were gathered at Judge Thatcher’s, and everything was
ready for a start. It was not the custom for elderly people to mar the
picnics with their presence. The children were considered safe enough
under the wings of a few young ladies of eighteen and a few young
gentlemen of twenty-three or thereabouts. The old steam ferry-boat was
chartered for the occasion; presently the gay throng filed up the main
street laden with provision-baskets. Sid was sick and had to miss
the fun; Mary remained at home to entertain him. The last thing Mrs.
Thatcher said to Becky, was:
“You’ll not get back till late. Perhaps you’d better stay all night with
some of the girls that live near the ferry-landing, child.”
“Then I’ll stay with Susy Harper, mamma.”
“Very well. And mind and behave yourself and don’t be any trouble.”
Presently, as they tripped along, Tom said to Becky:
“Say--I’ll tell you what we’ll do. ‘Stead of going to Joe Harper’s we’ll
climb right up the hill and stop at the Widow Douglas’. She’ll have
ice-cream! She has it most every day--dead loads of it. And she’ll be
awful glad to have us.”
“Oh, that will be fun!”
Then Becky reflected a moment and said:
“But what will mamma say?”
“How’ll she ever know?”
The girl turned the idea over in her mind, and said reluctantly:
“I reckon it’s wrong--but--”
“But shucks! Your mother won’t know, and so what’s the harm? All she
wants is that you’ll be safe; and I bet you she’d ‘a’ said go there if
she’d ‘a’ thought of it. I know she would!”
The Widow Douglas’ splendid hospitality was a tempting bait. It and
Tom’s persuasions presently carried the day. So it was decided to say
nothing to anybody about the night’s programme. Presently it occurred to
Tom that maybe Huck might come this very night and give the signal. The
thought took a deal of the spirit out of his anticipations. Still he
could not bear to give up the fun at Widow Douglas’. And why should he
give it up, he reasoned--the signal did not come the night before, so
why should it be any more likely to come tonight? The sure fun of the
evening outweighed the uncertain treasure; and, boy-like, he determined
to yield to the stronger inclination and not allow himself to think of
the box of money another time that day.
Three miles below town the ferryboat stopped at the mouth of a woody
hollow and tied up. The crowd swarmed ashore and soon the forest
distances and craggy heights echoed far and near with shoutings and
laughter. All the different ways of getting hot and tired were gone
through with, and by-and-by the rovers straggled back to camp fortified
with responsible appetites, and then the destruction of the good things
began. After the feast there was a refreshing season of rest and chat in
the shade of spreading oaks. By-and-by somebody shouted:
“Who’s ready for the cave?”
Everybody was. Bundles of candles were procured, and straightway there
was a general scamper up the hill. The mouth of the cave was up the
hillside--an opening shaped like a letter A. Its massive oaken door stood
unbarred. Within was a small chamber, chilly as an icehouse, and walled
by Nature with solid limestone that was dewy with a cold sweat. It was
romantic and mysterious to stand here in the deep gloom and look out
upon the green valley shining in the sun. But the impressiveness of the
situation quickly wore off, and the romping began again. The moment
a candle was lighted there was a general rush upon the owner of it; a
struggle and a gallant defence followed, but the candle was soon knocked
down or blown out, and then there was a glad clamor of laughter and a
new chase. But all things have an end. By-and-by the procession went
filing down the steep descent of the main avenue, the flickering rank of
lights dimly revealing the lofty walls of rock almost to their point of
junction sixty feet overhead. This main avenue was not more than
eight or ten feet wide. Every few steps other lofty and still narrower
crevices branched from it on either hand--for McDougal’s cave was but a
vast labyrinth of crooked aisles that ran into each other and out again
and led nowhere. It was said that one might wander days and nights
together through its intricate tangle of rifts and chasms, and never
find the end of the cave; and that he might go down, and down, and
still down, into the earth, and it was just the same--labyrinth under
labyrinth, and no end to any of them. No man “knew” the cave. That was
an impossible thing. Most of the young men knew a portion of it, and it
was not customary to venture much beyond this known portion. Tom Sawyer
knew as much of the cave as any one.
The procession moved along the main avenue some three-quarters of
a mile, and then groups and couples began to slip aside into branch
avenues, fly along the dismal corridors, and take each other by surprise
at points where the corridors joined again. Parties were able to elude
each other for the space of half an hour without going beyond the
“known” ground.
By-and-by, one group after another came straggling back to the mouth
of the cave, panting, hilarious, smeared from head to foot with tallow
drippings, daubed with clay, and entirely delighted with the success of
the day. Then they were astonished to find that they had been taking
no note of time and that night was about at hand. The clanging bell had
been calling for half an hour. However, this sort of close to the day’s
adventures was romantic and therefore satisfactory. When the ferryboat
with her wild freight pushed into the stream, nobody cared sixpence for
the wasted time but the captain of the craft.
Huck was already upon his watch when the ferryboat’s lights went
glinting past the wharf. He heard no noise on board, for the young
people were as subdued and still as people usually are who are nearly
tired to death. He wondered what boat it was, and why she did not
stop at the wharf--and then he dropped her out of his mind and put his
attention upon his business. The night was growing cloudy and dark. Ten
o’clock came, and the noise of vehicles ceased, scattered lights began
to wink out, all straggling foot-passengers disappeared, the village
betook itself to its slumbers and left the small watcher alone with the
silence and the ghosts. Eleven o’clock came, and the tavern lights were
put out; darkness everywhere, now. Huck waited what seemed a weary long
time, but nothing happened. His faith was weakening. Was there any use?
Was there really any use? Why not give it up and turn in?
A noise fell upon his ear. He was all attention in an instant. The alley
door closed softly. He sprang to the corner of the brick store. The next
moment two men brushed by him, and one seemed to have something under
his arm. It must be that box! So they were going to remove the treasure.
Why call Tom now? It would be absurd--the men would get away with the box
and never be found again. No, he would stick to their wake and follow
them; he would trust to the darkness for security from discovery. So
communing with himself, Huck stepped out and glided along behind the
men, cat-like, with bare feet, allowing them to keep just far enough
