fly glow in her eyes, and her red lips full of smiling 
curves. But there were handsome and brilliant women 
here ; and it was not likel}" any crowd would flutter about 
this meek little dove. If only Daisy but then Daisy 
had good sense. She had not been much elated over Mr. 
Dudley's coming and going, and driving her to the 
village, or to see poor women, or a sunset here, or a bit 
of spring greenery and bloom there. No : she had taken 
it in that pleasant, friendly manner, ending, but not 
bothering her brains as to whether every word had a 
meaning. Yes, it was best so. Simple, sweet, and fresh, 
not made suspicious or worldly wise : if love came, wel 
coming it ; and, if not, losing none of the fairer womanly 
graces. And yet she resolved to watch a little, that no 
enemy might creep in unawares. 
Then the rowing-party came off; and Mrs. Glyndon 
insisted upon their both resting up, and using plentiful 
lotions of cream and rose-glycerine to be in nice order 
for her evening. 
She had a "way" of doing things with a grace and 
newness that made you almost believe you had never 
seen any thing of the kind before. The shutters were 
all open, and the lights streamed about outside, while 
within came wafts of the sea, of the cool, twilight air, of 
the pungent, aromatic pines ; and inside she had massed 
great bunches of grass-heads, and wheat and oats, and 
quantities of sweet-clover, that she had been half the 
day hunting up. And 'in among these feather-grasses 
she had placed half a dozen scarlet poppies ; there some 
flaming lilies ; here a few cool-looking ferns and meadow- 
daisies ; and over there a great trail of old-fashioned 
woodbine, with its clusters of minute red trumpets, lined 
with a soft, yellow-like gold. The sofas and chairs were 
pulled out of corners, and looked sociable by themselves. 
There was a feeling of rest and refreshing. The com 
pany dropped down into little clusters, gathered into 
knots, rambled through hall and dining-room ; for there 
was no formal table set. They laughed and talked, 
sciences, politics, newspapers, new books, fashions, health, 
the attractions of Severn Point, of Newport, of Yosemite 
Valley, and Germany. Then the tea was brought in, and 
diffused a fragrant flavor. The little tables were arranged 
here and there. The gentlemen carried the tea after Mrr-.. 
Gtyndon poured it ; and some of the younger ladies 
handed plates of dainty sandwiches, creamy biscuit, 
Graham gems, cake and berries ; and after this was 
eaten, and the dishes taken away, which a light-footed 
servant accomplished without much clatter, the cream 
was brought in. 
Early in the evening Mrs. Glyndon had brought one 
very noticeable gentleman to Mrs. Kinnard, and intro 
duced him as Mr. Van Alst'ne. They did more than 
bow : they shook hands cordially. 
" I am very glad to meet you, Mrs. Kinnard," he said 
with a smile that was friendhy and charming. 
"And I hope you did not consider me ungracious a 
few da\-s ago, when you did me such a kindness." 
" That is just what it was, and aZZ," he returned 
pointedly. " There was no danger ; only your horse 
might have started suddenly. And please do not 
imagine that I did any thing at all heroic. Indeed, upon 
looking at your horse afterward, I felt that it would not 
have been startled in a greater peril." 
"Is that meant for a libel upon Jenny? She is the 
gentlest creature in the world, and very intelligent too." 
" If she had been fien-, there might have been danger. 
And who was that pale little boy ? your brother ? ' ' 
She colored and laughed, with a dainty embarrassment. 
" It is my son, or, at least, Dr. Kinnard' s son." 
" Oh ! " and he, in turn, flushed. But just then Daisy 
came up, and held out her hand frankly. 
" So this is your sister? " he asked with a smile. " I 
thought some one said, the other evening, she was an 
invalid ? ' ' 
"Mrs. Glyndon said she was not well, that was all. 
Will you have some tea here, Mr. Van Alstyne, or will 
you and Dais\- glanced around. 
 
"I should like to stay here, if Mrs. Kinnard doesn't 
object. This table is just large enough for two." 
" Then I will wait on you," said Daisy delightedly. 
They sat and chatted, and amused themselves by 
glancing around the room. Mr. Van Alstyne seemed 
to know everybody. That little near-sighted fellow over 
yonder was an artist who had made a name and fortune 
by having a picture put in chromo ; and that tall, fine- 
looking girl was Miss Wilson, the senator's daughter, who 
had been publishing a wonderful book on entomology 
studied under Agassiz ; and that little dot of a Miss 
Howe was going to be a physician ; and so on, in an 
entertaining and good-humored manner ; telling bright 
little things, but none that were sharp or bitter, and mak 
ing her talk in a piquant manner. Then young Conover 
brought his cup of tea over, because Miss Keith had 
rejected him ; and Miss Keith came over to explain ; and 
somehow, presently, Mrs. Kinnard' s table became a centre 
of attraction. Miss Howe's father had known Dr. Kin 
nard. "Wasn't it his little boy that Dr. Francis operated 
on last winter, or spring ? and how was he doing ? Every 
body wondered just a little how such a pretty and stylish 
woman could make up her mind to be stepmother to any 
one's children. 
After the cream went out, Mr. Transome plaj-ed, then 
some one sang, and some one else ; and Mrs. Glyndon 
begged Mrs. Kinnard to sing an old Scotch ballad she 
had heard her playing a few da}"S ago. She would so 
much rather not ; but eve^-bodj' thought those old Scotch 
songs so wonderfully pathetic. 
Nelly Kinnard had just the voice for them ; and her 
pronunciation was so quaint, that all the little elisions 
and contractions and hard words were extremely bewitch 
ing. Then some one Avondered if she did not know 
" Roy's Wife." That was ,a rather saucy, coquettish 
thing ; but sing it she must. 
 
George Van Alstyne stood leaning lazily against the 
door-jamb, watching her. He was eight and twenty, 
very good-looking, very gentlemanly, educated, accom 
plished, travelled ; had run through one fortune, and was 
spending another, and had been blase so long, that a new 
sensation was a godsend to him ; but new women were 
generally bores. More than one society belle had tried 
her best, and failed to catch him ; more than one little 
modest waj'side flower had given him her heart to tread 
on daintily as one crushes a butterfly. And now the 
women who knew him best had come to the conclusion 
that he was not a marrying man : so he had settled into a 
general favorite. They laughed at him, and made much 
of him, and really admired his superb laziness, since he 
was never rude, but always exquisitely well bred. 
Nelly sang, 
" But Eoy's age is three times mine; 
I think his years they can't be mony, 
And then, perhaps, his canty queen, 
Forgetting churl, will take her Johnny," 
and gave it the happy audacity of a daring, and not 
despairing lover. 
It came into his mind then to speculate upon what Dr. 
Kinnard was like. Dr. Francis was quite an elderly 
man, and so was Mr. Howe. If they were all friends, 
and had been young together what romantic folly could 
have induced this handsome girl to marry in that fashion, 
and devote herself to the pale little youngster? Yet he 
liked affairs and people that were out of the every-day 
common groove. He was beginning to think a fortnight 
at Severn Point quite long enough : now he resolved to 
take another week of it, and study this new chapter in 
womankind. As she was married, there was no danger 
to her ; and he never was in danger. 
Mrs. Glyndon's evening proved a perfect success. 
 
Somebody wanted to know if she wouldn't ask them to 
tea soon again. 
" I am going to have a dancing-party next, for the 
young people. I like to take in everybody. After that, 
I will consider." 
"I am not going to wait for parties," said Van Al- 
styne. " Won't you take pity on me, and let me drop in 
to-morrow? I get dreadfully bored, and want a change." 
It was quite flattering to have him ask in that spoiled- 
child way. 
" Of course you can drop in. I will give you a card of 
admission for let me see a week. Then you will be 
tired of us. Good-night." 
CHAPTER XVI. 
" The love that I hae chosen 
I'll therewith be content: 
The saut sea shall be frozen 
Before that I repent." 
GEORGE VAN ALSTTNE came early the next afternoon. 
Some one had insisted upon taking Daisy out. Nelly 
knew now that this was Daisy's handsome hero of her 
first evening's entertainment ; and she felt a little afraid 
of him where a j'oung girl was concerned. Mrs. Glj'n- 
don was busy looking up dresses for tableaux : so she 
brought him into Mrs. Kinnard's sitting-room. 
"You must take care of him for a little while," she 
said. " My business is of importance. But it is too 
bad to have you so heavily burthened. Bertie, don't you 
want to come with me for a change ? ' ' 
The child was pleased ; for he delighted in Mrs. Glyn- 
don's chatter. Van, as by that name he knew himself 
best, dropped down into an easy-chair by the window, and 
loitered over a book of engravings. They soon fell into 
an easy talk, so easy, that Nelly took up some trifle of 
sewing. Ordinarily he hated to have a woman do any 
thing, except pay attention to him. But he could watch 
the face as it drooped a little : he had an artist's quick 
perception of the harmonious lines of beauty. The 
rounded cheek, the delicate pink ear, the snowy throat, 
and symmetrical slope of shoulder, were worth a painter's 
study ; and the white, slender wrist, with the tapering 
fingers and soft palm he knew it was soft by the tint of 
rosiness. 
They discussed the city a little ; and he told her of 
Paris, Vienna, and Venice. Bits of anecdote, legends, or 
a quaint verse, were happily interspersed, } r et with no 
effort at entertaining. Then Mrs. Gtyndon entered, and 
consulted them both about some costumes. Bertie fid 
geted, and whispered once or twice to his mamma. 
" O Mrs. Kinnard ! " he said suddenly, " don't you go 
out for your drive about this time? Isn't it that the 
little boy wants ? Do not let me detain you. You have 
been very good to be bothered with my indolent self so 
long ;" and he rose. 
" Why, J am just ready to entertain you now," said 
Mrs. Glyndon. " You need not feel compelled to go. 
Bertie, can you not ring the bell for mamma? " 
Mrs. Glyndon ordered the phaeton, and gave Nelly a 
commission for " down in town." Then she carried off 
Van Alstyne ; and Daisy returned before they had fin 
ished their talk. 
She told him he might stay to tea, if he would drive 
her and Miss Endicott on the beach afterward ; and so 
Nelly found him on the veranda when she returned. 
That was the beginning. 
' Don't you worry about it," said Mrs. Glyndon. " A 
week from this time he will be bored with us, and go 
somewhere else, leave Severn Point, doubtless. In 
fact, / rather enjoy our conquest. I cannot decide to 
whom the credit belongs." 
Then Dr. Kinnard came on Saturday to stay over until 
Monday. 
" Why, how blooming you look ! he exclaimed to 
Nelly. "I need not ask if the place agrees with you. 
And where is Bertie ? ' ' 
" A gentleman has taken him out. You see, we did 
not expect you until the next train, and I meant to drive 
 
down ; but this Mr. Van Alstyne wanted to take Bertie, 
and they were going to bring Daisy home. You will 
think him so much improved. He walks quite well with 
out his crutch. O Barton, how thankful I am!" and 
there was a soft break in her voice. 
" My darling, it is a good part owing to your courage 
and patience. I shall never forget that; "-and his tone 
deepens with sudden emotion. " And you are happy ? " 
" Mrs. Glyndon is bewitching to us all. She makes it 
a perfect holiday. If you could only stay!" and she 
passes her fingers caressingly through his soft hair. 
" You are looking tired." 
" There has been a good deal of sickness among the mill- 
hands, intermittent, with bad symptoms. I am really 
glad you are down here, Nelly. Then Searles goes away 
next week for a fortnight, and I shall be busier than ever. 
But I do mean to have a holiday with you before summer 
ends." 
Then she inquires about home-matters. " Mary and 
mother agree excellently," says the doctor with a rather 
amused expression. A note had come from Aunt Ade 
laide, leaving the travellers in good health. Old friends 
had dispersed for recreation; " and, of course, I am too 
busy to hunt up gossip." With that he laughs. Then a 
sound of wheels breaks their Darby-and-Joan confidence. 
' ' There they come ! Let us go and receive them in 
state." 
"Has Daisy captured that handsome fellow?" is the 
surprised question. 
"He is not the kind to be captured," laughed she, 
" least of all by such a wayside Daisy. I have come to 
think him safe on that account. And he is a very enter 
taining companion." 
" Remember that I put in a claim for Dudley." 
" There is time enough," answers Nelly, coloring deli 
cately. " Barton, I have felt lately what a solemn thing 
 
it is to have a sweet young girl in your charge, to keep 
out worldliness and conceit and folly amid worldly and 
frivolous surroundings, and yet not thrust aside the true 
pleasures of youth." 
"There, I will not have you borrowing, trouble. I 
have great faith in the Endicott good sense." 
"Papa, papa! " cries a joyous voice with a ring in it 
that the father has never heard in past days. 
Mr. Van Alstyne lifted Bertie Kinnard out carefully, 
and Miss Endicott courteously, then touched his hat, and 
was about to drive away, when Nelly's voice arrested him. 
"Do not go just yet, Mr. Van Alstyne. I want to 
present j'ou to Dr. Kinnard, and thank you for the trouble 
you have taken." 
" "We went down to meet the train," explained Daisy, 
" and thought we must bring home a disappointment. 
Instead, you stole a march upon us. I am so glad, 
Nelly!" 
Mr. Van Alstyne responded politely ; but his gentle 
manly manner did not prevent his taking a society meas 
ure and estimate of " that handsome girl's husband." 
"How could the marriage have come about?" he 
mused in some curiosity, on his homeward way, having 
declined an invitation to supper. " Something on the 
Venus and Vulcan order, or Proserpine and Pluto. 
Queer alliances happen to ordinary mortals, as well as to 
the old gods. She was a minister's daughter ; and he was 
the best that came to hand in a little country town, I 
suppose. She may imagine she loves him;" and there 
was an incredulous curl on his handsome lip. 
" After all," he went on, " women are much alike, the 
world over. I do believe all who are capable of the 
grand passion have it once in their lives. She certainly 
is. What eyes ! What a wealth of dormant passion, 
