high as a giraffe's, when Mr. B said, — 
"I am going below a while. I suppose you 
know the next crossing ? " 
This was almost an aflfront. It was about the 
plainest and simplest crossing in the whole river. 
One couldn't come to any harm, whether he ran it 
right or not ; and as for depth, there never had 
been any bottom there. I knew all this, perfectly 
well. 
Know how to run it ? Why, I can run it with 
my eyes shut." 
" How much water is there in it ? " 
" Well, that is an odd question. I couldn't get 
bottom there with a church steeple." 
. "You think so, do you?" 
The very tone of the question shook my confi- 
dence. That was what Mr. B was expecting. 
He left, without saying anything more. I began 
to imagine all sorts of things. Mr. B , unknown 
to me, of course, sent somebody down to the fore- 
castle with some mysterious instruction to the 
leadsmen, another messenger was sent to whisper 
among the officers, and then Mr. B went into 
hiding behind a smoke-stack where he could ob- 
serve results. Presently the captain stepped out on 
the hurricane dock ; next the chief mate appeared ; 
then a clerk. Every moment or two a straggler 
was added to my audience ; and before I got to the 
head of the island I had fifteen or twenty people 
assembled down there under my nose. I began to 
wonder what the trouble was. As I started across 
the captain glanced aloft at me and said, with a 
sham uneasiness in his voice, — 
"Where is Mr. B V* 
" Gone below, sir." 
But that did the business for me. My imagina- 
tion began to construct dangers out of nothing, and 
they multiplied faster than I could keep the run of 
them. All at once I imagined I saw shoal water 
ahead! The wave of coward agony that surged 
through me then came near dislocating every 
joint in me. All my confidence in that crossing 
vanished. I seized the bell-rope ; dropped it, 
ashamed ; seized it again ; dropped it once more ; 
clutched it tremblingly once again, and pulled it so 
feebly that I could hardly hear the stroke myself. 
Captain and mate sang out instantly, and both to- 
gether, — 
" Starboard lead there ! and quick about it ! '' 
This was another shock. I began to climb the 
wheel like a squirrel ; but I would hardly get the 
boat started to port before I would see new dangers 
on that side, and away I would spin to the other ; 
only to find perils accumulating to starboard, and 
be crazy to get to port again. Then came the 
leadsman's sepulchral cry : — 
" D-ee-p four ! " 
Deep four in a bottomless crossing ! The terror 
of it took my breath away. 
" M-a-r-k three ! M-a-r k three ! Quarter less 
three ! Half twain ! " 
This was frightful ! I seized the bell-ropes and 
stopped the engines. 
" Quarter twain ! Quarter twain ! Mark twain !" 
I was helpless. I did not know what in the 
world to do. I was quaking from head to foot, and 
I could have hung my hat on my eyes, they stuck 
out so far. 
" Quarter less twain ! Nine and a half ! " 
We were drawing nine! My hands were in a 
nerveless flutter. I could not ring a bell intelligible
with them. I flew to the speak into- tube and 
shouted to the engineer, — 
" Oh, Ben, if you love me, hack her ! Quick 
Ben ! Oh, back the immortal soul out of her ! " 
I heard the door close gently. I looked around 
and the'e stood Mr. B , smiling a bland, sweet 
smile. ThcE the audience on the hurricane deck 
sent uj- Si out of humiliating laughter. I saw it 
all, now, and I felt meaner than the meanest man 
in human history. I laid in the lead, set the boat 
in her marks, came ahead on the engines, and said, — 
" It was a fine trick to play on an orphan u'osn't 
it ? I suppose I 'll never hear the last of how I was 
ass enough to heave the lead at the head of G6." 
" Well, no, you won't, maybe. In fact I hope you 
won't ; for I want you to learn something by that 
experience. Didn't you Icriow there was no bot- 
tom in that crossing ? " 
" Yes, sir, I did." 
" Ver well, then. You shouldn't have allowed 
me or anybody else to shake your confidence in 
that knowledge. Try to remember that. And 
another thing : when you get into a dangerous 
place, don't turn coward. That isn't going to help 
matters any." 
It was a good enough lesson, but pretty hardly 
learned. Yet about the hardest part of it was that 
for months I so often had to hear a phrase which 
I had conceived a particular distaste for. It was, 
" Oh, Ben, if you love me, back her ! " 
CHAPTER VI. 
OFFICIAL RANK AND DIGNITY OF A PILOT. THE 
RISE AND DECADENCE OF THE PILOTS' ASSOCL 
ATION. 
In my preceding articles I have trie&, by going 
into the minutiae of the science of piloting, to carry 
the reader step by step to a comprehension of what 
the science consists of; and at the same time I 
have tried to show him that it is a very curious 
and wonderful science, too, and very worthy of his 
attention. If I have seemed to love my subject, it 
is no surprising thing, for I loved the profession 
far better than any I have followed since, and I 
took a measureless pride in it. The reason is 
plain : a pilot in those days, was the only un- 
fettered and entirely independent huiuan being 
that lived in the earth. Kings are but the ham- 
pered servants of parliament and people ; parlia 
ments sit in chains forged by their constituency ; 
the editor of a newspaper cannot be independent, 
but must work with one hand tied behind him by 
party and patrons, and be content to utter only 
half or two-thirdn of his mind ; no clergyman is a 
free man and may speak the whole truth, regard- 
less of his parish's opinions ; writers of all kinds 
are manacled servants of the public. We write 
frankly and fearlessly, but then we *' modify " 
before we print. In truth, ever man and woman 
and child has a master, and worries and frets in 
servitude ; but in the day I write of, the Missis- 
sippi pilot had 7ione. The captain could stand 
upon the hurricane deck, in the pomp of a very 
brief authority, and give him five or six orders, 
while the vessel backed into the stream, and then 
that skipper's reign was over. The moment that 
the boat was under way in the river, she was under 
the sole and unquestioned control of the pilot. He 
could do with her exactly as he pleased, run her 
when and whither he chose, and tie her up to the 
bank whenever his judgment said that that course 
was best. His movements were entirely free ; he 
consulted no one, he received commands from 
nobody, he promptly resented even the merest 
suggestions. Indeed, the law of the United States 
forbade him to listen to commands or suggestions, 
rightly considering that the pilot necessarily knew 
better how to handle the boat than anybody oould 
tell him. So here was the novelty of a king with- 
out a keeper, an absolute monarch who was 
absolute in sober truth and not by a fiction of 
words. I have seen a boy of eighteen taking a 
great steamer serenely i'to what seemed almost 
certain destruction, and the agod captain standing 
mutely by, filled with apprehension but powerless 
to interfere. His interference, in that particular 
instance, might have been an excellent thing, but 
to permit it would have been to establish a most 
pernicious precedent. It will easily be guessed, 
considering the pilot's boundless authority, that 
he was a great personage in the old steamboating 
days. He was treated with marked courtesy by 
the captain and with marked deference by all the 
officers and servants ; and this deferential spirit 
was quickly communicated to the passengers, too. 
I think pilots were about the only people I ever 
knew who failed to show, in some degree, em- 
barrassment in the presence of traveling foreign 
princes. But then, people in one's own grade of life 
are not usually embarrassing objects. 
By long habit, pilots came to put all their wishes 
in the form of commands. It " gravels " me, to 
this day, to put my will in the weak shape of a 
request, instead of launching it in the crisp lan- 
guage of an order. 
In those old days, to load a steamboat at St. 
Louis, take her to New Orleans and back, and dis- 
chLTge cargo, consumed about twenty-five days, on 
an average. Seven or eight of thtse days the boat 
spent at the wharves of St. Louis and New Orleans, 
and every soul on board was hard at work, except 
the two pilots ; they did nothing but play gentle- 
man, up town, and receive the same wages for it 
as if they had been on duty. The moment the 
boat touched the wharf at citlior city, they wore 
ashore ; and they were not likely to bo seen again 
till the last boll wns ringing and everything in 
readiness for another voyage. 
When a captain got hold of a pilot of particularly 
high reputation, he took pains to keep him. When 
wages were four hundred dollars a month on the 
Upper Mississippi, I have known a captain to 
keep such a pilot in idleness, under full pay, three 
months at a time, while the river was frozen up. 
And one must remember that in those cheap times 
four hundred dollars was a salary of almost in- 
conceivable splendor. Few men on shore got such 
pay as that, and when they did they were mightly 
looked up to. When pilots from either end of the 
river waii lered into our small Missouri village, 
they were ght by the best and the fairest, and 
treated w ''alted respect. Lying in port under 
wages was a thing which many pilots greatly en- 
joyed and appreciated ; especially if they belonged 
in the Missouri River in the heyday of that trade 
(Kansas times), and got nine hundred dollars a 
trip, which was equivalent to about eighteen hun- 
dered dollars a month. Here is a conversation of 
that day. A chap out of the Illinois Biver, with a 
little stem-wheel tub, accosts a couple of ornate 
and gilded Missouri River pilots : — 
'' Gentlemen, I've got a pretty good trip for the 
up-country, and shall want you about a month. 
How much will it be ? " 
'' Eighteen hundred dollars apiece.'' 
" Heavens and earth ! You take my boat, let 
me have your wages, and I'll divide ! " 
I will remark, in passing, that Mississippi steam- 
boatmen were important in landsmen's eyes (and 
in their own, too, in a degree) according to the 
dignity of the boat they were on. For instance, 
it was a proud thing to be of the crew of such 
stately craft as the Aleck Scott or the Grand Turk. 
Negro firemen, deck hands, and barbers belonging 
to those boats were distinguished personages in 
their grade of life, and they were well aware of 
that fact, too. A stalwart darkey once gave offense 
at a negro ball in New Orleans by putting on a 
good many airs. Finally, one of the managers 
bustled up to him and said, — 
"Who is you, any way? Who is you? dat's 
what I wants to know ! " 
The offender was not disconcerted in the least, 
but swelled himself up and threw that into his 
voice which showed that he knew he was putting 
on all those airs on a stinted capital. 
"Who is I? Who is I? I let you know mighty 
quick who I is ! I want you niggers to understan' 
dat I fires de middle do' on de Aleck Scott!" 
That was sufficient. ' 
The barber of the Grand Turk was a spruce 
young negro, who aired his importance with balmy 
complacency, and was greiitly courted by the circle 
in which he moved. The young colored population 
of New Orleans were much given to flirting, at 
twilight, on the pavements of the back streets. 
Somebody saw and heard something like the 
following, one evenmg, in one of those localities. 
A middle-aged negro woman projected her head 
through a broken pane and shouted (very willing 
that the neighbors should hear and envy), '' You 
Mary Ann, come inde house dis minute! Stannin' 
out dab foolin' 'long wid dat low trash, an' heah's 
de barber off'n de Gran' Turk wants to conwerse 
wid you ! " 
My reference, a moment ago, to the fact that a 
pilot's peculiar official position placed him out of 
the reach of criticism or command, brings Stephen 
W naturally to my mind. He was a giffced 
pilot, a good fellow, a tireless talker, and had both 
wit and humor in him. He had a most irreverent 
independence, too, and was deliciously easy-going 
and comfortable in the presence of age, official dig- 
nity, and even the most august wealth. He al- 
ways had work, he never saved a penny, he was a 
most persuasive borrower, he was in debt to every 
pilot on the river, and to the majority of the cap- 
tains. He could throw a sort of splendor around a 
bit of harum-scarum, devil-may-care piloting, that 
made it almost fascinating — but not to everybody. 
He made a trip with good old gentle-spirited Captain 
Y once, and was "relieved" from duty 
when the boat got to Now Orleans. Somebody 
ecpressed surprise at the discharge. Captain 
Y shuddered at the mere mention of Stephen. 
Then his poor, thin old voice piped out something 
like this : 
"Why, bless me ! I wouldn't have such a wild 
creature on my boat for the world — not for the 
whole world! He swears, he sings, he whistles, he 
yells — I never saw such an Injun to yell. All times 
of the night — it never made any difference to him. 
He would just yell that way, not for anjrthing in 
particular, but merely on account of a kind of 
devilish comfort he got out of it. I never could 
get into a sound sleep but he would fetch me out 
of bed, all in a cold sweat, with one of those dread- 
ful war-whoops. A queer being, — very queer being; 
no respect for anything or anybody. Sometimes 
he called me * Johnny.' And he kept a fiddle, and a 
cat. He played execrably. This seemed to distress 
the cat, and so the cat would howL Nobody could 
sleep where that man — and his family — was. And 
reckless? There never was anything like it. Now 
you may believe it or not, but as sure as I am- 
sitting here, he brought my boat a-tilting down 
through those awful snags at Chicot under a 
rattling head of steam, and the wind a-blowing ' 
like the very nation, at that ! My officers will tell  
you so. They saw it. And, sir, while he was 
