The trade was closed, and he agreed to see me at the bank the next day,
where we were to pass the papers. My landlord consented to endorse the
lease over to the new tenant. Mrs. Brentbone had a talk with Bridget,
and engaged her to remain in the place. Everything was going as well
as I could expect. Lilian and I staid up till midnight packing our
clothes, and preparing for our abrupt departure.
I went to the bank as usual, the next morning. On my way I stopped at
the pianoforte warerooms, and bought the piano in my house which I had
only hired, for however guilty I had been, and intended to be, I still
had a certain sense of worldly honor, which would not permit me to do
what I regarded as a mean action, though I acknowledge that I did not
discriminate very nicely in some portions of my conduct. But I settled
the bill for four hundred dollars.
Mr. Brentbone came according to his promise. I gave him the lease, and
the bill of sale of the furniture for his check. My uncle happened to
come in while we were doing the business. I told him that my losses the
day before had induced me to accept Mr. Brentbone’s offer for my house.
He commended me for my prudence. Mr. Bristlebach also expressed his
approbation of the economical step I had taken, and declared that he
had more confidence in me than before. He liked to see a young man take
counsel of prudence.
I took advantage of his good-nature to put in my request for leave of
absence for a single day, to enable me to visit a friend in Albany
who was sick. The permission was promptly granted. I balanced my cash
for the last time, leaving it thirty-eight thousand dollars short,
to account for which I altered various charges and credits, and made
several fictitious entries. The account was left square, and if no
particular investigation was instituted, my deficit might remain
concealed for some time. With the twenty thousand dollars which I had
just appropriated I left the bank—for the last time.
CHAPTER XXI.
AN EXILE FROM HOME.
I WAS astonished to find that I could commit a crime of such magnitude
with so little remorse. It is true, the sin had become, in a measure,
necessary to my salvation, and that of my wife; but I was only excited,
not burdened with guilt, when I did the deed. I had been traveling
very rapidly on the downward road, and in a few weeks I had acquired
a facility in crime which enabled me to rob the bank of thirty
thousand dollars without considering any thing but the peril of being
discovered. Fatal facility, which can only be avoided by those who
refrain from taking the first step!
I had deluded myself into the belief that principle was only a worldly
sense of honor. Tom Flynn was a man of genuine principle, for his
actions were based upon a religious foundation, which alone can
vitalize principle. A man may be honest because it is safer or more
reputable to be so; but then he would steal if it were not for being
found out, and will be as dishonest as fashion or custom will tolerate.
When I had leisure to think of the matter, I marvelled that I had
fallen so easily; and this was the explanation I made to myself.
Tom Flynn had said as much as this to me, in the way of argument,
assuring me it was quite impossible for a man without the love of God
and the love of man in his heart—which is the epitome of the whole
gospel—to have any genuine principle in his soul. Any thing short
of this is mere sentiment, which is blown aside by the rude blast of
temptation. The hymn he used to sing so much seemed to tell the whole
story:—
  “I want a principle within
    Of jealous, godly fear;
  A sensibility to sin,
    A pain to find it near.”
Worldly honor, the fear of discovery, the bubble of reputation, are
not enough to keep a man in the path of rectitude. But I will not
anticipate the reflections which were forced upon me afterwards. I
did not believe I was much worse than the majority of young men. I
certainly did not mean to steal when I began to take money from the
bank; and even when I found it necessary to flee from the anticipated
consequences of my errors, I had a certain undefined expectation of
being able to restore all I had taken. The fortune of Aunt Rachel still
flitted through my mind as the solution of the difficult problem.
I left the bank struggling to look cool and indifferent. I bowed and
spoke to my acquaintances as naturally as possible. In two or three
hours more I should be out of the city, perhaps never to see it again.
I could not even go down to Springhaven to see my mother—probably
I had seen her for the last time on earth. My blood seemed like ice
as the thought came to my mind. I reflected upon all she had been to
me, all she had done for me. The prayers and the hymns she had taught
me in my childhood came back to me as though I had learned them but
yesterday. I was amazed at my own folly and wickedness. What a blow I
was dealing to that mother! When she heard that her only son had fled
from his home, steeped in crime, and covered with shame how she would
weep! For days months and years she would groan in bitterness of spirit.
What a wretch, what a villain, what an ingrate I was to strike her in
this cruel manner! My sense of worldly honor would have revolted at
the thought of giving her even the slightest blow with my hand; but how
inconceivably more cruel was the blow I was giving her by my conduct!
Could I have sooner realized the anguish which the thought of my mother
would cause me, I think it might have saved me.
I could not make up my mind to doom her who had given me being, who
had watched over me in my childhood, who had loved me as none else but
God could love me, to such awful agony as the revelation of my crime
would cause her. Was there no way to escape? I could restore the thirty
thousand dollars. With the proceeds of my house and furniture I could
make up three thousand more. I was really, then, only five thousand
dollars in debt—the sum which I had lost in copper stocks. The case
seemed not so desperate, after all. I could go to Aunt Rachel, tell
her, with the genuine penitence I then felt what a wicked deed I had
done. She would lend me five thousand dollars, and I could pay all I
owed.
My heart leaped with delight as I thought of this remedy. But then
there might be some delay. Lilian was all ready to start for New
York. It was possible that the deficit might be discovered before I
had raised the money. If it were, I was lost. Still farther, if I paid
the three thousand dollars in my possession into the bank, I should
not have any thing to furnish another house. I should be compelled to
board, and very likely the circumstances would drive me back to Mrs.
Oliphant’s. I shuddered as I considered it.
I thought of my mother again, and had almost resolved to adopt the
suggestion of my better nature, when I was tempted to enter a bar-room.
I drank a glass of whiskey. The effect of strong drink upon me was to
stupefy my faculties and make me reckless. I drank a second and then a
third glass, in as many different saloons. I forgot my mother then. I
was excited, and pictured to myself the delights of foreign travel.
I am almost sure now, so strong was the tendency upon me, that I should
have carried out the suggestion of my higher impulses, if I had not
entered the bar-room. The devil of whiskey drove the good resolution,
still in its formative state, out of my mind. If the thought of my
mother came back to me, I drove it from me. In this frame of mind, I
could not think of humiliating myself by confessing my errors even to
Aunt Rachel, the most indulgent of women.
I walked up Tremont Street, thinking of the future. The die was cast,
and I refused to avail myself of the means of escape which were open to
me. It was a sorry day for me when I turned from the road which might
have restored me to honor and integrity. As the events proved, it would
have been better, and I should have realized more than I anticipated.
I had long dreamed of seeing the wonders of the old world, and the
prospect of doing so at once had a powerful influence upon me. Within
twenty-four hours I should be on board of a steamer bound to Europe;
but at the same time I should be an exile from home, from honor and
integrity, leaving a ruined name and a blasted reputation behind me.
“How are you, Paley?”
It was Tom Flynn. His voice startled me. I would rather have met any
other one than him, for his very looks seemed to reproach me.
“Ah, how do you do, Tom?” I replied, in some confusion.
“So you are going to Albany to-night?” he added.
“Yes; poor Whiting is quite sick?”
“Who?”
“Whiting; don’t you know him?”
“No; who is he?”
“I knew him in the city here, and we were cronies.”
Whiting was a myth, but I had a facility for lying which helped me
through in an emergency.
“I hope you will find him better.”
“I’m afraid it’s all up with him; he is probably in consumption.”
“I am sorry for him.”
“I suppose you knew I had sold my furniture and lease?”
“No!” exclaimed he, opening his eyes.
“Yes. Brentbone takes possession to-night.”
“I am sorry for that, for I liked to go there.”
“The fact is, I lost heavily for me in coppers, and I can’t afford to
keep that house any longer.”
“One must be prudent,” said he, musing. “I was afraid you were going a
little too fast. Did you lose much?”
“Considerable, for me.”
“If I can do any thing to help you out, Paley, I will, with the
greatest pleasure. I never had anything to do with fancy stocks.”
“Thank you, Tom. You are fortunate. But I must go along.”
“I suppose you are in a hurry, so I will walk along with you. I don’t
know but you will think me impertinent, Paley, but I don’t want to
meddle with your business, in a bad sense. I have been thinking that
something was going wrong with you.”
“With me?” I demanded, not a little startled by this candid revelation.
“Going wrong?”
“I had an idea that you were losing money, or that something serious
troubled you.”
“What makes you think so?” I asked.
“I hardly know; but you seem to act strangely; to be excited or
absent-minded. Perhaps you have lost more on coppers than you care to
acknowledge?”
“Well, I have lost more than I ought to lose.”
“And—excuse me, Paley—but you have been drinking.”
“Only a nipper or two for a pain which often vexes me.”
“It’s a dangerous practice—don’t do it, Paley. Better suffer the pain
than fall into a bad habit. I’m impudent, I know, but I can’t help it.
I wouldn’t have things go wrong with you for all the world. Are you in
debt?”
“Somewhat.”
“Let me help you out. With what I have saved myself, and with what came
to me from my father’s estate, I have about eight thousand dollars.
Promise me that you won’t drink any more, and I will let you have money
enough to help you out of debt.”
“What has the drinking to do with it?” I asked, rather vexed at the
manner in which he put the question.
“I am always afraid that any man who drinks will become a drunkard.
Perhaps it is a superstition; but I can’t help it, and you know that
the theory is backed up by common experience.”
“I don’t think I’m in any danger; but I am not exactly willing to be
bought up to total abstinence.”
“I didn’t mean that, Paley. You know how much wine was drank at your
party. Never mind that now; we will talk of it at another time. How
much do you owe?”
“Five or six thousand.”
“So much!” exclaimed he.
“All of that. I lost just five thousand on Bustumups,” I replied,
desperately.
“I had no idea you were in so deep as that,” he added, looking very
serious. “But I will not go back on myself. I will lend you every
dollar I have rather than permit the world to go wrong with you. We
will talk it over when you return from Albany.”
We parted at the corner of Needham Street, for he was going to the
Oliphants to see Miss Bertha. What could Tom mean? He had observed
that something was wrong with me. I was troubled. If he had noticed
it, perhaps others had, and it was time for me to be gone. He was a
noble fellow, and I knew that he was deeply concerned about me. From
his standpoint, I had been gambling in fancy stocks, had lost, and
was in imminent peril of becoming a drunkard under the influence of
my financial troubles. He wanted to be a brother to me, but I felt
humiliated by the view he took of my case. Why should he think I was in
danger of becoming a drunkard? It was fanaticism.
He offered to lend me money enough to pay my debts. I could not borrow
it of him. I could not place myself under so great an obligation to
him. He tendered me the means of making myself square with the bank;
but then I should be a beggar, five thousand in debt, instead of
travelling like a lord in Europe, with over thirty thousand dollars at
my disposal. My pride resented his offer and I did not give it another
thought.
Dinner was ready when I went into the house. Lilian had almost worn
herself out in getting ready for her departure. She told me she had
been at her mother’s, and that the whole family were astonished when
she told them I had sold out the English basement house. She had
informed them that I had an offer in New Orleans, as I had directed her
to do; in a word, she had been faithful to my instructions. Before the
carriage came for us, Mrs. Oliphant and her two daughters appeared to
bid us good-by. I must say that “dear ma” behaved with great propriety
on this trying occasion, for it must be remembered that she expected to
see no more of Lilian for months, if not for years.
We drove to the railroad station with our two heavy trunks. It was
fortunate that neither Tom Flynn nor any one but the Oliphants took it
into his head to “see us off,” or the quantity of baggage we carried
might have provoked inquiry. The train moved out of the station-house,
and I felt that I had bade farewell to Boston forever. I had my wife,
but I had sundered all ties with every body else.
“I hope we shall not have to come back here again next week,” said
Lilian, as the train began to increase its speed.
“There is little danger of that,” I replied.
I was obliged to admit to myself that I might possibly be brought back
by an officer, with irons on my wrists, within a week. I had committed
a crime which would condemn me to the State Prison for a long term of
years, if discovered—and it could not be long concealed.
“Do you really think we shall go to Europe, Paley?”
“I have hardly a doubt of it.”
“Then why didn’t you let me tell mother, and not make her think I was
going to New Orleans?”
“I told you the reasons, my dear, and I hope you will be satisfied with
them,” I answered, rather petulantly.
“Don’t be cross, Paley.”
“I’m not cross.”
But the fumes of the whiskey I had drank were nearly evaporated, and I
did not feel right. I could not help dreading something which I tried
to define. If Tom Flynn had suspected that something was going wrong
with me, it was not impossible that Mr. Bristlebach, or Mr. Heavyside,
had been equally penetrating in their observations. It was possible
that, at this moment, the bank officers were engaged in examining my
accounts and my cash. Any attempt to verify some of my entries must
infallibly expose me.
Even without any suspicions of me, they might, in looking over my
accounts, discover the altered figures, or the fictitious items. An
accident might betray me. Perhaps the detectives were already on my
track. Telegraphic dispatches to New York might place officers at the
station in that city ready to arrest me when I arrived. If my deficit
was exposed, it would be impossible for me to take a foreign-bound
steamer. My photograph, or at least my description, would be in the
hands of all the detectives.
All these reflections, all these fears and misgivings, are the penalty
of crime. I was called to endure them, as thousands of others have
been; and those who commit crimes must remember that these things are
“nominated in the bond.” But no telegram preceded me; no detectives
dogged my steps; and the bank had no suspicion that anything was wrong
with me. We went to the Fifth Avenue Hotel on our arrival in the city.
I hastened down town after breakfast, engaged a state-room in the
steamer which sailed at one o’clock, and procured a letter of credit
on London for three thousand five hundred pounds, payable to Charles
Gaspiller, whose signature I left to be forwarded to the banker. I
then went to a barber, and had my beard, except the moustache, shaved
off. When I entered the parlor of the hotel, Lilian did not at first
recognize me. She was talking to a lady and gentleman—a young married
couple—whose acquaintance we had made at breakfast. They intended to
sail in the afternoon for Havana. The husband was about my size, and
not unlike me. He wore only a moustache, and for this reason I had
sacrificed my beard. If any detectives, after a few days, should be
disposed to ascertain what had become of me, they would be as likely to
follow him to Havana as me to Liverpool. It was well to be prudent and
take advantage of circumstances.
CHAPTER XXII.
CHARLES GASPILLER.
I HAD avoided writing my name in the register of the hotel, for I did
not wish to leave any recorded traces of my presence in the city. It
occurred to me that perhaps Lilian had told her name to her new-made
friends, but they would soon be in the tropics, and out of the reach of
detectives. I regarded myself as very shrewd, and I could not exactly
see how it was possible for any one to obtain a trace of me, after the
steamer had departed.
I had given my name at the steamer office as Charles Gaspiller, and
the money for my bill of exchange was to be drawn in London under this
appellation. I don’t know how I happened to select this name. It was a
French word which probably came back to my memory from my studies at
the high school; but I had forgotten its meaning, though I could read
French tolerably well. When I came to ascertain its signification, I
was not a little surprised to find that it exactly fitted my case,
for it means “to waste, to squander, to lavish.” It was entirely by
accident that I chose this word, and I certainly should not have done
