and ushers flew about distractedly, till an important gentleman
appeared, made his bow, skipped upon the leader’s stand, and with a wave
of his baton caused a general uprising of white pinafores as the orphans
led off with that much-enduring melody “America” in shrill small voices,
but with creditable attention to time and tune. Pity and patriotism
produced a generous round of applause, and the little girls sat down,
beaming with innocent satisfaction.

An instrumental piece followed, and then a youthful gentleman, with his
hair in picturesque confusion, and what his friends called a “musical
brow,” bounded up the steps and, clutching a roll of music with a pair
of tightly gloved hands, proceed to inform the audience, in a husky
tenor voice, that “It was a lovely violet.”

What else the song contained in the way of sense or sentiment it was
impossible to discover as the three pages of music appeared to consist
of variations upon that one line, ending with a prolonged quaver which
flushed the musical brow and left the youth quite breathless when he
made his bow.

“Now she’s coming! Oh, Uncle, my heart beats as if it were myself!”
 whispered Rose, clutching Dr. Alec’s arm with a little gasp as the piano
was rolled forward, the leader’s stand pushed back, and all eyes turned
toward the anteroom door.

She forgot to glance at Archie, and it was as well perhaps, for his
heart was thumping almost audibly as he waited for his Phebe. Not from
the anteroom, but out among the children, where she had sat unseen in
the shadow of the organ, came stately Phebe in her wine-colored dress,
with no ornament but her fine hair and a white flower at her throat.
Very pale, but quite composed, apparently, for she stepped slowly
through the narrow lane of upturned faces, holding back her skirts lest
they should rudely brush against some little head. Straight to the front
she went, bowed hastily, and, with a gesture to the accompanist, stood
waiting to begin, her eyes fixed on the great gilt clock at the opposite
end of the hall.

They never wandered from that point while she sang, but as she ended
they dropped for an instant on an eager, girlish countenance bending
from a front seat; then, with her hasty little bow, she went quickly
back among the children, who clapped and nodded as she passed, well
pleased with the ballad she had sung.

Everyone courteously followed their example, but there was no
enthusiasm, and it was evident that Phebe had not produced a
particularly favorable impression.

“Never sang so badly in her life,” muttered Charlie irefully.

“She was frightened, poor thing. Give her time, give her time,” said
Uncle Mac kindly.

“I know she was, and I glared like a gorgon, but she never looked at
me,” added Steve, smoothing his gloves and his brows at the same time.

“That first song was the hardest, and she got through much better than
I expected,” put in Dr. Alec, bound not to show the disappointment he
felt.

“Don’t be troubled. Phebe has courage enough for anything, and she’ll
astonish you before the evening’s over,” prophesied Mac with unabated
confidence, for he knew something the rest did not.

Rose said nothing, but under cover of her burnous gave Archie’s hand a
sympathetic squeeze, for his arms were unfolded now, as if the strain
was over, and one lay on his knee while with the other he wiped his hot
forehead with an air of relief.

Friends about them murmured complimentary fibs and affected great
delight and surprise at Miss Moore’s “charming style,” “exquisite
simplicity,” and “undoubted talent.” But strangers freely criticized,
and Rose was so indignant at some of their remarks, she could not listen
to anything on the stage, though a fine overture was played, a man with
a remarkable bass voice growled and roared melodiously, and the orphans
sang a lively air with a chorus of “Tra, la, la,” which was a great
relief to little tongues unused to long silence.

“I’ve often heard that women’s tongues were hung in the middle and went
at both ends now I’m sure of it,” whispered Charlie, trying to cheer her
up by pointing out the comical effect of some seventy-five open mouths
in each of which the unruly member was wagging briskly.

Rose laughed and let him fan her, leaning from his seat behind with the
devoted air he always assumed in public, but her wounded feelings were
not soothed and she continued to frown at the stout man on the left who
had dared to say with a shrug and a glance at Phebe’s next piece, “That
young woman can no more sing this Italian thing than she can fly, and
they ought not to let her attempt it.”

Phebe did, however, and suddenly changed the stout man’s opinion by
singing it grandly, for the consciousness of her first failure
pricked her pride and spurred her to do her best with the calm sort of
determination which conquers fear, fires ambition, and changes defeat
to success. She looked steadily at Rose now, or the flushed, intent face
beside her, and throwing all her soul into the task, let her voice
ring out like a silver clarion, filling the great hall and setting the
hearers’ blood a-tingle with the exulting strain.

That settled Phebe’s fate as a cantatrice. The applause was genuine and
spontaneous this time and broke out again and again with the generous
desire to atone for former coldness. But she would not return, and the
shadow of the great organ seemed to have swallowed her up, for no eye
could find her, no pleasant clamor win her back.

“Now I can die content,” said Rose, beaming with heartfelt satisfaction
while Archie looked steadfastly at his program, trying to keep his face
in order, and the rest of the family assumed a triumphant air, as if
they had never doubted from the first.

“Very well, indeed,” said the stout man with an approving nod. “Quite
promising for a beginner. Shouldn’t wonder if in time they made a second
Cary or Kellogg of her.”

“Now you’ll forgive him, won’t you?” murmured Charlie in his cousin’s
ear.

“Yes, and I’d like to pat him on the head. But take warning and never
judge by first appearances again,” whispered Rose, at peace now with all
mankind.

Phebe’s last song was another ballad; she meant to devote her talent to
that much neglected but always attractive branch of her art. It was
a great surprise, therefore, to all but one person in the hall when,
instead of singing “Auld Robin Grey,” she placed herself at the piano,
and, with a smiling glance over her shoulder at the children, broke out
in the old bird song which first won Rose. But the chirping, twittering,
and cooing were now the burden to three verses of a charming little
song, full of springtime and the awakening life that makes it lovely. A
rippling accompaniment flowed through it all, and a burst of delighted
laughter from the children filled up the first pause with a fitting
answer to the voices that seemed calling to them from the vernal woods.

It was very beautiful, and novelty lent its charm to the surprise, for
art and nature worked a pretty miracle and the clever imitation, first
heard from a kitchen hearth, now became the favorite in a crowded
concert room. Phebe was quite herself again; color in the cheeks now;
eyes that wandered smiling to and fro; and lips that sang as gaily and
far more sweetly than when she kept time to her blithe music with a
scrubbing brush.

This song was evidently intended for the children, and they appreciated
the kindly thought, for as Phebe went back among them, they clapped
ecstatically, flapped their pinafores, and some caught her by the skirts
with audible requests to “Do it again, please; do it again.”

But Phebe shook her head and vanished, for it was getting late for such
small people, several of whom “lay sweetly slumbering there” till roused
by the clamor round them. The elders, however, were not to be denied and
applauded persistently, especially Aunt Plenty, who seized Uncle Mac’s
cane and pounded with it as vigorously as “Mrs. Nubbles” at the play.

“Never mind your gloves, Steve; keep it up till she comes,” cried
Charlie, enjoying the fun like a boy while Jamie lost his head with
excitement and, standing up, called “Phebe! Phebe!” in spite of his
mother’s attempts to silence him.

Even the stout man clapped, and Rose could only laugh delightedly as she
turned to look at Archie, who seemed to have let himself loose at last
and was stamping with a dogged energy funny to see.

So Phebe had to come, and stood there meekly bowing, with a moved look
on her face that showed how glad and grateful she was, till a sudden
hush came; then, as if inspired by the memory of the cause that brought
her there, she looked down into the sea of friendly faces before her,
with no trace of fear in her own, and sang the song that never will grow
old.

That went straight to the hearts of those who heard her, for there was
something inexpressibly touching in the sight of this sweet-voiced woman
singing of home for the little creatures who were homeless, and Phebe
made her tuneful plea irresistible by an almost involuntary gesture of
the hands which had hung loosely clasped before her till, with the last
echo of the beloved word, they fell apart and were half outstretched, as
if pleading to be filled.

It was the touch of nature that works wonders, for it made full purses
suddenly weigh heavily in pockets slow to open, brought tears to eyes
unused to weep, and caused that group of red-gowned girls to grow
very pathetic in the sight of fathers and mothers who had left little
daughters safe asleep at home. This was evident from the stillness that
remained unbroken for an instant after Phebe ended; and before people
could get rid of their handkerchiefs she would have been gone if the
sudden appearance of a mite in a pinafore, climbing up the stairs
from the anteroom with a great bouquet grasped in both hands, had not
arrested her.

Up came the little creature, intent on performing the mission for which
rich bribes of sugarplums had been promised, and trotting bravely across
the stage, she held up the lovely nosegay, saying in her baby voice,
“Dis for you, ma’am.” Then, startled by the sudden outburst of applause,
she hid her face in Phebe’s gown and began to sob with fright.

An awkward minute for poor Phebe, but she showed unexpected presence
of mind and left behind her a pretty picture of the oldest and youngest
orphan as she went quickly down the step, smiling over the great bouquet
with the baby on her arm.

Nobody minded the closing piece, for people began to go, sleepy children
to be carried off, and whispers grew into a buzz of conversation. In the
general confusion Rose looked to see if Steve had remembered his promise
to help Phebe slip away before the rush began. No, there he was putting
on Kitty’s cloak, quite oblivious to any other duty. Turning to ask
Archie to hurry out, Rose found that he had already vanished, leaving
his gloves behind him.

“Have you lost anything?” asked Dr. Alec, catching a glimpse of her
face.

“No, sir, I’ve found something,” she whispered back, giving him the
gloves to pocket along with her fan and glass, adding hastily as the
concert ended, “Please, Uncle, tell them all not to come with us. Phebe
has had enough excitement and ought to rest.”

Rose’s word was law to the family in all things concerning Phebe. So
word was passed that there were to be no congratulations until tomorrow,
and Dr. Alec got his party off as soon as possible. But all the way
home, while he and Aunt Plenty were prophesying a brilliant future for
the singer, Rose sat rejoicing over the happy present of the woman.
She was sure that Archie had spoken and imagined the whole scene with
feminine delight how tenderly he had asked the momentous question, how
gratefully Phebe had given the desired reply, and now how both were
enjoying that delicious hour which Rose had been given to understand
never came but once. Such a pity to shorten it, she thought, and
begged her uncle to go home the longest way the night was so mild,
the moonlight so clear, and herself so in need of fresh air after the
excitement of the evening.

“I thought you would want to rush into Phebe’s arms the instant she got
done,” said Aunt Plenty, innocently wondering at the whims girls took
into their heads.

“So I should if I consulted my own wishes, but as Phebe asked to be let
alone I want to gratify her,” answered Rose, making the best excuse she
could.

“A little piqued,” thought the doctor, fancying he understood the case.

As the old lady’s rheumatism forbade their driving about till midnight,
home was reached much too soon, Rose thought, and tripped away to warn
the lovers the instant she entered the house. But study, parlor, and
boudoir were empty; and, when Jane appeared with cake and wine, she
reported that “Miss Phebe went right upstairs and wished to be excused,
please, being very tired.”

“That isn’t at all like Phebe I hope she isn’t ill,” began Aunt Plenty,
sitting down to toast her feet.

“She may be a little hysterical, for she is a proud thing and represses
her emotions as long as she can. I’ll step up and see if she doesn’t
need a soothing draft of some sort.” And Dr. Alec threw off his coat as
he spoke.

“No, no, she’s only tired. I’ll run up to her she won’t mind me and I’ll
report if anything is amiss.”

Away went Rose, quite trembling with suspense, but Phebe’s door was
shut, no light shone underneath, and no sound came from the room within.
She tapped and receiving no answer, went on to her own chamber, thinking
to herself: “Love always makes people queer, I’ve heard, so I suppose
they settled it all in the carriage and the dear thing ran away to think
about her happiness alone. I’ll not disturb her. Why, Phebe!” said Rose,
surprised, for, entering her room, there was the cantatrice, busy about
the nightly services she always rendered her little mistress.

“I’m waiting for you, dear. Where have you been so long?” asked Phebe,
poking the fire as if anxious to get some color into cheeks that were
unnaturally pale.

The instant she spoke Rose knew that something was wrong, and a glance
at her face confirmed the fear. It was like a dash of cold water and
quenched her happy fancies in a moment; but being a delicate-minded
girl, she respected Phebe’s mood and asked no questions, made no
comments, and left her friend to speak or be silent as she chose.

“I was so excited I would take a turn in the moonlight to calm my
nerves. Oh, dearest Phebe, I am so glad, so proud, so full of wonder at
your courage and skill and sweet ways altogether that I cannot half tell
you how I love and honor you!” she cried, kissing the white cheeks with
such tender warmth they could not help glowing faintly as Phebe held
her little mistress close, sure that nothing could disturb this innocent
affection.

“It is all your work, dear, because but for you I might still be
scrubbing floors and hardly dare to dream of anything like this,” she
said in her old grateful way, but in her voice there was a thrill of
something deeper than gratitude, and at the last two words her head went
up with a gesture of soft pride as if it had been newly crowned.

Rose heard and saw and guessed at the meaning of both tone and gesture,
feeling that her Phebe deserved both the singer’s laurel and the bride’s
myrtle wreath. But she only looked up, saying very wistfully: “Then it
has been a happy night for you as well as for us.”

“The happiest of my life, and the hardest,” answered Phebe briefly as
she looked away from the questioning eyes.

“You should have let us come nearer and help you through. I’m afraid you
are very proud, my Jenny Lind.”

“I have to be, for sometimes I feel as if I had nothing else to keep
