without letting them get accustomed to the idea. Of course they are 
liable to fall into all sorts of ridiculous situations.'
'You have undertaken a great deal, Dane,' said Mrs. Powder, 'in 
venturing to marry a lady accustomed to so much admiration.'
'I like whatever I have to be admired,' said Rollo coolly.
'But how do you expect she will do without it in future?'
Dane lifted his eyes for a second to the lady with a certain hidden 
sparkle in their gravity, and asked her, so seriously that she was 
entrapped by it, 'If she thought admiration was bad for people in 
general?' Mrs. Powder fell into the snare, and before she knew it 
was involved in a deep philosophical and moral discussion, as far 
as heaven from earth removed from all personalities. The younger 
ladies however found this tiresome.
'Do leave that mamma!' said Josephine. 'The question is, whether 
he and Hazel are going to give us a grand reception, and challenge 
the admiration of the world by something the like of which was 
never seen before. A scene out of the Arabian Nights, with 
enchantment, flowers, fruits and singing birds. They ought, for 
they can. What's the use of having money?'
'I dare say they will do something of that sort,' said the elder lady 
smiling. 'It really is Society's due, I think; especially as they have 
cheated the world with a private wedding.'
'I like to pay my dues,' said Dane carelessly, turning over and 
unpacking things all the while. 'Mrs. Powder, there is a paper knife 
for you.'
'But you don't do it,' the lady went on, smiling at the same time 
over the paper knife, which was very pretty. 'Now will you and 
Hazel hold a reception, as you ought to do, and let people see her 
as your wife?'
'No fear they won't see her,' put in Kitty Fisher. 'I know some 
people who mean to have a good time when he's away at the mills. 
Where are your presents, child? I came to see you on purpose to 
see them. I suppose they are the ninth wonder. You have seen 
them, Mrs. Powder?'
'I have seen nothing,' said that lady blandly, for however she 
disapproved of Kitty's style of application, I have no doubt she 
would have liked it to be successful.'I have seen nothing, except 
baskets.'
'There is a good deal here besides,' said Rollo. 'Mrs. Charteris, 
don't you want a bread trencher? Or a rocking chair? And here are 
pens.'
'Thank you. Are you going to set up a shop?'
'That is what I was going to ask him,' said Molly Seaton.
'When I do, you will not be able to buy it,' said Rollo; 'so make the 
most of your advantage now.'
It was a very silent young duchess that sat there, all this while, 
amid the medley of people and things. The colour sometimes 
coming, and sometimes going; a smile ditto; the little fingers busy 
with packages, the head of brown curls bent over them. Well she 
knew how Rollo was shielding her by his play, amusing her 
inquisitive visiters, at the same time attending to her slightest 
movement; for his fingers came to help hers whenever a knot was 
too hard, or a paper wrap too obstinate, or an article too heavy for 
them.
'Well,' Kitty repeated, eyeing her, 'where are the presents?'
'Not on exhibition,' said Wych Hazel. 'Except in detail.'
'Don't see the details yet,' said Miss Fisher examining her. 'I have 
seen that opal pin beforebewildering thing! Josephine, haven't 
you seen them either?'
'Kitty, you are very impudent!' said Mrs. Powder laughing.
'Presents are good for nothing but to be shewn,' remarked Mrs. 
Charteris.
'My present is worth more than that,' said Rollo. 'It has "Waste not, 
want not," carved on it, if you will notice. That may be very useful 
to you and Mr. Charteris.'
'I wonder who is impudent now!' said Josephine.
'Well what did you wear, child?' pursued Miss Fisher. 'Stephen 
Kingsland fell back in a swoon when he found he had missed your 
wedding dress.'
'Well, I think people have duties to society,' uttered Molly Seaton.
'And society's bound to make 'em pay,' said Miss Fisher. 'I won't 
rest till I have seen those presents, you may be sure.'
'Use your eyes, then,' said Wych Hazel with a warning flush which 
Kitty remembered. 'Because they are not labelledand never will 
be.'
Kitty winked at Mrs. Powder.
'Stupid!' she cried,'use my eyes, to be sure! Why there's the big 
apron! Of course that's a present, only she don't like to say so. The 
child's turned economical. Nobody ever saw Miss Kennedy protect 
her dress, I'll warrant. Pretty pattern, isn't it? I wonder if I could 
get itagainst my moonso-calledof honey?'
'The apron would be no use without the economy,' said Rollo.
'What have people so rich as you to do with economy?'
'Nobody needs it more.'
'Hear him! Then I don't know what economy means,' cried Kitty.
'I doubt if you do, my dear,' said Mrs. Powder.
'What it means?' echoed Josephine. 'Economy is being mean and 
pinching.'
'Economy is saving,' added Molly.
'Looks awfully proper and matronly,' said Kitty, going back to the 
apron. 'When will you give your first ball, Hazel? It might be a 
calico ball, you know,and then all the dresses would help out 
with the mill hands.'
'The first ball I give,' said Hazel, gravely examining a pasteboard 
box filled with the article, 'will probably be one of soap,but just 
when it will be, I do not know.'
'And do you mean your first cards issued to be wool cards, my 
dear?' said Kitty with secret delight.
'Kitty,' said Rollo, 'suppose you take a sugarplumand behave 
yourself.'
'O I can't stay,' said Kitty giving way a little. 'I only came just to
'
'That's what I came for too,' said Josephine; 'and now I am going.'
'We have all got more than we came for, then,' said Molly; 'but I 
have staid too long, too. Will you take me home Phinney.'
The ladies swept away; the room was full of rustling silks for a 
moment, and then was clear. Rollo came back from putting them 
into their respective carriages, and stood and smiled at Hazel.
'It has come at last!' he said.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
PLEASURE BY EXPRESS.
'It was to be expected,' Dane went on resignedly. 'I told Arthur to 
send proper notices to the papers; and I suppose he had done it, 
and this is the consequence. Never mind; we will run away as soon 
as we can. Now, Hazel, what shall we do with all this lumber?'
'Lumber is something out of place, according to Byo,' said Hazel 
contemplatively. 'Now one of these two foot rests would be in 
place in Dr. Maryland's study;is there another tired minister 
somewhere else?'
'Tired minister?' said Dane. I suppose there are hundreds of tired 
ministers scattered all over the land, out west, and on the 
frontiers.If one knew where!'
'Somebody must know.'
'I suppose somebody must.'
'Well cannot you find out?'
'I suppose I can!'
'They may want some of these books, too. Dr. Maryland always 
wants books, although he has so many. And if the ministers are 
tired, their wives must be,' said Hazel with a new fit of 
contemplation settling over her face. Rollo stood in the middle of 
the floor, looking at her, and at the same time considering the 
confusion.
'I will make a bargain with you.'
'Well?'
'These things must go somewhere, that is clear. I will find out the 
names and addresses of a hundred, say, who are in need of help. 
We will send off so many boxes; and you shall arrange what is to 
go in them.'
Wych Hazel folded her hands and looked up at him.
'OlafI never was tired in my life!At least, but once.'
'I thought I was tired five minutes ago,' said Rollo, 'but I have got 
over it.'
'I could think of pretty things enough to send,' Hazel went on. 'Do 
they want pretty things out there, I wonder? Good people here do 
not always like them, I think. But I never saw a missionaryor his 
wife.'
'Perhaps you did not look in the right place. You make your list, 
and I will get mine. We might send off a couple of hundred boxes, 
and put fifty dollars' worth of comfort in each. These things will all 
find a place somewhere.'
'Fifty dollars!' said Hazel opening her eyes. 'My dear friend, have 
you any idea how much one dress costs? Fifty dollars will not do 
much for two people.'
'I will shew you what can be done with fifty dollars. And give you 
your second lesson in economy. Where did you get that name for 
me?'
'Picked it up, one day when you ceased to be an enemy.'
'In some place where worn-out were lying about. Worn-out things 
are shabby.'
Hazel drew a protesting breath. 'There is nothing shabby or worn-
out about it! It is entirely new,spick and span. Please, is my next 
lesson to go deeper than Prim's trunk, and take off all the globe 
buttons?'
'For people who have no gloves, Hazel?'
Hazel looked startled for a minute, but then she looked 
incredulous.
'Go and find out all about it,' she said; 'and then we shall know 
what to do. I am talking of clergymen's wives.'
Dane left that point uncombated. The next evening he came in 
with his hands full of pamphlets. And after dinner, when the room 
was clear, and the gas burners lighted up the warm, luxurious 
comfort and seclusion, glowing and rich, around them, Dane took 
his papers and sat down by Wych Hazel's side.
'I have found out several things about your clergymen's wives,' he 
began. 'Here, as you see, is a bundle of Reports. They concern 
certain funds of relief, established in various churches, for the help 
of disabled or superannuated ministers and their families. And, 
without going into details,there are hundreds of such cases. 
Some of them are sick and old ministers, worn out in the service; 
others are widows of such men; others again, orphan families, 
whose mother and father are both gone. I have been told of the sort 
of destitution that is found among them. What do you think of a 
delicate child, for whom a bit of flannel could not be afforded? 
What do you think of a family of women and girls getting their 
own firing out of the woods, cutting it and backing it home, and 
that by the year together? What do you think of an old minister 
supported by the handiwork of an infirm and herself not young 
daughter? And I could tell you of living without books, without 
paper for writing, in want of calico for dresses, and muslin for 
underclothing, without pocket-handkerchiefs, without yarn to knit 
stockings or a penny to buy any, living on the coarsest food And 
I am talking of clergymen's wives, Hazel.'
Hazel looked up at him with wide-open eyes while he spoke, then 
down at herself, taking a sort of inventory of her own belongings. 
What stores of embroidery and lace were there, even hidden away 
and out of sight! And what sort of relation did these costly silken 
folds bear to those needed calicoes? Her note-paper was 
monogrammed and edged to double its first cost;that shawl, 
tossed carelessly on a chair, would have clothed in flannel a whole 
hospital of sick children. Point by point she went over it all past 
the thirty dollar buckle at her belt down toI dare not say how 
many dollars' worth of shoes that covered the little feet.
And these people were life-long workers for goodor children of 
such men and women, who had hazarded their lives for the Lord 
Jesus,and she, an idler all her life! Hazel put her head down in 
her hands, and answered not a word.
Dane waited awhile; then he ventured a gentle query.
'I cannot bear myself!' Hazel broke out. 'I feel as if I had been 
stealing, and defrauding, and embezzling, and every other 
dishonest word in the dictionary! O do you think the cry of such 
labourers has been going up against me, all my life?'
'What shall we put in our boxes?' said Dane smiling.
Hazel caught up a bit of paper and ran off a list long enough to call 
for good packing,then she stopped suddenly.
'Olafwe cannot send in the dark. One man may have ten 
children, and another may have no wife. And people in Florida 
don't want thick shawls, and Oregon can do without thin muslins.'
'We will pack every box according to its destination. Let me hear 
your list.'
'Well,' said Hazel, folding her hands and gazing into the fire, 'let's 
begin with an imaginary family. People rather old, five children, 
and one of them delicate. And suppose they want a general 
outfit,a great piece of white cotton, and plenty of flannel; and I 
have seen Mrs. Bywank dispense ready-made felt shirts.'
'All right so far. Go on.'
'Then there must be dresses, of course; and one specially nice for 
the minister's wife. And a shawl. For her, I mean. The delicate 
child must have a soft quilted jacket, and bright-coloured warm 
wrapper, for days when she wants to lie on the sofa.'
But here Dane caught his wife in his arms and between laughing 
and kisses informed her that she was playing her "Rolle" of fairy 
again and getting impracticable.
'There is no sofa to lie on, in many of these houses, Hazel,' he went 
on more gravely. 'And it is better that we should send an essential 
supply to many, than to a few all they might want. Keep to 
essentials in the main. Now go on.'
'But Olaf!those things not essentials? Then you will rule out 
collars and cuffs and gloves and neck-ties? What are essentials? I 
do not believe I know.'
'All these, I should say. But even you and I cannot do everything. 
The quilted jacket and crimson wrapper, however desirable, must 
yield in importance to some other things. Is your list done? 
Because I have some items to suggest.'
'I see,' Hazel answered gravely. 'Until everybody learns that the 
workman is worthy of his meat, they must live according to the old 
description"Be shod with sandals, and not put on two coats." 
But Olafhow can the missionary go all about in the snow if he 
has but one? And mayn't I send the sick child some delicate things 
to eat? And if they have no money, how can they get books?and 
papers?andeverything else!" she added, looking round the 
room in bewilderment.
'The coat by all means; and the delicacies for those who are feeble. 
Books can be sent by mail more conveniently, and more 
intelligently when we come to know what is most wanted. But a 
few might go in the boxes too; and some of them picture books. 
Go on. What next?'
'House linen wears out here,' said Wych Hazel. 'Towels and 
tablecloths and sheets. If we knew the names, we could have them 
all marked ready,and so with handkerchiefs.'
'If we try to furnish the people and the houses too, we shall have 
too much on our hands. These are not the only people in the world 
to be helped. Suppose we keep to personalities, for this set of 
boxes.'
'I think you must finish the list,' Hazel said after a pause. 'I believe 
I count everything "essential" that I have always had. I do not 
know how to choose, for people who always do without.'
'Your list is capital, so far. What do you think of a package of tea, 
for another item? Chocolate perhaps, and cocoa. Letter paper, and 
pens and pencils. A few pocket-knives, and fish hooks; perhaps 
some pairs of scissors would not come amiss. Also toilet articles, 
which on the frontiers and in the wilds are hard to get. Hey?'
'There is no end to the things,' said Hazel, facing round. 'But Olaf, 
in getting them, you would not strike off all good books, to keep to 
mere good quality? I should think their eyes must ache to see 
pretty things!'
Rollo smiled, making notes on a sheet of paper. 'I believe in the 
uses of beauty,' he said. 'Let everything be as pretty as possible. I 
leave the charge of that to you. You must go to Stewart's and order 
muslin, calico, flannel, ribbands, and everything in that line. I will 
take care of the hardware and groceries. Order the things sent here. 
I will make arrangements for the reception of them, and Byrom 
shall get us a store of packing-boxes and marking ink.'
'And Olaf,' said Hazel eagerly, 'when you have filled the box with 
essentials, will you let me put "non"-s in all the vacant space?'
For the gratification of those of our readers who would like to 
know how these young people spent the evenings of the remainder 
of their honeymoon, a few words more may be added. Dane 
secured a small room which could be devoted to receiving stores. 
Here day by day Byrom piled stacks of drygoods as they came in; 
packages of tea and spices, corn starch and arrowroot, and the like; 
heaps of books and paper; and thither he carried all the 
heterogeneous articles which had been sent home during that 
eccentric New Year's expedition. Here also he provided a store of 
packing-boxes, of varying dimensions, with hammer and nails and 
marking-ink; much speculating to himself on the peculiarities of 
the service in which he found himself. It is true, Byrom had been 
now some time with Rollo, and had, as the latter said, got used to 
him. He was an English servant, trained and steady as a mill, 
eminently respectable, and head groom now at Chickaree.
These things being provided, as soon as dinner was done every 
