he would come and take it. Helwyze began, and soon she forgot every
thing,—carried away by the smoothly flowing current of the story which
he read so well. A metrical romance, such as many a lover might have
imagined in the first inspiration of the great passion, but few could
have painted with such skill. A very human story, but all the truer and
sweeter for that fact. The men and women in it were full of vitality and
color; their faces spoke, hearts beat, words glowed; and they seemed to
live before the listener’s eye, as if endowed with eloquent flesh and
blood.
Gladys forgot their creator utterly, but Helwyze did not; and even while
reading on with steadily increasing effect, glanced now and then towards
that inner room, where, after a moment of unnecessary bustle, perfect
silence reigned. Presently a shadow flickered on the ceiling, a shadow
bent as if listening eagerly, though not a sound betrayed its approach
as it seemed to glide and vanish behind the tall screen which stood
before the door. Gladys saw nothing, her face being intent upon the
reader, her thoughts absorbed in following the heart-history of the
woman in whom she could not help finding a likeness to herself.
Helwyze saw the shadow, however, and laughed inwardly, as if to see the
singer irresistibly drawn by his own music. But no visible smile
betrayed this knowledge; and the tale went on with deepening power and
pathos, till at its most passionate point he paused.
“Go on; oh, pray go on!” cried Gladys, breathlessly.
“Are you not tired of it?” asked Helwyze; with a keen look.
“No, no! You are? Then let me read.”
“Not I; but there is no more here. Ask Felix if we may go on.”
“I must! I will! Where is he?” and Gladys hurried round the screen, to
find Canaris flung down anyway upon a seat, looking almost as excited as
herself.
“Ah,” she cried, delightedly, “you could not keep away! You know that it
is good, and you are glad and proud, although you will not own it.”
“Am I? Are you?” he asked, reading the answer in her face, before she
could whisper, with the look of mingled awe and adoration which she
always wore when speaking of him as a poet,—
“Never can I tell you what I feel. It almost frightens me to find how
well you know me and yourself, and other hearts like ours. What gives
you this wonderful power, and shows you how to use it?”
“Don’t praise it too much, or I shall wish I had destroyed, instead of
re-sorting, the second part for you to hear.” Canaris spoke almost
roughly, and rose, as if about to go and do it now. But Gladys caught
his hand, saying gayly, as she drew him out into the fire-light with
persuasive energy,—
“That you shall never do; but come and enjoy it with us. You need not be
so modest, for you know you like it. Now I am perfectly happy.”
She looked so, as she saw her husband sink into the tall-backed chair,
and took her place beside him, laughing at the almost comic mixture of
sternness, resignation, and impatience betrayed by his set lips, silent
acquiescence, and excited eyes.
“Now we are ready;” and Gladys folded her hands with the rapturous
contentment of a child at its first fairy spectacle.
“All but the story. I will fetch it;” and Helwyze stepped quickly behind
the screen before either could stir.
Gladys half rose, but Canaris drew her down again, whispering, in an
almost resentful tone,—
“Let him, if he will; you wait on him too much. I put the papers in
order; he will read them easily enough.”
“Nay, do not be angry, dear; he does it to please me, and surely no one
could read it better. I know you would feel too much to do it well,” she
answered, her hand in his, with its most soothing touch.
There was no time for more. Helwyze returned, and, after a hasty
resettling of the manuscript, read on, without pausing, to the story’s
end, as if unconscious of fatigue, and bent on doing justice to the
power of the protégé whose success was his benefactor’s best reward.
At first, Gladys glanced at her husband from time to time; but presently
the living man beside her grew less real than that other, who, despite a
new name and country, strange surroundings, and far different
circumstances, was so unmistakably the same, that she could not help
feeling and following his fate to its close, with an interest almost as
intense as if, in very truth, she saw Canaris going to his end. Her
interest in the woman lessened, and was lost in her eagerness to have
the hero worthy of the love she gave, the honor others felt for him;
and, when the romance brought him to defeat and death, she was so
wrought upon by this illusion, that she fell into a passion of sudden
tears, weeping as she had never wept before.
Felix sat motionless, his hand over his eyes, lips closely folded, lest
they should betray too much emotion; the irresistible conviction that it
was good, strengthening every instant, till he felt only the
fascination and excitement of an hour, which foretold others even more
delicious. When the tale ended, the melodious voice grew silent, and
nothing was heard but the eloquent sobbing of a woman. Words seemed
unnecessary, and none were uttered for several minutes, then Helwyze
asked briefly,—
“Shall we burn it?”
As briefly Canaris answered “No;” and Gladys, quickly recovering the
self-control so seldom lost, looked up with “a face, clear shining after
rain,” as she said in the emphatic tone of deepest feeling,—
“It would be like burning a live thing. But, Felix, you must not kill
that man: I cannot have him die so. Let him live to conquer all his
enemies, the worst in himself; then, if you must end tragically, let the
woman go; she would not care, if he were safe.”
“But she is the heroine of the piece; and, if it does not end with her
lamenting over the fallen hero, the dramatic point is lost,” said
Helwyze; for Canaris had sprung up, and was walking restlessly about the
room, as if the spirits he had evoked were too strong to be laid even by
himself.
“I know nothing about that; but I feel the moral point would be lost, if
it is not changed. Surely, powerful as pity is, a lofty admiration is
better; and this poem would be nobler, in every way, if that man ends by
living well, than by dying ignominiously in spite of his courage. I
cannot explain it, but I am sure it is so; and I will not let Felix
spoil his best piece of work by such a mistake.”
“Then you like it? You would be happy if I changed and let it go before
the world, for your sake more than for my own?”
Canaris paused beside her, pale with some emotion stronger than
gratified vanity or ambitious hope. Gladys thought it was love; and,
carried out of herself by the tender pride that overflowed her heart and
would not be controlled, she let an action, more eloquent than any
words, express the happiness she was the first to feel, the homage she
would be the first to pay. Kneeling before him, she clasped her hands
together, and looked up at him with cheeks still wet, lips still
tremulous, eyes still full of wonder, admiration, fervent gratitude, and
love.
In one usually so self-restrained as Gladys such joyful abandonment was
doubly captivating and impressive. Canaris felt it so; and, lifting her
up, pressed her to a heart whose loud throbbing thanked her, even while
he gently turned her face away, as if he could not bear to see and
receive such worship from so pure a source. The unexpected humility in
his voice touched her strangely, and made her feel more deeply than ever
how genuine was the genius which should yet make him great, as well as
beloved.
“I will do what you wish, for you see more clearly than I. You shall
be happy, and I will be proud of doing it, even if no one else sees
any good in my work.”
“They will! they must! It may not be the grandest thing you will ever
do, but it is so human, it cannot fail to touch and charm; and to me
that is as great an act as to astonish or dazzle by splendid learning or
wonderful wit. Make it noble as well as beautiful, then people will love
as well as praise you.”
“I will try, Gladys. I see now what I should have written, and—if I
can—it shall be done.”
“I promised you inspiration, you remember: have I not kept my word?”
asked Helwyze, forgotten, and content to be forgotten, until now.
Canaris looked up quickly; but there was no gratitude in his face, as he
answered, with his hand on the head he pressed against his shoulder, and
a certain subdued passion in his voice,—
“You have: not the highest inspiration; but, if she is happy, it will
atone for much.”
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  XI.
And Gladys was happy for a little while. Canaris labored doggedly till
all was finished as she wished. Helwyze lent the aid which commands
celerity; and early in the new year the book came out, to win for itself
and its author the admiration and regard she had prophesied. But while
the outside world, with which she had little to do except through her
husband, rejoiced over him and his work, she, in her own small world,
where he was all in all, was finding cause to wonder and grieve at the
change which took place in him.
“I have done my task, now let me play,” he said; and play he did, quite
as energetically as he had worked, though to far less purpose. Praise
seemed to intoxicate him, for he appeared to forget every thing else,
and bask in its sunshine, as if he never could have enough of it. His
satisfaction would have been called egregious vanity, had it not been so
gracefully expressed, and the work done so excellent that all agreed the
young man had a right to be proud of it, and enjoy his reward as he
pleased. He went out much, being again caressed and fêted to his heart’s
content, leaving Gladys to amuse Helwyze; for a very little of this sort
of gayety satisfied her, and there was something painful to her in the
almost feverish eagerness with which her husband sought and enjoyed
excitement of all kinds. Glad and proud though she was, it troubled her
to see him as utterly engrossed as if existence had no higher aim than
the most refined and varied pleasure; and she began to feel that, though
the task was done, she had not got him back again from that other
mistress, who seemed to have bewitched him with her dazzling charms.
“He will soon have enough of it, and return to us none the worse.
Remember how young he is; how natural that he should love pleasure
overmuch, when he gets it, since he has had so little hitherto,” said
Helwyze, answering the silent trouble in the face of Gladys; for she
never spoke of her daily increasing anxiety.
“But it does not seem to make him happy; and for that reason I sometimes
think it cannot be the best kind of pleasure for him,” answered Gladys,
remembering how flushed and weary he had been when he came in last
night, so late that it was nearly dawn.
“He is one who will taste all kinds, and not be contented till he has
had his fill. Roaming about Europe with that bad, brilliant father of
his gave him glimpses of many things which he was too poor to enjoy
then, but not too young to remember and desire now, when it is possible
to gratify the wish. Let him go, he will come back to you when he is
tired. It is the only way to manage him, I find.”
But Gladys did not think so; and, finding that Helwyze would not speak,
she resolved that she would venture to do it, for many things disturbed
her, which wifely loyalty forbade her to repeat; as well as a feeling
that Helwyze would not see cause for anxiety in her simple fears, since
he encouraged Felix in this reckless gayety.
Some hours later, she found Canaris newly risen, sitting at his
escritoire in their own room, with a strew of gold and notes before
him, which he affected to be counting busily; though when she entered
she had seen him in a despondent attitude, doing nothing.
“How pale you look. Why will you stay so late and get these weary
headaches?” she asked, stroking the thick locks off his forehead with a
caressing touch.
                “‘Too late I stayed, forgive the crime;
                  Unheeded flew the hours;
                For lightly falls the foot of time,
                  That only treads on flowers.’”
sang Canaris, looking up at her with an assumption of mirth, sadder than
the melancholy which it could not wholly hide.
“You make light of it, Felix; but I am sure you will fall ill, if you do
not get more sleep and quieter dreams,” she said, still smoothing the
glossy dark rings of which she was so proud.
“Cara mia, what do you know about my dreams?” he asked, with a hint of
surprise in the manner, which was still careless.
“You toss about, and talk so wildly sometimes, that it troubles me to
hear you.”
“I will stop it at once. What do I talk about? Something amusing, I
hope,” he asked, quickly.
“That I cannot tell, for you speak in French or Italian; but you sigh
terribly, and often seem angry or excited about something.”
“That is odd. I do not remember my dreams, but it is little wonder my
poor wits are distraught, after all they have been through lately. Did I
talk last night, and spoil your sleep, love?” asked Canaris, idly piling
up a little heap of coins, though listening intently for her reply.
“Yes: you seemed very busy, and said more than once, ‘Le jeu est fait,
rien ne va plus.’ ‘Rouge gagne et couleur,’—or, ‘Rouge perd et couleur
gagne.’ I know what those words mean, because I have read them in a
novel; and they trouble me from your lips, Felix.”
“I must have been dreaming of a week I once spent in Homberg, with my
father. We don’t do that sort of thing here.”
“Not under the same name, perhaps. Dear, do you ever play?” asked
Gladys, leaning her cheek against the head which had sunk a little, as
he leaned forward to smooth out the crumpled notes before him.
“Why not? One must amuse one’s self.”
“Not so. Please promise that you will try some safer way? This is
not—honest.” She hesitated over the last word, for his tone had been
short and sharp, but uttered it bravely, and stole an arm about his
neck, mutely asking pardon for the speech which cost her so much.
“What is? Life is all a lottery, and one must keep trying one’s luck
while the wheel goes round; for prizes are few and blanks many, you
know.”
“Ah, do not speak in that reckless way. Forgive me for asking questions;
but you are all I have, and I must take care of you, since no one else
has the right.”
“Or the will. Ask what you please. I will tell you any thing, my visible
conscience;” and Canaris took her in the circle of his arm, subdued by
the courageous tenderness that made her what he called her.
“Is that all yours?” she whispered, pointing a small forefinger rather
sternly at the money before him, and sweetening the question with a
kiss.
“No, it is yours, every penny of it. Put it in the little drawer, and
make merry with it, else I shall be sorry I won it for you.”
“That I cannot do. Please do not ask me. There is always enough in the
little drawer for me, and I like better to use the money you have
earned.”
“Say, rather, the salary which you earn and I spend. It is all
wrong, Gladys; but I cannot help it!” and Canaris pushed away his
winnings, as if he despised them and himself.
“It is my fault that you did this, because I begged you not to let Mr.
Helwyze give me so much. I can take any thing from you, for I love you,
but not from him; so you try to make me think you have enough to gratify
my every wish. Is not that true?”
“Yes: I hate to have you accept any thing from him, and find it harder
to do so myself, than before you came. Yet I cannot help liking play;
for it is an inherited taste, and he knows it.”
“And does not warn you?”
“Not he: I inherit my father’s luck as well as skill, and Helwyze enjoys
hearing of my success in this, as in other things. We used to play
together, till he tired of it. There is nothing equal to it when one is
tormented with ennui!”
“Felix, I fear that, though a kind friend, he is not a wise one. Why
does he encourage your vices, and take no interest in strengthening your
virtues? Forgive me, but we all have both, and I want you to be as good
as you are gifted,” she said, with such an earnest, tender face, he
could not feel offended.
“He does not care for that. The contest between the good and evil in me
interests him most, for he knows how to lay his hand on the weak or
wicked spots in a man’s heart; and playing with other people’s passions
is his favorite amusement. Have you not discovered this?”
Canaris spoke gloomily, and Gladys shivered as she held him closer, and
answered in a whisper,—
“Yes, I feel as if under a microscope when with him; yet he is very kind
to me, and very patient with my ignorance. Felix, is he trying to
discover the evil in me, when he gives me strange things to read, and
sits watching me while I do it?”
“Gott bewahre!—but of this I am sure, he will find no evil in you, my
white-souled little wife, unless he puts it there. Gladys, refuse to
read what pains and puzzles you. I will not let him vex your peace. Can
he not be content with me, since I am his, body and soul?”
Canaris put her hastily away, to walk the room with a new sense of wrong
hot within him at the thought of the dangers into which he had brought
her against his will. But Gladys, caring only for him, ventured to add,
with her kindling eyes upon his troubled face,—
“I will not let him vex your peace! Refuse to do the things which you
feel are wrong, lest what are only pleasures now may become terrible
temptations by and by. I love and trust you as he never can; I will not
believe your vices stronger than your virtues; and I will defend you, if
he tries to harm the husband God has given me.”
“Bless you for that! it is so long since I have had any one to care for
me, that I forget my duty to you. I am tired of all this froth and
folly; I will stay at home hereafter; that will be safest, if not
happiest.”
He began impetuously, but his voice fell, and was almost inaudible at
the last word, as he turned away to hide the expression of regret which
he could not disguise. But Gladys heard and saw, and the vague fear
which sometimes haunted her stirred again, and took form in the bitter
thought, “Home is not happy: am I the cause?”
She put it from her instantly, as if doubt were dishonor, and spoke out
in the cordial tone which always cheered and soothed him,—
“It shall be both, if I can make it so. Let me try, and perhaps I can do
for you what Mr. Helwyze says I have done for him,—caused him to forget
his troubles, and be glad he is alive.”
Canaris swung round with a peculiar expression on his face.
