“M. de Bellegarde told me several things I didn’t understand,” said
Newman, “but I made out that. You will leave me open field. I am much
obliged.”
“I wish to add a word that my son probably did not feel at liberty to
say,” the marquise rejoined. “I must say it for my own peace of mind. We
are stretching a point; we are doing you a great favor.”
“Oh, your son said it very well; didn’t you?” said Newman.
“Not so well as my mother,” declared the marquis.
“I can only repeat--I am much obliged.”
“It is proper I should tell you,” Madame de Bellegarde went on, “that I
am very proud, and that I hold my head very high. I may be wrong, but
I am too old to change. At least I know it, and I don’t pretend to
anything else. Don’t flatter yourself that my daughter is not proud. She
is proud in her own way--a somewhat different way from mine. You will
have to make your terms with that. Even Valentin is proud, if you touch
the right spot--or the wrong one. Urbain is proud; that you see for
yourself. Sometimes I think he is a little too proud; but I wouldn’t
change him. He is the best of my children; he cleaves to his old mother.
But I have said enough to show you that we are all proud together. It is
well that you should know the sort of people you have come among.”
“Well,” said Newman, “I can only say, in return, that I am not
proud; I shan’t mind you! But you speak as if you intended to be very
disagreeable.”
“I shall not enjoy having my daughter marry you, and I shall not pretend
to enjoy it. If you don’t mind that, so much the better.”
“If you stick to your own side of the contract we shall not quarrel;
that is all I ask of you,” said Newman. “Keep your hands off, and
give me an open field. I am very much in earnest, and there is not the
slightest danger of my getting discouraged or backing out. You will have
me constantly before your eyes; if you don’t like it, I am sorry for
you. I will do for your daughter, if she will accept me, everything that
a man can do for a woman. I am happy to tell you that, as a promise--a
pledge. I consider that on your side you make me an equal pledge. You
will not back out, eh?”
“I don’t know what you mean by ‘backing out,’” said the marquise.
“It suggests a movement of which I think no Bellegarde has ever been
guilty.”
“Our word is our word,” said Urbain. “We have given it.”
“Well, now,” said Newman, “I am very glad you are so proud. It makes me
believe that you will keep it.”
The marquise was silent a moment, and then, suddenly, “I shall always be
polite to you, Mr. Newman,” she declared, “but, decidedly, I shall never
like you.”
“Don’t be too sure,” said Newman, laughing.
“I am so sure that I will ask you to take me back to my armchair without
the least fear of having my sentiments modified by the service you
render me.” And Madame de Bellegarde took his arm, and returned to the
salon and to her customary place.
M. de la Rochefidèle and his wife were preparing to take their leave,
and Madame de Cintré’s interview with the mumbling old lady was at an
end. She stood looking about her, asking herself, apparently to whom she
should next speak, when Newman came up to her.
“Your mother has given me leave--very solemnly--to come here often,” he
said. “I mean to come often.”
“I shall be glad to see you,” she answered simply. And then, in a
moment: “You probably think it very strange that there should be such a
solemnity--as you say--about your coming.”
“Well, yes; I do, rather.”
“Do you remember what my brother Valentin said, the first time you came
to see me--that we were a strange, strange family?”
“It was not the first time I came, but the second,” said Newman.
“Very true. Valentin annoyed me at the time, but now I know you better,
I may tell you he was right. If you come often, you will see!” and
Madame de Cintré turned away.
Newman watched her a while, talking with other people, and then he took
his leave. He shook hands last with Valentin de Bellegarde, who came out
with him to the top of the staircase. “Well, you have got your permit,”
 said Valentin. “I hope you liked the process.”
“I like your sister, more than ever. But don’t worry your brother any
more for my sake,” Newman added. “I don’t mind him. I am afraid he came
down on you in the smoking-room, after I went out.”
“When my brother comes down on me,” said Valentin, “he falls hard. I
have a peculiar way of receiving him. I must say,” he continued, “that
they came up to the mark much sooner than I expected. I don’t understand
it, they must have had to turn the screw pretty tight. It’s a tribute to
your millions.”
“Well, it’s the most precious one they have ever received,” said Newman.
He was turning away when Valentin stopped him, looking at him with a
brilliant, softly-cynical glance. “I should like to know whether, within
a few days, you have seen your venerable friend M. Nioche.”
“He was yesterday at my rooms,” Newman answered.
“What did he tell you?”
“Nothing particular.”
“You didn’t see the muzzle of a pistol sticking out of his pocket?”
“What are you driving at?” Newman demanded. “I thought he seemed rather
cheerful for him.”
Valentin broke into a laugh. “I am delighted to hear it! I win my bet.
Mademoiselle Noémie has thrown her cap over the mill, as we say. She
has left the paternal domicile. She is launched! And M. Nioche is rather
cheerful--for him! Don’t brandish your tomahawk at that rate; I have
not seen her nor communicated with her since that day at the Louvre.
Andromeda has found another Perseus than I. My information is exact;
on such matters it always is. I suppose that now you will raise your
protest.”
“My protest be hanged!” murmured Newman, disgustedly.
But his tone found no echo in that in which Valentin, with his hand on
the door, to return to his mother’s apartment, exclaimed, “But I shall
see her now! She is very remarkable--she is very remarkable!”
CHAPTER XIII
Newman kept his promise, or his menace, of going often to the Rue de
l’Université, and during the next six weeks he saw Madame de Cintré more
times than he could have numbered. He flattered himself that he was not
in love, but his biographer may be supposed to know better. He claimed,
at least, none of the exemptions and emoluments of the romantic passion.
Love, he believed, made a fool of a man, and his present emotion was not
folly but wisdom; wisdom sound, serene, well-directed. What he felt
was an intense, all-consuming tenderness, which had for its object an
extraordinarily graceful and delicate, and at the same time impressive,
woman who lived in a large gray house on the left bank of the Seine.
This tenderness turned very often into a positive heartache; a sign
in which, certainly, Newman ought to have read the appellation which
science has conferred upon his sentiment. When the heart has a heavy
weight upon it, it hardly matters whether the weight be of gold or of
lead; when, at any rate, happiness passes into that place in which it
becomes identical with pain, a man may admit that the reign of wisdom
is temporarily suspended. Newman wished Madame de Cintré so well that
nothing he could think of doing for her in the future rose to the high
standard which his present mood had set itself. She seemed to him so
felicitous a product of nature and circumstance that his invention,
musing on future combinations, was constantly catching its breath with
the fear of stumbling into some brutal compression or mutilation of her
beautiful personal harmony. This is what I mean by Newman’s tenderness:
Madame de Cintré pleased him so, exactly as she was, that his desire
to interpose between her and the troubles of life had the quality of a
young mother’s eagerness to protect the sleep of her first-born child.
Newman was simply charmed, and he handled his charm as if it were a
music-box which would stop if one shook it. There can be no better proof
of the hankering epicure that is hidden in every man’s temperament,
waiting for a signal from some divine confederate that he may safely
peep out. Newman at last was enjoying, purely, freely, deeply. Certain
of Madame de Cintré’s personal qualities--the luminous sweetness of
her eyes, the delicate mobility of her face, the deep liquidity of her
voice--filled all his consciousness. A rose-crowned Greek of old, gazing
at a marble goddess with his whole bright intellect resting satisfied
in the act, could not have been a more complete embodiment of the wisdom
that loses itself in the enjoyment of quiet harmonies.
He made no violent love to her--no sentimental speeches. He never
trespassed on what she had made him understand was for the present
forbidden ground. But he had, nevertheless, a comfortable sense that she
knew better from day to day how much he admired her. Though in general
he was no great talker, he talked much, and he succeeded perfectly in
making her say many things. He was not afraid of boring her, either by
his discourse or by his silence; and whether or no he did occasionally
bore her, it is probable that on the whole she liked him only the better
for his absence of embarrassed scruples. Her visitors, coming in
often while Newman sat there, found a tall, lean, silent man in a
half-lounging attitude, who laughed out sometimes when no one had
meant to be droll, and remained grave in the presence of calculated
witticisms, for appreciation of which he had apparently not the proper
culture.
It must be confessed that the number of subjects upon which Newman had
no ideas was extremely large, and it must be added that as regards those
subjects upon which he was without ideas he was also perfectly without
words. He had little of the small change of conversation, and his stock
of ready-made formulas and phrases was the scantiest. On the other hand
he had plenty of attention to bestow, and his estimate of the importance
of a topic did not depend upon the number of clever things he could say
about it. He himself was almost never bored, and there was no man with
whom it would have been a greater mistake to suppose that silence
meant displeasure. What it was that entertained him during some of his
speechless sessions I must, however, confess myself unable to determine.
We know in a general way that a great many things which were old stories
to a great many people had the charm of novelty to him, but a complete
list of his new impressions would probably contain a number of surprises
for us. He told Madame de Cintré a hundred long stories; he explained
to her, in talking of the United States, the working of various local
institutions and mercantile customs. Judging by the sequel she was
interested, but one would not have been sure of it beforehand. As
regards her own talk, Newman was very sure himself that she herself
enjoyed it: this was as a sort of amendment to the portrait that Mrs.
Tristram had drawn of her. He discovered that she had naturally an
abundance of gaiety. He had been right at first in saying she was shy;
her shyness, in a woman whose circumstances and tranquil beauty afforded
every facility for well-mannered hardihood, was only a charm the more.
For Newman it had lasted some time, and even when it went it left
something behind it which for a while performed the same office. Was
this the tearful secret of which Mrs. Tristram had had a glimpse, and
of which, as of her friend’s reserve, her high-breeding, and her
profundity, she had given a sketch of which the outlines were, perhaps,
rather too heavy? Newman supposed so, but he found himself wondering
less every day what Madame de Cintré’s secrets might be, and more
convinced that secrets were, in themselves, hateful things to her. She
was a woman for the light, not for the shade; and her natural line was
not picturesque reserve and mysterious melancholy, but frank, joyous,
brilliant action, with just so much meditation as was necessary, and
not a grain more. To this, apparently, he had succeeded in bringing her
back. He felt, himself, that he was an antidote to oppressive secrets;
what he offered her was, in fact, above all things a vast, sunny
immunity from the need of having any.
He often passed his evenings, when Madame de Cintré had so appointed it,
at the chilly fireside of Madame de Bellegarde, contenting himself with
looking across the room, through narrowed eyelids, at his mistress,
who always made a point, before her family, of talking to someone else.
Madame de Bellegarde sat by the fire conversing neatly and coldly
with whomsoever approached her, and glancing round the room with her
slowly-restless eye, the effect of which, when it lighted upon him, was
to Newman’s sense identical with that of a sudden spurt of damp air.
When he shook hands with her he always asked her with a laugh whether
she could “stand him” another evening, and she replied, without a laugh,
that thank God she had always been able to do her duty. Newman, talking
once of the marquise to Mrs. Tristram, said that after all it was very
easy to get on with her; it always was easy to get on with out-and-out
rascals.
“And is it by that elegant term,” said Mrs. Tristram, “that you
designate the Marquise de Bellegarde?”
“Well,” said Newman, “she is wicked, she is an old sinner.”
“What is her crime?” asked Mrs. Tristram.
“I shouldn’t wonder if she had murdered someone--all from a sense of
duty, of course.”
“How can you be so dreadful?” sighed Mrs. Tristram.
“I am not dreadful. I am speaking of her favorably.”
“Pray what will you say when you want to be severe?”
“I shall keep my severity for someone else--for the marquis. There’s a
man I can’t swallow, mix the drink as I will.”
“And what has he done?”
“I can’t quite make out; it is something dreadfully bad, something
mean and underhand, and not redeemed by audacity, as his mother’s
misdemeanors may have been. If he has never committed murder, he has at
least turned his back and looked the other way while someone else was
committing it.”
In spite of this invidious hypothesis, which must be taken for nothing
more than an example of the capricious play of “American humor,” Newman
did his best to maintain an easy and friendly style of communication
with M. de Bellegarde. So long as he was in personal contact with people
he disliked extremely to have anything to forgive them, and he was
capable of a good deal of unsuspected imaginative effort (for the sake
of his own personal comfort) to assume for the time that they were
good fellows. He did his best to treat the marquis as one; he believed
honestly, moreover, that he could not, in reason, be such a confounded
fool as he seemed. Newman’s familiarity was never importunate; his sense
of human equality was not an aggressive taste or an æsthetic theory, but
something as natural and organic as a physical appetite which had
never been put on a scanty allowance and consequently was innocent of
ungraceful eagerness. His tranquil unsuspectingness of the relativity
of his own place in the social scale was probably irritating to M.
de Bellegarde, who saw himself reflected in the mind of his potential
brother-in-law in a crude and colorless form, unpleasantly dissimilar
to the impressive image projected upon his own intellectual mirror. He
never forgot himself for an instant, and replied to what he must have
considered Newman’s “advances” with mechanical politeness. Newman, who
was constantly forgetting himself, and indulging in an unlimited amount
of irresponsible inquiry and conjecture, now and then found himself
confronted by the conscious, ironical smile of his host. What the
deuce M. de Bellegarde was smiling at he was at a loss to divine. M.
de Bellegarde’s smile may be supposed to have been, for himself, a
compromise between a great many emotions. So long as he smiled he
was polite, and it was proper he should be polite. A smile, moreover,
committed him to nothing more than politeness, and left the degree of
politeness agreeably vague. A smile, too, was neither dissent--which
was too serious--nor agreement, which might have brought on terrible
complications. And then a smile covered his own personal dignity, which
in this critical situation he was resolved to keep immaculate; it was
quite enough that the glory of his house should pass into eclipse.
Between him and Newman, his whole manner seemed to declare there could
be no interchange of opinion; he was holding his breath so as not
to inhale the odor of democracy. Newman was far from being versed in
European politics, but he liked to have a general idea of what was going
on about him, and he accordingly asked M. de Bellegarde several times
what he thought of public affairs. M. de Bellegarde answered with suave
concision that he thought as ill of them as possible, that they were
going from bad to worse, and that the age was rotten to its core. This
gave Newman, for the moment, an almost kindly feeling for the marquis;
he pitied a man for whom the world was so cheerless a place, and the
next time he saw M. de Bellegarde he attempted to call his attention
to some of the brilliant features of the time. The marquis presently
replied that he had but a single political conviction, which was enough
for him: he believed in the divine right of Henry of Bourbon, Fifth
of his name, to the throne of France. Newman stared, and after this he
ceased to talk politics with M. de Bellegarde. He was not horrified nor
scandalized, he was not even amused; he felt as he should have felt if
he had discovered in M. de Bellegarde a taste for certain oddities of
diet; an appetite, for instance, for fishbones or nutshells. Under these
circumstances, of course, he would never have broached dietary questions
with him.
One afternoon, on his calling on Madame de Cintré, Newman was requested
by the servant to wait a few moments, as his hostess was not at liberty.
He walked about the room a while, taking up her books, smelling her
flowers, and looking at her prints and photographs (which he thought
prodigiously pretty), and at last he heard the opening of a door to
which his back was turned. On the threshold stood an old woman whom he
remembered to have met several times in entering and leaving the house.
She was tall and straight and dressed in black, and she wore a cap
which, if Newman had been initiated into such mysteries, would have been
a sufficient assurance that she was not a Frenchwoman; a cap of pure
British composition. She had a pale, decent, depressed-looking face, and
a clear, dull, English eye. She looked at Newman a moment, both intently
and timidly, and then she dropped a short, straight English curtsey.
“Madame de Cintré begs you will kindly wait,” she said. “She has just
come in; she will soon have finished dressing.”
“Oh, I will wait as long as she wants,” said Newman. “Pray tell her not
to hurry.”
“Thank you, sir,” said the woman, softly; and then, instead of retiring
with her message, she advanced into the room. She looked about her for a
moment, and presently went to a table and began to arrange certain books
and knick-knacks. Newman was struck with the high respectability of
her appearance; he was afraid to address her as a servant. She busied
herself for some moments with putting the table in order and pulling the
curtains straight, while Newman walked slowly to and fro. He perceived
at last from her reflection in the mirror, as he was passing that her
hands were idle and that she was looking at him intently. She evidently
