ending 'Who shall separate us from the love of 
Christ ? shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, 
or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword? . v . 
Nay, in all these things we are more than conquer 
ors, through him that loved us. For I am persuaded, that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor 
principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor 
things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any 
other creature, shall be able to separate us from the 
love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.' " 
Flora's eyes filled, and she said nothing; and 
Meredith took up his book again. 
" There is another word in that chapter that fits, 
sir;  All things shall work together for good to 
them that love God.'" 
 ' It would certainly take faith to believe that" 
said Flora. " I can imagine a little that other things 
and hopes might console people suffering trouble 
in their persons and goods; but now, for instance, 
what possible benefit could it be to those people 
to have their houses burned, and to be driven 
into the wild wood with no shelter and nothing 
or very little to eat, and likewise very little to 
put on?" 
" Well, T had better read," said Meredith. ' Pastor Harms stops there, after telling how old Drewes 
recited Scripture, and asks, 4 Could my dear readers 
all of them have done as much ? just ask yourselves 
once quietly ; and whoever is forced to say, " I could 
 
not do it," let him be ashamed from the bottom of 
his heart ! 
"'A special impression was made by the words, 
"Though I walk through the valley of the shadow 
of death," etc., and those others, " my heart and my 
flesh faileth," etc., and again, " I am persuaded, that 
neither death nor life," etc., and after they had all 
sat still a while, they raised their heads up cheerfully, took each other's hands, and broke out with 
one voice in the words 
" Dennoch bleibe ich stets an Dir," etc.' " 
"What does that mean, Ditto?" 
" ' Nevertheless, I am continually with thee.' 
'Then they went quietly to sleep in the wood, 
and lodged there beautifully, warm and safe under the wings of their God, and beneath the sheltering arms of the fir-trees; so that the sun was 
already shining through the branches when they 
waked up. Then they milked the cows, to get 
some breakfast for the children, and after that they 
all gathered round the old father to remind him of 
his promise. And the old man did not delay, but 
prayed first the twenty-seventh, and then the forty- 
second and forty-third psalms, and for the last, the 
twelfth chapter of the Epistle to the Hebrews ; 
so devoutly and so confidingly and so unhesitatingly, that they all could not have supposed but 
that he was reading to them out of the big Bible 
that had been under the arm-chair; and in most 
of the parts they prayed with him -word for word. 
Then they looked gratefully to the old man, and 
 
after they had first asked the blessing, then drunk 
the milk, and at last said grace, the others remained 
in the wood; but the two peasants, Drewes and 
Hinz with their two servants set out to go back to 
the place where their houses had stood. As they 
went off, the old father Hinz called after them, as 
if he were in a dream, " Children, see about the 
books too ! " Slowly they drew near the place of 
the conflagration; carefully listening and looking 
around them ; but nothing was to be seen or heard, 
all was as still as death, only the birds were hopping and singing in the branches. At last they 
came within view of the place where the fire had 
been; but just as they were about to run thither, 
a low moaning came to their ears from the corner 
of the wood, near the place of the fire. They were 
Christians, therefore they did not do like the priest 
and the Levite, but like the kind-hearted Samaritan; they went off towards the quarter from which 
the moans came; and what did they see? Two 
badly wounded soldiers, sitting in the two grand 
father's chairs at the corner of the wood. How came 
they there? The troops on their march through 
had had these wounded fellows with them; who 
for their weakness proved unable to go any further ; so their comrades determined to leave them 
behind. But to let the houses stand for the sake 
of affording them shelter, was more than the in 
flamed rage of the soldiers, disappointed at finding 
everything empty, could see their way to. However, to shew some sort of humanity to their comrades, they had dragged the two old chairs out of 
the houses to the corner of the wood, placed the 
wounded men in them, and then completed their 
work of destruction ; following which they had all 
marched off. And now, when the wounded sol 
diers saw standing before them the four men whose 
houses their comrades had laid in ashes, they look 
ed for nothing else but death. But not anger nor 
revenge, but peace, yes, blessed joy, beamed from 
the faces of those four men; God had certainly 
saved their beloved books for them. Now they did 
not care that their houses were gone. The soldiers 
were treated, not as foes, but as benefactors. They 
carried them away into the wood where the rest of 
the people were ; and when the chairs were seen, 
and the seats were lifted up, and the books found 
uninjured, then there was a thanksgiving and 
praising and glorifying so loud and so glad, that 
the angels in heaven must have joined in; the very 
little children ran to the books and kissed them devoutly and gleefully. The two soldiers were tended 
as if they had been blood kindred ; milk was given 
them to drink ; and now also, since the host of incendiaries had marched away, the way was open 
to fetch food again out of the villages. It was proposed to bring the wounded men to the nearest 
hamlet; but they were too weak for it; and they 
begged that they might be kept in the huts in the 
wood. And now it came to pass that nothing refreshed those two soldiers, more than old Father 
Hinz's talk from the word of God, and his prayers. 
 
Even at the eleventh hour, they turned to the Lord 
Jesus; and the pastor in Hermannsburg gave them 
the holy Communion after they had confessed their 
sins, had received the assurance of forgiveness, and 
had declared that they believed in Jesus Christ, 
the only-begotten Son of God, and were persuaded 
that his body and blood were truly represented to 
them in the bread and the wine. This Communion 
was a right blessed day of joy for the inhabitants 
of the wood. But God was preparing for them yet 
another special rejoicing. For when the last hour 
of the two soldiers was drawing near, they summoned the old father and the two peasants to their 
dying bed, thanked them anew with tears in their 
eyes for the salvation which they had found for 
their souls, and made over to them the legacy of 
their military doublets; with the intimation, that 
after they were dead, they should rip out the seams 
of them. This was done, when the men had first 
been honourably buried ; and now were discovered, 
sewed into the doublets, such a stock of gold pieces, 
that not only the burned-down houses and sta 
bles could be built again, but also the men and 
maids might receive a handsome reward, and a 
new altar cloth could be given to the church at 
Hermannsburg. 
"'The lord of the manor of Hermannsburg had 
assigned to the two soldiers a place in his portion 
of the church-yard, where, at the northeast corner 
of the church-yard wall, their graves were covered 
with a stone. This stone lay there until, after the 
 
male line of the lord of the manor had died out, the 
so-called Allodium was sold, and along with it this 
stone. It bore the following inscription : 
" ' " ANNO 1642 DOMINI NOSTRI JESU CHRISTI MORTEM 
OBIERUNT ET HOC LOCO SEPULTI SUNT FRIEDERICUS WfiN- 
CESLAUS BOHEMUS ET MARTINUS JuRISCHITZ LuSACIUS, QUI 
BIBLIA INSCII SERVAVERANT ET PER BIBLIA IN STERNUM SER- 
VATI SUNT:" that is, 
" ' " In the year of our Lord Jesus Christ 1642 died 
and are here buried Friedrich Wenzel of Bohemia, 
and Martin Jurischitz of Lusatia ; who without 
knowing it had saved the Bible, and through the 
Bible have been themselves saved unto everlasting 
life." 
'"On the other side of the stone stood the words 
"Hinnerk Hinz and Peter his son and Drewes 
Johan have had this stone erected for two gold 
gulden out of the Landsknecht's doublet." 
" Two years after the end of the thirty years' 
war, those two peasants, of their own free will, 
pulled down their houses in the Buchhorst and 
built them up again in the village of Wesen ; for 
the reason, that after the devastations of those 
years the wolves had so got the upper hand that it 
was no longer possible to be secure from them. 
Twice, with great difficulty, they had recovered 
their children from the wolves, which already had 
them in their grip and were dragging them off; 
and then they thought, to stay there longer would 
be to tempt God. Those two farms are still in 
Wesen and are yet called Drewes' farm and Hinz's 
 
farm, although the possessors in these latter days 
have long borne other names. May God give us 
from this old story the blessing, that we may be 
ever more as strong in the Bible and as firm in 
faith as the men of old were.'" 
 
CHAPTER XXI. 
" That is one of your very prettiest stories, Ditto," 
cried Maggie when he stopped. 
"Yes," said Flora, " I think so." 
" It must be a good story that can be listened to 
here," said Mr. Murray, " and I have been listening with great attention. I have been thinking, 
while I was looking out over all this beauty and 
receiving so much by my ears of another kind of 
beauty, I have been thinking and rejoicing to 
myself over the fact, how good our God is. ' Mountains, and all hills; fruitful trees, and all cedars; 
young men and maidens; old men and children: 
let them praise the name of the Lord.'" 
" Uncle Eden," said Maggie meditatively, " how 
can hills praise the Lord ? or trees ? " 
" Don't they ? " 
"How, Uncle Eden?" 
" Don't they, I ask?" 
" But they could not hear anybody tell them to 
praise." 
"You are a literalist. How can 'the trees of the 
field clap their hands ' ? " 
 
" Does the Bible say they do ? " 
" It says they will. And it says * Let the floods 
clap their hands; let .the hills be joyful together before the Lord ; for he cometh ! ' " 
" But that is very strange too," said Flora. " ' He 
cometh to judge the earth; ' I know the chant; but 
it seems solemn and dreadful, and it is sung in the 
''minor key." 
"I know" said Mr. Murray. "The composer 
did not understand the rejoicing either." 
" But how can any one, Mr. Murray ? " 
"Those 'that love his appearing,' Miss Flora?" 
"I suppose I am very bad, Mr. Murray; but I 
tell you just how I feel. That seems to me the 
most awful of times, and nothing but awful." 
" Perfectly correct, Miss Flora, and just as it is 
described in the Bible. When the kings and the 
great men and the rich men will say to the mountains and to the rocks, ' Fall on us, and hide us ! ' " 
"But you talk of being glad? " said Flora look 
ing a good deal troubled. 
"Ay, but I was thinking of the other party," 
said Mr. Murray gravely, "from whom will go 
up a very different cry, a shout of gladness ' Lo, 
this is our God ! we have waited for him, and he 
will save us.' " 
" Save them from what ? " 
" From all the oppressions and miseries inflicted 
upon them by the rulers of this world; and more, 
from all the evils under which humanity has been 
groaning ever since the fall. Then will strike the 
 
hour of the world's freedom. That will be the time 
when the bridegroom cometh, and they that are 
ready will go in with him to the marriage. Don't 
you think they will be glad ? who have been waiting in darkness and weariness for so long ? Then 
comes the marriage supper, and the everlasting 
union between Christ and his church. Should not 
the church be glad?" 
" You said,  they that are ready. ' ' 
"Yes." 
" Who are they ? " 
" Do you remember the parable of the marriage 
supper ? Don't you recollect, one man had not on 
a wedding garment ? " 
" But what is the wedding garment?" said Flora, 
who looked as if she had some difficulty to keep 
her composure. 
" Shall I answer you in the words of one of old 
time ? ' I will greatly rejoice in the Lord, my soul 
shall be joyful in my God; for he hath clothed me 
with the garments of salvation, he hath covered me 
with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom 
decketh himself with ornaments, and as a bride 
adorneth herself with her jewels.' " 
" Then it is something given " said Flora slowly. 
"Given, by the King to the guests; a free gift, 
Miss Flora, to all who accept the King's invitation." 
Flora asked no more, but lay still on her couch 
of pine branches, looking out on the calm and glorified hills. Nobody else broke the silence ; I think 
 
Fenton was gone to sleep; and the others were 
quiet. 
" The shadows are going the wrong way," said 
Flora at last. "I wish this day would last longer! " 
"'A thing of beauty is a joy forever'" said 
Meredith. 
" Don't quote such a dreadfully hackneyed sentiment ! " said his sister. " How comes, it Mr. Mur 
ray, that beautiful things in nature never grow 
hackneyed ? " 
"They are always fresh. No two days in one's 
experience are just like each other." 
"There never was a day in my experience like 
this one," said Flora. " Ditto, aren't you going to 
read some more ? " 
" It will be a variety, if I do." 
"We are made to like variety as Mr. Murray 
has just reminded you." 
Meredith guessed that his sister cared more about 
putting off the hour of departure than about the 
reading in the abstract; and he opened his book 
again, for nobody else made any objection to Flora's 
proposal. 
" I shall read you," said he, " the story of a pastor and a farmer." 
" Those are the people your stories are generally 
about," said Flora. " I hope the variety will lie in 
the treatment. Go on. I don't care what you 
read." 
" In a certain country, that I am not going to 
name, there is a parish village. In the parsonage 
 
lives a pastor; it is not I however. This pastor 
faithfully serves our beloved church with the word 
of God, which he preaches in truth, and with the 
holy sacraments, which he administers as he ought. 
And wherever this is done, the fruit will not be 
wanting; for God has promised it, and he keeps 
his word still, although among men there is little 
truth or faith any longer to be found. 
"'With temporal goods, however, this pastor is 
not specially well provided; and were it not that 
