“ This supper-table ought to be painted: it is like a 
picture,” says Archie. 

“ Why, Dell, child ! ” and mother gives a little surprised 
laugh, — “ what made you think of getting out this old 
china ? ’ ’ 

It was great-grandmother Durant’s, rare and fine. 
“Because we had so many beautiful things to eat,” 





answers Dell. “ And I have made each of you a nose 
gay." 

Ai’chie pins his in his dressing-gown. 

Then we go back to the parlor, and sing, — 

Forever with the Lord. 

Here in this body pent, 

Absent from heaven, I roam, 

Yet nightly pitch my moving tent 
A day’s march nearer home.” 

Archie has been leaning his head on mother’s shoulder. 
He raises it a trifle, kisses the hand so near his cheek. A 
little quiver seems to run all over him. 

“ Good-night, mother.” 

The head droops. Mother clasps it close, shutting out 
the face with her arm. We all know that he has gone 
through the “ pass of death,” and is at home. 

Captain Archie Durant, in the very flower of manhood. 


CHAPTER XXII. 



It was as Archie desired. We did not shroud ourselves 
in the outward panoply of grief, wearing black to some 
extent, but not stiff crape, and mourning neck-ruches. 
We took him to the pretty country burying-ground at 
Medford, and then went on with our daily duties. People 
have to, in this world, if they cannot get others to take 
their places ; and we could not. All our little savings 
went to pay expenses ; but we 'were out of debt, 

Mrs. Palmer gave up her business, as she wms to marry 
at the holidays. Dell staid at home. We had some kind 
and pleasant friends, if we were not very prosperous. 

Yet it did seem to me as if the world was getting rich. 
The Sandborns sold, and went up on Park Avenue, the 
ridge of high ground above us. Mr, Mercer traded prop- 
erty, and left the neighborhood. New streets were cut 
through, rows of houses built and sold. Factories were 
running night as well as day. The croakers had croaked ; 
but good times were really coming in. High taxes and 
high prices made no difference when you had plenty of 
money. 

The Miller brothers sold their property, and were rich 
men at a bound. James Miller w'ent Into building-business ; 
and the two opened a lumber-yard. Stephen was elected 
alderman, to fill a vacancy. 

Just at this time, uncle Frank took a dreadful cold. 
Mother -was down spending the day with aunt Hetty. 

 


 


‘‘ Hetty,” she said, “ why do you not make Frank stay 
in, and be doctored? He looks so badly ; and that cough 
is terrible.” 

“How can he?” answered Hetty sharply. “Stephen 
must be away, there’s so much in his new place that needs 
oversight ; for the Millers are no hands to go off pleasur- 
ing, and leave every thing to clerks. And the Kinneys 
might a’ been doing a good trade here to-day, if they’d 
looked after it.” 

“But health seems of so much importance,” suggested 
mother mildly. 

“ Do you suppose he’d leave those Irishmen to ’tend to 
things, and take money? He’s had many a bad cold, and 
got over it. I never did beheve in cuddling people up in 
a chimney-corner. You can work a’most anything off, if 
you have a little spunk.” 

Uncle Frank’s cold did not seem to “ work off ; ” but he 
managed to get about. 

“ I wish Stephen would give me Ms chance in the busi- 
ness,” said father; “let me buy him out, on any kind 
of easy terms. They certainly ought to have a book- 
keeper.” 

Father sounded uncle Frank, but found that Stephen 
wasn’t afraid of “ having too many irons in the fire.” 

“ I have a chance to take up a new employment,” he 
announced one evening. “ We had a man to work for us 
once, — Woodford, a chair-maker by trade. He went to 
war when bounties were high, and on his return took up 
carpentering. He is in business now, with Dayid Brown, 
a kind of half-made architect. It doesn’t seem neces- 
sary to learn any thing thoroughly nowadays. They build 
cheap, showy houses, and sell them ; although they have 
done some pretty good work. I saw Woodford to-day, 
and he said they were pajdng from two dollars and a half to 
three and a half for men. He offered me work ; indeed, 
quite urged me to come. I certainly tliink I can do as 


 


well at house-building as Mark Woodford. Nine dollars 
a week isn’t much for a man to earn, though Hatfield can 
get plenty of young men to take the place at that price.” 

“ It is very little ; yet it has served you a good turn, 
and aided in re-establishing your health. But if you 
could earn more ” — 

There would be no Archie to count on in the future. I 
must be son and daughter both. 

Father looked after the opportunity, and found he could 
earn three dollars a day, after giving a little time to get 
an insight into the business. He had been so used to 
wood- work all his life. 

“Eighteen dollars a week,” said mother. “Do you 
remember, before you left New York, you had twenty dol- 
lars a week as foreman ? W e thought two hundred and 
fifty dollars a year a high rent ; and now Mr. Mercer’s 
house, not as pretty as ours, rents for five hundred. The 
Blairs are to pay twenty-eight dollars a month for a second 
floor ; and Mrs. Nichol was telling me, a few days ago, 
that they paid thirty dollars a month for the same cottage 
that cost them only twelve dollars five years ago. Rents 
have more than doubled. We used to give from fifteen to 
twenty-five cents for first-class butter : now it goes from 
thirty"-five to fifty cents. Excellent flour at seven dollars 
a barrel, and my last was twelve dollars and a half. A 
great many small articles have doubled in price ; and, if you 
attempt to get cheap things, they are so ver}- poor. When 
you have to use tw"ice as much of any thing to gain the 
same strength or flavor, it is not cheap : so I, for one, think 
it a rather odd sort of prosperity.” 

“Yet a good many people are getting rich,” said father. 
“ Now, here is Woodford. His family were almost starv- 
ing when he went to war : now they live in better style 
than we do.” 

‘ ‘ But he cannot have made all that money in such a 
little while,” said mother, surprised. 





I don’t quite understand. It seems to me people are 
running fearfully in debt, thinking or hoping to make 
money. But how will it be when everything shrinks back 
to its actual value? How pay indebtedness contracted 
with gold more than double its real value, with gold when 
it comes back to its normal state ? Will properly that is 
worth ten thousand now be worth ten thousand then? 
And }-et it is a great temptation to speculate. I suppose 
if I had money, I should do it too.” 

Father had an offer for our house, — fifty-six hundred 
dollars, cash down. He hunted up all the papers to see 
what it had cost. Twenty-four hundred in the beginning : 
the improvements — furnace, bath-room, the double bay- 
window, and kitchen, besides being twice painted — had 
cost nearly another thousand, to say nothing of the work 
father had done by odd spells. And then there was the 
interest and taxes. 

“We could go a little farther out,” said father. “ There 
are pretty houses at Meh’ose and Clinton and Westlands ; 
but the car-fare is eight and ten cents, and the street- 
improvements are all to be made. If Chrissie and I rode 
twice a day, and the others came in occasionally, car-fare 
would average ten dollars a month. Then here the grad- 
ing, curbing, paving, and sewering are done. It might 
cost a thousand or so in a new place. I do not see how 
we should be very much the gainers, after all, since we 
must have a house to live in.” 

Mother settled it. No house, she said, could ever 
be so dear to her. In case of great misfortune or posi- 
tive want, she would be willing to give it up, but for no 
other cause. 

So said Theo and I. 

“ You have made a great mistake, Durant,” commented 
some of the neighbors. 

Were sentiment, affection, and satisfaction nothing? 
Was the world to be completely given over to greed? 


 


Our next-door neighbor, Mr. Corbin, who was a life- 
insurance agent, used to come and visit father on the 
porch, as the evenings grew pleasant. I was very much 
interested in their talk. Mr. Corbin thought a national 
debt a supreme blessing, and argued that high taxation 
served to develop the resources of a country. “ Look at 
England,” he would cry, “mistress of the seas, and 
with the greatest commerce in the world. Every few 
years she has a war on hand. Her debt is immense. An 
Englishman’s tax begins in his cradle, and can hardly be 
said to end in his grave ; yet see how prosperous the 
country is! We ought to copy that stjde of doing busi- 
ness.” 

He was also very enthusiastic about the towns in the 
vicinity of New York. 

“ The people are swarming out every year. As a 
place increases in population, its value certainly does not 
diminish. Why, I suppose this place was once a farm, 
and fifty acres could be bought for less than you would 
take for your house. It’s going to double again and 
again.” 

Mr. Sargent used to come up sometimes, and join the 
smokers’ club, as he called it, 

“ Mr. Corbin,” he would say, “ are salaries and wages 
going to increase in like ratio? Just now there seems a 
plethora of employment ; but such seasons are often fol- 
lowed by depression. There have been other times of 
excitement, followed by financial ruin ; and it behooves us 
to go a little carefully.” 

“Well,” laughingly, “I find that I can pay my five 
year rent easily on an income of three thousand 
dollars than I could two hundred on that of eight or nine 
hundred. And there’s a little margin of speculation on 
stocks and bonds. Brains are beginning to rule the 
world, instead of mere stupid strength.” 

“ An yet brains have run into many foolish vagaries.” 




“ It seems to me,’ Mr. Sargent said after Mr. Corbin 
had gone, “that there is too much of this irresponsible 
work in the world, — agents and officers and middlemen, 
— and profits must be enormous to pay them all. The 
old steady six per cent must give way to the new pushing 
dividend of fifteen or twenty. Farms are cut up into 
cities ; business-men must have a clerk or two, while they 
ride around in carriages. A queer state of things, after 
such an exhausting war ! ” 

As for us, we found need for the strictest economy. 
We had begun to hope again that the mortgage might be 
paid, if father had good work and kept well, and no other 
misfortunes happened. 

We had lived very quietly since Archie’s death. Dell’s 
attention was occupied with her absent lover. Theo cared 
so little for company, indeed had not the strength for our 
old diversions ; and it seemed to me I was rather tired, 
and out of spirits. The years stretched ahead so long 
and uneventful. If you could keep the same class, and 
go on with them, watch their progress and development, 
their hopes and aspirations ; but as soon as you had 
taken them to a certain point, you turned back to another 
stupid, ignorant class, and went over the same things. 
Multiplication-tables and etjunology may be very delight- 
ful for a season ; but it is possible for them to grow monot- 
onous after several years’ steady wear. 
