hurtful things may be cast out. Now, just in the 
degree that each individual brings himself into 
harmony with this higher circle of life, which is 
common to the whole, will he find discord and 
obstruction ceasing. The world will put on a 
new face for him. She will speak to him in a 
different language. He will not need to go away 
into the still places of jiature to find rest and 
peace, for they will abide with him. But, if he 
narrow his life down to the merest selfish ends, 
seeking, as some disordered member of the body, 
to appropriate only, and not to give to act for 
himself alone, and not in concert with the whole 
for the health and well-being of the whole then 
he will be out of tune. His life will be jarred by 
perpetual discords, and he will vainly imagine 
that he is suffering from defect of harmony in 
society, when the defect is in himself. 
" This," added my friend, " is the lesson I have 
learned. Taking my peculiar mental construction, 
there was no way for me to learn it but by the 
hard one of experience. I had to drop out of the 
orchestra and try my instrument alone. What 
poor music I'm ade, sitting afar off in solitary 
places by myself! I thought it passing sweet at 
first; but its thinness and monotony soon wearied, 
and at last disgusted me. I longed for choral 
harmonies. How they ravished my ears when 
their chorded delights broke into them again !" 
 
VI. 
SUNDAY RELIGION. 
" "IT ERE Sunday religion, and not worth anything," 
said a lady, whose age and appear 
ance gave weight to her words. The remark 
seemed to occasion something like surprise in the 
little group around her. 
"What do you mean by Sunday religion?" 
was asked. 
"Pious observances of any kind singing, 
praying, listening to sermons, reading the Bible, 
receiving the sacraments, and the like." 
"And do you mean to say that these are worth 
nothing as means to the attainment of a heavenly 
life?" 
"No; far from it. They are of inestimable 
value ; I'm ight almost say of essential value." 
"Then," said the other, "I am at a loss to 
comprehend your meaning. Sunday religion not 
worth anything !" 
"Mere Sunday religion, I said, which is about 
all the religion possessed by the large class to 
whom I was referring. An exterior of sanctity, 
without a living principle of charity in the heart ; 
that is the Sunday religion I'm eant to condemn." 
"There is too much of that, I fear," was an 
swered. 
" Too much, alas !" 
" It is a self-deceiving form of hypocrisy," remarked 
one of the company. 
"And as such," said the lady, "without any 
saving principle. Men and women may sing and 
pray devoutly read the w r ord of God in all so 
lemnity of utterance hear preachings receive 
the sacred correspondential elements in the com 
munion give of their substance to churches 
and yet be in the broad way to destruction, in 
stead of in the narrow way to heaven. All these 
things will be as nothing if the week-day life fail. 
If, from Monday morning until Saturday night, 
 
love of self and the world rule the whole mind, 
all Sunday service will go for nothing in our ac 
count with heaven. In every day of every week 
we are writing down that history of our lives by 
which we shall be judged when this mortal puts 
on immortality ; and will not six days of God- 
forgetting selfishness stand in fearful contrast with 
a Sunday record of constrained worship ?" 
"Must religion come down into everything?" 
was asked. " How can you bring piety into 
trade ? It does not follow, because a man is ear 
nest in his employment, that he is sinning against 
God. Nothing can be done rightly, unless the 
mind goes into it with full vigor ; and a man can 
not think of business and religion at the same 
time. He who made us, comprehended this, and 
set apart one day in seven for religious thoughts 
and duties. I'm  afraid you depress the value of 
our Sabbath ceremonials." 
" It is not in my heart to do so, for I find in 
them both help and comfort," replied the lady, 
whose remark had led the conversation in this di- 
 
rection. " Of all good gifts from our heavenly 
Father, I prize, as among the bast, this Chris 
tian Sabbath, when we may lay down our bur 
dens of care and work, and gather up strength, 
hope, encouragement, and lessons of spiritual wis 
dom, by which to lead truer, because more unself 
ish, lives, in the days to come. But, if it is used 
as the only means of advancing heavenward, 
through devotional acts, and neither God nor the 
neighbor be regarded in the weeks that follow, 
then will its services be in vain. There must be 
religion in business, or there can be no religion at 
all." 
" I am at fault as to your entire meaning," said 
the one who had previously spoken. " Religion 
in business ! that is a novel proposition. Would 
you have a man praying and psalm-singing in his 
shop, store, office, or manufactory ?" 
"No." 
" Then, how is he to bring down his religion 
into his business ?" 
" Religion is life," was answered  " that is, a 
 
life in obedience to the precepts of religion. 
Now, men live through the week as well as on 
Sunday in their stores and shops as well as in 
their homes or closets; and they can lead only 
one of two lives religious or irreligious the life 
of heaven or the life of hell. This is true of 
every day, and hour, and moment. Think 
must it not be so?" 
There followed a thoughtful silence. 
" What I'm ean by religion in business," said 
the lady, "is that justice and integrity which ne 
ver loses sight of the neighbor 's well being 
which is based on the divine law, Whatsoever 
ye would that men should do unto you, do ye 
even so to them. It is in business that men 
come in contact with men under the peculiar 
temptations that love of self inspires; and here it 
is that they are more especially called upon to 
live that life of religious trust in God by which 
they can overcome the evil inclinings of their 
hearts. In church, and on the business-free Sabbath, they are not in the soul-trying temptations 
that meet them in their world 's work, and the 
armor of religion is not so needful for defence. 
It is to him who overcometh that the promise is 
given ; and life 's battle is not on the Sabbath, nor 
in church. Our way to heaven is through the 
world. A Sunday religion, therefore, which is 
not the complement of religion in daily life, is of 
no avail whatever, and to them who trust therein 
will come a sad awakening in that time, when all 
hearts will be seen as they are. God is a spirit, 
and they who worship him must worship him in 
spirit and in truth. It is the heart 's quality that 
gives acceptance in the eyes of God not prostrations of the body, nor any mere acts of devotion. 
There can be no true external worship without 
the internal worship of a good life ; and a good 
life consists in a faithful and just discharge of all 
our neighborly duties from a principle of obedience to Divine laws. When such obedience is 
rendered, external Sabbath worship will flow in 
natural sequence, and be a form of that genuine 
worship which brings us near to God, and fills us 
 
with his spirit a spirit not of self-love and nar 
row self-seeking, but of genuine regard for others. 
When that spirit rules in a man 's heart, he will 
be just in dealing, and careful that no one has 
loss through his gain. He will take no advan 
tages in trade, nor profit through another 's ignorance. Charity, or neighborly good-will, will 
make one with his piety. In the ground of love 
for the neighbor, whom he has seen, will the 
seeds of love to God, whom he" hath not seen, be 
planted." 
" You make the way to heaven very narrow. 
Who can walk in it?" said one of the company. 
A sigh came faintly from the lips of the lady 
who had spoken so wisely and well. 
" If we would go to heaven we must come into 
the life of heaven," she said, " and that is a life 
of mutual love and service. God is love not 
self-love, such as we cherish, but a love of doing 
good. And the religion that leads to heaven is 
an everyday religion of good-will to the neighbor, showing itself in justice, integrity, truth, 
 
honor, and genuine humanity. Without this religion, Sunday worship is nothing ; with it, conjunction with heaven, and a joy unspeakable. 
If the way is narrow, it is, nevertheless, the way 
marked out by God himself. It is not my way 
but his. And it is hard only because self-love is 
strong. Deny this self-love, and heavenly love 
will flow in. Then the way will become plain, 
and its rough places smooth. Flowers will spring 
along its margin, as it winds upward and upward 
into clear mountain regions, from which new 
worlds of beauty will open successively to the 
vision. So I read the laws of heavenly life, as 
written in God 's word." 
VII. 
THE LIFE TO COME. 
" mHANK God for the life to come !" said a 
- pale, sad-looking woman, in a voice marked 
less by the patience of Christian hope, than by 
fretfulness and despondency. 
" What life to come, Aunt Lucy ?" 
The questioner was a slender girl, not over se 
venteen or eighteen in appearance, but, really, in 
her twenty-first summer. 
"Are you a heathen, Grace?" The woman 's 
dark eyes flashed half-angrily. " Did you never 
hear of the life to come, pray ? What kind of 
people have you been amongst? Didn 't they 
teach you anything about God and heaven ?" 
" Oh, yes." A gentle smile parted the maid 
en 's lips. 
"Well, then, you know what I'm ean by the 
 
life to come life in the next world life in hea 
ven. Of this bitter life, with its sorrows, be 
reavements, disappointments, and pains, I am 
weary, and, therefore, say in my heart, Thank 
God for the life to come !" 
The countenance of Grace did not lighten up 
with the satisfied expression of one who under 
stands and appreciates another. A gentle sigh, 
that was half involuntary, parted her lips. Her 
eyes fell away from the eyes of her aunt a shade 
of thought crept over her quiet face. Mrs. Fleet- 
wood looked at her curiously, and with a falling 
brow. 
Nearly ten years had passed since this sister 's child had been left motherless and among 
strangers, and not once, until now, during these 
ten years, had Mrs. Fleetwood seen her niece. 
Her own life had been too worldly and selfish to 
admit of a generous, loving sentiment toward the 
child of a sister, whose marriage with a man of 
no " position or promise," as she expressed it, had 
been felt as a humiliation ; and so, she had been 
 
content to let her remain with those who had received her to their hearts and homes when God removed her widowed mother. But a change in her 
own life had come, bringing sorrow, bereavement, 
and misfortune ; and now her thought went out 
towards Grace, her sister 's child not lovingly, 
but selfishly not with a desire to be miuistrant to 
her conditions of life, but with a desire of being 
ministered to herself. From this state she sum 
moned, rather than invited, her niece ; and from 
this state sought to read her character and disposition, when she came, with eyes that endeavored 
to look into her very consciousness. That she 
was baffled in this will hardly be a matter of surprise. Persons of her class are without the key 
that unlocks the inner chambers of a soul whose 
life-mansions are not built on earthly foundations. 
Mrs. Fleetwood was a church- woman whose religion, up to the time when her sky became over 
cast, consisted in formal service alone. Beyond 
this she had no conception of duty to God. 
After all the blessedness of her natural life had 
 
been extinguished after children, fortune, 
frienis, were gone, and darkness drew down 
over her world like a curtain, then her selfish 
heart began to sigh for the blessedness of a life 
to come then she lifted her eyes toward the 
far-off mountains of heaven, which her imagina 
tion painted as beautiful with verdure, and balmy 
with the odors of immortal flowers. And still, as 
the pictures spread themselves all lovely to be 
hold, and fancy, as she dwelt upon them, gave 
ever multiplying attractions, she grew almost im 
patient to put off the poor, torn vestments of 
mortality, and rise into life eternal. 
You understand Mrs. Fleetwood now, and are 
not surprised at the curious look and falling brow 
with which she regarded her niece, whose coun 
tenance did not answer to her warmly uttered 
" Thank God for the life to come !" As the eyes 
of Grace fell away from those of her aunt, and 
thought-shadows crept about her lips and brow, 
Mrs. Fleetwood said, with a slight tremor of im 
patience in her tones 
 
" Maybe you don 't believe in another life." 
Instantly the eyes of Grace flashed up into 
those of Mrs. Fleetwood; not with any fire of in 
dignation in them, but with a light as pure as 
that which dew-drops gather from sunbeams a 
light full of hope and sweet anticipation. 
" I have been taught to thank God for the life 
to come, aunt, and to seek for it in duty and self- 
denial," replied Grace, a smile playing softly 
around her lips. 
A change was apparent in Mrs. Fleetwood 's 
face. Its expression was slightly puzzled. The 
brief answer was not satisfactory to her state, for 
it involved things admitted by common percep 
tion, yet not clearly seen. 
"I'm ean life in another world life in heaven, 
Grace." Mrs. Fleetwood 's manner was subdued. 
" There is no life in another world that is not 
born in this, aunt. So I have been taught." 
Mrs. Fleetwood gazed at her niece with a look 
of half perplexed inquiry. 
 
" The life to come must come here, or it can 
never come at all," added Grace. 
" Child, you talk in riddles !" said Mrs. Fleet- 
wood, moving impatiently. " I can 't get at your 
