 

do; and see what you're about. It's a mistake ; 
it 's a misunderstanding. It 's his right, it 's your 
duty, to have it cleared up. Come, you've a con- 
science, Bartlett, and a clean one. Don't give 
way to your abominable temper. What? You 
won't stay? Bartlett, I blush for you!" 

Bartlett: "Blush unseen, then!" He thrusts 
Cummings aside and pushes furiously from the 
room. Cummings looks into the corridor after 
him, and then returns, panting, to the piano, and 
mechanically rearranges the things at its feet; he 
walks nervously away, and takes some turns up 
and down the room, looking utterly bewildered, 
and apparently uncertain whether to go or stay. 
But he has decided upon the only course really 
open to him by sinking down into one of the 
arm-chairs, when General Wyatt appears at the 
threshold of the door on the right of the piano. 
Cummings rises and comes forward in great em- 
barrassment to meet him. 



V. 

CUMMINGS and GENERAL WYATT. 

General Wyatt, with a look of surprise at not 
seeing Bartlett: " The other gentleman" 

Cummings: "My friend has gone out. I hope 
he will return soon. He has I hardly know 
what to say to you, sir. He has done himself 
great injustice ; but it was natural that under the 
circumstances " 

General Wyatt, with hurt pride: "Perfectly. 
I should have lost my temper, too ; but I think I 
should have waited at the request the prayer of 
an older man. I don't mind his temper ; the other 
villain had no temper. Sir, am I right in address- 
ing you as the Rev. Arthur Cummings ? " 

Cummings: "My name is Arthur Cummings. 
I am a minister." 

General Wyatt : " I thought I was not mistaken 



 

this time. I heard you preach last Sunday in Bos- 
ton ; and I know your cousin, Major Cummings of 
the 34th Artillery. I am General Wyatt." 

Cummings, with a start of painful surprise and 
sympathy : " General Wyatt ? " 

General Wyatt, keenly : " Your cousin has men- 
tioned me to you ? " 

Cummings : " Yes, oh yes, certainly ; certainly, 
very often, General Wyatt. But" endeavoring 
to recover himself "your name is known to us 
all, and honored. I I am glad to see you back ; 
I understood you were in Paris." 

General Wyatt, with fierce defiance : " I was in 
Paris three weeks ago." Some moments of awk- 
ward silence ensue, during which General Wyatt 
does not relax his angry attitude. 

Gumming s, finally : " I am sorry my friend is 
not here to meet you. I ought to say, in justice to 
him, that his hasty temper does great wrong to his 
heart and judgment." 

General Wyatt : " Why, yes, sir ; so does mine, 
so does mine." 

Cummings, with a respectful smile lost upon the 



 

General : " And I know that he will certainly be 
grieved in this instance to have yielded to it." 

General Wyatt, with sudden meekness : " I hope 
so, sir. But I am not altogether sorry that he has 
done it. I have not only an explanation but a request to make, a very great and strange favor to 
ask, and I am not sure that I should be able to 
treat him civilly enough throughout an entire interview to ask it properly." Cummings listens 
with an air of attentive respect, but makes, to this 
strange statement, no response other than a look 
of question, while the General pokes about on the 
carpet at his feet with the point of his stick for a 
moment before he brings it resolutely down upon 
the floor with a thump, and resumes, fiercely again : 
" Sir, your friend is the victim of an extraordinary 
resemblance, which is so much more painful to us 
than we could have made it to him that I have to 
struggle with my reason to believe that the apology 
should not come from his side rather than mine. 
He may feel that we have outraged him, but every 
look of his, every movement, every tone of his 
voice, is a mortal wound, a deadly insult to us. 



 

He should not live, sir, in the same solar system ! " 
The General deals the floor another stab with his 
cane, while his eyes burn vindictively upon the 
mild brown orbs of Cummings, wide open with as- 
tonishment. He falters, with returning conscious- 
ness of his attitude : "I I beg your pardon, sir ; 
I am ridiculous." He closes his lips pathetically, 
and lets fall his head. When he lifts it again, it is 
to address Cummings with a singular gentleness : 
" I know that I speak to a gentleman." 

Cummings : "I try to be a good man." 

General Wyatt : " I had formed that idea of you, 
sir, in the pulpit. Will you do me the great kindness to answer a question, personal to myself, which 
I must ask ? " 

Cummings : " By all means." 

General Wyatt : " You spoke of supposing me 
still in Paris. Are you aware of any circumstances painful circumstances connected with my 
presence there ? Pardon my asking ; I wouldn't 
press you if I could help." 

Cummings, with reluctance : " I had just heard 
something about a letter from a friend " 




 

General Wyatt, bitterly : " The news has traveled 
fast. Well, sir, a curious chance a pitiless caprice of destiny connects your friend with that miserable story." At Cummings's look of amaze : 
"Through no fault of his, sir ; through no fault of 
his. Sir, I shall not seem to obtrude my trouble 
unjustifiably upon you when I tell you how ; you 
will see that it was necessary for me to speak. I 
am glad you already know something of the affair, 
and I am sure that you will regard what I have to 
say with the right feeling of a gentleman, of, as 
you say, a good man." 

Gumming : " Whatever you think necessary to 
say to me shall be sacred. But I hope you won't 
feel that it is necessary to say anything more. I 
am confident that when my friend has your assur- 
ance from me that what has happened is the result 
of a distressing association " 

General Wyatt : " I thank you, sir. But some- 
thing more is due to him ; how much more you 
shall judge. Something more is due to us : I 
wish to preserve the appearance of sanity, in his 
eyes and your own. Nevertheless " the Gener- 



 

al's tone and bearing perceptibly stiffen " if you 
are reluctant " 

(Jammings, with reverent cordiality : " General 
Wyatt, I shall feel deeply honored by whatever 
confidence you repose in me. I need not say how 
dear your fame is to us all." General Wyatt, 
visibly moved, bows to the young minister. " It 
was only on your account that I hesitated." 

General Wyatt : " Thanks. I understand. I 
will be explicit, but I will try to be brief. Your 
friend bears this striking, this painful resemblance 
to the man who has brought this blight upon us 
all; yes, sir," at Cummings's look of depreca- 
tion, "to a scoundrel whom I hardly know 
how to characterize aright in the presence of 
a clergyman. Two years ago doubtless your 
correspondent has written my wife and daughter 
(they were then abroad without me) met him in 
Paris ; and he won the poor child's affection. 
My wife's judgment was also swayed in his favor, 
against her first impulse of distrust ; but when 
I saw him, I could not endure him. Yet I was 
helpless : my giiTs happiness was bound up in 



 

him ; all that I could do was to insist upon delay. 
He was an American, well related, unobjectionable by all the tests which society can apply, and 
f might have had to wait long for the proofs that 
an accident gave me against him. The man's 
whole soul was rotten ; at the time he had wound 
himself into my poor girl's innocent heart, a 
woman was living who had the just and perhaps 
the legal claim of a wife upon him ; he was a 
felon besides, a felon shielded through pity for 
his friends by the man whose name he had forged ; 
he was of course a liar and a coward : I beat him 
with my stick, sir. Ah! I made him confess his 
infamy under his own hand, and then " the General advances defiantly upon Cummings, who un- 
consciously retires a pace " and then I compelled 
him to break with my daughter. Do you think I 
did right?" 

Cummings: " I don't exactly understand." 

General Wyatt: "Why, sir, it happens often 

enough in this shabby world that a man gains a 

poor girl's love, and then jilts her. I chose what 

I thought the less terrible sorrow for my child. I 



 

could not tell her how filthily unworthy he was 
without bringing to her pure heart a sense of 
intolerable contamination ; I could not endure to 
speak of it even to my wife. It seemed better 
that they should both suffer such wrong as a bro- 
ken engagement might bring them than that 
they should know what I knew. He was mas- 
ter of the part, and played it well ; he showed 
himself to them simply a heartless scoundrel, and 
he remains in my power, an outcast now and a 
convict whenever I will. My story, as it seems 
to be, is well known in Paris ; but the worst is 
unknown. I choose still that it shall be thought 
my girl was the victim of a dastardly slight, and I 
bear with her and her mother the insolent pity 
with which the world visits such sorrow." He 
pauses, and then brokenly resumes : " The affair 
has not turned out as I hoped, in the little I 
could hope from it. My trust that the blow, 
which must sink so deeply into her heart, would 
touch her pride, and that this would help her to 
react against it, was mistaken. In such things it 
appears a woman has no pride; I did not know 



 

it; we men are different. The blow crushed her ; 
that was all. Sometimes I am afraid that I must 
yet try the effect of the whole truth upon her ; that 
I must try if the knowledge of all his baseness can- 
not restore to her the self-respect which the wrong 
done herself seems to have robbed her of. And 
yet I tremble lest the sense of his fouler shame 
I may be fatally temporizing ; but in her 
present state, I dread any new shock for her ; 
it may be death I " He pauses again, and 
sets his lips firmly ; all at once he breaks into a 
sob. "I I beg your pardon, sir." 

Cummings : u Don't ! You wrong yourself and 
me. I have seen Miss Wyatt ; but I hope" 

General Wyatt: "You have seen* her ghost. 
You have not seen the radiant creature that was 
once alive. Well, sir ; enough of this. There is 
little left to trouble you with. We landed eight 
days ago, and I have since been looking about 
for some place in which my daughter could hide 
herself; I can't otherwise suggest her morbid sen- 
sitiveness, her terror of people. This region was 
highly commended to me for its heal thfuln ess ; but 



 

I have come upon this house by chance. I un- 
derstood that it was empty, and I thought it more 
than probable that we might pass the autumn 
months here unmolested by the presence of any 
