have the luxury of venison. 
One of the most picturesque methods of hunting 
the poor deer is called '' floating." The person, with 
murder in his heart, chooses a cloudy night, seats him- 
self, rifle in hand, in a canoe, which is noiselessly pad- 
dled by the guide, and explores the shore of the lake 
or the dark inlet. In the bow of the boat is a light 
in a "jack," the rays of which are shielded from the 
boat and its occupants. A deer comes down to feed 
upon the lily-pads. The boat approaches him. He 
looks up, and stands a moment, terrified or fascinated 
by the bright flames. In that moment the sportsman 
is supposed to shoot the deer. As an historical fact, 
his hand usually shakes, so that he misses the animal, 
or only wounds him ; and the stag limps away to die 
after days of suffering. Usually, however, the hunt- 
ers remain out all night, get stiff from cold and the 
cramped position in the boat, and, when they return 
in the morning to camp, cloud their future existence 
by the assertion that they '' heard a big buck " mov- 
ing along the shore, but the people in camp made so 
much noise that he was frightened off. 
By all odds, the favorite and prevalent mode is 
hunting with dogs. The dogs do the hunting, the 
men the killing. The hounds are sent into the forest 
to rouse the deer, and drive him from his cover. 
They climb the mountains, strike the trails, and go 
baying and yelping on the track of the poor beast. 
The deer have their established run-ways, as I said ; 
and, when they are disturbed in their retreat, they 
are certain to attempt to escape by following one 
which invariably leads to some lake or stream. All 
that the hunter has to do is to seat himself by one of 
these run-ways, or sit in a boat on the lake, and wait 
the coming of the pursued deer. The frightened 
beast, fleeing from the unreasoning brutality of the 
hounds, will often seek the open country, with a mis- 
taken confidence in the humanity of man. To kill a 
deer when he suddenly passes one on a run-way de- 
mands presence of mind, and quickness of aim : to 
shoot him from the boat, after he has plunged panting 
into the lake, requires the rare ability to hit a moving 
object the size of a deer's head a few rods distant. 
Either exploit is sufficient to make a hero of a com- 
mon man. To paddle up to the swimming deer, and 
cut his throat, is a sure means of getting venison, and 
has its charms for some. Even women, and doctors 
of divinity, have enjoyed this exquisite pleasure. It 
A-HUNTING OF THE DEER 
cannot be denied that we are so constituted by a wise 
Creator as to feel a delight in killing a wild animal 
which we do not experience in killing a tame one. 
The pleasurable excitement of a deer-hunt has 
never, I believe, been regarded from the deer's point 
of view. I happen to be in a position by reason of 
a lucky Adirondack experience, to present it in that 
light. I am sorry if this introduction to my little 
story has seemed long to the reader: it is too late 
now to skip it ; but he can recoup himself by omitting 
the story. 
Early on the morning of the 23d of August, 1877, 
a doe was feeding on Basin Mountain. The night 
had been warm and showery, and the morning opened 
in an undecided way. The wind was southerly : it is 
what the deer call a dog-wind, having come to know 
quite well the meaning of " a southerly wind and a 
cloudy sky." The sole companion of the doe was her 
only child, a charming little fawn, whose brown coat 
was just beginning to be mottled with the beautiful 
spots which make this young creature as lovely as the 
gazelle. The buck, its father, had been that night on 
a long tramp across the mountain to Clear Pond, and 
had not yet returned : he went ostensibly to feed on 
the succulent lily-pads there. " He feedeth among the 
lilies until the day break and the shadows flee away, 
and he should be here by this hour ; but he cometh 
not," she said, '' leaping upon the mountains, skipping 
upon the hills." Clear Pond was too far off for the 
young mother to go with her fawn for a night's pleas- 
ure. It was a fashionable watering-place at this sea- 
son among the deer ; and the doe may have remem- 
bered, not without uneasiness, the moonlight meetings 
of a frivolous society there. But the buck did not 
come : he was very likely sleeping under one of the 
ledges on Tight Nippin. Was he alone ? ''I charge 
you, by the roes and by the hinds of the field, that 
ye stir not nor awake my love till he please." 
The doe was feeding, daintily cropping the tender 
leaves of the young shoots, and turning from time to 
time to regard her offspring. The fawn had taken his 
morning meal, and now lay curled up on a bed of 
moss, watching contentedly, with his large, soft brown 
eyes, every movement of his mother. The great eyes 
followed her with an alert entreaty; and, if the 
mother stepped a pace or two farther away in feed- 
ing, the fawn made a half -movement, as if to rise and 
follow her. You see, she was his sole dependence in 
all the world. But he was quickly* reassured when 
she turned her gaze on him ; and if, in alarm, he ut- 
tered a plaintive cry, she bounded to him at once, 
and, with every demonstration of affection, licked his 
mottled skin till it shone again. 
It was a pretty picture, — maternal love on the one 
part, and happy trust on the other. The doe was 
a beauty, and would have been so considered any- 
where, as graceful and winning a creature as the sun 
that day shone on, — slender limbs, not too heavy 
flanks, round body, and aristocratic head, with small 
ears, and luminous, intelligent, affectionate eyes. 
How alert, supple, free, she was ! What untaught 
grace in every movement ! What a charming pose 
when she lifted her head, and turned it to regard her 
child ! You would have had a companion-picture, if 
you had seen, as I saw that morning, a baby kicking 
about among the dry pine-needles on a ledge above 
the Ausable, in the valley below, while its young 
mother sat near, with an easel before her touching in 
A-HUNTING OF THE DEER 
the color of a reluctant landscape, giving a quick look 
at the sky and the outline of the Twin Mountains, 
and bestowing every third glance upon the laughing 
boy, — art in its infancy. 
The doe lifted her head a little with a quick motion, 
and turned her ear to the south. Had she heard 
something ? Probably it was only the south winds in 
the balsams. There was silence all about in the for- 
est. If the doe had heard anything it was one of the 
distant noises of the world. There are in the woods 
occasional meanings, premonitions of change, which 
are inaudible to the dull ears of men, but which, I 
have no doubt, the forest-folk hear and understand. 
If the doe's suspicions were excited for an instant, 
they were gone as soon. With an affectionate glance 
at her fawn, she continued picking up her breakfast. 
But suddenly she started, head erect, eyes dilated, 
a tremor in her limbs. She took a step ; she turned 
her head to the south ; she listened intently. There 
was a sound, — a distant, prolonged note, bell-toned, 
pervading the woods, shaking the air in smooth vibra- 
tions. It was repeated. The doe had no doubt noWo 
She shook like the sensitive mimosa when a footstep 
approaches. It was the baying of a hound ! It was 
far off, — at the foot of the mountain. Time enough 
to fly ; time enough to put miles between her and the 
hound, before he should come upon her fresh trail ; 
time enough to escape away through the dense forest, 
and hide in the recesses of Panther Gorge ; yes, time 
enough. But there was the fawn. The cry of the 
hound was repeated, more distinct this time. The 
mother instinctively bounded away a few paces. The 
fawn started up with an anxious bleat. The doe 
turned ; she came back ; she couldn't leave it. She 
bent over it, and licked it, and seemed to say, " Come, 
my child; we are pursued; we must go." She 
walked away towards the west, and the little thing 
skipped after her. It was slow going for the slender 
legs, over the fallen logs, and through the rasping 
bushes. The doe bounded in advance, and waited ; 
the fawn scrambled after her, slipping and tumbling 
along, very groggy yet on its legs, and whining a 
good deal because its mother kept always moving 
away from it. The fawn evidently did not hear the 
hound ; the little innocent would even have looked 
sweetly at the dog, and tried to make friends with it, 
if the brute had been rushing upon him. By all the 
means at her command the doe urged her young one 
on ; but it was slow work. She might have been a 
mile away while they were making a few rods. 
Whenever the fawn caught up he was quite content 
to frisk about. He wanted more breakfast, for one 
thing ; and his mother wouldn't stand still. She 
moved on continually ; and his weak legs were tangled 
in the roots of the narrow deer-path. 
Shortly came a sound that threw the doe into a 
panic of terror, — a short, sharp yelp, followed by a 
prolonged howl, caught up and re-echoed by other 
hayings along the mountain-side. The doe knew 
what that meant. One hound had caught her trail, 
and the whole pack responded to the " view-halloo." 
The danger was certain now ; it was near. She 
could not crawl on in this way ; the dogs would soon 
be upon them. She turned again for flight : the fawn, 
scrambling after her, tumbled over, and bleated pite- 
ously. The baying, now emphasized by the yelp of 
certainty, came nearer. Flight with the fawn was 
impossible. The doe returned and stood by it, head 
 
erect, and nostrils distended. She stood perfectly 
still, but trembling. Perhaps she was thinking. The 
fawn took advantage of the situation, and began to 
draw his luncheon ration. The doe seemed to have 
made up her mind. She let him finish. The fawn^ 
having taken all he wanted, lay down contentedly, 
and the doe licked him for a moment. Then, with 
the swiftness of a bird, she dashed away, and in 
moment was lost in the forest. She went in the 
direction of the hounds. 
According to all human calculations, she was going 
into the jaws of death. So she was : all human calcu- 
lations are selfish. She kept straight on, hearing the 
baying every moment more distinctly. She descended 
the slope of the mountain until she reached the more 
open forest of hard-wood. It was freer going here, 
and the cry of the pack echoed more resoundingly 
in the great spaces. She was going due east, when 
(judging by the sound, the hounds were not far off, 
though they were still hidden by a ridge) she turned 
away towards the north, and kept on at a good pace. 
In five minutes more she heard the sharp, exultant 
yelp of discovery, and then the deep-mouthed howl of 
pursuit. The hounds had struck her trail where she 
turned, and the fawn was safe. 
The doe was in good running condition, the ground 
was not bad, and she felt the exhilaration of the 
chase. For the moment, fear left her, and she bounded 
on with the exaltation of triumph. For a quarter of 
an hour she went on at a slapping pace, clearing the 
moose-bushes with bound after bound, flying over the 
fallen logs, pausing neither for brook or ravine. The 
baying of the bounds grew fainter behind her. But 
she struck a bad piece of going, a dead-wood slash. 
It was marvellous to see her skim over it, leaping 
among its intricacies, and not breaking her slender 
legs. No other living animal could do it. .But it 
was killing work. She began to pant fearfully ; she 
lost ground. The baying of the hounds was nearer. 
She climbed the hard- wood hill at a slower gait : but, 
once on more level, free ground, her breath came back 
to her, and she stretched away with new courage, and 
may be a sort of contempt of her heavy pursuers. 
After running at a high speed perhaps half a mile 
farther, it occurred to her that it would be safe now 
to turn to the west, and, by a wide circuit, seek her 
fawn. But, at the moment, she heard a sound that 
chilled her heart. It was the cry of a hound to 
the west of her. The crafty brute had made the cir- 
cuit of the slash, and cut off her retreat. There was 
nothing to do but to keep on ; and on she went, still 
to the north, with the noise of the pack behind her. 
In five minutes more she had passed into a hill- 
side clearing. Cows and young steers were grazing 
there. She heard a tinkle of bells. Below her, down 
the mountain-slope, were other clearings, broken by 
patches of woods. Fences intervened ; and a mile 
or two down lay the valley, the shining Ausable, and 
the peaceful farm-houses. That way also her hered- 
itary enemies were. Not a merciful heart in all that 
lovely valley. She hesitated ; it was only for an in- 
stant. She must cross the Slidebrook Valley if possi- 
ble, and gain the mountain opposite. She bounded 
on ; she stopped. What was that ? From the valley 
ahead came the cry of a searching hound. All the 
devils were loose this morning. Every way was 
closed but one, and that led straight down the moun- 
tain to the cluster of houses. Conspicuous among 
them was a slender white wooden spire. The doe did 
not know it was the spire of a Christian chapel, but 
perhaps she thought that human pity dwelt there, and 
would be more merciful than the teeth of the hounds* 
** The hounds are baying on my track : 
O white man ! will you send me back ? " 
In a panic, frightened animals will always flee to 
human-kind from the danger of more savage foes. 
They always make a mistake in doing so. Perhaps 
the. trait is the survival of an era of peace on earth ; 
perhaps it is a prophecy of the golden age of the 
future. The business of this age is murder, — the 
slaughter of animals, the slaughter of fellow-men, by 
the wholesale. Hilarious poets who never fired a gun 
write hunting songs, — Ti-ra-la : and good bishops 
write war-songs, — Ave the Czar ! 
The hunted doe went down " the open," clearing 
the fences splendidly, flying along the stony path. It 
was a beautiful sight. But consider what a shot 
it was! If the deer, now, could only have been 
caught ! No doubt there were tender-hearted people 
in the valley who would have spared her life, shut her 
up in a stable, and petted her. Was there one who 
would have let her go back to her waiting fawn ? It 
is the business of civilization to tame or kill. 
The doe went on ; she left the saw-mill on John's 
Brook to her right ; she turned into a wood-path. As 
she approached Slide Brook, she saw a boy standing 
by a tree with a raised rifle. The dogs were not in 
sight, but she could hear them coming down the hill. 
There was no time for hesitation. With a tremendous 
burst of speed she cleared the stream, and, as she 
touched the bank, heard the " ping " of a rifle bullet 
in the air above her. The cruel sound gave wings to 
the poor thing. In a moment more she was in the 
opening : she leaped into the travelled road. Which 
way ? Below her in the wood was a load of hay : a 
man and a boy, with pitchforks in their hands, were 
running towards her. She turned south, and flew 
along the street. The town was up. Women and 
children ran to the doors and windows ; men snatched 
their rifles ; shots were fired ; at the big boarding- 
houses, the summer boarders, who never have any- 
thing to do, came out and cheered ; a camp-stool was 
thrown from a veranda. Some young fellows shoot- 
