enough to enable you to make into soft dough. Make into balls like
doughnuts; roll these in flour, and fry to a fine brown in hot lard.
PEACHES AND CREAM.
Pare and slice the peaches just before dinner, and cover the glass
dish containing them to exclude the air as much as may be, since they
soon change color. Do not sugar them in the dish. They then become
preserves—not fresh fruit. Pass “fruit sugar” and cream with them.
  First Week.      Thursday.
  ——
  Chickens and Corn Soup.
  Game Mutton.      Green Peas.
  Beets.      Mashed Potatoes.
  ——
  Huckleberry Shortcake.
  ——
CHICKEN AND CORN SOUP.
The pot-liquor from yesterday’s chickens; 12 ears of corn, grated from
the cob; 1 cup of milk; 1 tablespoonful of butter, rolled in flour;
pepper, salt, and parsley.
Take the fat from the top of your liquor, and save in the dripping-pot.
Heat the broth to a boil; put in the cobs from which the corn has been
cut, and cook half an hour. Strain the soup; put again over the fire
and put in the cut corn. N. B.—It is well to split each row of grains
before cutting them off. Cook forty minutes, stir in butter and flour,
with the parsley. Simmer five minutes, and serve.
GAME MUTTON.
Cut away the under-side of a nice leg of mutton, to make it as flat as
may be without exposing the bone. Put the pieces thus trimmed off over
the fire, with a quart of water, and stew down one-half. Cool, skim,
season, and re-heat. Meantime, lard the upper side of the meat with
slender lardoons. If you have not a larding-needle—which is a pity—use
a long-bladed jack-knife to make diagonal incisions in the mutton;
then thrust in the lardoons with your fingers, bringing both ends to
the surface. Now rub the meat all over with hot butter and vinegar,
letting the surplus trickle into the dripping-pan. Pour the boiling
pint of gravy over the leg, and roast twelve minutes to the pound,
basting every ten minutes, copiously. Just before taking it up, pour
off the fat from the gravy; dip up a few spoonfuls of the brown juice,
and, mixing with as much currant jelly, beat in a little browned flour,
wet up with cold water. Baste the meat with this until a fine brown
glaze covers it. Serve the gravy, well skimmed, in a boat. This is a
delightful dish. Carve judiciously, so as to leave a seemly joint cold
for to-morrow.
GREEN PEAS.
See Sunday of this week.
BEETS.
See Tuesday, Fourth Week in July.
MASHED POTATOES.
Prepare as usual, and serve without browning.
HUCKLEBERRY SHORTCAKE.
Please see Wednesday, Second Week in June.
  First Week.      Friday.
  ——
  Sister Anne’s Soup.
  Boiled Bass.      Cold Mutton.
  Boiled Potatoes.      Tomato Salad.
  Green Corn Pudding.
  ——
  Apple Custard Pie.
  ——
SISTER ANNE’S SOUP.
12 potatoes, pared and quartered; 1 onion, sliced; tablespoonful of
minced parsley; 1 cup of unskimmed milk (cream is still better); 2
tablespoonfuls of butter; 1 tablespoonful of corn-starch, wet with cold
milk; 1 teaspoonful of sugar; 2 quarts of boiling water; pinch of soda
in the milk.
Parboil the potatoes ten minutes; throw off the water, and put on
two quarts of boiling water. Cook in this one hour with the onion,
replenishing from the kettle as it boils away. Then rub through a fine
colander, season with pepper, salt, and parsley, and re-heat. When it
bubbles up, stir in the butter and corn-starch; boil up, add the hot
milk, and serve.
BOILED BASS.
Put enough water in the pot for the fish to swim in, easily. Add half a
cup of vinegar, a teaspoonful of salt, an onion, a dozen black peppers,
and a blade of mace. Sew up the fish in a piece of clean net, fitted
to its shape. Heat slowly for the first half hour, then boil eight
minutes, at least, to the pound, quite fast. Unwrap, and pour over it
a cup of drawn butter, based upon the liquor in which the fish was
boiled, with the juice of half a lemon stirred into it. Garnish with
sliced lemon.
COLD MUTTON.
Put on the larded joint, cold, garnished with nasturtium flowers and
curled parsley.
BOILED POTATOES.
Pass with the fish. Please see Monday of Fourth Week in July.
TOMATO SALAD.
Peel with a sharp knife. Slice, arrange in a salad-dish, and pour over
it a dressing such as you made for potato salad on Sunday of this week.
GREEN CORN PUDDING.
12 ears of sweet corn, each row of grains split lengthwise, then cut
close to the cob; 4 eggs; 2 cups of milk; 1 tablespoonful of sugar,
rubbed up with one of butter; 1 teaspoonful of salt; 2 tablespoonfuls
of flour.
Mix as you would a rice pudding, and bake one hour in a buttered dish.
Serve in the bake-dish, hot.
APPLE CUSTARD PIE.
Make a very sweet apple sauce in which not a lump remains. To each
cupful add two eggs beaten light and half a cupful of perfectly fresh
milk. Have ready some paste-shells in pie-plates, fill with the custard
and bake at once without an upper crust.
  First Week.      Saturday.
  ——
  Pot au Feu.
  Ham and Eggs.      Casserole of Potato.
  String-Beans.      Cream Squash.
  ——
  Jelly Omelette.
  ——
POT AU FEU.
5 lbs. of brisket of beef—bones cracked, and meat sliced; the broken
bones of your cold mutton, after you have sliced off the meat; 2
grated carrots; 2 grated turnips; 1 large fried onion; bunch of sweet
herbs; 1 whole carrot; 1 whole turnip, cut into dice; 1 very small
cauliflower, the bunches clipped apart; 6 quarts of water; pepper and
salt.
Put on the meat, bones, onion, grated vegetables and herbs in the
soup-pot with the water; cover closely and cook slowly five hours.
Then strain; take out the meat and set aside with half the stock, well
seasoned, for Sunday. Put on the ice when cold. Cool and skim the
rest; season; put back in the pot with a parboiled turnip, carrot, and
cauliflower, the latter clipped into small clusters; the others cut
into dice. Simmer half an hour, and serve.
BROILED HAM AND EGGS.
Cut slices of cooked ham of equal size; broil upon a gridiron over a
clear fire. Lay upon a hot dish; pepper, and spread each slice with a
mixture of melted butter and a very little made mustard. Lay on each a
poached egg, trimmed neatly.
CASSEROLE OF POTATO.
Mash eight or ten potatoes smooth with butter, salt, and work in the
beaten whites of two eggs. Then fill a greased jelly-mould with it,
pressing down firmly. Set aside to harden. When cold, scoop out about
a teacupful, or less, from the middle, leaving firm, thick walls. Fill
the cavity with a mince of cold mutton, highly seasoned, mixed with
crumbs and moistened with gravy, and not too soft. Fit a piece of
fried bread in the mouth of the filled cavity; turn out the casserole
carefully upon a stone-china or block-tin dish; wash all over with
beaten egg and set in a hot oven ten minutes to heat and glaze. The
mince should be very hot when it goes in and stiff enough to keep its
shape.
STRING-BEANS.
See Tuesday of this week.
CREAM SQUASH.
Boil and mash as usual; then return to the saucepan with half a cup of
milk to a quart of mashed squash; and when this simmers, stir in a
tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour; pepper and salt to taste. Stir
three minutes and pour out.
JELLY OMELETTE.
Beat six eggs light—yolks and whites separately; then mix them and stir
in lightly a tablespoonful of powdered sugar. Put a tablespoonful of
butter into a frying-pan, and, when it boils, pour in the omelette.
Lift at the edges and bottom with your spatula, as it cooks, and
when “set” in the middle, put on one side of it a few spoonfuls of
fruit-jelly; fold over, and turn out upon a hot dish. Strew powdered
sugar over it.
  Second Week.      Sunday.
  ——
  Noodle Soup.
  Braised Chicken.      Green Corn Sauté.
  Fried Egg-plant.      Baked Tomatoes.
  ——
  Ice Cream and Cake.
  ——
NOODLE SOUP.
Take the fat from the top of your cold stock; put the latter in a
soup-pot; heat to a gentle boil. Strain through thin muslin; set again
over the fire; boil and skim one minute; add nearly a cupful of dried
noodles and simmer twenty minutes. If you have no noodles made, break a
handful of vermicelli small, and cook the same length of time.
BRAISED CHICKEN.
Clean, wash, and stuff a pair of fowls. Lay slices of fat salt pork
in a broad saucepan, and upon these the chickens with thin slices of
pork tied over their breasts. Put two cupfuls of hot water in the pan,
cover very securely and cook slowly an hour and a half—longer should
the chickens be tough—and this is a good way to cook such. At the end
of that time remove the chicken to the hot-water dish; cover to keep
hot; strain the gravy and return half to a small saucepan. Add a little
browned flour wet with cold water, and boil fast to a bright brown
glaze. Put the fowls in a quick oven; take off the pork; brush all over
with the glaze, and when brown, serve. Take the fat from the reserved
gravy, add the water in which the giblets were boiled; the chopped
giblets themselves, and a little browned flour, also pepper. Boil up
and serve in a boat.
FRIED EGG-PLANT.
Please see Sunday of First Week in August.
GREEN CORN SAUTÉ.
Boil; then cut from the cob; have ready in a saucepan a little butter,
seasoned with salt and pepper. Stir in the corn and shake and toss
until hot and glazed with the butter.
BAKED TOMATOES.
Pare with a sharp knife; cut in thick slices. Put a layer of crumbs in
the bottom of a bake-dish; wet them with a little of your soup-stock,
or other gravy; cover with tomatoes, seasoned with butter, salt, pepper
and sugar, more crumbs moistened with gravy, and so on, to the top
of the dish, having well-moistened crumbs for the last layer. Cover,
and bake half an hour; then uncover and brown quickly. Serve in the
bake-dish.
ICE CREAM AND CAKE.
For directions, too full and explicit to need repetition, please see
Sunday, Second Week in July.
  Second Week.      Monday.
  ——
  A Monday Soup.
  Scallop with Baked Eggs.      Mashed Potatoes.
  Green Peas.      Raw Cucumbers.
  ——
  Huckleberry Cake and Iced Coffee.
  ——
A MONDAY SOUP.
Strip all the meat from your chicken-bones, and set in a cool place,
while you break the skeletons to pieces, and put in a soup-pot at the
back of the range, with the dressing, skin, and gristly bits. Pour on
three quarts of water and leave it to simmer—always covered—for three
hours. Strain, rubbing the stuffing through the colander; cool and
skim; return to the fire with a cupful of yesterday’s soup (there is
always a little left over, if it is only saved from the swill-pail),
also strained. Have ready six Boston crackers split and dried in the
oven for half an hour, but not scorched. Butter these; lay in the
heated tureen; pour upon them two cups of boiling milk, and let soak,
covered, while you salt and pepper your soup, and add a little minced
parsley. Should there not be dressing enough to thicken it well, stir
in a little corn-starch, wet with milk. Boil up, and pour upon the
crackers. This soup need not consume fifteen minutes of your time, and
is very savory.
SCALLOP AND BAKED EGGS.
Mince your chicken, but not small; cover the bottom of a pudding-dish
with fine crumbs; put in the chicken, wet with gravy and seasoned
to taste; strew a good coating of crumbs on top, and this with
butter-bits. Set, covered, in the oven. When the gravy bubbles to the
surface remove the lid and break upon the scallop enough eggs to cover
it well. Pepper and salt; lay a piece of butter on each, and bake until
well “set.”
MASHED POTATOES.
Boil, mash, and whip to a cream with a fork, mixing in butter, milk,
salt and a dust of pepper, as you go on. Serve in a deep dish.
GREEN PEAS.
See Sunday of First Week in August.
RAW CUCUMBERS.
Pare; lay in ice-water one hour; slice and pile upon pounded ice in a
glass dish, sending around condiments with them.
HUCKLEBERRY CAKE.
This cake should have been made on Saturday. It keeps well, and is much
better the second day than the first.
5 eggs; 3 cups of powdered sugar; 1 cup of butter; 1 cup of sweet milk;
4 cups of prepared flour; 1 teaspoonful mixed nutmeg and cinnamon; 2
cups of huckleberries dredged with flour; ¼ teaspoonful of soda stirred
in boiling water and mixed with the milk.
Cream butter and sugar; add the beaten yolks, the milk, the flour,
alternately, with the whipped whites, and, lastly, the dredged berries.
Bake in small loaves, or in patty-pans, in a moderate oven, covering as
it begins to brown. It takes a longer time to bake than plain cake.
ICED COFFEE.
Make more coffee than needed for breakfast. Set by three or four cups
of strong coffee, adding nearly one-third as much boiled milk, while
both are hot. Set in ice, and, in serving, put a lump of ice in each
glass.
  Second Week.      Tuesday.
  ——
  Tapioca Soup.
  Beefsteak.      Tomatoes and Corn, Stewed.
  Potatoes in Jackets.      Mashed Squash.
  ——
  Peaches and Cream.
  ——
TAPIOCA SOUP.
2 lbs. lean veal; 2 lbs. beef-bones, cracked; 1 slice of corned ham; 1
carrot; bunch of herbs; 1 onion; 8 large tomatoes; 1 tablespoonful of
sugar; pepper and salt; ¼ cup granulated tapioca, previously soaked two
hours in a little cold water; 3 quarts of water.
Slice the meat and vegetables, and put on—leaving out the tomatoes—in
the water, to boil slowly four hours. At the end of the second hour,
skim well, and add the tomatoes. When the time is up, strain the soup,
take out the meat, and rub the vegetables through the colander. Cool
and skim; season with sugar, pepper, salt, and minced herbs, and heat
up anew. When it boils, add the tapioca; stir clear, and serve.
BEEFSTEAK.
Flatten with the broad side of a hatchet, and broil upon a buttered
gridiron over a clear fire. Lay upon a hot dish, pepper, salt, and put
a bountiful spoonful of butter, cut into bits, upon it. Cover with a
hot dish or lid for five minutes before it is to be carved.
TOMATOES AND CORN, STEWED.
Slice eight large tomatoes, when you have skinned them. Add the corn
cut from six ears; put into a saucepan and stew twenty minutes; season
with pepper, salt, and sugar. Add a great lump of butter rolled in
flour, and cook ten minutes longer.
POTATOES IN JACKETS.
Put on in boiling salt water, and cook twenty minutes; then throw in a
cup of cold water. Bring rapidly to the second boil, and, when a fork
pierces the largest easily, turn off the water, and set the uncovered
pot upon the range, to dry off the moisture. Serve in a dish lined with
a napkin.
MASHED SQUASH.
Pare, quarter, lay in cold water ten minutes, and cook soft in hot,
salted water. Mash in a hot colander very quickly; season with butter,
pepper, and salt, and dish very hot.
PEACHES AND CREAM.
See Wednesday of First Week in August.
  Second Week.      Wednesday.
  ——
  Cream Soup.
