The young girl looked at him ; he thought she 
colored a little ; and for a moment she made no 
rejoinder. 
"Does it strike you that I am always talking 
about your place ?" she asked. 
" I am sure you do it a great honor," he said, 
fearing he had been uncivil. 
" I have often thought about it," she went on, 
after a moment. " I have often thought about 
your being a hereditary legislator. A hereditary legislator ought to know a great many 
things." 
" Xot if he doesn 't legislate." 
" But you do legislate ; it 's absurd your saying 
you don 't. You are very much looked up to here 
I am assured of that." 
" I don 't know that I ever noticed it." 
" It is because you are used to it, then. You 
ought to fill the place." 
"How do you mean to fill it?" asked Lord 
Lambeth. 
" You ought to be very clever and brilliant, and 
to know almost every thing." 
  
Lord Lambeth looked at her a moment. 
"Shall I tell you something?" he asked. "A 
young man in my position, as you call it " 
"I didn 't invent the term," interposed Bessie 
Alden. " I have seen it in a great many books." 
" Hang it ! you are always at your books. A 
fellow in my position, then, does very well what 
ever he does. That 's about what I mean to say." 
" Well, if your own people are content with 
you," said Bessie Alden, laughing, " it is not for 
me to complain. But I shall always think that, 
properly, you should have been a great mind a 
great character." 
" Ah, that 's very theoretic," Lord Lambeth declared. " Depend upon it, that 's a Yankee prejudice." 
" Happy the country," said Bessie Alden, 
" where even people 's prejudices are so elevated !" 
" Well, after all," observed Lord Lambeth, " I 
don 't know that I am such a fool as you are trying to make me out." 
" I said nothing so rude as that ; but I must 
repeat that you are disappointing." 
" My dear Miss Alden," exclaimed the young 
man, " I am the best fellow in the world !" 
" Ah, if it were not for that !" said Bessie 
Alden, with a smile. 
Mrs. Westgate had a good many more friends 
in London 'than she pretended, and before long 
she had renewed acquaintance with most of them. 
Their hospitality was extreme, so that, one thing 
leading to another, she began, as the phrase is, to 
go out. Bessie Alden, in this way, saw some 
thing of what she found it a great satisfaction to 
call to herself English society. She went to balls 
and danced, she went to dinners and talked, she 
went to concerts and listened (at concerts Bessie 
always listened), she went to exhibitions and 
wondered. Her enjoyment was keen and her curiosity insatiable, and, grateful in general for all her 
opportunities, she especially prized the privilege 
of meeting certain celebrated persons authors 
and artists, philosophers and statesmen of 
whose renown she had been a humble and distant 
beholder, and who now, as a part of the habitual 
furniture of London drawing-rooms, struck her 
as stars fallen from the firmament and become 
palpable revealing also sometimes, on contact, 
qualities not to have been predicted of sidereal 
bodies. Bessie, who knew so many of her con 
temporaries by reputation, had a good many per 
sonal disappointments ; but, on the other hand, 
she had innumerable satisfactions and enthusiasms, and she communicated the emotions of 
either class to a dear friend, of her own sex, in 
Boston, with whom she was in voluminous correspondence. Some of her reflections, indeed, she 
attempted to impart to Lord Lambeth, who came 
almost every day to Jones 's Hotel, and whom Mrs. 
Westgate admitted to be really devoted. Captain 
Littledale, it appeared, had gone to India ; and of 
several others of Mrs. Westgate 's ex-pensioners 
gentlemen who, as she said, had made, in New 
York, a club-house of her drawing-room no tid 
ings were to be obtained ; but Lord Lambeth was 
certainly attentive enough to make up for the accidental absences, the short memories, all the other 
irregularities, of every one else. He drove them in 
the Park, he took them to visit private collections 
of pictures, and, having a house of his own, in 
vited them to dinner. Mrs. Westgate, following 
the fashion of many of her compatriots, caused 
herself and her sister to be presented at the English court by her diplomatic representative for 
it was in this manner that she alluded to the 
American minister to England, inquiring what 
on earth he was put there for, if not to make 
the proper arrangements for one 's going to a 
Drawing-room. 
Lord Lambeth declared that he hated Drawing- 
rooms, but he participated in the ceremony on 
the day on which the two ladies at Jones 's Hotel 
repaired to Buckingham Palace in a remarkable 
coach which his lordship had sent to fetch them. 
He had on a gorgeous uniform, and Bessie Alden 
was particularly struck with his appearance especially when on her asking him, rather foolishly 
as she felt, if ho were a loyal subject, he replied 
that he was a loyal subject to her. This decla 
ration was emphasized by his dancing with her 
at a royal ball to which the two ladies afterward 
went, and was not impaired by the fact that she 
thought he danced very ill. He seemed to her 
wonderfully kind ; she asked herself, with growing vivacity, why he should be so kind. It was 
his disposition that seemed the natural answer. 
She had told her sister that she liked him very 
much, and now that she liked him more she wondered why. She liked him for his disposition ; 
to this question as well that seemed the natural 
answer. When once the impressions of London 
life began to crowd thickly upon her she completely forgot her sister 's warning about the cyn 
icism of public opinion. It had given her great 
pain at the moment, but there was no particular 
reason why she should remember it ; it corre 
sponded too little with any sensible reality; and 
it was disagreeable to Bessie to remember dis 
agreeable things. So she was not haunted with 
the sense of a vulgar imputation. She was not 
in love with Lord Lambeth she assured herself 
of that. It will immediately be observed that 
  
when such assurances become necessary the 
state of a young lady 's affections is already ambiguous ; and, indeed, Bessie Alden made no attempt to dissimulate to herself, of course a 
certain tenderness that she felt for the young 
nobleman. She said to herself that she liked the 
type to which he belonged the simple, candid, 
manly, healthy English temperament. She spoke 
to herself of him as women speak of young men 
they like alluded to his bravery (which she had 
never in the least seen tested), to his honesty 
and gentlemanliriess, and was not silent upon 
the subject of his good looks. She was perfectly conscious, moreover, that she liked to think of 
his more adventitious merits ; that her imagination was excited and gratified by the sight of a 
handsome young man endowed with such large 
opportunities opportunities she hardly knew for 
what, but, as she supposed, for doing great things 
for setting an example, for exerting an influence, for conferring happiness, for encouraging 
the arts. She had a kind of ideal of conduct for 
a young man who should find himself in this mag 
nificent position, and she tried to adapt it to Lord 
Lambeth 's deportment, as you might attempt to fit 
a silhouette in cut paper upon a shadow projected 
upon a wall. But Bessie Alden 's silhouette refused to coincide with his lordship 's image, and this 
want of harmony sometimes vexed her more than 
she thought reasonable. When he was absent it 
was, of course, less striking ; then he seemed to 
her a sufficiently graceful combination of high responsibilities and amiable qualities. But when he 
sat there within sight, laughing and talking with 
his customary good humor and simplicity, she 
measured it more accurately, and she felt acutely 
that if Lord Lambeth 's position was heroic, there 
was but little of the hero in the young man himself. Then her imagination wandered away from 
him very far away ; for it was an incontestable 
fact that at such moments he seemed distinctly 
dull. I am afraid that while Bessie 's imagination was thus invidiously roaming, she can not 
have been herself a very lively companion ; but 
it may well have been that these occasional fits 
of indifference seemed to Lord Lambeth a part 
of the young girl 's personal charm. It had been 
a part of this charm from the first that he felt 
that she judged him and measured him more 
freely and irresponsibly more at her ease and 
her leisure, as it were than several young ladies 
with whom he had been on the whole about as 
intimate. To feel this, and yet to feel that she 
also liked him, was very agreeable to Lord Lambeth. He fancied he had compassed that gratification so desirable to young men of title and 
  
fortune being liked for himself. It is true that 
a cynical counsellor might have whispered to 
him, "Liked for yourself? Yes; but not so 
very much !" He had, at any rate, the constant 
hope of being liked more. 
It may seem, perhaps, a trifle singular but it 
is nevertheless true that Bessie Alden, when he 
struck her as dull, devoted some time, on grounds 
of conscience, to trying to like him more. I say 
on grounds of conscience, because she felt that 
he had been extremely " nice" to her sister, and 
because she reflected that it was no more than 
fair that she should think as well of him as he 
thought of her. This effort was possibly some 
times not so successful as it might have been, for 
the result of it was occasionally a vague irritation, which expressed itself in hostile criticism of 
several British institutions. Bessie Alden went 
to some entertainments at which she met Lord 
Lambeth ; but she went to others at which his 
lordship was neither actually nor potentially 
present ; and it was chiefly on these latter occasions that she encountered those literary and artistic celebrities of whom mention has been made. 
After a while she reduced the matter to a principle. If Lord Lambeth should appear any 
where, it was a symbol that there would be no 
poets and philosophers ; and in consequence for 
it was almost a strict consequence she used to 
enumerate to the young man these objects of her 
admiration. 
" You seem to be awfully fond of those sort 
of people," said Lord Lambeth one day, as if the 
idea had just occurred to him. 
"They are the people in England I am most 
curious to see," Bessie Alden replied. 
"I suppose that 's because you have read so 
much," said Lord Lambeth, gallantly. 
" I have not read so much. It is because we 
think so much of them at home." 
" Oh, I see," observed the young nobleman. 
" In Boston." 
"Not only in Boston; every where," said Bes 
sie. " We hold them in great honor ; they go to 
the best dinner parties." 
" I dare say you are right. I can 't say I know 
many of them." 
" It 's a pity you don 't," Bessie Alden declared. 
" It would do you good." 
" I dare say it would," said Lord Lambeth, very 
humbly. " But I must say I don 't like the looks 
of some of them." 
"Xeither do I of some of them. But there 
are all kinds, and many of them are charm 
ing." 
"I have talked with two or three of them," the 
  
young man. went on, " and I thought they had a 
kind of fawning manner." 
"Why should they fawn?" Bessie Alden de 
manded. 
" I'm sure I don 't know. Why, indeed ?" 
" Perhaps you only thought so," said Bessie. 
" Well, of course," rejoined her companion
" that 's a kind of thing that can 't be proved." 
" In America they don 't fawn," said Bessie. 
" Ah, well, then, they must be better company." 
Bessie was silent a moment. " That is one of 
the things I don 't like about England," she said ; 
"your keeping the distinguished people apart." 
" How do you mean apart ?" 
" Why, letting them come only to certain places. 
You never see them." 
Lord Lambeth looked at her a moment. " What 
people do you mean ?" 
" The eminent people the authors and artists 
the clever people." 
"Oh, there are other eminent people besides 
those," said Lord Lambeth. 
" Well, you certainly keep them apart," repeat 
ed the young girl. 
"And there are other clever people," added 
Lord Lambeth, simply. 
Bessie Alden looked at him, and she gave a light 
laugh. " Xot many," she said. 
On another occasion just after a dinner party 
she told him that there was something else in 
England she did not like. 
" Oh, I say !" he cried, " haven 't you abused us 
enough ?" 
u I have never abused you at all," said Bessie ; 
"but I don 't like your precedence." 
" It isn't my precedence !" Lord Lambeth de 
clared, laughing. 
" Yes, it is yours just exactly yours ; and I 
think it 's odious," said Bessie. 
" I never saw such a young lady for discussing 
things ! Has some one had the impudence to go 
before you ?" asked his lordship. 
"It is not the going before me that I object 
to," said Bessie ; " it is their thinking that they 
have a right to do it a right that I recognize" 
" I never saw such a young lady as you are for 
not recognizing. I have no doubt the thing is 
beastly, but it saves a lot of trouble." 
" It makes a lot of trouble. It 's horrid," said 
Bessie. 
" But how would you have the first people go ?" 
asked Lord Lambeth. " They can 't go last." 
" Whom do you mean by the first people ?" 
" Ah, if you mean to question first principles !" 
said Lord Lambeth. 
"If those are your first principles, no wonder 
  
some of your arrangements are horrid," observed 
Bessie Alden, with a very pretty ferocity. " I am 
a young girl, so of course I go last ; but imagine 
what Kitty must feel on being informed that she 
is not at liberty to budge until certain other ladies 
have passed out." 
" Oh, I say, she is not  informed ! " cried Lord 
Lambeth. "JSTo one would do such a thing as 
that." 
" She is made to feel it," the young girl insisted 
" as if they were afraid she would make a rush 
for the door.  S T o ; you have a lovely country," said 
Bessie Alden, " but your precedence is horrid." 
" I certainly shouldn 't think your sister would 
like it," rejoined Lord Lambeth, with even exaggerated gravity. But Bessie Alden could induce 
him to enter no formal protest against this repulsive custom, which he seemed to think an extreme 
convenience. 
Percy Beaumont all this time had been a very 
much less frequent visitor at Jones 's Hotel than 
his noble kinsman ; he had, in fact, called but twice 
