pulled up his horses on the crest of a hill which 
commanded a beautiful prospect. He let them 
stand a long time to rest, while he sat there and 
talked with Madame Miinster. The prospect was 
beautiful in spite of there being nothing human 
within sight. There was a wilderness of woods, 
and the gleam of a distant river, and a glimpse of 
half the hill-tops in Massachusetts. The road had 
a wide, grassy margin, on the further side of which 
there flowed a deep, clear brook ; there were wild 
flowers in the grass, and beside the brook lay the 
trunk of a fallen tree. Acton waited a while ; at 
last a rustic wayfarer came trudging along the 
road. Acton asked him to hold the horses a 
service he consented to render, as a friendly turn 
to a fellow-citizen. Then he invited the Baroness 
 
to descend, and the two wandered away, across 
the grass, and sat down on the log beside the 
brook. 
" I imagine it does n't remind you of Silber- 
stadt," said Acton. It was the first time that he 
had mentioned Silberstadt to her, for particular 
reasons. He knew she had a husband there, and 
this was disagreeable to him ; and, furthermore, 
it had been repeated to him that this husband 
wished to put her away a state of affairs to 
which even indirect reference was to be depre- 
cated. It was true, nevertheless, that the Baron- 
ess herself had often alluded to Silberstadt ; and 
Acton had often wondered why her husband 
wished to get rid of her. It was a curious posi- 
tion for a lady this being known as a repudiated 
wife ; and it is worthy of observation that the 
Baroness carried it off with exceeding grace and 
dignity. She had made it felt, from the first, that 
there were two sides to the question, and that her 
own side, when she should choose to present it, 
would be replete with touching interest. 
" It does not remind me of the town, of course," 
she said, " of the sculptured gables and the Gothic 
churches, of the wonderful Schloss, with its moat 
and its clustering towers. But it has a little look 
of some other parts of the principality. One 
might fancy one's self among those grand old Ger- 
man forests, those legendary mountains ; the sort 
of country one sees from the windows at Shrecken- 
stein." 
" What is Shreckenstein ? " asked Acton. 
" It is a great castle, the summer residence of 
the Reigning Prince." 
'* Have you ever lived there ? " 
" I have stayed there," said the Baroness. Ac- 
ton was silent ; he looked a While at the un castled 
landscape before him. " It is the first time you 
have ever asked me about Silberstadt," she said. 
" I should think you would want to know about 
my marriage ; it must seem to you very strange." 
Acton looked at her a moment. " Now you 
would n't like me to say that ! " 
" You Americans have such odd ways ! " the 
Baroness declared. " You never ask anything 
outright ; there seem to be so many things you 
can't talk about." 
" We Americans are very polite," said Acton, 
whose national consciousness had been complicated 
by a residence in foreign lands, and who yet dis- 
liked to hear Americans abused. "We don't like 
to tread upon people's toes," he said. "But I 
should like very much to hear about your mar- 
riage. Now tell me how it came about." 
" The Prince fell in love with me," replied the 
Baroness simply. " He pressed his suit very hard. 
 
At first he did n't wish me to marry him ; on the 
contrary. But on that basis I refused to listen to 
him. So he offered me marriage in so far as 
be might. I was young, and I confess I was 
rather flattered. But if it were to be done again 
now, I certainly should not accept him." 
" How long ago was this ? " asked Acton. 
" Oh several years," said Eugenia. " You 
should never ask a woman for dates." 
" Why, I should think that when a woman was 
relating history " .... Acton answered. "And 
now he wants to break it off ? " 
" They want him to make a political marriage. 
It is his brother's idea. His brother is very 
clever." 
" They must be a precious pair ! " cried Robert 
Acton. 
The Baroness gave a little philosophic shrug. 
" Que voulez-vous? They are princes. They 
think they are treating me very well. Silberstadt 
is a perfectly despotic little state, and the Reign- 
ing Prince may annul the marriage by a stroke of 
his pen. But he has promised me, nevertheless, 
not to do so without my formal consent." 
" And this you have refused ? " 
" Hitherto. It is an indignity, and I have 
wished at least to make it difficult for them. 
But I have a little document in my writing-desk 
   
which I have only to sign and send back to the 
Prince." 
" Then it will be all over ? " 
The Baroness lifted her hand, and dropped it 
again. " Of course I shall keep my title; at least, 
I shall be at liberty to keep it if I choose. And I 
suppose I shall keep it. One must have a name. 
And I shall keep my pension. It is very small 
it is wretchedly small ; but it is what I live on." 
" And you have only to sign that paper ? " 
Acton asked. 
The Baroness looked at him a moment. " Do 
you urge it ? " 
He got up slowly, and stood with his hands in 
his pockets. " What do you gain by not doing 
it?" 
" I am supposed to gain this advantage that 
if I delay, or temporize, the Prince may come 
back to me, may make a stand against his brother. 
He is very fond of me, and his brother has pushed 
him only little by little." 
" If he were to come back to you," said Acton, 
" would you would you take him back ? " 
The Baroness met his eyes ; she colored just a 
little. Then she rose. " I should have the sat- 
isfaction of saying, 4 Now it is my turn. I break 
with your serene highness ! ' : 
They began to walk toward the carriage. 
 
" Well," said Robert Acton, " it 's a curious 
story ! How did you make his acquaintance ? " 
" I was staying with an old lady an old 
Countess in Dresden. She had been a friend 
of my father's. My father was dead ; I was very 
much alone. My brother was wandering about 
the world in a theatrical troupe." 
" Your brother ought to have stayed with you," 
Acton observed, " and kept you from putting your 
trust in princes." 
The Baroness was silent a moment, and then, 
" He did what he could," she said. " He sent me 
money. The old Countess encouraged the Prince ; 
she was even pressing. It seems to me," Mad- 
ame Minister added, gently, " that under the 
circumstances I behaved very well." 
Acton glanced at her, and made the observa- 
tion he had made it before that a woman 
looks the prettier for having unfolded her wrongs 
or her sufferings. " Well," he reflected, audibly, 
" I should like to see you send his serene highness 
somewhere ! " 
Madame Miinster stooped and plucked a daisy 
from the grass. "And not sign my renuncia- 
tion ? " 
"Well, I don't know I don't know," said 
Acton. 
 
" In one case I should have my revenge ; in 
another case I should have my liberty." 
Acton gave a little laugh as he helped her into 
the carriage. " At any rate," he said, " take good 
care of that paper." 
A couple of days afterward he asked her to 
come and see his house. The visit had already 
been proposed, but it had been put off in conse- 
quence of his mother's illness. She was a constant 
invalid, and she had passed these recent years, 
very patiently, in a great flowered arm-chair at 
her bedroom window. Lately, for some days, she 
had been unable to see any one ; but now she 
was better, and she sent the Baroness a very civil 
message. Acton had wished their visitor to come 
to dinner ; but Madame Miinster preferred to be- 
gin with a simple call. She had reflected that if 
she should go to dinner Mr. Wentworth and his 
daughters would also be asked, and it had seemed 
to her that the peculiar character of the occasion 
would be best preserved in a tete-d-tete with her 
host. Why the occasion should have a peculiar 
character she explained to no one. As far as any 
one could see, it was simply very pleasant. Acton 
came for her and drove her to his door, an oper- 
ation which was rapidly performed. His house 
the Baroness mentally pronounced a very good 
one ; more articulately, she declared that it was 
 
enchanting. It was large and square and painted 
brown; it stood in a well-kept shrubbery, and 
was approached, from the gate, by a short drive. 
It was, moreover, a much more modern dwelling 
than Mr. Wentworth's, and was more redundantly 
upholstered and expensively ornamented. The 
Baroness perceived that her entertainer had ana- 
lyzed material comfort to a sufficiently fine point. 
And then he possessed the most delightful chi- 
noiseries trophies of his sojourn in the Celestial 
Empire : pagodas of ebony and cabinets of ivo- 
ry ; sculptured monsters, grinning and leering on 
chimney-pieces, in front of beautifully figured 
hand-screens ; porcelain dinner-sets, gleaming be- 
hind the glass doors of mahogany buffets ; large 
screens, in corners, covered with tense silk and 
embroidered with mandarins and dragons. These 
things were scattered all over the house, and they 
gave Eugenia a pretext for a complete domiciliary 
visit. She liked it, she enjoyed it ; she thought 
it a very nice place. It had a mixture of the 
homely and the liberal, and though it was almost 
a museum, the large, little-used rooms were as 
fresh and clean as a well-kept dairy. Lizzie Ac- 
ton told her that she dusted all the pagodas and 
other curiosities every day with her own hands ; 
and the Baroness answered that she was evidently 
a household fairy. Lizzie had not at all the look 
   
of a young lady who dusted things ; she wore such 
pretty dresses and had such delicate fingers that 
it was difficult to imagine her immersed in sordid 
cares. She came to meet Madame Minister on 
her arrival, but she said nothing, or almost noth- 
ing, and the Baroness again reflected she had 
had occasion to do so before that American 
girls had no manners. She disliked this little 
American girl, and she was quite prepared to 
learn that she had failed to commend herself to 
Miss Acton. Lizzie struck her as positive and 
explicit almost to pertness; and the idea of her 
combining the apparent incongruities of a taste 
for housework and the wearing of fresh, Parisian- 
looking dresses suggested the possession of a dan- 
gerous energy. It was a source of irritation to 
the Baroness that in this country it should seem 
to matter whether a little girl were a trifle less 
or a trifle more of a nonentity ; for Eugenia had 
hitherto been conscious of no moral pressure as 
regards the appreciation of diminutive virgins. 
It was perhaps an indication of Lizzie's pertness 
that she very soon retired and left the Baroness 
on her brother's hands. Acton talked a great 
deal about his chinoiseries ; he knew a good deal 
about porcelain and bric-a-brac. The Baroness, 
in her progress through the house, made, as it 
were, a great many stations. She sat down every- 
 
where, confessed to being a little tired, and asked 
about the various objects with a curious mixture 
of alertness and inattention. If there had been 
any one to say it to she would have declared that 
she was positively in love with her host ; but she 
could hardly make this declaration even in the 
strictest confidence to Acton himself. It gave 
her, nevertheless, a pleasure that had some of the 
charm of unwontedness to feel, with that admira- 
ble keenness with which she was capable of feeling 
things, that he had a disposition without any 
edges ; that even his humorous irony always ex- 
panded toward the point. One's impression of 
his honesty was almost like carrying a bunch of 
flowers ; the perfume was most agreeable, but 
they were occasionally an inconvenience. One 
could trust him, at any rate, round all the corners 
of the world ; and, withal, he was not absolutely 
simple, which would have been excess ; he was 
only relatively simple, which was quite enough 
for the Baroness. 
Lizzie reappeared to say that her mother would 
now be happy to receive Madame Minister ; and 
the Baroness followed her to Mrs. Acton's apart- 
ment. Eugenia reflected, as she went, that it was 
not the affectation of impertinence that made her 
dislike this young lady, for on that ground she 
could easily have beaten her. It was not an as- 
   
piration on the girl's part to rivalry, but a kind 
of laughing, childishly-mocking indifference to the 
results of comparison. Mrs. Acton was an emaci- 
ated, sweet-faced woman of five and fifty, sitting 
with pillows behind her, and looking out on a 
clump of hemlocks. She was very modest, very 
timid, and very ill ; she made Eugenia feel grate- 
ful that she herself was not like that neither 
so ill, nor, possibly, so modest. On a chair, be- 
side her, lay a volume of Emerson's Essays. It 
was a great occasion for poor Mrs. Acton, in her 
helpless condition, to be confronted with a clever 
foreign lady, who had more manner than any 
lady any dozen ladies that she had ever seen. 
" I have heard a great deal about you," she said, 
softly, to the Baroness. 
" From your son, eh ? " Eugenia asked. " He 
has talked to me immensely of you. Oh, he talks 
of you as you would like," the Baroness de- 
clared ; "as such a son must talk of such a 
mother ! " 
Mrs. Acton sat gazing ; this was part of Mad- 
ame Minister's " manner." But Robert Acton 
was gazing too, in vivid consciousness that he had 
