stories, and shaken their sides with roars of heartiest laughter,
she was somewhat consoled about Hiel. She confessed it was a mystery
to her, however, 'how folks could hev the heart to be a-laughin' and
tellin' stories in sich a dying world.'
CHAPTER XXXV.
MISS DEBBY ARRIVES.
"To Dr. Cushing's, Ma'am?"
This question met the ear of Miss Debby Kittery just after she had
deposited her umbrella, with a smart, decisive thump, by her side,
and settled herself and her bandbox on the back seat of the creaking,
tetering old stage on the way to Poganuc.
Miss Debby opened her eyes, surveyed the questioner with a well-bred
stare, and answered, with a definite air, "Yes, sir."
"Oh, yis; thought so," said Hiel Jones. "Miss Kittery, I s'pose; the
Doctor's folks is expecting ye. Folks all well in Boston, I s'pose?"
Miss Debby in her heart thought Hiel Jones very presuming and
familiar, and endeavored to convey by her behavior and manner that
such was her opinion; but the effort was quite a vain one, for the
remotest conception of any such possibility in his case was so far
from Hiel's mind that there was not there even the material to make
it of. The look of dignified astonishment with which the good lady
responded to his question as to the "folks in Boston" was wholly
lost on him.
The first sentence in the Declaration of Independence, that all men
are "created equal," had so far become incarnate in Hiel that he
never yet had seen the human being whom he did not feel competent to
address on equal terms, and, when exalted to his high seat on the
stage-box, could not look down upon with a species of patronage.
Even the haute noblesse of Poganuc allowed Hiel's familiarities
and laughed at his jokes; he was one of their institutions; and what
was tolerance and acceptance on the part of the aristocracy became
adulation on the part of those nearer his own rank of life. And so
when Miss Debby Kittery made him short answers and turned away her
head, Hiel merely commented to himself, "Don't seem sociable. Poor
old lady! Tired, I s'pose; roads is pretty rough," and, gathering
up his reins, dashed off cheerfully.
At the first stage where he stopped to change horses he deemed it
his duty to cheer the loneliness of the old lady by a little more
conversation, and so, after offering to bring her a tumbler of water,
he resumed:
"Ye hain't ben to Poganuc very often;--hain't seen Dolly since she's
grow'd up?"
"Are you speaking of Miss Cushing, sir?" asked Miss Debby, in tones
of pointed rebuke.
"Yis--wal, we allers call her 'Dolly' t' our house," said Hiel.
"We've know'd her sence she was that high. My wife used to live to
the Doctor's--she thinks all the world of Dolly."
Miss Debby thought of the verse in the Church Catechism in which
the catechumen defines it as his duty to 'order himself lowly and
reverently to all his betters.' Evidently Hiel had never heard
of this precept. Perhaps if he had, the inquiry as to who are
betters, as presented to a shrewd and thoughtful mind, might lead to
embarrassing results.
So, as he seemed an utterly hopeless case, and as after all he
appeared so bright, and anxious to oblige, Miss Debby surrendered
at discretion, and during the last half of the way found herself
laughing heartily at some of Hiel's stories and feeling some interest
in the general summary of Poganuc news which he threw in gratis.
"Yis, the Doctor's folks is all well. Doctor's had lots o' things
sent in this year, Thanksgiving time--turkeys and chickens and
eggs and lard--every kind o' thing you can think of. Everybody
sent--Town Hill folks, and folks out seven miles round. Everybody
likes the Doctor; they'd orter, too! There ain't sech a minister
nowhere. The way he explains the doctrines and sets 'em home--I tell
ye, there ain't no mistake about him; he's a hull team, now, and
our folks knows it. Orter 'a' ben here a week ago, when the Doctor
had his wood-spell. Tell ye, if the sleds didn't come in! Why, his
back-yard's a perfect mountain o' wood--best sort too, good oak and
hickory, makes good solid coals--enough to keep him a year round.
Wal, folks orter do it. He's faithful to them, they'd orter do wal
by him."
"Isn't there an Episcopal church in your town?" asked Miss Debby.
"Oh, yis, there is a little church. Squire Lewis he started it 'bout
six years ago, and there was consid'able many signed off to it. But
our Poganuc folks somehow ain't made for 'Piscopals. A 'Piscopal
church in our town is jest like a hill o' potatoes planted under a
big apple-tree; the tree got a-growin' afore they did, and don't give
'em no chance. There was my wife's father, he signed off, 'cause of a
quarrel he hed with his own church; but he's come back agin, and so
have all his boys, and Nabby, and jined the Doctor's church. Fact is,
our folks sort o' hanker arter the old meetin'-house."
"Who is the rector of the Episcopal church?"
"Oh, that's Sim Coan; nice, lively young feller, Sim is; but can't
hold a candle to the Doctor. Sim he ain't 'fraid of nobody--preaches
up the 'Piscopal doctrine sharp, and stands up for his side; and he's
all the feasts and fasts and anthems and things at his tongue's end;
and his folks likes him fust rate. But the church don't grow much;
jest holds its own, that's all."
These varied items of intelligence, temporal and spiritual, were
poured into Miss Debby's ear at sundry periods when horses were to be
changed, or in the interval of waiting for dinner at the sleepy old
country tavern; and by the time she reached Poganuc she had conceived
quite a friendly feeling towards Hiel and unbent her frigid demeanor
to that degree that Hiel told Nabby "the old lady reely got quite
sociable and warmed up afore she got there."
Dolly was somewhat puzzled and almost alarmed on her first
introduction to her aunt, who took possession of her in a summary
manner, turning her round and surveying her, and giving her opinion
of her with a distinct and decisive air, as if the damsel had been an
article of purchase sent home to be looked over.
"So this is my niece Dolly, is it?" she said. "Well, come kiss your
old aunty; upon my word, you are taller than your mother." Then
holding her at arm's length and surveying her, with her head on one
side, she added, "There's a good deal of Pierrepont blood in her,
sister; that is the Pierrepont nose--I should know it anywhere. Her
way of carrying herself is Pierrepont. Blushing!" she added, as
Dolly grew crimson under this survey; "that's a family trick. I
remember when I went to dancing school the first time, my face was
crimson as my sash. She'll get the better of that as she gets older,
as I have. Sit down by your aunty, child. I think I shall like you.
That's right, sit up straight and hold your shoulders back--the girls
of this generation are getting round-shouldered."
Though Dolly was somewhat confused and confounded by this abrupt mode
of procedure, yet there was after all something quaint and original
about her aunt's manner that amused her, and an honest sincerity
in her face that won her regard. Miss Debby was one of those human
beings who carry with them the apology for their own existence. It
took but a glance to see that she was one of those forces of nature
which move always in straight lines and which must be turned out
for if one wishes to avoid a collision. All Miss Debby's opinions
had been made up, catalogued, and arranged, at a very early period
of life, and she had no thought of change. She moved in a region of
certainties, and always took her own opinions for granted with a calm
supremacy altogether above reason. Yet there was all the while about
her a twinkle of humorous consciousness, a vein of original drollery,
which gave piquancy to the brusqueness of her manner and prevented
people from taking offence.
So this first evening Dolly stared, laughed, blushed, wondered, had
half a mind to be provoked, but ended in a hearty liking of her new
relative and most agreeable anticipations of her Boston visit.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
PREPARATIONS FOR SEEING LIFE.
The getting ready for Dolly's journey began to be the engrossing
topic of the little household.
Miss Simpkins, the Poganuc dress-maker, had a permanent corner in
the sitting-room, and discoursed ex cathedra on "piping-cord" and
"ruffling cut on the bias," and Dolly and Mrs. Cushing and Miss
Deborah obediently ran up breadths, hemmed, stitched and gathered at
her word of command.
The general course of society in those days as to dress and outward
adornment did not run with the unchecked and impetuous current that
it now does. The matter of dress has become in our day a yoke and a
burden, and many a good house-mother is having the springs of her
existence sapped by responsibilities connected with pinking and
frilling and quilling, and an army of devouring cares as to hemming,
stitching and embroidery, for which even the "consolations of
religion" provide no panacea.
In the simple Puritan days, while they had before their eyes the
query of Sacred Writ, "Can a maid forget her ornaments?"--they felt
that there was no call to assist the maid in her meditations on this
subject. Little girls were assiduously taught that to be neat and
clean was the main beauty. Good mothers who had pretty daughters
were very reticent of any remarks that might lead in the direction
of personal vanity; any extra amount of time spent at the toilet,
any apparent anxiety about individual adornment, met a persistent
discouragement.
Never in all her life before had Dolly heard so much discourse on
subjects connected with personal appearance, and, to say the truth,
she did not at all enter into it with the abandon and zeal of a girl
of our modern days, and found the fitting and trying on and altering
rather a tribulation to be conscientiously endured. She gathered,
hemmed, stitched and sewed, however, and submitted herself to the
trying-on process with resignation.
"The child don't seem to think much of dress," said Miss Debby, when
alone with her sister. "What is she thinking of, with those great
eyes of hers?"
"Oh, of things she is planning," said her mother; "of books she is
reading, of things her father reads to her, of ways she can help
me--in short, of anything but herself."
"She is very pretty," said Miss Debby, "and is sure to be very
attractive."
"Yes," answered her mother, "but Dolly hasn't the smallest notion of
anything like coquetry. Now, she has been a good deal admired here,
and there have been one or two that would evidently have been glad to
go farther; but Dolly cuts everything of that kind short at once. She
is very pleasant, very kind, very friendly, up to a certain point,
but the moment she is made love to--everything is changed."
"Well," said Miss Deborah, "I am glad I came after her. There's
everything, with a girl like Dolly, in putting her into proper
society. When a girl comes to her years one should put her in the way
of a suitable connection at once."
"As to that," said Mrs. Cushing, "I always felt that things of that
kind must be left to Providence."
"I believe, however, your husband preaches that we must 'use the
means,' doesn't he? One must put children in proper society, to give
Providence a chance."
"Well, Debby, you have your schemes, but I forwarn you Dolly is
one who goes her own path. She seems very sweet, very gentle, very
yielding, but she has a little quiet way of her own of looking at
things and deciding for herself; she always knows her own mind very
definitely, too."
"Good!" said Miss Debby, taking a long and considerate pinch of
snuff. "We shall see."
Miss Debby had unbounded confidence in her own powers of management.
She looked upon Dolly as a very creditably educated young person
so far, but did not in the least doubt her own ability to add a
few finishing touches here and there, which should turn her out a
perfected specimen.
On Sunday morning Miss Debby arose with the spirit of a confessor.
For her brother-in-law the good lady had the sincerest respect and
friendship, but on this particular day she felt bound to give her
patronage and support to the little church where, in her view, the
truly appointed minister dispensed the teaching of the true church.
The Doctor lifted his glasses and soberly smiled as he saw her
compact energetic figure walking across the green to the little
church. Dolly's cheeks flamed up; she was indignant; to her it looked
like a slight upon her father, and Dolly, as we have seen, had a very
active spirit of partisanship.
"Well, I must say I wonder at her doing so," she commented. "Does she
not think we are Christians?"
"She has a right to her own faith, my child," said the Doctor.
"Yes, but what would she think of me, when I am in Boston, if I
should go off to some other church than hers?"
"My dear, I hope you will give her no such occasion," said Mrs.
Cushing. "Your conscience requires no such course of you; hers does."
"Well, it seems to me that Aunty has a very narrow and bigoted way of
looking at things," said Dolly.
"Your aunt is an old lady--very decided in all her opinions--not in
the least likely to be changed by anything you or I or anybody can
say to her. It is best to take her as she is."
"Besides," said the Doctor, "she has as much right to think I am in
the wrong as I have to think she is. Let every one be fully persuaded
in his own mind."
       
"I was very glad, my dear, you answered Dolly as you did," said
Mrs. Cushing to her husband that night when they were alone. "She
has such an intense feeling about all that relates to you, and the
Episcopal party have been so often opposed to you, that she will need
some care and caution now she is going where everything is to be
changed. She will have to see that there can be truth and goodness
in both forms of worship."
"Oh, certainly; I will indoctrinate Dolly," said the Doctor. "Yes, I
will set the whole thing before her. She has a good clear mind. I can
make her understand."
CHAPTER XXXVII.
LAST WORDS.
At last all the preparations were made, and Dolly's modest wardrobe
packed to the very last article, so that her bureau drawers looked
mournfully empty.
It was a little hair trunk, with "D. C." embossed in brass nails
upon one end, that contained all this young lady's armor--a very
different affair from the Saratoga trunks of our modern belles. The
pink brocade with its bunches of rose-buds; some tuckers of choice
old lace that had figured in her mother's bridal toilet; a few
bits of ribbon; a white India muslin dress, embroidered by her own
hands;--these were the stock in trade of a young damsel of her times,
and, strange as it may appear, young ladies then were stated by good
authority to have been just as pretty and bewitching as now, when
their trunks are several times as large.
Dolly's place and Aunt Debby's had been properly set down on Hiel's
stage-book for the next morning at six o'clock; and now remained only
an evening of last words.
So Dolly sits by her father in his study, where from infancy she has
retreated for pleasant quiet hours, where even the books she never
read seem to her like familiar friends from the number of times she
has pondered the titles upon their backs. And now, though she wants
to go, and feels the fluttering eagerness of the young bird, who has
wings to use and would like to try the free air, yet the first flight
from the nest is a little fearful. Boston is a long way off--three
long days--and Dolly has never been farther from Poganuc than she
has ridden by her father's side in the old chaise; so that the very
journey has as much importance in her eyes as fifty years later a
modern young lady will attach to a voyage to England.
"My daughter," said the Doctor, "I know you will have a pleasant
time; I hope, a profitable one. Your aunt is a good woman. I have
great confidence in her affection for you; your own mother could not
feel more sincere desire for your happiness. And your grandmother
is an eminently godly woman. Of course, while with them you will
attend the services of the Episcopal Church; for that you have my
cordial consent and willingness. The liturgy of the church is full of
devout feelings, and the Thirty-nine Articles (with some few slight
exceptions) are a very excellent statement of truth. In adopting
the spirit and language of the prayers in the service you cannot go
amiss; very excellent Christians have been nourished and brought
up upon them. So have no hesitation about uniting in all Christian
exercises with your relatives in Boston."
"Oh, Papa, I am almost sorry I am going," said Dolly, impulsively.
"My home has been always so happy, I feel almost afraid to leave it.
It seems as if I ought not to leave you and Mother alone."
The Doctor smiled and stroked her hair gently in an absent way. "We
shall miss you, dear child, of course; you are the last bird in the
nest, but your mother and I are quite sure it is for the best."
And then the conversation wandered back over many a pleasant field
of the past--over walks and talks and happy hours long gone; over
the plans and hopes and wishes for her brothers that Dolly had felt
proud to be old enough to share; until the good man's voice sometimes
would grow husky as he spoke and Dolly's long eye-lashes were wet and
tearful. It was the kind of pleasant little summer rain of tears that
comes so easily to young eyes that have never known what real sorrow
is.
And when Dolly after her conference came to bid her mother
good-night, she fell upon her neck and wept for reasons she could
scarce explain herself.
"I should like to know what you've been saying to Dolly," said Mrs.
Cushing to the Doctor, suddenly appearing at the study-door.
"Saying to Dolly?" exclaimed the Doctor, looking up dreamily, "why,
nothing particular."
"Well, you've made her cry. I declare! you men have no kind of idea
how to talk to a girl."
The Doctor at first looked amazed, and then an amused expression
