leads us to disdain the real work of the world. We are trained to
consider what society demands of us; we are polished and refined, and in
too many instances left morally weak and ignorant. No wonder so many of
us have not the strength to buffet across the stormy sea of hard
experience, but are lost in the great whirlpool!"
Jack peered into the pale, handsome face by the faint light. Surely this
man had to make a tremendous effort for salvation, when nearly every
tide had been against him! He experienced a keener sympathy than he
could express; he drew the arm within his, and they paced up and down
again in silence, understanding dimly the sacred mysteries of each
other's hearts, that needed not to be dragged to open day for
inspection. In a pure friendship, faith is the highest element: with
that there is supreme content; without it, distrust gnaws like a
canker-worm.
They heard the little church-clock striking ten, and turned their steps
toward the house. On the porch, Fred paused a moment, while an icy fear
seemed to wring every pulse. He turned cold with apprehension.
"What if I have been deluding myself!" he cried with sudden intensity.
"Even if you and she could not love, she may have no such regard for me
as I desire. I could not endure her pity."
A warm, hopeful, generous smile illumined Jack Darcy's face. His hand
thrilled with an electric force and sympathy.
"I have no fear," he answered; "but I will not dim the grace of your
exquisite joy by any prediction."
They entered the quiet room. Dr. Maverick came out to meet them.
"Miss Sylvie is asleep," he said. "Miss Barry is comparatively
comfortable. Hester will stay with her through the night. I have sent
your mother to bed," nodding to Jack. "I do not know what we should have
done without her. I shall camp down on the sofa, to be within call; and
to-morrow we had better begin the process of removal."
"I had arranged to take my family," remarked Fred Lawrence, not exactly
certain now that it was best.
"Your house must be opened and aired thoroughly, before any one goes
into it. So must Miss Barry's. Miss Morgan will see to this, I think. I
am compelled to return in the early morning train, for I have some
critical cases. One of you had better remain here."
He looked at Jack as he said this, but was amazed at the frank answer,--
"Fred will remain."
He studied Jack with almost angry intentness. Had he been so mistaken in
the man? Could he so calmly leave the woman he loved to bear her
terrible trial alone, or did he think his mother's sympathy sufficient
for her? And, although there were many admirable qualities in Fred
Lawrence, the two had never fraternized with the deep cordiality that
must underlie all friendships. They had not the magnetic attraction for
each other that Darcy held for both.
"What do you think of Miss Barry?" the latter asked hesitatingly.
"It is the beginning of the end;" and Maverick sighed, as he thought of
the impotence of human skill past a certain point. "Miss Barry consulted
me a year ago, and was not in ignorance; but I hoped, nay, felt assured,
with care and quiet her life might be prolonged. She may linger some
months, and it may all be ended in a week. Good heavens! what a shock
for Miss Sylvie!"
He took two or three turns across the floor.
"Go," he said abruptly, with an imperious wave of the hand. Then, a
little scornfully, "You will both be better in bed. Lawrence looks as if
I might have him for a patient to-morrow; but, Jack, are you made out of
adamant?"
The thrust hurt him, but Maverick was not in a pitying mood. Indeed,
just at this moment his temper was savage. He had witnessed the pain
and the suffering of the woman he had begun to love, until it had been
hard to refrain from taking her in his strong arms, and sheltering her
from the keenest pangs.
The household remained the next morning as he had ordered. He was rather
sulky all the way up in the train with Jack; but a talk with brisk,
pungent Miss Morgan quite restored him.
"Open the houses, and build fires immediately," he commanded. "Burn up
and blow out the confined air, that there shall be no pestilential foes
to greet them on their own hearths."
He went down again that evening. If he had been annoyed before, he was
puzzled now. There had been no word spoken between Fred and Sylvie; but
the now, to her, sweet knowledge had come in a gesture, a glance, that
could no more be described than the fine pulse of love can be dissected.
She seemed to have waited breathless for just this strength and support.
A hasty lover might have placed himself in the foreground. It was as if
he said, "Here is my love, take it, use it, rely upon it; you cannot
wear it out, you cannot wound or hurt it by any thing that may look like
coldness; it is a blessed atmosphere to surround you until you stretch
out your hand, and draw me into your very soul. I have been trained in
patience and humility; only let me prove myself worthy in your eyes."
Three days after, they all came up to Yerbury. The evening before, Irene
Lawrence had gone to Sylvie's room, and found her kneeling by the open
window, her face turned heavenward in a wordless prayer for strength.
She knelt beside her, she took the passive hands in hers, she even
touched her own cold lips to the colder forehead of the other.
"Sylvie,"--the tone still had the awful dreariness of that utter inward
living,--"Sylvie, I have been drawn to you in this your anguish by some
power quite outside of myself. I think we have always liked each other
in a curious way, but we were neither of us sentimental girls. I could
not cry over you now, nor kiss you with effusive fondness; but I wish,
oh, how passionately I wish, I could save you one pang! I wish I could
die in her place! My life is of so little value"--
"I believe God is right," Sylvie answered with a great struggle. "She
has used her life so well; she has garnered ripened sheaves of mercy and
kindliness and good works. There is not only golden wheat, but the
sweetness of rose and violet, the pungent purity and strength of
heliotrope, the use, the beauty, every thing. She is ready."
"And I am not worthy to be taken even for a ransom!" said the proud,
cold voice, not betraying any inward hurt.
"God does not mean that. You are to shape your life to something better.
Irene, did you ever think how easy it might be to die for those we love,
but oh, so hard to live for them, not ourselves!"
Irene rose, and stood there like a statue. Sylvie felt for the hand,
pressed it to her lips, folded it about her chin in a softly caressing
manner. How had Irene become dear to her?
"I am no heroine, Sylvie. I have been tossed up by the breakers of
fortune, and am out of joint, broken, bruised, of no avail."
"You can comfort me. You can help to give me strength and sympathy.
You can become a warm, living, active woman. There is always room for
such in the world, and a work for them to do. God never put an idle or
useless thing in the world, much more a human soul; and it must go sadly
astray before it comes to despair. Irene, you will not shut your heart
again, you will turn its warm side to me, you will take me in, with my
great sorrow;" and she buried her face in the other's dress, with a
shivering sob.
"I will do--what you wish. I am physically strong again. Let me help
you--anywhere, anyhow. You were so good and patient through my dreary
time."
Then she stole softly away, astonished at herself. Within was still the
coldness of Alpine glaciers. But oh, if she might be warmed!
Miss Barry's journey was performed in an easy carriage. A paralysis of
the lower limbs had supervened; but otherwise she had rallied a little,
and her mind was clear and cheerful. There was only to be a peaceful
waiting for the end, no feverish fluctuations of hope and fear. It was
curious how they settled themselves to the fact. A nurse was installed
for night watching and the more onerous part; and the invalid's room
took on a pleasant aspect,--Christiana waiting on this side of the
river.
CHAPTER XXIV.
FOR the first time in his life, and for some unfathomable cause, Jack
Darcy found business cares irksome. Balance-time was at hand. He was a
little tired of the dreary round. The men's disaffection re-acted upon
him. With his keen and intelligent faculty of making the best of every
thing, he was disappointed because he had failed to inspire others with
it.
"It's not so bad, after all. We have nothing that can be passed to
capital, but we have held our own. Only, there is no dividend for the
men."
"I'll explain that to them," exclaimed Winston with a confident nod.
He did, and he had a rather stormy venture. All the old arguments and
agreements had to be gone over. Men unaccustomed to business are quick
in prosperity and stupid in adversity. They only had three-quarter
wages: why should they be called upon to lose beside? It was little
enough, and waiting five years,--and no one knew,--the whole thing might
go to smash another year! A few wished, with an oath, that they were
well out of it. They would never be bamboozled into any co-operative
scheme again.
The grumbling, grew louder and louder. It was discussed at Keppler's
over beer and bad whiskey, and quite inflammatory speeches were made.
Then Winston called the mill-hands together.
"My men," said he, "you know we opened the mills in starvation-times.
Every man who could raise fifty dollars was entitled to a half-share of
the capital, and he who could not was to have a little capital made off
of the savings of his labor. Last year you were all pleased and merry
and satisfied, because we made something: this year it has been the
reverse, though I declare to you, I, for one, have worked twice as hard.
Now, we shall never do any thing if we are all going to row different
ways. It must be the long pull, the strong pull, and the pull all
together. You know that if any operative became dissatisfied, and left,
his share was forfeited to the fund for the sick and disabled. Many of
you are dissatisfied; but maybe you won't leave, thinking of last
year's money. Now, I want to say, every such man who would like to
sell his share, may do so. I have had some applications from new men,
that I have been very sorry to refuse. I shall open a book, and any man
who wants to go out may put down his name there, and, just as fast as
the shares are resold, he can go; but he never comes back into Hope
Mills again! Just think it over, and decide in the course of a few
days."
"O Winston!" cried Jack, "I am afraid there will be a stampede!"
"You're nervous and blue, Darcy. Now, you see if this isn't the very
best move. There were two men here the other day from Little Falls. They
had been taking out half their wages in store-pay, and the concern burst
up, owing them the other half. They knew of a dozen men, not beggarly
poor either, who would be glad to come. I'll bet my old hat there don't
six men go out. Come, now!"
"You can't tempt me with your old hat," returned Jack laughingly. "Make
it a treat at Kit Connelly's."
"Agreed. We'll take in the household."
A dozen names were put down on the first day, two on the second, then
there was a lull. Afterward four were erased; and, when it came to the
actual pinch, five men went out, two of them very reluctantly.
"I felt so sorry for Davy," said Jack when they had made the transfers.
"He didn't want to go, and I do not believe he would if it had not been
for his brother-in-law."
"A good lesson for all parties. There will not be any grumbling for some
time to come, I'll warrant. It is rather irregular business; but
sometimes you can't wait for a regular surgeon, or the patient would be
past help."
Events pointed the lesson pretty forcibly. By the middle of October
there was a sudden rush of orders. Prices rallied a little. There were
some tremendous bankruptcies, but it seemed more in speculation than
legitimate industry. The new men brought a fresh infusion of spirit and
energy. One of them, a small, middle-aged man, Gilman by name, who had
once been manager and had a share in a mill that came to grief through a
defaulting cashier who had successfully forged the name of the firm, was
especially enthusiastic about the system. Jack admitted that the
culmination of the discontent was the very best thing that had happened
for the mill.
Davy went almost wild over his mistake, cursed his brother-in-law
roundly, and forbade his wife to visit her brother's household. Nothing
to do, not even three-quarter wages to live upon, with cheap coal and
cheap flour. He even waylaid Darcy, and begged to be taken back without
any share.
"I'm sorry, Davy, but it cannot be done. We resolved, whatever happened,
we would not go back on our word. You had time enough to think it over."
"Just you wait," said Price, when he heard this. "They've three years
more to wade through, and they'll never hold together all that time. It
has a very queer look, too, that, just as soon as they shoved us out,
they began to make money again. Bob Winston's the sort of fellow to look
out for himself, and he had this thing all cut and dried."
"Look here," remarked a listener, "you signed your own selves out.
Nobody made you. I haven't any faith in the scheme, but I like truth for
all that."
The men worked with a will. The monthly club meetings took on a new
interest; and they decided, if the prosperity continued, to open a
co-operative store another year. They were growing more thoughtful and
intelligent, and Gilman's influence upon them was excellent, while his
experiences widened their views. A little fresh blood certainly worked
no harm.
Jack was very cheery again. It seemed to him they had pulled through the
worst. The larger outlook was better: goods were going abroad, and money
or bonds were coming back. Here and there some new enterprise started,
but still there were hundreds of men out of employment. Yerbury showed
various signs of a new thriftiness. The farms about were better managed.
Some idle men had ventured to hire a little ground the past summer, and
raise sufficient to have something over for their trouble. The Webbers
succeeded beautifully. Of course there were slurs about a Dutchman
living on a cabbage a week, but every one knew the Webbers were not that
kind. What Germans were able to do nicely and wisely, Americans might
copy to their profit. When some of the natives were out of work, they
patched up their fences, painted a bit, laid a bad place in the
sidewalk, instead of hanging round a saloon.
As for those who were living through the sad sweet lesson of loving and
losing, time went on with them also. If they could have stayed his hand!
Sylvie recovered from the first shock: she could never suffer quite so
intensely again, for there was one to share her least thought, her most
trivial to her greatest pain. The explanation had come about very
gently, making only a small ripple. Mrs. Lawrence was delighted: she
always had liked Sylvie, and she was certain that Fred was a better
match than Jack Darcy, though she admitted he was remarkable for a
young man with no better opportunities.
Miss Barry was truly satisfied. She would cling to her little dream of
"orders" and "kinds" to the last, but she always did it in an
unobtrusive way. She had felt all her life long, rather all their
lives, that they were made for one another. Less practically clear-eyed
than her young niece,--brought up in the active reasoning and doing of
to-day, rather than the doctrine of passive suffering that had been in
the old creed for women,--she would have assented when Sylvie refused.
To be sure, if Jack Darcy had won her he would have had a delicate and
sincere welcome; but I think her eye would never have lighted with the
true mother-love at his coming, as it did at Fred's. The worth of his
years of refinement and polish came out now. He never seemed at loss or
awkward in the sickroom. If he was reading, he warily noted the first
droop of the eyes; he could tell by the lines in her face when talking
wearied her, or when she preferred being alone. Every thing between them
was harmonious.
She amazed even Dr. Maverick by her improvement, though she held her
life even yet on the same frail tenure. She really hoped to live until
spring, when she should plan for Sylvie's marriage. Fred had made a very
profitable engagement with the widow he had spoken of, and was to
furnish designs for the interior of her house and furniture. There was
to be one purely Grecian room, one on the old Roman model, a sunset room
where every thing was to be in accord, and a "sea" room fit for Naiads
or Undines. Sylvie was intensely interested. This Mrs. Spottiswoode was
young and handsome, the widow of a man nearly three times her age, and
childless.
Fred Lawrence was proud to have something of his very own to offer
Sylvie, and she took it as the highest of all compliments. She did like
the profession, if that it could be called; for it brought them nearer
together, it was something they could both share. She copied designs
and art essays, she drew patterns, she painted now and then, days when
Miss Barry was at her best. She would make of herself something that
should enhance Fred's pride in her,--as if he was not proud enough
already!
The one least contented with all this was Philip Maverick.
"I never was so thunderstruck in all my life! That's just the word to
express it, for it left me dazed as the blackness does after the
lightning. I would have sworn, Jack, that she loved you, and you loved
her. Good heavens! if I had not believed that, if I had not been too
honorable to seek to play a friend a scurvy trick, it would have gone
hard with me if I had not won her for myself."
"Honestly, you would not have succeeded, Maverick. Neither would she
have married me. I think she belonged to Fred from the beginning. He
used to hate girls, judging from his sisters, no doubt, but he always
liked Sylvie. I was afraid of girls,--their sharp eyes and sharper
tongues,--but I liked her too; yet in my own mind he always had the
first claim. And they will be suited in the farthest fibre of each
soul."
"He is not half worthy of her!" growled Maverick.
"Who is?" There was a peculiar tender intonation in the voice. "Sylvie
Barry's womanhood is unique, like some rare gem. She has the sparkle but
not the hardness of a diamond; the warmth and vividness of the ruby, but
not its heats; the serenity of the sapphire, and yet to me that is
always cold. Rather I think she is a changeful opal with all hues and
tints and surprises."
"And yet you have never loved her!" in intense surprise.
"I worship her," said Jack reverentially. "I should as soon think of
wooing an angel."
"And yet this man, who is not as strong, or noble, or high in purpose,
takes her with your consent. You can see her sit down at his feet, wind
her own rich, pure, sustaining life-melody about him, to make his path
