"You're a gentleman!" said Missouri Jack. "You ain't like them fellows
you're with. They're sneaks."
"Really, you compliment me, Mr.--, what may I call your name?"
"Missouri Jack--that's the peg I hang on to."
"My dear Mr. Jack, I am glad to know you. You are really quite an
accession to our settlement."
"Well, if I ain't, my saloon is. How you've managed to live so long
without liquor beats me. Why, it ain't civilized."
"It was pretty dull," admitted Peabody.
"No life, no amusement; for all the world like a parcel of Methodists.
What luck have you met with, stranger?"
"Beastly luck!" answered Peabody. "I tell you, Mr. Jack, California's a
fraud. Many a time I've regretted leaving Boston, where I lived in
style, and moved in the first circles, for such a place as this.
Positively, Mr. Jack, I feel like a tramp, and I'm afraid I look like
one. If my fashionable friends could see me now, they wouldn't know me."
"I ain't got no fashionable friends, and I don't want any," growled
Missouri Jack, spitting on the floor. "What I want is, to meet
gentlemen that ain't afraid to drink like gentlemen. I say, stranger,
you'd better leave them Methodist fellers, and join our gang."
"Thank you, Mr. Jack, you're very kind, and I'll think of it," said
Peabody, diplomatically. Though a little exhilarated, he was not quite
blind to the character of the man with whom he was fraternizing, and had
too much real refinement to enjoy his coarseness.
"Have another drink!"
"Thank you."
Peabody drank again, this time with a friend of Jack's, a man of his own
stripe, who straggled into the saloon.
"Do you play euchre?" asked Jack, producing a dirty pack of cards.
"I know little of it," said Peabody; "but I'll try a game."
"Then you and me and Bill here will have a game."
"All right," said Peabody, glad to while away the time.
"What'll you put up on your game, stranger?" asked Bill.
"You don't mean to play for money, do you?" asked Peabody, a little
startled.
"Sartain I do. What's the good of playin' for nothing?"
So the young Bostonian, out of his modest pile was tempted to stake an
ounce of gold-dust. Though his head was hardly in a condition to follow
the game intelligently, he won, or at least Bill and Jack told him he
had, and for the first time Lawrence felt the rapture of the successful
gambler, as he gathered in his winnings.
"He plays a steep game, Bill," said Jack.
"Tip-top--A No. 1."
"I believe I do play a pretty good game," said the flattered Peabody.
"My friends in Boston used to say so."
"You're hard to beat, and no mistake," said Bill. "Try another game."
"I'm ready, gentlemen," said Peabody, with alacrity.
"It's a great deal easier earning money this way," he reflected,
regarding complacently the two ounces of dust which represented his
winnings, "than washing dirt out of the river." And the poor dupe
congratulated himself that a new way of securing the favors of fortune
had been opened to him.
The reader will easily guess that Lawrence Peabody did not win the next
game, nor will he be surprised to hear that when he left the saloon his
pockets were empty.
"Better luck next time, stranger," said Jack, carelessly. "Take a drink
before you go?"
Peabody accepted the invitation, and soon after staggered into the tent
occupied by Tom and his friend Ferguson.
"What's the matter, Mr. Peabody?" asked Tom. "Are you sick?"
"Yes," answered Peabody, sinking to the floor. "Something's the matter
with my head. I don't feel well."
"Have you been to the saloon, Mr. Peabody?" asked Ferguson.
"Yes," answered the Bostonian.
"And while there you drank some of their vile whiskey, didn't you?"
"I'm a free man, Mr. Ferguson. If I choose to drink, what--what business
is it--yours?"
"None, except as a friend I advise you not to go there again."
Further inquiries elicited the facts about the gambling, and Ferguson
and Tom seriously remonstrated with Peabody, who, however, insisted that
Mr. Jack, as he called him, was a hospitable gentleman.
The dust which Peabody had lost should have been paid to Capt. Fletcher,
as his share of the expenses that same evening. Of course this was now
impossible. Fletcher warned him that any subsequent failure from the
same cause would be followed by an exclusion from his table.
CHAPTER III.
HOW TOM GOT ON.
About this time Tom took account of stock. He had come out to California
with the noble and praiseworthy purpose of earning money to help his
father pay off the mortgage on his little farm. He was the more anxious
to succeed, because two hundred dollars of the amount had been raised to
defray his expenses across the continent. The mortgage, amounting now to
twenty-two hundred dollars, was held by Squire Hudson, a wealthy
resident of the same town, who hoped eventually to find an excuse for
fore-closing the mortgage, and ejecting Mr. Nelson's family. He was
actuated not alone by mercenary motives, but also to gratify an ancient
grudge. In early life Mrs. Nelson, Tom's mother, had rejected the suit
of the wealthy squire, and this insult, as he chose to characterize it,
he had never forgotten or forgiven.
Had Tom been aware of the Squire's feelings, towards his family, he
never would have been willing to have the mortgage increased for his
sake, much as he wished to go to California. But neither Tom nor his
father dreamed of Squire Hudson's secret animosity, and regarded his
willingness to advance the extra two hundred dollars as an evidence of
friendship.
But I have said that Tom took account of stock--in other words,
ascertained how much he was worth. First, then, of the money borrowed
for his trip--the original two hundred dollars--he had twenty-five
dollars left over. Besides this sum, after paying all expenses, he had
accumulated, by hard work and strict economy, fifty dollars' worth of
gold-dust.
"I wish father had this money," said Tom to his tent-mate, Ferguson. "I
am afraid he stands in need of it."
"There may be a way to send it to him, Tom."
"I wish there were."
"There's one of our party going to San Francisco next week. He can buy
a draft there, and send it to your father."
"Who is going?" asked Tom, eagerly.
"John Miles. You can trust him with the money, Tom."
"Of course I can. I'd trust John Miles with any sum."
"Who's that taking liberties with my name?" asked a manly voice, and
John Miles himself stepped into the tent, bending his head as he
entered.
"I hear you are going to San Francisco, John?"
"Yes, I start next week."
"Will you come back again?"
"I intend to. I am going to prospect a little, and buy some things for
myself and Captain Fletcher."
"Will you do me a favor?"
"Of course I will, if it isn't too large a one," answered Miles.
Tom explained what he wished, and John Miles cordially assented.
"You're a good boy, Tom," he said, "to think of your father so soon."
"I feel anxious about him," said Tom. "He raised money to send me out
here, and I don't want him to suffer for it."
"That's the right way to feel, Tom. I wish I had a father and mother to
look out for," said Miles, soberly, "but you're in better luck than I.
Both died when I was a mere lad. How much do you want to send?"
"Seventy-five dollars."
"Have you saved up so much already?" asked Miles, in surprise.
"Part of it I had left over when I got here."
"Will you have any left?"
"No."
"Isn't it well to reserve a little, then?"
"Oh, I shall have some more soon," answered Tom, sanguine, as most boys
are.
"Suppose you are sick?"
"If he is sick he shall suffer for nothing," said the Scotchman. "While
I have money, Tom shall not feel the want of it."
"Thank you, Mr. Ferguson," said Tom, gratefully.
"That old fellow has a heart, after all," thought Miles, who had been
disposed to look upon Ferguson ever since their first acquaintance, as
rather miserly.
The Scotchman was certainly frugal, and counted his pennies carefully,
but he was not mean, and had conceived a strong affection for his young
companion, whom he regarded much as a son or a nephew.
"Suppose you take the money now, John," said Tom.
"Shall I scribble a receipt, Tom? I am afraid my writing materials have
given out."
"I don't want any receipt," said Tom; "I'll trust you without one."
"Nevertheless, lad," said the cautious Scotchman, "it may be well--"
"Yes, Tom, Mr. Ferguson is right. Of course I know that you trust me;
but if anything should happen to me,--any accident, I mean,--the paper
may be useful to you."
"Just as you like, Mr. Miles, but I don't ask it, remember that."
"Yes, I will remember it, and I don't mean to meet with any accident if
I can help it. Mr. Ferguson, can you oblige me with a pipeful of
tobacco? I'll join you in smoking."
Smoking was the Scotchman's solitary extravagance, not a costly one,
however, as he never smoked cigars, but indulged only in a democratic
clay pipe.
John Miles threw himself on the ground between Tom and his Scotch
friend, and watched complacently the wreaths of smoke as they curled
upwards.
"Tom, you ought to smoke," he said. "You don't know how much enjoyment
you lose."
"Don't tempt the lad," said Ferguson. "It's a bad habit."
"You smoke yourself."
"That is true, but it isn't well for a growing boy. It can do him no
good."
"I smoked before I was as old as Tom."
"So did I, but I wish I had not."
"Well, perhaps you're right, but it's a comfort when a man's tired or
out of spirits."
"I am not troubled in that way," said Tom. "I mean with being out of
spirits."
"Youth is a hopeful age," said the Scotchman. "When we are young we are
always hoping for something good to befall us."
"And when one is older, how is it, Mr. Ferguson?"
"We fear ill more than we hope for good," he replied.
"Then I want to remain young as long as I can."
"A good wish, Tom. Some men are always young in spirit; but those that
have seen the evil there is in the world find it harder to be hopeful."
"You speak as if you had had experience of the evil, Mr. Ferguson."
"So I have," answered the Scotchman slowly. Then, after a pause, "I will
tell you about it: it's no secret."
"Not if it is going to pain you."
"Oh, the pain is past. It's only a matter of money, and those wounds
heal."
"Only a matter of money!" said John Miles to himself. "I must have
misjudged Ferguson. I thought money was all in all with him. I did not
think he would speak so lightly of it."
"When I was a young man," Ferguson began, "my father died, leaving me a
thousand pounds, and a small annuity to my mother. With this money I
felt rich, but I knew it would not support me, nor was I minded to be
idle. So I began to look about me, to consider what business I had best
go into, when a young man, about my own age, a clerk in a mercantile
house, came to me and proposed a partnership. He was to put in five
hundred pounds, and contribute his knowledge of business, which was
greater than mine. He was a young man of good parts, and had a brisk,
pleasant way with him, that made him a favorite in business circles. I
thought it was a good chance, and, after taking a little time for
thought, agreed to his proposal. So the firm of McIntire and Ferguson
was formed. We went into business, and for a time all seemed to go
well. As my partner chose to keep the books, I was not so clear as I
wished to be about matters, but we seemed to be prospering. One morning,
however, on coming to business, I found that my partner had disappeared,
after possessing himself of all the money he could collect on the credit
of the firm. Of course we were bankrupts, or rather I was, for he left
me to bear the brunt of failure."
"Have you ever seen him since, Mr. Ferguson?"
"From that day to this--twenty years--I have never set eyes on Sandy
McIntire."
"It was a mean trick to serve you, Ferguson," said Miles.
"Yes," said the Scotchman, soberly. "I minded the loss of money, but the
loss of confidence was a sore thought too, after all the trust I had put
in that man."
Presently Miles rose to go.
"I'll take care of your money, Tom," he said, "and do my best to get it
safely to your father."
"Thank you, John."
As Miles left the tent, he did not observe a crouching figure on the
other side of it. It was the figure of Bill Crane, a crony of Missouri
Jack, in fact, the man who helped him to fleece poor Peabody of his
scanty hoard.
Bill looked after Miles enviously.
"I wonder how much money he's got?" thought Bill. "I'd like some of it,
for I'm bust. I must tell Jack. I don't dare to tackle him alone."
CHAPTER IV.
A FOILED ROBBER.
In the grand rush to the newly discovered gold-fields all classes were
represented. There were men of education, representatives of all the
learned professions, men versed in business, and along with them
adventurers and men of doubtful antecedents, graduates of prisons and
penitentiaries. Bill Crane, introduced in the last chapter, belonged to
the latter undesirable class. He had served a term at Sing-Sing as a
housebreaker, and later another term in a Western penitentiary. He had
come to California with a prejudice against honest labor, and a
determination to make a living by the use of the peculiar talents on
which he had hitherto relied. He had spent a week at River Bend, chiefly
at the saloon of Missouri Jack, whom he found a congenial spirit, and
had picked up a little money from flats like the young Bostonian; but,
on the whole, he had found it an unprofitable field for the exercise of
his special talents.
"I must make a raise somehow," he bethought himself, "and then I'll make
tracks for some other settlement."
Precisely how to raise the fund of which he stood in need was difficult
to decide. Moneyed men were not plenty at River Bend. Captain Fletcher
and his party had been at work but a short time, and were not likely to
have collected much.
As we know, Bill Crane overheard a part of the closing conversation
between Tom and John Miles. From this he learned that Miles, besides his
own money, would be in charge of seventy-five dollars belonging to our
young hero. It was not much, but it was something.
"If the whole doesn't come to over two hundred dollars, I can make it
do," thought Crane. "It will get me out of this beastly hole, and carry
me to San Francisco."
John Miles slept by himself under a small tent at the northern end of
the small encampment. He looked like a man who ate well and slept well,
and this would be favorable to Bill Crane, who proposed to effect the
robbery in the night. He had half a mind to secure the aid of Missouri
Jack, but then Jack would expect to go shares in the "plunder," and
there was likely to be little enough for one. So Bill decided to make
the attempt alone.
In a small camp like that at River Bend, the movements and plans of each
individual were generally known. So it was generally understood that
John Miles intended to start on Thursday for the city.
The previous evening he spent with Tom and Ferguson, with whom he was
more intimate than any others of the party. He would not have been drawn
to the Scotchman, but for his being Tom's room-mate. Through him he came
to appreciate and respect the Scot's sterling virtues, and to overlook
his dry, phlegmatic manner.
"I hope you'll have good luck, Mr. Miles," said Tom.
"Thank you, my boy."
"I would join with my young friend Tom," said Ferguson, "if I were quite
clear in my mind whether good luck is the right term to use."
"Don't you think some men are luckier than others, Mr. Ferguson?" asked
Tom.
"Some men are more successful, doubtless; but what we call good luck,
generally comes from greater industry, good judgment, and, above all,
the prompt use of opportunities."
"There is something in that," said Miles; "but when two men work side by
side with equal industry, and one finds a nugget worth thousands of
dollars, while the other plods along at a few dollars a day, isn't there
some luck there?"
"It may be so," said the Scotchman, cautiously, "but such cases are
exceptional."
"So one boy is born to an inheritance of wealth and another to an
inheritance of hard work. Isn't there any luck there?"
"The luck may be on the side of the poor boy," was the reply. "He is
further removed from temptation."
John Miles laughed.
"Well, at any rate, it seems you believe in luck after all. I am sure
you both wish me to be prosperous, whether you call it luck or by some
other name. Tom, if I meet with any good opening that I think will suit
you, I shall write you. You don't want to stay here, particularly?"
"No; the place is not so pleasant since these new people have come here.
Missouri Jack isn't a neighbor that I like."
"He is exerting a bad influence," said Ferguson. "I am afraid Peabody
visits him too often for his own good."
"He ought to have stayed in Boston," said Miles. "He is not the man for
