come ; the supply of money for the little household 
down at Brierley became like the driblets of a 
stream which has been led off from its proper bed 
by a side channel; only a few trickling drops instead of the full, natural current. Dolly could not 
get from her father the means to pay the wages of 
her remaining servant. This was towards the beginning of summer. 

Dolly pondered now very seriously what she 
should do. The lack of a housemaid she had 
made up quite comfortably with her own two busy 
hands; Mrs. Copley at least had been in particular 
comfort, whenever she did not get a fit of fretting 
on Dolly's account; and Dolly herself had been 
happy, though unquestionably the said hands had 
been very busy. Now what lay before her was an- 
other thing. She could not consult her mother, 
and there was nobody else to consult; she must 
even make up her mind as to the line of duty the 
best way she might; and however the difficulty 
and even the impossibility of doing without anybody stared her in the face, it was constantly met 
by the greater impossibility of taking what she 
could not pay for. Dolly made up her mind on 
the negative view of the case; what she could 
being not clear, only what she could not. She 
would dismiss her remaining servant, and do the 
cooking herself. It would be only for two. And 
perhaps, she thought, this step would go further 
to bring her father to his senses than any other 
step she could take. 

Dolly however went wisely to work. Quite 
alone in the house she and her mother could not 
be. She went to her friend Mrs. Jersey and talked 
the matter over with her; and through her got a 
little girl, a small farmer's daughter, to come and 
do the rough work. She let her mother know as 
little as possible about the matter; she took some 
of her own little stock and paid off the cook, 
representing to her mother no more than that 
she had exchanged the one helpmeet for the 
other. But poor Dolly found presently that she 
did not know how to cook. How should she ? 

" What's become of all our good bread ? " said 
Mrs. Copley, a day or two after the change. 
"And Dolly, I don't know what you call this, 
but if it is meant for hash, it is a mistake." 

Dolly heard in awed silence; and when dinner 
and breakfast had seen repeated animadversions of 
the like kind, she made up her mind again and 
took her measures. She went to her friend Mrs. 
Jersey, and asked her to teach her to make bread. 



 

"To make bread!" the good housekeeper re- 
peated in astonishment. "You, Miss Dolly? Can 
that be necessary ? " 

"Mother cannot eat poor bread," said Dolly simply. "And there is nobody but me to make it. 
I think I can learn, Mrs. Jersey ; cannot I ? " 

The tears stood in the good woman's eyes. 
"But my dear Miss Dolly," she began anxiously, 
" this is a serious matter. You do not look very 
strong. Who does the rest of the cooking? Pardon me for being so bold to ask; but I am concerned about you." 

Therewith Dolly's own eyes became moist; however, it would never do to take that tone; so she 
shook off the feeling, and confessed she was the 
sole cook in her mother's establishment, and that 
for her mother's well-doing it was quite needful 
that what she eat should be good and palatable. 
And Dolly declared she would like to know how 
to do things, and be independent. 

"You've got the realest sort of independence," 
said the housekeeper. " Well, my dear, come, and 
I'll teach you all you want to know." 

There followed now a series of visits to the 
House, in which Mrs. Jersey thoroughly fulfilled 
her promise. In the kind housekeeper's room 
Dolly learned not only to make bread and biscuit 
and everything else that can be concocted of flour ; 
but she was taught how to cook a bit of beefsteak, 
how to broil a chicken, how to make omelettes and 
salads and a number of delicate French dishes; 



 

stews and soups and ragouts and no end of comfortable things. Dolly was in great earnest, therefore lost not a hint and never forgot a direction ; 
she was quick and keen to learn ; and Mrs. Jersey 
soon declared laughingly that she believed she was 
born to be a cook. 

"And it goes great qualities to that, Miss Dolly," 
she said. "You needn't take it as low praise. 
There are people no doubt that are nothing but 
cooks; that's the fault of something else, I always believe. Whoever can be a real cook can 
be something better if he has a chance and a 
will." 

"It seems to me, it is just common sense, Mrs. 
Jersey." 

" I suppose you are not going to tell me that that 
grows on every bush ? Yes, common sense has a 
great deal to do, no doubt; but one must have another sort of sense; one must know when a thing 
is right; and one must be able to tell the moment 
of time when it is right, and then one must be decided and quick to take it then and not let it have 
the other moment which would make it all wrong. 
Now, Miss Dolly, I see you know when to take off 
an omelette and yet you couldn't tell me how you 
know." 

Dolly's learning was indeed by practising with 
her own hands. One day it happened that Lady 
Brierley had come into the housekeeper's room to 
see about some arrangements she was making for 
Mrs. Jersey's comfort. While she was there, Dolly 



 

opened the door from an adjoining light closet, 
with her sleeves rolled up to her elbows and her 
arms dusted with flour. Seeing somebody whom 
she did not know, Dolly retreated, shutting the 
door after her. 

" Whom have you got there, Mrs. Jersey?" said 
the lady, forgetting what she had come about. 
"That girl is too handsome to be among the 
rnaids." 

"She's not among the maids, my lady. She is 
not in the house. She only came to get some instruction from me, which I was very glad to give 
her?" 

" Of course. That is quite in your way. But 
she does not belong in the village, I think ? " 

"No, my lady, nor hereabouts at all, properly. 
She lives in Brierley Cottage; she and her mother; 
I believe the father is there now and by times, but 
they live alone mostly, and he is in London. They 
have been much better off; and last year they went 
travelling all through Europe. I thought I should 
never see them again; but here they are back, and 
have been for a year." 

"I think I have heard of them. Are they 
poor?" 

" I am much afraid so, my lady." 

"Would it do any good, Jersey, if I went 
there ? " 

"It would be a great kindness, my lady. I think 
it might do good." 

The final result of all which was a visit. It was 



 

now full summer; the season had come into its 
full bloom and luxuriance. Roses were opening 
their sweet buds all around Brierley Cottage; the 
honeysuckles made the porch into an arbour; the 
garden was something of a wilderness, but a wilderness of lovely old-fashioned things. One warm 
afternoon, Dolly with a shears in her hand had 
gone out into the garden to cut off the full-blown 
roses which to-morrow would shed their leaves; 
doing a little trimming by the way, both of rose- 
bushes and other things ; the wildering of the garden had been so great. And very busy she was, 
and enjoying it; "cutting in" here, and "cutting 
out" there, flinging the i-efuse shoots and twigs 
carelessly from her into the walk to be gathered 
up afterwards. She was so busy she never heard 
the roll of carriage wheels, never heard them stop, 
nor the gate open; knew nothing, in fact, but the 
work she was busy with, till a slight sound on the 
gravel near by made her look round. Then she 
saw at one glance the lady standing there in laces 
and feathers, the carriage waiting outside the gate, 
and the servants in attendance around it. Dolly 
shook herself free of the roses and stepped forward, 
knowing very well who it must be. A little fresh 
colour had been brought into her cheeks by her exercise and the interest in her work; a little extra 
flush came now, with the surprise of this apparition. She was as lovely as one of her own rose 
branches, and the wind had blown her hair about, 
which was always wayward, we know, giving per 



 

haps to the great lady the impression of equal want 
of training. But she was very lovely, and the visiter could not take her eyes off her. 

" You are Miss Copley ? " she said. " I have 
heard Mrs. Jersey speak of you." 

" Mrs. Jersey is a very kind friend to me," said 
Dolly. " Will Lady Brierley walk in ? " 

Mrs. Jersey is her friend, thought the lady as 
she followed Dolly into the cottage. Probably she 
is just of that level, and my coming is thrown away. 
However she went in. The little cottage sitting 
room was again something of a puzzle to her; it 
was not rich, but neither did it look like anything 
Mrs. Jersey would have contrived for her owu 
accommodation. Flowers filled the chimney and 
stood in vases or baskets ; books lay on one table, 
on the other drawing materials; and simple as 
everything was, there was nevertheless in everything the evidence, negative as well as positive, 
that the tastes at home there were refined and 
delicate and cultivated. It is difficult to tell just 
how the impression comes upon a stranger, but it 
came upon Lady Brierley before she had taken her 
seat. Dolly too, the more she looked at her, puzzled her. She had set down her basket of roses 
and thrown off her garden hat, and now opened 
the blinds which shaded the room too much, and 
took a chair near her visiter. The girl's manner, 
the lady saw, was extremely composed; she did 
not seem at all fluttered at the honour done her, 
and offered her attentions with a manner of simple 



 

courtesy which was graceful enough but perfectly 
cool. So cool, that it rather excited Lady Brier- 
ley's curiosity, who was accustomed to be a person 
of great importance wherever she went. Her eye 
took in swiftly the neatness of the room, its plainness, and yet its expression of life and mental activity; the work and workbasket on the chair, the 
bunch of ferns and amaranthus in one vase, the 
roses in another, the violets on the table, the physiognomy of the books, which were not from the 
next circulating library, the drawing materials; and 
then came back to the figure seated before her, with 
the tossed beautiful hair and the very delicate, spirited face; and it crossed Lady Brierley's mind^ if 
she had a daughter like that ! with the advantages and bringing up she could have given her, 
what would she not have been ! And the next 
thought was, she was glad that her son was in 
Russia. Dolly had opened the window and sat 
quietly down. She knew her mother would not 
wish to be called. Once, months ago, Dolly had a 
little hoped for this visit, and thought it might 
bring her a pleasant friend, or social acquaintance 
at least; now that so long time had passed since 
Lady Brierley's return, with no sign of kindness 
from the great house, she had given up any such 
expectation; and so cared nothing about the visit. 
Dolly's mind was stayed elsewhere; she did not 
need Lady Brierley; and it was in part the beautiful disengaged grace of her manner which drew 
the lady's curiosity. 



 

" I did not know Brierley Cottage was such a 
pretty place," she began. 

" It is quite comfortable," said Dolly. " Now in 
summer, when the flowers are out, I think it is 
very pretty." 

" You are fond of flowers. I found you pruning 
your rose-bushes, were you not ? " 

" Yes," said Dolly. " The old man who used to 
attend to it has left me in the lurch since we went 
away. If I did not trim them, they would go untrimmed. They do go untrimmed, as it is." 

" Is there no skill required ? " 

"O yes," said Dolly, her face wrinkling all up 
with fun ; " but I have enough for that. I have 
learned so much. And pruning is very pretty 
work. This is not just the time for it." 

"How can it be pretty? I do not under- 
stand." 

" No, I suppose not," said Dolly. " But I think 
it is pretty to cut out the dead wood which is unsightly, and cut away the old wood which can be spared, leaving the best shoots for blossoming the 
next year. And then the trimming in of over- 
grown bushes, so as to have neat, compact, graceful shrubs, instead of wild awkward-growing things 
