wanted it;” and Ralph looked as eager and secure as if the earning of
twice that sum was a mere trifle when all the longing of his life was
put into his daily tasks.
“I wish I had it to give you. It must be so splendid to feel that you
can do great things if you only have the chance. And to travel, and see
all the lovely pictures and statues, and people and places in Italy. How
happy you must be!” and Merry’s eyes had the wistful look they always
wore when she dreamed dreams of the world she loved to live in.
“I am--so happy that I’m afraid it never will happen. If I do go, I’ll
write and tell you all about the fine sights, and how I get on. Would
you like me to?” asked Ralph, beginning enthusiastically and ending
rather bashfully, for he admired Merry very much, and was not quite sure
how this proposal would be received.
“Indeed I should! I’d feel so grand to have letters from Paris and
Rome, and you’d have so much to tell it would be almost as good as going
myself,” she said, looking off into the daffodil sky, as they paused
a minute on the hill-top to get breath, for both had walked as fast as
they talked.
“And will you answer the letters?” asked Ralph, watching the innocent
face, which looked unusually kind and beautiful to him in that soft
light.
“Why, yes; I’d love to, only I shall not have anything interesting to
say. What can I write about?” and Merry smiled as she thought how dull
her letters would sound after the exciting details his would doubtless
give.
“Write about yourself, and all the rest of the people I know. Grandma
will be gone, and I shall want to hear how you get on.” Ralph looked
very anxious indeed to hear, and Merry promised she would tell all
about the other people, adding, as she turned from the evening peace and
loveliness to the house, whence came the clatter of milk-pans and the
smell of cooking,--
“I never should have anything very nice to tell about myself, for I
don’t do interesting things as you do, and you wouldn’t care to hear
about school, and sewing, and messing round at home.”
Merry gave a disdainful little sniff at the savory perfume of ham which
saluted them, and paused with her hand on the gate, as if she found it
pleasanter out there than in the house. Ralph seemed to agree with her,
for, leaning on the gate, he lingered to say, with real sympathy in his
tone and something else in his face, “Yes, I should; so you write and
tell me all about it. I didn’t know you had any worries, for you always
seemed like one of the happiest people in the world, with so many to pet
and care for you, and plenty of money, and nothing very hard or hateful
to do. You’d think you were well off if you knew as much about poverty
and work and never getting what you want, as I do.”
“You bear your worries so well that nobody knows you have them. I ought
not to complain, and I won’t, for I do have all I need. I’m so glad you
are going to get what you want at last;” and Merry held out her hand to
say good-night, with so much pleasure in her face that Ralph could not
make up his mind to go just yet.
“I shall have to scratch round in a lively way before I do get it, for
David says a fellow can’t live on less than four or five hundred a year,
even living as poor artists have to, in garrets and on crusts. I don’t
mind as long as Grandma is all right. She is away to-night, or I should
not be here,” he added, as if some excuse was necessary. Merry needed no
hint, for her tender heart was touched by the vision of her friend in
a garret, and she suddenly rejoiced that there was ham and eggs for
supper, so that he might be well fed once, at least, before he went away
to feed on artistic crusts.
“Being here, come in and spend the evening. The boys will like to hear
the news, and so will father. Do, now.”
It was impossible to refuse the invitation he had been longing for, and
in they went to the great delight of Roxy, who instantly retired to the
pantry, smiling significantly, and brought out the most elaborate pie in
honor of the occasion. Merry touched up the table, and put a little vase
of flowers in the middle to redeem the vulgarity of doughnuts. Of course
the boys upset it, but as there was company nothing was said, and Ralph
devoured his supper with the appetite of a hungry boy, while watching
Merry eat bread and cream out of an old-fashioned silver porringer, and
thinking it the sweetest sight he ever beheld.
Then the young people gathered about the table, full of the new plans,
and the elders listened as they rested after the week’s work. A pleasant
evening, for they all liked Ralph, but as the parents watched Merry
sitting among the great lads like a little queen among her subjects,
half unconscious as yet of the power in her hands, they nodded to one
another, and then shook their heads as if they said,--
“I’m afraid the time is coming, mother.”
“No danger as long as she don’t know it, father.”
At nine the boys went off to the barn, the farmer to wind up the
eight-day clock, and the housewife to see how the baked beans and Indian
pudding for to-morrow were getting on in the oven. Ralph took up his hat
to go, saying as he looked at the shade on the tall student lamp,--
“What a good light that gives! I can see it as I go home every night,
and it burns up here like a beacon. I always look for it, and it hardly
ever fails to be burning. Sort of cheers up the way, you know, when I’m
tired or low in my mind.”
“Then I’m very glad I got it. I liked the shape, but the boys laughed
at it as they did at my bulrushes in a ginger-jar over there. I’d been
reading about ‘household art,’ and I thought I’d try a little,” answered
Merry, laughing at her own whims.
“You’ve got a better sort of household art, I think, for you make people
happy and places pretty, without fussing over it. This room is ever so
much improved every time I come, though I hardly see what it is except
the flowers,” said Ralph, looking from the girl to the tall calla that
bent its white cup above her as if to pour its dew upon her head.
“Isn’t that lovely? I tried to draw it--the shape was so graceful I
wanted to keep it. But I couldn’t. Isn’t it a pity such beautiful things
won’t last forever?” and Merry looked regretfully at the half-faded one
that grew beside the fresh blossom.
“I can keep it for you. It would look well in plaster. May I?” asked
Ralph.
“Thank you, I should like that very much. Take the real one as a
model--please do; there are more coming, and this will brighten up your
room for a day or two.”
As she spoke, Merry cut the stem, and, adding two or three of the great
green leaves, put the handsome flower in his hand with so much good-will
that he felt as if he had received a very precious gift. Then he said
good-night so gratefully that Merry’s hand quite tingled with the grasp
of his, and went away, often looking backward through the darkness to
where the light burned brightly on the hill-top--the beacon kindled by
an unconscious Hero for a young Leander swimming gallantly against wind
and tide toward the goal of his ambition.
Chapter XVII. Down at Molly’s
“Now, my dears, I’ve something very curious to tell you, so listen
quietly and then I’ll give you your dinners,” said Molly, addressing the
nine cats who came trooping after her as she went into the shed-chamber
with a bowl of milk and a plate of scraps in her hands. She had taught
them to behave well at meals, so, though their eyes glared and their
tails quivered with impatience, they obeyed; and when she put the food
on a high shelf and retired to the big basket, the four old cats sat
demurely down before her, while the five kits scrambled after her and
tumbled into her lap, as if hoping to hasten the desired feast by their
innocent gambols.
Granny, Tobias, Mortification, and Molasses were the elders. Granny, a
gray old puss, was the mother and grandmother of all the rest. Tobias
was her eldest son, and Mortification his brother, so named because he
had lost his tail, which affliction depressed his spirits and cast a
blight over his young life. Molasses was a yellow cat, the mamma of four
of the kits, the fifth being Granny’s latest darling. Toddlekins, the
little aunt, was the image of her mother, and very sedate even at that
early age; Miss Muffet, so called from her dread of spiders, was a timid
black and white kit; Beauty, a pretty Maltese, with a serene little face
and pink nose; Ragbag, a funny thing, every color that a cat could be;
and Scamp, who well deserved his name, for he was the plague of Miss
Bat’s life, and Molly’s especial pet.
He was now perched on her shoulder, and, as she talked, kept peeping
into her face or biting her ear in the most impertinent way, while the
others sprawled in her lap or promenaded round the basket rim.
“My friends, something very remarkable has happened: Miss Bat is
cleaning house!” and, having made this announcement, Molly leaned back
to see how the cats received it, for she insisted that they understood
all she said to them.
Tobias stared, Mortification lay down as if it was too much for him,
Molasses beat her tail on the floor as if whipping a dusty carpet, and
Granny began to purr approvingly. The giddy kits paid no attention, as
they did not know what house-cleaning meant, happy little dears!
“I thought you’d like it, Granny, for you are a decent cat, and know
what is proper,” continued Molly, leaning down to stroke the old puss,
who blinked affectionately at her. “I can’t imagine what put it into
Miss Bat’s head. I never said a word, and gave up groaning over the
clutter, as I couldn’t mend it. I just took care of Boo and myself, and
left her to be as untidy as she pleased, and she is a regular old----”
Here Scamp put his paw on her lips because he saw them moving, but it
seemed as if it was to check the disrespectful word just coming out.
“Well, I won’t call names; but what shall I do when I see everything in
confusion, and she won’t let me clear up?” asked Molly, looking round at
Scamp, who promptly put the little paw on her eyelid, as if the roll of
the blue ball underneath amused him.
“Shut my eyes to it, you mean? I do all I can, but it is hard, when I
wish to be nice, and do try; don’t I?” asked Molly. But Scamp was ready
for her, and began to comb her hair with both paws as he stood on his
hind legs to work so busily that Molly laughed and pulled him down,
saying, as she cuddled the sly kit.
“You sharp little thing! I know my hair is not neat now, for I’ve been
chasing Boo round the garden to wash him for school. Then Miss Bat threw
the parlor carpet out of the window, and I was so surprised I had to run
and tell you. Now, what had we better do about it?”
The cats all winked at her, but no one had any advice to offer, except
Tobias, who walked to the shelf, and, looking up, uttered a deep,
suggestive yowl, which said as plainly as words, “Dinner first and
discussion afterward.”
“Very well, don’t scramble,” said Molly, getting up to feed her pets.
First the kits, who rushed at the bowl and thrust their heads in,
lapping as if for a wager; then the cats, who each went to one of the
four piles of scraps laid round at intervals and placidly ate their
meat; while Molly retired to the basket, to ponder over the phenomena
taking place in the house.
She could not imagine what had started the old lady. It was not the
example of her neighbors, who had beaten carpets and scrubbed paint
every spring for years without exciting her to any greater exertion
than cleaning a few windows and having a man to clear away the rubbish
displayed when the snow melted. Molly never guessed that her own efforts
were at the bottom of the change, or knew that a few words not meant for
her ear had shamed Miss Bat into action. Coming home from prayer-meeting
one dark night, she trotted along behind two old ladies who were
gossiping in loud voices, as one was rather deaf, and Miss Bat was both
pleased and troubled to hear herself unduly praised.
“I always said Sister Dawes meant well; but she’s getting into years,
and the care of two children is a good deal for her, with her cooking
and her rheumatiz. I don’t deny she did neglect ‘em for a spell, but
she does well by ‘em now, and I wouldn’t wish to see better-appearing
children.”
“You’ve no idee how improved Molly is. She came in to see my girls, and
brought her sewing-work, shirts for the boy, and done it as neat and
capable as you’d wish to see. She always was a smart child, but dreadful
careless,” said the other old lady, evidently much impressed by the
change in harum-scarum Molly Loo.
“Being over to Mis Minot’s so much has been good for her, and up to Mis
Grant’s. Girls catch neat ways as quick as they do untidy ones, and them
wild little tykes often turn out smart women.”
“Sister Dawes has done well by them children, and I hope Mr. Bemis
sees it. He ought to give her something comfortable to live on when she
can’t do for him any longer. He can well afford it.”
“I haven’t a doubt he will. He’s a lavish man when he starts to do a
thing, but dreadful unobserving, else he’d have seen to matters long
ago. Them children was town-talk last fall, and I used to feel as if it
was my bounden duty to speak to Miss Dawes. But I never did, fearing I
might speak too plain, and hurt her feelings.”
“You’ve spoken plain enough now, and I’m beholden to you, though you’ll
never know it,” said Miss Bat to herself, as she slipped into her own
gate, while the gossips trudged on quite unconscious of the listener
behind them.
Miss Bat was a worthy old soul in the main, only, like so many of us,
she needed rousing up to her duty. She had got the rousing now, and
it did her good, for she could not bear to be praised when she had not
deserved it. She had watched Molly’s efforts with lazy interest, and
when the girl gave up meddling with her affairs, as she called the
housekeeping, Miss Bat ceased to oppose her, and let her scrub Boo, mend
clothes, and brush her hair as much as she liked. So Molly had worked
along without any help from her, running in to Mrs. Pecq for advice, to
Merry for comfort, or Mrs. Minot for the higher kind of help one often
needs so much. Now Miss Bat found that she was getting the credit and
the praise belonging to other people, and it stirred her up to try and
deserve a part at least.
“Molly don’t want any help about her work or the boy: it’s too late for
that; but if this house don’t get a spring cleaning that will make it
shine, my name ain’t Bathsheba Dawes,” said the old lady, as she
put away her bonnet that night, and laid energetic plans for a grand
revolution, inspired thereto not only by shame, but by the hint that
“Mr. Bemis was a lavish man,” as no one knew better than she.
Molly’s amazement next day at seeing carpets fly out of window, ancient
cobwebs come down, and long-undisturbed closets routed out to the great
dismay of moths and mice, has been already confided to the cats, and as
she sat there watching them lap and gnaw, she said to herself,--
“I don’t understand it, but as she never says much to me about my
affairs, I won’t take any notice till she gets through, then I’ll admire
everything all I can. It is so pleasant to be praised after you’ve been
trying hard.”
She might well say that, for she got very little herself, and her trials
had been many, her efforts not always successful, and her reward seemed
a long way off. Poor Boo could have sympathized with her, for he had
suffered much persecution from his small schoolmates when he appeared
with large gray patches on the little brown trousers, where he had worn
them out coasting down those too fascinating steps. As he could not
see the patches himself, he fancied them invisible, and came home much
afflicted by the jeers of his friends. Then Molly tried to make him a
new pair out of a sack of her own; but she cut both sides for the same
leg, so one was wrong side out. Fondly hoping no one would observe it,
she sewed bright buttons wherever they could be put, and sent confiding
Boo away in a pair of blue trousers, which were absurdly hunchy behind
and buttony before. He came home heart-broken and muddy, having been
accidentally tipped into a mud-puddle by two bad boys who felt that such
tailoring was an insult to mankind. That roused Molly’s spirit, and she
begged her father to take the boy and have him properly fitted out,
as he was old enough now to be well-dressed, and she wouldn’t have him
tormented. His attention being called to the trousers, Mr. Bemis had a
good laugh over them, and then got Boo a suit which caused him to be the
admired of all observers, and to feel as proud as a little peacock.
Cheered by this success, Molly undertook a set of small shirts, and
stitched away bravely, though her own summer clothes were in a sad
state, and for the first time in her life she cared about what she
should wear.
“I must ask Merry, and may be father will let me go with her and her
mother when they do their shopping, instead of leaving it to Miss
Bat, who dresses me like an old woman. Merry knows what is pretty and
becoming: I don’t,” thought Molly, meditating in the bushel basket, with
her eyes on her snuff-colored gown and the dark purple bow at the end of
the long braid Muffet had been playing with.
Molly was beginning to see that even so small a matter as the choice of
colors made a difference in one’s appearance, and to wonder why Merry
always took such pains to have a blue tie for the gray dress, a rosy one
for the brown, and gloves that matched her bonnet ribbons. Merry never
wore a locket outside her sack, a gay bow in her hair and soiled cuffs,
a smart hat and the braid worn off her skirts. She was exquisitely neat
and simple, yet always looked well-dressed and pretty; for her love of
beauty taught her what all girls should learn as soon as they begin
to care for appearances--that neatness and simplicity are their best
ornaments, that good habits are better than fine clothes, and the most
elegant manners are the kindest.
All these thoughts were dancing through Molly’s head, and when she left
her cats, after a general romp in which even decorous Granny allowed her
family to play leap-frog over her respectable back, she had made up
her mind not to have yellow ribbons on her summer hat if she got a pink
muslin as she had planned, but to finish off Boo’s last shirt before she
went shopping with Merry.
It rained that evening, and Mr. Bemis had a headache, so he threw
himself down upon the lounge after tea for a nap, with his silk
handkerchief spread over his face. He did get a nap, and when he waked
he lay for a time drowsily listening to the patter of the rain, and
another sound which was even more soothing. Putting back a corner of the
handkerchief to learn what it was, he saw Molly sitting by the fire with
Boo in her lap, rocking and humming as she warmed his little bare feet,
having learned to guard against croup by attending to the damp shoes
and socks before going to bed. Boo lay with his round face turned up to
hers, stroking her cheek while the sleepy blue eyes blinked lovingly at
her as she sang her lullaby with a motherly patience sweet to see. They
made a pretty little picture, and Mr. Bemis looked at it with pleasure,
having a leisure moment in which to discover, as all parents do sooner
or later, that his children were growing up.
“Molly is getting to be quite a woman, and very like her mother,”
 thought papa, wiping the eye that peeped, for he had been fond of the
