me." 
"To betray you?" 
" Not to tell your father. He used to sit in your 
father's study," said Mrs. Penniman, with a little 
laugh. 
Catherine was silent a moment. This idea was 
disagreeable to her, and she was reminded again, 
with pain, of her aunt's secretive habits. Morris, 
the reader may be informed, had had the tact not to 
tell her that he sat in her father's study. He had 
known her but for a few months, and her aunt had 
known her for fifteen years; and yet he would not 
have made the mistake of thinking that Catherine 
would see the joke of the thing. " I am sorry you 
made him go into father's room," she said, after 
awhile. 
" I didn't send him ; he went himself. He liked 
to look at the books, and at all those things in the 
glass cases. He knows all about them ; he knows 
all about everything." 
Catherine was silent again ; then, " I wish he had 
found some employment," she said. 
"He has found some employment. It's beauti- 
ful news, and he told me to tell you as soon as you 
arrived. He has gone into partnership with a com- 
mission merchant. It was all settled, quite sudden- 
ly, a week ago." 
This seemed to Catherine indeed beautiful news ; 
it had a fine prosperous air. " Oh, I'm so glad !" 
she said ; and now, for a moment, she was disposed 
to throw herself on Aunt Lavinia's neck. 
"It's much better than being under some one; 
and he has never been used to that," Mrs. Penniman 
went on. " He is just as good as his partner they 
are perfectly equal. You see how right he was to 
wait. I should like to know what your father can 
say now ! They have got an office in Duane Street, 
and little printed cards ; he brought me one to show 
me. I have got it in my room, and you shall see it 
to-morrow. That's what he said to me the last time 
he was here * You see how right I was to wait.' 
He has got other people under him instead of being 
a subordinate. He could never be a subordinate ; 
I have often told him I could never think of him in 
that way." 
"I SHALL REGARD IT ONLY AS A LOAN," SHE SAID. 
Catherine assented to this proposition, and was 
very happy to know that Morris was his own mas- 
ter; but she was deprived of the satisfaction of 
thinking that she might communicate this news in 
triumph to her father. Her father would care 
equally little whether Morris were established in 
business or transported for life. Her trunks had 
been brought into her room, and further reference 
to her lover was for a short time suspended, while 
she opened them and displayed to her aunt some of 
the spoils of foreign travel. These were rich and 
abundant ; and Catherine had brought home a pres- 
ent to every one to every one save Morris, to whom 
she had brought simply her undiverted heart. To 
Mrs. Penniman she had been lavishly generous, and 
Aunt Lavinia spent half an hour in unfolding and 
folding again, with little ejaculations of gratitude 
and taste. She marched about for some time in a 
splendid cashmere shawl, which Catherine had beg- 
ged her to accept, settling it on her shoulders, and 
twisting down her head to see how low the point 
descended behind. 
" I shall regard it only as a loan," she said. " I 
will leave it to you again when I die ; or, rather," 
she added, kissing her niece again, " I will leave it 
to your first-born little girl." And draped in her 
shawl, she stood there smiling. 
" You had better wait till she comes," said Cath- 
erine. 
" I don't like the way you say that," Mrs. Penni- 
man rejoined, in a moment. " Catherine, are you 
changed ?" 
" No ; I am the same." 
" You have not swerved a line ?" 
"I am exactly the same," Catherine repeated, 
wishing her aunt were a little less sympathetic. 
" Well, I am glad ;" and Mrs. Penniman surveyed 
her cashmere in the glass. Then, " How is your fa- 
ther ?" she asked, in a moment, with her eyes on 
her niece. " Your letters were so meagre I could 
never tell." 
" Father is very well." 
" Ah, you know what I mean," said Mrs. Penni- 
man, with a dignity to which the cashmere gave a 
richer effect. " Is he still implacable ?" 
" Oh yes !" 
" Quite unchanged 3" 
" He is, if possible, more firm." 
Mrs. Penniman took off her great shawl, and slow- 
ly folded it up. " That is very bad. You had no 
success with your little project." 
"What little project?" 
" Morris told me all about it. The idea of turn- 
ing the tables on him, in Europe ; of watching him, 
when he was agreeably impressed by some cele- 
brated sight he pretends to be so artistic, you 
know and then just pleading with him and bring- 
ing him round." 
" I never tried it. It was Morris's idea ; but if 
he had been with us in Europe, he would have seen 
that father was never impressed in that way. He 
is artistic tremendously artistic ; but the more cel- 
ebrated places we visited, and the more he admired 
them, the less use it would have been to plead with 
him. They seemed only to make him more deter- 
mined more terrible," said poor Catherine. "I 
shall never bring him round, and I expect nothing 
now." 
" Well, I must say," Mrs. Penniman answered, 
" I never supposed you were going to give it up." 
" I have given it up. I don't care now." 
" You have grown very brave," said Mrs. Penni- 
man, with a short laugh. " I didn't advise you to 
sacrifice your property." 
" Yes, I am braver than I was. You asked me if 
I had changed ; I have changed in that way. Oh," 
the girl went on, " I have changed very much. And 
it isn't my property. If lie doesn't care for it, why 
should I?" 
Mrs. Penniman hesitated. " Perhaps he does care 
for it." 
" He cares for it for my sake, because he doesn't 
want to injure me. But he will know he knows 
already how little he need be afraid about that. 
Besides," said Catherine, " I have got plenty of mon- 
ey of my own. We shall be very well off ; and now 
hasn't he got his business? I am delighted about 
that business." She went on talking, showing a 
good deal of excitement as she proceeded. Her 
aunt had never seen her with just this manner, and 
Mrs. Penniman, observing her, set it down to for- 
eign travel, which had made her more positive, more 
mature. She thought also that Catherine had im- 
proved in appearance ; she looked rather handsome. 
Mrs. Penniman wondered whether Morris Townsend 
would be struck with that. While she was engaged 
in this speculation, Catherine broke out, with a cer- 
tain sharpness, " Why are you so contradictory, Aunt 
Penniman? You seem to think one thing at one 
time, and another at another. A year ago, before 
yon went away, you wished me not to mind about 
displeasing father, and now you seem to recommend 
me to take another line. You change about so." 
This attack was unexpected, for Mrs. Penniman 
was not used, in any discussion, to seeing the war 
carried into her own country possibly because the 
enemy generally had doubts of finding subsistence 
there. To her own consciousness, the flowery fields 
of her reason had rarely been ravaged by a hostile 
force. It was perhaps on this account that in de- 
fending them she was majestic rather than agile. 
" I don't know what you accuse me of, save of 
being too deeply interested in your happiness. It 
is the first time I have been told I am capricious. 
That fault is not what I am usually reproached 
with." 
" You were angry last year that I wouldn't marry 
immediately, and now you talk about my winning 
my father over. You told me it would serve him 
right if he should take me to Europe for nothing. 
Well, he has taken me for nothing, and you ought 
to be satisfied. Nothing is changed nothing but 
my feeling about father. I don't mind nearly so 
much now. I have been as good as I could, but 
he doesn't care. Now I don't care either. I don't 
know whether I have grown bad ; perhaps I have. 
But I don't care for that. I have come home to be 
married that's all I know. That ought to please 
you, unless you have taken up some new idea ; you 
are so strange. You may do as you please, but you 
must never speak to me again about pleading with 
father. I shall never plead with him for anything ; 
that is all over. He has put me off. I am come 
home to be married." 
This was a more authoritative speech than she had 
ever heard on her niece's lips, and Mrs. Penniman 
was proportionately startled. She was, indeed, a lit- 
tle awe -struck, and the force of the girl's emotion 
and resolution left her nothing to reply. She was 
easily frightened, and she always carried off her dis- 
comfiture by a concession a concession which was 
often accompanied, as in the present case, by a little 
nervous laugh. 
XXVI. 
IF she had disturbed her niece's temper she be- 
gan from this moment forward to talk a good deal 
about Catherine's temper, an article which up to 
that time had never been mentioned in connection 
with our heroine Catherine had opportunity on 
the morrow to recover her serenity. Mrs. Penni- 
man had given her a message from Morris Townsend 
to the effect that he would come and welcome her 
home on the day after her arrival. He came in the 
afternoon ; but, as may be imagined, he was not on 
this occasion made free of Doctor Sloper's study. 
He had been coming and going, for the past year, 
so comfortably and irresponsibly, that he had a cer- 
tain sense of being wronged by finding himself re- 
minded that he must now limit his horizon to the 
front parlor, which was Catherine's particular prov- 
ince. 
" I am very glad you have come back," he said ; 
" it makes me very happy to see you again." And 
he looked at her, smiling, from head to foot, though 
it did not appear afterward that he agreed with Mrs. 
Penniman (who, woman-like, went more into details) 
in thinking her embellished. 
To Catherine he appeared resplendent; it was 
some time before she could believe again that this 
beautiful young man was her own exclusive property. 
They had a great deal of characteristic lovers' talk 
a soft exchange of inquiries and assurances. In 
these matters Morris had an excellent grace, which 
flung a picturesque interest even over the account 
of his debut in the commission business a subject 
as to which his companion earnestly questioned him. 
From time to time he got up from the sofa where 
they sat together, and walked about the room ; after 
which he came back, smiling and passing his hand 
through his hair. He was unquiet, as was natural 
in a young man who has just been reunited to a long- 
absent mistress, and Catherine made the reflection 
that she had never seen him so excited. It gave her 
pleasure, somehow, to note this fact. He asked her 
questions about her travels, to some of which she 
was unable to reply, for she had forgotten the names 
of places and the order of her father's journey. But 
for the moment she was so happy, so lifted up by 
the belief that her troubles at last were over, that 
she forgot to be ashamed of her meagre answers. 
It seemed to her now that she could marry him 
without the remnant of a scruple, or a single tremor 
save those that belonged to joy. Without waiting 
for him to ask, she told him that her father had 
come back in exactly the same state of mind that 
he had not yielded an inch. 
" We must not expect it now," she said, " and we 
must do without it." 
Morris sat looking and smiling. " My poor, dear 
girl !" he exclaimed. 
" You mustn't pity me," said Catherine. " I don't 
mind it now; I am used to it." 
Morris continued to smile, and then he got up 
and walked about again. " You had better let me 
try him." 
" Try to bring him over ? You would only make 
him worse," Catherine answered, resolutely. 
" You say that because I managed it so badly be- 
fore. But I should manage it differently now. I 
am much wiser ; I have had a year to think of it. 
I have more tact." 
"Is that what you have been thinking of for a 
year?" 
" Much of the time. You see, the idea sticks in 
my crop. I don't like to be beaten." 
" How are you beaten if we marry ?" 
" Of course I am not beaten on the main issue ; 
but I am, don't you see ? on all the rest of it on 
the question of my reputation, of my relations with 
your father, of my relations with my own children, 
if we should have any." 
" We shall have enough for our children ; we 
shall have enough for everything. Don't you ex- 
pect to succeed in business ?" 
" Brilliantly, and we shall certainly be very com- 
fortable. But it isn't of the mere material comfort 
I speak ; it is of the moral comfort," said Morris 
" of the intellectual satisfaction." 
"I have great moral comfort now," Catherine 
declared, very simply. 
"Of course you have. Bat with me it is differ- 
ent. I have staked my pride on proving to your 
father that he is wrong, and now that I am at the 
head of a flourishing business, I can deal with him 
as an equal. I have a capital plan do let me go at 
him !" 
He stood before her with his bright face, his 
jaunty air, his hands in his pockets ; and she got up, 
with her eyes resting on his own. " Please don't, 
Morris ; please don't," she said ; and there was a 
certain mild, sad firmness in her tone which he 
heard for the first time. " We must ask no favors 
of him we must ask nothing more. He won't re- 
lent, and nothing good will come of it. I know it 
now I have a very good reason." 
" And pray what is your reason ?" 
She hesitated to bring it out, but at last it came. 
" He is not very fond of me." 
" Oh, bother !" cried Morris, angrily. 
" I wouldn't say such a thing without being sure. 
I saw it, I felt it, in England, just before he came 
away. He talked to me one night the last night 
and then it came over me. You can tell when 
a person feels that way. I wouldn't accuse him if 
