could only look and breathe. 
" Follow me," said her mistress, sternly. tt Ah, Mary, 
how do you do ? Where are the family ? " 
" A thousand welcomes home ! " and Mary courtesied. 
" The young people have gone to a croquet party, ma'am, 
and the master " 
At that instant Mr. Winstead made his appearance. A 
tall, rather spare man, with an indolent look, and bearing 
in his face traces of his recent nap. He received his wife 
with a graciously cordial air, and made polite inquiries con- 
cerning her journey, her friends, commented on the warmth 
of the weather, and looked askance at the child, until cu- 
riosity could no longer be repressed. 
" Why, what have you brought home ? " he asked. 
" I told you if I saw a child to my fancy I should take 
one," replied Mrs. Winstead; rather sharply. " Helena 
needs some one to wait upon her, and so, for that matter, 
do I." 
" But she seems so small, so w 
"There is room enough for her to grow, I suppose. 
She is somewhere about twelve." 
" I was eleven in May," said Titania, quietly. 
"Speak when you are spoken to," was the brief com- 
mand. " That is certainly old enough for a child that you 
desire to train." 
" But you had so much trouble with that Martha, and 
she proved so ungrateful." 
" Yes, I must say it was horrible ingratitude, when I had 
kept her through the most trying years, and given her such 
good training, to go just when she was beginning to be use- 
ful. Very few women would have the courage to try again. 
But this poor thing seemed so in want of home and friends 
that it was really a charity." 
" Yet she has a curious look of " 
" Don't begin by commenting on the child's appearance, 
Mr. Winstead. You do not expect style and cultivation 
in a street foundling." 
"But she has just that, I was going to say" 
"And I beg you will not be so foolish," in a tone of a& 
perity ; "I am completely tired out. Here, child, lay my 
bonnet on the bed yonder, and my shawl. Don't string it 
up in that careless fashion ; fold it. Lay off your own hat, 
and then unbutton my boots. The sooner you learn your 
new duties the better. You may be dismissed," with a 
careless nod to her husband. 
They had come up-stairs to Mrs. Win stead's sleeping- 
room, a spacious apartment, handsomely furnished in a 
somewhat old-fashioned, massive style. The lighter ap- 
pointments were more modern, and gave it an air of grace. 
Titania stood quite bewildered by the strangeness, and 
terrified somewhat by the voice of her new mistress. 
" Do you hear me ? Or, first, go to that closet yonder, 
and in the box you will find a pair of slippers, those with 
steel buckles, bring them with you." 
Titania found the slippers. The lady stretched her 
tired feet on the hassock, and the little maid commenced 
operations. She had learned to be both quick and deft. 
" Now take these in the room there," nodding toward a 
door, " and in the bottom of the dressing-table you will find 
a cloth. Dust them off nicely, especially about the buttons. 
I am very particular." 
This was done with no blundering, and they were restored 
to the box. Then the shawl was laid in a drawer, the 
gloves and bonnet in their respective places. All with a 
quiet movement, and touches of dexterous grace. 
"I was not wrong," thought Mrs. Winstead. "My in- 
tuitions seldom deceive me, and my penetration is rarely 
at fault. Laura looked stronger, but she would have been 
loud and aggressive, and this one can be kept in order with 
less trouble. I think she will answer ; but I can take the 
month to make up my mind." 
"What is your other name beside Annie?" the lady 
asked aloud. 
" My name is not Annie at all," was the dignified answer, 
' it is Titania Barretti." 
She made a just perceptible pause before she uttered it, 
and then flushed a little as she remembered that it was not 
her true name. Mrs. Post had charged her to make no 
explanations, as the worthy woman felt confident the story 
of her stage-life would be something of a stigma. The 
Odeon, with its performers and patrons, was not in very 
good repute at L - . That her position had once been 
much higher never occurred to Mrs. Post. 
"What an outlandish name!" exclaimed Mrs. Winstead, 
sneeringly. "But people of your class generally do indulge 
in extravagant patronymics. I can have no such foolishly 
romantic names in my house, and for a servant a good plain 
name is much the best." 
" A servant ! " And all Titania's spirit flashed up in her 
face. 
" Do you suppose I brought you here to be a lady ? If 
so, you had better march back to your charitable institution. 
I am amazed at you ! " 
And now poor, trembling, flushing Titania was ashamed 
of herself, and sorely bewildered. What right had anybody 
to send her here ? And yet who was there to care for her. 
Mr. Roberts had said, "Really I have no instructions to 
do anything for the child, and if she should never be strong 
enough to perform again," and the doctor had answered, 
"You may set your mind at rest on that point, she never 
Until she heard from Kate, that was all her hope. 
And though the surprised and indignant blood mounted 
her cheek, she felt so powerless that her little hands 
dropped by her side, and her soft eyes were downcast. 
" Yes, a servant," continued Mrs. Winstead, transfixing 
the shild with her haughty mien ; " you may as well under- 
Ptand your place at once. I have brought you here for a 
waiting-maid for my daughter and myself; at least I shall 
see if you have any aptitude for that position. You will 
give yourself no airs, and indulge in no impertinence. It 
is a thing I never take from an inferior. If you prove in- 
tractable, and unworthy of my benevolent intentions, I 
shall send you back to that home of charity from whence 
I took you, disgraced, yes, absolutely disgraced. If you 
suit me you may have a home for years. But I will have 
no foolishness." 
Titania was silent. The whole world seemed to revolve 
about her, and the events of her life were mingled in such 
grotesque succession that she felt herself helpless to evolve 
but one idea, in August Kate would send for her. She 
would live until then, get over the weary days and nights 
in any fashion, what did it matter. This would be better 
than her life with that horrible drunken Thomas. 
" And now you must have a decent, appropriate name. 
That fantastical thing shall never be uttered in my pres- 
ence. Let me see Jane will do, I think. Jane is a good, 
strong name, and short, and just the thing for a person in 
your station. Jane Barrett, that will do very well. Now, 
Jane, follow me to the kitchen, and I will endeavor to 
explain your new life to you. I am very particular and 
systematic, and there is nothing like making a good be- 
ginning." 
While Mrs. Winstead was talking she had divested her- 
self of her travelling attire, and donned an elegant white 
wrapper, that was a mass of puffs and frills, and whose 
snowy train floated around her. Motioning to Titania 
she led the way through the spacious hall, down the wide 
stairway, and opening a door at the back of the lower 
hall they descended another stairway. The house stood 
on a slight eminence, and the kitchen was at the back, 
quite out of sight, a sort of basement. It was here that 
Mary reigned, with her factotum Hannah. 
It was large, clean, and convenient, and the floor had 
a refreshing, newly-scrubbed appearance. Mrs. Winstead 
gave a sharp glance around, opened a closet door, and 
peered in, examined the sink, and then turned to Mary. 
"Really, you have the place in quite decent order," she 
said, though it seemed unwilling praise. " I hope you 
have kept everything else right, and did you pay attention 
to the accounts, as I requested ? Has Hannah made her- 
self useful ? Nothing is so discouraging as for the mis- 
tress of a house to come home and find such painful evi- 
dences of heedlessness and incompetency, as is too often 
the case." 
"Indeed, I've tried my very best, ma'am, and I think 
you'll find nothing wrong. Here's the 'counts, ma'am," 
and Mary brought out her big kitchen-book. 
" Accounts, Mary. How often have I told you that such 
things betray a gross ignorance. If, for a moment, you ob- 
serve the habits of cultivated people, and certainly every 
servant who has the privilege of living with a refined 
family should, you will see they never indulge in such 
elisions." 
"Excuse me, ma'am," said Mary, making a profound 
courtesy. 
The lady examined the book, found fault with a few 
items, it was an article of Mrs. Winstead's creed that 
unqualified praise demoralized servants, and destroyed au- 
thority. 
" And you had a pleasant time, ma'am," Mary ventured, 
when she found that her mistress was in quite a placable 
mood. 
"Very fair, considering the warm weather, and every- 
thing. Of course I should not have gone to the city in 
the heat of midsummer if Mrs. Gaylord had not so insisted 
upon it, and made arrangements to leave for Europe so 
soon. And she over-persuaded me into a rather foolish 
step, I am afraid, although I have not taken it irrevocably. 
I did mean some time to look for a little girl who could be 
brought up as Miss Helena's maid, but Mrs. Gaylord was 
deeply interested in a charitable institution, and induced 
me to visit the place, and once there the sight appealed so 
to my finer feeling. There were waifs and strays with no 
homes and no friends, the class, which, if neglected, forms 
so large a part of our dangerous population, and fills our 
prisons. And so I took this little thing out of pure char- 
ity. She had been ill in a hospital before she was sent 
there." 
" And she's but a slender slip now," added Mary, eying 
the child rather distrustfully. 
" Yes. I shall keep her a month, and see how I like her. 
It depends upon her good behavior whether she has a 
pleasant and easy home, or whether she must go drifting 
round the world. Her name is Jane Barrett. Jane, this 
is Mary, my housekeeper, and this is Hannah. I shall want 
to send you up and down stairs now and then, and you 
will know where to come." 
The child bowed with a proud, instinctive grace, that 
rather shocked her mistress. 
" I hope she'll suit, and that you'll have no trouble with 
her, but she looks weakly, like." 
" How could you expect them to look any better, poor 
half-starved things, living in such miserable holes as the 
most of them do ! It is a great charity to snatch them 
from that terrible life. Now, Jane, we will go up-stairs 
again. There will be no one at dinner but Mr. Winstead 
and myself." 
Mary understood what that meant. The table would be 
as elegantly set, and the meal served with due ceremony, 
but there would be no needless expense in the viands. The 
meat might be divided for the next morning's breakfast. 
Then Jane was introduced to the third floor. There 
was an old-fashioned double-pitched roof on the house. 
Two very nice, spacious sleeping-rooms, a store-room, and 
a smaller chamber, with a very plain bedstead and wash- 
stand. 
"This will be your room. Hannah sleeps at the Lodge, 
with Mary. I have a great objection to servants staying 
in the house all night, unless they are particularly needed." 
Then they turned to Mrs. Winstead's apartment, and 
the little handmaiden underwent a rigorous examination. 
Could she dust a room, or sew, or iron, or make herself 
useful in any way? Why, what a poor, helpless little 
thing she was ! Of course she knew nothing about wait- 
ing on a table, she had probably never seen a decent table 
in her life. 
Barretti's little queen preserved a discreet silence. After 
all it would be only for a few weeks. But she cried her- 
self to sleep that night with a sad, lonely feeling, a despair 
pitiful in one BO young. 
CHAPTER XVIIL 
PALACE OB PRISON. 
QUEEN TITANIA found her palace not far from a prison, 
and her life one of intolerable slavery. Miss Helena was 
more consequential than her mother, and quite as rigorous. 
Not a moment in the day was she allowed to be idle. Mrs. 
Winstead soon saw that she possessed an unusual aptitude 
for acquiring anything about which there was room for the 
slightest grace. She could wait upon the table, usher vis- 
itors into a room, carry a shawl and fan, and run of errands, 
and she was so quiet. 
Mary inclined to the opinion that she was a rather sul- 
len little thing. Her visits to the kitchen were very brief, 
except when she came for her meals. 
,The new existence bewildered Titania. It appeared first 
like the mimic life of the stage, and had for her the same 
unreal air. She could not understand how she had drifted 
into it, although the few surface facts were easy enough 
of comprehension. There had been no one to take care 
of her ; and, beside, not being strong enough to endure her 
former life she shrank from it now with a deadly horror. 
She felt within herself the instinct of hiding, like some 
poor hunted animal. But that she should be here com- 
pelled to menial occupations, ordered to fetch and carry 
like a dog, taunted with being an object of charity, listen- 
ing occasionally when Mrs. Winstead explained to her 
friends how her sympathies had been touched, how she had 
burdened herself with a child who could be of very little 
use for a year or two to come ; but when one saw these 
 
countless waifs in great cities one longed to reach out a 
helping hand, and save them from lives of infamy. 
Titania's blood rose hot within her at these wordy false- 
hoods. Was she not giving her daily toil for the plain 
attic, and common fare ? For, however elegant the table 
might be in the dining-room its luxuries did not descend to 
the- kitchen. The choice desserts and fruits, the savory 
meats, were set aside. Mrs. Winstead certainly had made 
management a fine art. She and her daughter went clad 
in silks and laces, the table was a picture, with its choice 
and costly appointments and dainty fare, but the thrift 
back of it all was surprising. Not a pin was wasted. Not 
a crumb that could be turned into anything else was thrown 
away. No idleness was tolerated in a dependent. 
And yet, in spite of the drawbacks, Titania almost rev- 
elled in a sense of beauty. The old town was so lovely, 
even when she walked behind Miss Helena, carrying bas- 
ket, or satchel, or shawl. The house and grounds, the 
furniture, carpets, and pictures, were each a revelation in 
themselves. She drank in the refinement, the harmony, 
the culture, with the eagerness of a thirsty traveller. She 
had enjoyed a certain luxurious life with Kate, but that 
had been tinctured with vulgarity, and lacked the fine 
adjustments. This was intensely selfish in many points, 
and they would gladly have crowded her out of the 
sesthetical side if they could, but she kept these dreams 
of delight closely within her heart, and waited. She had 
needed so much patience in her short life !
Beside the overbearing authority of the women she was 
tormented with a covert insolence and cruelty from Mr. 
Archie, the son of the house. He liked to tease her, just 
as he teased the cat and the dog ; nay, it was more amuse- 
ment, because he could rouse her soul, startle her into some 
demonstration of impatience or anger. Not often, it was 
true. She feared him, and sought shelter under his moth- 
er's wing, where she knew he would not dare molest her. 
So passed away a month. Regular living and whole- 
some sleep began to show their beneficial effects. The 
wan face filled out, and now and then flushed with exqui- 
site pink tints. The little white fingers looked less like 
