puddings.
CUSTARDS, BLANC-MANGE, JELLIES, AND CREAMS.
A good rule for custard is five eggs to a quart of milk, and a
tablespoonful of sugar to each egg, although a good plain custard can
be made with an egg for each cup of milk and four tablespoonfuls of
sugar to the quart. Creams and custards that are to be frozen must have
at least one-third more sugar than those which are not to undergo this
process.
In heating the milk for custard, do not let it quite boil before adding
the yolks. My plan, which has proved a safe one thus far, is to take
the scalding milk from the fire, and instead of pouring the beaten
eggs into it, to put a spoonful or two of the milk to them, beating
well all the while, adding more and more milk as I mix, until there is
no longer danger of sudden curdling. Then, return all to the fire and
boil gently until the mixture is of the right consistency. From ten to
fifteen minutes should thicken a quart. Stir constantly. A pinch of
soda added in hot weather will prevent the milk from curdling.
Always boil milk and custard in a vessel set within another of boiling
water. If you have not a custard or farina kettle, improvise one by
setting a tin pail inside of a pot of hot water, taking care it does
not float, also that the water is not so deep as to bubble over the
top. Custards are better and lighter if the yolks and whites are beaten
separately, the latter stirred in at the last.
BOILED CUSTARD. 
    1 quart of milk.
    Yolks of five eggs and the whites of seven—(two for the méringue).
    6 tablespoonfuls sugar.
    Vanilla flavoring—1 teaspoonful to the pint.
Heat the milk almost to boiling; beat the yolks light and stir in the
sugar. Add the milk in the manner described in “general directions”
at head of this section; stir in five whites whipped stiff; return
to the fire and stir until thick, but not until it breaks. Season it
with vanilla, pour into glass cups; whip the whites of two eggs to a
méringue with a heaping tablespoonful of powdered sugar, and when the
custard is cold, pile a little of this upon the top of each cup. You
may lay a preserved strawberry or cherry, or a bit of melon sweetmeat,
or a little bright jelly upon each.
ALMOND CUSTARDS.
    1 pint milk (half cream).
    ¼ lb. almonds, blanched and pounded to a paste, a few at a time in
        a Wedgewood mortar, adding gradually—
    2 tablespoonfuls of rose-water.
    Yolks of three eggs and whites of four—(two for méringue).
    4 tablespoonfuls sugar.
    1 teaspoonful extract bitter almond in méringue.
Scald the milk, add the beaten yolks, the sugar, the almond paste, and
the whites of two eggs. Boil, stirring constantly until it thickens.
Stir up well when almost cold and pour into cups. Make a méringue of
the whites of two eggs and two tablespoonfuls powdered sugar, flavored
with bitter almond, and heap upon each cup.
QUAKING CUSTARD. 
    3 cups milk.
    Yolks of four eggs—reserving the whites for méringue.
    ½ package Cooper’s or Coxe’s gelatine.
    6 tablespoonfuls sugar.
    Vanilla or lemon flavoring. Juice of a lemon in méringue.
Soak the gelatine in a cup of the cold milk two hours. Then heat the
rest of the milk to boiling, add that in which the gelatine is, and
stir over the fire until the latter is quite dissolved. Take from
the fire, and let it stand five minutes before putting in the beaten
yolks and sugar. Heat slowly until it begins to thicken perceptibly,
not boil—say seven or eight minutes, stirring constantly. When nearly
cold, having stirred it every few minutes during the time, flavor it,
wash out your mould in cold water, and without wiping it, pour in the
custard and set on the ice or in a cold place to harden. When quite
firm, turn into a cold dish, loosening it by wrapping about the mould
a cloth wrung out in hot water, or dipping the mould for an instant in
warm, not boiling water. Have ready the whites whipped to a froth with
three tablespoonfuls powdered sugar and juice of a lemon. Heap neatly
about the base of the moulded custard, like snow-drifts. If you like,
you may dot this with minute bits of currant jelly.
This is a pleasing dish to the eye and taste,
FLOATING ISLAND. 
    1 quart of milk.
    5 eggs—whites and yolks beaten separately.
    4 tablespoonfuls (heaping) white sugar.
    2 teaspoonfuls extract bitter almond or vanilla.
    ½ cup currant jelly.
Beat the yolks well, stir in the sugar, and add the hot, not boiling
milk, a little at a time. Boil until it begins to thicken. When cool,
flavor and pour into a glass dish, first stirring it up well. Heap upon
it a méringue of the whites into which you have beaten, gradually,
half a cup of currant, cranberry, or other bright tart jelly. Dot with
bits of jelly cut into rings or stars, or straight slips laid on in a
pattern.
SPANISH CREAM. 
    ½ box of gelatine.
    1 quart of milk.
    Yolks of three eggs.
    1 small cup of sugar.
Soak the gelatine an hour in the milk; put on the fire and stir well as
it warms. Beat the yolks very light with the sugar, add to the scalding
milk, and heat to boiling point, stirring all the while. Strain through
thin muslin or tarlatan, and when almost cold, put into a mould wet
with cold water. Flavor with vanilla or lemon.
BAVARIAN CREAM (Very fine.) 
    1 quart sweet cream.
    Yolks only of four eggs.
    ½ oz. of gelatine or isinglass.
    1 cup (small) of sugar.
    2 teaspoonfuls vanilla or bitter almond extract.
Soak the gelatine in just enough cold water to cover it, for an hour.
Drain, and stir into a pint of the cream made boiling hot. Beat the
yolks smooth with the sugar, and add the boiling mixture, beaten in a
little at a time. Heat until it begins to thicken, but do not actually
boil; remove it from the fire, flavor, and while it is still hot stir
in the other pint of cream, whipped or churned in a syllabub churn to
a stiff froth. Beat in this “whip,” a spoonful at a time, into the
custard until it is the consistency of sponge-cake batter. Dip a mould
in cold water, pour in the mixture, and set on the ice to form.
SNOW CUSTARD. 
    ½ package Coxe’s gelatine.
    3 eggs.
    1 pint milk.
    2 cups of sugar.
    Juice of one lemon.
Soak the gelatine one hour in a teacupful of cold water. To this,
at the end of this time, add one pint boiling water. Stir until the
gelatine is thoroughly dissolved; add two-thirds of the sugar and the
lemon-juice. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and when the
gelatine is quite cold, whip it into the whites, a spoonful at a time,
for an hour. Whip steadily and evenly, and when all is stiff, pour into
a mould, previously wet with cold water, and set in a cold place. In
four or five hours turn into a glass dish.
Make a custard of the milk, eggs, and remainder of the sugar, flavor
with vanilla or bitter almond, and when the méringue is turned out of
the mould, pour this around the base.
BAKED CUSTARD. 
    1 quart of milk.
    5 eggs, beaten light—whites and yolks separately.
    5 tablespoonfuls sugar, mixed with the yolks.
    Nutmeg and vanilla.
Scald but not boil the milk; add by degrees to the beaten yolks, and
when well mixed, stir in the whites. Flavor, and pour into a deep dish,
or custard-cups of white stone-china. Set these in a pan of hot water,
grate nutmeg upon each, and bake until firm. Eat cold from the cups.
FRENCH TAPIOCA CUSTARD. 
    5 dessert spoonfuls tapioca.
    1 quart of milk.
    1 pint of cold water.
    3 eggs.
    1 teaspoonful vanilla, or other essence.
    1 heaping cup of sugar.
    A pinch of salt.
Soak the tapioca in the water five hours. Let the milk come to a boil;
add the tapioca, the water in which it was boiled, and a good pinch of
salt. Stir until boiling hot, and add gradually to the beaten yolks
and sugar. Boil again (always in a vessel set within another of hot
water), stirring constantly. Let it cook until thick, but not too long,
as the custard will break. Five minutes after it reaches the boil will
suffice. Pour into a bowl, and stir gently into the mixture the whites
of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Flavor, and set aside in a glass
dish until very cold.
Eat with an accompaniment of light cake and brandied, or canned
peaches or pears. This will be found a very delightful dessert.
TAPIOCA BLANC-MANGE. 
    ½ lb. tapioca, soaked in a cup of cold water four hours.
    1 pint rich new milk.
    ¾ cup of sugar.
    2 teaspoonfuls bitter almond or vanilla essence.
    A little salt.
Heat the milk, and stir in the soaked tapioca. When it has dissolved,
add the sugar. Boil slowly fifteen minutes, stirring all the time; take
from the fire, and beat until nearly cold. Flavor and pour into a mould
dipped in cold water. Turn out, and pour cold sweetened cream around it.
SAGO BLANC-MANGE.
May be made in the same way as tapioca.
CORN-STARCH BLANC-MANGE. 
    1 quart of milk.
    4 tablespoonfuls corn-starch, wet in a little cold water.
    3 eggs, well beaten—whites and yolks separately.
    1 cup of sugar.
    Vanilla, lemon, or other essence.
    1 saltspoonful salt.
Heat the milk to boiling; stir in the corn-starch and salt, and boil
together five minutes (in a farina-kettle), then add the yolks, beaten
light, with the sugar; boil two minutes longer, stirring all the while;
remove the mixture from the fire, and beat in the whipped whites while
it is boiling hot. Pour into a mould wet with cold water, and set in a
cold place. Eat with sugar and cream.
FARINA BLANC-MANGE
Is made according to the above receipt, but boiled fifteen minutes
before the eggs are added. You may omit the eggs if you like, and only
want a plain dessert.
ARROWROOT BLANC-MANGE. 
    3 cups of new milk.
    2½ tablespoonfuls of arrowroot, wet up with cold milk.
    ¾ cup of sugar.
    Vanilla, lemon, or bitter almond flavoring, with a little white wine.
Mix the arrowroot to a smooth batter with one cup of the milk. Heat the
remainder to boiling; add the arrowroot, stirring constantly. When it
begins to thicken put in the sugar, and cook ten minutes longer, still
stirring it well from the sides and bottom. Take it off; beat well five
minutes; flavor with the essence and a small wineglass of white wine.
Give a hard final stir before putting it into a mould wet with cold
water.
This is very nourishing for invalids and young children. For the latter
you may omit the wine.
ALMOND BLANC-MANGE. 
    1 quart of milk.
    1 oz. Cooper’s gelatine.
    3 ozs. of almonds, blanched and pounded in a mortar, with
    1 tablespoonful of rose-water, added to prevent oiling.
    ¾ cup sugar.
Heat the milk to boiling, having previously soaked the gelatine in a
cup of it for an hour. Turn in this when the milk is scalding hot; add
the pounded almond-paste, and stir all together ten minutes before
putting in the sugar. When the gelatine has dissolved, remove the
blanc-mange from the vessel of boiling water in which you have cooked
it, and strain through a thin muslin bag, pressing it well to get out
the flavor of the almonds. There should be three or four bitter ones
among them. Wet a mould with cold water, put in the blanc-mange, and
set in a cold place until firm.
You may make blanc-mange without the almonds, although it will not be
so nice—and substitute vanilla for the rose-water.
NEAPOLITAN BLANC-MANGE. 
Make according to the foregoing receipt, and, after straining, separate
into four different portions, allowing about a cupful of the mixture
for each. Have ready
    1 great tablespoonful chocolate, wet with a very little boiling
        water, and rubbed to a smooth paste, for the brown coloring.
    Yolk of an egg beaten light for the yellow.
    1 great tablespoonful of currant jelly for the pink.
Beat the chocolate into one portion, mixing it well; the jelly into
another, the egg into a third, returning this and that flavored with
chocolate, to the fire, and stirring until very hot, but not boiling.
Leave the fourth uncolored. When quite cold and a little stiff, pour
carefully into a wet mould—the white first; then the pink; next the
yellow; and the chocolate last. Of course, when the blanc-mange is
turned out, this order of colors will be reversed. Set in a cold
place. Loosen, when firm, by dipping the mould for a moment in warm
water, and working the top free from the edge with a few light touches
of your fingers. This is a handsome dish and easily managed. Currant
juice or cranberry color a finer pink than jelly, but are apt to thin
the blanc-mange, unless used cautiously. A little vanilla improves the
chocolate.
JAUNE-MANGE. 
    1 oz. Coxe’s gelatine, soaked in half a cup cold water one hour.
    1 cup of boiling water.
    Yolks of four eggs beaten very light.
    1 orange, juice and half the grated peel.
    1 lemon, juice and one-third the grated peel.
    1 cup white wine or clear pale Sherry.
    1 cup powdered sugar and a good pinch cinnamon.
Stir the soaked gelatine in the boiling water until dissolved; take
from the fire and beat, a little at a time, into the yolks; return to
the inner saucepan with the sugar, orange, lemon and cinnamon. Stir
over a clear fire until it is boiling hot; put in the wine and strain
through a hair-sieve or a piece of tarlatan. Set away in a mould wet
with cold water.
The success of this dish depends much upon the stirring and the
watchfulness of the cook. The mixture should not be allowed to boil at
any moment.
VELVET BLANC-MANGE. 
    2 cups of sweet cream.
    ½ oz. Cooper’s gelatine, soaked in a very little cold water one hour.
    ½ cup white sugar (powdered.)
    1 teaspoonful extract of bitter almonds.
    1 glass white wine.
Heat the cream to boiling, stir in the gelatine and sugar, and, so soon
as they are dissolved, take from the fire. Beat ten minutes, or, what
is better, churn in a syllabub-churn until very light; flavor, and add
by degrees the wine, mixing it in well. Put into moulds wet with cold
water.
CHOCOLATE BLANC-MANGE.
    1 quart of milk.
    1 oz. Cooper’s gelatine, soaked in a cup of the milk one hour.
    4 heaping tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, rubbed up with
        a little milk.
    3 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately.
    ¾ cup sugar and 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla.
Heat the milk to boiling; pour in the gelatine and milk, and stir
until it is dissolved; add the sugar to the beaten yolks and stir
until smooth; beat the chocolate into this, and pour in, spoonful by
spoonful, the scalding milk upon the mixture, stirring all the while
until all is in. Return to the inner saucepan and heat gently, stirring
faithfully until it almost boils. Remove from fire, turn into a bowl,
and whip in lightly and briskly the beaten whites with the vanilla. Set
to form in moulds wet with cold water.
CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 
    1 lb. of lady’s-fingers.
    1 quart of rich sweet cream.
    ¾ cup powdered sugar.
    2 teaspoonfuls vanilla or other extract.
Split and trim the cakes, and fit neatly in the bottom and sides of two
quart moulds. Whip the cream to a stiff froth in a syllabub-churn when
you have sweetened and flavored it; fill the moulds, lay cakes closely
together on the top, and set upon the ice until needed.
Or,
You may use for this purpose a loaf of sponge-cake, cutting strips from
it for the sides and leaving the crust for the bottom and top, each in
one piece.
A TIPSY CHARLOTTE. 
    1 large stale sponge-cake.
    1 pint rich sweet cream.
    1 cup Sherry wine.
    ½ oz. Cooper’s gelatine, soaked in a cup of cold water two hours.
    1 teaspoonful vanilla or bitter almond extract.
    3 eggs, whites and yolks beaten together, but very light.
    1 pint milk.
