“There, good soul, trouble thyself no further, 
thy power is departed out of thee. Go thy way in 
peace; and if it return to thee at any time, forget 
me not, but fetch me a storm.”  
CHAPTER XVI 
THE STATE DINNER 
The dinner -hour drew near — yet, strangely 
enough, the thought brought but sKght dis- 
comfort to Tom, and hardly any terror. The morn- 
ing’s experiences had wonderfully built up his 
confidence; the poor little ash-cat was already more 
wonted to his strange garret, after four days’ habit, 
than a mature person could have become in a full 
month. A child’s facility in accommodating itself 
to circumstances was never more strikingly illus- 
trated. 
Let us privileged ones htury to the great banquet- 
ing-room and have a glance at matters there while 
Tom is being made ready for the imposing occasion. 
It is a spacious apartment, with gilded pillars and 
pilasters, and pictured walls and ceilings. At the 
door stand tall guards, as rigid as statues, dressed 
in rich and picturesque costumes, and bearing hal- 
berds. In a high gallery which runs all around the 
place is a band of musicians and a packed com- 
pany of citizens of both sexes, in brilliant attire. 
In the center of the room, upon a raised platform, 
is Tom’s table. Now let the ancient chronicler 
speak: 
“A gentleman enters the room bearing a rod, 
and along with him another bearing a table-doth, 
which, after they have both kneeled three times with 
the utmost veneration, he spreads upon the table, 
and after kneeling again they both retire ; then come 
two others, one with the rod again, the other with 
a salt-cellar, a plate, and bread; when they have 
kneeled as the others had done, and placed what was 
brought upon the table, they too retire with the 
same ceremonies performed by the first; at last 
come two nobles, richly clothed, one bearing a 
tasting-knife, who, after prostrating themselves in 
the most graceful manner, approach and rub the 
table with bread and salt, with as much awe as if 
the king had been present.” 
So end the solemn preliminaries. Now, far down 
the echoing corridors we hear a bugle-blast, and the 
indistinct cry, "Place for the king! way for the 
king’s most excellent majesty!” These sounds are 
momently repeated — they grow nearer and nearer — 
and presently, almost in our faces, the martial note 
peals and the cry rings out, “Way for the king!” 
At this instant the shining pageant appears, and 
files in at the door, with a measured march. Let 
the chronicler speak again: 
“First come Gentlemen, Barons, Earls, Knights 
of the Garter, all richly dressed and bareheaded; 
next comes the Chancellor, between two, one of 
which carries the royal scepter, the other the Sword 
of State in a red scabbard, studded with golden 
fleurs-de-lis, the point upwards; next comes the King 
himself — whom, upon his appearing, twelve trumpets 
and many drums salute with a great burst of welcome, 
whilst all in the galleries rise in their places, 
crying ‘God save the King!’ After him come 
nobles attached to his person, and on his right and 
left march his guard of honor, his fifty Gentlemen 
Pensioners, with gilt battle-axes.” 
This was all fine and pleasant. Tom’s pulse beat 
high and a glad light was in his eye. He bore himself 
right gracefully, and all the more so because he 
was not thinking of how he was doing it, his mind 
being charmed and occupied with the blithe sights 
and sounds about him — and besides, nobody can 
be very ungraceful in nicely fitting beautiful clothes 
after he has grown a little used to them — especially 
if he is for the moment unconscious of them. Tom 
remembered his instructions, and acknowledged his 
greeting with a slight inclination of his plumed head, 
and a courteous ‘‘I thank ye, my good people.” 
He seated himself at table without removing his 
cap; and did it without the least embarrassment: 
for to eat with one’s cap on was the one solitary 
royal pustom upon which the kings and the Cantys 
met upon common ground, neither party having any 
advantage over the other in the matter of old 
familiarity with it. The pageant broke up and 
grquped itself picturesquely, and remained bare- 
headed. 
Now, to the sound of gay music, the Yeomen of 
the Guard entered — “the tallest and mightiest men 
in England, they being selected in this regard” — but 
we win let the chronicler tell about it : 
“The Yeomen of the Guard entered bareheaded, 
clothed in scarlet, wth golden roses upon their 
backs; and these went and came, bringing in each 
turn a course of dishes, served in plate. These 
dishes •were received by a gentleman in the same 
order they were brought, and placed upon the table, 
while the taster gave to each guard a mouthful to 
eat of the particular dish he had brought, for fear 
of any poison.” 
Tom made a good dinner, not'withstanding he was 
conscious that hmxdreds of eyes followed each morsel 
to his mouth and watched him eat it with an inter- 
est which could not have been more intense if it had 
been a deadly explosive and was expected to blow 
him up and scatter him all over the place. He 
was careful not to hurry, and equally careftd not to 
do anything whatever for himself, but wait till the 
proper official knelt down and did it for him. Ete 
got through without a mistake — flawless and precious 
triumph. 
• When the meal was over at last and he marched 
away in the midst of his bright pageant, with the 
happy noises in his ears of blaring bugles, rolling 
drums, and thundering acclamations, he felt that if 
he had seen the worst of dining in public, it was an 
ordeal which he would be glad to endure several 
times a day if by that means he could but buy himself
free from some of the more formidable require- 
ments of his royal office. 
CHAPTER XVII 
FOO-FOO THE FIRST 
Miles HENDON hurried along toward the 
Southwark end of the bridge, keeping a sharp 
lookout for the persons he sought, and hoping and 
expecting to overtake them presently. He was disappointed 
in this, however. By asking questions, 
he was enabled to track them part of the way 
through Southwark; then all traces ceased, and he 
was perplexed as to how to proceed. Still, he continued 
his efforts as best he could during the rest 
of the day. Nightfall foimd him leg-weary, half 
famished, and his desire as far from accomplishment 
as ever; so he supped at the Tabard inn and went 
to bed, resolved to make an early start in the morning,
and give the town an exhaustive search. As 
he lay thinking and planning, he presently began to 
reason thus : The boy would escape from the ruffian, 
his reputed father, if possible; would he go back to 
London and seek his former haimts? No, he would 
not do that, he would avoid recapture. What, then, 
would he do? Never having had a friend in the 
wcorld, or a protector, until he met Miles Hendon, 
he would naturally try to find that friend again, 
provided the effort did not require him to go toward 
London and danger. He would strike for Hendon 
Hall, that is what he woidd do, for he loiew Hendoa 
was homeward bound, and there he might expect 
to find him. Yes, the case was plain to Hendon — he 
must lose no more time in Southwark, but move at 
once through Kent, toward Monk’s Holm, searching 
the wood and inqtdring as he went. Let us return 
to the vanished little king now. 
The ruffian, whom the waiter at the inn on the 
Bridge saw “about to join” the youth and the king, 
did not exactly join them, but fell in close behind 
them and followed their steps. He said nothing. 
His left arm was in a sling, and he wore a large 
green patch over his left eye; he limped slightly, 
and used an oaken staff as a support. The youth 
led the king a crooked course through Southwark, 
and by and by struck into the highroad beyond. 
The king was irritated now, and said he would stop 
here — it was Hendon’s place to come to Mm, not his 
to go to Hendon. He would not endure such 
insolence; ho would stop where he was. The youth 
said: 
“Thou’lt taiTy here, and thy friend lying wotmded 
in the wood yonder? So be it, then.” 
The king’s manner changed at once. He cried 
out: 
“Wounded? And who hath dared to do it? But 
that is apart; lead on, lead on I Faster, sirrah! art 
shod with lead? Wounded, is he? Now though the 
doer of it be a duke’s son, he shall rue it!” 
It was some distance to the wood, but the space 
was speedily traversed. The youth looked about 
him, discovered a bough sticking in the ground, 
with a small bit of rag tied to it, then led the way 
iito the forest, watching for similar boughs and 
fkiding them at intervals; they were evidently guides 
tc the point he was aiming at. By and by an open 
place was reached, where were the charred remains 
of a farmhouse, and near them a bam which was 
falling to ruin and decay. There was no sign of 
life anywhere, and utter silence prevailed. The 
youth entered the bam, the king following eagerly 
upon his heels. No one there! The king shot a 
surprised and suspicious glance at the youth, and 
asked; 
“Where is he?” 
A mocking laugh was his answer. The king was 
in a rage in a moment; he seized a billet of wood 
and was in the act of charging upon the youth when 
another mocking laugh fell upon his ear. It was 
from the lame ruffian, who had been following at a 
distance. The king turned and said angrily: 
“Who art thou? What is thy business here?” 
“Leave thy foolery,” said the man, “and quiet 
thyself. My disguise is none so good that thou 
canst pretend thou knowest not thy father through 
it.” 
“Thou art not my father. I know thee not. I 
am the king. If thou hast hid my servant, find him 
for me, or thou shalt sup sorrow for what thou hast 
done.” 
John Canty replied, in a stem and measured 
voice: 
“It is plain thou art mad, and I am loath to ptm- 
ish thee; but if thou provoke me, I must. Thy 
prating doth no harm here, where there are no eais 
that need to mind thy follies, yet is it well to 
practise thy tongue to wary speech, that it may do no 
hurt when our quarters change. I have done a 
murder, and may not tarry at home — neither shalt 
thou, seeing I need thy service. My name is 
changed, for wise reasons; it is Hobbs — John 
Hobbs; thine is Jack — charge thy memory accordingly.
Now, then, speak. Where is thy mother? 
Where are thy sisters? They came not to the place 
appointed — knowest thou whither they went?” 
The king answered, sullenly: 
"Trouble me not with these riddles. My mother 
is dead; my sisters are in the palace.” 
The youth near by burst into a derisive laugh, 
and the king would have assaulted him, but Canty — 
or Hobbs, as he now called himself — prevented 
him, and said; 
"Peace, Hugo, vex him not; his mind is astray, 
and thy ways fret him. Sit thee down. Jack, and 
quiet thyself; thou shalt have a morsel to eat, 
anon.” 
Hobbs and Hugo fell to talking together, in low 
voices, and the king removed himself as far as he 
could from their disagreeable company. He with- 
drew into the twilight cf the farther end of the bam, 
where he found the earthen floor bedded a foot deep 
with straw. He lay down here, drew straw over 
himself in lieu of blankets, and was soon absorbed 
in thinking. He had many griefs, but the minor 
caies were swept almost into forgetfulness by the 
supreme one, the loss of his father. To the rest of 
tire world the name of Henry VIII. brought a shiver, 
aid suggested an ogre whose nostrils breathed de- 
stiuction and whose hand dealt scourgings and 
death; but to this boy the name brought only sen- 
satons of pleasure, the figure it invoked wore a 
countenance that was all gentleness and affection. 
He called to mind a long succession of loving pas- 
sages between his father and himself, and dwelt 
fondly upon them, his unstinted tears attesting how 
deep and real was the grief that possessed his heart. 
As the afternoon wasted away, the lad, wearied with 
his troubles, sunk gradually into a tranquil and heal- 
ing slumber. 
After a considerable time — he could not tell how 
long — his senses struggled to a half-consciousness, 
and as he lay with closed eyes vaguely wondering 
where he was and what had been happening, he 
noted a murmurous soimd, the sullen beating of rain 
upon the roof. A snug sense of comfort stole over 
him, which was rudely broken, the next moment, 
by a chorus of piping cackles and coarse laughter. 
It startled him disagreeably, and he unmuffled his 
head to see whence this interruption proceeded. A 
grim and unsightly picture met his eye. A bright 
fire was burning in the middle of the floor, at the 
other end of the bam; and around it, and lit weirdly 
up by the red glare, lolled and sprawled the mothest 
company of tattered gutter-scum and ruffians, of 
both sexes, he had ever read or dreamed of. There 
were huge, stalwart men, brown with exposure, long- 
haired, and clothed in fantastic rags; the were 
middle-azed youths, of truculent countenance, and 
similarly dad; there were blind mendicants, with 
patched or bandaged eyes; crippled ones, with 
wooden legs and crutches; there was a villain- 
iooking peddler with his pack; a knife-grinder, a 
tinker, and a barber-surgeon, wnth the implements 
of their trades; some of the females were hardly 
grown girls, some were at prime, some were old and 
wrinlded hags, and all were loud, brazen, foul- 
mouthed; and all soiled and slatternly; there were 
three sore-faced babies; there were a couple of 
starveling curs, with strings about their ned, whose 
office w'as to lead the blind. 
The night was come, the gang had just finished 
feasting, an orgy was beginning, the can of liquor 
was passing from mouth to mouth. A general cry 
broke forth: 
“A song! a song from the Bat and Dick Dot- 
and-go-One!” 
One of the blind men got up, and made ready by 
casting aside the patches that sheltered his excdlent 
eyes, and the pathetic placard which recited the 
cause of his calamity. Dot-and-go-One disencum- 
bered himself of his timber leg and took his place, 
upon sound and healthy limbs, beside his fellow- 
rascal; then they roared out a rollicking ditty, and 
