     rallied at the voice of their leader, of whom they stood more in
     awe than of all the Swedes in Christendom. Without waiting for
     their aid, the daring Peter dashed, sword in hand, into the
     thickest of the foe. Then might be seen achievements worthy of the
     days of the giants. Wherever he went the enemy shrank before him;
     the Swedes fled to right and left, or were driven, like dogs, into
     their own ditch; but as he pushed forward, singly with headlong
     courage, the foe closed behind and hung upon his rear. One aimed a
     blow full at his heart; but the protecting power which watches over
     the great and good turned aside the hostile blade and directed it
     to a side-pocket, where reposed an enormous iron tobacco-box,
     endowed, like the shield of Achilles, with supernatural powers,
     doubtless from bearing the portrait of the blessed St. Nicholas.
     Peter Stuyvesant turned like an angry bear upon the foe, and
     seizing him, as he fled, by an immeasurable queue, 'Ah, whoreson
     caterpillar,' roared he, 'here's what shall make worms' meat of
     thee!' so saying he whirled his sword and dealt a blow that would
     have decapitated the varlet, but that the pitying steel struck
     short and shaved the queue forever from his crown. At this moment
     an arquebusier leveled his piece from a neighboring mound, with
     deadly aim; but the watchful Minerva, who had just stopped to tie
     up her garter, seeing the peril of her favorite hero, sent old
     Boreas with his bellows, who, as the match descended to the pan,
     gave a blast that blew the priming from the touch-hole.
     "Thus waged the fight, when the stout Risingh, surveying the field
     from the top of a little ravelin, perceived his troops banged,
     beaten, and kicked by the invincible Peter. Drawing his falchion,
     and uttering a thousand anathemas, he strode down to the scene of
     combat with some such thundering strides as Jupiter is said by
     Hesiod to have taken when he strode down the spheres to hurl his
     thunder-bolts at the Titans.
     "When the rival heroes came face to face, each made a prodigious
     start in the style of a veteran stage-champion. Then did they
     regard each other for a moment with the bitter aspect of two
     furious ram-cats on the point of a clapper-clawing. Then did they
     throw themselves into one attitude, then into another, striking
     their swords on the ground, first on the right side, then on the
     left: at last at it they went with incredible ferocity. Words
     cannot tell the prodigies of strength and valor displayed in this
     direful encounter,--an encounter compared to which the far-famed
     battles of Ajax with Hector, of Æneas with Turnus, Orlando with
     Rodomont, Guy of Warwick with Colbrand the Dane, or of that
     renowned Welsh knight, Sir Owen of the Mountains, with the giant
     Guylon, were all gentle sports and holiday recreations. At length
     the valiant Peter, watching his opportunity, aimed a blow enough to
     cleave his adversary to the very chine; but Risingh, nimbly raising
     his sword, warded it off so narrowly, that, glancing on one side,
     it shaved away a huge canteen in which he carried his
     liquor,--thence pursuing its trenchant course, it severed off a
     deep coat-pocket, stored with bread and cheese,--which provant,
     rolling among the armies, occasioned a fearful scrambling between
     the Swedes and Dutchmen, and made the general battle to wax more
     furious than ever.
     "Enraged to see his military stores laid waste, the stout Risingh,
     collecting all his forces, aimed a mighty blow full at the hero's
     crest. In vain did his fierce little cocked hat oppose its course.
     The biting steel clove through the stubborn ram beaver, and would
     have cracked the crown of any one not endowed with supernatural
     hardness of head; but the brittle weapon shivered in pieces on the
     skull of Hardkoppig Piet, shedding a thousand sparks, like beams of
     glory, round his grizzly visage.
     "The good Peter reeled with the blow, and turning up his eyes
     beheld a thousand suns, besides moons and stars, dancing about the
     firmament; at length, missing his footing, by reason of his wooden
     leg, down he came on his seat of honor with a crash which shook the
     surrounding hills, and might have wrecked his frame, had he not
     been received into a cushion softer than velvet, which Providence,
     or Minerva, or St. Nicholas, or some cow, had benevolently prepared
     for his reception.
     "The furious Risingh, in despite of the maxim, cherished by all
     true knights, that 'fair play is a jewel,' hastened to take
     advantage of the hero's fall; but, as he stooped to give a fatal
     blow, Peter Stuyvesant dealt him a thwack over the sconce with his
     wooden leg, which set a chime of bells ringing triple bob-majors in
     his cerebellum. The bewildered Swede staggered with the blow, and
     the wary Peter seizing a pocket-pistol, which lay hard by,
     discharged it full at the head of the reeling Risingh. Let not my
     reader mistake; it was not a murderous weapon loaded with powder
     and ball, but a little sturdy stone pottle charged to the muzzle
     with a double dram of true Dutch courage, which the knowing Antony
     Van Corlear carried about him by way of replenishing his valor, and
     which had dropped from his wallet during his furious encounter with
     the drummer. The hideous weapon sang through the air, and true to
     its course as was the fragment of a rock discharged at Hector by
     bully Ajax, encountered the head of the gigantic Swede with
     matchless violence.
     "This heaven-directed blow decided the battle. The ponderous
     pericranium of General Jan Risingh sank upon his breast; his knees
     tottered under him; a deathlike torpor seized upon his frame, and
     he tumbled to the earth with such violence that old Pluto started
     with affright, lest he should have broken through the roof of his
     infernal palace.
     "His fall was the signal of defeat and victory: the Swedes gave
     way, the Dutch pressed forward; the former took to their heels, the
     latter hotly pursued. Some entered with them, pell-mell, through
     the sally-port; others stormed the bastion, and others scrambled
     over the curtain. Thus in a little while the fortress of Fort
     Christina, which, like another Troy, had stood a siege of full ten
     hours, was carried by assault, without the loss of a single man on
     either side. Victory, in the likeness of a gigantic ox-fly, sat
     perched upon the cocked hat of the gallant Stuyvesant; and it was
     declared by all the writers whom he hired to write the history of
     his expedition that on this memorable day he gained a sufficient
     quantity of glory to immortalize a dozen of the greatest heroes in
     Christendom!"
In the "Sketch-Book," Irving set a kind of fashion in narrative essays,
in brief stories of mingled humor and pathos, which was followed for
half a century. He himself worked the same vein in "Bracebridge Hall,"
and "Tales of a Traveller." And there is no doubt that some of the most
fascinating of the minor sketches of Charles Dickens, such as the story
of the Bagman's Uncle, are lineal descendants of, if they were not
suggested by, Irving's "Adventure of My Uncle," and the "Bold Dragoon."
The taste for the leisurely description and reminiscent essay of the
"Sketch-Book" does not characterize the readers of this generation, and
we have discovered that the pathos of its elaborated scenes is somewhat
"literary." The sketches of "Little Britain," and "Westminster Abbey,"
and, indeed, that of "Stratford-on-Avon," will for a long time retain
their place in selections of "good reading;" but the "Sketch-Book" is
only floated, as an original work, by two papers, the "Rip Van Winkle"
and the "Legend of Sleepy Hollow;" that is to say by the use of the
Dutch material, and the elaboration of the "Knickerbocker Legend," which
was the great achievement of Irving's life. This was broadened and
deepened and illustrated by the several stories of the "Money Diggers,"
of "Wolfert Webber" and "Kidd the Pirate," in "The Tales of a
Traveller," and by "Dolph Heyliger" in "Bracebridge Hall." Irving was
never more successful than in painting the Dutch manners and habits of
the early time, and he returned again and again to the task until he not
only made the shores of the Hudson and the islands of New York harbor
and the East River classic ground, but until his conception of Dutch
life in the New World had assumed historical solidity and become a
tradition of the highest poetic value. If in the multiplicity of books
and the change of taste the bulk of Irving's works shall go out of
print, a volume made up of his Knickerbocker history and the legends
relating to the region of New York and the Hudson would survive as long
as anything that has been produced in this country.
The philosophical student of the origin of New World society may find
food for reflection in the "materiality" of the basis of the
civilization of New York. The picture of abundance and of enjoyment of
animal life is perhaps not overdrawn in Irving's sketch of the home of
the Van Tassels, in "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow." It is all the extract
we can make room for from that careful study:--
     "Among the musical disciples who assembled, one evening in each
     week, to receive his instructions in psalmody, was Katrina Van
     Tassel, the daughter and only child of a substantial Dutch farmer.
     She was a blooming lass of fresh eighteen; plump as a partridge;
     ripe and melting and rosy-cheeked as one of her father's peaches,
     and universally famed, not merely for her beauty, but her vast
     expectations. She was, withal, a little of a coquette, as might be
     perceived even in her dress, which was a mixture of ancient and
     modern fashions, as most suited to set off her charms. She wore the
     ornaments of pure yellow gold which her great-great-grandmother had
     brought over from Saardam; the tempting stomacher of the olden
     time; and withal a provokingly short petticoat, to display the
     prettiest foot and ankle in the country round.
     "Ichabod Crane had a soft and foolish heart towards the sex; and it
     is not to be wondered at that so tempting a morsel soon found favor
     in his eyes, more especially after he had visited her in her
     paternal mansion. Old Baltus Van Tassel was a perfect picture of a
     thriving, contented, liberal-hearted farmer. He seldom, it is true,
     sent either his eyes or his thoughts beyond the boundaries of his
     own farm; but within those everything was snug, happy, and
     well-conditioned. He was satisfied with his wealth, but not proud
     of it; and piqued himself upon the hearty abundance rather than the
     style in which he lived. His stronghold was situated on the banks
     of the Hudson, in one of those green, sheltered, fertile nooks in
     which the Dutch farmers are so fond of nestling. A great elm-tree
     spread its broad branches over it, at the foot of which bubbled up
     a spring of the softest and sweetest water, in a little well,
     formed of a barrel, and then stole sparkling away through the grass
     to a neighboring brook, that bubbled along among alders and dwarf
     willows. Hard by the farm-house was a vast barn, that might have
     served for a church, every window and crevice of which seemed
     bursting forth with the treasures of the farm. The flail was busily
     resounding within it from morning till night; swallows and martins
     skimmed twittering about the eaves; and rows of pigeons, some with
     one eye turned up, as if watching the weather, some with their
     heads under their wings, or buried in their bosoms, and others
     swelling and cooing and bowing about their dames, were enjoying the
     sunshine on the roof. Sleek, unwieldy porkers were grunting in the
     repose and abundance of their pens, whence sallied forth, now and
     then, troops of sucking pigs, as if to snuff the air. A stately
     squadron of snowy geese were riding in an adjoining pond, convoying
     whole fleets of ducks; regiments of turkeys were gobbling through
     the farm-yard, and guinea fowls fretting about it, like
     ill-tempered housewives, with their peevish, discontented cry.
     Before the barn door strutted the gallant cock, that pattern of a
     husband, a warrior, and a fine gentleman, clapping his burnished
     wings, and crowing in the pride and gladness of his
     heart--sometimes tearing up the earth with his feet, and then
     generously calling his ever-hungry family of wives and children to
     enjoy the rich morsel which he had discovered.
     "The pedagogue's mouth watered as he looked upon this sumptuous
     promise of luxurious winter fare. In his devouring mind's eye he
     pictured to himself every roasting-pig running about with a pudding
     in his belly, and an apple in his mouth; the pigeons were snugly
     put to bed in a comfortable pie, and tucked in with a coverlet of
     crust; the geese were swimming in their own gravy, and the ducks
     pairing cosily in dishes, like snug married couples, with a decent
     competency of onion-sauce. In the porkers he saw carved out the
     future sleek side of bacon, and juicy relishing ham; not a turkey
     but he beheld daintily trussed up, with its gizzard under its wing,
     and, peradventure, a necklace of savory sausages; and even bright
     chanticleer himself lay sprawling on his back, in a side-dish, with
     uplifted claws, as if craving that quarter which his chivalrous
     spirit disdained to ask while living.
     "As the enraptured Ichabod fancied all this, and as he rolled his
     great green eyes over the fat meadow-lands, the rich fields of
     wheat, of rye, of buckwheat, and Indian corn, and the orchard
     burdened with ruddy fruit, which surrounded the warm tenement of
     Van Tassel, his heart yearned after the damsel who was to inherit
     these domains, and his imagination expanded with the idea how they
     might be readily turned into cash, and the money invested in
     immense tracts of wild land and shingle palaces in the wilderness.
     Nay, his busy fancy already realized his hopes, and presented to
     him the blooming Katrina, with a whole family of children, mounted
     on the top of a wagon loaded with household trumpery, with pots and
     kettles dangling beneath; and he beheld himself bestriding a pacing
     mare, with a colt at her heels, setting out for Kentucky,
     Tennessee, or the Lord knows where.
     "When he entered the house, the conquest of his heart was complete.
     It was one of those spacious farm-houses, with high-ridged, but
     lowly-sloping roofs, built in the style handed down from the first
     Dutch settlers; the low projecting eaves forming a piazza along the
     front, capable of being closed up in bad weather. Under this were
     hung flails, harness, various utensils of husbandry, and nets for
     fishing in the neighboring river. Benches were built along the
     sides for summer use; and a great spinning-wheel at one end, and a
     churn at the other, showed the various uses to which this important
     porch might be devoted. From this piazza the wondering Ichabod
     entered the hall, which formed the centre of the mansion and the
     place of usual residence. Here, rows of resplendent pewter, ranged
     on a long dresser, dazzled his eyes. In one corner stood a huge bag
     of wool ready to be spun; in another a quantity of linsey-woolsey
     just from the loom; ears of Indian corn, and strings of dried
     apples and peaches, hung in gay festoons along the walls, mingled
     with the gaud of red peppers; and a door left ajar gave him a peep
     into the best parlor, where the claw-footed chairs and dark
     mahogany tables shone like mirrors; and irons, with their
     accompanying shovel and tongs, glistened from their covert of
     asparagus tops; mock-oranges and conch-shells decorated the
     mantelpiece; strings of various colored birds' eggs were suspended
     above it; a great ostrich egg was hung from the centre of the room,
     and a corner cupboard, knowingly left open, displayed immense
     treasures of old silver and well-mended china."
It is an abrupt transition from these homely scenes, which humor
commends to our liking, to the chivalrous pageant unrolled for us in the
"Conquest of Granada." The former are more characteristic and the more
enduring of Irving's writings, but as a literary artist his genius lent
itself just as readily to Oriental and mediæval romance as to the
Knickerbocker legend; and there is no doubt that the delicate perception
he had of chivalric achievements gave a refined tone to his mock
heroics, which greatly heightened their effect. It may almost be claimed
that Irving did for Granada and the Alhambra what he did, in a totally
different way, for New York and its vicinity.
The first passage I take from the "Conquest" is the description of the
advent at Cordova of the Lord Scales, Earl of Rivers, who was brother of
the queen of Henry VII., a soldier who had fought at Bosworth field, and
now volunteered to aid Ferdinand and Isabella in the extermination of
the Saracens. The description is put into the mouth of Fray Antonio
Agapida, a fictitious chronicler invented by Irving, an unfortunate
intervention which gives to the whole book an air of unveracity:--
     "'This cavalier [he observes] was from the far island of England,
     and brought with him a train of his vassals; men who had been
     hardened in certain civil wars which raged in their country. They
     were a comely race of men, but too fair and fresh for warriors, not
     having the sunburnt, warlike hue of our old Castilian soldiery.
     They were huge feeders also, and deep carousers, and could not
     accommodate themselves to the sober diet of our troops, but must
     fain eat and drink after the manner of their own country. They were
     often noisy and unruly, also, in their wassail; and their quarter
     of the camp was prone to be a scene of loud revel and sudden brawl.
     They were, withal, of great pride, yet it was not like our
     inflammable Spanish pride: they stood not much upon the pundonor,
     the high punctilio, and rarely drew the stiletto in their disputes;
     but their pride was silent and contumelious. Though from a remote
     and somewhat barbarous island, they believed themselves the most
     perfect men upon earth, and magnified their chieftain, the Lord
     Scales, beyond the greatest of their grandees. With all this, it
     must be said of them that they were marvelous good men in the
     field, dexterous archers, and powerful with the battle-axe. In
     their great pride and self-will, they always sought to press in the
     advance and take the post of danger, trying to outvie our Spanish
     chivalry. They did not rush on fiercely to the fight, nor make a
     brilliant onset like the Moorish and Spanish troops, but they went
     into the fight deliberately, and persisted obstinately, and were
     slow to find out when they were beaten. Withal they were much
     esteemed yet little liked by our soldiery, who considered them
     staunch companions in the field, yet coveted but little fellowship
     with them in the camp.
     "'Their commander, the Lord Scales, was an accomplished cavalier,
     of gracious and noble presence and fair speech; it was a marvel to
     see so much courtesy in a knight brought up so far from our
     Castilian court. He was much honored by the king and queen, and
     found great favor with the fair dames about the court, who indeed
     are rather prone to be pleased with foreign cavaliers. He went
     always in costly state, attended by pages and esquires, and
     accompanied by noble young cavaliers of his country, who had
     enrolled themselves under his banner, to learn the gentle exercise
     of arms. In all pageants and festivals, the eyes of the populace
     were attracted by the singular bearing and rich array of the
