her that they offered a great field to female enterprise. Isabel 
did him justice, but she wondered what his purpose was, and 
what he expected to gain even by behaving heroically. If he 
expected to melt her by showing what a good fellow he was, he 
might spare himself the trouble. She knew already he was a good 
fellow, and nothing he could do would add to this conviction, 
 
Moreover, his being in Eome at all made her vaguely uneasy. 
Nevertheless, when on bringing his call to a close, he said that 
he too should be at St. Peter's and should look out for Isabel 
and her friends, she was obliged to reply that it would be a 
pleasure to see him again. 
In the church, as she strolled over its tesselated acres, he was 
the. first person she encountered. She had not been one of the 
superior tourists who are " disappointed " in St. Peter's and find 
it smaller than its fame ; the first time she passed beneath the 
huge leathern curtain that strains and bangs at the entrance 
the first time she found herself beneath the far-arching dome 
and saw the light drizzle down through the air thickened with 
incense and with the reflections of marble and gilt, of mosaic 
and bronze, her conception of greatness received an extension. 
After this it never lacked space to soar. She gazed and won- 
dered, like a child or a peasant, and paid her silent tribute to 
.visible grandeur. Lord Warburton walked beside her and talked 
of Saint Sophia of Constantinople ; she was afraid that he would 
end by calling attention to his exemplary conduct. The service 
had not yet begun, but at St. Peter's there is much to observe, 
and as there is something almost profane in the vastness of the 
place, which seems meant as much for physical as for spiritual 
exercise, the different figures and groups, the mingled worship- 
pers and spectators, may follow their various intentions without 
mutual scandal. In that splendid immensity individual indis- 
cretion carries but a short distance. Isabel and her companions, 
however, were guilty of none ; for though Henrietta was obliged 
to declare that Michael Angelo's dome suffered by comparison 
with that of the Capitol at Washington, she addressed her pro- 
test chiefly to Mr. Bantling's ear, and reserved it, in its more 
accentuated form, for the columns of the Interviewer. Isabel 
made the circuit of the church with Lord Warburton, and as 
they drew near the choir on the left of the entrance the voices 
of the Pope's singers were borne towards them over the heads 
of the large number of persons clustered outside the doors. 
They paused a while on the skirts of this crowd, composed in 
equal measure of Roman cockneys and inquisitive strangers, and 
while they stood there the sacred concert went forward. Ralph, . 
with Henrietta and Mr. Bantling, was apparently within, where 
Isabel, above the heads of the dense group in front of her, saw 
the afternoon light, silvered by clouds of incense that seemed to 
mingle with the splendid chant, sloping through the embossed 
recesses of high windows. After a while the singing stopped, 
and then Lord Warburton seemed disposed to turn away again. 
Isabel for a moment did the same ; whereupon she found herself 
confronted with Gilbert Osmond, who appeared to have been 
standing at a short distance behind her. He now approached, 
with a formal salutation. 
" So you decided to come . " she said, putting out her hand. 
" Yes, I came last night, and called this afternoon at your 
hotel. They told me you had come here, and I looked about 
for you." 
" The others are inside," said Isabel. 
" I didn't come for the others," Gilbert Osmond murmured, 
smiling. 
She turned away; Lord Warfrurton was looking at them; 
perhaps he had heard this. Suddenly she remembered that it 
was just what he had said to her the morning he came to Gar- 
dencourt to ask her to marry him. Mr. Osmond's words had 
brought the colour to her cheek, and this reminiscence had not 
the effect of dispelling it. Isabel sought refuge from her slight 
agitation in mentioning to each gentleman the name of the other, 
and fortunately at this moment Mr. Bantling made his way out 
of the choir, cleaving the crowd with British valour, and followed 
by Miss Stack pole and Ralph Touchett. I say fortunately, but 
this is perhaps a superficial view of the matter ; for on perceiv- 
ing the gentleman from Florence, Ralph Touchett exhibited 
symptoms of surprise which might not perhaps have seemed 
nattering to Mr. Osmond. It must be added, however, that 
these manifestations were momentary, and Ralph was presently 
able to say to his cousin, with due jocularity, that she would 
soon have all her friends about her. His greeting -to Mr. Osmond 
was apparently frank ; that is, the two men shook hands and 
looked at each other. Miss Stackpole had met the new-comer 
in Florence, but she had already found occasion to say to Isabel 
that she liked him no better than her other admirers than Mr 
Touchett, Lord Warburton, and little Mr. Rosier in Paris. " I 
don't know what it is in you," she had been pleased to remark, 
" but for a nice girl you do attract the most unpleasant people. 
Mr. Goodwood is the only one I have any respect for, and he's 
just the one you don't appreciate." 
" What's your opinion of St. Peter's ? " Mr. Osmond asked of 
Isabel. 
"It's very large and very bright," said the girl. 
" It's too large ; it makes one feel like an atom." 
" Is not that the right way to feel in a church?" Isabel 
asked, with a faint but interested smile. 
" I suppose it's the right way to feel everywhere, when one 
 
is nobody. But I like it in a church as little as anywhere 
else." 
" You ought indeed to be a Pope ! " Isabel exclaimed, remem- 
bering something he had said to her in Florence. 
" Ah, I should have enjoyed that ! " said Gilbert Osmond. 
Lord Warburton meanwhile had joined Ralph Touchett, and 
the two strolled away together. 
" Who is the gentleman speaking to Miss Archer? " his lord- 
ship inquired. 
" His name is Gilbert Osmond he lives in Florence," Ralph 
said. 
" What is he besides? " 
" Nothing at all. Oh yes, he is an American; but one forgets 
that ; he is so little of one." 
" Has he known Miss Archer long? " 
" No, about a fortnight." 
" Does she like him? " 
" Yes, I think she does." 
" Is he a good fellow? " 
Ralph hesitated a moment. " N"o, he's not," he said, at last. 
" Why then does she like him ? " pursued Lord Warburton, 
with noble naivete. 
" Because she's a woman." 
Lord Warburton was silent a moment. " There are other 
men who are good fellows," he presently said, " and them and 
them " 
" And them she likes also ! " Ralph interrupted, smiling. 
" Oh, if you mean she likes him in that way ! " And Lord 
Warburton turned round again. As far as he was concerned, 
however, the party was broken up. Isabel remained in con- 
versation with the gentleman from Florence till they left the 
church, and her English lover consoled himself by lending such 
attention as he might to the strains which continued to proceed 
from the choir. 
XXVIII. 
ON the morrow, in the evening, Lord Warburton went again 
to see his friends at their hotel, and at this establishment he 
learned that they had gone to the opera. He drove to the 
opera, with the idea of paying them a visit in their box, in 
accordance with the time-honoured Italian custom ; and after 
he had obtained his admittance it was one of the secondary 
theatres looked about the large, bare, ill-lighted house. An 
act had just terminated, and he was at liberty to pursue his 
quest. After scanning two or three tiers of boxes, he perceived 
in one of the largest of these receptacles a lady whom he easily 
recognised. Miss Archer was seated facing the stage, and partly- 
screened by the curtain of the box; and beside her, leaning 
back in his chair, was Mr. Gilbert Osmond. They appeared to 
have the place to themselves, and Warburton supposed that 
their companions had taken advantage of the entracte to enjoy 
the relative coolness of the lobby. He stood a while watching 
the interesting pair in the box, and asking himself whether he 
should go up and interrupt their harmonious colloquy. At last 
it became apparent that Isabel had seen him, and this accident 
determined him. He took his way to the upper regions, and 
on the staircase he met Ealph Touchett, slowly descending, 
with his hat in the attitude of ennui and his hands where they 
usually were. 
" I saw you below a moment since, and was going down to 
you. I feel lonely and want company," Ralph remarked. 
" You have some that is very good that you have deserted." 
"Do you mean my cousin? Oh, she has got a visitor and 
doesn't want me. Then Miss Stackpole and Bantling have 
gone out to a cafe to eat an ice Miss Stackpole delights in an 
ice. I didn't think they wanted me either. The opera is very 
bad ; the women look like laundresses and sing like peacocks. 
I feel very low." 
" You had better go home," Lord Warburton said, without 
affectation. 
"And leave my young lady in this sad place ? Ah no, I 
must watch over her." 
" She seems to have plenty of friends." 
" Yes, that's why I must watch," said Ralph, with the same 
low-voiced mock-melancholy. 
" If she doesn't want you, it's probable she doesn't want me." 
" No, you are different. Go to the box and stay there while 
I walk about." 
Lord Warburton went to the box, where he received a very 
gracious welcome from the more attractive of its occupants. He 
exchanged greetings with Mr. Osmond, to whom he had been 
introduced the day before, and who, after he came in, sat very 
quietly, scarcely mingling in the somewhat disjointed talk in 
which Lord Warburton engaged with Isabel. It seemed to the 
latter gentleman that Miss Archer looked very pretty ; he even 
thought she looked excited ; as she was, however, at all timed 
a keenly-glancing, quickly-moving, completely animated young 
woman, he may have been mistaken on this point. Her talk 
with him betrayed little agitation ; it expressed a kindness so 
ingenious and deliberate as to indicate that she was in undis- 
turbed possession of her faculties. Poor Lord Warburton had 
moments of bewilderment. She had discouraged him, formally, 
as much as a woman could ; what business had she then to have 
such soft, reassuring tones in her voice? The others came back ; 
the bare, familiar, trivial opera began again. The box was large, 
aud there was room for Lord Warburton to remain if he would 
sit a little behind, in the dark. He did so for half-an-hour, 
while Mr. Osmond sat in front, leaning forward, with his elbows 
on his knees, just behind Isabel,, Lord Warburton heard nothing, 
and from his gloomy corner saw nothing but the clear profile 
of this young lady, denned against the dim illumination of the 
house. When there was another interval no one moved. Mr. 
Osmond talked to Isabel, and Lord Warburton remained in his 
corner. He did so but for a short time, however ; after which 
he got up and bade good-night to the ladies. Isabel said nothing 
to detain him, and then he was puzzled again. Why had she 
so sweet a voice such a friendly accent? He was angry with 
himself for being puzzled, and then angry for being angry. 
Verdi's music did little to comfort him, and he left the theatre 
and walked homeward, without knowing his way, through tiib 
tortuous, tragical streets of Rome, where heavier sorrows than 
his had been carried under the stars. 
" What is the character of that gentleman?" Osmond asked 
of Isabel, after the visitor had gone. 
" Irreproachable don't you see it ? " 
" He owns about half England; that's his character," Henrietta 
remarked. " That's what they call a free country ! " 
" Ah, he is a great proprietor ? Happy man ! " said Gilbert 
Osmond. 
" Do you call that happiness the ownership of human 
beings? " cried Miss Stackpole. " He owns his tenants, and he 
has thousands of them. It is pleasant to own something, but 
inanimate objects are enough for me. I don't insist on flesh 
and blood, and minds and consciences." 
" It seems to me you own a human being or two," Mr. 
Bantling suggested jocosely. " I wonder if Warburton orders 
his tenants about as you do me." 
" Lord Warburton is a great radical," Isabel said. " He has 
very advanced opinions." 
" He has very advanced stone walls. His park is inclosed 
 
by a gigantic iron fence, some thirty miles round," Henrietta 
announced, for the information of Mr. Osmond. " I should like 
him to converse with a few of our Boston radicals." 
" Don't they approve of iron fences ? " asked Mr. Bantling. 
" Only to shut up wicked conservatives. I always feel as if 
I were talking to you over a fence ! " 
"Do you know him well, this unreformed reformer ? ' 
Osmond went on, questioning Isabel. 
" Well enough." 
" Do you like him? " 
" Very much." 
" Is he a man of ability ? " 
" Of excellent ability, and as good as he looks." 
"As good as he is good-looking do you mean? He is very 
good-looking. How detestably fortunate ! to be a great English 
magnate, to be clever and handsome into the bargain, and, b 
way of finishing off, to enjoy your favour ! That's a man 
could envy." 
Isabel gave a serious smile. 
" You seem to me to be always envying some one. Yesterday 
it was the Pope ; to-day it's poor Lord Warburton." 
" My envy is not dangerous ; it is very platonic. "Why do 
you call him poor ? " 
" Women usually pity men after they have hurt them ; that 
is their great way of showing kindness," said Ralph, joining in 
the conversation for the first time, with a cynicism so trans- 
parently ingenious as to be virtually innocent. 
"Pray, have I hurt Lord Warburton 1" Isabel asked, raising 
her eyebrows, as if the idea were perfectly novel. 
" It serves him right if you have," said Henrietta, while the 
curtain rose for the ballet. 
Isabel saw no more of her attributive victim for the next 
twenty-four hours, but on the second day after the visit to the 
opera she encountered him in the gallery of the Capitol, where 
he was standing before the lion of the collection, the statue of 
the Dying Gladiator. She had come in with her companions, 
among whom, on this occasion again, Gilbert Osmond was 
numbered, and the party, having ascended the staircase, entered 
the first and finest of the rooms. Lord Warburton spoke to her 
with all his usual geniality, but said in a moment that he was 
leaving the gallery. 
"And I am leaving Koine," he added. "I should bid you 
good-bye." 
I shall not undertake to explain why, but Isabel was sorry to 
 
hear it. It was, perhaps, because she had ceased to be afraid 
of his renewing his suit ; she was thinking of something else. 
She was on the point of saying she was sorry, but she checked 
herself and simply wished him a happy journey. 
He looked at her with a somewhat heavy eye. 
" I am afraid you think me rather inconsistent," he said. " I 
told you the other day that I wanted so much to stay a while." 
"Oh no ; you could easily change your mind." 
" That's what I have done." 
" Bon voyage, then." 
" You're in a great hurry to get rid of me," said his lordship, 
rather dismally. 
" Not in the least. But I hate partings." 
" You don't care what I do," he went on pitifully. 
Isabel looked at him for a moment. 
" Ah," she said, " you are not keeping your promise ! " 
He coloured like a boy of fifteen. 
" If I am not, then it's because I can't ; and that's why I am 
going." 
"Good-bye, then." 
"Good-bye." He lingered still, however. "When shall I 
see you again? " 
Isabel hesitated, and then, as if she had had a happy inspira- 
tion " Some day after you are married." 
" That will never be. It will be after you are." 
" That will do as well," said Isabel, smiliDg. 
" Yes, quite as well. Good-bye." 
They shook hands, and he left her alone in the beautiful 
room, among the shining antique marbles. She sat down in the 
