pears he smiles and half says to himself, " An extremely 
piquant and deadly upright person. One might get 
quite a sensation of freshness out of her.' 
The maid comes in to spread up the sofa bed which 
she is to share with DoUy. She kindly asks if Miss 
Ormiston will have anything ; but Christmas replies in the 
negative. Then she closes the door, though she is glad 
not to shut out the sound, and feeling weary from excite- 
ment and her last nighf s broken slumbers, she throws 
herself down on the bed, and in ten minutes is in the 
unromantic but refreshing sleep of youth. 
Long past midnight Dolly rouses her. At first she can- 
not think where she is, and shivers with a sensation of 
being back at school. Dolly chatters, she has had such a 
glorious time. There is only one more year of govemess- 
ing, and no doubt Lu will be married. Lu has no such grand 
ideas as Helen, and means to look out for money. " Oh, 
wouldn't it be magnificent if she could catch St. George, 
since Helen must be counted out. And I'll have a clear 
deck and no end of fun ! " 
The last sound Christmas hears is her gay, chattering 
voice, you can hardly call it conversation. But it is morning 
before the last get to bed, and from nine to twelve there 
are relays of breakfast and guests departing. Christmas 
is formally invited down to luncheon. Her trunk has 
come and Dolly superintends her dressing, — choosing a 
soft olive cashmere only to find it dreadfully unbecoming. 
"But you have nothing else beside grays and browns," 
cries the girl in dismay. "Mrs. Treverton was not very 
lavish on y(mr wardrobe." 
 
 
 
Mrs. Allaire is gracious, and she is introduced to the 
family circle, but shrinks visibly into herself. Every one 
is too much engrossed to notice her ; even Ward is keep- 
ing up a rather brilliant flirtation with Miss Palmer. 
Through the afternoon the guests thin out still more, and 
on the succeeding day the Stannards and all the Allaires, 
save Dolly, go to the city. But Christmas has been given 
a pleasant room and learns that Miss Clement, the govern- 
ess, went home because her sister was ailing, and will not 
return until January. There is enough to entertain her. 
She explores the house, studies the pictures, dreams in 
the conservatory, and finds the library an inexhaustible 
treasure. Altogether she is very well satisfied. She has 
no unreasonable expectations of love ; indeed, these people 
are so different from the world in which she has lived 
that she wants to go slowly with them. Dolly is so vola- 
tile and inconsequent that Christmas is really tried with 
her, only she does lose herself for hours in a novel when 
there is peace and rest. 
Mrs. Allaire has dropped a little note to Mr. St. Greorge 
to say she desu*es to see him in the city. She has taken 
a suite of rooms at a hotel for convenience, as a country 
house would be rather awkward for a city wedding. 
Helen and her mother are very busy, though the bride 
elect does not go out. Lucia is delighted with errands 
and calls. The real work of the trousseau has ended, 
and there are only little things to buy and gifts to receive. 
Plans have been made. After a proper tour tiiey will 
spend two or three months in Washington, then return 
and go to housekeeping. Helen has a considerable for- 
tune, and Brower Stannard acquiesces in all her arrange- 
ments. 
Leighton St. Greorge has not seen her since she was a 
tall, slim, dignified girl. Her great characteristic, perhaps, 
was that elegant dignity. Now she is a very handsome 
woman, quiet, statuesque, reposeful, harmonious. He 
 
 
has always admired her, and he gives her the same admi- 
ration now ; but he wonders in his secret heart why she 
chose Mr. Stannard. He has some old-fashioned notions 
about love, though he has never tried it. He and his 
father have sufficed for the intimate companionship of 
life, and he does not speculate upon any woman, even 
Helen, with this sore grief at his heart. But he has a 
son's gratitude toward Mrs. Allaire for helping him in this 
awkward dilemma. Being trustee of an almost bankrupt 
estate can be borne with undaunted courage; but the 
guardianship of a young girl — of Christmas Ormiston 
— he finds intensely disagreeable. 
" I am used to girls, and I should have to keep Miss 
Clement another year for Dolly," explains Mrs.' Allaire. 
''It is most fitting that I should have charge of her. 
Then I shall introduce her into society" ; and she smiles 
with a sort of motherly content. " But must you live at 
Glen Ormiston, — bury yourself alive in such an out-of- 
the-world place ? " 
''It is better for the present. Donaldson needs me, 
and the matter requires the utmost attention as well as 
prudence. But I shall keep my roomc in the city. I 
have no mind to turn recluse. Then there is still a part 
of my father's estate to settle." 
" Leighton," her voice drops to that subtile, advisory 
cadence, " is it true that you used your private fortune in 
this wretched Ormiston business?" 
" It is true. I could not endure a breath of neglect to 
rest upon my father's memory. When I saw how his 
health disinclined him to perform his share of the duty, I 
should have taken it in hand. There was no check upon 
Treverton. His statements to us were the most absolute 
falsehoods. I blame myself for not suspecting. Yes, at 
any cost, I must redeem my trust." 
Ah, if she had a son like this I Her mother's heart was 
pierced by a secret pang. The manly integrity filled her 
 
 
 
with admiration, and yet she half hated that this nobleness 
should be laid at the feet of Christmas Ormiston. 
He wrote a brief note to his ward, expressing his regret 
that her journey should have prored so uncomfortable, 
and hoping that her pleasant home at the Allaires' would 
compensate for the trials of the past months. She might 
rest in the assurance that he would use his most faithful 
endeavors to restore the prosperity endangered by his neg- 
lect. 
On Christmas eve, at six o'clock. Miss Helen Allaire is 
married with all pomp and elegance, the bishop perform- 
ing the ceremony. The church is in its glad array of 
greenery and flowers, the music is perfect, the bridal cdr- 
tege imposing. That the church is crowded goes without 
saying, though it is a strict invitation wedding. The 
bride receives calls for the next two hours, and then takes 
the train to her new world, while the festivities still go on, 
Lucia being quite a little queen and Dolly enchanting. 
Even St. George has come in quietly and been welcomed 
so cordially by old friends that he could almost fancy his 
sorrow a dream. Mrs. Allaire remarks that he talks to 
Lucia considerably, and her secret heart rejoices. 
For several days they are full of midwinter gayety, then 
they return home. Ward is in the great law firm of Sea- 
bury Sd Crawford, who were friends of his father's. He 
is a very dilettante young man, with an income that suf- 
fices for a great part of his wants ; for the rest, he improv- 
idently draws upon his capital. He is up in the polite 
criticisms of the day, — art, music, literature ; occasion- 
ally he writes an article in a very superior vein. He gives 
elegant suppers, he goes into the best society, he is the 
pet of admiring mammas and sighing daughters. Some 
day he will marry a rich man's heiress, and by middle life 
get pushed to the front, somewhere. But, like Dolly, he 
is only intent upon the good time now. 
Christmas Ormiston grows to feel more at home in their 
 
 
absence than she would have in weeks of contact with 
these Allaires. They are not of her kind. Society, gay- 
ety, marriage, are not the great points to her life. She 
is, some way, to be a son to her father's memory, to make 
Glen Ormiston what he would like. Mrs. Treverton's 
reign has not implanted a love of pleasure in her soul, nor 
eradicated the curious sense of having her destiny marked 
out for her, — a destiny that is not the ordinary one of 
womenMnd. 
Mrs. Allaire and DoUy return on the last day of the old 
year. Lucia has still a round of visits on her list. Miss 
Clement reaches them on Saturday, and Christmas finds 
her not at all formidable. A fair, rather careworn woman 
of middle age, near sighted, and with a peculiar, careful 
step and motion, a low, pleasant voice with a slightly for- 
mal pronunciation, and an almost Quaker-like neatness in 
dress. She converses in French nearly altogether, Mrs. 
Allaire keeping up her girlhood's accomplishment for the 
sake of perfecting her daughters. 
Miss Clement finds her new pupil a great contrast to 
heedless, laughing Dolly. She is a little startled by 
her unusual attainments in some branches, and her notable 
deficiencies in others ; by her curious selection of books in 
reading, and her fearless discussions of what seems quite 
out of the domain of modem young-ladyhood. 
" One would think you were in training for a business 
woman," Miss Clement says one day, ratiier offended at 
her utterly practical manner. 
Christmas glances steadily at the fiowers in the carpet. 
Fine, delicate Miss Clement would be shocked at her 
plans. 
 
 
CHAFTEB IV. 
JL DUTT HEBBLT* 
It is early smnmer at Glen Onniston, the loveliest part 
of the whole year, if not the grandest. The old house 
stands on an elevation that slopes gently down to the 
road, leaving a spacious lawn between, with a winding 
gravelled drive and clumps of trees so placed as not to 
shut out the view. Camlsy lies in a sort of valley ; but 
looking over the town cne can see a succession of bold 
picturesque hills dotted here and there by farm-houses. 
There is a wide porch with French windows opening on it, 
one of the improvements of the Trevertons. Mrs. Donald- 
son is sitting in a roomy invalid chair, quite from force of 
habit, and St. George reclines indolently in a hammock, 
turning the leaves of a new art magazine. 
" How beautiful it aU is ! " Mrs. Donaldson says, in a. 
half -musing tone as her eye rests on the landscape. She 
is still exceedingly fragile, but there is every indication of 
returning health. Since the spring opened she had im- 
proved rapidly. 
" Yes," St. George replies. " And yet I was not im- 
pressed with it last autumn. I have been wondering at 
my blindness. Not a day, but I see marvellous points 
that tempt me to while away hours, and my friends 
upbraid me with my close confinement to business." 
He laughs lightly at this. 
''But you and Philip have confined yourselves day and 
night. I am glad to see you able to indulge in a few hours 
of luxurious idling. And you are really seeing your way 
«lear ahead." 
" Thanks to Philip, I never could have pulled through 
 
 
alone. My meeting him was the most fortonate thing in 
it all. Yes, we can retrieve some of the misfortunes if all 
goes well." 
" What is Miss Ormiston like?" Mrs. Donaldson asks 
quietly. 
St. George stares into vacancy. 
" I have been wondering if she did not consider herself 
coolly dispossessed when we came here." 
"Why, she could not have lived in this great house 
alone, and there was no money for servants or anything." 
" You think she is happy with her relatives? Does she 
fceem content?" 
"My dear Mrs. Donaldson, I am afraid Providence 
never intended me for a guardian. First, by neglect I 
Imperil my ward's fortune ; then, I am ashamed to say, not 
knowing how to get on with her, and having no special 
curiosity, I have not seen her since I put her in the train 
at Camley. Her cousin, Mrs. Allaire, I have met in the 
city; and at my one brief visit to Meadowcroft, Miss 
Ormiston was indisposed." 
" She ought to be very grateful to you." 
St. George makes a curious little gesture. " Isn't that 
a feminine way of looking at it?" he questions ; " a sort 
of romantic admiration instead of even-handed justice? 
Since Miss Ormiston's affairs came to grief through my 
neglect, it was clearly my duty to set them straight, if I 
could. It would have been dishonest, otherwise." 
" And you are thoroughly honest. I think simple integ- 
rity the crowning virtue of manhood. It would kill me to 
have Philip do some of the things that pass current in the 
world for shrewdness and ability. But we wander from 
Miss Ormiston. I was studying her portrait this morning. 
It is that of such a sad child, and I think her life has been 
far from happy. I was so ill last faU, you know, that I 
had no interest in a stranger. But if you approved, I 
should like to ask her here." 
 
 
 
St. George falls into a revery. " I am afraid yon will 
not like her," he says, at length. 
"Why?" 
" I cannot give you a good reason" ; and he smiles a 
little. "It is simply one of those fugitive impressions. 
I saw very little of her, it is true, and my duty is to culti- 
vate her, is it not? Well, suppose we, that is you, invite 
her here?" 
" Would you like it? " a little timidly. 
" What objection could I have? If I did not like her 
I could go away, you know. I hope there is no deadly feud 
between us. And I reaUy must go to Meadowcroft. I 
have been specially invited for the 20th, to meet Mrs. 
Stannard, and will take your message with pleasure." 
St. Greorge flushes a little, feeling that he has not told 
the exact truth. To please Mrs. Donaldson would be a 
delight to him ; but to have Miss Ormiston here — has he 
come to that, grudging her her own home ? 
He has kept a room here and somehow it has grown 
dear to him. Night after night he and Donaldson have 
spent hours in the library studying, planning, considering 
best and safest methods, enlargements, retrenchments. 
Business has not been quite the distasteful thing he 
fancied, or is it his friend's perseverance that inspires 
him? Of late there has been a little cessation, and he has 
set up his easel. Such exquisite bits of wood, such light 
and shade, such dim depths of fragrance, — ah, how he 
has revelled in it all I 
Will she not study them all with jealous eyes? He 
remembers her outbreak. 
Still, as a guardian, he owes her some duty. If this 
could only be relegated to some one else ; but he is not the 
man to shirk a clear responsibility, after all. Still he 
delays it until the very last moment, and reaches Meadow- 
croft to And the house full of guests, some of them old 
friends who greet him delightedly. There is just time to 
 
 
dress for dinner. Miss Ormiston does not appear, but 
Dolly comes down to the drawing-room in the evening. 
" Guess who is here ?" Dolly says, abruptly, as she finds 
Christmas reading in the school-room. " You should have 
come down. Learn to make the most of your opportuni- 
ties, my dear." 
"Any one of supreme importance?" Christmas asks 
indifferently. 
< ' How provoking you are I Importance I Yes, indeed. 
