madam," I replied. "If it were fine weather, we might run into Mosquito
Inlet; but that is seven hours' run from here."
"We shall all have our brains knocked out if we go on in this way,"
groaned Mrs. Shepard. "Can't you do something to make us more
comfortable, Captain Alick?"
"I can make you all quite comfortable in less than an hour," I
answered. "But our business just now is to overtake the Islander; and
if we delay the voyage we may never see her again."
"Plague on the Islander!" exclaimed the lady.
"I don't think there is any particular danger, ladies," interposed my
father. "It is altogether a matter of comfort."
"I don't want to have my brains knocked out," added Miss Edith.
"If we keep on we may know who has brains and who has not," laughed
Owen.
"I'm sure those who want to be thumped about in this manner haven't any
brains," continued Mrs. Shepard. "What can you do, Captain Alick?"
"We have just passed the entrance to St. Augustine harbor. We could run
back, and make a port there," I replied.
"Then do it, for mercy's sake," said the lady, as a heavy sea rolled
the steamer down to her gunwale.
"I should certainly have suggested doing so, if we had not been in
chase of the Islander."
"That need not make any difference, Captain Alick."
"The gale may last all night as well as all day, Alick," added my
father. "We are sailing for pleasure, and there is no pleasure in being
beaten about in this manner. I think you had better put about and get
us into smooth water."
I went on deck rather disappointed at the result of the conference, for
I was interested in the chase. I ordered the jib and mainsail to be
taken in, and the helm to be put down. The fog had lifted to the
northward and westward of us, so that I could see St. Augustine light
and the pilot-boat. We took up one of the pilots, and in less than half
an hour we were anchored under the lee of the town, where the water was
as smooth as that of a mill-pond.
Our party were not inclined to land, and we spent a pleasant afternoon
on board, in spite of the storm. We could see that it was blowing
almost a hurricane outside, and were quite contented to be at anchor.
CHAPTER IX.
A VISIT FROM AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE.
I could not help thinking of the Islander as we lay at anchor off the
pier in St. Augustine. As I looked at the angry billows outside, I
understood what kind of a time Captain Blastblow was having. But if he
handled his vessel well, and kept out of the breakers, I had no doubt
he would come out of the trial all right. The wind had hauled still
more to the southward, and even to the east of south. I was confident
that the Islander, having the wind nearly dead ahead, would not make
much headway against such a fierce wind.
About two o'clock in the afternoon, when we had finished our dinners,
both in the after and the forward cabin, I saw a boat put off from the
shore. The person in the stern sheets had a familiar look, though I did
not recognize him till he came on deck.
"I hope you are quite well, Captain Garningham," said he, advancing
towards me with extended hand.
It was Cornwood, who had been with us up the St. Johns in the double
capacity of guide and pilot, to say nothing of a third capacity as
conspirator. While I could not prove it, I was satisfied that he was
employed by Captain Boomsby to get me out of the way in some mild
manner. He had caused a drunken mulatto to be employed as a waiter in
the fore-cabin, who was another of the conspirators. But both of them
had been foiled; though, if my father had not arrived at the scene of
action when he did, I might not have been privileged to tell my story.
The waiter had been sentenced to a term as a convict, though Cornwood
had been his counsel.
I thought it was rather impudent of Cornwood to come on board of the
Sylvania after what had happened; but brass and impudence were the
principal elements of his stock-in-trade. He seemed to have as much
assurance as though his relations had been entirely pleasant with me.
He was a man of decided ability, though not as a lawyer. He knew more
about Florida than any other man I had met; and I had never known him,
in the month of my intimacy with him, to be ignorant of any subject,
from the navigation of an interior lake or river to the scientific name
of a plant or animal. In spite of the harm he had intended to do me,
through his agent, I had a great respect for his ability.
"You found it rough outside, Captain Garningham," said Cornwood, when
he had disposed of the commonplace introductories.
"Too rough for the ladies; and I came in here to find a smoother sea,"
I replied.
"The storm won't last long, as it comes from the southward," he added.
"When did you leave Jacksonville, Mr. Cornwood?" I asked, for I thought
I had seen him in the street the day before.
"I came up in the morning boat," he replied. "It is getting to be very
dull in Jacksonville, and I thought I might find something to do here,
for fishing and hunting parties often come to St. Augustine without
stopping at the city."
"We had some thought of trying the fish at Indian River as we went
along; but circumstances do not allow us to stop, and we shall run
direct for Key West. Was there anything new in regard to the robbery of
the bank messenger this morning?"
"I heard nothing. But your friend, Captain Boomsby, is in great
trouble," said Cornwood, smiling, as though the saloon-keeper's
trouble, whatever it was, could not produce a deep impression on his
late employé.
"What is the matter with the captain?" I asked, with interest.
"His son Nick has disappeared."
"Nick disappeared!" I exclaimed, not a little astonished.
"He cannot be found, though his father searched from six o'clock this
morning till the time I left."
"When did his father first miss him?"
"It appears that Nick tended bar till after midnight. The old man was
too full to sit up any longer, and he left Nick to close the bar. The
captain says his son did not sleep in the house last night, and he has
no idea when or where he went."
"Very likely he left in the first train this morning," I suggested,
recalling all that had passed between Nick and me the day before.
"No, he didn't, for his father went to the station, and passed through
the train just before it started. He did not leave by railroad, or come
up the river in the Hampton, or I should have seen him."
"Nick has something like sharpness, and he knew he could not get off on
the morning train. But he could have walked to Baldwin between the time
he closed the bar and nine o'clock, and taken the train there," I
added.
"I don't believe Nick walked twenty miles: he is too lazy to do
anything of the kind," added Cornwood, with a smile of incredulity.
"But he is not a great loss to his father; and he may make his way when
he is thrown on his own resources. There was another piece of news in
Jacksonville this morning."
"What was that?" I inquired.
"But I suppose you know more about this matter than any one in the
city. It was said that Colonel Shepard's yacht, in which he was going
to New Orleans, left without him or his family. Is that a fact?"
"It is true, to the letter," I replied. "I took the colonel and his
family on board of the Sylvania, and they are in the cabin now."
"That's very odd--that Captain Blastblow should leave without his
passengers," added Cornwood. "What does it mean?"
"That is more than any one on board of the Sylvania can explain."
"Was there any money on board of the yacht--I forget her name, though I
have heard you mention it several times?"
"The Islander: she is the twin-sister of the Sylvania, and as near like
her as one pin is like another," I answered. "I am not aware that there
was any money on board of her; and I should say there was not, for the
passengers had not sent their baggage on board."
"Does any one know where she is gone?"
"She is bound to the south, for we saw her off St. Johns' bar headed in
that direction. The pilots off the St. Augustine light saw her to-day
noon. We were chasing her when our passengers desired to get out of the
heavy sea."
"I should think Colonel Shepard would have some idea of the motives of
Captain Blastblow."
"He has no more idea than I have, and I have none. We are inclined to
believe that the captain misunderstood his orders, for Colonel Shepard
was in doubt whether or not he should be able to go up the Mississippi
with us. When the mail got in yesterday afternoon, he wrote a card with
his instructions to Captain Blastblow on it, and sent it off to the
Islander by Nick Boomsby, who happened to be talking to me in the
post-office at the time."
"Sent it off by Nick Boomsby," repeated Cornwood; but he did not appear
to be astonished. "How came Nick to be about at that time?"
I told my late guide and pilot all that passed between me and the son
of my ancient enemy, to which he listened with deep interest. He seemed
to be engaged in earnest thought all the time, as though Nick's
movements had some meaning to him, though not a particle to me. I told
him I was in Captain Boomsby's saloon to say good-by to him at the time
the robbery of the messenger occurred. He questioned me very minutely
in regard to the affair, and I told him all I knew about it.
"Buckner sent for me to act as his counsel; but I thought I could make
more by coming down here," added Cornwood. "I lost one case a few days
ago, and I don't care to lose another yet awhile."
Cornwood laughed as he alluded to his defence of Griffin Leeds, the
mulatto employed by him to do his bidding on our excursion to the
interior.
"Have you any doubt that Buckner is the man who robbed the messenger of
the four thousand dollars?" I asked, rather to bring him out than
because I valued his opinion in a detective case.
"Not the slightest in the world; but I should not be surprised to learn
that he gave Nick a hundred dollars, or something of that sort, to
clear out at just this time," replied Cornwood, easily.
"I don't see how that could have been," I protested. "Nick could not
have seen Buckner after the money was stolen, unless he visited him in
the lock-up."
"That was easily enough done."
"But some officer would have heard what passed between them. Besides,
Buckner had no money, for none was found upon him when he was
arrested."
"Buckner hid the money, but he stowed away enough to see him through
the trial. As the case now stands, they can't convict the man, for Nick
was the most important witness. He saw Buckner take the money. I have
no doubt Buckner will be discharged to-day," said Cornwood,
confidently.
"Was that the reason you would not act as his counsel?" I asked, for
the late pilot's statements seemed to be contradictory.
"What you have told me, Captain Garningham, entirely changes my
opinion. You were present, and you have told me exactly how the affair
happened. I supposed Peverell saw Buckner take the package. That makes
all the difference in the world in a court of law. No one saw Buckner
take the money, according to your evidence, except Nick. The supposed
robber was arrested down the wharf; he was searched, all the holes and
corners, including the river, were searched for the package, but it
could not be found. What evidence is there that Buckner took it?"
"I don't see any, except that of Nick Boomsby; and he don't tell his
story twice alike," I replied. "But, if Buckner did not take the money,
I can't see who did take it. I saw the messenger lay the package on the
counter; and the next thing I saw was Nick leaping over the counter."
"I don't say that Buckner did not take the package; on the contrary, I
believe he did take it; only there is not evidence enough to convict
him without Nick," argued Cornwood. "If I had known that Nick was to be
out of the way, I certainly should have taken the case, for a man who
has stolen four thousand dollars can afford to pay the lawyer well who
gets him out of the scrape."
I was disgusted with this logic, though it was perfectly consistent
with all I knew of the man. I did not care to say anything more about
the case.
"After hearing your version of the affair, Captain Garningham, I am
inclined to return to Jacksonville this afternoon, and offer my
services to the prisoner. When he gets out of jail he will have money
enough to pay me handsomely," chuckled the lawyer; "but perhaps I can
do something better if I can recover Colonel Shepard's lost
steam-yacht."
"Do you think you can recover it?" I asked, curiously.
"I am quite confident I can. I suppose you will sail as soon as the
weather will permit?" continued Cornwood.
"We shall. As I said, I am convinced that Captain Blastblow has simply
misunderstood his orders. I think he will proceed directly to New
Orleans, possibly touching at Key West."
"He will certainly put in at Key West; but he will probably be from ten
to twenty hours ahead of the Sylvania, and he will not wait for you. I
should like to see Colonel Shepard."
I called the colonel up from the cabin, and as it was raining in
torrents, I conducted him and the lawyer to my stateroom.
"For two hundred dollars--I can't work for nothing, and find myself,
though I should be glad to do so for Colonel Shepard--I will recover
and return your yacht to you at Key West, or at some point this side of
there; half down to pay my expenses, and half when the Islander is
delivered to you," said Cornwood.
"I haven't much confidence in you, Mr. Cornwood, and I don't care to
advance any money to you," replied the owner of the lost steamer.
"Quite natural, colonel. I will do it without any advance. But in half
an hour it will be too late to do anything," replied Cornwood, not at
all repelled by the colonel's lack of confidence in him. "I must be in
Cedar Keys to-morrow night; and I must be in Jacksonville this evening
in order to do it. I shall get to Key West Sunday morning, and find the
Islander there."
The plan was considered at length, and finally the colonel assented to
it, and wrote the instructions for Cornwood. He hastened on shore.
CHAPTER X.
INTELLIGENCE OF THE ISLANDER.
It rained very hard all the rest of the day and all night, and it
continued to blow heavily until the next morning. It was not till noon
that the ocean looked quiet enough to induce us to take ladies to sea
again, after the experience of the day before. We had lost twenty-four
hours, and if the Islander had not put in at some inlet, or made a lee
under Cape Canaveral, was half way to Key West. It was useless to think
of overtaking her on the passage, unless she had spent a day in
Mosquito Inlet.
Colonel Shepard's letter was addressed to Captain Blastblow, though it
was an open one, directing him to await the arrival of the Sylvania at
Key West. I had no faith in Cornwood; but I was willing to believe he
thought he could intercept the Islander at Key West, or he would not
have gone on a "wild-goose chase" at his own expense. If he recovered
the steam-yacht he would get two hundred dollars for his services; if
he failed, he would get nothing. So far as I could see, no risk was
incurred by the colonel in allowing the Floridian to go on this
mission.
The weather was delightful after we got outside of the harbor of St.
Augustine. The wind was west, and the air was as balmy as summer. We
placed easy-chairs on the quarter-deck for the ladies. The long swells
of the ocean gave a steady and regular roll to the vessel. The party
declared that the sail was "perfectly delightful," and they did not see
how the sea could be so angry and savage as it had been the day before.
The mate noted the departure from St. Augustine light at half-past
twelve. I had a chart laid out on my table in the stateroom, on which I
had marked the route of the vessel to Key West, with the courses and
distances, in red ink. It was our rule to heave the lead every hour,
though the Sylvania made a regular average of ten knots an hour when
she was not hurried. When we came to a point of land, or any opening in
the coast, we could tell what it was.
According to the Coast Pilot, which was always kept on the shelf, by
the side of the binnacle, it was eighty-five miles to Cape Canaveral.
In just eight hours and a half, if we made our ordinary speed, we
should be abreast of this cape. We kept as close to the coast as the
depth of water would permit, for there were no shoals or other dangers
to fear. If we went out far enough, we should have the current of the
Gulf Stream against us.
As soon as we were fairly on our course I began to think over the
mission of Cornwood. I had no doubt that he was a rascal. I considered
whether or not it would be possible for him to do me or Colonel Shepard
any harm, on the one hand, or any good on the other. He had received no
money, and was to receive none until he earned it.
He was to arrive at Key West on Sunday morning. The Sylvania would not
be likely to reach the same port before Sunday noon. If the Islander
had kept on her course during the twenty-four hours we had been at
anchor, she would be likely to reach Key West on Saturday afternoon. I
did not know that she had any occasion to put in there at all; if she
had, she was not likely to remain there many hours. If the Islander had
not put in at any port during the storm, Cornwood would not arrive at
his destination until after she had departed.
The interesting question was whether she had or had not made a port in
the storm. If I had had no ladies on board, I should not have thought
of such a thing as going into St. Augustine on account of the bad
weather. Captain Blastblow, according to his own statement, was a
thorough seaman, and, judging by my own feelings, it was not probable
that he had made a port.
But I was not quite satisfied on this point, and I had not so much
confidence in the captain of the Islander as he seemed to have in
himself. Our chart indicated only one port where he could have gone in,
and that was Mosquito Inlet, which had hardly water enough at high tide
to allow the Islander to run through the narrow passage that leads from
Hillsboro River out into the ocean. The inlet is sixty-five miles from
St. Augustine light.
The town of New Smyrna is two or three miles up Hillsboro River,
between which and St. Augustine and Jacksonville a small steamer plies
