of an Average American belongs to the Events." 
They had their laugh at this, and then Bicker said 
to Kinney : " But look here, my friend ! What 's to 
prevent our interviewing you on this little personal 
history of yours, and using your material any way 
we like ? It seems to me that you 've put your head 
in the lion 's mouth." 
" Oh, I 'm amongst gentlemen," said Kinney, with 
 " I understand that." 
 
" Well, I don 't know about it," said Packer. " Hub- 
bard, here, is used to all sorts of hard names ; but 
I 've never had that epithet applied to me before." 
Kinney doubled himself up over the side of his 
chair in recognition of Flicker 's joke ; and when Bart- 
ley rose and asked him if he would come into the parlor 
and have a cigar, he said, with a wink, no, he guessed 
he would stay with the ladies. He waited with 
great mystery till the folding-doors were closed, and 
Bartley had stopped peeping through the crevice be 
tween them, and then he began to disengage from 
his watch-chain the golden nugget, shaped to a rude 
sphere, which hung there. This done, he asked if lie 
might put it on the little necklace a christening gift 
from Mrs. Halleck which the baby had on, to see 
how it looked. It looked very well, like au old Eo- 
man lolla, though neither Kinney nor Marcia knew 
it. " Guess we 'll  let it stay there," he suggested, 
timidly. 
" Mr. Kinney ! " cried Marcia, iu amaze, " I can 't 
let you ! " 
" Oh, do now, ma am ! " pleaded the big fellow, sim 
ply. " If you knew how much good it does me, you 
would. Why, it 's been like heaven to me to get 
into such a home as this for a day, it has indeed." 
" Like heaven ? " said Marcia, turning pale. " Oh, 
my I " 
" Well, I don 't mean any harm. What I mean is, 
I 've knocked about the world so much, and never 
had any home of my own, that to see folks as happy 
as you be makes me happier than I 've been since I 
don 't know when. Now, you let it stay. It was the 
first piece of gold I picked up in Californy when 
I went out there in 50, and it 's about the last ; 
I didn 't have very good luck. Well, of course ! I 
know I ain 't fit to give it ; but I want to do it. I 
think Bartley 's about the greatest fellow and he 's 
 
the best fellow this world can show. That 's the way 
I feel about him. And I want to do it. Sho ! the 
thing wan 't no use to me ! " 
Marcia always gave her maid of all work Sunday 
afternoon, and she would not trespass upon her rule 
because she had guests that day. Except for the 
confusion to which Kinney 's unexpected gift had 
put her, she would have waited for him to join the 
others before she began to clear away the dinner ; 
but now she mechanically began, and Kinney, to 
whom these domestic occupations were a second na 
ture, joined her in the work, equally absent-minded 
in the fervor of his petition. 
Hartley suddenly flung open the doors. " My dear, 
Mr. Packer says he must be go " He discovered 
Marcia with the dish of potatoes in her hand, and 
Kinney in the act of carrying off the platter of tur 
key. " Look here, Ricker ! " 
Kinney came to himself, and, opening his mouth 
above the platter wide enough to swallow the 're 
mains of the turkey, slapped his leg with the hand 
that he released for the purpose, and shouted, " The 
ruling passion, Bartley, the ruling passion ! " 
The men roared ; but Marcia, even while she took 
in the situation, did not see anything so ridiculous in 
it as they. She smiled a little in sympathy with 
their mirth, and then said, with a look and tone 
which he had not seen or heard in her since the day 
of their picnic at Equity, " Come, see what Mr. Kin 
ney has given baby, Bartley." 
They sat up talking Kinney over after he was gone ; 
but even at ten o clock Bartley said he should not 
go to bed ; he felt like writing. 
 
XXIX. 
BARTLEY lived well now. He felt that he could 
afford it, on fifty dollars a week ; and yet somehow lie 
had always a sheaf of unpaid bills on hand. Kent 
was so much, the butcher so much, the grocer so 
much ; these were the great outlays, and he knew 
just what they were ; but the sum total was always 
much larger than he expected. At a pinch, he bor 
rowed ; but he did not let Marcia know of this, for 
she would have starved herself to pay the debt; 
what was worse, she would have wished him to 
starve with her. He kept the purse, and he kept the 
accounts ; he was master in his house, and he meant 
to be so. 
The pinch always seemed to come in the matter 
of clothes, and then Marcia gave up whatever she 
wanted, and said she must make the old things do. 
Hartley hated this ; in his position he must dress 
well, and, as there was nothing mean about him, he 
wished Marcia to dress well to. Just at this time he 
had set his heart on her having a certain sacque 
which they had noticed in a certain window one day 
when they were on Washington Street together. He 
surprised her a week later by bringing the sacque 
home to her, and he surprised himself with a sealskin 
cap which he had long coveted : it was coming win 
ter, now, and for half a dozen days of the season he 
would really need the cap. There would be many 
days when it would be comfortable, and many others 
when it would be tolerable ; and he looked so hand- 
 
some in it that Marcia herself could not quite feel 
that it was an extravagance. She asked him how 
they could afford both of the tilings at once, but lie 
answered with easy mystery that he had provided 
the funds ; and she went gayly round with him to 
call on the Hallecks that evening and show off her 
sacque. It was so stylish and pretty that it won her 
a compliment from Ben Halleck, which she noticed 
because it was the first compliment, or anything like 
it, that he had ever paid her. She repeated it to 
Bartley. " He said that I looked like a Hungarian 
princess that he saw in Vienna." 
" Well, I suppose it has a hussar kind of look with 
that fur trimming and that broad braid. Did any 
body say anything about my cap ? " asked Bartley 
with burlesque eagerness. 
" Oh, poor Bartley ! " she cried in laughing triumph. 
"I don 't believe any of them noticed it; and you 
kept twirling it round in your hands all the time to 
make them look." 
" Yes, I did my level best," said Bartley. 
They had a jolly time about that. Marcia was 
proud of her sacque ; when she took it off and held 
it up by the loop in the neck, so as to realize its pret- 
tiness, she said she should make it last three winters 
at least ; and she leaned over and gave Bartley a 
sweet kiss of gratitude and affection, and told him 
not to try to make up for it by extra work, but to 
help her scrimp for it. 
" I d rather do the extra work," he protested. In 
fact he already had the extra work done. It was 
something that he felt he had the right to sell out 
side of the Events, and he carried his manuscript to 
Rickerand offered it to him for his Sunday edition. 
Ricker read the title and ran his eye down the first 
slip, and then glanced quickly at Hubbard. " You 
don 't mean it ? " 
 
" Yes I do," said Bartley. " Why not ? " 
" I thought he was going to use the material him 
self some time." 
Bartley laughed. " He use the material ! Why, he 
can 't write, any more than a hen ; he can make tracks 
on paper, but nobody would print em, much less buy 
em. I know him ; he 's all right. It wouldn 't 
hurt the material for his purpose, any way j.aml he 'll  
be tickled to death when he sees it. If he ever does. 
Look here, Kicker ! " added Bartley, with a touch of 
anger at the hesitation in his friend 's lace, " if you 're 
going to spring any conscientious scruples on me, I 
prefer to olfer my manuscript elsewhere. I give you 
the first chance at it ; but it needn 't go begging. Do 
you suppose I d do this if I didn 't understand the 
man, and know just how he d take it ? " 
" Why, of course, Hubbard ! I beg your pardon. 
If you say it 's all right, I am bound to be satisfied. 
What do you want for it ? " 
" Fifty dollars." 
" That 's a good deal, isn 't it ? " 
"Yes, it is. But I can 't afford to do a dishonorable 
tiling for less money," said Bartley, with a wink. 
The next Sunday, when Marcia came home from 
church, she went into the parlor a moment to speak 
to Bartley before she ran upstairs to the baby. He 
was writing, and she put her left hand on his back 
while with her right she held her sacque slung over 
her shoulder by the loop, and leaned forward with a 
wandering eye on the papers that strewed the table. 
In that attitude he felt her pause and grow absorbed, 
and then rigid ; her light caress tightened into a grip. 
" Why, how base ! How shameful ! That man shall 
never enter my doors again ! Why, it 's stealing ! " 
" What 's the matter ? What are you talking 
about ? " Bartley looked up with a frown of prepa 
ration. 
 
" This ! " cried Marcia, snatching up the Chronicle- 
Abstract, at which she had been looking. " Haven 't 
you seen it ? Here 's Mr. Kinney 's life all written 
out ! And when he said that he was going to keep 
it and write it out himself. That thief has stolen 
it!" 
" Look out how you talk," said Bartley. " Kinney 's 
an old fool, and he never could have written it out in 
the world " 
" That makes no difference. He said that he told 
the things because he knew he was among gentlemen. 
A great gentleman Mr. Eicker is ! And I thought 
he was so nice  " The tears sprang to her eyes, 
which Hashed again. " I want you to break off with 
him, Bartley ; I don 't want you to have anything to 
do with such a thief! And I shall be proud to tell 
everybody that you 've broken off with him because he 
was a thief. Oh, Bartley 
" Hold your tongue ! " shouted her husband. 
" I won 't hold my tongue ! And if you defend " 
" Don 't you say a word against Ricker. It 's all 
right, I tell you. You don 't understand such things. 
You don 't know what you 're talking about. I I 
I wrote the thing myself." 
He could face her, but she could not face him. 
There was a subsidence in her proud attitude, as if 
her physical strength had snapped with her breaking 
spirit. 
" There 's no theft about it," Bartley went on. 
" Kinney would never write it out, and if he did, 
I 've put the material in better shape for him here 
than he could ever have given it. Six weeks from 
now  nobody will remember a word of it ; and lie 
could tell the same things right over again, and they 
would be just as good as new  ." He w r ent on to argue 
the point. 
She seemed not to have listened to him. When 
 
he stopped, she said, in a quiet, passionless voice, " I 
suppose you wrote it to get money for this sacque." 
" Yes ; I did," replied Bartley. 
She dropped it on the floor at his feet. " I shall 
never wear it again," she said in the same tone, and 
a little sigh escaped her. 
" Use your pleasure about that," said Bartley, sit 
ting down to his writing again, as she turned and left 
the room. 
She went upstairs and came down immediately, 
with the gold nugget, which she had wrenched from 
the baby 's necklace, and laid it on the paper before 
him. " Perhaps you would like to spend it for tivoli 
beer," she suggested. " Flavia shall not wear it." 
" I 'll  get it fitted on to my watch-chain." Bartley 
slipped it into his waistcoat pocket. 
The sacque still lay on the floor at his feet ; he 
pulled his chair a little forward and put his feet on 
it. He feigned to write awhile longer, and then he 
folded up his papers, and went out, leaving Marcia 
to make her Sunday dinner alone. When he came 
home late at night, he found the sacque where she 
had dropped it, and with a curse he picked it up and 
hung it on the hat-rack in the hall. 
He slept in the guest-chamber, and at times during 
the night the child cried in Marcia 's room and waked 
him ; and then he thought he heard a sound of sob 
bing which was not the child s. In the morning, 
when he came down to breakfast, Marcia met him 
with swollen eyes. 
" Bartley," she said tremulously, " I wish you would 
tell me how you felt justified in writing out Mr. 
Kinney 's life in that way." 
" My dear," said Bartley, with perfect amiability, 
for he had slept off his anger, and he really felt sorry 
to see her so unhappy, " I would tell you almost any 
thing you want on any other subject ; but I think we 
 
had better remand that one to the safety of silence, 
and go upon the general supposition that I know 
what I 'm about." 
"I can t, Bartley !" 
" Can 't you ? Well, that 's a pity." He pulled his 
chair to the breakfast-table. "It seems to me that 
girl 's imagination always fails her on Mondays. Can 
she never give us anything but hash and corn-bread 
when she 's going to wash ? However, the coffee 's 
good. I suppose you made it ? " 
" Bartley ! " persisted Marcia, " I want to believe in 
everything you do, I want to be proud of it : 
" That will be difficult," suggested Bartley, with an 
air of thoughtful impartiality, " for the wife of a news 
paper man." 
" No, no ! It needn 't be ! It mustn 't be! If you 
will only tell me She stopped, as if she feared 
to repeat her offence. 
Bartley leaned back in his chair and looked at her 
intense face with a smile. " Tell you that in some 
way I had Kinney 's authority to use his facts? Well, 
I should have done that yesterday if you had let me. 
In the first place, Kinney 's the most helpless ass in 
the world. He could never have used his own facts. 
In the second place, there was hardly anything in his 
rigmarole the other day that he hadn 't told me down 
there in the lumber camp, with full authority to use 
it in any way I liked ; and I don 't see how he could 
revoke that authority. That 's the way I reasoned 
about it." 
"I see, I see !" said Marcia, with humble eagerness. 
" Well, that 's all there is about it. What I 've  
done can 't hurt Kinney. If he ever does want to 
write his old facts out, he 'll  be glad to lake my 're 
port of them, and spoil it," said Bartley, ending 
