"If you can't stand it," said Bradley, "sit down, if you want to."
Thus far, Richard Dewey had remained silent, but he wished to
participate in the defence of their property if there should be need,
and of course must be released first.
"Jake," said he, "these fellows have tied me hand and foot. They
couldn't have done it if I had not been partially disabled. Send in Ki
Sing to cut the cords."
"They dared to tie you?" said Bradley, sternly.--"Mosely, what was that
for?"
"To remove one obstacle in the way of plunder," Dewey answered for them.
"They're not only hoss-thieves, but thieves through and through. Since
they tied you, they must untie you.--Mosely, go and cut the cords."
"I am not a slave to be ordered round," returned Mosely, haughtily.
"What are you, then?"
"A gentleman."
"Then you'll be a dead gentleman in less than a minute if you don't do
as I tell you."
As he spoke he drew out his revolver and levelled it at Mosely.
The latter turned pale. "Don't handle that we'pon so careless,
stranger," he said. "It might go off."
"So it might--as like as not," answered Bradley, calmly.
"Put it up," said Mosely, nervously.--"Tom, just cut them cords."
"Tom, you needn't do it.--Mosely, you're the man for that duty. Do you
hear?"
Bill Mosely hesitated. He didn't like to yield and be humiliated before
the man over whom he had retained so long an ascendency.
"You'd better be quick about it," said Bradley, warningly. "This here
we'pon goes off terrible easily. I don't want to shoot you, but there
might be an accident. I've killed twenty-one men with it already. You'll
be the twenty-second."
That was hint enough. Pride gave way, and Bill Mosely knelt down and cut
the cords which confined Dewey, and the invalid, with a sense of relief,
sat up on his pallet and watched the conference.
"There! are you satisfied?" asked Mosely, sullenly.
"It'll do as far as it goes, Mosely," said Bradley. "I wouldn't advise
you to try any more of them tricks."
He lowered his weapon, and was about to replace it, when Mosely, who had
made a secret sign to his companion, sprang forward simultaneously with
Tom Hadley and seized the intrepid Bradley.
The attack was sudden, and also unexpected, for Bradley had such a
contempt for the prowess of William Mosely that he had not supposed him
capable of planning or carrying out so bold an attack. It must be
admitted that he was taken at disadvantage, and might have been
temporarily overpowered, for Tom Hadley was strong, and Mosely, though a
coward, was nerved by desperation.
Richard Dewey saw his friend's danger, but, unhappily, he had no weapon
at hand.
But help was not long in coming.
Concealed by the walls of the cabin, Ben had heard all that had been
said, and observed the attack upon his comrade.
He did not hesitate a moment, but sprang forward and showed himself at
Bradley's side.
"Let him go, or I'll shoot," he exclaimed in a tone of command, pointing
at Mosely the twin brother of the revolver which Bradley owned.
"Confusion!" ejaculated Mosely, in fresh dismay.
"Let go," repeated Ben, firmly.
Bill Mosely released Bradley, and the latter threw off the grasp of Tom
Hadley.
"Now," said he, as standing side by side with Ben he confronted the two
thieves, "shall we shoot?"
"No, no," said Mosely, nervously.
"Serve you right if we did. So you thought you'd got me, did you? You
didn't know about Ben, there. He ain't half your size, but he's got
twice the courage.--Ben, what shall we do with them?"
Bill Mosely turned toward Ben, anxious to hear what our hero would say.
He was entirely in the power of the two friends, as he realized.
"Serve them as they served Ki Sing," suggested Ben.
"That's a good idea, that is!--Here, you two rascals, trot out here."
Following directions, the two men emerged from the cabin and stood on
one side of the doorway, feeling that they would gladly be in some other
part of California at that precise moment.
"Mosely, do you see that tree?"
"Yes."
"Go to it."
Bill Mosely slowly and unwillingly proceeded to do as he was told.
"Ki Sing," said Jake Bradley to the Chinaman, who was standing near at
hand, his face wearing a bland and contented smile, "have you any cord
in your pocket?"
"Yes," answered the Celestial.
"Tie that man to the tree."
Ki Sing approached to follow instructions, when Bill Mosely shouted,
"I'll brain you, you yaller heathen, if you dare to touch me!"
"Just as you say, squire," said Bradley, nonchalantly raising his
revolver; "if you'd prefer to be shot I'm a very accommodatin' man, and
I'll oblige you. I guess it'll be better, as we'll save all trouble."
"Stop! stop!" cried Mosely, in dismay. "He can tie me."
"You've changed your mind. I thought you would," said Bradley.--"Ki
Sing, go ahead."
With native dexterity, and not without a feeling of satisfaction easily
understood under the circumstances, Ki Sing proceeded to tie his former
captor, but present captive, to a stout sapling.
"Is it strong?" asked Bradley.
"Velly stlong," answered the Chinaman, with a satisfied look.
"That's good.--Now, Tom, it's your turn. There's your tree! Annex
yourself to it."
Tom Hadley saw the futility of resistance, and quietly allowed himself
to be confined in the same manner as his companion.
When both were thus disposed of Jake Bradley turned to the Chinaman:
"Now, Ki Sing, let us have some supper as soon as possible. We've been
doin' considerable business, Ben and I, and we're as hungry as
bears.--Good-night, Mosely. Hope you'll have a good night's rest!"
"You are not going to leave us here all night, are you?" said Bill
Mosely, uneasily.
"That's just what I'm goin' to do. I'll let you go in the mornin' if you
behave yourself. Still, if you'd rather be shot I can accommodate you."
"What a bloodthirsty brute!" ejaculated the unhappy Mosely as Bradley
disappeared within the doorway.
"I should say so!" echoed Tom Hadley from the other tree.
CHAPTER X.
"THE BEST OF FRIENDS MUST PART."
Mosely and his companion continued in captivity through the night. Some
of my readers may consider the punishment a severe one, and it must be
admitted that it was attended with no small share of discomfort. But for
that time it was an exceedingly mild penalty for the offence which the
two men had committed. In the early days of California, theft was
generally punished in the most summary manner by hanging the culprit
from a limb of the nearest tree, and that, in the majority of cases,
would have been the fate of Bill Mosely and Tom Hadley.
But neither Bradley nor Ben was willing to go to such extremes. Jake
Bradley had had rough experiences, and he was no soft-hearted
sentimentalist, but he had a natural repugnance to taking the life of
his fellow-creatures.
"Money," he said on one occasion to Ben, "ain't to be measured ag'in a
man's life. I don't say I wouldn't kill a man for some things, though I
should hate to mightily, but it wouldn't be on account of robbery. I
wouldn't have a man's blood on my conscience for such a thing as that."
It is needless to say that our young hero, whose heart was warm and
humane, agreed fully with his older companion.
When the two friends got up in the morning and went out of the cabin,
they found their two captives in the same position in which they had
left them. They looked weary and were stiff in the limbs, as well they
might be.
"Well, my friends," said Bradley, "I hope you've passed a pleasant
night."
"I'm almost dead," growled Bill Mosely. "I feel as if I'd been here a
week."
"Do you feel the same way?" inquired Bradley, addressing Tom Hadley.
"I should say so," answered Hadley, in a voice of intense disgust.
"It was your own choice, Mosely," said Jake Bradley. "It was either all
night braced up against a tree, or to be shot at once and put out of
your misery."
"Who wants to be shot?" returned Mosely. "That would be worse than
stayin' here all night. You might have let us go last night."
"So I might, but I wanted to teach you a lesson. You know very well,
Bill Mosely, you'd have fared a good deal worse with some men. You'd
have been swingin' from the nearest bough, and so would your friend.
You'll come to that some time, but I'd rather some one else would hang
you. It ain't a job I hanker after."
"Are you goin' to set us free?" asked Mosely, impatiently, not enjoying
Bradley's prediction as to his future fate.
"Yes, I think I will--on one condition."
"Go ahead! I'll agree to anything."
"That you'll leave this part of California and not come back. I don't
want you to cross my path ag'in."
"You can bet I don't mean to," said Mosely; and there is no doubt he was
entirely in earnest.
"Do you make the same promise, Tom?" asked Bradley, turning to Hadley.
"I should say so," returned Hadley; and there is no reason to doubt his
sincerity also.
"You see, my friends, you don't appear to know the difference between
your property and mine, particularly when it comes to hosses. It is an
unfortunate little peculiarity of yours that will bring your life to an
untimely end some of these days. If you should ever reform and set up as
respectable men, I might be willin' to know you, but there's about as
much chance of that, accordin' to my reckonin', as of water runnin' up
hill."
While he was expressing himself thus he was cutting the cords of his
prisoners, and they took the first chance to stretch their cramped
limbs.
"Feel better, don't you?" asked Bradley, smiling.
"I should say so," answered Hadley.
"Couldn't you give us something to eat?" asked Mosely; "I haven't eaten
a mouthful since yesterday noon, and I feel faint."
"Ki Sing," said Bradley, "bring out some victuals. These men are not
particular friends of mine, but we won't send them away hungry. I've
known what it is to fast for thirty-six hours at a stretch, and I
understand how it feels."
Ki Sing brought out some cold meat and other plain food, which the two
adventurers ate as if they were famished. Their long fast and exposure
during the night had sharpened their appetites and lent a keener zest to
their enjoyment of the meal.
When they had finished Jake Bradley pointed down the mountain. "You've
had your breakfast," he said, "and now there is only one thing more. I
want to see you travel."
Bill Mosely looked askance at the two mustangs, which were tied only a
few rods off.
Jake Bradley caught the direction of his glance. "It's no go, my
friend," he said. "You don't borrow our mustangs this time. We shall
have occasion to use them ourselves. It won't do you any harm to try
your own legs for a while."
Bill Mosely wasn't easily abashed. He was lazy, and the prospect of
tramping all day was by no means agreeable to him. Thanks to his last
robbery, he and his companion were tolerably well supplied with
gold-dust, which was a common circulating medium in California at that
time. An idea struck him, which he lost no time in carrying out. "What
value do you set on them horses?" he asked.
"What makes you ask?" inquired Jake Bradley, with some curiosity.
"We'll buy 'em if you'll take a fair price."
"Buy our mustangs! Have you got the money?"
"We've got gold-dust."
"Where did you get it? I'll warrant you didn't work for it."
"That's our business," answered Mosely, stiffly. "The question is, Do
you want to sell?"
"No, I don't; and if I did I should want to know whose money I was
takin'."
Bill Mosely was disappointed. In that lonely neighborhood it was hardly
likely there would be any other opportunity of obtaining horses, and
there was nothing for it but to walk.
"You haven't got any other business, have you, Mosely?" asked Bradley.
"No.--Tom, come on."
"Good-bye, then. Our acquaintance has been brief, Mosely, but I know
you as well as if we'd lived in the same town for years. You're a fine
man, you are, and an ornament to your native State; but if you ain't a
little more careful you'll be likely to die young, and the world will
lose a man who in his line can't be beat."
Bill Mosely did not attempt any reply to this farewell, but strode down
the sloping path, closely followed by Tom Hadley.
When he had got out of hearing of his late captors he turned to Hadley
and said, "I hate that man! He has put a stain on my honor; he has
insulted and outraged me."
"I should say so," observed Tom Hadley.
"He has treated you just as badly, Hadley; that stain must be washed out
in blood."
"When?" inquired his companion, in a matter-of-fact manner.
"I don't know. Some time. He has had the advantage over us this time,
but we shall meet again. Do you hear that, Tom Hadley?" continued
Mosely, in a theatrical tone, raising his voice at the same time--"we
shall meet again."
"I don't want to meet him again," said Hadley.
"You don't comprehend me. When we meet it will be our turn to deal with
him."
"Just as you say," returned Tom Hadley, varying his usual formula.
"It's very unlucky we went up to that cabin," said Bill, after a pause.
"I should say so," chimed in Tom, very emphatically.
"It was cursed ill-luck, but how could we know that that dare-devil was
a friend of Dewey's? If we'd let well enough alone, we shouldn't have
lost our horses and been compelled to tramp on foot over these
mountains."
"Where are we going?" asked Tom Hadley.
"Down hill," answered Mosely briefly.
This answer did not appear to Tom Hadley to contain much information,
but his mind was not active enough to frame another question, and the
two plodded along in silence.
CHAPTER XI.
PLANS FOR DEPARTURE.
The recovery of the horses was in one respect especially fortunate.
Richard Dewey was anxious to leave the mountain-cabin as soon as
possible and make his way to San Francisco, where, as we know, his
promised wife was anxiously awaiting him. But there was considerable
danger that his ankle, which had been severely sprained, would not be in
a condition for travelling for a considerable time yet. The rough
mountain-paths would have tried it, and perhaps a second sprain would
have resulted.
Now, however, he would be able to ride on one of the horses, and need
not walk at all if he pleased.
This idea occurred to Jake Bradley, who suggested it to Richard Dewey.
Dewey's face brightened up, for he was secretly chafing over the delay
made necessary by his accident. "But, my friend," he said, "it would be
selfish in me to take your horse and leave you to go on foot."
"Look here, Dick Dewey," said Bradley: "what do you take me for? Do you
think I'm so delicate I can't walk? I wasn't brought up in no such way.
I can do my regular share of trampin', whether on the prairie or on the
mountain. I ain't no tender-foot."
"I don't doubt your strength and endurance, friend Bradley," said Dewey,
"but a man doesn't always like to do what he is fully able to do."
"Then we needn't say no more about it. There's a gal--I beg your pardon,
a young lady--in 'Frisco that's pinin' to see you, Dick Dewey, and that
hoss'll get you there sooner'n if you waited till you could walk."
"I am too selfish to resist your arguments, my good friend," said Dewey.
"I think I can venture to start within a week, as I am to ride."
"No doubt of it."
"You'd better let me buy your horse, and then if we don't meet again,
or anything happens to it, you won't be the loser."
"'If we don't meet again'?" repeated Bradley, puzzled. "You don't mean
to say you are goin' to set out alone?"
"I don't want to take you and Ben away from your claim. It isn't half
exhausted yet."
"Then let somebody else exhaust it," returned Bradley. "You don't
suppose, Dick, we are goin' to let you go off alone?"
"I shall not be alone. My faithful attendant, Ki Sing, will be with me."
"And what good would Ki Sing be in case you fell in with a grizzly? I
want to know that," asked Bradley. "I don't say anything against the
heathen; he's squarer than many a white man I've met with, and he's
worth a dozen such men as Bill Mosely and Tom Hadley; but, all the same,
he wouldn't be much in a scrimmage. Them Chinamen are half women,
accordin' to my reckonin'. They look like it and speak like it. No, Ben
and I go when you do, and the first man that comes along is welcome to
the claim."
"I shall certainly be delighted to have you both with me," said Richard
Dewey. "You're a good fellow, Jake Bradley, and I trust you more than
any man I have met since I came to California. Ben acted as escort to
Florence, and I owe him a debt for that which I hope some day to repay."
"Then it's all fixed," said Bradley, in a tone of satisfaction. "We four
are to keep together till we see you within reach of 'Frisco. When you
and your young lady meet you won't need us any more."
Richard Dewey smiled. "Florence will wish to thank you for your kind
care of me, Bradley," he said.
"I've no objection to that. You can invite me to the weddin', Dick."
"I give you that invitation now, and hope you may not have long to wait
for the occasion. All difficulties are not yet removed, but I hope they
