intended to be seen only by those near and dear to him. The prevailing
thought is a striking one. Here are the verses:
    “The staff on which my years should lean
      Is broken ere those years come’ o’er me;
    My funeral rites thou shouldst have seen,
      But thou art in the tomb before me.
    “Thou rear’st to me no filial stone,
      No parent’s grave with tears beholdest;
    Thou art my ancestor—my son!
      And stand’st in Heaven’s account the oldest.
    “On earth my lot was soonest cast,
      Thy generation after mine;
    Thou hast thy predecessor passed,
      Earlier eternity is thine.
    “I should have set before thine eyes
      The road to Heaven, and showed it clear;
    But thou, untaught, spring’st to the skies,
      And leav’st thy teacher lingering here.
    “Sweet seraph, I would learn of thee,
      And hasten to partake thy bliss!
    And, oh! to thy world welcome me,
      As first I welcomed thee to this.”
But a still heavier bereavement was in store, though it was delayed
for some years. In the summer of 1827 the health of Mrs. Webster began
to fail, and from that time she steadily declined until on the 21st
of January, in the following year she died. Of Mr. Webster’s bearing
at the funeral, Mr. Ticknor writes: “Mr. Webster came to Mr. George
Blake’s in Summer Street, where we saw him both before and after the
funeral. He seemed completely broken-hearted. At the funeral, when,
with Mr. Paige, I was making some arrangements for the ceremonies, we
noticed that Mr. Webster was wearing shoes that were not fit for the
wet walking of the day, and I went to him and asked him if he would not
ride in one of the carriages. ‘No,’ he said, ‘my children and I must
follow their mother to the grave on foot. I could swim to Charlestown.’
A few minutes afterwards he took Nelson and Daniel in either hand, and
walked close to the hearse through the streets to the church in whose
crypt the interment took place. It was a touching and solemn sight. He
was excessively pale.”
It is a striking commentary upon the emptiness of human honors where
the heart is concerned that this great affliction came very soon after
Mr. Webster’s election to the United State Senate, where he achieved
his highest fame and gathered his choicest laurels. We can well imagine
that he carried a sad heart to the halls of legislation, and realized
how poorly the world’s honors compensate the heart for the wounds of
bereavement. But Daniel Webster was not a man to suffer sorrow to
get the mastery of him. He labored the harder in the service of his
country, and found in the discharge of duty his best consolation.
If I had room I would like to quote the tribute of Judge Storey to
the character of Mr. Webster. I confine myself to one sentence: “Few
persons have been more deservedly or more universally beloved; few have
possessed qualities more attractive, more valuable or more elevating.”
A little over a year later there was a fresh sorrow. Ezekiel
Webster, the older brother, between whom and Daniel such warm and
affectionate relations had always existed, died suddenly under striking
circumstances. He was addressing a jury in the court-house at Concord,
N. H., speaking with full force, when, without a moment’s warning, “he
fell backward, without bending a joint, and, so far as appeared, was
dead before his head reached the floor.”
He was a man of large ability, though necessarily overshadowed by
the colossal genius of his younger brother. It would be too much to
expect two Daniel Websters in one family. His death had a depressing
effect upon Daniel, for the two had been one in sympathy, and each
had rejoiced in the success of the other. Together they had struggled
up from poverty, achieved an education and professional distinction,
and though laboring in different spheres, for Ezekiel kept aloof from
politics, they continued to exchange views upon all subjects that
interested either. It is not surprising, in view of his desolate
household, and the loss of his favorite brother, that Daniel should
write: “I confess the world, at present, has an aspect for me anything
but cheerful. With a multitude of acquaintances I have few friends; my
nearest intimacies are broken, and a sad void is made in the objects
of affection.” Yet he was constrained to acknowledge that his life,
on the whole, had been “fortunate and happy beyond the common lot,
and it would be now ungrateful, as well as unavailing, to repine at
calamities, of which, as they are human, I must expect to partake.”
I have taken pains to speak of Mr. Webster’s home affections, because
many, but only those who did not know him, have looked upon him as
coldly intellectual, with a grand genius, but deficient in human
emotions, when, as a fact, his heart was unusually warm and overflowing
with tender sympathy.
CHAPTER XXIX.
CALLED TO THE SENATE.
I have called this biography “From Farm-boy to Senator,” because it is
as a senator that Daniel Webster especially distinguished himself. At
different times he filled the position of Secretary of State, but it
was in the Senate Chamber, where he was associated with other great
leaders, in especial Clay, Calhoun and Hayne, that he became a great
central object of attention and admiration.
Mr. Webster was not elected to the Senate till he had reached the age
of forty-five. For him it was a late preferment, and when it came he
accepted it reluctantly. Mr. Clay was not yet thirty when he entered
the Senate, and Mr. Calhoun was Vice-President before he attained the
age of forty-five. But there was this advantage in Mr. Webster’s case,
that when he joined the highest legislative body in the United States
he joined it as a giant, fully armed and equipped not only by nature
but by long experience in the lower House of Congress, where he was a
leader.
The preferment came to him unsought. Mr. Mills, one of the senators
from Massachusetts, who had filled his position acceptably, was
drawing near the close of his term, and his failing health rendered
his re-election impolitic. Naturally Mr. Webster was thought of as his
successor, but he felt that he could hardly be spared from the lower
House, where he was the leading supporter of the administration of John
Quincy Adams. Levi Lincoln was at that time Governor of Massachusetts,
and he too had been urged to become a candidate. Mr. Webster wrote him
an urgent letter, in the hope of persuading him to favor this step.
From that letter I quote:
“I take it for granted that Mr. E. H. Mills will be no longer a
candidate. The question then will be, Who is to succeed him? I need not
say to you that you yourself will doubtless be a prominent object of
consideration in relation to the vacant place, and the purpose of this
communication requires me also to acknowledge that I deem it possible
that my name also should be mentioned, more or less generally, as one
who may be thought of, among others, for the same situation.... There
are many strong personal reasons, and, as friends think, and as I think
too, some public reasons why I should decline the offer of a seat in
the Senate if it should be made to me. Without entering at present
into a detail of those reasons, I will say that the latter class of
them grow out of the public station which I at present fill, and out
of the necessity of increasing rather than of diminishing, in both
branches of the National Legislature, the strength that may be reckoned
on as friendly to the present administration.... To come, therefore, to
the main point, I beg to say that I see no way in which the public good
can be so well promoted as by your consenting to go into the Senate.
“This is my own clear and decided opinion; it is the opinion, equally
clear and decided, of intelligent and patriotic friends here, and I am
able to add that it is also the decided opinion of all those friends
elsewhere whose judgment in such matters we should naturally regard. I
believe I may say, without violating confidence, that it is the wish,
entertained with some earnestness, of our friends at Washington that
you should consent to be Mr. Mills’s successor.”
No one certainly can doubt the absolute sincerity of these utterances.
It was, and is, unusual for a representative to resist so earnestly
what is considered a high promotion. Mr. Webster was an ambitious man,
but he thought that the interests of the country required him to stay
where he was, and hence his urgency.
But Gov. Lincoln was no less patriotic. In an elaborate reply to Mr.
Webster’s letter, from which I have quoted above, he urges that “the
deficiency of power in the Senate is the weak point in the citadel” of
the administration party. “No individual should be placed there but
who was now in armor for the conflict, who understood the proper
mode of resistance, who personally knew and had measured strength
with the opposition, who was familiar with the political interests
and foreign relations of the country, with the course of policy of
the administration, and who would be prepared at once to meet and
decide upon the charter of measures which should be proposed. This,
I undertake to say, no novice in the national council could do. At
least I would not promise to attempt it. I feel deeply that I could
not do it successfully. There is no affectation of humility in this,
and under such impressions I cannot suffer myself to be thought of in
a manner which may make me responsible for great mischief in defeating
the chance of a better selection.”
I am sure my young readers will agree that this correspondence was
highly honorable to both these eminent gentlemen. It is refreshing
to turn from the self-sufficient and self-seeking politicians of our
own day, most of whom are ready to undertake any responsibilities
however large, without a doubt of their own fitness, to the modesty
and backwardness of these really great men of fifty years since. In
the light of Mr. Webster’s great career we must decide that Gov.
Lincoln was right in deciding that he should be the next senator from
Massachusetts.
At any rate such was the decision arrived at, and in June, 1827, Mr.
Webster was elected senator for a period of six years. In due time
he took his seat. He was no novice, but a man known throughout the
country, and quite the equal in fame of any of his compeers. I suppose
no new senator has ever taken his seat who was already a man of such
wide fame and national importance as Daniel Webster in 1827. Had James
A. Garfield, instead of assuming the Presidency, taken the seat in the
Senate to which he had been elected on the fourth of March, 1881, his
would have been a parallel case.
Of course there was some curiosity as to the opening speech of the
already eminent senator. He soon found a fitting theme. A bill was
introduced for the relief of the surviving officers of the Revolution.
Such a bill was sure to win the active support of the orator who had
delivered the address at Bunker Hill.
Alluding to some objections which had been made to the principle
of pensioning them, Mr. Webster said: “There is, I know, something
repulsive and opprobrious in the name of pension. But God forbid that
I should taunt them with it. With grief, heartfelt grief, do I behold
the necessity which leads these veterans to accept the bounty of their
country in a manner not the most agreeable to their feelings. Worn out
and decrepit, represented before us by those, their former brothers in
arms, who totter along our lobbies or stand leaning on their crutches,
I, for one, would most gladly support such a measure as should consult
at once their services, their years, their necessities and the delicacy
of their sentiments. I would gladly give with promptitude and grace,
with gratitude and delicacy, that which merit has earned and necessity
demands.
“It is objected that the militia have claims upon us; that they
fought at the side of the regular soldiers, and ought to share in the
country’s remembrance. But it is known to be impossible to carry the
measure to such an extent as to embrace the militia, and it is plain,
too, that the cases are different. The bill, as I have already said,
confines itself to those who served, not occasionally, not temporarily,
but permanently; who allowed themselves to be counted on as men who
were to see the contest through, last as long as it might; and who
have made the phrase ‘‘listing for the war’ a proverbial expression,
signifying unalterable devotion to our cause, through good fortune and
ill fortune, till it reached its close.
“This is a plain distinction; and although, perhaps, I might wish to do
more, I see good ground to stop here for the present, if we must stop
anywhere. The militia who fought at Concord, at Lexington and at Bunker
Hill, have been alluded to in the course of this debate in terms of
well-deserved praise. Be assured, sir, there could with difficulty be
found a man, who drew his sword or carried his musket at Concord, at
Lexington or at Bunker Hill, who would wish you to reject this bill.
They might ask you to do more, but never to refrain from doing this.
Would to God they were assembled here, and had the fate of this bill
in their own hands! Would to God the question of its passage were to
be put to them! They would affirm it with a unity of acclamation that
would rend the roof of the Capitol!”
This is so much in Mr. Webster’s style that, had I quoted it without
stating that it was his, I think many of my young readers would have
been able to guess the authorship.
CHAPTER XXX.
THE BEGINNING OF A GREAT BATTLE.
When Andrew Jackson became President Mr. Webster found himself an
anti-administration leader. He was respected and feared, and a plan was
formed to break him down and overwhelm him in debate. The champion who
was supposed equal to this task was Col. Hayne, of South Carolina, a
graceful and forcible speaker, backed by the party in power and by the
silent influence of John C. Calhoun, who, as Vice-President, presided
over the councils of the Senate.
On the 29th day of December, 1829, an apparently innocent resolution
was offered by Mr. Foote, of Connecticut, in the following terms:
“Resolved, That the Committee on Public Lands be instructed to
inquire into the expediency of limiting for a certain period the sales
of the public lands to such lands only as have been heretofore offered
for sale and are subject to entry at the minimum price; also, whether
the office of Surveyor-General may not be abolished without detriment
to the public interest.”
This resolution called forth the celebrated debate in which Mr. Webster
demolished the eloquent champion of the South in a speech which will
live as long as American history.
Mr. Benton, of Missouri, in an elaborate speech furnished the keynote
of the campaign. On Monday, the 18th, he made a speech in which a
violent attack was made upon New England, its institutions and its
representatives. He was followed by Col. Hayne, who elaborated the
comparison drawn between the so-called illiberal policy of New England
and the generous policy of the South towards the growing West. He
charged the East with a spirit of jealousy and an unwillingness that
the West should be rapidly settled, taking the resolution of the
senator of Connecticut as his text.
This attack excited surprise, not only by its violence and injustice,
but by its suddenness. Mr. Webster shared in the general surprise.
It was not long before he was led to suspect that he was aimed at as
a well-known defender of New England. At any rate, he rose to reply,
but a motion for adjournment cut him off, and he was obliged to wait
for the next day before he could have the opportunity. The speech he
then made, though not his great speech, was able and deserves notice.
He disproved in the clearest manner the charges which had been made
against New England, and showed that her policy had been the direct
reverse. He dwelt especially upon the part which the Eastern States
had in settling the great State of Ohio, which even then contained a
population of a million. Upon this point he spoke as follows:
“And here, sir, at the epoch of 1794, let us pause and survey the
scene. It is now thirty-five years since that scene actually existed.
Let us, sir, look back and behold it. Over all that is now Ohio there
then stretched one vast wilderness, unbroken, except by two small spots
of civilized culture, the one at Marietta, the other at Cincinnati.
At these little openings, hardly a pin’s point upon the map, the arm
of the frontiersman had leveled the forest and let in the sun. These
little patches of earth, themselves almost shadowed by the overhanging
boughs of the wilderness, which had stood and perpetuated itself from
century to century ever since the Creation, were all that had been
rendered verdant by the hand of man. In an extent of hundreds and
thousands of square miles no other surface of smiling green attested
the presence of civilization. The hunter’s path crossed mighty rivers
flowing in solitary grandeur, whose sources lay in remote and unknown
regions of the wilderness. It struck, upon the north, on a vast inland
sea, over which the wintry tempest raged as upon the ocean; all around
was bare creation.
“It was a fresh, untouched, unbounded, magnificent wilderness. And,
sir, what is it now? Is it imagination only, or can it possibly be
fact, that presents such a change as surprises and astonishes us when
we turn our eyes to what Ohio now is? Is it reality or a dream that in
so short a period as even thirty-five years there has sprung up on the
same surface an independent State, with a million of people? A million
of inhabitants! An amount of population greater than all the cantons of
Switzerland; equal to one third of all the people of the United States
when they undertook to accomplish their independence! If, sir, we may
judge of measures by their results, what lessons do these facts read us
on the policy of the government? What inferences do they not authorize
upon the general question of kindness or unkindness? What convictions
do they enforce as to the wisdom and ability, on the one hand, or
the folly and incapacity on the other, of our general management of
Western affairs? For my own part, while I am struck with wonder at the
success, I also look with admiration at the wisdom and foresight which
originally arranged and prescribed the system for the settlement of the
public domain.”
Mr. Webster said in conclusion: “The Senate will bear me witness that
I am not accustomed to allude to local opinions, nor to compare, nor
to contrast, different portions of the country. I have often suffered
things to pass, which I might properly enough have considered as
deserving a remark, without any observation. But I have felt it my duty
on this occasion to vindicate the State which I represent from charges
and imputations on her public character and conduct which I know to be
undeserved and unfounded. If advanced elsewhere, they might be passed,
perhaps, without notice. But whatever is said here is supposed to be
entitled to public regard and to deserve public attention; it derives
