of Anne had been unexpected; he had not decided what he should say to
her even at Valley City, much less here. After an hour's thought, he
took his place beside her. And remarked upon--the beauty of the day.
Dexter would have said something faultless, and all the more so if he
had wished to disguise his thoughts. But all Heathcote said was, "What a
lovely day!"
"Yes," replied Anne. In her mind surged to and fro one constant
repetition: "Ah, my dear child, do you not see that I can not help
loving you? and that you--love me also?" "Do you not see that I can not
help loving you? and that you--love me also?"
"They improve things, after all," said Heathcote. "The last time I went
over this road the train-boy was a poor little cripple, and therefore
one couldn't quite throw his books on the floor." This was in allusion
to the progress of a brisk youth through the car for the purpose of
depositing upon the patient knees of each passenger a paper-covered
novel, a magazine or two, and a song-book.
--"And that you--love me also," ran Anne's thoughts, as she looked out
on the gliding fields.
There was a silence. Then Heathcote moved nearer.
"Anne," he said, in a low tone, "I was very much disturbed when I found
that you had gone. From the little I was able to learn, I fear you were
harshly treated by that hard old woman who calls herself your aunt."
"Not according to her view of it," said Anne, her face still turned to
the window.
"I wish you would look at me, instead of at those stupid fields," said
Heathcote, after a moment, in an aggrieved tone. "Here I have escaped
from Caryl's under false pretenses, told dozens of lies, spent a
broiling morning at a hole of a place called Lancaster, melted myself in
the hot city, and bought tickets for all across the continent, just for
the chance of seeing you a moment, and you will not even look at me."
But she had turned now. "Did you go out to the half-house?" she said,
with a little movement of surprise.
"Yes," he answered, immediately meeting her eyes, and holding them with
his own. (They had not precisely the kind of expression which is
appropriate to the man who has decided to perform the part of "merely a
kind friend." But then Heathcote always looked more than he said.)
"I am very sorry," she murmured--"I mean, sorry that you have followed
me."
"Why are you sorry? You do not know how distressed I was when Mrs.
Lorrington told me."
"Helen!" said Anne, her eyes falling at the sound of the name.
"She does not know where I am; no one knows. They think I have gone to
the mountains. But--I could not be at peace with myself, Anne, until I
had seen you once more. Do you remember the last time we met, that
morning in the garden?" She made a mute gesture which begged for
silence; but he went on: "I can never forget that look of yours. In
truth, I fear I have done all this, have come all this distance, and in
spite of myself, for--another."
There was no one behind them; they had the last seat. Anne was thinking,
wildly, "Oh, if he would but speak in any other tone--say anything else
than that!" Then she turned, at bay. "Mrs. Lorrington told me that you
were engaged to her," she said, announcing it quietly, although her face
was very pale.
"Did she? It is partly true. But--I love you, Anne."
The last words that Ward Heathcote had intended to speak, when he took
that seat beside her, he had now spoken; the last step he had intended
to take he had now taken. What did he mean? He did not know himself. He
only knew that her face was exquisitely sweet to him, and that he was
irresistibly drawn toward her, whether he would or no. "I love you," he
repeated.
What could be said to such a plain, direct wooer as this? Anne, holding
on desperately to her self-possession, and throwing up barriers
mentally, made of all her resolutions and duties, her pride and her
prayers, drew away, coldly answering: "However you may have forgotten
your own engagement, Mr. Heathcote, I have not forgotten mine. It is not
right for you to speak and for me to hear such words."
"Right is nothing," said Heathcote, "if we love each other."
"We do not," replied Anne, falling into the trap.
"We do; at least I do."
This avowal, again repeated, was so precious to the poor humiliated
pride of the woman's heart within her that she had to pause an instant.
"I was afraid you would think," she said, blushing brightly--"I was
afraid you would think that I--I mean, that I can not help being glad
that you--"
"That I love you? I do. But just as truly as I love you, Anne, you love
me. You can not deny it."
"I will not discuss the subject. I shall soon be married, Mr. Heathcote,
and you--"
"Never mind me; I can take care of myself. And so you are going to marry
a man you do not love?"
"I do love him. I loved him long before I knew you; I shall love him
long after you are forgotten. Leave me; I will not listen to you. Why do
you speak so to me? Why did you follow me?"
"Because, dear, I love you. I did not fully know it myself until now.
Believe me, Anne, I had no more intention of speaking in this way when I
sat down here than I had of following you when I first heard you had
gone; but the next morning I did it. Come, let everything go to the
winds, as I do, and say you love me; for I know you do."
The tears were in Anne's eyes now; she could not see. "Let me go to
mademoiselle," she said, half rising as if to pass him. "It is cruel to
insult me."
"Do not attract attention; sit down for one moment. I will not keep you
long; but you shall listen to me. Insult you? Did I ever dream of
insulting you? Is it an insult to ask you to be my wife? That is what I
ask now. I acknowledge that I did not follow you with any such
intention. But now that I sit here beside you, I realize what you are to
me. My darling, I love you, child as you have seemed. Look up, and tell
me that you will be my wife."
"Never."
"Why?" said Heathcote, not in the least believing her, but watching the
intense color flush her face and throat, and then die away.
"I shall marry Rast. And you--will marry Helen."
"As I said before, I can take care of myself. The question is you."
As he spoke he looked at her so insistently that, struggling and
unwilling, she yet felt herself compelled to meet his eyes in return.
"Helen loves you dearly," she said, desperately.
They were looking full at each other now. In the close proximity
required by the noise of the train, they could see the varying lights
and shadows in the depths of each other's eyes. The passengers' faces
were all turned forward; there was no one on a line with them; virtually
they were alone.
"I do not know what your object is in bringing in Mrs. Lorrington's name
so often," said Heathcote. "She does not need your championship, I
assure you."
"How base to desert her so!"
"Not any more base than to marry a man you do not love," replied
Heathcote. "I hardly know anything more base than that. But marry me,
my darling," he added, his voice softening as he bent toward her, "and
you shall see how I will love you."
"You said I could go," said the girl, turning from him, and putting her
hand over her eyes.
"You may go, if you are afraid. But I hardly think you a coward. No; let
us have it out now. Here you are, engaged. Here I am, half engaged. We
meet. Do you suppose I wish to love you? Not at all. You are by no means
the wife I have intended to have. Do you wish to love me? No. You wish
to be faithful to your engagement. In a worldly point of view we could
not do a more foolish deed than to marry each other. You have nothing,
and a burden of responsibilities; I have very little, and a much heavier
burden of bad habits and idleness. What is the result? By some unknown
enchantment I begin to love you, you begin to love me. The very fact
that I am sitting here to-day conclusively proves the former. I am as
fond of you as a school-boy, Anne. In truth, you have made me act like a
school-boy. This is a poor place to woo you in; but, dear, just look at
me once, only once more."
But Anne would not look. In all her struggles and all her resolutions,
all her jealousy and her humiliation, she had made no provision against
this form of trial, namely, that he should love her like this.
"Oh, go, go; leave me," she murmured, hardly able to speak. He gathered
the words more from the movement of her lips than from any sound.
"I will go if you wish it. But I shall come back," he said. And then,
quietly, he left her alone, and returned to Jeanne-Armande.
The Frenchwoman was charmed; she had not expected him so soon. She said
to herself, with a breath of satisfaction, that her conversation had
fallen in fit places.
Alone, looking at the hills as they passed in procession, Anne collected
her scattered resolves, and fought her battle. In one way it was a sweet
moment to her. She had felt dyed with eternal shame at having given her
love unsought, uncared for; but he loved her--even if only a little, he
loved her. This was balm to her wounded heart, and diffused itself like
a glow; her cold hands grew warm, her life seemed to flow more freely.
But soon the realization followed that now she must arm herself in new
guise to resist the new temptation. She must keep her promise. She would
marry Rast, if he wished it, though the earth were moved, and the hills
carried into the midst of the sea. And Heathcote would be far happier
with Helen; his feeling for herself was but a fancy, and would pass, as
no doubt many other fancies had passed. In addition, Helen loved him;
her life was bound up in him, whether he knew it or no. Helen had been
her kindest friend; if all else were free, this alone would hold her.
"But I am glad, glad to the bottom of my heart, that he did care for
me, even if only a little," she thought, as she watched the hills. "My
task is now to protect him from himself, and--and what is harder,
myself from myself. I will do it. But I am glad--I am glad." Quieted,
she waited for his return.
When he came she would speak so calmly and firmly that his words would
be quelled. He would recognize the uselessness of further speech. When
he came. But he did not come. The hills changed to cliffs, the cliffs to
mountains, the long miles grew into thirty and forty, yet he did not
return. He had risen, but did not come to her; he had gone forward to
the smoking-car. He had, in truth, caught the reflection of her face in
a mirror, and decided not to come. It is not difficult to make
resolutions; there is a fervidness in the work that elevates and
strengthens the heart. But once made, one needs to exercise them,
otherwise they grow cold and torpid on one's hands.
Jeanne-Armande, finding herself alone, barricaded her seat with basket
and umbrella, so as to be able to return thither (and perhaps have other
conversations), and came across to Anne.
"A most accomplished gentleman!" she said, with effusion. "Mrs.
Lorrington, charming as she is, is yet to be herself congratulated. He
has even been in Berri," she added, as though that was a chief
accomplishment, "and may have beheld with his own eyes the ch창teau of my
ancestors." Rarely indeed did Jeanne-Armande allude to this ch창teau:
persons with ch창teau ancestors might be required to sustain expenses not
in accordance with her well-arranged rules.
"Where does this train stop?" asked Anne, with some irrelevance as to
the ch창teau.
"At Centerville, for what they call dinner; and at Stringhampton
Junction in the evening. It is the fast express."
"Do we meet an eastward-bound train at Centerville?"
"I presume we do; but we shall not get out, so the crowd in the
dining-room will not incommode us. The contents of my basket will be
sufficient. But if you wish a cup of coffee, it will be eight cents.
There is a species of German cake at Centerville, remarkably filling
for the price. They bring them through the cars."
"What time is it now?"
"About half past twelve; we reach Centerville at two. What age has
Monsieur Heathcote, my dear?"
"Thirty-two or thirty-three, I believe."
"A gentleman of independent fortune, I presume?"
"He is independent, but, I was told, not rich."
"The position I should have supposed," said mademoiselle. "What
penetrating eyes he possesses; penetrating, yet soft. There is something
in his glance, coming from under those heavy brows, which is
particularly moving--one might almost say tender. Have you observed it?"
Yes, Anne had observed it.
Jeanne-Armande, protected as she supposed from indiscretion by the
engagement to the charming Mrs. Lorrington, rambled on, enjoying the
real pleasure of being sentimental and romantic, without risk, cost, or
loss of time, on this eventful day.
"I wish you could have seen Mr. Dexter, mademoiselle," said Anne, making
an effort to turn the tide. "He is considered handsome, and he has a
large fortune--"
"But not inherited, I presume," interposed mademoiselle, grandly. "Mr.
Heathcote, as I understand, lives upon his paternal revenues."
If Heathcote had been there, he might have answered that he tried to,
but never succeeded. He was not there, however; and Anne could only
reply that she did not know.
"He has undoubtedly that air," said Jeanne-Armande, faithful to her
distinguished escort, and waving away all diversions in favor of unknown
Dexters. "Do you know when they are to be married?"
"No," said Anne, drearily, looking now at the cliffs which bounded the
narrow valley through which the train was rushing.
"Let us hope that it will be soon; for life is short at best. Though not
romantic by nature, I own I should be pleased to possess a small portion
of the wedding cake of that amiable pair," pursued Jeanne-Armande,
fixing her eyes upon the suspended lamp of the car, lost in sentimental
reverie.
"I think I will buy a newspaper," said Anne, as the train-boy came
toward them.
"Buy a paper? By no means," said mademoiselle, descending hastily to
earth again. "I have yesterday's paper, which I found on the ferry-boat.
It is in good order; I smoothed it out carefully; you can read that."
She produced it from some remote pocket, and Anne took refuge in its
pages, while Jeanne-Armande closed her eyes under the helmet, no doubt
to meditate further on the picture of felicity she had called up.
Anne felt all the weariness of long suspense. It was one o'clock; it was
half past one; it was nearly two; still he did not appear. Even
mademoiselle now roused herself, looked at her watch, and in her turn
began to ask where he could be; but she had the comfort of asking it
aloud.
The speed was now perceptibly slackened, and the brakeman announced at
the door: "Cen--ter--ville. Twen--timinets for dinner," in a bar of
music not unlike a hoarse Gregorian chant. At this instant Heathcote
entered from the next car.
"Ah! there he is," said mademoiselle, with satisfaction. "Do you think
he will partake of a little taste with us?" He joined them, and she
repeated her question in the shape of a modest allusion to the contents
of her basket.
"No, thanks; I shall go out and walk up and down to breathe the air. But
first, will you not go with me, and see what they have? Perhaps we might
find something not altogether uneatable."
Mademoiselle declined, with her most gracious smile. She would content
herself with the contents of her basket; but perhaps Anne--
The eastward-bound train was in, drawn up beside them.
"Yes," said Anne, "I should like to go." Then, as soon as they were in
the open air, "I only wish to speak to you for a moment," she began. "I
shall not go to the dining-room."
"Take my arm, then, and we will walk up and down."
"Yes, let us walk," she said, moving onward.
"We can not walk well unless you take my arm."
"I do not wish to walk well," she answered angrily.
He never would act according to her plan or theory. Here was all this
persistence about a trifle, while she was wrought up to matters of deep
moment.
"I do not care whether you wish to take it or not; you must. There!
Now what do you want to say to me?" He was not wrought up at all; he
was even smiling, and looking at her in the same old way. It was hard to
begin under such circumstances; but she did begin. "Mr. Heathcote, while
I thank you for all your kindness--"
"I have not been kind; I only said that I loved you. That is either
above or below kindness, certainly not on a level with that tepid
feeling."
But Anne would not listen, "While I thank you, I wish at the same time
to say that I understand quite well that it is but an impulse which--"
"It was but an impulse, I grant," said Heathcote, again interrupting
her, "but with roots too strong for me to break--as I have found to my
dismay," he added, smiling, as he met her eyes.
"I wish you, I beg you, to return to New York on this train now
waiting," said the girl, abandoning all her carefully composed
sentences, and bringing forward her one desire with an earnestness which
could not be doubted.
"I shall do nothing of the kind."
"But what is the use of going on?"
"I never cared much about use, Miss Douglas."
"And then there is the pain."
"Not for me."
"For me, then," she said, looking away from him across the net-work of
tracks, and up the little village street ending in the blue side of the
mountain. "Putting everything else aside, do you care nothing for my
pain?"
"I can not help caring more for the things you put aside, since I
happen to be one of them."
"You are selfish," she said, hotly. "I ask you to leave me; I tell you
your presence pains me; and you will not go." She drew her arm from his,
and turned toward the car. He lifted his hat, and went across to the
dining-hall.
Mademoiselle was eating cold toast. She considered that toast retained
its freshness longer than plain bread. Anne sat down beside her. She
felt a hope that Heathcote would perhaps take the city-bound train after
all. She heard the bell ring, and watched the passengers hasten forth
from the dining-hall. The eastward-bound train was going--was gone; a
