like animals, as you ought to know." 
I think I must be a very suspicious person. Circumstances have made me so, and perhaps my sus 
picions are very generally wrong. It may be. At 
all events, I did suspect the rich and dandified old 
baron of desiring to have a laugh by putting Nino 
into some absurd situation. He had such strange 
views, or, at least, he talked so oddly, that I did not 
 
believe half he said. It is not possible that anybody 
should seriously hold the opinions he professed. 
When he was gone I sat alone, pondering on the 
situation, which was like a very difficult problem in 
a nightmare, which could not or would not look sensible, do what I would. It chanced that I got a letter 
from Nino that evening, and I confess I was reluctant 
to open it, fearing that he would reproach me with 
not having taken more pains to help him. Before 
opening the envelope, I felt as though I should like 
to go back a fortnight and put forth all my strength 
to find the contessina, and gain a comforting sense of 
duty performed. If I had only done my best, how 
easy it would have been to face a whole sheet of complaints ! Meanwhile the letter was come, and I had 
done nothing worth mentioning. I looked at the 
back of it, and my conscience smote me ; but it had 
to be accomplished, and at last I tore the cover off 
and read. 
Poor Nino ! He said he was ill with anxiety, and 
feared it would injure his voice. He said that to 
break his engagement and come back to Rome would 
be ruin to him. He must face it out, or take the legal 
consequences of a breach of contract, which are over 
whelming to a young artist. He detailed all the 
efforts he had made to find Hedwig, pursuing every 
little sign and clue that seemed to present itself; all 
to no purpose. The longer he thought of it, the more 
certain he was that Hedwig was not in Paris or London. She might be anywhere else in the whole world, 
but she was certainly not in either of those cities. 
Of that he was convinced. He felt like a man who 
 
had pursued a beautiful image to the foot of a precipitous cliff ; the rock had opened and swallowed up his 
dream, leaving him standing alone in hopeless despair; 
and a great deal more poetic nonsense of that kind. 
I do not believe I had ever realised what he so 
truly felt for Hedwig, until I sat at my table with 
his letter before me, overcome with the sense of my 
own weakness in not having effectually checked 
this mad passion at its rise ; or, since it had grown 
so masterfully, of my wretched procrastination in not 
having taken my staff in my hand and gone out into 
the world to find the woman my boy loved and bring 
her to him. By this time, I thought, I should have found 
her. I could not bear to think of his being ill, suffering, heart-broken, ruined, if he lost his voice by an 
illness, merely because I had not had the strength 
to do the best thing for him. Poor Nino, I thought, 
you shall never say again that Cornelio Grandi has 
not done what was in his power to make you happy. 
" That baron ! an apoplexy on him ! has deluded me 
with his promises of help," I said to myself. "He 
has no more intention of helping me or Nino than he 
has of carrying off the basilica of St. Peter. Courage, 
Cornelio ! thou must gird up thy loins, and take a 
little money in thy scrip, and find Hedwig von 
Lira." 
All that night I lay awake, trying to think how 
I might accomplish this end; wondering to which 
point of the compass I should turn, and above all 
reflecting that I must make great sacrifices. But my 
boy must have what he wanted, since he was consuming himself, as we say, in longing for it. It seemed 
 
to me no time for counting the cost, when every day 
might bring upon him a serious illness. If he could 
only know that I was acting, he would allow his 
spirits to revive and take courage. 
In the watches of the night I thought over my 
resources, which, indeed, were meagre enough; for 
I am a very poor man. It was necessary to take a 
great deal of money, for once away from Rome no 
one could tell when I might return. My salary as 
professor is paid to me quarterly, and it was yet some 
weeks to the time when it was due. I had only a 
few francs remaining, not more than enough to pay 
my rent and to feed Mariuccia and me. I had paid 
at Christmas the last installment due on my vineyard 
out of Porta Salara, and though I owed no man anything I had no money, and no prospect of any for 
some time. And yet I could not leave home on a 
long journey without at least two hundred scudi in my 
pocket. A scudo is a dollar, and a dollar has five 
francs, so that I wanted a thousand francs. You see, 
in spite of the baron's hint about the mountains, I 
thought I might have to travel all over Italy before I 
satisfied Nino. 
A thousand francs is a great deal of money, it is 
a Peru, as we say. I had not the first sou toward it. 
I thought a long time. I wondered if the old piano 
were worth anything ; whether anybody would give 
me money for my manuscripts, the results of patient 
years of labour and study ; my old gold scarf-pin, my 
seal ring, and even my silver watch, which really 
keeps very good time, what were they worth ? But 
it would not be much, not the tenth part of what I 
 
wanted. I was in despair, and I tried to sleep. Then 
a thought came to me. 
"I am a donkey," I said. "There is the vine 
yard itself, my little vineyard beyond Porta Sa- 
lara. It is mine, and is worth half as much again 
as I need." And I slept quietly till morning. 
It is true, and I am sure it is natural, that in the 
daylight my resolution looked a little more heroic to 
me than it did in the quiet night. I had toiled and 
scraped a great deal more than you know to buy that 
small piece of land, and it seemed much more my 
own than all Serveti had ever been in my better days. 
Then I shut myself up in my room and read Nino's 
letter over again, though it pained me very much ; 
for I needed courage. And when I had read it, I 
took some papers in my pocket, and put on my hat 
and my old cloak, which Nino will never want any 
more now for his midnight serenades, and I went out 
to sell my little vineyard. 
"It is for my boy," I said, to give myself some 
comfort. 
But it is one thing to want to buy, and it is quite 
another thing to want to sell. All day I went from 
one man to another with my papers, all the agents 
who deal in those things; but they only said they 
thought it might be sold in time ; it would take many 
days, and perhaps weeks. 
" But I want to sell it to-day," I explained. 
" We are very sorry," said they, with a shrug of 
the shoulders ; and they showed me the door. 
I was extremely down-hearted, and though I could 
not sell my piece of land I spent three sous in buying 
 
two cigars to smoke, and I walked about the Piazza 
Colonna in the sun ; I would not go home to dinner 
until I had decided what to do. There was only one 
man I had not tried, and he was the man who had 
sold it to me. Of course I knew people who do this 
business, for I had had enough trouble to learn their 
ways when I had to sell Serveti, years ago. But this 
one man I had not tried yet, because I knew that he 
would drive a cruel bargain with me when he saw I 
wanted the money. But at last I went to him, and 
told him just what my wishes were. 
" Well," he said, " it is a very bad time for selling 
land. But to oblige you, because you are a customer, 
I will give you eight hundred francs for your little 
place. That is really much more than I can afford." 
" Eight hundred francs ! " I exclaimed in despair. 
"But I have paid you nearly twice as much for it in 
the last three years ! What do you take me for? To 
sell such a gem of a vineyard for eight hundred 
francs ! If you offer me thirteen hundred I will dis 
cuss the matter with you." 
" I have known you a long time, Signor Grandi, 
and you are an honest man. I am sure you do not 
wish to deceive me. I will give you eight hundred 
and fifty." 
Deceive him, indeed I The very man who had 
received fifteen hundred from me said I deceived 
him when I asked thirteen hundred for the same 
piece of land ! But I needed it very much, and so, 
bargaining and wrangling, I got one thousand and 
seventy-five francs in bank-notes; and I took care 
they should all be good ones, too. It was a poor 
price, I know, but I coiild do no better, and I went 
homo hap ov. Hut I dared not tell Mariuoeia. She 
is only my servant, to be sure, but she would have 
Then I wrote to the authorities at the university 
to say that I was obliged to leave Rome suddenly, 
and would of course not claim my salary during mv 
. ... But I added that I hoped they would nor 
permanently supplant me. If they did, I knew I 
should be ruined. Then I told Mariuccia that I was 
 away for some days to the country, and I loft 
her the money to pay the rent, and her wages. and 
a little more, so that she might be provided for if I 
were detained very long. I went out again and tele 
graphed to Nino, to say I was going at once in search 
of the Liras, and begging him to come home as soon 
as he should have finished his engagement. 
To tell the truth, Mariuccia was very curious to 
know where I was going, and asked me many questions, which I had some trouble in answering. But 
at last it was night again, and the old woman went 
to bed and left me. Then I went on tiptoe to the 
kitchen, and found a skein of thread and two needles, 
and set to work. 
I knew the country whither I was going very 
well, and it was necessary to hide the money I had 
some ingenious way. So I took two waistcoats, 
one of them was quite good still, and I sewed 
them together, and tacked the bank-notes between 
them. It was a clumsy piece of tailoring, though 
it took me so many hours to do it. But I had put 
the larger waistcoat outside, very cunningly, so that 
 
when I had put on the two, you could not see that 
there was anything beneath the outer one. I think 
I was very clever to do this without a woman to 
help me. Then I looked to my boots, and chose my 
oldest clothes, and you may guess, from what you 
know of me, how old they were, and I made a 
little bundle that I could carry in my hand, with a 
change of linen, and the like. These things I made 
ready before I went to bed, and I slept with the two 
waistcoats and the thousand francs under my pillow, 
though I suppose nobody would have chosen that 
particular night for robbing me. 
All these preparations had occupied me so much 
that I had not found any time to grieve over my 
poor little vineyard which I had sold , and besides, I 
was thinking all the while of Nino, and how glad 
he would be to know that I was really searching for 
Hedwig. But when I thought of the vines, it hurt 
me ; and I think it is only long after the deed that 
it seems more blessed to give than to receive. 
But at last I slept, as tired folk will, leaving care 
to the morrow ; and when I awoke it was daybreak, 
and Mariuccia was clattering angrily with the tin 
coffee-pot outside. It was a bright morning, and the 
goldfinch sang, and I could hear him scattering the 
millet seed about his cage while I dressed. And 
then the parting grew very near, and I drank my 
coffee silently, wondering how soon it would be over, 
and wishing that the old woman would go out and 
let me leave my house alone. But she would not, 
and to my surprise she made very little worry or 
trouble, making a great show of being busy. When 
 
I was quite ready, she insisted on putting a handful 
of roasted chestnuts into my pocket, and she said 
she would pray for me. The fact is, she thought, 
foolish old creature as she is, that I was old and in 
poor health, and she had often teased me to go into 
the country for a few days, so that she was not ill 
pleased that I should seem to take her advice. She 
stood looking after me as I trudged along the street, 
with my bundle and my good stick in my right hand, 
and a lighted cigar in my left. 
I had made up my mind that I ought first to try 
the direction hinted at by the baron, since I had 
absolutely no other clue to the whereabouts of the 
Count von Lira and his daughter. I therefore got 
into the old stage that still runs to Palestrina and 
the neighbouring towns, for it is almost as quick as 
going by rail, and much cheaper ; and half an hour 
later we rumbled out of the Porta San Lorenzo, and I 
had entered upon the strange journey to find Hedwig 
von Lira, concerning which frivolous people have 
laughed so unkindly. And you may call me a 
foolish old man if you like. I did it for my boy. 
CHAPTER XIII. 
I WENT to Palestrina because all foreigners go 
there, and are to be heard of from other parts of 
the mountains in that place. It was a long and 
tiresome journey; the jolting stage-coach shook me 
very much. There was a stout woman inside, with 
a baby that squealed; there was a very dirty old 
country curate, who looked as though he had not 
shaved for a week, nor changed his collar for a 
month. But he talked intelligently, though he 
talked too much, and he helped to pass the time 
until I was weary of him. We jolted along over 
the dusty roads, and were at least thankful that it 
was not yet hot. 
In the evening we arrived at Palestrina, and 
stopped before the inn in the market-place, as tired 
and dusty as might be. The woman went one way, 
and the priest the other, and I was left alone. I 
soon found the fat old host, and engaged a room 
for the night. He was talkative and curious, and 
sat by my side when he had prepared my supper in 
the dingy dining-room down-stairs. I felt quite sure 
that he would be able to tell me what I wanted, or 
at least to give me a hint from hearsay. But he 
at once began to talk of last year, and how much 
better his business had been then than it was now, 
as country landlords invariably do. 
 
It was to no purpose that I questioned him about 
the people who had passed during the fortnight, the 
month, the two months, back ; it was clear that no 
one of the importance of my friends had been heard 
of. At last I was tired, and he lit a wax candle, 
which he would carefully charge in the bill after 
wards, at double its natural price, and he showed 
me the way to my room. It was a very decent little 
room, with white curtains and a good bed and a 
table, everything I could desire. A storm had 
come up since I had been at my supper, and it 
seemed a comfortable thing to go to bed, although 
I was disappointed at having got no news. 
But when I had blown out my candle, determining to expostulate with the host in the morning, if 
he attempted to make me pay for a whole one, I 
lay thinking of what I should do ; and turning on 
my side, I observed that a narrow crack of the 
door admitted rays of light into the darkness of 
my chamber. Now I am very sensitive to draughts 
and inclined to take cold, and the idea that there 
was a door open troubled me, so that at last I made 
