near Florence. She held her apartments in the villa 
upon a long lease, and she enjoyed for a sum not worth 
mentioning the possession of an extraordinary number of 
noble, stone - floored rooms, with ceilings vaulted and 
frescoed, and barred windows commanding the loveliest 
view in the world. She was a needy and thrifty spinster, 
who never hesitated to declare that the lovely view was 
all very well, but that for her own part she lived in the 
villa for cheapness, and that if she had a clear three 
hundred pounds a year she would go and really enjoy 
life near her sister, a baronet 's lady at Glasgow. She 
was now proposing to make a visit to that delectable 
city, and she desired to turn an honest penny by sub 
letting for a few weeks her historic Italian chambers. 
The terms on which she occupied them enabled her to 
ask a rent almost jocosely small, and she begged Row 
land to do what she called a little genteel advertising for 
her. Would he say a good word for her rooms to his 
numerous friends in Rome ? He said a good word for 
them now to Mrs. Hudson, and told her in dollars and 
cents how cheap a summer 's lodging she might secure. 
He dwelt upon the fact that she would strike a truce 
with tables-cThdtey and have a cook of her own, amenable 
possibly to instruction in the Northampton mysteries. 
He had touched a tender chord ; Mrs. Hudson became 
almost cheerful. Her sentiments upon the table-tfMte 
system and upon foreign household habits generally 
were remarkable, and if we had space for it would repay 
analysis ; and the idea of reclaiming a lost soul to 
culinary orthodoxy qvfite lightened the burden of her 
depression. While Rowland set forth his case Roderick 
slowly walked through the rooms with his hands in his 
 
pockets. Rowland waited for him to manifest an interest 
in their discussion, but he had no attention for his friend 's 
pictures. Rowland was a practical man ; he possessed 
conspicuously what is called the sense of detail. He 
entered into Mrs. Hudson 's position minutely, and 
told her exactly why it seemed good that she should re 
move immediately to the Florentine villa. She received 
his advice with great frigidity, looking hard at the floor 
and sighing, like a person well on her guard against an 
optimism which might be but an escape from penalties. 
But she had nothing better to propose, and Rowland 
received her permission to write to his friend that she 
would take the rooms. 
Roderick assented to this decision without either sighs 
or smiles. "A Florentine villa is a good thing!" he 
said. "I am at your service." 
" I am sure I hope you will recover your tone there," 
moaned his mother, gathering her shawl together. 
Roderick laid one hand on her arm, and with the other 
pointed to Rowland 's statues. " This is my tone just 
now. Once upon a time I did those things, and they 
are devilish good !" 
Mrs. Hudson gazed at them vaguely, and Rowland 
said, That 's a capital tone ! " 
"They are atrociously good !" said Roderick. 
Rowland solemnly shrugged his shoulders ; it seemed 
to him that he had nothing more to say. But as the 
others were going, a last light pulsation of the sense of 
undischarged duty led him to address to Roderick a few 
words of parting advice. "You will find the Villa 
Pandolfini very delightful, very comfortable," he said. 
"You ought to be very contented there. Whether you 
work or whether you do what you are doing now, it 's 
a place for an artist to be happy in. I hope you will 
work." 
" I hope I may ! " said Roderick, with a magnificent 
smile. 
 
"When we meet again try and have something to 
show me." 
"When we meet again? Where the deuce are you 
going?" Roderick demanded. 
" Oh, I hardly know ; over the Alps." 
" Over the Alps ! You are going to leave me ?" 
Rowland had certainly meant to leave him, but his 
resolution was not proof against this single ejaculation. 
He glanced at Mrs. Hudson, and saw that her eyebrows 
were lifted and her lips parted in delicate reprehension. 
She seemed to accuse him of a craven shirking of trouble, 
to demand of him to repair his cruel havoc in her life by 
a solemn renewal of zeal. But Roderick 's expectations 
were the oddest ! Such as they were, Rowland asked 
himself why he shouldn 't make a bargain with them. 
"You want me to go with you?" he asked. 
" If you don 't go, I won't that 's all ! How in the 
world shall I get through the next six months without 
you?" 
" How will you get through them with me ? That 's 
the question !" &lt; 
" I don 't pretend to say ; the future is a dead blank. 
But without you it 's not a blank it 's certain damnation ! " 
"Mercy, mercy !" murmured Mrs. Hudson. 
Rowland made an effort to turn this precious symptom 
of a positive desire to account. " If I go with you, will 
you try to work?" 
Roderick up to this moment had been looking as un 
perturbed as if the deep agitation of the day before were 
a thing of the remote past. But at these words his face 
changed formidably ; he flushed and scowled, and all his 
passion returned. " Try to work ! " he cried. " Try 
try ! work work ! In God 's name don 't talk that way, 
or you ll drive me mad ! Do you suppose I am trying 
not to work ? Do you suppose I stand rotting here for 
the fun of it ? Don 't you suppose I would try to work 
for myself before I tried fbr you ?" 
 
"Mr. Mallet," cried Mrs. Hudson, piteously, "will 
you leave me alone with this ? " 
Rowland turned to her and informed her gently that 
he would go with her to Florence. After he had taken 
this engagement he thought not at all of the pain of his 
position as mediator between the mother 's resentful grief 
and the son 's incurable weakness ; he drank deep, only, 
of the satisfaction of not separating from Mary Garland. 
If the future was a blank to Roderick, it was hardly less 
so to himself. He had at moments a sharp foreboding of 
impending calamity. He paid it no especial deference, 
but it made him feel indisposed to take the future into 
his account. On his going to take leave of Madame 
Graridoni, this lady asked when he would come back to 
Rome, and he answered that he would return either never 
or for ever. When she asked him what he meant, he 
said he really couldn 't tell her, and he parted from her 
with much genuine emotion ; the more so doubtless that 
she blessed him in a quite loving maternal fashion, and 
told him she honestly believed him to be the best fellow 
in the world. 
XXII. 
THE Villa Pandolfini stood directly upon a small grass- 
grown piazza, on the top of a hill which sloped straight 
from one of the gates of Florence. It offered to the outer 
world a long rather low facade, coloured a dull, dark 
yellow, and pierced with windows of various sizes, no one 
of which save those on the ground floor was on the same 
level with any other. Within, it had a great cool gray 
cortile, with high light arches around it, heavily-corniced 
doors of majestic altitude opening out of it, and a beau 
tiful mediaeval well on one side of it. Mrs. Hudson 's 
rooms opened into a small garden supported on immense 
 
substructions which were planted on the further side of 
the hill as it sloped steeply away. This garden was a 
charming place. Its southern wall was curtained with a 
screen of orange blossoms, a dozen fig-trees here and there 
offered you their large-leaved shade, and over the low 
parapet the soft grave Tuscan landscape kept you com 
pany. The rooms themselves were as high as chapels 
and as cool as royal sepulchres. Silence, peace, and 
security seemed to abide in the ancient house and make 
it an ideal refuge for unsuccessful lives. Mrs. Hudson 
had a stunted brown-faced Maddalena, who wore a 
crimson handkerchief passed over her coarse black locks 
and tied under her sharp pertinacious chin, and a smile 
which was as brilliant as a prolonged flash of lightning. 
She smiled at everything in life, especially the things that 
displeased her, and that kept her talent for mendacity in 
healthy exercise. A glance, a word, a motion, was 
sufficient to make her show her teeth at you like a cheer 
ful she-wolf. This inexpugnable smile constituted her 
whole vocabulary in her dealings with her melancholy 
mistress, to whom she had been bequeathed by the late 
occupant of the apartment, and who, to Rowland 's satis 
faction, promised to be diverted from her maternal sorrows 
by the still deeper perplexities of Maddalena 's theory of 
roasting, sweeping, and bed-making. 
Rowland took rooms at a villa a trifle nearer Florence, 
whence in the summer mornings he had five minutes 
walk in the sharp black shadow-strip projected by wind 
ing flower-topped walls to join his friends. The life at 
the Villa Pandolfini, when it had fairly defined itself, 
was tranquil and monotonous, but it might have borrowed 
from exquisite circumstance an absorbing charm. If a 
sensible shadow rested upon it, this was because it had 
an inherent vice ; it feigned a light-heartedness which it 
very scantily felt. Roderick had lost no time in giving 
the full measure of his uncompromising chagrin, and as 
he was the central figure of the little group, as he held 
 
its heart-strings all in his own hand, it reflected faithfully 
the eclipse of his genius. No one had ventured upon 
the cheerful commonplace of saying that the change of 
air and of scene would restore his spirits ; this would 
have had, under the circumstances, altogether too silly a 
sound. The change in question had done nothing of the 
sort, and his companions had at least the comfort of their 
perspicacity. An essential spring had dried up within 
him, and there was no visible spiritual law for making it 
flow again. He was rarely violent, he expressed little of 
the irritation and enmii that he must have constantly felt ; 
it was as if he believed that a spiritual miracle for his 
redemption was just barely possible, and was therefore 
worth waiting for. The most that one could do, however, 
was to wait grimly and doggedly, suppressing an impre 
cation as from time to time one looked at one 's watch. 
An attitude of positive urbanity towards life was not to 
be expected ; it was doing one 's duty to hold one 's tongue 
and keep one 's hands off one 's own windpipe and other 
people 's. Roderick had long silences, fits of profound 
lethargy, almost of stupefaction. He used to sit in the 
garden by the hour, with his head thrown back, his legs 
outstretched, his hands in his pockets, and his eyes fastened 
upon the blinding summer sky. He would gather a 
dozen books about him, tumble them out on the ground, 
take one into his lap, and leave it with the pages un 
turned. These moods would alternate with hours of 
extreme restlessness, during which he mysteriously ab 
sented himself. He bore the heat of the Italian summer 
like a salamander, and used to start off at high noon for 
long walks over the hills. He often went down into 
Florence, rambled through the close dim streets, and 
lounged away mornings in the churches and galleries. 
On many of these occasions Rowland bore him company, 
for they were the times when he was most like his former 
self. Before Michael Angelo 's statues and the pictures 
of the early Tuscans he quite forgot his own infelicities, 
and picked up the thread of his old aesthetic loquacity. 
He found in Florence some of his Roman friends, and 
went down in the evening to meet them. More than once 
he asked Mary Garland to go with him into the town, 
where he showed her the things he most cared for. He 
had some sculptor 's clay brought up to the villa and 
deposited in a room suitable for his work ; but when this 
had been done he turned the key in the door and the clay 
never was touched. His eye was heavy and his hand 
cold, and his mother put up a secret prayer that he might 
be induced to see a doctor. But on a certain occasion, 
when her prayer became articulate, he had a great out 
burst of anger, and begged her to know once for all that 
his health was better than it had ever been. On the 
whole, and most of the time, he was a sad spectacle ; he 
looked so hopelessly idle. If he was not querulous and 
bitter it was because he had taken an extraordinaiy vow 
not to be ; a vow heroic for him, a vow which those who 
knew him well had the tenderness to appreciate. Talk 
ing with him was like skating on thin ice, and his com 
panions had a constant mental vision of spots designated 
" dangerous." 
This was a difficult time for Rowland ; he said to 
himself that he would endure it to the end, but that he 
must never try it again. Mrs. Hudson divided her time 
between looking askance at her son, with her hands 
tightly clasped about her pocket-handkerchief, as if she 
were wringing it dry of the last hour 's tears, and turning 
her eyes much more directly upon Rowland, in the 
mutest, the feeblest, the most intolerable reproachfulness. 
She never phrased her accusations, but he felt that in 
the unillumined void of the poor lady 's mind they loomed 
up like vaguely -outlined monsters. Her demeanour 
caused him the acutest suffering, and if at the outset of 
his experiment he had seen, how dimly soever, one of 
those plaintive eye-beams in the opposite scale, the 
brilliancy of Roderick 's promises would have counted 
 
for little. These punctual messengers made their way to 
the softest spot in his conscience and kept it chronically 
aching. If Mrs. Hudson had been voluble and vulgar- 
he would have borne even a less valid persecution with 
greater fortitude. But somehow, neat and noiseless and 
dismally lady-like as she sat there, keeping her grievance 
green with her soft-dropping tears, her displeasure con 
veyed an overwhelming imputation of brutality. He 
felt like a reckless trustee who has speculated with the 
widow 's mite, and is haunted with the reflection of ruin 
that he sees in her tearful eyes. He did everything con 
ceivable to be polite to Mrs. Hudson and to treat her 
with distinguished deference. Perhaps his exasperated 
nerves made him overshoot the mark, and rendered his 
civilities too grimly perfunctory. She seemed capable 
of believing that he was trying to make a fool of her ; 
she would have thought him cruelly recreant if he had 
suddenly turned his back, and yet she gave him no 
visible credit for his constancy. Women are said by 
some authorities to be cruel ; I know not how true this 
is, but it may at least be pertinent to remark that Mrs. 
Hudson was intensely feminine. It often seemed to 
Rowland that he had too decidedly forfeited his freedom, 
and that there was something grotesque in a man of his 
age being put into a corner. 
But Mary Garland had helped him before, and she 
helped him now helped him not less than he had assured 
himself she would when he found himself drifting to 
Florence. Yet her help was rendered as unconsciously 
and indirectly as before ; he had made no apologies, and 
she had offered to remit no penalties. After that dis 
tressing scene in Rome which had immediately preceded 
their departure, it was of course impossible that there 
should not be on the girl 's part some frankness of allusion 
to Roderick 's sad condition. She had been present, 
the reader will remember, during only half of his uncom 
promising confession of his errors, and Rowland had not 
 
seen her confronted with any absolute proof of Roderick 's 
passion for Christina Light. But he knew that she 
knew far too much for her happiness ; Roderick had 
told him, shortly after their settlement at the Villa Pan- 
dolfini, that he had had a "tremendous talk" with his 
cousin. Rowland asked no questions about it ; he pre 
