both see so many things to do. It will be ' living in the 
midst.' " 
" And you are not to be crowded out," he replied, with a 
sudden heart beat. 
She sighed softly, yet it had no wider meaning than the 
very words : she was not searching for possibilities. 
But to him it seemed very certain. While she waited 
all unknowingly the future was shaping itself about her. 
There was the stir and unrest of the transition period, 
like the quickening breezes of spring that shake wildly 
about all the early fragrances and leave them to settle 
later in summer sweetness. When she understood she 
would take it up reverently, gladly, just as she had ac- 
cepted the truths of childhood and translated them into 
larger language. 
He remembered with a thrill one thing she had said, 
that he had changed. The few words uttered by his mother 
in that brief visit home, though with no direct reference to 
this result, had lain and brooded in his soul until crystal- 
lized into definite shape. Every day he was corning nearer 
the measure of a man, the self-knowledge of needs and 
capacities. He had never lived any part of life alone, but 
grown up in the centre of a family, with all the assistance 
and comfort of tenderest home life broadened by the most 
generous outlook. It was natural to imagine the years 
going on to the new centre, dearest of all with the other 
soul in it. He was too refined and too reserved to give it 
any new name at present, but he lingered over it with the 
luxury of a gardener tending some strange and choice 
plant. It had absolutely nothing to do with passion ; and 
there was no touch of jealousy, no fear of loss, and no 
unrest. 
By this new knowledge of himself he judged her. He 
put away the sweet, frank unconsciousness of boy-and-girl 
friendship, when a caress counts for nothing but the out- 
come of youthful gladness. She, too, was putting away 
unknowingly many little things. He had seen it all 
through the visit, the fine sense of self-appropriation 
that dawns with womanhood ; the intangible reserve of 
one's self, holding the sweetness folded instead of scatter- 
ing it about. He had never remarked these fine and rare 
delicacies in her before, and took it for a sure sign. Not 
knowing the other episode, he interpreted the subtle change 
to mean what was simplest and most easily understood by 
his own soul. 
" It was such a restful visit," Kathie said afterward to 
her mother. tk There was no company and little going out, 
except delightful walks with Charlie ; and he is so serene. 
Carlyle, you know, bids people be thankful who have found 
their work ; and he has truly. It seems such a grand thing 
to have such aims constantly before one. As Grandma 
Darrell says, he does appear * set apart/" 
"Yes." 
There was a soft, motherly sigh as Mrs. Alston studied 
her daughter. This tranquil young life had always touched 
her with a jealous nearness, a kind of coveting, as if she 
longed to take it in with her own rather turbulent boy. 
It might come in another way, a sonship and kinship, 
dear almost as that of birth. 
" I think it the noblest of all callings ; and he is pecul- 
iarly fitted for it. Being in the fold is the very heart and 
centre of the work for God and man ; and if one is heav- 
enly minded there can be no conflicts. It is an every-day 
preparation for the other world," she continued. 
A rift of softened light fluttered over Kathie 's face like 
a cloud at daybreak. 
" I can't imagine Charlie anything else, unless he were 
an artist like the old ones whose memory is kept sacred 
 
abroad, who painted Christs and Madonnas because their 
faith and fervor were so real : they never thought of money 
or fame." 
" A letter for you " ; and Uncle Robert entered the room. 
It was from Sarah. She and Kathie were frequent 
correspondents in these days. The engagement was not 
declared as yet, though the marriage was to be early in 
September. 
" It doesn't seem quite true and honest to shelter myself 
under Cousin Ellen's wing," wrote Sarah; "but it does 
spare us both the comments and gossip of this small place. 
It is true that among the women here some one might be 
better fitted for the position ; but after seeing and know- 
ing them, he has chosen me. And why then should I 
shrink from accepting his love and his life, if I do it rev- 
erently, resolving with God's help to do the best lean? 
But it is the old, old story, the pulling down instead of 
building up, the thrusting out instead of gathering in. I 
realize that Mr. Truesdell will be pitied for not looking 
higher, and that I shall be treated with a distant toleration, 
as if I had climbed a social fence and entered a field 
in which I had no right. There will be plenty of work to do 
in the church as well as out. I wonder why religion must 
put on the garb of ungraciousness, for many of these peo- 
ple are really striving to do right in most things. I am 
afraid too often we make our own religion, instead of tak- 
ing that of our Saviour. Can I live down the little stings, 
keep patient and serene, for his sake, and let my life show 
the manner of soul that is in me ? 
'' This train of thought came from a disagreeable com- 
ment that was made about Mr. Truesdell marrying Cousin 
Ellen. And he asked me then if I would rather go to 
some other place and begin my life with him among 
strangers. It was very kind in him to give me a choice, 
was it not? What would you have answered? 
" I thought of the time so long ago when the girls 
laughed at mother, and you stood by your colors. If you 
had not taken me in hand I should not have been fit for 
this place, and no voice might ever have said, ' Friend, 
come up higher.' Perhaps there was some pride in it, and 
a touch of belligerency that took away the sense of being 
hurt and made me brave. 
" ' We will stay here,' I answered, ' until yon consider 
your work done. Since you want me in your life we will 
not worry about what other people think ought to be in it.' 
" He smiled, and I think he was greatly pleased. ' A 
man of my habit and temperament,' said he, ' seldom takes 
a step like this without consideration, though I believe 
ministers' marriages always provoke criticism. I want 
your freshness and vigor and strength ; and the comfort of 
your love is like a late blossoming to my shady life. Yet 
even you might do better. When you are in the prime of 
life I shall be an elderly man. Never think there has 
been any sacrifice on my part. For myself, I believe what 
God has equalized in heart and soul and brain can never 
be subject to petty social distinctions ; but I want you to 
be happy.' 
" And I am happy. There must always be a between 
and a higher round. But it seems so narrow and cruel to 
desire to crowd out your neighbors. O Kathie, are people 
always fighting their way up ? When will they be made wel- 
come to a broad and generous level ? Do we not truly be- 
long to the heights we can reach? If so, no one has a right 
to pull us down. 
"I think all this has brought us nearer. There must 
always be a solemn awe to a great and unexpected love ; 
but I am learning of how much service I can really be to 
Mr, Truesdell. I am so thankful for my health and energy, 
and the many things I have learned ; and I shall stand on 
one of the ' betweens ' with him and stretch out my hands 
to any one who will come. I have learned this one lesson 
never to forget." 
Kathie read most of the letter aloud. 
" I think it quite too bad and foolish ! " cried Kathie 
indignantly. u Sarah is really well educated, and a good 
musician. In many places she would be a noticeable girl ; 
and I do not believe many women in Middleville are better 
fitted for a clergyman's wife. It seems very unjust to be 
compelled to make a fight for respect when one is so worthy 
of it." 
Mrs. Alston smiled a little. " No doubt there is some 
jealousy among those who do account themselves worthy 
of the position," said she. " A minister choosing out of 
his own congregation seldom fails to stir up strife and 
envy." 
" Mamma, do you not think it very unworthy of women? 
Could they thrust another out and put themselves in? 
What would become of the preference of love ? And Sarah 
is liked ever so much. You would be surprised at the nice 
invitations she receives. And the Strongs do live pictu- 
resquely pretty. The children are growing up quiet, and 
have nice manners, and Mrs. Strong's odd phrases and 
disregard of grammar have a quaint sound. She tries to 
please Sarah, too, only she never will be able to under- 
stand the harmony of colors " And a mirthful smile crossed 
Kathie's face. 
" I think Sarah will conquer all opposition as time goes 
on. Mr. Truesdell is a brave man to take what he wants, 
deliberately, and let others see the suitableness at their 
pleasure. I am glad they have decided to remain and live 
down silly prejudices, though it seems to me he might 
have a more congenial place. Uncle Robert thinks him a 
very earnest and scholarly man. I almost wonder at his 
settling in such a little country village." 
" His wife had just died, and I suppose he was full of 
trouble and grief. Then, mamma, the parsonage is a 
pretty old house, almost like an English picture, with a 
garden full of roses, and a great oak-tree right at the gate. 
Sarah will make lovely living there, I know. I really long 
to see her its mistress.'* 
Indeed, Ratine was so interested in the new phase of 
affairs that she drove up to school one afternoon and took 
Sarah out for a regular girl's confidence. Middle ville was 
at its best estate. Farm and meadow lands were filled 
with promising crops, belts of woodland stood up straight 
and tall in their mingled shades of green, and the distant 
range of hills told of suggestive hollows and nooks of 
dreamy glory. The faded houses and barns were mel- 
lowed by shadowy lines and changing reflections, and oc- 
casionally through an open doorway one saw a bit of in- 
terior with the homely charm artists love. 
Sarah was bright and joyous, though the day's teaching 
had not been all smooth sailing ; but her vitality had the 
force of perfect health, and her employment that of satis- 
faction. 
" How delightful of you to come ! " she cried. " I am 
nearly always thinking of you, but I try to remember your 
many claims, knowing that you cannot divide and subdi- 
vide yourself, so the farthest must be content with an oc- 
casional ray." 
Kathie studied the uplifted face with its clear, blue eyes, 
the masses of hair framing it in like an aureola, soft, shin- 
ing, waving in loose, irregular lines upon the white fore- 
head. Not a common face, even if it lacked the elements 
of beauty ; for it had been glorified by the secret of true 
living, the companionship of broad and generous resolve, 
taking each day in a firm grasp and extracting whatever 
sweetness it held, with no fear that there would be a lack 
to-morrow. 
" How happy you are ! " Kathie exclaimed, impulsively. 
" Yes, I am," with a confident and grateful ring to her 
voice. u And yet," smilingly, "didn't I write you a lu- 
gubrious letter? I was afraid afterward that you might 
think me weak to cry out at the first thorn that pricked." 
"It is a pity, it is unjust, that there should be thorns 
of that kind," was the firm rejoinder. 
" Yet the thorns may be set as a sign to make one go 
more carefully. I used to think at first that his life and 
happiness," with a tender inflection in her tone, " were the 
great things I had to consider. You see it seemed wonder- 
ful that he should want me, that he thought me fit for the 
great highway where he was to walk. When you stand on 
the top of one peak and look over to the next, the glory 
touches you, kindles your love and fervor, and you realize 
that it is going down and coming up again ; and there are 
so many things to take hold of as you go, blossoms and 
leaves and gems, maybe, to gather up, and stumbles, and 
a little roughness, thorns perhaps, but all the time it is 
going on ; and you never do lose sight of the other great 
glory, towards which you are pressing. If there were no 
valleys, there would be no mountain-tops ; and could we 
always endure the level of the plain ? " 
"You are not afraid of the thorns now?" Kathie 
asked quickly. 
" I shall be careful of them, but I am trying not to be 
afraid, nor to run into them heedlessly. We all know Mr. 
Truesdell might have paid more deference to position. I 
was born here, and ran about an ignorant country girl ; but 
when one fits one's self for something better, and it comes, 
why should one refuse it? Why should others seek to 
thrust you out of what you have won ? " and her face 
flushed with emotion. " When he first asked me, I was 
surprised and overwhelmed with a strange humility ; and 
then I think some one might have pushed me aside for 
very fear. Then he showed me what I had to give, 
health, energy, and spirit, help everywhere, at home, with, 
the children, keeping a comfortable and restful place. 
That was partly your teaching. All the days will not be 
Sundays, even if we are doing God's work. He put the 
six days between, the six days of trying and the one of 
rest." 
''O Sarah, you have gone far beyond anything I ever 
taught you ! " cried Kathie in all humility. 
'' With two such teachers I ought to come to compre- 
hensive knowledge " ; and she smiled with rare sweetness. 
" At first I felt quite inclined to glorify my Mr. Truesdell. 
I had never counted on marriage, or speculated about love 
so it was very new and strange. It is odd to be asked to 
stop and rest when one has mapped out one's life as a con- 
tinual march ; not that we shall loiter very much," smil- 
ingly, " but we shall be among the wells of water and the 
trees of palm ; and we have come to this freedom between 
us, he is to tell me when I go wrong, when I do little 
things that might hurt or jar, and I am not to be troubled 
about what others say. I shall have his great love and the 
comfort he will take for my reward. I shall not go out 
to meet cares or phantoms, but stay in safe paths with 
him." 
That was the entire faith of love. How could one be 
sure of the safe paths ? 
There was a slight bend in the road, and they came out 
by the parsonage. The little girls were playing tea under 
a great rose-bush. 
" O Kathie," Sarah began, u I wonder if I shall always 
be just to the children and not try to crowd them out of 
their father's heart : they were there before I was." 
" But you do love children, and you have been with them 
all your life." 
" Yes, I could not teach if I did not love them, for chil- 
dren are often very trying ; and some really good women 
fail of being good step-mothers. I wonder why? If we 
take anything else on conditional terms we try to respect 
the terms. So you see there will be many things to study, 
and claims to balance within as well as without. They are 
shy little things, and have never been to school. Their 
mother was delicate and refined, and I fancy rather proud 
of position, and all that. It is a pretty old house, is it not? 
and yet it has always seemed a sad place to me, perhaps 
because I have always connected it with two motherless 
children. O Kathie, I wonder if I can win them to love 
me : step-mothers are always looked upon with disfavor ; 
and they are old enough to know." 
tk Love you? They could not help it," cried Kathie, 
eagerly ; and as she looked at the earnest, glowing face, 
she felt if she ever needed some one strong and comforting 
in any great perplexity Sarah would be that friend. 
" You are so generous: do you think me weak with 
the weakest? " and she gave a bright little laugh. kt I shall 
tire you of myself and love ; but one comfort is that it is 
new to every one, just as is the dawn, though we see it 
every day." 
