Screw was an honest man, as the times go. That was the difference
between him and Barker. Screw's smile was his best expression, Barker's
smile was of the devil, and very wily. Screw smiled because he was
amused. Barker smiled when he was successful.
"I think for the present," said Mr. Screw, "that unless you positively
wish to appear, it would be as well that you should not. If we are
mistaken, and the Doctor is really what he pretends to be, it will be
very unpleasant for you afterwards to have been concerned in an inquiry
into the validity of his rights."
"Do you think so?" asked Barker, looking languidly across at Mr. Screw.
"Very well, in that case you may conduct the inquiry, and I will not
appear. I shall meet him just as if nothing had happened, and let him
tell me what you have done. Of course he will tell me, the first thing.
Besides, as you say, he may be the right man, after all."
"Exactly," said Mr. Screw. He knew perfectly well that Barker would not
want Claudius to know the part he had played, in case all turned out to
be right, though he did not know that Barker was deceiving him. He
supposed that Barker really had serious doubts about Claudius, and as
there was no one else to vouch for the latter, he was very honestly
frightened. He reviewed the situation in his own mind, and he came to
the conclusion that he had really been remiss in the performance of his
duties as executor. It had not seemed in the least probable that any
deception could be practised, and yet, when all was said, there was only
the Heidelberg notary's attestation of the signature to support the
claimant of Mr. Lindstrand's fortune. This reflection comforted Mr.
Screw a little. At all events, he would be perfectly justified in
calling on Claudius and stating his difficulty, requesting him to give
what assistance was in his power towards a speedy identification of
himself. In the meantime he set himself to cross-examine Mr. Barker,
endeavouring to extract all the information he could. But extracting
information from Mr. Barker was no easy task, as he very soon found, and
as the hands of the clock pointed to one, he rose slowly, as by stages,
from the depths of his arm-chair, and made up his mind that Barker did
not know very much about the matter, though he knew more than any one
else, and that the only thing to be done was to go straight to Claudius
and state the case. No honest man ever had much difficulty in proving
who he was, thought Mr. Screw, and if he is an impostor, he will very
likely not show fight at all, but make off to parts unknown, where he
can very easily be caught.
Barker rose from his seat too, and took leave of the lawyer, well
pleased with the result of his evening's work. It was very satisfactory.
He had produced exactly the impression on Mr. Screw's mind which he had
intended to produce; and having set that engine of the law in motion, he
knew that he could fold his hands and proceed to enjoy himself after his
manner. He knew that everything would be done which could contribute to
annoy and mortify Claudius, and that it would be done in such a way,
with such paraphernalia of legal courtesy and mercantile formality, that
the unhappy Doctor could not complain. Barker had shrewdly calculated
the difficulties Claudius would have to surmount in identifying himself
in a strange country, without friends, and against the prejudices of Mr.
Screw, his uncle's executor. Moreover, if, after countless efforts and
endless trouble, Claudius succeeded, as he probably would, in obtaining
his fortune, Barker would be no worse off than before. He would have
done nothing assailable, and he would have gained all the advantages of
the time Claudius lost, not to mention the cloud of suspicion which must
inevitably rest on the Doctor, until he should succeed in clearing
himself before the world. With skill, courage, and money, there was no
telling what progress Barker might make in his suit for the Countess,
before Claudius was himself again. With such an advantage, if he could
not outdo the Swede, he did not deserve to.
So saying, Mr. Barker, left once more alone in the sitting-room, paced
slowly twice round the table, looked at himself in the glass, twisted
his heavy moustache into shape, and smoothed his hair. Then he took his
hat and went out. There was a cab at the door of the club, and in a
minute more he was spinning along Fifth Avenue, in the direction of his
father's house.
The machinery was wound up, and he had nothing more to do. To-morrow
morning Claudius would pass a bad quarter of an hour with Mr. Screw, and
in the afternoon Barker would call upon him and offer such consolation
as was in his power; and when he had called on Claudius, he would call
on the Countess Margaret and tell her what sad sceptics these legal
people were, everlastingly pestering peaceable citizens in the hope of
extracting from them a few miserable dollars. And he would tell her how
sorry he was that Claudius should be annoyed, and how he, Barker, would
see him through--that is, he hoped so; for, he would add, of course,
such men as Mr. Screw and his own father would not make so much trouble
if they did not at least think they had some cause for anxiety; and so
forth, and so on. And he would leave the Countess with a most decided
impression that there was something wrong about Claudius. Oh yes!
something not quite clear about his antecedents, you know. Of course
it would come right in the end--no doubt of that; oh dear, no.
It was a happy night for Mr. Barker; but Claudius slept ill. He had an
evil dream.
CHAPTER XII
When Mr. Screw called at Claudius's hotel the next day, the Doctor had
gone out. Mr. Screw said he would wait, and sat down with a book to pass
the time, for he was fond of reading in his leisure moments, few as they
were. Claudius had left the house early in the morning, and had gone to
find the spot where his uncle had been buried--no easy matter, in the
vast cemetery where the dead men lie in hundreds of thousands, in
stately avenues and imposing squares, in houses grand and humble, high
and low, but all closed and silent with the grandeur of a great waiting.
Claudius was not sentimental in this pilgrimage; it was with him a
matter of course, a duty which he performed naturally for the
satisfaction of his conscience. He could not have told any other reason,
though, if he had been called upon to analyse the feeling which impels
most men to do the same thing, under the same circumstances, he would
have replied that a scientific explanation of the fact could only be
found in the ancient practices of "ancestor worship," of which some
trace remains unto this day. But he would have added that it was a
proper mark of reverence and respect for the dead, and that man
naturally inclines to fulfil such obligations, unless deterred by
indolence or the fear of ridicule. At any rate, he went alone; and it
was late in the afternoon before he came back.
When at last he returned, he was not surprised to find Mr. Screw
awaiting him. He had not found that gentleman on his first visit to Pine
Street; and it seemed very natural that his uncle's executor should call
upon him. He was cordial and courteous to his visitor, who took the
Doctor's measure, and looked into his honest eyes, and realised that
this claimant to Lindstrand's money was undoubtedly a very fine fellow
indeed. Mr. Screw felt that it would be hard to tell such a man to his
face that he was not altogether satisfied of his identity. But then, as
the lawyer reflected, swindlers are generally fine fellows; indeed,
their imposing appearance is often their whole capital and
stock-in-trade. Mr. Screw had a profound knowledge of mankind, and he
immediately determined upon his course of action, which should be
cautious, but at the same time honest and straightforward. After a
preliminary exchange of civilities, he opened fire.
"I have come on very delicate business, Dr. Claudius," said he; and he
hooked one leg behind the other as he sat and ran his hands through his
hair. Claudius settled himself in his chair and waited, not having any
idea what the business might be.
"You will readily understand," continued Mr. Screw, "that in my position
I feel obliged to take every conceivable precaution in administering the
estate of the late Mr. Lindstrand. You will, therefore, not be offended
at what I am going to say. My personality has nothing to do with it, nor
can any personal impression you produce upon me, no matter how
favourable, be considered in the light of evidence. I have never seen
you before, and I am bound to say that the little I know of you,
although perfectly satisfactory as far as it goes, is not sufficient to
prove in a court that you are really the person indicated in Mr.
Lindstrand's will." Here Mr. Screw paused to see how Claudius would take
the hint that more evidence was required.
But Claudius, the embodiment of calm strength, intellectual and
physical, was not to be moved by such trifles. He showed not the
slightest emotion, nor did he betray any especial interest in what the
lawyer was saying. His attitude was that of attention to a matter which
it was his duty to understand and to elucidate. But that was all. He
wished Mr. Screw would talk a little faster, and say what he required
and go; but he was too courteous to hurry him.
"My dear sir," he answered, "I fully understand your position, and any
apology from you would be out of place. Pray proceed."
"I have nothing more to say," said Mr. Screw, astonished at so much
indifference where a great fortune was concerned. "I like to be brief in
such matters. I have nothing more to say, sir, excepting that I would be
greatly obliged if you would put into my hands such documents as you may
think proper for the full establishing of your rights."
"Very well," said Claudius. "If you will tell me what evidence you
require I will procure it immediately." With that he rose, and lighted
a cigarette.
"A properly-attested certificate of your birth would be all-sufficient,"
said Mr. Screw, who began to feel relieved by the conduct of the Doctor.
The latter, however, suddenly stood still with the match in his fingers,
and looked at the lawyer with a curious scrutiny.
"I would prefer," he said, "to give some other evidence of my identity
than that, if it is the same to you."
"If you prefer it, of course," said the lawyer coldly. His suspicions
were immediately roused, for he had named the simplest description of
document he could think of, and it seemed odd that the Doctor should be
so evidently disinclined to produce it.
"I suppose," said the Doctor, "that the formal attestation of my
identity by the authorities of the University of Heidelberg would be
sufficient?"
"Yes, I should think so," said Screw cautiously. "But will it not take
some time to procure that?"
"Well? If it does, what then?"
"Only that--you will understand that until this matter is settled I
should not feel justified in authorising you to draw upon the estate."
Claudius's sense of logic was offended.
"My dear sir," he replied, "have I drawn upon the estate for a single
dollar yet?"
"No, sir, I am bound to say you have not, although you might have
considered it natural to do so, and we should have put no obstacle--"
Mr. Screw stopped short. He had betrayed himself, and felt extremely
embarrassed. But he said enough to give Claudius an idea of the
situation. Something had occurred, some one had spoken, to cast a doubt
on his identity; and Mr. Screw was the chosen emissary of that "some
one."
"Then, Mr. Screw," said the Doctor in measured tones, "I would admonish
you to be more careful how you insinuate that I might do anything of the
kind. You have inconvenienced me quite enough already. You had better
not inconvenience me any more. I consider your conduct a piece of
unparalleled clumsiness, and your language little short of impertinent.
What you have said now you should have said in the letter which
announced my uncle's death. Or you should have instructed Mr. Barker,
who was abroad at the time and found me in Heidelberg, to make the
necessary investigations. The evidence shall be forthcoming in proper
season, and until then I do not desire the advantage of your company."
Mr. Screw was so much astonished with this mode of address from a man
whom he had foolishly imagined to be good-natured that he stood a moment
by the table hesitating what he should say. Claudius took up a book and
began to read.
"Well," said he, perceiving that Mr. Screw was still in the room, "why
don't you go?"
"Really, Dr. Claudius, I am not accustomed--" he began.
"Go," said Claudius, interrupting him; "it is not of the smallest
interest to me to know what you are accustomed to. There is the door."
"Sir--"
"Do you prefer the window?" asked the Doctor, rising in great wrath and
striding towards the unhappy lawyer. Mr. Screw instantly made up his
mind that the door was preferable, and disappeared. When he was gone
Claudius sat down again. He was very angry; but, in his own view, his
anger was just. It was very clear to him, from the words Mr. Screw had
inadvertently let fall, that some one had, for reasons unknown,
undertaken to cause him a great deal of unpleasantness. What he had said
to Screw was not to be denied. If there was any question as to his
identity, full proof should have been required from the first. But his
autograph letter from Heidelberg, attested by a notary, had been
accepted as sufficient; and "Screw and Scratch" had answered the
letter, and Claudius had received their answer in Baden. It had never
entered his head that anything more would be required. So long as Screw
had confined himself to stating his position, merely asking for further
evidence, the Doctor had nothing to say. But at the suggestion that
Claudius might want to draw money from the estate before his claims were
fully established, he lost his temper. It was an imputation on his
honour; and, however slight it might seem to Mr. Screw, Claudius was not
the man to bear it.
Ten minutes later Mr. Barker walked in unannounced. It was natural
enough that he should call, but Claudius did not want him. The Doctor
had not had time to think over the situation, but he had, a vague
impression that Barker had something to do with this sudden cloud of
annoyance that had risen to darken his path. Barker, on his side, was
prepared for storms, but he intended to play the part of confidential
friend and consoler. Claudius, however, wanted neither friends nor
consolation, and he was in the worst of tempers. Nevertheless, he rose
and offered his guest a chair, and asked him how he did. Barker took the
chair and said he was fairly well, on the way to recovery from the
voyage.
"What have you been doing all day, Claudius?" he asked.
"I have been to a place called Greenwood, to see where they had buried
my uncle," answered Claudius, and relapsed into silence.
"No wonder you look so gloomy. Whatever induced you to do such a thing?"
"I was not induced," said Claudius. "He was my last relation in the
world, and I did the only thing I could to honour his memory, which was
to go and see his grave."
"Yes, very proper, I am sure," replied Barker. "If my relations would
begin and die, right away, I would trot around and see their graves fast
enough!"
Claudius was silent.
"What on earth is the matter with you, Claudius? Have you got a
headache, or are you going to be married?"
Claudius roused himself, and offered Barker a cigar.
"There is nothing the matter," he said; "I suppose my excursion has made
me a little gloomy; but I shall soon get over that. There are matches on
the mantelpiece."
"Thanks. Why did you not come down town to-day? Oh! of course you were
away. It was very good fun. We had a regular bear garden."
"It looked like something of that sort yesterday when I was there."
"Yesterday? Oh! you had never been there before. Yes, it is always like
that. I say, come and take a drive in the park before dinner."
"No, thanks. I am very sorry, but I have an appointment in a few
minutes. I would like to go very much; you are very kind."
"Business?" asked the inquisitive Mr. Barker.
"Well--yes, if you like, business."
"Oh!" said Barker. "By the by, have you seen any of your lawyer people
to-day?" Barker had expected that Claudius would confide to him the
trouble Screw was raising. But as Claudius did not begin, Barker asked
the question.
"Yes," answered the Doctor, "Screw has been here. In fact he is just
gone."
"Anything wrong?" inquired the tormentor.
"No, nothing wrong that I know of," said Claudius. Then he suddenly
turned sharply on Barker, and looked straight at him. "Did you expect to
hear that there was anything wrong?" he asked quickly. Claudius had a
very unpleasant way of turning upon his antagonist just a minute before
the enemy was ready for him. Barker had found this out before, and,
being now directly interrogated, he winced perceptibly.
"Oh dear, no," he hastened to say. "But lawyers are great bores
sometimes, especially where wills are concerned. And I thought perhaps
Screw might be wearying you with his formalities."
"No," said Claudius indifferently, "nothing to--" he was interrupted by
a knock at the door. It was the Duke's servant, a quiet man in gray
clothes and gray whiskers. He had a bald head and bright eyes.
"His Grace's compliments, sir, and can you see him now, sir?"
"Yes, I will come in a moment," said Claudius.
"I think, sir," said the man, "that his Grace is coming to your rooms."
"Very good. My compliments, and I shall be glad to see him." The gray
servant vanished.
Barker rose to go; but Claudius was begging him not to hurry, when there
was another knock, and the Duke entered. He shook hands with Claudius,
and spoke rather coldly to Barker. The latter was uneasy, and felt that
he was in the way. He was. Barker had fallen into a singular error of
judgment in regard to the relations existing between the Duke and
Claudius. He had imagined it in his power to influence the Duke's
opinion, whereas in trying to effect that object he had roused the
Englishman's animosity. Besides, Mr. Barker was to the Duke a caprice.
He found the quick-thinking man of business amusing and even useful, but
for steady companionship he did not want him. A passage across the
Atlantic was more than enough to satisfy his desire for Mr. Barker's
society, even if Barker had not managed to excite his indignation. But
Claudius was different. The honest nobleman could not tell why it was,
but it was true, nevertheless. He looked upon the Doctor more as an
equal than Barker. The Duke was a very great man in his own country, and
it was singular indeed that he should find a man to his liking, a man
who seemed of his own caste and calibre, in the simple privat-docent
of a German university. Perhaps Barker felt it too. At all events, when
the Duke sat himself down in Claudius's room, after begging permission
to ring for lights, and made himself most evidently at home, Mr. Barker
felt that he was in the way; and so, promising to call on Claudius again
in the morning, he departed. Claudius stood by the mantelpiece while the
