voices became louder and more forcible, the disputants were plainly
approaching a crisis in the quarrel.
“Help! Help! Murder!” yelled one of the angry men; and Dory was
confident it was the voice of the engineer.
The skipper of the Goldwing did not wait to hear any more, or to
speculate upon the cause of the difficulty on board of the Juniper.
Hauling in his sheets, he filled away on the starboard tack. The
schooner could just lay her course for the steamer’s light. It looked
a little like a stormy time ahead, and Dory decided to call his
passenger.
Leaving the helm for a moment, he went to the cabin forward; and a
sharp word roused Mr. Millweed from his slumbers. Hastening back to
the helm, he seized the tiller before the schooner had time to
broach-to. At that moment the cry from the steamer was repeated,
though it was fainter than before.
“What’s the matter, Dory?” asked Mr. Millweed, as he rushed into the
standing-room. “Didn’t I hear a yell just now?”
“If you are not deaf, you did,” replied Dory, still gazing at the
steamer’s light. “There is a row on board of the Juniper. The engineer
is shouting for help.”
“What does it all mean?” inquired the passenger anxiously.
“I don’t know what it means, but I am going up there to find out.”
“Do you think it is safe to go near them?” inquired Mr. Millweed.
“I don’t know whether it is safe or not; but men don’t yell murder in
the middle of the night without some good reason.”
“What can be the meaning of it?” asked the fugitive, evidently
believing that the skipper ought to be able to tell him all about it.
“You can guess as well as I can, Bolly,” answered Dory. “Tim and the
engineer are the only persons on board of the Juniper, and the quarrel
must be between them. That’s all I know about it. But, if we are going
to take a hand in this fight, we had better have some sort of weapons.”
“You don’t mean to take a hand in any fight, do you, Dory?” asked
Bolingbroke, not a little alarmed at the announcement.
“Not if I can help it; but I don’t mean to let Lingerwell kill his
companion, without putting a finger in the pie. Go to the cabin, and
bring out the long tiller. You will find it under the berth you slept
in.”
“But I don’t like the idea of getting into a fight with such a fellow
as Tim Lingerwell,” protested Bolingbroke, without heeding the
request.
“I don’t care whether you like it or not. It is plain enough that we
ought to do something when a man is trying to kill another. Bring out
the tiller!”
Mr. Millweed obeyed the order this time. Dory took the tiller, and
placed it at his side, where it would be ready for use if the occasion
should require.
“There is a round stick by the centre-board casing. You had better
have that in your hand, for you may want to defend yourself before we
get through with this business. I don’t know what the quarrel is
about; but we are likely to find out very soon,” added Dory.
“Help! Help! Murder!”
“There it is again!” exclaimed the skipper, not a little excited by
this time.
“It’s awful, isn’t it, Dory?” added Bolingbroke, his teeth chattering
with terror at the terrible sounds that were borne over the dark
waters.
“Juniper, ahoy!” screamed Dory, forming a speaking-trumpet with his
two hands. “What’s the matter?”
No reply came back in answer to the question. Just then Dory began to
wonder whether or not these cries were not a trick to call the
Goldwing out from her hiding-place. The wind had just breezed up; and
Tim Lingerwell might fear that the fugitive would escape him, after
all his labor and pains to capture him.
He thought enough of the idea to mention it to his passenger.
Bolingbroke was ready to adopt the opinion that it was a trick: he was
ready to adopt any thing rather than go near the Juniper, whether
there was a fight or not on board of her.
“Of course it is a ruse to get you out of your hiding-place,” said he
with energy. “I thought of that myself.”
“If the wind hadn’t just breezed up, I should not have thought of
such a thing,” added Dory, still musing upon the point; for he did not
like the idea of having his passenger taken from the Goldwing by a
trick.
On the other hand, it was possible, perhaps probable, that the two men
had fallen out, and come to blows. Dory knew that Lingerwell was a bad
man, and it is always easy for such men to make trouble. Strange as it
may seem, the skipper did not connect the large sum of money in his
hip-pocket with the quarrel on board of the Juniper. He did not even
think of the bills he had taken from the steam-launch in the absence
of her crew.
“I wouldn’t go near her, Dory,” argued Bolingbroke. “I hope you won’t
step into the trap Tim has set for you to fall into.”
“I am not afraid of Tim Lingerwell, and I am going over there to see
if any thing is the matter. We will be a little cautious about
approaching the steamer.”
“But you can’t run away from her if you find it is only a trick,”
reasoned Bolingbroke.
“We must take our chances,” replied Dory.
By this time the Goldwing was entering the passage between Cedar and
Garden Islands. The Juniper was close to the shore, and the islands
were about the eighth of a mile apart. The wind was freshening every
minute; and Dory decided to run by the steamer, going as near as it
was prudent to go.
He could still hear the voices of the two men, though their tone had
greatly changed. The skipper saw that the steamer was still at anchor,
for she had swung around with her head to the wind. He was satisfied,
by this fact, that the call for help was not a trick: if it had been,
the Juniper would have been under way by this time.
“Juniper, ahoy!” called Dory, as the Goldwing came up with the launch.
“What is the matter on board?”
“Nothing is the matter. Greeze has had the nightmare, and shouted
murder in his sleep,” replied Lingerwell, trying to laugh it off,
though the effort was a very sickly one.
“Help! help!” shouted the engineer from the other end of the boat.
“He don’t seem to have got over his nightmare yet,” added Dory.--“What
is the matter there? What ails you?” demanded the skipper.
“Lingerwell has nearly killed me: he says I stole his money while he
was after the Millweed fellow,” replied Greeze.
“Shut up, you stupid blockhead! Silence! Don’t say another word about
it, and we will fix up the matter,” said Lingerwell in a wheedling
tone, as though he would have given something handsome to have sealed
the lips of the engineer.
“I won’t shut up! I have been insulted and abused; and I will have
satisfaction if it costs me my life. I didn’t take your money. I
didn’t know you had any,” growled Greeze, moving aft.
This explanation on the part of the engineer enabled Dory to
understand the nature of the quarrel between the two men. When the
Juniper had anchored, Lingerwell had evidently taken the pocket-book
from its hiding-place, and found that worthless paper had been put in
the place of the four hundred and fifty dollars. As he was not aware
that Dory, or any other person, had been on board, he naturally
concluded that the engineer must have robbed him of his ill-gotten
money.
Dory had come up into the wind under the lee of the Juniper. The
lantern hung on a stanchion in the after part of the steamer, so that
the skipper of the Goldwing and his passenger could see what took
place on board of her. The engineer had no sooner reached the place
where Lingerwell stood, than he leaped upon him with the fury of a
tiger.
CHAPTER VI.
THE IMPULSIVE ASSAULT OF THE ENGINEER.
The engineer was evidently suffering under the humiliation of his
former defeat; and now he was seeking to satisfy his revengeful
feelings rather than gain any point, for Lingerwell had offered to
“fix up the matter.” His onslaught was so sudden and unexpected that
Lingerwell was borne down beneath him.
Dory was wise enough to see, on the instant, that the impulsive attack
of the engineer was a great mistake; but it was too late to correct
it. In this case his sympathies were not “with the bottom dog;” for
the engineer had the right on his side, in spite of his blunder.
The skipper of the Goldwing felt called upon to take a hand in the
conflict; and, when Lingerwell was about to shake off his opponent, he
went to the assistance of the latter. The engineer had thrown his man
upon his face, and he was in the act of turning over when Dory put his
knees on the back of the fallen one.
“Put your foot on his back, and grab one of his hands!” exclaimed
Dory, as he grasped an arm.
“I can hold him! He tried to kill me, and I will get even with him!”
gasped Greeze.
“Don’t hurt him,” added Dory.
“I will pay him off for what he did to me!” cried the engineer.
“If you strike him, or kick him, I will leave at once!” added Dory
decidedly. “We can hold him, and keep him from harming you again.”
“He abused me, and I will get even with him,” replied Greeze, a little
mollified by the threat of Dory; for he saw that he could not manage
the steamer alone.
“Don’t harm him: the law will punish him,” continued Dory. “Bolly.”
The passenger in the Goldwing had been looking on with no little
surprise and terror, and had not ventured upon the deck of the
Juniper. Possibly he was too much alarmed to realize that the tables
had been turned.
“What is it, Dory?” he responded to the call.
“Bring me the rope that lies under the tiller.”
Bolingbroke found the line, and carried it to the skipper; but he was
careful not to go too near the fallen tiger, for such he had proved to
be to him. Dory took the line, and succeeded in making it fast to the
arm of Lingerwell.
“What are you about, you young villain? Do you mean to tie my hands?”
demanded the fallen man.
“That’s the idea exactly,” replied Dory, as he attempted to pass the
line around the arm held by the engineer.
Lingerwell had been quiet for a minute after Dory took hold of him,
but the idea of being captured and tied up like a felon was too much
for him. With a series of heavy oaths, he made a desperate effort to
shake off his assailants. The engineer meant business, though the
direction of the assault had been taken out of his hands by the
new-comer. He lay down upon his victim, and jammed his knees into the
small of his back, so that escape was impossible. Dory passed the line
around the other wrist of the conspirator, and the two were securely
bound together behind him.
“He is all right now, and cannot harm anybody,” said Dory. “Get
another line, and we will secure his feet.” Bolingbroke brought the
rope, for by this time he could see that his great enemy was
powerless.
Dory fastened the feet of Lingerwell together, and then turned him on
his side, so that he could be more comfortable. Again the victim
struggled to loose himself; but Dory had done his work well, and he
could produce no impression upon the rope.
“This is an outrage!” yelled he, furious with passion.
“I suppose it isn’t an outrage to try to kill a man,” replied Dory, as
he took the lantern and examined the fastenings he had put on the
prisoner.
“I didn’t try to kill him! That is all nonsense!” replied Lingerwell,
suspending his struggles.
“We won’t argue the matter now,” replied Dory, walking to the forward
part of the boat.
He was followed by the engineer, who seemed to be desirous to explain
the affair. Doubtless he was grateful for the service the boy had
rendered to him, and looked upon the skipper of the Goldwing as his
friend.
“You are a plucky boy, Dory,” said Greeze, when they reached the
wheel, near the bow of the boat. “But I think I could have handled
that fellow alone.”
“It is very strange that you should get into a quarrel out here in the
middle of the night,” added Dory.
“It wasn’t a quarrel of my making; and, if he hadn’t taken me when I
was not thinking of such a thing, the boot would have been on the
other leg. He’s bigger than I am, but I can handle him if I have fair
play.”
“How did you happen to get into such a row?”
“I stopped the boat when we reached this place, and then let go the
anchor, at Lingerwell’s order. When I went forward, I found him on the
floor, feeling about under the ceiling. I didn’t know what he was
doing; and he didn’t care to have me know, for he told me to go aft
and bank the fire in the furnace. I did so, and when I got through I
went forward again. Lingerwell was at the lantern, looking over what
was in a big pocket-book he had in his hands.”
“Had he said any thing about a pocket-book before?” asked Dory.
“Not a word. When I got to him, he looked as though he was very
nervous and excited. He poked the pocket-book over, and then fished
his pockets all through. I asked him what the matter was. He said he
had dropped his pocket-book on the floor, some time during the day; he
didn’t know when. He had just found it; but the money had all been
taken out, and a piece of newspaper put in its place to swell it out.”
“Did he say how much money was in it?” inquired Dory.
“He said there was a good deal in it, but he didn’t tell me how much.”
“Did he say there was a hundred dollars or more?”
“He didn’t say a word about it. He kept getting more excited, and at
last he said I must have taken the money from the pocket-book. I
answered, that I didn’t do it: I hadn’t seen his pocket-book, and
didn’t know he had any money with him. On that he got mad, and I was
as mad as he was.
“We had a long jaw about it, and then he pitched into me. He got me by
the throat before I knew what he was about. He put me down, and then
tried to fish my pockets. I yelled for help, for I thought he would
kill me. I hardly knew what I did; but I shook him off, and we had
another savage jaw about it. Then he pitched into me again. He had a
club in his hand; and I think he would have used it on me, if he
hadn’t heard you yell just at this time.”
“I hoped my hail would let him know there was some one at hand, though
it was only a boy,” added Dory.
“That was what made him let up on me. Then he tried to smooth it over;
but I never was treated like that before, and I meant to have it out
with him.”
“Well, here we are; and what is to be done next?” asked Dory.
“We were waiting down here to catch that Millweed fellow that stole
the money from the safe,” replied Greeze.
“He says he didn’t take the money from the safe, and he is going back
to Burlington to face the music.”
“We might as well go along then: we haven’t any more business up here.
You can steer the Juniper, and we will tow the Goldwing,” suggested
the engineer. “I don’t know how this thing is coming out, but I am
ready to go to Burlington. I suppose Lingerwell will have me
discharged after this, but I don’t care for that. You have tied him
hand and foot, and I don’t know what you mean by that. I meant to take
what I owed him out of his hide.”
“I tied him to keep him from pitching into you again. I want to see
Mr. Longbrook as soon as we get to Burlington; and he can do what he
likes with him,” replied Dory. “We will start for Burlington as soon
as you are ready.”
When the excitement was over, Bolingbroke Millweed had returned to the
Goldwing, and to his berth in the cabin, where he was now fast asleep.
The engineer replenished his fire, and in half an hour the Juniper was
under way. At four o’clock in the morning she was at her wharf in
Burlington. The Goldwing was made fast alongside of her. It was nearly
daylight, and it would be quite by the time Dory could reach the
residence of Mr. Longbrook.
Bolingbroke was roused from his slumbers in the cabin, but he objected
to calling upon the storekeeper at so early an hour in the morning.
Dory did not care for his opinion, and insisted upon going without any
delay. Greeze was to keep watch over Lingerwell until he heard from
Dory, and Mr. Longbrook was to decide what was to be done with the
prisoner.
The house of the storekeeper was easily found. It was about five by
this time, and the early visitors saw that the people were up. To
Dory’s inquiry for the head of the family, the servant said he had
gone to the store. He had staid there till midnight the night before,
and had left the house as soon as it was light.
Dory was not a little astonished at this severe devotion to business;
but he hastened to the store, and found Mr. Longbrook was busy over
his books. He had locked himself in, but he opened the door in answer
to the skipper’s vigorous knocks.
“I am too busy to see any one now,” said the storekeeper impatiently.
“Come at nine o’clock, and I will see you.”
“This young man wants to see you at once,” added Dory, pulling
Bolingbroke into the doorway.
“What, Millweed! So you have come back, young man,” added Mr. Longbrook,
as he recognized his late assistant.
“I have come back to tell you, sir, that I did not take the money from
your safe,” stammered Bolingbroke.
“What did you run away for, then?” demanded the merchant severely.
“Because I was a fool and was frightened. I found that Mr. Lingerwell
was determined to convict me, guilty or innocent; and I had not the
courage to stay and see it out,” replied Bolingbroke honestly.
“You lost four hundred and fifty dollars from your safe, Mr.
Longbrook,” interposed Dory.
“That was just the amount taken, and this young fellow took it. It
looks as though he came to work here at this time for the purpose of
getting it, and he left as soon as he had the money,” said the
merchant angrily. “What have you done with the money, you young
