it might distress you."
"Oh, no, you need not mind." The tone is that of a martyr, and Violet
stops with a last tender strain. Floyd Grandon is so angry that he dare
not trust his voice to speak. Violet stands for a moment undecided,
then he stretches out his hand, and she is so glad of the warm clasp in
that great lonely room.
"Let us go out to walk. It is not quite dark yet. Cecil, ask Jane to
bring some shawls."
Cecil slips down. Floyd draws his wife nearer. He would like to hold
the slight little thing, but his mother is opposite, and he must not
make Violet seem a baby.
"I have put an end to that!" exclaims Mrs. Grandon, vindictively, going
back to Gertrude. "That is Laura's piano, and it shall not be drummed
on by school-girls. What Floyd could see in that silly little
red-haired thing to bring her to a place like this, when he could have
had a lady----"
"After all, if he is satisfied," begins Gertrude, deprecatingly.
"He wanted her fortune! He doesn't care a sixpence for her. It was to
get the business in his hands, and now we can all tramp as soon as we
please."
"Mother, you are unjust."
"And you are a poor, spiritless fool, who can never see anything beyond
the page of a novel!" is the stinging retort.
She goes to her own room, and the morning's mail carries the news to
Eugene and Laura.
Floyd has letters to write this evening, and when Cecil's bedtime
comes, Violet goes up with her. They have a pretty romp that quite
scandalizes Jane, who is not at all sure how much respect she owes this
new mistress.
"O you sweet little darling!" Violet cries for the twentieth time. "You
are the one thing I can have for mine."
"I am papa's first," says Cecil, with great dignity. "He loves me best
of anything in the wide world,--he has told me so, oh, a hundred times!
And I love him best, and then you. Oh, what makes you cry so often,
because your papa is dead?"
No one but poor old Denise will ever love her "best of all." She has
had her day of being first. Even in heaven papa has found the one he so
long lost and is happy. She can never be first with him again. He
hardly misses her, Violet; he has had her only at such long intervals,
such brief whiles.
In the silence she cries herself to sleep the first night in her new
home.
CHAPTER XI.
Men, like bullets, go farthest when they are smoothest.--JEAN PAUL.
Floyd Grandon begins the next morning by treating his wife as if she
were a princess born. His fine breeding stands in stead of husbandly
love. Briggs has orders to take her and Miss Cecil out in the carriage
every day. Jane is to wait on her. Even Cecil is not allowed to tease,
and instructed to call her mamma. He escorts her in to the table, and
at a glance the servant pays her outward deference at least.
"Violet," he says, after breakfast, "will you drive over with me to see
Denise on a little business? No, Cecil, my darling, you cannot go now,
and I shall bring your mamma back very soon. Be a cheerful little girl,
and you shall have her afterward."
Cecil knows that tone means obedience. She is not exactly cheerful, but
neither is she cross. They drive in Marcia's pony phaeton.
"Nothing in the world is too good for us," Mrs. Grandon says, with a
sneer. "There will be open war between her and Marcia."
"She will be likely to have a pony carriage of her own," observes
Gertrude, who resolves to mention this project to Floyd.
"Oh, yes. I suppose the economy for others, means extravagance here.
We can afford it."
Gertrude makes no further comment.
Violet glances timidly at her husband's face, and sees a determination
that she is to misinterpret many times before she can read it aright.
She is not exactly happy. All this state and attention render her
nervous, it is so unlike her simple life.
"Violet," he begins, "Denise was speaking yesterday of--of----" How
shall he get to it. "There was no time to provide you any clothes,
any--You see I am not much of a lady's man. I have been out in India
and Egypt, and where they keep women shut up in harems, and never had
occasion to think much about it. I want to take you and Denise to the
city; perhaps you would go to-day?" with a man's promptness.
Violet is puzzled, alarmed, and some notion of delicacy almost leads
her to protest.
"I am too abrupt, I suppose," he says, ruefully, looking almost as
distressed as she. "But you see it is necessary."
"Then if Denise----"
He is thinking the sooner they go the better. He will not have his
mother saying she came destitute and penniless, or considering her
attire out of the way. He went once to the city with Laura, and left
her at a modiste's, and he can find it again, so he will take them
there and order all that any lady in Violet's station will require. No
one need know they have gone. It all flashes over him in an instant. He
had meant merely to make arrangements, but now he plans the trip. They
can go to Westbrook station, they can return without being seen of
prying eyes. He feels a little more sensitive on the subject because he
has so lately seen all of Laura's wedding paraphernalia. There will be
Laura, and perhaps madame to inspect her, and she must stand the test
well for her own sake. He would like to see her always in a white gown;
even that gray one was pretty the day she saved his darling.
"Yes," he says, rousing suddenly. "Denise understands all about these
matters. You are still so young." Laura he remembers was but a year
older, but, oh, how much wiser in worldly lore! No, he would never care
to have Violet wise in that way. "And if it had been otherwise,--my
child, it was a sad bridal. Some time we will make amends for all
that."
Her eyes fill with tears. She is still looking very grave when Denise
takes her in the fond, motherly arms. While she is gone upstairs to
papa's room, Grandon explains and convinces Denise that the journey is
absolutely necessary, and that no one can serve her young mistress as
well as she.
He sends a carriage for them while he takes Marcia's phaeton home, and
explains to Cecil that her mamma has some important business with
Denise, and tells his mother neither of them will be home to luncheon.
Denise looks the neat old serving-woman to perfection, and once started
on their journey Violet's face brightens. They find the modiste, who
inspects her new customers and is all suavity. Grandon makes a brief
explanation, and questions if all toilets must be black.
"It is extremely sad," and Madame Vauban looks sympathetic. "And she is
so young, so petite! Crapes seem to weigh her down, yet there must be
some for street use. If madame was not purposing to wear it very long,
it might be lightened the sooner. Just now there could be only black
and white."
"Put plenty of white in it, then," orders Mr. Grandon, and samples are
brought out for his inspection. He thinks after this sorrowful time is
over she shall dress like a little queen. There are so many lovely
gowns and laces, so much that is daintily pretty, appropriate for her.
He can hardly refrain from buying her trinkets and nonsense, but he
will not have her subjected to hostile criticisms, and he is not sure
his judgment is to be trusted. He would doubtless flounder among the
proprieties.
"And now," he says, when they are in the street again, "would you like
to go anywhere? There is the park, and there must be pictures
somewhere. I wish there was a matinee, only it might not be right to
go"; and he secretly anathematizes his own ignorance of polite and
well-bred circles. But he learns the whereabouts of two galleries, and
they stumble over some bric-à-brac that is quite enchanting. Violet has
been trained on correct principles. She knows the names and eras of
china, and has discrimination. Her little bit of French is well
pronounced. She is not so well posted in modern painters, but she has
the o'd ones, with their virgins and saints and crucifixions, all by
heart.
They are sitting on a sofa resting, and glancing at some pictures
opposite. Denise is busy with a homely farm scene that recalls her
girlhood, and no one is in their vicinity. One small, white, ungloved
hand rests on Violet's lap. Her face is sweet and serious, without the
sad gravity that shadows it so often. Indeed, she is very happy. She
has not been so much at ease with Floyd Grandon since her marriage,
neither has he devoted himself to her entertainment with such a cordial
purpose as now. He certainly is a fascinating man to the most of
womenkind, even when he is indifferent to them, but he is not
indifferent at this juncture. There is a curious quality in Floyd
Grandon's nature that is often despised by enthusiastic people. When it
is his bounden duty to take certain steps in life, he resolutely bends
his will and pleasure to them. He means honestly to love this wife that
circumstances or his own sympathetic weakness has brought him. Just now
it seems an easy matter. He has a horror of pronounced freedoms; they
look silly and vulgar, yet he cannot resist clasping the little bare
hand. The warm touch thrills her. She turns just enough to let him
catch the shy, pleased, irresistible light in her eye; no finished
coquette could have done it better, but with her it is such simple
earnest.
"Are you happy?" he asks, not because he is ignorant, but he wants an
admission.
"Oh!" It is just a soft, low sigh, and though her cheek flushes that
delicious rose pink, her face is still. The light comes over it like a
lustrous wave.
"Why, this is a bit of wedding journey," he says. "I did not think of
it before. I wish I could take you away for a week or two, but there is
so much on my mind that maybe I should not be an entertaining
companion. It will come presently, and it will be ever so much better
not to be shaded by grief."
She is quite glad that they are not away from all the old things. She
knows so little about him, she feels so strange when she comes very
near to him in any matter, as if she longed to run away to Denise or
Cecil. Just sitting here is extremely sweet and safe, and does not
alarm her.
There is a clock striking four. Can it be they have idled away nearly
all day? He rises and draws the bare hand through his arm, he is even
gallant enough to take her parasol, while she carries a pretty satin
satchel-like box of bonbons for Cecil. Denise comes at his nod; she has
two or three of her mistress's parcels, and they take up their homeward
journey. He carries her parasol so high that the sun shines in her
eyes; but the distance is short, and she says nothing.
Fortunately they reach home just in time for dinner. Cecil is out on
the porch, in the last stages of desolation.
"Come up with me and get this pretty box," cries Violet, holding it out
temptingly. "And to-morrow we will both spend with Denise, who will
make us tarts and chocolate cream."
"You stayed such a long, long while," groans Cecil, not quite pacified.
"But I shall not do it again," she promises. She is so bright that the
child feels unconsciously aggrieved.
Mrs. Grandon is very stately, and wears an air of injured dignity that
really vexes her son, who cannot see how she has been hurt by his
marriage, so long as he does not make Violet the real mistress of the
house. He has proposed that she affix her own valuation on the
furniture she is willing to part with; he will pay her income every six
months, and she will be at liberty to go and come as she pleases. What
more can he do?
He explains to Violet a day or two afterward, that between the factory
and his own writing he will hardly have an hour to spare, and that she
must not feel hurt at his absence. Lindmeyer has come, and with Joseph
Rising they are going over all with the utmost exactness. There are
sullen looks and short answers on the part of the workmen. It has been
gently hinted to them that other vacations may be given without any
advance wages. Wilmarth is quietly sympathetic. It is necessary, of
course, that the best should be done for Mr. Grandon, who has managed
to get everything in his own hands and entangle his private fortune.
And though Wilmarth never has been a thorough favorite as old Mr.
Grandon, and Mr. Eugene, with his bonhomie, yet now the men question
him in a furtive way.
"I have very little voice in the matter," explains Jasper Wilmarth,
with an affected cautiousness. "I have tried to understand Mr. St.
Vincent's views about the working of his patent, but machinery is not
my forte. I can only hope----"
"We did well enough before the humbugging thing was put in," says one
of the workmen, sullenly. "Mr. Grandon made money. We had decent wages
and decent wool, and we weren't stopping continually to get this thing
changed and that thing altered. Now you're thrown out half a day here
and half a day there, and the new men are nosing round as if they
suspected you would make way with something and meant to catch you at
it."
"We must have patience," says Wilmarth, in that extremely irritating,
hopeless tone. "Mr. Grandon is interested in his wife's behalf,
though it is said he has a fortune of his own, and the new method must
be made to pay him, if every one else suffers. I am not a rich man, and
should be sorry to lose what I thought was so sure in this concern."
Rising finds his position an extremely disagreeable one. The men are
not only curt, but evince a distrust of him, are unwilling to follow
his suggestions, and will keep on in their old ways. Lindmeyer finds
himself curiously foiled everywhere. It seems as if some unknown agency
was at work. What he puts in order to-day is not quite right to-morrow.
All the nice adjustment he can theorize about will not work
harmoniously, economically. So passes away a fortnight.
"Mr. Grandon," he says, honestly, "I seldom make a decided blunder
about these matters, but I can't get down to the very soul of this.
There is a little miss somewhere. I said I could tell you in a month,
but I am afraid I shall have to ask a further fortnight's grace. I
never was so puzzled in my life. It is making an expensive experiment
for you, but I do think it best to go on. I don't say this to
lengthen out the job. There is plenty of work for me to go at."
Grandon sighs. He finds it very expensive. It is money on the right
hand and the left, and with a costly house and large family the income
that was double his bachelor wants melts away like dew. He is not
parsimonious, but his instincts and habits have been prudent. He is
making inroads upon his capital, and if he should never get it back?
His father, it is true, has advised against entangling his private
fortune, but it cannot be helped now. To retreat with honor is
impossible and would be extremely mortifying. He will not do that, he
resolves. But how if he has to retreat with failure?
All these things trouble him greatly and distract his attention. He
sits up far into the night poring over his own work that was such
pleasure a few months ago, and he can hardly keep his mind on what so
delighted him then. There is quite too much on every hand, and he must
add to it family complications. His beautiful home is full of jarring
elements. Even Cecil grows naughty with the superabundant vitality of
childhood, and is inclined to tyrannize over Violet, who often submits
for very lack of spirit, and desire of love.
They are always together, these two. They take long drives in the
carriage, and Mrs. Grandon complains that everything must be given over
to that silly, red-haired thing! Gertrude does battle for the hair one
morning.
"I do not call it red," she says, with a decision good to hear from the
languid woman. "It is a kind of bright brown, chestnut. Mrs. McLeod's
is red."
"Auburn, my dear," retorts Mrs. Grandon mockingly. "If you are
sensitively polite in the one instance, you might be so in the other.
One is light red, the other dark red."
"One is an ugly bricky red," persists Gertrude, "and no one would call
the other red at all."
"I call it red," very positively.
"Very well," says the daughter, angrily, "you cannot make it other than
the very handsome tint it is, no matter what you call it."
"There has been a very foolish enthusiasm about red hair, I know, but
that has mostly died out," replies the mother, contemptuously, and
keeps the last word.
Gertrude actually allows herself to be persuaded into a drive with "the
children" that afternoon. She and Violet happen to stumble upon a book
they have both read, a lovely and touching German story, and they
discuss it thoroughly. Violet is fond of German poems.
"Then you read German?" Gertrude says. "I did a little once, but it was
such a bore. I haven't the strength for anything but the very lightest
amusement."
"Oh," Violet exclaims, "it must be dreadful always to be ill and weak!
Papa was ill a good deal, but he used to get well again, and he was
nearly always going about!"
"I haven't the strength to go about much."
"I wonder," Violet says, "if you were to take a little drive every day;
Cecil and I would be so glad."
Gertrude glances into the bright, eager face, with its velvety eyes and
shining hair. It is beautiful hair, soft and fine as spun silk, and
curling a little about the low, broad forehead, rippling on the top,
and gathered into a careless coil at the back that seems almost too
large for the head. Why are they all going to hate her? she wonders.
She is more comfortable in the house than madame would be as a
mistress, and she will never object to anything Floyd chooses to do for
his mother and sisters. One couldn't feel dependent on Violet, but
dependence on madame might be made a bitter draught. And if the
business goes to ruin, there will be no one save Floyd.
Violet reaches over and takes Gertrude's hand. She feels as well as
sees a certain delicate sympathy in the faded face.
"If you would let me do anything for you," she entreats, in that
persuasive tone. "I seem of so little use. You know I was kept so busy
at school."
Gertrude feels that, fascinating as Cecil is with her bright,
enchanting ways, Violet may be capable of higher enjoyments. For a
moment she wishes she had some strength and energy, that she might join
hands with her in the coming struggle.
Indeed, now, the child and Denise are Violet's only companions. Floyd
