of his face was in deadly pallor. 
Her voice was of the electric kind that carried her audi- 
ence along with it; flexible, buoyant like her strength, 
but with a deep, underlying sweetness like the far note 
of a bird. She would fain have put her head down 
beside his and cried, but she sat there with the lights 
coming and going in her face, talking against time, that 
he might rest. Her story was simply, entrancingly told. 
How they had worked, how Celia had begun with a 
girl's unknown genius, and stepped higher and higher, of 
Stephen Archer and Paul Thierry, of the delightful friendly 
Van Cleves, of Mr. and Mrs. Howarth, and all Celia's pres- 
ent attainments, even to the new home they were plan- 
ning. 
" Eleanor," he cried in frightened tones, "you will 
never go away, you will never leave me?" 
" Not if you want me." She said it clearly. 
"Go on," he said, "I feel as if I could sleep. Do you 
remember how you used to say verses long ago-— some of 
the old things." 
He fell into a slumber. Even then she dared not cry. 
Oh, the poor pinched, pitiful face ! Fourteen of the best 
years of a man's life gone, wasted utterly, and for the 
others, who could tell. Had not a divine finger written 
in awful clearness — "The wicked shall not live out half 
his days." 
The nurse came in softly, and smiled. " He has slept 
so little," she said in her soft, trained tone. " You would 
be a tonic for any invalid," and she smiled again." Will 
you have some luncheon sent up?" 
"Not until be wakes." 
She heard Bertie's step and voice presently, and some 
band restrained him unwillingly. There were low voices 
and rustling movements, but no one came until the doctor's 
ring roused bim. 
He glanced at her in a startled manner. 
"Oh, I remember," with a gasping sort of breath that 
came only from his chest. " I have had such a delightful 
sleep. Oh, I feel as if I might get well. Don't you think 
I might? " with the pitiful entreaty of a child. 
The doctor entered and expressed much gratification. 
He talked awhile with the nurse, but kept glancing fur- 
tively at the sick man, and Eleanor knew his doom was 
sealed. 
They had some lunch afterward. Then he talked again 
hopefully. At least, he might live some time. He had a 
horrible shrinking from that last final step. 
"There is something else I must do. I made a will," 
and a faint color stained his face, " but even the lawyer 
had the grace to tell me it was unjust. O Nelly, can a 
man be forgiven — by such a wife ? " 
It was such an exceeding bitter cry. All the man's 
complacency and blinding selfishness had been swept 
away. 
Eleanor Marshall could endure no more. She dropped 
her head down on the pillow and sobbed. Ah, oould he 
guess all the wealth of love he had misused, despised? 
"Tom," she cried with passionate anguish, "tell me one 
thing — was there any time when I might have saved yon, 
when greater patience, greater faith, greater tender- 
ness—" 
" Nelly, you were an angel then, ever ! Some better man 
should have married you and not robbed you of fourteen 
years. Oh, my God, how shall I answer for it at the Isstl 
 
No, my darling, you did all a woman could. Let me tell 
the truth, and it may comfort you after I am gone. That 
cursed poison takes away a man's very soul, brutalizes 
every faculty, stupifies him. He may have moments of 
regret, but they are so weak, so faint, compared to the 
giant passion that enslaves him. To my lasting shame I 
confess that nothing made any impression. If health and 
strength had not given way utterly — nay, let me talk," 
as she glanced entreatingly at him. " In spite of what 
the doctor said — that my heart had been taxed to its last 
capacity, I made one more horrible plunge," — it was 
curious now to see the shivering disgust in every feature. 
"For weeks I lay at death's door, and some peculiar phy- 
sical change must have taken place. I could not bear the 
sight nor smell of the vile stuff. It sickens me now," 
with ineffable shrinking. "I have not even a man's 
triumph over a powerful temptation to offer you. I am 
abased above measure. Was it the hand of God? And 
in some dim way I came slowly back to my senses and 
remembered that I was a rich man and could be a decent 
man, but noble or honorable I have not been ! O Nelly, 
what utter madness, what blind self-complaoency kept me 
from you I What wretched, wretched vanity, because I 
knew my money would make me no hero in your eyes. 
No, my darling, you did more than a woman's duty, or a 
wife's duty. God will bear witness to that. And my 
will does not place you where you must be placed. Will 
you ring the bell ? " 
She stood there firm, tender, decided, yet with no 
aggressiveness. 
"Tom," she said softly, "you can give me a greater 
pain still. You can cause it to be said that in a few hours 
I persuaded you to change your mind to enrichen me, 
perhaps at the cost of some other," and her face flushed 
with pain. "Whatever it is, let it stand. I am in no 
need. I am no beggar, not even a suppliant for money." 
"But it may ruin the boy," he groaned. "Nelly, he 
has some of my qualities, I see them in him." 
"Never mind about it to-day. And whatever change 
you may make in regard to him, keep your bequest to 
your mother — to others." 
"You generous angel ! " 
He sank back on the pillow. Even now he could not 
wholly comprehend her, his nature was not grand enough, 
there were far-reaches in her that he must have always 
have passed by ; but with eyes suddenly opened he re- 
alized the nobility of the soul he had so slighted and 
wounded. 
She ministered to him gently. She had the rare 
faculty of not making any attention oppressive, of not 
thrusting any special personality before anyone, and all 
about her was so harmonious. She was generous of her 
powers without that intense shrinking from opposite 
temperaments which so strongly affects some sensitive 
natures. 
Presently he roused himself again. 
"Nelly," he said more feebly. "I want you to see 
mother and Kate. I had no right to come to them first, 
that was not their fault, my cowardice would not allow 
me to take the right step. And — you will never leave 
me again?" pleadingly. 
"No," with her cheerful bravery. 
The meeting was a little awkward with Mrs. Vanduyne, 
but Mrs. Marshall was so moved by the prospect of death 
that she felt like clinging to any sure support, and then 
she was not assured in her own soul that Tom's course 
had been entirely right. 
The next morning Thomas Marshall seemed really im- 
proved. His eyes were brighter, his voice stronger. 
Bertie was allowed a brief while in the sick room, and 
his mother was quite amused at the air of importance he 
assumed, which would have been unendurable but for his 
 
sunny, volatile nature, that brought so many changes and 
such bright moods. He could not seem to realize that 
his father's illness was at all serious. Spoiled in some 
respects he certainly was, but far from being disagree- 
able. 
Mr. Marshall insisted upon seeing his lawyer the follow- 
ing day, and was a long while in consultation with him. 
Eleanor made no further comment, though she felt that if 
it was possible she would like to refuse the greater por- 
tion of her husband's wealth. Being enriched by his 
death filled her whole soul with repugnance. 
But it seemed, indeed, as if she gave him life out of her 
own generous vitality. Dr. Brientnall was amazed. He 
had been greatly prejudiced against her, but seeing her 
here in the sick room disarmed him completely. 
"You are the best of medicines," he said with admira- 
tion. " I did not think Mr. Marshall could live ten hours 
when you were sent for, and now, to all appearances, he 
may live weeks." 
The nurse was equally charmed. She would not allow 
Eleanor to exhaust herself, but, indeed, there seemed no 
danger. If she was absent for a few hours Mr. Marshall 
drooped noticeably. His eyes followed her every motion 
with such a beseeching expression, that at times it was 
positively painful. And her task was far from being easy. 
There were hours when he was irritable and restless to 
such a degree that even Eleanor's large patience was 
severely taxed. He liked so to hear her talk. He was 
hungry now for all the little details of their life, and so 
interested in Celia's career. She had been sent for and 
was staying with Daisy. He was very proud of what she 
had achieved, and yet he did not get on with her as well 
as with Daisy. Curiously enough, she brought his past 
before him much more vividly. Her clear eyes seemed 
written full of remembrances from which he shrank, 
while Daisy's brightness was of the present moment. She 
had not learned from that large and sorrowful experience 
to be pitiful, and perhaps her own heart was too sore, as 
welL 
It would no longer do to ignore Mrs. Marshall. Friends 
sent in flowers and gifts of choice fruit, and when she 
went out for her daily drive, one and another gave her a 
deferential recognition. Mrs. Wilder called, and the two 
old ladies renewed their friendship that had been rather 
cool through these years of trouble. 
Eleanor Marshall could not deceive herself in regard to 
her affection for her husband. She had so far outgrown 
him, that in any case there must have been a continual 
struggle in her mind to keep herself on the level of her 
duty. She had seen so much larger hearted and higher 
toned men, and through these years she had reached a 
more elevated plane herself. 
"Eleanor," he said one day, "do you suppose Mr. How- 
arth would come over here ? I want to thank him for all 
he has done for Celia, and I have been thinking that I 
would like to ask a favor of him. I knew him a little, 
once, you remember. I should like to leave Bertie in just 
suoh hands — he will be hard for you to manage, my dar- 
ling, and I begin to realize that a man, to be any kind of 
power in the world, must have force of character, and 
staunch integrity. Bertie has some of my weak points. 
Would you like — would you feel it too much of an obli- 
gation." 
"I should like it," she replied frankly. a I think Mr. 
Howarth would not decline, though it is but fair to ask 
him." 
Eleanor invited them both, for she knew Mrs. Vanduyne 
would be glad to meet Mrs. Howarth. And that Tom 
should desire the very thing that she had thought over in 
quite a different fashion seemed marvellous. 
He was greatly pleased with the interview, and en- 
trusted some other business matters to Mr. Howarth's 
 
ear©. The two women had a sad, sweet confidence, and 
it strengthened Eleanor to go on with her duty. 
Mrs. Van Cleve was warmly sympathetic. Indeed it 
seemed to Eleanor as if friends conspired to uphold her 
with the utmost love, that her heart should not fail in the 
darkest hour. 
There were many that weighed heavily upon her in 
spite of her buoyant temperament. When she tried to 
lead the trembling, shrinking soul to the sure support 
that had been her stay in many a troublous hour, she 
found so few salient points in the man's character ; even 
now the soul appeared dulled by the past excesses and 
hardly capable of any vital belief for himself. He clung 
to her faith, as if in some way it would be strong enough 
for both. He was like a child in her hands in this respect, 
plastic, believing because she said it, and yet shrinking 
horribly from the thought of death. He even planned to 
live awhile. It seemed quite possible. 
" And we might go somewhere presently, Nelly," he 
said. "I think you would like Florida. When I can 
travel a little we might take it by easy stages, just you 
and I, a kind of wedding journey again. It is quite as if 
we had been remarried. If you could only forget all 
those wretched years." 
"You will not let me;" with tender reproach in her 
voice. " You keep going back to them." 
"Fourteen wasted years out of a man's life ! Oh, how 
could anyone be so weak and blind ! " 
How many times she had said it, but she did not echo 
it now. She comforted with caressing touches and tried 
to soothe with precious promises. 
The end came mercifully at last. It was one morning 
in March. He appeared quite bright, and they had taken 
some breakfast together in his room. She had been read- 
ing a book of poems to him, and he asked her to get it. 
Her voice always tranquillized and inspirited. 
He put out his hand presently and she took it. His 
hands were often so cold that it did not alarm her, bat 
now they grew cooler, it appeared to her. Then she 
looked at him in a vague, alarmed manner. 
"Nelly ! " A half smile parted his lips. There was a 
little flatter in the throat and the waxen eyelids drooped 
of their own accord. 
She bent over and kissed him and uttered a brief 
prayer. Her duty to Thomas Marshall had ended. He 
seemed almost like the little child she had kissed for the 
last time and laid away in silence. 
Thomas Marshall's funeral was a most honorable one. 
Many there were who never knew all the depths through 
which he had plunged, with no real desire to rise. Un- 
broken prosperity might have saved him from much of it, 
but he had not the vital pith that buffets adversity and 
gives back blow for blow. 
a How strange," said Miss Parker to Miss Allington, 
"that Mrs. Marshall's very first order here was for mourn- 
ing — there was a death at the Fairchilds', — and now I 
am making hers." 
Westwater could no longer afford to disdain Mrs. Mar- 
shall. It was sad that she should have so stepped out of 
her position, but now that she was wealthy it was looked 
upon as a kind of escapade. The mockery stung her. 
Was it indeed true that money bought everything ? 
The death of his father was a great shock to Bertie, 
and he clung passionately to his mother again. As she 
studied the entreating eyes and kissed the throbbing lips, 
she wondered a little what manner of man could be 
evolved from the boyish soul ; if he could be made strong 
enough to resist temptation when his trial hour came. 
She sorrowed more for Thomas Marshall's wasted years 
than for his untimely death ; yet she knew that it would 
not be well to brood exclusively over that. Both were in 
the keeping of a merciful God. 
 
For a while she and Celia remained with Daisy. Mr. 
and Mrs. Van Cleve were going abroad in the summer, 
and persuaded her to accompany them. Mrs. Linthorpe 
resolved to join the party. It seemed so strange after 
these years of penury and labor, not only to be free for 
leisure and cultivation, but to be rich beyond one's needs. 
Daisy and Celia were heiresses, and everybody admitted 
they always had thought that pretty Mrs. Galbraith 
charming. Even Mrs. Mountjoy extended a rather stiff 
cordiality to her cousin once more. 
Alice had at last achieved an engagement, though it 
was not to her mother's liking. A young lawyer with all 
his fortune yet to make, the son of a rather pretentious 
family, who were continually striving to keep a somewhat 
precarious footing on the higher rounds of society. 
Violet was in the depths of an intense friendship for a 
