questions to the Rev. Mr. Moore, who understood something of Spanish. He
had first requested information as to the various methods of punishment,
other than the whip, which had been in use on the plantations in the
Gracias-á-Dios neighborhood before the emancipation, and which of them
had been considered the most effective. His next inquiry, made after a
meditative silence of some minutes, was whether, in the reverend
gentleman's opinion, the guillotine was not on the whole a more
dignified instrument for the execution of justice than the noose--one
more calculated to improve the minds of the lower classes? Finally, he
wished to know whether the clergyman supposed that a person suffered
more when an arm was amputated than he did when a leg was taken off, the
arm being nearer the vital organs; and whether either of these
operations could be compared, as regarded the torture inflicted, with
that caused by a sabre wound (such as one might receive in a duel with
swords) which had cut into the breast?
"That is a very blood-thirsty young man; his style of conversation is
really extraordinary," said the clergyman to Dr. Kirby, when Torres,
having exhausted all his topics, and not having understood one word of
the rector's Spanish in reply, returned gravely to his place on the
other side of the room.
"He is blood-thirsty because he is forced to be so dumb," answered the
Doctor, with one of his sudden little grins--grins which came and went
so quickly that, were it not for a distinct remembrance of about sixteen
very white little teeth which he had seen, the gazer would scarcely have
realized that it had been there at all. "No one here (besides yourself
and Manuel) can talk Spanish with him but Garda, and Mr. Winthrop has
kept Garda talking English every moment since he came; I don't wonder
the youth is blood-thirsty, I'm afraid that at his age I should have
called the northerner out."
But now Winthrop and Garda joined the others. Winthrop was addressed by
Mrs. Thorne.
"I have been begging Mrs. Rutherford and Mrs. Harold to pay us a visit
at East Angels some day this week; I hope, Mr. Winthrop, that you will
accompany them."
Winthrop expressed his thanks; he put forward the hope in return that
she would join them for an afternoon sail, before long, down the
Espiritu. Mrs. Thorne was sure that that would be extremely delightful,
she was sure that his yacht (she brought out the word with much
clearness; no one had ventured to call it a yacht until now) was also
delightful; and its name--Emperadora--was so charming!
She was perched, by some fatality, on a high-seated chair, so high that
(Winthrop suspected) her little feet did not touch the floor. She did
not look like a person who could enjoy sailing, one who would be able to
undulate easily, yield to the motion of the boat, or find readily
accessible in her storehouse of feelings that mood of serene
indifference to arriving anywhere at any particular time, which is a
necessary accompaniment of the aquatic amusement when pursued in the
lovely Florida waters. But "I enjoy sailing of all things," this brave
little matron was declaring.
"I am afraid there will be little novelty in it for you. You must know
all these waters well," observed Winthrop.
"Even if I do know them well, it will be a pleasure to visit them again
in such intelligent society," replied Mrs. Thorne. "We have lived
somewhat isolated, my daughter and I; it will be a widening for us in
every way to be with you--with Mrs. Rutherford, Mrs. Harold, and
yourself. I have sometimes feared," she went on, looking at him with her
bright little eyes, "that we should become, perhaps have already become,
too motionless in our intellectual life down here, my daughter and
myself."
"Motionless things are better than moving ones, aren't they?" answered
Winthrop. "The people who try to keep up with everything are apt to be a
panting, breathless set. Besides, they lose all sense of comparison in
their haste, and don't distinguish; important things and unimportant
they talk about with equal eagerness, the only point with them is that
they should be new."
"You console me--you console me greatly," responded Mrs. Thorne. "Still,
I feel sure that knowledge, and important knowledge, is advancing with
giant strides outside, and that we, my daughter and I, are left behind.
I have seen but few of the later publications--could you not kindly give
me just an outline? In geology, for instance, always so absorbing, what
are the latest discoveries with regard to the Swiss lakes? And I should
be so grateful, too, for any choice thoughts you may be able to recall
at the moment from the more recent essays of Mr. Emerson; I can say with
truth that strengthening sentences from Mr. Emerson's writings were my
best mental pabulum during all the early years of my residence at the
South."
"I--I fancy that Mrs. Harold knows more of Emerson than I do," replied
Winthrop, reflecting upon the picture of the New England school-teacher
transplanted to East Angels, and supporting life there as best she
could, on a diet of Mr. Emerson and "Paradise Lost."
"An extremely intelligent and cultivated person," responded Mrs. Thorne,
with enthusiasm. "Do you know, Mr. Winthrop, that Mrs. Harold quite
fills my idea of a combination of our own Margaret Fuller and Madame de
Staël."
"Yet she can hardly be called talkative, can she?" said Winthrop,
smiling.
"It is her face, the language of her eye, that give me my impression.
Her silence seems to me but a fulness of intellect, a fulness at times
almost throbbing; she is a Corinne mute, a Margaret dumb."
"Were they ever mute, those two?" asked Winthrop.
Mrs. Thorne glanced at him. "I see you do not admire lady
conversationalists," she murmured, relaxing into her guarded little
smile.
Dr. Kirby, conversing with Mrs. Rutherford, had brought forward General
Lafayette. On the rare occasions of late years when the Doctor had found
himself called upon to conduct a conversation with people from the
North, he was apt to resort to Lafayette.
The Rev. Mr. Moore, stimulated by Mrs. Carew's excellent coffee,
advanced the opinion that Lafayette was, after all, "very French."
"Ah! but Frenchmen can be so agreeable," said Mrs. Carew. "There was
Talleyrand, you know; when he was over here he wrote a sonnet to my
aunt, beginning 'Aimable Anne.' And then there was little Dumont,
Katrina; you remember him?--how well he danced! As for Lafayette, when
he made his triumphal tour through the country afterwards, he grew so
tired, they say, of the satin sheets which Gratitude had provided for
him at every town that he was heard to exclaim, 'Satan de satin!' Not
that I believe it, because there are those beautiful memoirs and
biographies of all his lady-relatives who were guillotined, you know,
poor things!--though, come to think of it, one of them must have been
saved of course to write the memoirs, since naturally they couldn't have
written them beforehand themselves with all those touching descriptions
of their own dying moments and last thoughts thrown in; well--what I was
going to say was that I don't believe he ever swore in the least,
because they were all so extremely pious; he couldn't--in that
atmosphere. What a singular thing it is that when the French do take
to piety they out-Herod Herod himself!--and I reckon the reason is that
it's such a novelty to them that they're like the bull in the china
shop, or rather like the new boy at the grocer's, who is not accustomed
to raisins, and eats so many the first day that he is made seriously ill
in consequence, for clear raisins are very trying."
"The French," remarked Dr. Kirby, "have often, in spite of their
worldliness, warm enthusiasms in other directions which take them far,
very far indeed. It was an enthusiasm, and a noble one, that brought
Lafayette to our shores."
"Such a number of children as were named after him, too," said Mrs.
Carew, starting off again. "I remember one of them; he had been baptized
Marquis de Lafayette (Marquis de Lafayette Green was his full name), and
I didn't for a long time comprehend what it was, for his mother always
called him 'Marquisdee,' and I thought perhaps it was an Indian name,
like Manatee, you know; for some people do like Indian names so much,
though I can't say I care for them, but it's a matter of taste, of
course, like everything else, and I once knew a dear sweet girl who had
been named Ogeechee, after our Southern river, you remember;
Ogeechee--do you like that, Katrina?"
"Heavens! no," said Mrs. Rutherford, lifting her beautiful hands in
protest against such barbarism.
"Yet why, after all, is it not as melodious as Beatrice?" remarked Mr.
Moore, meditatively, his eyes on the ceiling.
Gracias society was proud of Mr. Moore; his linguistic accomplishments
it regarded with admiration. Mrs. Carew, divining the Italian
pronunciation of Beatrice, glanced at Katrina to see if she were
properly impressed.
Garda, upon leaving Evert Winthrop, had joined Mrs. Harold, at whose
feet Manuel still remained, guitar in hand. "Do you sing, Mrs. Harold?"
the young girl said, seating herself beside the northern lady, and
looking at her with her usual interest--an interest which appeared to
consist, in part, of a sort of expectancy that she would do or say
something before long which would be a surprise. Nothing could be more
quiet, more unsurprising, so most persons would have said, than Margaret
Harold's words and manner. But Garda had her own stand-point; to her,
Mrs. Harold was a perpetual novelty. She admired her extremely, but even
more than she admired, she wondered.
"No," Mrs. Harold had answered, "I do not sing; I know something of
instrumental music."
"I am afraid we have no good pianos here," pursued Garda; "that is, none
that you would call good.--I wish you would go and talk to Mr. Torres,"
she continued, turning to Manuel.
The young Cuban occupied a solitary chair on the other side of the room,
his method apparently having allowed him to seat himself for a while; he
had not even his ivory puzzle, but sat with his hands folded, his eyes
downcast.
"You ask impossibilities," said Manuel. "What! leave this heavenly place
at Mrs. Harold's feet--and yours--for the purpose of going to talk to
that tiresome Adolfo? Never!"
"But I wish to talk to Mrs. Harold myself; you have already had that
pleasure quite too long. Besides, if you are very good, I will tell you
what you can do; cards will be brought out presently, and then it will
be seen that there are ten persons present, and as but eight are
required for the two tables, I shall be the one left out to talk to
Adolfo, as he can neither play nor speak English; in this state of
things you can, if you are watchful, arrange matters so as to be at the
same table with Mrs. Harold; perhaps even her partner."
"I will be more than watchful," Manuel declared; "I will be determined!"
"I play a wretched game," said the northern lady, warningly.
"And if you should play the best in the world, I should never know it,
absorbed as I should be in your personal presence," replied the youth,
with ardor.
Mrs. Harold laughed. Winthrop (listening to Mrs. Thorne's remarks upon
Emerson) glanced towards their little group.
"People do not talk in that way at the North. That is why she laughs,"
said Garda, explanatorily.
"And do I care how they talk in their frozen North!" cried Manuel. "I
talk as my heart dictates."
"Do so," said Garda, "but later. At present, go and cheer up poor Mr.
Torres; he is fairly shivering with loneliness over there in his
corner."
Manuel, who, in spite of his studied attitude at the feet of Mrs.
Harold, was evidently the slave of whatever whim Garda chose to express,
rose to obey. "But do not in the least imagine that Adolfo needs
cheering," he explained, still posing a little as he stood before them
with his guitar. "He entertains himself perfectly, always; he is never
lonely, he has only to think of his ancestors. Adolfo is, in fact, a
very good ancestor already. As to his shivering--that shows how little
you know him; he is a veritable volcano, that silent one! Still, I obey
your bidding, I go."
"What do you think of him?" said Garda, as he crossed the room towards
the solitary Cuban.
"Mr. Torres?"
"No; Mr. Ruiz."
"I know him so slightly, I cannot say I have formed an opinion."
Garda looked at the two young men for a moment; then, "They are both
boys," she said, dismissing them with a little wave of her hand.
"But Mr. Winthrop is not a boy," she went on, her eyes returning to the
northern lady's face. "How old is Mr. Winthrop?"
"I don't know."
"Isn't he your cousin?"
"Mr. Winthrop is the nephew of Mrs. Rutherford, who is only my aunt by
marriage."
"But if you have always known him, you must know how old he is."
"I have not always known him. I suppose he is thirty-four or five."
"That is just what he said," remarked Garda, reflectively.
"That I was thirty-four or five?"
"No; but he began in the same way. He said that he did not know; that
you were not his cousin; that you were the niece of Mr. Rutherford; and
that he supposed you to be about twenty-seven or eight."
"I am twenty-six," said Margaret.
"And he is thirty-five," added Garda.
"I suppose they both seem great ages to you," observed Margaret,
smiling.
"It's of very little consequence in a man--his age," replied the young
girl. "I confess that I thought you older than twenty-six; but it's not
because you look old, it's because you look as if you did not care
whether people thought you old or not, and generally it's only women who
are really old, you know, over thirty, like mamma and Mrs. Carew, who
have that expression--don't you think so? And I fancy you don't care
much about dress, either," she went on. "Everything you wear is very
beautiful; still, I don't believe you care about it. Yet you would carry
it off well, any amount of it, you are so tall."
"I think you are as tall as I am," said Margaret, amused by these
unconventional utterances.
"Come and see," replied Garda, suddenly. She took Margaret's hand and
rose.
"What is it we are to do?" inquired Margaret, obeying the motion without
comprehending its object.
"Come," repeated Garda.
They passed into the back drawing-room, and Garda led the way towards a
large mirror.
"But we do not wish to survey ourselves in the presence of all this
company," said Margaret, pausing.
"Yes, we do. They will not notice us, they are talking; it's about our
height, you know," answered the girl. She held Margaret's hand tightly,
and drew her onward until they both stood together before the long
glass.
Two images gazed back at them. One was that of a young girl with bright
brown hair curling low down over wonderful dark eyes. A white rose was
placed, in the Spanish fashion, on one side above the little ear. This
image in the mirror had a soft warm color in its cheeks, and a deeper
one still on its slightly parted lips; these lips were very lovely in
outline, with short, full, upward-arching curves and a little downward
droop at the corners. The rich beauty of the face, and indeed of the
whole figure, was held somewhat aloof from indiscriminate appropriation,
by the indifference which accompanied it. It was not the indifference of
experience, there was no weariness in it, no knowledge of life; it was
the fresh indifference rather of inexperience, like the indifference of
a child. It seemed, too, as if it would always be there, as if that face
would never grow eager, no matter how much expansion of knowledge the
years might bring to it; very possibly, almost certainly, this beautiful
girl would demand more of life in every way, year by year, as it passed;
but this would not make her strive for it, she would always remain as
serenely careless, as unconcerned, as now.
The mirror gave back, also, the second image. It was that of a woman
older--older by the difference that lies between sixteen years and
twenty-six. This second image was tall and slender. It had hair of the
darkest brown which is not black--hair straight and fine, its soft
abundance making little display; this hair was arranged with great
simplicity, too great, perhaps, for, brushed smoothly back and closely
coiled behind, it had an air of almost severe plainness--a plainness,
however, which the perfect oval of the face, and the beautiful forehead,
full and low, marked by the slender line of the dark eyebrows, with the
additional contrast of the long dark eyelashes beneath, could bear. The
features were regular, delicate; the complexion a clear white, of the
finest, purest grain imaginable, the sort of texture which gives the
idea that the bright color will come and go through its fairness. This
expectation was not fulfilled; the same controlled calm seemed to hold
sway there which one perceived in the blue eyes and round the mouth.
As Winthrop had said, Margaret Harold was considered handsome. By that
was meant that she was in possession of a general acknowledgment that
the shape and poise of her head were fine, that her features were
well-cut, that her tall, slender form was charmingly proportioned, her
movements graceful. Winthrop would have stated, as his own opinion, that
she was too cold and formal to be beautiful--too restricted; it was true
that in one thing she was not restricted (this was also his own
opinion), namely, in the high esteem she had for herself.
She had undoubtedly a quiet reserved sort of beauty. But other women
were not made jealous by any especial interest in her, by discussions
concerning her, by frequent introduction of her name. She was thought
unsympathetic; but as she never said the clever, cutting things which
unsympathetic women sometimes know how to say so admirably, she was not
thought entertaining as well--as they often are. Opinion varied,
therefore, as to whether she could say these things, but would not, or
whether it was the contrary, that she would have said them if she had
been able, but simply could not, having no endowment of that kind of
wit; one thing alone was certain, namely, that she continued not to say
them.
Her dress, as seen in the mirror, had much simplicity of aspect; but
this was owing to the way she wore it, and the way in which it was made,
rather than to the materials, which were ample and rich. The soft silk,
Quakerish in hue, lay in folds over the carpet which Garda's scanty
skirt barely touched; it followed the lines of the slender figure
closely, while Garda's muslin, which had been many times washed, was
