in the end would desert her. He sat up a long 
time reading and brooding over the letter. Finally 
he closed it and sealed it again, and resolved to let 
it go off, and to have a talk with his daughter. 
CHAPTER XVI. 
BEST AND UNBEST. 
IT cost the colonel a strange amount of trouble to 
get to that talk. For an old soldier and man 
of the world to ask a little innocent girl about her 
meaning of words she had written, would seem a 
simple matter enough; but there was something 
about it that tied the colonel's tongue. He could 
not bring himself to broach the subject at breakfast, with the clear homely daylight streaming 
upon the breakfast table, and Esther moving about 
and attending to her usual morning duties; all he 
could do was to watch her furtively. This creature 
was growing up out of his knowledge; he looked 
to see what outward signs of change might be 
visible. He saw a fair, slim girl, no longer a little 
girl certainly, with a face that still was his child's 
face he thought. And yet, as he looked, he slowly 
came to the conviction that it was the face of some 
thing more than a child. The old simplicity and 
the old purity, were there indeed; but now there 
was a blessed calm upon the brow, and the calm 
ness had a certain lofty quality; and the sweetness, 
which was more than ever, was refined and deep. 
It was not the sweetness of hilarious childhood, 
but something that had a more distant source than 
childhood draws from. The colonel eat his break 
fast without knowing what he was eating; how 
ever, he could not talk to Esther at that time. He 
waited till evening had come round again, and 
the lamp was lit, and he was taking his toast and 
tea, with Esther ministering to him in her wonted 
course. 
" How old are you, Esther?" he began suddenly. 
" Near fifteen, papa." 
.* Fifteen! Humph!" 
" Why, papa ? Had you forgotten ? " 
"At the moment." Then he began again. "I 
sent your letter off." 
"Thank you, papa." 
"It was sealed up. Why did you seal it? Did 
you mean rne not to read it?" 
Esther's eyes opened. " I never thought about 
it, papa. I didn't know you would care to read 
it. I thought it must be sealed, and I sealed it." 
&lt;k I did care to read it, so I opened it. Had you 
any objection ? " 
" No, papa ! " said Esther, wondering. 
"And having opened it, I read it. I did not 
quite understand it, Esther." 
Esther made no reply. 
"What do you want comfort so much for, my 
child? I thought you were happy as happy as 
other children." 
 
"I am happy now, papa; more happy than other 
children." 
" But you were not ? " 
"No papa; for a while I was not." 
" Why ? What did you want, that you had not ? 
except your mother," the colonel added, with a 
sigh of consciousness that there might be a miss 
ing something there. 
" I  was not thinking of her, papa," Esther said 
slowly. 
" Of what then ? " The colonel was intensely 
curious. 
" I was very happy, as long as Pitt was at home." 
" William Dallas ! But what is he to you ? he's 
a collegian, and you are a little girl." 
" Papa, the collegian was very kind to the little 
girl," Esther said, with a smile that was very bright 
and also merry with a certain sense of humour. 
" I grant it; still it is unreasonable And was 
it because he was gone, that you wanted comfort ? " 
" I didn't want it, or I didn't know that I wanted 
it, while he was here." 
" People that don't know they need comfort, do 
not need it, I fancy. You draw tine distinctions. 
Well, go on, Esther. You have found it, your 
letter says." 
" yes, papa." 
" My dear, I do not understand you ; and I should 
like to understand. Can you tell me what you ?
As he raised his eyes to her, he saw a look come 
over her face that he could as little comprehend as 
he could comprehend her letter; a look of surprise 
at him, mingled with a sudden shine of some inner 
light. She was moving about the tea-table; she 
came round and stood in front of her father, full 
in view. 
" Papa, I thought my letter explained it. I mean, 
that now I have come to know the Lord Jesus." 
" Now ? My dear, I was under the impression 
that you had been taught and had known the 
truths of the gospel all your life ? " 
"0 yes, papa; so I was. The difference" 
"Well?" 
"The difference, papa, is, that now I know 
him." 
"Him? Whom?" 
" I mean, Jesus, papa." 
" How do you know Him ? Do you mean that 
lately you have begun to think about him ? " 
" No, papa, I had been thinking a great while." 
"And now?" 
"Now I have come to know him." 
That Esther knew what she meant was evident; 
it was equally plain that the colonel did not. He 
was puzzled, and did not like to shew it too fully. 
The one face was shining with clearness and glad 
ness; the other was dissatisfied and perplexed. 
" My dear, I do not understand you," the colonel 
said after a pause. " Have you been reading mystical books ? I did not know there were any in the 
house." 
 
" I have been reading only the Bible, papa ; and 
that is not mystical." 
" Your language sounds so." 
"Why no, papa! I do not mean anything 
mystical." 
" Will you explain yourself? " 
Esther paused, thinking how she should do this. 
When one has used the simplest words in one's vocabulary, and is called upon to expound them by 
the use of others less simple, the task is somewhat 
critical. The colonel watched with a sort of dis 
turbed pleasure the thoughtful clear brow, the 
grave eyes which had become so sweet. The 
intelligence at work there, he saw, was no longer 
that of a child; the sweetness was no longer the 
blank of unconscious ignorance, but the wisdom 
of some blessed knowledge. What did she know, 
that was hidden from his experience ? 
"Papa, it is very difficult to tell you," Esther began. "I used to know about the things in the 
Bible, and I had learned whole chapters by heart; 
but that was all. I did not know much more than 
the name of Christ, and his history, of course, 
and his words." 
"What more could you know?" inquired the 
colonel in increasing astonishment. 
"That's just it, papa; I did not know himself. 
You know what you mean when you say you don't 
know somebody. I mean just that." 
" But Esther, that sounds to me very like very 
like an improper use of language," said the 
colonel stammering. " How can you know Him, as 
you speak ? " 
" I can't tell you, papa. I think he shewed him 
self to me." 
" Shewed himself! Do you mean, in a vision ? " 
"0 no, papa!" said Esther smiling. "I have 
not seen his face, not literally. But he has some 
how shewed me how good he is, and how glorious; 
and has made me understand how he loves me, and 
how he is with me; so that I do not feel alone any 
more. I don't think I ever shall feel alone again." 
Was this extravagance ? The colonel pondered. 
It seemed to him a thing to be rebuked or repressed; he knew nothing of this kind in his own 
religious experience; he feared it was visionary and 
fanciful. But when he looked at Esther's face the 
words died on his tongue which he would have 
spoken. Those happy eyes were so strong in their 
wistfulness, so grave in their happiness, that they 
forbade the charge of folly or fancifulness; nay, 
they were looking at something which the colonel 
wished he could himself see, if the sight brought 
such contentment. They stopped his mouth. He 
could not say what he thought to say, and his own 
eyes oddly fell before them. 
" What does William Dallas know about all 
this V " he asked. 
" Nothing, papa. I don't think he knows it at all." 
" Why did you write about it to him, then . " 
" I  was sure lie would be glad for me, papa. 
Once, a good while ago, I asked Pitt what could 
 
be the meaning of a verse in the Bible; that beautiful verse in Numbers; and he could not tell me, 
though what he said gave me a great help. So I 
knew he would remember, and he would be glad. 
And I want him to know Jesus too." 
The colonel felt a little twinge of jealousy here; 
but Esther did not know, he reflected, that her own 
father was in equal destitution of that knowledge. 
Or was it all visionary that she had been saying, 
and his view of religion the right one after all ? 
It must be the right one. Yet his religion had 
.never given his face the expression that shone in 
Esther's now. It almost hurt him. 
" And now you have comfort V " he said after a 
moment's pause. 
" Yes, papa. More than comfort." 
" Because you think that God looks upon you 
with favour." 
" Because I love him, papa. I know him and I 
love him. And I know he loves me, and will do 
everything for me." 
" How do you know it ? " asked the colonel almost harshly. "That sounds to me rather presuming. You may hope it; but how can you know 
it?" 
" He has made me know it, papa. And he has 
said it in the Bible. I just believe what he says." 
Col. Gainsborough gave up the argument. Be 
fore Esther's face of quiet confidence he felt him 
self baffled. If she were wrong, he could not prove 
her wrong. Uneasy and worsted, he gave up the 
discussion; but thought he would not have any 
more letters go to William Dallas. 
And as the days went on, he watched furtively 
his daughter. He had not been mistaken in his 
observations that evening. A steadfastness of sweet 
happiness was about her, beautifying and elevat 
ing all she did and all she was. Fair quiet on 
the brow, loving gladness on the lips, and hands 
of ready ministry. She had always been a dutiful 
child, faithful in her ministering; but now the service was not of duty but of love, and gracious 
accordingly, as the service of duty can never be. 
The colonel watched, and saw something of the 
difference, without being able however to come 
at a satisfactory understanding of it. He saw 
how under this influence of love and gladness 
his child was becoming the rarest of servants 
to him; and more still, how under it she was 
developing into a most exquisite personal beauty. 
He watched her, as if by watching he might catch 
something, of the secret mental charm by virtue of 
which these changes were wrought. But "the se 
cret of the Lord is with them that fear him " ; and 
it cannot be communicated from one to another. 
As has been mentioned, Pitt's letters after he got 
to work at Oxford became much fewer and scantier. 
!t was only at very rare intervals that one came to 
Col. Gainsborough; and Esther made no proposition 
of writing to England again. On that subject the 
colonel ceased to take any thought. It was other 
wise with Pitt's family. 
 
Mrs. Dallas sat one evening pondering over the 
last letter received from her son. It was early autumn; a little fire burning in the chimney, towards 
which the master of the house stretched out his 
legs, lying very much at his ease in an old-fashioned 
chaise lounge and turning over an English news 
paper. His attitude bespoke the comfortable ease 
and carelessness of his mind, on which certainly 
nothing lay heavy. His wife was in all things a 
contrast. Her handsome, stately figure was yield 
ing at the moment to no blandishments of comfort 
or luxury; she sat upright, with Pitt's letter in her 
hand, and on her brow there was an expression of 
troubled consideration. 
" Husband," she said at length, "do you notice 
how Pitt speaks of the colonel and his daughter . " 
"No " came slowly and indifferently from the 
lips of Mr. Dallas, as he turned the pages of his 
newspaper. 
" Don't you notice how he asks after them in 
every letter, and wants me to go and see them?" 
" Natural enough. Pitt is thinking of home, and 
he thinks of them; part of the picture." 
"That boy don't forget !" 
"Give him time" suggested Mr. Dallas, with a 
careless yawn. 
" He has had some time a year and a half, and 
in Europe; and distractions enough. But don't 
you know Pitt ? He sticks to a thing even closer 
than you do." 
" If he cares enough about it." 
" That's what troubles me, Hildebrand. I am 
afraid he does care. If he comes home next summer and finds that girl Do you know how she 
is growing up? " 
" That is the worst of children," said Mr. Dallas 
in the same lazy way; " they will grow up." 
" By next summer she will be well, I don't know 
how old, but quite old enough to take the fancy 
of a boy like Pitt." 
" I know Pitt's age. He will be twenty-two. 
Old enough to know better. He isn't such a fool." 
"Such a fool as what?" asked Mrs. Dallas sharply. 
" That girl is going to be handsome enough to take 
any man's fancy, and hold it too. She is uncommonly striking. Don't you see it ? " 
" Humph! yes, I  see it." 
" Hildebrand, I do not want him to marry the 
daughter of a dissenting colonel, with not money 
enough to dress her." 
" I do not mean he shall." 
" Then think how you are going to prevent it. 
Next summer, I warn you, it may be too late." 
In consequence perhaps of this conversation, 
though it is by no means certain that Mr. Dallas 
needed its suggestions, he strolled over after tea 
to Col. Gainsborough's. The colonel was in his 
usual place and position; Esther sitting at the 
table with her books. Mr. Dallas eyed her as she 
rose to receive him, noticed the gracious, quiet 
manner, the fair and noble face, the easy movement and fine bearing; and turned to her father 
 
with a strengthened purpose to do what he had 
come to do. He had to wait awhile. He told the 
news of Pitt's last letter ; intimated that he meant 
