and the thought that she would find herself mistaken. 
Oswald had reduced the subjugation of woman to a 
science. He knew that, under most trying circum- 
stances, a judicious letting alone was a maneuver not 
to be despised. The most untamable easily suc- 
cumbed after she had been left in the dark to sob her- 
self sick. Victoria should have plenty of time for re- 
flection. He would not entreat again, but await the 
rapture of seeing this proud creature creeping toward 
his arms. So he made himself busy that day, to 
avoid thought ; attended to some money matters 
which had been hanging on for weeks, invited Grim- 
wald to lunch, trying to be amused by his rampant 
criticism on certain late music, and at night took 
the boat for New York. Arrived in that gay and busy 
city, he threw himself into its arms and said, ' Enter- 
tain me." The first day passed and he went to the 
theater. The curtain, lights, even the indescribable 
smell of the place musty, but delicious to the theater- 
goercast him back into Boston and before ^j.he stage 
where he had seen her walk so of ten. ? TheT.- comedy 
faded out. Other people about him laughed and ap- 
plauded, but before his eyes moved only ^ white 
vision. Her great worth, his great desire of posses- 
sion, surged up again, and overthrew his interest in 
paltry tactics. Surely his only place was at her feet. 
The next night he was on his way home. Reading 
 
Elizabeth's telegram, which he found there, awoke 
only a mild interest, a little wonder, too, that she 
should have sent for him. He had cut loose from 
that phase of his life ; why should floating things 
come up as impertinent reminders of a shore to 
which he never could return ? 
He meant to see Victoria that night at the theater, 
but as the hours wore on, emotion grew to the limits 
of endurance, urging him to seek her out before. 
It made no vital difference, he told himself, whether 
he saw her a few hours earlier or later. This, the 
conviction born of passion, denied, making both their 
lives seem to depend on it. Consequently, the early 
afternoon found him at Birchwood, where he had little 
trouble in locating the manager's house. 
The servant who answered the bell was very gen- 
uinely surprised at his questions. No, Miss Landor 
was not there. She had only been there once, a long 
time ago, with her mother. There was nothing further 
to be gained, and Oswald set off down the village 
street, to kill time and his own disappointment. 
In spite of probabilities, he half expected to meet 
her. The street led into a country road, and he still 
tramped on, thinking, with a smile, of the sudden and 
accidental manner the events of life took, in dropping 
down upon him. Led on by speculation, he walked fur- 
ther than he had intended, reaching the station again at 
dark. : He had not eaten since morning, and had been 
played upon by one emotion after another until he 
now felt most like a boy, longing to be once more with 
the woman he loved, to be soothed and led back to 
cheerfulness. It was inconceivable to him that she 
could meet him coldly or with reproaches, he needed 
her so much. Once in the car, he found it impossible 
to stay there. Two people behind him were talking of 
going to the Museum that night. The woman hoped 
the play was funny, and the man assured her it was. 
Oswald went out on the platform. It was a relief to look 
into the darkness, a pleasure to feel the air, which had 
grown steadily chill. It would be the coldest night of 
the month. He tried to interest himself in shivering 
and turning up his coat-collar to guard against the 
wind, in wondering where he preferred to dine, and if 
Rose would object to his admittance behind the scenes. 
They were all superficial thoughts. The distance les- 
sened ; the time shortened. His throat grew parched, 
and the painful choking of anticipation came. What 
fortunate accident would open the next act of his 
drama ? No emotion had ever before been so real as 
to become a pain to him. 
He was beginning to live. He stepped back to let 
some one pass, and an express train shot by on the 
track he was facing. Another quick backward step, 
as the locomotive flashed across his glance, and bal- 
ance and hold were lost. Some one had opened the 
door in time to see the lurch into darkness, and the 
train was stopped. 
He was taken up quite dead. Falling squarely 
backward, his head struck the one sharp stone within 
yards. However cruel the wound, death left the face 
eager and beautiful. It was only one more accident. 
You probably thought so, when you saw it mentioned 
in the paper next morning. Perhaps, too, you read it 
at the same moment it came to the eyes of Victoria, 
 
fortifying herself anew against the persuasions of a 
tongue become silent. 
. 
When he was carried home, Ward was perhaps not 
sorry that the mistress of the house was away and all 
responsibility devolved on him. The servants were in 
fluttering confusion, but there was little grief. They had 
known their master too long to love him. Ward, among 
other important items, remembered that he had not 
Mrs'. Craig's address. Then he thought of Mr. Per- 
ham, and went to his rooms. It almost seemed to 
Ward that the solemnity of the occasion justified him 
in sending a message asking Jack to come, but the 
force of habit was too strong. He would have ex- 
pected a reprimand from Oswald, for taking liberties 
with a gentleman. Fortunately, Jack was in. He had 
not heard the news and was shocked and excited. 
There was genuine grief as well as surprise in his emo- 
tion. Jack was somewhat canine in his attachments ; 
once fixed, the unworthiness of the object did not 
weaken his constancy. He had no idea where Mrs. 
Craig had gone, but knew she was often at Strat- 
ford. It would be safe to telegraph there. So 
he sent a cautious message, saying only that 
she was needed immediately, and signing his own 
name. As he did that, there rose to the surface 
his dim recollection of having been unlucky in his 
acquaintance with her and Jack had some idea 
why she had so little cause to tolerate him. But 
having a genuine admiration for her, the more hearty, 
perhaps, because she had never concealed her disap- 
proval, he felt a shame in proportion. He wandered 
 
about for half an hour after the telegram was sent, 
nervously unwilling to go to the house where Oswald 
lay. It seemed base to do nothing. Why not go down 
to Stratford and return with Elizabeth ? He hurried 
away to consult a time-table and found it could not be 
done if she should catch the morning train, but he 
could meet her on the way and act as some shield 
against the possibility of her coming to the city quite 
alone. Again he thought angrily of his own folly in 
making himself so worthy the scorn of a woman 'that 
he could not expect her to be glad of his help. 
The message need not have been obscurely worded. 
After one great blow, no other can very much surprise 
us. Elizabeth was sure her husband was dead. 
Stunned as she was, the only feeling of which she was 
conscious was that of great remorse. She had left him, 
and he had died. She made her preparations with in- 
tent earnestness, wildly anxious to be there as soon as 
possible, as the only small fulfillment of her marriage 
promises left her. She said hastily, at home, that she 
was sent for, and did not explain. She could not have 
her mother suffering for her grief, as long as it was 
possible to bear it alone. Jack entered the car at 
Havamill, and went through, hoping and dreading to 
find her. He had not imagined feeling so great a relief 
as it was when she turned to him and put out her 
hand. 
" It was very kind of you to come," she said, making 
no attempt at civilities. ;< How did it happen ? ' 
" Oh, then you know ? " said Jack, with a long breath 
of relief. 
(( No, but I was sent for because something dreadful 
 
had happened. Is he hurt or has he died ? " she 
added in a low voice. 
" He died last night. There was no pain. He fell 
from a car." 
"I think I would like the window open a little," she 
said, after a few moments. Then the two spoke no 
more till they reached Boston. Jack watched her 
anxiously, but she was quite still, her head resting on 
the car window, and her eyes open. He had feared 
her fainting. Afterwards, at least, an outbreak would 
have been more easily understood than her calmness ; 
so Ward thought. Having expected hysterics, he felt 
slightly disgusted at their non-occurrence. She asked 
but one question. Passing up-stairs, she paused at the 
door of a room adjoining her own, saying, with a slight 
hesitation, " Is he in here ? ' 
" Yes'm," said Ward, and she passed by. Most of 
the day she spent in the library seeing no one, for all 
necessary arrangements Jack took on his own shoulders. 
At night, she was still there, and Jack constituted him- 
self sentinel in the reception-room near. Once, near 
midnight, he stole up to her door. It was open, the 
light burning brightly and Elizabeth asleep in the great 
chair where she had lain through that other wretched 
night. He went softly in, turned the light down and 
took up his watch again. At daybreak he heard her go 
to her own room. 
There were only the Southern cousins to inform, and 
Elizabeth wrote the few necessary facts to her mother, 
asking her not to come. It seemed to her that the 
only way of living quietly through the strain, was to 
undertake it alone. 
When she was left in possession of the house, she 
felt as if she had lived through a dream which yet led 
to no clear awakening. She was a mystery to Ward, 
the chief reason being that she only once entered the 
room where her husband lay, and that for a few 
minutes. In that little time, Elizabeth had stooped to 
the dead man's ear to whisper : ' If I was wrong, for- 
give me. And I forgive you. I meant to do right, 
but it was so hard." She covered the face softly, glad 
that death had left only his most beautiful self. Love 
was dead in her, but remorse for some fancied duty 
undone, unable as she had been to do it, would still 
linger. 
After the funeral, Jack felt himself to be rather 
awkwardly placed. It was cruel to leave her alone, 
and yet he had no right to stay. Whoever had the 
right, was evidently not going to appear to claim it. 
Before he had gone very far in the dilemma, Elizabeth 
relieved him from it. 
" I have been thinking what I can do," she said, 
going into the library where he sat wondering if he 
should take his hat and go. " Have I the care of this 
house ? Can I close it and go away ? ' 
"Undoubtedly." 
He was glad to see her look perplexed. Even this 
little frown was more hopeful than the dead quiet her 
face had worn. Yesterday, in the midst of his pity, he 
had wondered that a man of just Oswald's tastes should 
have married her. Now he noted the grace of the slen- 
der figure in black, the beauty of her hands. 
" I want so much to go home," said Elizabeth, a lit- 
tle quiver touching the corners of her mouth. ' We 
 
have had trouble there. Did I tell you my brother 
had just died?" 
"No," said Jack, the tears coming into his eyes. 
" I want to be there. I wish you would tell me ex- 
actly what I ought to do." 
The appeal touched Jack to the heart. 
"You want to get away and close the house," he 
said, settling to business. :< But you mean to come 
back to it, by and by ? " 
' Never ! ' with a quick shudder that told its story. 
Afterwards he wondered if it could be possible that 
Mrs. Craig knew her husband too well. 
" But you wouldn't sell the house ? " 
' Yes, if it is mine to sell. And as soon as possi- 
ble." 
" Then I should give the servants warning, or, if you 
choose, make them some compensation for that, and 
let them go away sooner." 
"To-morrow," said Elizabeth, restlessly. "That 
will be best, and I will go to-morrow." 
She was consumed by a feverish haste to be at home. 
The old associations had grown dear beyond words. 
She was sure that if she could have the old bleak days 
back, with her girlhood and Philip, it would all be 
paradise. ' And all this business of taking care of 
things must be given to somebody. You are a lawyer, 
aren't you ; will you do it ? " 
" Why, if you can trust me, Mrs. Craig," said Jack, 
with a blush. He was overwhelmed by her haste. 
" But there are plenty of men I know to be relia- 
ble " 
" You are going to refuse because I blamed you," 
said Elizabeth bravely, and very humbly. " I couldn't 
help that, but perhaps I was too hard. I don't seem 
to, see things or understand people!' she cried, 
bitterly. 
' Mrs. Craig, no living woman ought to have forgiven 
it," said Jack, with a burst of shame. ' If you'll let me 
work for you, I'll do it, and some time I may be fit to 
shake hands with you." 
Elizabeth held out her hand quickly, with a smile, 
and Jack was her loyal adorer from that moment. He 
is married now, but he tells his wife that it was another 
woman, one with whom he never dared be in love, who 
was his salvation. 
CHAPTER XXIX. 
T TICTORIA had known of Oswald's death from the 
V papers, the morning after it occurred. 
There is a certain quality ready to be aroused in the 
womanly nature, which, for want of a better name, is 
referred to the fierceness of the tigress in defense of 
her young. In some women, this fierce loving is only 
called forth by maternity ; in others not at all. In the 
few, it lies sleeping side by side with love, to wake 
when that stirs. Victoria put down her newspaper, not 
overwhelmed by the shock, but emboldened. There 
filled and swelled her veins a flood whose every 
drop cried passionately for its own, making her long to 
stretch out her arms to the people who had a right to 
be near Oswald, and cry, " Give me my dead." She 
put on her hat mechanically, and then, as she was going 
out, remembered that she did not know where to find 
him. In the excitement of her escapade of a few nights 
before, street and number left no impression on her 
mind. She sank into a chair, her hand still on the 
door. The drive had been like a dream ; she did not 
know its direction. The house was the house of a 
dream. With every detail of the room she had entered 
photographed on her mind in a picture that stung the 
sensitive-plate, she had yet no conception of place. 
So she sat, her mind rather losing than gaining power 
of action, but always droning through it the insistent 
 
under-tone, " He needs me and I must go," to be met 
with and beaten back by the check, ' I cannot find 
him." 
