she treated both Corey and Penelope with the justice 

 



 

which their innocence of voluntary offence deserved. 
It was a difficult part, and she kept away from them 
as much as she could. She had been easily excused, 
on a plea of fatigue from her journey, when Mr. 
and Mrs. Corey had called the day after her arrival, 
and Mrs. Lapham being still unwell, Penelope re 
ceived them alone. 

The girl had instinctively judged best that they 
should know the worst at once, and she let them 
have the full brunt of the drawing-room, while she 
was screwing her courage up to come down and see 
them. She was afterwards months afterwards 
able to report to Corey that when she entered the 
room his father was sitting with his hat on his knees, 
a little tilted away from the Emancipation group, as 
if he expected the Lincoln to hit him, with that lifted 
hand of benediction ; and that Mrs. Corey looked as 
if she were not sure but the Eagle pecked. But for 
the time being Penelope was as nearly crazed as 
might be by the complications of her position, and 
received her visitors with a piteous distraction which 
could not fail of touching Bromfield Corey's Italian 
ised sympatheticism. He was very polite and tender 
with her at first, and ended by making a joke with 
her, to which Penelope responded, in her sort. He 
said he hoped they parted friends, if not quite 
acquaintances ; and she said she hoped they would 
be able to recognise each other if they ever met 
again. 

" That is what I meant by her pertness," said Mrs. 
Corey, when they were driving away. 



 

"Was it very pert?" he queried. "The child 
had to answer something." 

" I would much rather she had answered nothing, 
under the circumstances," said Mrs. Corey. " How 
ever ! " she added hopelessly. 

" Oh, she 's a merry little grig, you can see that, 
and there 's no harm in her. I can understand a 
little why a formal fellow like Tom should be taken 
with her. She hasn't the least reverence, I suppose, 
and joked with the young man from the beginning. 
You must remember, Anna, that there was a time 
when you liked my joking." 

" It was a very different thing ! " 

" But that drawing-room," pursued Corey; " really, 
I don't see how Tom stands that. Anna, a terrible 
thought occurs to me ! Fancy Tom being married 
in front of that group, with a floral horse-shoe in 
tuberoses coming down on either side of it ! 

"Bromfield ! " cried his wife, "you are unmerci 
ful." 

" No, no, my dear," he argued ; " merely imagin 
ative. And I can even imagine that little thing 
finding Tom just the least bit slow, at times, if it 
were not for his goodness. Tom is so kind that 
I 'm convinced he sometimes feels your joke in his 
heart when his head isn't quite clear about it. 
Well, we will not despond, my dear." 

" Your father seemed actually to like her," Mrs. 
Corey reported to her daughters, very much shaken 
in her own prejudices by the fact. If the girl were 
not so offensive to his fastidiousness, there might be 



 

some hope that she was not so offensive as Mrs. 
Corey had thought. " I wonder how she will strike 
you," she concluded, looking from one daughter to 
another, as if trying to decide which of them would 
like Penelope least. 

Irene's return and the visit of the Coreys formed 
a distraction for the Laphams in which their impend 
ing troubles seemed to hang further aloof; but it 
was only one of those reliefs which mark the course of 
adversity, and it was not one of the cheerful reliefs. 
At any other time, either incident would have been 
an anxiety and care for Mrs. Lapham which she 
would have found hard to bear ; but now she almost 
welcomed them. At the end of three days Lapham 
returned, and his wife met him as if nothing unusual 
had marked their parting ; she reserved her atone 
ment for a fitter time; he would know now from the 
way she acted that she felt all right towards him. 
He took very little note of her manner, but met his 
family with an austere quiet that puzzled her, and a 
sort of pensive dignity that refined his rudeness to 
an effect that sometimes comes to such natures after 
long sickness, when the animal strength has been 
taxed and lowered. He sat silent with her at the 
table after their girls had left them alone, and seeing 
that he did not mean to speak, she began to explain 
why Irene had come home, and to praise her. 

" Yes, she done right," said Lapham. " It was 
time for her to come," he added gently. 

Then he was silent again, and his wife told him 
of Corey 's having been there, and of his father 's and 



 

mother's calling. "I guess Pen's concluded to 
make it up," she said. 

" Well, we 'll see about that," said Lapham ; and 
now she could no longer forbear to ask him about 
his affairs. 

" I don't know as I Ve got any right to know 
anything about it," she said humbly, with remote 
allusion to her treatment of him. " But I can't help 
wanting to know. How are things going, Si ? " 

" Bad," he said, pushing his plate from him, and 
tilting himself back in his chair. " Or they ain't 
going at all They Ve stopped." 

"What do you mean, Si?" she persisted, ten 
derly. 

" I Ve got to the end of my string. To-morrow I 
shall call a meeting of my creditors, and put myself 
in their hands. If there's enough left to satisfy 
them, I 'm satisfied." His voice dropped in his 
throat ; he swallowed once or twice, and then did 
not speak. 

" Do you mean that it 's all over with you ?" she 
asked fearfully. 

He bowed his big head, wrinkled and grizzled ; 
and after a while he said, " It 's hard to realise it ; 
but I guess there ain't any doubt about it." He 
drew a long breath, and then he explained to her 
about the West Virginia people, and how he had got 
an extension of the first time they had given him, 
and had got a man to go up to Lapham with him 
and look at the works, a man that had turned up 
in New York, and wanted to put money in the 



 

business. His money would have enabled Lapham 
to close with the West Virginians. " The devil was 
in it, right straight along," said Lapham. "All I 
had to do was to keep quiet about that other com 
pany. It was Rogers and his property right over 
again. He liked the look of things, and he wanted 
to go into the business, and he had the money 
plenty ; it would have saved me with those West 
Virginia folks. But I had to tell him how I stood. I 
had to tell him all about it, and what I wanted to 
do. He began to back water in a minute, and the 
next morning I saw that it was up with him. He 's 
gone back to New York. I Ve lost my last chance. 
Now all I Ve got to do is to save the pieces." 

" Will will everything go ? " she asked. 

" I can't tell, yet But they shall have a chance 
at everything every dollar, every cent. I 'in sorry 
for you, Persis and the girls." 

" Oh, don't talk of us ! " She was trying to realise 
that the simple, rude soul to which her heart clove in 
her youth, but which she had put to such cruel proof, 
with her unsparing conscience and her unsparing 
tongue, had been equal to its ordeals, and had come 
out unscathed and unstained. He was able in his 
talk to make so little of them ; he hardly seemed to 
see what they were ; he was apparently not proud of 
them, and certainly not glad; if they were victories of 
any sort, he bore them with the patience of defeat. 
His wife wished to praise him, but she did not know 
how ; so she offered him a little reproach, in which 
alone she touched the cause of her behaviour at part- 



 

ing. " Silas," she asked, after a long gaze at him, "why 
didn't you tell me you had Jim Millon's girl there ? " 

"I didn't suppose you'd like it, Persis," he 
answered. " I did intend to tell you at first, but 
then I put I put it off. I thought you'd come 
round some day, and find it out for yourself." 

"I'm punished," said his wife, "for not taking 
enough interest in your business to even come near 
it. If we 're brought back to the day of small things, 
I guess it J s a lesson for me, Silas." 

"Oh, I don't know about the lesson," he said 
wearily. 

That night she showed him the anonymous scrawl 
which had kindled her fury against him. He turned 
it listlessly over in his hand. " I guess I know who 
it 's from," he said, giving it back to her, " and I 
guess you do too, Persis." 

"But how how could he " 

"Mebbe he believed it," said Lapham, with 
patience that cut her more keenly than any re 
proach. " You did. ' 

Perhaps because the process of his ruin had been 
so gradual, perhaps because the excitement of pre 
ceding events had exhausted their capacity for 
emotion, the actual consummation of his bankruptcy 
brought a relief, a repose to Lapham and his family, 
rather than a fresh sensation of calamity. In the 
shadow of his disaster they returned to something 
like their old, united life ; they were at least all 
together again ; and it will be intelligible to those 
whom life has blessed with vicissitude, that Lapham 



 

should come home the evening after he had given up 
everything^) his creditors, and should sit down to 
his supper so cheerful that Penelope could joke him 
in the old way, and tell him that she thought from 
his looks they had concluded to pay him a hundred 
cents on every dollar he owed them. 

As James Bellingham had taken so much interest 
in his troubles from the first, Lapham thought he 
ought to tell him, before taking the final step, just 
how things stood with him, and what he meant to 
do. Bellingham made some futile inquiries about 
his negotiations with the West Virginians, and 
Lapham told him they had come to nothing. He 
spoke of the New York man, and the chance that 
he might have sold out half his business to him. 
" But, of course, I had to let him know how it was 
about those fellows." 

" Of course," said Bellingham, not seeing till after 
wards the full significance of Lapham's action. 

Lapham said nothing about Rogers and the 
Englishmen. He believed that he had acted right 
in that matter, and he was satisfied ; but he did not 
care to have Bellingham, or anybody, perhaps, think 
he had been a fool 

All those who were concerned in his affairs said 
he behaved well, and even more than well, when it 
came to the worst. The prudence, the good sense, 
which he had shown in the first years of his success, 
and of which his great prosperity seemed to have 
bereft him, came back, and these qualities, used in 
his own behalf, commended him as much to his 



 

creditors as the anxiety he showed that no one 
should suffer by him ; this even made some of 
them doubtful of his sincerity. They gave him 
time, and there would have been no trouble in his 
resuming on the old basis, if the ground had not 
been cut from under him by the competition of the 
West Virginia company. He saw himself that it 
