    'Tis a consummation devoutly to be wished. But soft you, the
        fair Ophelia:
    Ope not thy ponderous and marble jaws,
    But get thee to a nunnery--go!
Well, the old man he liked that speech, and he mighty soon got it so
he could do it first rate. It seemed like he was just born for it; and
when he had his hand in and was excited, it was perfectly lovely the
way he would rip and tear and rair up behind when he was getting it
off.
The first chance we got the duke he had some show-bills printed; and
after that, for two or three days as we floated along, the raft was a
most uncommon lively place, for there warn't nothing but
sword-fighting and rehearsing--as the duke called it--going on all the
time. One morning, when we was pretty well down the state of Arkansaw,
we come in sight of a little one-horse town in a big bend; so we tied
up about three-quarters of a mile above it, in the mouth of a crick
which was shut in like a tunnel by the cypress trees, and all of us
but Jim took the canoe and went down there to see if there was any
chance in that place for our show.
We struck it mighty lucky; there was going to be a circus there that
afternoon, and the country-people was already beginning to come in, in
all kinds of old shackly wagons, and on horses. The circus would leave
before night, so our show would have a pretty good chance. The duke he
hired the court-house, and we went around and stuck up our bills. They
read like this:
   Shaksperean Revival ! ! !
   Wonderful Attraction!
   For One Night Only!
   The world renowned tragedians,
   David Garrick the younger, of Drury Lane Theatre, London,
      and
   Edmund Kean the elder, of the Royal Haymarket Theatre,
   Whitechapel, Pudding Lane, Piccadilly, London, and the
   Royal Continental Theatres, in their sublime
   Shaksperean Spectacle entitled
   The Balcony Scene
      in
   Romeo and Juliet ! ! !
   Romeo...................Mr. Garrick
   Juliet..................Mr. Kean
   Assisted by the whole strength of the company!
   New costumes, new scenery, new appointments!
      Also:
   The thrilling, masterly, and blood-curdling
   Broad-sword conflict
   In Richard III. ! ! !
   Richard III.............Mr. Garrick
   Richmond................Mr. Kean
      Also:
   (by special request)
   Hamlet's Immortal Soliloquy ! !
   By the Illustrious Kean!
   Done by him 300 consecutive nights in Paris!
   For One Night Only,
   On account of imperative European engagements!
   Admission 25 cents; children and servants, 10 cents.
Then we went loafing around town. The stores and houses was most all
old, shackly, dried-up frame concerns that hadn't ever been painted;
they was set up three or four foot above ground on stilts, so as to be
out of reach of the water when the river was overflowed. The houses
had little gardens around them, but they didn't seem to raise hardly
anything in them but jimpson-weeds, and sunflowers, and ash-piles, and
old curled-up boots and shoes, and pieces of bottles, and rags, and
played-out tinware. The fences was made of different kinds of boards,
nailed on at different times; and they leaned every which way, and had
gates that didn't generly have but one hinge--a leather one. Some of
the fences had been whitewashed some time or another, but the duke
said it was in Columbus's time, like enough. There was generly hogs in
the garden, and people driving them out.
All the stores was along one street. They had white domestic awnings
in front, and the country-people hitched their horses to the
awning-posts. There was empty dry-goods boxes under the awnings, and
loafers roosting on them all day long, whittling them with their
Barlow knives; and chawing tobacco, and gaping and yawning and
stretching--a mighty ornery lot. They generly had on yellow straw hats
most as wide as an umbrella, but didn't wear no coats nor waistcoats;
they called one another Bill, and Buck, and Hank, and Joe, and Andy,
and talked lazy and drawly, and used considerable many cuss-words.
There was as many as one loafer leaning up against every awning-post,
and he most always had his hands in his britches pockets, except when
he fetched them out to lend a chaw of tobacco or scratch. What a body
was hearing amongst them all the time was:
"Gimme a chaw 'v tobacker, Hank."
"Cain't; I hain't got but one chaw left. Ask Bill."
Maybe Bill he gives him a chaw; maybe he lies and says he ain't got
none. Some of them kinds of loafers never has a cent in the world, nor
a chaw of tobacco of their own. They get all their chawing by
borrowing; they say to a fellow, "I wisht you'd len' me a chaw, Jack,
I jist this minute give Ben Thompson the last chaw I had"--which is a
lie pretty much every time; it don't fool nobody but a stranger; but
Jack ain't no stranger, so he says:
" You  give him a chaw, did you? So did your sister's cat's
grandmother. You pay me back the chaws you've awready borry'd off'n
me, Lafe Buckner, then I'll loan you one or two ton of it, and won't
charge you no back intrust, nuther."
"Well, I  did  pay you back some of it wunst."
"Yes, you did--'bout six chaws. You borry'd store tobacker and paid
back nigger-head."
Store tobacco is flat black plug, but these fellows mostly chaws the
natural leaf twisted. When they borrow a chaw they don't generly cut
it off with a knife, but set the plug in between their teeth, and gnaw
with their teeth and tug at the plug with their hands till they get it
in two; then sometimes the one that owns the tobacco looks mournful at
it when it's handed back, and says, sarcastic:
"Here, gimme the  chaw, and you take the  plug ."
[Illustration:"'GIMME A CHAW'"]
All the streets and lanes was just mud; they warn't nothing else  but 
mud--mud as black as tar and nigh about a foot deep in some places,
and two or three inches deep in  all  the places. The hogs loafed and
grunted around everywheres.  You'd see a muddy sow and a litter of
pigs come lazying along the street and whollop herself right down in
the way, where folks had to walk around her, and she'd stretch out and
shut her eyes and wave her ears whilst the pigs was milking her, and
look as happy as if she was on salary. And pretty soon you'd hear a
loafer sing out, "Hi!  so  boy! sick him, Tige!" and away the sow
would go, squealing most horrible, with a dog or two swinging to each
ear, and three or four dozen more a-coming; and then you would see all
the loafers get up and watch the thing out of sight, and laugh at the
fun and look grateful for the noise. Then they'd settle back again
till there was a dog-fight. There couldn't anything wake them up all
over, and make them happy all over, like a dog-fight--unless it might
be putting turpentine on a stray dog and setting fire to him, or tying
a tin pan to his tail and see him run himself to death.
On the river-front some of the houses was sticking out over the bank,
and they was bowed and bent, and about ready to tumble in. The people
had moved out of them. The bank was caved away under one corner of
some others, and that corner was hanging over. People lived in them
yet, but it was dangersome, because sometimes a strip of land as wide
as a house caves in at a time. Sometimes a belt of land a quarter of a
mile deep will start in and cave along and cave along till it all
caves into the river in one summer. Such a town as that has to be
always moving back, and back, and back, because the river's always
gnawing at it.
The nearer it got to noon that day the thicker and thicker was the
wagons and horses in the streets, and more coming all the time.
Families fetched their dinners with them from the country, and eat
them in the wagons. There was considerable whisky-drinking going on,
and I seen three fights. By and by somebody sings out:
"Here comes old Boggs!--in from the country for his little old monthly
drunk; here he comes, boys!"
All the loafers looked glad; I reckoned they was used to having fun
out of Boggs. One of them says:
"Wonder who he's a-gwyne to chaw up this time. If he'd a-chawed up all
the men he's ben a-gwyne to chaw up in the last twenty year he'd have
considerable ruputation now."
Another one says, "I wisht old Boggs 'd threaten me, 'cuz then I'd
know I warn't gwyne to die for a thousan' year."
Boggs comes a-tearing along on his horse, whooping and yelling like an
Injun, and singing out:
"Cler the track, thar. I'm on the waw-path, and the price uv coffins
is a-gwyne to raise."
He was drunk, and weaving about in his saddle; he was over fifty year
old, and had a very red face. Everybody yelled at him and laughed at
him and sassed him, and he sassed back, and said he'd attend to them
and lay them out in their regular turns, but he couldn't wait now
because he'd come to town to kill old Colonel Sherburn, and his motto
was, "Meat first, and spoon vittles to top off on."
He see me, and rode up and says:
"Whar'd you come f'm, boy? You prepared to die?"
Then he rode on. I was scared, but a man says:
"He don't mean nothing; he's always a-carryin' on like that when he's
drunk. He's the best-naturedest old fool in Arkansaw--never hurt
nobody, drunk nor sober."
Boggs rode up before the biggest store in town, and bent his head down
so he could see under the curtain of the awning and yells:
"Come out here, Sherburn! Come out and meet the man you've swindled.
You're the houn' I'm after, and I'm a-gwyne to have you, too!"
And so he went on, calling Sherburn everything he could lay his tongue
to, and the whole street packed with people listening and laughing and
going on. By and by a proud-looking man about fifty-five--and he was a
heap the best-dressed man in that town, too--steps out of the store,
and the crowd drops back on each side to let him come. He says to
Boggs, mighty ca'm and slow--he says:
"I'm tired of this, but I'll endure it till one o'clock. Till one
o'clock, mind--no longer. If you open your mouth against me only once
after that time you can't travel so far but I will find you."
Then he turns and goes in. The crowd looked mighty sober; nobody
stirred, and there warn't no more laughing. Boggs rode off
blackguarding Sherburn as loud as he could yell, all down the street;
and pretty soon back he comes and stops before the store, still
keeping it up. Some men crowded around him and tried to get him to
shut up, but he wouldn't; they told him it would be one o'clock in
about fifteen minutes, and so he  must  go home--he must go right
away. But it didn't do no good. He cussed away with all his might, and
throwed his hat down in the mud and rode over it, and pretty soon away
he went a-raging down the street again, with his gray hair a-flying.
Everybody that could get a chance at him tried their best to coax him
off of his horse so they could lock him up and get him sober; but it
warn't no use--up the street he would tear again, and give Sherburn
another cussing. By and by somebody says:
"Go for his daughter!--quick, go for his daughter; sometimes he'll
listen to her. If anybody can persuade him, she can."
So somebody started on a run. I walked down street a ways and stopped.
In about five or ten minutes here comes Boggs again, but not on his
horse. He was a-reeling across the street towards me, bareheaded, with
a friend on both sides of him a-holt of his arms and hurrying him
along. He was quiet, and looked uneasy; and he warn't hanging back
any, but was doing some of the hurrying himself. Somebody sings out:
"Boggs!"
I looked over there to see who said it, and it was that Colonel
Sherburn. He was standing perfectly still in the street, and had a
pistol raised in his right hand--not aiming it, but holding it out
with the barrel tilted up towards the sky. The same second I see a
young girl coming on the run, and two men with her. Boggs and the men
turned round to see who called him, and when they see the pistol the
men jumped to one side, and the pistol-barrel come down slow and
steady to a level--both barrels cocked. Boggs throws up both of his
hands and says, "O Lord, don't shoot!" Bang! goes the first shot, and
he staggers back, clawing at the air--bang! goes the second one, and
he tumbles backwards onto the ground, heavy and solid, with his arms
spread out. That young girl screamed out and comes rushing, and down
she throws herself on her father, crying, and saying, "Oh, he's killed
him, he's killed him!" The crowd closed up around them, and shouldered
and jammed one another, with their necks stretched, trying to see, and
people on the inside trying to shove them back and shouting, "Back,
back! give him air, give him air!"
Colonel Sherburn he tossed his pistol onto the ground, and turned
around on his heels and walked off.
They took Boggs to a little drug store, the crowd pressing around just
the same, and the whole town following, and I rushed and got a good
place at the window, where I was close to him and could see in. They
laid him on the floor and put one large Bible under his head, and
opened another one and spread it on his breast; but they tore open his
shirt first, and I seen where one of the bullets went in. He made
about a dozen long gasps, his breast lifting the Bible up when he
drawed in his breath, and letting it down again when he breathed it
out--and after that he laid still; he was dead. Then they pulled his
daughter away from him, screaming and crying, and took her off. She
was about sixteen, and very sweet and gentle looking, but awful pale
and scared.
Well, pretty soon the whole town was there, squirming and scrouging
and pushing and shoving to get at the window and have a look, but
people that had the places wouldn't give them up, and folks behind
them was saying all the time, "Say, now, you've looked enough, you
fellows; 'tain't right and 'tain't fair for you to stay thar all the
time, and never give nobody a chance; other folks has their rights as
well as you."
There was considerable jawing back, so I slid out, thinking maybe
there was going to be trouble. The streets was full, and everybody was
excited. Everybody that seen the shooting was telling how it happened,
and there was a big crowd packed around each one of these fellows,
stretching their necks and listening. One long, lanky man, with long
hair and a big white fur stovepipe hat on the back of his head, and a
crooked-handled cane, marked out the places on the ground where Boggs
stood and where Sherburn stood, and the people following him around
from one place to t'other and watching everything he done, and bobbing
their heads to show they understood, and stooping a little and resting
their hands on their thighs to watch him mark the places on the ground
with his cane; and then he stood up straight and stiff where Sherburn
had stood, frowning and having his hat-brim down over his eyes, and
sung out, "Boggs!" and then fetched his cane down slow to a level, and
says "Bang!" staggered backwards, says "Bang!" again, and fell down
flat on his back. The people that had seen the thing said he done it
perfect; said it was just exactly the way it all happened. Then as
much as a dozen people got out their bottles and treated him.
Well, by and by somebody said Sherburn ought to be lynched. In about a
minute everybody was saying it; so away they went, mad and yelling,
and snatching down every clothes-line they come to to do the hanging
with.
CHAPTER XXII
They swarmed up towards Sherburn's house, a-whooping and raging like
Injuns, and everything had to clear the way or get run over and
tromped to mush, and it was awful to see. Children was heeling it
ahead of the mob, screaming and trying to get out of the way; and
every window along the road was full of women's heads, and there was
nigger boys in every tree, and bucks and wenches looking over every
fence; and as soon as the mob would get nearly to them they would
break and skaddle back out of reach. Lots of the women and girls was
crying and taking on, scared most to death.
They swarmed up in front of Sherburn's palings as thick as they could
jam together, and you couldn't hear yourself think for the noise. It
was a little twenty-foot yard. Some sung out "Tear down the fence!
tear down the fence!" Then there was a racket of ripping and tearing
and smashing, and down she goes, and the front wall of the crowd
begins to roll in like a wave.
Just then Sherburn steps out onto the roof of his little front porch,
with a double-barrel gun in his hand, and takes his stand, perfectly
ca'm and deliberate, not saying a word. The racket stopped, and the
wave sucked back.
Sherburn never said a word--just stood there, looking down. The
stillness was awful creepy and uncomfortable. Sherburn run his eye
slow along the crowd; and wherever it struck the people tried a little
to outgaze him, but they couldn't; they dropped their eyes and looked
sneaky. Then pretty soon Sherburn sort of laughed; not the pleasant
kind, but the kind that makes you feel like when you are eating bread
that's got sand in it.
Then he says, slow and scornful:
"The idea of  you  lynching anybody! It's amusing. The idea of you
thinking you had pluck enough to lynch a  man!  Because you're brave
enough to tar and feather poor friendless cast-out women that come
along here, did that make you think you had grit enough to lay your
hands on a  man?  Why, a  man's  safe in the hands of ten thousand of
your kind--as long as it's daytime and you're not behind him.
"Do I know you? I know you clear through. I was born and raised in the
South, and I've lived in the North; so I know the average all around.
The average man's a coward. In the North he lets anybody walk over him
that wants to, and goes home and prays for a humble spirit to bear it.
In the South one man, all by himself, has stopped a stage full of men
in the daytime, and robbed the lot. Your newspapers call you a brave
people so much that you think you are braver than any other
