"I am ready to do either or both, as the circumstances happen to favor,"
replied the skipper. "If you will take the tiller, Matt, I will go
forward and 'clear ship for action.'"
The schooner was going at great speed, with the wind on the beam, and
the outlet was very narrow. Dory went forward, and proceeded to arrange
certain rigging on the forward deck. He did not explain what he was
doing, but he worked as though he had some idea of his possible action
in the encounter with the Topovers.
While he was busy with the lines, the centreboard of the Goldwing
suddenly flew up, and a moment later the bottom of the yacht was
scraping on the sand. Dory suspended his work, and looked up.
"Here we are!" he exclaimed, as he looked around him, and then at the
helmsman.
"I thought there was water enough here for her," said Matt, greatly
chagrined to find that he had run the schooner aground when they were in
such a hurry.
"So there is if you only keep in it," replied Dory laughing, for he did
not wish to hurt the feelings of his fellow coxswain. "I have done that
same thing myself, Matt, and I did it as handsomely as you have done
it."
"We have to haul her up into the wind here, and I was afraid she would
go ashore on the other side," pleaded Matt. "But here we are with the
centreboard up in the air, and the planks rasping the sand on the
bottom."
The disaster occurred at the bend in the outlet, which Dory called the
"V point." The current, which was quite strong at high water, deposited
a great deal of sand at the apex of the point, while its force made a
clear channel near the shore on the other side. When the wind was
northwest it was necessary to hug the point as closely as possible.
The two oars and the boathook were at once brought into use, but it was
impossible to move the hull in this way. Dory sent a couple of the crew
ashore in the tender with a line, which they made fast to a tree near
the deep water. The anchor was taken on deck, and the other end of the
line passed through the block on the bowsprit. All on board manned this
line, and the bow was hauled off almost in the twinkling of an eye. Matt
insisted that Dory should take the helm, when the tender had returned
with the line.
It was not an easy thing to get under way again in that bad place and
Matt was very much mortified at the mishap. The skipper said all he
could to comfort him, and gave him the helm again as soon as the
schooner was in Beaver River. He arranged his lines as he had before,
and by the time he had done this the Goldwing was approaching the mouth
of the river. But a bend prevented them from seeing out into the lake.
"There they are!" shouted Dory at the heel of the bowsprit, where he
could get the first view of the white-capped waves. "They are doing the
very thing I was afraid they would do."
"What's that, Dory?" asked Matt, starting the sheets as the course of
the yacht was changed.
"They are standing across the lake, and in a short time, if they make
any headway, they will be in smooth water," replied the skipper.
Matt did not ask any questions, and possibly he suspected that Dory was
his superior in the management of a boat. If he did, it was only because
he was mortified at the accident at V Point. The Goldwing went out into
the lake, and began to dance on the billows. The two barges appeared to
be doing very well, in spite of the inefficient crew at the oars. Both
of them were pitching smartly, and were not taking in water except in
the form of spray.
In a few minutes the Goldwing was within hailing distance of the barges.
Dory declined to take the helm when Matt suggested, and was again busy
with his lines on the forward deck.
CHAPTER XV.
THE SKIPPER USES A NAUTICAL LASSO.
"What's that?" called George Duane, while Dory was still busy on the
forward deck.
This question was called forth by what sounded like a volley of cheers
from the New York side of the lake; but nothing could be seen to
indicate the source from which the noise came.
"There it is again," added John Brattle, as three distinct cheers came
over the waves. "There is some sort of a party up that little cove."
There was an inlet just to the south of the barges, from which it was
now evident that the sounds came. But parties from the surrounding
country frequently had frolics on the shores of the lake, and the
students concluded that the cheers came from one of these gatherings.
The Topovers continued on their course, and seemed to be laboring to
increase their speed, which was certainly moderate enough. They pulled
but six oars in each barge, and against the wind and the heavy sea they
could make but little progress. The Goldwing was making three miles to
their one, and the moment for action was near.
Though the Goldwing was close-hauled, she leaped over the waves like a
bird, and Matt was running directly for the barges, one of which was
following the other, the Winooski being ahead. The skipper finished
arranging the lines on the forward deck. Getting on his feet he made a
careful survey of the situation.
"Matt, can you go to windward of the barges?" he called to the helmsman.
"I might, possibly, but it would be a close squeeze," replied Matt.
"Then we must work more to windward: tack, if you please," added Dory;
and it was evident that he had prepared his plan of attack.
Matt came about and headed the Goldwing to the north. Dory kept his eye
on the barges, but he gave no hint of his method of operations. Probably
Matt thought he was entitled to be informed in regard to the plan, but
the accident in the river for which he was responsible had humbled him,
and he asked no questions.
When the schooner had made about a quarter of a mile of northing, the
skipper gave the order to tack again. Matt was directed to steer for a
certain point on the shore, which would carry the yacht a little
distance to windward of the barges, allowing for the headway they would
make before she could reach them. In that lively breeze even the width
of the lake at Beaver River was only a run of a few minutes for the
Goldwing, and she was very soon abreast of the Gildrock. The Winooski
was about a hundred fathoms ahead of her.
"Now, Matt, we have some sharp work to do, and every thing must be done
on the instant," said Dory, when the Goldwing had passed the Gildrock
and was up with the Winooski.
"Perhaps you had better take the helm, then?" suggested the coxswain of
the Gildrock.
"I can't, for I have a job to do here on the forward deck. We shall go
about, and run for the Gildrock in a moment," replied Dory. "I want you
to make for her stem just as though you meant to run her down."
"All right, Dory; I will obey orders to the letter," returned the
helmsman.
"I would rather you would obey them in spirit; so if I make a blunder,
and get knocked out, I want you to correct it," added Dory lightly.
"I don't know what you are going to do, and I can only obey orders to
the letter," said Matt.
"I could not settle on any plan until I had seen how the barges lay; and
it is too late to explain now. Ready about!"
Matt promptly obeyed the orders given him, and the schooner came
entirely around. It would have been a shorter way to jibe her, but the
skipper never ventured upon this manoeuvre when the wind was at all
fresh; for he was not one of those venturesome boatmen who think they
are not smart unless they incur needless risks.
Dory saw that Matt was carrying out his orders to the letter, and it was
clear that Nim Splugger, the acting coxswain of the Gildrock, was
getting nervous as he saw the Goldwing dashing down upon his craft.
"What are you about? You will run over us!" yelled Nim, when he saw the
schooner within twenty feet of him.
The oarsmen were inclined to desert their posts, and kept looking behind
them at the Goldwing. But both barges had been in the trough of the sea,
and those in charge of them had found by actual trial that the only way
they could go was directly across the lake, against the wind. This was
the reason why the barges were nearly over to the New York shore, and
not because they were following a plan of their own.
"Keep to your oars, fellers!" shouted Nim Splugger, when he saw several
of his crew cease rowing. "Never mind that boat! She won't run into us."
But Nim had his doubts on this point, for the Goldwing did not budge an
inch from her course. Dory had looked over his lines, and was watching
the course of the schooner and the position of the Gildrock. When the
schooner was within ten feet of the barge, Nim gave a frantic yell, and
all the rowers gave up in despair.
"Keep her away a little, Matt!" called Dory, who was now on his feet
with a line in each hand.
The Topovers in the Gildrock gave a desperate yell, satisfied that they
should be floundering in the angry waters the next instant. The Goldwing
fell off a trifle at this moment, in obedience to the helm. Dory had
fixed the line in his left hand on the spur of the light boathook, which
he extended as far as he could reach. As he did so, one of the covers
from the cook-stove, which he had secured to the bight between his
hands, dropped into the water.
Thus arranged, the line formed a snare in the shape of a triangle, the
stove-cover sinking the lower angle a couple of feet under water. As the
skipper held the snare, the Gildrock ran her bow directly into it. The
bight of the line was a slip-noose, and as the schooner drove ahead, it
tightened up.
As the Goldwing went ahead, Dory paid out the line rapidly, for a single
jerk would have upset the barge. The Topovers in the boat were so
terrified that they did not comprehend what Dory was about.
"Hard down your helm, Matt!" shouted Dory, with tremendous energy, when
half his line had run out, and the bow of the schooner was abreast of
the stern of the Gildrock.
Oscar Chester had been stationed at the mainsheet, and the instant Matt
put the helm down he hauled in the sheet with all his might. The effect
of these orders, as they were sharply executed, was to cause the
Goldwing to circle around the stern of the barge, and come up
close-hauled on her starboard side.
"Now we are all right! It's a success!" cried Dory, with all the
enthusiasm of a person who has won a great victory.
But even his own crew did not understand what he was about, and had not
the least idea of the working of his plan. All that had been done had
been accomplished in a few seconds, and the rapid working of the
schooner absorbed all their attention.
When the Goldwing came about under the stern of the barge, Dory rushed
aft with the end of his line in his hand, and made it fast to a cleat.
The rope had sunk in the water, and passed under the keel of the
Gildrock.
"Touch her up, Matt! Lively, if you please!" said Dory, as he secured
the line in his hand.
But the schooner had not yet got under full speed since she came about,
and when the mainsail shook she had lost about all her headway. But she
was not permitted to come to. Dory took the helm now, which Matt was
very willing to have him do.
"Go aft, every one of you!" shouted Dory to the Topovers in the barge.
"If you don't you will be overboard in a moment!"
The six oarsmen had been stationed in the middle of the boat, leaving
the vacant places forward and aft. Without waiting for orders from Nim
Splugger, the rowers all hurried aft as fast as the uneasy motion of the
craft would permit. This change in her burden caused the bow of the
Gildrock to be lifted out of the water, which was precisely what Dory
desired. Putting the helm of Goldwing up he allowed the yacht to gather
headway by slow degrees. He had lassoed the barge, but he was not
certain of the effect when he should attempt to tow her. The slip-noose
had come home so that the knot was nearly in line with the stem.
"I see now what you are about," said Matt, while Dory was experimenting
with the process of towing the barge. "But those fellows will cut the
line as soon as they get a little used to the movement of the boat and
understand what you are doing."
"If any one of them attempts to go forward, we can pitch him into the
lake as quick as we can shift the helm of the Goldwing," replied Dory
confidently.
"I see!" exclaimed Matt, laughing. "A pull sideways would heel the barge
over so that the water would go over her gunwale."
"The two four-oar boats are coming!" shouted Dick Short, "Mr. Jepson is
in one of them."
"Good! We may want some of those fellows before we get through with
this business," replied the skipper.
"But what are you going to do with your game now that you have snared
it, Dory?" asked Matt.
"I am going to put the Topovers ashore over here, and send the Gildrock
home at once," answered Dory. "I should have told you about my plan,
Matt, but I didn't believe in it myself until the last minute. I was
sure you would laugh at it; and if I did not succeed in carrying it out
I did not want you to have to bear any of the responsibility of its
failure."
"I think I should have laughed at it; and I can't help doing so now,"
added Matt, suiting the action to the words.
With the whole length of the line out, the Gildrock towed better than
Dory had expected she would. But the barge both pitched and rolled as it
was dragged at an angle over the waves, and the Topovers in her had to
hold on with both hands. With only half her usual crew, and these all in
the stern sheets, the tow-line did not force her bow under, and she kept
very nearly in her proper trim.
Finding that she went along very well, Dory headed the Goldwing for the
little cove from which the cheers had come. By this time the Winooski
had got into the smooth water, comparatively, under the lee of the
shore. If Commodore Tom Topover wanted to do anything to assist his
companions in the other boat, he was as fearful of coming about as he
had been in the middle of the lake. As soon as he was under the shelter
of the shore, he headed his craft to the south. But he might as well
have chased the lightning as the Goldwing.
As the schooner approached the mouth of the cove she was saluted by a
volley of noisy cheers. At the same time the bows of two boats came in
sight.
"The Chesterfields! We are in for it now!" shouted Ben Ludlow.
CHAPTER XVI.
COMMODORE TOM TOPOVER VISITS THE GOLDWING.
The cheers the Beech Hill students had heard before had evidently been
given by the Chesterfields, and not by a picnic party. Dory was not
pleased to see them after the experience of the day before; and their
last words had been threats of vengeance. The fresh paint could be seen
on the bow of the Dasher where the injury done by the Winooski had been
repaired.
The Dasher appeared to be the leading boat, and Mad Twinker had changed
from the other barge, and became her coxswain. Wash Barker was not in
either craft, and his place in the Racer was filled by Jeff Monroe, who
had been active in the affair of the day before.
As soon as the Goldwing appeared off the point, dragging the Gildrock
after her, the Chesterfields set up a yell, and it was plain that they
identified the Beech Hill students who had so thoroughly humiliated them
on the day before. Their lusty cheers indicated that they were ready to
take the vengeance they had promised to obtain. Mad Twinker headed the
Dasher for the Goldwing, and the Racer followed.
It seemed to be a holiday at the Chesterfield Collegiate Institute, and
the boats' crews had evidently been practising in the cove all the
morning. There was a marked improvement in their rowing; they had
observed the excellent discipline that prevailed on board of the
Winooski, and they had doubtless learned a lesson from what they had
seen. After the Chesterfields had given the three cheers, which did not
appear to mean anything, unless they were cheering their enemy, there
was no whooping or yelling as at the former meeting of the boats.
"Those fellows promised to get even with us when we parted last night,"
said Dory, after they had observed the movements of the Chesterfields
for a few minutes. "I suppose they are ready to begin now."
"If they do begin now they will have a nice time of it," added Matt.
"They will never forgive us for compelling them to give up our clothes
before they were ready to do so," continued the skipper. "They are in
better discipline, and behave better this morning than they did
yesterday. But they don't seem to know anything at all about a boat, and
they think they can overhaul the Goldwing without any difficulty."
"If we run up this cove they will have us on the hips," replied Matt.
"There are twenty-six of them, while we are only nine, and if they catch
us they can have it all their own way."
"You are right, Matt, and we will not go up the cove. We will go up to
Rock Harbor, and we can land the Topovers long before they can pull that
distance."
The skipper let off the sheets, and headed the schooner to the south.
She was almost before the wind, and the yacht flew like a locomotive on
her course. In a few minutes the barges were a mile astern of her. At
the mouth of Rock Harbor the wind had a fair sweep, and the sea was
almost as rough as it had been in the middle of the lake.
As the Goldwing approached the south side of the inlet, Dory rounded to
very carefully, so as not to swamp the Gildrock, though the terrified
Topovers were well shaken up in the manoeuvre. Running into the cove
just far enough to escape the heaviest of the waves, Dory directed his
crew to haul on the tow-line, and bring the Gildrock within talking
distance. Spilling the sail, he allowed the yacht to drift towards the
shore.
"We intend to put you on shore here," shouted Dory to the occupants of
the Gildrock.
"We can never get home from here," yelled Nim Splugger.
"That's your look out. You must go ashore, or we will spill you all out
into the water by the beach," replied the skipper.
Nim made no reply, for he saw that his captors were in earnest. Dory
directed Matt and Oscar to land them three or four at a time in the
tender. He explained what he meant to do to the prisoners, and
threatened them with a ducking if they resisted. They did not resist,
for they felt that the skipper could have his own way with them. Matt
landed them in two trips; but Nim Splugger showed fight when they were
all on the beach. He attempted to hold on to the tender, but Oscar
pitched him out of the boat into the water. The moment he was out of it,
Matt shoved it from the shore, and they pulled back to the Goldwing.
It had taken some time to land the Topovers, and by the time the
