mountain, thrown off and separated from the main 
chain by an earthquake, or some vast accident of 
nature. But from the palace itself the contrast of 
the views was great. On one side, the rugged hills, 
crag-crowned and bristling black against the north- 
western sky; on the other, the great bed of rose- 
gardens and orangeries and cultivated enclosures 
filled the plain, till in the dim distance rose the level 
line of the soft blue southern hills, blending mistily 
in the lazy light of a far-off warmth. It seemed as 
though on one side of the palace were winter, and on 
the other summer ; on the one side cold, and on the 
other heat ; on the one side rough strength, and on 
the other gentle rest. 
 
But Nehushta gazed northward and was weary of 
the cold, and southward, and she wearied of the heat. 
There was nothing — nothing in it all that was worth 
one moment of the old sweet moonlit evenings among 
the myrtles at Ecbatana. When she thought, there 
was nothing of all her royal state and luxury that 
she would not readily give to have had Zoroaster re- 
main faithful to her. She had put him away from 
her heart, driven him out utterly, as she believed; 
but now that he was spoken of again, she knew not 
whether she loved him a little in spite of all his unfaithfulness, or whether it was only the memory of 
the love she had felt before which stirred in her 
breast, and made her unconsciously speak his name 
when she was alone. 
She looked back over the three years that were 
passed, and she knew that she had done her duty by 
the king. She knew also that she had done it will- 
ingly, and that there had been many moments when 
she said to herself that she loved Darius dearly. In- 
deed, it was not hard to find a reason for loving him, 
for he was brave and honest and noble in all his 
thoughts and ways ; and whatever he had been able 
to do to show his love for Nehushta, he had done. 
It was not the least of the things that had made her 
life pass so easily, that she felt daily how she was 
loved before her rival, and how, in her inmost heart, 
Atossa chafed at seeing Darius forsake her society for 
that of the Hebrew princess. If the king had wearied 
of her, Nehushta would very likely have escaped 
from the palace, and gone out to face an}y misfortunes 
the world might hold for her, rather than remain to 
 
bear the scoffing of the fair smiling woman she so 
hated. Or, she would have stolen in by night to 
where Atossa slept, and the wicked-looking Indian 
knife she wore, would have gone down, swift and 
sure, to the very haft, into the queen's heart. She 
would not have borne tamely any slight upon her 
beauty or her claims. But, as it was, she reigned 
supreme. The king was just, and showed no differ- 
ence in the state and attendance of the two queens, 
but it was to Nehushta he turned, when he drank 
deep at the banquet and pledged the loving cup. It 
was to Nehushta that he went when the cares of state 
were heavy and he needed counsel ; and it was upon 
her lap he laid his weary head, when he had ridden 
far and fast for many days, returning from some hard- 
fouofht field. 
But the queens hated each other with a fierce 
hatred, and when Darius was absent, their divisions 
broke out sometimes into something like open strife. 
Their guards buffeted each other in the courts, and 
their slave-women tore out each other's hair upon the 
stairways. Then, when the king returned, there 
reigned an armed peace for a time, which none dared 
break. But rumours of the disturbances that had 
taken place often reached the royal ears, and Darius 
was angry and swore great oaths, but could do noth- 
ing ; being no wiser than many great men who have 
had to choose between the caprices of two women 
who hated each other. 
Now the rumour went abroad that Zoroaster would 
return to the court ; and for a space, the two queens 
kept aloof, for both knew that if he came back, some 
 
mortal conflict would of necessity arise between them ; 
and each watched the other, and was cautious. 
The days passed by, but no one answered the proc- 
lamation. No one had seen or heard of Zoroaster, 
since the night when he left the palace at Shushan. 
He had taken nothing with him, and had left no trace 
behind to guide the search. Many said he had left 
the kingdom; some said he was dead in the wilder- 
ness. But Nehushta sighed and took little rest, for 
do what she would, she had hoped to see him once 
more. 
 
CHAPTER XV. 
The interior of the temple was lighted with innum- 
erable lamps, suspended from the ceiling, of bronze 
and of the simplest workmanship, like everything 
which pertained to the worship of Auramazda. In 
the midst, upon a small altar of black stone, stood a 
bronze brazier, shaped like a goblet, wherein a small 
fire of wood burned quietly, sending up little wreaths 
of smoke, which spread over the flat ceiling and hung 
like a mist about the lamps ; before the altar lay a 
supply of fuel — fine, evenly-cut sticks of white pine- 
wood, piled in regular order in a symmetrical heap. 
At one extremity of the oblong hall stood a huge 
mortar of black marble, having a heavy wooden pestle, 
and standing upon a circular base, in which was cut 
a channel all around, with an opening in the front from 
which the Haoma juice poured out abundantly when 
the fresh milkweed was moistened and pounded to- 
gether in the mortar. A square receptacle of marble 
received the fluid, which remained until it had fer- 
mented during several days, and had acquired the 
intoxicating strength for which it was prized, and to 
which it owed its sacred character. By the side of 
this vessel, upon a low marble table, lay a huge 
wooden ladle ; and two golden cups, short and wide, 
but made smaller in the middle like a sand-glass, stood 
there also. 
 
At the opposite end of the temple, before a marble 
screen which shielded the doorway, was placed a great 
carved chair of ebony and gold and silver, raised upon 
a step above the level of the floor. 
It was already dark when the king entered the 
temple, dressed in his robes of state, with his sword 
by his side, his long sceptre tipped with the royal 
sphere in his right hand, and the many-pointed crown 
upon his head. His heavy black beard had grown 
longer in the three years that had passed, and flowed 
down over his vest of purple and white halfway to 
his belt. His face was stern, and the deep lines of 
his strong features had grown more massive in out- 
line. With the pride of every successive triumph 
had come also something more of repose and con- 
scious power. His step was slower, and his broad 
brown hand grasped the golden sceptre with less of 
nervous energy and more unrelenting force. But his 
brows were bent, and his expression, as he took his 
seat before the screen, over against the altar of the 
fire, was that of a man who was prepared to be dis- 
contented and cared little to conceal what he felt. 
After him came the chief priest, completely robed 
in white, with a thick, white linen sash rolled for a 
girdle about his waist, the fringed ends hanging stiffly 
down upon one side. Upon his head he wore a great 
mitre, also of white linen, and a broad fringed stole 
of the same material fell in two wide bands from each 
side of his neck to his feet. His beard was black and 
glossy, fine as silk, and reached almost to his waist. 
He came and stood with his back to the king and his 
face to the altar, ten paces from the second fire. 
 
Then, from behind the screen and from each side of 
it, the other priests filed out, two and two, all clad in 
white like the chief priest, save that their mitres were 
smaller and they wore no stole. They came out and 
ranged themselves around the walls of the temple, 
threescore and nine men, of holy order, trained in 
the ancient chanting of the Mazdayashnian hymns; 
men in the prime and strength of life, black-bearded 
and broad-shouldered, whose massive brows and 
straight features indicated noble powers of mind 
and body. 
The two who stood nearest to the chief priest came 
forward, and taking from his hands a square linen 
cloth he bore, bound it across his mouth and tied it 
behind his neck in a firm knot by means of strings. 
Then, one of them put into his left hand a fan of 
eagles' feathers, and the other gave him a pair of 
wrought-iron pincers. Then they left him to advance 
alone to the altar. 
He went forward till he was close to the bronze 
brazier, and stooping down, he took from the heap of 
fuel a clean white stick, with the pincers, which he 
carefully laid upon the fire. Then with his left hand 
he gently fanned the flames, and his mouth being 
protected by the linen cloth in such a manner that 
his breath could not defile the sacred fire, he began 
slowly and in a voice muffled by the bandage he wore, 
to recite the beginning of the sacrificial hymn : 
" Best of all goods is purity. 
Glory  glory to him 
Who is best and purest in purity. 
 
For he who ruleth from purity^ he ahideth according 
to the will of the Lord. 
The All- Wise giveth gifts for the works which man, 
doeth in the world for the Lord. 
He who protecteth the poor giveth the kingdom to 
Ahura."  
Then all the priests repeated the verses together 
in chorus, their voices sounding in a unison which, 
though not precisely song, seemed tending to a musical cadence as the tones rose and fell again upon the 
last two syllables of each verse. And then again, the 
chief priest and the other priests together repeated 
the hymn, man}y times, in louder and louder chorus, 
with more and more force of intonation ; till the chief 
priest stepped back from the fire, and delivering up 
the pincers and the fan, allowed the two assistants to 
unbind the cloth from his mouth. 
^ He walked slowly up the temple on the left side, 
and keeping his right hand toward the altar, he 
walked seven times around it, repeating a hymn alone 
in low tones ; till, after the seventh time, he went up 
to the farther end of the hall, and stood before the 
black marble trough in which the fermented Haoma 
stood ready, having been prepared with due cere- 
mony three days before. 
Then, in a loud voice, he intoned the chant in 
praise of Zaothra and Bareshma, holding high in his 
right hand the bundle of sacred stalks ; which he, 
from time to time, moistened a little in the water 
from a vessel which stood ready, and sprinkled to 
1 Probably the oldest hymns in the Avesta language. 
 
the four corners of the temple. The priests again 
took up the strain in chorus, repeating over and over 
the burden of the song. 
" Zaothra I praise thee and desire thee with praise ! 
Bareshma, I praise thee and desire thee with praise 
Zaothra with Bareshma united, I praise you and 
desire you with praise ! 
Bareshma, ivith Zaothra united, I praise you and 
desire you with praise ! " 
Suddenly the chief priest laid down the Bareshma, 
and seizing one of the golden goblets, filled it, with 
the wooden ladle, from the dark receptacle of the 
juice. As he poured it high, the yellow light of the 
lamp caught the transparent greenish fluid, and 
made it sparkle strangely. He put the goblet to his 
lips and drank. 
The king, sitting in silence upon his carved 
throne at the other extremity of the temple, bent his 
brows in a dark frown as he saw the hated ceremony 
begin. He knew how it ended, and grand as the 
words were which they would recite when the sub- 
tle fluid had fired their veins, he loathed to see the 
intoxication that got possession of them; and the 
frenzy with which they howled the sacred strains 
seemed to him to destroy the solemnity and dignity 
of a hymn, in which all that was solemn and liigh 
would otherwise have seemed to be united. 
The chief priest drank and then, filling both goblets, gave them to the priests at his right and left 
hand; who, after drinking, passed each other, and 
made way for those next them ; and so the whole 
 
number filed past the Haoma vessel and drank their 
share till they all had changed places, and those who 
had stood upon the right, now stood upon the left ; 
and those who were fii^st upon the left hand, were 
now upon the right. And when all had drunk, the 
chief priest intoned the great h}ann of praise, and all 
the chorus united with him in high, clear tones : 
" The All-Wise Creator, Ahura Mazda, the greatest, 
the best, the most fair in glory and majesty, 
" The mightiest in his strength, the wisest in his 
wisdom, the holiest in his holiness, whose power is of all 
power the fairest, 
" Who is very wise, who maJceth all things to rejoice 
afar, 
" Who hath made ws and formed us, who hath saved 
us, the holiest among the heavenly ones, 
" Eim I adore and praise, unto him I declare the 
sacrifice, him I invite, 
" / declare the sacrifice to the Protector, the Peace- 
maker, who maketh the fire to burn, who preserveth the 
wealth of the earth ; the whole earth and the wisdom 
thereof, the seas and the waters, the land and all grow- 
hig things, I invite to the sacrifice. 
" Cattle and living things, and the fire of Ahura, the 
sure helper, the lord of the archangels, 
" The nights and the days, I call upon, the purity of 
all created light, 
" The Lord of light, the sun in his glory, glorious in 
name and worthy of honour, 
" Who giveth food unto men, and multiplieth the 
cattle upon the earth, who causeth mankind to increase, 
call upon and invite to the sacrifice, 
 
" Water and the centre of all waters, given and made 
of God, that refresheth all things and maketh all things 
to grow, I call upon and invite. 
" The souls of the righteous and pure, the tuhole 
multitude of living men and women upon earth, I call 
upon and invite. 
" I call upon the triumph and the mighty strength of 
God, 
" I call upon the archangels ivho keep the world, upon 
the months, upon the pure, new moon, the lordship of 
'purity in heaven, 
" I call upon the feasts of the years and the seasons, 
upon the years and the months and days, 
"' I call upon the star Ahura^ and upon the one great 
and eternal in purity, and upon all the stars, the works 
of God, 
" Upon the star Tistrya I call, the far-shining, the 
magnificent — upon the fair moon that shineth upon 
the young cattle, upon the glorious sun swift in the race 
of his flight, the eye of the Lord. 
