you know that I speak the truth to you as I do to everybody--"
"Except to San Miniato when you tell him you love him," interrupted the
Marchesa.
Beatrice blushed again, with anger this time.
"Yes," she said, after a short pause, "it is quite true that I said I
loved him, and for one moment I meant it. But I made a mistake. I am
sorry, and I will tell him so. But I will tell him other things, too. I
will tell him that I saw through his acting before we left Tragara last
night, and that I will never forgive him for the part he played. You
know as well as I that it was all a play, from beginning to end. I liked
him better than the others because I thought him more manly, more
honest, more dignified. But I have changed my mind. I see the whole
truth now, every detail of it. He planned it all, and he did it very
well--probably he planned it the night before last, out here with you,
while I was playing waltzes. You could not make me marry him, and he got
leave of you to speak to me. Do you think I do not understand it all?
Would you have let me go away last night and sit with him on the rocks,
out of your hearing, without so much as a remark, unless you had
arranged the matter between you? It is not like you, and I know you
meant it. It was all a plot. He had even been there to study the place,
to see the very point at which the moon would rise, the very place where
he would make me sit, the very spot where your table could stand. He
said to himself that I was a mere girl, that of course no man had ever
made love to me and that between the beauty of the night, my liking for
him, and his well arranged comedy, he might easily move me. He did. I am
ashamed of it. Look at the blood in my cheeks! That tells the truth, at
all events. I am utterly ashamed. I would give my right hand to have not
spoken those words! I would almost give my life to undo yesterday if it
could be undone--and undo it I will, so far as I can. I will tell San
Miniato what I think of myself, and then I will tell him what I think of
him, and that will be enough. Do you understand me? I am in earnest."
The Marchesa had listened to Beatrice's long speech with open eyes,
surprised at the girl's keenness and at her determined manner. Not that
the latter was new in her experience, but it was the first time that
their two wills had been directly opposed in a matter of great
importance. The Marchesa was a very indolent person, but somewhere in
her nature there lay hidden a small store of determination which had
hardly ever expressed itself clearly in her life. Now, however, she felt
that much was at stake. For many reasons San Miniato was precisely the
son-in-law she desired. He would give Beatrice an ancient and
honourable name, a leading position in any Italian society he chose to
frequent, whether in the north or the south, and he was a man of the
world at all points. The last consideration had much weight with the
Marchesa who, in spite of her title and fortune had seen very little of
the men of the great world, and admired them accordingly. Therefore when
Beatrice said she would not marry him, her mother made up her mind that
she should, and the struggle commenced.
"Beatrice, my angel," she began, "you are mistaken in yourself and in
San Miniato. I am quite unable to go through all the details as you have
done. I only say that you are mistaken."
Beatrice's lip curled a little and she slowly shook her head.
"I am not mistaken, mamma," she answered. "I am quite right, and you
know it. Can you deny that what I say is true? Can you say that you did
not arrange with him to take me to Tragara, and to let him speak to me
himself?"
"It is far too much trouble to deny anything, my dear child. But all
that may be quite true, and yet he may love you as sincerely as he can
love any one. I do not suppose you expect a man of his sense and
education to roll himself at your feet and tear his hair and his clothes
as they do on the stage."
"A man need not do that to show that he is in earnest, and besides he--"
"That is not the question," interrupted the Marchesa. "The real question
concerns you much more than it affects him. If you break your promise--"
"There was no promise."
"You told him that you loved him, and you admit it. Under the
circumstances that meant that you were willing to marry him. It meant
nothing else, as you know very well."
"I never thought of it."
"You must think of it now. You know perfectly well that he wished to
marry you and had my consent. I have spoken to you several times about
it and you refused to have him, saying that you meant to exercise your
own free will. You had an opportunity of exercising it last night. You
told him clearly that you loved him, and that could only mean that your
opposition was gone and that you would marry him. You know what you
will be called now, if you refuse to keep your engagement."
Beatrice grew slowly pale. Her mother had, for once, a remarkably direct
and clear way of putting the matter, and the young girl began to waver.
If her mother succeeded in proving to her that she had really bound
herself, she would submit. It is not easy to convey to the foreign mind
generally the enormous importance which is attached in Italy to a
distinct promise of marriage. It indeed almost amounts, morally
speaking, to marriage itself, and the breaking of it is looked upon
socially almost as an act of infidelity to the marriage bond. A young
girl who refuses to keep her engagement is called a civetta--an
owlet--probably because owlets are used as a decoy all over the country
in snaring and shooting all small birds. Be that as it may, the term is
a bitter reproach, it sticks to her who has earned it and often ruins
her whole life. That is what the Marchesa meant when she told Beatrice
that she knew what the world would call her, and the threat had weight.
The young girl rose from her seat and began to walk to and fro on the
terrace, her head bent, her hands clasped together. The Marchesa slowly
puffed at her cigarette and watched her daughter with half-closed eyes.
"I never meant it so!" Beatrice exclaimed in low tones, and she repeated
the words again and again, pausing now and then and looking fixedly at
her mother.
"Dear child," said the Marchesa, "what does it matter? If it were not
such an exertion to talk, I am sure I could make you see what a good
match it is, and how glad you ought to be."
"Glad! Oh, mamma, you do not understand! The degradation of it!"
"The degradation? Where is there anything degrading in it?"
"I see it well enough! To give myself up body and soul to a man I do not
love! And for what? Because he has an old name, and I a new one, and I
can buy his name with my money. Oh, mother, it is too horrible! Too low!
Too vile!"
"My angel, you do not know what strong words you are using--"
"They are not half strong enough--I wish I could--"
But she stopped and began to walk up and down again, her sweet young
face pale and weary with pain, her fingers twisting each other
nervously. A long silence followed.
"It is of no use to talk about it, my child," said the Marchesa,
languidly taking up a novel from the table beside her. "The thing is
done. You are engaged, and you must either marry San Miniato or take the
consequences and be pointed at as a faithless girl for the rest of your
life."
"And who knows of this engagement, if it is one, but you and I and he?"
asked Beatrice, standing still. "Would you tell, or I? Or would he
dare?"
"He would be perfectly justified," answered the Marchesa. "He is a
gentleman, however, and would be considerate. But who is to assure us
that he has not already telegraphed the good news to his friends?"
"It is too awful!" cried Beatrice, leaning back against one of the
pillars.
"Besides," said her mother without changing her tone. "You have changed
to-day, you may change again to-morrow--"
"Stop, for heaven's sake! Do not make me worse than I am!"
Poor Beatrice stopped her ears with her open hands. The Marchesa looked
at her and smiled a little, and shook her head, waiting for the hands to
be removed. At last the young girl began her walk again.
"You should not talk about being worse when you are not bad at all, my
dear," said her mother. "You have done nothing to be ashamed of, and all
this is perfectly absurd. You feel a passing dislike for the idea
perhaps, but that will be gone to-morrow. Meanwhile the one thing which
is really sure is that you are engaged to San Miniato, who, as I say,
has undoubtedly telegraphed the fact to his sister in Florence and
probably to two or three old friends. By to-morrow it will be in the
newspapers. You cannot possibly draw back. I have really talked enough.
I am utterly exhausted."
Beatrice sank into a chair and pressed her fingers upon her eyes, not to
hide them, but by sheer pressure forcing back the tears she felt coming.
Her beautiful young figure bent and trembled like a willow in the wind,
and the soft white throat swelled with the choking sob she kept down so
bravely. There is something half divine in the grief of some women.
"Dear child," said her mother very gently, "there is nothing to cry
over. Beatrice carissima, try and control yourself. It will soon pass--"
"It will soon pass--yes," answered the young girl, bringing out the
words with a great effort. During fully two minutes more she pressed her
eyes with all her might. Then she rose suddenly to her feet, and her
face was almost calm again.
"I will marry him, since what I never meant for a promise really is one
and has seemed so to you and to him. But if I am a faithless wife to
him, I will lay all my sins at your door."
"Beatrice!" cried the Marchesa, in real horror this time. She crossed
herself.
"I am young--shall I not love?" asked the young girl defiantly.
"Dearest child, for the love of Heaven do not talk so--"
"No--I will not. I will never say it again--and you will not forget it."
She turned to leave the terrace and met San Miniato face to face.
"Good morning," she said coldly, and passed him.
"Of course you have telegraphed the news of the engagement to your
sister?" said the Marchesa as soon as she saw him, and making a sign to
intimate that he must answer in the affirmative.
"Of course--and to all my best friends," he replied promptly with a
ready smile. Beatrice heard his answer just as she passed through the
door, but she did not turn her head. She guessed that her mother had
asked the question in haste in order that San Miniato might say
something which should definitely prove to Beatrice that he considered
himself betrothed. Yesterday she would have believed his answer. To-day
she believed nothing he said. She went to her room and bathed her eyes
in cold water and sat down for a moment before her glass and looked at
herself thoughtfully. There she was, the same Beatrice she saw in the
mirror every day, the same clear brown eyes, the same soft brown hair,
the same broad, crayon-like eyebrows, the same free pose of the head.
But there was something different in the face, which she did not
recognise. There was something defiant in the eyes, and hard about the
mouth, which was new to her and did not altogether please her, though
she could not change it. She combed the little ringlets on her forehead
and dabbed a little scent upon her temples to cool them, and then she
rose quickly and went out. A thought had struck her and she at once put
into execution the plan it suggested.
She took a parasol and went out of the hotel, hatless and gloveless,
into the garden of orange trees which lies between the buildings and the
gate. She strolled leisurely along the path towards the exit, on one
side of which is the porter's lodge, while the little square stone box
of a building which is the telegraph office stands on the other. She
knew that just before twelve o'clock Ruggiero and his brother were
generally seated on the bench before the lodge waiting for orders for
the afternoon. As she expected, she found them, and she beckoned to
Ruggiero and turned back under the trees. In an instant he was at her
side. She was startled to see how pale he was and how suddenly his face
seemed to have grown thin. She stopped and he stood respectfully before
her, cap in hand, looking down.
"Ruggiero," she said, "will you do me a service?"
"Yes, Excellency."
"Yes, I know--but it is something especial. You must tell no one--not
even your brother."
"Speak, Excellency--not even the stones shall hear it."
"I want you to find out at the telegraph office whether your master has
sent a telegram anywhere this morning. Can you ask the man and bring me
word here? I will walk about under the trees."
"At once, Excellency."
He turned and left her, and she strolled up the path. She wondered a
little why she was doing this underhand thing. It was not like her, and
whatever answer Ruggiero brought her she would gain nothing by it. If
San Miniato had spoken the truth, then he had really believed the
engagement already binding, as her mother had said. If he had lied, that
would not prevent his really telegraphing within the next half hour,
and matters would be in just the same situation with a slight difference
of time. She would, indeed, in this latter case, have a fresh proof of
his duplicity. But she needed none, as it seemed to her. It was enough
that he should have acted his comedy last night and got by a stratagem
what he could never have by any other means. Ruggiero returned after two
or three minutes.
"Well?" inquired Beatrice.
"He sent one at nine o'clock this morning, Excellency."
For one minute their eyes met. Ruggiero's were fierce, bright and clear.
Beatrice's own softened almost imperceptibly under his glance. If she
had seen herself at that moment she would have noticed that the hard
look she had observed in her own face had momentarily vanished, and that
she was her gentle self again.
"One only?" she asked.
"Only one, Excellency. No one will know that I have asked, for the man
will not tell."
"Are you sure? What did you say to him? Tell me."
"I said to him, 'Don Gennaro, I am the Conte di San Miniato's sailor.
Has the Conte sent any telegram this morning, to any one, anywhere?'
Then he shook his head; but he looked into his book and said, 'He sent
one to Florence at nine o'clock.' Then I said, 'I thank you, Don
Gennaro, and I will do you a service when I can.' That was for good
manners. Then I said, 'Don Gennaro, please not to tell any one that I
asked the question, and if you tell any one I will make you die an evil
death, for I will break all your bones and moreover drown you in the
sea, and go to the galleys very gladly.' Then Don Gennaro said that he
would not tell. And here I am, Excellency."
In spite of all she was suffering, Beatrice laughed at Ruggiero's
account of the interview. It was quite evident that Ruggiero had
repeated accurately every word that had been spoken, and he looked the
man to execute the threat without the slightest hesitation. Beatrice
wondered how the telegraph official had taken it.
"What did Don Gennaro do when you frightened him, Ruggiero?" she asked.
"He said he would not tell and got a little white, Excellency. But he
will say nothing, and will not complain to the syndic, because he knows
my brother."
"What has that to do with it?" asked Beatrice with some curiosity.
"It is natural, Excellency. For if Don Gennaro went to the syndic and
said, 'Signor Sindaco, Ruggiero of the Children of the King has
threatened to kill me,' then the syndic would send for the gendarmes and
say, 'Take that Ruggiero of the Children of the King and put him in, as
we say, and see that he does not run away, for he will do a hurt to
somebody.' And perhaps they would catch me and perhaps they would not.
Then Bastianello, my brother, would wait in the road in the evening for
Don Gennaro, and would lay a hand on him, perhaps, or both. And I think
that Don Gennaro would rather be dead in his telegraph office than alive
in Bastianello's hands, because Bastianello is very strong in his hands,
Excellency. And that is all the truth."
"But I do not understand it all, Ruggiero, though I see what you mean. I
am afraid it is your language that is different from mine."
"It is natural, Excellency," answered the sailor, a deep blush spreading
over his white forehead as he stood bareheaded before her. "You are a
great lady and I am only an ignorant seaman."
"I do not mean anything of the sort, Ruggiero," said Beatrice quickly,
for she saw that she had unintentionally hurt him, and the thought
pained her strongly. "You speak very well and I have always understood
you perfectly. But you spoke of the King's Children and I could not make
out what they had to do with the story."
"Oh, if it is that, Excellency, I ask your pardon. I do not wonder that
you did not understand. It is my name, Excellency."
"Your name? Still I do not understand---"
"I have no other name but that--dei figli del Rè--" said Ruggiero. "That
is all."
"How strange!" exclaimed Beatrice.
"It is the truth, Excellency, and to show you that it is the truth here
is my seaman's license."
He produced a little flat parchment case from his pocket, untied the
thong and showed Beatrice the first page on which, was inscribed his
name in full.
"Ruggiero of the Children of the King, son of the late Ruggiero, native
of Verbicaro, province of Calabria--you see, Excellency. It is the
truth."
"I never doubt anything you say, Ruggiero," said Beatrice quietly.
"I thank you, Excellency," answered the sailor, blushing this time with
pleasure. "For this and all your Excellency's kindness."
What a man he was she thought, as he stood there before her, bareheaded
in the sun-shot shade under the trees, the light playing upon his fair
hair and beard, and his blue eyes gleaming like drops from the sea! What
boys and dwarfs other men looked beside him!
"Do you know how your family came by that strange name, Ruggiero?" she
asked.
"No, Excellency. But they tell so many silly stories about us in
Verbicaro. That is in Calabria where I and my brother were born. And
when our mother, blessed soul, was dying--good health to your
Excellency--she blessed us and said this to us. 'Ruggiero, Sebastiano,
dear sons, you could not save me and I am going. God bless you,' said
she. 'Our Lady help you. Remember, you are the Children of the King.'
Then she said, 'Remember' again, as though she would say something more.
But just at that very moment Christ took her, and she did not speak
again, for she was dead--good health to your Excellency for a thousand
years. And so it was."
"And what happened then?" asked Beatrice, strangely interested and
charmed by the man's simple story.
"Then we beat Don Pietro Casale, Excellency, and spoiled all his face
