to posterity, is necessarily a stranger to his epoch. And that he was
to belong to posterity he had no possible doubt; indeed he had that
prescience of genius which foresees its own future, and he felt that
however tightly the bushel might be closed over the light, there were
still crevices through which it yet would shine, and from which at last
some conflagration must necessarily burst.
It was part of the man to analyze all things, and while it cannot be
said that the lack of attention with which his philosophy had been
received left him entirely unmoved, it would be incorrect to suppose
that he was then sitting on the pins and needles of impatience.
Deeply reflective, he was naturally aware that as everything which is
exquisite ripens slowly, so is the growth of fame proportioned to its
durability. And Schopenhauer meant to be famous, and this not so much
for fame's sake, as for the good which his fame would spread with it.
He could therefore well afford to wait. His work was not written
especially to his own epoch, save only in so far as his epoch was part
of humanity collectively considered. It did not, therefore, take him
long to understand that as his work was not tinted with any of the
local color and fugitive caprices of the moment, it was in consequence
unadapted to an immediate and fictitious vogue. Indeed, it may be added
that the history of art and literature is eloquent with the examples of
the masterpieces which, unrewarded by contemporary appreciation, have
passed into the welcome of another age; and of these examples few are
more striking than that of the absolute indifference with which
Schopenhauer's philosophy was first received.
It was presumably with reflections of this nature that Schopenhauer
shrugged his shoulders at the inattention under which he labored, and
wandered serenely among the treasuries and ghosts of departed Rome.
About this time an incident happened which, while not possessing any
very vivid interest, so affected his after life as to be at least
deserving of passing notice. Schopenhauer was then in his thirty-first
year. On coming of age, he had received his share of his father's
property, some of which he securely invested, but the greater part he
deposited at high interest with a well-known business house in Dantzic.
When leaving for Italy, he took from this firm notes payable on demand
for the amount which they held to his credit, and after he had cashed
one of their bills, learned that the firm was in difficulties. Shortly
after, they suspended payment, offering thirty per cent. to those of
their creditors who were willing to accept such an arrangement, and
nothing to those who refused.
All the creditors accepted save Schopenhauer, who, with the wile of a
diplomat, wrote that he was in no hurry for his money, but that perhaps
if he were made preferred creditor he might accept a better offer. His
debtors fell into the trap, and offered him first fifty, and then
seventy per cent. These offers he also refused. "If," he wrote, "you
offer me thirty per cent. when you are able to pay fifty, and fifty per
cent. when you are able to pay seventy, I have good reason to suspect
that you can pay the whole amount. In any event, my right is perennial.
I need not present my notes until I care to. Settle with your other
creditors, and then you will be in a better position to attend to me. A
wise man watches the burning phœnix with a certain pleasure, for he
well knows what that crafty bird does with its ashes. Keep my money,
and I will keep your drafts. When your affairs are straightened either
we will exchange, or you will be arrested for debt. I am, of course,
very sorry not to be able to oblige you, and I dare say you think me
very disagreeable, but that is only an illusion of yours, which is at
once dispelled when you remember that the money is my own, and that its
possession concerns my lifelong freedom and well-being. You will say,
perhaps, that if all your creditors thought as I do, it would be deuced
hard for me. But if all men thought as I do, not only would more be
thought, but there would probably be neither bankrupts nor swindlers.
Machiavelli says, Giacchè il volgo pensa altrimente,--although the
common herd think otherwise,--ma nel mondo non é se non volgo,--and
the world is made up of the common herd,--e gli pocchi ivi luogo
trovano,--yet the exceptions take their position,--dove gli molti stare
non possono,--where the crowd can find no foot-hold."
By the exercise of a little patience, and after a few more dagger
thrusts of this description, Schopenhauer recovered the entire amount
which was due him, together with the interest in full. But the danger
which he had so cleverly avoided gave him, so to speak, a retrospective
shock; the possibility of want had brushed too near for comfort's sake.
He was thoroughly frightened; and in shuddering at the cause of his
fright he experienced such a feeling of insecurity with regard to what
the future might yet hold that he determined to lose no time in seeking
a remunerative shelter. With this object he returned to Berlin, and as
privat-docent began to lecture on the history of philosophy.
Hegel was then in the high tide of his glory. Scholars from far and
near came to listen to the man who had compared himself to Christ, and
said, "I am Truth, and teach truth." In the "Reisebilder," Heine says
that in the learned caravansary of Berlin the camels collected about
the fountain of Hegelian wisdom, kneeled down, received their burden of
precious waters, and then set out across the desert wastes of
Brandenburg.
At that time not to bend before Hegel was the blackest and most wanton
of sins. To disagree with him was heretical, and as few understood his
meaning clearly enough to attempt to controvert it, it will be readily
understood that in those days there was very little heresy in Berlin.
Among the few, however, Schopenhauer headed the list. "I write to be
understood," he said; and indeed no one who came in contact with him or
with his works had ever the least difficulty in seizing his meaning and
understanding his immense disgust for the "pachyderm hydrocephali,
pedantic eunuchs, apocaliptic retinue della bestia triumphante," as in
after years, with gorgeous emphasis, he was wont to designate Hegel and
his clique. The war that he waged against them was truly Homeric. He
denounced Hegel in a manner that would have made Swinburne blush; then
he attacked the professors of philosophy in general and the Hegelians
in particular, and finally the demagogues who believed in them, and who
had baptized themselves "Young Germany."
For the preparation of such writings as theirs he had a receipt, which
was homeopathic in its simplicity. "Dilute a minimum of thought in five
hundred pages of nauseous phraseology, and for the rest trust to the
German patience of the reader." He also suggested that for the wonder
and astonishment of posterity every public library should carefully
preserve in half calf the complete works of the great philosophaster
and his adorers; and, considering very correctly that philosophers
cannot be hatched like bachelors of arts, he further recommended that
the course in philosophy should be cut from the University programmes,
and the teaching in that branch be limited to logic. "You can't write
an Iliad," he said, "when your mother is a dolt, and your father is a
cotton nightcap."
There are few debts which are so faithfully acquitted as those of
contempt; and as Schopenhauer kicked down every screen, tore off every
mask, and jeered at every sham, it would be a great stretch of fancy to
imagine that he was a popular teacher. But this at least may be said:
he was courageous, and he was strong of purpose. In the end, he dragged
Germany from her lethargy, and rather than take any other part in
Hegelism than that of spectre at the feast, he condemned himself to an
almost lifelong obscurity. If, therefore, he seems at times too bitter
and too relentless, it should be remembered that this man, whom Germany
now honors as one of her greatest philosophers, fought single-handed
for thirty years, and routed the enemy at last by the mere force and
lash of his words.
But in the mean time, while Hegel was holding forth to crowded halls,
his rival, who, out of sheer bravado, had chosen the same hours,
lectured to an audience of about half a dozen persons, among whom a
dentist, a horse-jockey, and a captain on half pay were the more
noteworthy. Such listeners were hardly calculated to make him
frantically attached to the calling he had chosen, and accordingly at
the end of the first semester he left the empty benches to take care of
themselves.
Early in life Schopenhauer wrote in English, in his note-book,
"Matrimony--war and want!" and when the privat-docent had been
decently buried, and the crape grown rusty, he began to consider this
little sentence with much attention. As will be seen later on, he
objected to women as a class on purely logical grounds,--they
interfered with his plan of delivering the world from suffering; but
against the individual he had no marked dislike, only a few pleasing
epigrams. During his Dresden sojourn, as in his journey to Italy, he
had knelt, in his quality of philosopher who was seeing the world, at
many and diverse shrines, and had in no sense wandered from them
sorrow-laureled; but all that had been very different from assuming
legal responsibilities, and whenever he thought with favor of the
petits soins of which, as married man, he would be the object, the
phantom of a milliner's bill loomed in double columns before him.
Should he or should he not, he queried, fall into the trap which nature
has set for all men? The question of love did not enter into the matter
at all. He believed in love as most well-read people believe in William
Tell; that is, as something very inspiring, especially when treated by
Rossini, but otherwise as a myth. Nor did he need Montaigne's hint to
be assured that men marry for others and not for themselves. The
subject, therefore, was somewhat complex: on the one side stood the
attention and admiration which he craved, and on the other an eternal
farewell to that untrammeled freedom which is the thinker's natural
heath.
The die, however, had to be cast then or never. He was getting on in
life, and an opportunity had at that time presented itself, a
repetition of which seemed unlikely. After much reflection, and much
weighing of the pros and cons, he concluded that it is the married man
who supports the full burden of life, while the bachelor bears but
half, and it is to the latter class, he argued, that the courtesan of
the muses should belong. Thereupon, with a luxury of reminiscence and
quotation which was usual to him at all times, he strengthened his
resolution with mental foot-notes, to the effect that Descartes,
Leibnitz, Malebranche, and Kant were bachelors, the great poets
uniformly married and uniformly unhappy; and supported it all with
Bacon's statement that "he that hath wife and children has given
hostages to fortune, for they are impediments to great enterprises,
either of virtue or of mischief."
In 1831 the cholera appeared in Berlin, and Schopenhauer, who called
himself a choleraphobe by profession, fled before it in search of a
milder and healthier climate. Frankfort he chose for his hermitage, and
from that time up to the day of his death, which occurred in September,
1860, he continued to live there in great peace and tranquillity.
Schopenhauer should in no wise be represented as having passed his life
in building dungeons in Spain. Like every true scholar he was, in the
absence of his peers, able to live with great comfort with the dead. He
was something of a Mezzofanti; he spoke and read half a dozen languages
with perfect ease, and he could in consequence enter any library with
the certainty of finding friends and relations therein. For the
companionship of others he did not care a rap. He was never so lonely
as when associating with other people, and of all things that he
disliked the most, and a catalogue of his dislikes would fill a
chapter, the so-called entertainment headed the obnoxious list.
He had taken off, one by one, the different layers of the social nut,
and in nibbling at the kernel he found its insipidity so great that he
had small approval for those who made it part of their ordinary diet.
It should not, however, be supposed that this dislike for society and
the companionship of others sprang from any of that necessity for
solitude which is noticeable in certain cases of hypochondria; it was
simply due to the fact that he could not, in the general run of men,
find any one with whom he could associate on a footing of equality. If
Voltaire, Helvetius, Kant, or Cabanais, or, for that matter, any one
possessed of original thoughts, had dwelled in the neighborhood,
Schopenhauer, once in a while, would have delighted in supping with
them; but as agreeable symposiasts were infrequent, he was of necessity
thrown entirely on his own resources. His history, in brief, is that of
the malediction under which king and genius labor equally. Both are
condemned to solitude; and for solitude such as theirs there is neither
chart nor compass. Of course there are many other men who in modern
times have also led lives of great seclusion, but in this respect it
may confidently be stated that no thinker of recent years, Thoreau not
excepted, has ever lived in isolation more thorough and complete than
that which was enjoyed by this blithe misanthrope.
It is not as though he had betaken himself to an unfrequented waste, or
to the top of an inaccessible crag; such behavior would have savored of
an affectation of which he was incapable, and, moreover, would have
told its story of an inability to otherwise resist the charms of
society. Besides, Schopenhauer was no anchorite; he lived very
comfortably in the heart of a populous and pleasant city, and dined
daily at the best table d'hôte, but he lived and dined utterly alone.
He considered that, as a rule, a man is never in perfect harmony save
with himself, for, he argued, however tenderly a friend or mistress may
be beloved, there is at times some clash and discord. Perfect
tranquillity, he said, is found only in solitude, and to be permanent
only in absolute seclusion; and he insisted that the hermit, if
intellectually rich, enjoys the happiest condition which this life can
offer. The love of solitude, however, can hardly be said to exist in
any one as a natural instinct; on the contrary, it may be regarded as
an acquired taste, and one which must be developed in indirect
progression. Schopenhauer, who cultivated it to its most supreme
expression, admitted that at first he had many fierce struggles with
the natural instinct of sociability, and at times had strenuously
combated some such Mephistophelian suggestion as,--
     "Hör' auf, mit deinem Gram zu spielen,
     Der, wie ein Geier, dir am Leben frisst:
     Die schlechteste Gesellschaft lässt dich fühlen
     Dass du ein Mensch, mit Menschen bist."
But solitude, more or less rigid, is undoubtedly the lot of all
superior minds. They may grieve over it, as Schopenhauer says, but of
two evils they will choose it as the least. After that, it is
presumably but a question of getting acclimated. In old age the
inclination comes, he notes, almost of itself. At sixty it is well-nigh
instinctive; at that age everything is in its favor. The incentives
which are the most energetic in behalf of sociability then no longer
act. With advancing years there arises a capacity of sufficing to one's
self, which little by little absorbs the social instinct. Illusions
then have faded, and, ordinarily speaking, active life has ceased.
There is nothing more to be expected, there are no plans nor projects
to form, the generation to which old age really belongs has passed
away, and, surrounded by a new race, one is then objectively and
essentially alone.
Then, too, many things are clearly seen, which before were as veiled by
a mist. As the result of long experience very little is expected from
the majority of people, and the conclusion is generally reached that
not only men do not improve on acquaintance, but that mankind is made
up of very defective copies, with which it is best to have as little to
do as possible.
But beyond converting his life into a monodrama with reflections of
this description, Schopenhauer considered himself to be a missionary of
truth, and in consequence as little fitted for every-day companionship
as missionaries in China feel themselves called upon to fraternize with
the Chinese. It was the rule of his life to expect nothing, desire as
little as possible, and learn all he could, and as little was to be
expected and nothing was to be learned from the majority of the dull
ruffians who go to the making of the census, it is not to be wondered
that he trod the thoroughfares of thought alone and dismissed the
majority of men with a shrug.
"They are," he said, "just what they seem to be, and that is the worst
that can be said of them." Epigrams of this description were naturally
not apt to increase his popularity. But for that he cared very little.
He considered that no man can judge another save by the measure of his
own understanding. Of course, if this understanding is of a low degree,
the greatest intellectual gifts which another may possess convey to him
no meaning; they are as colors to the blind; and consequently, in a
great nature there will be noticed only those defects and weaknesses
which are inseparable from every character.
But to such a man as Schopenhauer,--one who considered five sixths of
the population to be knaves or blockheads, and who had thought out a
system for the remaining fraction,--to such a man as he, the question
of esteem, or the lack thereof, was of small consequence. He cared
nothing for the existence which he led in the minds of other people. To
his own self he was true, to the calling of his destiny constant, and
he felt that he could sit and snap his fingers at the world, knowing
that Time, who is at least a gentleman, would bring him his due
unasked.
Schopenhauer's character was made up of that combination of seeming
contradictions which is the peculiarity of all great men. He had the
audacity of childhood and the timidity of genius. He was suspicious of
every one, and ineffably kind-hearted. With stupidity in any form he
was blunt, even to violence, and yet his manner and courtesy were such
as is attributed to the gentlemen of the old school. If he was an
egotist, he was also charitable to excess; and who shall say that
charity is not the egotism of great natures? He was honesty itself, and
yet thought every one wished to cheat him. To mislead a possible thief
he labeled his valuables Arcana Medica, put his banknotes in
dictionaries, and his gold pieces in ink bottles. He slept on the
ground floor, that he might escape easily in case of fire. If he heard
a noise at night he snatched at a pistol, which he kept loaded at his
bedside. Indeed, he might have chosen for his motto, "Je ne crains rien
fors le dangier," and yet who is ever so foolish as a wise man? Kant's
biography is full of similar vagaries, and one has but to turn to the
history of any of the thinkers whose names are landmarks in literature,
to find that eccentricities no less striking have also been recorded of
them.
Voltaire said, "On aime la vie, mais le néant ne laisse pas d'avoir du
bon;" and Schopenhauer, not to be outdone, added more massively, that
if one could tap on the tombs and ask the dead if they cared to return,
they would shake their heads. His views of life, however, and of the
world in general, will be considered later on, and for the moment it is
but necessary to note that he regarded happiness as consisting solely
