


 

after she ought to have got away, and she had 
answered that she liked hot weather, and that this 
was not comparable to the heat of Washington in 
June. She was looking very well, and younger and 
prettier than she had since the first days of their 
renewed acquaintance in the winter. Her southern 
complexion enriched itself in the sun ; sometimes 
when she came into his room from outdoors the 
straying brown hair cufled into loose rings on her 
temples, and her cheeks glowed a deep red. 

She said those polite things to appease him as 
long as he was not well enough to go away, but she 
did not try to detain him after his strength suffi- 
ciently returned. It was the blow on the head that 
kept him longest. After his broken arm and his 
other bruises were quite healed, he was aware of 
physical limits to thinking of the future or regret- 
ting the past, and this sense of his powerlessness 
went far to reconcile him to a life of present inaction 
and oblivion. Theoretically he ought to have been 
devoured by remorse and chagrin, but as a matter 
of fact he suffered very little from either. Even in 
people who are in full possession of their capacity 
for mental anguish one observes that after they have 
undergone a certain amount of pain they cease to 
feel. 

Colville amused himself a good deal with Effie's 
endeavours to entertain him and take care of him. 
The child was with him every moment that she 
could steal from her tasks, and her mother no 
longer attempted to stem the tide of her devotion. 



 

It was understood that Effie should joke and laugh 
with Mr. Colville as much as she chose; that she 
should fan him as long as he could stand it ; that 
she should read to him when he woke, and watch 
him when he slept. She brought him his breakfast, 
she petted him and caressed him, and wished to 
make him a monster of dependence and self-indul- 
gence. It seemed to grieve her that he got well so 
fast. 

The last night before he left the house she sat on 
his knee by the window looking out beyond the- fire- 
fly twinkle of Oltrarno, to the silence and solid dark 
of the solemn company of hills beyond. They had 
not lighted the lamps because of the mosquitoes, and 
they had talked till her head dropped against his 
shoulder. 

Mrs. Bowen came' in to get her. " Why, is she 
asleep 'i " 

" Yes. Don't take her yet," said Colville. 

Mrs. Bowen rustled softly into the chair which 
Effie had left to get into Colville's lap. Neither of 
them spoke, and he was so richly content with the 
peace, the tacit sweetness of the little moment, that 
he would have been glad to have it silently endure 
for ever. If any troublesome question of his right to 
such a moment of bliss obtruded itself upon him, he 
did not concern himself with it. 

" We shall have another hot day to-morrow," 
said Mrs. Bowen at length. " I hope you will find 
your room comfortable." 

"Yes : it's at the back of the hotel, mighty high, 


and wide, and no sun ever comes into it except 
when they show it to foreigners in winter. Then 
they get a few rays to enter as a matter of business, 
on condition that they won't detain them. I dare 
say I shall stay there some time. I suppose you 
will be getting away from Florence very soon. 

" Yes. But I haven't decided where to go yet.'' 

" Should you like some general expression of 
my gratitude for all you've done for me, Mrs. 
Bowen ? " 

" No ; I would rather not. It has been a great 
pleasure — to EfBe." 

" Oh, a luxury beyond the dreams of avarice." 
They spoke in low tones, and there was something 
in the hush that suggested to Colville the feasibility of 
taking into his unoccupied hand one of the pretty 
hands which the pale night-light showed him lying 
in Mrs. Bowen's lap. But he forbore, and only 
sighed. " Well, then, I will say nothing. But I shall 
keep on thinking all my life.'' 

She made no answer! 

" When you are gone, I shall have to make the 
most of Mr. Waters," he said. 

"He is going to stop all summer, I believe." 

" Oh yes. When I suggested to him the other 
day that he might find it too hot, he said that he 
had seventy New England winters to thaw out of 
his blood, and that all the summers he had left 
would not be more than he needed. One of his 
friends told him that he could cook eggs in his 
piazza in August, and he said that he should like 



 

nothing better than to cook eggs there. He 's the 
most delightfully expatriated compatriot I've ever 
seen." 

"Do you like it?" 

" It 's well enough for him. Life has no claims on 
him any more. I think it 's very pleasant over here, 
now that everybody 's gone," added Colville, from a 
confused resentfulness of collectively remembered 
Days and Afternoons and Evenings. How still the 
night is !" 

A few feet clapping by on the pavement below 
alone broke the hush. 

" Sometimes I feel very tired of it all, and want to 
get home," sighed Mrs. Bowen. 

"Well, so do I." 

" I can't believe it 's right staying away from the I 
country so long." People often say such things in 
Europe. 

" No, I don't either, if you 've got anything to do 
there." 

" You can always make something to do there." 

"Oh yes." Some young young men, breaking 
from a street near by, began to sing. " We shouldn't 
have that sort of thing at home." 

"No," said Mrs. Bowen pensively. 

" I heard just such singing before I fell asleep the 
night after that party at Madame Uccelli's, and it 
filled me with fury." 

" Why should it do that ?" 

" I don't-know. It seemed like voices from our 
youth — Lina." ~ '"" 



 

She had no resentment of his use of her name in 
the tone with which she asked : " Did you hate that 
so much ? " 

' "No; the loss of it." 
' They both fetched a deep breath. 

"The Uccellis have a villa near the baths of 
Lucca," said Mrs. Bowen. "They have asked me 
to go." 

"Do you think of going?" inquired Colville. 
" I 've always fancied it must be pleasant there." 

" No ; I declined. Sometimes I think I will just 
stay on in Florence." 

"I dare say you'd find it perfectly comfortable. 
There 's nothing like having the range of one's own 
house in summer." He looked out of the window 
on the blue-black sky. 

" ' And deepening through their silent spheres, 
Heaven over heaven rose the night,' " 

he quoted. " It 's wonderful ! Do you remember 
how I used to read Mariana in the South to you and 
poor Jenny ? How it must have bored her ! What 
an ass I was ! " 

"Yes," said Mrs. Bowen breathlessly, in sym- 
pathy with his reminiscence rather than in agree- 
ment with his self-denunciation. 

Colville broke into a laugh, and then she began to 
laugh to ; but not quite willingly as it seemed. 

Effie started from her sleep. " What — what is it ?" 
she asked, stretching and shivering as half-wakened 
children do. 



 

"Bed-time," said her mother promptly, taking 
her hand to -lead her away. "Say good-night to 
Mr. Colville." 

The child turned and kissed him. " Good night," 
she murmured. 

" Good night, you sleepy little soul ! " It seemed 
to Colville that he must be a pretty good man, after 
all, if this little thing loved him so. 

" Do you always kiss Mr. Colville good-night ? " 
asked her mother when she began to undo her hair 
for her in her room. 

" Sometimes. Don't you think it 's nice ? " 

" Oh yes ; nice enough." 

Colville sat by the window a long time thinking 
Mrs. Bowen might come back; but she did not 
return. 

Mr. Waters came to see him the next afternoon 
at his hotel. 

" Are you pretty comfortable here ? " he asked. 

" Well, it's a change," said Colville. " I miss the 
little one awfully." 

" She 's a winning child," admitted the old man. 
" That combination of conventionality and naivety is 
very captivating. I notice it in the mother." 

"Yes, the mother has it too. Have you seen 
them to-day ? " 

" Yes ; Mrs. Bowen was sorry to be out when you 
came." 

" I had the misfortune to miss them. I had a 
great mind to go again to-night." 

The old man said nothing to this. " The fact is," 



 

Colville went on, " I 'm so habituated to being there 
that I 'm rather spoiled." 

" Ah, it 's a nice place," Mr. Waters admitted. 

" Of course I made all the haste I could to get 
away, and I have the reward of a good conscience. 
But I don't find that the reward is very great." ' 
f The old gentleman smiled. " The diflSculty is to 
know conscience from self-interest." 

, " Oh, there 's no doubt of it in my case," said 
Colville. "If I'd consulted my own comfort and 
advantage, I should still be at Palazzo Pinti." 

" I dare say they would have been glad to keep 
you." 

" Do you really think so ? " asked Colville, with 
sudden seriousness. " I wish you would tell me 
why. Have you any reason — grounds % Pshaw ! 
I 'm absurd ! " He sank back into the easy-chair 
from whose depths he had pulled himself in the 
eagerness of his demand, and wiped his forehead 
with his handkerchief. " Mr. Waters, you remem- 
ber my telling you of my engagement to Miss 
Graham % " 

" Yes." 

