chimney-pieces, all unlighted, and gave me a refec 
tion of fruit and sweet wine. When I praised the 
wine and asked him what it was, he said simply, 
"C est du vin de ma mere!" Throughout my little 
journey I had never yet felt myself so far from Paris; 
and this was a sensation I enjoyed more than my 
host, who was an involuntary exile, consoling him 
self with laying out a manege, which he showed me 
as I walked away. His civility was great, and I was 
greatly touched by it. On my way back to the little 
inn where I had left my vehicle, I passed the Pont 
du Gard, and took another look at it. Its great arches 
made windows for the evening sky, and the rocky 
ravine, with its dusky cedars and shining river, was 
lonelier than before. At the inn I swallowed, or tried 
to swallow, a glass of horrible wine with my coach 
man; after which, with my reconstructed team, I drove 
back to Nimes in the moonlight. It only added a 
more solitary whiteness to the constant sheen of the 
Provencal landscape. 
XXVII. 
THE weather the next day was equally fair, so that 
it seemed an imprudence not to make sure of Aigues- 
 IQI 
Mortes. Nimes itself could wait; at a pinch, I could 
attend to Nimes in the rain. It was my belief that 
Aigues-Mortes was a little gem, and it is natural to 
desire that gems should have an opportunity to sparkle. 
This is an excursion of but a few hours, and there is 
a little friendly, familiar, dawdling train that will con 
vey you, in time for a noonday breakfast, to the small 
dead town where the blessed Saint-Louis twice em 
barked for the crusades. You may get back to Nimes 
for dinner; the run or rather the walk, for the train 
doesn 't run is of about an hour. I found the little 
journey charming, and looked out of the carriage win 
dow, on my right, at the distant Cevennes, covered 
with tones of amber and blue, and, all around, at 
vineyards red with the touch of October. The grapes 
were gone, but the plants had a color of their own. 
Within a certain distance of Aigues-Mortes they give 
place to wide salt-marshes, traversed by two canals; 
and over this expanse the train rumbles slowly upon 
a narrow causeway, failing for some time, though you 
know you are near the object of your curiosity, to 
bring you to sight of anything but the horizon. Sud 
denly it appears, the towered and embattled mass, 
lying so low that the crest of its defences seems to 
rise straight out of the ground; and it is not till the 
train stops, close before them, that you are able to 
take the full measure of its walls. 
Aigues-Mortes stands on the edge of a wide Mang, 
or shallow inlet of the sea, the further side of which 
is divided by a narrow band of coast from the Gulf 
of Lyons. Next after Carcassonne, to which it forms 
an admirable pendant, it is the most perfect thing of 
the kind in France. It has a rival in the person of 
Avignon, but the ramparts of Avignon are much less 
effective. Like Carcassonne, it is completely sur 
rounded with its old fortifications; and if they are far 
simpler in character (there is but one circle), they are 
quite as well preserved. The moat has been filled 
up, and the site of the town might be figured by a 
billiard-table without pockets. On this absolute level, 
covered with coarse grass, Aigues-Mortes presents quite 
the appearance of the walled town that a school-boy 
draws upon his slate, or that we see in the background 
of early Flemish pictures, a simple parallelogram, of 
a contour almost absurdly bare, broken at intervals by 
angular towers and square holes. Such, literally speak 
ing, is this delightful little city, which needs to be seen 
to tell its full story. It is extraordinarily pictorial, 
and if it is a very small sister of Carcassonne, it has 
at least the essential features of the family. Indeed, 
it is even more like an image and less like a- reality 
than Carcassonne; for by position and prospect it 
seems even more detached from the life of the present 
day. It is true that Aigues-Mortes does a little busi 
ness; it sees certain bags of salt piled into barges 
which stand in a canal beside it, and which carry their 
cargo into actual places. But nothing could well be 
more drowsy and desultory than this industry as I 
saw it practised, with the aid of two or three brown 
peasants and under the eye of a solitary douanier, 
who strolled on the little quay beneath the western 
wall. "C est bien plaisant, c est bien paisible," said 
this worthy man, with whom I had some conversa 
tion; and pleasant and peaceful is the place indeed, 
though the former of these epithets may suggest an 
element of gayety in which Aigues-Mortes is deficient. 
The sand, the salt, the dull sea-view, surround it with 
a bright, quiet melancholy. There are fifteen towers 
and nine gates, five of which are on the southern side, 
overlooking the water. I walked all round the place 
three times (it doesn 't take long), but lingered most 
under the southern wall, where the afternoon light 
slept in the dreamiest, sweetest way. I sat down on 
an old stone, and looked away to the desolate salt- 
marshes and the still, shining surface of the ttang; 
and, as I did so, reflected that this was a queer little 
out-of-the-world corner to have been chosen, in the 
great dominions of either monarch, for that pompous 
interview which took place, in 1538, between Francis I. 
and Charles V. It was also not easy to perceive how 
Louis IX., when in 1248 and 1270 he started for the 
Holy Land, set his army afloat in such very undeveloped 
channels. An hour later I purchased in the town a 
little pamphlet by M. Marius Topin, who undertakes 
to explain this latter anomaly, and to show that there 
is water enough in the port, as we may call it by 
courtesy, to have sustained a fleet of crusaders. I was 
unable to trace the channel that he points out, but 
was glad to believe that, as he contends, the sea has 
not retreated from the town since the thirteenth century, 
 
It was comfortable to think that things are not so 
changed as that. M. Topin indicates that the other 
French ports of the Mediterranean were not then dis- 
ponibles, and that Aigues-Mortes was the most eligible 
spot for an embarkation. 
Behind the straight walls and the quiet gates the 
little town has not crumbled, like the Cite of Carcas 
sonne. It can hardly be said to be alive; but if it is 
dead it has been very neatly embalmed. The hand 
of the restorer rests on it constantly; but this artist 
has not, as at Carcassonne, had miracles to accomplish. 
The interior is very still and empty, with small stony, 
whitewashed streets, tenanted by a stray dog, a stray 
cat, a stray old woman. In the middle is a little place, 
with two or three cafes decorated by wide awnings, 
a little place of which the principal feature is a very 
bad bronze statue of Saint Louis by Pradier. It is 
almost as bad as the breakfast I had at the inn that 
bears the name of that pious monarch. You may walk 
round the enceinte of Aigues-Mortes, both outside and 
in; but you may not, as at Carcassonne, make a por 
tion of this circuit on the chemin de ronde, the little 
projecting footway attached to the inner face of the 
battlements. This footway, wide enough only for a 
single pedestrian, is in the best order, and near each 
of the gates a flight of steps leads up to it; but a 
locked gate, at the top of the steps, makes access im 
possible, or at least unlawful. Aigues-Mortes, however, 
has its citadel, an immense tower, larger than any of 
the others, a little detached, and standing at the north- 
west angle of the town. I called upon the casernier, 
the custodian of the walls, and in his absence I was 
conducted through this big Tour de Constance by his 
wife, a very mild, meek woman, yellow with the traces 
of fever and ague, a scourge which, as might be ex 
pected in a town whose name denotes "dead waters," 
enters freely at the nine gates. The Tour de Con 
stance is of extraordinary girth and solidity, divided 
into three superposed circular chambers, with very fine 
vaults, which are lighted by embrasures of prodigious 
depth, converging to windows little larger than loop 
holes. The place served for years as a prison to many 
of the Protestants of the south whom the revocation 
of the Edict of Nantes had exposed to atrocious 
penalties, and the annals of these dreadful chambers 
during the first half of the last century were written 
in tears and blood. Some of the recorded cases of 
long confinement there make one marvel afresh at 
what man has inflicted and endured. In a country in 
which a policy of extermination was to be put into 
practice this horrible tower was an obvious resource. 
From the battlements at the top, which is surmounted 
by an old disused light-house, you see the little com 
pact rectangular town, which looks hardly bigger than 
a garden-patch, mapped out beneath you, and follow 
the plain configuration of its defences. You take 
possession of it, and you feel that you will remember 
it always. 
XXVIII. 
AFTER this I was free to look about me at Nimes, 
and I did so with such attention as the place appeared 
to require. At the risk of seeming too easily and too 
frequently disappointed, I will say that it required 
rather less than I had been prepared to give. It is a 
town of three or four fine features, rather than a town 
with, as I may say, a general figure. In general, 
Nimes is poor; its only treasures are its Roman re 
mains, which are of the first order. The new French 
fashions prevail in many of its streets; the old houses 
are paltry, and the good houses are new; while beside 
my hotel rose a big spick-and-span church, which 
had the oddest air of having been intended for 
Brooklyn or Cleveland. It is true that this church 
looked out on a square completely French, a square 
of a fine modern disposition, flanked on one side by a 
classical palais de justice embellished with trees and 
parapets, and occupied in the centre with a group of 
allegorical statues, such as one encounters only in the 
cities of France, the chief of these being a colossal 
figure by Pradier, representing Nimes. An English, 
an American, town which should have such a monu 
ment, such a square, as this, would be a place of 
great pretensions; but like so many little villes de 
province in the country of which I write, Nimes is 
easily ornamental. What nobler ornament can there 
be than the Roman baths at the foot of Mont Cavalier, 
and the delightful old garden that surrounds them? 
All that quarter of Nimes has every reason to be 
proud of itself; it has been revealed to the world at 
large by copious photography. A clear, abundant 
stream gushes from the foot of a high hill (covered 
with trees and laid out in paths), and is distributed 
into basins which sufficiently refer themselves to the 
period that gave them birth, the period that has 
left its stamp on that pompous Peyrou which we ad 
mired at Montpellier. Here are the same terraces and 
steps and balustrades, and a system of water-works 
less impressive, perhaps, but very ingenious and charm 
ing. The whole place is a mixture of old Rome and 
of the French eighteenth century; for the remains of 
the antique baths are in a measure incorporated in 
the modern fountains. In a corner of this umbrageous 
precinct stands a small Roman ruin, which is known 
as a temple of Diana, but was more apparently a 
nymphceum, and appears to have had a graceful con 
nection with the adjacent baths. I learn from Murray 
that this little temple, of the period of Augustus, 
"was reduced to its present state of ruin in 1577;" 
the moment at which the townspeople, threatened 
with a siege by the troops of the crown, partly 
demolished it, lest it should serve as a cover to the 
enemy. The remains are very fragmentary, but they 
serve to show that the place was lovely. I spent half 
an hour in it on a perfect Sunday morning (it is en 
closed by a high grille, carefully tended, and has a 
warden of its own), and with the help of my imagina- 
tion tried to reconstruct a little the aspect of things 
in the Gallo-Roman days. I do wrong, perhaps, to 
say that I tried; from a flight so deliberate I should 
have shrunk. But there was a certain contagion of 
antiquity in the air; and among the ruins of baths 
and temples, in the very spot where the aqueduct that 
crosses the Gardon in the wondrous manner I had 
seen discharged itself, the picture of a splendid 
paganism seemed vaguely to glow. Roman baths, 
Roman baths; those words alone were a scene. Every 
thing was changed: I was strolling in & jardin fran ais ; 
the bosky slope of the Mont Cavalier (a very modest 
mountain), hanging over the place, is crowned with a 
shapeless tower, which is as likely to be of mediaeval 
as of antique origin; and yet, as I leaned on the 
parapet of one of the fountains, where a flight of 
curved steps (a hemicycle, as the French say) descended 
into a basin full of dark, cool recesses, where the slabs 
of the Roman foundations gleam through the clear 
green water, as in this attitude I surrendered myself 
to contemplation and reverie, it seemed to me that I 
touched for a moment the ancient world. Such mo 
ments are illuminating, and the light of this one mingles, 
in my memory, with the dusky greenness of the Jardin 
de la Fontaine. 
The fountain proper the source of all these dis 
tributed waters is the prettiest thing in the world, a 
reduced copy of Vaucluse. It gushes up at the foot 
of the Mont Cavalier, at a point where that eminence 
rises with a certain cliff-like effect, and, like other 
  IQQ 
springs in the same circumstances, appears to issue 
from the rock with a sort of quivering stillness. I 
trudged up the Mont Cavalier, it is a matter of five 
minutes, and having committed this cockneyism en 
hanced it presently by another. I ascended the stupid 
Tour Magne, the mysterious structure I mentioned a 
moment ago. The only feature of this dateless tube, 
except the inevitable collection of photographs to 
which you are introduced by the door-keeper, is the 
view you enjoy from its summit. This view is, of 
course, remarkably fine, but I am ashamed to say I 
have not the smallest recollection of it; for while I 
looked into the brilliant spaces of the air I seemed 
still to see only what I saw in the depths of the Roman 
baths, the image, disastrously confused and vague, of 
a vanished world. This world, however, has left at 
Nimes a far more considerable memento than a few 
old stones covered with water-moss. The Roman arena 
is the rival of those of Verona and of Aries; at a 
respectful distance it emulates the Colosseum. It is a 
small Colosseum, if I may be allowed the expression, 
and is in a much better preservation than the great 
circus at Rome. This is especially true of the external 
walls, with their arches, pillars, cornices. I must add 
that one should not speak of preservation, in regard 
to the arena at Nimes, without speaking also of repair. 
After the great ruin ceased to be despoiled, it began 
to be protected, and most of its wounds have been 
dressed with new material. These matters concern 
the archaeologist; and I felt here, as I felt afterwards 
at Aries, that one of the profane, in the presence of 
such a monument, can only admire and hold his 
tongue. The great impression, on the whole, is an 
impression of wonder that so much should have sur 
vived. What remains at Nimes, after all dilapidation 
is estimated, is astounding. I spent an hour in the 
Arenes on that same sweet Sunday morning, as I 
came back from the Roman baths, and saw that the 
