she yes, decidedly, by this time she must admit it to her- 
self she meditated. It was simply that the truth had 
changed sides ; that radiant image began to look at her 
from Basil Ransom's expressive eyes. She loved, she was 
in love she felt it in every throb of her being. Instead of 
being constituted by nature for entertaining that sentiment 
in an exceptionally small degree (which had been the im- 
 
plication of her whole crusade, the warrant for her offer of 
old to Olive to renounce), she was framed, apparently, to 
allow it the largest range, the highest intensity. It was 
always passion, in fact; but now the object was other. 
Formerly she had been convinced that the fire of her spirit 
was a kind of double flame, one half of which was respon- 
sive friendship for a most extraordinary person, and the 
other pity for the sufferings of women in general. Verena 
gazed aghast at the colourless dust into which, in three 
short months (counting from the episode in New York), 
such a conviction as that could crumble ; she felt it must 
be a magical touch that could bring about such a cataclysm. 
Why Basil Ransom had been deputed by fate to exercise 
this spell was more than she could say poor Verena, who 
up to so lately had flattered herself that she had a wizard's 
wand in her own pocket. 
When she saw him a little way off, about five o'clock 
the hour she usually went out to meet him waiting for 
her at a bend of the road which lost itself, after a winding, 
straggling mile or two, in the indented, insulated 'point,' 
where the wandering bee droned through the hot hours with 
a vague, misguided flight, she felt that his tall, watching 
figure, with the low horizon behind, represented well the 
importance, the towering eminence he had in her mind 
the fact that he was just now, to her vision, the most definite 
and upright, the most incomparable, object in the world. 
If he had not been at his post when she expected him she 
would have had to stop and lean against something, for 
weakness ; her whole being would have throbbed more 
painfully than it throbbed at present, though finding him 
there made her nervous enough. And who was he, what 
was he ? she asked herself. What did he offer her besides 
a chance (in which there was no compensation of brilliancy 
or fashion), to falsify, in a conspicuous manner, every hope 
and pledge she had hitherto given? He allowed her, 
certainly, no illusion on the subject of the fate she should 
meet as his wife ; he flung over it no rosiness of promised 
ease ; he let her know that she should be poor, withdrawn 
from view, a partner of his struggle, of his severe, hard, 
unique stoicism. When he spoke of such things as these, 
and bent his eyes on her, she could not keep the tears from 
her own ; she felt that to throw herself into his life (bare 
and arid as for the time it was), was the condition of happi- 
ness for her, and yet that the obstacles were terrible, cruel. 
It must not be thought that the revolution which was taking 
place in her was unaccompanied with suffering. She 
suffered less than Olive certainly, for her bent was not, like 
her friend's, in that direction ; but as the wheel of her ex- 
perience went round she had the sensation of being ground 
very small indeed. With her light, bright texture, her 
complacent responsiveness, her genial, graceful, ornamental 
cast, her desire to keep on pleasing others at the time when 
a force she had never felt before was pushing her to please 
herself, poor Verena lived in these days in a state of moral 
tension with a sense of being strained and aching which 
she didn't betray more only because it was absolutely not 
in her power to look desperate. An immense pity for Olive 
sat in her heart, and she asked herself how far it was 
necessary to go in the path of self-sacrifice. Nothing was 
wanting to make the wrong she should do her complete ; 
she had deceived her up to the very last; only three months 
earlier she had reasserted her vows, given her word, with 
every show of fidelity and enthusiasm. There were hours 
when it seemed to Verena that she must really push her 
inquiry no further, but content herself with the conclusion 
that she loved as deeply as a woman could love and that 
it didn't make any difference. She felt Olive's grasp too 
clinching, too terrible. She said to herself that she should 
never dare, that she might as well give up early as late ; 
that the scene, at the end, would be something she couldn't 
face ; that she had no right to blast the poor creature's 
whole future. She had a vision of those dreadful years ; 
she knew that Olive would never get over the disappoint- 
ment. It would touch her in the point where she felt 
everything most keenly; she would be incurably lonely 
and eternally humiliated. It was a very peculiar thing, 
their friendship ; it had elements which made it probably 
as complete as any (between women) that had ever existed. 
Of course it had been more on Olive's side than on hers, 
she had always known that ; but that, again, didn't make 
any difference. It was of no use for her to tell herself that 
Olive had begun it entirely and she had only responded 
out of a kind of charmed politeness, at first, to a tremendous 
appeal. She had lent herself, given herself, utterly, and she 
ought to have known better if she didn't mean to abide by 
it. At the end of three weeks she felt that her inquiry was 
complete, but that after all nothing was gained except an 
immense interest in Basil Ransom's views and the prospect 
of an eternal heartache. He had told her he wanted her 
to know him, and now she knew him pretty thoroughly. 
She knew him and she adored him, but it didn't make any 
difference. To give him up or to give Olive up this 
effort would be the greater of the two. 
If Basil Ransom had the advantage, as far back as that 
day in New York, of having struck a note which was to 
reverberate, it may easily be imagined that he did not fail 
to follow it up. If he had projected a new light into 
Verena's mind, and made the idea of giving herself to a man 
more agreeable to her than that of giving herself to a move- 
ment, he found means to deepen this illumination, to drag her 
former standard in the dust. He was in a very odd situa- 
tion indeed, carrying on his siege with his hands tied. As 
he had to do everything in an hour a day, he perceived 
that he must confine himself to the essential. The essential 
was to show her how much he loved her, and then to press, to 
press, always to press. His hovering about Miss Chancellor's 
habitation without going in was a strange regimen to be 
subjected to, and he was sorry not to see more of Miss 
Birdseye, besides often not knowing what to do with himself 
in the mornings and evenings. Fortunately he had brought 
plenty of books (volumes of rusty aspect, picked up at New 
York bookstalls), and in such an affair as this he could take 
the less when the more was forbidden him. For the 
mornings, sometimes, he had the resource of Doctor Prance, 
with whom he made a great many excursions on the water. 
She was devoted to boating and an ardent fisherwoman, and 
they used to pull out into the bay together, cast their lines, 
and talk a prodigious amount of heresy. She met him, as 
Verena met him, ' in the environs,' but in a different spirit. 
He was immensely amused at her attitude, and saw that 
 
nothing in the world could, as he expressed it, make her 
wink. She would never blench nor show surprise ; she had 
an air of taking everything abnormal for granted ; betrayed 
no consciousness of the oddity of Ransom's situation ; said 
nothing to indicate she had noticed that Miss Chancellor 
was in a frenzy or that Verena had a daily appointment. 
You might have supposed from her manner that it was as 
natural for Ransom to sit on a fence half a mile off as in 
one of the red rocking-chairs, of the so-called ' Shaker ' 
species, which adorned Miss Chancellor's back verandah. 
The only thing our young man didn't like about Doctor 
Prance was the impression she gave him (out of the crevices 
of her reticence he hardly knew how it leaked), that she 
thought Verena rather slim. She took an ironical view of 
almost any kind of courtship, and he could see she didn't 
wonder women were such featherheads, so long as, whatever 
brittle follies they cultivated, they could get men to come 
and sit on fences for them. Doctor Prance told him Miss 
Birdseye noticed nothing ; she had sunk, within a few days, 
into a kind of transfigured torpor ; she didn't seem to know 
whether Mr. Ransom were anywhere round or not. She 
guessed she thought he had just come down for a day and 
gone off again ; she probably supposed he just wanted to 
get toned up a little by Miss Tarrant. Sometimes, out in 
the boat, when she looked at him in vague, sociable silence, 
while she waited for a bite (she delighted in a bite), she had 
an expression of diabolical shrewdness. When Ransom was 
not scorching there beside her (he didn't mind the sun of 
Massachusetts), he lounged about in the pastoral land which 
hung (at a very moderate elevation), above the shore. He 
always had a book in his pocket, and he lay under 
whispering trees and kicked his heels and made up his 
mind on what side he should take Verena the next time. At 
the end of a fortnight he had succeeded (so he believed, at 
least), far better than he had hoped, in this sense, that the 
girl had now the air of making much more light of her 
'gift.' He was indeed quite appalled at the facility with 
which she threw it over, gave up the idea that it was useful 
and precious. That had been what he wanted her to do, 
and the fact of the sacrifice (once she had fairly looked at 
 
it), costing her so little only proved his contention, only 
made it clear that it was not necessary to her happiness to 
spend half her life ranting (no matter how prettily), in 
public. All the same he said to himself that, to make up 
for the loss of whatever was sweet in the reputation of the 
thing, he should have to be tremendously nice to her in all 
the coming years. During the first week he was at Marmion 
she made of him an inquiry which touched on this point. 
'  Well, if it's all a mere delusion, why should this facility 
have been given me why should I have been saddled with 
a superfluous talent ? I don't care much about it I don't 
mind telling you that ; but I confess I should like to know 
what is to become of all that part of me, if I retire into 
private life, and live, as you say, simply to be charming for 
you. I shall be like a singer with a beautiful voice (you 
have told me yourself my voice is beautiful), who has ac- 
cepted some decree of never raising a note. Isn't that a 
great waste, a great violation of nature ? Were not our 
talents given us to use, and have we any right to smother 
them and deprive our fellow-creatures of such pleasure as 
they may confer ? In the arrangement you propose ' (that 
was Verena's way of speaking of the question of their 
marriage), ( I don't see what provision is made for the poor 
faithful, dismissed servant. It is all very well to be charm- 
ing to you, but there are people who have told me that 
once I get on a platform I am charming to all the world. 
There is no harm in my speaking of that, because you have 
told me so yourself. Perhaps you intend to have a plat- 
form erected in our front parlour, where I can address you 
every evening, and put you to sleep after your work. I say 
our front parlour, as if it were certain we should have two ! 
It doesn't look as if our means would permit that and we 
must have some place to dine, if there is to be a platform 
in our sitting-room.' 
' My dear young woman, it will be easy to solve the 
difficulty : the dining-table itself shall be our platform, and 
you shall mount on top of that.' This was Basil Ransom's 
sportive reply to his companion's very natural appeal 
for light, and the reader will remark that if it led her 
to push her investigation no further, she was very easily 
 
satisfied. There was more reason, however, as well as more 
appreciation of a very considerable mystery, in what he went 
on to say. ' Charming to me, charming to all the world ? 
What will become of your charm ? is that what you want 
to know ? It will be about five thousand times greater than 
it is now ; that's what will become of it. We shall find 
plenty of room for your facility ; it will lubricate our whole 
existence. Believe me, Miss Tarrant, these things will take 
care of themselves. You won't sing in the Music Hall, but 
you will sing to me ; you will sing to every one who knows 
you and approaches you. Your gift is indestructible j don't 
talk as if I either wanted to wipe it out or should be able 
to make it a particle less divine. I want to give it another 
direction, certainly ; but I don't want to stop your activity. 
Your gift is the gift of expression, and there is nothing I 
can do for you that will make you less expressive. It won't 
gush out at a fixed hour and on a fixed day, but it will irri- 
gate, it will fertilise, it will brilliantly adorn your conversa- 
tion. Think how delightful it will be when your influence 
becomes really social. Your facility, as you call it, will 
simply make you, in conversation, the most charming woman 
in America.' 
It is to be feared, indeed, that Verena was easily satisfied 
(convinced, I mean, not that she ought to succumb to him, 
but that there were lovely, neglected, almost unsuspected 
truths on his side) ; and there is further evidence on the 
same head in the fact that after the first once or twice she 
found nothing to say to him (much as she was always saying 
to herself), about the cruel effect her apostasy would have 
upon Olive. She forbore to plead that reason after she 
had seen how angry it made him, and with how almost 
savage a contempt he denounced so flimsy a pretext. He 
wanted to know since when it was more becoming to take 
up with a morbid old maid than with an honourable young 
man ; and when Verena pronounced the sacred name of 
friendship he inquired what fanatical sophistry excluded him 
from a similar privilege. She had told him, in a moment 
of expansion (Verena believed she was immensely on her 
guard, but her guard was very apt to be lowered), that his 
visits to Marmion cast in Olive's view a remarkable light 
 
upon his chivalry ; she chose to regard his resolute pursuit 
of Verena as a covert persecution of herself. Verena 
repented, as soon as she had spoken, of having given 
further currency to this taunt ; but she perceived the next 
moment no harm was done, Basil Ransom taking in per- 
fectly good part Miss Chancellor's reflections on his delicacy, 
and making them the subject of much free laughter. She 
could not know, for in the midst of his hilarity the young 
man did not compose himself to tell her, that he had made 
up his mind on this question before he left New York as 
long ago as when he wrote her the note (subsequent to her 
departure from that city), to which allusion has already 
been made, and which was simply the fellow of the letter 
addressed to her after his visit to Cambridge : a friendly, 
respectful, yet rather pregnant sign that, decidedly, on 
second thoughts, separation didn't imply for him the 
intention of silence. We know a little about his second 
thoughts, as much as is essential, and especially how the 
occasion of their springing up had been the windfall of an 
editor's encouragement. The importance of that encour- 
agement, to Basil's imagination, was doubtless much 
augmented by his desire for an excuse to take up again a 
line of behaviour which he had forsworn (small as had, as 
yet, been his opportunity to indulge in it), very much less than 
he supposed; still, it worked an appreciable revolution in 
his view of his case, and made him ask himself what 
amount of consideration he should (from the most refined 
Southern point of view), owe Miss Chancellor in the event 
of his deciding to go after Verena Tarrant in earnest. He 
was not slow to decide that he owed her none. Chivalry 
had to do with one's relations with people one hated, not 
with those one loved. He didn't hate poor Miss Olive, 
though she might make him yet ; and even if he did, any 
chivalry was all moonshine which should require him to 
give up the girl he adored in order that his third cousin 
should see he could be gallant. Chivalry was forbearance 
and generosity with regard to the weak; and there was 
nothing weak about Miss Olive, she was a fighting woman, 
and she would fight him to the death, giving him not an 
inch of odds. He felt that she was fighting there all day 
 
long, in her cottage-fortress ; her resistance was in the air 
he breathed, and Verena came out to him sometimes quite 
limp and pale from the tussle. 
It was in the same jocose spirit with which he regarded 
Olive's view of the sort of standard a Mississippian should 
live up to that he talked to Verena about the lecture she 
was preparing for her great exhibition at the Music Hall. 
