 
knew something of Schopenhauer. I assure you, I don't 
think of that musty misogynist in the least to-day, for I 
bend a genial eye on the women and girls I just spoke of, 
as they glide, with a small clatter and with their old copper 
water-jars, to the fountain. The Venetian girl-face is won- 
derfully sweet and the effect is charming when its pale, sad 
oval (they all look underfed), is framed in the old faded 
shawl. They also have very fascinating hair, which never 
has done curling, and they slip along together, in couples or 
threes, interlinked by the arms and never meeting one's 
eye (so that its geniality doesn't matter), dressed in thin, 
cheap cotton gowns, whose limp folds make the same de- 
lightful line that everything else in Italy makes. The 
weather is splendid and I roast but I like it ; apparently, 
I was made to be spitted and " done," and I discover that 
I have been cold all my life, even when I thought I was 
warm. I have seen none of the beautiful patricians who 
sat for the great painters the gorgeous beings whose golden 
hair was intertwined with pearls ; but I am studying Italian 
in order to talk with the shuffling, clicking maidens who 
work in the bead-factories I am determined to make one 
or two of them look at me. When they have filled their old 
water-pots at the fountain it is jolly to see them perch them 
on their heads and patter away over the polished Venetian 
stones. It's a charm to be in a country where the women 
don't wear the hideous British bonnet. Even in my own 
class (excuse the expression I remember it used to offend 
you), I have never known a young female, in London, to 
put her nose out of the door without it ; and if you had 
frequented such young females as much as I have you 
would have learned of what degradation that dreary neces- 
sity is the source. The floor of my room is composed of 
little brick tiles, and to freshen the air, in this temperature, 
one sprinkles it, as you no doubt know, with water. Before 
long, if I keep on sprinkling, I shall be able to swim about ; 
the green shutters are closed, and the place makes a very 
good tank. Through the chinks the hot light of the campo 
comes in. I smoke cigarettes, and in the pauses of this 
composition recline on a faded magenta divan in the corner. 
Convenient to my hand, in that attitude, are the works of 
Leopardi and a second-hand dictionary. I am very happy 
happier than I have ever been in my life save at Medley 
and I don't care for anything but the present hour. It 
won't last long, for I am spending all my money. When I 
have finished ttiis I shall go forth and wander about in 
the splendid Venetian afternoon ; and I shall spend the 
evening in that enchanted square of St. Mark's, which re- 
sembles an immense open-air drawing-room, listening to 
music and feeling the sea-breeze blow in between those 
two strange old columns, in the piazzetta, which seem to 
make a portal for it. I can scarcely believe that it's of 
myself that I am telling these fine things ; I say to myself 
a dozen times a day that Hyacinth Robinson is not in it 
I pinch my leg to see if I'm not dreaming. But a 
short time hence, when I have resumed the exercise of my 
profession, in sweet Soho, I shall have proof enough that 
it has been my very self : I shall know that by the terrible 
grind I shall feel my work to be. 
' That will mean, no doubt, that I'm deeply demoralised. 
It won't be for you, however, in this case, to cast the stone 
at me ; for my demoralisation began from the moment I 
first approached you. Dear Princess, I may have done you 
 
good, but you haven't done me much. I trust you will 
understand what I mean by that speech, and not think it 
flippant or impertinent. I may have helped you to under- 
stand and enter into the misery of the people (though I 
protest I don't know much about it), but you have led my 
imagination into quite another train. However, I don't 
mean to pretend that it's all your fault if I have lost sight 
of the sacred cause almost altogether in my recent adventures. 
It is not that it has not been there to see, for that perhaps 
is the clearest result of extending one's horizon the sense, 
increasing as we go, that want and toil and suffering are the 
constant lot of the immense majority of the human race. I 
have found them everywhere, but I haven't minded them. 
Excuse the cynical confession. What has struck me is the 
great achievements of which man has been capable in spite 
of them the splendid accumulations of the happier few, to 
which, doubtless, the miserable many have also in their 
degree contributed. The face of Europe appears to be 
covered with them, and they have had much the greater 
part of my attention. They seem to me inestimably precious 
and beautiful, and I have become conscious, more than ever 
before, of how little I understand what, in the great rectifi- 
cation, you and Poupin propose to do with them. Dear 
Princess, there are things which I shall be sorry to see you 
touch, even you with your hands divine ; and shall I tell 
you lefond de ma pensee, as you used to say? I feel myself 
capable of fighting for them. You can't call me a traitor, 
for you know the obligation that I recognise. The 
monuments and treasures of art, the great palaces and 
properties, the conquests of learning and taste, the general 
fabric of civilisation as we know it, based, if you will, upon 
all the despotisms, the cruelties, the exclusions, the mono- 
polies and the rapacities of the past, but thanks to which, 
all the same, the world is less impracticable and life more 
tolerable our friend Hoffendahl seems to me to hold them 
too cheap and to wish to substitute for them something in 
which I can't somehow believe as I do in things with which 
the aspirations and the tears of generations have been mixed. 
You know how extraordinary I think our Hoffendahl (to 
speak only of him) ; but if there is one thing that is more 
clear about him than another it is that he wouldn't have 
the least feeling for this incomparable, abominable old 
Venice. He would cut up the ceilings of the Veronese into 
strips, so that every one might have a little piece. I don't 
want every one to have a little piece of anything, and I have 
a great horror of that kind of invidious jealousy which is at 
the bottom of the idea of a redistribution. You will say 
that I talk of it at my ease, while, in a delicious capital, I 
smoke cigarettes on a magenta divan ; and I give you leave 
to scoff at me if it turns out that, when I come back to 
London without a penny in my pocket, I don't hold the 
same language. I don't know what it comes from, but 
during the last three months there has crept over me a deep 
mistrust of that same grudging attitude the intolerance of 
positions and fortunes that are higher and brighter than 
one's own ; a fear, moreover, that I may, in the past, have 
been actuated by such motives, and a devout hope that if I 
am to pass away while I am yet young it may not be with 
that odious stain upon my soul.' 
XXXI 
HYACINTH spent three days, after his return to London, in 
a process which he supposed to be the quest of a lodging ; 
but in reality he was pulling himself together for the business 
of his livelihood an effort he found by no means easy or 
agreeable. As he had told the Princess, he was demoralised, 
and the perspective of Mr. Crookenden's dirty staircase had 
never seemed so steep. He lingered on the brink, before 
he plunged again into Soho ; he wished not to go back to 
the shop till he should be settled, and he delayed to get settled 
in order not to go back to the shop. He saw no one during 
this interval, not even Mr. Vetch ; he waited to call upon 
the fiddler till he should have the appearance of not coming 
as a beggar or a borrower have recovered his employment 
and be able to give an address, as he had heard Captain 
Sholto say. He went to South Street not meaning to go 
in at once but wishing to look at the house and there he 
had the surprise of perceiving a bill of sale in the window 
of the Princess's late residence. He had not expected to 
find her in town (he had heard from her the last time three 
weeks before, and then she said nothing about her prospects), 
but he was puzzled by this indication that she had moved 
away altogether. There was something in this, however, 
which he felt that at bottom he had looked for ; it appeared a 
proof of the justice of a certain suspicious, uneasy sentiment 
from which one could never be quite free, in one's inter- 
course with the Princess a vague apprehension that one 
might suddenly stretch out one's hand and miss her 
altogether from one's side. Hyacinth decided to ring at 
the door and ask for news of her but there was no response 
to his summons : the stillness of an August afternoon (the 
year had come round again frpm his first visit) hung over 
the place, the blinds were down and the caretaker appeared 
to be absent. Under these circumstances Hyacinth was 
much at a loss ; unless, indeed, he should address a letter 
to his wonderful friend at Medley. It would doubtless be 
forwarded, though her short lease of the country-house had 
terminated, as he knew, several weeks before. Captain 
Sholto was of course a possible medium of communication ; 
but nothing would have induced Hyacinth to ask such a 
service of him. 
He turned away from South Street with a curious sinking 
of the heart ; his state of ignorance struck inward, as it were 
had the force of a vague, disquieting portent. He went 
to old Crookenden's only when he had arrived at his last 
penny. This, however, was very promptly the case. He 
had disembarked at London Bridge with only seventeen 
pence in his pocket, and he had lived on that sum for three 
days. The old fiddler in Lomax Place was having a chop 
before he went to the theatre, and he invited Hyacinth to 
share his repast, sending out at the same time for another 
pot of beer. He took the youth with him to the play, 
where, as at that season there were very few spectators, he 
had no difficulty in finding him a place. He seemed to 
wish to keep hold of him, and looked at him strangely, 
over his spectacles (Mr. Vetch wore the homely double 
glass in these latter years), when he learned that Hyacinth 
had taken a lodging not in their old familiar quarter but in 
the unexplored purlieus of Westminster. What had deter- 
mined our young man was the fact that from this part of 
the town the journey was comparatively a short one to 
Camberwell; he had suffered so much, before Pinnie's 
death, from being separated by such a distance from his 
best friends. There was a pang in his heart connected 
with the image of Paul Muniment, but none the less the 
prospect of an evening hour in Audley Court, from time to 
time, appeared one of his most definite sources of satisfaction 
in the future. He could have gone straight to Camberwell 
to live, but that would carry him too far from the scene of 
his profession; and in Westminster he was much nearer 
to old Crookenden's than he had been in Lomax Place. 
He said to Mr. Vetch that if it would give him pleasure he 
would abandon his lodging and take another in Pentonville. 
But the old man replied, after a moment, that he should be 
sorry to put that constraint upon him ; if he were to make 
such an exaction Hyacinth would think he wanted to watch 
him. 
' How do you mean, to watch me ? ' 
Mr. Vetch had begun to tune his fiddle, and he scraped 
it a little before answering. ' I mean it as I have always 
meant it. Surely you know that in Lomax Place I had my 
eyes on you. I watched you as a child on the edge of a 
pond watches the little boat he has constructed and set 
afloat.' 
' You couldn't discover much. You saw, after all, very 
little of me,' Hyacinth said. 
'I made what I could of that little ; it was better than 
nothing.' 
Hyacinth laid his hand gently on the old man's arm ; he 
had never felt so kindly to him, not even when he accepted 
the thirty pounds, before going abroad, as at this moment. 
' Certainly I will come and see you.' 
' I was much obliged to you for your letters,' Mr. Vetch 
remarked, without heeding these words, and continuing to 
scrape. He had always, even into the shabbiness of his 
old age, kept that mark of English good-breeding (which 
is composed of some such odd elements), that there was a 
shyness, an aversion to possible phrase-making, in his 
manner of expressing gratitude for favours, and that in spite 
of this cursory tone his acknowledgment had ever the 
accent of sincerity. 
Hyacinth took but little interest in the play, which was 
an inanimate revival ; he had been at the Theatre Frangais 
and the tradition of that house was still sufficiently present 
to him to make any other style of interpretation appear of 
the clumsiest. He sat in one of the front stalls, close to 
the orchestra ; and while the piece went forward or back- 
ward, ever backward, as it seemed to him his thoughts 
wandered far from the shabby scene and the dusty boards, 
revolving round a question which had come up immensely 
during the last few hours. The Princess was a capricciosa 
that, at least, was Madame Grandoni's account of her ; 
and was that blank, expressionless house in South Street 
a sign that an end had come to the particular caprice in 
which he had happened to be involved ? He had returned 
to London with an ache of eagerness to be with her again 
on the same terms as at Medley, a throbbing sense that 
 
unless she had been abominably dishonest he might count 
upon her. This state of mind was by no means complete 
security, but it was so sweet that it mattered little whether 
it were sound. Circumstances had favoured in an extra- 
ordinary degree his visit to her, and it was by no means 
clear that they would again be so accommodating or that 
what had been possible for a few days should be possible 
with continuity, in the midst of the ceremonies and com- 
plications of London. Hyacinth felt poorer than he had 
ever felt before, inasmuch as he had had money and spent 
it, whereas in previous times he had never had it to spend. 
He never for an instant regretted his squandered fortune, 
for he said to himself that he had made a good bargain 
and become master of a precious equivalent. The equiva- 
lent was a rich experience an experience which would 
become richer still as he should talk it over, in a low chair, 
close to hers, with the all-comprehending, all-suggesting lady 
of his life. His poverty would be no obstacle to their 
intercourse so long as he should have a pair of legs to 
carry him to her door; for she liked him better shabby 
than when he was furbished up, and she had given him too 
many pledges, they had taken together too many appoint- 
ments, worked out too many programmes, to be disconcerted 
(on either side) by obstacles that were merely a part of the 
general conventionality. He was to go with her into the 
slums, to introduce her to the worst that London contained 
(he should have, precisely, to make acquaintance with it 
first), to show her the reality of the horrors of which she 
dreamed that the world might be purged. He had ceased, 
himself, to care for the slums, and had reasons for not 
wishing to spend his remnant in the contemplation of foul 
things j but he would go through with his part of the 
engagement. He might be perfunctory, but any dreariness 
would have a gilding that should involve an association 
with her. What if she should have changed, have ceased 
to care ? What if, from a kind of royal insolence which 
he suspected to lurk somewhere in the side-scenes of her 
nature, though he had really not once seen it peep out, she 
should toss back her perfect head with a movement signi- 
fying that he was too basely literal and that she knew him 
no more? Hyacinth's imagination represented her this 
evening in places where a barrier of dazzling light shut her 
out from access, or even from any appeal. He saw her 
with other people, in splendid rooms, where ' the dukes ' 
had possession of her, smiling, satisfied, surrounded, covered 
with jewels. When this vision grew intense he found a 
reassurance in reflecting that after all she would be unlikely 
to throw him personally over so long as she should remain 
mixed up with what was being planned in the dark, 
and that it would not be easy for her to liberate herself 
from that entanglement. She had of course told him 
more, at Medley, of the manner in which she had 
already committed herself, and he remembered, with a 
strange perverse elation, that she had gone very far 
indeed. 
In the intervals of the foolish play Mr. Vetch, who 
lingered in his place in the orchestra while his mates 
descended into the little hole under the stage, leaned 
over the rail and asked his young friend occasional questions, 
