in a path that is present martyrdom. 
 
 
CHAPTER XI. 
BASIL. 
The drawing-room in Larch Avenue is small by com- 
parison with that at the Elms, but it is exquisitely 
arranged: so with all the house. The family has 
shrunken as well. Mrs. Stirling has been abroad for 
three months. Graham has a position in a banking house, 
secured by his brother's exertions, since he has evinced 
no desire for professional life, and can, if he chooses, 
spend his Sundays with them. Louise has gone with a 
young party, properly matronized, to Lake George. Olive 
is still confined to her room, and her illness, though not 
severe now, has some alarming brain symptoms. Mrs. 
Wentworth is restless and unhappy. A whirlwind seems 
to have torn them all up by the roots and scattered them 
far and wide. How can she help hating the hand that 
has wrought this devastation ? 
Basil enters the room. It is not quite dark enough for 
lamps, and sufficiently light for his mother to see his worn 
and haggard face. For Basil Wentworth has been doing 
some hard fighting with foes within and without. He will 
conquer them in but one way, and he means to be vic- 
torious. 
'' I have decided," he says to his mother, " I shall 
accept Judge Minturn's offer. It will give me position 
immediately, and you need one son at home. And I shall 
address myself to the business of making a fortune. I 
have hitherto despised mere money-getting, and it is dis- 
tasteful to me now, but one must do something with his 
life." 
 
 
 
There is a dreary hardness in the tone. The rich, mel- 
low content has gone out of it, and there has been an 
infinitely greater loss to his soul. He has been struck a 
hard blow ; he cannot strike back, but he will make blows 
tell somewhere. 
" My poor boy ! " The mother presses his hand sym- 
pathetically. ''Yes, that is the best, and you have been 
fortunate with Graham." 
''He should have gone to business before. The disci- 
pline will come rather hard now." 
"Well, it IS a comfort that Agatha is so prosperously 
married. Louise can find a mate easily when her time of 
loving comes ; but to a refined and intellectual woman, with 
a nervous, delicate temperament and so much pride, the 
alteration in our fortunes would have proved bitter 
indeed." 
It has not been such an utter change to the Went- 
worths. They will keep their position, their friends, and 
they have the sympathy of the "best" people in West- 
water. There will be no occasion for such large and 
elegant receiving, since the "queen of the goodly com- 
panie " has been transplanted to Stirling House. 
Basil is thankful now that Agatha has married so well. 
"You will find matters in a strange mess at Judge 
Minturn's," his mother continues. " Mrs. Wentworth," 
with a peculiarly scornful intonation, " backed by her aunt 
and uncle, mean to contest the will." 
" Contest it ! " in eui-prise. 
" Yes ; Matthewson has the case already. The point 
at issue, I believe, is the disposal of the Elms if the child 
should die. If there were no will, the mother would 
inherit from the child." 
" Yes," Basil replies. 
" And there is some question about her dower, — a weak 
place, I believe, that shows a loophole. Of course, they 
are the kind of people to take advantage of it." 
 
 
 
Basil begins to pace the room. He has said to himself 
a hundred times that the dear old home was gone without 
perad venture, that the child was sure to live, and that he 
had given up any lingering hope. But he feels now as if 
he could fight, not for himself, not for the possible gain, 
but simply to have Lloyd's wishes respected. 
"You are appointed the child's guardian. I did not 
tell you that in my letter." 
Basil stops short. There is a flush of indignation on 
his cheek, an angry light in his eye. 
"Did he dare— " 
' ' Hush, my dear ! Do not blame poor Lloyd too severely. 
Remember, he was away there among grasping strangers 
I have no doubt but that he understood them too well, and 
too late learned what a set of adventuring sharpers they 
were. The Gilberts, it seems, have been given no position 
of trust ; and I dare say Mrs. Lloyd is very angry at the 
disrespect shown to her relatives." 
"Guardian!" he repeats, with haughty scorn. "A 
lovely position truly ! Lloyd must have lost his senses 
quite, to put me in as a marplot, and a target for their 
insults. I shall refuse everything ; I shall wash my hands 
of the whole matter. Let it all go ! " 
If he has felt hurt before, it is now a passion of unrea- 
soning, vehement anger. He despises Lloyd in his grave, 
for his weakness, his injustice, as he terms it, and his 
miserable attempt to gloss it over by a small show of 
respect. Better a hundred times that he had not done 
that! 
"But — it may be wiser," his mother answers, rather 
doubtfully. 
" It will not be at all. I shall decline it the first thing. 
It is a positive insult." 
" Judge Minturn and you are executors. He has been 
waiting for you to come back, and what is it — qualify, or 
some such word." 
 
 
 
'' He can do as he likes ; I will not have part nor ^ot 
in the matter. I have nothing to do with the Elms now 
or at any future time. Lloyd chose to gratify himself, 
and I choose that it shall not cost me more than it has 
done already ; which, Heaven knows, is enough ! To be so 
deceived when one has loved ! But I might have known 
better than to pin my faith to such a weak, unstable reed. 
I have just my own life before me, to make or mar." 
Long afterward he is destined to remember this sentence, 
and it burns in his soul like fire. " I shall be your son 
always," softening a little ; "Louise will marry and go out 
of my life, as Agatha has done ; that is right enough ; so 
there will be nothing left but this chase after fortune, and 
that I despise." 
His tone betrays it. His mother is really troubled at 
this unwonted vehemence, at the change that has come 
over him. He is stern to a resentful hardness. 
"I ought to see Judge Minturn this very night," he 
says, suddenly. '' Yes, I had better go." 
'' Basil, you are too tired," entreats his mother. 
" But I am in the humor," he answers, fiercely. "As 
well have it over. Let them all know that I am counted 
out of all things pertaining to my cousin's estate." 
It is quite dark now in the hall, but he finds his hat and 
strides down the street, in such a state of fiery impatience 
that he hardly knows himself. He must shake it off; 
put a gulf between himself and all pertaining to the Elms. 
It is not his hand that wrought the first trouble. 
" My dear, dear fellow," Judge Minturn exclaims, when 
he enters the cosey study at Roselands, summoned from 
some guests in the drawing-room, "I have been so 
anxious for your return. But you look thoroughly 
knocked up." 
" I have been very steadily occupied, day and night. 
There was some old business in Baltimore to settle for my 
mother, and Graham to look after, as well as some hard 
 
 
 
thinking to do" ; and he smiles rather grimly. '' And the 
result of it all is, that I have, or shall, accept your offer 
of business. I am the head of the family ; I am quite old 
enough to settle in life ; and — I want to make some 
money. Push me into a fortune as rapidly as possi- 
ble." 
" Upon my word, you are in earnest. And I am glad 
to have you, indeed. Since we talked the matter over an 
incident has occurred. Mr. Sherwood is about to retire 
from the firm ; Mrs. Sherwood has just had a large property 
at St. Louis come to her, and they will remove shortly. 
So you see you are absolutely needed." 
" I am very glad of that,'' Basil responds. 
"And there are other reasons. You did not come to 
hear the will read ? You and yours are legatees in a small 
way, and there is a chance of your inheriting.'^ 
" If the Elms should ever come to me, I believe I should 
turn it into a home for old people or incapables. I should 
never go there again." 
'' Basil, my dear fellow, you must not feel this way. It 
is a great disappointment ; we can all realize that. But I 
have so much to say. Things have come about so differ- 
ently — " 
" You mean they are going to contest the will — " 
Judge Minturn gives a pleased little chuckle. 
" It will be the play of ' Hamlet ' with Hamlet himself 
left out. They^" quite as contemptuously as Basil had 
uttered it, " will do no such thing." 
" Yes, let them. Let her break it if she can, and I do 
hope she can. It will be the proudest day of my life when 
Westwater knows I have not even the most indirect inter- 
est in the Elms. It was like a stab to-night when my 
mother first spoke of it, a stab from his hand, but some- 
times an open blow is kindest. And, of course, all that 
about being guardian is the merest bosh. I want the 
Gilberts to have their own way in everything. I only hope 
 
 
 
their reckless extravagance may some time throw the Elms 
into the market again." 
" Wentworth, sit down and talk reasonably," for Basil 
has begun pacing the room. "It is not at all as you 
think. You know nothing about Mrs. Wentworth. One 
look at her would disarm you." 
'I know too much about her." A scornful smile 
wreathes his chiselled lip. "They are a set of adven- 
turers. Poor Lloyd was their victim ; but even that should 
not have led him to treat his own so cavalierly. But I 
simply want nothing to do with them. I will not be 
executor, I will not be guardian, I will not appear in any 
manner. You must see that it is wisest." 
"I see nothing of the kind. You are prejudiced and 
unreasonable. After you have met her — " 
" I decline firmly to see her," he interrupts. 
"Well, she is not the kind of woman to intrude upon 
you or any one," replies the judge, testily. " She came 
to me in the very first of the talk, and expressed her 
desires with the utmost firmness and honesty. She wants 
to abide by her husband's will ; she is desirous that every 
wish of his should be fulfilled to th'e letter. Nay, more ; 
before even this was discussed, she was anxious to find 
some pretence that would restore the Elms to you, and let 
her and her child go quietly away. She would gladly break 
the will in your favor." 
"Did she impose upon you to that extent?" Basil 
Wentworth asks, in a satirical tone ; and studies Judge 
Minturn in a manner that tempts the elder to knock him 
down. 
" She has not imposed upon me," the judge returns, in a 
firm, authoritative tone. "I am not in my dotage yet, 
and I may have quite as good a knowledge of the world, 
quite as much experience, as you." 
" Pardon me," Basil returns, aware that he has touched 
the verge of insolence, that passion has overreached good 
 
 
 
breeding. ' ' But," and he bends forward a little, " I do know 
some things. My mother had a friend abroad who wrote 
to her, not imagining for a moment that the husband of 
this Miss — Miss Hawthorne could be anything to us. They 
had been connected with some other friends we knew." 
Basil Wentworth thinks himself most magnanimous to 
make no further explanation about her. That the matter 
will come out some time through the Conynghams he is 
quite certain ; skeletons in closets invariably do, but he 
will spare her. 
" They could not have known Miss Hawthorne very long. 
She had been only a few weeks from school when she met 
your cousin." 
Basil Wentworth gives a sort of pitying, incredulous 
smile, and retains his listening attitude. So, this is the 
story she has told him ! 
" She is very young, barely eighteen now, very friend- 
less, for her aunt and uncle are not of hpr kind. All this 
fuss they are trying to make comes through the Gilberts' 
jealousy. He is most anxious to be guardian, trustee, 
everything, and I can see she does not trust him at all. 
Basil, can you not be man enough to put aside this wounded 
pride — " 
'' It is not that," Basil interrupts, fiercely. " Think ! 
he had been married a month before he even deigned to 
inform us, and all through that time I had just three little 
notes from him. He knew he had done a discreditable 
thing. It is the lack of confidence, when we had been 
mo^e than brothers. I can't make it clear to you," and a 
strange gentleness quivers in his voice, " but he was more 
than a brother to me ; he had the sensitive, passionate, 
imaginative temperament of a woman. It is that betrayal, 
that loss — " 
" And do you not think he may have missed some cordiality
in you after he had confessed his marriage ? " 
The handsome face glooms over cold and haughty. 
 
 
 
" At least I was not the first in offence. Hearing what 
we did about them, we could not be expected to consider 
it was they who had done us the honor. My mother and 
I pitied him, and kept the story to ourselves,'' he replies, 
in a proud, justifying tone. 
"I can understand and am quite willing to admit that 
the Gilberts may be designing and thoroughly selfish peo- 
ple," Judge Minturn replies ; " but she is as innocent as 
a child. And she desires to be defended from them. She 
is not willing they shall have any control at the Elms. It 
will be very hard for her, unless some one comes to her 
assistance." 
How Judge Minturn can have been so deceived amazes 
Wentworth. How, when his mind has been firmly made 
up for the last six months, a woman's deceitful, pleading 
face can unmake it, is a mystery ; unless Mrs. Wentworth 
is one of the evil, intriguing sort, as he is quite confident 
she must be. ^ 
" I offer the will for probate to-morrow. There need 
be no hurry about anything. Your power of attorney, 
your trusteeship, shall remain the same as before. It is 
his wish. You might, at least, respect that. I ask, as a 
personal favor to me, that you will take no adverse step at 
present. As for the other matter, heaven only knows, 
Basil, how glad I am to make you so much better offer 
than I at first thought possible. I shall do my utmost to 
advance your interests in every direction. In a few days 
the firm will be remodelled." 
Basil Wentworth is not ungrateful. To become a part- 
ner in this splendid law firm is indeed a proud position 
