suffused with tender pride and joy. He told her of 
the Misfit Parlours and the instalment plan, and she 
said, well, it was just splendid; and she asked him if he 
knew she wasn't in the store any more ; and " No," 
she added delightedly, upon his confession of ignor 
ance, "I' m going to work in the box-factory, after 
this, where Manda Grier works. It 's better pay, 
and you have more control of your hours, and you 
can set down while you work, if you've  a mind to. 
I think it 's going to be splendid. What should you 
say if Manda Grier and me took some rooms and 
went to housekeepin ? " 
" I don't know," said Lemuel ; but in his soul he 
felt jealous of her keeping house with Manda Grier. 
" Well, I don't know as we shall do it," said 
Statira, as if feeling his tacit reluctance. 
Manda Grier came in just then, and cast a glance 
of friendly satire at them. " Well, I declare ! " she 
said, for all recognition of the situation. 
Lemuel made an offer to rise, but Statira would 
not let him. " I guess Manda Grier won't mind it 
much." 
" I guess I can stand it if you can," said Manda 
Grier ; and this seemed such a witty speech that they 
all laughed, till, as Statira said, she thought she 
should die. They laughed the more when Manda 
ferier added dryly, "I presume you won't want your 
boneset now." She set the vessel she had brought it 
up in on the stove, and covered it with a saucer. " I 
do know as I should if I was in your place. It 's 
kind o curious I should bring both remedies home 
with me at once." At this they all laughed a third 
time, till Manda Grier said, " Sh ! sh ! Do you 
want to raise the roof ? " 
She began to bustle about, and to set out a little 
table, and cover it with a napkin, and as she worked 
she talked on. "I guess if you don't want any 
boneset tea, a little of the other kind won't hurt any 
of us, and I kinder want a cup myself." She set it 
to steep on the stove, and it went through Lemuel 's 
mind that she might have steeped the boneset there 
too, if she had thought of it ; but he did not say 
anything, though it seemed a pretty good joke on 
Manda Grier. She ran on in that way of hers so 
that you never could tell whether she really meant 
 
a thing or not. " I guess if I have to manage many 
more cases like yours, S tira Dudley, I shall want 
to lay in a whole chest of it. What do you think, 
Mr. Barker ] " 
" Mr. Barker ! " repeated Statira. 
" Well, I' m afraid to say Lemuel any more, for 
fear he'll fly off the handle, and never come again. 
What do you think, Mr. Barker, of havin to set at 
that window every Sunday for the last three weeks, 
and keep watch of both sidewalks till you get such 
a crick in your neck, and your eyes so set in your 
head, you couldn't move either of em ? " 
" Now, Manda Grier ! " said Statira from Lemuel 's 
shoulder. 
" Well, I don't say I had to do it, and I don't say 
who the young man was that I was put to look 
out for 
" But I do say it 's pretty hard to wait on a sick 
person one side the room, and keep watch for a 
young man the other side, both at once." 
" Manda Grier, you're  too bad ! " pouted Statira. 
" Don't you believe a word she says, Mr. Barker." 
"Mr. Barker /" repeated Manda Grier. 
"Well, I don't care ! " said Statira, " I know who 
I' mean." 
"/ don t," said Manda Grier. "And I didn't 
know w r ho you meant this afternoon when you w r as 
standin watch t the window, and says you, There ! 
there he is ! and I had to run so quick with the 
dipper of water I had in my hand to water the 
 OR, 
plants that I poured it all over the front of my 
dress." 
" Do you believe her ? " asked Statira. 
"And I didn't know who you meant," proceeded 
Manda Grier, busy with the cups and saucers, " when 
you kept hurryin me up to change it ; Oh, quick, 
quick ! How long you are ! I know he'll get away ; 
I know he will ! and I had to just sling on a shawl 
and rush out after this boneset." 
" There ! Now that shows she 's inakin it all up ! " 
cried Statira. " She put on a sack, and I helped her 
on with it myself. So there ! " 
" Well, if it was a sack ! And after all, the young 
man was gone when I got down hit the street," 
concluded Manda Grier solemnly. 
Lemuel had thought she was talking about him ; 
but now a pang of jealousy went through him, and 
showed at the eyes he fixed on her. 
" I don't know what I sh'd a done," she resumed 
demurely, "if I hadn't have found Mr. Barker at 
the apothecary 's and got him to come home th me ; 
but of course, twan't the same as if it was the young 
man ! " 
Lemuel 's arm fell from Statira 's waist in his 
torment. 
" Why, Lemuel ! " she said in tender reproach. 
" Why, you coot ! " cried Manda Grier in utter 
amazement at his single- mindedness ; and burst into 
a scream of laughter. She took the teapot from the 
stove, and set it on the table. "There, young man 
if you are the young man you better pull up to 
 
the table, and have something to start your ideas. 
S tira ! Let him come ! " and Lemuel, blushing for 
shame at his stupidity, did as he was bid. 
"I've  got the greatest mind in the world to set 
next to S tira myself," said Manda Grier, "for fear 
she should miss that young man ! " and now they 
both laughed together at Lemuel ; but the girls let 
him sit between them, and Statira let him keep one 
of her hands under the table, as much as she could. 
" I never saw such a jealous piece ! Why, I shall 
begin to be afraid for myself. What should you 
think of S tira 's going to housekeeping with me ? " 
" I don't believe he likes the idea one bit," Statira 
answered for him. 
"Oh yes, I do !" Lemuel protested. 
" D you tell him ? " Manda Grier demanded of 
her. She nodded with saucy defiance. " Well, you 
have got along ! And about the box-factory ? " 
Statira nodded again, with a look of joyous in 
telligence at Lemuel. " Well, what hain't you told, I 
wonder ! " Manda Grier added seriously to Lemuel, 
"I think it'll be about the best thing in the world 
for S tira. I see for the last six months she 's been 
killin herself in that store. She can't ever get a 
chance to set down a minute ; and she 's on her 
feet from mornin till night ; and I think it 's more n 
half that that 's made her sick ; I don't say what 
the other four-fifths was ! 
"Now, Manda Grier, stop !" 
" Well, that 's over with now, and now we want to 
keep you out that store. I been lookin out for this 
place for S tira a good while. She can go onto the 
small boxes, if she wants to, and she can set down 
all the time ; and she'll have a whole hour for her 
dinner ; and she can work by the piece, and do as 
much or as little as she 's a mind to ; but if she 's a 
mind to work she can make her five and six dollars 
a week, easy. Mr. Stevens 's real nice and kind, and 
he looks out for the girls that ain't exactly strong 
not but what S tira 's as strong as anybody, when 
she 's well and he don't put em on the green paper 
work, because it 's got arsenic in it, and it makes 
your head ache, and you're  liable to blood poisonin . 
One the girls fainted and had spasms, and as soon 
as he found it out he took her right off; and he 's 
just like clockwork to pay. I think it'll do every 
thing for S tira to be along th me there, where I can 
look after her." 
Lemuel said he thought so too ; he did not really 
think at all, he was so flattered at being advised 
with about Statira, as if she were in his keeping and 
it was for him to say what was best for her ; and 
when she seemed uncertain about his real opinion, 
and said she was not going to do anything he did not 
approve of, he could scarcely speak for rapture, but he 
protested that he did approve of the scheme entirely. 
" But you shouldn't want we girls to set up house 
keeping in rooms ? " she suggested ; and he said that 
he should, and that he thought it would be more 
independent and home-like. 
"We're  half doin it now," said Manda Grier, 
"and I know some rooms two of em where we 
 
could get along first rate, and not cost us much 
more n half what it does here." 
After she cleared up the tea-things she made 
another errand downstairs, and Lemuel and Statira 
went back to their rocking-chair. It still amazed 
him that she seemed not even to make it a favour 
to him ; she seemed to think it was favour to her. 
What was stranger yet was that he could not feel 
that there was anything wrong or foolish about it ; 
he thought of his mother 's severity about young 
folks sickishness, as she called it, and he could not 
understand it. He knew that he had never had 
such right and noble thoughts about girls before ; 
perhaps Statira was better than other girls ; she 
must be ; she was just like a child ; and he must be 
very good himself to be anyways fit for her ; if she 
cared so much for him, it must be a sign that he 
was not so bad as he had sometimes thought. A 
great many things went through his mind, the 
silent comment and suggestion of their talk, and all 
the time while he was saying something or listening 
to her, he was aware of the overwhelming wonder 
of her being so frank with him, and not too proud 
or ashamed to have him know how anxious she had 
been, ever since they first met, for fear he did not 
care for her. She had always appeared so stylish 
and reserved, and now she was not proud at all. He 
tried to tell her how it had been w T ith him the last 
three weeks ; all that he could say was that he had 
been afraid to come. She laughed, and said, the 
idea of his being afraid of her ! She said that she 
 
was glad of everything she had gone through. At 
times she lifted herself from his shoulder and 
coughed ; but that was when she had been laughing 
or crying a little. They told each other about their 
families ; Statira said she had not really any folks 
of her own ; she was just brought up by her aunt ; 
and Lemuel had to tell her that his mother wore 
bloomers. Statira said she guessed she should not 
care much for the bloomers ; and in everything she 
tried to make out that he was much better than she 
was, and just exactly right. She already spoke of 
his sister by her first name, and she entered into his 
whole life, as if she had always known him. He 
said she must come with him to hear Mr. Sewell 
preach, sometime ; but she declared that she did not 
think much of a minister who could behave the way 
he had done to Lemuel. He defended Sewell, and 
maintained that if it had not been for him he might 
not have come to Boston, and so might never have 
seen her ; but she held out that she could not bear 
Mr. Sewell, and that she knew he was double-faced, 
and everything. Lemuel said well, he did not know 
that he should ever have anything more to do with 
him ; but he liked to hear him preach, and he guessed 
he tried to do what was about right. Statira made 
him promise that if ever he met Mr. Sewell again, 
he would not make up to him, any way; and she 
would not tolerate the thought of Miss Vane. 
" What you two quar lin about ? " demanded 
Manda Grier, coming suddenly into the room ; and 
that turned their retrospective griefs into joy again. 
 
" I' m scoldin him because he don't think enough 
of himself," cried Statira. 
" Well, he seems to take it pretty meekly," said 
Manda Grier. " I guess you didn't scold very hard. 
Now, young man," she added to Lemuel, " I guess 
you better be goin . It 's five o clock, and if you 
should be out after dark, and the bears should get 
you, I don't know what S tira would do." 
" Tain't five yet ! " pleaded Statira. " That old 
watch of yours is always tryin to beat the town 
clock." 
"Well, it 's the clock that 's ahead this time," 
said Manda Grier. "My watch says quarter of. 
Come, now, S tira, you let him go, or he sha n't come 
back any more." 
They had a parting that Lemuel 's mother would 
have called sickish without question; but it all 
seemed heavenly sweet and right. Statira said now 
he had got to kiss Manda Grier too ; and when he 
insisted, her chin knocked against his, and saved 
her lips, and she gave him a good box on the ear. 
"There, I guess that'll do for one while," she 
said, arranging her tumbled hair ; " but there 's more 
kisses where that came from, for both of you if you 
want em. Coots ! " 
Once, when Lemuel was little, he had a fever, and 
he was always seeming to glide down the school- 
house stairs without touching the steps with his feet. 
He remembered this dream now, when he reached 
the street ; he felt as if he had floated down on the 
air ; and presently he was back in his little den at 
 
the hotel, he did not know how. He ran the elevator 
up and down for the ladies who called him from the 
different floors, and he took note of the Sunday 
difference in their toilet as they passed in to tea ; 
but in the same dreamy way. 
After the boarders had supped, he went in as 
usual with Mrs. Harmon 's nephew, less cindery than 
on week-days, from the cellar, and Mrs. Harmon, 
silken smooth for her evening worship at the shrine 
of a popular preacher from New York. The Sunday 
evening before, she had heard an agnostic lecture in 
the Boston Theatre, and she said she wished to 
compare notes. Her tranquillity was unruffled by the 
fact that the head-waitress had left, just before tea; 
she presumed they could get along just as well 
without her as with her : the boarders had spoiled 
her, anyway. She looked round at Lemuel 's face, 
which beamed with his happiness, and said she 
guessed she should have to get him to open the 
dining-room doors, and seat the transients the next 
few days, till she could get another head-waitress. 
It did not seem to be so much a request as a resolu 
tion ; but Lemuel willingly assented. Mrs. Harmon 's 
nephew said that so long as they did not want him 
to do it he did not care who did it ; and if a few of 
them had his furnace to look after they would not 
be so anxious to kick 
XVI. 
LEMUEL had to be up early in the morning to get 
the bills of fare, which Mrs. Harmon called the 
Meanyous, written in time for the seven o clock 
breakfasters ; and after opening the dining-room 
