"My very last word, to you," she answered, pointing to the door.
Paul went out, and left her alone. In the corridor he found Professor
Cutter, calmly walking up and down. The scientist stopped, and looked at
Paul's pale face.
"Was I right?" he asked.
"Too right."
"I thought so," said the professor. "Do you mean to leave to-morrow?"
"Yes," answered Paul quietly. "I must eat something. I am exhausted."
He staggered against Dr. Cutter's strong arm, and caught himself by it.
The professor held him firmly on his feet, and looked at him curiously.
"You are worn out," he said. "Come with me."
He led him through the corridor to the restaurant of the hotel, and
poured out a glass of wine from a bottle which stood on a table set
ready for dinner. Paul drank it slowly, stopping twice to look at his
companion, who watched him with the eye of a physician.
"Have you ever had any trouble with your heart?" asked the latter.
"No," said Paul. "I have never been ill."
"Then you must have been half starved on your journey," replied the
professor, philosophically. "Let us dine here."
They sat down, and ordered dinner. Paul was conscious that his manner
must seem strange to his new acquaintance, and indeed what he felt was
strange to himself. He was conscious that since he had left his mother
his ideas had undergone a change. He was calmer than he had been before,
and he could not account for it on the ground of his having begun to eat
something. He was indeed exhausted, for he had hardly thought of taking
any nourishment during his long journey, and the dinner revived him. But
the odd consciousness that he was not exactly the same man he had been
before had come upon him as he closed the door of his mother's room. Up
to the time he had entered her presence he had been in a state of the
wildest anxiety and excitement. The moment the interview was over his
mind worked normally and easily, and he felt himself completely master
of his own actions.
Indeed, a change had taken place. He had gone to his mother feeling that
he was accountable to her for his brother's disappearance, and prepared
to tell his story with every detail he could recall, yet knowing that he
was wholly innocent of the catastrophe, and that he had done everything
in his power to find the lost man. But in that moment he was unconscious
of two things: first, of the extreme hardness of his own nature; and
secondly, that he had not in reality the slightest real love either for
his mother or for Alexander. The moral sufferings of his childhood had
killed the natural affections in him, and there had remained nothing in
their stead but a strong sense of duty to his nearest relations. It was
this sense which had prompted him to receive Alexander kindly, and to
take the utmost care of him during his visit; and it was the same
feeling which had impelled him to come to his mother, in order to give
the best account he could of the terrible catastrophe. But the frightful
accusation she had put upon him, and her stubborn determination to abide
by it, had destroyed even that lingering sense of duty which he had so
long obeyed. He knew now that he experienced no more pain at Alexander's
loss than he would naturally have felt at the death of an ordinary
acquaintance, and that his mother had absolved him by her crowning
injustice from the last tie which bound him to his family. In the first
month at Buyukdere, after Alexander had disappeared, he had been
overcome by the horror of the situation, and by the knowledge that he
must tell his mother of the loss of her favorite son. He had mistaken
these two incentives to the search for a feeling of love for the missing
man. A quarter of an hour with his mother had shown him how little love
there had ever been between them, and her frantic behavior, which he
felt was not insanity, had disgusted him, and had shown him that he was
henceforth free from all responsibility towards her.
The love of a child for his mother may be instinctive in the first
instance, but as the child grows to manhood he becomes subject to
reason; and that which reason first rejects is injustice, because
injustice is the most destructive form of lie imaginable. Paul had borne
much, had cherished to the last his feeling of duty and his outward
rendering of respect, but his mother had gone too far. He felt that she
was not mad, and that in accusing him she was only treating him as she
had always done since he was a boy; giving way to her unaccountable
dislike, and suffering her antipathy to get the better of all sense of
truth.
As Paul sat at table with Professor Cutter, he felt that the yoke had
suddenly been taken from his neck, and that he was henceforth free to
follow his own career and his own interests, without further thought for
her who had cast him off. He was not a boy, to grow sulky at an unkind
word, or to resent a fancied insult. He was a grown man, more than
thirty years of age, and he fully realized his position, without
exaggeration and without any superfluous exhibition of feeling. All at
once he felt like a man who has done his day's work, and has a right to
think no more about it.
"I am glad to see that you have a good appetite," observed the
professor.
"I am conscious of not having eaten for a long time," answered Paul. "I
suppose I was too much excited to be hungry before."
"You are not excited any longer?" inquired Dr. Cutter, with a smile.
"No. I believe I am perfectly calm. I have accomplished the journey, I
have seen my mother, I have heard her last word, and I shall go to
Persia to-morrow."
"Your programme is a simple one," answered his companion. "However, I am
sure you can be of no use here. Your mother is quite safe under my
care."
"It is my belief that she would be quite safe alone," said Paul, "though
your presence is a help to her. You are a friend of her family, you knew
my poor brother, you are intimate with my uncle by marriage, Mr. John
Carvel. I am sure that, since you are good enough to accompany my
mother, she cannot fail to appreciate your kindness and to enjoy your
society. But I do not think she really stands in need of assistance."
"That is a matter of opinion," replied the professor, sipping his wine.
"Yes; but shall I be frank with you, Dr. Cutter? I fancy that, as a
scientist and a student of diseases of the mind, you are over-ready to
suspect insanity where my mother's conduct can be explained by ordinary
causes."
"My dear sir," said the professor, "if I am a scientist, I am not one
for nothing. I know how very little science knows, and in due time I
shall be quite ready to own myself mistaken, if your mother turns out to
be perfectly sane."
"You are very honest," returned Patoff. "All I want to express is that,
although I am grateful to you for taking her home, I think she is quite
able to take care of herself. I should be very sorry to think that you
felt yourself bound not to leave her. She is fifty-two years old, I
believe, but she is very strong, though she used to fancy herself in bad
health, for some reason or other; she has a maid, a courier, and plenty
of money. You yourself admit that she has no delusion except about this
sad business. I think that under the circumstances she could safely
travel alone."
"Possibly. But the case is an interesting one. I am a free man, and your
mother's age and my position procure me the advantage of studying the
state of her mind by traveling with her without causing any scandal. I
am not disposed to abandon my patient."
"I can assure you," said Paul, "that if I thought she would tolerate my
presence I should go with her myself, and I repeat that I am sincerely
obliged to you. Only, I do not believe she is mad. I hope you will write
to me, however, and tell me how she is."
"Of course. And I hope you will tell me whether you have changed your
mind about her. I confess that you seem to me to be the calmest person I
ever met."
"I?" exclaimed Paul. "Yes, I am calm now, but I have not had a moment's
rest during the last month."
"I can understand that. You know the worst now, and you have nothing
more to anticipate. I have no right to inquire into your personal
feelings, but I should say that you cared very little for your mother,
and less for your brother, and that hitherto you had been animated by a
sort of fictitious sense of responsibility. That has ceased, and you
feel like a man released from prison."
The professor fixed his keen gray eyes on Paul's face as he spoke. His
speech was rather incisive, considering how little he had seen of Paul.
Perhaps he intended that it should be, for he watched the effect of his
words with interest.
"You are not a bad judge of human nature," answered Patoff, coolly. But
he did not vouchsafe any further answer.
"It is my business," said the professor. "If, as a friend of Madame
Patoff's family, I take the liberty of being plain, and of telling you
what I think, you may believe that I have not wholly misjudged your
mother, since I have hit the mark in judging you."
"I am not sure that you have hit the mark," replied Paul. "Perhaps you
have. Time will show. Meanwhile, I am going to Teheran to reflect upon
it. It is impossible to choose a more secluded spot," he added, with a
smile.
"Why do you not return to Constantinople?" asked the inquisitive
professor.
"Because it has pleased the Minister for Foreign Affairs to send me to
Persia. I am a government servant, and must go whither I am sent. I dare
say I shall not be there very long. The climate is not very pleasant,
and the society is limited. But it will be an agreeable change for me."
"I suppose that efforts will still be made to find your brother?"
"Yes. The search will never be given up while there is the least hope."
"I wonder what the effect would be upon Madame Patoff, if Alexander were
found after six months?"
"I have not the least idea," answered Paul. "I suppose we should all
return to our former relations with each other. Perhaps the shock might
drive her mad in earnest,--I cannot tell. You are a psychologist; it is
a case for you."
"A puzzle without an answer. I am afraid it can never be tried."
"No, I am afraid not," said Paul quietly.
The two men finished their dinner, and went out. Paul meant to leave
early the next morning, and was anxious to go to bed. He felt that at
last he could sleep, and he took his leave of Professor Cutter.
"Good-by," he said, with more feeling than he had shown since he had
left his mother's room. "I am glad we have met. Believe me, I am really
grateful to you for your kindness, and I hope you will let me know that
you have reached England safely. If my mother refers to me, please tell
her that after what she said to me I thought it best to leave here at
once. Good-by, and thank you again."
"Good-by," said the professor, shaking Paul's hand warmly. "The world is
a little place, and I dare say we shall meet again somewhere."
"I hope so," answered Paul.
And so these two parted, to go to the opposite ends of the earth, not
satisfied with each other, and yet each feeling that he should like to
meet his new acquaintance again. But Persia and England, in the present
imperfect state of civilization, are tolerably far apart.
V.
Early on the next morning Paul was on his way to Munich, Vienna, and the
East again, and on the afternoon of the same day Professor Cutter and
Madame Patoff, with two servants, got into a spacious carriage, in which
they had determined to drive as far as Weissenstein, the last village of
the Black Forest before reaching Pforzheim. Pursuing his plan of
traveling by unfrequented routes, the professor had proposed to spend
the night in the beautiful old place which he had formerly visited,
intending to proceed the next day by rail to Carlsruhe, and thence down
the Rhine.
He had not seen Madame Patoff in the evening after her interview with
Paul, and when he met her in the morning it struck him that her manner
was greatly changed. She was very silent, and when she spoke at all
talked of indifferent subjects. She never referred in any way to the
meeting with her son, and the professor observed that for the first time
she allowed the day to pass without once mentioning the disappearance of
Alexander. He attributed this silence to the deep emotion she had felt
on seeing Paul, and to her natural desire to avoid any reference to the
pain she had suffered. As usual she allowed him to make all the
necessary arrangements for the journey, and she even spoke with some
pleasure of the long drive through the forest. She was evidently
fatigued and nervous, and her face was much paler than usual, but she
was quiet and did not seem ill. All through the long afternoon they
drove over the beautiful winding road, enjoying the views, discussing
the scenery, and breathing in the healthy odor of the pines. The
professor was an agreeable companion, for he had traveled much in
Southern Germany, and amused Madame Patoff with all manner of curious
information concerning the people, the legends connected with the
different parts of the Black Forest, the fairy tales of the Rhine, and
the history of the barons before Rudolf of Hapsburg destroyed them in
his raid upon the freebooters. This he sprinkled with anecdotes, small
talk about books, and comments on European society; speaking with ease
and remarkable knowledge of his subjects, and so pleasantly that Madame
Patoff never perceived that he wished to amuse her, and was trying to
distract her thoughts from the one subject which too easily beset them.
Indeed, the professor in the society of a woman of the world was a very
different man from the earnest, plain-speaking person who had dined with
Paul on the previous night. Even his gold-rimmed spectacles were worn
with a less professional air. His well-cut traveling costume of plain
tweed did not suggest the traditional scientist, and his bronzed and
manly face was that of a sportsman or an Alpine Club man rather than of
a student. Madame Patoff leaned back in the carriage, and fairly enjoyed
the hours; saying to herself that Cutter had never been so agreeable
before, and that indeed in her long life she had met few men who
possessed so much charm in conversation. She was an old lady, and could
judge of men, for she had spent nearly forty years in the midst of the
most brilliant society in Europe, and was not to be deceived by the ring
of false metal.
At last they reached the place in the road where they had to descend
from the carriage and mount the ascent to Weissenstein. Madame Patoff
was well pleased with the place, and said so as she slowly climbed the
narrow path, leaning on the professor's arm. The inn--the old Gasthaus
zum Goldenen Anker--stands upon the very edge of the precipice above the
tumbling Nagold, and is indeed partly built down the face of the cliff.
Rooms have been hollowed, so that their windows look down on the river
from a sheer height of two hundred feet, the surface of the natural
wall, broken only here and there by a projecting ledge, or by the
crooked stem of a strong wild cherry tree which somehow finds enough
soil and moisture there to support its hardy growth. The inn is very
primitive, but comfortable in its simple way, and the scenery is
surpassingly beautiful. Far below, on the other side of the torrent, the
small village nestles among the dark pines, the single spire of the
diminutive church standing high above the surrounding cottages. Above,
the hill is crowned by the ruins of the ancient castle of
Weissenstein,--the castle of Bellrem, the crusader, who fell from the
lofty ramparts on a moonlight night in the twelfth century, terrified by
the ghost of a woman he had loved and wronged. At least, the legend says
so, and as the ruined ramparts are still there it is probably all quite
true. On the back of the hill, where the narrow path descends from the
inn to the road, the still, deep waters of the great mill pool lie
stagnant in the hot air, and the long-legged water spiders shoot over
the surface, inviting the old carp to snap at them, well knowing that
they will not, but skimming away like mad when a mountain trout, who has
strayed in from the river through the sluices, comes suddenly to the
surface with a short, sharp splash. But there are flies for the trout,
and he prefers them, so that the water spiders lead, on the whole, a
quiet and unmolested life.
The travelers entered the inn, and were soon established for the night.
Madame Patoff was still enchanted with the view, and insisted on sitting
out upon the low balcony until late at night, though the air was very
cool and the dampness rose from the river. There was something in the
wild place which soothed her. She almost wished she could stay there
forever, and hide her sorrow from the world in such a nest as this,
overhanging the wild water, perched high in air, and surrounded on all
sides by the soft black forest. For the Black Forest is indeed black, as
only such impenetrable masses of evergreen can be.
In the early morning the tall old lady in black was again at her place
on the balcony when Professor Cutter appeared. She sat by the low
parapet, and gazed down as in a trance at the tumbling water, and at the
solitary fisherman who stood bare-legged on a jutting rock, casting his
rough tackle on the eddying stream. She was calmer than she had seemed
for a long time, and the professor began seriously to doubt the wisdom
of taking her to England, although he had already written to her
brother-in-law, naming the date when they expected to arrive.
"Shall we go on this morning?" he asked, in a tone which left the answer
wholly at Madame Patoff's decision.
"Where?" she asked, dreamily.
"Another stage on our way home," answered the professor.
"Yes," she said, with sudden determination. "If we stay here any longer,
I shall be so much in love with the place that I shall never be able to
leave it. Let us go at once. I feel as though something might happen to
prevent us."
"Very well. I will make all the arrangements." Professor Cutter
forthwith went to consult the landlord, leaving Madame Patoff upon the
balcony. She sat there without moving, absorbed in the beauty of the
scene, and happy to forget her troubles even for a moment in the sight
of something altogether new. Her thoughts were indeed confused. It was
but the day before yesterday that she had seen her son Paul after years
of separation, and that alone was sufficient to disturb her. She had
never liked him,--she could not tell why, except it were because she
loved Alexander better,--and she could not help looking on Paul as on
the man who had robbed her of what she loved best in the world. But the
recollection of the interview was cloudy and uncertain. She had given
way to a violent burst of anger, and was not quite sure of what had
happened. She tried to thrust it all away from her weary brain, and she
looked down again at the fisherman, far below. He had moved a little,
and just then she could see him only through the branches of a
projecting cherry-tree. He seemed to be baiting his hook for another
cast in the river.
"Madame Patoff, are you quite ready?" asked the professor's voice from
the window.
