thought herself better. They would not have had her love Dan, but they
were hot against her for not loving him.
They did not question him, but they tried in every way to find out how
much he was hurt, and they watched him in every word and look for signs
of change to better or worse, with a growing belief that he was not very
much hurt.
It could not be said that in three weeks he forgot Alice, or had begun
to forget her; but he had begun to reconcile himself to his fate, as
people do in their bereavements by death. His consciousness habituated
itself to the facts as something irretrievable. He no longer framed
in his mind situations in which the past was restored. He knew that he
should never love again, but he had moments, and more and more of them,
in which he experienced that life had objects besides love. There were
times when he tingled with all the anguish of the first moment of
his rejection, when he stopped in whatever he was doing, or stood
stock-still, as a man does when arrested by a physical pang, breathless,
waiting. There were other times when he went about steeped in gloom so
black that all the world darkened with it, and some mornings when he
woke he wished that the night had lasted for ever, and felt as if the
daylight had uncovered his misery and his shame to every one. He never
knew when he should have these moods, and he thought he should have them
as long as he lived. He thought this would be something rather fine. He
had still other moods, in which he saw an old man with a grey moustache,
like Colonel Newcome, meeting a beautiful white-haired lady; the man had
never married, and he had not seen this lady for fifty years. He bent
over, and kissed her hand.
“You idiot!” said Mavering to himself. Throughout he kept a good
appetite. In fact, after that first morning in Portland, he had been
hungry three times a day with perfect regularity. He lost the idea
of being sick; he had not even a furred tongue. He fell asleep pretty
early, and he slept through the night without a break. He had to laugh
a great deal with his mother and sisters, since he could not very well
mope without expecting them to ask why, and he did not wish to say
why. But there were some laughs which he really enjoyed with the Yankee
foreman of the works, who was a droll, after a common American pattern,
and said things that were killingly funny, especially about women, of
whom his opinions were sarcastic.
Dan Mavering suffered, but not solidly. His suffering was short, and
crossed with many gleams of respite and even joy. His disappointment
made him really unhappy, but not wholly so; it was a genuine sorrow,
but a sorrow to which he began to resign himself even in the monotony
of Ponkwasset Falls, and which admitted the thought of Mrs. Frobisher’s
sister by the time business called him to Boston.
XXIV.
Before the end of the first week after Dan came back to town, that which
was likely to happen whenever chance brought him and Alice together had
taken place.
It was one of the soft days that fall in late October, when the
impending winter seems stayed, and the warm breath of the land draws
seaward and over a thousand miles of Indian summer. The bloom came and
went in quick pulses over the girl’s temples as she sat with her head
thrown back in the corner of the car, and from moment to moment she
stirred slightly as if some stress of rapture made it hard for her
to get her breath; a little gleam of light fell from under her fallen
eyelids into the eyes of the young man beside her, who leaned forward
slightly and slanted his face upward to meet her glances. They said some
words, now and then, indistinguishable to the others; in speaking they
smiled slightly. Sometimes her hand wavered across her lap; in both
their faces there was something beyond happiness--a transport, a
passion, the brief splendour of a supreme moment.
They left the car at the Arlington Street corner of the Public Garden,
and followed the winding paths diagonally to the further corner on
Charles Street.
“How stupid we were to get into that ridiculous horse-car!” she said.
“What in the world possessed us to do it?”
“I can’t imagine,” he answered. “What a waste of time it was! If we had
walked, we might have been twice as long coming. And now you’re going to
send me off so soon!”
“I don’t send you,” she murmured.
“But you want me to go.”
“Oh no! But you’d better.”
“I can’t do anything against your wish.”
“I wish it--for your own good.”
“Ah, do let me go home with you, Alice?”
“Don’t ask it, or I must say yes.”
“Part of the way, then?”
“No; not a step! You must take the first car for Cambridge. What time is
it now?”
“You can see by the clock on the Providence Depot.”
“But I wish you to go by your watch, now. Look!”
“Alice!” he cried, in pure rapture.
“Look!”
“It’s a quarter of one.”
“And we’ve been three hours together already! Now you must simply fly.
If you came home with me I should be sure to let you come in, and if I
don’t see mamma alone first, I shall die. Can’t you understand?”
“No; but I can do the next best thing: I can misunderstand. You want to
be rid of me.”
“Shall you be rid of me when we’ve parted?” she asked, with an inner
thrill of earnestness in her gay tone.
“Alice!”
“You know I didn’t mean it, Dan.”
“Say it again.”
“What?”
“Dan.”
“Dan, love! Dan, dearest!”
“Will that car of yours never come? I’ve promised myself not to leave
you till it does, and if I stay here any longer I shall go wild. I can’t
believe it’s happened. Say it again!”
“Say what?”
“That--”
“That I love you? That we’re engaged?”
“I don’t believe it. I can’t.” She looked impatiently up the street.
“Oh, there comes your car! Run! Stop it!”
“I don’t run to stop cars.” He made a sign, which the conductor obeyed,
and the car halted at the further crossing.
She seemed to have forgotten it, and made no movement to dismiss him.
“Oh, doesn’t it seem too good to be standing here talking in this way,
and people think it’s about the weather, or society?” She set her head a
little on one side, and twirled the open parasol on her shoulder.
“Yes, it does. Tell me it’s true, love!”
“It’s true. How splendid you are!” She said it with an effect for the
world outside of saying it was a lovely day.
He retorted, with the same apparent nonchalance, “How beautiful you are!
How good! How divine!”
The conductor, seeing himself apparently forgotten, gave his bell a
vicious snap, and his car jolted away.
She started nervously. “There! you’ve lost your car, Dan.”
“Have I?” asked Mavering, without troubling himself to look after it.
She laughed now, with a faint suggestion of unwillingness in her laugh.
“What are you going to do?”
“Walk home with you.”
“No, indeed; you know I can’t let you.”
“And are you going to leave me here alone on the street corner, to be
run over by the first bicycle that comes along?”
“You can sit down in the Garden, and wait for the next car.”
“No; I would rather go back to the Art Museum, and make a fresh start.”
“To the Art Museum?” she murmured, tenderly.
“Yes. Wouldn’t you like to see it again?”
“Again? I should like to pass my whole life in it!”
“Well, walk back with me a little way. There’s no hurry about the car.”
“Dan!” she said, in a helpless compliance, and they paced very, very
slowly along the Beacon Street path in the Garden. “This is ridiculous.”
“Yes, but it’s delightful.”
“Yes, that’s what I meant. Do you suppose any one ever--ever--”
“Made love there before?”
“How can you say such things? Yes. I always supposed it would
be--somewhere else.”
“It was somewhere else--once.”
“Oh, I meant--the second time.”
“Then you did think there was going to be a second time?”
“How do I know? I wished it. Do you like me to say that?”
“I wish you would never say anything else.”
“Yes; there can’t be any harm in it now. I thought that if you had
ever--liked me, you would still--”
“So did I; but I couldn’t believe that you--”
“Oh, I could.”
“Alice!”
“Don’t you like my confessing it! You asked me to.”
“Like it!”
“How silly we are!”
“Not half so silly as we’ve been for the last two months. I think we’ve
just come to our senses. At least I have.”
“Two months!” she sighed. “Has it really been so long as that?”
“Two years! Two centuries! It was back in the Dark Ages when you refused
me.”
“Dark Ages! I should think so! But don’t say refused. It wasn’t
refusing, exactly.”
“What was it, then?”
“Oh, I don’t know. Don’t speak of it now.”
“But, Alice, why did you refuse me?”
“Oh, I don’t know. You mustn’t ask me now. I’ll tell you some time.”
“Well, come to think of it,” said Mavering, laughing it all lightly
away, “there’s no hurry. Tell me why you accepted me to-day.”
“I--I couldn’t help it. When I saw you I wanted to fall at your feet.”
“What an idea! I didn’t want to fall at yours. I was awfully mad. I
shouldn’t have spoken to you if you hadn’t stopped me and held out your
hand.”
“Really? Did you really hate me, Dan?”
“Well, I haven’t exactly doted on you since we last met.”
She did not seem offended at this. “Yes, I suppose so. And I’ve gone on
being fonder and fonder of you every minute since that day. I wanted to
call you back when you had got half-way to Eastport.”
“I wouldn’t have come. It’s bad luck to turn back.”
She laughed at his drolling. “How funny you are! Now I’m of rather a
gloomy temperament. Did, you know it?”
“You don’t look it.”
“Oh, but I am. Just now I’m rather excited and--happy.”
“So glad!”
“Go on! go on! I like you to make fun of me.”
The benches on either side were filled with nursemaids in charge of
baby-carriages, and of young children who were digging in the sand
with their little beach shovels, and playing their games back and forth
across the walk unrebuked by the indulgent policemen. A number of
them had enclosed a square in the middle of the path with four of the
benches, which they made believe was a fort. The lovers had to walk
round it; and the children, chasing one another, dashed into them
headlong, or, backing off from pursuit, bumped up against them. They did
not seem to know it, but walked slowly on without noticing: they were
not aware of an occasional benchful of rather shabby young fellows
who stared hard at the stylish girl and well-dressed young man talking
together in such intense low tones, with rapid interchange of radiant
glances.
“Oh, as to making fun of you, I was going to say--” Mavering began, and
after a pause he broke off with a laugh. “I forget what I was going to
say.”
“Try to remember.”
“I can’t.”
“How strange that we should have both happened to go to the Museum this
morning!” she sighed. Then, “Dan,” she broke in, “do you suppose that
heaven is any different from this?”
“I hope not--if I’m to go there.”
“Hush, dear; you mustn’t talk so.”
“Why, you provoked me to it.”
“Did I? Did I really? Do you think I tempted you to do it? Then I must
be wicked, whether I knew I was doing it or not. Yes.”
The break in her voice made him look more keenly at her, and he saw the
tears glimmer in her eyes. “Alice!”
“No; I’m not good enough for you. I always said that.”
“Then don’t say it any more. That’s the only thing I won’t let you say.”
“Do you forbid it, really? Won’t you let me even think it?”
“No, not even think it.”
“How lovely you are! Oh! I like to be commanded by you.”
“Do you? You’ll have lots of fun, then. I’m an awfully commanding
spirit.”
“I didn’t suppose you were so humorous--always. I’m afraid you won’t
like me. I’ve no sense of fun.”
“And I’m a little too funny sometimes, I’m afraid.”
“No, you never are. When?”
“That night at the Trevors’. You didn’t like it.”
“I thought Miss Anderson was rather ridiculous,” said Alice. “I don’t
like buffoonery in women.”
“Nor I in men,” said Mavering, smiling. “I’ve dropped it.”
“Well, now we must part. I must go home at once,” said Alice. “It’s
perfectly insane.”
“Oh no, not yet; not till we’ve said something else; not till we’ve
changed the subject.”
“What subject?”
“Miss Anderson.”
Alice laughed and blushed, but she was not vexed. She liked to have him
understand her. “Well, now,” she said, as if that were the next thing,
“I’m going to cross here at once and walk up the other pavement, and
you must go back through the Garden; or else I shall never get away from
you.”
“May I look over at you?”
“You may glance, but you needn’t expect me to return your glance.”
“Oh no.”
“And I want you to take the very first Cambridge car that comes along. I
command you to.”
“I thought you wanted me to do the commanding.”
“So I do--in essentials. If you command me not to cry when I get home, I
won’t.”
She looked at him with an ecstasy of self-sacrifice in her eyes.
“Ah, I sha’n’t do that. I can’t tell what would open. But--Alice!”
“Well, what?” She drifted closely to him, and looked fondly up into his
face. In walking they had insensibly drawn nearer together, and she had
been obliged constantly to put space between them. Now, standing at the
corner of Arlington Street, and looking tentatively across Beacon, she
abandoned all precautions.
“What! I forget. Oh yes! I love you!”
“But you said that before, dearest!”
“Yes; but just now it struck me as a very novel idea. What if your
mother shouldn’t like the idea?”
“Nonsense! you know she perfectly idolises you. She did from the first.
And doesn’t she know how I’ve begin behaving about you ever since
I--lost you?”
“How have you behaved? Do tell me, Alice?”
“Some time; not now,” she said; and with something that was like a gasp,
and threatened to be a sob, she suddenly whipped across the road. He
walked back to Charles Street by the Garden path, keeping abreast of
her, and not losing sight of her for a moment, except when the bulk of
a string team watering at the trough beside the pavement intervened. He
hurried by, and when he had passed it he found himself exactly abreast
of her again. Her face was turned toward him; they exchanged a smile,
lost in space. At the corner of Charles Street he deliberately crossed
over to her.
“O dearest love! why did you come?” she implored.
“Because you signed to me.”
“I hoped you wouldn’t see it. If we’re both to be so weak as this, what
are we going to do?”
“But I’m glad you came. Yes: I was frightened. They must have overheard
us there when we were talking.”
“Well, I didn’t say anything I’m ashamed of. Besides, I shouldn’t care
much for the opinion of those nurses and babies.”
“Of course not. But people must have seen us. Don’t stand here talking,
Dan! Do come on!” She hurried him across the street, and walked him
swiftly up the incline of Beacon Street. There, in her new fall suit,
with him, glossy-hatted, faultlessly gloved, at a fit distance from her
side, she felt more in keeping with the social frame of things than in
the Garden path, which was really only a shade better than the Beacon
Street Mall of the Common. “Do you suppose anybody saw us that knew us?”
“I hope so! Don’t you want people to know it?”
“Yes, of course. They will have to know it--in the right way. Can you
believe that it’s only half a year since we met? It won’t be a year till
Class Day.”
“I don’t believe it, Alice. I can’t recollect anything before I knew
you.”
“Well, now, as time is so confused, we must try to live for eternity.
We must try to help each other to be good. Oh, when I think what a happy
girl I am, I feel that I should be the most ungrateful person under the
sun not to be good. Let’s try to make our lives perfect--perfect! They
can be. And we mustn’t live for each other alone. We must try to do good
as well as be good. We must be kind and forbearing with every one.”
He answered, with tender seriousness, “My life’s in your hands, Alice.
It shall be whatever you wish.”
They were both silent in their deep belief of this. When they spoke
again, she began gaily: “I shall never get over the wonder of it. How
strange that we should meet at the Museum!” They had both said this
already, but that did not matter; they had said nearly everything two
or three times. “How did you happen to be there?” she asked, and the
