where to go for 'em ; and Mother Mary treated you like 
folks. She liked her, Teen said. If she 'd been a different 
girl, she 'd have gone there of a cold night all 
winter. But Teen said she felt ashamed. 
" I guess she 'll have what I 'm after," said Jack. " She 
sounds like she would. Let 's go in and see." 
So they went into the quiet place among the praying 
people, and stood staring, for they felt embarrassed. 
Mother Mary looked very white and peaceful ; she was 
a tall, fair woman ; she wore a black dress with white 
about the bosom ; it was a plain, old dress, much mended. 
Mother Mary did not look rich, as Teen had said. 
The room was filled with poor creatures gathered about 
her like her children, while she talked with them and 
taught them as she could. She crossed the room im- 
mediately to where the young man stood, with the girl 
beside him. 
"We've come," said Jack, "to find the Rock of 
Ages." He drew Teen's hand through his arm, and 
held it for a moment ; then, moved by some fine instinct 
mysterious to himself, he lifted and laid it in Mother 
Mary's own. 
"Explain it to her, ma'am," he said ; "'tell her, won't 
you ? I 'm going to marry her, if she 'll have me. I 
want her to swear by somethin' holy she 'll be a true 
wife to me. She hadn't anything particularly holy herself,
and the holiest thing I know of is the Rock of 
Ages. I 've heard my mother sing it. She 's dead. 
We 've been huntin' Boston over to-night after the Rock 
of Ages." 
"I'll be an honest wife to you." 
Mother Mary was used to the pathos of her sober 
work, but the tears sprang now to her large and gentle 
eyes. She did not speak to Jack, — could not possibly, 
just then ; but, delaying only for the moment till she 
could command herself, she flung her rich, maternal 
voice out upon the words of the. old hymn. Her husband 
joined her, and all the people present swelled the 
chorus. 
" Rock of Ages, cleft for me ! 
Let me hide myself in thee ; 
Be of sin the double cure, 
Cleanse me from its guilt and power." 
They sang it all through, — the three verses that every- 
body knows, — and Jack and Teen stood listening. 
Jack tried to sing himself ; but Teen hid her face, and 
cried upon his arm. 
" Thou must save," sang the praying people ; "Thou 
must save, and thou alone ! " 
The strain died solemnly ; the room was quiet ; the 
minister yonder began to pray, and all the people bowed 
their heads. But Mother Mary stood quite still, with the 
girl's hand trembling in her own. 
" Swear it, Teen ! " Jack bent clown his curly head 
and whispered ; he would not shame his promised wife 
before these people. " Swear by that, you 'll be true 
wife to me ! " 
"I swear it, Jack," sobbed Teen. "If that's the 
Rock of Ages, I swear by it, though I was to die for it, 
I'll be an honest wife to you." 
" Come back when you 've got your license," said 
Mother Mary, smiling through her tears, " and my hus- 
band will marry you if you want him to." 
" We 'll come to-morrow," Jack answered gravely. 
" Jack," said Teen in her pretty way, — for she had a 
very pretty way, — "if I'man honest wife to you, will 
you be kind to me ? " She did not ask him to swear 
it by the Rock of Ages. She took his word for it, poor 
thins: ! Women do. 
III. 
Mother Mary's husband married them next day at 
the Mission meeting ; and Mother Mary sat down at the 
melodeon in the corner of the pleasant place, and played 
and sang Toplady's great hymn for them, as Jack had 
asked her. It was his wedding march. He was very 
sober and gentle, — almost like a better man. Teen 
thought him the handsomest man she had ever seen. 
" Oh, I say, Teen," he nodded to her, as they walked 
away, " one thing I forgot to tell you, — I'm reformed." 
" Are you, Jack ? " 
" If I ever drink a drop again, so help me " — But 
he stopped. 
" So help you, Rock of Ages ? " asked the new-made 
wife. But Jack winced ; he was honest enough to hesitate 
at this. 
" I don't know 's I 'd darst — that" he added ruefully. 
" But I 'm reformed. I have lost all hanker for liquor. 
I shall never drink again. You 'll see, Teen." 
Teen did see, as was to be expected. She saw a 
great deal, poor thing ! Jack did not drink — for a long 
time; it was nearly five months, for they kept close 
count. He took her to Fairharbor, and rented the old 
half of the crumbling cottage where his mother used to 
sit and watch for him on long, late evenings. The 
young wife did the watching now. They planted some 
cinnamon rose-bushes 
by the doorsteps of — the cottage, and fos- 
tered them affectionately. Jack was as 
happy and sober as possible, to begin 
with. He picked the cinnamon roses and 
brought them in for 
his wife to wear. He was proud to have a 
home of his own ; he had not expected to ; 
in fact, he had never had one since that 
night when his mother 
said they were to give her love to him, if he came home 
while she was asleep. He had beaten about so, sleeping 
for the most part in his berth, and sailing again directly ; 
he had never had any place, he said, to hang his winter 
clothes in ; closets and bureaus seemed treasure-houses 
to him, and the kitchen fire a luxury greater than a less 
good-looking man would have deserved. When he came 
home, drenched and chilly, from a winter voyage, and 
Teen took the covers off, and the fiery heart of the coals 
leaped out to greet him, and she stood in the rich color, 
with her yellow hair, young and fair and sweet as any 
man's wife could look,«and said she had missed him, and 
called him her dear husband, Jack even went so far as to 
feel that Teen was the luxury. He treated her accord- 
ingly ; that was at first. He came straight home to her ; 
he kept her in flour and fuel ; she had the little things 
and the gentle words that women need. Teen was very 
fond of him. This was the first of it, — I was going to 
say this was the worst of it. All there was of Teen 
seemed to have gone into her love for Jack. A part of 
Jack had gone into his love for Teen. Teen was very 
happy, to begin with. The respectable neighbors came 
to see her, and said, " We 're happy to make your 
acquaintance." Nobody knew that it had not always been 
so that Teen's acquaintance would have been a source of 
social happiness. And she wrote to her mother that 
she was married ; and her mother came on to make her 
a little visit ; and Teen cried her soul out for joy. She 
was very modest and home-keeping and loving ; no wife 
in the land was truer than this girl he had chosen was 
to the fisherman who chose her. Jack knew that. He 
believed in her. She made him happy ; and therefore 
she kept him right. 
All this was at first. It did not last. Why should 
we expect that, when we see how little there is in the 
relation of man and woman which lasts ? If happy 
birth and gentle rearing, and the forces of what we call 
education, and the silken webs of spun refinements, are 
so strained in the tie which requires two who cannot get 
away from each other to make each other happy, how 
should we ask, of the law of chances, the miracle for 
Teen and Jack ? 
There was no miracle. No transubstantiation of the 
common bread to holy flesh was wrought upon that poor 
altar. Their lot went the way of other lots, with the 
facts of their history dead against them. Trouble came, 
and poverty, and children, and care, and distaste. Jack 
took to his old ways, and his wife to the tears that they 
bring. The children died ; they were poor sickly babies 
who wailed a little while in her arms, and slipped out 
because there wasn't enough to them to stay. And the 
gray house was damp. Some said it was diphtheria ; 
but their mother said it was the will of God. She added : 
Might his will be done ! On the whole she was not 
sorry. Their father struck her when he was in liquor. 
She thought if the babies lived they might get hurt. A 
month before the last one was born she showed to 
Jack's biographer a bruise across her shoulder, long and 
livid. She buttoned her dress over it with hasty re- 
pentance. 
" Maybe I 'd oughtn't to have told," she said. " But 
he said he 'd be kind to me." 
Jack was very sorry about this when he was sober. 
He kissed his wife, and bought a pair of pink kid shoes 
for the baby ; which it never grew large enough to wear. 
I am not writing a temperance story, only the biography
of a fisherman, and a few words will say better than 
many how it was. Alcoholized brain-cells being one of 
the few bequests left to society which the heirs do not 
dispute, Jack went back to his habits with the ferocity 
that follows abstinence. Hard luck came. Teen was 
never much of a housekeeper ; she had left her mother 
too early ; had never been taught. Things were soggy, 
and not always clean ; and she was so busy in being 
struck and scolded, and in bearing and burying babies, 
that it grew comfortless beside the kitchen fire. The 
last of the illusions which had taken the name of home 
within the walls of the crumbling half-cottage withered 
out of it, just as the cinnamon roses did the summer 
Jack watered them with whiskey by a little emotional 
mistake. 
A worse thing had happened too. Some shipmate 
had " told " in the course of time ; and Teen's 
prematrimonial story got set adrift upon the current — 
one of the crudest currents of its kind — of Fairharbor 
gossip. The respectable neighbors made her feel it, as 
only respectable neighbors do such things. Jack, raging, 
overheard her name upon the wharves. Teen had 
been "that she said she would" to him. He knew it. 
No matron in the town had kept her life or heart more 
true. In all her sickness and trouble and slackness, and 
in going cold or hungry, and in her vivid beauty that 
none or all of these things could quench, Teen had carried
a sweet dignity of her own as the racer in the old 
Promethean festival carried the torch while he ran 
against the wind. Jack knew, — oh yes, he knew. 
But he grew sullen, suspicious. When he was drunk 
he was always jealous ; it began to take that form. 
When he was sober he still admired his wife ; sometimes
he went so far as to remember that he loved her.
When this happened, Teen dried her eyes, and brushed 
her yellow hair, and washed up the kitchen floor, and 
made the coffee, and said to the grocer when she paid 
for the sugar : 
"My husband has reformed." 
One night Jack came home unexpectedly ; a strange 
mood sat upon him, which his wife did not find herself 
able to classify by any of the instant and exquisite 
perceptions which grow, like new faculties, in wives. He 
had been drinking heavily when he left her, and she had 
not looked for him for days ; if he sailed as he was, it 
would be a matter of weeks. Teen went straight to 
him ; she thought he might be hurt ; she held out her 
arms as she would to one of her children ; but he met 
her with a gesture of indifference, and she shrank back. 
"She's here," said Jack. " Mother Mary 's in this 
d town. I see her." 
"I wish she'd talk to you," said Teen, saying pre- 
cisely the wrong thing by the fatal instinct which so 
often possesses drunkards' wives. 
" You do, do you ? " quoth Jack. " Well, I don't. I 
haven't give her the chance." He crushed on his hat 
and stole out of the house again. 
But his mood was on him yet ; the difference being 
that his wife was out of it. He sulked and skulked 
about the streets alone for a while ; he did not go back 
to the boys just then, but wandered with the apparent 
aimlessness in which the most tenacious aims are 
hidden. Mother Mary and her husband were holding 
sailors' meetings in the roughest quarter of the town. 
There was need enough of Mother Mary in Fairharbor. 
A crowd had gathered to hear the novelty. Fairharbor 
seamen were none too used to being objects of consideration ; 
it was a matter of mark that a parson and a lady 
should hire a room from a rich fish-firm, pay for it out 
of their own scanty pockets, and invite one in from deck 
or wharf, in one's oil-clothes or jumper, to hear what a 
messmate of Jack's called a "high-toned prayer." He 
meant perhaps to convey the idea that the petition 
treated the audience politely. 
Jack followed the crowd in the dark, shrinking in its 
wake, for he was now sober enough not to feel like himself.
He waited till the last of the fellows he knew had 
gone into the place and then crept up on tiptoe, and 
put his face against the window of the salt-cod warehouse 
where the little congregation was gathered, and 
looked in. The room was full and bright. It wore that 
same look of peace and shelter which he remembered. 
Mother Mary stood, as she had stood before, tall and 
pale in her black dress, with the white covering on her 
bosom. Her husband had been speaking to the fishermen, 
and she, as Jack put his gnarled hand to his ex- 
cited eyes and his eyes to the window -glass, turned 
her face full about, to start the singing. She seemed 
to Jack to look at him. Her look was sad. He felt 
ashamed, and cowered down below the window-sill. 
But he wanted to hear her sing. — he had never heard 
anybody sing like Mother Mary, — and so he stayed there 
for a little while, curled against the fish-house. It 
began to rain, and he was pretty wet ; but Jack was in his 
jumper, and a ragged old jumper at that; he knew he 
was not so handsome as he used to be ; he felt that he 
cut a poor figure even for a drunken fisherman ; all the 
self-respect that life had left him shrank from letting 
Mother Mary see him. Jack would not go in. A con- 
fused notion came to him, as he crouched against the 
warehouse, in the showers, that it was just as well it 
should rain on him ; it might wash him. He pushed up 
his sleeves and let the rain fall on his arms. He found 
an old Cape Ann turkey - box there was lying about, 
turned it edgewise so that one ragged knee might rest 
upon it, and thus bring his eye to a level with the window-sill, 
while yet he could not be seen from within. So 
he crouched listening. The glimmer from the prayer- 
room came across the fisherman's bared right arm, and 
struck the crucifix. Jack had the unconscious attitude 
of one sinking, who had thrown up his arms to be saved. 
The Christ on the crucifix looked starved and sickly. 
Jack did not notice the crucifix. 
At this moment Mother Mary's yearning voice rang 
out above the hoarse chorus of the fishermen, whose 
weather-ragged and reverent faces lifted themselves 
" I'm reformed:' 
mistily before her, as if they had been the countenance 
of one helpless man : 
" Rock of Ages, cleft for me ! " 
" Oh, my God ! " cried Jack. 
IV. 
It was the next day that some one told Mother Mary, 
at the poor boarding-house where she stayed, that a 
woman wanted a few words with her. The visitor was 
Teen. She was worn and wan and sobbing with excite- 
ment. Her baby was soon to be born. She did not 
look as if she had enough to eat. She had come, she 
said, just to see Mother Mary, just to tell her, for Jack 
