Meanwhile Wolverton finished his discreditable business, happily
unconscious that any one was witness of his mean act. Then, as already
stated, he got up and walked swiftly away, not venturing to look back.
Had he done so he would have seen Clip stealing from behind the tree
which had served to screen him from observation, and running towards the
wreck.
Clip had never before seen death, but there was something in the mute
look of Richard Burton that awed the soul of the colored boy.
Clip had an affectionate heart. He felt that Richard Burton must be
dead, and the thought overpowered him.
"Poor Massa Burton!" he cried, bursting into tears. "He's done dead,
sure 'nough. Oh, what will we do?"
A minute later Clip bounded off like a deer, to carry the sad news to
the village.
He met the village doctor driving along in his top buggy, and he quickly
called out to him: "Go quick, Massa Doctor, for de love of God. Poor
Massa Burton's upset himself, and I 'spec's he's dead."
"Whereabouts, Clip?" demanded the doctor, startled.
"Up the road a piece."
"Jump in with me and show me."
So Clip, seated beside the doctor, guided him to the fatal spot.
The doctor lost no time in jumping out of his buggy and approaching the
fallen man. He didn't need to feel his pulse, or place his hand over his
heart. To his practiced eye there were other indications that disclosed
the terrible truth.
"Is he dead?" asked Clip, in an awed voice.
"Yes, Clip; your poor master is dead," answered the doctor, sadly.
He had known Richard Burton well, and, like all the rest of his
neighbors, had a warm esteem for him.
"How did this happen, Clip?" he asked.
"I don't know, Massa Doctor; 'deed I don't," answered Clip. "I was
walkin' along, when I saw the colt runnin' like mad, wid his harness on,
and I 'spected something had happened. So I came up, and dat's what I
saw."
"We can't do anything, Clip, except to see that he is carried home. I
dread to break the news to his poor wife."
Meanwhile Aaron Wolverton had locked himself in his office. He drew the
receipt from his pocket, read it through carefully, and chuckled:
"I'll get the money out of the widder. She can't prove that the interest
has been paid! But I don't care so much for that as I do to get even
with that impudent rascal Bob. He'll rue this day, as sure as my name is
Aaron Wolverton."
CHAPTER V.
WOLVERTON'S FIRST MOVE.
Why did not Aaron Wolverton burn the receipt, and get rid once for all
of the only proof that the interest had been paid? It would have been
the most politic thing to do, inasmuch as he had made up his mind to be
dishonest. But, though unprincipled, he was not a bold man. The thought
did certainly occur to him, and he even went so far as to light a match.
But more timid counsel prevailed, and he concealed it in his desk,
carefully locking the desk afterwards.
It is unnecessary to describe the grief of the little family at Burton's
Ranch when the body of the master was brought home. No one had dreamed
of speedy death for Richard Burton. He seemed so strong and vigorous
that it would have seemed safe to predict for him a long life--long
beyond the average; yet here, in middle life, in the fullness of health
and vigor, the summons had come.
To Mrs. Burton, who was a most devoted wife, it was a crushing blow. It
seemed at first as if it would be happiness to lie down beside her dead
husband, and leave the world for him.
"What have I to live for now?" she asked, mournfully.
"You have me, mother," answered Bob, gently. "I have lost my father.
What would become of me if I should lose my mother also?"
"You are right, Robert," said Mrs. Burton. "I was wrong to give way; but
it is a very hard trial."
"Indeed it is, mother," said Robert, kissing her affectionately. "But we
must try to bear up."
Mrs. Burton felt that this was her plain duty, and henceforth strove to
control her emotions. She ceased to sob, but her face showed the grief
she suffered.
The funeral took place, and the little family held a council to decide
what was to be done.
"Can we carry on the ranch now that your father is gone?" asked Mrs.
Burton, anxiously. "Would it not be better to sell it?"
"No, mother; the sacrifice would be too great."
"But I do not feel capable of managing it, Robert."
"You may think me presumptuous, mother, but my proposal is to assist
you, relieving you of the greater part of the care. Between us we can
carry it on, I am confident."
"You are only a boy of sixteen, Robert," objected his mother.
"That is true; but I have watched carefully the manner in which the
ranch has been carried on. Of course you must help, and you will try to
get a man with whom I can advise. I am sure we can make a good deal more
out of the farm than we could realize from investing the money it would
bring."
"And are you willing to undertake this, Robert? It will be a hard task."
"I'll help him, missis," said Clip, eagerly.
"I shall have Clip to advise me, mother," said Robert.
"No doubt Clip is willing," said Mrs. Burton, smiling faintly; "but
after all, it will be only two boys."
"Try us a single year, mother," said Bob, confidently.
Mrs. Burton gave her consent, and Bob at once took his father's place,
rising early and going to the field to superintend the farming
operations. He seemed to have developed at once into a mature man,
though in appearance he was still the same. Clip was his loyal
assistant, though, being a harum-scarum boy, fond of fun and mischief,
he was of very little service as adviser.
He had mentioned to Bob seeing Aaron Wolverton bending over the body of
his father, and exploring his pockets. This puzzled Bob, but he was not
prepared to suspect him of anything else than curiosity, until his
mother received a call from the real estate agent a month after her
husband's decease.
Aaron Wolverton had been anxious to call before, but something withheld
him. It might have been the consciousness of the dishonorable course he
had taken. Be that as it may, he finally screwed up his courage to the
sticking-point, and walked out to Burton's Ranch early one afternoon.
Mrs. Burton was at home, as usual, for she seldom went out now. She had
no intimate friends in the neighborhood. All that she cared for was
under her own roof.
She looked up in some surprise when Mr. Wolverton was ushered into the
sitting-room.
"I hope I see you well, Mrs. Burton," said the real estate agent,
slipping to a seat, and placing his high hat on his knees.
"I am well in health, Mr. Wolverton," answered the widow, gravely.
"Yes, yes, of course; I understand," he hastily answered. "Terribly
sudden, Mr. Barton's death was, to be sure, but dust we are, and to dust
we must return, as the Scripture says."
Mrs. Burton did not think it necessary to make any reply.
"I came over to offer my--my condolences," continued Mr. Wolverton.
"Thank you."
"And I thought perhaps you might stand in need of some advice from a
practical man."
"Any advice will be considered, Mr. Wolverton."
"I've been thinkin' the thing over, and I've about made up my mind that
the best thing you can do is to sell the ranch," and the real estate
agent squinted at Mrs. Burton from under his red eyebrows.
"That was my first thought; but I consulted with Robert, and he was
anxious to have me carry on the ranch with his help."
Aaron Wolverton shook his head.
"A foolish plan!" he remarked. "Excuse me for saying so. Of course you,
being a woman, are not competent to carry it on--"
"I have my son Robert to help me," said the widow.
Aaron Wolverton sniffed contemptuously.
"A mere boy!" he ejaculated.
"No; not a mere boy. His father's death and his affection for me have
made a man of him at sixteen. He rises early every morning, goes to the
fields, and superintends the farming operations. Peter, my head man,
says that he is a remarkably smart boy, and understands the business
about as well as a man."
"Still I predict that he'll bring you deeper in debt every year."
"I don't think so; but, at any rate, I have promised to try the
experiment for one year. I can then tell better whether it will be wise
to keep on or sell."
"Now, Mrs. Burton, I have a better plan to suggest."
"What is it, Mr. Wolverton?"
"In fact, I have two plans. One is that you should sell me the ranch.
You know I hold a mortgage on it for three thousand dollars?"
"I know it, Mr. Wolverton!" answered the widow, gravely.
"I'll give you three thousand dollars over and above, and then you will
be rid of all care."
"Will you explain to me how Robert and I are going to live on the
interest of three thousand dollars, Mr. Wolverton?"
"You'll get something, and if the boy runs the ranch you'll get nothing.
He can earn his living, and I don't think you will suffer, even if you
have only three thousand dollars."
"It is quite out of the question. Mr. Burton considered the ranch worth
ten thousand dollars."
"A very ridiculous over-valuation--pardon me for saying so."
"At any rate, I don't propose to sell."
"There's another little circumstance I ought to mention," added
Wolverton, nervously. "There is half a year's interest due on the
mortgage. It was due on the very day of your husband's death."
Mrs. Burton looked up in amazement.
"What do you mean, Mr. Wolverton?" she said. "My husband started for
your office on the fatal morning of his death, carrying the money--one
hundred and fifty dollars--to meet the interest. Do you mean to tell me
that he did not pay it?"
"That is strange, very strange," stammered Aaron Wolverton, wiping his
forehead with a bandana handkerchief. "What became of the money?"
"Do you mean to say that it was not paid to you?" asked the widow,
sharply.
"No, it was not," answered Wolverton, with audacious falsehood.
CHAPTER VI.
THE LOST RECEIPT.
"I can't understand this," said Mrs. Burton, beginning to be troubled.
"My poor husband had made all arrangements for paying his interest on
the day of his death. When he left the house, he spoke of it. Do you
mean to say he did not call at your office?"
If Aaron Wolverton had dared, he would have denied this, but Mr. Burton
had been seen to enter the office, and so that he would not do him any
good.
"He did call upon me, Mrs. Burton."
"And said nothing about the interest?"
"He said this, that he would pay me the coming week."
"He said that, when he had the money in his pocket?" said Mrs. Burton,
incredulously.
"Of course I didn't know that he had the money with him. He probably
thought of another way in which he wanted to use a part or all of it."
"I don't believe it. He never mentioned any other use for it, and he was
not owing any one except you. Mr. Wolverton, I don't like to say it, but
I think he paid you the interest."
"Do you doubt my word?" demanded Wolverton, with assumed indignation.
"Suppose I say that you have forgotten it."
"I would not forget anything of that kind. You are very unjust, Mrs.
Burton, but I will attribute that to your disappointment. Let me suggest
one thing, however. If your husband had paid me, he would have been sure
to take a receipt. If you have his wallet here--I happen to know that he
was in the habit of carrying a wallet--and you doubt my word, examine
the wallet and see if you can find the receipt."
Mrs. Burton thought this a good suggestion, and went up-stairs for the
wallet. She opened it, but, as Wolverton had good reason to know would
be the case, failed to find the important paper.
"I can't find it," she said, as she re-entered the room.
"Did I not tell you so?" returned Wolverton, triumphantly. "Doesn't that
settle it? Wasn't your husband a good enough business man to require a
receipt for money paid?"
"Yes, yes," murmured the widow. "Mr. Wolverton, if you are right it
arouses in my mind a terrible suspicion. Could my husband have been
waylaid, murdered, and robbed?"
"No, I don't think so. His death was evidently the result of
accident--the upset of his team."
"What then became of the money--the hundred and fifty dollars which he
carried with him?"
"There, my dear lady, you ask me a question which I cannot answer. I am
as much in the dark as you are."
"If this story is true, then we are one hundred and fifty dollars poorer
than we supposed. It will be bad news for Robert."
"It need not be bad news for you, Mrs. Burton," said Wolverton, in an
insinuating tone, shoving his chair a little nearer that occupied by
the widow.
Mrs. Burton looked up in surprise.
"How can it fail to be bad news for me?" she asked. "A loss like that I
cannot help feeling."
"Do you think I would be hard on you, Mrs. Burton?" asked Wolverton,
in the same soft voice.
"If you are disposed to wait for the money, or relinquish a part under
the circumstances, Robert and I will feel very grateful to you, Mr.
Wolverton."
"I might, upon conditions," said the agent, furtively shoving his chair
a little nearer.
"What conditions?" asked Mrs. Burton, suspiciously.
"I will tell you, if you won't be offended. Mrs. Burton--Mary--you can't
have forgotten the early days in which I declared my love for you. I--I
love you still. If you will only promise to marry me--after a while--all
shall be easy with you. I am a rich man--richer than people think, and
can surround you with luxuries. I will be a father to that boy of
yours, and try to like him for your sake. Only tell me that you will be
mine!"
Mrs. Burton had been so filled with indignation that she let him run on,
quite unable to command her voice sufficiently to stem the torrent of
his words. As he concluded, she rose to her feet, her eyes flashing, and
her voice tremulous with anger, and said: "Mr. Wolverton, are you aware
that my poor husband has been dead but a month?"
"I am perfectly aware of it, Mary."
"Don't address me so familiarly, sir."
"Mrs. Burton, then, I am perfectly acquainted with that fact, and would
not have spoken now, but I saw you were anxious about the future, and I
wished to reassure you. Of course I wouldn't hurry you; I only meant to
get some kind of an answer that I might depend upon."
"And you thought that, after loving such a man as Richard Burton, I
would be satisfied to take such a man as you?" said the widow, with
stinging sarcasm.
"Richard Burton was not an angel," said Wolverton, harshly, for his
pride was touched by the contempt which she made no effort to conceal.
"Don't dare to say anything against him!" said the widow, her eyes
flashing ominously.
"Well, then, he was an angel," said Wolverton, sulkily; "but he's dead,
and you will need to look to another protector."
"My son will protect me," said Mrs. Burton, proudly.
"That boy?" said Wolverton, contemptuously. "But I make allowance for a
mother's feelings. Once more, Mary, I make you the offer. Remember that
I am a rich man, and can surround you with luxuries."
"I would rather live in a log house on a crust, than to marry you, Mr.
Wolverton," she said, impetuously. "If you were the only man in the
world, I would go unmarried to my grave rather than wed you!"
Wolverton rose, white with wrath.
"You are tolerably explicit, madam," he said. "I can't charge you with
beating round the bush. But let me tell you, ma'am, that you have done
the unwisest act of your life in making me your enemy."
"I did not mean to make you an enemy," said Mrs. Burton, softening. "I
suppose I ought to acknowledge the compliment you have paid me, but I
must decline, once for all, and request you never again to mention the
subject."
Aaron Wolverton was not so easily appeased.
"I do not care to stay any longer," he said. "You had better mention to
your son about the interest."
Mrs. Burton had an opportunity to do this almost immediately, for Bob
and Clip entered the house just as Wolverton was leaving it.
"What have you done to Mr. Wolverton, mother?" asked Bob. "He looked
savage enough to bite my head off, and wouldn't even speak to me."
"Robert, I have some bad news to tell you. Mr. Wolverton tells me that
your father didn't pay him the interest on the day of his death."
"I believe he tells a falsehood," said Bob, quickly.
"But he says, with some show of reason, if the interest was paid, why
didn't your father take a receipt?"
"Can no receipt be found?"
"No; I searched your father's wallet in vain."
"What is a receipt, missis?" asked Clip.
"It's a piece of paper with writing on it, Clip," said the widow,
adjusting her explanations to Clip's intelligence.
"Golly! I saw de old man take a piece of paper from Massa Burton's
pocket after he was dead--when he was a-lyin' on the ground."
"Say that again, Clip," said Bob, eagerly.
Clip repeated it, and answered several questions put to him by Mrs.
Burton and Bob.
"It's all clear, mother," said Bob. "That old rascal has got up a scheme
to rob you. He thinks there isn't any proof of the payment. If he
suspected that Clip had been a witness of his robbery he would have been
more careful."
"What shall I do, Bob?"
