a smile which she had copied from a chromo.
Mrs. Weldon was exceedingly pretty. She was probably twenty-two or
twenty-three years of age, and her intellect was that of a girl of
twelve. Her manner was arch and noticeably affected. She had an
enervating way of asking unnecessary questions, and of laughing as
though it hurt her. On the subject of dress she was very voluble; in
brief, she was prettiness and insipidity personified--the sort of woman
that ought to be gagged and kept in bed with a doll.
She gave Tristrem a little hand gloved with Suède, and asked him had
he been at church that morning. Tristrem found a seat, and replied that
he had not. "But don't you like to go?" she inquired, emphasizing each
word of the question, and ending up with her irritating laugh.
"He does," came a voice from the door and Weldon entered. "He does, but
he can resist the temptation." Then there was more conversation of the
before-dinner kind, and during its progress the door opened again, and a
young girl crossed the room.
She was dressed in a gown of canary, draped with madeira and fluttered
with lace. Her arms and neck were bare, and unjewelled. Her hair was
Cimmerian, the black of basalt that knows no shade more dark, and it was
arranged in such wise that it fell on either side of the forehead,
circling a little space above the ear, and then wound into a coil on the
neck. This arrangement was not modish, but it was becoming--the only
arrangement, in fact, that would have befitted her features, which
resembled those of the Cleopatra unearthed by Lieutenant Gorringe. Her
eyes were not oval, but round, and they were amber as those of leopards,
the yellow of living gold. The corners of her mouth drooped a little,
and the mouth itself was rather large than small. When she laughed one
could see her tongue; it was like an inner cut of water-melon, and
sometimes, when she was silent, the point of it caressed her under lip.
Her skin was of that quality which artificial light makes radiant, and
yet of which the real delicacy is only apparent by day. She just lacked
being tall, and in her face and about her bare arms and neck was the
perfume of health. She moved indolently, with a grace of her own. She
was not yet twenty, a festival of beauty in the festival of life.
At the rustle of her dress Tristrem had arisen. As the girl crossed the
room he bethought him of a garden of lilies; though why, for the life of
him, he could not have explained. He heard his name mentioned, and saw
the girl incline her head, but he made little, if any, acknowledgment;
he stood quite still, looking at her and through her, and over her and
beyond. For some moments he neither moved nor spoke. He was unconscious
even that other guests had come.
He gave his hand absently to a popular novelist, Mr. A. B. Fenwick
Chisholm-Jones by name, more familiarly known as Alphabet, whom Weldon
brought to him, and kept his eyes on the yellow bodice. A fair young
woman in pink had taken a position near to where he stood, and was
complaining to someone that she had been obliged to give up cigarettes.
And when the someone asked whether the abandonment of that pleasure was
due to parental interference, the young woman laughed shortly, and
explained that she was in training for a tennis tournament. Meanwhile
the little group in which Tristrem stood was re-enforced by a new-comer,
who attempted to condole with the novelist on the subject of an
excoriating attack that one of the critics had recently made on his
books, and suggested that he ought to do something about it. But of
condolence or advice Mr. Jones would have none.
"Bah!" he exclaimed, "if the beggar doesn't like what I write let him
try and do better. I don't care what any of them say. My books sell, and
that's the hauptsache. Besides, what's the use in arguing with a
newspaper? It's like talking metaphysics to a bull; the first you know,
you get a horn in your navel." And while the novelist was expressing his
disdain of all adverse criticism, and quoting Emerson to the effect that
the average reviewer had the eyes of a bug and the heart of a cat,
Tristrem discovered Mrs. Weldon's arm in his own, and presently found
himself seated next to her at table.
At the extreme end, to the right of the host, was the girl with the
amber eyes. The novelist was at her side. Evidently he had said
something amusing, for they were both laughing; he with the complacency
of one who has said a good thing, and she with the appreciation of one
accustomed to wit. But Tristrem was not permitted to watch her
undisturbed. Mrs. Weldon had a right to his attention, and she exercised
that right with the pertinacity of a fly that has to be killed to be got
rid of. "What do you think of Miss Finch?" she asked, with her stealthy
giggle.
"Her name isn't Finch," Tristrem answered, indignantly.
"Yes it is, too--Flossy Finch, her name is; as if I oughtn't to know!
Why, we were at Mrs. Garret and Mlle. de l'Entresol's school together
for years and years. What makes you say her name isn't Finch? I had you
here on purpose to meet her. Did you ever see such hair? There's only
one girl in New York----"
"It is black," Tristrem assented.
"Black! Why, you must be crazy; it's orange, and that dress of hers----"
Tristrem looked down the table and saw a young lady whom he had not
noticed before. Her hair, as Mrs. Weldon had said, was indeed the color
of orange, though of an orange not over-ripe. "I thought you meant that
girl next to Royal," he said.
"That! Oh! that's Miss Raritan."
Mrs. Weldon's voice had changed. Evidently Miss Raritan did not arouse
in her the same enthusiasm as did Miss Finch. For a moment her lips lost
their chromo smile, but presently it returned again, and she piped away
anew on the subject of the charms of Flossy Finch, and after an
interlude, of which Tristrem heard not one word, she turned and
cross-questioned the man on her left.
The conversation had become very animated. From Royal's end of the table
came intermittent shrieks of laughter. The novelist was evidently in his
finest form. "Do you mean to tell me," Miss Finch asked him across the
table, "do you mean to say that you don't believe in platonic
affection?"
"I never uttered such a heresy in my life," the novelist replied. "Of
course I believe in it; I believe in it thoroughly--between husband and
wife."
At this everyone laughed again, except Tristrem, who had not heard, and
Mrs. Weldon, who had not understood. The latter, however, felt that Miss
Finch was distinguishing herself, and she turned to Tristrem anew.
"I want you to make yourself very agreeable to her," she said. "She is
just the girl for you. Don't you think so? Now promise that you will
talk to her after dinner."
"Talk metaphysics to a bull, and the first thing you know--the first
thing you know--I beg your pardon, Mrs. Weldon, I didn't mean to say
that--I don't know how the stupid phrase got in my head or why I said
it." He hesitated a moment, and seemed to think. "H'm," he went on, "I
am a trifle tired, I fancy."
Mrs. Weldon looked suspiciously at the glasses at his side, but
apparently they had not been so much as tasted; they were full to the
rim. She turned again to the guest at her left. The dinner was almost
done. She asked a few more questions, and then presently, in a general
lull, she gave a glance about her. At that signal the women-folk rose in
a body, the men rising also, to let them pass.
Tristrem had risen mechanically with the others, and when the ultimate
flounce had disappeared he sat down again and busied himself with a cup
of coffee. The other men had drawn their chairs together near him, and
over the liqueurs were discussing topics of masculine interest and
flavor. Tristrem was about to make some effort to join in the
conversation, when from beyond there came the running scale that is the
prelude to the cabaletta, Non più mesta, from Cenerentola. Then,
abruptly, a voice rang out as though it vibrated through labyrinths of
gold--a voice that charged the air with resonant accords--a voice
prodigious and dominating, grave and fluid; a voice that descended into
the caverns of sound, soared to the uttermost heights, scattering notes
like showers of stars, evoking visions of flesh and dazzling steel, and
in its precipitate flights and vertiginous descents disclosing
landscapes riotous with flowers, rich with perfume, sentient with
beauty, articulate with love; a voice voluptuous as an organ and
languorous as the consonance of citherns and guitars.
Tristrem, as one led in leash, moved from the table and passed into the
outer room. Miss Raritan was at the piano. Beyond, a group of women sat
hushed and mute; and still the resilient waves of song continued. One by
one the men issued noiselessly from the inner room. And then, soon, the
voice sank and died away like a chorus entering a crypt.
Miss Raritan rose from the piano. As she did so, Weldon, as it becomes a
host, hastened to her. There was a confused hum, a murmur of applause,
and above it rose a discreet and prolonged brava that must have come
from the novelist. Weldon, seemingly, was urging her to sing again. The
women had taken up anew some broken thread of gossip, but the men were
at the piano, insisting too. Presently Miss Raritan resumed her seat,
and the men moved back. Her fingers rippled over the keys like rain. She
stayed them a second, and then, in a voice so low that it seemed hardly
human, and yet so insistent that it would have filled a cathedral and
scaled the dome, she began a ballad that breathed of Provence:
    "O Magali, ma bien aimée,
    Fuyons tous deux sous la ramée
    Au fond du bois silencieux...."
When she had finished, Tristrem started. The earliest notes had sent the
blood pulsing through his veins, thrilling him from finger-tips to the
end of the spine, and then a lethargy enveloped him and he ceased to
hear, and it was not until Miss Raritan stood up again from the piano
that he was conscious that he had not been listening. He had sat near
the entrance to the dining-room, and when the applause began afresh he
passed out into the hall, found his coat and hat, and left the house.
As he walked down Irving Place he fell to wondering who it was that he
had heard complain of being obliged to give up cigarettes, not on
account of parental interference but because of a tournament. Yet, after
all, what matter did it make? Certainly, he told himself, the Weldons
seemed to live very well. Royal must be making money. Mrs.
Weldon--Nanny, as Royal called her--was a nice little thing,
somewhat--h'm, somewhat--well, not quite up to Royal. She looked like
that girl in Munich, the girl that lived over the way, only Mrs. Weldon
was prettier and dressed better, much better. Du hast die schönsten
Augen. Munich wasn't a bad place, but what a hole Innsprück was. There
was that Victoria Cross fellow; whatever became of him? He drank like a
fish; it must have caught him by this time. H'm, he would give me the
address of his shoemaker. I ought to have taken more from that man in
Paris. Odd that the Cenerentola was the last thing I should have heard
there. The buffo was good, so was the contralto. She sings much
better. What a voice! what a voice! Now, which was the more perfect, the
voice or the girl? Let me see, which is the better fulfilled, the odor
of the lily or the lily itself? Tulips I never cared for.... That is it,
then. I wonder, though----
Tristrem had reached the house in Waverley Place. He let himself in with
a latch-key, and went to his room. There he sat a while, companioned
only by his thoughts. Before he fell asleep, his patriotism was riveted.
A land that could produce such a specimen of girlhood outvalued Europe,
Asia, and Africa combined--aye, a thousand times--and topped and
exceeded creation.
III.
Among the effects and symptoms of love, there is an involuntary action
of the mind which, since the days of Stendhal, has been known as
crystallization. When a man becomes interested in a woman, when he
pictures her not as she really is, but as she seems to him--as she ought
to be, in fact--he experiences, first, admiration; second, desire;
third, hope; and, behold, love or its counterfeit is born.
This crystallization affects the individual according to his nature. If
that nature be inexperienced, unworn--in a word, if it be virginal, its
earliest effects are those of a malady. On the other hand, if the nature
on which it operates has received the baptism of fire, its effect is
that of a tonic. To the one it is a fever, to the other a bugle-call. In
the first instance, admiration is pursued by self-depreciation, desire
is pinioned before conventional obstacles, and hope falters beneath a
weight of doubt. In the second, admiration, desire, and hope are fused
into one sentiment, the charm of the chase, the delight of the
prospective quarry. As an example, there is Werther, and there is also
Don Juan.
Now Tristrem Varick had never known a mother, sisters he had none, the
feminine had been absent from his life, but in his nature there was an
untarnishable refinement. During his student-days at Harvard, and
throughout his residence abroad, there had been nothing of that which
the French have agreed to denominate as bonnes fortunes. Such things
may have been in his path, waiting only to be gathered, but, in that
case, certain it is that he had passed them by unheeded. To use the
figurative phrase, he was incapable of stretching his hand to any woman
who had not the power of awakening a lasting affection; and during his
wanderings, and despite, too, the example and easy morals of his
comrades, no such woman having crossed his horizon, he had been innocent
of even the most fugitive liaison. Nevertheless, the morning after the
dinner in Gramercy Park, crystallization had done its work. He awoke
with the surprise and wonder of an inexperienced sensation; he awoke
with the consciousness of being in love, wholly, turbulently, absurdly
in love with a girl to whom he had not addressed a single word.
The general opinion to the contrary notwithstanding, there are, after
all, very few people who know what love really is. And among those that
know, fewer there are that tell. A lexicographer, deservedly forgotten,
has defined it as an exchange of fancies, the contact of two epiderms.
Another, wiser if less epigrammatic, announced it as a something that no
one knew what, coming no one knew whence, and ending no one knew how.
But in whatever fashion it may be described, one thing is certain, it
has been largely over-rated.
In the case of Tristrem Varick it appeared in its most perfect form. The
superlative is used advisedly. Love has a hundred aspects, a thousand
toilets. It may come at first sight, in which event, if it be enduring,
it is, as Balzac has put it, a resultant of that prescience which is
known as second sight. Or, it may come of the gradual fusion of two
natures. It may come of propinquity, of curiosity, of sympathy, of
hatred. It may come of the tremors of adolescence, the mutual attraction
of one sex for the other; and, again, it may come of natural selection,
of the discernment which leads a man through mazes of women to one in
particular, to the woman who to him is the one woman in the world and
manacles him at her feet. If Tristrem Varick had not met Miss Raritan,
it is more than probable that he never would have known the meaning of
the word.
When the first surprise at the discovery waned, delight took its place.
He saw her amber eyes, he recalled as she had crossed the room the
indolent undulation of her hips, he breathed the atmosphere of health
which she exhaled, and in his ears her voice still rang. The Non più
mesta of her song seemed almost a promise, and the O Magali an
invitation. He recalled the movement of her lips, and fell to wondering
what her name might be. At first he fancied that it might be Stella; but
that, for some occult reason which only a lover would understand, he
abandoned for Thyra, a name which pleasured him awhile and which he
repeated aloud until it became sonorous as were it set in titles. But
presently some defect presented itself, it sounded less apt, more suited
to a blue-eyed daughter of a viking than to one so brune as she.
Decidedly, Thyra did not suit her. And yet her name might be something
utterly commonplace, such as Fanny, for instance, or Agnes, or Gertrude.
But that was a possibility which he declined to entertain. When a girl
is baptized, the mother, in choosing the name, should, he told himself,
think of the lover who will one day pronounce it. And what had her
mother chosen? It would be forethought indeed if she had selected Undine
or even Iseult; but what mother was ever clairvoyant enough for that?
He thought this over awhile and was about to give the query up, when
suddenly, without an effort on his part, he was visited by a name that
announced her as the perfume announces the rose, a name that pictured
and painted her, a name that suited her as did her gown of canary, a
name that crowned her beauty and explained the melancholy of her lips.
"It is Madeleine," he said, "it can be nothing else."
And into the syllables he threw the waving inflection of the French.
"It is Madeleine," he continued, "and when I see her I will tell in what
way I divined it."
The possibility that she might be indifferent to such homage did not,
for the moment, occur to him. He was loitering in the enchanted gardens
of the imagination, which have been visited by us all. It was the
improbable that fluttered his pulse.
Hitherto the life of Tristrem Varick had been that of a dilettante.
There had been no reason why he should work. His education had unfitted
him for labor, and his tastes, if artistic, were not sufficiently
pronounced to act as incentives. He handled the brush well enough to
know that he could never be a painter; he had a natural understanding of
music, its value was clear to him, yet its composition was barred. The
one talent that he possessed--a talent that grows rarer with the
days--was that of appreciation, he could admire the masterpieces of
others, but creation was not his. A few centuries ago he would have made
an admirable knight-errant. In a material age like our own, his raison
a'être was not obvious. In a word, he was just such an one as his
father had intended he should be, one whose normal condition was that of
chronic pluperfect subjunctive, and who, if thrown on his own resources,
would be helpless indeed.
In some dim way he had been conscious of this before, and hitherto he
had accepted it, as he had accepted his father's attitude, as one
accepts the inevitable, and put it aside again as something against
which, like death, or like life, it is useless to rebel. After all,
there was nothing particularly dreadful about it. An inability to be
Somebody was not a matter of which the District Attorney is obliged to
take cognizance. At least he need do no harm, and he would have wealth
enough to do much good. It was in thoughts like these that hitherto he
had found consolation. But on this particular morning he looked for them
anew, and the search was fruitless. Not one of the old consolations
disclosed the slightest worth. He stood before himself naked in his
nothingness. The true knowledge of his incompetence had never come home
to him before--but now it closed round him in serried arguments, and in
the closing shut out all hope of her. Who was he, indeed, to pretend to
such a girl?
To win her, he told himself, one must needs be a conqueror, one who has
coped with dangers and could flaunt new triumphs as his lady's due. Some
