that, as things have turned out, you shouldn 't be 
struck with the felicity. To get something so 
charming, and to get it of our own species." 
" Of our own species ? Tudieu ! " said Mr. 
Probert looking up. 
" Surely it is infinitely fresher and more amusing 
for me to marry an American. There s a dreari 
ness in the way we have Gallicised." 
"Against Americans I have nothing to say; 
some of them are the best thing the world contains. 
That s precisely why one can choose. They are 
far from being all like that." 
"Like what, dear father?" 
" Comma ces gens-Id. You know that if they 
were French, being otherwise what they are, 
one wouldn 't look at them." 
" Indeed one would ; they would be such 
curiosities." 
" Well, perhaps they are sufficiently so as it is," 
said Mr. Probert, with a little conclusive sigh. 
" Yes, let them pass for that. They will surprise 
you." 
" Not too much, I hope ! " cried the old man, 
opening his volume again. 
It will doubtless not startle the reader to learn 
that the complexity of things among the Proberts 
was such as to make it impossible for Gaston to 
proceed to the celebration of his nuptials, with 
all the needful circumstances of material preparation 
and social support, before some three months 
should have expired. He chafed however but 
moderately at the delay, for he reflected that it 
would give Francie time to endear herself to his 
whole circle. It would also have advantages for 
the Dossons; it would enable them to establish 
by simple but effective arts the modus mvendi 
with that rigid body. It would in short help 
every one to get used to everything. Mr. Dosson s 
designs and Delia s took no articulate form ; what 
was mainly clear to Gaston was that his future 
wife s relatives had as yet no sense of disconnec 
tion. He knew that Mr. Dosson would do what 
ever Delia liked and that Delia would like to 
" start " her sister. Whether or no she expected 
to be present at the finish, she had a definite 
purpose of seeing the beginning of the race. Mr. 
Probert notified Mr. Dosson of what he proposed 
to " do " for his son, and Mr. Dosson appeared 
more amused than anything else at the news. 
He announced, in return, no intentions in regard 
to Francie, and his queer silence was the cause 
of another convocation of the house of Probert. 
Here Mme. de Brecourt s valorous spirit won an 
other victory ; she maintained, as she informed her 
brother, that there was no possible policy but a 
policy of confidence. " Lord help us, is that what 
they call confidence ? " the young man exclaimed, 
o-uessing the way they all looked at each other; 
and he wondered how they would look next at 
poor Mr. Dosson. Fortunately he could always fall 
back, for reassurance, upon that revelation of their 
perfect manners ; though indeed he thoroughly 
knew that on the day they should really attempt 
interference make a row which might render 
him helpless and culminate in a rupture their 
courtesy would show its finest flower. 
Mr. Probert s property was altogether in the 
United States : he resembled various other persons 
to whom American impressions are mainly accept 
able in the form of dividends. The manner in 
which he desired to benefit his son on the occasion 
of the latter s marriage rendered certain visitations 
and reinvestments necessary in that country. It 
had long been his conviction that his affairs needed 
looking into; they had gone on for years and 
years without an overhauling. He had thought 
of going back to see, but now he was too old and 
too tired and the effort was impossible. There was 
nothing for it but for Gaston to go, and go quickly, 
though the moment was rather awkward. The idea 
was communicated to him and the necessity ac 
cepted ; then the plan was relinquished : it seemed 
such a pity he should not wait till after his marriage, 
when he would be able to take Francie with 
him. Francie would be such an introducer. This 
postponement would have taken effect had it not 
suddenly come out that Mr. Dosson himself wanted 
to go for a few weeks, in consequence of some 
news (it was a matter of business), that he had un- 
expectedly received. It was further revealed that 
that course presented difficulties, for he could not 
leave his daughters alone, especially in such a 
situation. Not only would such a proceeding 
have given scandal to the Proberts, but Gaston 
learned, with a good deal of surprise and not a 
little amusement, that Delia, in consequence of 
peculiar changes now wrought in her view of 
things, would have felt herself obliged to protest 
on the score of propriety. He called her 
attention to the fact that nothing would be more 
simple than, in the interval, for Francie to go 
and stay with Susan or Margaret ; Delia herself in 
that case would be free to accompany her father. 
But this young lady declared that nothing would 
induce her to quit the European continent until she 
had seen her sister through, and Gaston shrank 
from proposing that she too should spend five weeks 
in the Place Beauvau or the Rue de Lille. 
Moreover he was startled, he was a good deal 
mystified, by the perverse, unsociable way in which 
Francie asserted that, as yet, she would not lend 
herself to any staying. After, if he liked, but 
not till then. And she would not at the moment 
give the reasons of her refusal ; it was only very 
positive and even quite passionate. 
All this left her intended no alternative but 
to say to Mr. Dosson, " I am not such a fool as 
I look. If you will coach me properly, and trust 
me, I will rush across and transact your business 
as well as my father s." Strange as it appeared, 
Francie could resign herself to this separation 
from her lover it would last six or seven weeks 
rather than accept the hospitality of his 
sisters. Mr. Dosson trusted him; he said to him, 
&lt; Well, sir, you've  got a big brain," at the end of 
a morning they spent with papers and pencils; 
upon which Gaston made his preparations to sail. 
Before he left Paris Francie, to do her justice, 
confided to him that her objection to going in 
such an intimate way even to Mme. de Brecourt s 
had been founded on a fear that in close quarters 
she would do something that would make them 
all despise her. Gaston replied, in the first place, 
that this was gammon and in the second he wanted 
to know if she expected never to be in close 
quarters with her new kinsfolk. "Ah, yes, but 
then it will be safer we shall be married ! " she 
returned. This little incident occurred three days 
before the young man started ; but what happened 
just the evening previous was that, stopping 
for a last word at the Hotel dc I Univers et de 
Cheltenham on his way to take the night express 
to London (he was to sail from Liverpool), he 
found Mr. George Flack sitting in the red satin 
saloon. The correspondent of the Reverberator 
had come back. 
IX. 
ME. FLACK S relations with his old friends did 
not, after his appearance in Paris, take on that 
familiarity and frequency which had marked their 
intercourse a year before : he let them know 
frankly that he could easily see the situation was 
quite different. They had got into the high set 
and they didn 't care about the past : he alluded 
to the past as if it had been rich in mutual vows, 
in pledges now repudiated. " What s the matter ? 
Won 't you come round there with us some day ? " 
Mr. Dosson asked ; not having perceived for him 
self any reason why the young journalist should 
not be a welcome and congruous figure in the 
Cours la Heine. 
Delia wanted to know what Mr. Flack was 
talking about : didn 't he know a lot of people 
that they didn 't know and wasn 't it natural they 
should have their own society ? The young man s 
treatment of the question was humorous, and it 
was with Delia that the discussion mainly went 
forward. When he maintained that the Dossons 
had " shed " him, Mr. Dosson exclaimed, " Well, I 
guess you 'll grow again ! " And Francie observed 
that it was no use for him to pose as a martyr, in 
asmuch as he knew perfectly well that with all 
the celebrated people he saw and the way he flew 
round he had the most enchanting time. She was 
aware she was a good deal less accessible than she 
had been the previous spring, for Mesdames do 
Brecourt and de Cliche (the former much more 
than the latter) took a considerable number of her 
hours. In spite of her protest to Gaston against 
a premature intimacy with his sisters, she spent 
whole days in their company (they had so much 
to tell her about what her new life would be, and 
it was generally very pleasant), and she thought it 
would be nice if in these intervals he should give 
himself to her father and even to Delia as he used 
to do. 
But the flaw of a certain insincerity in Mr. 
Flack s nature seemed to be established by his 
present tendency to rare visits. He evidently 
did not care for her father for himself, and though 
Mr. Dosson was the least querulous of men she 
divined that he suspected their old companion 
had fallen away. There were no more wanderings 
in public places, no more tryings of new cafes. 
Mr. Dosson used to look sometimes as he had 
looked of old when George Flack " located " them 
somewhere ; as if he expected to see their sharp 
cicerone rushing back to them, with his drab over 
coat flying in the wind; but this expectation 
usually died away. He missed Gaston because 
Gaston this winter had so often ordered his dinner 
for him, and his society was not sought by the count 
and the marquis, whose mastery of English was 
small and their other distractions great. Mr. Pro- 
bert, it was true, had shown something of a frater 
nising spirit ; he had come twice to the hotel, since 
his son s departure, and he had said, smiling and 
reproachful, " You neglect us, you neglect us ! " 
Mr. Dosson had not understood what he meant 
by this till Delia explained after the visitor with 
drew, and even then the remedy for the neglect, 
administered two or three days later, had not 
borne any particular fruit. Mr. Dosson called 
alone, instructed by his daughter, in the Cours la 
Reine, but Mr. Probert was not at home. He only 
left a card, on which Delia had superscribed in 
advance the words " So sorry ! " Her father had 
told her he would give the card if she wanted, but 
he would have nothing to do with the writing. 
There was a discussion as to whether Mr. Probert s 
remark was an allusion to a deficiency of polite 
ness on the article of his sons-in-law. Ought not 
Mr. Dosson perhaps to call personally, and not 
simply through the medium of the visits paid by 
his daughters to their wives, on Messieurs de 
Brecourt and de Cliche ? Once, when this sub 
ject came up in George Flack s presence, the old 
man said he would go round if Mr. Flack would 
accompany him. " All right ! " said Mr. Flack, 
and this conception became a reality, with the 
accidental abatement that the objects of the de 
monstration were absent. " Suppose they get in ? " 
Delia had said lugubriously to her sister. 
".Well, what if they do ? " Francie asked. 
" Why, the count and the marquis won 't be 
interested in Mr. Flack." 
"Well then, perhaps he will be interested in 
them. He can write something about them. 
They will like that." 
" Do you think they would ? " Delia demanded, 
in solemn dubiousness. 
" Why, yes, if he should say fine things." 
" They do like fine things," said Delia. " They 
get off so many themselves. Only the way Mr. 
Flack does it it s a different style." 
t( Well, people like to be praised in any style." 
" That s so," Delia rejoined, musingly. 
One afternoon, coming in about three o clock, 
Mr. Flack found Francie alone. She had ex 
pressed a wish, after luncheon, for a couple of 
hours of independence : she intended to write to 
Gaston, and having accidentally missed a post 
promised herself that her letter should be of 
double its usual length. Her companions respected her desire for solicitude, Mr. Dosson taking 
himself off to his daily session in the reading-room 
of the American bank and Delia (the girls had 
now a luxurious coach at their command) driving 
away to the dressmaker s, a frequent errand, to 
superintend and urge forward the progress of her 
sister s wedding-clothes. Francie was not skilled 
in composition ; she wrote slowly and in addressing her lover had a painful sense of literary responsibility. Her father and Delia had a theory 
that when she shut herself up that way she poured 
forth wonderful pages it was part of her high 
cultivation. At any rate, when George Flack was 
ushered in she was still bending over her blotting- 
book on one of the gilded tables and there was an 
inkstain on her pointed forefinger. It was no dis 
loyalty to Gaston but only at the most a sense of 
weariness in regard to the epistolary form that 
made her glad to see her visitor. She didn 't know 
how to finish her letter ; but Mr. Flack seemed in 
a manner to terminate it. 
" I wouldn 't have ventured to propose this, but I 
guess I can do with it, now it s come," the young 
man announced. 
" What can you do with ? " she asked, wiping 
her pen. 
"Well this happy chance. Just you and me 
together." 
" I don 't know what it s a chance for." 
" Well, for me to be a little less miserable for a 
quarter of an hour. It makes me so to see you 
look so happy." 
" It makes you miserable ? " 
" You ought to understand, when I say some 
thing magnanimous." And settling himself on 
the sofa Mr. Flack continued, " Well, how do you 
get on without Mr. Probert ? " 
Very well indeed, thank you." 
The tone in which the girl spoke was not an en 
couragement to free pleasantry, so that if Mr. Flack 
continued his inquiries it was in a guarded and 
respectful manner. He was eminently capable of 
reflecting that it was not in his interest to strike 
her as indiscreet and profane , he only wanted to 
appear friendly, worthy of confidence. At the 
same time he was not averse to the idea that she 
should still perceive in him a certain sense of in 
jury, and that could be indicated only by a touch 
of bitterness here and there. The injury, the 
