no care for her. She looker like she have the 
tempere — how you call him? — the dev-vil, no ? 
And she looker like she have the fire ouside and 
the ice in." 
"Oh, she's not so bad," said the Englishman, 
loyally. '" She has some admirable traits, and 
she's deuced clever, but she has an ill-regulated 
sort of a nature, and is awfully obstinate and 
prejudiced. It's a sort of vanity. She worries 
Dartmouth a good deal. He's a born poet, if 
ever a man was, and she wants him to go into 
politics. Wants a salon and all that sort of 
thing. She ought to have it, too. Political 
intrigue would just suit her; she's diplomatic and 
secretive. But Dartmouth prefers his study." 
The lady from Spain raised her sympathetic, 
pensive eyes to the Englishman's. "And the 
  
Seiior Dar-muth ? How he is ? He is nice fel- 
low ? I no meeting hime ? " 
" The best fellow that ever lived, God bless 
him!" exclaimed the young man, enthusiastically. 
" He has the temperament of genius, and 
he isn't always there when you want him — I 
mean, he isn't always in the right mood; but he's 
a splendid specimen of a man, and the most 
likeable fellow I ever knew — poor fellow! " 
" Why you say ' poor fel-Iow' ? He is no happy, 
no?" 
" Well, you see," said the young man, 
succumbing to those lovely, pitying eyes, and not 
observing that they gazed with equal tenderness 
at the crimson wine in the cup beside her plate — 
"you see, he and his wife are none too congenial, 
as I said. It makes her wild to have him write, 
not only because she wants to cut a figure in 
London, and he will always live in some romantic 
place like this, but she's in love with him, in 
her way, and she's jealous of his very desk. 
That makes things unpleasant about the domestic 
hearthstone. And then she doesn't believe 
a bit in his talent, and takes good care to let him 
know it. So, you see, he's not the most enviable 
of mortals." 
" Much better she have be careful," said the 
Spanish woman; "some day he feel tire out and 
go to lover someone else. Please you geeve me 
some more clarette ?" 
 
"Here comes Sir Dafyd,'" said the English- 
man, as he filled her glass. " It has taken him a 
long time to find out how she is.'' 
The shadow had wholly disappeared from Sir 
Dafyd's mouth, a faint smile hovering there 
instead. As he took his seat the Austrian 
Ambassador leaned forward and inquired politely 
about the state of Lady Sioned's health. 
" She is sleeping quietly," said Sir Dafyd. 
PART I. 
THE MELODY. 
The Hon. Harold Dartmouth was bored. He 
had been in Paris three months and it was his 
third winter. He was young. He possessed a 
liberal allowance of good looks, money, and 
family prestige. Combining these three conditions, 
he had managed to pretty thoroughly exhaust
the pleasures of the capital. At all events 
he believed he had exhausted them, and he 
wanted a new sensation. He had " done " his 
London until it was more flavorless than Paris, 
and he had dawdled more or less in the various 
Courts of Europe. While in St. Petersburg he 
had inserted a too curious finger into the 
Terrorist pie, and had come very near making a 
prolonged acquaintance with the House of Pre- 
ventative Detention; but after being whisked 
safely out of the country under cover of a 
friend's passport, he had announced himself 
cured of further interest in revolutionary 
politics. The affair had made him quite famous for 
a time, however; Krapotkin had sought him out 
and warmly thanked him for his interest in the 
Russian Geysers, and begged him to induce his 
father to abjure his peace policy and lend his 
hand to the laudable breaking of Czarism's 
back. But Lord Cardingham, who was not altogether
ruled by his younger son, had declined to 
expend his seductions upon Mr. Gladstone in 
the cause of a possible laying of too heavy a 
rod upon England's back, and had recommended 
his erratic son to let the barbarism of absolutism
alone in the future, and try his genius upon 
that of democracy. Dartmouth, accordingly, 
had spent a winter in Washington as 
Secretary of Legation, and had entertained himself 
by doling out such allowance of diplomatic love 
to the fair American dames as had won him 
much biographical honor in the press of the 
great republic. Upon his father's private 
admonition, that it would be as well to generously 
resign his position in favor of some more needy 
applicant, with a less complex heart-line and a 
slight acquaintance with international law, he 
had, after a summer at Newport, returned to 
Europe and again devoted himself to winning 
a fame not altogether political. And now there 
was nothing left, and he felt that fate had used 
him scurrilously. He was twenty-eight, and had 
exhausted life. He had nothing left but to 
  
" The one in the next carriage, with Lady 
Langdon, talking to Bolton." 
The carriage passed them, and Harold's eyes 
met for a moment those of a girl who was lying 
back chatting idly with a man who rode on 
horseback beside her. She was a beautiful 
creature, truly, with a rich, dark skin, and eyes like a 
tropical animal's. A youthful face, striking and 
unconventional. 
"Well?" queried Hollington. 
"Yes, a very handsome girl," said Dartmouth. 
" I have seen her before, somewhere." 
"What! you have seen that woman before and 
not remembered her? Impossible! And then 
you have not been in England for a year." 
"I am sure I have seen her before," said 
Dartmouth. "Where could it have been?" 
"Her father is a Welsh baronet, and your 
estates are in the North, so you could hardly 
have known her as a child. She was educated 
in the utmost seclusion at home; no one ever 
saw her or heard of her until the fag end of the 
last London season, and she only arrived in 
Paris two days ago, and made her first 
appearance in public last night at the opera, where you 
were not. So where could you have seen 
her?" 
" I cannot imagine," said Dartmouth, 
meditatively. " But her face is dimly familiar, and it is 
a most unusual one. Tell me something about 
her; " and he resumed his seat. 
 
" She is the daughter of Sir Iltyd-ap-Penrhyn," 
said Hollington, craning his neck to catch a last 
glimpse of the disappearing beauty. " Awfully 
poor, but dates back to before Chaos. Looks 
down with scorn upon Sir Watkin Wynn, who 
hangs up the flood on the middle branch of his 
family tree. They live in a dilapitated old castle 
on the coast, and there Sir Iltyd brought up this 
tropical bird — she is an only child — and 
educated her himself. Her mother died when she 
was very young, and her father, with the 
proverbial constancy of mankind, has never been 
known to smile since. Lively for the tropical 
bird, was it not ? Lady Langdon, who was in 
Wales last year, and who was an old friend of 
the girl's mother, called on her and saw the 
professional possibilities, so to speak. She gave the 
old gentleman no peace until he told her she 
could take the girl to London, which she did 
forthwith, before he had time to change his 
mind. She has made a rousing sensation, but 
she is a downright beauty and no mistake. Lady 
Langdon evidently intends to hold on to her, for 
I see she has her still." 
" I could not have known her, of course; I 
have never put my foot in Wales. But I 
suppose I shall meet her now. Is she to be at the 
Russian Legation to-night?" 
"Yes; I have it from the best authority — 
herself. You had better go. She is worth knowing, 
I can tell you." 
 
"Well, I'll think of it," said Dartmouth. " I 
must be off now; I have no end of letters to 
write. I'll rely upon you to do the honors if I 
go! " and he took up his hat and sauntered out. 
He went directly to his apartments on the 
Avenue Champs Elys^es, and wrote a few epistles
to his impatient and much-enduring relatives 
in Britain; then, lighting a cigar, he flung 
himself upon the sofa. The room accorded with 
the man. Art and negligence were hand- 
in-hand. The hangings were of dusky-gold 
plush, embroidered with designs which breathed 
the fervent spirit of Decorative Art, and the 
floor was covered with the oldest and oddest of 
Persian rugs. There were cabinets of antique 
medallions, cameos, and enamels; low brass 
book -cases, filled with volumes bound in Russian 
leather, whose pungent odor filled the room; a 
varied collection of pipes; a case of valuable 
ceramics, one of the collection having a pedigree 
which no uncelestial mind had ever pretended to 
grasp, and which had been presented to Lord 
Cardingham, while minister to China, by the 
Emperor. That his younger son had unblushingly 
pilfered it he had but recently discovered, 
but demands for its return had as yet availed 
not. There were a few valuable paintings, a 
case of rare old plates, many with the coats Of 
arms of sovereigns upon them, strangely carved 
chairs, each with a history, all crowded together 
 
and making a charming nest for the listless, 
somewhat morbid, and disgusted young man 
stretched out upon a couch, covered with a rug 
of ostrich feathers brought from the Straits of 
Magellan. Over the onyx mantel was a por- 
trait of his grandmother, a handsome old lady 
with high-piled, snow-white hair, and eyes whose 
brilliancy age had not" dimmed. The lines about 
the mouth were hard, but the face was full of 
intelligence, and the man at her feet had never seen 
anything of the hardness of her nature. She 
had blindly idolized him. 
"I wish she were here now," thought 
Dartmouth regretfully, as he contemplated the 
picture through the rings of smoke; "I could talk 
over things with her, and she could hit off people 
with that tongue of hers. Gods! how it could 
cut! Poor old lady! I wonder if I shall ever 
find her equal." After which, he fell asleep and 
forgot his sorrows until his valet awakened him 
and told him it was time to dress for dinner. 
II. 
I HOPE I have not conveyed to the reader the 
idea that our hero is frivolous. On the contrary, 
he was considered a very brilliant young man, 
and he could command the respect of his elders 
when he chose. But, partly owing to his wealth 
and independent condition, partly to the fact 
that the world had done its best to spoil him, he 
had led a very aimless existence. He was by no 
means satisfied with his life, however; he was far 
too clever for that; and he had spent a good 
deal of time, first and last, reviling Fate for not 
having endowed him with some talent upon 
which he could concentrate his energies, and with 
which attain distinction and find balm for his 
ennui. His grandmother had cherished the 
conviction that he was an undeveloped genius; but 
in regard to what particular field his genius was 
to enrich, she had never clearly expressed 
herself, and his own consciousness had not been 
more explicit. He had long ago made up his 
mind, indeed, that his grandmother's convictions 
had been the fond delusions of a doting parent, 
and that the sooner he unburdened himself of that 
particular legacy the better. The unburdening, 
however, had been accomplished .with a good 
deal of bitterness, for he was very ambitious and 
very proud, and to be obliged to digest the fact 
that he was but a type of the great majority was 
distinctly galling. True, politics were left. His 
father, one of the most distinguished of 
England's statesmen, and a member of the present 
cabinet, would have been delighted to assist his 
career; but Harold disliked politics. With the 
exception of his passing interest in the Russian 
socialists — an interest springing from his 
adventurous nature — he had never troubled himself 
about any party, faction, or policy, home or 
foreign. He would like to write a great poem, but 
he had never felt a second's inspiration, and had 
never wasted time in the endeavor to force it. 
Failing that, he would like to write a novel; 
but, fluently and even brilliantly as he 
sometimes talked, his pen was not ready, and he was 
conscious of a conspicuous lack of imagination. 
To be sure, one does not need much in these 
days of realistic fervor; it is considered 
rather a coarse and old-fashioned article; but 
that one needs some sort of a plot is indisputable, 
and Dartmouth's brain had consistently 
refused to evolve one. Doubtless he could 
cultivate the mere habit of writing, and achieve 
reputation as an essayist. His critical faculty 
was pronounced, and he had carefully developed 
it; and it was possible that when the world had 
completely palled upon him, he would shut 
himself up at Crumford Hall and give the public the 
benefit of his accumulated opinions, abstract 
and biographical. But he was not ready for 
that yet; he needed several years more of experience, 
observation, and assiduous cultivation of 
the habit of analysis; and in the meantime he 
was in a condition of cold disgust with himself 
and with Fate. It may also have been gathered 
that Mr. Dartmouth was a young man of decidedly 
reckless proclivities. It is quite true that 
he never troubled himself about any question of 
morals or social ethics; he simply calculated the 
 
mathematical amount of happiness possible to 
the individual. That was all there was in life. 
Had he lived a generation or two earlier, he 
would have pursued his way along the paths of 
the prohibited without introspective analysis; 
