of what we are about to do rise clearly before us as in a 
mirror ; it is then that our courage is suddenly strengthened 
to do the right, or deserts us and leaves us mere instruments 
for the accomplishment of the wrong. If humanity had not 
an element of good in it, there would be no hesitation in the 
perpetration of crime, any more than a wild beast pauses 
before destroying a weaker creature. Perhaps there is no 
clearer proof of the existence of a divine soul in man, than 
his intuitive reluctance to do what in the lower animals 
would be most natural. Circumstances, education, the 
accidents of life, all tend to make this psychologic moment 
 
habitually shorter or longer. The suspense created in the 
conscience, during which the intelligence is uncertain how 
to act, may last a week or a second, a year or a quarter of 
an hour; but it is a stage through which all must pass, 
both the professional criminal and the just man who is 
perhaps tempted to commit a crime but once during his life. 
Old Lotario Montevarchi had never been guilty of any 
misdeed subject to the provisions of the penal code ; but he 
had done most things in his love of money which were not 
criminal only because the law had not foreseen the tortuous 
peculiarities of his mind. Even now he persuaded him 
self that the end was a righteous one, and that his course was 
morally justifiable. He had that power of deceiving himself 
which characterises the accomplished hypocrite, and he easily 
built up for San Giacinto a whole edifice of sympathy which 
seemed in his own view very real and moral. He reflected 
with satisfaction upon the probable feelings of the old Leone 
Saracinesca, when, after relinquishing his birthright, he found 
himself married and the father of a son. How the poor man 
must have cursed his folly and longed for some means of 
undoing the deed ! It was but common justice after all it 
was but common justice, and it was a mere accident of fate 
that Leone's great-grandson, who was now to be reinstated 
in all the glories of his princely possessions, was also to 
marry Flavia Montevarchi 
The prospect was too alluring and the suspense lasted but 
a moment, though he believed that he spent much time in 
considering the situation. The thoughts that really occu 
pied him were not of a nature to hinder the accomplishment 
of his plan, and he was not at all surprised with himself 
when he finally tied up the packet and rang for a messenger. 
Detection was impossible, for by Meschini's skilful manage 
ment, the original and the official copy corresponded exactly 
and were such marvellous forgeries as to defy discovery. 
When it is considered that the greatest scientists and 
specialists in Europe have recently disagreed concerning 
documents which are undoubtedly of modern manufacture, 
and which were produced by just such men as Arnoldo Mes- 
chini, it need not appear surprising that the latter should 
successfully impose upon a court of law. The circumstances 
of the Saracinesca family history, too, lent an air of probability to the alleged facts. The poverty and temporary 
disappearance of Leone's descendants explained why they had 
not attempted to recover their rights. Nay, more, since 
Leone had died when his son was an infant, and since there 
was no copy of the document among his papers, it was more 
than probable that the child on growing up had never known 
the nature of the deed, and would not have been ' likely to 
suspect what was now put forward as the truth, unless his 
attention were called to it by some person possessed of the 
necessary knowledge. 
The papers were returned to Prince Saracinesca in the 
afternoon with a polite note of thanks. It will be remem 
bered that the prince had not read the documents, as he had 
meant to do, in consequence of the trouble between Giovanni 
and Corona which had made him forget his intention. He 
had not looked over them since he had been a young man 
and the recollection of their contents was far from clear. 
Having always supposed the collateral branch of his family 
to be extinct, it was only natural that he should have 
bestowed very little thought upon the ancient deeds which 
he believed to have been drawn up in due form and made 
perfectly legal. 
When he came home towards evening, he found the 
sealed packet upon his table, and having opened it, was 
about to return the papers to their place in the archives. It 
chanced that he had a letter to write, however, and he 
pushed the documents aside before taking them to the library. 
While he was writing, Giovanni entered the room. 
As has been seen, the prince had been very angry with 
his son for having allowed himself to doubt Corona, and 
though several days had elapsed since the matter had been 
explained, the old man's wrath had not wholly subsided. 
He still felt considerable resentment against Giovanni, and 
his intercourse with the latter had not yet regained its former 
cordiality. As Sant' Hario entered the room, Saracinesca 
looked up with an expression which showed clearly that the 
interruption was unwelcome. 
' Do I disturb you V asked Giovanni, noticing the look. 
' Do you want anything ?' 
' No nothing especial.' 
Saracinesca's eye fell upon the pile of manuscripts that 
lay on the table. It struck him that Giovanni might occupy 
himself by looking them over, while he himself finished the 
letter he had begun. 
' There are those deeds relating to San Giacinto,' he said, 
' you might look through them before they are put away. 
Montevarchi borrowed them for a day or two and has just 
sent them back.' 
Giovanni took the bundle and established himself in a 
comfortable chair beside a low stand, where the light of a 
lamp fell upon the pages as he turned them. He made no 
remark, but began to examine the documents, one by one, 
running his eye rapidly along the lines, as he read on 
mechanically, not half comprehending the sense of the words. 
He was preoccupied by thoughts of Corona and of what had 
lately happened, so that he found it hard to fix his atten 
tion. The prince's pen scratched and spattered on the paper, 
and irritated Giovanni, for the old gentleman wrote a heavy, 
nervous handwriting, and lost his temper twenty times in 
five minutes, mentally cursing the ink, the paper and the 
pen, and wishing he could write like a shopman or a 
clerk 
Giovanni's attention was arrested by the parchment on 
which the principal deed was executed, and he began to read 
the agreement with more care than he had bestowed upon the 
other papers. He understood Latin well enough, but the 
crabbed characters puzzled him from time to time. He read 
the last words on the first page without thinking very much 
of what they meant. 
' . . . . Eo tamen pacto, quod si praedicto Domino Leoni 
ex legitimo matrimonio heres nasceretur, instrumentum hoc 
nullura, vanum atque plane invalidum fiat.' 
Giovanni smiled at the quaint law Latin, and then read 
the sentence over again. His face grew grave as he realised 
the tremendous import of those few words. Again and 
again he translated the phrase, trying to extract from it some 
other meaning than that which was so unpleasantly clear. 
No other construction, however, could be put upon what was 
written, and for some minutes Giovanni sat staring at the 
fire, bewildered and almost terrified by his discovery. 
' Have you ever read those papers ? ' he asked at last, in 
a voice that made his father drop his pen and look up. 
' Not for thirty years.' 
' Then you had better read them at once. San Giacinto 
is Prince Saracinesca and you and I are nobody.' 
Saracinesca uttered a fierce oath and sprang from his 
chair. 
' What do you mean?' he asked, seizing Giovanni's arm 
violently with one hand and taking the parchment with the 
other. 
' Read for yourself. There at the foot of the page, from 
" eo tamen pacto." It is plain enough. It says, " On the 
understanding that if an heir be born to the aforesaid Don 
Leone, in lawful wedlock, the present instrument shall be 
wholly null, void and inefficacious." An heir was born, and 
San Giacinto is that heir's grandson. You may tear up the 
document It is not worth th? parchment it is written upon, 
nor are we either.' 
' You are mad, Giovannino ! ' exclaimed the prince, 
hoarsely, ' that is not the meaning of the words. You have 
forgotten your Latin.' 
' I will get you a dictionary or a lawyer whichever you 
prefer.' 
' You are not in earnest, my boy. Look here eo tamen 
pacto that means " by this agreement " does it not ? I 
am not so rusty as you seem to think.' 
'It means "on this understanding, however." Go on. 
Quod si, that if praedicto Domino Leoni, to the aforesaid 
Don Leone ex legitimo matrimonio, from a lawful marriage 
heres nasceretur, an heir should be born hoc instru- 
mentum, this deed shall be null, worthless and invalid. 
You cannot get any other sense out of it. I have tried for a 
quarter of an hour. You and I are beggars. Saracinesca, 
Torleone, Barda, and all the rest belong to San Giacinto, the 
direct descendant of your great-grandfather's elder brother. 
You are simple Don Leone, and I am plain Don Giovanni. 
That is what it means.' 
I Good God !' cried the old man in extreme horror. ' 
you should be right ' 
' I am right,' replied Giovanni, very pale. 
With wild eyes and trembling hands the prince spread 
the document upon the table and read it over again. He 
turned it and went on to the end, his excitement bringing 
back in the moment such scholarship as he had once pos 
sessed and making every sentence as clear as the day. 
' Not even San Giacinto not even a title !' he exclaimed 
desperately. He fell back in his chair, crushed by the tre 
mendous blow that had fallen so unexpectedly upon him in 
his old age. 
'Not even San Giacinto,' repeated Giovanni, stupidly. 
His presence of mind began to forsake him, too, and he sank 
down, burying his face in his hands. As in a dream he saw 
his cousin installed in the very chair where his father now 
sat, master of the house in which he, Giovanni had been 
born, like his father before him, master of the fortresses and 
castles, the fair villas and the broad lands, the palaces and 
the millions to which Giovanni had thought himself heir, 
lord over the wealth and inheritances of his race, dignified 
by countless titles and by all the consideration that falls to 
the lot of the great in this world. 
For a long time neither spoke, for both were equally 
overwhelmed by the magnitude of the disaster that hung 
over their heads. They looked furtively at each other, and 
each saw that his companion was white to the lips. The old 
man was the first to break the silence. 
' At all events, San Giacinto does not know how the deed 
stands,' he said. 
'It will make it all the harder to tell him,' replied 
Giovanni. 
' To tell him ? You will not be so mad ' 
' Do you think it would be honourable,' asked the younger 
man, 'for us to remain in possession of what clearly does 
not belong to us ? I will not do it.' 
' We have been in possession for more than a century.' 
' That is no reason why we should continue to steal 
another man's money,' said Giovanni. ' We are men. Let 
us act like men. It is bitter. It is horrible. But we have 
no other course. After all, Corona has Astrardente. She 
will give you a home. She is rich.' 
' Me ? Why do you say me ? Us both.' 
' I will work for my living,' said Giovanni, quietly. ' I 
am young. I will not live on my wife.' 
' It is absurd ! ' exclaimed the prince. 'It is Quixotic. 
San Giacinto has plenty of money without ruining us. Even 
if he finds it out I will fight the case to the end. I am 
master here, as my father and my father's father were before 
me, and I will not give up what is mine without a struggle. 
Besides, who assures us that he is really what he represents 
himself to be ? What proves that he is really the descendant 
of that same Leone V 
' For that matter,' answered Giovanni, ' he will have to 
produce very positive proofs, valid in law, to show that he is 
really the man. I will give up everything to the lawful heir, 
but I will certainly not turn beggar to please an adventurer. 
But I say that, if San Giacinto represents the elder branch 
of our house, we have no right here. If I were sure of it I 
would not sleep another night under this roof.' 
The old man could not withhold his admiration. There 
was something supremely noble and generous about Giovanni's 
readiness to sacrifice everything for justice which made his old 
heart beat with a strange pride. If he was reluctant to re 
nounce his rights it was after all more on Giovanni's account, 
and for the sake of Corona and little Orsino. He himself 
was an old man and had lived most of his life out already. 
' You have your mother's heart, Giovannino,' he said 
simply, but there was a slight moisture in his eyes, which 
few emotions had ever had the power to bring there. 
' It is not a question of heart,' replied Giovanni. ' We 
cannot keep what does not belong to us.' 
' We will let the law decide what we can keep. Do you 
realise what it would be like, what a position we should 
occupy if we were suddenly declared beggars ? We should 
be absolute paupers. We do not own a foot of land, a hand- 
ful of money that does not come under the provisions of that 
accursed clause.' 
' Wait a minute,' exclaimed Giovanni, suddenly recollect 
ing that he possessed something of his own, a fact he had 
wholly forgotten in the excitement of his discovery. ' We 
shall not be wholly without resources. It does not follow 
from this deed that we must give to San Giacinto any of the 
property our branch of the family has acquired by marriage, 
from your great grandfather's time to this. It must be very 
considerable. To begin with me, my fortune caine from my 
mother. Then there was your mother, and your father's 
mother, and so on. San Giacinto has no claim to anything 
not originally the property of the old Leone who made this 
deed.' 
' That is true,' replied the prince, more hopefully. ' It is 
not so bad as it looked. You must be right about that 
point.' 
' Unless the courts decide that San Giacinto is entitled to 
compensation and interest, because four generations have 
been kept out of the property.' 
Both men looked grave. The suggestion was unpleasant. 
Such judgments had been given before and might be given 
again. 
' We had better send for our lawyer,' said the prince, at 
last. ' The sooner we know the real value of that bit of 
parchment the better it will be for us. I cannot bear the 
suspense of waiting a day to know the truth. Imagine that 
the very chair I am sitting upon may belong to San Giacinto. 
I never liked the fellow, from the day when I first found him 
in his inn at Aquila.' 
' It is not his fault,' answered Giovanni, quietly. ' This 
is a perfectly simple matter. We did not know what these 
papers were. Even if we had known, we should have laughed 
at them until we discovered that we had a cousin. After all 
we shall not starve, and what is a title ? The Pope will 
give you another when he knows what has happened. I 
would as soon be plain Don Giovanni as Prince of Sant ? 
Ilario.' 
' For that matter, you can call yourself Astrardente.' 
' I would rather not,' said Giovanni, with something like 
a laugh. ' But I must tell Corona this news.' 
' Wait till she is herself again. It might disturb her too 
much.' 
' You do not know her ! ' Giovanni laughed heartily this 
time. ' If you think she cares for such things, you are very 
much mistaken in her character. She will bear the mis 
fortune better than any of us. Courage, padre mio ! Things 
are never so black as they look at first.' 
' I hope not, my boy, I hope not ! Go and tell your 
wife, }f you think it best. I would rather be alone.' 
Giovanni left the room, and Saracinesca was alone. He 
sank back once more in his chair and folded his strong 
brown hands together upon the edge of the table before him. 
In spite of all Giovanni could say, the old man felt keenly 
the horror of his position. Only those who, having been 
