companionship of one whose presence allures, the charm is complete. And
Roland, to whom such things hitherto had been as accessories, this
morning felt their spell. The roomy squalor of the village had been
passed long since. They had entered a road where the trees arched and
nearly hid the sky, but through the branches an eager sunlight found its
way. Now and then in a clearing they would happen on some shabby, silent
house, the garden gay with the tender pink of blossoming peach; and at
times, from behind a log or straight from the earth, a diminutive negro
would start like a kobold in a dream and offer, in an abashed, uncertain
way, a bunch of white violets in exchange for coin. And once an old man,
trudging along, saluted them with a fine parabola of hat and hand; and
once they encountered a slatternly negress, very fat and pompous, seated
behind a donkey she could have carried in her arms. But practically the
road was deserted, fragrant, and still.
And now, as they rode on, interchanging only haphazard remarks, Roland
swung himself from his horse, and, plucking a spray of arbutus, handed
it to the girl.
"Take it," he said; "it is all I have."
His horse had wandered on a step and was nibbing at the grass, and, as
he stood looking up at her, for the first time it occurred to him that
she was fair. However a girl may seem in a ball-room, if she ever looks
well she looks best in the saddle; and Justine, in spite of his
criticism, did not sit her horse badly. Her gray habit, the high white
collar and open vest, brought out the snuff-color of her eyes and hair.
Her cheeks, too, this morning must have recovered some of the flush they
had lost, or else the sun had been using its palette, for in them was
the hue of the flower he had gathered and held.
She took it and inserted the stem in the lapel of her coat.
"Are you going?" she asked.
"What would you think of me if I remained?"
"What would I? I would think--"
As she hesitated she turned. He could see now it was not the sun alone
that had been at work upon her face.
"Let me tell. You would think that a man with two arms for sole income
has no right to linger in the neighborhood of a girl such as you. That
is what you would think, what anyone would think; and while I care
little enough about the existence which I lead in the minds of other
people, yet I do care for your esteem. If I stay, I lose it. I should
lose, too, my own; let me keep them both and go."
"I do not yet see why?"
"You don't!" The answer was so abrupt in tone that you would have said
he was irritated at her remark, judging it unnecessary and ill-timed.
"You don't!" he repeated. "Go back a bit, and perhaps you will remember
that after I saw you at your house I did not come back again."
"I do indeed remember."
"The next day I saw you in the Park; I was careful not to return."
"But what have I done? You said last night--"
"Why do you question? You know it is because I love you."
"Then you shall not go."
"I must."
"You shall not, I say."
"And I shall take with me the knowledge that the one woman I have loved
is the one woman I have been forced to leave."
"Roland Mistrial, how can you bear the name you do and yet be so unjust?
If you leave me now it is because you care more for yourself than you
ever could for me. It is not on my account you go: it is because you
fear the world. There were heroes once that faced it."
"Yes, and there were Circes then, as now."
As he made that trite reply his face relaxed, and into it came an
expression of such abandonment that the girl could see the day was won.
"Tell me--you will not go?"
Roland caught her hand in his, and, drawing back the gauntlet of kid, he
kissed her on the wrist. "I will never leave you now," he answered;
"Only promise you will not regret."
"Regret!" She smiled at the speech--or was it a smile? Her lips had
moved, but it was as though they had done so in answer to some prompting
of her soul. "Regret! Do you remember you asked me what I would think if
you remained? Well, I thought, if you did, there were dreams which do
come true."
At this avowal she was so radiant yet so troubled that Roland detained
her hand. "She really loves," he mused; "and so do I." And it may be,
the forest aiding, that, in the answering pressure which he gave, such
heart as he had went out and mingled with her own.
"Between us now," he murmured, "it is for all of time."
"Roland, how I waited for you!"
Again her lips moved and she seemed to smile, but now her eyes were no
longer in his, they were fixed on some vista visible only to herself.
She looked rapt, but she looked startled as well. When a girl first
stands face to face with love it allures and it frightens too.
Roland dropped her hand; he caught his horse and mounted it. In a moment
he was at her side again.
"Justine!"
And the girl turning to him let her fresh lips meet and rest upon his
own. Slowly he disengaged the arm with which he had steadied himself on
her waist.
"If I lose you now--" he began.
"There can be no question of losing," she interrupted. "Have we not come
into our own?"
"But others may dispute our right. There is your cousin, to whom I
thought you were engaged; and there is your father."
"Oh, as for Guy--" and she made a gesture. "Father, it is true, may
object; but let him. I am satisfied; in the end he will be satisfied
also. Why, only the other day I wrote him you were here."
"H'm!" At the intelligence he wheeled abruptly.
Already Justine had turned, and lowering her crop she gave her horse a
little tap. The beast was willing enough; in a moment the two were on a
run, and as Roland's horse, a broncho, by-the-way, one of those eager
animals that decline to remain behind, rushed forward and took the lead,
"Remember!" she cried, "you are not to leave me now."
But the broncho was self-willed, and this injunction Roland found or
pretended it difficult to obey; and together, through the green lane and
out of it, by long, dismal fields of rice, into the roomy squalor of the
village and on to the hotel, they flew as though some fate pursued.
Justine never forgot that ride, nor did Roland either.
At the verandah steps Mrs. Metuchen was in waiting. "I have a telegram
from your father," she called to Justine. "He wishes you to return
to-morrow."
"To-morrow?" the girl exclaimed.
"Thorold has learned I am here, and has told," her lover reflected. And
swinging from his saddle he aided the girl to alight.
"To-morrow," Mrs. Metuchen with large assumption of resignation replied;
"and we may be thankful he did not say to-day."
And as Roland listened to the varying interpretations of the summons
which, during the absence of her charge, Mrs. Metuchen's riotous
imagination had found time to conceive, "Thorold has told," he repeated
to himself, "but he has told too late."
After a morning such as that, an afternoon on a piazza is apt to drag.
Of this Roland was conscious. Moreover, he had become aware that his
opportunities were now narrowly limited; and presently, as Mrs.
Metuchen's imaginings subsided and ceased, he asked the girl whether,
when dinner was over, she would care to take a drive.
Protest who may, at heart every woman is a match-maker; and Mrs.
Metuchen was not an exception. In addition to this, she liked
family-trees, she was in cordial sympathy with good-breeding, and
Roland, who possessed both, had, through attentions which women of her
age appreciate most, succeeded in detaining her regard. In conversation,
whenever Justine happened to be mentioned, she had a habit of extolling
that young woman--not beyond her deserts, it is true, but with the
attitude of one aware that the girl had done something which she ought
to be ashamed of, yet to which no one was permitted to allude. This
attitude was due to the fact that she suspected her, and suspected that
everyone else suspected her, of an attachment for her cousin Guy. Now
Guy Thorold had never appealed to Mrs. Metuchen. He was not prompt with
a chair; when she unrolled her little spangle of resonant names he
displayed no eagerness in face or look. Such things affect a woman. They
ruffle her flounces and belittle her in her own esteem. As a
consequence, she disliked Guy Thorold; from the heights of that dislike
she was even wont to describe him as Poke--a word she could not have
defined had she tried, but which suggested to her all the attributes of
that which is stupid and under-bred. Roland, on the other hand, seemed
to her the embodiment of just those things which Thorold lacked, and in
the hope that he might cut the cousin out she extolled him to her charge
in indirect and subtle ways. You young men who read this page mind you
of this: if you would succeed in love or war, be considerate of women
who are no longer young. They ask but an attention, a moment of your
bountiful days, some little act of deference, and in exchange they sound
your praises more deftly than ever trumpeter or beat of drums could do.
But because Mrs. Metuchen had an axe of her own to grind was not to her
mind a reason why she should countenance a disregard of the Satanic
pomps of that which the Western press terms Etiquette. And so it
happened that, when Roland asked Justine whether she would care to
drive, before the girl could answer, the matron stuck her oar in:
"Surely, Mr. Mistrial, you cannot think Miss Dunellen could go with you
alone. Not that I see any impropriety in her doing so, but there is
the world."
The world at that moment consisted of a handful of sturdy consumptives
impatiently waiting the opening of the dining-room doors. And as Roland
considered that world, he mentally explored the stable.
"Of course not," he answered; "if Miss Dunellen cares to go, I will have
a dogcart and a groom."
With that sacrifice to conventionality Mrs. Metuchen was content. For
Justine to ride unchaperoned was one thing, but driving was another
matter. And later on, in the cool of the afternoon, as Roland bowled the
girl over the yielding sand, straight to the sunset beyond, he began
again on the duo which they had already rehearsed, and when Justine
called his attention to the groom, he laughed a little, and well he
might. "Don't mind him," he murmured; "he is deaf."
In earlier conversations he had rarely spoken of himself, and, when he
had, it had been in that remote fashion which leaves the personal
pronoun at the door. There is nothing better qualified to weary the
indifferent than the speech in which the I jumps out; and knowing this,
he knew too that that very self-effacement before one whose interest is
aroused excites that interest to still higher degrees. The Moi seul est
haïssable is an old maxim, one that we apprehend more or less to our
cost no doubt, and after many a sin of egotism; but when it is learned
by rote, few others serve us in better stead. In Roland's relations
with Justine thus far it had served him well. It had filled her mind
with questions which she did not feel she had the right to ask, and in
so filling it had occupied her thoughts with him. It was through arts of
this kind that Machiavelli earned his fame.
But at present circumstances had changed. She had placed her hand in
his; she had avowed her love. The I could now appear; its welcome was
assured. And as they drove along the sand-hills she told him of herself,
and drew out confidences in exchange. And such confidences! Had the
groom not been deaf they might have given him food for thought. But they
must have satisfied Justine, for when they reached the hotel again her
eyes were so full of meaning that, had Mrs. Metuchen met her in a pantry
instead of on the verandah, she could have seen unspectacled that the
girl was fairly intoxicated--drunk with that headiest cup of love which
is brewed not by the contact of two epiderms, but through communion of
spirit and unison of heart.
That evening, when supper was done, Mrs. Metuchen, to whom any breath of
night was synonymous with miasmas and microbes, settled herself in the
parlor, and in the company of her friends from School Lane discussed
that inexhaustible topic--Who Was and Who Was Not.
But the verandah, deserted at this hour by the consumptives, had
attractions for Justine, for Roland as well; and presently, in a corner
of it that leaned to the south, both were seated, and, at the moment,
both were dumb. On the horizon, vague now and undiscerned, the
peach-blossoms and ochres of sunset had long since disappeared; but from
above rained down the light and messages of other worlds; the sky was
populous with stars that seemed larger and nearer than they do in the
north; Venus in particular shone like a neighborly sun that had strayed
afar, and in pursuit of her was a moon, a new one, so slender and
yellow you would have said, a feather that a breath might blow away. In
the air were the same inviting odors, the scent of heliotrope and of
violets, the invocations of the woodlands, the whispers of the pines.
The musicians had been hushed, or else dismissed, for no sound came from
them that night.
Roland had not sought the feverish night to squander it in
contemplation. His hand moved and caught Justine's. It resisted a
little, then lay docile in his own. For she was new to love. Like every
other girl that has passed into the twenties, she had a romance in her
life, two perhaps, but romances immaterial as children's dreams, and
from which she had awaked surprised, noting the rhythm yet seeking the
reason in vain. They had passed from her as fancies do; and, just as she
was settling down into leisurely acceptance of her cousin, Roland had
appeared, and when she saw him a bird within her burst into song, and
she knew that all her life she had awaited his approach. To her he was
the fabulous prince that arouses the sleeper to the truth, to the
meaning, of love. He had brought with him new currents, wider vistas,
and horizons solid and real. He differed so from other men that her mind
was pleasured with the thought he had descended from a larger sphere.
She idealized him as girls untrained in life will do. He was the lover
unawaited yet not wholly undivined, tender-hearted, impeccable,
magnificent, incapable of wrong--the lover of whom she may never have
dreamed, yet who at last had come. And into his keeping she gave her
heart, and was glad, regretting only it was not more to give. She had no
fears; her confidence was assured as Might, and had you or I or any
other logician passed that way and demonstrated as clearly as a = a
that she was imbecile in her love, she would not have thanked either of
us for our pains. When a woman loves--and whatever the cynic may
affirm, civilization has made her monandrous--she differs from man in
this: she gives either the first-fruits of her affection, or else the
semblance of an after-growth. There are men, there are husbands and
lovers even, who will accept that after-growth and regard it as the
verdure of an enduring spring. But who, save a lover, is ever as stupid
as a husband? Man, on the other hand, is constant never. Civilization
has not improved him in the least. And when on his honor he swears he
has never loved before, his honor goes unscathed, for he may never yet
have loved a woman as he loves the one to whom he swears.
With Justine this was the primal verdure. Had she not met Roland
Mistrial, she might, and in all probability would, have exhibited
constancy in affection, but love would have been uncomprehended still.
As it was, she had come into her own; she was confident in it and
secure; and now, though by nature she was rebellious enough, as he
caught her hand her being went out to him, and as it went it thrilled.
"I love you," he said; and his voice was so flexible that it would have
been difficult to deny that he really did. "I will love you always, my
whole life through."
The words caressed her so well she could have pointed to the sky and
repeated with Dona Sol:
    "Regarde: plus de feux, plus de bruit. Tout se tait.
    La lune tout à l'heure à l'horizon montait:
    Tandis que tu parlais, sa lumière qui tremble
    Et ta voix, toutes deux m'allaient au coeur ensemble:
    Je me sentais joyeuse et calme, ô mon amant!
    Et j'aurais bien voulu mourir en ce moment."
But at once some premonition seemed to visit her. "Roland," she
murmured, "what if we leave our happiness here?"
And Roland, bending toward her, whispered sagely: "We shall know then
where to find it."
VI.
New York meanwhile, in its effeminateness, had forgotten the snow, and
was listening to the sun. And the day after the return from Aiken, as
Roland, in accordance with an agreement of which the locus sigilli had
a kiss for token, went down to knock at Mr. Dunellen's office door, the
sky was as fair as it had been in the South. Yet to him it was
unobtrusive. His mind was occupied with fancies that had a birth, a
little span of life, and which in passing away were succeeded by others
as ephemeral as themselves--thoughts about nothing at all that came and
went unnoticed: a man he had met in Corfu, and whom a face in the street
recalled; the glisten of silk in a window that took him back to
Japan;--but beneath them was a purpose settled and dominant, a
resolution to trick Fate and outwit it--one which, during the journey
from Aiken, had so possessed him that, in attending to the wants of Mrs.
Metuchen or in ministering to Justine, at times he had been
quasi-somnambulistic, at others wholly vague. But now, as he gave his
card to an office-boy, to all outward intent he was confident and at
ease; he picked up a paper and affected to lose himself in its columns.
Presently the boy returned, and he was ushered into the room which he
had previously visited. On this occasion Mr. Dunellen was not seated,
but standing, his back to the door. As Roland entered he turned, and the
young man stepped forward, his hand outstretched.
To his contentment, and a little also to his surprise, in answer to that
outstretched hand Honest Paul extended his, and Roland had the pleasure
of holding three apparently docile fingers in his own; but in a moment
they withdrew themselves, and he felt called upon to speak.
"Mr. Dunellen," he began, with that confident air a creditor has who
comes to claim his due, "Mr. Dunellen, I have ventured to interrupt you
again. And again I am a suppliant. But this time it is of your daughter,
not of my father, that--"
He hesitated, and well he might. Mr. Dunellen, who had remained
standing, and who in so doing had prevented Roland from sitting down,
now assumed the suspicious appearance of one who detects an unpleasant
smell; his features contracted, and for no other reason, apparently,
than that of intimidating the suppliant in his prayer.
But Roland was not to be abashed; he recovered himself, and continued
glibly enough: "The matter is this. I am sincerely attached to your
daughter, and I am come to ask your consent to our marriage."
