gown.' 
'But afterwards?' 
' Afterwards ? What is afterwards ? It is nothing to you or 
me. Afterwards means the time when you and I are buried, and 
the next generation are writhing in hair shirts of their own 
making, and prickly girdles which they put on themselves.' Rex 
laughed oddly. 
' I differ from you,' answered Greif. 
' You are a Korps student, sir. Does that mean that you wish 
to quarrel with me ? ' 
 
unless you choose. I am not in search of a row this 
morning. I differed from you as to your view of duty. It seems 
to me contrary to German ideas.' 
' Facts are generally contrary to all ideas,' answered Rex. 
'Not in Germany at least so far as duty is concerned. 
Besides, if science is true, facts must agree with it. Political 
ethics are a science, and duty is necessary to the system that 
science has created. What would become of our military supre- 
macy if the belief in duty were suddenly destroyed?' 
' I do not know. But I know that it will not make the 
smallest difference to us, what becomes of it, when we are dead 
and buried.' 
' It would change the condition of our children for the worse.' 
' You need not marry. No one obliges you or me to become 
the fathers of new specimens of our species.' 
' And what becomes of love in your system ? ' inquired Greif, 
more and more surprised at his acquaintance's extraordinary con- 
versation. 
'What becomes of any thing when it has ceased to exist?' asked Rex. 
' I do not know.' 
' There is nothing to know in the case. The motion you 
would call it force the motion continues, but the particular 
thing in which it was manifested is no longer, and that particular 
thing never will exist again. Motion is imperishable, because it is 
immaterial. The innumerable milliards of vortices in which the 
material of your body moves at such an amazing rate will not 
stand still when you are dead, nor even when every visible atom of 
your body has vanished from sight in the course of ages. Every 
vortex is imperishable, eternal, of infinite duration. The vortex 
was the cause before the beginning and it will remain itself after 
the end of all things.' 
' The prime cause,' mused Greif. ' And who made the vortex ? ' 
' God,' answered Rex laconically. 
'But then,' objected the younger student in some surprise, 'you 
believe in a future life, in the importance of this life, in duty, in 
all the rest of it.' 
' I believe in the vortex,' replied the other, ' in its unity, 
individuality and eternity. Life is a matter of convenience, its 
importance is a question of opinion, its duties are ultimately 
considerations of taste. What are opinions, conveniences and 
tastes, compared with realities ? The vortex is a fact, and it seems 
to me that it furnishes enough material for reflexion to satisfy a 
mind of ordinary activity.' 
 
' You hold strange views,' said Greif thoughtfully. 
'Oh no !' exclaimed Rex, with sudden animation. 'I am not 
at all different from any other peaceful student of astronomy, I 
can assure you. Neither the vortex nor any other fact ever 
prevents any man from doing what is individually agreeable to 
him, nor from enjoying everything that comes in his way, or 
calling it sinful, according to his convictions.' 
' And are you a happy man, if the question is not indiscreet ? ' 
'Ah, that is your favourite question among philosophers,' 
laughed Rex, 'and it shows what you really think of all your 
beliefs about duty and the rest of the virtues. You really care for 
nothing but happiness, if the truth be told. All your religions, 
your moralities, your laws, your customs, you regard as a means 
of obtaining ultimate enjoyment. There is little merit in being 
happy with so much artificial assistance. Real originality should 
show itself in surpassing your felicity without making use of your 
laborious methods in attaining to it. The trouble is that your 
political ethics, your recipes for making bliss in wholesale 
quantities, take no account of exceptional people. But why should 
we discuss the matter ? What is happiness ? Millions of volumes 
have been written about it, and no man has ever had the courage 
to own exactly what he believes would make him happy. You 
may add your name to the list, Herr von Greifenstein, if you 
please, and write the next ponderous work upon the subject. 
You would not be any happier afterwards and you would be very 
much older. If you really desire to be happy, I will tell you how 
it is possible. In the first place, are you happy now ? ' 
Rex fixed his stony stare, that contrasted so strangely with his 
beautiful face, upon Greif s eyes. He saw there an uncertainty, 
a vague uneasiness, that answered his question well enough. 
' Yes,' answered the younger man in a doubtful tone, ' I 
suppose I am.' 
I think your happiness is not complete,' said Rex, turning 
away. 'Perhaps my simple plan may help you. Interrogate 
yourself. What is it that you want ? Find out what that some- 
thing is that is all.' 
'And then ?'
' And then ? Why, take it, and be happy,' answered Rex with 
a careless smile, as though the rule were simple enough. 
' That is soon said,' replied Greif in a grave tone. ( I want 
what no man can give me.' 
' Nor woman either ? ' 
' Nor woman either.' 
 
'And something you could not take if it were before you, 
within reach ? ' 
' No. I want nothing material. I want to know the future.' 
' Surely that is not a very hard thing,' answered Rex, looking 
at his watch. 
' It must be dinner-time,' said Greif politely, as he noticed the 
action. He had no wish to detain his new acquaintance. 
' Indeed, it is just noon. I fear I have kept you from some 
engagement.' 
' I assure you, it has given me the greatest pleasure to meet 
you/ answered Greif, holding out his hand. 
' The pleasure has been quite upon my side,' returned Rex, 
bowing with alacrity. 
And so they parted, Rex plunging into a shady side street, 
while Greif continued his walk towards the dining-place of his 
Korps, thinking as he went, of the queer person he had just seen 
for the first time. His name was strange, his conversation was 
unusual, his eyes were most disagreeable, and yet oddly fascinating. 
Greif thought about him and was not satisfied with his short 
interview. The man's remark about the future was either that of 
a visionary, or of an absent-minded person who did not always 
know what he was saying. Greif himself could hardly understand 
how he had been led, in a first meeting with one who was alto- 
gether a stranger, to speak so plainly of what disturbed him. It 
was not his custom to make acquaintances at a venture, or to refer 
to his own affairs with people he did not know. He reflected, 
however, that he had not committed himself in any way, while 
admitting that he might easily have been drawn on to do so if the 
interview had been prolonged. 
At dinner he asked his friends whether any of them knew a 
student whose name was Rex. No one had heard of him, and on 
learning that he was a man older than the average, they mur- 
mured, and said one to another that Greif was beginning to cross 
the borders of Philistia. After the meal was over, Greif went to 
his lodgings and tried to work. The sudden anxiety that had 
seized him in the morning during the lecture grew stronger in 
solitude, until it was almost unbearable. He pushed aside his 
books and wrote to his father, inquiring whether anything had 
happened, in a way which would certainly have surprised old 
Greifenstein if he himself had been less nervous about the future 
than he actually was. It was a relief to have written, and Greif 
returned to his labours more quietly afterwards. 
He did not see Rex again in the lecture-room, though his eye 
 
wandered along the rows of heads bent down over busy hands that 
wrote without ceasing. Rex was not among them. He had said that 
he considered philosophy an amusement, and he probably came to 
the hall where it was taught when the fancy seized him to divert 
himself. But the desire to talk with him again became stronger, 
until Greif actually determined to go in search of the man. 
The sun had gone down, and he stood at his open window as 
he had done on the evening of his arrival, watching almost uncon- 
sciously for the first stars to shine out above the cathedral spire. 
The air was very quiet, disturbed by no sound but the swirl of the 
deep river against the stone piers of the bridge far down below 
the student's window. There was something melancholy in the 
ceaseless rush of the strong water, which reminded him of the 
sighing of the trees at home, on that last morning when he had 
sat with Hilda at the foot of the Hunger-Thurm. At such a time 
anything which recalled the circumstances of the vacation 
necessarily brought with it an increase in his anxiety. Greif 
thought of the evening that was before him if he joined his 
comrades at their usual place of meeting, and the prospect was 
distasteful. He would be glad to escape from the lights and the 
noise and the drinking and singing, even from his position of 
importance among his fellows, who made him their oracle upon all 
University matters. He would prefer to pass an hour or two in 
quiet conversation, in a quiet room, with Rex the student of 
astronomy and mathematics. He did not know where he lived, 
nor whether he would be at home at that hour, but it was easy to 
satisfy his curiosity upon both points. 
He found the address he wanted at the Beadle's office. Rex 
lived in a dark street near the cathedral. Greif climbed many 
flights of steps, finding his way by striking one match after another. 
At the top there was but one door. He knocked twice and waited. 
There was no answer, and he knocked again. He was sure that 
he could hear some one moving inside the apartment, but the door 
remained closed. Annoyed at being kept waiting he pounded 
loudly with the piece of iron and called on Rex by name. He was 
rewarded at last by hearing footsteps within. 
' Who are you ? ' asked an angry voice. ' And why are you 
making such a hideous noise ? ' 
' My name is von Greifenstein,' replied Greif, ' and I want to 
see Herr Rex.' 
He was preparing for a disagreeable encounter with some 
unknown person, when the door opened quickly and he found 
himself face to face with Rex himself. His expression was bland 
 
in the extreme as he held up the light he carried and greeted his 
guest. 
' I beg your pardon,' he said in tones very unlike those Greif 
had just heard. ' I had no idea that it was you. Pray come in.' 
' I am afraid I am disturbing you,' answered Greif, hesitating 
as though he had forgotten the tremendous energy he had put 
into his knocking. 
' Not at all, not at all,' repeated Rex, carefully fastening the 
door when Greif had entered. ' You see I am a newcomer and 
have no friends here,' he continued apologetically, ' and I did not 
imagine that you knew my address.' 
After passing through a narrow passage, Greif found himself in 
a large room with three windows. It was evident that Herr Rex 
lived more luxuriously than most students, for there was no bed 
in the place, and an open door showed that there was at least one 
other apartment beyond. A couple of bookcases were well filled 
with volumes, and there was a great heap of others upon the floor 
in the corner. Two large easy-chairs stood on opposite sides of the 
porcelain stove, which at that season was of course not in use. A 
broad table in the centre was covered with books, many of them 
new, and papers covered with notes or figures were strewn amongst 
them in the greatest disorder. Near one of the windows Greif 
noticed a writing-desk ; upon which lay a few drawing and writing 
materials and a large sheet of paper. It was clear that Rex had 
been at work here, for a bright lamp stood upon the desk and its 
strong light fell from beneath the green shade upon the mathe- 
matical figure that had absorbed the student's attention. 
' It is a very quiet lodging,' remarked Rex, drawing forward 
one of the arm-chairs and then seating himself in the other. ' It 
is just what I wanted. I do not like noise when I am reading.' 
Greif did not exactly know what to say. To visit a student in 
his rooms when he had only met him once, was a new experience, 
and Rex's stony blue eyes seemed to ask the object of his coming. 
It was evident that Rex only spoke of his habitation in order to 
break a silence which might have been awkward. 
' The fact is,' said Greif, as though answering a direct question, 
c I have been thinking of what you said the other day.' 
'You do my remarks an honour which I believe they have 
never received before,' replied Rex, bending his handsome head 
and smiling in his brown beard. 
' Do you remember ? I said that I needed only one thing to 
make me happy. I wanted to know the future. You answered 
that it must be easy to get my wish. Were you in earnest, or 
 
did you speak thoughtlessly ? That is what I came to ask 
you.' 
'Indeed?' Eex laughed. 'You said to yourself that your 
acquaintance was either a fool or an absent-minded person, did 
you not V 
'Well ' Greif hesitated and smiled. 'Either visionary or 
absent-minded,' he admitted. 'Yes, I could not explain your 
remark in any other way.' 
' Of course you could not, unless you suspected that I might be 
a charlatan.' 
' That did not occur to me ' 
' It might have occurred to you, considering what I had said. 
It might occur to you now, if I answered your question. But on 
the other hand it is of no importance whether it does or not. My 
reply will contribute to your peace of mind by helping you to 
catalogue a man you do not know among the fools and charlatans 
of whom you have heard. Would you like to know the future ? 
I can tell it to you, if you please.' 
' The vortex, I suppose,' answered Greif rather scornfully. 
'Yes. I can tell you the direction of the vortices of which 
you are composed, for a time, while they are on their way to join 
other vortices in the dance of death. The vortices do nothing but 
dance, spin and whirl for ever through life, the farce ; through death, 
the tragedy ; and through all the eternity of the epilogue. What 
do you wish to know ? ' 
'You are jesting!' exclaimed Greif moodily. 'I wish you 
would be in earnest.' 
'In earnest!' cried Rex contemptuously. 'What is earnest- 
ness ? ' 
He rose and went to the desk upon which the lamp was burning, 
opened it and took a fresh sheet of paper from \vithin. Greif 
watched him with considerable indifference. He had not found 
what he had sought and he already meditated a retreat. Rex 
paid no attention to him, but rapidly described a circle upon the 
paper and divided it into twelve parts with a ruler. 
'Do you remember the date of the day we met?' he asked, 
looking up. \ 
' It was a Monday,' replied Greif, wondering what his companion 
was doing. 
 I have a calendar,' said Rex. 
He consulted an almanac which he drew from his pocket, made 
a few short calculations, and jotted down certain signs and figures 
in various parts of the divided circle. When he had finished he 
looked attentively at what he had done. The whole operation 
had occupied about a quarter of an hour. 
'I do not wonder that you are anxious,' he remarked, as he 
resumed his seat in the easy-chair, still holding the sheet of paper 
in his hand. 
' What have you discovered ? ' inquired Greif, with an incredu- 
lous smile. 
'You are threatened by a great calamity, you and all who 
belong to you,' replied Rex. ' I suppose you know it, and that is 
the reason why you want to know the future.' 
Greif's cheek turned slowly pale, not at the announcement, 
but at the thought that this chance student perhaps knew of 
Rieseneck's existence, and of all that his return might involve. 
' Herr Rex,' he said sternly, ' be good enough to tell me what you 
know of me and my family from other sources than that bit of paper.' 
' Not much,' answered the other with a dry laugh. * I barely 
knew of your existence until I met you the other day, and I have 
not mentioned you nor heard your name spoken since.' 
' Why then, you can know nothing, and your figures cannot tell 
you,' said Greif, not yet certain whether to feel relief at the 
protestation of ignorance, or to doubt its veracity. 
' Shall I tell you what I see here ? ' 
' Tell me the nature of the calamity.' 
'Its nature, or the cause of it ?' inquired Rex, scrutinising the 
sheet of paper. 
' I suppose that they must be closely connected. Let me know 
