anyway. Now there ain't a more popular racket 
for us to work in that first number than a good, 
swingeing attack on Bevans. People read his books 
and quarrel over 'em, and the critics are all against 
him, and a regular flaying, with salt and vinegar 
rubbed in afterward, will tell more with people who 
like good old-fashioned fiction than anything else. 
I like Bevans's things, but, dad burn it ! when it 
comes to that first number, I 'd offer up anybody." 



 

" What an immoral little wretch you are, Fulker- 
son ! " said March, with a laugh. 

Fulkerson appeared not to be very strenuous 
about the attack on the novelist. " Say ! " he called 
out gaily, " what should you think of a paper 
defending the late lamented system of slavery ? " 

" What do you mean, Fidkerson ? " asked March, 
with a puzzled smile. 

Fulkerson braced his knees against his desk, and 
pushed himself back, but kept his balance to the eye 
by canting his hat sharply forward. "There's an 
old cock over there at the widow's that 's written a 
book to prove that slavery was and is the only solu- 
tion of the labour problem. He 's a Southerner." 

" I should imagine," March assented, 

'' He 's got it on the brain that if the South could 
have been let alone by the commercial spirit and the 
pseudo-philanthropy of the North, it would have 
worked out slavery into a perfectly ideal condition 
for the labourer, in whicli he would have been 
insured against want, and protected in all his 
personal rights by the state. He read the introduc- 
tion to me last night. I didn't catch on to all the 
points — his daughter 's an awfully pretty girl, and I 
was carrying that fact in my mind all the time too, 
you know — but that's about the gist of it." 

" Seems to regard it as a lost opportunity ! " said 
March. 

' ' Exactly ! What a mighty catchy title, heigh ? 
Look well on the title-page." 

" Well written ?" 




" I reckon so ; I don't know. The Colonel read 
it mighty eloquently." 

" It mightn't be such bad business," said March, 
in a muse. " Could you get mc a sight of it without 
committing yourself ? " 

" If the Colonel hasn't sent it off to another 
publisher this morning. He just got it back 
with thanks yesterday. He likes to keep it travel- 
ling." 

" Well, try it. I 've a notion it might be a curious 
thing." 

" Look here, March," said Fulkerson, with the 
effect of taking a fresh hold ; " I icish you could let 
me have one of those New York things of yours for 
the first number. After all, that 's going to be the 
great card." 

" I couldn't, Fulkerson ; I couldn't, really. I 
want to philosophise the material, and I 'm too new 
to it all yet. I don't want to do merely superficial 
sketches." 

" Of course ! Of course ! I understand that. 
Well, I don't want to hurry you. Seen that old 
fellov.' of yours yet ? I think we_ ought to have that 
translation in the first number ; don't you ? we 
want to give 'em a notion of what we 're going to do 
in that line." 

"Yes," said March; "and I was going out to look 
up Lindau this morning. I 've inquired at Maroni's, 
and he hasn't been there for several days. I 've 
some idea perhaps he 's sick. But they gave me his 
address, and I 'm going to see." 



 

" Well, that 's right. "We want the first number 
to be the key-note in every way." 

March shook his head. " You can't make it so. 
The first number is bound to be a failure always, as 
far as the representative character goes. It 's invari- 
ably the case. Look at the first numbers of all the 
things you 've seen started. They 're experimental, 
almost amateurish, and necessarily so, not only be- 
cause the men that are making them up are com- 
paratively inexperienced like ourselves, but because 
the material sent them to deal with is more or less 
consciously tentative. People send their adventur- 
ous things to a new periodical because the whole 
thing is an adventure. I 've noticed that quality in 
all the volunteer contributions ; it 's in the articles 
that have been done to order even. No; I've 
about made up my mind that if we can get one 
good striking paper into the first number that will 
take people's minds off the others, we shall be doing 
all we can possibly hope for. I should like," March 
added, less seriously, " to make up three numbers 
ahead, and publish the third one first." 

Fulkerson dropped forward and struck his fist on 
the desk. " It 's a first-rate idea. "Why not do it ? " 

March laughed. '' Fulkerson, I don't believe 
there 's any quackish thing you wouldn't do in this 
cause. From time to time I 'm thoroughly ashamed 
of being connected with such a charlatan." 

Fulkerson struck his hat sharply backward. " Ah, 
dad burn it ! To give that thing the right kind of 
start I 'd walk up and down Broadway between two 



 

boards, vnth the title-pago of Every Other Week 
facsimiled on one and my name and address on 

the " He jumped to his feet and shouted, 

" March, riUo it ! " 

''JFhat?'' 

" I 'll hire a lot of fellows to make mud-turtles of 
themselves, and I 'll have a lot of big facsimiles of 
the title-page, and I 'll paint the town red ! " 

March looked aghast at him. " Oh, come, now, 
Fulkerson ! " 

" I mean it. I was in London when a new man 
had taken hold of the old Cornhill, and they were 
trying to boom it, and they had a procession of 
these mud-turtles that reached from Charing Cross 
to Temple Bar. ' Cornhill Magazine. Sixpence. 
Not a dull page in it.' I said to myself then that 
it was the livest thing I ever saw. I respected the 
man that did that thing from the bottom of my 
heart. I wonder I ever forgot it. But it shows 
what a shaky thing the human mind is at its best." 

" You infamous mountebank ! " said March, with 
great amusement at Fulkerson's access ; " you call 
that congeries of advertising instincts of yours the 
human mind at its best ? Come, don't be so diffi- 
dent, Fulkerson. Well, I 'm off to find Lindau, and 
when I come back I hope Mr. Dryfoos will have you 
under control. I don't suppose you 'll be quite sane 
again till after the first number is out. Perhaps 
public opinion will sober you then." 

" Confound it, March ! How do you think they 
loill take it ? I swear I 'm crettinc: so nervous I don't 



 

know half the time which end of me is up. I believe 
if we don't get that thing out by the first of February 
it 'll be the death of me." 

" Couldn't wait till Washington's Birthday ? I 
was thinking it would give the day a kind of distinc- 
tion, and strike the public imagination, if " 

"No, I'll be dogged if I could!" Fulkerson 
lapsed more and more into the parlance of his early 
life in this season of strong excitement. "I believe 
if Beaton lags any on the art-leg I 'll kill him." 

" Well, I shouldn't mind your killing Beaton," 
said March tranquilly, as he went out. 

He went over to Third wenue and took the 
Elevated down to Chatham Square. He found the 
variety of people in the car as unfailingly entertaining 
as ever. He rather preferred the east side to the west 
side lines, because they offered more nationalities, 
conditions, and characters to his inspection. They 
draw not only from the uptown American region, 
but from all the vast hive of populations swarming 
between them and the East River. He had found 
that, according to the hour, American husbands 
going to and from business, and American wives 
going to and from shopping, prevailed on the Sixth 
wenue road, and that the most picturesque admix- 
ture to these familiar aspects of human nature were 
the brilliant eyes and complexions of the American 
Hebrews, who otherwise contributed to the effect of 
well-clad comfort and citizen-self-satisfaction of the 
crowd. Now and then he had found himself in a car 
mostly filled with Ne;ipolitans from the constructions 


far up the lino, whero he had read how they are 
worked and fed and housed like beasts ; and listen in ti; 
to the jargon of their unintelligible dialect, he had 
occasion for pensive question within himself as to 
what notion these poor animals formed of a free 
republic from their experience of life under its con- 
ditions ; and whether they found them practically 
very different from those of the immemorial 
brigandage and enforced complicity with rapine 
under which they had been born. But, after all, 
this was an infrequent effect, however massive, of 
travel on the west side, whereas the east offered him 
continual entertainment in like sort. The sort was 
never quite so squalid. For short distances the 
lowest poverty, the hardest pressed labour, must walk; 
but March never entered a car without encountering 
some interesting shape of shabby adversity, which 
was almost always adversity of foreign birth. New 
York is still popularly supposed to be in the control 
of the Irish, but March noticed in these east side 
travels of his what must strike every observer re- 
turning to the city after a prolonged absence : the 
numerical subordination of the dominant race. If 
they do not out-vote them, the people of Germanic, 
of Slavonic, of Pelasgic, of Mongolian stock out- 
number the prepotent Celts ; and March seldom 
found his speculation centred upon one of these. 
The small eyes, the high cheeks, the broad noses, the 
puff lips, the bare, cue-fdleted skulls, of Russians, 
Poles, Czechs, Chinese ; the furtive glitter of Italians ; 
the blonde dulness of Germans ; the cold quiet of 



io 

Scandinavians — fire under ice — were aspects that he 
identified, and that gave him abundant suggestion 
for the personal histories he constructed, and for the 
more public-spirited reveries in which he dealt with 
the future economy of our heterogeneous common- 
wealth. It must be owned that he did not take 
much trouble about this ; what these poor people 
were thinking, hoping, fearing, enjoying, sufl'ering ; 
just where and how they lived ; who and what they 
individually were — these were the matters of his 
waking dreams as he stared hard at them, while the 
train raced further into the gay ugliness — the shape- 
less, graceless, reckless picturesqueness of the Bowery, 
There were certain signs, certain facades, certain 
audacities of the prevailing hideousness that always 
amused him in that uproar to the eye which the 
strident forms and colours made. He was interested 
in the insolence with which the railway had drawn 
its erasing line across the Corinthian front of an old 
theatre, almost grazing its fluted pillars, and flouting 
its dishonoured pediment. The colossal effigies of the 
fat women and the tuft-headed Circassian girls of 
cheap museums; the vistas of shabby cross streets; the 
survival of an old hip-roofed house here and there at 
their angles ; the Swiss chalet, histrionic decorative- 
ness of the stations in prospect or retrospect ; the 
vagaries of the lines that narrowed together or 
stretched apart according to the width of the 
avenue, but always in wanton disregard of the life 
that dwelt, and bought and sold, and rejoiced or 
sorrowed, and clattered or crawled, around, below, 



 

jvbove — were features of the frantic panorama that 
perpetually touched his sense of humour and moved 
his sympathy. Accident and then exigency seemed 
the forces at work to this extraordinary eflfcct ; the 
play of energies as free and planless as those that 
force the forest from the soil to the sky ; and then 
the fierce struggle for survival, with the stronger 
