youth, before thought or experience had formed the character of either.
When—as almost always happens—they do not meet until each is incased
in the armor of their separate and perfected individualities, no matter
how united they may become, there must be hours and days of terrible
spiritual loneliness—there must be certain sides of their natures that
can never touch. But”—he bent his flushed face to hers and his voice
shook—“there are moments—there are hours—when barriers are of mist,
when duality is forgotten. Such hours, isolated from time and the
world——”
She broke from him as from an invisible embrace and stood on the edge of
a rock. She gave a little, rippling laugh that was caught and lost in
the rush and thunder of the waters. “Your theories are fascinating,” she
cried, “but this unknown cataract is more so. I should like to stand
here for an hour and watch it, were not these rocks so slippery——”
Quintard turned his head. Then he leaped down the path beneath the
ledge. Hermia had disappeared. He was about to swing himself out into
the cataract when he staggered and leaned against the rock; his heart
contracted as if there were fingers of steel about it. With a mighty
resolution, he overcame the physical weakness which followed in the wake
of the momentary pain, and, planting his feet on one of the broad stones
over which the torrent fell, he set his shoulder against a projecting
rock and looked upward. Hermia lay on a shelf above; the force of the
cataract was feebler at its edges and had not swept her down. Quintard
crawled slowly up, his feet slipping on the slimy rocks, only saving
himself from being precipitated into the narrowing body of the torrent
below by clinging to the roots and branches that projected from the
ledges. He reached Hermia; she was unconscious, and it was well that he
was a strong man. He took her in his arms and went down the rocks. When
he stepped on to the earth again his face was white, and he breathed
heavily. “My heart beats as if I were a woman,” he muttered impatiently,
“what is the matter with me?”
He laid Hermia on the ground, and for a moment was compelled to rest
beside her. Then he aroused himself and bent anxiously over her. She had
had a severe fall; it was a wonder her brains had not been dashed out.
He lifted her and held her with her body sloping from feet to head. She
struggled to consciousness with an agonized gasp. She opened her eyes,
but did not appear to see him, and, turning her face to the torrent,
made a movement to crawl to it. Quintard caught her in his arms and
stood her on her feet.
“What are you doing?” he asked roughly.
She put her hand to her head. “I like to watch it, but the rocks are so
slippery,” she said confusedly, yet with a gleam of cunning in her
shadowed eyes.
Quintard caught her by both shoulders and shook her. “My God!” he
exclaimed, “did you do it purposely?”
The blood rushed to her head and washed the fog from her brain. “You are
crazy,” she said; “let us go home.”
                 
                             CHAPTER XXIX.
                       AN EPOCH-MAKING DEPARTURE.
A woman never moralizes until she has committed an immoral act. From the
moment she voluntarily accepts it until the moment she casts it aside,
she may do distasteful duty to the letter, but she does it mechanically.
The laws and canons are laid down, and she follows them without
analysis, however rebelliously. She may long for the forbidden as
consistently as she accepts her yoke, whether the yoke be of untempted
girlhood or hated matrimony; but the longing serves to deepen her
antipathy to bonds; she sees no beauty in average conditions. After she
has plucked the apple and eaten it raw, skin, core and all, and is
suffering from the indigestion thereof, she is enabled to analytically
compare it with such fruits as do not induce dyspepsia.
Although Hermia was far from acknowledging that she loved Quintard, she
allowed him occasionally to reign in her imagination, and had more than
one involuntary, abstract, but tender interview with him. This, she
assured herself, was purely speculative, and in the way of objective
amusement, like the theater or the opera. When she found that she
thought of him always as her husband she made no protest; he was too
good for anything less. Nor, she decided, had she met him earlier and
been able to love him, would she have been content with any more
imperfect union.
Cryder still came with more or less regularity. There were brief,
frantic moments, as when she had sought death in the torrent; but on the
whole she was too indifferent to break with him. Her life was already
ruined; what mattered her actions? Moreover, habit is a tremendous
force, and he had a certain hold over her, a certain fascination, with
which the physical had nothing to do.
After she had known Quintard about two months she found herself free.
Cryder, in truth, was quite as tired as herself. Ennui was in his
tideless veins, and, moreover, the time had come to add another flower
to his herbarium. But he did not wish to break with Hermia until his
time came to leave the city. If she had loved him, it might have been
worth while to hurt her; but, as even his egoism could not persuade him
that she gave him more than temperate affection, he would not risk the
humiliation of being laughed at.
One evening he told her that he must go South the following week and
remain several months. His dialect was growing rusty, and the public
would expect another novel from him in the coming spring. He hated to
say good-bye to her, but his muse claimed his first and highest duty.
Hermia felt as one who comes out of a room full of smoke—she wanted to
draw a long breath and throw back her head. She replied very politely,
however—they were always very polite—that she should miss him and look
forward to his return. Neither would avow that this was the end of the
matter, but each was devoutly thankful that the other was not a fool.
Cryder looked melancholy and handsome when he came to say good-bye. He
had on extremely becoming traveling clothes, and his skin and eyes had
their accustomed clearness. He bade Hermia a tender farewell, and his
eyes looked resigned and sad. Then an abstracted gaze passed into them,
as if his spirit had floated upward to a plane far removed from common
affection.
Hermia had much ado to keep her mouth from curling. She remembered what
Quintard had once said of him: that he always wanted to throw him on a
table to see if he would ring. Bah! what a poseur he was! Then she
mentally shrugged her shoulders. His egoism had its value; he had never
noticed the friendship which existed between her and Quintard. Had he
been a jealous man he would have been insufferable.
After he had gone he seemed to glide out of her life—out of the past as
of the present. She found herself barely able to recall him, his
features, his characteristics. For a long time she never thought of him
unless some one mentioned his name, and then she wondered if he had not
been the hero of a written sketch rather than of an actual episode.
Whether it was owing to Cryder’s removal or to Quintard’s influence, she
could not tell, but she found herself becoming less blasé. Her spirits
were lighter, people interested her more, life seemed less prosaic. She
asked Quintard once what it meant, and he told her, with his usual
frankness, that it was the spring. This offended her, and she did not
speak for ten minutes.
On another occasion he roused her to wrath. He told her one day that on
the night he met her he had been impressed with a sense of unreality
about her; and, acting on a sudden impulse, she told him the history of
her starved and beautiless girlhood. When she finished she expected many
comments, but Quintard merely put another log of wood on the fire and
remarked:
“That is all very interesting, but I am warned that the dinner-hour
approaches. Farewell, I will see you at Mrs. Dykman’s this evening.”
Hermia looked at the fire for some time after he had gone. She was
thankful that fate had arranged matters in such wise that she was not to
spend her life with Quintard. He could be, at times, the most
disagreeable man she had ever known, and there was not a grain of
sympathy in his nature. And, yes, he was prosaic!
                 
                              CHAPTER XXX.
                           THROUGH THE SNOW.
Two days later Hermia went to a large dinner, and Quintard took her in.
She was moody and absent. She felt nervous, she said, and he need not be
surprised if he found her very cross. Quintard told her to be as cross
as she liked. He had his reasons for encouraging her in her moods. After
the dinner was over she wandered through the rooms like a restless
ghost. Finally she turned abruptly to Quintard. “Take me home,” she
said; “I shall stifle if I stay in this house any longer. It is like a
hot-house.”
“But what will Mrs. Dykman say?”
“I do not care what she says. She is not ready to go, and I won’t stay
any longer. I will go without saying anything to her about it.”
“Very well. There will be comment, but I will see if they have a
telephone and order a cab.”
“I won’t go in a cab. I want to walk.”
“But it is snowing.”
“I like to walk in the snow.”
Quintard thought it best to let her have her way. Moreover, a walk
through the snow with her would be a very pleasant thing. He hunted up a
housemaid and borrowed a pair of high overshoes. Hermia had on a short
gown; she pulled the fur-lined hood of her long wrap about her head,
Quintard put on the overshoes, and they managed to get out of the house
unnoticed. The snow was falling, but the wind lingered afar on the
borders of the storm.
“You had better let me call a cab.”
“I will not drive,” replied Hermia; and Quintard shrugged his
shoulders and offered his arm.
The walk was not a long one under ordinary circumstances; the house at
which the dinner had been given was in Gramercy Park; but, with a
slippery pavement and snow-stars in one’s eyes, each block is a mile.
Quintard had an umbrella, but Hermia would not let him raise it. She
liked to throw back her head and watch the snow in its tumbling,
scurrying, silent fall. It lay deep in the long, narrow street, and it
blotted out the tall, stern houses with a merry, baffling curtain of
wee, white storm-imps. Now and again a cab flashed its lantern like a
will-o’-the-wisp.
Hermia made Quintard stop under one of the electric lamps. It poured its
steady beams through the storm for a mile and more, and in it danced the
sparkling crystals in infinite variety of form and motion. About the
pathway pressed the soft, unlustrous army, jealous of their transformed
comrades, like stars that sigh to spring from the crowded milky way.
Down that luminous road hurried the tiny radiant shapes, like coming
souls to the great city, hungry for life.
Hermia clung to Quintard, her eyes shining out of the dark.
“Summer and the country have nothing so beautiful as this,” she
whispered. “I feel as if we were on a deserted planet, and of hateful
modern life there was none. I cannot see a house.”
“I see several,” said Quintard.
Hermia gave a little exclamation of disgust, but struggled onward.
“Sometimes I hate you,” she said. “You never respond to my moods.”
“Oh, yes, I do—to your real moods. You often think you are sentimental,
when, should I take you up, you would find me a bore and change the
subject. You will get sentimental enough some day, but you are not ready
for it yet.”
“Yes? You still cling to that ridiculous idea that I shall some day fall
in love, I suppose.”
“I do. And how you will go to pieces.”
“That is purest nonsense. I wish it were not.”
“Have you got that far? But we will not argue the matter. Your mood
to-night, as I suggested before, is not a sentimental one. You are
extremely cross. I don’t know but I like that better. It would be hard
for me to be sentimental in the streets of New York.”
Hermia rather liked being bullied by him at times. But if she could only
shake that effortless self-control!
They walked a block in silence. “Are you very susceptible to beauty?”
she asked suddenly.
Quintard laughed. “I am afraid I am. Still, I will do myself the justice
to say that it has no power to hold me if there is nothing else. Beauty
by itself is a poor thing; combined with several other
things—intellect, soul, passion—it becomes one of the sweetest and
most powerful aids to communion.”
“Why do you think so much of passion?” she demanded. “You haven’t any
yourself.”
They passed under a lamp at the moment, and a ray of light fell on
Quintard’s face, to which Hermia had lifted her eyes. The color sprang
to it, and his eyes flashed. He bent his head until she shrank under the
strong, angry magnetism of his gaze. “It is time you opened your eyes,”
he said harshly, “and learned to know one man from another. And it is
time you began to realize what you have to expect.” He bent his face a
little closer. “It will not frighten you, though,” he said. And then he
raised his head and carefully piloted her across the street.
Hermia made no reply. She opened her lips as if her lungs needed more
air. Something was humming in her head; she could not think. She looked
up through a light-path into the dark, piling billows of the vaporous,
storm-writhed ocean. Then she caught Quintard’s arm as if she were on an
eminence and afraid of falling.
“Are you cold?” he asked, drawing her closer.
“Yes,” said Hermia. “I wish we were home. How thick the snow is! Things
are in my eyes.”
Quintard stopped and brushed the little crystals off her lashes. Then
they went on, slipping sometimes, but never falling. Quintard was very
sure-footed. The snow covered them with a garment like soft white fur,
the darkness deepened, and neither made further attempt at conversation.
Quintard had all he could do to keep his bearings, and began to wish
that he had not let Hermia have her way; but she trudged along beside
him with a blind sort of confidence new to her.
After a time he gave an exclamation of relief. “We are within a couple
of blocks of your house,” he said. “We shall soon be home. Be
careful—the crossing is very slip——. Ah!”
She had stepped off the curbstone too quickly, her foot slipped, and she
made a wild slide forward, dragging Quintard with her. He threw his arm
around her, and caught his balance on the wing. In a second he was
squarely planted on both feet, but he did not release Hermia. He wound
his arms about her, pressing her closer, closer, his breath coming
quickly. The ice-burdened storm might have been the hot blast of a
furnace. He did not kiss her, his lips were frozen; but her hood had
fallen back and he pressed his face into the fragrant gold of her hair.
He loosened his hold suddenly, and, drawing her arm through his, hurried
through the street. They were at Hermia’s door in a few moments, and
when the butler opened it she turned to him hesitatingly.
“You will come in and get warm, and ring for a cab?” she asked.
“Yes,” he said, “I will go in for a moment.”
They went into the library, and Quintard lit all the burners. He touched
a bell and told the butler to bring some sherry and call a cab.
When the sherry came he drank a glass with her, and entertained her
until the cab arrived, with an account of a wild storm in which he had
once found himself on the mountains of Colorado. When the bell rang she
stood up and held out her hand with a smile.
“Good-luck to you,” she said. “I hope you will get home before morning.”
He took her hand, then dropped it and put both his own about her face,
his wrists meeting under her chin. “Good-night,” he said softly. “Go to
those sovereign domains of yours, where the castles are built of the
clouds of sunset, and the sea thunders with longing and love and pain of
desire. I have been with you there always; I always shall be;” and then
he let his hands fall, and went quickly from the room.
Hermia waited until the front door had closed, and then she ran up to
her room as if hobgoblins were in pursuit.
                 
                             CHAPTER XXXI.
                         THE DYKMAN REPRIMAND.
While Hermia was sitting in the library the next day in a very
unenviable frame of mind, the door opened and Mrs. Dykman came in.
“Hermia,” she said, after she had disposed herself on one of the severe,
high-backed chairs, “it is quite time for you to adopt some slight
regard for the conventionalities. You are wealthy, and strong in your
family name; but there is a limit. The world is not a thing you can hold
in the hollow of your hand or crush under your foot. The manner in which
you left Mrs. Le Roy’s house last night was scandalous. What do you
suppose the consequences will be?” Her cold, even tones never varied,
but they had the ice-breath of the Arctic in them.
“Are people talking?” asked Hermia.
“Talking? They are shrieking! It is to be hoped, for your own sake, that
you are going to marry Grettan Quintard, and that you will let me
announce the engagement at once.”
Hermia sprang to her feet, overturning her chair. She had a book in her
hand, and she flung it across the room. Her eyes were blazing and her
face was livid. “Don’t ever dare mention that man’s name to me again!”
she cried. “I hate him! I hate him! And don’t bring me any more tales
about what people are saying. I don’t care what they say! I scorn them
all! What are they but a set of jibbering automatons? One year has made
me loathe the bloodless, pulseless, colorless, artificial thing you call
society. Those people whose names and position each bows down to in the
other are not human beings! they are but a handful of fungi on the great
plant of humanity! If they were wrenched from their roots and crushed
out of life to-morrow, their poor, little, miserable, self-satisfied
numbers would not be missed. Of what value are they in the scheme of
existence save to fatten and puff in the shade of a real world like the
mushroom and the toadstool under an oak? They are not alive like the
great world of real men; not one of them ever had a strong, real,
healthy, animal impulse in his life. Even their little sins are
artificial, and owe their faint, evanescent promptings to vanity or
ennui. I hate their wretched little aims and ambitions, their well-bred
scuffling for power in the eyes of each other—power—Heaven save the
mark! They work as hard, those poor midgets, for recognition among the
few hundred people who have ever heard of them, as a statesman does for
the admiration of his country! And yet if the whole tribe were melted
down into one soul they would not make an ambition big enough to carry
its result to the next generation. A year and I shall have forgotten
every name on my visiting-list. Great God! that you should think I care
