which lies between the St. Mary's River and the Savannah.
At the little port within the inlet they disembarked, and took the small
steamer of the Inside Route, which was to carry them through the sounds
to Romney. Night had come on, dark and quiet; clouds covered the sky;
the air was warm, for it was still summer here. The dusky shores, dimly
visible on either hand, gave a sense of protection after the vastness of
the ocean; the odors of flowers reached them, and seemed sweet after its
blank, cold purity. Cicely, with Porley and Jack, was on the deck near
the stern; the judge was now with them, now at the prow, now up-stairs,
now down-stairs; he could not be still. Eve sat by herself on the
forward deck, gazing through the darkness at the water; she could not
see it save here and there in broken gleams, where the lights from the
lower cabin shone across it; she heard the rushing sound made by the
great paddle-wheels as they revolved unseen behind her, and the fancy
came to her that she should like to be lashed to the outer rim of one of
them, and be carried up and down through the cool water. Towards ten
o'clock a beam shone out ahead. "See it?" said the judge, excitedly,
coming to show it to her. "Jupiter Light!"
And Eve remembered that less than a year before she had landed here for
the first time, a woman imperious, sufficient to herself; a woman who
was sure that she could direct her own course; in addition, a woman who
supposed herself to be unhappy. How like child's play did this all seem
now--her certainties, and her pride, and her supposed sorrow! "If I
could die, wouldn't that be the best thing for me, as well as for Paul?
A way out of it all? The first shock over, I should be but a memory to
him; I should not be a miserable haunting presence, wretched myself, and
making him wretched too. I wonder--I wonder--is it wrong to try to die?"
The stern Puritan blood of her father in her answered, "One must not
give up until one has exhausted every atom of one's strength in the
contest."
"But if it is all exhausted? If--" Here another feeling came sweeping
over her. "No, I cannot die while he is in the world; in spite of my
misery, I want to be here if he is here. Perhaps no knowledge of
anything that happens here penetrates to the next world; if that is the
case, I don't want to be there, no matter how beautiful it may be. I
want to stay where I can hear of Paul."
After they had left the boat, and Pomp and Plato were hoisting the
trunks into one of the wagons, Cicely came up.
"Eve, you must stay with me more, now that we are here; you mustn't be
always off by yourself."
"I thought you preferred it."
"Yes, through the journey. But not now. It's a great deal worse for me
now than it is for you; you have left Paul behind, but I am going to see
Ferdie in a moment or two. I shall see him everywhere--in the road, at
the door, in our own room; he will stand and look at me."
"Well, you will like that."
"No, for it will be only a mockery; I shall not be able to put my arms
round him; he won't kiss me."
"Cecilia," called the judge, his voice ringing out happily, "everything
is ready now, and Cesh is restive."
Cicely gave one of her sudden little laughs. "Poor grandpa! he is so
frantic with joy that he even says 'Cesh,'--though he loathes
abbreviations!"
Secession, the mule, started on his leisurely walk towards Romney.
In the same lighted doorway where Eve had been received upon her first
arrival, now appeared again the tall figure of Miss Sabrina. The poor
lady was crying.
"Oh, my darling Cicely, what sorrow!" she said, embracing her niece
fondly.
As they entered the hall: "Oh, my darling Cicely, what a home-coming
for you! And to think--" More tears.
As they came into the lighted parlor: "Oh, my darling Cicely--What! no
mourning?" This last in genuine surprise.
Cicely closed the door. She stood in the centre of the room. "This is
not a charnel-house, Sabrina. No one is to speak to me of graves. As to
mourning, I shall not wear an inch of it; you may wear as many yards as
you like--you always loved it; did you begin to mourn for Ferdie before
he was dead?"
"Oh, pa, she said such terrible things to me--our own Cicely. I don't
know how to take it!" moaned poor Miss Sabrina to her father when they
were left alone.
"Well, you are pretty black, Sabrina," suggested the judge, doubtfully.
"Those tossels now--"
"I got them because they were cheap. I hope they look like mourning?"
"You needn't be afraid; they're hearse-like!"
"Are they, really?" said Miss Sabrina, with gratification. "The choice
at the mainland store is so small." But presently the tears came again.
"Oh, pa, everything is so sad now. Do you remember when I used to ride
my little pony by your side, and you were on your big black horse? How
kind you have always been to me, pa; and I have been such a
disappointment to you!"
"No, no, Breeny; no, little girl," said the judge.
They kissed each other, the old man and his gray-haired child. Their
minds went back to brighter days; they understood each other's sorrow.
At two o'clock Eve had not yet gone to bed. There was a tap at her door.
She spoke. "Cicely?"
"Yes."
She drew back the bolt, and Cicely entered, carrying a small lamp. "You
haven't gone to bed? So much the better; you are to come with me."
"Where?"
"To all the places where we went that night."
"I cannot."
"There is no question of 'cannot;' I wish you to go, and you must, if I
say so."
Eve looked at her with forlorn eyes. But Cicely was inflexible. She
opened the door; Eve followed her.
"First, I want to see that Jacky is all right," Cicely said. She led the
way to her own room. Jack was asleep, his dimpled arms thrown out on the
pillow. Cicely bent over him for a moment. Then she looked at Eve. "You
won't ever be troubled by this sort of thing, will you? You'll never
have a child!" She laughed, and, taking the lamp, turned towards the
door. "This was Ferdie's dressing-room; don't you see him over there by
the window?" Eve shrank. "Now he has gone. But we shall hear him
following us along the corridor presently, and across the ballroom.
Then, in the thicket, he will come and look at us;--do you remember his
eyes, and the corners of his mouth,--how they were drawn down?" And the
corners of her own mouth took the same grimace.
"I cannot go with you," said Eve, stopping.
"You will do what I wish you to," answered Cicely;--"one generally does
when one has injured a person as you have injured me. For I loved
Ferdie, you know; I really had the folly to love him." (She said this
insolently.) Turning to Eve, with the same insolent smile, "At last you
know what love is, don't you?" she added. "Has it brought you much
happiness?"
Eve made no answer, she followed humbly; together they went through the
labyrinth of small rooms at the end of the corridor and entered the
ballroom.
Its empty space was dark, a glimmering gray alone marking the
unshuttered windows. The circle of light from their lamp made the
blackness still blacker.
"Do you remember when I put on that ball-dress of my grandmother's, and
came jumping along here?" said Cicely. "How strange it is!--I think I
was intended to be happy."
After a moment she went on: "Now we must begin to listen; he will come
in behind us, we shall hear his step. You ought to hear it all your
life!" she added.
They reached the window at last; it had seemed to Eve an endless
transit. Cicely drew back the bolt, threw up the sash, and, with the aid
of a chair, stepped out.
"Wait here," she said, when Eve had joined her outside; "then, when I
have reached the thicket, draw the window down, just as he did; I want
to hear the sound."
She went quickly towards the thicket, carrying her lamp. Eve was left
alone on the veranda.
After a few minutes Eve tried to draw down the sash. It resisted, and
she was obliged to use all her strength. A shiver came over her as she
lifted her arms to try a second time, she almost expected to see a hand
come stealing over her shoulder (or under it), and perform the task for
her; and the hand would be--Ferdie's. She hurried after Cicely.
Cicely came out from the thicket. "Now take the lamp and walk down the
road a little way; I wish to see the gleam moving over the
bushes,--don't you remember?"
Eve obeyed. It seemed to her as if she should never be free from this
island and its terror; as if she should spend the rest of her life here
following Cicely, living over again their dreadful flight.
When she came back, Cicely said, "Now for the north point;" she led the
way along the road; their footsteps made crunching sounds in the sand.
Cicely said, "I was in hopes that the moon would come out from behind
those clouds. Oh, I'm so glad! there it is! Now it will light up the
very spot where you shot him. I will leave the lamp here on the sand;
that will give the yellow gleam that we saw behind us. Now go into the
woods. Then, in a few moments, you must come out and look about, just as
you did then, and you must put out your hand and make a motion of
shooting."
"I will not," said Eve, outraged. "I shall leave you and go back."
Cicely saw that she had come to the end of her power. She put her arms
round Eve's neck, and held her closely. "To please me, Eve; I shall
never be content without it; I want to see how it all was, how you
looked. Just this once, Eve; never again, but just this once."
"I thought you had forgiven me, Cicely?"
"I have, I have." She kissed Eve again. "Do content me."
Eve went slowly towards the trees. As she disappeared within the
shadow, Cicely instantly concealed herself on the other side of the
road. There was a silence.
The moon, emerging still further from the clouds, now silvered the
forest, the path, and the sound with its clear light; there was no boat
drawn up at the point's end; the beach sloped smoothly to the water,
unbroken by any dark outline, and the water stretched smoothly towards
Singleton Island, with only the track of the moon across it.
Eve stood in the shadow under the trees. The spell of the place was upon
her; like a somnambulist, she felt herself forced by some inward
compelling power to go through the whole scene. The thought of Cicely
had passed from her mind; there was but one person there now--Ferdie; in
another moment she should see him; she listened; then she went forward
to the edge of the wood and looked down the road.
Something came rushing from the other side, and with quick force bore
her to the ground. Not Ferdie, but Cicely, like a tigress, was upon her,
her hands at her throat. In a strange suffocated voice, she cried, "Do
you like it? Do you like it? Do you like to be dead?"
And Eve did not struggle; she lay motionless in Cicely's
grasp--motionless under the weight of her body keeping her down. The
thing did not seem to her at all incredible; suddenly it seemed like a
remedy for all her troubles--if Cicely's grasp should tighten. Passively
she closed her eyes.
But Cicely's grasp did not tighten; the fury that had risen within her
had taken all her strength, and now she lay back white and still. Eve,
like a person in a dream, went down to the beach and dipped her
handkerchief in the water; slowly she came back, and bathed Cicely's
forehead and wrists. But still Cicely did not stir. Eve put her hand on
her heart. It was beating faintly. She stooped, and lifted Cicely in her
arms, holding her as one holds a child, with one arm round her shoulders
and the other under her knees, Cicely's head lying against her breast.
Then she began her long walk back.
XXXII.
The stars were fading, there was a band of clear light in the east over
the sea, when Eve reached the veranda of Romney again; with pauses for
rest, she had carried her sister all the way. Cicely was small and
light, her weight was scarcely more than that of a child; still, owing
to the distance, the effort had been great, and Eve's strength was
exhausted. She put her burden gently down on the floor of the veranda,
and stood leaning against one of the wooden pillars, with her arms
hanging by her sides to rest them; they were numb and stiff, almost
paralyzed; she began to be afraid lest she should not be able to raise
them again; she went to the window to try. The effort of lifting the
sash drew a groan of anguish from her. But Cicely did not hear it; she
remained unconscious. The dawn grew brighter, soon the sun would appear.
It was not probable that at this early hour any one would pass this
uninhabited end of the house; still, negroes were inconsequent; Pomp and
Plato might be seized with a fancy to come; if she could only get Cicely
back to her room unseen, there need be no knowledge of their midnight
expedition. She knelt down beside her, and chafed her hands and temples;
she spoke her name with insistence: "Cicely! Cicely!"--she put the whole
force of her will into the effort of reaching the dormant consciousness,
wherever it was, and compelling it to waken. "Cicely!" She looked
intently at Cicely's closed eyes.
Cicely stirred, her dark-fringed lids opened; her vague glance caught
the gleam of the sound. "Where are we?" she asked.
"We came out for a walk," Eve answered. "Do you think you could climb
in--I mean by the window? I am afraid I cannot lift you."
"Of course I can. Why shouldn't I?"
She did it as lightly and easily as ever; she was in perfect possession
of all her faculties. Eve followed her. Then she drew down the sash with
the same effort.
"What is the matter with your arms?" Cicely asked. "You move them as
though they were rusty."
"I think they are rusty."
They went through the ballroom, now looking very prosaic, flooded with
the light of the rising sun. "We're always tramping through this old
room," said Cicely.
When she reached the door of her own chamber, she abruptly drew Eve in.
"Well--are you going to leave me forever?"
"Not unless you send me away."
"Is it on baby's account that you stay?"
"Not more now than at any time."
"You don't mind what I did, then?"
"You didn't do anything."
"That's brave of you, Eve, when you hate lies so. You are trying to make
me believe that nothing happened out there in the road--that I was just
as usual. But I remember perfectly--I sprang at you; if I had been a
man--my hands stronger--you wouldn't be here now!"
"Fortunately you are not a man, nor anything like one," Eve answered, in
the tone of a person who makes a joke. She turned towards the door.
"Wait, I want to tell you," said Cicely, going after her, and turning
her round with her hands on her shoulders. "This is it, Eve; it comes
over me with a rush sometimes, when I look at you--that here you are
alive, and Ferdie dead! He was a great deal more splendid than you
are, he was so handsome and so young! And yet there he is, down in the
ground; and you walking about here! Nothing seems too bad for you
then; my feeling is, 'Let her die too! And see how she likes it.'"
"I should like it well enough, if somebody else did it," Eve answered.
"Death wouldn't be a punishment, Cicely; it would be a release."
Cicely's grasp relaxed. "Oh, very well. Then why haven't you tried it?"
"Because Paul Tennant is still in the world! I am pusillanimous enough
to wish to breathe the same air."
"You do love him!" said Cicely. She paused. "Perhaps--after a
little--"
"No, I have thought it all out; it can never be. If he should come to me
this moment, and tell me that he loved me in spite of everything, it
wouldn't help me; for I should know that it could not last; I should
know that, if I should marry him, sooner or later he would hate me; it
would be inevitable. Ferdie's face would come always between us."
"I hope it may," said Cicely, savagely. "Why do you keep on staying with
me? I don't wish you to stay. Not in the least."
"I thought that I could perhaps be of some use. You were so dear to my
brother--"
"Much you care for poor old Jack now! Even I care more."
"Yes, I have changed. But--Jack understands."
"A convenient belief!"
"And you have his child."
--"And I am Paul's sister!"
"Yes; I can sometimes hear of Paul through you."
Eve's voice, as she said this, was so patient that Cicely was softened.
She came to Eve and kissed her. "I am sorry for you, Eve."
"Will you promise me to go to bed?" Eve answered, resuming her usual
tone, as she turned towards the door. "I must go now, I am tired."
Cicely went with her. "I am never sure of myself, Eve," she said,
warningly; "I may say just the same things to you to-morrow,--remember
that."
Once in her own room, Eve did not follow the advice which she had given
to Cicely; finding that she could not sleep, she dressed herself afresh,
and sought the open air again. It was still early, no one was stirring
save the servants. Meeting Porley, she asked the girl to bring her some
tea and a piece of corn-bread; after this frugal breakfast, taken in the
shade of the great live-oaks, she wandered down one of the eastern
roads. Her bath had brought no color to her cheeks; her eyes had the
contracted look which comes after a night of wakefulness; though the
acute pain had ceased, her weary arms still hung lifelessly by her side,
her step was languid; only her golden hair looked bright and young as
the sun's rays shone across it.
She walked on at random; after a while, upon looking down one of the
tracks, bordered by the glittering green bushes, she recognized Miss
Sabrina's figure, and, turning, followed it.
Miss Sabrina had come out to pay an early visit to her temple of
memories. She heard Eve's step, and looked up. "Oh, is it you, my dear?
It's St. Michael and All-Angels; I have only brought a few flowers, I
hope you don't mind?" Her voice was apologetic.
"Do you mean for my brother? I wish you had brought more, then; I wish
you would always remember him," said Eve, going over and sitting down
beside the mound. "He has the worst time of any of us, after all!"
"Oh, my dear, how can we know?" murmured Miss Sabrina, shocked.
