had, therefore, opportunity for comforting each other, and making the
time appear shorter. After several days, during which the tedious and
solitary life I led had well nigh driven me to despair, there walked
into my cell a Japanese officer, whom I took to be of some rank and
importance. After lamenting that they had thus far been obliged to
confine me by myself, he agreeably surprised me by asking which of the
sailors I would like to have as a companion? I replied that they were
all equally dear to me, and that I wished to have them all with me in
turns; he immediately gave orders to have my wish attended to. I asked
him if the Japanese intended to treat us always in this manner?
"No," answered he; "in future you will all live together, and after a
while be sent home."
"Will this soon happen?" I asked.
"Not so very soon," replied he, shortly, and left without further
explanations.
Men who find themselves in a situation like ours, catch up every word,
and meditate on it closely. Had he said "soon," I would have regarded
his words as a mere attempt at consolation; but now I believed him,
and grew more contented. Hardly was this officer gone, when one of the
sailors was brought to me. The man was not a little astonished to see
what a pleasant apartment I had, and feasted his eyes on the objects
he saw from my window. My prison seemed a paradise compared to the
cells in which he and the rest had been put. These cells, it was
true, were built like mine, but far more narrow and penable, and they
stood one on the other in a kind of shed, so that there was a free
passage all round them. Instead of a door, they had an opening so low
that you had to creep through it. No friendly ray of light ever
penetrated to them, and they were surrounded by gloom and darkness.
The conversation I held with the sailor invigorated, in some degree,
the sorrow I felt, and I now ate the food that was brought to me for
the first time since our arrival at Khakodade. Our food now was worse
by far than when we were on our way to the town. They gave us by
turns, rice-broth, warm water, with grated radishes, but no herbs,
finely cut leeks, boiled beans, salted cucumbers, a soup with balls of
meal, made from beans and spoiled fish. Our drink was generally warm
water; sometimes, but seldom, they gave us poor tea, without sugar.
When we complained of this wretched fare to one of the officers of the
guard, he promised us meat, butter, and milk, but excused himself
afterwards, when we reminded him of his promise, by jocosely telling
us that the cows were still at pasture. When, in order to accomplish
our purpose in another manner, we feigned illness, he asked us, in a
sympathizing manner, what the Russians did when they were sick? and
what they ate?
"All that the physician prescribes," answered I; "most commonly
chicken broth."
Immediately he demanded of us a detailed account of how chicken broth
was prepared, and when we gave it, he wrote it down on a piece of
paper. But it seemed as if this were done merely from curiosity or
derision, for the chicken broth was never mentioned afterwards. Once
he treated us to beer, and in return wished to see us perform a
Russian dance. When I remarked to him that no one could compel us to
dance, in such a situation as ours, he said, composedly:
"That's true; a Japanese, in such a case, would neither dance nor
sing."
As I could not obtain any materials for writing, I invented, in order
to note daily occurrences, a diary of a peculiar kind. If any thing
pleasant occurred, I tied a knot in a white thread, which I pulled out
of my shirt. When any thing unpleasant happened to us, I tied a knot
in a black silken thread, from my cravat. If any thing note-worthy
took place, either pleasant or the reverse, I tied together the ends
of a green thread, which I drew from the lining of my uniform. From
time to time I reckoned over these knots, and recalled to my mind the
circumstances they were intended to denote.
On the tenth of August, word was brought to us that the commander-in-chief
of the town wished to see us, and that at noon we were to be presented to
him. Accordingly, at the appointed time, they took us singly from our
cages, bound ropes round our bodies, and led us by them, under a strong
escort, through a long and wide street, which ran through the town and
was filled with people, to a castle surrounded by an earthen wall, at the
gates of which stood a numerous guard. Having taken us into the
court-yard, they made us take our seats on benches and mats, and treated
us to good tea, sugar, and tobacco. We might have sat there about an hour,
when a voice was heard calling, "Captain Khovorin!" which was the way the
Japanese pronounced my name. Two soldiers, who stood by my side,
immediately led me through a door, which was hastily closed behind me,
into a large hall, through the paper curtains of which came a dim
light. On the walls of this apartment hung irons, with which to fetter
criminals, cords, and other instruments of punishment, which made me
conclude that I was in a chamber devoted to the torture. In the middle of
the hall, sat the commander-in-chief, on a kind of raised platform. He was
surrounded by several officers and scribes, each of whom had before
him his paper and inkstand, and at his side a dagger and huge sabre. After
the other prisoners had been led in, a most tedious and insignificantly
minute examination was commenced, concerning our names and ages, our
parents, and places of birth; also as to the Russian Empire, its power
on land and sea, the ship we arrived in, and the object of our journey.
The answers we deemed advisable to give, were, as well as the
interpreter could understand them and translate them into Japanese,
noted down with the greatest exactness.
At last the commander-in-chief asked, with particular emphasis, if the
religion of Russia had not been lately changed, as an ambassador who
had formerly been in Japan, had worn a long cue, and hair thickly
powdered, whilst we had it cut short. When we told him that in our
country, the style of wearing the hair had nothing whatever to do with
religion, the Japanese laughed in a contemptuous manner, and wondered
not a little, that we had no fixed laws on so important a subject. As
it was now nearly dark, we were led back to our cages.
Afterwards, we were several more times taken into this hall, where the
same questions were put to us, though in a different form, that they
might entrap us. They compared the answers we now gave, with those
formerly given, and on the slightest difference appearing, made the
most diffuse inquiries about it. Finally, on the twenty-seventh of
September, they took us from Khakodale to Matsmai, the capital of the
island, which is situated on the southern coast, where we were
immediately immured in a strongly fortified building, which stood on a
hill.
IV.
At the first look which we took of our quarters, we thought that we
had seen the sun for the last time, for although without, the day was
clear and bright, yet within almost total darkness reigned.
Imagine a four cornered shed, five and twenty paces long, fifteen
wide, and some twelve feet high, three sides of which were walled up
without the smallest opening, and the fourth covered with a strong
wooden grating made of bars placed about four inches from each other.
In the grating was a door and little gate, but both securely bolted.
In the middle of the shed stood a couple of cages, likewise made of
wooden bars, and separated from each other and the wall, by narrow
passages. One of these cages was six feet square and ten high; the
other was of the same heighth and breadth, but only eight feet high.
In the latter were the sailors, and in the former, Moor, Chleb Nikow,
and I. The entrance to each of them was so narrow that one was obliged
to creep through it. The door was made of thick beams and fastened by
means of a strong iron bolt, over which was a little opening through
which they put our food, when they gave it to us. The wall of each
cage, which was opposite that of the other, was made of boards, so
that we could not see the sailors nor they us. Outside of the grating
which formed one side of the shed, was a sentry box, in which two
soldiers kept a continual watch. They could see us all, and did not
take their eyes off us for a single moment.
During the night they entered the shed every half hour, walked around
our cages and looked in through the bars. From sunset until the break
of day, numerous watchmen went the rounds with lanterns, and struck
the hours with a couple of sticks.
At night our prison was still more dreary, for we had neither light
nor fire. A lamp set in a paper lantern, burned in the guard-house,
and threw a pale, sickly light into the shed, which it would not have
been sufficient to illumine, under any circumstances. Except the
scanty portion which the rays of this light fell on, all the shed was
shrouded in impenetrable darkness. The rattling which ensued from the
opening and shutting of doors, whenever the guards visited us, broke
through the deep silence of night, and added to the discomforts of our
situation. It was out of our power to enjoy a calm refreshing sleep,
for besides the noise, frightful phantoms of every kind drove it
away.
The shed, cages, guard-houses, and hedges, by which they were
surrounded, were all quite new, and had so lately been finished, that
the chips and shavings had not yet been carried away. The building,
which was large, and made of beautiful wood, must have cost the
Japanese government no trifling sum; greater indeed, we imagined, than
they would have devoted to such an object, had their intention been
soon to set us free. For a sojourn of two or three years, they might
easily have found some suitable building already constructed, and the
security and arrangements of this place, seemed to denote that it was
to be our abode for a long while, perhaps during life. These
reflections tormented us fearfully. For a long while we sat silently
gazing at each other, considering ourselves as victims to our own
imprudence. On the fourth day after our arrival at Matsmai, the
Japanese took us out of our cages, in order, as they told us, to
present us to the governor. We went bound in the old way, with
soldiers holding the ropes. The road to the fort was through a dirty
street, which they had covered with boards, and as it commenced
raining, they held umbrellas over our heads. We were led into a roomy
court-yard within the fort, which was covered with pebbles, and were
placed in a row on a bench which stood within a small building. After
we had remained here about an hour, a door was opened, and we were
taken through a second court into a third, where the soldiers who
accompanied us, laid aside their sabres, daggers, and the straw
sandals which they wore instead of shoes, and at the same time, pulled
off our boots. We were now taken into an immense hall, the floor of
which was covered with magnificently worked carpets. The doors and
windows were made of beautiful wood elaborately carved. On the
curtains which according to the Japanese custom, formed the partition
walls between the rooms, and could be removed at pleasure, were
paintings set in golden frames, and ornaments representing beasts and
birds. On both sides of the room were seated Japanese officers, armed
with swords and daggers. They laughed and joked among themselves until
a noise was heard, and a voice cried, "Hush!" when a deep silence
prevailed.
A servant now entered the apartment, kneeled down at the door, laid
the palms of his hands on the ground, and bowed his head. The governor
then made his appearance, clad in a plain black robe, on the sleeves
of which was embroidered his crest, as is customary in Japan. At his
girdle hung a dagger, but his sabre was carried by a servant, who had
it rolled up in a cloth, that his hands might not touch it. After the
governor had taken his seat, the Japanese all made him a reverence,
laying the palms of their hands on the floor, and bowing so profoundly
that their foreheads touched it, in which position they remained for
several seconds. He replied to their salutation by bowing low, his
hands placed on his knees. We also saluted him, in the European
fashion, and he nodded his head to us, smiling all the while, as if to
assure us that his intentions towards us were friendly.
He now drew from his bosom a sheet of paper, and called over the names
of each one of us, according to his rank. We replied singly, by a bow,
and each time he bent his head. He then spoke to a man who was
sitting by his side, and who held the post of interpreter, and
commanded him to translate to us what he was about to say. But this
individual did not seem to have the slightest knowledge of the Russian
language, and began with the words:
"I am a man, thou art a man, another is a man, tell me what kind of a
man?"
When we, astounded at the fellow's impudence, managed to explain to
them that we did not understand in the least what he was trying to
say, and the officers, after some trouble, had made him confess that
he did not know even the commonest phrases in the Russian language,
they began to laugh, drove him away, and made use of our interpreter,
Alexis, who had hitherto remained a prisoner with us. After an
examination, during which the same questions were put to us as had
been formerly asked by them, the governor, or "Bunjo," as the Japanese
term him, told us that if we had any request to make, we might now do
so.
"We wish only for two things," we replied, "either to return to our
native land, or if that is impossible, to die."
At this unexpected declaration, the governor made a long and earnest
speech, in which he laid particular emphasis on the fact that the
Japanese were men, and had feelings like the rest of mankind, and
that, therefore, we need not doubt them, nor have any fear, for as
soon as it was proved that it was not by the command of the Russian
Emperor, that our countrymen had committed violence in Japanese
territory, but of their own accord, we should be sent home,
abundantly supplied with all things necessary. Until that time, they
would take care that we wanted for nothing, and if we needed clothes
or any thing else, we must not be ashamed to ask for them.
The Bunjo then left us, and we returned to our cages with the hope, at
least, that through favorable circumstances we might escape from our
imprisonment.
V.
From that day our food was greatly improved, for besides the rice
broth, and salt radishes, which they had hitherto given us, we now
received very good fresh and salt fish, roasted or boiled in
poppy-oil, soups made from different kinds of savory herbs, or
sea-mussles, and when the snow began to fall, they shot sea-dogs,
bears, and rabbits, for us, and prepared under our direction,
sometimes, a Russian dish, namely, fish eaten with thin grits, and
little barley-cakes. Our food was brought to us three times a day. For
drink, we received warm and strong tea, and after any fatiguing
examination, they gave us two glasses of warm beer, which they did
also in cold weather. They also furnished us with furred coats, and
night garments, and when they found that it was not customary in
Russia to spend the night on the ground, they made us benches to sleep
upon.
This amiable behavior, on the part of the Japanese, emboldened us to
ask one of the officers, who visited us, whether it was not possible
to have a window cut in the back wall of the shed, so that we might be
able to see the sky and the tops of the trees. He did not refuse our
request, but examined the wall, asked us where we would like to have
it made, praised our choice, and went away. We, of course, believed
that our entreaty would be complied with, but we were very much
mistaken, for when, a few days afterwards, we repeated our request,
the officer replied that the Japanese were very anxious about the
state of our health, and feared lest the north wind would give us a
cold; therefore, they deemed it more prudent not to make a window.
As the autumn came on, and it grew more and more unpleasant to live in
an open building, the Japanese, at our earnest solicitation, pasted
paper over the lattice work, and made a window in the roof, which
could be opened and shut by means of ropes. Through this window we saw
the sky at times, which, in a situation like ours, was a great
comfort. Moreover, when it grew colder, they dug a couple of holes in
the ground, about two paces distant from the cages, and having lined
them with flag-stones, filled them with sand. During the day they
burnt charcoal on these hearths, and by sitting close to the grating,
we could warm ourselves without being within reach of the coals. After
a few days, they gave us pipes with very long stems, to the middle of
which they tied wooden balls, which were too large to be drawn through
the pales. In this way we could smoke the pipes, which they filled for
us, as often as we wished, without having the power to draw them into
our prisons. This mistrust of us, raised our indignation to the
highest pitch; but when we expostulated with them, and told them, in
the strongest terms, what a horror and aversion the Europeans
entertained for suicide, they merely laughed, and appealed to their
laws, which enjoined on them the necessity of keeping from their
prisoners every thing with which they could hurt either themselves or
others. For this reason they would never trust us with needles to mend
our clothes, nor even with a pair of scissors to cut our nails,
obliging us to put our hands through the bars of our cages, that the
soldiers might perform the operation for us.
In the beginning of our captivity, they had not allowed us even to
change our clothes or wash our shirts, but now they provided us with
water for that purpose, which relieved one of our most pressing
necessities. They also invited us to get into a tub, in which water
was warmed by means of a pipe connecting with a little oven, and wash
ourselves. I took the lead, and we found that we had all to bathe in
the same water. This arrangement displeased us not a little, as we
held it to be treatment unworthy of the commonest criminals. But we
soon were silent on this point however, for to our great astonishment,
we saw the soldiers who guarded us, follow our example, and without
adding a drop of fresh water, use the same that we had bathed in! and
these soldiers did not by any means hold a low rank in society, but
were highly esteemed by their countrymen.
We had, in the meantime, by the command of the governor, by whose
orders we were supplied with pen and ink, and with the aid of several
interpreters, prepared a written defence which, when finished, we sent
to him. On the fifteenth of November, we were again led into the fort,
but this time with great rejoicing, and with the assurance that our
affairs were prospering, and that our innocence was beginning to be
universally acknowledged. The Bunjo too declared that after our
assertions, and written defence, he now viewed the attack made on
Japanese property by the Russian vessel, in an entirely different
light, and that he was fully convinced of our entire innocence. It was
true that he had not the disposing of us; that remained with the
Emperor, but he would do all in his power to bring our affairs to a
