shopping, and she purchased two pretty summer-silk 
dresses. At parting, she put one parcel in Eve's hand. 

"This is for you, my dear," she said; "and with 
it my best wishes. But do not wear yourself out 
too fast, saving and working. There is nothing so 
sweet as youth, and that is the season for pleasure." 

" How lovely she was ! " exclaimed Eve. " I 
should have valued any little gift, and I wasn't 
expecting any thing ; for somehow I have always 
fancied Mrs. Harwood a very close woman, though 
she has a good deal of upright common sense, the 
kind that is just and earnest. And, when we get set 
tled, she is coming over to pay us a visit. I do seem 
to be in luck. I am getting all the things I want." 

" You seem to want very little." 



 

"You didn't think so when I first proposed a 
house," she said archly. " And, Adam, the girls are 
coming over, lots of them. We shall have the gayest 
sort of a summer here in this sleepy little town. 
Everybody will be amazed." 

We resolved we would be in no hurry to get in. 
It was comfortable where we were while fires were 
needed, and we would take our renovating by 
degrees. I found the roof needed a little repairing, 
the leaders were choked up by leaves and dirt, and 
the dining-room chimney had a small leak. I had a 
man come, who, with my assistance and planning, did 
the mending, and all the leaders were freshly painted, 
at a cost of seven dollars. The outside of the house 
needed painting badly, but that must wait. Then a 
woman came, and cleaned the attic and the second 
floor in one day, at the very moderate price of a 
dollar and a quarter. The next thing was to paint 
the woodwork. 

"Aunt Carry and I painted down at Long 
Branch," said Eve; "and why isn't it just as sen 
sible as painting innumerable plaques and panels? 
There ought to be a practical side to art, when people 
need it for real use. Now, I am sure you and I can 
paint it to our liking. I want some pretty delicate 
tints. I shall have blue rooms and green rooms, and 
dainty bits of coloring. Why, Adam, it will be the 



 

most delightful thing in the world ! I have wished 
that I could get into the business of house decoration, 
and now I can try on ours." 

We purchased some household paints in various 
tints, and a can of white, to lighten if we needed. 
We had ten pounds in all, and by that quantity we 
purchased it for eighteen cents a pound. I bought 
seventy-five cents' worth of brushes, one quite 
large, two small ; and, after settling upon our colors, 
we went at the two small rooms. One was in a 
delicate lavender ; the other a pale gray, with lav 
ender alternations. Eve took the sashes, and I the 
doors. There were four doors and three windows. 
I must confess that Eve would have made good 
wages if it had been piece-work at a fair price. She 
was so quick and deft, so neat as well. Now and 
then I had to run down for a train ; but we finished 
both chambers, and they looked very inviting. 

" Do you know," said Eve, " that I shall paint the 
floors ? The rooms are small, and painted floors will 
be cleaner. We can lay down rugs, and that will be 
cheaper," with a bright laugh. 

That evening she " dreamed " out her color, she 
declared. The bay -windowed room was to be hers. 
By skilful manipulation, she made a lovely tint, 
neither green nor blue, but an indescribable medium, 
and, with the least bit of gray, softened it to perfec- 



 

tion. The other was in parti-colors again, buff, 
with a bit of dull blue. We finished both the same 
day, and found we had not used all our paint. The 
parlor down-stairs had been trimmed in black walnut ; 
and the mantel was of the same wood, very pretty 
indeed. The hall and stairs were grained to match; 
but it looked now as if suffering from some eruptive 
disease, so many bangs and rubs had it received. 
The dining-room was pine, oiled originally, but 
looking badly now. 

"A coat of varnish will help it," I said. "And 
the graining must be mended and varnished." 

" That will be a labor long drawn out, if not of 
linked sweetness," she said humorously. 

Then we discussed papering. There really was 
nothing else to do with the chamber-walls. 

" And when once done, it lasts for a long while," 
Eve continued. " We can do it ourselves." 

But we decided, while we were about it, that it 
would be the part of wisdom to paper the ceilings as 
well. Then we could go on for years without much 
fuss of house-cleaning. We went down to North- 
wood one morning, and looked at "odd lots," finding 
many really beautiful remnants that the dealer was 
glad to sell at any price. One piece took Eve's fancy 
particularly. It had four stripes in the width that 
were exquisite. 



 

" You see," said Eve, with an eye to economy, 
" this will make beautiful bordering at a very small 
cost. I am not going to have it put on in the usual 
regulation way, but try how much harmony and 
effect I can get in it." 

We spent for paper, nine dollars and fifty cents, 
and had enough for the chambers and the dining- 
room. I had a man come one day to paper the ceil 
ings : the' rest we did ourselves. There was a little 
deep red in the dining-room paper ; and we touched 
up the woodwork at the edges of the moulding 
with Pompeiian red, and the effect was excellent. 
The hall and stairways had painted walls, also the 
parlor. They were not in very good order ; but being 
clean, we decided to let them go until a more conven 
ient season. The kitchen had a wainscoted dado 
with paper above, but we resolved sometime to paint 
it. I must not omit to state that Eve painted the 
floors of the small chambers in Pompeiian red, and 
was well satisfied with her experiment. We found 
it to be a most excellent and cleanly proceeding. 

We had now spent for labor and material twenty- 
four dollars and fifty-five cents, and had the inside of 
our house in very fair order. For this we used our 
March surplus and the fifteen dollars we had saved 
before. We would have enough to live on during 
April, but I insisted that Eve should keep her forty 



 

dollars for the present. So far, it was then about 
the 10th of April, the weather had been decidedly 
cold. Not much could be done in farming. 

We had entertained ourselves by reading up all 
kinds of farm and garden literature that came in our 
way, and we could get plenty of it at the library. 
We laughed over the failures and mistakes : we mar 
velled a little at some of the wonderful stories. 

" The best way," said Eve sagely, " is to strike a 
golden mean. Since we have a garden and some 
time on our hands, let us try to make it profitable. 
If we could pay the interest with our sales " 

" O Eve ! " I interrupted, " don't dream of that. 
In fact, don't dream of any thing. This year will be 
just an experiment." 

" But we must avoid what has proved unfortunate 
in other people's experiments, and adopt the best. 
What is the good of all this wisdom of years and 
years, if it does not teach you to do something ? " 

I took a serious survey of my garden one sunny 
morning, and began to trim the trees. There were 
three .quinces that looked quite promising when 
pruned into shape. Just back of the house was 
one large pear-tree, and at the south-west corner a 
cherry-tree. At the side near the street was a large 
oblong of grass, lawn, I suppose I ought to call it. 
Back of this were two rows of pear-trees going up to 



 

the barn, eight in all. One in each row I found was 
dead, but the space was better for those that remained. 
Beyond this there were the quince, two apple-trees, 
one more cherry ; and there had been peaches innu 
merable, but they were nearly all dead, though some 
promising young ones had grown up. The ground 
had a frontage of two hundred feet on Oak Avenue, 
and was three hundred feet in length. Over on the 
west side at the dividing-line was a blackberry 
tangle that did look hopeless. I found currants, 
gooseberries, and raspberries. The two former were 
set between the pear-trees. Certainly, there had been 
an abundance of fruit when the place was in order. 

I trimmed and trimmed. I dragged my dead and 
useless branches to the barn-yard, and decided that 
we ought to have a fireplace in the house, that we 
might enjoy the blaze thereof. It seemed to me an 
endless task ; but I went over the ground thoroughly 
as far as I did go, and was amazed at the improve 
ment. There would be a large space for gardening, 
and we discussed what our vegetable venture would 
be. 

" Pease and sweet corn," said Eve, " and radishes 
and lettuce and tomatoes. Oh, we ought to plant the 
seeds in boxes ! And cucumbers and every 
thing." 

I laughed. 




I was leaning on my own gate-post resting, when 
one of my neighbors came along. This was a Mr. 
Montgomery, whose son, Dan, cast tender glances at 
Eve. Mr. Montgomery had owned all this end of 
the township, and been a prosperous farmer, some 
fifteen years before. But when the mania for im 
provement overtook Athens, he cut up his farm, laid 
out the two avenues, Oak and Montgomery, and sold 
off some plots. Then came the great depression. 
Much of the land had lain waste since then. It 
would hardly pay to fence it in, so it had been 
allowed to grow bountiful crops of weeds. His 
money he had been compelled to live upon, and found 
himself now in .very straitened circumstances, and 
leading a kind of aimless life. There were four girls 
and three boys in the family. The eldest son and 
daughter worked in the hat-factory at Springdale, 
the next station above. Dan was about twenty, 
and was clerk in the principal grocery-store at 
Athens. The next daughter had just set up as 
a dressmaker, and the three younger ones were 
at home. 

"Well, young man," began my senior, "I suppose 
you think you are going to do quite wonders here, 
set us all an example ; " and he gave a good-natured 
but rather derisive laugh. 

"I do not know about the example," I returned. 



 

"I am rather new to this kind of business, and I 
may need a little advice." 

" Well, I suppose you've lots of book-learning on 
the subject, and let me tell you that isn't worth a 
rye straw. What you want is practical knowledge. 
And then, this kind of work doesn't pay hereabouts. 
Bermuda and the South are sending in every thing : 
there isn't any profit in gardening, or farming for 
that matter, unless you go West. If my wife was 
willing, I'd start to-morrow." 

"Yet," I said, "people on Long Island, and, indeed, 
in every direction from New-York City, do make 
gardening pay. There seems a continual demand." 

" Well, you don't get any returns. The best 
prices are gone, and you come in at the fag-end. 
Wasn't calculating to do that yourself, I hope ? " 

" Not at present ; but I shall raise a little to try 
my hand." 

" There's no use bothering with it. You can buy 
it for half of what it will cost you. Now, do you 
know what I'd do with this place?" 

"What?" I inquired. 

" Well, first of all, I'd hustle up that great patch 
of blackberry briers. They are the worst things to 
get in the ground : you have to fight 'em out every 
