viduality is to vigor, and because to vigor, 
therefore to duration of life. We have re- 
membered that modern science has given us 
proof, so overwhelming as to partake of the 
nature of revelation, of a truth so familiar that 
we had all but overlooked it — the truth that 
man, to the most solemn ends, is born to fight 
for his life. We have recollected that the 
struggle for existence is decided by the ratio 
of individuality to the odds ; that individual- 
ity may be subtle or strong ; that victory 
may be real or apparent ; that individuality is 
likely to become, with the progress of civiliza- 
tion, a more complex fact, in which the rela- 
tion between the seen and the unseen may 
change its present proportions. We have 
called to mind, also, that the love of life is 
one of the elements of life, and that death 
sets in with the passion, whether real or ap- 
parent, for death. We have remembered that 
the desire for eternal, and therefore unseen, 
life is an important human impulse ; and we 
have alluded to the contributions of Christian 
philosophy toward the love of eternal life es- 
pecially as framed in the theory of conditional 
immortality. We have further suggested that 
the Christian offer of immortality is a progres- 
sion from lower phases of the same thing, and 
entitled to the respect due to any highly ad- 
vanced organization. 
Does it not remain to be said that strength 
of individuality is probably proportional to the 
strife for eternal existence ? Tremendous is 
the truth, if this be true. A man may be neg- 
ligent of his own noblest nature if he deem 
himself the victim of a blind chance, or a re- 
lentless tyrant, or even an arbitrary governor. 
He must start, if he be a man, to a view of 
life and time which puts him on his mettle 
before both. The appeal to self-respect, in 
such a view, is as powerful as self-respect can 
bear. Suppose that this view be true. Sup- 
pose that the struggle for existence which be- 
gins with the Protozoa, or the Promammalia, 
and advances  to Aristotle or Darwin, has 
become nothing more nor less than a struggle 
for immortality. 
Suppose that the challenge is thus broadly 
thrown down to you, or me, or Newton, or the 
Jukes family. Live or die ! It is your own 
affair. You have the conditions and the 
chances. Accept or decline. No gods, pagan 
or Christian, shall interfere to compel you. 
Your personality has sacred and awful rights. 
You are caught in the machinery of inextri- 
cable law. Love is a part of that law; but 
both love and law must take the material that 
you give them. Of what stuff are you made ? 
Abide the test. It is ours to ask. Are you 
a man or a molecule? Are you a soul or 
a cell ? It is yours to decide. Give us the 
proof. 
Truth has endless corridors by which to ap- 
proach conviction, and one can see in such a 
 We say advances. We cannot say ends ; for we have 
no evolutionist yet returned from the silence of apparent 
end to classify whatever possible superior form of being 
may exist beyond reach of our microscope or telescope. 
view as this, a marked appeal to certain types 
of nature which seem to be left out of the 
usual religious argument. It is perhaps true 
that many a person objects to troubling him- 
self with immortality, either as an advantage 
or a disadvantage, when his attention is con- 
centrated exclusively upon the fact that eter- 
nal life involves definite moral conditions. 
That it should imply, also, certain conditions 
of a very different sort is quite another mat- 
ter; that it should touch the intellect, the 
force, the good sense, or even the simple 
pluck of a man — this is to be regarded. We 
may be conquered through our pride, when we 
cannot be won through our conscience. He 
who does not find it any longer exciting to be 
told that he is not good enough to live for- 
ever, will scarcely hear without interest that 
he is not strong enough. Many of us would 
rather be called bad than weak. It is an arrest 
to the thoughtf ulness of any man but an 
inferior one to show him reason why he may be 
in the way of losing an obvious gain through 
inferiority. Precisely that, such a view of 
the struggle for immortality as we have sug- 
gested would undertake to show. 
In proportion to the force and vigor of the 
individual is the love of life, present and to 
come. Eternal life should be at least as 
much a test of power as temporal life. Indi- 
viduality means the acquisition of life; one 
rates one's self accordingly. To love life, to 
strike out for it, to overcome it, to insist on it, 
is strength. To fail of it is weakness. We 
do not stay just now to remind you that a 
pure heart, forgiven sin, consecrated deeds, are 
the conditions of immortality, and that a given 
being may miss of it by missing these ; we say 
only that he misses it because there is not 
enough of him, or because he does not make 
enough of himself to get it. He of the centri- 
fugal nature, w T hose mind works from within 
outward, moving in spirals about moral prob- 
lem s; who finds it easy to doubt accepted 
truths because of what strikes him repeatedly, 
at the same point, as the excess of his own 
originality — he will be reluctant to believe 
that he may be declining immortality simply 
because he is not man enough to have it. Yet, 
metaphysically as physically, the argument 
holds. He is thrust upon a battle-field, enor- 
mous and deadly. As for the bread of the 
body, so for the bread of the soul, he fights. 
As for life, love, success, fame, and the trifles 
of time, so for eternal hope, and its majes- 
tic possibilities, he shall be challenged. Is he 
a man ? Let him show his colors. Is he a sol- 
dier ? Ask for his scars. Does he hold his 
ground ? Does he shirk, desert, surrender, or 
fly ? Let him look to it. By so much as he 
is a force, he will keep the field. 
Retreat from the great effort of being to 
secure its own continuity, may have whatever 
moral aspects ; it is at least true that to re- 
treat is to be beaten ; that to be beaten is to 
be weak ; and that such weakness may be the 
last fate which has presented itself as probable 
to the type of soul most likely to succumb. 
For, let us notice, the struggle for immor- 
tality is not a simple and obvious affair. The 
armor and sabre, the powder and shot, are not, 
in fact, altogether the urgent and the tangible. 
The blood and dust and mortal cries 
may not be the apparent, or the audible ; and 
he who is hurled down 66 unable or to move or 
die," may give no sign. As with the silent 
defeats of life, so with its dumb victories. He 
needs the higher education in the deaf-mute 
language of the soul, who would apply his tac- 
tics to the estimate ; and his is the best mar- 
tial culture of the spirit which is most con- 
scious of its own unfitness to specialize that es- 
timate. But so much as this it is easy to see : 
as civilization refines, the intricacy and deli- 
cacy of the struggle for existence must refine 
with it ; and, that this is likely to be true of 
eternal as well as of temporal existence, the 
course of our argument has already suggested, 
and now finds itself obliged to emphasize. 
The struggle for eternal life is no light 
matter, like ladies' calisthenics, which exercise 
only certain muscles. The athletics of the 
soul are virile ; they are impartial ; they are 
not ornamental and fanciful. Development is 
demanded for use, not for exhibit. Tissue and 
sinew and blood and bone respond ; now this, 
now the other, urgency on one, relief of the 
other, pressure here, repose there, strain to-day, 
rest to-morrow, this faculty aroused, the other 
lulled, this feat to be performed, that danger 
scorned, a boy's medal won to-day, and a 
man's life saved next year ; thus the soul, in 
the hands of the Silent Trainer, grows in 
frame and fibre. Will we play battle-door 
and shuttle-cock for our prizes ? Or close and 
wrestle for them ? 
We have spoken of the evolution of a 
higher than the physical, from the physical 
science which holds so disproportionate, but 
none the less useful, an influence over the 
thought of the instructed world to-day. " We 
are spirits," said one of the coolest of scien- 
tific men, a century ago. " We are spirits. 
That bodies should be lent to us while they 
can afford us pleasure, assist us in acquiring 
knowledge, or in doing good to our fellow- 
creatures, is a kind and benevolent act of 
God." The practical Franklin showed his 
keen good sense in this matter-of-fact way 
of expressing a truth which is too often ap- 
proached upon the mystical and most difficult 
side. We are, indeed, spirit ; and we may, 
without hesitation, dispute so much as this 
with him who begins by saying that we are 
matter. It cannot be denied that we have at 
least as good a right to start with the one asser- 
tion, as he with the other. " I should never," 
says Elizabeth Peabody, " teach a child, " You 
have a soul,' but, ; You have a body.' " 
Let us then call the struggle for immortality 
an advanced form of the lower encounter. 
It is a struggle historic and dramatic, as it is 
involved and unconcluded. A man cannot 
fight this fight with part of his nature. It 
takes the whole of him. A stout fist avails 
him little without sound thought. He cannot 
gain the day by his intellect, lest he lose it on 
the side of his heart. Neither does emotion 
win without reflection, and hysteria is a poor 
weapon to substitute for common sense. We 
find at once, that we have approached herein 
a problem complex to the edge of mystery. 
For, there enters into this struggle a strange 
law of spiritual selection, differing from that 
governing the conflicts in the lower phases of 
organization, as fineness differs from momentum, 
the telephone from a war-cry, or the 
Flower Charity from the Inquisition. 
The conditions of immortality wholly refuse 
to rest upon the piers which hold the conditions 
of conquest in the life of time. Brute 
force ceases now to keep its relative value in 
this larger contest. There is what may be 
called a brute force of the mind, of which this 
is equally and terribly true. Sheer intellect 
has no greater chance at everlasting life than 
sheer muscle. Immortality is not promised by 
their Creator, to great men. Mere mincl holds 
no passport to eternity. There is no limited 
express to Paradise for able people. Goethe, 
for being Goethe, is none the more likely to 
last forever. Frederica, so far as we can see, 
stands quite as good, or a better chance. 
The law of spiritual selection would seem 
to be at once severe and delicate. The obscurest 
mother, transmitting a pure heart to her 
boys, never having heard of protoplasm, and 
knowing no philosophy beyond her prayers, 
may enter into this higher contention with an 
equipment which the discoverer of the missing 
link might envy. It is quite conceivable that 
the soul of a felon might survive the soul of a 
prince or a priest. The tests of the world fail. 
Fine causes, and finer sequences, enter the 
list. Who are we that we should win? What 
is our standard of success ? What the temper 
of our weapons ? We buy and sell, we woo 
and wed, we gain us a friend, or fame; and 
the stranger without our gates, or the servant 
under our feet, may be fighting for a soul's 
life where we are fooling with it, and may, 
therefore, be better worth life, and so the more 
likely to live. For law is but law, and spirit- 
ual law loses nothing of its grip for its gain in 
quality, and holds us none the less robustly be- 
cause of a touch so velvet. 
Suppose that this view be the true one. 
Suppose that he who wishes to live indefi- 
nitely, or always, is the subject of such law. 
Suppose that the complete and complex nature 
— physical, mental, moral, spiritual — be- 
comes, by an ascending scale of strain, the sol- 
dier in such a strife. Suppose that the ulti- 
mate atom of the permanent individual may 
prove to be the vigor or the honor of his con- 
science. Suppose that from this, as, in the 
physical case, from the cell of the embryo, the 
life of what we call a soul evolves. Suppose 
that the development of this spiritual cell-life 
is, to the requisite extent, under the control of 
the human will. Suppose that this development 
is governed by a just, or even a generous 
relativity to the environment which spiritual 
science is not yet advanced enough to formulate. 
Suppose that the grandest work performed 
by the physical science of our times 
should prove to be its contribution to such a 
spiritual science, and that such a spiritual 
seience is yet to become a matter of more or- 
derly, more manly, and more nearly universal 
acceptance, than any form of religious belief 
detached from natural research is now likely to 
command. Suppose that the revelation of fact 
and the revelation of faith are met together. 
Suppose that the progress of fact does not pro- 
ceed, as Spencer would have it, from evolution 
to dissolution, but from evolution through ap- 
parent dissolution to real evolution ; and that 
the splendid blossom of the greatest discovery 
of modern thought has as yet but begun to 
bud. 
We ask for this aloe, precious and perfect, 
in the name of reason, that it may be rooted 
in the hope of everlasting life, for which it is 
our honorable service to contend. 
We ask for this hope in the name of science, 
which has rendered unto nature the 
things that are nature's, but unwittingly unto 
God the things that are God's. The glory of 
the law moves on. The higher science has its 
prophets. Its scholars are to come. In an 
age when we are called upon to study " the 
