'" She was very kind to me.' She said, ' Vans me rendez des 
forces.  " 
" That's just what she said to me ! " 
"And we have remained very good friends." 
. " So have we ! " laughed Sherringham. " And such perfect 
art as hers : do you mean to say you don't consider that 
important such a rare dramatic intelligence?" 
" I'm afraid you read the feuilletons. You catch their 
phrases," Gabriel Nash blandly rejoined. "Dramatic intelli- 
gence is never rare ; nothing is more common." 
" Then why have we so many bad actors ] " 
" Have we? I thought they were mostly good ; succeeding 
more easily and more completely in that business than in 
anything else. What could they do those people, generally 
if they didn't do that ? And reflect that that enables them 
to succeed ! Of course, always, there are numbers of people 
on the stage who are no actors at all, for it's even easier to 
our poor humanity to be ineffectively stupid and vulgar than 
to bring down the house." 
" It's not easy, by what I can see, to produce, completely, 
any artistic effect," Sherringham declared ; " and those that 
the actor produces are among the most moving that we know. 
You'll not persuade me that to watch such an actress as 
Madame Carre was not an education of the taste, an enlarge- 
ment of one's knowledge." 
" She did what she could, poor woman, but in what be- 
littling, coarsening conditions ! She had to interpret a 
character in a play, and a character in a play (not to say the 
whole piece I speak more particularly of modern pieces) is 
such a wretchedly small peg to hang anything on ! The 
dramatist shows us so little, is so hampered by his audience, 
is restricted to so poor an analysis." 
"I know the complaint. It's all the fashion now. The 
raffines despise the theatre," said Peter Sherringham, in the 
manner of a man abreast with the culture of his age and not 
to be captured by a surprise. " Gonnu, connu ! " 
" It will be known better yet, won't it? when the essentially 
brutal nature of the modern audience is still more perceived, 
when it has been properly analyzed : the omnium gatherum of 
the population of a big commercial city, at the hour of the 
day when their taste is at its lowest, flocking out of hideous 
hotels and restaurants, gorged with food, stultified with buying 
and selling and with all the other sordid speculations of the 
day, squeezed together in a sweltering mass, disappointed in 
their seats, timing the author, timing the actor, wishing to 
get their money back on the spot, before eleven o'clock. 
Fancy putting the exquisite before such a tribunal as that ! 
There's not even a question of it. The dramatist wouldn't if 
he could, and in nine cases out of ten he couldn't if he would. 
He has to make the basest concessions. One of his principal 
canons is that he must enable his spectators to catch the 
suburban trains, which stop at 11.30. What would you think 
of any other artist the painter or the novelist whose 
governing forces should bo the dinner and the suburban 
trains? The old dramatists didn't defer to them (not so 
much, at least), and that's why they are less and less actable. 
If they are touched the large fellows it's only to be muti- 
lated and trivialized. Besides, they had a simpler civilization 
to represent societies in which the life of man was in action, 
in passion, in immediate and violent expression. Those things 
could be put upon the playhouse boards with comparatively 
little sacrifice of their completeness and their truth. To-day 
we are so infinitely more reflective and complicated and diffuse 
that it makes all the difference. What can you do with a 
character, with an idea, with a feeling, between dinner and 
the suburban trains? You can give a gross, rough sketch of 
them, but how little you touch them, how bald you leave 
them ! What crudity compared with what the novelist does ! " 
" Do you. write novels, Mr. Nash ] " Peter demanded. 
" No, but I read them when they are extraoi-dinarily good, 
and I don't go to plays. I read Balzac, for instance I en- 
counter the magnificent portrait of Valerie Marneffe, in ' La 
Cousine Bette.' " 
" And you contrast it with the poverty of Emile Augier's 
Seraphine in ' Les Lionues Pauvres ' ? I was awaiting you 
there. That's the cheval de bataille of you fellows." 
" What an extraordinary discussion ! What dreadful 
authors ! " Lady Agnes murmured to her son. But he was 
listening so attentively to the other young men that he made 
no response, and Peter Sherringham went on : 
" I have seen Madame Carre in parts, in the modern re- 
pertory, which she has made as vivid to me, caused to abide as 
ineffaceably in my memory, as Valerie Marneffe. She is the 
Balzac, as one may say, of actresses." 
"The miniaturist, as it were, of whitewashers ! " Nash 
rejoined, laughing. 
It might have been guessed that Sherringham was irritated, 
but the other disputant was so good-humoured that he abun- 
dantly recognized his own obligation to appear so. 
" You would be magnanimous if you thought the young 
lady you have introduced to our old friend would be im- 
portant." 
" She might be much more so than she ever will be." 
Lady Agnes got up, to terminate the scene, and even to 
signify that enough had been said about people and questions 
she had never heard of. Every one else rose, the waiter 
brought Nick the receipt of the bill, and Sherringham went 
on, to his interlocutor 
" Perhaps she will be more so than you think." 
" Perhaps if you take an interest in her ! " 
" A mystic voice seems to exhort me to do so, to whisper 
that, though I have never seen her, I shall find something 
in her. What do you say, Biddy, shall I take an interest 
in her? " 
Biddy hesitated a moment, coloured a little, felt a certain 
embarrassment in being publicly treated as an oracle. 
" If she's not nice I don't advise it." 
" And if she is nice? " 
" You advise it still less ! " her brother exclaimed, laughing 
and putting his arm round her. 
Lady Agnes looked sombre she might have been saying to 
herself : " Dear me, what chance has a girl of mine with a 
man who's so agog about actresses ? " She was disconcerted 
and distressed ; a multitude of incongruous things, all the 
morning, had been forced upon her attention displeasing 
pictures .and still more displeasing theories about them, vague 
portents of perversity on the part of Nicholas, and a strange 
eagerness on Peter's, learned apparently in Paris, to discuss, 
with a person who had a tone she never had been exposed 
to, topics irrelevant and uninteresting, the practical effect of 
which was to make light of her presence. " Let us leave this 
let us leave this ! " she almost moaned. The party moved 
together toward the door of departure, and her ruffled spirit 
was not soothed by hearing her son remark to his terrible 
friend : " You know you don't leave us I stick to you ! " 
At this Lady Agnes broke out and interposed : " Excuse 
me for reminding you that you are going to call on Julia." 
" Well, can't Nash also come to call on Julia ? That's just 
what I want that she should see him." 
Peter Sherringham came humanely to her ladyship's assist- 
ance. " A better way, perhaps, will be for them to meet 
under my auspices, at my 'dramatic tea.' This will enable 
me to return one favour for another. If Mr. Nash is so good 
as to introduce me to this aspirant for honours we estimate so 
differently, I will introduce him to my sister, a much more 
positive quantity." 
"It is easy to see who'll have the best of it ! " Grace 
Dormer exclaimed ; and Gabriel Nash stood there serenely, 
impartially, in a graceful, detached way which seemed char- 
acteristic of him, assenting to any decision that relieved him 
of the grossness of choice, and generally confident that things 
would turn out well for him. He was cheerfully helpless and 
sociably indifferent ; ready to preside with a smile even at a 
discussion of his own admissibility. 
" Nick will bring you. I have a little corner at the 
Embassy," Sherringham continued. 
" You are very kind. You must bring him, then, to- 
morrow Rue de Constantinople." 
" At five o'clock don't be afraid." 
" Oh, dear ! " said Biddy, as they went on again ; and Lady 
Agnes, seizing his arm, marched off more quickly with her 
son. When they came out into the Champs Elysees Nick 
Dormer, looking round, saw that his fiiend had disappeared. 
Biddy had attached herself to Peter, 'and Grace apparently 
had not encouraged Mr. Nash. 
V. 
LADY AGNES' s idea had been that her son should go straight 
from the Palais de l'Industrie to the Hotel de Hollande, with 
or without his mother and his sisters, as his humour should 
seem to recommend. Much as she desired to see their brilliant 
kinswoman and as she knew that her daughters desired it, she 
was quite ready to postpone their visit, if this sacrifice should 
contribute to a speedy confrontation for Nick. She was eager 
that he should talk with Mrs. Dallow, and eager that he 
should be eager himself ; but it presently appeared that he 
was really not anything that could impartially be called so. 
His view was that she and the girls should go to the Hotel 
de Hollande without delay and should spend the rest of the 
day with Julia, if they liked. He would go later ; he would 
go in the evening. There were lots of things he wanted to 
do meanwhile. 
This question was discussed with some intensity, though 
not at length, while the little party stood on the edge of the 
Place de la Concorde, to which they had proceeded on foot ; 
and Lady Agnes noticed that the ''lots of things" to which 
he proposed to give precedence over an urgent duty, a con- 
ference with a person who held out full hands to him, were 
implied somehow in the friendly glance with which he covered 
the great square, the opposite bank of the Seine, the steep 
blue roofs of the quay, the bright immensity of Paris. What 
in the world could be more important than making sure of his 
seat ? so quickly did the good lady's imagination travel. 
And now that idea appealed to him less than a ramble in 
search of old books and prints, for she was sure this was what 
he had in his head. Julia would be flattered if she knew it, 
but of course she must not know it. Lady Agnes was already 
thinking of the most honourable explanations she could give 
of the young man's want of precipitation. She would have 
liked to represent him as tremendously occupied, in his room 
at their own hotel, in getting off political letters to every one 
it should concern, and particularly in drawing up his address 
to the electors of Harsh. Fortunately she was a woman of 
innumerable discretions, and a part of the worn look that sat 
in her face came from her having schooled herself for years, in 
her relations with her husband and her sons, not to insist 
unduly. She would have liked to insist, nature had formed 
her to insist, and the self-control had told in more ways than 
one. Even now it was powerless to prevent her suggesting 
that before doing anything else Nick should at least repair to 
the inn and see if there were not some telegrams. 
He freely consented to do so much as this, and having called 
a cab, that she might go her way with the girls, he kissed her 
again, as he had done at the exhibition. This was an atten- 
tion that could never displease her, but somehow when he kissed 
her often her anxiety was apt to increase : she had come to 
recognize it as a sign that he was slipping away from her. 
She drove off with a vague sense that at any rate she and the 
girls might do something toward keeping the place warm for 
him. She had been a little vexed that Peter had not ad- 
ministered more of a push toward the Hotel de Hollande, clear 
as it had become to her now that there was a foreignness in 
Peter which was not to be counted on and which made him 
speak of English affairs and even of English domestic politics 
as local. Of course they were local, and was not that the 
warm human comfort of them ? As she left the two young 
men standing together in the middle of the Place de la Con- 
corde, the grand composition of which Nick, as she looked 
back, appeared to have paused to admire, (as if he had not seen 
it a thousand times !) she wished she might have thought of 
Peter's influence with her son as exerted a little more in 
favour of localism. She had a sense that he would not 
abbreviate the boy's ill-timed Jldnerie. However, he had been 
very nice : he had invited them all to dine with him that 
evening at a convenient restaurant, promising to bring Julia 
and one of his colleagues. So much as this he had been willing 
to do to make sure that Nick and his sister should meet. His 
want of localism, moreover, was not so great as that if it 
should turn out that there was anything beneath his manner 
toward Biddy ! The conclusion of this reflection is, perhaps, 
best indicated by the circumstance of her ladyship's remarking, 
after a minute, to her younger daughter, who sat opposite to 
her in the voiture de place, that it would do no harm if she 
should get a new hat, and that the article might be purchased 
that afternoon. 
'' A French hat, mamma ? " said Grace. " Oh, do wait till 
she gets home ! " 
" I think they are prettier here, you know," Biddy rejoined; 
and Lady Agnes said, simply, " I dare say they're cheaper.'' 
 
What was in her mind, in fact, was, " I dare say Peter thinks 
them becoming." It will be seen that she had plenty of 
spiritual occupation, the sum of which was not diminished by 
her learning, when she reached the top of the Rue de la Paix, 
that Mrs. Dallow had gone out half an hour before and had 
left no message. She was more disconcerted by this incident 
than she could have explained or than she thought was right, 
for she had taken for granted that Julia would be in a manner 
waiting for them. How did she know that Nick was not 
coining? When people were in Paris for a few days they 
didn't mope in the house ; but Julia might have waited a 
little longer or might have left an explanation. Was she then 
not so much in earnest about Nick's standing ? Didn't she 
recognize the importance of being there to see him about it ? 
Lady Agnes wondered whether Julia's behaviour were a sign 
that she was already tired of the way this young gentleman 
treated her. Perhaps she had gone out because an instinct 
tolJ her that its being important he should see her early 
would make no difference with him told her that he wouldn't 
come. Her heart sank as she glanced at this possibility that 
Julia was already tired, for she, on her side, had an instinct 
there were still more tiresome things in store. She had dis- 
liked having to tell Mrs. Dallow that Nick wouldn't see her 
till the evening, but now she disliked still more her not being 
there to hear it. She even resented a little her kinswoman's 
not having reasoned that she and the girls would come in 
any event, and not thought them worth staying in for. It 
occurred to her that she would perhaps have gone to their 
hotel, which was a good way up the Rue de Rivoli, near the 
Palais Royal, and she directed the cabman to drive to that 
establishment. 
As he jogged along she took in some degree the measure of 
what that might mean, Julia's seeking a little to avoid them. 
Was she growing to dislike them ? Did she think they kept 
too sharp an eye on her, so that the idea of their standing in 
a still closer relation to her would not be enticing ? Her 
conduct up to this time had not worn such an appearance, 
unless perhaps a little, just a very little, in the matter of 
poor Grace. Lady Agnes knew that she was not particularly 
fond of poor Grace, and was even able to guess the reason 
the manner in which Grace betrayed the most that they 
wanted to make sure of her. She remembered how long the 
girl had stayed the last time she had gone to Harsh. She had 
gone for an acceptable week, and she had been in the house a 
month. She took a private, heroic vow that Grace should not 
go near the place again for a year ; that is, not unless Nick 
and Julia were married before this. If that were to happen 
she shouldn't care. She recognized that it was not absolutely 
everything that Julia should be in love with Nick ; it was 
also better she should dislike his mother and sisters after than 
before. Lady Agnes did justice to the natural rule in virtue 
of which it usually comes to pass that a woman doesn't get on 
with her husband s female belongings, and was even willing 
to be sacrificed to it in her disciplined degree. But she 
desired not to be sacrificed for nothing : if she was to be 
objected to as a mother-in-law she wished to be the mother- 
in-law first. 
At the hotel in the Rue de Rivoli she had the disappoint- 
ment of finding that Mrs. Dallow had not called, and also that 
no telegrams had come. She went in with the girls for half 
an hour, and then she straggled out with them again. She 
