in dancing."

Mistress Kent gave a little smile of malice and a jaunty toss to her
head.

"The child needs nothing of that since she comes back to us and plainer
living. She reads well and is not slow in figures. I shall see that she
is instructed in all housewifely ways, but it is ill making headway when
the tide runs down the stream."

Lois Henry really sighed then. She did hate to have her six months'
labor and interest come to naught. She longed to snatch the child from
these paths of temptation, for now, as she was growing older, they might
be more alluring.

"Come hither, little one, and let me measure you. My, but you have grown
tall, and keep slim, so there will be less for stays to do. 'As the twig
is bent,' you know," laughing and showing her even teeth, of which she
was very proud. "And a fine figure is a great advantage. Your hands are
not ill-kept, I see."

They were tanned, but dimpled, with tapering fingers and rosy nails, and
the skin fine and soft.

"Hands are for use and not ornament. Thou art to do with thy might
whatsoever comes in thy way."

"True, Friend Henry. But a clean room may abound in virtue as well as an
untidy one. And a well-kept person surely is no sin. Put off your shoe,
child. Ah, you have a slim foot, though no one would think it, to see
the shoe."

She had been taking measurements and putting figures on an ivory tablet
that she slipped into a cloth pocket hanging at her side.

"I have the necessary requirements, I believe, and the maid can have a
few things in order. We will send in on Wednesday. That is the date
appointed, Friend Henry."

She picked up her whip with an airy grace, and stood tall and straight,
her habit falling around her feet.

"Now I will bid you good-day, though it is almost evening. Do not look
so sober, little Rose, but then we will soon have smiles displacing the
Quaker gravity, which ill beseems young people. Friend Henry, why do
your community consider smiling sinful when it is so pretty and comes
from a merry heart? A man who went about to commit murder would scarcely
smile, methinks."

"'The laughter of fools is as the crackling of thorns under a pot,'" was
the somewhat severe answer.

"One need not break out into silly giggling," was the rather tart reply.
"I abhor that myself. But a smile on a child's face is much to be
preferred to a frown. 'And a merry heart doeth good like a medicine.'"

"'Children,' saith the wise man, 'are to be brought up in the fear and
admonition of the Lord.'"

"Ah, well! luckily there are many rules and opinions in the world.
Good-by, Rose-blossom. Next week we will welcome thee at Wetherill
House."

Primrose followed her aunt to the door. There were Mistress Kent's horse
and the black servant, who respectfully touched his hat and assisted his
mistress to mount, then sprang on his own steed, and with a wave of the
hand and a nodding of the veil she cantered away.

"Next week! Why, Aunt Lois, how near it is! I had forgotten," Primrose
exclaimed breathlessly.

"It would be a most excellent thing if thou wert allowed to forget
altogether. This continual changing works ill. Now go and stir the meal
and feed those late chicks. Put in some of the cracked corn for the
mother hen."

Primrose went at once, though she was eager to ask about the promised
journey, but the habit of repression was strong upon her, and obedience
to the letter was exacted from children at that period. It must have
been a halcyon time for mothers when a child never ventured to ask why.

Friend Henry went out to the kitchen again. It was a great room with a
wide fireplace and a crane that accommodated two kettles. An iron baking
pot stood in a bed of coals, with a plentiful supply on the cover. The
black woman came and gave it a push partly around, with the tongs, so
that the farthest side should have the benefit of the blaze.

There were even then many Friends who owned slaves, indeed most of the
servants were of African descent. The feelings and beliefs of
Philadelphia were more in consonance with the settlements farther south,
than those to the north of them. But the Henrys held slavery in
abhorrence, and hired their servants. Lois Henry kept but one woman, and
she was quite superior to the average of her race; indeed, like her
mistress, was of the persuasion of Friends.

The two women busied themselves about the supper. If Friends were plain
in their household adornments and attire, they did not stint in food nor
the trouble of preparing it.

Primrose fed the two late broods whose mothers had stolen their nests
and brought off their families in great triumph. One had thirteen, the
other eleven. Their mothers ran cheerfully to the coops and called their
progeny. When the families were within, Primrose took up the slatted
door and fastened it down with a stake and shut up the peeping things so
busy with their supper.

As she was loitering on the way back, she saw her uncle and cousin
Andrew talking eagerly. Did they know she was going away next week? She
ran forward and Andrew turned to her with a smile, while his father
talked on.

She clasped his hands in hers so warm and soft. His were brawny and
hard, but he was a great fellow and he looked down with a kindly,
protective air.

"Oh, do you know Aunt Wetherill has sent over, and----"

"Yes," slowly, "we knew it was time. Madam Wetherill does not forget
easily."

"Primrose!" called her aunt.

She hastened to the kitchen, rinsed out her dipper, and hung it up.
Uncle Henry was washing his hands and Chloe was taking up the hot bread
and dishing the stewed chicken. Oh, how delightfully appetizing the
fragrance was! And she was so glad not to have forfeited her right to
the supper.

"Come to the table," said Aunt Lois.

The four heads were bowed reverently. There was not much talking at meal
time. Aunt Lois was ever afraid of idle words and vain babbling. Uncle
James had a good, hearty appetite, as became his size and strength, and
generally occupied himself in ministering to it. Children in Quaker
households--indeed, in nearly all others--had the wise old adage dinned
into their ears that they were to be seen and not heard, and they also
understood that they were to be seen as little as possible.

When the supper was ended Primrose went out to the kitchen and dried the
teacups, of which Aunt Lois was quite choice, and the silver
heirlooms--the teaspoons her grandmother had brought from old England.

Friend Dunscomb was coming up the path. That meant an evening in the
best room with Uncle James and Aunt Lois. There were many agitating
subjects to talk about in these days. Primrose walked out of the kitchen
door and around the path, sending a long, dubious glance in the
direction of her new home.

Six months ago she had left it. How queer to be divided up in this way.
She had felt lonely at Wetherill House, and missed her mother sadly. To
be sure it was winter, and here on the farm it was glowing, golden
summer. She had not known the dreariness of a long winter here. There
were so many enchanting things, so much life and joy and beauty. In a
vague way it thrilled her, even if she did not understand. There were
rambles in the lanes, and the orchard where she could climb trees; there
was luscious fruit in which she was never stinted. Rides behind Cousin
Andrew on Jack, and going to market, as a rare treat, with Uncle James,
learning to spin on the little wheel, stealing away to the old garret
and reading some forgotten, time-stained books that she dared not ask
about. Sometimes she had a misgiving of conscience, but no one ever
inquired about them, or what she did up there.

Andrew came out and took a seat under the old apple tree. She ran down
to him.

"Andrew, why must I go to Aunt Wetherill's every six months?" she asked.

He glanced at her in a slow, irresolute fashion.

"I must go again next week. It is like a ball being tossed back and
forth. I--I didn't quite like it. I would rather stay here."

"I'm glad of that." He passed his arm around her and gave her a gentle
hug.

"But why must I go?" impatiently.

"It was thy mother's will. Madam Wetherill was her dearest cousin, like
a mother to her. Thou art too young to understand."

"But my mother is dead this long while." There was a sound of perplexity
in the youthful voice.

"Yes. It is hard to explain to thee, and a child should not be thinking
of money. Thy father appointed mine guardian of thee. Then the Wardours,
thy mother's people, left her some fortune, and as thy father was dead
she made her will as she pleased."

"Is a will such a very bad thing, Cousin Andrew?" she inquired in a
timid voice. She had heard much talk through the winter of governing and
restraining the will until it had become a sort of personality to her,
and connected solely with a state of grace, another vague territory.

He smiled. "This is not----" How could he explain it to her
comprehension? He had only the plainest sort of education. For though it
was true that many of the earliest Friends were versed in worldly
knowledge, they had grown more restricted in their narrower lives in the
new country. And on the farms there were not many advantages. Perhaps he
could mend her confusion of mind in another fashion. "When one has some
property or money and desires to give it to another, he or she states
the wish in writing before witnesses. And the law makes this intention
respected. This is too grave a matter for a child's understanding, but
thy mother and Madam Wetherill planned this. When my father protested,
this compromise, I think they call it, was decided upon."

Primrose was not much used to long words. Most of the Friends kept to
brief, concise Saxon.

"A compromise? Is that why I am changed about so? What queer names
things have! I like better living straight along. And I was much
frightened last winter. But there were two little girls in the next
place, and I should have been sorry enough to leave them, only they were
going to England to be educated."

Andrew remembered there was some talk of sending her to England, where
she had a half-brother, but that was not on the mother's side.

"Cannot something be done with this wicked compromise? I should like to
stay here. Andrew, I love you better than anyone in the wide world."

Andrew hugged her up close and gave a soft sigh. He could remember two
little girls sleeping in the Friends' burying ground. One would have
been seventeen now, and had stayed with them five years, dying the night
her sister was born. He had believed it was little Lois come in a new
baby body. And after three brief years she, too, had gone to the other
country. His mother had been graver ever since; more self-contained,
more spiritual, the Friends said.

This little girl, whom they had seen occasionally in her mother's life,
had crept into his heart during her six months' stay and he hated to let
her go. He was so fond of all young and helpless things. The lambs, the
tiny chickens, and the calves appealed to him strongly as they looked
out of asking eyes, it seemed to him. He was beginning to chafe under
the colorless, repressed life about him, and the little girl had been a
great outlet for his affection, though much of it had been nursed in
secret.

"I do not know what can be done, if anything," he said in answer to her
question. "But I am truly sorry. I love thee dearly, Primrose. I wish
thou wert my sister."

He bent over and kissed the soft, fragrant child lips. Oh, how sweet
they were! Was such tenderness reprehensible? He was beginning to think
of love and marriage as strong, heartsome youth will, but, strange to
say, the young woman his father approved of was not at all to his
liking. He was nearing man's estate, and though he labored with himself
to repress what he knew would be considered lawless desires, they
returned again and again. And how much he should long for the sweetness
of this little girl.

She put her arms up around his neck and her soft, caressing fingers
seemed to play with his very heart strings. Oh, how dear she was! And
her new life would be so different. Madam Wetherill rather flouted the
Friends with what she called their drab religion.

"Primrose! Primrose!" called the curiously soft voice of Chloe, that had
a different accent from the habitual evenness of the real Quaker tone.
"Where is the child!"

"Here! here! I am coming." She gave Andrew one long, tender kiss and
then walked rapidly to the kitchen porch.

"Thee should have been in bed with the chickens. Go at once. The moon is
coming up and thou wilt need no light. Forget not thy prayers. Mistress
Janice is an emissary of the evil one that thou must resist."

Primrose went up to her chamber under the eaves in a state of half
terror and restrained rebellion.




CHAPTER II.

BESSY WARDOUR.


It was a rather curious tangle, as Primrose Henry was to learn
afterward. Philemon Henry was older than his brother James, and in trade
in the city that William Penn had planned and founded in an orderly
manner. And though it is the common belief that Philadelphia was born at
right angles and on a level, at its early inception there was much
diversity to it. Creeks swept it in many directions, and there were
hills and submerged lands waiting for the common sense of man to fill up
and hew down the romance. Even before Revolutionary times there was much
business on the wharves of the Delaware, and many men owned trading
ships and warehouses. And though England had made no end of bothersome
and selfish restrictions as to trade, men had found ways to evade them;
at some peril, it is true, but that added zest.

Philemon Henry was tolerably successful in his undertakings and adhered
to the faith of William Penn, even if his own son afterward went astray.
He married an Englishwoman of good descent, who had left her native land
with a company of Friends for the sake of the larger liberty. The fine,
stalwart Quaker had soon attracted her, and with him she spent three
years of happy married life, when she died, leaving a baby boy of little
more than a year old. A goodly housekeeper came to care for them, and
the boy throve finely. She would willingly have married Philemon, but
as he evinced no inclination, she provided for her old age by marrying
another well-to-do Friend. And then, as sometimes happens in a widower's
