nor play upon any musical instrument. She would certainly weary me after
a time, as you say. Give her therefore to Abdul Kerim for his share.'
They then made Almasta understand that she was to be given to the sheikh
of the horsemen; but when she had understood she shook her head and
smiled, though at first she said nothing, so that Khaled and Zehowah
wondered whether she had comprehended what they had told her.
'Do you understand what we have told you?' asked Zehowah, who was
diverted by her ignorance of the Arabic language.
'I understand.'
'And are you not pleased that you are to be the wife of Abdul Kerim, who
is a rich man and still young?'
'I was to be the Sultan's wife,' said Almasta, with difficulty, looking
at Khaled. 'You told me so.'
'The Sultan is dead,' Khaled answered.
'Who is the Sultan now?' she asked.
'Khaled is the Sultan,' said Zehowah.
'You said that I should be the Sultan's wife,' Almasta repeated.
'Doubtless, I said so,' Khaled replied. 'But Allah has ordered it
otherwise.'
Almasta again smiled and shook her head.
CHAPTER VI
On the following day Khaled made a division of the spoils, and gave
Almasta to Abdul Kerim, enjoining upon him to marry her, since he had
but two wives and could do so lawfully. The sheikh of the horsemen was
glad, for he had heard much of Almasta's beauty, and he loved fair
women, being of a fierce temper and not more than forty years old. So he
called his friends to the marriage feast that same day, and Zehowah sent
Almasta in a litter to his harem, giving her also numerous rich garments
by way of a dower, but which in fact were due to Abdul Kerim as his
share of the booty. So the men feasted, with music, until the evening,
when the bridegroom retired to the harem and the Kadi came and read the
contract; after which Abdul Kerim sat down while Almasta was brought
before him in various dresses, one after the other, as is customary.
When the women were all gone away, Abdul Kerim began to talk to his
wife, but she only laughed and said the few words she knew, not knowing
what he said, and presently she began to sing to him in a low voice, in
her own language. Her voice was very clear and quite different from that
of the Arabian women whom Abdul had heard, and the tones vibrated with
great passion and sweetness, so that he was enchanted and listened, as
in a dream, while his head rested against Almasta's knee. She continued
to sing in such a manner that his soul was transported with delight; and
at last, as the sound soothed him, he fell into a gentle sleep.
Almasta, still singing softly, loosened his vest, touching him so gently
that he did not wake. She then drew out of one of the three tresses of
her hair a fine steel needle, extremely long and sharp, having at one
end a small wooden ball for a handle, and while she sang, she thrust it
very quickly into his breast to its full length, so that it pierced his
heart and he died instantly. But she continued to sing, lest any of the
women should be listening from a distance. Presently she withdrew the
needle so slowly that not a drop of blood followed it, and having made
it pass thrice through the carpet she restored it to her hair, after
which she fastened the dead man's vest again, so that nothing was
disarranged. She sang on, after this for some time, and then after a
short silence she sprang up from the couch, uttering loud screams and
lamentations and beating her breast violently.
The women of the harem came in quickly, and when they saw that their
master was dead, they sat down with Almasta and wept with her, for as he
lay dead there was no mark of any violence nor any sign whereby it could
be told that he had not died naturally.
When Khaled heard that Abdul Kerim was dead, he was much grieved at
heart, for the man had been brave and had been often at his right hand
in battle. But the news being brought to him at dawn when he awoke, he
immediately sent the Jewish physician of the court to ascertain if
possible the cause of the sudden death. The physician made careful
examination of the body, and having purified himself returned to Khaled
to give an account.
'I have executed my lord's orders with scrupulous exactness,' he said,
'and I find that without doubt the sheikh of the horsemen died suddenly
by an access of humours to the heart, the sun being at that time in the
Nadir, for he died about midnight, and being moreover in evil
conjunction with the Dragon's Tail in the Heart of the Lion, and not yet
far from the square aspect of Al Marech which caused the death of his
majesty the late Sultan, upon whom be peace.'
But Khaled was thoughtful, for he reflected that this was the second
time that a man had died suddenly when he was about to be Almasta's
husband, and he remembered, how she had attempted to kill the Sultan of
Haïl, and had ultimately brought about his death.
'Have you examined the dead man as minutely as you have observed the
stars?' he inquired. 'Is there no mark of violence upon him, nor of
poison, nor of strangling?'
'There is no mark. By Allah! I speak truth. My lord may see for himself,
for the man is not yet buried.'
'Am I a jackal, that I should sniff at dead bodies?' asked Khaled. 'Go
in peace.'
The physician withdrew, for he saw that Khaled was displeased, and he
was himself as much surprised as any one by the death of Abdul Kerim, a
man lean and strong, not given to surfeiting and in the prime of health.
'Min Allah!' he said as he departed. 'We are in the hand of the Lord,
who knoweth our rising up and our lying down. It is possible that if I
had seen this man at the moment of death, or a little before, I might
have discovered the nature of his disease, for I could have talked with
him and questioned him.'
But Khaled went in and talked with Zehowah. She was greatly astonished
when she heard that Almasta's husband was dead, but she was satisfied
with the answer of the Jewish physician, who enjoyed great reputation
and was believed to be at that time the wisest man in Arabia.
'Give her back to me, to be one of my women,' said she. 'It is not
written that she should marry a man of Nejed, unless you will take her
yourself.'
But Khaled bent his brow angrily and his eyes glowed like the coals of a
camp fire which is almost extinguished, when the night wind blows
suddenly over the ashes.
'I have spoken,' he said.
'And I have heard,' she answered. 'Let there be an end. But give me this
woman to divert me with her broken speech.'
'I fear she will do you an injury of which you may not live,' said
Khaled.
'What injury can she do me?' asked Zehowah in astonishment, not
understanding him.
'She asked of your father the head of the Sultan of Haïl, whom she
hated. And your father gave it to her.'
'Peace be upon him!' exclaimed Zehowah piously.
'Upon him peace. And when he would have married her, he died suddenly at
the feasting. And now this Abdul Kerim, who was to have been her
husband, is dead also, without sign, in the night, as a man stung by a
serpent in his sleep. These are strange doings.'
'If you think she has done evil, let her be put to death,' said Zehowah.
'But the physician found no mark upon Abdul Kerim. By the hand of Allah
he was taken.'
'Doubtless his fate was about his neck. But it is strange.'
Zehowah looked at Khaled in silence, but presently she smiled and laid
her hand upon his.
'This woman loves you with her whole soul,' she said. 'You think that
she has slain Abdul Kerim by secret arts, in the hope that she may marry
you.'
'And your father also.'
Then they were both silent, and Zehowah covered her face, since she
could not prevent tears from falling when she thought of her father,
whom she had loved.
'If this be so,' she said after a long time, 'let the woman die
immediately.'
'It is necessary to be just,' Khaled answered. 'I will put no one to
death without witnesses, not even a captive woman, who is certainly an
unbeliever at heart. Has any one seen her do these deeds, or does any
one know by what means a man may be slain in his sleep, or at a feast,
so that no mark is left upon his body? At Dereyiyah your father was
alone with her in the inner part of the tent, and she was singing to him
that he might sleep. For I have made inquiry. And when Abdul Kerim died
he was also alone with her. I cannot understand these things. But you
are a woman and subtle. It may be that you can see what is too dark for
me.'
'It may be. Therefore give her back to me, and I will lay a trap for
her, so that she will betray herself if she has really done evil. And
when we have convicted her by her own words she shall die.'
'Are you not afraid, Zehowah?'
'Can I change my destiny? If my hour is come, I shall die of a fever, or
of a cold, whether she be with me or not. But if my years are not full,
she cannot hurt me.'
'This is undoubtedly true,' answered Khaled, who could find nothing to
say. 'But I will first question the woman myself.'
So he sent slaves with a litter to bring Almasta from the house of
mourning to the palace, and when she was come he sent out all the other
women and remained alone with her and Zehowah, making her sit down
before him so that he could see her face. Her cheeks were pale, for she
had not slept, having been occupied in weeping and lamentation during
the whole night, and her eyes moved restlessly as those of a person
distracted with grief.
Khaled then drew his sword and laid it across his feet as he sat and
looked fixedly at Almasta.
'If you do not speak the truth,' he said, 'I will cut off your head with
my own hand. Allah is witness.'
When Almasta saw the drawn sword, her face grew whiter than before, and
for some moments she seemed not able to breathe. But suddenly she began
to beat her breast, and broke out into loud wailings, rocking herself to
and fro as she sat on the carpet.
'My husband is dead!' she cried. 'He was young; he was beautiful! He is
dead! Wah! Wah! my husband is dead! Kill me too!'
Khaled looked at Zehowah, but she said nothing, though she watched
Almasta attentively. Then Khaled spoke to the woman again.
'Make an end of lamenting for the present,' he said. 'It has pleased
Allah to take your husband to the fellowship of the faithful. Peace be
upon him. Tell us in what manner he died, and what words he spoke when
he felt his end approaching, for he was my good friend and I wish to
know all.'
Almasta either did not understand or made a pretence of not
understanding, but when she heard Khaled's words she ceased from wailing
and sobbed silently, beating her breast from time to time.
'How did he die?' Khaled asked in a stern voice.
'He was asleep. He died,' replied Almasta in broken tones.
'You will get no other answer,' said Zehowah. 'She cannot speak our
tongue.'
'Is there no woman among them all who can talk this woman's language?'
asked Khaled with impatience, for he saw how useless it was to question
her.
'There is no one. I have inquired. Leave her with me, and if there is
anything to be known, I will try to find it out.'
So Khaled went away and Zehowah endeavoured to soothe Almasta and make
her talk in her broken words. But the woman made as though she would not
be comforted, and went and sat apart upon the stone floor where there
was no carpet, rocking to and fro, and wailing in a low voice. Zehowah
understood that whatever the truth might be Almasta was determined to
express her sorrow in the customary way, and that it would be better to
leave her alone.
For seven days she sat thus apart, covering her head and mourning, and
refusing to speak with any one, so that all the women supposed her to be
indeed distracted with grief at the death of Abdul Kerim. And each day
Khaled inquired of his wife whether she had yet learned anything, and
received the same answer. But in the meantime he was occupied with his
own thoughts, as well as with the affairs of the kingdom, though the
latter were as nothing in his mind compared with the workings of his
heart when he thought of Zehowah.
It chanced one evening that Khaled was riding among the gardens without
the city, attended only by a few horsemen, for he was simple in all his
ways and liked little to have a great throng of attendants about him. So
he rode alone, while the horsemen followed at a distance.
'Was ever a man, or an angel, so placed in the world as I am placed?' he
thought. 'How much better would it have been had I never seen Zehowah,
and if I had never slain the Indian prince. For I should still have
been with my fellows, the genii, from whom I am now cut off, and at
least I should have lived until the day of the resurrection. But now my
horse may stumble and fall, and my neck may be broken, and there is no
hereafter. Or I may die in my sleep, or be killed in my sleep, and there
will be no resurrection for me, nor any more life, anywhere in earth or
heaven. For Zehowah will never love me. Was ever a man so placed? And I
am ashamed to complain to her any more, for she is a good wife, obedient
and careful of my wants, and beautiful as the moon at the full, rising
amidst palm trees, besides being very wise and subtle. How can I
complain? Has she not given me herself, whom I desired, and a great
kingdom which, indeed, I did not desire, but which no man can despise as
a gift? Yet I am burned up within, and my heart is melting as a piece of
frankincense laid upon coals in an empty chamber, when no man cares for
its sweet savour. Surely, I am the most wretched of mankind. Oh, that
the angel who made garments for me of a ghada bush, and a bay mare of a
locust, would come down and lay his hand upon Zehowah's breast and make
a living heart of the stone which Allah has set in its place!'
So he rode slowly on, reasoning as he had often reasoned before, and
reaching the same conclusion in all his argument, which availed him
nothing. But suddenly, as the sun went down, a new thought entered his
mind and gave him a little hope.
'The sun is gone down,' he said to himself. 'But Allah has not destroyed
the sun. It will rise in the east to-morrow when the white cock crows in
the first heaven. Many things have being, which the sight of man cannot
see. It may be that although I see no signs of love in the heaven of
Zehowah's eyes, yet love is already there and will before long rise as
the sun and illuminate my darkness. For I am not subtle as the evil
genii are, but I must see very clearly before I am able to distinguish.'
He rode back into the city, planning how he might surprise Zehowah and
obtain from her unawares some proof that she indeed loved him. To this
end he entered the palace by a secret gate, covering his garments with
his aba, and his head with the kefiyeh he wore, in order to disguise
himself from the slaves and the soldiers whom he met on his way to the
harem. He passed on towards Zehowah's apartment by an unlighted passage
not generally used, and hid himself in a niche of the wall close to the
open door, from which he could see all that happened, and hear what was
said.
Zehowah was seated in her accustomed place and Almasta was beside her.
Khaled could watch their faces by the light of the hanging lamps, as the
two women talked together.
'You must put aside all mourning now,' Zehowah was saying. 'For I will
find another husband for you.'
'Another husband?' Almasta smiled and shook her head.
'Yes, there are other goodly men in Riad, though Abdul Kerim was of the
goodliest, as all say who knew him. He was the Sultan's friend, but he
was more soldier than courtier. He deserved a better death.'
'Abdul Kerim died in peace. He was asleep.' Almasta smiled still, but
more sadly, and her eyes were cast down.
'He died in peace,' Zehowah repeated, watching her narrowly. 'But it is
better to die in battle by the enemy's hand. Such a man, falling in the
front of the fight for the true faith, enters immediately into paradise,
to dwell for ever under the perpetual shade of the tree Sedrat, and
neither blackness nor shame shall cover his face. There the rivers flow
with milk and with clarified honey, and he shall rest on a couch covered
with thick silk embroidered with gold, and shall possess seventy
beautiful virgins whose eyes are blacker than mine and their skin whiter
than yours, having colour like rubies and pearls, and their voices like
the song of nightingales in Ajjem, of which travellers tell. These are
the rewards of the true believer as set forth in Al Koran by our
prophet, upon whom peace. A man slain in battle for the faith enters
directly into the possession of all this, but unbelievers shall be
taken by the forelock and the heels and cast into hell, to drink boiling
molten brass, as a thirsty camel drinks clear water.'
Almasta understood very little of what Zehowah said, but she smiled,
nevertheless, catching the meaning of some of the words.
'The Sultan Khaled loves black eyes,' she said. 'He will go to
paradise.'
'Doubtless, he will quench his thirst in the incorruptible milk of
heavenly rivers,' Zehowah replied. 'He is the chief of the brave, the
light of the faith and the burning torch of righteousness. Otherwise
Allah would not have chosen him to rule. But I spoke of Abdul Kerim.'
'He died in peace,' said Almasta the second time, and again looking
down.
'I do not know how he died,' Zehowah answered, looking steadily at the
woman's face. 'It was a great misfortune for you. Do you understand? I
am very sorry for you. You would have been happy with Abdul Kerim.'
'I mourn for him,' Almasta said, not raising her eyes.
'It is natural and right. Doubtless you loved him as soon as you saw
him.'
Almasta glanced quickly at Zehowah, as though suspecting a hidden
meaning in the words, and for a moment each of the women looked into
the other's eyes, but Zehowah saw nothing. For a wise man has truly said
that one may see into the depths of black eyes as into a deep well, but
that blue eyes are like the sea of Oman in winter, sparkling in the sun
as a plain of blue sand, but underneath more unfathomable than the
desert.
Almasta was too wise and deceitful to let the silence last. So when she
had looked at Zehowah and understood, she smiled somewhat sorrowfully
and spoke.
'I could have loved him,' she said. 'I desire no husband now.'
'That is not true,' Zehowah answered quickly. 'You wish to marry Khaled,
and that is the reason why you killed Abdul Kerim.'
