"Does he claim relationship with me?" asked the young lady, looking
disgusted.
"No, Miss Ferguson, I don't claim it, though I believe it exists," said
Fred.
"A common train boy!" ejaculated the young lady. "This is altogether
too much. Raymond, let us go!"
As they left the station the other young lady passenger who had
listened eagerly to the conversation asked in a tone of almost painful
excitement, "Is that the daughter of Robert Ferguson?"
"Yes, do you know him?" asked Fred in surprise.
"To my sorrow. When my poor father died Mr. Ferguson was appointed
executor and trustee of his estate. It was not large, but we supposed
it would amount to ten thousand dollars, and perhaps more. Last week my
mother received a letter from him stating that he had satisfied all
claims against the estate, and that only seventy-five dollars was left.
This leaves us well-nigh penniless."
"Is it possible? Do you suspect that any fraud has been practised upon
you?"
"My mother feels sure of it, but what can we do? We are poor, and the
poor are always friendless," continued the girl bitterly.
"Have you come to New York to see Mr. Ferguson?"
"Yes; my mother wishes me to ask full particulars, and to appeal to him
to do us justice. I fear it will be of no avail, but it is the only
thing that we can do."
"Pardon me," said Fred, "but we had better be getting on board the
ferry-boat, or we shall have to wait till the next."
"Thank you! I hardly know what I am doing."
Fred accompanied the young lady to the ladies' cabin and sat down
beside her.
"Can I be of any service to you?" asked the train boy. "It is late for
a young lady to arrive in New York."
"I supposed we should reach the city at nine. That is what a neighbor
told me. I hardly know where to go," she added timidly. "Can you
recommend a cheap hotel or boarding-house?"
"There would be a difficulty about obtaining admission to either this
evening."
"Then what shall I do?" asked the girl, looking distressed.
"I think you had better come home with me for to-night. Our home is a
very humble one but mother will take good care of you. To-morrow you
can make other arrangements if you desire."
"Oh, how kind you are! I should like nothing better, if you really
think your mother would not be annoyed."
Fred smiled.
"She is too kind-hearted for that," he said. "Just wait till you see
her, and you won't feel any doubt."
"How fortunate I am to fall in with such a friend! I now see how unwise
it was for me to take such a late train."
They walked to the Cortlandt Street station of the Sixth Avenue
Elevated Road, and ascended the steps. In spite of her anxieties the
young lady felt interested in the novel means of locomotion, and asked
a variety of questions of the train boy. At Thirty-Third Street they
descended, and walking a short distance up Broadway turned down a side
street, and were soon at the door of Fred's modest home.
Mrs. Fenton was sitting up, and had come to feel anxious.
"How long you have been away, Fred!" she said.
"Not quite three days, mother."
"But you were never away before. Bertie and I have missed you very
much."
"Mother," said Fred, "you don't see that I have company."
Then, for the first time, the widow observed the young lady.
"Who is it, Fred?" she asked, as a wild and improbable suspicion
entered her mind. Could it be that Fred, who was only a boy in years,
had contracted a marriage and brought his wife home?
"I shall have to ask the young lady to introduce herself," said Fred.
"My name is Ruth Patton," said the girl timidly. "I hope you will not
be angry with your son for bringing me here. I am a stranger in the
city, and indeed I did not know that the train arrived so late. Your
son told me that it would be difficult to get into any hotel or
boarding-house at this hour, and I have ventured to throw myself on
your hospitality for to-night."
"You are heartily welcome," said Mrs. Fenton, ready to smile at her
first wild suspicion. "Remove your wraps, and in ten minutes I can
offer you a cup of tea and some eggs and toast. You will sleep the
better for a little supper."
"You are a wise woman, mother," said Fred. "You have guessed what I was
longing for."
"Let me help you, Mrs. Fenton," said Ruth, already looking more
cheerful.
"Then you may toast the bread," said Mrs. Fenton. "I don't dare to
trust Fred. I did once to my sorrow, and the toast turned out to be as
black as my shoe."
"I can promise to do better than that. I have plenty of experience."
She set herself to the task, as if she felt quite at home, and soon
they were able to sit down to a plain but welcome supper.
"Do you know, mother," said Fred, between mouthfuls, "Luella Ferguson
was on the train."
"How did you recognize her? Did she speak to you?"
Fred smiled roguishly.
"She did. Shall I tell you what she said?"
"I should be glad to hear it."
"She said: 'Boy, I will report you to the railroad company for
insolence.' She's a sweet girl, Cousin Luella!"
"But you were not really insolent?"
Thereupon Fred told the whole story, and his mother agreed with him
that Miss Ferguson's conduct was very selfish and unladylike.
"What's more, mother, Miss Patton tells me that Cousin Ferguson has
cheated her mother and herself out of ten thousand dollars. I'll tell
you about it to-morrow. It is just striking twelve, and I can hardly
keep my eyes open."
CHAPTER XIX.
RUTH PATTON CALLS ON MR. FERGUSON.
The next day Ruth Patton confided her story to Mrs. Fenton.
"My mother and I," she said, "in our grief for father's death, never
dreamed that it would bring us destitution. Though he never furnished
us particulars of his pecuniary condition, he gave us to understand
that he would be comfortably provided for. Robert Ferguson we knew to
have been a life-long friend, or perhaps I should rather say
acquaintance, and we felt that as a trustee he would consider our
interests. We were thunderstruck when a letter was received from him
last week, stating that, in place of the ten thousand dollars on which
we fully counted, a pitiful balance of seventy-five dollars alone
remained to us."
"It was shameful!" said Mrs. Fenton indignantly.
"Nearly all of this sum will be swallowed up by small debts due in Port
Jervis. You will understand now why I have come to lay our case before
Mr. Ferguson, and see if he cannot give us more, or at any rate find me
employment, for on me now rests the duty of providing for my poor
mother."
"I wish I could encourage you, Miss Patton----"
"Don't call me Miss Patton. I look upon yon as a kind friend, and hope
you will call me Ruth."
"So indeed I will, for I feel a strong interest in you, Ruth."
"And I will look to you for advice."
"Then I advise you to call this evening on Mr. Ferguson, and find out
the worst."
"Meanwhile perhaps you can direct me to a cheap boarding-house."
"You will stay here till you have had time to form your plans."
"I will gladly do so if you will let me pay you."
"All in good time, Ruth. To-day you can help me if you will, and it
will be time to pay board when you are earning something."
It was not till he sat down to an early breakfast that Fred thought of
the package handed him by Mr. Lawrence at the Niagara Falls station. He
opened it in some curiosity, and to his surprise discovered a roll of
bills, accompanied by this note:
To FRED FENTON,
MY YOUNG FRIEND:--Though I have not yet had a chance to communicate
with my uncle in Elmira, I feel authorized to act as his
representative, and in his name ask you to accept the inclosed sum as
an acknowledgment of your valuable assistance in bringing about the
recovery of the securities stolen from his house, and incidentally as a
recompense for the annoyance you experienced in being yourself
suspected. Your conduct has been very creditable, and I feel that to
you we are largely indebted for the recovery of the property and the
conviction of the burglar. I infer that you are mainly dependent, on
your earnings, which are probably limited, and I therefore take
pleasure in handing you a substantial reward which I hope will be of
service to you.
                          Yours sincerely,
                          EDMUND LAWRENCE.
Fred counted the bills, and alike to his surprise and gratification
found that they amounted to two hundred dollars.
"Where did you get so much money, Fred?" asked his mother, entering the
room as he completed his count.
"That letter will explain, mother," answered Fred radiant with delight.
"We are indeed rich!" said Mrs. Fenton joyfully. "This removes all
anxiety for a long time to come."
"Yes, we can afford to snap our fingers at the landlord."
"I hope you are not going to carry all this money round with you, Fred.
You might get robbed."
"I shall deposit it in the Dime Savings Bank this forenoon."
"But you will leave before the bank opens."
"No, I am to take a midday train."
At ten o'clock Fred went to the Union Dime Savings Bank fronting on
Thirty-Second Street, and deposited the hundred dollars in gold left
him by his mining friend, and one hundred and seventy-five dollars
besides from his recent gift. The other twenty-five he handed to his
mother.
"Mother," he said, "you need a new dress, and Albert needs a new suit.
Take this money, and buy what you think best."
"I can go a little longer without a dress, Fred."
"But I don't want you to. We can spare the money well enough, and there
is no better way to spend it."
Mrs. Fenton made no further opposition, but during the day asked Ruth
Patton to accompany her to one of the large stores on Sixth Avenue,
where the necessary purchases were made.
In the evening Ruth set out for her call upon Mr. Robert Ferguson.
She ascended the steps in a state of nervous agitation, for she felt
that the interview was of momentous importance to her, and in a low
voice asked the servant who answered the bell if she could see Mr.
Ferguson.
"I will ask, miss," said the servant, surveying her plain dress with
some disdain.
"A young lady to see me?" said Robert Ferguson in surprise. "Are you
sure it is not my daughter she wishes to see?"
"No, sir; she expressly asked to see you."
Mr. Ferguson was a widower, and rather vain of his personal
attractions. Perhaps the young lady might have been struck by his
appearance.
"You can show her up," he said amiably, and turned to catch a further
glance in a mirror just opposite. He straightened his necktie, and
passed his hand softly over his hair to make sure that it was smooth,
and then turned to the door to catch the first glimpse of his visitor.
Nothing thus far has been said of the outward appearance of Ruth
Patton. Notwithstanding her anxious face she was unusually pretty, and
her manners were refined and ladylike.
"Mr. Ferguson?" she said inquiringly, pausing at the door.
"Come in, my dear young lady!" said Robert Ferguson graciously. "I am
pleased to see you."
"Thank you, sir."
"Pray sit down."
"He is much kinder than I supposed," thought Ruth. "I must have
misjudged him."
"I wrote to you a few days since," she began.
"Indeed! I don't think I can have received your letter."
"But you answered it, sir."
"I answered a letter from you? What then is your name?"
"Ruth Patton."
"Oh!" returned Ferguson, his face darkening. He no longer felt inclined
to be gracious, for he had a premonition that the interview would not
be agreeable to him.
"My mother and I were quite overwhelmed by the news you sent us. We had
no idea that my father left so little, and she wished me to come on and
ask for some particulars."
"I have very little to tell you beyond what I wrote," said Mr. Ferguson
coldly.
"My father led us to think that we should be comfortably provided for."
"Many men have very vague ideas of how they stand. Your father did
wrong in not insuring his life."
"He did not think it would be necessary. He thought we should be
sufficiently provided for without that."
"He had no right to think so," said Ferguson irritably. "You see how
things have turned out."
"But what can have become of all the money?"
"I hope, Miss Patton, you don't think I have spirited it away?"
"No, sir. Don't be offended, but it seems so strange," faltered Ruth.
"The money was unwisely invested. A large part of it was in wild-cat
mining stocks, which were not worth the paper they were written on."
"Father never spoke to us about any such investments."
"I presume not. Most men keep such matters to themselves. Well, the
upshot is that but seventy-five dollars are left. I presume your mother
received my check for this amount."
"Yes, sir."
"Then that is all I can do for you. I will in time forward a bill of
particulars. A present I am busy."
At this moment Luella Ferguson entered the room. She recognized Ruth at
once.
"You here?" she said in haughty surprise.
"Yes, I came on business."
"We do not want any servants. Papa, this girl was very insolent to me
on the train yesterday. I hope you will send her away."
"I am going, Miss Ferguson," said Ruth with spirit. "Your father was
the trustee of my poor father's property, and it was to ask about it
that I came here. Good evening."
She left the house with faltering steps, for her last hope had been
destroyed, and she felt keenly the cruel slight of Luella Ferguson. As
she set foot on the sidewalk her brain reeled, and she would have
fallen had not a young man who was about to ascend the steps sprung
forward and supported her.
CHAPTER XX.
A FRIEND IN NEED.
Ruth Patton recovered herself by a great effort. "I won't trouble you
any longer, sir," she faltered. "I think I can do without further
assistance."
"Excuse me for doubting it. You look very weak. Take my arm. There is a
drug store not far away where I can procure you a strengthening
draught."
"I am sorry to trouble you so much," she murmured apologetically.
"It is no trouble, I assure you. I count myself fortunate in being on
hand so opportunely."
Ruth for the first time, encouraged by his kind words, stole a glance
at the stranger. He was a well made and unusually handsome young man of
perhaps twenty-seven. His careful dress and something in his manner
seemed to indicate high social position. The indication corresponded
with the fact. Alfred Lindsay belonged to an old and distinguished New
York family. Though his means were ample he was not content to be an
idler, but after careful preparation at Columbia College and Law
School, he had opened a law office in the Mills Building, and was
already beginning to be known as a young man with a future.
His wealth and high social standing led him to be considered a "catch,"
in the matrimonial market. It is safe to say that at least half a dozen
young ladies had set their caps for him. Among these was Luella
Ferguson, and there were those who considered her chance of landing the
prize the best. At any rate Mr. Lindsay, who had been employed by the
elder Ferguson in some legal matter, became a frequent caller, to the
great satisfaction of Luella Ferguson. It may not be considered a mark
of taste on the part of the young man to have fallen a victim to the
young lady's arts, but in his presence she was all that was amiable.
She was not without a certain attractiveness of face, which, had it
been joined to an equally agreeable disposition, might have proved a
good excuse to any young man for succumbing to her fascinations. Never
for a moment had he cause to suspect that she was otherwise than she
seemed. Kind and sympathetic himself, the absence of these qualities,
if known to him, would have rendered her repulsive to him.
He conducted Ruth to a drug store, and the druggist administered
restoratives that soon brought back her strength and color, but not her
cheerfulness.
"I am strong enough now to go on my way," she said rising. "How can I
thank you, sir, for your kindness?"
"By allowing me to see you to your own door," and this he insisted on
despite Ruth's protest.
"Would it be indiscreet," he asked, when they had set out on their way,
"to ask if you can account for your sudden illness?"
"I had a shock," she answered.
"Of what sort? Are you willing to make me your confidant? I do not ask
out of curiosity, but because it may be in my power to serve you."
"I have so few friends that I will not decline your kind offer."
"You were coming from the house of Mr. Robert Ferguson?"
"Yes, sir; do you know him?"
"Quite well. I was myself going there."
"Is he considered--an honorable man?"
