while you tramp for work. You save up something where, 
on the other hand, you would be likely to spend it all." 
" It looks very fair," says a small, sharp-faced man, tak- 
ing the. floor; "but when you're fast this way, and the 
bosses want to give a cut at wages, you daren't stand out, 
for fear you'd lose your house. They get the upper hand 
of you everywhere. And if your house isn't paid for and 
you're out of work, there's a sharp foreclosure, and you lose 
what you've put in it." 
"If any man chooses to build one of these houses or buy 
it after it is built, and any misfortune happens to him, the 
association will pay him exactly what it cost. The interest 
will have gone for rent. So he can be sure of a purchaser. 
And if he can sell it for more than that, he has the oppor- 
tunity,'' announces Winterburne. 
He well knows he will be back of everything, although 
one of the proprietors of the lumber-mill has signified his 
willingness to take a share in the experiment. Everything 
is here on the spot, which is an advantage. 
In a fortnight several who have taken options will hand 
in their decision. Meanwhile, as it is coming pleasant 
weather and there will be little frost to interfere, Winter- 
burne and Mr. Cresson start at once at ten of the cottages. 
Two are to be built together, with separate gardens on the 
outside of each. Cressoii considers it rather foolisli to 
waste the land. 
" It seems to me a bit of garden strip is a wonderfiil in- 
terest to womenkind, if it cannot attract a man's attention. 
Flowers and shrubbery add so much cheer," subjoins Win- 
terburne. 
There is to be nothing pretentious about them. Six nice, 
cheerful rooms with plenty of windows, built so as to keep 
out the bleak winds of winter, and a pretty porch across 
the front, divided by a railing, so that neither family can 
interfere. The other lots are to be partitioned in the- same 
manner. The curious throng linger to inspect the founda- 
tions, — women with babies in their arms, and little chil- 
dren clinging to their skirts. 
Dale meanwhile is putting his energies and what money 
he can spare on the home of his old age at Cedar Grove. 
This is straight up the river, where the bank has washed 
away by slow degrees and left a little cove. The outlook 
is really beautiful. The river and the unequal shore over 
opposite, here a mass of frowning rocks, there a long ascent 
of wooded hills, and a vista of half-hidden villages breaking 
the solitude. 
If they cannot reach their point in one way, the two 
men most interested decide that all methods shall be tried 
before they are vanquished. Armitage persuades some 
young fellows to try the gymnasium. There is to be a 
boat-club also. And Winterburne with much shrewd man- 
agement gathers the musical talent of the little town 
together, and they come once a week for a practise. Davis, 
the cornet player, is persuaded to join them. Winter- 
burne holds to his idea of putting wholesome pleasures in 
the place of those that can only degrade the soul and body. 
There are not the variety of temptations that a large city 
offers, but for that reason the one has much greater influ- 
ence. 
Armitage has been studying himself, his friend, and 
Miss Halford as well. To him "being all things to all 
men " has looked heretofore a rather sophistical problem, 
from which he has shrunk with a sense of vague Jesuitism. 
But he comes to read the Apostle's reason — "if haply he 
may save some." It is not lowering his soul to weak sub- 
terfuges, not putting a possible evil in the place of a grander 
virtue, it is only passing by in self-denial some cherished 
ideals. It is learning that more generous conformity to 
the Divine Will, that courage taking in the irritating and 
unthankful, not only living close to the Eternal goodness, 
but reaching out for others, gathering the fragmentary 
truths that could best penetrate here and there, and mould- 
ing them into a braver completeness, realizing the awful 
poverty of weaker souls and their few poor resources, and 
coming to have a tenderer patience with God's creatures. 
The sudden " boom," it seems so, but it has been a 
twelvemonth in preparation, stirs Warwick as with the 
forces of electricity. Some of the men who have drifted 
along in the old rut for years awake to possibilities that 
overthrow their old modes of reasoning. They have hith- 
erto refused to move with the world, now they can hardly 
stride fast enough. 
"I don't know but you have evoked one of the old 
demons the Germans used to let out of a bottle," says 
Armitage one day. "How will you get him back when 
you want to restrain him ? Everybody is going wild 
about buying land. They seem to think all the ground left 
in the world is in this little town of Warwick, and they 
must secure it at once." 
Dale has accused him in a less mild way of sending 
everybody into a fever of speculation. 
The club — it is a club now and meets in the upper 
hall; some of the smokers keep their pipes out of their 
mouths for an hour's talk — discusses a few of the ques- 
tions of material prosperity, of work and wages, of the 
poverty of the poor, mentally, physically in their ailing 
children and less rugged physique; and at other times 
some of the great moral questions. During one of these, 
when the welfare of the multitudes of workers is under 
 
consideration, the old argument of the luxury of the few 
comes up. The fine houses, the costly living, the expen- 
sive pleasures, of those who grind their wealth out of the 
laborer, leaving him but a mere pittance. 
Two or three look askance at Winterburne. He rises 
with a good-humored interest, and his smile seems to be 
the oil upon the seething waters of passion. 
"There is one class you have omitted," he begins in a 
clear, unperturbed voice. " I think we agree about the 
speculator, and I am willing to admit that the manufacturer 
is too often grasping and selfish. But of your own free 
will you help to euriohen another class, and find no fault 
when the liquor dealer lives iu elegance on your money. 
He has his yachts, his summer houses, his journeys, his 
horses, his men and maids, and all his expensive pleasures, 
to which you contribute cheerfully, even to sacrificing the 
welfare of your own family, your health, and your pros- 
pects in life. He influences your votes — you are not even 
free agents in that. He speculates as well. He sells you 
all manner of frightfully adulterated stuff, and you make 
no complaint. Now, when you are so generous to him, do 
you not think it is only fair to show us a little of this 
large charity once in a while ? If I save my money and 
buy an iron mine or start a mill or a furnace, I am dealing 
it out again. Why, I even think sometimes that / am 
helping the rumseller along because I am willing to pay 
enough wages for you to hand over a part to him." 
A laugh goes round the room. He stands thete so com- 
pact, so spirited, so utterly fearless, his hair tumbled about 
his white forehead, his eyes shining in the splendid light 
of health and energy, his clear-cut face with its winning 
smile, and not a soul can controvert him. 
He has driven his nail, and they can hammer it down at 
their leisure. It cannot be pulled out. He prefers that 
they shall discuss it among themselves, so he bows gra- 
ciously and withdraws. 
" It is a pity you couldn't have made that speech before 
the election," says Armitage. 
" It might have fallen flat, then. I wasn't so much in 
the active movement, though I did a good deal of very, 
earnest work. I told Dale I wasn't discouraged. Five 
years from this time you will find a different sentiment , in 
this tovjn. No one has really desired its welfare. I'm not 
sure but people in general fight harder for their theories 
than the beneficent application of them. The people must 
come to them. A truth cannot change or be altered. Yet 
some of us to-day wouldn't fight for the things for which 
our forefathers shed their blood heroically. They believed 
them high and solemn truths ; doubtless they were to 
them. But they do not look so to us. Is it because we 
have a wider knowledge, have come to that ' better way ' 
shown eighteen hundred years ago ? Yet we don't crowd 
into it, do we ? " and he laughs out of the large and gener- 
ous impulses of his soul, the patient awaiting. 
" No, we do not jostle each other much," returns 
Armitage. " If we only were as earnest for the benefit of 
our fellow-creatures as we think we are ! " and he sighs., 
" Yet there must be systems " — 
"No fear of our running short. of them. Very few are 
altogether perfect. But those that contribute most to the, 
moral force and the happiness of others seem to me better 
worth following. Perhaps our age is not as grandly, heroic 
as some that have preceded us, but / like living now,. And 
I like the work of to-day, Still, it cannot all be finished 
in my time ; that is one of the limitations I recognized at 
the outset. 
" It is odd," he says a moment later, as his friend makes 
no reply, is indeed revolving many ideas in his mind, "that 
Miss Halford goes so quick to the very best there is in 
systems, and has that large adaptiveness without confusion. 
Most teachers would he hopelessly muddled, doing as she 
does. It puzzles me sometimes that she can so quickly dis- 
cern the capabilities of a child, and the grand secret of her 
success is that she never sets a child about doing that for 
which it has not the slightest capacity. There is so much 
wasted force in the world, so many people doing the wrong 
thing ; " and now he sighs, a little. " And the industrial 
problem swings between making men mere machines, or 
giving them the wider self-interest in all employments ; 
wider interest in the true life of manhood and womanhood. 
Cynthia amused us one evening by saying there were two 
or three girls who actually couldn't learn to darn stockings. 
One of these is her best monitor, a girl who can easily be 
trained for a teacher. It would be a manifest injustice to 
insist that she should spend half her time over the stock- 
ings, but I suppose most of the mothers would. Miss; 
Halford can fill a big space somewhere, when the right 
master comes to hand." 
Winterburne finds the two girls enjoying- themselves in 
the cosey workroom. Alice has IjEiid by her tasks and is 
lounging in the reclining chair. Perhaps it is txie crimson 
pillow back of her, but it seems to him she is paler, longer, 
and slimmer than her usual wont. She has not been out 
so much of late. There is so little to' explore around this,, 
town, even in the magnificent springtime. 
Cynthia, is in the midst of a bit of experience at once 
amusing and pathetic. 
"Go on," exclaims Winterburne, deliberately picking 
out the softest and largest rocking-chair in the room. He 
has a tremendous love of comfort. To him the continual 
petty denials of self, with no ultimate purpose, seem alike 
useless and reprehensible, like a wasp buzzing around a 
room when there is a wide out-of-doors. 
Cynthia proceeds. Her long eyeSj that look so indolent 
and see so much, are brimming- with amusement. Her 
cheeks are like the heart of a rose, her complexion has a 
peachy bloom, her lips express every emotion, ar* riant 
with a, marvellous capacity of adding just the right force 
or drollery to her words. She is not handsome, but there 
are times when she is, oddly pretty and always attractiye. 
Her voice has such a rapid ripple, changes so quickly, is 
soft, passionate, tender, and pathetic as her subject requires. 
She could hold an audience, he thinks. 
" Cynthia," he says, when she has ended, " it would make 
one of those dramatic little stories of common life that 
appeal so to most hearts. Why don't you write it ? " 
" I wonder if I could ! I wish," she says in a kind of 
vague fashion, that shows how far her thoughts have trav- 
elled, "I wish Regina was a — had a genius." 
" Regina is too intense. Her world would be made of 
the exceptional natures. She cannot easily understand 
what the great majority of the world needs, cannot accept 
the every-day standard. Her attempts would be a battle 
and a defeat, for she would be too thoroughly, bitterly 
true to add the glow of romance." 
Cynthia glances at him. His eyes have wandered past 
her into a mysterious world ; it is the mood she has Sur- 
prised occasionally, and has a subtile reference to Regina. 
Something a little more might makeit love. Regina will 
never hold out that animating, vivifying, leaping touch of 
flame to kindle his soul, any soul. Is there some fatal 
restraining influence holding her in its chilly grasp. 
" Yes," subjoins Alice, rousing herself a little, and softly 
thrilliiig to the consciousness on which she is founding a 
tender romance, that he must be sure Regina will disregard 
if proffered; "yes, Cynthia. Why haven't we thought of 
that before? You can put pictures into words, if you 
cannot make them with a pencil." 
"I don't know." Cynthia gives k slow, doubtful laiigh. 
It is through Armitage that Cynthia hears of Winter- 
burne's successful sally. Indeed, it is through him that 
she has come to understand so much of the real man. 
" Some of them didn't take it kindly ; it's odd what 
sensitive feelings they have for a rumseller. But Forbes, 
the father of those dreadful twin boys, you know, seemed 
tremendously struck by the- fact. His weekly bill at the 
saloon often runs up to three dollars of his twelve, and 
he's a pretty sober fellow, too. One doesn't often hear of 
his going on a tear, as the men call it. So he's promised 
his wife two dollars of it to put by toward her house and 
carriage and all that; and he laughed a little over it. 
'I've come to the conclusion,' said he, 'that I ean"t afford 
to help so many men to fortunes, and as this one doesn't 
do anything for my advancement or my home comfort, I'll 
lop him off first. To think there's double the money 
spent for beer and such stuff that there is for bread, and 
people starving ! ' He pointed it rather more forcibly than 
I approve of ; " and Armitage gives a humorous half-smile. 
All these bits of interest go up to Beverly tinted and 
textured by Cynthia's bright modes of speech. Regina 
considers them afterward. Is it possible that her gen- 
eralizations have come so wide of the mark, that when she 
considered herself wise in the lore of discrimination, she had 
merely followed out a few dogmatic principles arbitrarily 
laid down by those who had only taken one side of human 
nature into account, who were fallible, who might be igno- 
rant as well ? For her system has allowed of no generous 
growth and development ; it has had the rigidity of caste. 
That when people appear content with some walk of lifei 
they can have aspirations for no other; that the brevet 
rank belongs only to the favored few whose noble dissatis- 
factions enable them to contend for it. Is it this incessant 
weighing and battling that brings forth exalted impulses 
and magnanimous deeds that correspond with them ? For 
if there are no deeds, if it is but barren speculation and 
the soul grows no larger, then is the work in vain. Above 
all must be that greater law of love to one's neighbor, of 
appreciation, of justice, of kindly consideration. 
And as she has been brought more intimately within the 
lives of these people moving in what she has believed 
the serene air of culture, she finds some of them not any 
grander, not any finer, than ordinary mortals. It is largely 
a question of money which gives both leisure and educa- 
tion. Those she has come to like best are following the 
divine Master, have taken up a more generous outlook, are 
not fencing themselves about with high walls, lest those 
in the streets below should taste the sweetness, linger in 
the bloom and fragrance to gird anew their tired souls. 
She could never be guilty of such rudeness as that of Miss 
Nichol's, but she sees some of her own exclusiveness 
reproduced in even that, and it is a sign of healthy growth 
that she despises herself for it. 
Was she ever so alive to the influences of nature as she 
has been this spring, she wonders ? Every bit of growth 
and bloom moves her to a passionate worship. She wan- 
dej-s over the hillsides and down the valleys, and brings 
• home wild flowers wherewith to brighten the rooms which 
have grown steadily pretty in spite of small economies. 
She has brought her sense of grace and harmony to bear 
upon the simplest arrangement of every-day life, and her 
