know it are most sensitive to its awe and splendor. It is never twice
the same, for, as I said, it has an atmosphere of its own. I was told by
Hance that he once saw a thunder-storm in it. He described the chaos of
clouds in the pit, the roar of the tempest, the reverberations of
thunder, the inconceivable splendor of the rainbows mingled with the
colors of the towers and terraces. It was as if the world were breaking
up. He fled away to his hut in terror.
The day is near when this scenery must be made accessible. A railway can
easily be built from Flagstaff. The projected road from Utah, crossing
the Colorado at Lee's Ferry, would come within twenty miles of the
Grand Cañon, and a branch to it could be built. The region is arid, and
in the "sight-seeing" part of the year the few surface wells and springs
are likely to go dry. The greatest difficulty would be in procuring
water for railway service or for such houses of entertainment as are
necessary. It could, no doubt, be piped from the San Francisco Mountain.
At any rate, ingenuity will overcome the difficulties, and travellers
from the wide world will flock thither, for there is revealed the
long-kept secret, the unique achievement of nature.
APPENDIX.
A CLIMATE FOR INVALIDS.
The following notes on the climate of Southern California, written by
Dr. H. A. Johnson, of Chicago, at the solicitation of the writer of this
volume and for his information, I print with his permission, because the
testimony of a physician who has made a special study of climatology in
Europe and America, and is a recognized authority, belongs of right to
the public:
     The choice of a climate for invalids or semi-invalids involves
     the consideration of: First, the invalid, his physical
     condition (that is, disease), his peculiarities (mental and
     emotional), his social habits, and his natural and artificial
     needs. Second, the elements of climate, such as temperature,
     moisture, direction and force of winds, the averages of the
     elements, the extremes of variation, and the rapidity of
     change.
     The climates of the western and south-western portions of the
     United States are well suited to a variety of morbid
     conditions, especially those pertaining to the pulmonary organs
     and the nervous system. Very few localities, however, are
     equally well adapted to diseases of innervation of circulation
     and respiration. For the first and second, as a rule, high
     altitudes are not advisable; for the third, altitudes of from
     two thousand to six thousand feet are not only admissible but
     by many thought to be desirable. It seems, however, probable
     that it is to the dryness of the air and the general
     antagonisms to vegetable growths, rather than to altitude
     alone, that the benefits derived in these regions by persons
     suffering from consumption and kindred diseases should be
     credited.
     Proximity to large bodies of water, river valleys, and damp
     plateaus are undesirable as places of residence for invalids
     with lung troubles. There are exceptions to this rule.
     Localities near the sea with a climate subject to slight
     variations in temperature, a dry atmosphere, little rainfall,
     much sunshine, not so cold in winter as to prevent much
     out-door life and not so hot in summer as to make out-door
     exercise exhausting, are well adapted not only to troubles of
     the nervous and circulatory systems, but also to those of the
     respiratory organs.
     Such a climate is found in the extreme southern portions of
     California. At San Diego the rainfall is much less, the air is
     drier, and the number of sunshiny days very much larger than on
     our Atlantic seaboard, or in Central and Northern California.
     The winters are not cold; flowers bloom in the open air all the
     year round; the summers are not hot. The mountains and sea
     combine to give to this region a climate with few sudden
     changes, and with a comfortable range of all essential
     elements.
     A residence during a part of the winter of 1889-90 at Coronado
     Beach, and a somewhat careful study of the comparative
     climatology of the south-western portions of the United States,
     leads me to think that we have few localities where the
     comforts of life can be secured, and which at the same time are
     so well adapted to the needs of a variety of invalids, as San
     Diego and its surroundings. In saying this I do not wish to be
     understood as preferring it to all others for some one
     condition or disease, but only that for weak hearts, disabled
     lungs, and worn-out nerves it seems to me to be unsurpassed.
                                    CHICAGO, July 12, 1890.
THE COMING OF WINTER IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA.
From Mr. Theodore S. Van Dyke's altogether admirable book on Southern
California I have permission to quote the following exquisite
description of the floral procession from December to March, when the
Land of the Sun is awakened by the first winter rain:
     Sometimes this season commences with a fair rain in November,
     after a light shower or two in October, but some of the very
     best seasons begin about the time that all begin to lose hope.
     November adds its full tribute to the stream of sunshine that
     for months has poured along the land; and, perhaps, December
     closes the long file of cloudless days with banners of blue and
     gold. The plains and slopes lie bare and brown; the low hills
     that break away from them are yellow with dead foxtail or wild
     oats, gray with mustard-stalks, or ashy green with chemisal or
     sage. Even the chaparral, that robes the higher hills in living
     green, has a tired air, and the long timber-line that marks
     the cañon winding up the mountain-slopes is decidedly paler.
     The sea-breeze has fallen off to a faint breath of air; the
     land lies silent and dreamy with golden haze; the air grows
     drier, the sun hotter, and the shade cooler; the smoke of
     brush-fires hangs at times along the sky; the water has risen
     in the springs and sloughs as if to meet the coming rain, but
     it has never looked less like rain than it now does.
     Suddenly a new wind arises from the vast watery plains upon the
     south-west; long, fleecy streams of cloud reach out along the
     sky; the distant mountain-tops seem swimming in a film of haze,
     and the great California weather prophet--a creature upon whom
     the storms of adverse experience have beaten for years without
     making even a weather crack in the smooth cheek of his
     conceit--lavishes his wisdom as confidently as if he had never
     made a false prediction. After a large amount of fuss, and
     enough preliminary skirmishing over the sky for a dozen storms
     in any Eastern State, the clouds at last get ready, and a soft
     pattering is heard upon the roof--the sweetest music that ever
     cheers a Californian ear, and one which the author of "The Rain
     upon the Roof" should have heard before writing his poem.
     When the sun again appears it is with a softer, milder beam
     than before. The land looks bright and refreshed, like a tired
     and dirty boy who has had a good bath and a nap, and already
     the lately bare plains and hill-sides show a greenish tinge.
     Fine little leaves of various kinds are springing from the
     ground, but nearly all are lost in a general profusion of dark
     green ones, of such shape and delicacy of texture that a
     careless eye might readily take them for ferns. This is the
     alfileria, the prevailing flower of the land. The rain may
     continue at intervals. Daily the land grows greener, while the
     shades of green, varied by the play of sunlight on the slopes
     and rolling hills, increase in number and intensity. Here the
     color is soft, and there bright; yonder it rolls in wavy
     alternations, and yonder it reaches in an unbroken shade where
     the plain sweeps broad and free. For many weeks green is the
     only color, though cold nights may perhaps tinge it with a
     rusty red. About the first of February a little starlike flower
     of bluish pink begins to shine along the ground. This is the
     bloom of the alfileria, and swiftly it spreads from the
     southern slopes, where it begins, and runs from meadow to
     hill-top. Soon after a cream-colored bell-flower begins to nod
     from a tall, slender stalk; another of sky-blue soon opens
     beside it; beneath these a little five-petaled flower of deep
     pink tries to outshine the blossoms of the alfileria; and above
     them soon stands the radiant shooting-star, with reflexed
     petals of white, yellow, and pink shining behind its purplish
     ovaries. On every side violets, here of the purest golden hue
     and overpowering fragrance, appear in numbers beyond all
     conception. And soon six or seven varieties of clover, all with
     fine, delicate leaves, unfold flowers of yellow, red, and pink.
     Delicate little crucifers of white and yellow shine modestly
     below all these; little cream-colored flowers on slender scapes
     look skyward on every side; while others of purer white, with
     every variety of petal, crowd up among them. Standing now upon
     some hill-side that commands miles of landscape, one is dazzled
     with a blaze of color, from acres and acres of pink, great
     fields of violets, vast reaches of blue, endless sweeps of
     white.
     Upon this--merely the warp of the carpet about to cover the
     land--the sun fast weaves a woof of splendor. Along the
     southern slopes of the lower hills soon beams the orange light
     of the poppy, which swiftly kindles the adjacent slopes, then
     flames along the meadow, and blazes upon the northern
     hill-sides. Spires of green, mounting on every side, soon open
     upon the top into lilies of deep lavender, and the scarlet
     bracts of the painted-cup glow side by side with the crimson of
     the cardinal-flower. And soon comes the iris, with its broad
     golden eye fringed with rays of lavender blue; and five
     varieties of phacelia overwhelm some places with waves of
     purple, blue, indigo, and whitish pink. The evening primrose
     covers the lower slopes with long sheets of brightest yellow,
     and from the hills above the rock-rose adds its golden bloom to
     that of the sorrel and the wild alfalfa, until the hills almost
     outshine the bright light from the slopes and plains. And
     through all this nods a tulip of most delicate lavender;
     vetches, lupins, and all the members of the wild-pea family are
     pushing and winding their way everywhere in every shade of
     crimson, purple, and white; along the ground crowfoot weaves a
     mantle of white, through which, amid a thousand comrades, the
     orthocarpus rears its tufted head of pink. Among all these are
     mixed a thousand other flowers, plenty enough as plenty would
     be accounted in other countries, but here mere pin-points on a
     great map of colors.
     As the stranger gazes upon this carpet that now covers hill and
     dale, undulates over the table-lands, and robes even the
     mountain with a brilliancy and breadth of color that strikes
     the eye from miles away, he exhausts his vocabulary of
     superlatives, and goes away imagining he has seen it all. Yet
     he has seen only the background of an embroidery more varied,
     more curious and splendid, than the carpet upon which it is
     wrought. Asters bright with centre of gold and lavender rays
     soon shine high above the iris, and a new and larger tulip of
     deepest yellow nods where its lavender cousin is drooping its
     lately proud head. New bell-flowers of white and blue and
     indigo rise above the first, which served merely as ushers to
     the display, and whole acres ablaze with the orange of the
     poppy are fast turning with the indigo of the larkspur. Where
     the ground was lately aglow with the marigold and the
     four-o'clock the tall penstemon now reaches out a hundred arms
     full-hung with trumpets of purple and pink. Here the silene
     rears high its head with fringed corolla of scarlet; and there
     the wild gooseberry dazzles the eye with a perfect shower of
     tubular flowers of the same bright color. The mimulus alone is
     almost enough to color the hills. Half a dozen varieties, some
     with long, narrow, trumpet-shaped flowers, others with broad
     flaring mouths; some of them tall herbs, and others large
     shrubs, with varying shades of dark red, light red, orange,
     cream-color, and yellow, spangle hill-side, rock-pile, and
     ravine. Among them the morning-glory twines with flowers of
     purest white, new lupins climb over the old ones, and the
     trailing vetch festoons rock and shrub and tree with long
     garlands of crimson, purple, and pink. Over the scarlet of the
     gooseberry or the gold of the high-bush mimulus along the
     hills, the honeysuckle hangs its tubes of richest cream-color,
     and the wild cucumber pours a shower of white over the green
     leaves of the sumach or sage. Snap-dragons of blue and white,
     dandelions that you must look at three or four times to be
     certain what they are, thistles that are soft and tender with
     flowers too pretty for the thistle family, orchids that you may
     try in vain to classify, and sages and mints of which you can
     barely recognize the genera, with cruciferæ, compositæ, and
     what-not, add to the glare and confusion.
     Meanwhile, the chaparral, which during the long dry season has
     robed the hills in sombre green, begins to brighten with new
     life; new leaves adorn the ragged red arms of the manzanita,
     and among them blow thousands of little urn-shaped flowers of
     rose-color and white. The bright green of one lilac is almost
     lost in a luxuriance of sky-blue blossoms, and the white lilac
     looks at a distance as if drifted over with snow. The
     cercocarpus almost rivals the lilac in its display of white and
     blue, and the dark, forbidding adenostoma now showers forth
     dense panicles of little white flowers. Here, too, a new
     mimulus pours floods of yellow light, and high above them all
     the yucca rears its great plume of purple and white.
     Thus marches on for weeks the floral procession, new turns
     bringing new banners into view, or casting on old ones a
     brighter light, but ever showing a riotous profusion of
     splendor until member after member drops gradually out of the
     ranks, and only a band of stragglers is left marching away into
     the summer. But myriads of ferns, twenty-one varieties of which
     are quite common, and of a fineness and delicacy rarely seen
     elsewhere, still stand green in the shade of the rocks and
     trees along the hills, and many a flower lingers in the timber
     or cañons long after its friends on the open hills or plains
     have faded away. In the cañons and timber are also many flowers
     that are not found in the open ground, and as late as the
     middle of September, only twenty miles from the sea, and at an
     elevation of but fifteen hundred feet, I have gathered bouquets
     that would attract immediate attention anywhere. The whole land
     abounds with flowers both curious and lovely; but those only
     have been mentioned which force themselves upon one's
     attention. Where the sheep have not ruined all beauty, and the
     rains have been sufficient, they take as full possession of the
     land as the daisy and wild carrot do of some Eastern meadows.
     There are thousands of others, which it would be a hopeless
     task to enumerate, which are even more numerous than most of
     the favorite wild flowers are in the East, yet they are not
     abundant enough to give character to the country. For instance,
     there is a great larkspur, six feet high, with a score of
     branching arms, all studded with spurred flowers of such
     brilliant red that it looks like a fountain of strontium fire;
     but you will not see it every time you turn around. A tall lily
     grows in the same way, with a hundred golden flowers shining on
     its many arms, but it must be sought in certain places. So the
     tiger-lily and the columbine must be sought in the mountains,
     the rose and sweetbrier on low ground, the night-shades and the
     helianthus in the timbered cañons and gulches.
     Delicacy and brilliancy characterize nearly all the California
     flowers, and nearly all are so strange, so different from the
     other members of their families, that they would be an ornament
     to any greenhouse. The alfileria, for instance, is the richest
     and strongest fodder in the world. It is the main-stay of the
     stock-grower, and when raked up after drying makes excellent
     hay; yet it is a geranium, delicate and pretty, when not too
     rank.
     But suddenly the full blaze of color is gone, and the summer is
     at hand. Brown tints begin to creep over the plains; the wild
     oats no longer ripple in silvery waves beneath the sun and
     wind; and the foxtail, that shone so brightly green along the
     hill-side, takes on a golden hue. The light lavender tint of
     the chorizanthe now spreads along the hills where the poppy so
     lately flamed, and over the dead morning-glory the dodder
     weaves its orange floss. A vast army of cruciferæ and compositæ
     soon overruns the land with bright yellow, and numerous
     varieties of mint tinge it with blue or purple; but the greater
     portion of the annual vegetation is dead or dying. The distant
     peaks of granite now begin to glow at evening with a soft
     purple hue; the light poured into the deep ravines towards
     sundown floods them with a crimson mist; on the shady
     hill-sides the chaparral looks bluer, and on the sunny
     hill-sides is a brighter green than before.
COMPARATIVE TEMPERATURE AROUND THE WORLD.
The following table, published by the Pasadena Board of Trade, shows the
comparative temperature of well-known places in various parts of the
world, arranged according to the difference between their average winter
and average summer:
CALIFORNIA AND ITALY.
The Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce, in its pamphlet describing that
city and county, gives a letter from the Signal Service Observer at
Sacramento, comparing the temperature of places in California and Italy.
He writes:
     To prove to your many and intelligent readers the equability
     and uniformity Of the climate of Santa Barbara, San Diego, and
     Los Angeles, as compared with Mentone and San Remo, of the
     Riviera of Italy and of Corfu, I append the monthly temperature
     for each place. Please notice a much warmer temperature in
