other hand, the proletariat loved him 
all the better. What greater salve 
could it have than the sight of the 
conquerors of the world entertaining 
the conquered, lords amusing their 
lackeys ? 
Greece meanwhile sent him crowns 
and prayers ; crowns for anticipated! 
victories, prayers that he would come  
and win them. Homage so delicate! 
was not to be disdained. Nero set 
forth, an army at his heels; a legioa 
 
of claqueurs, a phalanx of musicians, 
cohorts of comedians, and with these 
for retinue, through sacred groves that 
Homer knew, through intervales 
which Hesiod sang, through a year of 
festivals he wandered, always victorious. It was he who conquered at 
Olympia; it was he who conquered 
at Corinth. No one could withstand 
him. Alone in history he won in 
every game, and with eighteen hundred crowns as trophies of war he repeated Cesar's triumph. In a robe 
immaterial as a moonbeam, the 
Olympian wreath on his curls, the 
Isthmian laurel in his hand, his army 
behind him, the clown that was em- 
peror entered Rome. Victims were 
immolated as he passed, the Via Sacra 
was strewn with saffron, the day 
was rent with acclaiming shouts. 
Throughout the empire sacrifices 
Lwere ordered. Old people that lived 
 
in the country fancied him, Philostratus says, the conqueror of new na- 
tions, and sacrificed with dehght. 
But if as artist he bored everybody 
to death, he was yet an admirable 
impresario. The spectacles he gave 
were unique. At one which was held 
in the Taurian amphitheatre it must 
have been deli<i;htfui to assist. Fancy 
eighty thousand people on ascending 
galleries, protected from the sun by a 
canopy of spangled silk ; an arena 
three acres large carpeted with sand, 
cinnabar and borax, and in that arena 
death in every form, on those galleries 
colossal delight. 
The lowest gallery, immediately 
above the arena, was a wide terrace 
where' the senate sat. There were 
the dignitaries of the empire, and 
with them priests in their sacerdotal 
robes; vestals in linen, their hair 
arranged in the six braids that were 
 
symbolic of virginity; swarms of 
oriental princes, rainbows of foreign 
ambassadors; and in the centre, the 
imperial pulvinar, an enclosed pavilion, in which Nero lounged, a 
mignon at his feet. 
In the gallery above were the 
necklaced knights, their tunics bor- 
dered with the augusticlave, their 
deep-blue cloaks fastened to the 
shoulder; and there, too, in their wide 
white togas, were the citizens of 
Rome. 
Still higher the people sat. In the 
topmost gallery were the women, and 
in a separate enclosure a thousand 
musicians answered the cries of the 
multitude with the blare and the 
laugh of brass. 
Beneath the terraces, behind the 
barred doors that punctuated the 
marble wall which circled the arena, 
were Mauritian panthers that had 
been entrapped with rotten meat ; 
hippopotami from Sals, lured by the 
smell of carrots into pits; the rhinoceros of Gaul, taken with the net; lions, 
lassoed in the deserts; Lucanian 
bears, Spanish bulls; and, in remoter 
dens, men, unarmed, that waited. 
By way of foretaste for better 
things, a handful of criminals, local 
desperadoes, an impertinent slave, a 
machinist, who in a theatre the night 
before had missed an effect — these, 
together with a negligent usher, were 
tossed one after the other naked into 
the ring, and bound to a scaffold that 
surmounted a miniature hill. At a 
signal the scaffold fell, the hill crumbled, and from it a few hyenas issued, 
who indolently devoured their prey, 
With this for prelude, the gods 
avenged and justice appeased, a 
rhinoceros ambled that way, stimulated from behind by the point of a 
 
spear; and in a moment the hyenas 
were disemboweled, their legs quivering in the air. Throughout the 
arena other beasts, tied together with 
long cords, quarreled in couples; 
there was the bellow of bulls, and the 
moan of leopards tearing at their 
flesh, a flight of stags, and the long, 
clean spring of the panther. 
Presently the arena was cleared, 
the sand re-raked and the Bestiari
advanced — Sarmatians, nourished on 
mares' milk; Sicambrians, their hair 
done up in chignons; horsemen from 
Thessaly, Ethiopian warriors, Par- 
thian arcners, huntsmen from the 
steppes, their different idioms uniting 
in a single cry— "Caesar, we salute 
you." The sunlight, filtering through, 
the spangled canopy, chequered their 
timics with burning spots, danced on 
their spears and helmets, dazzled the 
spectators' eyes, From above descended the caresses of flutes; the air 
was sweet with perfumes, alive with 
multicolored motes ; the terraces were 
parterres o£ blending hues, and into 
that splendor a hundred lions, their 
tasseled tails sweeping the sand, 
entered obliquely. 
The mob of the Bestiarii had gone. 
In the middle of the arena, a band of 
Ethiopians, armed with arrows, 
knives and spears, knelt, their oiled 
black breasts uncovered. 
Leisurely the lions turned their 
huge, intrepid heads; to their jowls 
wide creases came. There was a 
glitter of fangs, a shiver that moved 
the mane, a flight of arrows, mount- 
ing murmurs, the crouch of beasts 
-preparing to spring, a deafening roar, 
and, abruptly, a tumultuous mass, the 
suddenness of knives, the snap of 
bones, the cry of the agonized, the 
fury of beasts transfixed, the shrieks 
 
of the mangled, a combat hand to 
fang, from which lions fell back, their 
jaws torn asunder, while others retreated, a black body swaying be- 
tween their terrible teeth, and, insensibly, a descending quiet. 
At once there was an eruption 
of bellowing elephants, painted and 
trained for slaughter, that trampled 
on wounded and dead. At a call from a keeper the elephants disappeared. There was a rush of mules 
and slaves; the carcasses and corpses 
vanished, the toilet of the ring was 
made; and then came a plunge of 
bulls, mists of vapor about their long, 
straight horns, their anxious eyes 
dilated. Beyond was a troop of 
Thessalians. For a moment the bulls 
snorted, pawing the sand with their 
fore-feet, as though trying to remember what they were doing there. Yet 
instantly they seemed to know, and 
 
with lowered heads, they plunged on 
the point of spears. But no matter, 
horses went down by the hundred; 
and as the bulls tired of goring the 
dead, they fought each other; fought 
rancorously, fought until weariness 
overtook them, and the surviving 
Thessalians leaped on their backs, 
twisted their horns, and threw them 
down, a sword through their throb- 
bing throats. 
Successively the arena was occupied 
by bears, by panthers, by dogs trained 
for the chase, by hunters and hunted. 
But the episode of the morning was 
a dash of wild elephants, attacked on 
either side; a moment of sheer delight, 
in which the hunters were tossed up 
on the terraces, tossed back again by 
the spectators, and trampled to death. 
With that for bouquet the first part 
of the performance was at an end. 
By way of interlude, the ring was 
 
peopled with acrobats, who flew up 
in the air like birds, formed pyramids 
together, on the top of which little 
boys swung and smiled. There was 
a troop of trained lions, their manes 
gilded, that walked on tight-ropes, 
wrote obscenities in Greek, and danced 
to cymbals which one of them played. 
There were geese-fights, wonderful 
combats between dwarfs and women; 
a chariot race, in which bulls, painted 
white, held the reins, standing upright 
while drawn at full speed; a chase of 
ostriches, and feats of haute ecole on 
zebras from Madagascar. 
The interlude at an end, the sand 
was re-raked, and preceded by the 
pomp of lictors, interminable files of 
gladiators entered, holding their knives 
to Nero that he might see that they 
were sharp. It was then the eyes of 
the vestals lighted; artistic death was 
their chiefest joy, and in a moment, 
 
when the spectacle began and the first 
gladiator fell, above the din you could 
hear their cry "Htc hahet! " and 
watch their delicate thumbs reverse. 
There was no cowardice in that 
arena. If by chance any hesitation 
were discernible, instantly there were 
hot irons, the sear of which revivified courage at once. But that was 
rare. The gladiators fought for applause, for liberty, for death; fought 
manfully, skillfully, terribly, too, and 
received the point of the sword or the 
palm of the victor, their expression 
unchanged, the face unmoved. 
Among them, some provided with a 
net and prodigiously agile, pursued 
their adversaries hither and thither, 
trying to entangle them first and kill 
them later. Others, protected by 
oblong shields and armed with short, 
sharp swords, fought hand-to-hand. 
There were still others, mailed horse- 
 
men, who fought with the lance, 
and charioteers that dealt death from 
high Briton cars. 
As a spectacle it was unique; one 
that the Romans, or more exactly, 
their predecessors, the Etruscans, had 
devised to train their children for 
war and allay the fear of blood. It 
had been serviceable, indeed, and 
though the need of it had gone, still 
the institution endured, and in enduring constituted the chief delight of 
the vestals and of Rome. By means 
of it a bankrupt became consul and 
an emperor beloved. It had stayed 
revolutions, it was the tax of the proletariat on the rich. Silver and bread 
, were for the individual, but spectacles 
were for the crowd. 
During the pauses of the combats 
I the dead were removed by men 
BSnasked as Mercury, god of hell; red 
f irons, that others, masked as Charon, 
 
bore, being first applied as safeguard 
against swoon or fraud. And when, 
to the kisses of flutes, the last palm 
had been awarded, the last death 
acclaimed, a ballet was given; that of 
Paris and Venus, which Apuleius has 
described so well, and for afterpiece 
the romance of Pasiphx and the 
bull. Then, as night descended, so 
did torches, too; the arena was 
strewn with vermilion; tables were 
set, and to the incitement of crotals, 
Lydians danced before the multitude, 
toasting the last act of that wonderful 
day. 
It was with such -Tiagnificence that 
Nero showed the impresario's skill, 
the politician's adroitness. Where 
the artist, which he claimed to be, 
really appeared, was in the refurbishing of Rome. 
In spite of Augustus' boast, the ' 
city was not by any means of marble. 
 
It was filled with crooked little 
streets, with the atrocities of the 
Tarquins, with houses unsightly and 
perilous, with the moss and dust of 
ages; it compared with Alexandria 
as London compares with Paris; it 
had a splendor of its own, but a 
splendor that could be heightened. 
Whether the conflagration which 
occurred at that time was the result 
of accident or design is uncertain 
and in any event immaterial. 
Tacitus says that when it began Nero 
was at Antium, in which case he 
must have hastened to return, for ad- 
mitting that he did not originate the 
fire, it is a matter of agreement that 
he collaborated in it. In quarters 
where it showed symptoms of weakness it was by his orders coaxed to 
new strength; colossal stone buildings, on which it had little effect, 
were battered down with catapults. 
