once, and you would not believe me."
Laura therefore took the matter into her own hands, and spoke to her
mother about it. But the Princess was not easily persuaded, and when the
summer came the two were still at variance. A woman like Laura's mother
is hard to move when she has allowed a prejudice to take firm root in
her mind, and becomes altogether obstinate when that prejudice is
tolerably well founded. It was an unquestionable fact that Ghisleri had
always been considered a dangerous and rather fast man, whose
acquaintance did not improve a woman's reputation, and the Princess of
Gerano had no means of understanding his real character. It was a
constant wonder to her that Laura should like him. The excellent lady
never at all realised that the blood of poor Jack Carlyon was in his
daughter's veins, and that, sooner or later, it might make itself felt
and produce rather unexpected results. Carlyon's chief characteristic
had been his recklessness of consequences. If the Princess had
remembered that, she would have understood better why Laura had married
Herbert Arden in spite of his deformities, and why she made an intimate
friend of Pietro Ghisleri in spite of his reputation. But Laura had
never shown any subversive tendencies in childhood or early youth, and
her fearless truthfulness, her rather melancholy and meditative nature
when a young girl, and her really charitable heart had combined with her
pale beauty and saintly eyes to make her mother suppose her infinitely
more submissive, obedient, and nun-like than she actually was. After
long and patient discussion Laura turned rather suddenly.
"I am not a child, mother," she said. "I know Signor Ghisleri very much
better than you, and better than most people can. I know enough of his
past life to understand that, although he has done many foolish things
and some cruel ones, he is not what I call a bad man, and he has changed
very much for the better during the last two years. I will not give up
his friendship for the sake of pleasing a set of people who do not even
pretend to like me."
"Laura, Laura, take care! You are falling in love with that man, and he
is not fit to be your husband."
"In love?" Laura's deep eyes flashed angrily, for the first time in her
mother's recollection of her. "You do not know what you are saying,
mother."
The Princess sighed, and turned her face away. She attributed the
extraordinary change in her daughter to Ghisleri's bad influence, and
her prejudice against him increased accordingly. She could not see that
the girl had developed in the course of years into a fully grown woman
whose character had not turned out to be what she had expected.
And Laura was very angry at the suggestion that she could possibly love
Ghisleri--quite unjustifiably so, her mother considered. But here,
again, the elder woman did the younger an injustice. Love was very far
from Laura's thoughts just then, though her friendship for Pietro was
assuming an importance it had not had before.
She did not speak again for some minutes, and when she did, she spoke
quietly and without any show of anger. Her tone was not hard, nor was
anything she said either cutting or defiant, but the Princess felt that
there was to be no appeal from the verdict.
"Dearest mother," she said, "I never did anything and I never will do
anything with the intention of displeasing or hurting you. But I have my
own life to lead, and my own responsibilities to bear, in my own way.
There are some things in which I must judge for myself, and one of them
is in the matter of choosing my friends."
"If you had chosen any one but that wild Ghisleri!" sighed the Princess.
"A man who knew him better than either you or I can, loved him dearly,
and when he was dying bade him take care of me. The promise then made
has been faithfully kept. I will not shut my door to my husband's old
friend, who has become mine, merely because the world is what it is--a
liar, an evil speaker, and a slanderer."
Laura was a little pale, and the lids drooped over her eyes as though to
hide something she would not show. It was the first time she had ever
spoken of Herbert Arden since her child had been born.
If the world had been aware that the matter of her intimacy with
Ghisleri had been under discussion, it would have been much delighted by
her decision. It would really have been too unkind of Laura to deprive
it of a subject of conversation full of never-flagging interest. For not
a day passed without a reference to Pietro's devotion to her, and the
reference was rarely made without a dash of spite and a little
flavouring of social venom. Laura was not to be forgiven for having made
Ghisleri prefer her company to that of a score of other women, all, in
their own estimation, as good-looking as she, and infinitely more
agreeable.
Ghisleri himself accepted the situation, since Laura wished him to do
so, though he was constantly uneasy about his own position. It seemed to
him that if there were the slightest danger of giving colour to any
serious slander on her name it must be his duty to disobey her and
altogether discontinue his visits. And he knew also that he would
naturally be the last person to hear what was common gossip. The season,
however, passed on quietly enough until Lent began, bringing the period
of mortification and fasting during which society uses its legs less and
its tongues more. This, it may be here again said for the sake of
clearness, was the Lenten season of the second year after Arden's death,
and after the final break between Ghisleri and Maddalena dell' Armi.
At that time several events occurred which it is necessary to chronicle
in greater detail, for the better understanding of this history, and for
the more complete refutation of the story which passed commonly current
for some time afterwards, and which very nearly brought about the most
irreparable consequences.
CHAPTER XXII.
During nearly a year a large number of persons had been acquainted with
the story of Adele's written confession, but, as has been shown, the
matter was considered so serious as to deserve secrecy--the highest
social honour which can be conferred on truth. It had never reached the
ears of any member of the Savelli or of the Gerano families, and but for
Maddalena dell' Armi, Ghisleri himself would never have heard it.
Although Adele was suffering the dire results of her evil deeds in the
shape of almost incurable morphinism, the principal cause of her first
fears and consequent illness no longer troubled her as it had once done.
She now believed that the confession had, after all, caught upon some
projection or in some crevice of the masonry in the shaft of the
oubliette at Gerano, and that it would never be heard of again. It was
incredible, she thought, that if any person had found it and read it, he
or she should not attempt to extort a large sum of money for it. But no
one appeared to demand anything. That was sufficient proof that no one
possessed the document, and it must therefore have remained safely where
it had fallen. Her one and only fear was lest something should happen to
that part of the castle which might make repairs necessary, and possibly
lead to the discovery of the letter. But that was improbable in the
extreme. The massive walls had stood as they were during nearly four
centuries, and did not show any signs of weakness. As for Lucia, if she
ever betrayed the secret, or hinted to her present mistress that there
was a secret to betray, and if any story got afloat by her agency, Adele
could deny it, and her position was strong enough in the world to force
most people to accept her denial. She almost laughed at the idea. The
principal statement contained in the confession would seem almost
grotesque in its improbability. She knew very well that if she ever
heard such an action imputed to her worst enemy she would not believe
it; she would not even take the trouble to repeat it, because nothing
was more foolish than to get the reputation of telling incredible tales.
She was quite sure of this, for when she mentally tried the position she
found that she could not have given credence to such a legend even if
any one had accused Laura Arden of having done the deed. And as she
hated Laura with a whole-hearted hatred that did not hesitate at
trifles, she considered the argument to be conclusive.
Her hatred grew as the fatal effects of the morphia began to unsettle
her brain and disturb the strong power of self-control which had borne
her through so many dangers. The necessity for keeping up an outward
show of good relations with her step-sister on pain of the severest
financial punishment if she angered her father, irritated her extremely.
She was well aware that, in spite of the reconciliation and of her own
behaviour, the world still chose to believe most of the things she had
formerly said of Laura, and that the latter's position was anything but
enviable. Nevertheless, Laura seemed to survive very well, and in
Adele's opinion had obtained far more than her share of good things.
That she had really suffered terribly, in her own way, by the death of
her husband, none knew better than Adele, and that, at least, was a
satisfaction. But in other ways she was singularly fortunate. Her little
boy was as sturdy and strong and sound as any mother could have wished;
for deformity which is the result of accident is not inherited.
Moreover, there seemed to be little doubt but that the uncle from whom
Arden had expected a large fortune would now leave his money to little
Herbert. Laura was, of course, decidedly poor at present, judging from
Adele's point of view, but in the life she led she needed very little
money, and what she had sufficed for her wants. She was evidently quite
contented. Then, as though the rest were not enough, she had what Adele
called a monopoly of Pietro Ghisleri, who acted as though he intended
to marry her, and whom she received as though she meant to accept him.
As Laura Arden, society could treat her as it pleased, but as Ghisleri's
wife, society would not only open its arms to her, but would in all
likelihood espouse her cause in any future difference or difficulty.
Ghisleri would know how to assure her position, and would have no
difficulty in making her respected, for he was a most particularly
unpleasant person to quarrel with and it was not every one who had
Campodonico's luck. Of course, there might yet be time to prevent the
marriage, and Adele rashly resolved that if that were possible she would
accomplish it.
Of late she had begun to include Ghisleri in her hatred of Laura, having
finally given up the attempt to attract him into her immediate circle.
He was always the same with her, and never, in the course of years, had
seemed willing to advance beyond the limits of ordinary and friendly
acquaintance, though she had often tried to draw him further. The
ordinary methods failed with him. He could not be tempted into making
confidences, which step is one of the first and perhaps the most
important in the ordinary, business-like flirtation. He was apparently
indifferent to praise as he was to blame, except from one or two
persons. He never had an enemy, to ruin whom he needed a woman's help--a
short method of reaching intimacy which is not to be despised in dealing
with refined bad people. Least of all, was he a man who could be led to
compromise himself in a woman's eyes in such a way as to consider it his
duty to make love to her. Adele had tried all these approved ways of
beginning a serious flirtation with Pietro, but had failed each time,
and it enraged her to see that Laura could keep him without any
stratagem at all, by sheer force of attraction. For she had no belief at
all in their platonic friendship. One or the other, or both, must be in
love, for the very simple and well-known reason that a permanent close
friendship between man and woman within certain limits of age was an
utter impossibility. Laura was perhaps too foolish to realise the fact,
but Ghisleri was certainly not the man to forget it. She disliked him
because she had not been able to attract him herself, and she hated him
for being attracted by Laura.
She now made up her mind that unless she could ruin him in Laura's
estimation, the marriage could not be prevented, and she began to
revolve the chances for accomplishing her purpose. Her intelligence was
not what it had been, for it was subject now to fits of abnormal
activity and to a subsequent reaction, in which she was not always
perfectly well aware of what was going on around her. In the one state
she was rash, over-excited, nervous; in the other she was dull and
apathetic, and lost herself in hazy dreams of a rather disconnected
character. The consequence was that she found it very hard to hit upon
any consecutive plan which presented even the faintest hope of success.
Several times she was on the point of doing something very foolish, when
she had almost lost control of herself, and she was only saved by the
long habit of worldly tact which would probably survive all her other
faculties if they were wrecked by the habit which was killing her. But
she grew distrustful of herself and of her powers, and a new suffering
was added to the many she already had to bear, as she gradually became
conscious of the terrible change in herself. She tried to find out all
she could about Pietro Ghisleri. At that time all Rome was going mad
about making money by speculation, and all sorts of dishonest
transactions necessarily went on under cover of greater ones honest in
themselves. Adele did her best to ascertain whether Ghisleri were
connected with any of them, or with any affair whatever of a nature
which could be criticised. But she failed altogether. He looked on at
the general rush for money with perfect indifference, and was quite
content with the little he already possessed. It struck Adele that a
card scandal would do him as much harm as anything, and she made
inquiries as to his fondness for play, but was informed that he rarely
played at all, and generally lost a little if he did.
He was hard to catch. So far as she could learn, he had changed his mode
of life very considerably during the past two years. It was quite
certain that he had definitely broken with Maddalena dell' Armi, though
no one was really sure of the exact date at which the rupture had taken
place. They were both clever people who kept their secrets to themselves
on the simple plan that, if a thing is not to be known, it should not be
told. Laura was the only other woman whom he visited regularly, and his
doings were far too well known to make it possible to float a scandal
about him in connexion with some one else, which should reach Laura's
ears. Besides, Laura would not care. She was quite capable of not taking
the slightest notice, just as in former times she had not cared whether
he saw Maddalena every day or not. All she wanted, thought Adele, was
that Ghisleri should be at her feet--and there he was.
At last she hit upon the rather wild plan of asking Ghisleri himself
what she had better do. There was something diabolical in the idea of
taking his own advice in order to ruin him, which appealed to her in the
present state of her brain and nerves. They often met in society, and
she caught sight of him that very night at a Lenten party in Casa
Montevarchi--one of the last ever given in that house, by the by, for
the family was ruined soon afterwards. She followed him in the crowd and
touched his shoulder with her fan.
"Will you give me your arm?" she asked. "Thanks. I want to sit down
somewhere. There is a sofa over there."
"You still come to these talking matches, I see," said Ghisleri, as they
sat down. "It must be for the sake of saying something interesting, for
it can certainly not be in the hope of hearing anything of the kind."
"You can still make sharp speeches," laughed Adele. "I thought my
step-sister had converted you, and that you were turning into a sort of
Saint Propriety."
"Oh, you thought so," said Pietro, coolly. "Well, you see you were
mistaken. There is as little of propriety about me as usual, or of
saintship either."
He looked at the worn and dilapidated features of the woman beside him,
at her hollow cheeks and lustreless eyes, and he almost pitied her. He
wondered how she had the courage to keep up the comedy and to face the
world as she did, night after night, old before her youth was half over,
ugly when she had been pretty but two years earlier, weary always, and
haunted by the shadow of the poison to which she was a slave.
"You need not be angry," she answered. "I did not mean anything
disagreeable. I wish you would say more sharp things, it is refreshing
to hear a man talk after listening to a pack of little boys."
"Why do you listen to them?"
"They amuse me for five minutes, and when I have tolerated them as long
as that I cannot get rid of them. Then I begin to long for a little
serious talk with a man like you--a man one can ask a question of with
the hope of getting a reasonable answer."
"You are very good to put it in that way," said Ghisleri. "Have you any
particular question to ask me now? I will be as intensely reasonable as
I can in my reply, on condition that it is a thing of which I know
nothing whatever."
"What an extraordinary restriction!" exclaimed Adele.
"Not at all. If I should know anything about the matter in hand it would
be sure to be so little that it would confuse me and hamper the free
working of my imagination, which might otherwise produce interesting and
even startling effects. You may have heard that a little knowledge is
dangerous. That is the meaning of the proverb."
"I knew I should get something original from you. You always say
something which no one else would."
"And you always discover in me some new and beautiful quality which had
escaped my notice," answered Ghisleri. "Is it with a view to getting
some particular sort of answer to the question you meditate, that you
flatter me so nicely before asking it?"
"Of course," laughed Adele. "What did you expect? But I do not think you
would answer the question at all. You would give me a dissertation on
something else and then go away and leave me to be torn to pieces by the
little boys again."
"What an awful death!" laughed Ghisleri. "I will not leave you. I will
protect you against whole legions of little boys."
"You look as if you could. You are quite as strong as ever now, are you
not? You never feel any pain from your wound?"
"Never," answered Pietro, indifferently. "Was that the grave question to
which you wanted a serious and well-considered reply?"
"Do not be absurd!" cried Adele, with a laugh. "One has to make civil
inquiries of that kind sometimes. It is a social duty. Even if I hated
you I should ask if you were well."
"Of course. The old-fashioned poisoners in the middle ages did that. It
was of no use to waste expensive poison on a man who was ill and might
die without it. They practised economy."
"What a horrible idea!" exclaimed Adele, shuddering.
"Horrible ideas were the fashion then," pursued Ghisleri. "I have
thought a great deal about those times since you showed me those
interesting places at Gerano, nearly two years ago. The modern publisher
of primers would have made his fortune under the Borgia domination.
Fancy the titles: 'Every man his own executioner, a practical guide for
headsmen, torturers and poisoners, by a member of the profession
(diploma) with notes, diagrams, and a special table of measurements and
instructions for using the patent German rack, etc.' Does not that sound
wildly interesting? They would have had it on the drawing-room table in
every castle. It would have been a splendid book for hawkers. Gerano
made me think of it."
