There could be no doubt on that point, for the horse seemed content and
happy.
“Where’s old Silverthorn, I wonder?” said Tom.
The question was soon to be answered.
                              CHAPTER XI.
                          AN INDIAN ENCOUNTER.
The country through which the Cooper party were now travelling was
partially wooded. Soon, however, they would reach the long and barren
stretch of country—the great salt plain—which was the dread of all
overland parties. Then there would be no woods till they approached the
borders of the Golden State.
About the middle of the afternoon, while the oxen were plodding along at
the rate of barely two miles an hour, they received a surprise.
Tom Cooper, whose eyes were the sharpest, called out suddenly:
“Look there!”
Grant looked, but had to approach nearer before he could realize the
situation. Then he saw a white man tied to a slender tree, while half a
dozen Indians were dancing round him, uttering a series of guttural
cries, which appeared to fill the captive with intense dread. It was too
far to distinguish the features of the prisoner, but when they came
nearer Tom cried out, “Dang me, if it aint Silverthorn!”
It was indeed Dionysius Silverthorn, and his plight was certainly a
serious one.
“What shall we do?” asked Grant.
“We must rescue him,” answered Tom. “He’s a mean rascal, and he’s repaid
our hospitality by robbing us; but we can’t let him be killed by those
redskins.”
“I’m with you!” said Grant.
By this time the Indians had caught sight of the approaching party. They
ceased dancing and appeared to be conferring together. When Silverthorn
saw that some of his own color were at hand he uttered a loud cry, and
would have stretched out his hands if they had not been fettered.
“Help me! help me!” he cried. “Save me from these fiends!”
The Indians—six in number—seeing that there were but three in the
approaching party, took courage and decided to maintain their ground.
They uttered, a yell and fired a volley of arrows, one of which whizzed
by Grant’s ear.
Tom Cooper gritted his teeth.
“We’ll teach them a lesson,” he said.
He raised his rifle, and, aiming at the foremost Indian, fired
deliberately. The redskin fell, pierced to the heart.
This appeared to strike his companions with dismay. They seemed
panic-stricken, as well they might be, for the bows and arrows with
which they were armed were no match for the rifles of the little party
opposed to them. One of them raised his arm and uttered a few words;
these were of course unintelligible to Grant and his companions, but
their sense became apparent when he pointed to the dead Indian, and,
with one of his companions, lifted him from the ground and began to beat
a retreat.
“They won’t trouble us any more, Grant,” said Tom. “They are going away.
But we had better keep on the watch, for they are a crafty race, and may
meditate some treachery.”
When they were beyond bowshot, Tom led the way to the spot where Mr.
Silverthorn was eagerly awaiting deliverance from his uncomfortable
position.
“Well,” said Tom, taking a position where he had a good view of the
captive, “what have you got to say for yourself?”
“Oh, please release me, Mr. Tom!” said Dionysius, in a pleading tone.
“Why should I? What claim have you on me?”
“The claim of humanity. You’ve no idea what I have suffered in the last
hour.”
“First, I want you to explain why you stole my horse.”
“You’ve got him back,” said Silverthorn, who could see old Dobbin
browsing beside the wagon.
“Yes; but no thanks to you.”
“Indeed, I only meant to borrow him for a while.”
“And you borrowed Grant’s money in the same way, I suppose.”
“Put yourself in my place, Mr. Tom. I was penniless and destitute. How
could I make my way alone through this wilderness?”
“So you robbed your benefactors! I take no stock in your story that you
only meant to borrow the horse. Now own up, make a clean breast of it,
and it will be the better for you.”
“I meant some time to pay you for him; indeed I did. I knew that if I
got to the mines I would soon be in a position to pay all my debts, and
I should have regarded that as a debt of honor.”
“The less you say about honor the better, it strikes me, Mr.
Silverthorn.”
“Please release me! I have been in this unhappy confinement for more
than an hour.”
Tom approached the tree and, drawing out a formidable looking
jack-knife, sundered the cords that bound the captive, and he stepped
forth, stretching himself with a sigh of relief.
“Permit me to express my thanks, my friend and benefactor!” he cried,
sinking on his knees and grasping Tom’s hand, which he pressed to his
lips.
Tom pulled it away with a look of disgust.
“I have no confidence in you,” he said. “I know how you treat your
friends and benefactors.”
“I have indeed done wrong,” said Dionysius. “I am a weak, fallible man,
but I never will wrong you again.”
“I don’t think you will, for I shall not give you a chance. Now tell me
the truth about the horse. How did he escape from you?”
“I got off his back a moment, and he immediately turned and galloped
away.”
“You pursued him, of course?”
“A little way,” answered Mr. Silverthorn, coughing apologetically; “but
I soon gave it up. I said to myself, ‘He will seek his owner, and I
shall be saved from committing a sin.’“
Tom Cooper laughed.
“You were resigned because you had to be,” he said. “Now, about Grant’s
money! Have you got it?”
“No; the Indians robbed me of it.”
“When did you meet the Indians?”
“It may have been two hours ago. I have no watch, and can only estimate
the time.”
“Did they attack you?”
“They ran up and seized me. I stood still, for I knew that if I ran they
would pierce me with an arrow.”
“Well?”
“When they caught me they searched my pockets and took the silver. Then
I was glad that I had taken no more.”
“That is, you would rather Grant would keep his money than have the
Indians get it.”
“Yes, Mr. Tom,” answered Silverthorn meekly. “It went to my heart to rob
the boy, for he looked so much like my lost son. Forgive these tears!”
and he drew out the red silk handkerchief, which the Indians had
evidently not thought it worth while to take, and wiped his eyes.
“That man disgusts me, Grant,” said Tom. “He seems to have quite an
affection for you.”
“It is all on his side,” returned Grant. “I don’t believe he ever had a
boy.”
“Well, perhaps not. He seems a natural born liar. But it’s time we were
pushing on. We have a long distance still before us.”
The wagon was put in motion, and the little procession started. Mr.
Cooper drove the oxen, Mrs. Cooper sat inside the wagon, Tom led the
horse, and Grant walked alongside. Sometimes Tom took his turn in
driving the oxen, and sometimes Grant led the horse.
Dionysius Silverthorn started also, walking beside Grant.
Tom turned upon him.
“Where are you going?” he asked.
“I will walk along with you, if you will let me, Mr. Tom.”
“I think you’ve got more cheek than any man I know. After the trick you
played upon us, you expect us to tolerate your presence.”
“Please let me accompany you, Mr. Tom. I might meet the Indians again.”
“Then go in a different direction. You cannot go with us.”
Mr. Silverthorn produced his red handkerchief, and rubbed his eyes
again.
“It is a hard, cold world!” he said. “I am a very unfortunate man.”
“Perhaps you are; but I don’t think you deserve to be very fortunate.
Just make up your mind that you are not going to travel with us. Had you
behaved honorably, and not repaid kindness by theft, we would have
allowed you to remain with us for a time; but now it is impossible.”
“I shall starve, and be found a wretched corpse by the wayside,” moaned
Dionysius.
“Let him have some provisions, Tom,” said Mrs. Cooper, who was naturally
compassionate. She had given up the idea that he was a truly good man,
but she was not willing that he should be left quite unprovided for.
“I will do that,” said Tom.
He made up a small parcel of provisions, and handed them to Dionysius
Silverthorn, who sat down on a stump, while the little caravan pushed
on.
“That’s the strangest sort of man I ever encountered,” said Tom. “I
wonder whether we’ll ever see him again.”
                              CHAPTER XII.
                           IN DIRE DISTRESS.
Some days later the party reached the great salt plains dreaded by all
overland travellers. The sight of the vast, white prairies, utterly
destitute of vegetation, with no plant or shrub visible, and no evidence
that any had ever existed, was depressing enough.
“If we should get out of provisions or water here, Heaven help us!” said
Tom apprehensively.
“How far will we have to go before we reach the borders of the plain?”
asked Grant.
“I don’t know, but I have heard that it is very extensive.”
“How are we off for provisions?”
“That is what makes me anxious. Our supply is quite scanty.”
“And there is no chance to replenish it here?”
Tom shook his head.
“Don’t tell mother,” he said. “It would make her worry. It will be time
for her to learn it if worse comes to worst.”
On the sixth day they were startled by a sight calculated to increase
their fears.
It was a stranded wagon, with three gaunt, emaciated bodies stretched
near it, all of them quite dead. There were two men and a woman.
“They must have died of hunger, or thirst, or both,” whispered Tom.
“What can have happened to them?” asked Mrs. Cooper compassionately.
“Perhaps they were weak, and unable to go farther,” said Tom evasively.
“It seems terrible that they should be exposed to the elements. Suppose
some wild beasts should come and mangle their bodies.”
“Wild beasts are too sensible to be found in this region,” said Tom.
“Why?” asked his mother.
“Because,” answered Tom, hesitating, “the country is so barren and
unattractive.”
“You seem to think wild animals appreciate fine scenery, like human
beings.”
“Well, yes, in a measure,” and Tom nodded significantly at Grant, as if
to caution him against saying anything that would reveal to his mother
his real meaning.
“Tom,” said his father, “don’t you think we had better bury these
unfortunate persons?”
“Yes, father. I will help you do it.”
“And I,” added Grant.
“First, however, let us see if we can find any letters or documents
disclosing their identity. We ought to let their friends know what has
become of them.”
In the pocket of one of the men Tom found letters showing that it was a
party from Taunton, in Massachusetts. One of the men had a silver watch,
and upon another was found a small sum of money.
“I will take charge of the watch and money,” said Mr. Cooper, “and when
we reach any point where it is possible, I will send them on to their
friends in Taunton, for that appears to have been their home.”
“What about the wagon, father?”
“We must leave it. We have all we can do in transporting our own.”
A grave was dug, and the three bodies were deposited therein. Tom looked
sober, for he couldn’t help asking himself, “Suppose this should be our
fate!”
He quietly examined the wagon to see if he could find any provisions,
but there was not a scrap, or crust to be found.
“It was as I thought,” he whispered to Grant. “The poor wretches died of
starvation.”
A week later the same problem confronted them.
“Grant,” said Tom, “I have been examining our food supply, and find that
we have only enough to last us two days.”
Grant looked startled.
“And then?” he asked.
“I don’t know. Unless we get a fresh supply we must die, like those poor
people whom we buried a week since.”
“Shall you tell your mother?”
“I must. She is entitled to know, for she is in danger like ourselves.”
Mrs. Cooper turned pale, but seemed calm and composed when told of the
state of affairs.
“We must make our provisions last as long as possible,” she said.
“But how?”
“We must be placed on allowance.”
“Half rations?”
“Yes. That will give us some additional time. We must make our two days’
supply last over four days, and who knows what may happen in four days?”
“That is a sensible suggestion, mother, but let it only extend to Grant,
father and myself. I don’t want you to be stinted.”
“What do you think of me, Tom? Do you suppose I would consent to fare
better than my husband and son, and this boy, who seems like one of us?
No, Tom, you should judge your mother better.”
“You have shut me up, mother. I can’t say anything in answer to that.”
“I will show you that a woman has as much fortitude as a man. Besides, I
do not have to work as hard as you. I can bear the deprivation better.”
The days following were days of intense anxiety. Every morning, when
they set out on their daily march, there was a prayer in the heart of
each that something would happen before the sun set that would relieve
them from the haunting fear of famine.
But in all these days they met no one, and overtook no one. The sun rose
hot and fiery, making the great alkali plain seem still more arid and
cheerless. So far as they could see, they were the only people in the
world; for, look as they might, they could see no other evidence of
human habitation. But in the distance it was a relief to perceive some
low rising hills, and by night time they reached an oasis, and, what
cheered their hearts, a small stream of water, for they were very nearly
out, and had felt the need of economizing. Now the oxen, and the horse,
as well as themselves, were allowed to drink ad libitum. The animals
drank with evident gratification, and looked sensibly cheered and
relieved.
“Now, if we could only find some food, I should be perfectly happy,”
said Grant.
Only a few crackers were left, but these, dipped in the water, became
palatable. But the serious question arose: “What would they do when
these were gone?” It was a question that none of them could answer.
“I have often wondered, Grant,” said Tom, “what it was like to want
food. I begin to understand it now. I remember one day a poor tramp came
to our door, who said he had not tasted food for forty-eight hours. I
looked at him with curiosity. I could not understand how this could
happen to any one. All my life I had never known what it was to want
food. I even doubted his word; but when mother invited him into the
kitchen and set a plate of meat and bread before the poor fellow, the
eagerness with which the famished wretch ate satisfied me that he had
told the truth. Now, Grant, I will make a confession.”
“What is it, Tom? Have you murdered any one?” asked Grant, with forced
hilarity.
“Not that I remember. My confession is of a different nature. For four
days—during the whole time that I have been on half rations—I have felt
a perpetual craving for food.”
“And I too, Tom.”
“And now I feel weak and exhausted. It has been an effort to drag myself
along to-day. The fact is, machinery can’t be kept in working trim
without fuel.”
“I realize that, too, Tom.”
“I presume father and mother have felt the same way, but I haven’t dared
to ask them. They say ‘misery loves company,’ but when the companions in
misery are your own father and mother, it doesn’t apply. Though I have
to suffer myself, I wish they were spared the same privations that have
undermined my strength.”
It will be seen that Tom was better educated than the majority of young
men born and brought up in the country. He had attended an academy in a
neighboring town for a year, and had for a season taught the district
school at Crestville. Grant found him pleasant and instructive company.
That night, when they went to bed, they were utterly without food. What
were to be their experiences on the morrow they could not foresee, but
there was plenty of room for grave apprehension.
“Grant, if we can get no food, I have decided what we must do,” said
Tom, as they lay down to rest at a short distance from each other.
“What is it, Tom? Have you thought of anything?”
“Yes; I suppose you know that horseflesh, though not to be compared with
beef, is still palatable?”
“Yes.”
“It is our last resource. Poor old Dobbin must die!” and the young man
sighed.
At that moment the old horse whinnied.
“It seems as if he knew what we were talking about,” said Tom.
“That will last us some time,” remarked Grant, with renewed hope.
“Yes; I suppose the poor old fellow won’t be very tender, but it is the
only way he can serve us now. We can cook up quite a supply while the
meat is fresh, and take it with us. It will give us a new lease of life,
