realize all that she is doing."
"I'm afraid," said Mrs. Hilary, with a final sigh, "that if I were quite
frank with her, I should tell her she was a silly, headstrong girl, and
I wished she wouldn't do it."
XIV.
The morning which followed was that of a warm, lulling, luxuriant June
day, whose high tides of life spread to everything. Maxwell felt them in
his weak pulses where he sat writing at an open window of the farmhouse,
and early in the forenoon he came out on the piazza of the farmhouse,
with a cushion clutched in one of his lean hands; his soft hat-brim was
pulled down over his dull, dreamy eyes, where the far-off look of his
thinking still lingered. Louise was in the hammock, and she lifted
herself alertly out of it at sight of him, with a smile for his absent
gaze.
"Have you got through?"
"I've got tired; or, rather, I've got bored. I thought I would go up to
the camp."
"You're not going to lie on the ground, there?" she asked, with the
importance and authority of a woman who puts herself in charge of a sick
man, as a woman always must when there is such a man near her.
"I would be willing to be under it, such a day as this," he said. "But
I'll take the shawl, if that's what you mean. I thought it was here?"
"I'll get it for you," said Louise; and he let her go into the parlor
and bring it out to him. She laid, it in a narrow fold over his
shoulder; he thanked her carelessly, and she watched him sweep languidly
across the buttercupped and dandelioned grass of the meadow-land about
the house, to the dark shelter of the pine grove at the north. The sun
struck full upon the long levels of the boughs, and kindled their
needles to a glistening mass; underneath, the ground was red, and
through the warm-looking twilight of the sparse wood the gray canvas of
a tent showed; Matt often slept there in the summer, and so the place
was called the camp. There was a hammock between two of the trees, just
beyond the low stone wall, and Louise saw Maxwell get into it.
Matt came out on the piazza in his blue woollen shirt and overalls and
high boots, and his cork helmet topping all.
"You look like a cultivated cowboy that had gobbled an English tourist,
Matt," said his sister. "Have you got anything for me?"
Matt had some letters in his hands which the man had just brought up
from the post-office. "No; but there are two for Maxwell--"
"I will carry them to him, if you're busy. He's just gone over to the
camp."
"Well, do," said Matt. He gave them to her, and he asked, "How do you
think he is, this morning?"
"He must be pretty well; he's been writing ever since breakfast."
"I wish he hadn't," said Matt. "He ought really to be got away somewhere
out of the reach of newspapers. I'll see. Louise, how do you think a
girl like Sue Northwick would feel about an outright offer of help at
such a time as this?"
"How, help? It's very difficult to help people," said Louise, wisely.
"Especially when they're not able to help themselves. Poor Sue! I don't
know what she will do. If Jack Wilmington--but he never really cared
for her, and now I don't believe she cares for him. No, it couldn't be."
"No; the idea of love would be sickening to her now."
Louise opened her eyes. "Why, I don't know what you mean, Matt. If she
still cared for him, I can't imagine any time when she would rather know
that he cared for her."
"But her pride--wouldn't she feel that she couldn't meet him on equal
terms--"
"Oh, pride! Stuff! Do you suppose that a girl who really cared for a
person would think of the terms she met them on? When it comes to such a
thing as that there is no pride; and proud girls and meek girls are
just alike--like cats in the dark."
"Do you think so?" asked Matt; the sunny glisten, which had been wanting
to them before, came into his eyes.
"I know so," said Louise. "Why, do you think that Jack Wilmington
still--"
"No; no. I was just wondering. I think I shall run down to Boston
to-morrow, and see father--Or, no! Mother won't be back till to-morrow
evening. Well, I will talk with you, at dinner, about it."
Matt went off to his mowing, and Louise heard the cackle of his machine
before she reached the camp with Maxwell's letters.
"Don't get up!" she called to him, when he lifted himself with one arm
at the stir of her gown over the pine-needles. "Merely two letters that
I thought perhaps you might want to see at once."
He took them, and glancing at one of them threw it out on the ground.
"This is from Ricker," he said, opening the other. "If you'll excuse
me," and he began to read it. "Well, that is all right," he said, when
he had run it through. "He can manage without me a little while longer;
but a few more days like this will put an end to my loafing. I begin to
feel like work, for the first time since I came up here."
"The good air is beginning to tell," said Louise, sitting down on the
board which formed a bench between two of the trees fronting the
hammock. "But if you hurry back to town, now, you will spoil everything.
You must stay the whole summer."
"You rich people are amusing," said Maxwell, turning himself on his
side, and facing her. "You think poor people can do what they like."
"I think they can do what other people like," said the girl, "if they
will try. What is to prevent your staying here till you get perfectly
well?"
"The uncertainty whether I shall ever get perfectly well, for one
thing," said Maxwell, watching with curious interest the play of the
light and shade flecks on her face and figure.
"I know you will get well, if you stay," she interrupted.
"And for another thing," he went on, "the high and holy duty we poor
people feel not to stop working for a living as long as we live. It's a
caste pride. Poverty obliges, as well as nobility."
"Oh, pshaw! Pride obliges, too. It's your wicked pride. You're worse
than rich people, as you call us: a great deal prouder. Rich people will
let you help them."
"So would poor people, if they didn't need help. You can take a gift if
you don't need it. You can accept an invitation to dinner, if you're
surfeited to loathing, but you can't let any one give you a meal if
you're hungry. You rich people are like children, compared with us poor
folks. You don't know life; you don't know the world. I should like to
do a girl brought up like you in the ignorance and helplessness of
riches."
"You would make me hateful."
"I would make you charming."
"Well, do me, then!"
"Ah, you wouldn't like it."
"Why?"
"Because--I found it out in my newspaper work, when I had to interview
people and write them up--people don't like to have the good points they
have, recognized; they want you to celebrate the good points they
haven't got. If a man is amiable and kind and has something about him
that wins everybody's heart, he wants to be portrayed as a very
dignified and commanding character, full of inflexible purpose and
indomitable will."
"I don't see," said Louise, "why you think I'm weak, and low-minded, and
undignified."
Maxwell laughed. "Did I say something of that kind?"
"You meant it."
"If ever I have to interview you, I shall say that under a mask of
apparent incoherency and irrelevance, Miss Hilary conceals a profound
knowledge of human nature and a gift of divination which explores the
most unconscious opinions and motives of her interlocutor. How would you
like that?"
"Pretty well, because I think it's true. But I shouldn't like to be
interviewed."
"Well, you're safe from me. My interviewing days are over. I believe if
I keep on getting better at the rate I've been going the last week, I
shall be able to write a play this summer, besides doing my work for the
Abstract. If I could do that, and it succeeded, the riddle would be
read for me."
"What do you mean?"
"I mean that I should have a handsome income, and could give up
newspaper work altogether."
"Could you? How glorious!" said Louise, with the sort of maternal
sympathy she permitted herself to feel for the sick youth. "How much
would you get for your play?"
"If it was only reasonably successful, it would be worth five or six
thousand dollars a year."
"And is that a handsome income?" she asked, with mounting earnestness.
He pulled himself up in the hammock to get her face fully in view, and
asked, "How much do you think I've been able to average up to this
time?"
"I don't know. I'm afraid I don't know at all about such things. But I
should like to."
Maxwell let himself drop back into the hammock. "I think I won't
humiliate myself by giving the figures. I'd better leave it to your
imagination. You'll be sure to make it enough."
"Why should you be ashamed of it, if it's ever so little?" she asked.
"But I know. It's your pride. It's like Sue Northwick wanting to give
up all her property because her father wrote that letter, and said he
had used the company's money. And Matt says it isn't his property at
all, and the company has no right to it. If she gives it up, she and her
sister will have nothing to live on. And they won't let themselves be
helped--any more than--than--you will!"
"No. We began with that; people who need help can't let you help them.
Don't they know where their father is?"
"No. But of course they must, now, before long."
Maxwell said, after the silence that followed upon this. "I should like
to have a peep into that man's soul."
"Horrors! Why should you?" asked Louise.
"It would be such splendid material. If he is fond of his children--"
"He and Sue dote upon each other. I don't see how she can endure him; he
always made me feel creepy."
"Then he must have written that letter to conciliate public feeling, and
to make his children easier about him and his future. And now if you
could see him when he realizes that he's only brought more shame on
them, and forced them to beggar themselves--it would be a tremendous
situation."
"But I shouldn't like to see him at such a time. It seems to me,
that's worse than interviewing, Mr. Maxwell."
There was a sort of recoil from him in her tone, which perhaps he felt.
It seemed to interest, rather than offend him. "You don't get the
artistic point of view."
"I don't want to get it, if that's it. And if your play is going to be
about any such thing as that--"
"It isn't," said Maxwell. "I failed on that. I shall try a comic
motive."
"Oh!" said Louise, in the concessive tone people use, when they do not
know but they have wronged some one. She spiritually came back to him,
but materially she rose to go away and leave him. She stooped for the
letter he had dropped out of the hammock and gave it him. "Don't you
want this?"
"Oh, thank you! I'd forgotten it." He glanced at the superscription,
"It's from Pinney. You ought to know Pinney, Miss Hilary, if you want
the true artistic point of view."
"Is he a literary man?"
"Pinney? Did you read the account of the defalcation in the
Events--when it first came out? All illustrations?"
"That? I don't wonder you didn't care to read his letter! Or perhaps
he's your friend--"
"Pinney's everybody's friend," said Maxwell, with an odd sort of relish.
"He's delightful. I should like to do Pinney. He's a type." Louise stood
frowning at the mere notion of Pinney. "He's not a bad fellow, Miss
Hilary, though he is a remorseless interviewer. He would be very good
material. He is a mixture of motives, like everybody else, but he has
only one ambition: he wants to be the greatest newspaper man of his
generation. The ladies nearly always like him. He never lets five
minutes pass without speaking of his wife; he's so proud of her he can't
keep still."
"I should think she would detest him."
"She doesn't. She's quite as proud of him as he is of her. It's
affecting to witness their devotion--or it would be if it were not such
a bore."
"I can't understand you," said Louise, leaving him to his letter.
XV.
Part of Matt Hilary's protest against the status in which he found
himself a swell was to wash his face for dinner in a tin basin on the
back porch, like the farm-hands. When he was alone at the farm he had
the hands eat with him; when his mother and sister were visiting him he
pretended that the table was too small for them all at dinner and tea,
though he continued to breakfast with the hands, because the ladies were
never up at his hour; the hands knew well enough what it meant, but they
liked Matt.
Louise found him at the roller-towel, after his emblematic ablutions.
"Oh, is it so near dinner?" she asked.
"Yes. Where is Maxwell?"
"I left him up at the camp." She walked a little way out into the
ground-ivy that matted the back-yard under the scattering spruce trees.
Matt followed, and watched the homing and departing bees around the
hives in the deep, red-clovered grass near the wall.
"Those fellows will be swarming before long," he said, with a measure of
the good comradeship he felt for all living things.
"I don't see," said Louise, plucking a tender, green shoot from one of
the fir boughs overhead, "why Mr. Maxwell is so hard."
"Is he hard?" asked Matt. "Well, perhaps he is."
"He is very sneering and bitter," said the girl. "I don't like it."
"Ah, he's to blame for that," Matt said. "But as for his hardness, that
probably comes from his having had to make such a hard fight for what he
wants to be in life. That hardens people, and brutalizes them, but
somehow we mostly admire them and applaud them for their success against
odds. If we had a true civilization a man wouldn't have to fight for the
chance to do the thing he is fittest for, that is, to be himself. But
I'm glad you don't like Maxwell's hardness; I don't myself."
"He seems to look upon the whole world as material, as he calls it; he
doesn't seem to regard people as fellow beings, as you do, Matt, or even
as servants or inferiors; he hasn't so much kindness for them as that."
"Well, that's the odious side of the artistic nature," said Matt,
smiling tolerantly. "But he'll probably get over that; he's very young;
he thinks he has to be relentlessly literary now."
"He's older than I am!" said Louise.
"He hasn't seen so much of the world."
"He thinks he's seen a great deal more. I don't think he's half so nice
as we supposed. I should call him dangerous."
"Oh, I shouldn't say that, exactly," Matt returned. "But he certainly
hasn't our traditions. I'll just step over and call him to dinner."
"Oh, no! Let me try if I can blow the horn." She ran to where the long
tin tube hung on the porch, and coming out with it again, set it to her
lips and evoked some stertorous and crumby notes from it. "Do you
suppose he saw me?" she asked, running back with the horn.
Matt could not say; but Maxwell had seen her, and had thought of a poem
which he imagined illustrated with the figure of a tall, beautiful girl
lifting a long tin horn to her lips with outstretched arms. He did not
know whether to name it simply The Dinner Horn, or grotesquely, Hebe
Calling the Gods to Nectar. He debated the question as he came lagging
over the grass with his cushion in one hand and Pinney's letter, still
opened, in the other. He said to Matt, who came out to get the cushion
of him, "Here's something I'd like to talk over with you, when you've
the time."
"Well, after dinner," said Matt.
Pinney's letter was a long one, written in pencil on one side of long
slips of paper, like printer's copy; the slips were each carefully
folioed in the upper right hand corner; but the language was the
language of Pinney's life, and not the decorative diction which he
usually addressed to the public on such slips of paper.
"I guess," it began, "I've got onto the biggest thing yet, Maxwell. The
Events is going to send me to do the Social Science Congress which
meets in Quebec this year, and I'm going to take Mrs. Pinney along and
have a good time. She's got so she can travel first-rate, now; and the
change will do her and the baby both good. I shall interview the social
science wiseacres, and do their proceedings, of course, but the thing
that I'm onto is Northwick. I've always felt that Northwick kind of
belonged to yours truly, anyway; I was the only man that worked him up
in any sort of shape, at the time the defalcation came out, and I've got
a little idea that I think will simply clean out all competition. That
letter of his set me to thinking, as soon as I read it, and my wife and
I both happened on the idea at the same time; clear case of telepathy.
Our idea is that Northwick didn't go to Europe--of course he
didn't!--but he's just holding out for terms with the company. I don't
believe he's got off with much money; but if he was going into business
with it in Canada, he would have laid low till he'd made his
investments. So my theory is that he's got all the money he took with
him except his living expenses. I believe I can find Northwick, and I am
not going to come home without trying hard. I am going to have a
detective's legal outfit, and I flatter myself I can get Northwick over
the frontier somehow, and restore him to the arms of his anxious friends
of the Ponkwasset Company. I don't know yet just how I shall do it, but
I guess I shall do it. I shall have Mrs. Pinney's advice and counsel,
and she's a team; but I shall have to leave her and the baby at Quebec,
while I'm roaming round in Rimouski and the wilderness generally, and I
shall need active help.
"Now, I liked some things in that Abstract article of yours; it was
snappy and literary, and all that, and it showed grasp of the subject.
It showed a humane and merciful spirit toward our honored friend that
could be made to tell in my little game if I could get the use of it. So
I've concluded to let you in on the ground floor, if you want to go into
the enterprise with me; if you don't, don't give it away; that's all. My
