gone to them and loved them." 
They had gone to well-bred and appreciative 
Miss Barclay. But — down in the very depths — 
and to hope and work for all ! Ah, that was a 
higher grace. Could she — did she care to attain 
unto it } 
The night was in the main quiet. Towards 
morning the fever increased, and Rhea Vasilis 
grew restless and wandering ; but Olm stead saw 
nothing to call for alarm. Soon after daylight 
Amos Pike harnessed up the horse and drove 
Olmstead in to the station,, and brought out the 
village doctor. The fragrance of the morning 
floated about as incense offered from every tree 
and shrub, from the long reaches of dew-gemmed 
grass, and the birds were at their matins. Ah, 
why had man brought woe and want and sorrpw 
into this beautiful world ! Why had he bound 
burdens grievous to be borne on his fellow-man! 
Ah, thank God, there were some hands willing to 
take hold and lighten them a little ! 
CHAPTER VIII 
WHETHER IT IS BETTER TO TURN AND FIGHT 
Olmstead had thrown himself on his own bed 
and taken a late morning nap, and then had a 
solitary breakfast. Calista Spence was of the old 
lady's opinion that " nothing was too good for the 
minister," so he found some unwonted indul- 
gences. After that it had been a busy and per- 
plexing day. Work was slacking up in many of 
the factories. A new scale of wages was being 
considered. Then there was the usual sickness 
in the crowded tenements. For crowded they 
were, even with all the outlying country, — waste 
places that were no longer profitable for farms, 
but too valuable their owners thought for gardens 
for the poorer classes. 
Brentford was not a pretty town, or a town 
reared on the grand foundation of good will to 
men. Some large factories had been established, 
for the economical reason that land and labor were 
cheap. The young men from the adjacent farms 
had rushed in ; then the foreign element crowded 
them hard. Most of the owners and the superin- 
tendents lived elsewhere, communication by rail 
being easy. There were no pretty suburbs ; and 
though there might be families with century-old 
pedigrees, they had not assumed the divine right 
of grandeur. 
Winchester had been away all day. Olmstead 
had taken supper without him. He had gone up- 
stairs now, and stretched himself out by the open 
window for a rest. Late in the afternoon Amos 
Pike had driven in for a few articles, and brought 
him a note from Miss Disbrowe. Miss Vasilis 
had a nervous fever, with some brain trouble, due 
mostly to overwork and an impoverished condition 
of the system. At present there was no danger. 
He could send for his friend at once. 
Yet it was not so much of Pearl Disbrowe he 
was thinking now. The tall, shadowy figure had 
a more seductive grace, the brown eyes an inde- 
scribable light, the lips set in curves so sweet that 
the radiance of her smile was like a subtle, half- 
hidden sunshine. He had fancied out there in the 
old garden that Hollis Winchester might marry 
Miss Eastwood, and round out the suggestive 
romance. He knew now it would be an impossi- 
bility. No alchemy in the whole repertory of na- 
ture could fuse these two souls A certain high 
delicacy in her would forever keep such a man at 
a distance. In spite of his -friendliness, for he 
had come to like Winchester in many respects, he 
was exultantly glad. 
He was dozing off, his mental vision taking in 
Chester House, when a firm step came up the 
stairs. In another moment Winchester had 
marched through, rather flushed and excited, with 
a paper in his hand. 
" See here ! " he began brusquely, pointing to a 
paragraph. " Read this ! "
"Yes," Olmstead returned, as his eye caught 
the headlines, "I stumbled over that in New 
York yesterday, at the office of a friend." 
"They have kept wonderfully close about it. 
Why, they have bought up nearly all Long 
Meadow! Some one, it seems, found a bed of 
clay, and there is a plan for brickmaking. The 
Trenfords are to take their big establishment 
out of the city. The town will be built up in a 
night." He gave a harsh laugh. "A spur of 
the road is planned for their accommodation." 
" It doesn't take long to accomplish such things 
when men take hold in earnest." 
"Long Meadow joins Chester House Farm." 
There was a desperate sort of bitterness in Win- 
chester's tone. 
" Yes," answered Olmstead briefly. 
" They will make a bid for it. She will take it, 
of course." 
"Why 'of course'?" 
" They will offer a big price, and money always 
tempts a woman." 
"As it never does a man," said Olmstead, with 
the good-nature in his voice that one could tell 
was born of a half-smile. 
"Well, a man looks farther on, considers the 
future. I don't mind telling you, Olmstead, that 
I have had some curious dreams about the place. 
I should have begun quite differently years ago. 
When my great-uncle married, he begged my 
grandfather to bring his mill here, and my father 
thought it a good thing. It was supposed Brent- 
ford might rival some of the greater cities, I be- 
lieve. Well, it hasn't. It has filled up with the 
dregs of emigration. Every year it gets worse. 
I think now that my father was crazy to buy the 
old factory and give twice what it was worth ; but 
he was established here, and just then it was 
swell times, and he had a belief that the other 
claim would turn out to be a fraud. Then business 
dropped down, and he had hard work to weather 
the storm, but he did. If he had merely leased 
the factory for a term of years, I should have 
thrown it up and gone off to some wholesomer, 
cleaner place. I have driven over that tract time 
and again, and thought of the fine site, gloated 
over it ! If I could have bought Chester House 
when this girl came of age, Fd have moved heaven 
and earth, formed a syndicate, done anything to 
compass my dream. So Fve kept it to myself. 
But no man seems to have a monopoly of ideas. 
And now the thing is done, and I am not in it 
at all." 
The lingering undercurrent in his voice would 
have been a tremble had he held himself less rig- 
orously in hand. The repressed emotion touched 
Olmstead keenly. 
"Why don't you make her another offer for 
it, Winchester ? " 
He laughed contemptuously, with a touch of 
cruel discordance. 
" You have been there," he resumed, after a 
long pause ; " what kind of a fad is it ? She 
may donate a Home for Incapables to the new 
town. The Eastwood Home. Has she taken 
orders ? " 
" She has very little to do with it. I wish you 
really knew Miss Disbrowe. Many of her ideas 
would suit you to a dot. She isn't weakly or 
sentimentally charitable. She believes in help- 
ing people to help themselves, and thinks the 
truest kindness one can do a fellow-creature, 
man or woman, is to put them in a way of self- 
support. This is the kind of home to which 
any lady might invite a friend, rich or poor." 
" No, Miss Eastwood isn't the kind to shoulder 
such an enterprise. She might give the house 
away ; she wouldn't go round in the slums to 
find people to fill it. She must have taken her 
style from the Eastwood side. You have seen 
her playing at charity. I haven't any doubt 
but that she was superlatively graceful! Well, 
I have seen her as one of the stars of society. 
She has the Vere-de-Vere manner. Do they all 
fall on their knees when she raises her hand ? " 
"Winchester, you are positively cantankerous! 
You gibe alike at her, whether she affects society 
or the chosen gray of some sisterhood. You have 
managed to carry away a distorted idea of her, 
quite unfair. Both are charming young women. 
They have a man and a maid, a horse and a dog. 
The house and the garden still hold their quaint, 
beautiful seclusion. Why shouldn't these girls of 
leisure try to do a little uplifting in the world ? 
Heaven knows there is need enough of it ! " 
" There is a deal of viciousness in this fashion- 
able benevolence. The schemers come to depend 
on it, to demand it. Let them take their own 
money. Why, see here, instead, I have not had 
a pleasure journey in years ! I have had other 
things to take my time. Yet I am in a fair condi- 
tion," with a sarcastic intonation. 
" Maybe, if you lived in some of the filthy dens 
where Tve found even your people, Winchester, 
you would like a day or a week out, to see the real 
sky, where it isn't obscured by smoke, and long 
reaches of meadows, shady, fragrant woodlands, 
or a bit of the ocean. You have a roomy, com- 
fortable home, good food, luxuries, reading, and 
some leisure ; a day off, now and then, even if 
it is business journeys, variety, aims, and ambi- 
tions " — 
"And I wonder how many of the men down 
yonder would have kept at it as I did ! You have 
never had a big business on your hands, Olmstead, 
— orders to fill, and men turning sulky and go- 
ing out on strikes ; payments to meet, and some 
of the men you depended on giving you notice 
at the last moment they could not come to time. 
I have run things very light-handed now and 
then. I have spent whole nights down at the mill. 
And they grudge me success ! "
"Did you ever think these people are largely 
what the methods of the past and to-day make 
them } When the conditions of life are not quite 
so hard, there is a general improvement, better 
health, less overcrowding. When you come to 
give a man a decent share of prosperity, you 
rouse ambition in him. Then you can appeal 
to him ; but what appeal can you make to the 
denizens of saloons.^ And you employers have 
not made much effort to provide better things. 
When you think of it, Winchester, isn't it a lit- 
tle unreasonable for you to expect a man to use 
his most eager and earnest efforts to help you 
to acquire a fortune?" 
"But do you not see it is to his interest ? The 
more employment there is, the less likely he is to 
be out of work. If I were content to make a bare 
living, fifty of my men would be idle to-morrow." 
" But if depression in business sweeps over the 
land, are you going to spend your money to give 
work and bread ? " 
"Oh, men have done this," said Winchester in 
a tone of lofty indifference. 
" All honor to them, then ! " 
" You clergymen theorize a good deal. If you 
had the hard, practical part on your hands " — 
"We see the results. I do not think, Winches- 
ter, that we take upon ourselves any vow or duty 
to preach to men the advisability of laying, up 
treasures here on earth. The Golden Rule may 
be visionary, but the eternal laws of justice are 
founded on it. The great question is how thor- 
oughly or truly one believes in another life. He 
cannot take it for himself and be indifferent 
to his neighbor's welfare. He is his brother's 
keeper, whether he likes it or not. Even in 
this world his selfish indifference often reacts, 
and he suffers from it. But if you think the 
piling up of money is the greatest good, if you 
are willing to concentrate every faculty of soul 
and body in that one pursuit, then grant us the 
same liberty. Let us pursue our ideal with a 
purpose as resolute. If we honestly believe we 
can better the world a little, if we have a mes- 
sage from the Master to deliver, shall we be 
less diligent in our spiritual things than you in 
your temporal work for that which you admit 
ends with life } If these two young girls choose 
to give up the gay world for a season, and make 
a bit of the greater 'King's Country' in the old 
house you love so well, depend upon it, no evil 
can grow out of it. Come over and see them. 
Perhaps you and Miss Eastwood can reach some 
basis of readjustment. Be first in the field with 
your offer. If she really knew" — 
"She knows," he replied with a scornful in- 
flection. " She is to carry out her mother's 
bitterness." 
" But the law, you admit, proved her mother 
right. As I understand the case, the mistake 
was on your side. Yet I do not think the place 
has any tender associations for her." 
What had happened be'tweeri these two people } 
Not love — neither of them betrayed the slightest 
consciousness, of itself a subtle betrayal. Win- 
Chester's was a kind of vindictiveness toward the 
woman who had thwarted him ; her's, a rather 
amused indifference. Winchester was an odd 
compound. He had some admirable qualities, 
but he was the kind of man who let nothing 
stand in his way when he had resolved upon his 
purpose. 
The man suddenly turned on his heel, tramped 
down the stairs, paused to light a cigar, and 
then strode out on the country road. He could 
have gone on and quarrelled with Olmstead, but 
one thing the clergyman said struck home. He 
had a right to be in earnest with his work. 
He admired the sturdy common-sense Olmstead 
brought to the fore. Then, too, he knew he 
was here temporarily. Winchester was angry and 
disappointed. That other eyes had seen the pos- 
sibility he had gloated over in secret, set him 
beside himself. 
More than two years ago his plans had taken 
definite shape. He hated Brentford. Year after 
year a steady disgust had penetrated his whole 
being. His father had made a short-sighted mis- 
take. He did not hold it against him with any 
sense of anger. It had seemed best then. A 
good deal of money and energy had been spent 
here, and if he went on, half the mill, at least, 
must be rebuilt. Labor disturbances were im- 
pending. In a short time he intended to shut 
down for repairs. 
He had meant to consider his best interests 
quite at his leisure ; but these new plans roused 
