superb golden hair, straight, clear eyes, a small red mouth,--great
dignity of carriage, too, with the something which has been christened
‘dash’ when she moved quickly, or did anything with those long hands of
hers,--a marvellous constitution, and the dazzling complexion of snow
and carnations that goes with it, very different from the softer ‘milk
and roses’ of the Latin poet’s mistress. Mrs. Lauderdale had always been
described as dazzling, and people who saw her for the first time used
the word even now to convey the impression she made. Her age, which was
known only to some members of the family, and which is not of the
slightest importance to this history, showed itself chiefly in a
diminution of this dazzling quality. The white was less white, the
carnation was becoming a common pink, the gold of her hair was no longer
gold all through, but distinctly brown in many places, though it would
certainly never turn grey until extreme old age. Her movements, too,
were less free, though stately still,--the brutal word ‘rheumatism’ had
been whispered by the family doctor,--and to go back to her face, there
were undeniably certain tiny lines, and many of them, which were not the
lines of beauty.
It was a brave, good face, on the whole, gifted, sometimes sympathetic,
and oddly cold when the woman’s temper was most impulsive. For there is
an expression of coldness which weakness puts on in self-defence. A
certain narrowness of view, diametrically opposed to a corresponding
narrowness in her husband’s mind, did not show itself in her features.
There is a defiant, supremely satisfied look which shows that sort of
limitation. Possibly such narrowness was not natural with Mrs.
Lauderdale, but the result of having been systematically opposed on
certain particular grounds throughout more than a quarter of a century
of married life. However that may be, it was by this time a part of her
nature, though not outwardly expressed in any apparent way.
She had not been very happy with Alexander Junior, and she admitted the
fact. She knew also that she had been a good wife to him in every fair
sense of the word. For although she had enjoyed compensations, she had
taken advantage of them in a strictly conscientious way. Undeniable
beauty, of the kind which every one recognizes instantly without the
slightest hesitation, is so rare a gift that it does indeed compensate
its possessor for many misfortunes, especially when she enjoys amusement
for its own sake, innocently and without losing her head or becoming
spoiled and affected by constant admiration. Katharine Lauderdale had
not that degree of beauty, and there were numerous persons who did not
even care for what they called ‘her style.’ Her sister Charlotte had
something of her mother’s brilliancy, indeed, but there was a hardness
about her face and nature which was apparent at first sight. Mrs.
Alexander had always remained the beauty of the family, and indeed the
beauty of the society to which she belonged, even after her daughters
had been grown up. She had outshone them, even in a world like that of
New York, which does not readily compare mothers and daughters in any
way, and asks them out separately as though they did not belong to each
other.
She had not been very happy, and apart from any purely imaginary bliss,
procurable only by some miraculous changes in Alexander Junior’s heart
and head, she believed that the only real thing lacking was money. She
had always been poor. She had never known what seemed to her the supreme
delight of sitting in her own carriage. She had never tasted the
pleasure of having five hundred dollars to spend on her fancies,
exactly as she pleased. The question of dress had always been more or
less of a struggle. She had not exactly extravagant tastes, but she
should have liked to feel once in her life that she was at liberty to
throw aside a pair of perfectly new gloves, merely because when she put
them on the first time one of the seams was a little crooked, or the
lower part was too loose for her narrow hand. She had always felt that
when she had bought a thing she must wear it out, as a matter of
conscience, even if it did not suit her. And there was a real little
pain in the thought, of which she was ashamed. Small things, but womanly
and human. Then, too, there was the constant chafing of her pardonable
pride when ninety-nine of her acquaintances all did the same thing, and
she was the hundredth who could not afford it--and the subscriptions and
the charity concerts and the theatre parties. It was mainly in order to
supply herself with a little money for such objects as these that she
had worked so hard at her painting for years--that she might not be
obliged to apply to her husband for such sums on every occasion. She had
succeeded to some extent, too, and her initials had a certain
reputation, even with the dealers. Many people knew that those same
initials were hers, and a few friends were altogether in her confidence.
Possibly if she had been less beautiful, she would have been spoken
of at afternoon teas as ‘poor Mrs. Lauderdale,’ and people would
have been found--for society has its kindly side--who would have
half-surreptitiously paid large sums for bits of her work, even much
more than her miniatures could ever be worth. But she did not excite
pity. She looked rich, as some people do to their cost. People
sympathized with her in the matter of Alexander Junior’s character, for
he was not popular. But no one thought of pitying her because she was
poor. On the contrary, many persons envied her. It must be ‘such fun,’
they said, to be able to paint and really sell one’s paintings. A
dashing woman with a lot of talent, who can make a few hundreds in half
an hour when she chooses, said others. What did she spend the money on?
On whatever she pleased--probably in charity, she was so good-hearted.
But those people did not see her as Jack Ralston saw her, worn out with
a long day’s work, her eyes aching, her naturally good temper almost on
edge; and they did not know that Katharine Lauderdale’s simple ball
gowns were paid for by the work of her mother’s hands. It was just as
well that they did not know it. Society has such queer fits
sometimes--somebody might have given Katharine a dress. But Ralston was
in the secret and knew.
“One may be as strong as cast-steel,” he said. “Even that wears out.
Ask the people who make engines. You’ll accomplish a great deal more if
you go easy and give yourself rest from time to time.”
“Like you, Jack,” observed Mrs. Lauderdale, not unkindly.
“Oh, I’m a failure. I admitted the fact long ago. I’m only fit for a bad
example,--a sort of moral scarecrow.”
“Yes. I wonder why?” Mrs. Lauderdale was tired and was thinking aloud.
“I didn’t mean to say that, Jack,” she added, frankly, realizing what
she had said, from the recollection of the sound of her own voice, as
people sometimes do who are exhausted or naturally absent-minded.
“It wasn’t exactly complimentary, mother,” said Katharine, coldly.
“Besides, is it fair to say that a man is a failure at Jack’s age?
Patrick Henry was a failure at twenty-three. He was bankrupt.”
“Patrick Henry!” exclaimed Ralston. “What do you know about Patrick
Henry?”
“Oh, I’ve been reading history. It was he who said, ‘Give me liberty, or
give me death.’”
“Was it? I didn’t know. But I’m glad to hear of somebody who got smashed
first and celebrated afterwards. It’s generally the other way, like
Napoleon and Julius Cæsar.”
“Cardinal Wolsey, Alexander the Great, and John Gilpin. It’s easy to
multiply examples, as the books say.”
“You’re much too clever for me this evening. I must be going home. My
mother and I are going to dine all alone and abuse our neighbours all
the evening.”
“How delightful!” exclaimed Katharine, thinking of the grim family table
at which she was to sit as usual--there had been some fine fighting in
Charlotte’s unmarried days, but Katharine’s opposition was generally of
the silent kind.
“Yes,” answered Ralston. “There’s nobody like my mother. She’s the best
company in the world. Good night, cousin Emma. Good night, Katharine.”
But Katharine followed him into the entry, letting the library door
almost close behind her.
“It will be quite time enough, if you come and tell me on the evening
before it is to be,” she whispered hurriedly. “There’s no party
to-morrow night, but on Wednesday I’m going to the Thirlwalls’ dance.”
“Will any morning do?” asked Ralston, also in a whisper.
“Yes, any morning. Now go--quick. That’s enough, dear--there, if you
must. Go--good night--dear!”
The process of leave-taking was rather spasmodic, so far as Katharine
was concerned. Ralston felt that same strange emotion once more as he
found himself out upon the pavement of Clinton Place. His head swam a
little, and he stopped to light a cigarette before he turned towards
Fifth Avenue.
Katharine went back into the library, and found her mother sitting as
the two had left her, and apparently unconscious that her daughter had
gone out of the room.
“He’s quite right, mother dear. You are trying to do too much,” said
Katharine, coming behind the low chair and smoothing her mother’s
beautiful hair, kissing it softly and speaking into the heavy waves of
it.
Mrs. Lauderdale put up one thin hand, and patted the girl’s cheek
without turning to look at her, but said nothing for a moment.
“It’s quite true,” Katharine said. “You mustn’t do it any more.”
“How smooth your cheek is, child!” said Mrs. Lauderdale, thoughtfully.
“So is yours, mother dear.”
“No--it’s not. It’s full of little lines. Touch it--you can feel
them--just there. Besides--you can see them.”
“I don’t feel anything--and I don’t see anything,” answered Katharine.
But she knew what her mother meant, and it made her a little sad--even
her. She had been accustomed all her life to believe that her mother was
the most beautiful woman in the world, and she knew that the time had
just come when she must grow used to not believing it any longer. Mrs.
Lauderdale had never said anything of the sort before. She had been
supreme in her way, and had taken it for granted that she was, never
referring to her own looks under any circumstances.
In the long silence that followed, Katharine quietly went and closed the
shutters of the windows, for Ralston had only pulled down the shades.
She drew the dark curtains across for the evening, lit another gaslight,
and remained standing by the fireplace.
“Thank you, darling,” said Mrs. Lauderdale.
“I do wish papa would let us have lamps, or shades, or something,” said
Katharine, looking disconsolately at the ground-glass globes of the
gaslights.
“He doesn’t like them--he says he can’t see.”
There was a short pause.
“Oh, mother dear! what in the world does papa like, I wonder?” Katharine
turned with an impatient movement as she spoke, and her broad eyebrows
almost met between her eyes.
“Hush, child!” But the words were uttered wearily and mechanically--Mrs.
Lauderdale had pronounced them so often under precisely the same
circumstances during the last quarter of a century.
Katharine sighed, a little out of impatience and to some extent in pity
for her mother. But she stood looking across the room at the closed
door through which Ralston and she had gone out together five minutes
earlier, and she could still feel his last kiss on her cheek. He had
never seemed so loving as on that day, and she had succeeded in
persuading him, against his instinctive judgment, to promise her what
she asked,--the maddest, most foolish thing a girl’s imagination could
long for, no matter with what half-reasonable excuse. But she had his
promise, which, as she well knew, he would keep--and she loved him with
all her heart. The expression of mingled sadness and impatience vanished
like a breath from a polished mirror. She was unconscious that she
looked radiantly happy, as her mother gazed up into her face.
“What a beautiful creature you are!” said Mrs. Lauderdale, in a tone
unlike her natural voice.
CHAPTER V.
Katharine had no anxiety about the future, and it seemed to her that she
had managed matters in the wisest and most satisfactory manner possible.
She had provided, as she thought, against the possibility of any
subsequent interference with her marriage in case she should see fit to
take the step of which she had spoken. The combination seemed perfect,
and even a sensible person, taking into consideration all the
circumstances, might have found something to say in favour of a marriage
which should not be generally discussed. Ralston and Katharine, though
not rich, were decidedly prominent young people in their own society,
and their goings and comings interested the gossips and furnished food
for conversation. There were many reasons for this. Neither of them was
exactly like the average young person in the world. But the great name
of Lauderdale, which was such a real power in the financial world,
contributed most largely to the result. Every one who bore it, or who
was as closely connected with it as the Ralstons, was more or less
before the public. Most of the society paragraph writers in the
newspapers spoke of the family, collectively and individually, as often
as they could find anything to say about it, and as a general rule the
tone of their remarks was subdued and laudatory, and betrayed something
very like awe. The presence of the Lauderdales and the Ralstons was
taken for granted in all accounts of big parties, first nights at the
opera and Daly’s, and of other similar occasions. From time to time a
newspaper man in a fit of statistics calculated how many dollars of
income accrued to Robert Lauderdale at every minute, and proceeded to
show how much each member of the family would have if it were all
equally divided. As Robert the Rich had made his money in real estate,
and his name never appeared in connection with operations in Wall
Street, he was therefore not periodically assailed by the wrathful
chorus of the sold and ruined, abusing him and his people to the
youngest of the living generation, an ordeal with which the great
speculators are familiar. But from time to time the daily papers
published wood-cuts supposed to be portraits of him and his connections,
and the obituary notice of him--which was, of course, kept ready in
every newspaper office--would have given even the old gentleman himself
some satisfaction. The only member of the family who suffered at all for
being connected with him was Benjamin Slayback, the member of Congress.
If he ever dared to hint at any measure implying expenditure on the part
of the country, he was promptly informed by some Honourable Member on
the other side, that it was all very well for him to be reckless, with
the whole Lauderdale fortune at his back, but that ordinary mortals had
to content themselves with ordinary possibilities. The member from
California called him the Eastern Crœsus, and the member from
Massachusetts called him the Western Millionaire, and the member from
Missouri quoted Scripture at him, while the Social-Democrat member from
Somewhere--there was one at that time, and he was a little curiosity in
his way--called him a Capitalist, than which epithet the
social-democratic dictionary contains none more biting and more
offensive in the opinion of its compilers. Altogether, at such times the
Honourable Slayback of Nevada had a very bad quarter of an hour because
he had married Charlotte Lauderdale,--penniless but a Lauderdale, very
inadequately fitted out for a bride, though she was the grand-niece of
Robert the Rich. Slayback of Nevada, however, had a certain rough
dignity of his own, and never mentioned those facts. He had plenty of
money himself and did not covet any that belonged to his wife’s
relations.
“I’m not as rich as your uncle Robert,” he said to her on the day after
their marriage, “and I don’t count on being. But you can have all you
want. There’s enough to go round, now. Maybe you wouldn’t like to be
bothering me all the while for little things? Yes, that’s natural; so
I’ll just put something up to your credit at Riggs’s and you can have a
cheque-book. When you’ve got through it, tell Riggs to let me know. You
might be shy of telling me.”
And Benjamin Slayback smiled in a kindly fashion not at all familiar to
his men friends, and on the following day Charlotte received a notice
from the bank to the effect that ten thousand dollars stood to her
credit. Never having had any money of her own, the sum seemed a fortune
to her, and she showed herself properly grateful, and forgave Benjamin a
multitude of small sins, even such as having once worn a white satin tie
in the evening, and at the opera, of all places.
Katharine was perfectly well aware that the smallest actions of her
family were subjects for public discussion, and she knew how people
would talk if it were ever discovered that she had been secretly married
to John Ralston. On the other hand, the rest of the Lauderdales were in
the same position, and would be quite willing, when they were acquainted
with the facts, to say that the marriage had been a private one, leaving
it to be supposed that they had known all about it from the first. She
had no anxiety for the future, therefore, and believed that she was
acting with her eyes open to all conceivable contingencies and
possibilities. Matters were not, indeed, finally settled, for even after
she was married she would still have the interview with her uncle to
face; but she felt sure of the result. It was so easy for him to do
exactly what he pleased, as it seemed to her, to make or unmake men’s
fortunes at his will, as she could tie and untie a bit of string.
And her confidence in Ralston was boundless. Considering his capacities,
as they appeared to her, his failure to do anything for himself in the
two positions which had been offered to him was not to be considered a
failure at all. He was a man of action, and he was an exceptionally
well-educated man. How could he ever be expected to do an ordinary
clerk’s work? It was absurd to suppose that he could change his whole
character at a moment’s notice, and it was an insult to expect that he
should change it at all. It was a splendid nature, she thought,
generous, energetic, brave, averse to mean details, of course, as such
natures must be, impatient of control, independent and dominating. There
was much to admire in Ralston, she believed, even if she had not loved
him. And perhaps she was right, from her point of view. Of his chief
fault she really knew nothing. The little she had heard of his being
wild, as it is called, rather attracted than repelled her. She despised
men whom she looked upon as ‘duffers’ and ‘muffs.’ Even her father,
whose peculiarities were hard to bear, was manly in his way. He had been
good at sports in his youth, he was a good rider, and could be trusted
with horses that did not belong to him, which was fortunate, as he had
never possessed any of his own; he was a good shot, as she had often
heard, and he periodically disappeared upon solitary salmon-fishing
expeditions on the borders of Canada. For he was a strong man and a
tough man, and needed much bodily exercise. The only real ‘muff’ there
had ever been in the family Katharine considered to be her grandfather,
the philanthropist, and he was so old that it did not matter much. But
the tales he told of his studious youth disgusted her, for some occult
reason. All the other male relations were manly fellows, even to little
Frank Miner, who was as full of fight as a cock-sparrow, in spite of his
