of a person resigned to await events. John merely nodded as she spoke,
and did not stop walking up and down. He was thinking of the future now,
for he knew that he had made sure of the present. He was weighing the
chances of discretion on the part of the two men who had been witnesses
of his struggle with Bright in the hall of the club. As for Bright
himself, though he was the injured party, John knew that he could be
trusted to be silent. He might never forgive John, but he could not
gossip about what had happened. Frank Miner would probably follow
Bright’s lead. The dangerous man was Crowdie, who would tell what he had
seen, most probably to Katharine herself, and that very night. He might
account for his absence from the dinner-party to which he had been
engaged, and from the ball, on the ground of an accident. People might
say what they pleased about that, but it would be hard to make any one
believe that he had been sober when he had so suddenly lost his temper
and tripped up the pacific Hamilton Bright in the afternoon.
He knew, of course, that his mother’s testimony would have counted for
nothing, even if she had believed him, and bitterly as he resented her
unbelief, he recognized that it was bringing about a good result. No one
could doubt the evidence of such a man as Doctor Routh, and the latter
would of course be ready at any time to repeat his statement, if it were
necessary to clear John’s reputation.
But when he thought of Katharine, his instinct told him that matters
could not be so easily settled. It was quite true that he was in no way
to blame for having fallen over a heap of stones in a dark street, but
he knew how anxiously she must have waited for him at the ball, and what
she must have felt if, as he suspected, Crowdie had given her his own
version of what had taken place in the afternoon. It was not yet so late
but that he might have found her still at the Assembly rooms, and so far
as his strength was concerned, he would have gone there even at that
hour. Tough as he was, a few hours, more or less, of fatigue and effort
would make little difference to him, though he had scarcely touched food
that day. He was one of those men who are not dependent for their
strength on the last meal they happen to have eaten, as the majority
are, and who break down under a fast of twenty-four hours. In spite of
all he had been through, moreover, his determined abstinence during the
last days was beginning to tell favourably on him, for he was young, and
his nerves had a boundless recuperative elasticity. Hungry and tired and
bruised as he was, and accustomed as he had always been to swallow a
stimulant when the machinery was slackened, he did not now feel that
craving at all as he had felt it on the previous night, when he had
stood in the corner at the Thirlwalls’ dance. That seemed to have been a
turning-point with him. He had thought so at the time, and he was sure
of it now. He felt that just as he was he could dress himself, and go to
the Assembly if he pleased, and that he should not break down.
But his appearance was against him, as he was obliged to admit when he
looked at himself in the mirror. His face was swollen and bruised, his
eyes were sunken and haggard, and his skin was almost livid in its
sallow whiteness. Others would judge him as his mother had judged, and
Katharine might be the first to do so. On the whole, it seemed wisest to
write to her early in the morning, and to explain exactly what had
happened. In the course of the day he could go and see her.
He had reached this conclusion, when the sound of wheels, grating out of
the snow against the curb-stone of the pavement, interrupted his
meditations, and he stopped in his walk. At the same moment Mrs. Ralston
rose from her seat.
“I’ll let him in,” she said briefly, as John advanced towards the door.
“Let me go,” he said. “Why not?” he asked, as she pushed past him.
“Because--I’d rather not. Stay here!” In a moment she was descending the
stairs.
John listened at the open door, and heard the latch turned, and
immediately afterwards the sound of a man’s voice, which he recognized
as that of Doctor Routh. The doctor had been one of the Admiral’s
firmest friends, and was, moreover, a man of very great reputation in
New York. It was improbable that, except for some matter of life and
death, any one but Mrs. Ralston could have got him to leave his fireside
at midnight and in such weather.
“It’s an awful night, Mrs. Ralston,” John heard him say, and the words
were accompanied by a stamping of feet, followed by the unmistakable
soft noise of india-rubber overshoes kicked off, one after the other,
upon the marble floor of the entry.
John retired into his room again, leaving the door open, and waited
before the fireplace. Far down below he could hear the voices of his
mother and Doctor Routh. They were evidently talking the matter over
before coming up. Then their soft tread upon the carpeted stairs told
him that they were on their way to his room.
Mrs. Ralston entered first, and stood aside to let the doctor pass her
before she closed the door. Doctor Routh was enormously tall. He wore a
long white beard, and carried his head very much bent forward. His eyes
were of the very dark blue which is sometimes called violet, and when he
was looking directly in front of him, the white was visible below the
iris. He had delicate hands, but was otherwise rough in appearance, and
walked with a heavy tread and a long stride, as a strong man marches
with a load on his back.
He stopped before John, looked keenly at him, and smiled. He had known
him since he had been a boy.
“Well, young man,” he said, “you look pretty badly used up. What’s the
matter with you?”
“Have I been drinking, doctor? That’s the question.” John did not smile
as he shook hands.
“I don’t know,” answered the physician. “Let me look at you.”
He was holding the young man’s hand, and pressing it gently, as though
to judge of its temperature. He made him sit down under the bright
gas-light by the dressing table, and began to examine him carefully.
Mrs. Ralston turned her back to them both, and leaned against the
mantelpiece. There was something horrible to her in the idea of such an
examination for such a purpose. There was something far more horrible
still in the verdict which she knew must fall from the doctor’s lips
within the next five minutes--the words which must assure her that John
had lied to her on his word of honour. She had no hope now. She had
watched the doctor nervously when he had entered the room, and when he
had spoken to John she had seen the smile on his face. There had been no
doubt in his mind from the first, and he was amused--probably at the
bare idea that any one could look as John looked who had not been very
drunk indeed within the last few hours. Presently he would look grave
and shake his head, and probably give John a bit of good advice about
his habits. She turned her face to the wall above the mantelpiece and
waited. It could not take long, she thought. Then it came.
“If you’re not careful, my boy--” the doctor began, and stopped.
“What?” asked John, rather anxiously.
Mrs. Ralston felt as though she must stop her ears to keep out the sound
of the next words. Yet she knew that she must hear them before it was
all over.
“You’ll injure yourself,” said Doctor Routh, completing his sentence
very slowly and thoughtfully.
“That’s of no consequence,” answered John. “What I want to know is,
whether I have been drinking or not. Yes or no?”
“Drinking?” Doctor Routh laughed contemptuously. “You know as well as I
do that you haven’t had a drop of anything like drink all day. But
you’ve had nothing to eat, either, for some reason or other--and
starvation’s a precious deal worse than drinking any day. Drinking be
damned! You’re starving--that’s what’s the matter with you. Excuse me,
Mrs. Ralston, forgot you were there--”
Mrs. Ralston had heard every word. Her hands dropped together inertly
upon the mantelpiece, and she turned her head slowly toward the two men.
Her face had a dazed expression, as though she were waking from a dream.
“Never mind the starvation, doctor,” said John, with a hard laugh.
“There’s a Bible somewhere in the room. Perhaps you won’t mind swearing
on it that I’m sober--before my mother, please.”
“I shouldn’t think any sane person would need any swearing to convince
them!” Doctor Routh seemed to be growing suddenly angry. “You’ve been
badly knocked about, and you’ve been starving yourself for days--or
weeks, very likely. You’ve had a concussion of the brain that would
have laid up most people for a week, and would have killed some that I
know. You’re as thin as razor edges all over--there’s nothing to you but
bone and muscle and nerve. You ought to be fed and put to bed and looked
after, and then you ought to be sent out West to drive cattle, or go to
sea before the mast for two or three years. Your lungs are your weak
point. That’s apt to be the trouble with thoroughbreds in this country.
Oh--they’re sound enough--enough for the present, but you can’t go on
like this. You’ll give out when you don’t expect it. Drinking? No! I
should think a little whiskey and water would do you good!”
While he was speaking, Mrs. Ralston came slowly forward, listening to
every word he said, in wide-eyed wonder. At last she laid her hand upon
his arm. He felt the slight pressure and looked down into her eyes.
“Doctor Routh--on your word of honour?” she asked in a low voice.
John laughed very bitterly, rose from his chair, and crossed the room.
The old man’s eyes flashed suddenly, and he drew himself up.
“My dear Mrs. Ralston, I don’t know what has happened to you, nor what
you have got into your head. But if you’re not satisfied that I’m enough
of a doctor to tell whether a man is drunk or sober, send for some one
in whom you’ve more confidence. I’m not used to going about swearing my
professional opinion on Bibles and things, nor to giving my word of
honour that I’m in earnest when I’ve said what I think about a patient.
But I’ll tell you--if I had fifty words of honour and the whole Bible
House to swear on--well, I’ll say more--if it were a case of a trial,
I’d give my solemn evidence in court that Master John Ralston has had
nothing to drink. Upon my word, Mrs. Ralston! Talk of making mountains
of mole-hills! You’re making a dozen Himalayas out of nothing at all, it
seems to me. Your boy’s starving, Mrs. Ralston, and I daresay he takes
too much champagne and too many cocktails occasionally. But he’s not
been doing it to-day, nor yesterday, nor the day before. That is my
opinion as a doctor. Want my word of honour and the Bible again? Go to
bed! Getting your old friend away from his books and his pipe and his
fire at this hour, on such a night as this! You ought to be ashamed of
yourself, young lady! Well--if I’ve done you any good, I’m not
sorry--but don’t do it again. Good night--and get that young fellow out
of this as soon as you can. He’s not fit for this sort of life, anyhow.
Don’t take thoroughbreds for cart horses--they stand it for a bit, and
then they go crack! Good night--no, I know my way all right--don’t come
down.”
John followed him, however, but before he left the room he glanced at
his mother’s face. Her eyes were cast down, and her lips seemed to
tremble a little. She did not even say good night to Doctor Routh.
CHAPTER XXIII.
It was nearly one o’clock when John Ralston let Doctor Routh out of the
house and returned to his own room. He found his mother standing there,
opposite the door, as he entered, and her eyes had met his even before
he had passed the threshold. She came forward to meet him, and without a
word laid her two hands upon his shoulders and hid her face against his
torn coat. He put one arm around her and gently stroked her head with
the other hand, but he looked straight before him at the bright globe of
the gas-light, and said nothing.
There was an unsettled expression on his pale face. He did not wish to
seem triumphant, and he did wish that his anger against her might
subside immediately and be altogether forgotten. But although he had
enough control of his outward self to say nothing and to touch her
tenderly, the part of him that had been so deeply wounded was not to be
healed in a moment. Her doubt--more, her openly and scornfully outspoken
disbelief had been the very last straw that day. It had been hard, just
when he had been doing his best to reform, to be accused by every one,
from Hamilton Bright, his friend, to the people on the horse-car; but
it had been hardest of all to be accused by his mother, and not to be
believed even on his pledged word. That was a very different matter.
To a man of a naturally melancholic and brooding temper, as John Ralston
was, illusions have a very great value. Such men have few of them, as a
rule, and regard them as possessions with which no one has any right to
interfere. They ask little or nothing of the world at large, except to
be allowed to follow their own inclinations and worship their own idols
in their own way. But of their idols they ask much, and often give them
little in return except acts of idolatry. And the first thing they ask,
whether they express the demand openly or not, is that their idols
should believe in them in spite of every one and everything. They are
not, as a rule, capricious men. They cannot replace one object of
adoration by another, at short notice. Perhaps the foundation of such
characters is a sort of honourable selfishness, a desire to keep what
they care for to themselves, beyond the reach of every one else,
together with an inward conviction that their love is eminently worth
having from the mere fact that they do not bestow it lightly. When the
idol expresses a human and pardonable doubt in their sincerity, an
illusion is injured, if not destroyed--even when that doubt is well
founded. But when the doubt is groundless, it makes a bad wound which
leaves an ugly scar, if it ever heals at all.
John Ralston was very like his mother, and she knew it and understood
instinctively that words could be of no use. There was nothing to be
done but to throw herself upon his mercy, as it were, and to trust that
he would forgive an injury which nothing could repair. And John
understood this, and did his best to meet her half way, for he loved her
very much. But he could not help the expression on his face, not being
good at masking nor at playing any part. She, womanly, could have done
that better than he.
She wished to act no comedy, however. The thing was real and true, and
she was distressed beyond measure. She looked up at his face and saw
what was in his mind, and she knew that for the present she could do
nothing. Then she gently kissed the sleeve of his coat, and withdrew her
hands from him.
“You’re wet, Jack,” she said, trying to speak naturally. “Go to bed, and
I’ll bring you something to eat and something hot to drink.”
“No, mother--thank you. I don’t want anything. But I think I’ll go to
bed. Good night.”
“Let me bring you something--”
“No, thank you. I’d rather not. It’s all right, mother. Don’t worry.”
It was hard to say even that little, just then, but he did as well as he
could. Then he kissed her on the forehead and opened the door for her.
She bent her head low as she passed him, but she did not look up.
Half an hour later, when John was about to put out his light, he heard
the little clinking of glasses and silver on a tray outside his door.
Then there was a knock.
“I’ve brought you something to eat, Jack,” said his mother’s voice.
“Just what I could find--”
John turned as he was crossing the room--a gaunt figure in his loose,
striped flannels--and hesitated a moment before he spoke.
“Oh--thank you, very much,” he answered. “Would you kindly set it down?
I’ll take it in presently. It’s very good of you, mother--thank
you--good night again.”
He heard her set down the tray, and the things rattled and clinked.
“It’s here, when you want it,” said the voice.
He fancied there was a sigh after the words, and two or three seconds
passed before the sound of softly departing footsteps followed. He
listened, with a weary look in his eyes, then went to the fireplace and
leaned against the mantelpiece for a moment. As though making an effort,
he turned again and went to the door and opened it and brought in the
tray. There were dainty things on it, daintily arranged. There was also
a small decanter of whiskey, a pint of claret and a little jug of hot
water. John set the tray upon one end of his writing table and looked at
it, with an odd, sour smile. He was really so tired that he wanted
neither food nor drink, and the sight of both in abundance was almost
nauseous to him. He reflected that the servant would take away the
things in the morning, and that his mother would never know whether he
had taken what she had brought him or not, unless she asked him, which
was impossible. He took up the tray again, set it down on the floor, in
a corner, and instead of going to bed seated himself at his writing
table.
It seemed best to write to Katharine and send his letter early in the
morning. It was hard work, and he could scarcely see the words he wrote,
for the pain in his head was becoming excruciating. It was necessarily a
long letter, too, and a complicated one, and his command of the English
language seemed gone from him. Nevertheless, he plodded on diligently,
telling as nearly as he could remember what had happened to him since he
had left Katharine’s door at three o’clock in the afternoon, up to the
moment when Doctor Routh had pronounced his verdict. It was not well
written, but on the whole it was a thoroughly clear account of events,
so far as he himself could be said to know what had happened to him. He
addressed the letter and put a special delivery stamp upon it, thinking
that this would be a means of sending it to its destination quickly
without attracting so much attention to it as though he should send a
messenger himself. Then he put out the gas, drew up the shades, so that
the morning light should wake him early, in spite of his exhaustion, and
at last went to bed.
It was unfortunate that the messenger who took the specially stamped
letter to Clinton Place on the following morning should have rung the
bell exactly when he did, that is to say, at the precise moment when
Alexander Junior was putting on his overcoat and overshoes in the entry.
It was natural enough that Mr. Lauderdale should open the door himself
and confront the boy, who held up the letter to him with the little book
in which the receipt was to be signed. It was the worse for the boy,
because Katharine would have given him five or ten cents for himself,
whereas Alexander Junior signed the receipt, handed it back and shut the
door in the boy’s face. And it was very much the worse for John Ralston,
since Mr. Lauderdale, having looked at the handwriting and recognized
it, put the letter into his pocket without a word to any one and went
down town for the day.
Now it was his intention to do the thing which was right according to
his point of view. He was as honourable a man, in his own unprejudiced
opinion, as any living, and he would no more have forfeited his right
to congratulate himself upon his uprightness than he would have given
ten cents to the messenger boy, or a holiday to a clerk, or a
subscription for anything except his pew in church. The latter was
really a subscription to his own character, and therefore not an
extravagance. It would never have entered into his mind that he could
possibly break the seal of Ralston’s specially stamped envelope. The
