and not advertised; that this fact was indiscreetly mentioned--or at
least tacitly admitted--in what was supposed to be safe circumstances,
but may not have been. The thief may have been present himself. [Tom
Driscoll had been looking at the speaker, but dropped his eyes at this
point.] In that case he would retain the knife in his possession, not
daring to offer it for sale, or for pledge in a pawn-shop. [There was a
nodding of heads among the audience by way of admission that this was
not a bad stroke.] I shall prove to the satisfaction of the jury that
there was a person in Judge Driscoll's room several minutes before the
accused entered it. [This produced a strong sensation; the last
drowsy-head in the court-room roused up, now, and made preparation to
listen.] If it shall seem necessary, I will prove by the Misses Clarkson
that they met a veiled person--ostensibly a woman--coming out of the
back gate a few minutes after the cry for help was heard. This person
was not a woman, but a man dressed in woman's clothes." Another
sensation. Wilson had his eye on Tom when he hazarded this guess, to see
what effect it would produce. He was satisfied with the result, and said
to himself, "It was a success--he's hit!"
"The object of that person in that house was robbery, not murder. It is
true that the safe was not open, but there was an ordinary tin cash-box
on the table, with three thousand dollars in it. It is easily supposable
that the thief was concealed in the house; that he knew of this box, and
of its owner's habit of counting its contents and arranging his accounts
at night--if he had that habit, which I do not assert, of course;--that
he tried to take the box while its owner slept, but made a noise and was
seized, and had to use the knife to save himself from capture; and that
he fled without his booty because he heard help coming.
"I have now done with my theory, and will proceed to the evidences by
which I propose to try to prove its soundness." Wilson took up several
of his strips of glass. When the audience recognized these familiar
mementoes of Pudd'nhead's old-time childish "puttering" and folly, the
tense and funereal interest vanished out of their faces, and the house
burst into volleys of relieving and refreshing laughter, and Tom chirked
up and joined in the fun himself; but Wilson was apparently not
disturbed. He arranged his records on the table before him, and said--
"I beg the indulgence of the court while I make a few remarks in
explanation of some evidence which I am about to introduce, and which I
shall presently ask to be allowed to verify under oath on the witness
stand. Every human being carries with him from his cradle to his grave
certain physical marks which do not change their character, and by which
he can always be identified--and that without shade of doubt or
question. These marks are his signature, his physiological autograph, so
to speak, and this autograph can not be counterfeited, nor can he
disguise it or hide it away, nor can it become illegible by the wear and
mutations of time. This signature is not his face--age can change that
beyond recognition; it is not his hair, for that can fall out; it is not
his height, for duplicates of that exist; it is not his form, for
duplicates of that exist also, whereas this signature is each man's very
own--there is no duplicate of it among the swarming populations of the
globe! [The audience were interested once more.]
"This autograph consists of the delicate lines or corrugations with
which Nature marks the insides of the hands and the soles of the feet.
If you will look at the balls of your fingers,--you that have very sharp
eyesight,--you will observe that these dainty curving lines lie close
together, like those that indicate the borders of oceans in maps, and
that they form various clearly defined patterns, such as arches,
circles, long curves, whorls, etc., and that these patterns differ on
the different fingers. [Every man in the room had his hand up to the
light, now, and his head canted to one side, and was minutely
scrutinizing the balls of his fingers; there were whispered ejaculations
of 'Why, it's so--I never noticed that before!'] The patterns on the
right hand are not the same as those on the left. [Ejaculations of 'Why,
that's so, too!'] Taken finger for finger, your patterns differ from
your neighbor's. [Comparisons were made all over the house--even the
judge and jury were absorbed in this curious work.] The patterns of a
twin's right hand are not the same as those on his left. One twin's
patterns are never the same as his fellow-twin's patterns--the jury will
find that the patterns upon the finger-balls of the accused follow this
rule. [An examination of the twins' hands was begun at once.] You have
often heard of twins who were so exactly alike that when dressed alike
their own parents could not tell them apart. Yet there was never a twin
born into this world that did not carry from birth to death a sure
identifier in this mysterious and marvelous natal autograph. That once
known to you, his fellow-twin could never personate him and deceive
you."
Wilson stopped and stood silent. Inattention dies a quick and sure death
when a speaker does that. The stillness gives warning that something is
coming. All palms and finger-balls went down, now, all slouching forms
straightened, all heads came up, all eyes were fastened upon Wilson's
face. He waited yet one, two, three moments, to let his pause complete
and perfect its spell upon the house; then, when through the profound
hush he could hear the ticking of the clock on the wall, he put out his
hand and took the Indian knife by the blade and held it aloft where all
could see the sinister spots upon its ivory handle; then he said, in a
level and passionless voice--
"Upon this haft stands the assassin's natal autograph, written in the
blood of that helpless and unoffending old man who loved you and whom
you all loved. There is but one man in the whole earth whose hand can
duplicate that crimson sign,"--he paused and raised his eyes to the
pendulum swinging back and forth,--"and please God we will produce that
man in this room before the clock strikes noon!"
Stunned, distraught, unconscious of its own movement, the house half
rose, as if expecting to see the murderer appear at the door, and a
breeze of muttered ejaculations swept the place. "Order in the
court!--sit down!" This from the sheriff. He was obeyed, and quiet
reigned again. Wilson stole a glance at Tom, and said to himself, "He is
flying signals of distress, now; even people who despise him are pitying
him; they think this is a hard ordeal for a young fellow who has lost
his benefactor by so cruel a stroke--and they are right." He resumed his
speech:
"For more than twenty years I have amused my compulsory leisure with
collecting these curious physical signatures in this town. At my house I
have hundreds upon hundreds of them. Each and every one is labelled with
name and date; not labelled the next day or even the next hour, but in
the very minute that the impression was taken. When I go upon the
witness stand I will repeat under oath the things which I am now saying.
I have the finger-prints of the court, the sheriff, and every member of
the jury. There is hardly a person in this room, white or black, whose
natal signature I cannot produce, and not one of them can so disguise
himself that I cannot pick him out from a multitude of his
fellow-creatures and unerringly identify him by his hands. And if he and
I should live to be a hundred I could still do it. [The interest of the
audience was steadily deepening, now.]
"I have studied some of these signatures so much that I know them as
well as the bank cashier knows the autograph of his oldest customer.
While I turn my back now, I beg that several persons will be so good as
to pass their fingers through their hair, and then press them upon one
of the panes of the window near the jury, and that among them the
accused may set their finger-marks. Also, I beg that these
experimenters, or others, will set their finger-marks upon another pane,
and add again the marks of the accused, but not placing them in the same
order or relation to the other signatures as before--for, by one chance
in a million, a person might happen upon the right marks by pure
guess-work once, therefore I wish to be tested twice."
He turned his back, and the two panes were quickly covered with
delicately-lined oval spots, but visible only to such persons as could
get a dark background for them--the foliage of a tree, outside, for
instance. Then, upon call, Wilson went to the window, made his
examination, and said--
"This is Count Luigi's right hand; this one, three signatures below, is
his left. Here is Count Angelo's right; down here is his left. Now for
the other pane: here and here are Count Luigi's, here and here are his
brother's." He faced about. "Am I right?"
A deafening explosion of applause was the answer. The Bench said--
"This certainly approaches the miraculous!"
Wilson turned to the window again and remarked, pointing with his
finger--
"This is the signature of Mr. Justice Robinson. [Applause.] This, of
Constable Blake. [Applause.] This, of John Mason, juryman. [Applause.]
This, of the sheriff. [Applause.] I cannot name the others, but I have
them all at home, named and dated, and could identify them all by my
finger-print records."
He moved to his place through a storm of applause--which the sheriff
stopped, and also made the people sit down, for they were all standing
and struggling to see, of course. Court, jury, sheriff, and everybody
had been too absorbed in observing Wilson's performance to attend to the
audience earlier.
"Now, then," said Wilson, "I have here the natal autographs of two
children--thrown up to ten times the natural size by the pantograph, so
that any one who can see at all can tell the markings apart at a glance.
We will call the children A and B. Here are A's finger-marks, taken at
the age of five months. Here they are again, taken at seven months. [Tom
started.] They are alike, you see. Here are B's at five months, and also
at seven months. They, too, exactly copy each other, but the patterns
are quite different from A's, you observe. I shall refer to these again
presently, but we will turn them face down, now.
"Here, thrown up ten sizes, are the natal autographs of the two persons
who are here before you accused of murdering Judge Driscoll. I made
these pantograph copies last night, and will so swear when I go upon the
witness stand. I ask the jury to compare them with the finger-marks of
the accused upon the window panes, and tell the court if they are the
same."
He passed a powerful magnifying-glass to the foreman.
One juryman after another took the cardboard and the glass and made the
comparison. Then the foreman said to the judge--
"Your honor, we are all agreed that they are identical."
Wilson said to the foreman--
"Please turn that cardboard face down, and take this one, and compare it
searchingly, by the magnifier, with the fatal signature upon the
knife-handle, and report your finding to the court."
Again the jury made minute examinations, and again reported--
"We find them to be exactly identical, your honor."
Wilson turned toward the counsel for the prosecution, and there was a
clearly recognizable note of warning in his voice when he said--
"May it please the court, the State has claimed, strenuously and
persistently, that the blood-stained finger-prints upon that
knife-handle were left there by the assassin of Judge Driscoll. You have
heard us grant that claim, and welcome it." He turned to the jury:
"Compare the finger-prints of the accused with the finger-prints left by
the assassin--and report."
The comparison began. As it proceeded, all movement and all sound
ceased, and the deep silence of an absorbed and waiting suspense settled
upon the house; and when at last the words came--
"They do not even resemble," a thunder-crash of applause followed and
the house sprang to its feet, but was quickly repressed by official
force and brought to order again. Tom was altering his position every
few minutes, now, but none of his changes brought repose nor any small
trifle of comfort. When the house's attention was become fixed once
more, Wilson said gravely, indicating the twins with a gesture--
"These men are innocent--I have no further concern with them. [Another
outbreak of applause began, but was promptly checked.] We will now
proceed to find the guilty. [Tom's eyes were starting from their
sockets--yes, it was a cruel day for the bereaved youth, everybody
thought.] We will return to the infant autographs of A and B. I will ask
the jury to take these large pantograph facsimilies of A's marked five
months and seven months. Do they tally?"
The foreman responded--
"Perfectly."
"Now examine this pantograph, taken at eight months, and also marked A.
Does it tally with the other two?"
The surprised response was--
"No--they differ widely!"
"You are quite right. Now take these two pantographs of B's autograph,
marked five months and seven months. Do they tally with each other?"
"Yes--perfectly."
"Take this third pantograph marked B, eight months. Does it tally with
B's other two?"
"By no means!"
"Do you know how to account for those strange discrepancies? I will tell
you. For a purpose unknown to us, but probably a selfish one, somebody
changed those children in the cradle."
This produced a vast sensation, naturally; Roxana was astonished at this
admirable guess, but not disturbed by it. To guess the exchange was one
thing, to guess who did it quite another. Pudd'nhead Wilson could do
wonderful things, no doubt, but he couldn't do impossible ones. Safe?
She was perfectly safe. She smiled privately.
"Between the ages of seven months and eight months those children were
changed in the cradle"--he made one of his effect-collecting pauses, and
added--"and the person who did it is in this house!"
Roxy's pulses stood still! The house was thrilled as with an electric
shock, and the people half rose as if to seek a glimpse of the person
who had made that exchange. Tom was growing limp; the life seemed oozing
out of him. Wilson resumed:
"A was put into B's cradle in the nursery; B was transferred to the
kitchen and became a negro and a slave, [Sensation--confusion of angry
ejaculations]--but within a quarter of an hour he will stand before you
white and free! [Burst of applause, checked by the officers.] From seven
months onward until now, A has still been a usurper, and in my
finger-record he bears B's name. Here is his pantograph at the age of
twelve. Compare it with the assassin's signature upon the knife-handle.
Do they tally?"
The foreman answered--
"To the minutest detail!"
Wilson said, solemnly--
"The murderer of your friend and mine--York Driscoll of the generous
hand and the kindly spirit--sits in among you. Valet de Chambre, negro
and slave,--falsely called Thomas à Becket Driscoll,--make upon the
window the finger-prints that will hang you!"
Tom turned his ashen face imploring toward the speaker, made some
impotent movements with his white lips, then slid limp and lifeless to
the floor.
Wilson broke the awed silence with the words--
"There is no need. He has confessed."
Roxy flung herself upon her knees, covered her face with her hands, and
out through her sobs the words struggled--
"De Lord have mercy on me, po' misable sinner dat I is!"
The clock struck twelve.
The court rose; the new prisoner, handcuffed, was removed.
Conclusion
It is often the case that the man who can't tell a lie thinks he is the
best judge of one.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
October 12, the Discovery. It was wonderful to find America, but it
would have been more wonderful to miss it.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's
Calendar.
The town sat up all night to discuss the amazing events of the day and
swap guesses as to when Tom's trial would begin. Troop after troop of
citizens came to serenade Wilson, and require a speech, and shout
themselves hoarse over every sentence that fell from his lips--for all
his sentences were golden, now, all were marvelous. His long fight
against hard luck and prejudice was ended; he was a made man for good.
And as each of these roaring gangs of enthusiasts marched away, some
remorseful member of it was quite sure to raise his voice and say--
"And this is the man the likes of us have called a pudd'nhead for more
than twenty years. He has resigned from that position, friends."
"Yes, but it isn't vacant--we're elected."
The twins were heroes of romance, now, and with rehabilitated
reputations. But they were weary of Western adventure, and straightway
retired to Europe.
Roxy's heart was broken. The young fellow upon whom she had inflicted
twenty-three years of slavery continued the false heir's pension of
thirty-five dollars a month to her, but her hurts were too deep for
money to heal; the spirit in her eye was quenched, her martial bearing
departed with it, and the voice of her laughter ceased in the land. In
her church and its affairs she found her only solace.
The real heir suddenly found himself rich and free, but in a most
embarrassing situation. He could neither read nor write, and his speech
was the basest dialect of the negro quarter. His gait, his attitudes,
his gestures, his bearing, his laugh--all were vulgar and uncouth; his
manners were the manners of a slave. Money and fine clothes could not
mend these defects or cover them up; they only made them the more
glaring and the more pathetic. The poor fellow could not endure the
terrors of the white man's parlor, and felt at home and at peace nowhere
but in the kitchen. The family pew was a misery to him, yet he could
nevermore enter into the solacing refuge of the "nigger gallery"--that
was closed to him for good and all. But we cannot follow his curious
fate further--that would be a long story.
The false heir made a full confession and was sentenced to imprisonment
for life. But now a complication came up. The Percy Driscoll estate was
in such a crippled shape when its owner died that it could pay only
sixty per cent. of its great indebtedness, and was settled at that rate.
But the creditors came forward, now, and complained that inasmuch as
through an error for which they were in no way to blame the false heir
was not inventoried at the time with the rest of the property, great
wrong and loss had thereby been inflicted upon them. They rightly
claimed that "Tom" was lawfully their property and had been so for eight
years; that they had already lost sufficiently in being deprived of his
services during that long period, and ought not to be required to add
anything to that loss; that if he had been delivered up to them in the
first place, they would have sold him and he could not have murdered
Judge Driscoll; therefore it was not he that had really committed the
