"Didn't you know it was disgraceful to be poor?"
"Thank Heaven, it isn't that!" ejaculated Mrs. Mordaunt.
"Well, it might as well be. Tom thinks me beneath his notice now. You
should have seen him turn his head to the other side as he walked by,
twirling his light cane."
"Did you speak to him, Dan?"
"What do you take me for, mother? Do you think I'd speak to a fellow
that doesn't want to know me?"
"I think you are proud, my boy."
"Well, mother, I guess you're right. I'm too proud to force myself upon
the notice of Tom Carver, or any other purse-proud sneak."
Dan spoke with a tinge of bitterness, and it was evident that he felt
Tom's slight more than he was willing to acknowledge.
"It's the way of the world, Dan," said his mother, sighing. "Not one of
all my friends, or those whom I accounted such, in my prosperous days,
has come to see us, or shown any interest in our fate."
"They can stay away. We can do without them," said Dan, sturdily.
"We must; but it would be pleasant to see some of the old faces," said
his mother, plaintively. "There is no one in this house that is company
for me."
"No, mother; you are an educated and refined lady, and they are poor and
ignorant."
"They are very good people, some of them. There is Mrs. Burke on the
next floor. She was in this afternoon, and asked if she couldn't do
something for me. She thought I looked poorly, she said."
"She's a brick, mother!"
"My dear Dan, you do use such extraordinary language sometimes. You
didn't talk so when we lived on Madison avenue."
"No, mother, but I associate with a different class now. I can't help
catching the phrases I hear all the time. But don't mind, mother; I mean
no harm. I never swear--that is, almost never. I did catch myself at it
the other day, when another newsboy stole half a dozen of my papers."
"Don't forget that you are a gentleman, Dan."
"I won't if I can help it, mother, though I don't believe anybody else
would suspect it. I must take good care not to look into the
looking-glass, or I might be under the impression that I was a
street-boy instead of a gentleman."
"Clothes don't make the gentleman, Dan. I want you to behave and feel
like a gentleman, even if your clothes are poor and patched."
"I understand you, mother, and I shall try to follow your advice. I have
never done any mean thing yet that I can remember, and I don't intend
to."
"I am sure of that, my dear boy."
"Don't be too sure of anything, mother. I have plenty of bad examples
before me."
"But you won't be guided by them?"
"I'll try not."
"Did you succeed well in your sales to-day, Dan?"
"Pretty well. I made ninety-six cents."
"I wish I could earn as much," said Mrs. Mordaunt, sighing. "I can only
earn twenty cents a day."
"You earn as much as I do, mother, but you don't get it. You see,
there's a difference in earning and being paid. Old Gripp is a mean
skinflint. I should like to force one of his twenty-cent vests down his
miserly throat."
"Don't use such violent language, Dan. Perhaps he pays me all he can
afford."
"Perhaps he does, but I wouldn't bet high on it. He is making a fortune
out of those who sew for him. There are some men that have no
conscience. I hope some time you will be free from him."
"I hope so, too, Dan, but I am thankful to earn something. I don't want
all the burden of our maintenance to fall on you."
"Don't call it a burden, mother. There's nothing I enjoy so much as
working for you. Why, it's fun!"
"It can't be fun on rainy, disagreeable days, Dan."
"It wouldn't be fun for you, mother, but you're not a boy."
"I am so sorry that you can't keep on with your education, Dan. You were
getting on so well at school."
It was a thought that had often come to Dan, but he wouldn't own it, for
he did not wish to add to his mother's sadness.
"Oh, well, mother," he said, "something may turn up for us, so we won't
look down in the mouth."
"I have got my bundled work ready, Dan, if you can carry it round to Mr.
Gripp's to-night."
"Yes, mother, I'll carry it. How many vests are there?"
"There are six. That amounts to a dollar and twenty cents. I hope he'll
pay you to-night, for our rent comes due to-morrow."
"So it does!" ejaculated Dan, seriously. "I never thought of it. Shall
we have enough to pay it? You've got my money, you know."
"We shall be a dollar short."
"Even if old Gripp pays for the vests?"
"Yes."
Dan whistled--a whistle of dismay and anxiety, for he well knew that the
landlord was a hard man.
CHAPTER III.
GRIPP'S CLOTHING STORE.
Nathan Gripp's clothing store was located about a quarter of a mile from
the City Hall, on Chatham street. Not many customers from Fifth avenue
owned him as their tailor, and he had no reputation up town. His prices
were undeniably low, though his clothes were dear enough in the end.
His patrons were in general from the rural districts, or city residents
of easy tastes and limited means.
The interior of the store was ill-lighted, and looked like a dark
cavern. But nearly half the stock was displayed at the door, or on the
sidewalk, Mr. Gripp himself, or his leading salesman, standing in the
door-way with keen, black eyes, trying to select from the moving crowds
possible customers.
On the whole Gripp was making money. He sold his clothes cheap, but they
cost him little. He paid the lowest prices for work, and whenever told
that his wages would not keep body and soul together, he simply
remarked:
"That's nothing to me, my good woman. If you don't like the pay, leave
the work for somebody else."
But unfortunately those who worked for Mr. Gripp could not afford to
leave the work for somebody else. Half wages were better than none, and
they patiently kept on wearing out their strength that Nathan might wax
rich, and live in good style up town.
Mr. Gripp himself was standing in the door-way when Dan, with the bundle
of vests under his arm, stopped in front of the store. Mr. Gripp was a
little doubtful whether our hero wished to become a customer, but a
glance at the bundle dispelled his uncertainty, and revealed the nature
of his errand.
"I've brought home half a dozen vests," said Dan.
"Who from?" asked Gripp, abruptly, for he never lavished any of the
suavity, which was a valuable part of his stock in trade, on his work
people.
"Mrs. Mordaunt."
"Take them into the store. Here, Samuel, take the boy's bundle, and see
if the work is well done."
It was on the tip of Dan's tongue to resent the doubt which these words
implied, but he prudently remained silent.
The clerk, a callow youth, with long tow-colored locks, made sleek with
bear's grease, stopped picking his teeth, and motioned to Dan to come
forward.
"Here, young feller," he said, "hand over your bundle."
"There it is, young feller!" retorted Dan.
The clerk surveyed the boy with a look of disapproval in his fishy
eyes.
"No impudence, young feller!" he said.
"Where's the impudence?" demanded Dan. "I don't see it."
"Didn't you call me a young feller?"
"You've called me one twice, but I ain't at all particular. I'd just as
lief call you an old feller," said Dan, affably.
"Look here, young chap, I don't like your manners," said the clerk, with
an irritating consciousness that he was getting the worst of the verbal
encounter.
"I'm sorry for that," answered Dan, "because they're the best I've got."
"Did you make these vests yourself?" asked the salesman, with a feeble
attempt at humor.
"Yes," was Dan's unexpected rejoinder. "That's the way I amuse my
leisure hours."
"Humph!" muttered the tallow-faced young man, "I'll take a look at
them."
He opened the bundle, and examined the vests with an evident desire to
find something wrong.
He couldn't find any defect, but that didn't prevent his saying:
"They ain't over-well made."
"Well, they won't be over-well paid," retorted Dan. "So we're even."
"I don't know if we ought to pay for them at all."
"Honesty is the best policy, young feller," said Dan.
"No more of your impudence!" said the clerk, sharply. "Wait here a
minute till I speak to Mr. Gripp."
He kept Dan before the counter, and approached the proprietor.
"Well, what is it, Samuel?" asked Mr. Gripp, stroking his jet-black
whiskers. "Are the vests all right?"
"Pretty well, sir, but the boy is impudent."
"Ha! how is that?"
"He keeps calling me 'young feller.'"
"Anything more?"
"He don't seem to have any respect for me--or you," he added, shrewdly.
Nathan Gripp frowned. He cared very little about his clerk, but he
resented any want of respect to himself. He felt that the balance at his
bankers was large enough to insure him a high degree of consideration
from his work-people at least.
"How many vests are there?" he asked.
"Half a dozen."
"And the boy wants his pay, I suppose."
"He hasn't asked for it, but he will. They always do."
"Tell him we only pay when a full dozen are finished and brought in.
We'll credit him, or his mother, with these."
"That'll pay them off," thought the astute clothing merchant.
Samuel received this order with inward satisfaction, and went back
smiling.
"Well, young feller," said he, "it's all right. The vests ain't
over-well done, but we'll keep 'em. Now you can go."
But Dan did not move.
"It seems to me you've forgotten something," he said.
"What's that?"
"You haven't paid me for the work."
"It's all right. We'll pay when the next half dozen are brought in. Will
you take 'em now?"
Dan was disagreeably surprised. This was entirely out of the usual
course, and he knew very well that the delay would be a great
inconvenience.
"We've always been paid when we brought in work," he said.
"We've changed our rule," said the clerk, nonchalantly. "We only pay
when a full dozen are brought in."
"What difference does it make to you? We need the money, and can't
wait."
"It's my orders, young feller. It's what Mr. Gripp just told me."
"Then I'll speak to him," said Dan, promptly.
"Just as you like."
Dan approached the proprietor of the establishment.
"Mr. Gripp," said he, "I've just brought in half a dozen vests, but your
clerk here won't pay me for them."
"You will get your pay, young man, when you bring in another half
dozen."
"But, Mr. Gripp, we need the money. We haven't got a big bank account.
Our rent is due to-morrow."
"Is it, indeed? I don't see how that concerns me."
"Will you pay me to-night as a favor?" pleaded Dan, humbling himself for
his mother's sake.
"I can't break over my rule," said Nathan Gripp. "Besides, Samuel says
the work isn't very well done."
"Then he lies!" exclaimed Dan, provoked.
"Do you hear that, Mr. Gripp?" ejaculated the angry Samuel, his tallowy
complexion putting on a faint flush. "Didn't I tell you he was
impudent?"
Nathan Gripp's small black eyes snapped viciously.
"Boy," said he, "leave my store directly. How dare you address me in
such a way, you young tramp?"
"I'm no more a tramp than yourself," retorted Dan, now thoroughly angry.
"Samuel, come here, and put out this boy!" exclaimed Nathan, too
dignified to attempt the task himself.
Samuel advanced, nothing loth, his fishy eyes gleaming with pleasure.
"Get out, you vagabond!" he exclaimed, in the tone of authority.
"You're a couple of swindlers!" exclaimed Dan. "You won't pay for honest
work."
"Out with him, Samuel!" ordered Gripp.
Samuel seized Dan by the shoulder, and attempted to obey orders, but our
hero doubled him up with a blow from his fist, and the luckless clerk,
faint and gasping, staggered and nearly fell.
Dan stepped out on the sidewalk, and raising his hat, said, with mock
politeness, "Good-morning, gentlemen!" and walked away, leaving Gripp
and his assistant speechless with anger.
[Illustration: "You're a couple of swindlers!" exclaimed Dan. "You won't
pay for honest work." Page 30.]
CHAPTER IV.
AN ODD COUPLE.
When Dan's excitement was over, he felt that he had won a barren
victory. He had certainly been badly treated, and was justified in
yielding to his natural indignation; but for all that he had acted
unwisely.
Nathan Gripp had not refused payment, he had only postponed it, and as
he had the decided advantage, which money always has when pitted against
labor, it would have been well to have been conciliatory. Now Gripp
would undoubtedly annoy him with further delay, and refuse to give Mrs.
Mordaunt any further work.
"I suppose I've acted like a fool," said Dan to himself, with
compunction. "My spunk is always getting the better of me, and I am
afraid poor mother will have to suffer. Well, there's no use crying for
spilt milk; I must see what I can do to mend matters."
While these thoughts were passing through Dan's mind he found himself
passing the clothing establishment of Jackson & Co., who were special
rivals of Mr. Gripp.
"Perhaps I can get some work for mother here," thought Dan. "I'll try,
at any rate."
He entered, and looking about him, attracted the attention of a clerk.
"Do you want something in our line to-day?" asked the clerk, pleasantly.
"Yes, I do," said Dan, "if you're giving things away; but as I've got a
note of ten thousand dollars to meet to-morrow, I can't pay anything
out."
"Your credit ought to be good," said the salesman, smiling, "but we
don't trust."
"All right," said Dan; "I may as well proceed to business. My mother
makes vests for amusement. Can you give her any work?"
"I will speak to Mr. Jackson. One of our hands is sick, and if your
mother understands how to do the work, we may be able to give her some."
The young man went to the rear of the store, and returned with the
proprietor.
"Has your mother any experience?" asked the proprietor, a big man, with
sandy whiskers.
He was an Englishman, as any one might see, and a decided improvement on
Nathan Gripp, whom he cordially hated.
"Yes, sir; she has been making vests for the last two years."
"For whom has she been working?"
"For Nathan Gripp."
"Humph! Has Gripp discharged her?"
"No, sir; she has discharged him."
Mr. Jackson laughed, and nodded to his salesman. He rather enjoyed this
allusion to his rival.
"Then she didn't like Gripp?"
"No, sir. He paid her starvation wages and made her wait for the money.
He's a mean fellow."
"I don't admire him much myself," said the Englishman. "How much now did
he pay for vest-making?"
"Twenty cents apiece."
"We don't pay much more ourselves. There is so much competition that we
have to sell low."
"Mother would rather make for you at eighteen cents than for Gripp for
twenty," said Dan.
Mr. Jackson was pleased, but he said, by way of drawing out Dan:
"How do you know but I am a mean skinflint, too?"
"You don't look like one," said the boy.
Mr. Jackson smiled graciously.
"Joseph," said he, "have we any vests ready for making?"
"Yes, sir. We have some bundles of half a dozen each."
"Take this boy's name and address and give him one. My boy, we will pay
your mother twenty-five cents each, but we expect good work."
"You will be satisfied, sir," said Dan, confidently, and he left the
store in excellent spirits.
"It's turned out right, after all," thought he; "but I am afraid we
shall miss the money old Gripp owed mother. I don't know how we are
going to pay the rent to-morrow. We shall be over two dollars short
unless something turns up."
Dan carried the bundle of work home, and told his mother what had
happened. She was pleased with the increase of pay, but that was in the
future. It would be a week before she could collect any pay from Jackson
& Co., and the landlord would not wait.
"I wish I could think of some way of raising money," said Dan, putting
