students formed, Freshmen and Sophomores 
leading. 
A line of perhaps a dozen men from each 
class stood linked, elbow within elbow, 
presenting a solid front. Against them the rest 
pressed up, class to class ; the remainder of 
the college joining according to inclination, 
though in the main the Juniors supported 
the Freshmen, while the Seniors backed the 
Sophomores. Then the huge mass gathered, 
nervous, electric, ready for anything in the 
nature of a fight, and stood, swaying and 
excitable. In the centre of the Freshmen 
ranks, guarded by picked men, stood the 
Freshman Cane, the innocent object of 
this mighty warfare. A Sophomore victory 
 
meant that no member of the Freshman 
class could carry a cane that year upon the 
streets of Harle. 
The boys upon the fence began to be rest 
less, and added to the musical interest of the 
occasion after this manner : 
" I dreamt that I dwelt in marble halls 
Where we don't go home till morning- ! 
If you loved me still the same 
One, two, three, and away you go ! 
Last night she died she did ! 
Drink her down ! Drink her dow-ow-own ! 
Bi-ennials are a bore-ore-ore ! 
John Brown 's body Nelly was a lady 
Rush ! Rush ! Rush and away we go 
Our souls come marching on! " 
With this they came, piling, boy after boy, 
over the fence, and over each other, leaving 
the tutor in possession of the field. The 
rush was too much for the pickets ; they 
deserted bodily, and came panting up to see 
the fun. 
Before one could have said whether the 
play had fairly begun, it had become dead 
earnest. A solid mass, the students blocked 
and closed. Then by main force and sheer 
endurance the contest held. Now this side 
staggered, and then that. The Sophomores 
wavered, and the Freshmen made ground ; 
and the Sophomores shook again ; both lost ; 
 
each gained ; it was a drawn game ; it was a 
doubtful one ; it was a persistent one ; it 
began to be an angry one ; it threatened to 
be a serious one. An onlooker would have 
received a new impression of the sense in the 
phrase, " Clear push" 
Tutors were on the scene now, but nobody 
noticed them. All attempt at secrecy was 
gone. The boys began to cry out and to 
yell like little beasts. They had forgotten 
everybody and everything except the mere 
brute, masculine instinct of fight. 
That preeminent Sophomore, Donald 
Marcy, was in the thick of it, in the front 
of it. He was usually in the front of things, 
if we except the marking-list in class-room. 
His fine figure, eminent and alert, flashed 
to and fro ; his strong shoulder gave many 
a magnificent shove. But he never gave a 
brutal knock. He did not lose his chivalry 
in his frolic. 
Everybody else was not so controlled, and 
the play was waxing hot. Some heavy 
blows were given ; some bruises, too serious, 
received. A colored student in particular 
a Freshman had a hard time. He was 
a sturdy fellow, and took his part in the rush 
as naturally as any white man ; quite as 
 
effectually as most of them. It was noticed 
that he played quite fair, and dealt no foul 
blows. 
Suddenly the negro gave a cry, and fell. 
The mass of boys, too heavily charged to 
stop at an instant 's notice, swayed to and fro 
above him. Some walked over him ; one fell 
on him. Shouts and ugly words arose ; then 
came the cry, so fatal to the fun of a college 
rush : 
" Give him air ! Stand back ! Hold up, 
boys ! somebody 's down ! somebody 's hurt ! 
Air ! give him air ! Who did it ? Who hit 
foul ? It 's George Washington Clay ! Who 
struck Clay ? " 
"Calhoun did it! Calhoun ! Calhoun ! 
He hit a classmate ! " 
" He handled me," said Lee Calhoun, trem 
bling, and white with rage. " He pushed me 
impertinently. He is a nigger, and I knocked 
him down." 
Now the son of the prize - fighter stood 
near enough to overhear this. His big, good- 
natured face flushed slowly with the terrible 
blood of his inheritance. He said nothing. 
Nobody noticed him. He stepped up so 
quietly in front of Calhoun that the action 
attracted no attention till Calhoun lay flat 
 
upon the ground, where one blow of Troun- 
cey 's mighty fist had stretched him. 
" There ! " said Trouncey O Grian to the 
reviving negro, whom the boys were fanning 
and unfastening and helping to his feet. 
" He won't sarse you again to-night. This 
is a free college and a free country. Come 
and look at him, if you want to. He 'll have 
a headache for a week or two, I take it. 
Don't be scared, boys. He isn't hurt. You 
don't suppose I'd be such a flat as that." 
But the rush broke up now in confusion. 
Calhoun was insensible ; the colored student 
bleeding ; the tutors on the spot ; the police 
coming ; Trouncey O Grian suspended ; 
Calhoun marked ; and generally there was the 
mischief to pay. 
Don Marcy went to his room that night a 
little gloomily. Jamie Fleet was there, hard 
at his Antigone for to-morrow. 
" Hi, Don ! " he said cordially. " How'd 
the rush go off ? I didn't stay. I've got an 
extra job on to-night. And it took you so 
long to get at it. Have a good time ? " 
" Got forty marks," answered Don so 
berly. " Ten more will expel me. I shall 
have to get up to prayers all the rest of the 
term. Counted on those forty to sleep over. 
 
It was no kind of a rush, anyhow. Didn't 
get the cane. Nobody got the cane. Tutor 
got the cane. Jerry McCarty arrested the 
cane. Two fellows busted. Faculty there. I 
lost my smoking-cap, too. Got my clothes 
torn off of me see ! clear down to the 
waist. I came home in a coat of Trouncey s. 
I sprained my shoulder somehow. Somebody 
squashed my toes. It was the greatest tom 
fool of a rush, anyhow." 
" Didn't pay, did it ? " asked Jamie sym 
pathetically. 
" Where 's the Greek lesson ? " growled 
Don. He sat down very hard and looked it 
over. He presented anything but a scholarly 
appearance ; his handsome face was pounded 
and bleeding, his flannel shirt in strips, and 
Trouncey 's big coat fastened across his
shoulders by the sleeves. " They 'll flunk me, sure 
pop," he said disconsolately. " I haven't 
learned a Greek for two weeks, I've been so 
busy. Well, anyway, I've got to go and get 
a bath, now" 
Lee Calhoun, while he was recovering 
from the effects of Trouncey O Grian 's blow, 
employed his time in writing home the most 
dismal letters that had visited his ancestral 
halls since Lee came to college. The result 
 
of the most explicit was a communication 
from his father to the President of Harle, 
which ran as follows : 
PRESIDENT OF HARLE UNIVERSITY Sir : 
My son complains to me that he is required to sit 
by the side of a negro student. I am compelled 
to make it a personal request that his seat be 
changed. Respectfully, 
C. C. CALHOUN. 
To this letter the President sent, by return 
mail, the following reply : 
C. C. CALHOUN, ESQ. Dear Sir : I am 
happy to be able to inform you that your cause of 
complaint in the case of your son will be entirely 
removed at the close of this term. Hitherto, we 
have seated the students alphabetically in the 
recitation-room ; hereafter, they will be seated 
according to scholarship. 
I am, sir, respectfully, 
A. B. BAXTER, 
President of Harle University. 
CHAPTER III. 
HAZING. 
WHEN Don Marcy was* a Freshman at 
Harle, he took his turn at a slight acquaint 
ance with the ancient and fortunately now 
unfashionable practice of hazing which had 
such a mysterious relation to the culture of 
a liberal education, as imbibed by the mas 
culine race. Marcy 's experience was in this 
wise : 
Nobody had handled him, or threatened to, 
till the first term was nearly over. He was 
such a good-natured, sensible lad, mannered 
with the modesty of real good breeding, and 
he had the lack of ostentation which accom 
panies plenty of money when one is born to 
it, or, at least, well-born to it, he had 
such merry eyes, and treated everybody so 
decently ; and was clever at recitation when 
he chose to trouble himself, and never swag 
gered or swelled, and was such a plucky fel 
low in particular, that it had been hard to 
make out a case against him. At last, however, 
a Sophomore raised the objection that 
he was too well dressed, and took a Professor 's 
daughter to drive. This accusation carried 
the class, and a delegation of a dozen Sopho 
mores waited upon Marcy one pleasant even 
ing with vengeance in their eyes. 
Donald was alone ; he had no chum just 
then ; he was studying in his comfortable 
room, the most tastefully fitted of any in 
the college. It was not a showy room, but 
refinedly elegant, from the damask drapery 
curtains on his study windows and the brass 
fender and fire-set at the fireplace, to the 
little Persian rug that lay before the toilet- 
table in his chamber. Don was a fellow of 
delicate personal habits, and kept that room 
as neat as any lady might have done. He 
enjoyed it amazingly, and it had never 
occurred to him, by the way, that two views 
could be taken of the subject, till Jamie 
Fleet 's father came in one day with Don 's 
own parental visitor they had been class 
mates, and had forgotten each other, and 
met again and remembered at Harle, where 
their two sons entered college together to 
see the boy 's room. 
Dr. Fleet was a poor man, a country minister.
He had the same gentle, attractive 
 
eyes that Jamie had: he wrote for the 
reviews from his rural parish, and was not 
unknown in the great world where the elder 
Mr. Marcy lived upon his income, and 
frequented what is called " society." 
" There, Fleet, what do you think of it ? " 
asked the other father fondly. " Isn't this 
a pretty good thing in the way of a boy 's 
room ? I've tried to make Don comfortable. 
He 's used to it, you know." 
" Sir," answered his old classmate, smil 
ing, and rubbing the toe of his patched boot 
over the pattern of the heavy Axminster on 
which they stood, " if you really want to 
know what I think of it, I 'll tell you. You'll 
never raise a scholar on that carpet" 
It was on this unscholarly carpet that 
Donald tipped back his chair to listen when 
the hazing party knocked at his door. 
" Oh, come in," he said pleasantly. ," Delighted,
I'm sure. Make yourself at home, 
boys. A dozen ? I'm honored. Sit down ? 
Have cigars ? No ? What will you have, 
then ? Me ? Stand upon that table and sing 
Mother Goose ? Well, I'm not in voice 
to-night. Thank you, no. I don't undress 
before strange guests. Nor I don't gargle 
my throat with raw alcohol and molasses 
 
and red pepper. I don't care to go downstairs 
with you, either, and out to the pump - 
See here ! " cried the Freshman, suddenly 
changing his tone, and moving a chair into 
the doorway, where he seated himself se 
renely. " Do you see this crowbar ? It 's a 
new one. I bought it last week. I'm busy 
to-night. I've got a lesson to learn. I 'll 
just sit here, if you please, and learn it. 
Now, gentlemen, the first man of you that 
enters this room gets the crowbar ! " 
With that, Donald 's bright eye looked 
them over firmly and fearlessly ; he took his 
book and his crowbar ; the hazing party, 
after a whispered consultation, took their 
departure. They dropped away, one by one, 
with an air of having an appointment with 
another fellow. 
" Plucky," they saict. " One of the kind ! 
Equal to it ! Couldn't say what he'd do ! 
No go ! Try another room ! " 
Now the Freshman has views about haz 
ing ; he considers it a brutal and unmanly 
practice. The Sophomore replaces these 
opinions by the lax creed of conscious power. 
The Sophomore regards hazing as an inno 
cent custom, affording a little college fun, 
and to be deprecated, chiefly, when it meets 
 
with mishaps which bring the practice before 
the attention of the faculty or the police. 
Don, I regret to say, had suffered this 
" class change " in his principles. From a 
Freshman and a hazee he had become a 
