He went towards the door and his hand was on the handle of the lock
when she called him back.
"John--" there was hesitation in her voice.
"Well? What is the matter?" He came back a few steps and stood near
her.
"John, did you never care for me in any other way--in any better
way--from the heart? You used to say that you did."
"Did I? I have forgotten. One always supposes that young girls
naturally expect one to talk a lot of nonsense, and that one has no
choice unless one does--so one makes the best of it. I remember that it
was a bore to make phrases so I probably made them. Anything else you
would like to ask?"
"No--thanks. I would rather be alone."
John Darche left the room and Marion returned to her writing-table as
though nothing had been said, intending to write her notes as usual.
And indeed, she began, and the pen ran easily across the paper for a
few moments.
Then on a sudden, her lip quivered, she wrote one more word, the pen
fell from her fingers, and bowing her head upon the edge of the table
she let the short, sharp sobs break out as they would.
She was a very lonely woman on that winter's afternoon, and the tension
she had kept on herself had been too great to bear any longer.
CHAPTER IV.
In spite of her husband's denial, Marion Darche was convinced that he
was in difficulties, though she could not understand how such a point
could have been reached in the affairs of the Company, which had always
been considered so solid, and which had the reputation of being managed
so well. It was natural, when matters reached a crisis, that none of
her acquaintances should speak to her of her husband's troubles, and
many said that Mrs. Darche was a brave woman to face the world as she
did when her husband was in all likelihood already ruined and was
openly accused on all sides of something very like swindling. But as a
matter of fact she was in complete ignorance of all this. John Darche
laughed scornfully when she repeated her question, and she had never
even thought of asking the old gentleman any questions. She was too
proud to speak of her troubles to Vanbrugh or Brett; and Dolly,
foreseeing real trouble, thought it best to hide from her friend the
fears she entertained. As sometimes happens in such cases, matters had
gone very far without Mrs. Darche's knowledge. The Company was in hands
of a receiver and an inquiry into the conduct of Simon and John Darche
was being pushed forward with the utmost energy by the frightened
holders of the bonds and shares, while Marion was dining and dancing
through the winter season as usual. The Darches were accused of having
issued an enormous amount of stock without proper authority; but there
were many who said that Simon Darche was innocent of the trick, and
that John had manufactured bogus certificates. Others again maintained
that Simon Darche was in his dotage and signed whatever was put before
him by his son, without attempting to understand the obligations to
which he committed himself.
Meanwhile John's position became desperate, though he himself did not
believe it to be so utterly hopeless as it really was. Since this is
the story of Marion Darche and not of her husband, it is unnecessary to
enter into the financial details of the latter's ruin. It is enough to
say that for personal ends he had made use of the Company's funds in
order to get into his own control a line of railroad by which a large
part of the Company's produce was transported, with the intention of
subsequently forcing the Company to buy the road of him on his own
terms, as soon as he should have disposed by stealth of his interest in
the manufacture. Had the scheme succeeded he should have realised a
great fortune by the transaction, and it is doubtful whether anything
could have been proved against him after the event. Unfortunately for
him, he had come into collision with a powerful syndicate of which he
had not suspected the existence until he had gone so far that either to
go on or to retire must be almost certain ruin and exposure. The
existence of this syndicate had dawned upon him on the day described in
the preceding chapters, and the state of mind in which he found himself
was amply accounted for by the discovery he had made.
As time went on during the following weeks, and he became more and more
hopelessly involved, his appearance and his manner changed for the
worse. He grew haggard and thin, and his short speeches to his wife
lacked even that poor element of wit which is brutality's last hold
upon good manners. With his father, however, he maintained his usual
behaviour, by a desperate effort. He could not afford to allow the
whole fabric of the old gentleman's illusions about him to perish, so
long as Simon Darche's hand and name could still be useful. It is but
just to admit, too, that he felt a sort of cynical, pitying attachment
to his father--the affection which a spoiled child bestows upon an
over-indulgent parent, which is strongly tinged with the vanity excited
by a long course of unstinted and indiscriminating praise.
If Marion Darche's own fortune had been invested in the Company of
which her husband was treasurer, she must have been made aware of the
condition of things long before the final day of reckoning came. But
her property had been left her in the form of real estate, and the
surplus had been invested in such bonds and mortgages as had been
considered absolutely safe by Harry Brett's father, who had originally
been her guardian, and, after his death, by Harry Brett himself, who
was now her legal adviser, and managed her business for her. The house
in Lexington Avenue was her property. After her marriage she had
persuaded her husband to live in it rather than in the somewhat
pretentious and highly inconvenient mansion erected on Fifth Avenue by
Simon Darche in the early days of his great success, which was
decorated within, and to some extent without, according to the doubtful
taste of the late Mrs. Simon Darche. Vanbrugh compared it to an
"inflamed Pullman car."
Enough has been said to show how at the time, the Darches were on the
verge of utter ruin, and how Marion Darche was financially independent.
Meanwhile the old gentleman's mind was failing fast, a fact which was
so apparent that Marion was not at all surprised when her husband told
her that there was to be a consultation of doctors to inquire into the
condition of Simon Darche, with a view to deciding whether he was fit
to remain, even nominally, at the head of the Company or not. As a
matter of fact, the consultation had become a legal necessity, enforced
by the committee that was examining the Company's affairs.
John Darche was making a desperate fight of it, sacrificing everything
upon which he could lay his hands in order to buy in the fraudulent
certificates of stock. He was constantly in want of money, and seized
every opportunity of realising a few thousands which presented itself,
even descending to gambling in the stock market in the hope of picking
up more cash. He was unlucky, of course, and margin after margin
disappeared and was swallowed up. From time to time he made something
by his speculations--just enough to revive his shrinking hopes, and to
whet his eagerness, already sharpened by extremest anxiety. He did not
think of escaping from the country, however. In the first place, if he
disappeared at this juncture, he must be a beggar or dependent on his
wife's charity. Secondly, he could not realise that the end was so near
and that the game was played out to the last card. Still he struggled
on frantically, hoping for a turn of the market, for a windfall out of
the unknown, for a wave of luck, whereby a great sum being suddenly
thrown into his hands he should be able to cover up the traces of his
misdeeds and begin life afresh.
Marion was as brave as ever, but she got even more credit for her
courage than she really deserved. She knew at this time that the
trouble was great, but she had no idea that it was altogether past
mending, and she had not renewed the offer of help she had made to her
husband when she had first noticed his distress. In the meantime, she
devoted herself to the care of old Simon Darche. She read aloud to him
in the morning, though she was quite sure that he rarely followed a
single sentence to the end. She drove with him in the afternoon and
listened patiently to his rambling comments on men and things. His
inability to recognise many of the persons who had been most familiar
to him in the earlier part of his life was becoming very apparent, and
the constant mistakes he made rendered it advisable to keep him out of
intercourse with any but the members of his own family. As has been
said, Mrs. Darche had not as yet made any change in her social
existence, but Dolly Maylands, who knew more of the true state of
affairs than her friend, came to see her every day and grew anxious in
the anticipation of the inevitable disaster. Her fresh face grew a
little paler and showed traces of nervousness. She felt perhaps as men
do who lead a life of constant danger. She slept as well and became
almost abnormally active, seizing feverishly upon everything and every
subject which could help to occupy her time.
"You work too hard, Dolly," said Mrs. Darche one morning as they were
seated together in the library. "You will wear yourself out. You have
danced all night, and now you mean to spend your day in slaving at your
charities."
Dolly laughed a little as she went on cutting the pages of the magazine
she held. This was a thing Mrs. Darche especially disliked doing, and
Dolly had long ago taken upon herself the responsibility of cutting all
new books and reviews which entered the house.
"Oh I love to burn the candle at both ends," she answered.
"No doubt you do, my dear. We have all liked to do that at one time or
another. But at this rate you will light your candle in the middle,
too."
"You cannot light a candle in the middle," said Dolly with great
decision.
"If anybody could, you could," said Marion, watching her as she had
often done of late and wondering if any change had come into the young
girl's life. "Seriously, my dear, I am anxious about you. I wish you
would take care of yourself, or get married, or something."
"If you will tell me what that 'something' is I will get it at once,"
said Dolly, with a smile that had a tinge of sadness in it. "I ask
nothing better."
"Oh anything!" exclaimed Mrs. Darche. "Get nervous prostration or
anything that is thoroughly fashionable and gives no trouble, and then
go somewhere and rest for a month."
"My dear child," cried Dolly with a laugh, "I cannot think of being so
old-fashioned as to have nervous prostration. Let me see. I might be
astigmatic. That seems to be the proper thing nowadays. Then I could
wear glasses and look the character of the school-ma'am. Then I could
say I could not dance because I could not see, because of course I
could not dance in spectacles. But for the matter of that, my dear, you
need not lecture me. You are as bad as I am, and much worse--yours is a
much harder life than mine."
Just as Dolly was about to draw a comparison between her own existence
and her friend's, the door opened and Stubbs entered the room bearing a
dozen enormous roses, of the kind known as American beauties. Dolly,
who had a passion for flowers, sprang up, and seized upon them with an
exclamation of delight.
"What beauties! What perfect beauties!" she said. "You lucky creature!
Who in the world sends you such things?"
Mrs. Darche had risen from her seat and had buried her face in the
thick blossoms while Dolly held them.
"I am sure I do not know," she said.
"Oh Marion!" answered Dolly, smiling. "Innocence always was your strong
point, and what a strong point it is. I wish people would send me
flowers like these."
"I have no doubt they do, my dear. Do not pretend they do not. Come and
help me arrange them instead of talking nonsense. Even if it were true
that my life is harder than yours--I do not know why--you see there are
alleviations."
Dolly did not answer at once. She was wondering just how much her
friend knew of the actual state of things, and she was surprised to
feel a little touch of pain when she contrasted the truth, so far as
she knew it, with the negatively blissful ignorance in which Mrs.
Darche's nearest and best friends were doing their best to keep her.
"Of course there are alleviations in your life, just as there are in
mine," she said at last, "changes, contrasts and all that sort of
thing. My kindergarten alleviates my dancing and my cotillons vary the
dulness of my school teaching."
She paused and continued to arrange the flowers in silence, looking
back now and then and glancing at them. Mrs. Darche did not speak, but
watched her idly, taking a certain artistic pleasure in the fitness of
the details which made up the little picture before her.
"But I would not lead your life for anything in the world," added Dolly
at last with great decision.
"Oh, nonsense, Dolly!"
"Are you happy, Marion?" asked Dolly, suddenly growing very grave.
"Happy?" repeated Mrs. Darche, a little surprised by the sudden
question. "Yes, why not? What do you mean by happy?"
"What everybody means, I suppose."
"What is that?"
"Why, wanting things and getting them, of course--wanting a ten cent
thing a dollar's worth, and having it."
"What a definition!" exclaimed Mrs. Darche. "But I really do believe
you enjoy your life."
"Though it would bore you to extinction."
"Possibly. The alternate wild attacks of teaching and flirting to which
you are subject would probably not agree with me."
"Perhaps you could do either, but not both at the same time."
"I suppose I could teach if I knew anything," said Mrs. Darche
thoughtfully. "But I do not," she added with conviction.
"And I have no doubt you could flirt if you loved anybody. It is a pity
you do not."
"Oh, my flirting days are over," answered Marion laughing. "You seem to
forget that I am married."
"Do you not forget it sometimes?" asked Dolly, laughing, but with less
genuine mirth.
"Do not be silly!" exclaimed Marion with a slight shade of annoyance.
She had been helping Dolly with the roses, all of which, with the
exception of two, were now arranged in a vase.
"These will not go in," she said, holding up the remaining flowers.
"You might stick them into that little silver cup."
"To represent you--and the other man. A red and a white rose. Is that
it?"
"Or you and me," suggested Mrs. Darche in perfect innocence. "Why not?"
"Tell me," said Dolly, when they had finished, "who is he?"
"Why, Russell Vanbrugh, of course."
"Oh!" exclaimed Dolly, turning her head away. "Why of course?"
"Oh, because--"
"Why not Harry Brett?" asked Dolly, with the merciless insistence
peculiar to very young people.
In all probability, if no interruption had occurred, the conversation
of that morning would have taken a more confidential turn than usual,
and poor Dolly might then and there have satisfied her curiosity in
regard to the relations between Marion and Russell Vanbrugh.
It would be more correct, perhaps, to use a word of less definite
meaning than relation. Dolly suspected indeed that Vanbrugh loved Mrs.
Darche in his own quiet and undemonstrative fashion, and that this was
the secret of his celibacy. She believed it possible, too, that her
friend might be more deeply attached to Vanbrugh than she was willing
to acknowledge even in her own heart. But she was absolutely convinced
that whatever the two might feel for one another their feelings would
remain for ever a secret. She had gone further than usual in asking
Marion whether she were happy, and whether she had not at some time or
another almost forgotten that she was married at all. And Marion had
not resented the words. Dolly felt that she was on the very point of
getting at the truth, and was hoping that she might be left alone
half-an-hour longer with her friend, when the door opened and Simon
Darche entered the room. At the sight of the two young women his pink
silk face lighted up with a bright smile. He rubbed his hands, and the
vague expression of his old blue eyes gave place to a look of
recognition, imaginary, it is true, but evidently a source of pleasure
to himself.
"Good morning, my dear," he said briskly, taking Marion's hand in both
of his and pressing it affectionately. "Good morning, Mrs. Chilton," he
added, smiling at Dolly.
"Dolly Maylands," suggested Marion in an undertone.
"Dolly? Dolly?" repeated the old man. "Yes, yes--what did you say? What
did you say, Marion? Dolly Chilton? Silly child. Dolly Chilton has been
dead these twenty years."
"What does he mean?" asked Dolly in a whisper. Simon Darche turned upon
her rather suddenly.
"Oh yes, I remember," he said. "You are the little girl who used to
talk about Darwin, and the soul, and monkeys without tails, and steam
engines, when you were seven years old. Why, my dear child, I know you
very well indeed. How long have you been married?"
"I am not married," answered the young girl, suppressing a smile.
"Why not?" inquired Mr. Darche with startling directness. "But
then--oh, yes! I am very sorry, my dear. I did not mean to allude to
it. I went to poor Chilton's funeral."
Just then, Stubbs, the butler, entered again, bearing this time a note
for Mrs. Darche. While she glanced at the contents he waited near the
door in obedience to a gesture from her. Old Mr. Darche immediately
went up to him, and with hearty cordiality seized and shook his
reluctant hand.
"Happy to meet you, old fellow!" he cried. "That is all right. Now just
sit down here and we will go through the question in five minutes."
"Beg pardon, sir," said the impassive butler. It was not the first time
that his master had taken him for an old friend.
"Eh, what!" cried Simon Darche. "Calling me 'sir'? Did you come here to
quarrel with me, old man? Oh, I see! You are laughing. Well come along.
This business will not keep. The ladies will not mind if we go to work,
I daresay."
And forthwith he dragged Stubbs to a table and forced him into a chair,
talking to him all the time. Dolly was startled and grasped Marion's
arm.
"What is it?" she asked under her breath. "Oh, Marion, what is it? Is
he quite mad?"
Mrs. Darche answered her only by a warning look, and then, turning
away, seemed to hesitate a moment. Stubbs was suffering acutely,
