ous. That he entered, and sat down on a stool by 
the soda-water counter. The expectant clerk stared 
at him while waiting the order, his hand tenta- 
tively seeking one of the faucets of refreshment. 
" I feel a little feverish," said the father. " You 
may give me five grains of quinine in whiskey." 
" That 'll put you all right," said the boy as he 
handed him the mixture. " It's all the go now." 
It seemed to revive him, and he went out and 
walked on towards the heights. Somehow, seeing 
this boy, coming back to common life, perhaps the 
strong and unaccustomed stimulant, gave a new 
shade to his thoughts. He was safe. Presently 
he would be at the Ketreat. He would rest, and 
then gird up his loins and face life again. The 
mood lasted for some time. And when the sense 
of physical weariness came back, that seemed to 
dull the acuteness of his spiritual torment. It was 
late when he reached the house and rang the night- 
bell. No one of the brothers was up except Father 
Monies, and it was he who came to the door. 
" You ! So late ! Is anything the matter ?" 
" I needed to come," the father said, simply, and 
he grasped the door-post, steadying himself as he 
came in. 
" You look like a ghost." 
" Yes. I'm tired. I walked." 
" Walked ? From Kivington Street ?" 
"Nearly. I felt like it." 
" It's most imprudent. You dined first ?" 
" I wasn't hungry." 
" But you must have something at once." And 
Father Monies hurried away, heated some bouillon 
by a spirit-lamp, and brought it, with bread, and 
set it before his unexpected guest. 
" There, eat that, and get to bed as soon as you 
can. It was great nonsense." 
And Father Damon obeyed. Indeed, he was too 
exhausted to talk. 
CHAPTER XVII 
FATHER DAMON slept the sleep of exhaustion. In 
this for a time the mind joined in the lethargy of 
the body. But presently, as the vital currents 
were aroused, the mind began to play its fantastic 
tricks. He was a seminary student, he was or- 
dained, he was taking his vows before the bishop, 
he was a robust and consecrated priest performing 
his first service, shining, it seemed to him, before 
the congregation in the purity of his separation 
from the world. How strong he felt. And then 
came perplexities, difficulties, interests, and conflict- 
ing passions in life that he had not suspected, good 
that looked like evil, and evil that had an alloy of 
virtue, and the way was confused. And then there 
was a vision of a sort of sister of charity working 
with him in the evil and the good, drawing near to 
him, and yet repelling him with a cold, scientific 
scepticism that chilled him like blasphemy ; but so 
patient was she, so unconscious of self, that grad- 
ually he lost this feeling of repulsion and saw only 
the woman, that wonderful creation, tender, pitiful 
comrade, the other self. And then there was dark- 
ness and blindness, and he stood once more before 
bis congregation, speaking words that sounded hol- 
low, hearing responses that mocked him, stared at 
by accusing eyes that knew him for a hypocrite. 
And he rushed away and left them, hearing their 
laughter as he went, and so into the street plainly 
it was Rivington Street and faces that he knew 
had a smile and a sneer, and he heard comments as 
he passed: "Hulloa, Father Damon, come in and 
have a drink." " I say, Father Damon, I seen her 
going round into Grand Street." 
When Father Monies looked in, just before day- 
light, Father Damon was still sleeping, but tossing 
restlessly and muttering incoherently ; and he did 
not arouse him for the early devotions. 
It was very late when he awoke, and opened his 
eyes to a confused sense of some great calamity. 
Father Monies was standing by the bedside with a 
cup of coffee. 
" You have had a good sleep. Now take this, and 
then you may get up. The breakfast will wait for 
you." 
Father Damon started up. " Why didn't you call 
me ? I am late for the mission." 
" Oh, Bendes has gone down long ago. You 
must take it easy ; rest to-day. You'll be all right. 
You haven't a bit of fever." 
" But," still declining the coffee, " before I break 
my fast, I have something to say to you. I 
" Get some strength first. Besides, I have an 
engagement. I cannot wait. Pull yourself to- 
gether ; I may not be back before evening." 
So it was fated that he should be left still with 
himself. After his coffee he dressed slowly, as if it 
were not he, but some one else going through this 
familiar duty, as if it were scarcely worth while to 
do anything any more. And then, before attempt- 
ing his breakfast, he went into the little oratory, 
and remained long in the attitude of prayer, trying 
to realize what he was and what he had done. He 
prayed for himself, for help, for humility, and he 
prayed for her ; he had been used of late to pray 
for her guidance, now he prayed that she might be 
sustained. 
When he came forth it was in a calmer frame of 
mind. It was all clear now. When Father Monies 
returned he would confess, and take his penance, 
and resolutely resume his life. He understood life 
better now. Perhaps this blow was needed for his 
spiritual pride. 
It was a mild winter day, bright, and with a 
touch of summer, such as sometimes gets shuffled 
into our winter calendar. The book that he took 
up did not interest him ; he was in no mood for the 
quiet meditation that it usually suggested to him, 
and he put it down and strolled out, directing his 
steps farther up the height, and away from the 
suburban stir. As he went on there was something 
consonant with his feelings in the bare wintry land- 
scape, and when he passed the ridge and walked 
along the top of the river slope, he saw, as it 
seemed to him he had not seen it before, that lovely 
reach of river, the opposite wooded heights, the 
noble pass above, the peacefulness and invitation 
of nature. Had he a new sense to see all this ? 
There was a softness in the distant outline, villas 
peeped out here and there, carriages were passing 
in the road below, there was a cheerful life in the 
stream there was a harmony in the aspect of nat- 
ure and humanity from this height. Was not the 
world beautiful? and human emotion, affection, 
love, were they alien to the Divine intention ? 
She loved beauty ; she was fond of flowers ; often 
she had spoken to him of her childish delight in 
her little excursions, rarely made, into the country. 
He could see her now standing just there and feast- 
ing her eyes on this noble panorama, and he could 
see her face all aglow, as she might turn to him 
and say, " Isn't it beautiful, Father Damon ?" And 
she was down in those reeking streets, climbing 
about in the foul tenement-houses, taking a sick 
child in her arms, speaking a word of cheer a 
good physician going about doing good ! 
And it might have been ! Why was it that this 
peace of nature should bring up her image, and that 
they should seem in harmony ? Was not the love 
of beauty and of goodness the same thing? Did 
God require in His service the atrophy of the affec- 
tions? As long as he was in the world was it 
right that he should isolate himself from any of its 
sympathies and trials ? "Why was it not a higher 
life to enter into the common lot, and suffer, if 
need be, in the struggle to purify and ennoble all ? 
He remembered the days he had once passed in the 
Trappist monastery of Gethsemane. The perfect 
peace of mind of the monks was purchased at the 
expense of the extirpation of every want, all will, 
every human interest. "Were these men anything 
but specimens in a Museum of Failures ? And yet, 
for the time being, it had seemed attractive to him, 
this simple vegetable existence, whose only object 
was preparation for death by the extinction of all 
passion and desire. No, these were not soldiers of 
the Lord, but the faint-hearted, who had slunk into 
the hospital. 
All this afternoon he was drifting in thought, 
arraigning his past life, excusing it, condemning it, 
and trying to forecast its future. "Was this a trial 
of his constancy and faith, or had he made a mis- 
take, entered upon a slavish career, from which he 
ought to extricate himself at any cost of the world's 
opinion ? But presently he was aware that in all 
these debates with himself her image appeared. 
He was trying to fit his life to the thought of her. 
And when this became clearer in his tortured mind, 
the woman appeared as a temptation. It was not, 
then, the love of beauty, not even the love of hu- 
inanity, and very far from being the service of his 
Master, that he was discussing, but only his desire 
for one person. It was that, then, that made him, 
for that fatal instant, forget his vow, and yield to 
the impulse of human passion. The thought of 
that moment stung him with confusion and shame. 
There had been moments in this afternoon wander- 
ing when it had seemed possible for him to ask for 
release, and to take up a human, sympathetic life 
with her, in mutual consecration in the service of 
the Lord's poor. Yes, and by love to lead her into 
a higher conception of the Divine love. But this 
breaking a solemn vow at the dictated of passion 
was a mortal sin there was no other name for it 
a sin demanding repentance and expiation. 
As he at last turned homeward, facing the great 
city and his life there, this became more clear to him. 
He walked rapidly. The lines of his face became 
set in a hard judgment of himself. He thought no 
more of escaping from himself, but of subduing 
himself, stamping out the appeals of his lower nat- 
ure. It was in this mood that he returned. 
Father Monies was awaiting him, and welcomed 
him with that look of affection, of more than 
brotherly love, which the good man had for the 
younger priest. 
" I hope your walk has done you good." 
" Perhaps," Father Damon replied, without any 
leniency in his face ; " but that does not matter. I 
must tell you what I could not last night. Can 
you hear me ?" 
They went together into the oratory. Father 
Damon did not spare himself. He kept nothing 
back that could heighten the enormity of his of- 
fence. 
And Father Monies did not attempt to lessen 
the impression upon himself of the seriousness of 
the scandal. He was shocked. He was exceed- 
ingly grave, but he was even more pitiful. His ex- 
perience of life had been longer than that of the 
penitent. He better knew its temptations. His 
own peace had only been won by long crucifixion 
of the natural desires. 
"I have nothing to say as to your own disci- 
pline. That you know. But there is one thing. 
You must face this temptation, and subdue it." 
" You mean that I must go back to my labor in 
the city ?" 
" Yes. You can rest here a few days if you feel 
too weak physically." 
" ~No ; I am well enough." He hesitated. " I 
thought perhaps some other field, for a time ?" 
" There is no other field for you. It is not for 
the moment the question of where you can do 
most good. You are to reinstate yourself. You 
are a soldier of the Lord Jesus, and you are to go 
where the battle is most dangerous." 
That was the substance of it all. There was 
much affectionate counsel and loving sympathy 
mingled with all the inflexible orders of obedience, 
but the sin must be faced and extirpated in pres- 
ence of the enemy. 
On the morrow Father Damon went back to his 
solitary rooms, to his chapel, to the round of visi- 
tations, to his work with the poor, the sinful, the 
hopeless. He did not seek her ; he tried not to 
seem to avoid her, or to seem to shun the streets 
where he was most likely to meet her, and the 
neighborhoods she frequented. Perhaps he did 
avoid them a little, and he despised himself for 
doing it. Almost involuntarily he looked to the 
bench by the chapel door which she occasionally 
occupied at vespers. She was never there, and he 
condemned himself for thinking that she might be ; 
but yet wherever he walked there was always the 
expectation that he might encounter her. As the 
days went by and she did not appear, his expecta- 
tion became a kind of torture. Was she ill, per- 
haps ? It could not be that she had deserted her 
work. 
And then he began to examine himself with a 
morbid introspection. Ilad the hope that he 
should see her occasionally influenced him at all 
in his obedience to Father Monies ? Had he, in 
fact, a longing to be in the streets where she had 
walked, among the scenes that had witnessed her 
beautiful devotion? Had his willingness to take 
up this work again been because it brought him 
nearer to her in spirit ? 
No, she could not be ill. He heard her spoken 
of, here and there, in his calls and ministrations 
to the sick and dying. Evidently she was going 
about her work as usual. Perhaps she was avoid- 
ing him. Or perhaps she did not care, after all, 
and had lost her respect for him when he discovered 
to her his weakness. And he had put himself on 
a plane so high above her. 
There was no conscious wavering in his purpose. 
But from much dwelling upon the thought, from 
much effort rather to put it away, his desire only 
to see her grew stronger day by day. He had no 
fear. He longed to test himself. He was sure 
that he would be impassive, and be all the stronger 
for the test. He was more devoted than ever in 
his work. He was more severe with himself, 
more charitable to others, and he could not doubt 
that he was gaining a hold yes, a real hold 
upon the lives of many about him. The attend- 
ance was better at the chapel; more of the pen- 
itent and forlorn came to him for help. And 
how alone he was ! My God, never even to see 
her! 
In fact, Ruth Leigh was avoiding him. It was 
partly from a womanly reserve called into ex- 
pression in this form for the first time and partly 
from a wish to spare him pain. She had been un- 
der no illusion from the first about the hopelessness 
of the attachment. She comprehended his charac- 
ter so thoroughly that she knew that for him any 
fall from his ideal would mean his ruin. He was 
one of the rare spirits of faith astray in a sceptical 
