over him, he lay looking at the purring fire of sea-coal and listening
to the muffled tinkle of sleigh-bells along Fifth Avenue, which was but
a block distant—and thinking of the book that had enchained him so many
hours. It had taken a powerful grip of his imagination and titillated
his intellectual palate smartly. There were passages in it that
recalled pertinent and pregnant sayings of his own relative to certain
topics discussed in the fascinating pages; theories he had advanced and
maintained; his very turns of speech were here and there.
Again he said, “I should like to know that man. He has a long head
and sharp wits of his own. Immense knowledge of the world and human
nature.” Without the least intention of being conceited he subjoined
to the silent soliloquy: “If I had turned my attention to literature,
I believe I could have written that book. But one man cannot be
proficient in everything. The suggestion of feminine authorship is
ridiculous. Poor Agnes is a sensible girl, but she is wide of the mark
there.”
Here his thoughts wandered into the poppied plains of sleep.
Awaking from his siesta to find himself in the dark, he arose
refreshed, and paid a dutiful call to his wife’s chamber before going
out to dine at his club. The nurse met him upon the threshold and
stepped out into the hall for a whispered colloquy. Both of her charges
had been restless all the afternoon. The baby was colicky, Mrs. Ashe
feverish and excited, although persisting that nothing ailed her.
“She has an exquisitely susceptible nervous organization,” she
continued in the parrotlike lingo of the trained nurse. “We must really
guard her more carefully in future. She was talking about that novel
in her sleep just now—begging you not to take it away from her and all
that, in quite a wild way. There is evidently cerebral excitement.
Perhaps, as you are going out, it might be prudent to telephone the
doctor to drop in toward bedtime.”
“Oh, a good sleep will set her up all right!” returned Barton
slightingly. It did not suit his notions of marital rights to be
interviewed and advised in a ghostly whisper without the precincts of
his own room, by this pretentious hireling. “The book had nothing to
do with her uncomfortable afternoon. It was probably the luncheon. I
thought, when you brought it up, that it was more like a meal for a
ditcher than for a delicate invalid.”
Pleased at administering this Roland for accumulated Olivers, he ran
downstairs without attending to her protest, and whistled softly while
equipping himself for the walk through the snow. The night was sharply
cold; the drifts were as dry as dust. He laughed like a boy in plowing
through them. The return to bachelor freedom was not bad, for a change,
and there were sure to be a lot of prime fellows at the club on a
stormy holiday night.
CHAPTER IV.
AT eleven o’clock of that New Year’s night the snow still fell, but the
wind had increased to a gale, and shook the eastward windows of Agnes
Ashe’s bedchamber.
Nurse and baby were sound asleep in the adjoining nursery. Even in the
well-built house and curtained room, the night-light wavered in the
unquiet air, sending fitful hosts of specter shadows scurrying over the
ceiling and falling down the walls. Sometimes one dropped upon the bed
and made mouths or crooked lean fingers at the convalescent. Now and
then they whispered something in fleeing or skulking past. When this
happened they spoke of her husband and how he had carried off both her
babies downstairs. For Baby Nest’s crib was gone. She had been doubly
robbed.
The door of communication between the rooms was ajar. Mrs. Ashe had
need to move cautiously in arising and wrapping herself in a dressing
gown. She had been three weeks upstairs. Mrs. Ames had declared her too
feeble to walk across the room unaided, but to-night she felt strong
and restless. Her brain was teeming with fledged thoughts, crying and
fluttering to escape. If she had pen and ink she could begin another
book, now that the nurse was asleep and Barton out. But that was not
her reason for getting up and slipping on the wrapper. Oh, no! She
drew the door to behind her cautiously, listened with held breath for
sounds from the inner room, and hearing nothing, smiled cunningly,
crept to the stair-head and down the polished steps. Their chill struck
through the slippers into which she had thrust her stockingless feet;
she shivered in the wind that drove fine snow under the front door and
whistled jeeringly at her as she went by.
The library was void of human presence but warm and murky red with
firelight. The vivid glow of the Argand burner, as she touched the
regulator, shone upon glittering eyes, scarlet cheeks, and red lips
that showed her teeth in the fixed smile of successful cunning. She
found what she sought at once. Barton had left “The Story of Walter
King” upon the table beside his reading chair. He would be out late.
There was nothing to call him home and he was fond of his club. She was
quite safe for an hour or two—secure from spy and intrusion—she and her
brain-baby.
Clasping it to her heart, she wept and smiled, rocked herself to and
fro as she would cuddle Baby Nest, did the nurse allow it. There was
nobody to meddle with her here. She settled herself in the easy-chair
and, finding where Barton had left off, read on and on, until the type
began to gyrate queerly in fantastic measure across the page. Her eyes
were getting tired. The tyrant above-stairs had prohibited reading so
long that the effort tried her strength.
Still holding the book to her bosom, she looked around. The library
was not so orderly as when she visited it tri-daily. There were no
flowers on the table, yet she fancied that she smelled Bon Silène
roses, as she had on that far-back March night when she unlocked the
door leading into her beautiful, comforting Other World, where no
rough blasts shook buds from blowing, no iron hand pressed down Fancy
and held in Imagination with curb and bridle. The ash-cup of the
bronze smoking table was filled with ashes, burnt stumps of cigars
littered the hearth. Seeing them she bethought herself of the truncated
brown canoe tossing in the foam-fringe of the tide on the Old Point
beach. By shutting her eyes she could reproduce the scene with the
minuteness of a photograph; could see the floating and swooping gulls,
silver-breasted against the blue sky, and hear the swash of the waters
between the rocks.
She was dreaming! It would never do to fall asleep here and be
discovered by Barton or Mrs. Ames! Rubbing her eyes, she forced herself
to note that one slipper lay on the rug, the other under a chair, just
as Barton had kicked it off.
“Fie! fie! what would people say of a literary woman’s menage, were
these things seen?”
Presently, when her head stopped reeling, she would pick them up and
straighten the slumber-robe, all crumpled together on the foot of the
lounge, the pillow of which was indented by Barton’s head. Sitting bolt
upright, she stared at robe and cushion, so eloquent of her husband’s
recent presence. Her eyes were dry with misery, her features worked
into sharpness. She looked, not six, but twenty years older than the
hale man who had lain there, indolent and at ease, while she turned
wretchedly upon her bed throughout the tedious afternoon.
Oh, the dead Past! Oh, murdered Love!
“He said that no pure woman would have written that book,” she
murmured. “He must never know! Why, he would turn me into the street
to-night, if he found it out.”
She crossed the room, catching at the furniture as she staggered along
to the secretary. The key hung upon a hidden hook under the drawers.
She felt for it, opened the central compartment of the escritoire, and
took out an old, roomy portfolio. There were papers in it that must be
destroyed. She meant to do it before she was taken ill, but everything
had been so sudden. It would never do to leave them for other eyes in
case of her death. While she fumbled in the pockets and drew out the
MSS. she checked herself in repeating irrelevant rhymes:
    “That husbands could be cruel,
     I have known for seasons three,
     But, oh! to ride Vindictive while a baby cries for me.”
“If only my head would be steady and clear again for five minutes!”
The portfolio was nearly emptied into her lap when an awful voice from
the doorway said:
“Mrs. Ashe! what am I to think of this extraordinary proceeding?”
Mrs. Ames, portentous in flannel gown and curl-papers, confronted the
affrighted culprit. Through the open door and down the stairway came
the wail of the hungry baby.
“I only came down for her brother,” tremblingly clutching her book, and
letting the portfolio slide to the floor. “I felt so strong! so well!
I will run up to the little sister now—at once. Poor little Nest! she
wants me, I suppose?”
Mrs. Gamp’s severe eyes softened into anxiety. She spoke soothingly, in
passing her powerful arm around the shaking form.
“Yes, dear. She wants mamma. Lean on me and don’t hurry too much. The
stairs are a steep climb.”
Upon the upper landing Agnes, stopping to breathe, smiled piteously
into the compassionate face.
“You see”—showing a corner of the volume hidden in the folds of her
gown—“this is as much my baby as the other one, and I knew he was
downstairs all alone. You will let me keep him—won’t you?”
“Certainly, dear! We’ll put him to bed with you, right under your
pillow.”
“And not a word to Barton?” Putting her lips close to the other’s ear,
she whispered fearfully—“You know he would turn us both out into the
street if he knew.”
“He shan’t hear a lisp from me!” asseverated the nurse stoutly. “We’ll
have the two of you sound asleep before he comes in.”
She always humored delirious patients. In such cases veracity
courtesied to expediency.
The prime fellows made up a theater party after the club dinner and
ended a jolly day with a jollier supper. The silvery tongue of the
French timepiece upon the library mantel said it was one o’clock as
Barton, entering, was amazed to see that he must have left the Argand
reading burner up at full height. A second step showed traces of other
occupation than his and of later date. His wife’s secretary was open, a
portfolio lay wide upon the floor, and the rug was strewed with papers.
Before the suspicion of burglary could cross his mind, he trod upon
something hard. It was a heavy gold hair pin of a peculiar pattern,
which Agnes wore constantly. He had noticed it in her hair at noon
to-day, as her head lay back against the cushions, weighed down, it
would seem, by the heavy coils.
Had that hypocritical hag of a nurse allowed such outrageous imprudence
in his absence? He examined the lock of the secretary. The key which
he believed was kept upstairs by Agnes was in it; a survey of the
apartment revealed no other signs of unwonted disorder.
“Oh, these women!” his face, florid with champagne, hock, and righteous
choler, crimsoned apoplectically when he stooped for the portfolio. A
sheet of paper, covered with his wife’s neat, compact chirography, fell
out.
It was in verse, and bore no caption.
“So-ho! poetry!”
As in a dream, he seemed to hear Agnes’ voice:
“I am not a bard at all. When I am in the dark, or at best in a
half-light—sorry or weary, or lonely of heart—my thoughts take rhythmic
shape.”
At the bottom of the third page of the rhymes was a date.
“October 5, 188—.”
He recollected the day. He had gone off to join some friends for a
week’s hunting, leaving her in a quiet mountain inn.
“And she was lonely of heart—poor little wifie!”
He sat down to read:
    “He turned him at the maple tree,
     To wave a fond farewell to me.
     The burning branches touched his head,
     Tawny and ash, and dappled red.
     Behind him, in still fold on fold—
     As painters lay with leaves of gold
     The ground on which they mean to trace
     Some favorite saint of special grace—
     The chestnuts floored and roofed and hung
     Niche for my hero saint. Down-flung
     From cedar tops, the wild woodbine
     Lent pennons brave to deck the shrine;
     Barbaric sumachs straight upbore
     Their crimson lamps, and, light and hoar,—
     Like votive lace bestowed by dame,
     Repentant of her splendid shame,—
     O’er withered shrub and brier and stone,
     The seeded clematis was thrown.
     I thought my heart broke in the rush
     Of tears that blotted out the flush
     Of draping vine and burning bough.
     ‘Oh, love of mine!’—thus ran my vow—
     ‘Let Heaven but stoop to hear my prayer,
     But lift the cross I cannot bear,
     This lonely, living death of pain,
     And give my darling back again
     To longing heart and straining eyes—
     To grief and loss in other guise,
     Silent I’ll bow, and, smiling, see
     Sweet dawn in gloom that’s shared with thee!’”
The champagne had been heady, and there was a good deal of hock. Tears
of maudlin sentimentality suffused the reader’s eyes at the metrical
tribute to himself as his wife’s “hero-saint.” So long as she published
nothing of the sort, it was pleasant to find, accidentally, that
she wrote love verses in his absence, dedicated to him. He had not
suspected how much she felt their parting—she had borne herself so
heroically. Brushing away the soft moisture, he read on:
    “To-day, I stood and saw him stay
     His horse upon the woodland way,
     And toss to me a gay farewell.
     The chestnut leaves about him fell;
     The royal maples burned and shone,
     Veiling misshapen branch and stone,
     The misty clematis lay white;
     The woodbine from the cedar’s height,
     The sumach’s crimson cones, the breath
     That amber hickories yield in death—
     All were the same. October rare
     Held sway divine o’er earth and air.
     The horseman’s port was kingly—yet
     My lips unwrung, my eyes unwet,
     My heart recoils in cold despair
     At memory of that granted prayer.
          
     My beautiful dead dream! The Spring
     Beyond Life’s winter, which will bring
     Earth’s buried ones to love’s embrace,
     Will hold for me no quickening grace.
     Summers may go, Octobers come;—
     Deep out of sight, and pale and dumb,
     Lies the hope that never was to be.
     My saint who lived not—save to me!”
He went over the second section of the poem twice before the
wine-warmed brain accepted the significance of the lines.
Then, he swore a little. He would be no-matter-what-ed if he could
make out women’s fantasies. He supposed this was a fancy sketch, an
impersonal rigmarole, altogether, but it was no-matter-what-ed (again)
disagreeable stuff for a fellow to read who recollected that he had
ridden away last October from a dry-eyed wife into the burning heart of
such a wood as was here described. He did not remember turning under
the maple tree, it was true—if indeed there were a maple tree at the
top of the hill. There might be some mistake in the whole thing, but it
went against a fellow’s grain to admit the possibility that his wife
had another man even in the eye of her imagination.
He renewed the business of collecting the scattered papers. He would
read no more poetry to-night, but an unsealed law envelope, without
address, lay under the armchair. It was white and fresh, and the folds
of the instrument inclosed were crisp with newness. He pulled it out:
    “MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT made this 6th Day of August,
    188—, between AGNES WELLES ASHE of New York City, and
    RHINE, RHONE & CO., Publishers of New York City.
    “Said AGNES WELLES ASHE being the author and
    proprietor of a work entitled, ‘THE STORY OF WALTER
    KING, BY JOHN C. HART,’ in consideration of the
    covenants and stipulation, etc., etc., etc.”
The shock cleared the lawyer’s head on the instant. He perused the
document to signatures, seals, and witnesses, refolded and restored
it to the envelope, put it back into the portfolio, and the portfolio
into the escritoire, turned the key in the lock and took his stand upon
the rug, his hands behind his back, his back to the fire. His face was
purple, his eyes glared.
“So much for marrying a literary woman! They are a bad lot!”
He spat it out viciously and a bitter, sounding oath after it.
The door-bell rang loudly, attended by the sound of stamping feet upon
the mat outside. The master of the house answered the summons. The
family physician crowded in past him, pulling off his overcoat as he
came.
“How is she?” he demanded, without preamble.
“She! Who?”
“Mrs. Ashe! One of your maids telephoned for me at half-past twelve,
from the nearest station—‘Come at once! Mrs. Ashe is dangerously ill.’
Can there be some mistake?”
Mrs. Ames called him from the top of the stairs: “Come up quick,
please, doctor. It takes two of us to hold her in bed.”
The doctor rushed upstairs. Barton walked leisurely back into the
library and shut the door. A woman who had sat here reading old MSS.
and new contracts until she heard her husband’s latchkey in the outer
door, then rushed off up a long flight of stairs to avoid him, in such
frantic haste that she fell into a fit at the top, might come out of it
