' Go ahead,' he says, and I see Jim chirk up to 
listen. 
' As I understand it, the whole thing is in the 
buttons and the peg— the rest ain't of no conse- 
quence. A button is one shape, a peg is another 
shape, but that ain't any matter.' 
' No, that ain't any matter as long as they've 
both got the same power.' 
' All right, then. What is the power that's in 
a candle and in a match ? ' 
' It's the fire.' 
' It's the same in both, then ? ' 
' Yes, just the same in both.' 
' All right. Suppose I set fire to a carpenter 
shop with a match, what will happen to that car- 
penter shop ? ' 
' She'll burn up.' 
' And suppose I set fire to this Pyramid with a 
candle — will she burn up ? ' 
' Of course she won't.' 
 All right. Now, the fire's the same, both times. 
Why does the shop burn, and the Pyramid don't ? ' 
 Because the Pyramid can't burn.' 
 
' Aha ! and a horse can't fly ! ' 
' My Ian', ef Huck ain't got him ag'in ! Huck's 
landed him high en dry dis time, I tell you ! Hit's 
de smartes' trap I ever see a body walk inter — en 
efl ' 
But Jim was so full of laugh he got to strangling 
and couldn't go on, and Tom was that mad to see 
how neat I had floored him, and turned his own 
argument ag'in him and knocked him all to rags 
and flinders with it, that all he could manage to say 
was that whenever he heard me and Jim try to 
argue it made him ashamed of the human race. I 
never said nothing — I was feeling pretty well satis- 
fied. When I have got the best of a person that 
way, it ain't my way to go around crowing about it 
the way some people does, for I consider that if I 
was in his place I wouldn't wish him to crow over 
me. It's better to be generous, that's what I 
think. 
CHAPTEE XIII 
By and by we left Jim to float around up there 
in the neighbourhood of the Pyramids, and we dumb 
down to the hole where you go into the tunnel, and 
went in with some Arabs and candles, and away in 
there in the middle of the Pyramids we found a 
room and a big stone box in it where they used to 
keep that king, just as the man in the Sunday 
school said ; but he was gone now— somebody had 
got him. But I didn't take no interest in the place, 
because there could be ghosts there, of course ; 
not fresh ones, but I don't like no kind. 
So then we come out and got some little donkeys 
and rode a piece, and then went in a boat another 
piece, and then more donkeys, and got to Cairo; 
and all the way the road was as smooth and beautiful
a road as ever I see, and had tall date pams 
on both sides, and naked children everywhere, and 
the men was as red as copper, and fine and strong 
and handsome. And the city was a curiosity. 
Such narrow streets — why, they were just lanes, 
and crowded with people with turbans, and women 
with veils, and everybody rigged out in blazing 
bright clothes and all sorts of colours, and you won- 
dered how the camels and the people got by each 
other in such narrow little cracks, but they done 
it — a perfect jam, you see, and everybody noisy. 
The stores warn't big enough to turn around in, 
but you didn't have to go in ; the store-keeper sat 
tailor fashion on his counter, smoking his snaky 
long pipe, and had his things where he could reach 
them to sell, and he was just as good as in the 
street, for the camel-loads brushed him as they went 
by. 
Now and then a grand person flew by in a 
carriage with fancy dressed men running and yelling 
in front of it and whacking anybody with a long rod 
that didn't get out of the way. And by and by 
along comes the Sultan riding horseback at the 
head of a procession, and fairly took your breath- 
away his clothes was so splendid ; and everybody 
fell flat and laid on his stomach while he went by. 
I forgot, but a feller helped me remember. He 
was one that had a rod and run in front. 
There was churches, but they don't know enough 
to keep Sunday — they keep Friday and break the 
Sabbath. You have to take off your shoes when you 
go in. There was crowds of men and boys in the 
church, setting in groups on the stone floor and 
making no end of noise — getting their lessons by 
heart, Tom said, out of the Koran, which they think 
is a Bible, and people that knows better knows 
enough to not let on. I never see such a big 
church in my life before, and most awful high it 
was ; it made you dizzy to look up. Our village 
church at home ain't a circumstance to it ; if you 
was to put it in there, people would think it was a 
dry- goods box. 
What I wanted to see was a dervish, because I 
was interested in dervishes on account of the one 
that played the trick on the camel driver. So we 
found a lot in a kind of a church, and they called 
themselves Whirling Dervishes ; and they did whirl, 
too — I never see anything like it. They had tall 
sugar-loaf hats on, and linen petticoats ; and they 
spun and spun and spun, round and round like tops, 
and the petticoats stood out on a slant, and it was 
the prettiest thing I ever see, and made me drunk 
to look at it. They was all Moslems. Tom said, and 
when I asked him what a Moslem was, he said it 
was a person that wasn't a Presbyterian. So there 
is plenty of them in Missouri, though I didn't know 
it before. 
We didn't see half there was to see in Cairo, 
because Tom was in such a sweat to hunt out places 
that was celebrated in history. We had a most 
tiresome time to find the granary where Joseph 
stored up the grain before the famine, and when we 
found it it warn't worth much to look at, being such 
an old tumble-down wreck ; but Tom was satisfied, 
and made more fuss over it than I would make if I 
stuck a nail in my foot. How he ever found that 
place was too many for me. We passed as much as 
forty just like it before we came to it, and any of 
them would 'a' done for me, but none but just the 
right one would suit him. I never see anybody so 
particular as Tom Sawyer. The minute he struck 
the right one he reconnised it as easy as I would 
reconnise my other shirt if I had one, but how he 
done it he couldn't any more tell than he could fly ; 
he said so himself, 
Then we hunted a long time for the house where 
the boy lived that learned the Cadi how to try the 
case of the old olives and the new ones, and said it 
was out of the ' Arabian Nights,' and he would tell 
me and Jim about it when he got time. Well, we 
hunted and hunted till I was ready to drop, and I 
wanted Tom to give it up and come next day and 
git somebody that knowed the town and could talk 
Missourian and could go straight to the place ; but 
no — he wanted to find it himself, and nothing else 
would answer. So on we went. Then at last the 
remarkablest thing happened I ever see. The house 
was gone — gone hundreds of years ago — every last 
rag of it gone but just one mud brick. Now, a person 
wouldn't ever believe that a backwoods Missouri 
boy that hadn't ever been in that town before could 
go and hunt that place over and find that brick, but 
Tom Sawyer done it. I know he done it, because 
I see him do it. I was right by his very side at the 
time, and see him see the brick and see him recon- 
nise it. Well, I says to myself, how does he do it ? 
Is it knowledge, or is it instink ? 
Now, there's the facts, just as they happened ; 
let everybody explain it their own way. I've 
ciphered over it a good deal, and it's my opinion 
that some of it is knowledge but the main bulk of it 
is instinct. The reason is this. Tom put the brick 
in his pocket to give to a museum with his name on 
it and the facts when he went home, and I slipped 
it out and put another brick considerable like it in 
its place, and he didn't know the difference — but 
there was a difference, you see. I think that settles 
it— it's mostly instink, not knowledge. Instinct 
tells him where the exact place is for the brick to 
be in, and so he reconnises it by the place it's in, 
not by the look of the brick. If it was knowledge, 
not instinct, he would know the brick again by the 
look of it the next time he seen it — which he didn't. 
So it shows that for all the brag you hear about 
knowledge being such a wonderful thing, instink is 
worth forty of it for real unerringness. Jim says 
the same. 
When we got back Jim dropped down and took 
us in, and there was a young man there with a red 
skull cap and tassel on, and a beautiful blue silk 
jacket and baggy trousers with a shawl around his 
waist and pistols in it, that could talk English and 
wanted to hire to us as guide and take us to Mecca 
and Medina and Central Africa and everywheres 
for a half a dollar a day and his keep, and we 
hired him and left, and piled on the power, and by 
the time we was through dinner we was over the 
place where the Israelites crossed the Red Sea 
when Pharaoh tried to overtake them and , was 
caught by the waters. We stopped then, and had 
a good look at the place, and it done Jim good to 
see it. He said he could see it all now, just the 
way it happened ; he could see the Israelites walking 
along between the walls of water, and the 
Egyptians coming from away off yonder, hurrying 
all they could, and see them start in as the Israelites 
went out, and then, when they was all in, see the 
walls tumble together and drown the last man of 
them. Then we piled on the power again, and 
rushed away and huvvered over Mount Sinai, and 
saw the place where Moses broke the tables of stone, 
and where the children of Israel camped in the 
plain and worshipped the golden calf ; and it was 
all just as interesting as could be, and the guide 
knowed every place as well as I know the village 
at home. 
But we had an accident, now, and it fetched all 
the plans to a standstill. Tom's old onery corn-cob 
had got so old and swelled and warped that she 
couldn't hold together any longer, notwithstanding 
the strings and bandages, but caved in and went 
to pieces. Tom he didn't know what to do. The 
professor's pipe wouldn't answer — it warn't any- 
thing but a mershum, and a person that's got used 
to a cob pipe knows it lays a long ways over all 
the other pipes in this world, and you can't git 
him to smoke any other. He wouldn't take mine, 
I couldn't persuade him. So there he was. 
He thought it over, and said we must scour 
around and see if we could roust out one in Egypt 
or Arabia or around in some of these countries ; but 
the guide said no, it warn't no use — they didn't have 
them. So Tom was pretty glum for a little while, 
then he chirked up and said he'd got the idea and 
knowed what to do. He says : 
' I've got another corn-cob pipe, and it's a prime 
one too, and nearly new. It's laying on the rafter 
that's right over the kitchen stove at home in the 
village. Jim, you and the guide will go and git it, 
and me and Huck will camp here on Mount Sinai 
till you come back.' 
' But, Mars Tom, we couldn't ever find de village. 
I could find de pipe, 'caze I knows de kitchen, but 
my Ian' ! we can't ever find de village, nur Sent 
Louis, nur none 0' dem places. We don't know de 
way, Mars Tom.' 
That was a fact, and it stumped Tom for a 
minute. Then he said : 
' Looky here, it can be done, sure ; and I'll tell 
you how. You set your compass and sail west as 
straight as a dart, till you find the United States. 
It ain't any trouble, because it's the first land you'll 
strike the other side of the Atlantic. If it's day- 
time when you strike it, bulge right on, straight 
west from the upper part of the Florida coast, and 
in an hour and three-quarters you'll hit the mcuth 
of the Mississippi — at the speed that I'm going to 
send you. You'll be so high up in the air that the 
earth will be curved considerable — sorter like a 
washbowl turned upside down — and you'll see a 
raft of rivers crawling around every which way, 
long before you get there, and you can pick out the 
Mississippi without any trouble. Then you can 
follow the river north nearly an hour and three- 
quarters, till you see the Ohio come in ; then you 
want to look sharp, because you're getting near. 
Away up to your left you'll see another thread 
coming in — that's the Missouri, and is a little above 
St. Louis. You'll come down low then, so as you 
can examine the villages as you spin along. You'll 
pass about twenty -five in the next fifteen minutes, 
and you'll recognise ours when you see it — and if 
you don't you can yell down and ask.' 
' Ef it's dat easy, Mars Tom, I reckon we kin 
do it ; yassir, I knows we kin.' 
The guide was sure of it too, and thought 
that he could learn to stand his watch in a little 
while. 
' Jim can learn you the whole thing in a half 
an hour,' Tom said. ' This balloon's as easy to 
manage as a canoe.' 
Tom got out the chart and marked out the 
course and measured it, and says : 
' To go back west is the shortest way, you 
see. It's only about 7,000 miles. If you went 
east, and so on around, it's over twice as far.' 
Then he says to the guide : ' I want you both to 
watch the tell-tale all through the watches, and 
whenever it don't mark 300 miles an hour, you 
go higher or drop lower till you find a storm- 
current that's going your way. There's 100 miles 
an hour in this old thing without any wind to 
help. There's 200-mile gales to be found, any 
time you want to hunt for them.' 
 We'll hunt for them, sir.' 
' See that you do. Sometimes you may have to 
go up a couple of miles, and it'll be p'ison cold, but 
most of the time you'll find your storm a good deal 
lower. If you can only strike a cyclone — that's 
the ticket for you ! You'll see by the professor's 
books that they travel west in these latitudes ; and 
they travel low, too.' 
Then he ciphered on the time, and says : 
' Seven thousand miles, 300 miles an hour — you 
can make the trip in a day — twenty-four hours. This 
is Thursday ; you'll be back here Saturday after- 
noon. Come, now, hustle out some blankets and 
food and books and things for me and Huck, and 
you can start right along. There ain't no occasion 
to fool around — I want a smoke, and the quicker you 
fetch that pipe the better.' 
