Isaacstein would prefer. Now, were is the 
shtuff ? " 
But the little bottle was safe enough. 
Tightening the knot of the handkerchief, 
he approached the window and put his fingers tentatively on the cross-piece, tentatively yet presently authoritatively, for it 
had moved, and authoritatively still he 
raised and raised it, until the spring, catching, snapped out feebly a minute gun of 
alarm. 
"Who's there?" 
In circumstances not necessarily similar, 
but cognate, men of experience, of learning, 
men of what it is usual to term the world, 
have asked and will ask just such a thing as 
that without, it may be, awaiting any definite 
reply. It is true Mr. Attersol was expecting 
his daughter, but heretofore such visits as 
she had made had been effected in a less 
circuitous fashion ; invariably she had come 
through the door. Then, too, what window 
of its own volition raised itself ? Mr. Atter- 
sol's curiosity was therefore quite natural, 
but that curiosity promptly gave way to a 
sentiment in which there was anger, and in 
which there was terror, too. 
The rationale of fear is simple it is the 
dread of the Unknown. And before any 
circumstantial answer to that question coufd 
have been received, abruptly at his side the 
Unknown surged a Thing which he could 
see yet not discern, which he could feel yet 
not describe, a form vague yet undeter- 
mined, nebulous yet solid, gigantic yet 
dwarfed a Thing which like the wave of 
the sea dashed him back on the chair from 
which he had half risen, pinioned him there, 
overwhelmed him, suffocated him, and left 
him drowned. 
"It was easier than I thought," the Thing 
reflected. " And so this is after. For the 
last hour I have been wondering how I 
should feel. I seem to feel hot. Nothing 
else." 
But in reflecting the Thing had not been 
inactive ; it had restoppered and repocketed 
a phial, turned up the light, and then trying 
the door and finding it unlocked, it had 
turned the key. 
" There, and now to work." 
In the chair Mr. Attersol lay ; his great 
haggard eyes protruding, the mouth open, 
the tongue curled. But the muscles of the 
neck no longer twitched, the head was 
quiet, and the hands were still. 
" I must rearrange that." 
And very adroitly and swiftly he closed 
the eyes, the mouth ; turned the head a 
little on the shoulder, folded the hands on 
the lap, put the body into the attitude of 
one whom sleep has overtaken, and fumbled 
in a pocket which he remembered of old. 
If the will was already signed, it was in 
the safe, he was convinced ; and with a key 
which he had found he busied himself with 
the lock, one which lacked complexity, for at 
a turn the door opened of itself, disclosing 
a vista of drawers and lettered pigeon-holes. 
The compartment marked W contained but 
one paper, the plan and diagram of a wharf. 
Perplexed, he opened at random a drawer ; 
it was partially filled, and he was about to 
rummage through the contents, when the 
question he had heard five minutes before 
leaped to his own lips there was some one 
at the door. 
Like a rat surprised he wheeled, all his 
senses concentrated yet alert. Behind the 
woodwork there was detection, recognition 
perhaps, and remotely the electric chair. 
To the palms of his hands perspiration 
started, and from his forehead drops fell 
beneath the handkerchief on his face. 
Then there came another knock, louder 
this time a knock that exacted admittance, 
one that rang out imperatively and echoed 
reverberant through the silence of the hall. 
He could yet go, he told himself. There 
was yet time. Yet did he now go with- 
out the will, without the cheques, he might 
better have remained away far better, in- 
deed ; and in that paralyzing uncertainty 
which fright provides, he crouched, un- 
determined still. Then abruptly his brain 
became a rendezvous of terrors. In men- 
tal flashlights he saw his entrance ob- 
served, his identity discowered ; he told 
himself that Isaacstein, perhaps, had sold 
him out ; that the police were there behind 
that door, beneath that veranda, too ; that 
the house was surrounded ; that there was 
no escape, not one ; and instinctively, with 
an unformed resolve to defend himself 
to the last, he drew out and clutched a 
knife. 
But why had that imperious knocking 
ceased ? The echoes had subsided, the hall 
was silent again no, there was the sound 
of footsteps ; but those footsteps yes, 
there could be no mistake, those footsteps 
were going away. 
He had not dared to breathe ; but as the 
sound of those footsteps retreated and died 
in the distance, he stood up, tremulous with 
the excess of emotion still, but himself, 
his mind dispossessed and vacated of its 
horrors. It was Mrs. Smithwick, no doubt, 
Myrrha perhaps, who had come on some 
unimportant errand, and finding the door 
locked had concluded that Mr. Attersol was 
asleep and had returned suspicionless as 
before. 
That was the explanation of it all ; in the 
relief it brought him he found the leisure 
to smile, and turned again to the drawer. 
Bills, vouchers, letters ; he was looking for 
none of these things. He closed it and 
looked at the pigeon-holes once more. 
The will might be in T, under the head of 
" Testament," and hurriedly he examined 
the papers that were there bonds of a 
turnpike road, defaulted presumably, and in 
any event worthless ; a bundle of stock of 
a traction company, and a receipt from the 
Telephone Service. 
" I can understand he locks that up," 
mused Quain. " But where is the will ? 
Where are the cheques ? Certainly he 
pointed to the safe this afternoon." 
His eyes roamed again over the pigeon- 
holes and lighted on Q. Ah ! it was there 
the cheques were, he could tell them by 
the edges. Yes, both of them ; and with 
a glance he thrust them in a pocket. Now 
for the will. Where could it be ? An 
hour, two even, would be insufficient to go 
over every paper in that safe ; and yet did 
he not assure himself regarding it, he might 
almost as well have remained away. Might 
it be that the old man had it about him? 
Of that it were easy to assure himself, and 
he turned to where he lay. 
Was it intuition, or was it the influence of 
that occult force which some of us recog- 
nize and none can explain, that compelled 
him, even as he turned, to look not at the 
door but above it ? Not a sound had he 
heard, yet the inexplicable drew his eyes 
that way ; and as he looked, during one 
fleeting yet ever memorable second, behind 
the transom he saw a head that disappeared 
so suddenly that you or I might have accounted it an optical delusion, a phantom created according to the pathology of the case 
by the over-taxing of digestion or of nerves. 
But Quain offered himself no such ex- 
planation. A fear more paralyzing even 
than uncertainty glued him to the spot ; he 
wanted to rush to the window, throw him- 
self down to the lawn, and be off, anywhere, 
afar from the accursed house yet his eyes 
were fastened on that transom, his feet 
rooted to the floor. If conscious at all, it 
was but of the immanence of fate, one that 
detained him there and would not suffer 
him to go. 
A moment, it had passed. The door was 
quaking and shrieking beneath the violence 
of blows. The uproar and the life of it 
banished the catalepsy which had garroted 
his will ; he raised a hand in testimony of 
his deliverance, and instantly he had use for 
it. The door flew open-. As though hurled 
from a catapult, Bancroft leaped at his 
throat. 
But the upraised hand, closed now and 
withdrawn, went out to meet the intruder, 
and fair on the forehead a blow to fell a 
bullock knocked him backward on the 
floor. He would have risen, but Quain 
gave him no time ; there was a flash of 
steel, one gasp, and silence. 
"And it was of that I was afraid ! " 
To convince himself, perhaps, of the idle- 
ness of it all, he gave the body a kick, not 
aggressive, but experimental, as an assur- 
ance that it was not a fake. 
"Bah! What did I tell him this day? 
There are souls that have teeth, and mine 
have bitten. But now for the will." 
Again he turned to where the old man 
lay, but hastily, fearful lest the household 
were aroused. In the breast pocket there 
was but a wallet ; it was not there it could 
be, and he replaced it, querying still, when 
an oblong document that lay on the table 
caught his eye. Reaching over, he drew it 
to him. 
" Know all men," he began, but a cry 
interrupted the cry of a heart that is breaking, the cry of the alma perdita; a cry agonizing, resonant, lancinant with pain, with 
anguish, too, with despair, with love ; a cry 
that filled the room with the moan of his 
name, passed into the night, and sank into 
stillness. 
In the doorway, clinging to the wainscot, 
Myrrha stood. His hand went to his face ; 
the handkerchief was no longer there. 
When he looked again, the girl had fallen. 
CHAPTER VI 
EXIT OSWALD QUAIN 
" YES, sir ; Mr. Attersol is dead, but you 
are not to talk." 
Bancroft would talk. The orders which 
the nurse had received and which that nurse 
proposed to obey were of no moment to 
him. He wanted to know everything at 
once, without delay. And as for the relapse with which he was menaced, it would 
come, and by express, unless his curiosity 
was there and then satisfied. But the nurse 
had not only received orders ; he knew his 
place, and knowing, too, that that place 
depended not on the patient who had not 
selected him, but on the physician who had, 
instantly pretended to be deaf and dumb. 
Besides, his tariff of ten dollars a day did 
not include the answering of fool questions. 
Bancroft had escaped heart puncture by a 
centimetre, special dispensation or Quain's 
inexperience. In addition, he was young, 
in tip-top trim, without an excess against 
him. He had been unconscious for hours, 
but he had slept beautifully. Though 
physically weak with that weakness which 
blood-letting induces, mentally he was alert 
so alert that the physician, who presently 
made his round, said that everything was 
going very nicely ; yet, as he would have 
said the same thing had the patient been 
comatose and moribund, Bancroft accepted 
it for what it was worth nothing. 
" When am I to get up ? " 
The doctor was feeling the young man's 
pulse, gravely, his thoughts occupied with 
other things ; but the question entangled 
them. He nodded that sphinx-like nod 
which the profession practise before a 
mirror and solicited an inspection of the 
tongue. 
" If I put it out, you will tell me to keep 
it out. You do my way first, and I may do 
yours. Answer my question." 
" When are we to get up, eh ? Why, the 
moment we are able the very moment." 
And the physician smiled blandly, with that 
effrontery, that assumption of wisdom with 
which the practitioner conceals his paucity 
of thought. 
" How strange that is, how very strange 
and queer ! But I thank you for the con- 
ciseness of your reply. Now tell me, have 
they got him ? " 
" The burglar ? Not that I have heard." 
" How is Miss Attersol ? " 
"Quite as well as could be expected 
quite as well. Dr. McMasters, with whom 
I have thought it advisable to consult and 
to whom I wired last night, will, I make no 
doubt, be here very shortly and confirm the 
opinion which I have advanced." 
" I don't see, doctor, that you have 
advanced any, but we won't argue over 
that. 1 think I will take a milk punch, and 
I think, too, I will take another nap." 
" But we must not take it too strong. 
We have a touch of fever still. Modera- 
tion must be our motto moderation in 
all things." And after more remarks of 
an equally scientific nature the doctor took 
his Cheshire-cat smile away. 
" Idiot," growled Bancroft as the door 
closed. 
" Yes, sir." It was the nurse that replied. 
"And to think that I have to lie here 
when so much should be done." 
But what possibilities of recuperation 
there are in strength of purpose and an un- 
vitiated constitution ! In a space of time, 
which by comparison to the gravity of the 
wound was instructively brief, Bancroft was 
able to receive a visitor. 
Meanwhile his thoughts had been busy. 
He had not alone death to consider, but 
life the life of one who was dearer to him 
than all things else, and whom the intestacy 
