tary confinement for you, my boy." 
"Double, double toil and trouble," croaked 
the parrot. 
Gethryn started nervously, and shut him inside the cage, a regal gilt structure with "Shakespeare" printed over the door. Then, replacing 
the agitated Gummidge on her panther skin, he 
sat down once more, and lighted another cigarette. 
His picture. He could think of nothing else. 
It was a serious matter with Gethryn. Admitted 
to the Salon meant three more years study in 
Paris. Failure, and back he must go to New 
York. 
The personal income of Reginald Gethryn 
amounted to the magnificent sum of two hundred 
and fifty dollars. To this, his aunt, Miss Celes-tia Gethryn, added nine hundred and fifty dollars more. This gave him a sum of twelve hundred dollars a year to live on and study in Paris. 
It was not a large sum, but it was princely 
when compared to the amount on which many 
a talented fellow subsists, spending his best 
years in a foul atmosphere of paint and tobacco, 
ill fed, ill clothed, scarcely warmed at all, often 
sick in mind and body, attaining his first scant 
measure of success just as his overtaxed powers 
give way. 
Gethryn's aunt, his only surviving relative, 
had recently written hirn one of her ponderous 
letters. He took it from his pocket, and began 
to read it again, for the fourth time. 
"You have now been in Paris three years, 
and as yet I have seen no results. You should 
 
be earning your own living, but instead, you 
are still dependent upon me. You are welcome 
to all the assistance I can give you, in reason, 
but I expect that you will have something to 
show for all the money I expend upon you. Why 
are you not making a handsome income and a 
splendid reputation, like Mr. Spinder?" 
The artist named was thirty-five, and had 
been in Paris fifteen years. Gethryn was twenty- 
two, and had been studying three years. 
"Why are you not doing beautiful things, like 
Mr. Mousely? I'm told he gats a thousand dol 
lars for a little sketch." 
Rex groansi. Mr. Mousely could neither 
draw nor paint, but he made stories of babies 
deathbeds, on squares of canvas, with china 
angels solidly suspended from the ceiling of the 
nursery, pointing upward, and he gave them 
titles out of the hymn-book, which caused them 
to be bought with eagerness by all the members of the congregation to which his family be 
longed. 
The letter proceeded: 
"I am told by many reliable persons that three 
years abroad is more than enough for a thorough 
art education. If no results are attained at the 
end of that time, there is only one of two conclusions to be drawn. Either you have no talent, 
or you are wasting your time. I shall wait until the next Salon before I come to a decision. 
If then you have a picture accepted and if it 
shows no trace of the immorality which is rife 
in Paris, I will continue your allowance for 
three years more; this, however, on condition 
that you have a picture in the Salon each year. 
If you fail again this year, I shall insist upon 
your coming home at once." 
Why Gethryn should want to read this letter 
four times, when one perusal of it had been more 
than enough, no one, least of all himself, could 
have told. He sat now crushing it in his hand, 
tasting all the bitterness that is stored up for a 
sensitive artist tied by fate to an omniscient 
Philistine who feeds his body with bread and 
his soul with instruction about art and behavior. 
Presently he mastered the black mood which 
came near being too much for him, his face 
cleared and he leaned back, quietly smoking. 
From the rug rose a muffled rumbling where Mrs. 
Gurnmidge dozed in peace. The clock ticked 
 
sharply. A mouse dropped silently from the 
window curtain, and scuttled away unmarked. 
The pups lay in a soft heap. The parrot no 
longer hung head downward, but rested in his 
cage in a normal position, one eye fixed steadily 
on Gethryn, the other sheathed in a bluish- 
white eyelid, every wrinkle of which spoke scorn 
of men and things. 
For some time Gethryn had been half-conscious of a piano sounding on the floor below. 
It suddenly struck him now that the apartment 
under his, which had been long vacant, must 
have found an occupant 
"Idiots!" he grumbled. "Playing at mid 
night! That will have to stop. Singing too! 
We'll see about that!" 
The singing continued, a girl's voice, only 
passably trained, but certainly fresh and sweet. 
Gethryn began to listen, reluctantly, and 
ungraciously. There was a pause. "Now she's 
going to stop. It's time," he muttered. But 
the piano began again, a short prelude which 
he knew, and the voice was soon in the midst of 
the Dream Song from "La Belle HSlfcne." 
Gethryn rose and walked to his window, 
threw it open and leaned out. An April qigbij 
soft and delicious. The air was heavy with 
perfume from the pink and white chestnut blos 
soms. The roof dripped with moisture. Far 
down in the dark court the gasjets flickered 
and flared. From the distance came the soft 
ened rumble of a midnight cab, which, drawing 
nearer and nearer, and passing the hotel with 
a rollicking rattle of wheels and laughing voices, 
died away on the smooth pavement by the Lux 
embourg Gardens. The voice had stopped capriciously in the middle of the song. Gethryn 
turned back into the room, whistling the air. 
His eye fell on Satan sitting behind his bars in 
crumpled malice. 
"Poor old chap," laughed the master, "want 
to come out and hop around a bit? Here, 
Gummidge, we'll remove temptation out of 
his way," and he lifted the docile tabby, 
who increased the timbre of her song to an ecstatic squeal, at his touch, and opening his bed 
room door, gently deposited her on his softest 
blankets. He then reinstated the raven on his 
bust of Pallas, and Satan watched him from 
thence warily, as he fussed about the studio, 
 
sorting brushes, scraping a neglected palette, 
taking down a dressing-gown, drawing on a 
pair of easy slippers, opening his door and depositing his boots outside. When he returned 
the music had begun again. 
"What on earth does she mean by singing at 
a quarter to one o clock?" he thought, and went 
once more to the window. "Why that is really 
beautiful." 
"Oui! c est un reve, Oui! c est un reve doux'd araour. 
La nuit lui prete son mystere, 
II doit finir, il doit finir avec le jour." 
The song of Hlene ceased. Gethryn leaned 
out and gazed down at the lighted windows under his. Suddenly the light went out. Reheard 
some one open the window, and straining his 
eyes, could just discern the dim outline of a 
head and shoulders, unmistakably those of a girl. 
She had perched herself on the window-sill. 
Presently she began to hum the air, then to sing 
it softly. Gethryn waited until the words came 
again: 
"Oui, c est un reve " 
and then struck in with a very sweet baritone: 
Oui! c est uu reve" 
She never moved, but her voice swelled out 
fresh and clear in answer to his, and a really 
charming duet came to a delightful finish. Then 
she looked up. Gethryn was reckless now. 
"Shall it be, then, only a dream?" he laughed. 
Was it his fate that made him lean out, and 
whisper, "Is it, then, only a dream, Helene?" 
There was nothing but the rustling of the 
chestnut branches to answer his folly. Not an 
other sound. He was half inclined to shut his 
window and go in, well satisfied with the silence, and beginning to feel sleepy. All at once 
from below came a faint laugh, and as he leaned 
out he caught the words: 
"Paris, Helen bids you good-night!" 
"Ah, Belle Helene!" he began, but was cut 
short by the violent opening of a window opposite. 
"Bon dieu de bon dieu!!!" howled an injured 
gentleman. "To sleep is impossible, tas d'imbeciles!" 
And Helena's window closed with a snap. 
CHAPTER II. 
The day broke hot and stifling. The first sun 
beams which chased the fog from bridge and 
street, also drove the mists from the cool thick 
ets of the Luxembourg Garden, and revealed 
groups of dragoons picketed in the shrubbery. 
"Dragoons in the Luxembourg!" cried the 
gamins to each other. "What for?" 
But even the gamins did not know, yet. 
At the great Ateliers of Messieurs Bouguereau 
and Lefebvre the first day of the week is the 
busiest, and so, this being Monday, the studios 
were crowded. 
The heat was suffocating. The walls smeared 
with the refuse of a hundred palettes, fairly sizzled as they gave off a sickly odor of paint and 
turpentine. Only two poses had been com 
pleted, but the tired models stood or sat, glistening with perspiration. The men drew and 
painted, many of them stripped to the waist, 
The air was heavy with tobacco smoke, and the 
respiration of some two hundred students of 
half as many nationalities. 
"Dieu! quel chaleur!" gasped a fat little 
Frenchman, mopping his clipped head and 
breathing hard. 
"Clifford," he inquired in English, "ees eet 
zat you haf a so great a heat chez vous?" 
Clifford glanced up from his easel. "Heat in 
New York? My dear Deschamps, this is nothing." 
The other eyed him suspiciously. 
"You know New York is the capital of Galveston?" said Clifford, slapping on a brush full 
of color and leaning back to look at it. 
The Frenchman didn't know, but he nodded, 
"Well, that's very far south. We suffer, 
yes, we suffer, but our poor poultry suffer 
more." 
"Ze ze pooltree? Wat eez zat?" 
Clifford explained. 
"In summer the fire-engines are detailed to 
throw water on the hens to keep their feathers 
from singeing. Singeing spoils the flavor." 
The Frenchman 
 
"One of our national institutions is the 
Hen's Mutual Fire Insurance Company, supported by the Government," added Clifford. 
Deschamps snorted. 
"That is why," put in Rhodes, lazily dabbing 
at his canvas, "why we seldom have omelets, 
the eggs are so apt to be laid fried." 
"How, zen, does eet make ze chicken?" splut 
tered the Frenchman, his wrath rising. 
"Our chickens are also -" a torrent of bad 
language from Monsieur Deschamps, and a 
howl of execration from all the rest, silenced 
Clifford. 
"It's too hot for that sort of thing," pleaded 
Elliott. 
"Idiot!" muttered the Frenchman, shooting 
ominous glances at the bland youth, who saw 
nothing. 
"C est 1 heure," cried a dozen voices, and the 
tired model stretched his cramped limbs. Clifford 
rose, dropped a piece of charcoal down on his 
neighbor's neck, and stepping across Thaxton's 
easel, walked over to Gethryn. 
"Rex, have you heard the latest?" 
"No." 
"The Ministry has fallen again, and the Place 
de la Concorde is rilled with people yelling,  A 
bas la Republique! Vive le General Boulanger!" 
Gethryn looked serious. Clifford went on, 
speaking low. 
"I saw a troop of cavalry going over this 
morning, and old Forain told me just now that 
the regiments at Versailles were ready to move 
at a minute's notice." 
"I suppose things are lively across the river," 
said Gethryn. 
"Exactly, and we're all going over to see the 
fun. You'll come?" 
"Oh, I'll come. Hello! here's Rhodes; tell 
him." 
Rhodes knew. Ministry fallen. Mob at it 
some more. Been fired on by the soldiers once. 
Pont Neuf and the Arc guarded by cannon. 
Carleton came hurrying up. 
"The French students are loose and raising 
Cain. We're going to assist at the show. Come 
along." 
"No," growled Braith, and looked hard at 
Rex. 
"Qh, come along! We're all going," said 
 
Carleton, "Elliott, Gethryn, the Colossus, Thaxton, Clifford." 
Braith turned sharply to Rex. "Yes, going 
to get your heads smashed by a bullet, or carved 
by a saber. What for? What business is it 
of yours?" 
"Braith thinks he looks like a Prussian, and 
is afraid," mused Clifford. 
"Come on, won't you, Braith?" said Gethryn. 
"Are you going?" 
"Why not?" said the other, uneasily, "and 
why won't you?" 
"No French mob for me," answered Braith, 
quietly. "You fellows had better keep away. 
You don't know what you may get into. I saw 
the siege, and the man who was in Paris in 71 
has seen enough." 
"Oh, this is nothing serious," urged Clifford. 
"If they fire I shall leg it; so will the lordly 
Reginald; so will we all." 
Braith dug his hands into the pockets of his 
velveteens, and shook his head. 
"No," he said, "I've  got some work to do. 
So have you, Rex." 
"Come on, we're off," shouted Thaxton from 
the stairway. 
Clifford seized Gethryn's arm, Elliott and 
Rhodes crowded on behind. A small earthquake 
shock followed as the crowd of students launched 
itself down the. stairs. 
"Braith doesn't approve of my cutting the 
atelier so often," said Gethryn,"and he's right. 
I ought to have stayed." 
"Reggie going to back out?" cooed Clifford. 
"No," said Rex. "Here's Rhodes with a 
cab." 
"It's too hot to walk," gasped Rhodes. "I 
secured this. It was all I could get. Pile in." 
Rex sprang up beside the driver. 
"Aliens!" he cried, "to the Obelisk!" 
"But, monsieur " expostulated the cabby, "it 
is to-day the revolution. I dare not." 
