It was a fact which came out afterwards, that every one of them aimed
at Mazagan, not only because he was the most prominent mark as he stood
in the standing-room, but he was regarded as the biggest villain of the
assailants, and they could shoot him with less compunction than the
Moors in his train. He was the representative of the villain behind the
scenes, and all the mischief seemed to come out of him.
"Stop where you are, or I shall order my men to fire!" shouted Captain
Scott, as soon as the rifles were all aimed at the boat. "Say that in
Arabic to them, Don!"
The engineer translated the warning for the benefit of those who were
back to the Maud, and perhaps did not see the weapons that were pointed
at the boat. But Mazagan could see the six rifles, including the one in
the hands of the captain; and before Don could finish his Arabic
sentence, he had given the order to cease rowing. At least it was
supposed he had done so, for the Moors dropped their oars, some of them
into the water.
The boat's crew were in a panic without any doubt, and Captain Scott was
inclined to feel that "the coon had come down." Mazagan spoke to them in
a savage tone, as though he was reproving them for their cowardice; but
they plainly did not relish the idea of being shot down without being
able to make any resistance, for there was nothing that looked like a
musket to be seen in the boat.
[Illustration: "STOP WHERE YOU ARE OR I SHALL ORDER MY MEN TO FIRE!"
Page 92.]
After his recent experience in Cairo, probably Captain Mazagan was
provided with a revolver; but he did not exhibit it, and in the face of
half a dozen breech-loaders, capable of sending three dozen bullets into
the boat, it would be a piece of useless bravado. It could be seen on
the forecastle of the Maud that the pirate's crew were demoralized. The
Mohammedans are said to be fatalists; and in what they regard as a holy
cause they have no fear of death, for they believe it bears them
directly to paradise. But some of them must have had sense enough to
understand that they were engaged in piracy, and that their heaven did
not open wide its gates to those who fell in the commission of crime.
The boat lost its headway, and became motionless at a distance of twenty
feet from the Maud, with the rifles still pointed at its crew. If the
pirate chief had a revolver in his pocket, this was the time to use it;
but he did not even produce it. He could not help seeing that if he
fired a shot, it would immediately cause half a dozen bullets to be sent
into the boat; and he had good reason to believe that he would himself
be the first victim.
"What are you about?" he demanded in angry tones.
"About to fire if you come any nearer," replied Captain Scott.
"Can't you see that we are unarmed? Do you mean to shoot us down like
dogs?"
"That depends upon you, Captain Mazagan. But you are so very polite
while you act as a pirate, that I think it is proper for me to say,
with your permission, that my crew can fire thirty-six balls without
stopping to load again. If you persist in this business, not one of your
number will ever get on board of the Fatimé again," added the captain of
the Maud, as decided as before; but the politeness of the pirate and
Louis had amused him at such a time, and he was disposed to imitate
them.
"If you mean to murder us all, I cannot help myself just now," howled
Mazagan, furiously mad at the disappointment which had suddenly
overtaken him; and he seemed like an angry child who had been denied a
piece of candy, and resented it with tears and yells.
"All you have to do is to pull back to your ship, and we shall not take
the trouble to follow you," answered Scott. "This difficulty is not of
our seeking."
"I came to you peaceably, unarmed, with a fair proposition"--
"A most impudent and presumptuous proposition!" shouted Captain Scott.
"I have been respectful and polite to you, and you threaten to shoot me
and my men."
"You have plainly announced your intention to take Mr. Belgrave on board
of your steamer by force. Do you call that respectful and polite?"
"But I gave him a polite invitation to take possession of my cabin
without the use of force, and he declined to accept it," argued Captain
Mazagan, somewhat mollified in his tone and manner.
"Which he had a perfect right to do. You proposed to rob him of the sum
of two hundred thousand francs; and you invite him to become a prisoner
on board of your ship in the capacity of a hostage for the payment of
the money of which you propose to rob him."
"What is the use of arguing the question with him, Captain Scott?"
interposed Louis, who retained his place in the ranks. "His position is
absurd, and the fellow is a fool as well as a knave."
"I have distinctly stated that my claim is to be indemnification for the
injury done to my noble master," replied the pirate, in reply to Scott's
last remark. "I do not propose to rob you."
"Call it blackmail then, if you please."
"I do not know what that means."
"Mr. Belgrave has nothing to do with your claim. He has not insulted or
assaulted your ignoble master; and, in United States dialect, you 'have
taken the wrong pig by the ear.' To come back to first principles, I
have nothing more to say," added Captain Scott, as he turned his back to
the claimant.
"I have something more to say," returned Mazagan, bristling up with
anger again. "My boat is unarmed; but I have not come up here without
being prepared to meet you. I wish to be fair and just, and I will state
the truth to you."
"I don't believe you know how to do it!" exclaimed Scott.
"I would not irritate him any more than is necessary," said Louis in a
whisper.
"I have lost all patience with him," replied the captain; and his manner
indicated that he spoke the truth.
"You will find before you have done with me that I can and do speak the
truth, Captain Scott. When I made my first attempt to obtain
satisfaction for my noble master in the Archipelago, I failed because
your large ship was armed with cannon, and she disabled my felucca. When
my noble master offered me the command of the Fatimé, to be used in
carrying out his wishes, I stipulated that she should be armed with two
twelve-pounders, with a supply of ammunition. I may add that I have
served as an officer in the Turkish navy. Now, Captain Scott, I have
nothing more to say from this boat, and the next time I speak it will be
with twelve-pounders; and my last word is that the Fatimé will not go
out of this bay till she leaves with Mr. Belgrave on board of her."
"Adieu!" shouted Scott in mocking tones.
"Do you suppose the villain spoke the truth, Captain?" asked Louis.
"Very likely he did, though he is not in the habit of doing so," replied
Scott, laughing; but he was accustomed to put the best face upon an
awkward situation.
The boat was pulling away from the Maud, and the danger of an attack was
removed for the present. Mazagan appeared to be urging his men to pull
with all their might, and they were doing so. He evidently had a purpose
before him, born of his failure to accomplish anything by his visit to
the Maud.
It seemed to be incredible that this man could be sane and sensible to
make such a proposition as he had put forward; and doubtless it was done
to clothe piracy in a more seemly garb than it usually wears. It was
simply ridiculous on the face of it, with no imaginable foundation for
the preposterous claim advanced.
Mazagan went on board of his steamer, and a few minutes later a cloud of
black smoke began to pour out of her smokestack. Captain Scott had
already ordered Felipe to put his furnaces in order for quick time. At
the indication given of the firing up of the enemy, he went to the
engine-room himself. Don was at work on the fires; and he gave Felipe
directions to get up all the steam possible, and to prepare to run the
Maud at the greatest speed she had ever attained.
Then he went to the pilot-house, and did not appear to be inclined to
talk even with Louis. He went to work upon the chart which included
Khrysoko Bay, called Pifanio on some maps, and studied intently for a
considerable time. It was clear to all on deck that he had something in
his head, and it was believed that he was preparing to meet the boastful
threats of Captain Mazagan.
"Well, my darling, what is to be the next scene in the comedy?" asked
Felix, as he seated himself by Louis in the bow.
"I don't know, Felix; but whatever it may be, Captain Scott is evidently
getting ready to play his part in it," replied Louis, still watching the
captain through the open front windows of the pilot-house.
"They are making the steam sizzle below, and I suppose the captain has
ordered this to be done. By the powers of mud! Do you mind that?"
exclaimed the Milesian, pointing to the Fatimé.
"What of her?"
"Don't you see that she has a gun run out on her port side? She had just
thrown open the port when I spoke," replied Felix.
"Then the pirate spoke the truth for once," added Louis.
"He said the vessel had been armed with two twelve-pounders, and we have
not even one. I suppose she has the other on the starboard side. If she
had half a dozen of those playthings she might do something."
"She may do a deal of mischief with two of them if they are well
handled," suggested Louis.
"She can't use but one of them at once, and she will have to come
entirely about before she can do anything with the other. Her
top-gallant forecastle isn't big enough for them, as the
Guardian-Mother's is for hers. I am not much scared yet, my darling."
"Neither am I, Flix; but I think this is about the tightest place we
have been in since we came across the Atlantic."
"Captain Scott will arrange the affair all right. If I were a
sporting-man, I would bet on him yet," protested Felix.
"But while we are not scared, you know that it is possible for one of
those guns to put a shot through our boiler, rip out the engine, or tear
a big hole in the plates of the Maud," added Louis.
"We can plug the shot-holes--I believe that is what they call it."
"We have not a single one of the old man-of-war's-men of the
Guardian-Mother on board who can tell us what to do in case of
accident."
"But we won't croak, whatever else we do. If we are to be sent to the
bottom of this bay, we will go down with the best grace possible," added
Felix, who was certainly in as good humor as ever he was, in spite of
the brass gun that protruded at the side of the Fatimé. "Do you suppose
Captain Scott knows about that twelve-pounder?"
"He appears to be very busy; and I doubt if he has looked at the enemy
since he went into the pilot-house," replied Louis. "I think I had
better tell him that Mazagan spoke the truth about his guns."
The young men might well have been excused if they had been intimidated
at the situation as it was now presented to them. That the Maud was to
be the mark for the cannon of the enemy looked like a settled fact; but
no one seemed to be at all excited or nervous. It is true that all of
them had been in several fights. They had fought the fishermen in the
Canaries, the smugglers at Gibraltar, the Greek pirates in the
Archipelago, and the brigands at Zante. They had had some experience of
danger, but they had never come into the presence of great guns before.
They were to face these on the present occasion; at least, they were
prepared to do so.
Before Louis could reach the pilot-house, he saw the captain standing at
the wheel, and heard one bell in the engine-room on the gong. It was
evident that he was ready to carry out his plan, whatever it was; for he
was not expected to announce it. Felix observed the Fatimé and her
twelve-pounder, whistling, "Just before the Battle, Mother."
CHAPTER XI
AN EXPEDIENT TO ESCAPE THE ENEMY
Captain Scott had directed Morris to heave up the anchor before he
buried himself in his study of the chart in the pilot-house, and to do
it in such a manner as not to attract the attention of the Fatimé's
people. It was not a very heavy anchor that was required for a craft of
the size of the Maud, and it had been done very easily and quietly.
Louis went into the pilot-house, where the captain was behind the wheel
by this time. He was gazing intently at the conic rock which rose from
the water a cable's length ahead of him, off a point on the main shore.
When he brought the little steamer in to her anchorage in the morning,
the lead had been kept going all the time, and he had noted the
soundings on the log-slate at his side. It was now dead low tide, and
the last sounding had given fifteen feet.
"I suppose you have noticed a change in the appearance of the Fatimé,
Captain Scott," said Louis, as he took his place opposite him.
"What change? I haven't glanced at her. I don't like the looks of her,
for she stirs up bad blood in me. I have been trying to be a saint like
you, Louis, and it is the most difficult enterprise in which I ever
engaged," replied Scott, as he directed his attention to her. "I don't
see any change in her."
"Don't you see that gun sticking out through her bulwark?" asked Louis.
"I see it now, but I had not noticed it before," answered the captain.
"Then Mazagan was not lying when he said that his vessel had been armed
since he took command of her. I suppose I ought to be frightened at the
appearance of that twelve-pounder, poking its muzzle out the side of the
vessel; but somehow I am not a bit scared," said the captain, with a
broader smile on his face than usual.
"But twelve-pound shot are not agreeable missiles to have plumped
through the side of the Maud."
"Perhaps not; but the lively little craft is built of extra strength,
and she can stand a few of them. I am more concerned about the speed of
the Fatimé than I am about her guns. Of course she has another gun on
her starboard side."
"Of course."
"If Mazagan had consulted me in regard to the placing of them, he could
not have arranged them to suit me any better. But her speed is of more
consequence than her guns."
"I judge from that, that you intend to run away from her," suggested
Louis.
"Louis," said Captain Scott, looking at his companion with a very
serious expression for him, "there is a recording angel hovering over
and around me all the time."
"I suppose every fellow has one near him, to make a note of all his
thoughts and actions, though we don't often take notice of his
presence."
"I believe all that, and that we shall be held responsible for all we do
and say, and even for what we think," replied Scott.
"A fellow has to keep a guard over his thoughts, for they are the
foundation of his actions."
"But you are taking a higher flight than I am, Louis, and we will
overhaul your idea some other time, when there are no twelve-pounders
near," interposed the captain, as he glanced at the enemy. "My recording
angel is not one of the sort you are thinking about; though,
metaphorically speaking, I believe in those to whom you allude. If my
winged spirit, so constantly near me at times like the present
especially, were to materialize, he would present the photograph of
Captain Royal Ringgold."
Louis could not help smiling as he imagined the angel described; and he
thought the dignified commander made a rather odd-looking ethereal
being.
"I am not making fun of the idea, Louis; the commander seems to be close
aboard of me when there is any doubtful question to be decided by me as
captain of this craft," continued Scott. "He is looking at me, and
writing down all I do and say, ready to hold me responsible for
everything when I meet him again. He is bigger and more present, so to
speak, just now than ever before. If he knew the situation here at the
present moment, it would half worry the life out of him, though he would
be as dignified as ever."
"You have made a picture of your sense of responsibility; and I am glad
you feel it so keenly," added Louis.
"This is a tight place for a young fellow like me, and I want to do my
duty faithfully. If I should follow out my natural, inborn inclination,
I should pitch into the Fatimé, and open fire upon her officers and crew
with all the rifles and revolvers we could muster. But I don't do that
sort of thing now. I am not the same fellow I was when I came on board
of the Guardian-Mother. Now I shall run away if I get a chance to do
so."
"I think you are wise, Captain Scott," added Louis.
"Whatever my recording angel sets down for or against me, he shall not
write that I tried to get into a fight with that pirate," said the
captain with a great deal of emphasis.
"You know something about her speed, for we had a little trial of it in
the Strait of Gibraltar."
"We did not beat her in a straight run, and we escaped from her by
manoeuvring and the aid of shoal water," the captain explained. "I
depend upon the same kind of assistance to get out of the present
scrape."
"Then you have a plan in your mind, Captain Scott?" asked Louis.
"I have. I shall do the best I can to get away from the pirate; but we
may not succeed. I have no plan of this bay, only the general chart, on
which but a few soundings are given. We may be driven into a corner
where we shall have to see what virtue there is in our firearms, though
I hope not."
"If we are compelled to fight, I am confident that every fellow on board
will stand by you. I shall for one; for I heartily approve the platform
on which you stand, Captain Scott," said Louis, giving him his hand.
"I thank you, Louis, with all my heart. You make me stronger than I was
before," replied Scott, as he took the offered hand, and warmly pressed
it.
The Maud was going ahead at only half speed, blowing off her extra
steam; for she was in condition to make the best effort of her
existence. Morris and Felix were at the bow, wondering what those in the
pilot-house found to talk about so long. The water was extremely clear,
as they had seen it in the Bahamas, and they were watching the bottom,
composed entirely of rocks. Morris occasionally thrust down a
long-handled boathook whose length he had measured, and it gave him
thirteen feet about every time.
With her bunkers full of coal as they had been when she left Alexandria,
the Maud drew twelve feet of water, and by this time she had reduced it
six inches. She was approaching the shore, and she could not continue
