where he had been so well treated, and whose be- 
reavement he could have prevented if he had taken 
the trouble ; for there seemed to be no doubt but 
that he was a very distinguished healer. 
Jesus entered into conversation with no one, but 
stood silently, looked so troubled that his disciples 
felt discouraged. "What did it all mean ? How 
would he defend himself when people called him a 
craven or a faithless friend? Why had he let it 
happen as he had ? Why ? Why ? Why ? 
The old, unanswered question faltered to their 
lips, and worried their hearts. Their minds found 
no reply to it. 
At last one of them plucked his robe, and whis- 
pered to him that Martha was coming. Jesus raised 
his eyes, it seemed reluctantly, to meet hers. He 
was prepared for any reproaches. 
But, upon the first glance at her, his whole expres- 
sion changed. Hers was subdued, affectionate. The 
voluble housewife, touched by grief, had acquired 
a dignity and a gentleness which made another 
woman of her. Her demeanor was self-possessed. 
Her voice was controlled. Her eye met his frankly. 
No veiled reproof was in it] scarcely a question 
troubled it. It trusted him. 
" Lord," she said affectionately, " if thou hadst 
been here" She choked and stopped, but col- 
lected herself bravely. "My brother would not 
280 THE STORY OF JESUS CHKIST 
have died," she added. " But I know that even 
now, whatsoever thou shalt ask of God " 
" He shall rise again," replied Jesus quickly. He 
was plainly more moved by the confidence of the 
family than he could have been if he had been 
covered with the hottest reproaches of grief and of 
disappointed friendship. He seemed anxious now to 
meet Martha on her own ground, and to interpret 
the inexplicable position in which he had placed 
himself. 
"Yes, Lord, I know. At the last day," said 
Martha drearily. 
Jesus lifted his face, his clasped hands parted and 
outstretched above the weeping woman's head. The 
by-standers had ceased to whisper. Evening was 
coming on. The light was low. The air was quiet. 
Clearly through the stillness arose the voice of the 
Nazarene, uttering for the first time the great words 
that have thrilled the mourners of the world for 
two thousand years, from the wail of that anguish 
to the cry of our own, and which will be uttered in 
triumph till the burial hour of death itself shall 
strike : " I am the JBesurrection and the Life. He 
that believeth on me, though he were dead . . . shall 
live." , . . 
Mary was not like Martha. She could not go 
hurrying out among all the neighbors. Her heart 
was breaking. She could not speak. She would 
answer no questions. She was crushed by the aston- 
ished despair which begins when the first excitement 
of the burial is past. She was lying tearless, dcso- 
THE MOUNTAIN: AND THE TOMB 281 
late, comfortless, when Martha came back for her. 
The superior will of the elder sister could not do 
much with the grief of Mary. The gentle mourner 
had developed the unexpected decision which suffer- 
ing gives sometimes to the docile, Mary shook her 
head when Martha, in considerable excitement, took 
her by the hand, indicating that they were to go 
forth together, and at once. 
" But the Rabbi calls for you," urged Martha, 
with some of the impatience which the stronger feels 
for the weaker sufferer. 
Mary arose without a word, veiled herself, and 
went out. 
Now Jesus dreaded this meeting with Maiy ; she 
would make it harder than the elder sister had. She 
was so sensitive, so dependent ; her nature was all 
love ; Lazarus had been her idol. They had been 
nearer of an age than he and Martha ; they were 
playmates in their little years and confidants in their 
larger ones. Mary was very dear to Jesus. Her 
high-minded nature, her thoughtfulness, her delicacy, 
her essential womanliness appealed to him. And 
Mary had trusted him ; he remembered how much ! 
Bereaved o her brother, bereaved of her friend- 
ship, shaken of her belief in everything that had 
made the Rabbi precious and grand to her, could 
she trust him still ? > She had not the force of will 
for it. But she had the force of love for it. One 
look into her delicate, haggard face told him that. 
In spite of everything that had happened, she trusted 
him utterly. This was the kind of trust for which 
he sought all his life. Where had he found it before ? 
282 THE STOUT OF JESUS CHRIST 
" If thou hadst been here," she began, in Martha's 
very words, " he had not died, he had not died ! " 
But there she faltered and broke quite down ; and 
the poor girl sobbed so piteously that the coldest 
eye iii the crowd softened, and many a neighbor 
turned his face away. Mary had thrown herself 
upon the ground at the healer's feet ; her lips and 
her tears touched them. His face worked ; he was 
greatly moved ; it seemed as if he could not bear to 
look at her. 
Suddenly the by-standers heard a heart-breaking 
sound. It was the groan of a strong and sensitive 
man, who has repressed the expression of grief till 
it has revolted against him, and will obey him no 
longer. 
The Nazarene was weeping. 
Lazarus had lain in his elaborate tomb three days ; 
being four days dead. It was the fancy of his people 
to believe that the spirit clung to the flesh until 
such time, when it parted therefrom forever ; and 
the laws that govern the insensate body when de- 
prived of its lord, the soul, should, as a consequence, 
begin to act without hindrance. 
The tomb of Lazarus was by the wayside, carved 
into the limestone of the hill on which the village 
was built. It was, in fact, a spacious cave running 
deep into the rock ; one descended into it by many 
steps ; it was protected by a heavy, movable slab. 
The silver foliage of olive-trees softened the scenery 
above it ; flowering vines hung over the fagade of the 
vault, and everything that wealth and family defer- 
THE MOmSTTAEST : AND THE TOMB 283 
ence knew how to do had signalized it ; but there 
was nothing cheerful about it. The Hebrew grave 
knew not the hopes of a happier f aith", and little of 
the delicacies of modern feeling. Lazarus was dead. 
He was buried. There was no more to be said. He 
was locked back into the cells of the earth's ancient 
prison, and despair, the jailer, held the keys. 
" Where have you laid him ? " the healer had 
asked, in a voice almost inaudible from grief. 
Some one had silently pointed in the direction of 
the family burial place. 
Some one else had said : 
" See ! How much he loved him ! " 
Whispering and muttering, the collection of peo- 
ple, which was now large for a village crowd, had 
followed the Rabbi, his disciples, and the bereaved 
family. The outside mourners hastened to swell 
the number. As they approached the tomb, they 
began to wail aloud officiously. This seemed to 
trouble the Nazarene ; and one of the twelve tried 
to hush the dreary sounds. 
The sun was now declining fast. The evening 
was cool. The sky was a deep, palpitating blue, 
brushed with rose, that had taken on the form of 
a great wing, extending almost from west to east. 
This was an unusual effect, and attracted attention. 
Shadows were already beginning to dream among 
the olive-trees. The air was remarkably stilL Not 
a leaf stirred. There was no more breath in the 
wind than there was life behind the stone that locked 
the cavern. The living themselves felt suffocated. 
Respiration seemed to be ceasing in the world. 
284 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
Jesus stood alone, apart from his friends. He 
and the tomb faced each other. He regarded it 
steadily. The sepulchre seemed to frown. The 
wing of rose-color in the skies deepened slightly. 
The tint was reflected upon the white robe of Jesus. 
His hands were clasped so tightly that they seemed 
welded together ; and his fingers darkened towards 
their tips, where the circulation was checked. The 
features of his face were rigid. He observed no one. 
No man dared address him. 
What thoughts, incommunicable, incomprehensi- 
ble, traversed the solitary corridors of his mind? 
The supreme deed of his life lay before him. What 
if he failed in it ? What had he staked- on it ? His 
reputation for common, human gratitude and loyalty 
to friendship was precious to him. His fame as a 
compassionate healer had its noble value. If these 
went, what should he leave ? The memory of a man 
who had preached great truths and neglected prac- 
tical virtues, a prospect peculiarly abhorrent to 
him. But if these went, what else would go with 
them ? What grander name, what more transcend- 
ent claim ? If the events of the next half hour did 
not verify the most solemn, the most mysterious 
assumptions of his history, what would be lost ? The 
hopes, the ideals, the future of one heart-broken 
man ? Nay ; the hopes, the ideals, the future of a 
world. For thus he did believe. " I am the Resur- 
rection," he had said ; " I am the Life." 
The moment was so critical that he covered his 
face with his hands, that no man might see its exi- 
gency. But all men felt that he was praying. 
THE MOUNTAIN: AND THE TOMB 285 
When Jesus lifted his face, the people fell back. 
The stillness without was as deep as that within the 
tomb. He pointed to the stone. 
" Roll it away ! " he commanded. 
Recoiling hands obeyed him. Ghastly fear had 
settled upon the spectators. Many of them would 
have escaped the scene if they liad found themselves 
able to stir. 
Jesus advanced slowly. He had grown very pale. 
Otherwise he showed no agitation. He treated the 
tomb authoritatively. He had the aspect of a king 
about to overthrow a great foe. 
" Lazarus f " 
Something in the accent laid upon this single 
word shook the souls of those who heard it. Could 
a dead man hear ? Should the buried answer ? Je- 
sus bent as if he would have entered the place of 
burial. 
"Lazarus! COME FORTH!" 
The shuddering breaths of the people could be 
distinctly heard. For a moment there was no other 
answer to this awful summons. Then the sepulchre 
rjied. She yielded hard. Centuries crowded 
those moments. Dusk was deepening. Within the 
house of death it was quite dark. . . . 
Are we sane men or delirious ? We are too many 
to be mad ! Cling together ! Close up, shoulder 
to shoulder. Take courage and reason from one 
another's eyes. For what, in God's name, do we 
see? . . . 
Stooping to pass through the low door of the 
tomb, the outlines of a fearful figure stirred. 
286 THE STOKY OF JESUS CHRIST 
Lazarus, four days a dead man, hindered by his 
grave-clothes, moved with difficulty. He slowly 
raised himself upright, walked out a few steps, stood 
bewildered among all the people, and solemnly re- 
garded the Nazarene. 
CHAPTER 
INTO JERUSALEM 
WHAT was to be said ? Jerusalem and lier sub- 
urbs trembled with wonder and dismay. The as- 
tounding story admitted of no qualifying interpre- 
tation. It must be accepted or rejected altogether. 
It soon became evident that rejection was impossible. 
Lazarus had been a live man a week ago. Dead, 
and four days buried yesterday, he was alive to-day. 
It was only necessary to visit Bethany and see for 
one's self. Hundreds hurried, gaping, to the spot. 
Curiosity inundated the village. His house was be- 
sieged. It was only a matter of hours before the 
incredible facts were dashed into the face of the 
church. The governing authorities took fright. 
The Sanhedrin was hastily convened. The case of 
the Jewish nation against Jesus of Nazareth was 
formally opened that very Friday, within twenty- 
four hours after Lazarus had emerged from his 
tomb, and stood staring amid the flowers, in the 
approach of night, among the appalled and silent 
witnesses of the inconceivable truth. 
Strictly speaking, the preliminaries to the arrest 
of the great heretic were all illegal. The Sanhedrin 
had no civil or criminal jurisdiction, except by the 
mercy of Home, and the hastiness of their procedure 
288 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
was in itself irregular. But all formalities, ecclesi- 
astical, civic, or humane, were distorted by one mad 
thrust. Lazarus had come out of his grave, how, 
who could pretend to explain ? But he was out, and 
the Nazarene had done the deed. The people were 
frenzied with the thrill of it. They were massing 
from all quarters to rally about Jesus. The cry, 
"Messiah! the Messiah!" rang through capital 
and countryside. 
Pharisees and Sadducees, priests and scribes, stood 
quaking. The greatest insurrection of Hebrew re- 
cord seemed to be upon them. It would be no insig- 
nificant riot if this terrible Rabbi should lift a finger 
to enforce his royal claims. Then Rome would stir. 
Her legions would awake. Her awful force would 
roll upon the rebels. The Temple, the nation, would 
be ground to dust that a wind might blow away. 
And whose fault that? His, all his ; this rustic 
pretender's, this indomitable preacher's, this scan- 
dalous heretic's I The venom against Jesus, always 
sullenly lurking among the religious classes, now 
developed into sudden rabies. One of those pas- 
sionate ecclesiastical hatreds which challenge all 
other forms of rage swept through the Sanhedrin. 
In the uproar of indecision, all united only in 
fearing and abhorring the Nazarene, no two agreed 
as to what should be done to him, the cold voice 
of the chief ecclesiastical officer was heard. 
Joseph Caiaphas, being High-priest of the Jewish 
nation, and forever to be known by this deed that 
he did, arose and adroitly put the case. In a few 
cynical words, sedulously adapted to inflame the 
INTO JERUSALEM 289 
animosity and alarm of the Sanhedrin, he brought 
it to his will. The sinister suggestion, that here was 
one man's life against the life of a nation, was 
enough. A glow of what was called patriotism suf- 
fused the convention. Jesus of Nazareth was hotly 
indicted as a criminal subject to the death penalty. 
In Jerusalem what restlessness, what malice ! In 
Bethany what happiness, what peace ! 
Jesus had done one of the bravest deeds of his 
life. He had gone straight from the opened sepul- 
