"He said he was a tourist, and wished to spend a few months in America."
The widow brightened up. This seemed to indicate that he was a man of
means.
Prof. Poppendorf did not seem to share in the interest felt in the
Count.
"I do not like Italians," he said. "They are light, frivolous; they are
not solid like the Germans."
"The Professor is solid enough," said Mrs. Wyman, with a titter.
This could not be gainsaid, for the learned German certainly tipped the
scales at over two hundred pounds. There was a strong suspicion that he
imbibed copious potations of the liquid so dear to his countrymen,
though he never drank it at table.
"The poor man is jealous," continued Mrs. Wyman, making the remark in a
low tone for my private hearing. "He thinks we won't notice him after
the Count comes."
This might be true, for Prof. Poppendorf was our star boarder. He was
not supposed to be rich, but his title of Professor and his ancient
intimacy with Bismarck, gave him a prestige among us all. When he first
came Mrs. Wyman tried her blandishments upon him, but with indifferent
success. Not that the grizzled veteran was too old for the tender
passion, as we were soon to learn, but because he did not appreciate the
coquettish ways of the widow, whom he considered of too light calibre
for his taste.
"Don't you think the Professor very homely?" asked Mrs. Wyman, in a
confidential whisper.
"He certainly is not handsome," I answered. "Neither is Bismarck."
"True, but he is a great man."
"We should respect him on account of his learning--probably much more so
than the Count whom we are expecting."
"That may be. We don't expect noblemen to be learned," said the widow,
disdainfully.
Immediately after breakfast she began to sound Mrs. Gray about the
Count.
"When did he apply for board?" she asked.
"Yesterday afternoon about four o'clock."
"Had he heard of you? What led him here?"
"I think he saw the sign I had out."
"I should have supposed he would prefer a hotel."
"He's staying at a hotel now."
"Did he say at what hotel? Was it the Fifth Avenue?"
"He did not say. He will move here early this afternoon."
"And what room will he have?"
"The back room on the third floor--the one Mr. Bates had."
"I should hardly think that room would satisfy a nobleman."
"Why not? Is it not clean and neat?"
"Undoubtedly, dear Mrs. Gray, but you must admit that it is not stylish,
and it is small."
"It is of the same size as the Professor's."
"Ah, the Professor! He is not a man of elegant tastes. I once looked
into his room. It smells so strong of tobacco, I could not stay in there
ten minutes without feeling sick."
"I think the Count smokes."
"Perhaps he does, but he wouldn't smoke a dirty clay pipe. I can imagine
him with a dainty cigarette between his closed lips. But, Mrs. Gray, I
am going to ask you a great favor."
"What is it?"
"Let me sit beside the Count. I wish to make his acquaintance. He will
be reserved and silent with most of the boarders. I will try to make him
feel at home."
"I thought you wished to sit beside Dr. Fenwick."
"So I did, but he and I are friends, and he won't mind my changing my
seat."
When I came to supper that evening I was not wholly surprised to find
myself removed to the opposite side of the table, but this I did not
regret when I found that I was now next neighbor to the Disagreeable
Woman.
In my old seat there was a slender young man of middle height, with dark
eyes and hair. Mrs. Wyman had already established herself in
confidential relations with him, and was conversing with him in a low
tone.
"I suppose that is the Count," I remarked.
"At any rate he calls himself so. He has deprived you of your seat."
"Not only that but Mrs. Wyman has transferred her attentions to him."
"Doubtless to your regret?"
"Well, I don't know."
"She is scarcely off with the old love before she is on with the new,"
quoted Miss Blagden, with an approach to a smile.
"Perhaps you will console me," I ventured to suggest.
"I can't compete with Mrs. Wyman in her special line."
"I quite believe that," I said, smiling.
After supper the widow fluttered up to me.
"The Count is charming," she said, with enthusiasm. "He has a large
estate in the South of Italy. He has come here to see the country and
get acquainted with the people, and he may write a book."
"He doesn't seem overstocked with brains," observed the Disagreeable
Woman. But Mrs. Wyman had fluttered away and did not hear her.
CHAPTER VII.
MACY'S.
One day I dropped in at Macy's. I wished to make some trifling purchase.
Possibly I could have bought to equal advantage elsewhere, but I was
curious to see this great emporium. Years before, I had heard of it in
my country home, and even then I knew just where it was located, at the
corner of Fourteenth Street and Sixth Avenue.
Curious as I had been about the place, I had actually spent three months
in New York and had not visited it. It was something of a shock to me
when I first learned there was no Macy, that the original proprietor had
vanished from the stage and left his famous shop in charge of men of
alien race and name. Macy had become nominis umbra--the shadow of a
name. Yet the name had been wisely retained. Under no other name could
the great store have retained its ancient and well-earned popularity.
I made my purchase--it was trifling and did not materially swell the
day's receipts--and began to walk slowly about the store, taking a
leisurely survey of the infinite variety of goods which it offered to
the prospective purchaser.
As I was making my leisurely round, all at once I heard my name called
in a low but distinct tone.
"Dr. Fenwick!"
I turned quickly, and behind the handkerchief counter I saw the young
woman from Macy's, whose pleasant face I had seen so often at our table.
She nodded and smiled, and I instantly went up to the counter.
I was sensible that I must not take up the time of one of the
salesladies--I believe that the genteel designation of this
class--without some pretense of business, so, after greeting Ruth Canby,
I said:
"You may show me some of your handkerchiefs, please."
"Do you wish something nice?" she asked.
"I wish something cheap," I answered. "It doesn't matter much what a
forlorn bachelor uses."
"You may not always be a bachelor," said Ruth, with a suggestive smile.
"I must get better established in my profession before I assume new
responsibilities."
"These handkerchiefs are ten cents, Dr. Fenwick," said Ruth, showing a
fair article.
"I think I can go a little higher."
"And these are fifteen. They are nearly all linen."
"I will buy a couple to try," I said, by way of excusing my small
purchase.
The young lady called "Cash," and soon a small girl was carrying the
handkerchiefs and a fifty cent piece to the cashier. This left me five
minutes for conversation, as no other customer was at hand.
"So you are in the handkerchief department?" I remarked, by way of
starting a conversation.
"Yes."
"Do you like it?"
"I should prefer the book department. That is up-stairs, on the second
floor. My tastes are litery."
I am sure this was the word Ruth used. I was not disposed to criticise,
however, only I wondered mildly how it happened that a young woman of
literary tastes should make such a mistake.
"I suppose you are fond of reading?"
"Oh, yes, I have read considerable."
"What, for instance?"
"I have read one of Cooper's novels, I disremember the name, and the
Gunmaker of Moscow, by Sylvanus Cobb, and Poe's Tales, but I didn't
like them much, they are so queer, and--and ever so many others."
"I see you are quite a reader."
"I should read more and find out more about books if I was in the book
department. A friend of mine--Mary Ann Toner--is up there, and she knows
a lot about books and authors."
"Do any authors ever come in here, or rather to the book department?"
"Yes; Mary Ann told me that there was a lady with long ringlets who
wrote for the story papers who came in often. She had had two books
published, and always inquired how they sold."
"Do you remember her name?"
"No, I disremember."
I should like to have given her a hint that this word is hardly
accounted correct, but I suspected that if I undertook to correct Miss
Canby's English I should have my hands full.
"Do you think you stand a chance to get into the book department?"
"Mary Ann has agreed to speak for me when there is a vacancy. Do you
often come into Macy's, Dr. Fenwick?"
"This is my first visit."
"You don't mean it? I thought everybody came to Macy's at least once a
month."
"Truly it looks like it," said I, looking about and noting the crowds of
customers.
"I hope you'll come again soon," said Ruth, as she turned to wait upon a
lady.
"I certainly will, Miss Canby. And it won't be altogether to buy goods."
Ruth looked gratified and smiled her appreciation of the compliment.
Certainly she looked comely and attractive with her rather high-colored
country face, and I should have been excusable, being a bachelor, in
letting my eyes rest complacently upon her rustic charms. But I was
heart-proof so far as Ruth was concerned, I could not think of seeking
a litery wife. No, she was meant for some honest but uncultured young
man, whose tastes and education were commensurate with hers. And yet, as
I afterwards found, Ruth had made an impression in a quarter quite
unexpected.
I was not in search of a wife. It would have been the height of
imprudence for me, with my small income and precarious prospects, to
think of setting up a home and a family in this great, expensive city.
Yet, had it been otherwise, perhaps Ruth would have made me a better
wife than some graduate of a fashionable young ladies' seminary with her
smattering of French, and superficial knowledge of the various ologies
taught in high-class schools. The young woman from Macy's, though she
probably knew nothing of political economy, was doubtless skilled in
household economy and able to cook a dinner, as in all probability my
wife would find it necessary to do.
As we entered the room at supper, Miss Canby smiled upon me pleasantly.
"I hope you are pleased with your handkerchiefs, Dr. Fenwick."
"I have not had occasion to use them as yet, thank you."
"Aha, what is that?" asked Prof. Poppendorf, who was just behind us.
"Dr. Fenwick called to see me at Macy's," answered Ruth.
Prof. Poppendorf frowned a little, as if not approving the visit.
"Do you have gentlemen call upon you at Macy's, Mees Ruth?" he asked.
"Only when they wish to buy articles," said Ruth, smiling and blushing.
"What do you sell, Mees Ruth?"
"Handkerchiefs, Professor."
"Do you have any like this?" and he pulled out a large red silk
handkerchief.
"No, I have only white linen handkerchiefs."
"I haf never use any but red ones, but I might come in and see what you
have."
"I shall be glad to show you what I have, Professor."
Prof. Poppendorf was soon engaged in the discussion of dinner. He had a
good German appetite which never failed. He seldom talked much during a
meal, as it would interfere with more important business.
Now that I had changed my place at the table, I sat on one side of the
Disagreeable Woman, and Ruth Canby on the other. Next to Ruth sat the
Professor, but for the reason already stated, he was not a social
companion.
Just opposite sat Mrs. Wyman and Count Penelli. So far as I could judge,
he was a quiet young man, and had very little to say for himself. Mrs.
Wyman, however, kept plying him with questions and remarks, and did her
best to appear on terms of intimate acquaintance with him. Some
fragments of her conversation floated across the table.
"You have no idea, Count, how I long to visit Italy, your dear
country."
"It is ver' nice," he said, vaguely.
"Nice? It must be lovely. Have you ever seen the Bay of Naples?"
"Oh, si, signora, many times."
"It is charming, is it not?"
"Si, signora, it is beautiful."
"And the Italian ladies, I have heard so much of them."
"I like ze American ladies better."
"Do you, indeed, Count? How gratifying! When do you expect to return to
Italy?"
"I do not know--some time."
"I hope it will not be for a long time. We should miss you so much."
"The signora is very kind."
This will do for a sample of the conversation between the Count and the
widow. Though several years his senior, it looked as if she was bent on
making a conquest of the young nobleman.
CHAPTER VIII.
THE PROFESSOR IN LOVE.
I was sitting in my office one morning waiting for patients, much of my
time was passed in this way, very often I waited in vain. The modest
sign which I was allowed to put on the outside of the house,
     DR. JAMES FENWICK
didn't seem to attract attention. Of the little practise I had, at least
a third was gratuitous. Yet I was expected to pay my bills, and when my
little stock of money was exhausted there seemed a doubt as to whether
the bills would be paid at all.
One day I was summoned to a house where a child of three was struggling
with croup. It was a serious case, and I gave up my time to the case.
After several hours I succeeded in bringing the child round and
pronouncing her out of danger.
When I sent in my bill, the mother said:
"Dr. Fenwick, Mary is but three years old."
"Indeed!" I returned.
I failed to understand why I should be informed of this fact.
"And," continued the mother, "I don't think any charge ought to be made
for a child so young."
I was fairly struck dumb with amazement at first.
Then I said, "The age of the patient has nothing to do with a
physician's charges. Where did you get such an extraordinary idea?"
"I don't have to pay for her on the horse-cars."
"Madam," I said, provoked, "I will not argue with you. You ought to know
that no physician treats children free. If you were very poor, and lived
in a tenement house, I might make some discount, or leave off the charge
altogether."
"But I don't live in a tenement house," objected the lady, angrily.
"No; you have the appearance of being very well to do. I must distinctly
decline abating my charge."
"Then, Dr. Fenwick," said the mother, stiffly, "I shall not employ you
again."
"That is as you please, madam."
This seemed to me exceptionally mean, but doctors see a good deal of the
mean side of human nature. Rich men with large incomes keep them out of
their pay for a long time, sometimes where their lives depended on the
physician's skill and fidelity. Oftentimes I have been so disgusted
with the meanness of my patients, that I have regretted not choosing a
different profession. Of course there is a different side to the
picture, and gratitude and appreciation are to be found, as well as the
opposite qualities.
I had been waiting a long time without a patient, when a shuffling sound
was heard on the stairs, and a heavy step approaching the door.
Next came a knock.
Instead of calling out, "Come in!" I was so pleased at the prospect of a
patient, that I rose from my seat and opened the door, myself.
I started back in surprise. For in the heavy, lumbering figure of the
new arrival I recognized Prof. Poppendorf.
"Prof. Poppendorf!" I exclaimed.
"Ja, doctor, it is I. May I come in?"
"Certainly."
Supposing that he had come to consult me on the subject of his health, I
began to wonder from what disease he was suffering. Remembering his
achievements at the table I fancied it might be dyspepsia.
The Professor entered the room, and sank into an armchair, which he
quite filled from side to side.
"I suppose you are surprised to see me, Herr Doctor," began the
Professor.
"Oh, no. I am never surprised to see anybody. I had not supposed you
were sick."
"Sick! Oh, no, I'm all right. I eat well and I sleep well. What should
be the matter with me?"
"I am glad to hear such good reports of you."
Was I quite sincere? I am afraid it was a disappointment to learn that
my supposed patient was in no need of advice.
"Ja, I am well. I was never better, thank God!"
