Warren. "I heard something said about sending them on a reconnoissance
when Captain Woodbine dismissed the riflemen. Where is the company now,
Cuffy?"
"Dey done halt behind dat hill, and send two men to de top ob it,"
replied the ferryman, who was quite cool by this time.
"Here comes the governor; and he will be glad to hear Cuffy's news,"
added the chief of artillery. "We shall be able to drive the brigands
off now."
"Drive them off!" exclaimed Deck. "I hope we shall be able to do
something better than that."
"What better than that can we do?" asked Warren.
"Do you want to put them in condition to raid the next plantation, and
hang the owner if he won't give up his money by to-morrow?"
Colonel Hickman came into the fort, and his son promptly gave him the
welcome news. He added that Lieutenant Lyon had some views of his own
in regard to the situation, and did not believe in simply driving the
enemy away.
"I should be glad to hear your views, Lieutenant," said the planter,
turning to the young officer.
"Of course the major or captain in command of the cavalry does not know
the country in this vicinity, though Cuffy says men have been sent to
the top of the hill to obtain information," said Deck. "But they can
see nothing, for there is another and higher hill between them and the
enemy. With your permission, Sergeant Fronklyn and myself will join our
company if they are in the road. Perhaps the entire squadron is there."
"What is your plan, Lieutenant?" asked the colonel, a little impatient
in his manner.
"We ought to capture every one of that gang; and it can be easily
done."
"How?"
"I don't know who is in command of the force; but I should suggest to
him to send half of his command to a position under cover of the hill
nearest to the road, and the other half around the north end of the
same hill," replied Deck earnestly. "We shall have them between the
jaws of a vise then!"
"Excellent, Lieutenant!" exclaimed the colonel. "The coming of this
force is a godsend to us. You and the sergeant can go at once; but you
must both have better horses than those old stags the runaways left."
The planter selected two of his best animals for them; and they
galloped across the field to the road. As they approached the
Riverlawns they were recognized, and a hearty cheer welcomed them.
CHAPTER XXXII
DECK LYON'S PLAN OF BATTLE
Lieutenant Lyon soon ascertained that the force in the road included
the two companies of the squadron. The cheers of those who were on the
right of the column brought Major Lyon and Captain Woodbine to the
front; and as soon as they learned the cause of the cheering they rode
forward to meet the returning wanderers.
"I am glad to see you again, Dexter," said the major, as he extended
his hand to his son.
"I am just as glad to see you, father," replied Deck, returning the
hearty pressure of the hand.
Sergeant Fronklyn was greeted in the same manner, and heartily welcomed
by the commander of the battalion. The staff-officer had halted a
couple of rods behind the major, to permit the father and son to meet
without being observed.
"You come back as from the grave, or a Confederate prison," said the
major, still holding the hand of his son, and betraying more emotion
than he was in the habit of manifesting.
"I have been neither in a grave nor a prison," answered the lieutenant
very cheerfully.
"We concluded that you had been either killed or captured; and I am
rejoiced to see you again alive and apparently well."
"I am as well as I ever was in my life; but we must not stop to talk
now, father, for the services of your command are greatly needed in
this vicinity," said Deck.
"Where?" demanded the major, releasing his son's hand, and beckoning to
the staff-officer, who immediately rode to the spot.
"I am very glad to see you again, Lieutenant Lyon," said Captain
Woodbine, grasping the hand of the young officer. "We feared that you
were a prisoner, or that something worse had happened to you."
"But Dexter tells me that my force is needed here, Captain Woodbine,"
interposed the major; "and we must hear his story at some other time.
Where are we needed, my son?"
"On a hill a mile from here is the mansion of Colonel Hickman," replied
Deck, pointing in the direction of the house. "Part of a gang of
guerillas have been in possession of it all the morning, and threatened
to hang the owner if he did not give up his money."
"It is the old story," added the major.
"But we have shot all but one or two who were in the mansion; and the
rest of the gang, twenty-four of them the servants say, are now
approaching the hill," continued Deck.
"Then we will not remain here another moment. I sent Knox and Sluder to
the top of the nearest hill to make an observation," said the major.
"They cannot see the ruffians, for there is another hill that conceals
them," Deck interposed. "I know the lay of the land here, and if you
will allow me to give advice which is not asked for I will do so."
"Certainly!" exclaimed the staff-officer, who was the superior of the
major. "State your plan at once, Lieutenant."
"By this time Captain Grundy, the leader of the gang, has joined his
force. They are advancing by a private road from Millersville," Deck
explained. "Colonel Hickman has two field-pieces behind a breastwork,
and a few riflemen; and he is ready to give the ruffians a warm
reception, though the enemy are four to his one. My advice is that the
second company march towards the mansion, with Sergeant Fronklyn as
guide, and halt under cover of the hill nearest to the private road.
Let the first company march in the opposite direction, with me as
guide, and halt behind another hill near the private road."
"Very good!" exclaimed the major. "That is all clear enough; and the
plan is to put the enemy between the jaws of a vise."
"That is just what I said to Colonel Hickman when I explained the plan
to him," added Deck.
The major led the way up to the main body of the troopers. While the
commander was giving his orders to the two captains of the companies,
the two sergeants returned from the hill, and reported that nothing was
to be seen in any direction, for the view was obstructed by other
hills. When Knox had made his report he happened to see Deck. He rushed
upon him, grasped him in his arms, and lifted him from the ground as
though he had been a baby, hugging him in a transport of rapture, to
the great amusement of officers and soldiers.
"I was afeared you had gone where you couldn't hear the bugle-call,
littl' un, and I bless the Lord with all my might that you ain't food
for the worms or the crows," said the big Kentuckian fervently. "You
oughtn't to gone off without me; but I reckon"--
"That will do for now, Sergeant Knox!" shouted Captain Gordon. "We have
no time for long stories. Attention--company!"
As Deck rode to his place at the head of the second platoon, Captain
Gordon and Lieutenant Belthorpe grasped his hand, and spoke a word of
welcome to him. The men in the ranks greeted him with pleasant words.
The first company countermarched; and as the captain came to the
position of the second lieutenant, he directed him to march at his side
in his capacity as guide. Fronklyn took a similar position at the side
of Captain Truman, and both companies moved as the guides directed.
"You have had a hard time of it, Deck," said Captain Gordon as they
left the road and entered the field.
"Not very, Captain. Both Fronklyn and myself were knocked from our
horses; and it would have been all up with me if the sergeant had not
dragged me out of the mêlée. But I was only stunned by the flat
side of a sabre, as Fronklyn was by a pistol-bullet," Deck explained.
"But you were within the breastworks of the enemy?"
"We were, forced in by the crowd of runaways from the battle-field. We
both came to our senses, kept out of sight for a while, then took
possession of a boat astern of a steamer, and floated down the
Cumberland to Robertsport, or a little farther, and got ashore. I
haven't time to tell the whole story. Three sons of Colonel Hickman
were with Captain Ripley's riflemen; and with them we met the colonel.
We cleaned out the robbers from his mansion. I think we had better halt
here, Captain Gordon, and do a little scouting."
The suggestion was promptly adopted, and the company came to a halt
just at the foot of the first hill. Deck and Knox were sent to the top
of the next hill on foot, both armed with carbines. There were trees
and bushes on the summit, but not on the sides, of the elevation. They
took a position in the shelter of this growth, but the guerillas were
not yet in sight. They must have halted for some time; and Deck
conjectured that Captain Grundy must have joined them, and had taken
the time to tell his story.
"I see nothing of them yet, Life," said the lieutenant, after he had
surveyed the country in all directions.
"Which way they comin', Deck?" asked the sergeant.
"You can see the road across the fields at the foot of this hill. I
think the first company is in the right position where it is now," said
the lieutenant. "The second company will halt under cover of the same
hill. Neither of them can be seen from that road till the enemy have
advanced half-way up the hill to the mansion."
"I thought the company was to move to the lower end of the hill, where
we uns is," suggested Knox.
"That was my first view of it; but there is no need of going any
farther. I did not suppose there was any chance to conceal the position
of the force where they could get at the enemy in good season. I have
not been over this ground; only seen it from the mansion hill. We are
all right as we are. Now, Life, you will return to the company; tell
Captain Gordon to remain where he is till I give him a signal with my
handkerchief on this carbine."
As he spoke, the lieutenant proceeded to tie the white signal to the
weapon.
"Then he will go at a gallop through the valley between these two
hills, and fall upon the enemy in the rear, as the second company
attacks in front. Do you understand it?" continued Deck.
"I reckon I do; but am I to leave you here alone?" demanded the
sergeant.
"Of course you are," replied the lieutenant with a laugh. "Do you think
I can't take care of myself?"
"You didn't do it last night."
"I think I did, for here I am. Hold on a minute! I think we can arrange
this matter a little better. The second company will not know when to
make the attack."
"Are you gwine to lay out the whole battle, Deck?" asked Life.
"I am going to do what I can to make it a success, and to capture every
one of those ruffians. If one of them escapes it shall not be my
fault," replied the lieutenant in vigorous speech. "Ask Captain Gordon
to rig a signal like this one, and send a messenger to Major Lyon, who
has gone with the second company, so that he will understand its
meaning. When I wave my signal twice, it will be for the second company
to attack; when I wave it once it will be for the first company to fall
on the enemy's rear. The major is not more than half a mile from the
first company. Now go, Life, and don't let the grass grow under your
feet."
"All right; but I reckon you are the commander-in-chief of this
battalion, Deck."
The long-legged Kentuckian went down the hill with long strides; and in
about three minutes he saluted Captain Gordon, and delivered his
message. Then he was ordered to mount his horse, and ride over to
deliver the instructions to the major.
"That is an excellent plan of Lieutenant Lyon, and it will prevent any
confusion," said the captain as the sergeant was mounting his horse.
In a few minutes more Knox came into the presence of Captain Woodbine
and Major Lyon. He described the arrangement for the signals.
Sergeant Fronklyn and Bugler Stufton were stationed on a knoll where
they could see the signal when it was given by Captain Gordon, and the
musician was to sound the advance.
"These signals are a capital idea of your son, Major," said the
staff-officer in the hearing of Life Knox, as he was starting on his
return to his company.
Deck was left alone; but in spite of the solicitude of the Kentuckian,
he did not regard himself as in any danger, for the guerillas were not
likely to explore the hills on their way to the mansion, where Captain
Grundy doubtless expected to make an easy victory over the force
defending it. He was not aware that cannon were to figure in the
contest; and with his large force he could easily overcome the small
number behind the breastwork. He was confident that there was a large
sum of money concealed in the mansion, or in its vicinity; and he was
fully determined to hang Colonel Hickman to one of his own trees if he
did not disclose the hiding-place of the treasure.
It was fully half an hour before Deck saw anything of the approaching
guerillas. Four mounted men were the first indications of the advance
of the enemy. They seemed to be the pickets of the main body. They rode
in couples, and did not trouble themselves to scout the hills on their
left; for they could not have had any suspicion that there was a large
force of cavalry anywhere near the mansion. The pickets moved on slowly
till they came to the beginning of the ascent of the hill, and there
they halted. They had nothing to report, and they awaited the coming of
the force.
From his position behind the bushes and trees Deck could see the
mansion, and the road leading up to it. The pickets had hardly halted
before the main column came into view. They marched by fours, two in
the road, and two in the field, and in very irregular order. The
lieutenant observed them with intense interest, and counted them as
they advanced. Instead of twenty-four, as the negro scouts had
reported, there were thirty-eight of them. They had either been
re-enforced, or the scouts had not seen them all. They marched very
confidently, and began the ascent of the hill.
When they had ascended about half the distance to the summit, one of
the cannon pealed, and three men were seen to fall from their horses.
The assailants had evidently not expected to encounter artillery, and
the result of the first discharge checked them. At this moment Deck
twice waved the signal. A minute later the blast of the bugle was heard
in the distance, followed immediately by the onslaught of Captain
Trueman's company.
Deck observed the impetuous charge. Captain Grundy appeared to have
ordered his command to deploy to the right; but they had no time to do
so, for the troopers dashed into them in front. The guerillas could not
hold their ground for a moment against this fiery charge. They broke,
and began to retreat by the way they had come. Deck waved his signal
once; and Captain Gordon's company dashed through the valley, and
confronted the ruffians in their hot retreat.
CHAPTER XXXIII
THE DEFEAT AND SURRENDER OF THE GUERILLAS
The moment Deck Lyon had given the signal for the first company to
advance, he ran down the hill with all the speed he could command, to a
tree where Life had hitched his horse in readiness for him. It was not
the animal he had ridden from Colonel Hickman's mansion, but Ceph, the
steed he had trained and used from the beginning of his career as a
soldier. He was very intelligent, and seemed to understand precisely
what was required of him in action; though he sometimes overdid his
part, as when he tried to leap over the horse of his rider's opponent.
The lieutenant did not feel quite at home on any other horse. The
baggage-wagons of the squadron had been halted in the road with a
sufficient guard, and the spare horses included not a few picked up on
the battle-field of Mill Springs. Ceph whinnied vigorously, and pawed
the sod with his forefeet when he saw his master running down the hill.
These were his expressions of rejoicing to meet his rider again.
But Deck, who was anxious to be at the head of his platoon on the
field, could only pat him on the neck and stroke his nose as he
unhitched him. Life had attached a sabre to the saddle for his use, for
he was sure that he would want one. Mounting hastily, he disengaged the
weapon, and started in the direction his company had taken. If the
rider had fully informed his steed what he wanted, the animal could not
have understood him any better; for he darted away at his swiftest
gallop, and bounded through the valley like the flight of an arrow.
Deck had slung his carbine over his shoulder, and carried the naked
sabre in his hand, with the scabbard attached to his belt.
As the lieutenant advanced he obtained a view of the field, and could
measure the progress of the action as far as it had gone. Four shots
had been sent from the fort; though after Captain Grundy had scattered
his men, the last two were less effective than the first two. Up to
this time the guerilla leader evidently believed that he had no enemy
except the few men in the vicinity of the mansion. It was after the
second gun from the breastwork that Deck had given the signal for the
advance of the second company.
At the onslaught of this company, consisting of about eighty troopers,
Grundy could not help seeing that he was outnumbered two to one, and
that his opponents were trained soldiers, mounted upon excellent
horses; and he had no alternative but a hasty retreat. He led them in
the direction of the road; but at this time Deck had given his second
signal, and the first company were stretching across the field to
intercept his flight. It must have been an appalling sight to him, and
he saw that he must be ground to powder between the upper and the
nether millstone.
Deck had reached his place at the head of his platoon, which Life Knox
was glad to yield to him. Captain Gordon was on the flank at the left.
His command was stretched across the field, and were a wall of steel
against the farther retreat of the enemy. It was about half a mile from
the second company, which was driving the guerillas before it upon the
point of their sabres. The captain called a halt when the head of his
column had reached what appeared to be a swamp, and faced them to the
enemy, ready to charge upon the broken ranks of the ruffians.
"This can be nothing but a butchery," said Captain Gordon, as he reined
in his horse in front of his second lieutenant; and his tones and his
manner indicated his disgust at this sort of warfare.
"When I was in the mansion, Captain Grundy surrendered to me; but when
