pect of figuring in biography was never 
quite to her taste, and the simple facts 
of her life oflFer little temptation to 
literary gossip-mongers. Her mother 
was a Holland, of the family repre- 
sented now by Lord Knutsford. Little 
Elizabeth was bom at Chelsea in 1810, 
and it was after her mother's death that 
she was sent to live with Mrs. Lumb, a 
widowed aunt, at Knutsford, where she 
remained until marriage took her to per- 
manent residence in Manchester. Both 
her husband and her father were Unita- 
rian clergymen, and one can guess at 
her own gracious influence among that 
slowly growing sect, a power as moving 
as in literature and the practical walks 
of trade. It is an old story that her 
fiction taught the rich some of those 
trenchant lessons known at first-hand 
only by the poor ; but another deed, 
more golden yet, shall be remembered 
of her, — the creation of Cranford, a 
book to be loved so long as there are 
smiles and tears in this April world. 
Who could aspire to uncover its living 
presentment ? One might as well hope, 
some fortunate London hour, to stumble 
on Queen Bess setting forth in state to 
buU-baiting or the play. 
The region skirting Knutsford on 
every hand is rich in memories, but, 
better still, it offers a loving welcome 
to the eye. It is a placid, smiling 
country, diversified by great estates and 
happy in fat farmlands. Great herds of 
cows idle about, given over to that in- 
dustry which is no more than a drowsy 
day-dream ; cropping and chewing, and 
transmuting the riches of the common 
 
sod into such milk and cheese as need 
only naming for praise. Within the 
circle of this abounding prosperity lies 
the little town (ford of the great Ca- 
nute, some say, with reason), a lovable 
spot, irregular and pleasing, with individ- 
ual comers and passages covered by the 
dust of years, and delighting in their 
burial. It is presided over by two 
precise and respectable inns, both men- 
tioned "by name" in Cranford. So 
many of the strings of trade here are 
held by women that it is still approxi- 
mately, as in Cranford days, "in pos- 
session of the Amazons." No state of 
things could be more pleasing to us who 
would have time "stand still withal," 
and on the strength of it we may 
undoubtedly assume that, even in our 
present year of grace, "to be a man" 
is, in this delectable place, "to be 
'vulgar.'" 
Our course thither lay through Man- 
chester (Drumble), where we made brief 
halt to glance at the Unitarian Chapel, 
the old preaching-ground of the Rev- 
erend William Gaskell, and we reached 
Knutsford on the eve of a festival 
calculated to rend dear Miss Matty 
 
with deeper doubts than such as embit- 
tered her first half -hour at Signor 
Brunoni's exhibition. For the next 
afternoon had been set apart for 
May-day celebration, and Knutsford was 
already the scene of a wild saturnalia. 
It had lost its head in anticipatory 
delirium. It was baking and brewing 
for a probable influx of visitors by 
excursion train. The very air was 
tinged with the aroma of hot cakes, 
and landladies who on any other day 
would have curtsied profoundly in 
Shenstonian welcome, actually held their 
door-stone against us as though we 
were marauding Scots, or the rogues 
and vagabonds of a later interdict, ex- 
plaining: "It's so very, very awkward, 
miss, but to-morrow I shall be so busy ; 
and I could hardly give you the atten- 
tion I should wish. I'm very sorry, 
miss, but you see how it is, miss, I 'm 
sure ; " with that ingratiating lift at the 
end of the sentence so commendable 
on an English tongue. 
And so perforce we went to an inn, 
choosing, in deference to Cranford pre- 
judice, one under the firm and affable 
sway of two ladies. At that modest 
 
choice, said we, the Honorable Mrs. 
Jamieson would have been the better 
pleased. All that evening the delirium 
of hope and expectation continued. 
Swings had been erected on the large 
open space still known as " the Heath." 
Red-and-gold gondolas, cannily set upon 
springs, were gayly sliding about in 
a magic circle, — a lurid Venice. A 
strange aerial railway consisted of one 
strong wire high in air ; little wheels 
with handles on either side were 
arranged to fit it, and Darby or Joan, 
holding to the handles with desperate 
grip, went trundling through space like 
gibbeted criminals taking to the sky. 
The company of psychologists shall 
henceforth be augmented by the man 
who classifies the soul according to the 
bodily contortions induced by an aerial 
railway. I know not what he should 
be called, but his course of action will 
be plain. Especially in the case of 
womankind might he pronounce an 
unerring judgment, — for some among 
the lassies curled their dangling feet 
decently beneath their skirts, some let 
them fly amain ; others swayed like wil- 
low wands ; but the many swept on their 
 
playful way like very statues. In all 
there was one strange likeness: they 
took their pleasure " sadly," as became 
true Britons. No face relaxed; not a 
feature gave way to emotion lighter 
than a rigid determination to reach the 
goal. With the onlookers, the same 
seriousness prevailed, so that when the 
transatlantic observer gave way to hys- 
terics of mirth, she was regarded, not 
frowningly, but with a solemn com- 
passion which was in itself hopelessly 
upsetting. And over all the din of de- 
corous joy amid which the Knutsford 
youth thus disported itself arose the 
voice of china -venders and toy -mer- 
chants, the cry of those who would fain 
cloy their countrymen with gruesome 
lollipop and other sweets, made only to 
be shunned. Miss Deborah could never 
have approved ! We tried to cloak our 
delight under a decent thoughtfulness, 
and went home to bed. I think we 
should even have read a counter-irritating 
chapter of Rasselas had that very emi- 
nent work been at hand. 
Next day, Knutsford dissolved in rain, 
and the bakeries may well have wept 
also. No crowd of excursionists to race 
 
into the town like an invading flood, 
some ripple of which must surely inun- 
date the humblest eating-houses ! They 
sank beneath their sweets, like Tarpeia 
under her bribe, and the cardboard le- 
gend of "Tea" at every door fell into 
pulp and sadness. We too had hoped 
for a sunny May-day ; but, being mortal, 
we could not refrain from an acrid reflec- 
tion that many a landlady must now be 
repenting her short-sighted refusal of us. 
Last night we were minnows, for there 
were other fish in the sea. To-day we 
loomed as the leviathan, and we bore our- 
selves proudly. 
Only a few optimistic citizens had 
summoned the spirit to sand the side- 
walk in front of their houses, an ancient 
custom once accompanying Knutsford 
weddings, and still employed on days of 
high festival. Still, no one exerted his 
genius to the utmost ; for though the 
sand had been applied in patterns, they 
were quite simple, suggesting none of 
that elaboration and originality of design 
in which Knutsford can indulge when 
she chooses. But though the rain could 
bully her into curbing her handiwork, 
it could not dampen her poetic ardor. 
 
Across the street, from one sandless 
sidewalk to the other, swept a banner, 
and this was the proud legend there- 
of:— 
" All hall ! All haO thee, Queen of May I 
For this is our universal holiday !" 
A melancholy dryness, flecked by 
uncertain gleams of sun, succeeded the 
forenoon, and we betook ourselves, with 
an unadulterated joy, to the Heath, 
where we sat, chilled and happy, on the 
grand stand, watching the festival, and 
reconstructing the play-day of Old Eng- 
land from the too sophisticated pleas- 
ures of the New. This was May-day 
decked out in modem fripperies for the 
public entertainment, but it was not 
impossible to spy, beneath its lendings, 
the simpler sports of a long-past time. 
The procession was an historical pageant 
of high degree. Here walked Sir Wal- 
ter Raleigh, Lord Nelson, the Duke 
of Wellington, Dick Whittington, and 
Robin Hood, none of them over four 
feet high. Jack-in-the-Green danced, 
bear -wise, under an inverted cone of 
hemlock; the morris - dancers (lithe, 
bonny youths, dressed in blue velvet 
kneebreeches, white shirts, plaid sashes, 
and stockings of a vivid pink seldom 
seen outside a lozenge jar) wove a simple 
rhythm of movement entrancing to the 
eye, and the May queen rode in state, 
a pygmy lady of fashion, clad in white 
satin, elaborate, frosty, like a wedding- 
cake. But one would fain have seen 
her in simple white muslin enriched 
only with posies of her own plucking, 
gathered with the dew on them while 
even Corinna slept. "Wake and call 
me early," that I may hook myself into 
a ball dress and send for my wired 
bouquet ! Some bathos comes with 
time. 
But of all that winding throng one ob- 
ject alone had power to thrill the mind, 
— an old sedan chair, borne midway in 
the procession. Do you remember it in 
the annals of Cranford? Within that 
very chair did Miss Matty sit, tremulous 
but resolved, after the social evening at 
Mrs. Forrester's, when the dear ladies 
scared one another into panic with con- 
fession of the bogies most to their mind. 
From its unsafe seclusion did she cry 
aloud when the men " stopped just where 
Headingley Causeway branches off from 
Darkness Lane : ' Oh ! pray go on ! 
 
What is the matter ? What is the mat- 
ter ? I will give you sixpence more to 
go on very fast ; pray don't stop here.' " 
Dear relic of a time more real than our 
to-day ! Knutsford holds nothing more 
precious. 
The Maypole dance was given over to 
a set of decorous little girls in flower-like 
dresses, green and pink. They tripped 
it prettily, they braided and wove their 
ribbons round the pole, but the sponta- 
neous joy of Old and Merrie England 
was not in them. A dancing-master had 
trained them for the public eye. Step 
and look were no longer the springing 
welcome to a day when lads and lassies 
should no more be able to hold their 
fervor than trees their budding strength. 
To watch these puppets tripping it was 
to give way for a moment to sadness, re- 
flecting that nowadays we are ashamed 
to be merry after we have come to man's 
estate. We give over our great festivals 
to children, and then sit looking on with 
a maddening tickle in the bones that 
ache to join them. 
With another day Knutsford had as- 
sumed her wonted air of quiescent deco- 
rum. It proved easier to see her now 
 
for what she is, a Georgian town imbued 
with the spirit of elegance and precision; 
easy, too, to find Cranford in her every 
look and word. On that morning began 
our trial of local intelligence and belief. 
But a step from the Angel Hotel (where 
Lord Mauleverer very wisely took up his 
quarters, though doubtless when it still 
remained on the other side of the way) 
stands the Royal George, once living 
content under its swinging sign of the 
saint militant, but now thrown into self- 
contradiction by the swelling adjective 
assumed after the Princess Victoria and 
the Duchess of Kent had spent a night 
under its roof. (An affectionate trait in 
this loyal people, to weaken a saint's pat- 
ronymic by courtly prefix.) Now it was 
this same George which was sought out 
by Miss Pole on an idle morning, when 
