me." 
Jean shyly confessed to this and, getting away 
from the subject as quickly as possible, produced 
on the spot her formal credentials. 
" Mrs. Beever sent me over to ask if it's really 
quite right we should come to luncheon. We 
came out of church before the sermon, because 
of some people who were to go home with us. 
They're with Mrs. Beever now, but she told me to 
come straight across the garden the short way." 
Miss Armiger continued to smile. 
"No way ever seems short enough for Mrs. 
Beever ! " 
There was an intention in this, as Jean faintly 
felt, that was lost upon her; but while she was 
wondering her companion went on 
"Did Mrs. Beever direct you to inquire of 
me?" 
Jean hesitated. 
" Of anyone, I think, who would be here to tell 
me in case Mrs. Bream shouldn't be quite so 
well." 
" She isn't quite so well." 
The younger girl's face showed the flicker of a 
fear of losing her entertainment; on perceiving 
which the elder pursued 
"But we sha'n't romp or racket shall we? 
We shall be very quiet." 
" Very, very quiet," Jean eagerly echoed. 
Her new friend's smile became a laugh, which 
was followed by the abrupt question: "Do you 
mean to be long with Mrs. Beever?" 
" Till her son comes home. You know he's at 
Oxford, and his term soon ends." 
"And yours ends with it you depart as he 
arrives ? " 
" Mrs. Beever tells me I positively sha'n't," said 
Jean. 
" Then you positively won't. Everything is 
done here exactly as Mrs. Beever tells us. Don't 
you like her son ? " Rose Armiger asked. 
" I don't know yet ; it's exactly what she wants 
me to find out." 
" Then you'll have to be very clear." 
" But if I find out I don't? " Jean risked. 
" I shall be very sorry for you ! " 
" I think then it will be the only thing in this 
duck of an old place that I shan't have liked." 
Rose Armiger for a moment rested her eyes on 
her visitor, who was more and more conscious that 
 
she was strange and yet not, as Jean had always 
supposed strange people to be, disagreeable. 
"Do you like me?" she unexpectedly inquired. 
" How can I tell at the end of three minutes?" 
" I can tell at the end of one ! You must try 
to like me you must be very kind to me," Miss 
Armiger declared. Then she added : " Do you 
like Mr. Bream?" 
Jean considered ; she felt that she must rise to 
the occasion. " Oh, immensely ! " At this her 
interlocutress laughed again, and it made her continue with more reserve. " Of course I only saw 
him for five minutes yesterday at the Bank." 
" Oh, we know how long you saw him ! " Miss 
Armiger exclaimed. " He has told us all about 
your visit." 
Jean was slightly awe-stricken: this picture 
seemed to include so many people. " Whom has 
he told?" 
Her companion had the air of being amused at 
everything she said; but for Jean it was an air 
none the less with a kind of foreign charm in it. 
" Why, the very first person was of course his 
poor little wife." 
" But I'm not to see her, am I ? " Jean rather 
eagerly asked, puzzled by the manner of the allu 
sion and but half suspecting it to be a part of her 
informant's general ease. 
" You're not to see her, but even if you were 
she wouldn't hurt you for it," this young lady replied. "She understands his friendly way and 
likes above all his beautiful frankness." 
Jean's bewilderment began to look as if she too 
now, as she remembered, understood and liked 
these things. It might have been in confirmation 
of what was in her mind that she presently said : 
" He told me I might see the wonderful baby. He 
told me he would show it to me himself." 
" I'm sure he'll be delighted to do that. He's 
awfully proud of the wonderful baby." 
"I suppose it's very lovely," Jean remarked 
with growing confidence. 
"Lovely! Do you think babies are ever lovely?" 
Taken aback by this challenge, Jean reflected a 
little ; she found, however, nothing better to say 
than, rather timidly : " I like dear little children, 
don't you ? " 
Miss Armiger in turn considered. "Not a bit!" 
she then replied. "It would be very sweet and 
attractive of me to say I adore them ; but I never 
pretend to feelings I can't keep up, don't you 
 
know? If you'd like, all the same, to see Effie," 
she obligingly added, " I'll so far sacrifice myself 
as to get her for you ? " 
Jean smiled as if this pleasantry were contagious. " You won't sacrifice her ? " 
Rose Armiger stared. " I won't destroy her." 
" Then do get her." 
" Not yet, not yet ! " cried another voice that 
of Mrs. Beever, who had just been introduced and 
who, having heard the last words of the two girls, 
came, accompanied by the servant, down the hall. 
" The baby's of no importance. We've come over 
for the mother. Is it true that Julia has had a bad 
turn ? " she asked of Rose Armiger. 
Miss Armiger had a peculiar way of looking at a 
person before speaking, and she now, with this 
tranquillity, delayed so long to answer Mrs. Beever 
that Jean also rested her eyes, as if for a reason, on 
the good lady from Eastmead. She greatly admired her, but in that instant, the first of seeing 
her at Bounds, she perceived once for all how the 
difference of the setting made another thing of 
the gem. Short and solid, with rounded corners 
and full supports, her hair very black and very 
flat, her eyes very small for the amount of expression they could show, Mrs. Beever was so " early 
Victorian " as to be almost prehistoric was constructed to move amid massive mahogany and sit 
upon banks of Berlin-wool. She was like an odd 
volume, "sensibly" bound, of some old magazine. 
Jean knew that the great social event of her 
younger years had been her going to a fancy-ball 
in the character of an Andalusian, an incident of 
which she still carried a memento in the shape of a 
hideous fan. Jean was so constituted that she also 
knew, more dimly but at the end of five minutes, 
that the elegance at Mr. Bream's was slightly provincial. It made none the less a medium in which 
Mrs. Beever looked superlatively local. That in 
deed in turn caused Jean to think the old place 
still more of a " duck." 
" I believe our poor friend feels rather down," 
Miss Armiger finally brought out. " But I don't 
imagine it's of the least consequence," she immediately added. 
The contrary of this was, however, in some 
degree foreshadowed in a speech directed to Jean 
by the footman who had admitted her. He reported Mr. Bream as having been in his wife's 
room for nearly an hour, and Dr. Ramage as having 
arrived some time before and not yet come out. 
Mrs. Beever decreed, upon this news, that they 
 
must drop their idea of lunching and that Jean 
must go straight back to the friends who had been 
left at the other house. It was these friends who 
on the way from church had mentioned their having got wind of the rumour the quick circulation of which testified to the compactness of Wil- 
verley that there had been a sudden change 
in Mrs. Bream since the hour at which her husband's note was written. Mrs. Beever dismissed 
her companion to Eastmead with a message for her 
visitors. Jean was to entertain them there in her 
stead and to understand that she might return to 
luncheon only in case of being sent for. At the 
door the girl paused and exclaimed rather wistfully 
to Rose Armiger : " Well, then, give her my love ! " 
" Young young friend," Rose commented, " is as 
affectionate as she's pretty: sending her love to 
people she has never seen ! " 
"She only meant the little girl. I think it's 
rather nice of her," said Mrs. Beever. " My interest in these anxieties is always confined to the 
mamma. I thought we were going so straight." 
"I daresay we are," Miss Armiger replied. 
" But Nurse told me an hour ago that I'm not to 
see her at all this morning. It will be the first 
morning for several days." 
Mrs. Beever was silent a little. " You've en 
joyed a privilege altogether denied to me" 
" Ah, you must remember," said Rose, " that I'm 
Julia's oldest friend. That's always the way she 
treats me." 
Mrs. Beever assented. " Familiarly, of course. 
Well, you're not mine ; but that's the way I
treat you too," she went on. "You must wait 
 
with me here for more news, and be as still as 
a mouse." 
" Dear Mrs. Beever," the girl protested, " I never 
made a noise in all my life ! " 
"You will some day you're so clever," Mrs. 
Beever said. 
"I'm clever enough to be quiet." Then Rose 
added, less gaily : " I'm the one thing of her own 
that dear Julia has ever had." 
Mrs. Beever threw back her head. " Don't you 
count her husband ? " 
" I count Tony immensely ; but in another way." 
Again Mrs. Beever considered : she might have 
been wondering in what way even so expert a 
young person as this could count Anthony Bream 
except as a treasure to his wife. But what she 
presently articulated was : " Do you call him 
'Tony' to himself?" 
Miss Armiger met her question this time 
promptly. " He has asked me to and to do it 
even to Julia. Don't be afraid ! " she exclaimed ; 
"I know my place, and I sha'n't go too far. Of 
course he's everything to her now," she continued, 
" and the child is already almost as much ; but 
what I mean is that if he counts for a great deal 
more, I, at least, go back a good deal further. 
Though I'm three years older, we were brought 
together as girls by one of the strongest of all ties 
the tie of a common aversion." 
" Oh, I know your common aversion ! " Mrs. 
Beever spoke with her air of general competence. 
"Perhaps, then, you know that her detestable 
step-mother was, very little to my credit, my aunt. 
If her father, that is, was Mrs. Grantham's second 
husband, my uncle, my mother's brother, had been 
the first. Julia lost her mother; I lost both my 
mother and my father. Then Mrs. Grantham 
took me : she had shortly before made her second 
marriage. She put me at the horrid school at 
Weymouth at which she had already put her 
step-daughter." 
" You ought to be obliged to her," Mrs. Beever 
suggested, "for having made you acquainted." 
"We are we've never ceased to be. It was 
as if she had made us sisters, with the delightful 
position for me of the elder, the protecting one. 
But it's the only good turn she has ever done 
us." 
Mrs. Beever weighed this statement with her 
alternative, her business manner. "Is she really 
then such a monster ? " 
Rose Armiger had a melancholy headshake. 
 
" Don't ask me about her I dislike her too 
much, perhaps, to be strictly fair. For me, how 
ever, I daresay, it didn't matter so much that she 
was narrow and hard: I wasn't an easy victim 
I could take care of myself, I could fight. 
But Julia bowed her head and suffered. Never 
was a marriage more of a rescue." 
Mrs. Beever took this in with unsuspended 
criticism. " And yet Mrs. Grantham travelled 
all the way down from town the other day sim 
ply to make her a visit of a couple of hours." 
"That wasn't a kindness," the girl returned; 
" it was an injury, and I believe certainly 
Julia believes that it was a calculated one. 
Mrs. Grantham knew perfectly the effect she 
would have, and she triumphantly had it. She 
came, she said, at the particular crisis, to 'make 
peace.' Why couldn't she let the poor dear 
alone? She only stirred up the wretched past 
and reopened old wounds." 
For answer to this Mrs. Beever remarked with 
some irrelevancy : " She abused you a good deal, 
I think." 
Her companion smiled frankly. "Shockingly, 
I believe ; but that's of no importance to me. 
She doesn't touch me or reach me now." 
"Your description of her," said Mrs. Beever, 
"is a description of a monstrous bad woman. 
And yet she appears to have got two honourable men to give her the last proof of confidence." 
" My poor uncle utterly withdrew his confi 
dence when he saw her as she was. She killed 
him he died of his horror of her. As for 
Julia's father, he's honourable if you like, but 
he's a muff. He's afraid of his wife." 
"And her 'taking' you, as you say, who were 
no real relation to her her looking after you 
and putting you at school: wasn't that," Mrs. 
Beever propounded, "a kindness?" 
" She took me to torment me or at least to 
make me feel her hand. She has an absolute 
necessity to do that it was what brought her 
down here the other day." 
"You make out a wonderful case," said Mrs. 
Beever, "and if ever I'm put on my trial for a 
crime say for muddling the affairs of the Bank 
I hope I shall be defended by someone with 
your gift and your manner. I don't wonder," 
she blandly pursued, "that your friends, even 
the blameless ones, like this dear pair, cling to 
you as they do." 
"If you mean you don't wonder I stay on 
here so long," said Rose good-humouredly, "I'm 
greatly obliged to you for your sympathy. 
Julia's the one thing I have of my own." 
" You make light of our husbands and lovers ! " 
laughed Mrs. Beever. "Haven't I had the pleasure 
of hearing of a gentleman to whom you're soon to 
be married?" 
Rose Armiger opened her eyes there was perhaps a slight affectation in it. She looked, at any 
rate, as if she had to make a certain effort to meet 
the allusion. " Dennis Vidal ? " she then asked. 
" Why, are there more than one ? " Mrs. Beever 
cried ; after which, as the girl, who had coloured 
a little, hesitated in a way that almost suggested 
alternatives, she added: "Isn't it a definite en 
gagement?" 
Rose Armiger looked round at the clock. "Mr. 
Vidal will be here this morning. Ask him how he 
considers it." 
