than we mean to. I don't pretend to say I'm always 
right. She was right about that other picnic-the 
one I wanted to make for Mrs. Vostrand. I suppose," 
he ended unexpectedly, " that you hear from them, 
now and then ? " 
" No, I don't. I haven't heard from them for a 
year ; not since — You knew Genevieve was married ? " 
" Yes, I knew that," said Jeff, steadily. 
" I don't quite make it all out. Mr. Vostrand was 
very much opposed to it, Mrs. Vostrand told me ; but 
he must have given way at last ; and he must have put 
up the money." Jeff looked puzzled, and Westover 
explained. " You know the officers in the Italian army 
— and all the other armies in Europe, for that matter 
—have to deposit a certain sum with the government 
before they can marry — and in the case of Count 
Grassi, Mr. Vostrand had to furnish the money." 
Jeff said after a moment, " Well, she couldn't help 
that." 
" No, the girl wasn't to blame. I don't know that 
any one was to blame. But I'm afraid our girls 
wouldn't marry many titles if their fathers didn't put 
up the money." 
" Well, I don't see why they shouldn't spend their 
 
money that way as well as any other," said JeflE, and 
this proof of his impartiality suggested to Westover 
that he was not only indifferent to the mercenary in- 
ternational marriages, which are a scandal to so many 
of our casuists, but had quite outlived his passion for 
the girl concerned in this. 
" At any rate," Jefi added, " I haven't got anything 
to say against it. Mr. Westover, I've always wanted 
to say one thing to you. When I came to your room 
that night, I wanted to complain of Mrs. Vostrand for 
not letting me know about the engagement; and I 
wasn't man enough to acknowledge that what you said 
would account for their letting me make a fool of my- 
self. But I believe I am now, and I want to say it." 
" I'm glad you can see it in that way," said West- 
over, " and since you do, I don't mind saying that I 
think Mrs. Vostrand might have been a little franker 
with you without being less kind. She was kind, but 
she wasn't quite frank." 
" Well, it's all over now," said Jeff, and he rose up 
and brushed the whittlings from his knees. " And I 
guess it's just as well." 
XXI. 
That afternoon Westover saw JeJEE helping Cynthia 
Whitwell into his buckboard, and then, after his lively 
horse had made some paces of a start, spring to the 
seat beside her and bring it to a stand. " Can I do 
anything for you over at Lovewell, Mr. Westover ? " 
he called, and he smiled towards the painter. Then 
he lightened the reins on the mare's back ; she squared 
herself for a start in earnest, and flashed down the 
sloping hotel road to the highway below, and was lost 
to sight in the clump of woods to the southward. 
" That's a good friend of yours, Cynthy," he said, 
leaning towards the girl with a simple comfort in her 
proximity. She was dressed in a pale pink color, with 
a hat of yet paler pink ; without having a great deal 
of fashion, she had a good deal of style. She looked 
bright and fresh; there was a dash of pink in her 
cheeks, which suggested the color of the sweetbrier, 
its purity and sweetness, and if there was something 
in Cynthia's character and temperament that suggested 
its thorns too, one still could not deny that she was 
like that flower. She liked to shop, and she liked to 
 
ride after a good liorse, as the neighbors would have 
said ; she was going over to Lovewell to buy a number 
of things, and Jeff Durgin was driving her there with 
the swift mare that was his peculiar property. She 
smiled upon him without the usual reservations she 
contrived to express in her smiles. 
" Well, I don't know anybody I'd rather have for 
my friend than Mr. Westover." She added, " Pie 
acted like a friend the very first time I saw him." 
Jefi laughed with shameless pleasure in the reminis- 
cence her words suggested. " Well, I did get my 
come-uppings that time. And I don't know but he's 
been a pretty good friend to me, too. • I'm not sure 
he likes me ; but Mr. Westover is a man that could be 
your friend if he didn't like you." 
"What have you. done to make him like you?" 
asked the girl. 
" Nothing ! " said Jeff, with a shout of laughter in 
his conviction. " I've done a lot of things to make 
him despise me from the start. But if you like a 
person yourself, you want him to like you whether you 
deserve it or not." 
" I don't know as I do." 
" You say that because you always deserve it. You 
can't tell how it is with a fellow like me. I should 
want you to like me, Cynthy, whatever you thought 
of me." He looked round into her face, but she 
turned it away. 
They had struck the level, long for the hill country, 
at the foot of the hotel road, and the mate, that 
found herself neither mounting nor descending a steep. 
 
dropped from tlie trot proper for an acclivity into a 
rapid walk. 
'' This mare can walk like a Kentucky horse," said 
Jeff. " I believe I could teach her single-foot." He 
added, with a laugh, " If I knew how," and now Cyn- 
thia laughed with him. 
" I was just going to say that." 
" Yes, you don't lose many chances to give me a 
dig, do you ? " 
" Oh, I don't know as I look for them. Perhaps I 
don't need to." The pine woods were deep on either 
side. They whispered in the thin, sweet wind, and 
gave out their odor in the high, westering sun. They 
covered with their shadows the road that ran velvety 
between them. 
" This is nice," said Jeff, letting himself rest against 
the back of the seat. He stretched his left arm along 
the top, and presently it dropped and folded itself 
about the waist of the girl. 
"You may take your arm away, JeS," she said, 
quietly.  , 
" Why ? " 
" Because it has no right there, for one thing ! " 
She drew herself a little aside, and looked round at 
him. " You wouldn't put it round a town girl if you 
were riding with her." 
" I shouldn't be riding with her. Girls don't go 
buggy-riding in town any more," said Jeff, brutally. 
" Then I shall know what to do the next time you 
ask me." 
" Oh, they'd go quick enough if I asked them up 
here in the country. Etiquette don't count with them 
when they're on a vacation." 
" I'm not on a vacation ; so it counts with me. 
Please take your arm away," said Cynthia. 
" Oh, all right. But I shouldn't object to your 
putting your arm around me." 
" You will never have the chance." 
" Why are you so hard on me, Cynthy ? " asked Jeff. 
•' You didn't used to be so." 
" People change. " 
"Do I?" 
" Not for the better." 
Jeff was dumb. She was pleased with her* hit, and 
laughed. But her laugh did not encourage him to put 
his arm round her again. He let the mare walk on, 
and left her to resume the conversation at whatever 
point she would. 
She made no haste to resume it. At last she said, 
with sufficient apparent remoteness from the subject 
they had dropped, " Jeff, I don't know whether you 
want me to talk about it. But I guess I ought to, even 
if it isn't my place exactly. I don't think Jackson's 
very well, this summer." 
Jeff faced round towards her. " What makes you 
think he isn't well ? " 
" He's weaker. Haven't you noticed it ? " 
" Yes, I have noticed that. He's worked down ; 
that's all." 
" No, that isn't all. But if you don't think so — " 
" I want to know what you think, Cynthy," said 
Jeff, with the amorous resentment all gone from his 
 
voice. " Sometimes folks outside notice the signs 
more — I don't mean that you're an outsider, as far 
as we're concerned — " 
She put by that point. " Father's noticed it, too ; 
and he's with Jackson a good deal." 
" I'll look after it. If he isn't so well, he's got to 
have a doctor. That medium's stufE can't do him any 
good. Don't you think he ought to have a doctor ? " 
" Oh, yes." 
" You don't think a doctor can do him much good ? " 
" He ought to have one," said the girl, non-commit- 
tally. 
" Cynthia, I've noticed that Jackson was weak, too ; 
and it's no use pretending that he's simply worked 
down. I believe he's worn out. Do you think moth- 
er's ever noticed it ? " 
" I don't believe she has." 
" It's the one thing I can't very well make up my 
mind to speak to her about. I don't know what she 
would do." He did not say, " If she lost Jackson," 
but Cynthia knew he meant that, and they were both 
silent. " Of course," he went on, " I know that she 
places a great deal of dependence upon you, but Jack- 
son's her main stay. He's a good man, and he's a 
good son. I wish I'd always been half as good." 
Cynthia did not protest against his self-reproach as 
he possibly hoped she would. She said, "I think 
Jackson's got a very good mind. He reads a great 
deal, and he's thought a great deal, and when it comes 
to talking, I never heard any one express themselves 
better. The other night, we were out looking at the 
stars — I came part of the way home with him ; I didn't 
like to let him go alone, he seemed so feeble — and he 
got to showing me Mars. He thinks it's inhabited, 
and he's read all that the astronomers say about it, and 
the seas and the canals that they've found on it. He 
spoke very beautifully about the other life, and then 
he spoke about death." Cynthia's voice broke, and 
she pulled her handkerchief out of her belt, and put it 
to her eyes. JefE's heart melted in him at the sight ; 
he felt a tender affection for her, very unlike the gross 
content he had enjoyed in her presence before, and he 
put his arm round her again, but this time almost un- 
consciously, and drew her towards him. She did not 
repel him ; she even allowed her head to rest a mo- 
ment on his shoulder ; though she quickly lifted it, and 
drew herself away, not resentfully, it seemed, but for 
her greater freedom in talking. 
" I don't believe he's going to die," JefE said, con- 
solingly, more as if it were her brother than his that 
he meant. " But he's a very sick man, and he's got 
to knock off, and go somewhere. It won't do for him 
to pass another winter here. He must go to Califor- 
nia, or Colorado ; they'd be glad to have him there, 
either of them ; or he can go to Florida, or over to 
Italy. It won't matter how long he stays — " 
" What are you talking about, Jeff Durgin ? " Cyn- 
thia demanded, severely. " What would your mother 
do ? What would she do this winter ? " 
"That brings me to something, Cynthia," said Jeff, 
"and I don't want you to say anything till I've got 
through. I guess I could help mother run the place 
 
as well as Jackson, and I could stay here next win- 
ter." 
"You?" 
" Now, you let me talk ! My mind's made up about • 
one thing: I'm not going to be a lawyer. I don't 
want to go back to Harvard. I'm going to keep a 
hotel, and if I don't keep one here at Lion's Head, Fm 
going to keep it somewhere else." 
" Have you told your mother ? " 
" Not yet. I wanted to hear what you would say 
first." 
"I? Oh, I haven't got anything to do with it," 
said Cynthia. 
" Yes, you have ! You've got everything to do with 
it, if you'll say one thing first. Cynthia, you know 
how I feel about you. It's been so ever since we were 
boy and girl here. I want you to promise to marry 
me. Will you ? " 
The girl seemed neither surprised nor very greatly 
pleased ; perhaps her pleasure had spent itself in that 
moment of triumphant expectation when she foresaw 
what was coming, or perhaps she was preoccupied in 
clearing the way in her own mind to a definite result. 
" What do you say, Cynthia ? " JefE pursued, with 
more injury than misgiving in his voice at her delay 
in answering. " Don't you — care for me ? " 
" Oh, yes, I presume I've always done that — ever 
since we were boy and girl, as you say. But — " 
" Well ? " said JefE, patiently, but not insecurely. 
" Have you ? " 
" Have I what ? " 
 
" Always cared for me." 
He could not find his voice quite as promptly as 
before. He cleared his throat before he asked, " Has 
Mr. Westover been saying anything about me ? " 
" I don't know what you mean, exactly ; but I pre- 
sume you do." 
" Well, then — I always expected to tell you — I did 
have a fancy for that girl, for Miss Vostrand, and I — 
told her so. It's like something that never happened. 
She wouldn't have me. That's all." 
" And you expect me to take what she wouldn't 
have % " 
" If you like to call it that. But I should call it 
taking a man that had been out of his head for a while, 
and had come to his senses again." 
" I don't know as I should ever feel safe with a man 
that had been out of his head once." 
" You wouldn't find many men that hadn't," said 
Jeff, with a laugh that was rather scornful of her ig- 
norance. 
" No, I presume not," she sighed. " She was beau- 
tiful, and I believe she was good, too. She was very 
nice. Perhaps I feel strangely about it. But if she 
hadn't been so nice, I shouldn't have been so willing 
that you should have cared for her." 
"I suppose I don't understand," said JeflE, "but I 
know I was hard hit. What's the use ? It's over. She's 
married. I can't go back and unlive it all. But if 
you want time to think — of course you do — Fve taken 
time enough — " 
He was about to lift the reins on the mare's back as 
 
a sign to hor that the talk was over for the present, 
and to quicken lier pace, when Cynthia put out her 
hand and laid it on his, and said with a certain effect 
of authority : " I shouldn't want you should give up 
your last year in Harvard." 
" Just as you say, Cynthy ; " and in token of intel- 
ligence he wound his arm round her neck and kissed 
her. It was not the first kiss by any means ; in the 
