mere look of it--what is it you call such people?--an accessory after
the fact." There was something she kept back so rigidly that the joy of
uttering the rest was double. She felt the sharpest need of giving him
all the other truth. There was a matter as to which she had deceived
him, and there was a matter as to which she had deceived Mrs. Gereth,
but her lack of pleasure in deception as such came home to her now. She
busied herself with the tea and, to extend the occupation, cleared the
table still more, spreading out the coarse cups and saucers and the
vulgar little plates. She was aware that she produced more confusion
than symmetry, but she was also aware that she was violently nervous.
Owen tried to help her with something: this made rather for disorder.
"My reason for not writing to you," she pursued, "was simply that I was
hoping to hear more from Ricks. I've waited from day to day for that."
"But you've heard nothing?"
"Not a word."
"Then what I understand," said Owen, "is that, practically, you and
Mummy have quarreled. And you've done it--I mean you personally--for
me."
"Oh no, we haven't quarreled a bit!" Then with a smile: "We've only
diverged."
"You've diverged uncommonly far!"--Owen laughed back. Fleda, with her
hideous crockery and her father's collections, could conceive that these
objects, to her visitor's perception even more strongly than to her own,
measured the length of the swing from Poynton and Ricks; she was aware
too that her high standards figured vividly enough even to Owen's
simplicity to make him reflect that West Kensington was a tremendous
fall. If she had fallen it was because she had acted for him. She was
all the more content he should thus see she had acted, as the cost of
it, in his eyes, was none of her own showing. "What seems to have
happened," he exclaimed, "is that you've had a row with her and yet not
moved her!"
Fleda considered a moment; she was full of the impression that,
notwithstanding her scant help, he saw his way clearer than he had seen
it at Ricks. He might mean many things; and what if the many should mean
in their turn only one? "The difficulty is, you understand, that she
doesn't really see into your situation." She hesitated. "She doesn't
comprehend why your marriage hasn't yet taken place."
Owen stared. "Why, for the reason I told you: that Mona won't take
another step till mother has given full satisfaction. Everything must be
there. You see, everything was there the day of that fatal visit."
"Yes, that's what I understood from you at Ricks," said Fleda; "but I
haven't repeated it to your mother." She had hated, at Ricks, to talk
with him about Mona, but now that scruple was swept away. If he could
speak of Mona's visit as fatal, she need at least not pretend not to
notice it. It made all the difference that she had tried to assist him
and had failed: to give him any faith in her service she must give him
all her reasons but one. She must give him, in other words, with a
corresponding omission, all Mrs. Gereth's. "You can easily see that, as
she dislikes your marriage, anything that may seem to make it less
certain works in her favor. Without my telling her, she has suspicions
and views that are simply suggested by your delay. Therefore it didn't
seem to me right to make them worse. By holding off long enough, she
thinks she may put an end to your engagement. If Mona's waiting, she
believes she may at last tire Mona out." That, in all conscience, Fleda
felt was lucid enough.
So the young man, following her attentively, appeared equally to feel.
"So far as that goes," he promptly declared, "she has at last tired
Mona out." He uttered the words with a strange approach to hilarity.
Fleda's surprise at this aberration left her a moment looking at him.
"Do you mean your marriage is off?"
Owen answered with a kind of gay despair. "God knows, Miss Vetch, where
or when or what my marriage is! If it isn't 'off,' it certainly, at the
point things have reached, isn't on. I haven't seen Mona for ten days,
and for a week I haven't heard from her. She used to write me every
week, don't you know? She won't budge from Waterbath, and I haven't
budged from town." Then he suddenly broke out: "If she does chuck me,
will mother come round?"
Fleda, at this, felt that her heroism had come to its real test--felt
that in telling him the truth she should effectively raise a hand to
push his impediment out of the way. Was the knowledge that such a motion
would probably dispose forever of Mona capable of yielding to the
conception of still giving her every chance she was entitled to? That
conception was heroic, but at the same moment it reminded Fleda of the
place it had held in her plan, she was also reminded of the not less
urgent claim of the truth. Ah, the truth--there was a limit to the
impunity with which one could juggle with it! Wasn't what she had most
to remember the fact that Owen had a right to his property and that he
had also her vow to stand by him in the effort to recover it? How did
she stand by him if she hid from him the single way to recover it of
which she was quite sure? For an instant that seemed to her the fullest
of her life she debated. "Yes," she said at last, "if your marriage is
really abandoned, she will give up everything she has taken."
"That's just what makes Mona hesitate!" Owen honestly exclaimed. "I mean
the idea that I shall get back the things only if she gives me up."
Fleda thought an instant. "You mean makes her hesitate to keep you--not
hesitate to renounce you?"
Owen looked a trifle bewildered. "She doesn't see the use of hanging on,
as I haven't even yet put the matter into legal hands. She's awfully
keen about that, and awfully disgusted that I don't. She says it's the
only real way, and she thinks I'm afraid to take it. She has given me
time and then has given me again more. She says I give Mummy too much.
She says I'm a muff to go pottering on. That's why she's drawing off so
hard, don't you see?"
"I don't see very clearly. Of course you must give her what you offered
her; of course you must keep your word. There must be no mistake about
that!" the girl declared.
Owen's bewilderment visibly increased. "You think, then, as she does,
that I must send down the police?"
The mixture of reluctance and dependence in this made her feel how much
she was failing him. She had the sense of "chucking" him too. "No, no,
not yet!" she said, though she had really no other and no better course
to prescribe. "Doesn't it occur to you," she asked in a moment, "that if
Mona is, as you say, drawing away, she may have, in doing so, a very
high motive? She knows the immense value of all the objects detained by
your mother, and to restore the spoils of Poynton she is ready--is that
it!--to make a sacrifice. The sacrifice is that of an engagement she had
entered upon with joy."
Owen had been blank a moment before, but he followed this argument with
success--a success so immediate that it enabled him to produce with
decision: "Ah, she's not that sort! She wants them herself," he added;
"she wants to feel they're hers; she doesn't care whether I have them or
not! And if she can't get them she doesn't want me. If she can't get
them she doesn't want anything at all."
This was categoric; Fleda drank it in. "She takes such an interest in
them?"
"So it appears."
"So much that they're all, and that she can let everything else
absolutely depend upon them?"
Owen weighed her question as if he felt the responsibility of his
answer. But that answer came in a moment, and, as Fleda could see, out
of a wealth of memory. "She never wanted them particularly till they
seemed to be in danger. Now she has an idea about them; and when she
gets hold of an idea--Oh dear me!" He broke off, pausing and looking
away as with a sense of the futility of expression: it was the first
time Fleda had ever heard him explain a matter so pointedly or embark at
all on a generalization. It was striking, it was touching to her, as he
faltered, that he appeared but half capable of floating his
generalization to the end. The girl, however, was so far competent to
fill up his blank as that she had divined, on the occasion of Mona's
visit to Poynton, what would happen in the event of the accident at
which he glanced. She had there with her own eyes seen Owen's betrothed
get hold of an idea. "I say, you know, do give me some tea!" he went
on irrelevantly and familiarly.
Her profuse preparations had all this time had no sequel, and, with a
laugh that she felt to be awkward, she hastily complied with his
request. "It's sure to be horrid," she said; "we don't have at all good
things." She offered him also bread and butter, of which he partook,
holding his cup and saucer in his other hand and moving slowly about the
room. She poured herself a cup, but not to take it; after which, without
wanting it, she began to eat a small stale biscuit. She was struck with
the extinction of the unwillingness she had felt at Ricks to contribute
to the bandying between them of poor Mona's name; and under this
influence she presently resumed: "Am I to understand that she engaged
herself to marry you without caring for you?"
Owen looked out into Raphael Road. "She did care for me awfully. But
she can't stand the strain."
"The strain of what?"
"Why, of the whole wretched thing."
"The whole thing has indeed been wretched, and I can easily conceive its
effect upon her," Fleda said.
Her visitor turned sharp round. "You can?" There was a light in his
strong stare. "You can understand it's spoiling her temper and making
her come down on me? She behaves as if I were of no use to her at
all!"
Fleda hesitated. "She's rankling under the sense of her wrong."
"Well, was it I, pray, who perpetrated the wrong? Ain't I doing what I
can to get the thing arranged?"
The ring of his question made his anger at Mona almost resemble for a
minute an anger at Fleda; and this resemblance in turn caused our young
lady to observe how handsome he looked when he spoke, for the first time
in her hearing, with that degree of heat, and used, also for the first
time, such a term as "perpetrated." In addition, his challenge rendered
still more vivid to her the mere flimsiness of her own aid. "Yes, you've
been perfect," she said. "You've had a most difficult part. You've had
to show tact and patience, as well as firmness, with your mother, and
you've strikingly shown them. It's I who, quite unintentionally, have
deceived you. I haven't helped you at all to your remedy."
"Well, you wouldn't at all events have ceased to like me, would you?"
Owen demanded. It evidently mattered to him to know if she really
justified Mona. "I mean of course if you had liked me--liked me as
she liked me," he explained.
Fleda looked this inquiry in the face only long enough to recognize
that, in her embarrassment, she must take instant refuge in a superior
one. "I can answer that better if I know how kind to her you've been.
Have you been kind to her?" she asked as simply as she could.
"Why, rather, Miss Vetch!" Owen declared. "I've done every blessed thing
she wished. I rushed down to Ricks, as you saw, with fire and sword, and
the day after that I went to see her at Waterbath." At this point he
checked himself, though it was just the point at which her interest
deepened. A different look had come into his face as he put down his
empty teacup. "But why should I tell you such things, for any good it
does me? I gather that you've no suggestion to make me now except that I
shall request my solicitor to act. Shall I request him to act?"
Fleda scarcely heard his words; something new had suddenly come into her
mind. "When you went to Waterbath after seeing me," she asked, "did you
tell her all about that?"
Owen looked conscious. "All about it?"
"That you had had a long talk with me, without seeing your mother at
all?"
"Oh yes, I told her exactly, and that you had been most awfully kind,
and that I had placed the whole thing in your hands."
Fleda was silent a moment. "Perhaps that displeased her," she at last
suggested.
"It displeased her fearfully," said Owen, looking very queer.
"Fearfully?" broke from the girl. Somehow, at the word, she was
startled.
"She wanted to know what right you had to meddle. She said you were not
honest."
"Oh!" Fleda cried, with a long wail. Then she controlled herself. "I
see."
"She abused you, and I defended you. She denounced you--"
She checked him with a gesture. "Don't tell me what she did!" She had
colored up to her eyes, where, as with the effect of a blow in the face,
she quickly felt the tears gathering. It was a sudden drop in her great
flight, a shock to her attempt to watch over what Mona was entitled to.
While she had been straining her very soul in this attempt, the object
of her magnanimity had been pronouncing her "not honest." She took it
all in, however, and after an instant was able to speak with a smile.
She would not have been surprised to learn, indeed, that her smile was
strange. "You had said a while ago that your mother and I quarreled
about you. It's much more true that you and Mona have quarreled about
me."
Owen hesitated, but at last he brought it out. "What I mean to say is,
don't you know, that Mona, if you don't mind my saying so, has taken it
into her head to be jealous."
"I see," said Fleda. "Well, I dare say our conferences have looked very
odd."
"They've looked very beautiful, and they've been very beautiful. Oh,
I've told her the sort you are!" the young man pursued.
"That of course hasn't made her love me better."
"No, nor love me," said Owen. "Of course, you know, she says she loves
me."
"And do you say you love her?"
"I say nothing else--I say it all the while. I said it the other day a
dozen times." Fleda made no immediate rejoinder to this, and before she
could choose one he repeated his question of a moment before. "Am I to
tell my solicitor to act?"
She had at that moment turned away from this solution, precisely because
she saw in it the great chance of her secret. If she should determine
him to adopt it she might put out her hand and take him. It would shut
in Mrs. Gereth's face the open door of surrender: she would flare up and
fight, flying the flag of a passionate, an heroic defense. The case
would obviously go against her, but the proceedings would last longer
than Mona's patience or Owen's propriety. With a formal rupture he would
be at large; and she had only to tighten her fingers round the string
that would raise the curtain on that scene. "You tell me you 'say' you
love her, but is there nothing more in it than your saying so? You
wouldn't say so, would you, if it's not true? What in the world has
become, in so short a time, of the affection that led to your
engagement?"
"The deuce knows what has become of it, Miss Vetch!" Owen cried. "It
seemed all to go to pot as this horrid struggle came on." He was close
to her now, and, with his face lighted again by the relief of it, he
looked all his helpless history into her eyes. "As I saw you and noticed
you more, as I knew you better and better, I felt less and less--I
couldn't help it--about anything or any one else. I wished I had known
you sooner--I knew I should have liked you better than any one in the
world. But it wasn't you who made the difference," he eagerly continued,
"and I was awfully determined to stick to Mona to the death. It was she
herself who made it, upon my soul, by the state she got into, the way
she sulked, the way she took things, and the way she let me have it! She
destroyed our prospects and our happiness, upon my honor. She made just
the same smash of them as if she had kicked over that tea-table. She
wanted to know all the while what was passing between us, between you
and me; and she wouldn't take my solemn assurance that nothing was
passing but what might have directly passed between me and old Mummy.
She said a pretty girl like you was a nice old Mummy for me, and, if
you'll believe it, she never called you anything else but that. I'll be
hanged if I haven't been good, haven't I? I haven't breathed a breath of
any sort to you, have I? You'd have been down on me hard if I had,
wouldn't you? You're down on me pretty hard as it is, I think, aren't
you? But I don't care what you say now, or what Mona says, either, or a
single rap what any one says: she has given me at last, by her
confounded behavior, a right to speak out, to utter the way I feel about
it. The way I feel about it, don't you know, is that it had all better
come to an end. You ask me if I don't love her, and I suppose it's
natural enough you should. But you ask it at the very moment I'm half
mad to say to you that there's only one person on the whole earth I
really love, and that that person--" Here Owen pulled up short, and
Fleda wondered if it was from the effect of his perceiving, through the
closed door, the sound of steps and voices on the landing of the stairs.
She had caught this sound herself with surprise and a vague uneasiness:
it was not an hour at which her father ever came in, and there was no
present reason why she should have a visitor. She had a fear, which
after a few seconds deepened: a visitor was at hand; the visitor would
be simply Mrs. Gereth. That lady wished for a near view of the
consequence of her note to Owen. Fleda straightened herself with the
instant thought that if this was what Mrs. Gereth desired Mrs. Gereth
should have it in a form not to be mistaken. Owen's pause was the matter
of a moment, but during that moment our young couple stood with their
eyes holding each other's eyes and their ears catching the suggestion,
still through the door, of a murmured conference in the hall. Fleda had
begun to make the movement to cut it short when Owen stopped her with a
grasp of her arm. "You're surely able to guess," he said, with his voice
dropped and her arm pressed as she had never known such a drop or such a
pressure--"you're surely able to guess the one person on earth I love?"
The handle of the door turned, and Fleda had only time to jerk at him:
"Your mother!"
The door opened, and the smutty maid, edging in, announced "Mrs.
Brigstock!"
XV
Mrs. Brigstock, in the doorway, stood looking from one of the occupants
of the room to the other; then they saw her eyes attach themselves to a
small object that had lain hitherto unnoticed on the carpet. This was
the biscuit of which, on giving Owen his tea, Fleda had taken a
perfunctory nibble: she had immediately laid it on the table, and that
subsequently, in some precipitate movement, she should have brushed it
off was doubtless a sign of the agitation that possessed her. For Mrs.
Brigstock there was apparently more in it than met the eye. Owen at any
rate picked it up, and Fleda felt as if he were removing the traces of
