viol, and up went the curtain.
A musical family came out and sang. Then there were some acrobatic
performances. After that the pantomime.
Grandpapa Jerome, in a very foreign costume and a bald head which he
tried to keep covered with a black velvet cap, had two extremely tricksy
sprites for grandchildren. They were very pretty, the girl with long,
light curls, the boy with dark ones. But of all mischief, of all
tormenting deeds and antics with which they nearly set grandpapa crazy
and threw the audience into convulsions! They took the nice fat boiled
ham off the table and greased the doorstep so thoroughly you would have
thought every bone in the old man's body would have been broken by the
repeated falls. They cut the seat out of the chair, and when he went to
sit down he doubled up equal to any modern folding-bed, and he kicked
and turned summersaults until the maid came out and rescued him. Then he
spied the author of the mischief asleep on a grassy bank, and he found a
big strap and went creeping up cautiously, when--whack! and the little
boy flew all to pieces, and the old man was so amazed at his cruelty
that he sat down and began to weep and bewail when the little lad peeped
from behind a tree and, seeing poor grandfather's grief, ran out, hugged
him and kissed him and wiped his eyes, and you could see he was
promising never to do anything naughty again. But that didn't hinder him
from cutting out the bottom of the basket into which the old man was
cutting some very splendid grapes. There were not more than half a dozen
bunches, and the children ran away with them. The old man descended so
carefully, put his hand in the basket, his whole arm, and not a grape.
There was none on the ground. Where had they gone! Oh, there was the
cat. But pussy was much spryer than the old man, and the audience knew
she had not touched a grape.
After that some Indians came on the scene of action, fierce red men of
the forest, and their language was decidedly Jabberwocky. The little
girl was quite frightened at the fierce brandishing of tomahawks. Then
they had a war dance. And oh, then came the marvel of all! Four
beautiful Shetland ponies with the daintiest carriage and six lads in
livery. There sat General Tom Thumb, the curiosity of the time, the
smallest dwarf known. He was not much bigger than a year-old baby, but
he dismounted from his carriage, gave orders to his servants; a
bright-eyed little fellow with rosy cheeks, graceful and with a variety
of pretty tricks. He sang a song or two, then sprang into his carriage
and the ponies trotted off the stage. The curtain came down.
The children were breathless at first. The crowd was surging out and the
place nearly empty before they found their tongues. And then there was
so much else to see. The various stuffed animals, the giraffe with his
three-story neck, the mermaid, the wax figures, the birds and beasts and
serpents, and a model of Paris, of London, and of Jerusalem. The place
looked quite gorgeous all lighted up.
The people were beginning to thin out. They had not seen half, Jim
thought.
"Oh, we haven't been up-stairs!" exclaimed Walter. "There's a great
roof-garden. And you can see all the city."
They trudged up-stairs. Dele kept tight hold of the little girl's hand.
It was quite light up here. What a great space it was! One large flag
was flying, and around the edge of the roof numberless smaller ones.
Some evergreen shrubs in boxes stood around, and there were wooden
arm-chairs, beside some settees. It was rather chilly, though the day
had been very pleasant. And oh, how splendid the lights of Broadway
looked to them, two long rows stretching up and up until lost in
indistinctness. The stores were all open and lighted as brilliantly as
one could with gas. No one thought of Saturday half-holidays then. It
was very grand. But what would they have said to the Columbian nights
and electric lights?
"I don't feel as if I had seen it half," said Jim. He was not grudging
his quarter. "If we had come about one o'clock."
"We'll have to piece it on this end," and Walter laughed. "We must get
our money's worth."
"We might stay over," suggested Dele mirthfully.
"Just the thing," returned Jim, "and all for the same money."
The children glanced at each other in sudden surprise. The glory of a
grand conspiracy shone in their eyes.
"Well, that's too good!" declared Walter. "Won't I just brag of that at
school on Monday. Oh, yes, let's stay."
"We had better go down, for it is getting cool up here. If we only had
something to eat. Hanny, are you hungry? I don't believe Nora ever
knows whether she has eaten or not. Mother says she's just the worst. I
don't mind a bit, but you all----"
"I wouldn't give a copper for supper. It's ever so much more fun
staying," rejoined Walter.
"I'm always hungry as a bear, but I'd a hundred times rather stay," Jim
replied. "Hanny, will you mind?"
"I'm not a bit hungry," answered Hanny. "It's all so beautiful. Oh, do
let's stay!"
"That settles it. Dele, you are a trump."
They picked their way carefully down-stairs. The room was not very
brilliantly lighted, but they found many curiosities that had escaped
their attention before. They espied the diorama and it interested them
very much. Half a dozen people straggled in. The janitor turned on more
light, and began to arrange a platform in a recess.
How any one would feel at home Jim never thought. The rest were in the
habit of doing quite as they liked, and Delia often stayed at her aunt's
until nine o'clock.
At seven the main hall was quite full. The people were crowding up
around the platform. The children went too. The curtain was swung aside
and out stepped Tom Thumb, to be received with cheers. He sang a song
and went through with some military evolutions. There was a railing
around and no one could crowd upon him, but a number spoke to him and
shook hands.
"My little girl," said a tall gentleman who had watched Hanny's
ineffectual efforts to make herself taller, "will you let me hold you
up? Wouldn't you like to shake hands? You're not much bigger yourself."
"Oh, please do," entreated Dele in her eager young voice. "She is so
small."
Hanny was a little startled, but the man held her in his arms and she
smiled hesitatingly. As she met the kindly eyes she said, "Oh, thank
you. It's so nice."
The general came down that end.
"Here is a little lady wants to shake hands with you," the gentleman
said, who was quite a friend of Tom Thumb's.
The small hand was proffered. Hanny was almost afraid, but she put hers
in it and the gallant little general hoped she was well. Then he made a
bow and retired behind the curtain, and it was announced that he would
appear again after the lecture-room performance.
They went in and took their seats. Nora was tired, and leaning her head
on Dele's shoulder went sound asleep. Hanny was getting tired; perhaps,
too, she missed her supper.
It wasn't quite so much fun, for the play was just the same. The
audience enjoyed it greatly. The Indians were more obstreperous, and
sang a hideous song. The vocalists sang many popular songs of the day,
"Old Dan Tucker," "Lucy Long," "Zip Coon," and several patriotic songs.
There was more dancing than in the afternoon, and the boys enjoyed the
Juba in song and dance by a "real slave darkey" who had been made so by
a liberal application of burnt cork, and who could clap and pat the tune
on his knee.
They did not stop to see Tom Thumb again, but went straight down-stairs.
Walter said good-night and declared he had had a splendid time, and Dele
must thank Cousin The again. The four others bundled into the stage,
which was crowded, but some kindly disposed people held both Nora and
Hanny. They had quite a habit of doing it then.
Jim had been wondering what they would say at home. Of course he knew
now he ought not have stayed. But nothing had happened, and Hanny was
all right, and--well, he would face the music whatever it was. If Dele
could be trusted, why not he?
There had been a good deal of anxiety. Mrs. Underhill had expected them
home by six, but their father said: "Oh, give them a little grace." But
when seven o'clock came she went down to Whitney's to inquire. The
table was still standing. Mrs. Whitney sat at the head with a book in
her hand; Dave, the second son, was smoking and reading his paper. Both
girls had gone out.
"Oh, Mrs. Underhill, don't feel a bit worried! They'll come home all
safe. I shouldn't wonder if Dele had taken them over to her aunt's, and
she'll never let them come home without their supper. She's the greatest
hand for children I ever saw. And Dele's so used to going about. Then
everybody's out on Saturday night. Dear me! I haven't given it an
anxious thought," declared Mrs. Whitney.
But Mrs. Underhill could not take it so comfortably.
"There's so many of them we should hear if anything had happened," said
John. "And there is no use looking, for we shouldn't know where they
are; Jim's pretty good stuff too, for a country boy. Now, mother, don't
be foolish."
But she grew more and more uneasy. If she had not let Hanny go! What
could she have been thinking of to do such a thing?
After nine Mr. Underhill walked out to the Bowery, and watched every
stage that halted at the corner. Men, women, and children alighted, but
no little girl. Oh, where could she be? He felt almost as if the world
was coming to an end.
Then a familiar group all talking at the same time stepped out on the
sidewalk. A big girl and two little ones.
"O father, father!" cried Hanny.
He wanted to hug her there in the street. It seemed to him he had never
been so glad and relieved in all his life, or loved her half so well.
"Where have you stayed so long?"
"We went to two museums," said Hanny, before the elders could find their
tongues. "And oh, father, we saw Tom Thumb and he's just as little and
cunning as a baby! And he shook hands with me. A gentleman held me up.
It was beautiful, but I'm awful tired."
"Oh, were you troubled?" cried Delia. "Why didn't you just go in to ma
and she would have told you that I always come up right, and that
nothing ever happens to me, I'm so used to taking care of children. Why,
when we lived down town I used to take out the neighbors' children--over
to Staten Island and to Williamsburg, and always brought them home
safely. Then we hadn't half seen the curiosities, and we should have
missed the nice time with that lovely little Tom Thumb. And we thought
it such capital fun!"
Mr. Underhill really could not say a word. Tired as she was, the little
girl was full of delight. Jim tried to make some explanations and take
part of the blame, but Delia talked them all down and was so fresh and
merry that you couldn't imagine she had gone without her supper.
Mrs. Underhill stood at the area gate with a shawl about her shoulders.
The little girl let go of her father's hand and ran to her.
"Dear Mrs. Underhill," began Dele, "I expect you'll almost want to kill
me, but I never thought about your being worried, for no one ever
worries about me. I suppose it is because I never do get into any
danger. And you must not scold any one, for I was the eldest, except
Cousin Walter, and it was my place to think, but I didn't one bit. It
seemed awful funny, you know, to have it all over for the same money,
and we not paying anything at all! And I did take good care of Hanny.
She's had a lovely time--we all have. And please don't scold Jim. He's
been a perfect gentleman. We didn't do anything rude nor coarse, and
everybody was as polite to us as if we'd been Queen Victoria's children.
And so good-night."
"Jim, your father ought to give you a good thrashing. The idea! I
wouldn't have believed any child of mine could have had such a little
sense," his mother declared.
I don't know what might have happened, but just then Steve and Margaret
returned. And when Steve caught sight of Jim's sober face and heard the
story, he thought it very boylike and rather amusing. Besides, it seemed
a pity to spoil the good time. So he laughed, and told Jim he had
cheated Mr. Barnum out of a quarter, and that he would have to save up
his money to make it good.
"And he owes me nine cents toward the omnibus ride. He must pay me that
first," said his mother sharply.
"I wasn't admitted twice" rejoined Jim. "It is the admittance. I
didn't see any notice about not staying, and I don't believe I really
owe Mr. Barnum another quarter."
"Jim, I think I'll educate you for a lawyer. You have such a way of
squirming out of tight places."
They all laughed.
"Mother, do give the children some supper," said their father.
"Here, Jim, pay your mother." Steve laid him down sixpence and three
pennies. We had Mexican sixpences and shillings in those days. "You'll
have enough on your mind without that debt. And next time think of the
folks at home."
"Why didn't the Whitneys feel worried? Oh, thank you, Steve."
"It did beat all," said Mrs. Underhill. "There Mrs. Whitney sat reading
a novel----"
"Perhaps it was her French exercise," interrupted Steve, with a twinkle
in his eye.
"It was no such thing! It was a yellow-covered novel!" I don't know why
they persisted in putting novels in pronounced yellow covers to betray
people, unless it was that publishers wouldn't use false pretences. And
to put a story in the fatal color made it as reprehensible to most
people as a yellow aster. "And such a table!" Mrs. Underhill caught her
breath. "Everything at sixes and sevens, and the cloth looking as if it
had been used a month, and Mrs. Whitney as unconcerned as if the
children had only gone down to the corner. I declare I couldn't be
so--so----"
"But they're a jolly lot. They save a great deal of strength in not
worrying. And they know Dele is trusty. She's a smart girl, too."
"Well, I wouldn't want any of my sons to marry girls brought up as those
Whitneys."
"Hear that, Jim. You are fairly warned."
Jim turned scarlet.
"Jim will have to be in better business many a year than thinking of
girls," subjoined his mother decisively.
The little girl didn't seem very hungry. She ate her bread-and-milk and
talked over the delights of the afternoon, and her enjoyment mollified
her mother a good deal. Jim considered at first whether it wouldn't
rather even up things if he went without his supper, but the biscuits
and the boiled beef were so tempting, and in those days boys could eat
the twenty-four hours round. People were wont to say they had the
digestion of an ostrich. But I think if you had tried them on nails and
old shoes the ostrich would have gone up head.
"Oh, do you see how late it is? I know Hanny will be sick to-morrow! And
Jim, you'll have the doctor's bill to pay."
"Oh, no," said Hanny with a smile, "Joe has promised to doctor me for
nothing."
Mrs. Underhill lost her point. Jim wanted a good laugh, but he thought
it would hardly be prudent.
Of course something ought to have happened to impress their wrong-doing
on the children. But it didn't. They were all well and bright the next
morning. Mr. Theodore Whitney took occasion to say that he hoped the
Underhills wouldn't feel offended. It was just a young people's caper,
and he thought it rather amusing.
Mrs. Whitney said in the bosom of her household: "Well, I wonder that
Mrs. Underhill has an ounce of fat on her bones if she's worried that
way about her eight children! I always felt to trust mine to
Providence."
Jim "gave away" the thing at school, and was quite a hero. But some of
the boys had crawled under a circus tent. And a circus was simply
immense!
Lily Ludlow said, out of her bitterest envy, "I shouldn't have thought
you would let a girl take you out, Jim Underhill!"
"She didn't take me! I bought my own ticket. And there was her
cousin----"
"Well--if you like that style of people--and red hair--and Dele
Whitney has no more figure than a post! I wouldn't be such a fat chunk
for anything! And her clothes are just wild."
"Of course you're ever so much the prettiest. And I wish we could go
to the Museum together, just us two." Jim thought it would be fine to
take out one girl.
That mollified Lily a little.
"And I just wish you lived up by our house. It seems so easy then to
come in. And when you once get real well acquainted--intimate
like--well, you know I like you better than any girl in school;" though
Jim wondered a little if it was absolutely true.
"Do you, really?" The eyes and the smile always conquered him. She made
good use of both.
"Oh, you know I do."
Chris didn't see why she couldn't get acquainted with Margaret. She
wanted her mother to call, but Mrs. Ludlow said, "I've more friends now
than I can attend to." And Miss Margaret seemed to hold up her head so
high. Then Mr. Stephen was going to marry in the Beekman family. And
Chris wondered why Mr. John didn't go in some store business instead of
learning a carpenter's trade.
Hester Brown was out of school a week. Mrs. Craven had begged the girls
not to tease her, but after a few days she announced that a mistake had
been made in the calculation--some people thought three years--but the
end was sure. However three years seems a lifetime to children.
CHAPTER X
A MERRY CHRISTMAS
George Underhill came down and made a nice long visit. He felt he liked
his own home people a little the best, but his heart was still set on
farming. Thanksgiving came after a lovely Indian summer, such as one
rarely sees now. Then each State appointed its own Thanksgiving, and
there were people who boasted of partaking of three separate dinners.
After that it was cold. The little girl had a good warm cloak and hood
and mittens, and it was nothing to run to school. She studied and
played, and knew two pretty exercises on the piano. Jim and Benny Frank
grew like weeds. But Benny somehow "gave in" to the boys, and two or
three of the school bullies did torment him.
"I'd just give it to them!" declared Jim. "I wouldn't be put upon and
called baby and a mollycoddle and have that Perkins crowding me off the
