When the tax-list of the town is printed in the 
daily papers once a year, the wardens and the lead 
ing parishioners of Saint Agatha's stand far upwards 
in the score, and their names are traced by slow, 
grimy fingers of mechanics and strikers and socialists 
laboriously reading on Saturday nights. 
The choir of Saint Agatha's, as all the world 
knows, is superior. Her soprano alone (a famous 
prima donna) would fill the house. Women throng 
the aisles to hear the tenor, and musical critics, hat 
in hand, and pad on hat, drop in to report the an 
them and the offertory for the Monday morning 
press. 
In ecclesiastical position, it is needless to add, 
Saint Agatha's has always been above reproach. 
When did Saint Agatha's question a canon? When 
did she contend with a custom? When did she 
criticise a creed ? Why should she contest a 
tradition ? She accepts, she conforms, she prospers. 
In one particular Saint Agatha's has been thrust 
into an attitude of originality foreign to her taste. 
Her leading men feel called upon occasionally to 
explain how the eternal feminine came a little 
contrary to the fashion of our land to be 
recognized in the name of the church. Saint Agatha's 
first pastor, one should know, was a very young 
man of enthusiastic and unconventional temperament. 
He did not live long enough to outgrow 
this for a clergyman unfortunate trend of 
nature, having died, full of dreams and visions, in 
the teeth of a lowering conflict with his wardens ; 
but he lived long enough to carry the day and the 
name for a portion of his people who desired to call 
their church in honor of a sweet, though rich, old 
lady who had put her private fortune into their 
beautiful house of worship, and her warm heart 
into their future success. It had befallen this dear 
old lady to bear the name of Agatha, which, for her 
sake, and, of course, in due ecclesiastical remembrance 
of the strictly canonical saint of similar 
cognomen, was accordingly bestowed upon the 
church. 
In the year of our Lord eighteen hundred and 
another numeral, which I am requested not to indi 
cate, but I may not deny that it is a recent one, the 
popular rector of Saint Agatha's took a winter va 
cation. He was an imposing and imperious man, 
full of years and honors, in the full sway of his 
professional fame, when he fell a victim, like any 
common person, to the grippe. 
In the attempt to recover from this vulgar malady, 
he was forced to observe that his select physician 
had drugged him, via an exclusive bronchitis, into 
a minister's sore throat, such as any ordinary country 
parson might develop for lack of an overcoat, 
or a fire in his bedroom. Without undue delay or 
reluctance, the rector of Saint Agatha's took ship 
for the south of France; and in the comfortable 
way in which such things are done in such quarters, 
the church was set trundling upon the wheels of a 
two-months " supply." This was managed so grace 
fully by the experienced vestry of Saint Agatha's 
that hardly a visible jar occurred in the parish 
machinery. Many of the people did not know that 
their rector had gone until a canon from London 
sonorously filled the pulpit one Sunday morning. 
A distinguished Middle State clergyman followed 
the next week; the West sent her brightest and 
best the succeeding Sunday ; and so it went. 
Eminent variety easily occupied that sacred desk. 
The wardens of St. Agatha's have but to say, Come, 
and he cometh who weigheth the honor of minister 
ing in this aristocratic pulpit. In brief, the most 
distinguished men in the denomination cordially 
supplied. On the whole, perhaps the parish enjoyed 
their rector's vacation as much as he did. 
Now, upon the vestry there chanced at that time 
to be one man who was "different." One does find 
such people even among the officers of fashionable 
churches. This man (he was, by the way, a grand- 
nephew of the old lady who built the church when 
Saint Agatha's was an unendowed experiment) had 
occasional views not wholly in harmony with the 
policy of his brother officers ; and, being himself 
a heavy rate-payer, was allowed, sometimes, by the 
courtesy of the majority, when his notion was not 
really in bad form, you know, to have his way. 
He did not get it so often but that he was glad to 
make the most of it when he did; and when his 
turn came to control the supply for that Sunday 
with which this narrative has to do, he asked the 
privilege of being intrusted with the details of the 
business. This request, as from a useful man of 
certain eccentricities, was indulgently granted ; and 
thus there occurred the events which I am privileged 
to relate. 
It was just before Lent, and the winter had been 
a cold one. One Friday evening in early March 
there came up, or came down, a drifting snow-storm. 
It was bad enough in town, but in the suburbs it 
was worse, and in the country it was little less than 
dangerous to passengers through the wide, wind 
swept streets, the choking lanes, and bitter moors. 
An old clergyman, the pastor of a scattered 
parish, sat in his study on that Friday night, and 
thanked God that the weekly evening service was 
over, and his day's work done. He would have 
regretted being called out again that night, for he 
had got quite wet in walking to church and back, 
and the cold from which he had been suffering for 
a week past might not be benefited thereby. This 
fact in itself was a matter of no concern, under 
ordinary conditions, to the old clergyman, who, being a 
lonely man in a forlorn country boarding-house, with 
nobody to take care of him, was accustomed to live 
under the shadow of a " common cold," and who 
paid no more attention to his own physical 
discomforts in the face of daily duty than he paid to the 
latest fashion in sable trimmings in the front pews 
at Saint Agatha s. There was no fur trimming on 
his overcoat, which was seven years old and pitiably 
thin. But he had been invited to supply at Saint 
Agatha's next Sunday, and to that unexampled honor 
and opportunity he gave the pathetic attention 
half personal pleasure, half religious fervor of an 
overlooked and devout man. In the course of a 
forty-years ministry he had not been asked to 
preach in a city pulpit. The event was tremendous 
to him. He had been agitated by the invitation, 
which ran in some such way as this : 
" He had been invited to supply at St. Agath 
. . . "In closing, permit me to say, sir, that it 
would be agreeable to us to welcome among us the 
grandson of our first pastor, that young rector who 
died in the bud of his youth and Christian originality. 
The fact of your ancestry will give to your 
presence a peculiar interest for our people at large. 
But I beg to be allowed to add on behalf of the 
committee, that certain qualities in yourself and in 
your own work have led us to believe that you may 
exert positive influences upon us of which we stand 
in need. In your remote and rural parish your 
life has not passed unobserved. Your labors as a 
pastor, and your methods of preaching, have been 
an object of study to some of us. We have come 
to rate you, sir, as one of the men of God. There 
are not many. In meeting with our people, the 
writer personally hopes that you may be able to 
teach us something of the secret of your own happy 
and successful experience as a minister of Christ our 
Lord." . . . 
The old clergyman sat with his feet upon the 
base of his little cylinder coal-stove. His thin 
ankles shrank in the damp stockings which he had 
not been able to change since he came in out of the 
storm, because, owing to some personal preference 
of the laundress, he could not find any dry ones. 
His worn slippers flapped upon his cold feet when 
he moved. But he had on his flowered dressing- 
gown of ancient pattern and rustic cut ; his high 
arm-chair was cushioned in chintz and excelsior 
behind his aching head ; the green paper shade was 
on his study-lamp ; his best-beloved books (for the 
old saint was a student) lay within reach upon the 
table ; piled upon them were his manuscript sermons ; 
and he sighed with the content of a man who 
feels himself to be, although unworthy, in the loving 
arms of luxury. A rap at the door undeceived him. 
His landlady put in her withered face. 
" Sir," she said, " the widder Peek's a-dying. 
It's just like her to take a night like this but 
she's sent for you. I must say I don't call you fit 
to go." 
" A man is always fit to do his duty," said the 
old clergyman, rising. "I will go at once. Did 
she send any conveyance ? " 
"Catch her!" retorted the landlady. "Why, 
she hain't had the town water let in yet and she 
wuth her fifteen thousand dollars; nor she won't 
have no hired girl to do for her, not that none of 
em will stay along of her a week, and Dobson's 
boy's at the door, a drippin and cussin to get you, 
for he's nigh snowed under. She's a wuthless old 
heathen miser, the widder Peek." 
" Then there is every reason why I should not 
neglect her," replied the clergyman, in his authoritative, 
clerical voice. " Pray call the lad in from 
the weather, and tell him I will accompany him at 
once." 
He did look about his study sadly while he was 
making ready to leave it. The fire in the base- 
burner was quite warm, now, and his wet, much- 
darned stockings were beginning to dry. The room 
looked sheltered and pleasant ; his books ran to the 
ceiling, though his floor was covered with straw 
matting, with odd pieces of woolen carpet for rugs ; 
his carpet-covered lounge was wheeled out of the 
draft ; his lamp with the green shade made a little 
circle of light and coziness ; his Bible and prayer- 
book lay open within it, beside the pile of sermons. 
He had meant to devote the evening to the agreeable 
duty of selecting his discourse for Saint Agatha s. 
His mind and his heart were brimming over with 
the excitement of that great event. He would have 
liked to concentrate and consecrate his thoughts 
upon it that evening. As he went, coughing, into 
the cold entry, it occurred to him that the spot in 
his lung was more painful than he had supposed ; 
but he pulled his old cap over his ears, and his thin 
overcoat up to meet it, and tramped out cheerfully 
into the storm. 
" Well, well, my lad ! " he said in his warm 
hearted way to Dobson's boy ; " I'm  sorry for you 
that you have to be out a night like this." 
The boy spoke of this af terwards ? and remembered 
it long for a boy. But at the time he did but 
stare. He stopped grumbling, however, and plunged 
on into the drifts, ahead of the old rector, kicking 
a path for him to right and left in the wet, packed 
snow ; for the widow Peek lived at least a mile away, 
and the storm was now become a virulent thing. 
What passed between the unloved, neglected, 
dying parishoner and her pastor was not known to 
any but themselves, nor is there witness now to tes 
tify thereof. Neither does it in any way concern 
the record of this narrative, except as the least may 
concern the largest circumstance in human story. 
For, in view of what came to pass, it is impossible 
not to put the old, judicial question : Did it pay ? 
Was it worth while ? When the miser's soul went 
out, at midnight, on the wings and the rage of that 
blind, black storm, did it pass gently, a subdued, 
forgiven spirit, humble to learn how to live again, 
for Christ's sake and his who gave himself as his 
Master had before him to comfort and to save? 
Did it pay? Do such things pay? God knows. 
But as long as men do not know, there will always 
be found a few among them who will elect to dis 
regard the doubt, to wear the divinity of 
uncalculating sacrifice, and to pay its price. 
For the soul of the widow Peek the price was 
large, looked at in our mathematical way ; for, when 
the old clergyman, having shrived her soul and 
closed her eyes, started to come home at one o'clock 
of the morning, the storm had become a malignant 
force. Already wet through and through his thin 
coats and worn flannels, weak from the exposure, the 
watching, and the scene of death, every breath a 
sword athwart his inflamed lungs, with fire in his 
brain, and ice at his heart, he staggered against the 
blizzard. 
Dobson's boy had long since sought the shelter 
of his own home, and the old man was quite unattended. 
True, the neighbor who watched with the 
dead woman suggested that he remain till morning ; 
but the widow Peek's house was cold (she was 
always especially "near" about fuel), and he thought 
it more prudent to get back to his own stove and 
his bed. 
Whether he lost his way ; whether he crossed and 
recrossed it, wandering from it in the dark and 
drift; whether he fell and lay in the snow for a 
time, and rose again, and staggered on, and fell 
again, and so pushed on again, cannot be known. 
It is only known that at half-past two on Saturday 
morning his landlady put her wrinkled face out of 
the window, for the twentieth time, in search of him 
(for she had a thought for him in her own hard- 
featured way), and saw him fallen, and feebly trying 
to crawl on his hands and knees up the drifted 
steps. 
She got him in to his warm study, past the chair 
where the flowered dressing-gown and old slippers 
awaited him, and as far as the carpet-covered lounge, 
Beyond this he could not be taken. 
By morning the whole parish rang the door-bell ; 
the hands and hearts and horses, the purses, the 
nurses, the doctors, the watchers, the tears, and the 
prayers of the village, were his for he was dearly 
beloved and cherished in that parish. But he lay 
on his old lounge in his study among his books, and 
asked of them nothing at all. The kerosene lamp, 
behind its green shade, went out; and the Bible, 
with the pile of sermons on the table, looked large 
in the snow-light of a day when the storm ceases 
without sun. He did not talk; but his thoughts 
were yet alive. He remembered Saint Agatha's, 
and the sermon which he was to preach to-morrow. 
He knew that not one of his people (ignorant of 
such matters) would understand how to get word 
to the city vestry. He tried to give directions, but 
his voice refused his bidding. He knew that he 
would be supposed to have failed to meet his
appointment, perhaps to have been thwarted a rural 
clergyman, old and timorous, baffled in an important 
professional engagement by a little snow. He 
was to have taken the evening train. He was to be 
the guest of the vestryman who wrote that pleasant 
letter. He was to preach in Saint Agatha's 
to-morrow. He was to 
