Emerson my personal knowledge, as I have said,  
was but of the slightest. With the remaining 
three I had differing degrees of friendship ; and 
to speak of them is still a privilege full of 
affectionate sadness. 
Longfellow I knew less well than the others ; 
but my few memories of him are as mellow 
and fair as yesterday's October day melting on 
the great horizon beyond my study windows. I 
think the first time that I saw him was at Mr. 
Fields's ; my impressions are that he was ill 
that day, and a little under the reflection of 
physical suffering ; and that I thought at the 
time that this fact accounted for the peculiar 
gentleness of his personality. Afterwards, when 
I saw him in happier conditions, I learned that 
this was no pathological incident, but that his 
atmosphere was like that of the mystic lands 
"where it is always afternoon." He remains 
in my thought as one of the gentlest men 
whom I ever knew. There was a certain in 
nate serenity, quite apart from the quality of 
his manner ; a manner which had the repose of 
something that it seems almost underbred to 
call the finest breeding, because it went beyond 
and below and above that. I heard Emerson 
once say of some one I cannot recall of 
whom that he was " expressed to gold-leaf." 
Mr. Longfellow could not be denned in this 
phrase, only because he was too genuine to
appropriate it. His endowment of personal cul 
ture was so generous as to give one in contact 
with it the keenest delight. He seemed to me 
a man cultivated almost to the capacity of his 
nature. It was inconceivable that he could, 
under any stress, slip into rudeness of view, 
or do the incomplete thing. He was finished 
well-nigh to elaboration. Yet, as I say, he 
stopped this side of gold-leaf. For he had re 
tained his sincerity almost to the point of 
naivete" ; he had preserved the spontaneity which 
a lesser man under his attrition with the world 
would have lost. 
I was once in a box at the theatre in a 
company of friends of whom he was one. The 
play was a simple affair Hazel Kirke : there 
was nothing great, historic, or perhaps in a 
strict sense artistic about it ; it was the old 
story of a Scotch marriage, separated lovers, a 
wronged girl, and a heartbroken father. There 
was a scene where Hazel followed her blind 
father about the room upon her knees, pressing 
the hem of his long coat to her lips ; he mean 
while being ignorant of her presence, and 
remaining so till she had disappeared. I turned, 
indiscreetly enough, and looked at the poet 
where he sat, a little in the shadow of our box. 
I was astonished to see the tears not gather 
ing, but falling down his face. He made no 
effort to conceal or to check them : indeed, I 
think he was unconscious of them. He noticed 
none of us ; but gave his heart up to the great 
human passion of the little play with a 
simplicity and genuineness touching to see. 
I remember, at another time, lunching at his 
house on an occasion when the guest of honor 
was a great actress of the higher caste. She 
was not an American ; and, thinking to interest 
her, at our request, Mr. Longfellow read aloud 
a poem of his, which treated of her own country, 
and of its struggles for a freedom at that time 
unattained. When he had finished the reading, 
he turned, and found her in tears. I know it 
occurred to me at the time that an actress of 
her resources might have spared him that ; but 
probably she, too, was genuine when she could 
be. At all events, the lady wept. I shall 
never forget the tone and manner with which 
he turned towards her. " Oh ! " he cried, " I 
meant to give you happiness ! And I have 
given you pain ! " His accent on the word 
"pain" was like the smart of a wound. Out 
of strength came sweetness, and his unspoiled 
genius had preserved the simple reality of a 
kind heart. 
The finest tribute which I ever heard offered 
to Longfellow was one which may not have 
found its way into print ; for it did not come 
from the great of the earth, claiming their own 
and revering him. He had his due of that, 
in life and in death. It would have been an 
honor to statesmen or to kings to be guests at 
the poet's table. But what sweeter thing was 
ever said of him than this ? "If there is any 
person in Cambridge, or in Boston, whom he 
knows to be in greater need than any other, of 
social kindness ; any one obscure, overlooked, 
unknown, and friendless, that is the person 
you are sure to find invited to Mr. 
Longfellow's house." 
Mr. Longfellow was very kind to me, in 
certain opinions which he expressed about 
some of my writings not agreeable to all my 
readers. At the time " The Story of Avis " 
came out, I received from him a few letters 
which were the greatest possible comfort to 
me ; for, though I had not expected that book 
 
to have a wide circle of friends, yet I did hope 
in some measure to atone by their quality for 
their quantity. 
Even in autobiography I could not bring 
myself to reprint those letters so far as they 
dealt with my book ; but the fact that he 
understood my favorite heroine where smaller 
men might not, or did not, has been one of 
the pleasantest bits of subconsciousness in the 
life of a writer who has had her share of 
misapprehension and critical abuse. I have, in 
fact, never met any other man who showed, 
from the author's point of view, such a marvel 
ous intuition in the comprehension of an 
unusual woman ; or of what the author of " Avis " 
tried to do, in relating her history. "The 
Story of Avis " was a woman's book, hoping 
for small hospitality at the hands of men. 
Mr. Longfellow came but once to my home 
on Gloucester Harbor ; but on that occasion 
I had the especial pleasure of pointing out 
to him the reef of " Norman's Woe ; " which, 
though he had wrecked the schooner Hesperus, 
and broken half our hearts upon it, he had 
singularly enough never seen (I think he said) 
before. 
I remember one dull, cold day it was a 
Sunday when, being entertained at the home 
of Governor and Mrs. Claflin, I found Mr. 
Whittier also a guest. The suggestion arose 
that we should drive out to see Mr. Long 
fellow. This we did ; Mr. Whittier, Mrs. 
, and myself. Mr. Whittier was at his 
brightest on that drive to Cambridge ; full of 
good stories, and good appreciation of them ; 
more than usually cheerful, and inclined to 
talk happily. We drove up to Longfellow's 
door ; there seemed an unusual silence about 
the calm and gentle place. Mr. Whittier 
went on alone and rang the bell. It was our 
purpose to remain in the carriage, I think, 
leaving the two poets to themselves undisturbed 
by our smaller personalities. We were, there 
fore, astonished to see Mr. Whittier returning 
in a moment. He ran down the steps and 
sprang in with excitement, hitting his tall hat, 
I remember, on the carriage door, and entirely 
unconscious that he had done so. He was 
more agitated than I had ever seen him. 
" Longfellow is sick ! " he cried, " very sick ! 
They are very anxious." He leaned back on 
the carriage cushions,, much perturbed. " It 
is a long time since I have seen him ! " he 
said drearily. His agitation remained. The 
drive back to Boston was a gloomy one. His 
vivacity was quite extinguished. He scarcely 
spoke to either of us all the way ; but stared 
solemnly out of the window with eyes that 
 
seemed to see nothing nearer than the world 
to which his great friend was called. Every 
one who knew him can understand what his 
wonderful eyes must have been to look upon at 
such a time. We rode home, and he went at 
once to his room; where his hostess always 
decreed that he should be sheltered from all 
possible intrusion. Longfellow died, if I am 
correct about it, two days after. To this day, 
I seem to see him passing on, through the 
seer's look in Whittier's eyes. 
" It was a disappointment," he wrote, " not 
to be able to see Longfellow then, and much 
more after his death ; but I am glad I went 
on that last Sabbath, and that thee was with 
me. . . . Ah, well ! as Wordsworth asked, 
after commemorating the friends who had left 
him : l Who next shall fall and disappear ? I 
await the answer with awe and solemnity, and 
yet with unshaken trust in the mercy of the 
All Merciful." 
Whittier was a shy and scanty visitor ; and 
a new interior was an insurmountable trouble 
to him in his later years. I think he 
cultivated in himself a kind of chronic expectation 
of sometime fulfilling his conditional promise 
to come and see me ; but in point of fact he 
never did. I saw him at the houses of one or 
two old friends in town, where he had acquired 
a habit of flitting in and out ; or else at his 
own home. And he wrote, when he could. 
Sometimes long silence fell between the 
letters. Sometimes they succeeded each other 
quickly. This was as it happened. To me, 
my broken acquaintance with him was one of 
the inspirations of my life. 
He was full of frolic, in a gentle way ; no 
one of the world's people ever had a keener 
sense of humor. From every interview with 
him one carried away a good story, or a sense 
of having had a good time : he never darkened 
the day, or shadowed the heart. He inspirited. 
He invigorated. " I like," he wrote to a friend, 
" the wise, Chinese proverb : You cannot pre 
vent the birds of sadness from flying over your 
head, but you may prevent them from stopping 
to build their nests in your hair ! 
With what boyish delight he absorbed a 
fresh anecdote, if it had the right ring to it, 
and how tenderly he encouraged the best of 
the old ones ! Most of the more amusing in 
cidents of his personal experience have been 
long ago published by the friends with whom 
he used to share them. Perhaps the story 
about Lucy Larcom is one of them : but I 
venture to repeat it, as one which has vividly 
stayed by me. 
A caller, one of "the innumerable throng 
 
that moves " to the doors of the distinguished, 
there to indulge the weak curiosity of an 
ignorance too pitiable to be angry with, made him 
self troublesome one day in the poet's home at 
Amesbury. 
" I have come, Sir," he said pompously, 
" to take you by the hand. I have long wished 
to know the author of Hannah binding 
Shoes ! 
Now Lucy Larcom happened to be sitting, 
in her serene fashion, silently by the window 
at that time ; and Mr. Whittier turned towards 
her with the courtly bow into which the Quaker 
poet's simple manner could bend so regally, 
when he chose. 
" I am happy," replied Mr. Whittier, waving 
his hand towards the lady in the window, " to 
have the opportunity to present thee to the 
author of that admirable poem Lucy Larcom ! " 
It was one of Mr. Whittier's laughable rem 
iniscences of anti-slavery days, when he was 
a free soil candidate for Congress, that he was 
charged by political enemies with " ill-treating 
his wife " ! 
For so gentle a man Mr. Whittier was a 
very keen lance in argument. A man who 
prided himself on being a disbeliever in Chris 
tianity once obtruded his views on Mr. 
Whittier in a blatant manner ; enforcing the asser 
tion that there was no truth in the doctrine of 
immortality, because he knew that he had, 
himself, no soul. " Friend," replied the poet, 
with rippling eyes, " I quite agree with thee. 
I am ready to admit that thee has no soul. 
But speak for thyself, friend, speak for thy 
self ! " 
As I knew Mr. Whittier in his later years, 
my impressions of his life are those of its most 
lonely period. With heartache for which there 
are no words, I used to come away sometimes, 
from glimpses of its deep, inward desolation. 
Friends in full measure he had ; and every 
thing possible was done in his descending 
years, by those who had the nearest right to 
minister to him, to give him comfort. But his 
solitude went too deep for the surface rela 
tions of life to fathom. Illness, and deafness, 
and the imperfect use of his eyes increased it 
heavily. He could read but very little, and 
could write less. 
His home at Danvers was a pleasant one, 
full of creature comforts, and womanly kind 
liness ; but the New England winter pressed 
heavily about it. 
" How do you spend the days ? " I asked 
once, upon a bitter afternoon, when I had 
gone over from Andover to see him for an 
 
hour. He glanced over my head into the 
snow-storm. His face was not dreary; but 
wore one of its gravest looks. 
" Oh," he said patiently, " I play with the 
dogs ; or I go out and see the horses. And 
then I talk to Phoebe. And I go into my 
study, and sit awhile." 
" There is always some one to talk to," he 
said, in his gentle, grateful way ; he spoke as 
if this fact were an unusual privilege. 
One must have spent more than one invalid 
winter in a New England village, to under 
stand in the least what such isolation was to a 
man of his gifts and social instincts, and in the 
deepening solitude of old age. Yet nothing 
could stir the roots which he had grown into 
