when I go there, now, once a year in my old age, to sit 
under it and bring back the lost playmates of my youth 
and group them about me and look upon their faces through 
my tears and break my heart, oh, my God ! No, the place 
was not quite the same afterward. In one or two ways 
it could not be ; for, the fairies' protection being gone, the 
spring lost much of its freshness and coldness, and more 
than two-thirds of its volume, and the banished serpents 
and stinging insects returned, and multiplied, and became 
a torment and have remained so to this day. 
When that wise little child, Joan, got well, we realised 
how much her illness had cost us ; for we found that we 
had been right in believing she could save the fairies. She 
burst into a great storm of anger, for so little a creature, 
and went straight to Pere Fronte, and stood up before him 
where he sat, and made reverence and said : 
' The fairies were to go if they showed themselves to 
people again, is it not so ? ' 
' Yes, that was it, dear.' 
' If a man comes prying into a person's room at mid- 
night when that person is half naked, will you be so unjust 
as to say that that person is showing himself to that man ? ' 
' Well — no.' The good priest looked a little troubled 
and uneasy when he said it. 
' Is a sin a sin anyway, even if one did not intend to 
commit it ? ' 
Pere Fronte threw up his hands and cried out — 
' Oh, my poor little child, I see all my fault,' and he 
drew her to his side and put his arm around her and tried 
to make his peace with her, but her temper was up so high 
that she could not get it down right away, but buried her 
head against his breast and broke out crying and said : 
' Then the fairies committed no sin, for there was no 
intention to commit one, they not knowing that any one 
was by ; and because they were little creatures and could 
not speak for themselves and say the law was against the 
intention, not against the innocent act, and because they 
 
had no friend to think that simple thing for them and say 
it, they have been sent away from their home for ever, and 
it was wrong, wrong to do it ! ' 
The good father hugged her yet closer to his side and 
said : 
' Oh, out of the mouths of babes and sucklings the heed- 
less and unthinking are condemned : would God I could 
bring the little creatures back, for your sake ! And mine, 
yes, and mine ; for I have been unjust. There, there, don't 
cry — nobody could be sorrier than your poor old friend — 
don't cry, dear.' 
' But I can't stop right away, I've got to. And it is no 
little matter, this thing that you have done. Is being sorry 
penance enough for such an act? ' 
Pere Fronte turned away his face, for it would have 
hurt her to see him laugh, and said : 
' Oh, thou remorseless but most just accuser, no, it is 
not. I will put on sackcloth and ashes ; there — are you 
satisfied ? ' 
Joan's sobs began to diminish, and she presently looked 
up at the old man through her tears, and said, in her sim- 
ple way : 
' Yes, that will do — if it will clear you.' 
Pere Fronte would have been moved to laugh again, 
perhaps, if he had not remembered in time that he had 
made a contract, and not a very agreeable one. It must 
be fulfilled. So he got up and went to the fireplace, Joan 
watching him with deep interest, and took a shovelful of 
cold ashes, and was going to empty them on his old grey 
head when a better idea came to him, and he said : 
' Would you mind helping me, dear ? ' 
'How, father?' 
He got down on his knees and bent his head low, and 
said : 
' Take the ashes and put them on my head for me.' 
The matter ended there, of course. The victory was 
with the priest. One can imagine how the idea of such a 
profanation would strike Joan or any other child in the 
village. She ran and dropped upon her knees by his side 
and said : 
' Oh, it is dreadful. I didn't know that that was what 
one meant by sackcloth and ashes— do please get up, 
father.' 
' But I can't until I am forgiven. Do you forgive 
me?' 
' I ? Oh, you have done nothing to me, father ; it Is 
yourself that must forgive yourself for wronging those 
poor things. Please get up, father, won't you ? ' 
' But I am worse off now than I was before. I thought 
I was earning your forgiveness, but If It is my own, I can't 
be lenient ; it would not become me. Now what can I do ? 
Find me some way out of this with your wise little head.' 
The Pere would not stir, for all Joan's pleadings. She 
was about to cry again ; then she had an idea, and seized 
the shovel and deluged her own head with the ashes, stam- 
mering out through her chokings and suffocations— 
' There— now it is done. Oh, please get up, father ! ' 
The old man, both touched and amused, gathered her to 
his breast and said — 
' Oh, you incomparable child ! It's a humble martyr- 
dom, and not of a sort presentable In a picture, but the 
right and true spirit Is In it ; that I testify.' 
Then he brushed the ashes out of her hair, and helped 
her scour her face and neck and properly tidy herself up. 
He was In fine spirits now, and ready for further argument, 
so he took his seat and drew Joan to his side again, and 
said : 
'Joan, you were used to make wreaths there at the 
Fairy Tree with the other children ; is it not so ? ' 
That was the way he always started out when he was 
going to corner me up and catch me In something— just 
that gentle, indifferent way that fools a person so, and leads 
him into the trap, he never noticing which way he Is travel- 
ling until he Is In and the door shut on him. He enjoyed 
that. I knew he was going to drop corn along in front of 
Joan now. Joan answered : 
'Yes, father.' 
' Did you hang them on the Tree ? ' 
'No, father.' 
' Didn't hang them there ? ' 
'No.' 
' Why didn't you ? ' 
' I — well, I didn't wish to.' 
' Didn't wish to ? ' 
' No, father.' 
' What did you do with them ? ' 
' I hung them in the church.' 
' Why didn't you want to hang them on the Tree ? ' 
' Because it was said that the fairies were of kin to the 
Fiend, and that it was sinful to show them honour.' 
' Did you believe it was wrong to honour them so ? ' 
' Yes. I thought; it must be wrong.' 
' Then if it was wrong to honour them in that way, and 
if they were of kin to the Fiend, they could be dangerous 
company for you and the other children, couldn't they ? ' 
' I suppose so — yes, I think so.' 
He studied a minute, and I judged he was going to 
spring his trap, and he did. He said : 
' Then the matter stands like this. They were banned 
creatures, of fearful origin ; they could be dangerous 
company for the children. Now give me a rational reason, 
dear, if you can think of any, why you call it a wrong to 
drive them into banishment, and why you would have 
saved them from it. In a word, what loss have you 
suffered by it ? ' 
How stupid of him to go and throw his case away like 
that ! I could have boxed his ears for vexation if he had 
been a boy. He was going along all right until he ruined 
everything by winding up in that foolish and fatal way. 
What had ske lost by it ! Was he never going to find ou 
what kind of a child Joan of Arc was ? Was he never 
going to learn that things which merely concerned her own 
gain or loss she cared nothing about ? Could he never get 
the simple fact into his head that the sure way and the only 
way to rouse her up and set her on fire was to show her 
where some other person was going to suffer wrong or 
hurt or loss ? Why, he had gone and set a trap for him- 
self — that was all he had accomplished. 
The minute those words were out of his mouth her 
temper was up, the indignant tears rose in her eyes, and 
she burst out on him with an energy and passion which 
astonished him, but didn't astonish me, for I knew he had 
fired a mine when he touched off his ill-chosen climax. 
' Oh, father, how can you talk like that ? Who owns 
France ? ' 
' God and the King.' 
' Not Satan ? ' 
' Satan, my child ? This is the footstool of the Most 
High — Satan owns no handful of its soil.' 
 Then who gave those poor creatures their home ? 
God. Who protected them in it all those centuries ? 
God. Who allowed them to dance and play there all those 
centuries and found no fault with it ? God. Who dis- 
approved of God's approval and put a threat upon them ? 
A man. Who caught them again in harmless sports that 
God allowed and a man forbade, and carried out that 
threat, and drove the poor things away from the home the 
good God gave them in His mercy and His pity, and sent 
down His rain and dew and sunshine upon it five hundred 
years in token of His peace ? It was their home — theirs, 
by the grace of God and His good heart, and no man had 
a right to rob them of it. And they were the gentlest, 
truest friends that children ever had, and did them sweet 
and loving service all these five long centuries, and never 
any hurt or harm ; and the children loved them, and now 
they mourn for them, and there is no healing for their 
grief. And what had the children done that they should 
suffer this cruel stroke ? The poor fairies could have been 
dangerous company for the children ? Yes, but never had 
been ; and could is no argument. Kinsman of the Fiend ? 
What of it ? Kinsmen of the Fiend have rights, and these 
had ; the children have rights, and these had ; and if I had 
been here I would have spoken — I would have begged for 
the children and the fiends, and stayed your hand and 
saved them all. But now — oh, now, all is lost ; everything 
is lost, and there is no help more ! ' 
Then she finished with a blast at that idea that fairy 
kinsmen of the Fiend ought to be shunned and denied 
human sympathy and friendship because salvation was 
barred against them. She said that for that very reason 
people ought to pity them, and do every humane and 
loving thing they could to make them forget the hard fate 
that had been put upon them by accident of birth and no 
fault of their own. ' Poor little creatures ! ' she said. 
' What can a person's heart be made of that can pity a 
Christian's child and yet can't pity a devil's child, that a 
thousand times more needs it ! ' 
She had torn loose from P6re Fronte, and was crying, 
with her knuckles in her eyes, and stamping her small feet 
in a fury ; and now she burst out of the place and was 
gone before we could gather our senses together out of 
this storm of words and this whirlwind of passion. 
The Pre had got upon his feet, toward the last, and 
now he stood there passing his hand back and forth across 
his forehead like a person who is dazed and troubled ; then 
he turned and wandered toward the door of his little work- 
room, and as he passed through it I heard him murmur 
sorrowfully : 
' Ah me, poor children, poor fiends, they have rights, 
and she said true — I never thought of that. God forgive 
me, I am to blame.' 
When I heard that, I knew I was right in the thought 
that he had set a trap for himself. It was so, and he had 
walked into It, you see. I seemed to feel encouraged, and 
wondered if mayhap I might get him into one ; but upon 
reflection my heart went down, for this was not my gift. 
Speaking of this matter reminds me of many incidents, 
many things that I could tell, but I think I will not try to 
do it now. It will be more to my present humour to call 
back a little glimpse of the simple and colourless good 
times we used to have in our village homes in those peace- 
ful days — especially in the winter. In the summer we 
children were out on the breezy uplands with the flocks 
from dawn till night, and then there was noisy frolicking 
and all that ; but winter was the cosy time, winter was 
the snug time. Often we gathered in old Jacques d' Arc's 
big dirt-floored apartment, with a great Kre~going7 and 
played games, and sang songs, and told fortunes, and 
listened to the old villagers tell tales and histories and lies 
and one thing and another till twelve o'clock at night. 
One winter's night we were gathered there — it was the 
winter that for years afterwards they called the hard 
winter — and that particular night was a sharp one. It 
blew a gale outside, and the screaming of the wind was a 
stirring sound, and I think I may say it was beautiful, for 
I think it is great and fine and beautiful to hear the wind 
rage and storm and blow its clarions like that, when you 
are inside and comfortable. And we were. We had a 
roaring fire, and the pleasant spit-spit of the snow and sleet 
falling in it down the chimney, and the yarning and laugh- 
ing and singing went on at a noble rate till about ten 
o'clock, and then we had a supper of hot porridge and 
beans, and meal cakes with butter, and appetites to 
match. 
Little Joan sat on a box apart, and had her bowl and 
bread on another one, and her pets around her, helping. 
She had more than was usual of them or economical, 
because all the outcast cats came and took up with her, and 
homeless or unlovable animals of other kinds heard about 
it and came, and these spread the matter to the other 
creatures, and they came also ; and as the birds and the 
other timid wild things of the woods were not afraid of 
her, but always had an idea she was a friend when they 
came across her, and generally struck up an acquaintance 
with her to get invited to the house, she always had 
samples of those breeds in stock. She was hospitable to 
them all, for an animal was an animal to her, and dear by 
mere reason of being an animal, no matter about its sort 
or social station ; and as she would allow of no cages, no 
collars, no fetters, but left the creatures free to come and 
go as they liked, that contented them, and they came ; but 
they didn't gOy to any extent, and so they were a marvellous 
nuisance, and made Jacques d'Arc swear a good deal ; but 
his wife said God gave the child the instinct, and knew 
what He was doing when He did it, therefore it must have 
its course ; it would be no sound prudence to meddle with 
His affairs when no invitation had been extended. So the 
pets were left in peace, and here they were, as I have said, 
rabbits, birds, squirrels, cats, and other reptiles, all around 
the child, and full of interest in her supper, and helping 
what they could. There was a very small squirrel on her 
shoulder, sitting up, as those creatures do, and turning a 
rocky fragment of prehistoric chestnut-cake over and over 
in its knotty hands, and hunting for the less indurated 
places, and giving its elevated bushy tail a flirt and its 
pointed ears a toss when it found one— signifying thankful- 
ness and surprise — and then it filed that place off with 
those two slender front teeth which a squirrel carries for 
that purpose and not for ornament, for ornamental they 
never could be, as any will admit that have noticed them. 
Everything was going fine and breezy and hilarious, 
but then there came an interruption, for somebody 
hammered on the door. It was one of those ragged road- 
stragglers — the eternal wars kept the country full of them. 
He came in, all over snow, and stamped his feet and shook 
and brushed himself, and shut the door, and took off his 
limp ruin of a hat and slapped it once or twice against his 
leg to knock off its fleece of snow, and then glanced around 
on the company with a pleased look upon his thin face, 
and a most yearning and famished one in his eye when it 
fell upon the victuals, and then he gave us a humble and 
conciliatory salutation, and said it was a blessed thing to 
