consequence of a curious thickening of their 
already rich circumference. Her professions 
and explanations were mixed with eager 
challenges and sudden drops, in the midst 
of which Maisie recognized, as a memory of 
other years, the rattle of her trinkets and 
the scratch of her endearments, the odor of 
her clothes and the jumps of her conversa- 
tion. She had all her old, clever way 
Mrs. Wix said it was " aristocratic " of 
changing the subject as she might have 
slammed the door in your face. The prin- 
cipal thing that was different was the tint 
of her golden hair, which had changed to a 
coppery red and, with the head it profusely 
covered, struck the child as now lifted still 
further aloft. This picturesque parent showed 
literally a grander stature and an ampler 
presence; things which, with some others 
that might have been bewildering, were 
handsomely accounted for by the romantic 
state of her affections. It was her affections, 
Maisie could easily see, that led Ida to break 
out into questions as to what had passed, 
at the other house, between that horrible 
woman and Sir Claude ; but it was also just 
here that the little girl was able to recall the 
effect with which, in earlier days, she had 
practised the pacific art of stupidity. This 
art again came to her aid; her mother, in 
getting rid of her after an interview in which 
she had achieved a vacancy beyond her years, 
allowed her fully to understand that she had 
not grown a bit more amusing. 
She could bear that she could bear any- 
thing that helped her to feel that she had 
done something for Sir Claude. If she had n't 
told Mrs. Wix how Mrs. Beale seemed to 
like him she certainly could n't tell her lady- 
ship. In the way the past revived for her 
there was a queer confusion : it was because 
mamma hated papa that she used to want 
to know bad things of him, and if at present 
she wanted to know the same of Sir Claude 
it was quite from the opposite motive. She 
was awestruck at the manner in which a lady 
might be affected through the passion men- 
tioned by Mrs. Wix: she held her breath 
with the sense of picking her steps among 
the tremendous things of life. What she 
did, however, now, after the interview with 
her mother, impart to Mrs. Wix was that 
in spite of her having had her " good " 
effect, as she called it, her ladyship's last 
words had been that her ladyship's duty by 
her would be thoroughly done. Over this 
announcement governess and pupil looked 
at each other in silent profundity; but, as 
the weeks went by, it had no consequences 
that interfered gravely with the breezy gallop 
of making up. Her ladyship's duty took 
at times the form of not seeing her child 
for days together, and Maisie led her life 
in great prosperity between Mrs. Wix and 
kind Sir Claude. Mrs. Wix had a new dress 
and, as she was the first to proclaim, a better 
position ; so it all struck Maisie as a crowded, 
brilliant life, with, for the time, Mrs. Beale 
and Susan Ash simply " left out " like chil- 
dren not invited to a Christmas party. Mrs. 
Wix had a secret terror, which, like most 
of her secret feelings, she discussed with 
her little companion, in great solemnity, by 
the hour the possibility of her ladyship's 
coming down on them, in her sudden high- 
bred way, with a school. But she had also 
a balm to this fear in a conviction of the 
strength of Sir Claude's grasp of the situ- 
ation. He was too pleased did n't he 
constantly say as much? with the good 
impression made, in a wide circle, by Ida's 
sacrifices ; and he came into the schoolroom 
repeatedly to let them know how beautifully 
he felt everything had gone off and every- 
thing would go on. 
He disappeared at times for days, when 
his patient friends understood that her lady- 
ship would naturally absorb him; but he 
always came back with the drollest stories 
of where he had been a wonderful picture 
of society, and even with pretty presents 
that showed how, in absence, he thought of 
his home. Besides giving Mrs. Wix, by his 
conversation, a sense that they almost them- 
selves " went out ' he gave her a five-pound 
note, and the history of France, and an 
umbrella with a malachite knob ; and to 
Maisie both chocolate-creams and story- 
books and a lovely great-coat (which he 
took her out all alone to buy), besides ever 
so many games, in boxes, with printed direc- 
tions, and a bright red frame for the protec- 
tion of his famous photograph. The games 
were, as he said, to while away the evening 
hour, and the evening hour indeed often 
passed in futile attempts on Mrs. Wix's part 
to master what " it said " on the papers. 
When he asked the pair how they liked 
the games they always replied " Oh, im- 
mensely ! " but they had earnest discussions 
as to whether they had n't better appeal to 
him frankly for aid to understand them. 
This was a course their delicacy shrank 
from ; they could n't have told exactly why, 
but it was a part of their tenderness for him 
not to let him think they had trouble. 
What dazzled most was his kindness to 
Mrs. Wix not only the five-pound note 
and the " not forgetting her," but the perfect 
consideration, as she called it with an air to 
which her sounding of the words gave the 
only grandeur Maisie was to have seen her 
wear save on a certain occasion hereafter 
to be described an occasion when the poor 
lady was grander than all of them put to- 
gether. He shook hands with her, he rec- 
ognized her, as she said, and, above all, 
more than once, he took her, with his step- 
daughter, to the pantomime and, in the 
crowd, coming out, publicly gave her his 
arm. When he met them in sunny Picca- 
dilly he made merry and turned and walked 
with them, heroically suppressing his con- 
sciousness of the stamp of his company; a 
gallantry that needless for Mrs. Wix to 
sound those words her ladyship, though 
a blood-relation was little enough the woman 
to be capable of. Even to the hard heart 
of childhood there was something tragic in 
such elation at such humanities : it brought 
home to Maisie the way her humble com- 
panion had sidled and ducked through life. 
But it settled the question of the degree to 
which Sir Claude was a gentleman : he was 
more of one than anybody else in the 
world " I don't care," Mrs. Wix repeatedly 
remarked, "whom you may meet in grand 
society, nor even to whom you may be 
contracted in marriage." There were ques- 
tions that Maisie never asked, so her gover- 
ness was spared the embarrassment of telling 
her if he were more of a gentleman than papa ; 
that was not moreover from the want of oppor- 
tunity, for there were no moments between 
them at which the topic could be irrelevant 
no subject they were going into, not even 
the principal dates or the auxiliary verbs, in 
which it was further off than the turn of the 
page. The answer, on the winter nights, to 
the puzzle of cards and counters and little be- 
wildering pamphlets was just to draw up to the 
fire and talk about him ; and if the truth must 
be told this edifying interchange constituted 
for the time the little girl's chief education. 
It must also be admitted that he took 
them far further perhaps than was always 
warranted by the old-fashioned conscience, 
the dingy decencies of Maisie's simple in- 
structress. There were hours when Mrs. 
Wix sighingly testified to the scruples she 
surmounted seemed to ask what other line 
one could take with a young person whose 
experience had been, as it were, so peculiar. 
" It is n't as if you did n't already know 
everything, is it, love?" and " I can't make 
you any worse than you are, can I, darling? " 
these were the terms in which the good 
lady justified to herself and her pupil her 
pleasant conversational ease. What the pupil 
already knew was indeed rather taken for 
granted than expressed, but it performed 
the useful function of transcending all text- 
books, and supplanting all studies. If the 
child could n't be worse it was a comfort 
even to herself that she was bad a comfort 
offering a broad, firm support to the funda- 
mental fact of the present crisis, the fact 
that mamma was fearfully jealous. This 
was another side of the circumstance of 
mamma's passion, and the deep couple in 
the schoolroom were not long in working 
round to it. It brought them face to face 
with the idea of the inconvenience suffered 
by any lady who marries a gentleman pro- 
ducing on other ladies the charming effect of 
Sir Claude. That such ladies would freely 
fall in love with him was a reflection naturally 
irritating to his wife. One day when some 
accident some report of a banged door 
or some scurry of a scared maid had 
rendered this truth particularly vivid Maisie, 
receptive and profound, suddenly said to her 
companion : " And you, my dear, are you 
in love with him too ? " 
Even her profundity had left a margin 
for a laugh; so she was a trifle startled by 
the solemn promptitude with which Mrs. 
Wix plumped out : " Over head and ears. 
I've never since you ask me been so 
far gone." 
This boldness had none the less no effect 
of deterrence for her when, a few days later 
it was because several had elapsed with- 
out a visit from Sir Claude her governess 
turned the tables. " May I ask you, miss, 
if you are?" Mrs. Wix brought it out, she 
could see, with hesitation, but clearly intend- 
ing a joke. " Why, yes ! " the child made 
answer, as if in surprise at not having long 
ago seemed sufficiently to commit herself; 
on which her friend gave a sigh of appar- 
ent satisfaction. It might in fact have ex- 
pressed positive relief. Everything was as it 
should be. 
Yet it was not with them, they were very 
sure, that her ladyship was furious, nor be- 
cause she had forbidden it that there befell at 
last a period six months brought it round 
when for days together he scarcely came 
near them. He was " off" and Ida was "off," 
and they were sometimes " off" together and 
sometimes apart. There were seasons when 
the simple students had the house to them- 
selves, when the very servants seemed also to 
be " off" and dinner became a reckless forage 
in pantries and sideboards. Mrs. Wix re- 
minded her disciple on such occasions 
hungry moments, often, when all the support 
of the reminder was required that the " real 
life" of their companions, the brilliant society 
in which it was inevitable they should move 
and the complicated pleasures in which it 
was almost presumptuous of the mind to fol- 
low them, must offer features literally not to 
be imagined without being seen. At one of 
these times Maisie found her opening it out 
that, though the difficulties were many, it was 
Mrs. Beale who had now become the chief. 
Then, somehow, it was brought fully to the 
child's knowledge that her stepmother had 
been making attempts to see her; that her 
mother had deeply resented it; that her 
stepfather had backed her stepmother up ; 
that the latter had pretended to be acting as 
the representative of her father ; and that her 
mother took the whole thing, in plain terms, 
very hard. The situation was, as Mrs. Wix 
declared, an extraordinary muddle to be 
sure. Her account of it brought back to 
Maisie the happy vision of the way Sir 
Claude and Mrs. Beale had made acquain- 
tance an incident to which, with her step- 
father, though she had had little to say about 
it to Mrs. Wix, she had during the first 
weeks of her stay at her mother's found 
more than one opportunity to revert. As to 
what had taken place the day Sir Claude 
came for her, she had been vaguely grateful 
to Mrs. Wix for not attempting, as her mother 
had attempted, to put her through. This was 
what Sir Claude had called the process when 
he warned her of it and again, afterwards, 
when he told her she was an awfully good 
chap for having foiled it. Then it was that, 
well aware Mrs. Beale had n't in the least 
really given her up, she had asked him if he 
 
remained in communication with her and if, 
for the time, everything must really be held 
to be at an end between her stepmother and 
herself. This conversation had occurred in 
consequence of his one day popping into the 
schoolroom and finding Maisie alone. 
HE was smoking a cigarette and he stood 
before the fire and looked at the meagre 
appointments of the room in a way that 
made her rather ashamed of them. Then 
before, on the subject of Mrs. Beale, he let 
her " draw " him that was another of his 
words ; it was astonishing how many she gath- 
ered in he remarked that really mamma 
kept them rather low on the question of 
decorations. Mrs. Wix had put up a Japa- 
nese fan and two rather grim Texts she 
had wished they were gayer, but they were 
all she happened to have. Without Sir 
Claude's photograph, however, the place 
would have been, as he said, as dull as a cold 
dinner. He had said as well that there were 
all sorts of things they ought to have ; yet 
