"I will wait, then."
"Can't I attend to your business?"
"I think not."
"Your business must be very important," said the clerk, with a sneer.
"I don't know about that," said Jasper, composedly, "but I think if you
will tell Mr. Fitch that Jasper Kent is here he will receive me."
"Is your name of such weight?" asked the clerk, with another sneer.
"Suppose you put it to the test," said Jasper, smiling.
The clerk had not seen Jasper when he called before and didn't recognize
him as the restorer of little Harry; otherwise, he would have treated
our hero with more attention.
Influenced by curiosity he went into the counting-room and announced
Jasper's name.
"Bring him in," said the merchant.
Jasper entered, but the manner of Mr. Fitch differed greatly from what
it had been when they parted four days before. Then it was cordial and
friendly, now it was cold and suspicious.
"Good-morning, Mr. Fitch," said Jasper.
"Good-morning," responded the merchant, coldly. "You have been a long
time returning from your errand!"
"That's true, sir; but I would have come sooner if I could."
Mr. Fitch looked up in surprise.
"Do you mean to say that you couldn't come?" demanded he.
"Yes, sir."
"What prevented you?"
"I was in close confinement."
"What! were you arrested?" and again the merchant's face was overspread
by doubt and suspicion.
"No, sir; I hope I shall never fall into the hands of the police."
"How then could you be in confinement? This is a riddle."
"The house to which I was requested to bring the money was a haunt of
desperate men--burglars, I found out--and they were afraid I would
betray their rendezvous. They mixed me some lemonade, which I now think
must have been drugged, for I went to sleep in the middle of the day,
soon after drinking it. When I awoke up I found myself in a dark room,
in the centre of the house."
"Is this true?" asked the merchant, amazed. "Can such things take place
within earshot of the police?"
"Yes, sir; there was no chance of my making myself heard; if there had
been I would have called for help."
"How did you get out, and when?"
"Last night, at midnight."
"How?"
"I will tell you, sir. That, I think, is the most interesting part of
it."
"Proceed."
When Mr. Fitch had heard Jasper's explanation he no longer doubted him.
His friendly, cordial manner returned, and he congratulated our hero on
his prompt rejection of Jack's offers, though that rejection exposed him
to continued imprisonment.
"Now," he asked, "what are your plans?"
"To get something to do," said Jasper.
"Of what kind?"
"Any kind."
"I will engage you, for the present, at ten dollars a week. Will that
suit you?"
"Yes, sir. Nothing could suit me better."
"Do you think you can live on that?"
"Easily."
"Then that is settled. To-night you will go home with me. To-morrow will
be soon enough to look for a boarding-place. Here are your first week's
wages in advance."
"Thank you, sir. You are very kind."
"I have not forgotten that I am indebted to you for the recovery of my
little Harry. Here, Leonard."
The clerk already mentioned entered the counting-room. He looked
inquiringly from Jasper to Mr. Fitch.
"Leonard," said the latter, "this young man is to be your fellow-clerk.
He takes the place of Victor, who left last week. Instruct him in his
duties."
"Yes, sir," said the clerk, in no little surprise.
Jasper followed him out into the warehouse.
CHAPTER XXXI.
THE UNWELCOME RELATIVE.
Now that Jasper has found a place we can venture to leave him for a time
and go back to the home which he had felt compelled to leave.
His step-mother felt relieved by his departure. It left her mistress of
the situation, with no one to interfere with or question her authority.
How Jasper fared she cared little, or not at all. How he was likely to
get along without money she never inquired, nor did she feel a twinge of
remorse for her treatment of one who had been her late husband's sole
care and hope. It was enough for her that she had Nicholas with her.
Stern as she generally was toward him, she was weakly indulgent.
Whatever he wanted she gave him, if it were not utterly unreasonable.
She was afraid he would tire of the country and want to go away, and
this led her to gratify him in his wishes, in order that she might
retain him at her side.
Nicholas was not slow in finding out his power and in using it. He asked
and obtained a horse for his own use, and later an elegant little
carriage was ordered from the city, in which he used to drive around the
neighborhood with the airs of a young prince. To others he might seem
arrogant and conceited--to his mother he was only possessed of the
proper spirit of a gentleman. In her eyes he was handsome, though in the
eyes of no one else.
But perfect happiness is short-lived. In her new prosperity Mrs. Kent
forgot that she had a brother who was not likely to reflect credit upon
the family. She had not heard from him for years, and supposed he did
not know where she was. But in this, as we know, she was mistaken.
One day Nicholas was standing on the lawn in front of the house, waiting
for his carriage to be brought around from the stable, when his
attention was drawn to a common-looking man who was standing by the
fence and looking at him in what he considered an impudently familiar
way.
Since Nicholas had become a young aristocrat he was easily made angry by
such familiarity on the part of anyone of the lower orders, and he
resented it at once.
"Why are you standing there, fellow?" he demanded, frowning.
The man neither seemed overawed nor angry. He only looked amused.
"Because I am tired of walking," he said.
"Then go somewhere else."
"Thank you, this suits me very well," said the man, smiling provokingly.
"It doesn't suit me, though," said Nicholas, bristling up.
"Who are you?" inquired Dick, for it was he, with provoking nonchalance.
"Who am I? I'll let you know!" retorted Nicholas, now very angry.
"I wish you would. That's what I just asked you."
"I'm the owner of this place, and I warn you off."
"Oh, you're the owner of this place!" said the stranger, laughing. "Do
you own the road, too?"
"Yes," said Nicholas, "I own the road in front of my place."
Dick laughed again.
"You're a young man, ain't you, to be a landed proprietor. How about
your mother? Doesn't she own anything?"
"What do you know about my mother?" demanded Nicholas, a little
nonplussed.
"More than you think for, young man," said Dick. "She used to go to
school with me."
"Did she? Well, I suppose she couldn't help it if there were low persons
in the school with her."
"That's good!" said the stranger, laughing heartily. "So I am a low
person, am I?"
"You look like it," said Nicholas, insolently.
He expected the man would be angry, but instead he laughed more heartily
than before.
Nicholas began to think he was crazy.
"Well, boy," he said, after a pause, "just remember that appearances are
sometimes deceitful."
"I don't think they are so in this case," said Nicholas, "but I can't
waste anymore time with you. There's my horse coming around. I'm going
to ride."
"Is that your team? It's very neat, 'pon my word."
"That's nothing to you."
"Won't you give me a seat? I've never been in this town before, and I
should like to take a drive."
"Look here, fellow, you've got cheek!" exclaimed Nicholas.
"Have I?"
"Do you think I would be seen in such low company?"
"Why not? I'm a gentleman. If you are a gentleman, then I am, too."
"What do you mean? What have I to do with you?"
"A good deal," said the stranger. "I am your uncle!"
Nicholas gasped for breath. What! this low, common person his uncle? He
would not credit it.
"That's a lie!" he said. "You are trying to humbug me."
"Not so fast, nephew Nicholas," said Dick. "You can't alter facts. I'm
your mother's brother. Didn't she ever tell you of your Uncle Dick?"
Uncle Dick! Nicholas did remember that his mother had named such a
person, and the uncomfortable apprehension dawned upon him that the
stranger's claim was well founded, after all. He kept silent, but flared
at the stranger in a state of mental disturbance.
"I see you've heard of me," said Dick, with a short laugh. "Is your
mother at home?"
"I believe so," said Nicholas, sullenly.
"I've come a long way to see her. Will you go in and tell her I am
here?"
Nicholas was not overwilling to obey the person whom he had just called
low, but he felt considerable curiosity as to whether the man was really
his uncle, and this decided him to comply with his request.
"I will speak to my mother," he said. "She will know whether you are
what you claim to be."
"Yes, she will know. I don't believe she has forgotten brother Dick."
Nicholas sought and found his mother.
"What, Nicholas, back so soon?" she said, looking up from her sewing.
"No, mother, I haven't started yet. There's a person down stairs who
says he is my Uncle Dick, and he wants to see you."
"Good heavens! is he here?" exclaimed Mrs. Kent, in a tone of vexation.
"How in the world did he find me out?"
"Then it is he? He is a very common-looking person."
"He's kept low associates. Where is he?"
"Down on the lawn."
"Tell him to come in. I suppose I shall have to see him."
"It may not be your brother after all," said Nicholas.
"I am afraid it is. I can tell soon as I see him."
Nicholas went down stairs in no very pleasant mood.
"You're to come in," he said, ungraciously. "My mother will see you."
"I thought so," said Dick, smiling complacently.
CHAPTER XXXII.
A COLD RECEPTION.
Richard Varley followed Nicholas into the presence of Mrs. Kent. The
latter looked scrutinizingly at him as he approached, hoping that it
might be an impostor. But, no! there was no mistaking his appearance. It
was, indeed, her brother.
"How d'ye do, Helen," said Dick, with ostentatious cordiality.
"Very well, Richard," she answered coldly, slipping her hand out of his
grasp as quickly as she could.
"The old girl ain't very glad to see me," thought Dick. "Just as I
thought."
"How did you find me out?" asked Mrs. Kent.
"There was a man from this way told me of your good luck."
"Where were you, then?"
"In Missouri, near St. Louis."
"Indeed? Have you just come from there?"
"Yes."
"Did you have any business this way? I suppose you must, or you wouldn't
have come so far."
"I came on purpose to see you, Helen," said Dick, trying to look like an
affectionate brother, and signally failing.
"You are certainly very kind," said Mrs. Kent in a cold tone, evincing
not the slightest pleasure at his devotion. "I am afraid you must have
put yourself to a good deal of inconvenience on my account."
"Why, yes, I have," answered her brother, perceiving at once that he
might urge this as a claim upon her; "but what of that? Ain't you my
only sister, and hasn't it been years since we met?"
"Really, Richard," said Mrs. Kent, with a little quiet sarcasm, "I was
hardly prepared to expect from you so great an interest in me. I wonder
you didn't come before. It's a good many years since we met."
"Well, Helen, you see I couldn't afford it before. I wanted to see you,
but I couldn't raise the money to come East."
"You've raised it now, it seems."
"Yes; I had a little stroke of luck."
"You're doing well, then?" asked his sister, with a slight show of
interest.
If this were so, she was ready to welcome him.
"I said a little show of luck. I got together money enough to come
East."
"Oh, indeed!" returned Mrs. Kent, her manner becoming chilly again.
Dick got nettled. He didn't relish his reception.
"It seems to me you ain't very glad to see me," said he, bluntly.
"I never was very demonstrative," said his sister. "Did you expect me to
fall on your neck and embrace you?"
"No; but--well, you know what I mean. You are as cold as an icicle."
"It's my way, I suppose. Is your wife living?"
"Yes."
"Is she with you?" asked Mrs. Kent, rather apprehensively.
"No; it was too expensive for me to bring two. I hear you are rich,
Helen."
"Is that what brought you on?"
"Don't be so suspicious. It's only natural I should congratulate you."
Before this Nicholas had left the room to go out on his proposed drive.
"I've got enough to live on economically," she answered, with reserve.
"I am not rich."
"Your son, Nicholas, acts as if you were."
"How is that?"
Dick laughed.
"He puts on as many heirs as a prince."
"He has considerable spirit," said Mrs. Kent, proudly.
"There's no doubt of that. He ordered me off with the air of a young
lord."
"That was before he knew who you were."
"Yes, he didn't know I was his uncle. By the way, you've got a step-son,
haven't you?"
"Yes; two-thirds of this property belongs to him."
"Where is he?"
"He is absent just now," answered Mrs. Kent, in a tone of reserve.
Dick laughed.
"Oh, you're good at keeping secrets, Helen," he said; "but you can't
deceive me."
"What do you mean?" inquired his sister, with some indignation.
"I know all about his going away, Helen."
"Who told you--the neighbors? Have you been questioning them about my
affairs?"
"No, no. You're on the wrong scent this time. He told me himself."
"What! has he got back again?" demanded Mrs. Kent, in surprise and
dismay.
"No; I met him in Missouri. He told me there."
"How did he know you were related to me?"
"He heard me and my wife talking about you, and then he told me."
"What did he tell you?"
"That you and he couldn't agree, and so he left home."
"He was insubordinate. He disobeyed me, and I wouldn't stand it."
"Oh, well, you two can settle your own affairs. I don't care to
interfere, only I thought you would like to hear from him."
"What's he doing?" asked Mrs. Kent.
"He was in St. Louis when I left, looking out for a situation."
"I wash my hands of him. He might live easily enough if he would submit
to me. If not, he will probably have to submit to a great many
privations."
"He is a pretty smart boy; he'll get along."
"I consider my Nicholas smarter," said Mrs. Kent, coldly.
"Perhaps so," answered her brother, dubiously. "I don't know much about
Nicholas."
"Where are you staying?" asked his sister.
"Why," said Dick, rather taken aback, "I calculated you would invite me
to stay here awhile, seeing I've come so far to see you."
Mrs. Kent bit her lips in vexation.
"You can stay a day or two, if you like," she said, "but we live very
quietly, Nicholas and I. I don't think it will suit one so active as you
are."
"I'll take the risk, sister Helen. It seems good to be in my own
sister's house after so many years. Besides, I should like to ride out
with my nephew behind that gay horse of his."
"You can speak to him about it," said
Mrs. Kent. "I believe he prefers to be alone."
"Oh, he'll be willing to treat his uncle to a ride. I'll give him a few
hints about driving."
Mrs. Kent winced. She was proud, and she did not fancy exhibiting Dick
to the village people as her brother. But there seemed no way of
avoiding it. She privately determined to get rid of him as soon as
possible.
"I must leave you now," she said, gathering up her work. "I will ask the
servant to show you your room."
"All right, Helen. Don't trouble yourself about me. I'll make myself at
