men of the town. 

Mrs. Albert could not come, as she had partly 
arranged. The farm was sold, the furniture 
divided, and then one of the daughters in a neigh 
boring state fell ill and sent for her. But Thirza 
was deeply interested in the children. Edith, who 
had a curious, passionate nature, moved deeply by 
music and poetry, possessing a remarkable if un- 




trained voice, was a child with many possibilities, 
and the saddest that of being misunderstood. She 
was considered a dull scholar, yet there were some 
things she seemed to understand by a rare intui 
tion. Thirza's heart warmed curiously to her. 
Hazel was much brighter in a commonplace 
fashion. 

But Thirza found matters bad enough with 
Seth. He was very much disheartened, and it did 
not seem possible for him to hold on to the farm 
and recover himself. 

They went over the affairs in a very thorough 
manner. Nothing had prospered with him, and he 
had dropped to the depths of a man who believes 
he was born for bad luck. Once he proposed she 
should buy the farm. He would work it. 

The old place ! For a moment the thought 
thrilled her. Yet it was not the home of her 
childish imagination. She would rather be farther 
in town. And to depend upon vascillating Seth ! 

" I feel as if I would like to sell out the 
whole thing and take a fair start somewhere 
else," he said, one evening. " When a man gets 
into a rut, it's best to have a change. I never 
shall be any success here. Do you remember 
the Irvings who went to Oxford ? You went 
to school with Ruth and Fanny." 

" Yes ; Ruth was married long ago." Thirza 



 

smiled a little. "Jennie was very bright and 
capable." 

" Ruth's husband has a great tract of land 
in Pasadena. He is prospering tremendously. 
Fanny went out there and married. Mrs. Irving 
died about two years ago, I think. There's Jen 
nie, Louise, and their father left. The boys are 
all married, and they think of going out" 

The Irving girls were healthy, good-natured, 
and industrious, at least as she remembered the 
older ones. There was a long silence. Then 
he cleared his throat and said : " I've half a 
mind to try life in a new place. I'm young 
enough to take a fresh start." 

" Yes, quite young enough." She glanced him 
over. He had improved in his few months of 
widowerhood. He had gained some flesh ; he 
held up his head with more assurance. Of 
course, he would marry again, sometime. 

" I'm tired of all this. I've got down, and 
it's hard getting up. There would be the chil 
dren to consider." 

"Seth," she put her soft hand over on his, 
" will you give me Edith ? She's a peculiar 
child ; everybody wouldn't understand her, and 
you might not be able to do what is best for 
her. She will have a fine voice, and she has 
a passionate love for music. It is doubtful if 



 

I marry ; but I shall always keep a home, and 
I shall be able to educate Edith." 

" You are awful good," he said, in a broken, 
childish fashion, his voice husky with emotion. 
" I was thinking of the children. Clara couldn't 
take them ; but the Alberts might awhile, until 
I could send or come back for them. Poor 
Laura was so fond of them ! " and he gave a 
soft, regretful sigh. 

Thirza was more assured. He had gone over 
the plan before, that was evident. 

" Then give me Edith. Laura would consent 
if she could. It will be a great interest in my 
life, something to live for, to work for." 

" See here, Thirza, you ought to be married 
and have children of your own. You have so 
many sweet, motherly ways," he exclaimed, with 
deep emotion. 

" Then you wil] feel the safer in trusting her 
to me. I will care for them both, if you like, 
but Edith will be mine." 

" Then you wouldn't oppose my going ? " wistfully. 

"Perhaps it would be best." Some one must 
come to his assistance if he remained here. He 
must regain a certain respect, if he ever was 
a success again. 

"Oh, it would, I am sure." His voice rose 
buoyantly. 



 

Was the whole world bent on marrying ? She 
gave a curious inward smile. Jennie and Louise 
Irving were energetic, sensible girls. . In a new 
place and with some stirring influence he might 
redeem the years the locust had eaten. And if 
one of these girls should fancy him. Was this 
man to be a burthen on her for years to come ? 
But could she shift it to some other woman with 
out being intolerably selfish ? 

He was not a bad-tempered man. He had no 
real vices. What he needed was some one to 
keep spurring him along with a kind of winsome 
steadiness. She had seen such men even in the 
city whose wives kept them up to a certain pitch 
in the great chords of life, and the daily music 
went on with few breaks. If she had it to do, 
she would soon despise the man. 

"It is worth thinking about, Seth," she said, 
after a long pause. " You would have something 
after the place was sold and you could take a new 
start." 

" I'd like to go out with the Irvings and see 
how the land lay. But I suppose Clara and to 
sell the old place " 

" Mother might feel badly at the thought of it. 
Talk it over with John Kent, some day." 

" I will walk over there on Sunday. John's 
pretty good-natured when he's had his Sunday 



 

afternoon nap. I might take you and the chil 
dren." 

She would rather have him face the exigency 
himself. She did not go over to Clara's very often, 
for there was little pleasure in it. When her 
hours of work were ended, which she adhered to 
steadily, she found a great interest in the children, 
who began to thrive under her judicious care. 
Then there were letters from friends. The Otis 
family had gone up to an island on the coast of 
Maine, and Helen seemed very full of enjoyment, 
but longed for her. Mrs. Barthman had reached 
her new home and was in an enchanted land of 
bliss. 

Palmer and Bernard Ward were inseparables, 
she heard. She had seen very little of the latter, 
except at church, where he sang in the choir. 
But she and Palmer were growing into a rare 
friendship. Perhaps Ward could not have had 
a more judicious partisan. She was thankful that 
Palmer should have so stanch a friend. 

Ward had found excuses for not calling with 
Palmer. He would not force himself on any 
woman, he declared. 

The distance between them rather amused 
Thirza at first, then piqued her a little. Why 
could they not be friends as in the old summer ? 
Both had developed, both were richer for the ex- 



 

perience of years. He was looked up to as an 
authority on educational matters and had written 
some rather striking articles for publication. She 
was proud of his remaining at Westhorpe. 

Seth Rolfe turned over the matter of selling 
the farm, and at last broached it to his brother- 
in-law. 

" If things keep on this way, you will lose it," 
said John Kent. " But you'll have a tussle with 
the women. Clara and her mother will consider 
it almost sacrilege." 

" It's your idea, I know," Clara exclaimed indig 
nantly to Thirza. " I should think you might 
have some regard for the home of your childhood, 
if Seth has not." 

" If I were rich enough to remodel it, to keep a 
first-class farmer to work it, and have matters quite 
to my liking, it might look attractive. But at pres 
ent I cannot afford any such step. Seth surely 
is not able to keep it." 

"I've known women -that farmed successfully. 
Look at Mrs. Firman over the river ! " 

Thirza laughed. Mrs. Firman was rough and 
coarse, and generally unkempt. 

Clara turned red. " I didn't mean anything 
like that," she said. " But if you took hold and 
helped him and if he goes West or wherever it 
is, he will marry one of those Irving girls. It's a 



 

shame for him to be thinking of such a thing, and 
poor Laura hardly cold in her grave." 

" And if I help straighten up matters with my 
energy and my money, he would probably marry 
again, sometime. It seems the way of the world. 
I have a right to my own life, and I mean to keep 
it." 

" But what will Seth do when you go away ? 
And to see our old home fall into strange hands ! " 
Clara began to cry. 

Thirza drew a long, anxious breath. Was she 
really her brother's keeper ? She could imagine 
a brother, Royal Palmer for instance, that it would 
be a delight to live with. How curious that rela 
tives did not always touch the divine chord of 
harmony. What made her so different from 
Clara ? From a little girl Clara had resolved to 
marry, she remembered. She was often tired of 
her sister's complacent, unreasoning estimate of a 
commonplace husband. Clara had not forgiven 
Thirza's rejection of Chris Morrow. And she 
hated to have women saying, "I s'pose your' 
sister'll be an old maid. Girls get mighty inde 
pendent when they earn their own money." 

Mrs. Albert was the next one to bewail poor 
Seth's misfortunes. What would become of the 
children ? And poor Laura's money would go for 
nothing. Seth had been a wretched manager. 



 

But it did seem as if the children ought to have 
Laura's money. No doubt Seth would marry 
again. It was man fashion," said Mrs. Albert, 
spitefully. " And I don't know as he has any real 
right to sell the place. Laura oughtn't have signed 
that mortgage." 

Thirza often sat in the twilight considering her 
own future. A home she must have. She pos 
sessed the instincts of home-making in the highest 
sense. There were times when she wished she 
could deal them around to others. All women did 
not inherit them, although it was supposed to be 
natural gift. She had not been extravagantly 
fond of children, though this was considered an 
indication of the motherly instinct. The days 
when Clara's troop came out to the farm were 
times of weariness and vexation of spirit. But 
