"There is one thing I would like very much, Francois," answered Ben.
"What is that, monsieur?"
"To get out of this place."
"But monsieur is insane."
"I am no more insane than you are. Do I look insane?"
"No; but one cannot always tell."
"I would give a hundred francs to any one who would get me out of
this," said Ben, not, however, expecting to produce much impression
on the mind of his auditor.
"A hundred francs!" repeated Francois, his eyes sparkling.
But in a moment he looked sober.
"It would not do. I should be discharged," he said.
"Think it over, Francois," said Ben.
The attendant did not answer, but the suggestion had borne fruit.
It may be asked how Ben had so much money. It may be explained that
he was about to send a remittance home, having received a payment
from Major Grafton, but his unexpected arrival at the refuge had
prevented him. He had with him two hundred francs, or about forty
dollars in gold.
Something happened on the third day which worked favorably for Ben's
hopes of securing the active assistance of Francois. About dusk a
boy appeared at the gate of the asylum, and asked to see Francois.
When the two were brought together, he said:
"I came from your wife. She wishes you to come home. The
child--little Marie--is very sick."
Poor Francois was much disturbed. In a little cottage five miles
away lived his wife and his only child, Marie. The poor fellow was
deeply attached to his child, for it must be remembered that the
poor and simple-minded are quite as apt to have as strong affections
as the richer and more favored.
"Is she very bad, Jean?" he asked, quite pale.
"Yes," answered Jean. "I think she is out of her head. She keeps
moaning. Her poor mother is very much frightened."
"I will ask if I can come," said Francois, and he straightway sought
out the doctor.
"I would like to speak to you, M. Bourdon," he said.
"Speak quick, then, for I am busy," said the doctor, gruffly, for
something had happened to disturb him.
"Jean Gault has just told me that my little Marie is very sick, and
my wife wants me to come home. If I could go now, I would come back
in the morning."
"Well, you can't go," said the doctor, harshly.
"But, Monsieur le Docteur, do you understand that my child--my
little Marie--is very sick? She moans, and is out of her head, and I
may never see her again, if I don't go."
"Plague take your little Marie!" said M. Bourdon, brutally. "What
have I to do with her? I want you to stay here. You know very well
that you can't be spared."
"But," protested Francois, indignantly, "do you think because I am
poor that I have no feeling? You are very much mistaken. I cannot
stay away and let poor Marie die without seeing her."
"You can't go, at all events," said M. Bourdon, roughly.
"I cannot go?"
"No; or, if you do, you will lose your place. I cannot have my men
going away on every silly pretext. I don't believe your child is
sick at all."
"But Jean Gault is below. He has brought word from my wife."
"I dare say it is all planned between you."
"Then you will not let me go?"
"No, I won't. If you go, you lose your place. I shall not take you
back. Do you understand?"
"Yes, I understand," said Francois, slowly.
"Then you can go. We have had words enough about this."
If the doctor had not been irritated he would have been careful how
he dealt with Francois, who was the most valuable man in his employ.
But when we are irritated we lose sight of what is politic, and are
apt to make grievous mistakes, as M. Bourdon certainly did on this
occasion.
Francois sought out little Jean.
"Jean," he said, "go home and tell my wife that I will come some
time to-night. The doctor has forbidden me to go, but I shall go,
all the same. Be sure you tell no one else."
"Very well, Francois," answered the boy.
"Tell my wife I may be late, but I will surely come."
The boy went away, and Francois went up to Ben's room.
"Monsieur, I have something to say to you," he commenced.
"What is it, Francois?"
"You said you would give a hundred francs to any one who would get
you out of this?"
"Yes, Francois," answered Ben, quickly.
"Have you so much money with you, then?" asked Francois, doubtfully.
"See here!" and Ben took out five napoleons, which he displayed in
his open palm.
The attendant's eyes sparkled.
"And you will give them to me, if perchance I set you free?"
"Yes."
"Listen, then. I would not do it, but my little Marie is very sick,
and my wife wants me to come home. Perhaps she may die;" and the
poor fellow suppressed a sob. "But M. Bordon--that is the doctor--he
says I shall not go. He said 'Plague take your child!'" continued
Francois, wrathfully.
"Poor Francois," said Ben compassionately.
"Ah! you feel for me, little monsieur," said Francois, gratefully.
"The doctor has a heart like a stone. He says if I go I shall not
come back; but I do not care, I cannot stay away. I will go, and you
shall go with me. Can you walk five miles?"
"I can walk ten--fifteen, if necessary," said Ben, promptly.
"Then be ready at midnight. We will go together. It will not do to
go earlier. Then the doctor will be asleep. Every one else will be
asleep, and we can go away unobserved. M. Bourdon will be sorry that
he did not let me go. I promised to come back." And Francois's eyes
sparkled with honest indignation.
Ben's heart beat high with hope.
"You will come to my room at midnight?" he said.
"Yes, monsieur."
"I will be ready."
"One thing, monsieur. Do not have your shoes on. You can carry them
in your hand. We must not make any noise when we are going down
stairs, or we may be caught."
"That is well thought of, Francois. Depend upon me. I will be ready."
It will easily be supposed that Ben did not go to bed. He sat
waiting patiently hour after hour till, as midnight struck, his door
was softly opened, and Francois appeared.
"Now," said the attendant, "follow me, and make no noise."
Ben, in his stocking feet, followed the attendant down stairs.
Producing a large key, Francois opened the outside door, then closed
it softly, and they stood outside under a star-lit sky.
                          CHAPTER XXVIII.
                           BEN'S FLIGHT.
As good luck would have it, Ben and Francois departed without being
observed. On emerging from the asylum they at first ran, after
putting on their shoes, but when a quarter of a mile had been
traversed they dropped into a walk.
"Well, we got away safely," said Ben.
"Yes; the doctor was asleep. We shall not be missed till morning."
"And then it shall be my fault if I am caught. Where is your home,
Francois?"
"Five miles away."
"Yes, but is it on my way?"
"Where would monsieur go?"
"To Paris."
"To Paris!" ejaculated Francois, with wonderment. "That is a great
way off, is it not?"
"Yes, I think it must be a thousand miles away."
"But monsieur is a boy; he cannot walk so far."
"No," answered Ben, laughing. "I don't propose to. Is there any
railroad station near your house?"
"Yes, monsieur; only five minutes off."
"That will do very well."
"And has monsieur money enough?"
"Not to go all the way to Paris, but half-way there, perhaps."
"And is not monsieur afraid he will starve--without money?"
"I think I can get along," said Ben, slowly, for it dawned upon him
that it would not be a very pleasant thing to be penniless in a
foreign country.
"I will give back half the money monsieur has given me," said
Francois, in a friendly tone.
"No, Francois; you will need it all. I am not afraid."
After a walk of an hour and a half the two pedestrians reached a
small village set among the hills. Francois began to walk faster,
and to look more eager.
"Does monsieur see that cottage?" he said.
Ben's eyes rested on an humble cottage just out of the village.
"Yes."
"It is mine. Will monsieur come with me?"
"Yes, I will go to see if your little girl is alive."
Soon they were at the door. There was a light burning in the main
room. A plain, neat woman opened the door.
"Thank Heaven!" she exclaimed, "it is Francois."
"Is--is Marie alive?"
"Yes, my husband. She has had a change for the better."
"Heaven be praised!"
"And who is this young gentleman?"
"A friend," answered Francois, after some hesitation.
"Then I'm glad to see him. Welcome, monsieur."
"Come in, monsieur," said Francois.
"I think I had better go to the station."
"The cars will not start till seven o'clock. Monsieur will need
repose."
"But I don't wish to incommode you."
"My wife will give you a blanket, and you can lie here."
Ben accepted the invitation, and stretched himself out on a settee.
"I will wake you in time," said Francois. "Be tranquil."
                           CHAPTER XXIX.
                          BEN IS MISSED.
Meanwhile M. Bourdon slept the sleep of the just--or the unjust--not
dreaming of the loss his establishment had sustained. He did not
open his eyes till five o'clock.
Usually at that hour Francois was stirring, as he had morning duties
to perform. But M. Bourdon did not hear him bustling around as
usual. At first this did not strike him, but after awhile he began
to wonder why.
"The lazy dog!" he said to himself. "He is indulging himself this
morning, and his work will suffer."
He went to the door of his chamber and called "Francois!"
Francois slept in an upper room, but still the asylum was not a
lofty building, and he should have heard.
"He must be fast asleep, as usual," grumbled M. Bourdon. "I must go
up and rouse him. It would be well if I had a horsewhip."
Slipping on a part of his clothing, the doctor crept up stairs.
He knocked at the door of his dilatory servant.
"Francois! Francois, I say. Are you dead?"
There was no answer.
"I suppose he has locked his door," muttered the doctor, as he tried
the latch.
But no! the door opened, and, to his dismay, the room was empty. The
bed had not been disturbed.
The doctor's face was dark with anger.
"The ingrate has left me, after all. He has gone to his child, who
is not sick at all, I dare say. Well, he will repent it. I will not
take him back."
Here the doctor paused. It would be exceedingly inconvenient to lose
Francois, who, besides being a capable man, accepted very small pay.
"At any rate I will lower his wages!" he said. "He shall regret the
way he has served me."
It was a temporary inconvenience. Still there was an outside man
whom he could impress into the service as a substitute, and in a day
or two Francois would be glad to return. It was not, perhaps, so
serious a matter, after all.
But M. Bourdon changed his mind when he found the front door
unlocked.
"Who had escaped, if any?"
This was the question he asked himself. In great haste he went from
one room to another, but all seemed to be occupied. It was only when
he opened Ben's room that he ascertained that the one whom he would
most regret to lose had decamped. Ben's bed, too, was but little
disturbed. He had slept on the outside, if he had slept at all, but
not within the bed, as was but too evident.
"Has any one seen the boy?" demanded M. Bourdon of an outdoor
servant who slept outside, but was already on duty.
"Not I, Monsieur le Docteur."
"Then he must have escaped with Francois! Put my horse in the
carriage at once."
Ten minutes later M. Bourdon was on his way to the cottage of
Francois.
Fifteen minutes before he arrived Francois had aroused our young
hero.
"It is time to get up, little monsieur," he said. "In half an hour
the cars will start."
Refreshed by his sound sleep, Ben sprang up at once--he did not need
to dress--and was ready for the adventures of the day.
"Where is the station, Francois?" he said.
"I will go with monsieur."
"No; if the doctor should come, delay him so that he cannot overtake
me."
"Perhaps it is best."
Ben followed the directions of his humble friend, and soon brought
up at the station. He purchased a third-class ticket for a place
fifty miles away, and waited till it was time for the train to start.
Meanwhile M. Bourdon had driven up to the cottage of Francois.
The door was opened to him by Francois himself.
"Where is that boy? Did he come away with you?" he asked, abruptly.
"What boy?" asked Francois, vacantly.
"The one who came a few days since. You know who I mean."
Francois shrugged his shoulders.
"Is he gone?" he asked.
"Of course he is, fool."
Just then the wife of Francois came to the door. Unfortunately her
husband had not warned her, nor did she know that Ben had been an
inmate of the asylum.
"Where is the boy who came here last night with your husband?" asked
M. Bourdon, abruptly.
"Gone to the station," answered the woman, unsuspiciously.
The doctor jumped into his carriage, and drove with speed to the
station.
                           CHAPTER XXX.
                    M. BOURDON'S LITTLE SCHEME.
Meanwhile Ben had entered a third-class carriage--it behooved him to
be economical now--and sat down. He was congratulating himself on
his fortunate escape, when M. Bourdon dashed up to the station.
He entered the building, and was about passing to the platform, when
he was stopped. "Your ticket, monsieur."
Just then came the signal for the train to start.
"Never mind the ticket!" shouted the doctor. "Don't stop me. One of
my patients is running away."
"I can't help it," said the guard, imperturbably. "Monsieur cannot
pass without a ticket."
"But I don't want to go anywhere," roared M. Bourdon. "I want to see
the passengers."
To the railway attendant this seemed a very curious request. He
began to think the doctor, with his excitable manner, was insane. At
any rate, he was obliged to obey the rules.
"Go back and buy a ticket, monsieur," he said, unmoved.
"But I don't want to go anywhere," protested M. Bourdon.
"Then go back!" And the official, placing his hand on the doctor's
sacred person, thrust him forcibly aside.
"Fool! Dolt!" screamed M. Bourdon, who could hear the train starting.
"You must be crazy!" said the guard, shrugging his shoulders.
It was too late now. The train had actually gone, and M. Bourdon
turned back, foiled, humiliated and wrathful. He regretted bitterly
now that he had not let Francois off the evening before, as in that
case Ben would not have had a chance to escape. Now he must lose the
generous sum which Major Grafton had agreed to pay for his ward.
It was more than he received for any other of his patients, for
M. Bourdon, recognizing Ben's sanity, shrewdly surmised that the
guardian had some special design in having his ward locked up, and
took advantage of it to increase the weekly sum which he charged.
And now all this was lost.
But no! A happy thought struck the worthy doctor. Ben had escaped,
it is true, but why could not he go on charging for him just as
before? His escape was not known to Major Grafton, and probably
would not be discovered for a long time at least. The major was not
very likely to visit the asylum, as an interview between him and his
young victim would be rather embarrassing to him.
Yes, that was the course he would pursue. He would from time to time
send in a report of his patient, and regularly collect his board,
while he would be at no expense whatever for him. It was necessary,
however, to take Francois into his confidence, and he drove back to
the cottage of the humble attendant.
Francois was watching outside. He was afraid the doctor would
