that she was to have forty dollars a month.
"He can take care of himself most of the time. Here come Nelly."
Mrs. Washington's ponies were rounding the deer park. Magdaléna craned
her neck.
"She has some one with her," she said. And in another half-moment: "Tiny
Montgomery and Ila Brannan."
Magdaléna clasped her hands tightly to keep them from trembling. What
would they think of her? She saw that they were smartly dressed.
Doubtless they were very grand and clever indeed, and would think her
more trying than ever. But although all her shyness threatened for a
moment, it was summarily routed by her Spanish pride.
She rose as the phaeton drew up, and went to the head of the steps,
smiling. They might find her uninteresting, but not gauche.
The girls came gracefully forward and kissed her warmly.
"Dear 'Léna," said Miss Montgomery. "We wouldn't wait: we wanted so
much to see you again. And besides, you know," with a mischievous smile,
"we owe you a great many luncheon calls."
Miss Brannan exclaimed almost simultaneously, "How you have improved,
'Léna! I should never have known you." And if her tone was conventional,
it fell upon ears untuned to conventions.
It was Magdaléna's first compliment, and she thrilled with pleasure. "My
face looks very much the same in the glass," she said. "But I am glad to
see you back. Let us sit on this side."
She led the girls a little distance down the verandah; she was trembling
inwardly, but felt that she should get along better if relieved of her
mother's ear. Tiny began at once to talk of her delight in being home
again, and Magdaléna had time to recover herself.
Tiny Montgomery was an exquisitely pretty little creature, very small
but admirably proportioned, although thin. Her brown eyes were very
sweet under well-pencilled brows, her nose aquiline and fine. The mouth
was barely rubbed in, but the teeth were beautiful, the smile as sweet
as the eyes. She had the smallest feet and hands in California, and
to-day they were clad in white suède with no detriment to their fame.
She wore a frock of white embroidered nainsook and a leghorn covered
with white feathers. She talked rather slowly, in language carefully
chosen, although plentifully laden with superlatives. Her voice was very
sweet, and highly cultivated.
Ila Brannan was taller, with a slender full figure, and very smart. She
wore a closely fitting frock of tan-coloured cloth, a small toque, and a
veil covered with large velvet dots. She was very olive, and her cheeks
were deeply coloured. Her black eyes had a slanting expression. Young as
she was, there was a vague suggestion of maturity about her. She smiled
pleasantly and echoed Tiny's little enthusiasms, which had an air of
elaborate rehearsal, but she seemed to have brought something of Paris
with her, and to adapt herself but ill to her old surroundings.
Magdaléna did not feel at ease with either of them, but concluded that
she liked Tiny best.
"Tell me something of Helena," she said finally. "Of course you saw her
in Paris."
"Oh, constantly," replied Tiny. "She's perfectly beautiful, 'Léna,
perfectly. Mamma took her with us one night to the opera, and so many
people asked her who the beautiful American was. She has grown quite
tall, and is wonderfully stylish. Colonel Belmont has simply showered
money on her since he went over, and she will have beautiful clothes,
and cut us all out when she comes back." But Tiny did not look in the
least disturbed, and peeped surreptitiously into the polished glass of
the window.
"She'll have all the men wild about her," announced Ila; she spoke with
a slight French accent, which was not affected, as she had spent the
greater part of the last five years in Paris. "And she is going to be a
very dashing belle. She informed me that she shall run to fires and do
whatever she chooses, and make people like it whether they want to or
not. But I doubt if she will ever be fast."
"Fast!" echoed Magdaléna, a street of painted women flashing into
memory; she knew of no degrees. "Helena! How can you think of such a
thing in connection with her!"
Ila laughed softly. "You baby!" she said.
Tiny frowned. "You know, Ila," she said coldly, "that I do not like to
talk of such things."
"Well, you need not," said Ila, coolly.
Tiny lifted her brows. "I think you know you cannot talk to me of what I
do not wish to hear," she said with great dignity.
Magdaléna turned to her, the warm light of approval in her eyes; and
Ila, unabashed, rose and said, "I think I'll go over and talk scandal
for awhile," and joined the older women, whose numbers had been
reinforced.
Magdaléna longed to ask Tiny if she really had improved, but was too
shy. Tiny said almost directly,--
"You look so intellectual, 'Léna. Are you? I feel quite afraid."
"Oh, no, no!" replied Magdaléna, hastily, "I really know very little; I
wish I knew more." She hesitated a moment; it was difficult for her to
expand even to the playmate of her childhood, but an alluring prospect
had suddenly opened. "Of course you will have a great deal of leisure
this summer," she added. "Shall we read together?"
Tiny rose with a sweet but rather forced smile. "I am not going to let
you see how ignorant I am," she said. "But I feel very rude: I should go
over and talk to Mrs. Yorba."
When they had gone, Magdaléna sat for a time staring straight before
her, unheeding her mother's comments. The snub had been prettily
administered, but it had cut deep into her sensitiveness. She realised
that she was quite unlike these other girls of her own age, had never
been like them; it was not Europe that had made the difference. "I would
not care," she thought, "if they would keep away from me altogether. I
have what I care much more for. But I must see them nearly every day and
try to interest them. And I know they will find me as dull as when I
gave those dreadful luncheons."
She was recalled by a direct observation of her mother's.
"Your washed cross-barred muslin looked very plain beside their French
things, but I do not think it worth while to get you any new clothes at
present. But do not let it worry you. Remember that what we do seems
right to every one. We can afford to dress exactly as we choose."
"It does not worry me," replied Magdaléna.
XIV
Whether or not to tell her parents of her determination to write had
been a matter of momentous consideration to Magdaléna. After the
resignation of her faith and her conversation with Colonel Belmont, she
had determined to adhere rigidly to the truth and to the right way of
living, to conquer the indolence of her moral nature and jealously train
her conscience. The result, she felt, would be a religion of her own,
from which she could derive strength as well as consolation for what she
had lost. She knew, by reading and instinct, that life was full of
pitfalls, but her intelligence would dictate what was right, and to its
mandates she would conform, if it cost her her life. And she knew that
the religion she had formulated for herself in rough outline was far
more exacting than the one she had surrendered.
She had finally decided that it was not her duty to tell her parents
that she was trying to write. When she was ready to publish she would
ask their consent. That would be their right; but so long as they could
in no way be affected, the secret might remain her own. And this secret
was her most precious possession; it would have been firing her soul at
the stake to reveal it to anyone less sympathetic than Helena; she was
not sure that she could even speak of it to her.
Her time was her own in the country. Her father and uncle came down
three times a week, but rarely before evening; her mother's mornings
were taken up with household matters, her afternoons with siesta,
calling, and driving; frequently she lunched informally with her
friends. How Magdaléna spent her time did not concern her parents, so
long as she did not leave the grounds and was within call when visitors
came.
Don Roberto would not keep a horse in town for Magdaléna, but in the
country she rode through the woods unattended every morning. The
exhilaration of these early rides filled Magdaléna's soul with content.
The freshness of the golden morning, the drowsy summer sounds, the deep
vistas of the woods,--not an outline changed since unhistoried races had
possessed them,--the glimpses of mountain and redwood forests beyond,
the embracing solitude, laid somnolent fingers on the scars of her inner
life, letting free the sweet troubled thoughts of a girl, carried her
back to the days when she had dreamed of caballeros serenading beneath
her casement. For two years she had dreamed that dream, and then it had
curled up and fallen to dust under Helena's ridicule. Magdaléna was
fatally clear of vision, and her reason had accepted the facts at once.
Sometimes during those rides she dreamed of a lover in the vague fashion
of a girl whose acquaintance of man is confined to a few elderly men and
to the creations of masters; but only then. She rarely deluded herself.
She was plain; she could not even interest women. She felt that she was
wholly without that magnetism which, she had read, made many plain women
irresistible to man.
XV
Don Roberto was to bring his guest with him on the train which arrived a
few minutes after five. Magdaléna was told to dress early and be in the
parlour when Mr. Trennahan came downstairs. She was cold at the thought
of talking alone with a man and a stranger; but Mrs. Yorba had
neuralgia, and announced her intention to lie down until the last
minute.
Magdaléna had received a number of pretty presents from her aunt and
friends, a cablegram from Colonel Belmont and Helena, and from her
father a small gold watch and fob. Her father's gift was very
magnificent to her, and her pleasure was as great in the thought of his
generosity as in the beauty of the gift itself. His usual gift was ten
dollars; and as it had been decided that she was not to be a young lady
until she was nineteen, her eighteenth birthday had been passed over.
Her mother's present was the dress she was to wear to-night, a white
organdie of the pearly tint high in favour with blondes of matchless
complexion, a white sash, and a white ribbon to be knotted about the
throat. The neck of the gown was cut in a small V.
Magdaléna had no natural taste in dress, nor did she know the first
principle of the law of colour; but when she had finished her toilette
she stood for many moments before the mirror, regarding herself with
disapproval. The radiant whiteness of the frock and of the ribbon about
her neck made her look as dark as an Indian. She saw no beauty in the
noble head with its parted, closely banded hair, in the fine dark eyes.
She saw only the wide mouth and indefinite nose, the complexionless
skin, the long thin figure and ugly neck. The only thing about her that
possessed any claim to beauty, according to her own standards, was her
foot. She thrust it out and strove to find encouragement in its
pulchritude. It was thin and small and arched, and altogether perfect.
She wore her first pair of slippers and silk stockings,--a present from
her aunt. Her mother thought silk stockings a sinful waste of money.
Magdaléna sighed and turned to the door. "Feet don't talk," she thought.
"What am I to say to Mr. Trennahan?"
She walked slowly down the stair. He was before her, standing on the
verandah directly in front of the doors. His back was to her. She saw
that he was very tall and thin, not unlike her uncle in build, but with
a distinction that gentleman did not possess. Her father was strutting
up and down the drive, taking his ante-dinner constitutional.
She went along the hall as slowly as she could, her hands clenched, her
mind in travail for a few words of appropriate greeting. When she had
nearly reached the door, Trennahan turned suddenly and saw her. He came
forward at once, his hand extended.
"This is Miss Yorba, of course," he said. "How good of you to come down
so soon!"
He had a large warm hand. It closed firmly over Magdaléna's, and gave
her confidence. She could hardly see his face in the gloom of the hall,
but she felt his cordial grace, his magnetism.
"I am glad you have come down to my birthday dinner," she said, thankful
to be able to say anything.
"I am highly honoured, I am sure. Shall we go outside? I hope you prefer
it out there. I never stay in the house if I can help it."
"Oh, I much prefer to be out."
They sat facing each other in two of the wicker chairs. He was a man
skilled in woman, and he divined her shyness and apprehension. He talked
lightly for some time, making her feel that politeness compelled her to
be silent and listen. She raised her eyes after a time and looked at
him. He was, perhaps, thirty-five, possibly more. He looked older and at
the same time younger. His shaven chin and lips were sternly cut. His
face was thin, his nose arched and fine, his skin and hair neutral in
tint. The only colouring about him was in his eyes. They were very blue
and deeply set under rather scraggy brows. Magdaléna noted that they had
a peculiarly penetrating regard, and that they did not smile with the
lips. The latter, when not smiling, looked grim and forbidding, and
there was a deep line on either side of the mouth. Her memory turned to
Colonel Belmont, and the night she had studied his profile. There was an
indefinable resemblance between the two men. Then she realised how
old-fashioned and worn Belmont was beside this trim elegant man, who,
with no exaggeration of manner, treated her with a deference and
attention which had no doubt been his habitual manner with the greatest
ladies in Europe.
"Shall you be in California long?" she asked suddenly.
"That is what I am trying to decide. I had heard so much of your
California that I came out with a half-formed idea of buying a little
place and settling down for the rest of my days."
"The Mark Smith place is for sale," she answered quickly. "It has only
two acres, but they are cultivated, and the house is very pretty."
"Your father told me about it; but although Menlo is very beautiful, it
seems to have one drawback. I am very fond of rowing, sailing, and
fishing, and there is no water."
"There is if you go far enough. The bay is not so very far away, and I
have heard that there is salmon-fishing back in the mountains. And Mr.
Washington and Uncle Jack Belmont often go duck and snipe shooting down
on the marsh." She stopped with a shortening of the breath. She had not
made such a long speech since Helena left.
He sat forward eagerly. "You interest me deeply," he said. "I am very
much inclined to buy the place. I shall certainly think of it."
"But you--surely--you would rather be--live--in Europe. We are very
old-fashioned out here."
The expression about his mouth deepened. "I should like to think that I
might spend the rest of my days with a fishing-rod or a gun."
"But you have been at courts!"
He laughed. "I have, and I hope I may never see another."
"And--and you are young."
Her interest and curiosity overcame her reserve. She wanted to know all
of this man that he would tell her. She had once seen a picture of a
death-mask. His face reminded her of it. What lay behind?
"I am forty and some months."
She rose suddenly, her hand seeking her heart. "They are coming," she
faltered. "I hear wheels. And mamma is not here to introduce you."
"Well," he said, smiling down on her. "Cannot you introduce me?"
"I--I cannot. I have never introduced anyone. I must seem very ignorant
and gauche to you."
"You are delightful. And I am sure you are quite equal to anything. Am I
to be introduced out here, or in the drawing-room after they have come
downstairs?"
"Oh, I am not sure."
"Then perhaps you will let me advise you. When they are all here, I will
appear in the drawing-room; and if your mother is not down by that time,
we will help each other out. They will all be talking and will hardly
notice me. But I must run."
The Geary phaeton drove up. It held Rose and her brother. After they had
gone upstairs Magdaléna went into the parlour to wait for them. The
large room was very dim--the gasoline was misbehaving--and silent; she
shivered with apprehension. There was no sign of her mother. But
Trennahan's words and sympathy had given her courage, and she burned
with ambition to acquit herself creditably in his eyes.
The guests arrived rapidly. In ten minutes they were all in the parlour,
sixteen in number, the men in full dress, the women in organdies or
foulards showing little of arm and neck. Mrs. Washington was in pink;
Tiny in white and a seraphic expression; Rose wore black net and red
slippers, a bunch of red geraniums at her belt, her eyes slanting at the
men about her. With the exception of Ned Geary and Charley Rollins, a
friend of Helena's, with both of whom she had perhaps exchanged three
sentences in the course of her life, Magdaléna knew none of the young
men: they had been brought, at Mrs. Yorba's suggestion, by the other
guests.
She could find nothing to say to them; she was watching the door. Would
her mother never come? Her father was on the front verandah talking to
Mr. Washington and her uncle.
Trennahan entered the room.
Magdaléna drew herself up and went forward. She looked very dignified
and very Spanish. No one guessed, with the exception of Trennahan, that
it was the ordeal of her life.
"Mr. Trennahan," she said in a harsh even voice: "Mrs. Washington, Miss
Brannan, Miss Montgomery."
He flashed her a glance of admiration which sent the chill from her
veins, and began talking at once to the three women that she might feel
excused from further duty. A few moments later Mrs. Yorba entered. She
received Trennahan without a smile or a superfluous word. Mrs. Yorba was
never deliberately rude; but were she the wife of an ambassador for
forty years, her chill nipped New England nature would never even
artificially expand; the cast-iron traditions of her youth, when neither
she nor any of her acquaintance knew aught of socialities beyond church
festivals, could never be torn from the sterile but tenacious soil which
had received them.
Dinner was announced almost immediately. Mrs. Yorba signified to
Trennahan that he was to have the honour of taking her in; and as she
had not intimated how the rest were to be coupled, the women arranged
the matter to suit themselves. Mrs. Cartright went in with Don Roberto,
Mrs. Washington with Polk; there were no other married women present. As
Charley Rollins was standing by Magdaléna, she took the arm he offered
her.
The function was not as melancholy as the Yorba dinners were wont to be.
