only he did not tell — he never spoke of Beatrix, 
nor hinted that there had been any love in his life. 
They turned, and turned again many times, and 
he was hardly aware that at the end the Queen had 
linked one hand in his right arm and gently pressed it 
from time to time in sign of sympathy. And when 
he had finished, with a quaver in his deep voice as he 
told how he had come out into the world to seek his 
fortune, she stopped him, and they both stood still. 
" Poor boy ! " she exclaimed softly. " Poor Gil- 
bert! " — and her tone lingered on the name, — "the 
world owes you a desperate debt — but the world 
shall pay it I " 
She smiled as she spoke the last words, pressing 
his arm more suddenly and quickly than before ; and 
he smiled, too, but incredulously. Then she looked 
down at her own hand upon his sleeve. 
" But that is not all," she continued thoughtfully; 
" was there no woman — no love — no one that was 
dearer than all you lost?" 
A faint and almost boyish blush rose in Gilbert's 
cheek, and disappeared again instantly. 
"They took her from me, too," he said in a low, 
hard voice. " She was Arnold de Curboil's daughter 
— when he married my mother he made his child my 
sister. You know the Church's law! " 
Eleanor was on the point of saying something im- 
pulsively, but her eyelids suddenly drooped and she 
checked herself. If Gilbert Warde did not know 
that the Church granted dispensations in such cases, 
she saw no good reason for telling him. 
"Besides," he added, "I could not have her now, 
unless I could take her from her father by force." 
"No," said the Queen, thoughtfully. "Is she 
fair?" 
" Very dark, " said Gilbert. 
" I meant, is she beautiful ? " 
"To me, yes: the most beautiful in the world. 
But how should I know ? I have never heard others 
speak of her; she is not beautiful as your Grace is, 
— not radiantly, supremely, magnificently perfect, 
— yet to my eyes she is very lovely. " 
"I should like to see her," said the Queen. 
In the silence that followed they began to walk 
up and down again side by side, but Eleanor's hand 
no longer rested on Gilbert's arm. She could see 
that his eyes were fixed upon a face that was far 
away, and that his hand longed for a touch not hers ; 
and a painful little thrill of disappointment ran 
through her, for she was not used to any sort of 
opposition, in great things or small. The handsome 
Englishman attracted her strangely, and not by his 
outward personality only. From the first a sort of 
mystery had hung over him, and she had felt, when 
she was with him, the inexplicable fascination of a 
curiosity which she should be sure to satisfy sooner 
or later. And now, having learned something of 
his life, and liking him the more for what she knew, 
she was suddenly filled with an irresistible longing 
to see the girl who had made the first mark on Gil- 
bert's life. She tried to conjure up the young face, 
and the dark hue he had spoken of brought the vision 
of a fateful shadow. Her mind dwelt upon the girl, 
and she started visibly when Gilbert spoke to her. 
"And has your Grace no deed for me to do?" he 
asked. " Is there nothing whereby I may prove my 
thanks?" 
"Nothing, save that you be indeed my friend — 
a friend I can trust, a friend to whom I may speak 
safely as to my own soul, a friend whom I may tell 
how heartily I hate this life I lead! " 
She uttered the last words with a sudden rising 
accent of unruly discontent, as genuine as every 
other outward showing of her vital nature. 
"How can your life be hateful?" asked Gilbert, 
in profound astonishment, for he did not know her 
half as well as she already knew him. 
"How can it be anything else?" she asked. 
" How should life not be hateful, when every natural 
thing that makes life worth living is choked as 
soon as it is awake? Oh, I often wish I were a 
man ! " 
"Men do not wish you were," answered Gilbert, 
with a smile. 
Suddenly, while they were speaking, a sound of 
voices filled the air with loud chanting of Latin 
words. Instinctively the Queen laid her hand on 
Gilbert's sleeve and drew him into the shadow of 
a buttress, and he yielded, scarcely knowing what 
he did. The chanting swelled on the air, and a 
moment later the procession began to appear beyond 
the corner of the church. Two and two, led by one 
who bore a cross, the song-boys in scarlet and white 
came first, then Benedictine monks in black, then 
priests of the cathedral in violet cloth with fine white 
linen surplices and bearing wax candles. And they 
all chanted as they walked, loudly, fervently, as if 
a life and a soul depended on every note. Then, as 
the Queen and Gilbert looked on from the shade 
where they stood, they saw the canopy of cloth of 
gold borne on its six gilded staves by slim young 
men in white, and beneath it walked the vener- 
able bishop, half hidden under the vast embroid- 
ered cope from which the golden monstrance 
emerged, grasped by his closely wrapped hands; 
and his colourless eyes were fixed devoutly upon 
the Sacred Host, while his lips moved in silent 
prayer. 
Just as the canopy was in sight the procession 
halted for some time. In the shadow of the buttress 
Eleanor knelt upon the turf, looking towards the 
Sacred Host, and Gilbert dropped upon one knee at 
her side, veiy reverently bending his head. 
Eleanor looked straight before her with more 
curiosity than religious fervour, but in her ear she 
heard Gilbert's deep voice softly chanting with the 
monks the psalms he had so often sung at Sheering 
Abbey. The Queen turned her head at the sound, 
in surprise, and watched the young man's grave 
face for a moment without attracting his attention. 
Apparently she was not pleased, for her brows were 
very slightly drawn together, the corners of her eyes 
drooped, and the deep bright blue was darkened. At 
that moment the canopy swayed a little, the ancient 
bishop moved his shoulders under the heavy cope in 
the effort of starting again, and the procession began 
to move onward. 
Next after the bishop, from behind the end 
of the church, the King came into sight, walking, 
monk-like, with folded hands, moving lips and 
downcast eyes, the long embroidered bliaut reach- 
ing almost to his feet, while the scarlet mantle, lined 
with blue and bordered with ermine, fell straight 
from his shoulders and touched the turf as he walked. 
He was bareheaded, and as Eleanor noticed what 
was evidently intended for another act of humility, 
the serene curve of her closed lips was sharpened in 
scorn. And suddenly, as she gazed at her husband's 
cold, white features in contempt, she heard Gilbert's 
voice at her elbow again, chanting the Latin words, 
musically and distinctly, and she turned almost with 
a movement of anger to see the bold young face sad- 
dened and softened by the essence of a profound belief. 
"Was I born to loTe monks!" she sighed half 
audibly; but as she looked back at the procession 
she started and uttered a low exclamation. 
Beside her husband, but a little after him as the 
pageant turned, a straight, thin figure came into sight, 
clad in a monk's frock scarcely less dazzling white 
than the marvellous upturned face. At Eleanor's 
exclamation Gilbert also had raised his eyes from the 
ground, and they fixed themselves on the wonderful 
features of the greatest man of the age, while his 
voice forgot to chant and his lips remained parted 
in wonder. Upon the bright green grass against 
the background of hewn stone walls, in the glorious 
autumn sunshine, Bernard of Clairvaux moved like 
the supernal vision of a heavenly dream. His head 
thrown back, the delicate silver-fair beard scarcely 
shadowing the spiritual outlines of an almost divine 
face, his soft blue eyes looked upward, filled with a 
light not earthly. The transparent brow and the 
almost emaciated cheeks were luminously pale, and 
seemed to shed a radiance of their own. 
But it would have been impossible to say what it 
was in the man's form or face that made him so 
utterly different and distinct from other men. It 
was not alone the Christlike brow, nor the noble 
features inherited from a line of heroes ; it was not 
the ascetic air, the look of bodily suffering, nor 
the fine-drawn lines of pain which, as it were, 
etched a shadowy background of sorrow upon which 
the spiritual supremacy blazed like a rising star: 
it was something beyond all these, above name 
and out of definition, the halo of saintship, the 
glory of genius, the crown of heroism. Of such a 
man, one's eyes might be filled, and one might say, 
'Let him not speak, lest some harsh tone or imper- 
fect speech should pierce the vision with sharp 
discord, as a rude and sudden sound ends a soft 
dream.' Yet he was a man who, when he raised 
his hand to lead, led millions like children; who, 
when he opened his lips to speak, spoke with the 
tongue of men and of angels such words as none 
had spoken before him — words which were the truth 
made light; one who, when he took pen in hand to 
write to the world's masters, wrote without fear or 
fault, as being the scribe of God, but who could 
pen messages of tenderest love and gentlest counsel 
to the broken-hearted and the heavy-laden. 
Gilbert's eyes followed the still, white glory of 
the monk's face, till the procession turned in a wide 
sweep behind the wing of the palace, and even then 
the tension of his look did not relax. He was still 
kneeling with fixed gaze when the Queen was stand- 
ing beside him. The scorn was gone from her lips 
and had given place to a sort of tender pity. She 
touched the young man's shoulder twice before he 
started, looked up, and then sprang to his feet. 
" Who is that man ? " he asked earnestly. 
"Bernard, Abbot of Clairvaux," answered the 
Queen, looking far away. " I almost worshipped him 
once, when I was a child, — it is the will of Heaven 
that I should lose my heart to monks I " 
She laughed, as she had laughed from the window. 
"Monks ? " Gilbert repeated the; word with curi- 
osity. 
"Are you one of those persons for whom it is 
necessary to explain everything?" asked Eleanor, 
still smiling and looking at him intently. " I think 
you must be half a monk yourself, for I heard you 
singing the psalms as sweetly as any convent 
scholar." 
"Even if I were not half a monk, but one alto- 
gether, I should not wholly understand your Grace's 
speech;" Gilbert smiled, too, for he was immeasur- 
ably far from guessing what was in her mind. 
" So I have thought, in all these weeks and days 
while we have been together." 
Her eyes darkened as she looked at him, but his 
were clear and calm. 
"Do you understand this?" she asked, and she 
laid her two hands upon his shoulders. 
"What?" he asked in surprise. 
"This," she said, very softly, drawing herself near 
to him by her hands. 
Then he knew, and he would have straightened 
himself, but her hands sprang to meet each other 
round his neck, and her face was close to his. But 
the vision of his own sinful mother rose in her eyes 
to meet him. 
She held him fast, and three times she kissed him 
before she would let him go. 
CHAPTER VIII 
Gilbert had reached Paris in the train of Duke 
Geoffrey in September ; the Christmas bells were ring- 
ing when he first caught sight of the walls and towers 
of Rome. As he drew rein on the crest of a low hill, 
the desolate brown waste of the Campagna stretched 
behind him mile upon mile to northward, toward 
the impenetrable forests of Viterbo, and Rome was 
at last before him. Before him rose the huge half- 
ruined walls of Aurelian, battered by Goth and 
Saracen and imperial Greek ; before him towered the 
fortress of Hadrian's tomb, vast, impregnable, fero- 
cious. Here and there above the broken crenellation 
of the city's battlements rose dark and slender towers, 
square and round, marking the places where strong 
robbers had fortified themselves within the city. 
But from the point where Gilbert halted, Rome 
seemed but a long brown ruin, with portions stand- 
ing whole, as brown as the rest under the bright 
depths of vaulted blue, unflecked by the least fleece 
of cloud, in the matchless clearness of the winter's 
morning. Profound disappointment came upon him 
as he looked. With little knowledge and hardly any 
information from others who  had journeyed by the 
same road, he had built himself' an imaginary city 
of unspeakable beauty, wherein graceful churches 
rose out of sunlit streets and fair open places planted 
with lordly avenues of trees. There, in his thoughts, 
walked companies of men with faces like the face of 
the great Bernard, splendid with innocence, radiant 
with the hope of life. Thither, in his fancy, came the 
true knights of the earth, purified of sin by vigils in 
the holy places of the East, to renew unbroken vows 
of chastity and charity and faith. There, in his 
dream, dwelt the venerable Father of Bishops, the 
Vicar of Christ, the successor of Peter, the Servant 
of the servants of God, the spotless head of the Holy 
Roman Catholic and Apostolic Church. There, in 
his heart, he had made the dwelling of whatsoever 
things are upright and just and perfect in heaven, 
and pure and beautiful on earth. That was the city 
of God, of which his soul was the architect, and in 
which he was to be a dweller, in peace that should 
pass understanding. 
He had left behind him in Paris another vision 
and one that might well have dazzled him — such 
favour as falls to few ; such hopes as few can plant 
in their lives and still fewer can rear to maturity; 
such love as few indeed could hope for — the love 
of supreme and royal beauty. 
When he had ridden out of the castle on the island, 
older by some months, richer by such gifts as it was 
no shame for him to take of Duke Geoffrey and young 
Henry Plantagenet, he had believed himself wiser, 
too, by half a lifetime. 
He was confident in his own strength, in his own 
wisdom, in his own endurance; he fancied that he 
had fought against a great temptation, where he had 
in truth been chilled and terrified by the haunting 
vision of another's evil ; he imagined that the little 
sharp regret, which stung his heart with long- 
ing for the sweetness of a sin that might have 
been, was the evil remnant of a passion not wholly 
quenched, whereas it was but the craving of a 
natural vanity that had not been strong enough to 
overcome a repugnance which he himself only half 
understood. 
