"Who could have done it?" he asked himself.
He could not think of any one. He was acquainted with every one in the
little village, and he knew none that would be capable of theft. He
never thought of the ill-looking tramp whom he had met in Joe Marks'
store.
Ten dollars was a considerable loss to him, for he had estimated that
it would defray the expenses of old Peter's interment. It was not so
bad as it might have been, however, for the hundred dollars of which
Peter had told him were still safe.
"When I get that I must be careful," he said to himself.
Though his rest had been disturbed, he felt ready to get up. There was
work for him to do. He must arrange for the burial of the old man with
whom he had lived so long, the only friend he felt he could claim.
Ernest rose, and after dressing himself, made a frugal breakfast. He
looked sadly at Peter. Death was to him something new and strange, for
he did not remember ever having seen a dead man before. He must get
help, and with that object in view he went to the village, and sought
the store of Joe Marks.
"What brings you out so early, my lad?" asked Joe.
"Matter enough, Joe. My uncle is dead."
He still called him uncle, though he knew now that Peter was no kin to
him.
"Old Peter dead!" ejaculated Marks. "When did he die?"
"Some time during the night. I wish you'd help me, for I don't know
what to do."
"So I will, boy. We'll stand by you, won't we, Luke?"
This was said as Luke Robbins entered the store.
"To be sure we will, Ernest. We all like you."
"Oh, I forgot to say," continued Ernest, "the cabin was entered last
night, and some money taken."
CHAPTER IV.
ALONE IN THE WORLD.
Joe Marks and Luke Robbins looked at each other in amazement.
"Your cabin entered!" exclaimed Joe. "What do you say to that, Luke?"
"I did not know there were any thieves around here," answered Luke.
"What was taken?"
"An old trunk was opened--I carelessly left it unlocked--and two
five-dollar gold pieces were stolen out of it. At any rate I couldn't
find them this morning."
"Two five-dollar gold pieces?" said Joe quickly. "Then I know who took
them."
"What do you mean, Joe?" said Luke. "Out with it!"
"You know that tramp who was here yesterday, Luke?"
"Yes."
"He came round an hour ago, just after I had opened, and called for a
glass of whisky. 'Where is your money?' I asked. 'I've got plenty. You
needn't be afraid,' he said. Then I called upon him to show it, and he
pulled out a five-dollar gold piece. Of course I was surprised. 'Where
did you get it?' I asked, suspiciously. 'Yesterday you said you had no
money.' 'I had that,' he answered, 'but I didn't want to spend it. You
see it was a gift from my dyin' mother, and I wanted to keep it for
her sake.' With that he rolled up his eyes and looked sanctimonious.
Then I asked him how it happened that he was ready to spend it now."
"What did he say?"
"He said that he was so parched with thirst that he felt obliged to do
it."
"Did you take his money?"
"No. I was short of change. You see I changed a gold piece for the boy
yesterday. Besides, I wasn't sure the piece was good, seeing who
offered it. I thought it might be bogus."
"Then he didn't get his whisky?"
"No. He went away disappointed. I don't doubt, Ernest, that the gold
piece was one of yours. How did the fellow get in?"
"Through the window. I found it open when I woke up."
"You must have slept sound?"
"I did. I slept an hour later than I generally do."
"Was anything else taken?"
"Not that I could discover."
"Do you mean to say that your uncle had but ten dollars?" asked Joe
incredulously.
"It was all he had in the trunk."
"I always thought him a rich man."
"He was not," said Ernest quietly.
"Was that all the money he had? He had the reputation of being a
miser, with hoards of gold hidden in or near the cabin."
"I know of one sum of money he had concealed, but it was not a large
amount. He told me about it before he died."
"I'm glad you won't be left penniless, lad; did he own the cabin?"
"Nobody owned it," said Joe Marks. "It was built years ago by a man
who suddenly left it and went away, nobody knew where. It wasn't worth
much, and no one ever took the trouble to claim it. When your uncle
came here he found it empty and took possession of it, and there he
has lived ever since. So you'll have some money, Ernest?"
"Only a hundred dollars."
"What will you do? What are your plans?"
"I don't know. I haven't had time to think."
"I might find a place for you in the store. We wouldn't like to have
you go away."
"Thank you, Joe. You are very kind. But there's no chance for me
around here. I'll take the money, and go somewhere. But first I must
see Uncle Peter buried. Will you help me?"
"To be sure we will. Was he your only relation?"
"He was not my relation at all."
"Why, you have always called him uncle."
"I supposed him to be my uncle, but yesterday he told me that he was
only a servant in my father's family, and that on my father's death
he was placed in charge of me."
"I reckon that's so. You didn't favor the old man at all. You look as
if you came from better stock."
"All the same I shall miss him," said Ernest sadly. "He was a good
friend to me, Peter was."
"Did he tell you whether you had any kin?"
"Yes; I have a cousin of my father's living in New York State. He is a
rich man. He inherited the property that ought to have gone to my
father."
"How did that happen?"
"He prejudiced my grandfather against my father, and so the estate was
willed to him."
"The mean scoundrel!" exclaimed Luke indignantly. "I'd like to have
him in my hands for a few minutes; I'd give him a lesson."
"I should pity him if ever you got hold of him, Luke," said Joe Marks.
"But we must consider what we can do for the boy."
"I wish we could get hold of that thief of a tramp!"
"Probably we shall. He'll find his way back here sooner or later."
But the burial of Peter Brant was the first consideration. No
undertaker was called, for in that small settlement one would not have
been supported. The ceremonies of death were few and simple. A rude
wooden box was put together, and Peter was placed in it, dressed as he
was at the time of his death. There was an itinerant minister who
preached in the village once in four weeks, but he was away now, and
so there could be no religious ceremony beyond reading a chapter from
the New Testament. Joe Marks, who had received a decent education,
officiated as reader. Then the interment took place. In the forenoon
of the second day Peter's body was laid away, and Ernest was left
practically alone in the world.
Meanwhile some account must be given of Tom Burns, the tramp.
When he found it impossible to obtain whisky with the gold he had
stolen, he felt very despondent. His throat was parched, and his
craving became intolerable. He felt that he had been decidedly
ill-used. What was the use of money unless it could be converted into
what his soul desired? But there was no way of changing the coin
except at the store of Joe Marks. To ask any of the villagers would
only have excited surprise and suspicion. Besides, the tramp felt sure
that Ernest would soon discover that he had been robbed. He would
naturally be suspected, especially as Joe Marks had knowledge of a
gold piece being in his possession.
There was a small settlement about five miles off, called Daneboro. It
was probably the nearest place where he could get a glass of whisky.
He must walk there. It was not a pleasant prospect, for the tramp was
lazy and not fond of walking, though he had been compelled to do a
good deal of it. Still, it seemed to be a necessity, and when he left
the store of Joe Marks he set out for Daneboro.
Thirst was not the only trouble with Tom Burns. He had not eaten
anything for about twenty-four hours, and his neglected stomach
rebelled. He tightened a girdle about his waist, and walked on in
great discomfort. He had perhaps gone two miles when he came to a
cabin similar in appearance to that of old Peter Brant. A woman stood
in the door-way.
"My good lady," said Tom, putting on a pitiful expression, "I am a
very unfortunate man."
"Are you?" said the woman, scanning him critically. "You look like a
tramp."
"I do, madam, yet I was once a thriving merchant."
"You don't look like it."
"I don't; I acknowledge it."
"How did you lose your property, if you ever had any?"
"By signin' notes for my brother. It swept off all my possessions."
"Then I pity you. That's the way my man lost five hundred dollars,
nearly all he had. What can I do for you?"
"Madam, I am hungry, very hungry."
"Set right down on the settle, and I'll give you what's left of our
breakfast."
Tom Burns obeyed with alacrity.
A plate of cold bacon, a cold potato, and some corn bread were placed
before him, and he ate them almost voraciously. There had been times
in his life when he would have turned up his nose at such fare, but
not now.
"My good lady," he said, "you have saved my life."
"Well, you must 'a' been hungry," said the woman. "A man that'll eat
cold vittles, especially cold potato, ain't shammin'."
"I wish I had money to offer you--"
"Oh, never mind that, you're welcome. Can I do anything more for you?"
"I feel sick, and sometimes, though I am a temperance man, I take
whisky for my health. If you had just a sup--"
"Well, we haven't, and if we had I wouldn't give you any."
"You misjudge me, madam. You must not think I am a drinker."
"It's no matter what I think. You can't get any whisky here."
At Daneboro Tom fared better. He changed his gold piece, drank a pint
of whisky, and the next day retraced his steps to old Peter's cabin.
He felt satisfied that somewhere near the cabin there were treasures
concealed, and he meant to secure them.
CHAPTER V.
THE TRAMP TURNS UP AGAIN.
When Peter Brant was laid away under a tree not far from the cabin
where he had ended his days, Ernest felt that he was at liberty to
begin the new life that lay before him. Despite the natural sadness
which he felt at parting with his old friend, he looked forward not
without pleasant anticipations to the future and what it might have in
store for him.
Oak Forks had few attractions for him. Time had often dragged wearily
with him. He had a literary taste, but could not get hold of books.
Peter Brant had about a dozen volumes, none of which he had read
himself, but Ernest had read them over and over again. None of the
neighbors owned any books. Occasionally a newspaper found its way into
the settlement, and this, when it came into Ernest's hands, was
devoured, advertisements and all.
How, then, was his time passed? Partly in hunting, partly in fishing,
for there was a small river two miles away; but one could not fish or
hunt all the time. He had often felt a vague yearning to go to
Chicago, or New York, or anywhere where there would be a broader field
and large opportunities, and he had broached the subject to Peter.
"I can't afford to go, Ernest," the old man would reply. "I must live
on the little I have, for I am too old to work."
"But I am young. I can work," the boy would answer.
"A boy like you couldn't earn much. Wait till I am dead and then you
can go where you like."
This would always close the discussion, for Ernest did not like to
consider such a contingency. Peter represented his world, for he had
no one to cling to except the man whom he supposed to be his uncle.
Now, however, the time had come when he could go forth and enter upon
a career. Accordingly he declined Joe Marks' offer to take him into
the store. He understood very well that it was only meant in kindness,
and that he was not really needed.
"You don't need me, Joe," he said. "You are very kind, but there must
be real work for me somewhere."
"Well, my lad, I won't stand in your way, but I've known you a long
time, and I shall hate to lose sight of you."
"I'll come back some day, Joe--that is, if I am prosperous, and can."
"If you are not prosperous, if you fall sick, and need a home and a
friend, come back, then. Don't forget your old friend Joe Marks."
"I won't, Joe," said Ernest heartily.
"You've got another friend here, Ernest," added Luke Robbins. "I'm a
poor man, and my friendship isn't worth much, but you have it, all the
same."
Ernest grasped the hands of both. He felt that each was a friend worth
having.
"You may be sure that I won't forget either of you," he said.
"When do you expect to go, Ernest, and where?" asked Joe Marks.
"I shall get away to-morrow, I think, but where I shall go I can't
tell yet."
"Do you need any money?"
"No; my uncle left me some."
Ernest had not yet secured the gold, but he knew exactly where it was,
and now that all his business was ended, he felt that it was time to
possess himself of it. Accordingly he took a spade from the house and
bent his steps in the direction of the old oak tree.
He went alone, for he thought it best not to take anyone into his
confidence. Indeed the only persons whom he would have thought of
trusting were Joe Marks and Luke Robbins, and they were both employed,
Joe in his store and Luke on a hunting expedition.
Arrived at the tree, Ernest measured off five feet in the direction
mentioned by Peter and began to dig. It did not take him long to reach
the box, for it was only a foot beneath the surface of the ground.
It proved to be a cigar-box, for Peter was fond of smoking, though he
usually smoked a pipe, as being more economical. Ernest lifted the lid
and saw a small roll enclosed in brown wrapping-paper, which, on being
removed, revealed twenty five-dollar gold pieces. He regarded them
with satisfaction, for they afforded him the means of leaving Oak
Forks and going out into the great world which he had such a curiosity
to enter.
But Ernest was not the only one who regarded the gold pieces with
satisfaction.
Hidden behind a tree only a few feet away was a person with whom we
are already acquainted. It was Tom Burns, the tramp and vagabond.
He, too, was out in search of gold. He had come from Daneboro and was
prowling round the neighborhood, searching for old Peter's hidden
treasure. He had deliberated as to whether the cabin or the fields was
the more likely place to have been selected. He had nothing in
particular to guide him. He did not, however, venture to approach the
house just yet, as it would probably be occupied by Ernest.
"I wish I knowed where the old man hid his boodle," soliloquized Tom.
"I can't dig all over."
In fact digging was not in Tom's line. It was too much like work, and
if there was anything to which Tom was bitterly opposed it was work of
any kind.
"The boy must know. Likely the old man told him," he finally
concluded. "I'll watch the boy."
He feared he might be too late. Had it been his own case, he would
have searched for the gold immediately after the funeral. He naturally
supposed that Ernest would do the same. He therefore lost no time in
prowling around the cabin, with the especial object of watching
Ernest's movements. He was especially favored, as he thought, when
from a distance he saw Ernest leaving the cabin with the spade in his
hand.
The tramp's heart was filled with joy.
"He is going to dig for the treasure," he said. "I'll keep him in
sight."
Tom Burns had no difficulty in doing this, for Ernest bent his steps
in his direction.
"I hope he won't discover me," thought Burns; "at any rate, not till I
find out where he's going to dig."
All things seemed to favor the tramp. Ernest stopped when he came to
the oak tree, and it was evident this was the spot of which he was in
search.
"Why, that's where I was lying the other night!" thought Burns. "If I
had only knowed! Why, the gold was right under me all the time. If I'd
found it then, I should have gone off with it before this time. How
ever, it isn't too late now."
He watched with subdued eagerness while Ernest was digging. He no
longer doubted that this was the place where the gold was hidden.
Ernest could have no other object in digging in this place.
"I wonder how much there is," thought Burns. "There ought to be as
much as a thousand dollars. Perhaps there's two or three. But even if
there is only a thousand, it will set me on my feet. I'll soon get out
of this neighborhood. I'll go to Chicago or New York, and I'll live in
clover. I'll make up for lost time. I've been a vagabond long enough.
I'll buy some new clothes, and set up as a respectable man."
When Ernest found the roll of coins, and taking them out, put them in
his pocket, he was not disappointed, for he knew what to expect, but
Tom Burns was in dismay.
