cleverness to have second-rate resources 
and virtues. It had been as if he almost 
really believed she had simply cried for 
fatigue, and he had accordingly put in some 
kind, confused plea You ought really to 
take something: won't you have something 
or other somezvhere? to which she had 
made no response but a headshake of a 
sharpness that settled it. Why shan't we 
all the more keep meeting? 
I mean meeting this way only this way. 
At my place there that I've nothing to do 
with, and I hope of course you ll turn up, 
with your correspondence, when it suits 
you. Whether I stay or not, I mean ; for I 
shall probably not stay. 
You're going somewhere else? he put it 
with positive anxiety. 
Yes; ever so far away to the other end 
of London. There are all sorts of reasons 
I can't tell you; and it 's practically settled. 
It 's better for me, much; and I've only 
kept on at Cocker 's for you. 
For me? 
Making out in the dusk that he fairly 
blushed, she now measured how far he had 
been from knowing too much. Too much, 
she called it at present ; and that was easy, 
since it proved so abundantly enough for 
her that he should simply be where he was. 
As we shall never talk this way but to-night 
never, never again! here it all is; I ll say 
it; I don't care what you think; it doesn' t 
matter ; I only want to help you. Besides, 
you're kind you're kind. I've been think 
ing, then, of leaving for ever so long. But 
you've come so often at times and you've 
had so much to do, and it has been so pleas 
ant and interesting, that I've remained, I've 
kept putting off any change. More than 
once, when I had nearly decided, you've 
turned up again and I've thought, "Oh, no!" 
That 's the simple fact! She had by this 
time got her confusion down so completely 
that she could laugh. This is what I meant 
when I said to you just now that I "knew." 
I've known perfectly that you knew I took 
trouble for you; and that knowledge has 
been for me, and I seemed to see it was for 
you, as if there were something I don't 
know what to call it! between us. I mean 
something unusual and good something not 
a bit horrid or vulgar. 
She had by this time, she could see, pro 
duced a great effect upon him; but she 
would have spoken the truth to herself if she 
had at the same moment declared that she 
didn' t in the least care: all the more that 
the effect must be one of extreme perplexity. 
What, in it all, was visibly clear for him, 
none the less, was that he was tremendously 
glad he had met her. She held him, and he 
was astonished at the force of it; he was 
intent, immensely considerate. His elbow 
was on the back of the seat, and his head, 
with the pot-hat pushed quite back, in a 
boyish way, so that she really saw almost for 
the first time his forehead and hair, rested 
on the hand into which he had crumpled his 
gloves. Yes, he assented, it 's not a bit 
horrid or vulgar. 
She just hung fire a moment; then she 
brought out the whole truth. I'd do any 
thing for you. I'd do anything for you. 
Never in her life had she known anything so 
high and fine as this, just letting him have 
it and bravely and magnificently leaving it. 
Didn't the place, the associations and cir 
cumstances, perfectly make it sound what it 
was not ; and wasn' t that exactly the beauty? 
So she bravely and magnificently left it, 
and little by little she felt him take it up, 
take it down, as if they had been on a satin 
sofa in a boudoir. She had never seen a 
boudoir, but there had been lots of boudoirs 
in the telegrams. What she had said, at all 
events, sank into him, so that after a minute 
he simply made a movement that had the 
result of placing his hand on her own 
presently indeed that of her feeling her 
self firmly enough grasped. There was no 
pressure she need return, there was none 
she need decline; she just sat admirably 
still, satisfied, for the time, with the sur 
prise and bewilderment of the impression 
she made on him. His agitation was even 
greater, on the whole, than she had at 
first allowed for. I say, you know, you 
mustn't think of leaving! he at last broke 
out. 
Of leaving Cocker's, you mean? 
Yes, you must stay on there, whatever 
happens, and help a fellow. 
She was silent a little, partly because it 
was so strange and exquisite to feel him 
watch her as if it really mattered to him 
and he were almost in suspense. Then you 
have quite recognised what I've tried to 
do? she asked. 
Why, wasn' t that exactly what I dashed 
over from my door just now to thank you for? 
Yes; so you said. 
And don't you believe it? 
She looked down a moment at his hand, 
which continued to cover her own ; where 
upon he presently drew it back, rather rest 
lessly folding his arms. Without answering 
his question she went on: Have you ever 
spoken of me? 
Spoken of you? 
Of my being there of my knowing, and 
that sort of thing. 
Oh, never to a human creature! he 
eagerly declared. 
She had a small drop at this, which was 
expressed in another pause ; after which she 
returned to what he had just asked her. 
Oh, yes, I quite believe you like it my 
always being there and our taking things up 
so familiarly and successfully : if not exactly 
where we left them, she laughed, almost 
always, at least, in an interesting place! 
He was about to say something in reply to 
this, but her friendly gaiety was quicker. 
You want a great many things in life, a 
great many comforts and helps and luxuries 
you want everything as pleasant as pos 
sible. Therefore, so far as it 's in the power 
of any particular person to contribute to all 
that She had turned her face to him 
smiling, just thinking. 
Oh, see here! But he was highly 
amused. Well, what then? he inquired, 
as if to humour her. 
Why, the particular person must never 
fail. We must manage it for you somehow. 
  
He threw back his head, laughing out; 
he was really exhilarated. Oh, yes, some 
how! 
Well, I think we each do don't we? in 
one little way and another and according to 
our limited lights. I'm pleased, at any 
rate, for myself, that you are; for I assure 
you I've done my best. 
You do better than any one! He had 
struck a match for another cigarette, and 
the flame lighted an instant his responsive, 
finished face, magnifying into a pleasant 
grimace the kindness with which he paid her 
this tribute. You're awfully clever, you 
know; cleverer, cleverer, cleverer ! 
He had appeared on the point of making 
some tremendous statement ; then suddenly, 
puffing his cigarette and shifting almost 
with violence on his seat, let it altogether 
fall. 
XVII 
In spite of this drop, if not just by reason 
of it, she felt as if Lady Bradeen, all but 
named out, had popped straight up ; and she 
practically betrayed her consciousness by 
waiting a little before she rejoined: Clev 
erer than who? 
Well, if I wasn' t afraid you'd think I 
swagger, I should say than anybody! If 
you leave your place there, where shall you 
go? he more gravely demanded. 
Oh, too far for you ever to find me! 
I'd find you anywhere. 
The tone of this was so still more serious 
that she had but her one acknowledgment. 
I'd do anything for you I'd do anything 
for you, she repeated. She had already, 
she felt, said it all; so what did anything 
more, anything less, matter? That was the 
very reason indeed why she could, with a 
lighter note, ease him generously of any 
awkwardness produced by solemnity, either 
his own or hers. Of course it must be nice 
for you to be able to think there are people 
all about who feel in such a way. 
In immediate appreciation of this, how 
ever, he only smoked without looking at her. 
But you don't want to give up your present 
work? he at last inquired. I mean you 
will stay in the post-office? 
Oh, yes; I think I've a genius for that. 
Rather ! No one can touch you. With 
this he turned more to her again. But you 
can get, with a move, greater advantages? 
I can get, in the suburbs, cheaper lodg 
ings. I will live with my mother. We need 
some space; and there 's a particular place 
that has other inducements. 
He just hesitated. Where is it? 
Oh, quite out of your way. You'd never 
have time. 
But I tell you I'd go anywhere. Don't 
you believe it? 
Yes, for once or twice. But you'd soon 
see it wouldn't do for you. 
He smoked and considered; seemed to 
stretch himself a little and, with his legs out, 
surrender himself comfortably. Well, well, 
well I believe everything you say. I take 
it from you anything you like in the most 
extraordinary way. It struck her certainly 
and almost without bitterness that the 
way in which she was already, as if she had 
been an old friend, arranging for him and 
preparing the only magnificence she could 
muster, was quite the most extraordinary. 
Don t, don't go! he presently went on. I 
shall miss you too horribly ! 
So that you just put it to me as a definite 
request? oh, how she tried to divest this 
of all sound of the hardness of bargaining! 
That ought to have been easy enough, for 
what was she arranging to get? Before he 
could answer she had continued: To be 
perfectly fair, I should tell you I recognise 
at Cocker 's certain strong attractions. All 
you people come. I like all the horrors. 
The horrors? 
Those you all you know the set I mean, 
your set show me with as good a conscience 
as if I had no more feeling than a letter 
box. 
He looked quite excited at the way she 
put it. Oh, they don't know! 
Don't know I'm not stupid? No, how 
should they? 
Yes, how should they? said the Captain 
sympathetically. But isn' t "horrors" 
rather strong? 
What you do is rather strong! the girl 
promptly returned. 
What I do? 
Your extravagance, your selfishness, your 
immorality, your crimes, she pursued, with 
out heeding his expression. 
I say! her companion showed the 
queerest stare. 
I like them, as I tell you I revel in 
them. But we needn't go into that, she 
quietly went on; for all I get out of it is the 
harmless pleasure of knowing. I know, I 
know, I know! she breathed it ever so 
gently. 
Yes; that 's what has been between us, 
he answered much more simply. 
She could enjoy his simplicity in silence, 
and for a moment she did so. If I do stay 
because you want it and I'm rather capable 
of that there are two or three things I 
think you ought to remember. One is, you 
know, that I'm there sometimes for days and 
weeks together without your ever coming. 
Oh, I ll come everyday! he exclaimed. 
She was on the point, at this, of imitating 
with her hand his movement of shortly 
before; but she checked herself, and there 
was no want of effect in the tranquillising 
way in which she said: How can you? 
How can you? 1 He had, too manifestly, 
only to look at it there, in the vulgarly ani 
mated gloom, to see that he couldn t; and at 
this point, by the mere action of his silence, 
everything they had so definitely not named, 
the whole presence round which they had 
been circling became a part of their refer 
ence, settled solidly between them. It was 
as if then, for a minute, they sat and saw it 
i 3 2   
all in each other 's eyes, saw so much that 
there was no need of a transition for sound 
ing it at last. Your danger, your danger 
! Her voice indeed trembled with it, and 
she could only, for the moment, again leave 
it so. 
During this moment he leaned back on 
the bench, meeting her in silence and with 
a face that grew more strange. It grew so 
strange that, after a further instant, she 
got straight up. She stood there as if their 
talk were now over, and he just sat and 
watched her. It was as if now owing to 
the third person they had brought in they 
must be more careful ; so that the most he 
