of an intense warmth. His arms appeared 
to be bound to his sides, his whole body in 
a vise. He kicked out with a vigorous 
return of the instinct of independence. 
The action shook his brain free and he 
understood: he was tightly wrapped in a 
blanket, and there were other blankets 
upon him. He raised his head. The 
room was one of familiar lineaments, 
whitewashed walls, a mat by the iron bed, 
an altar in the corner, linen with elaborate 
drawn- work on bureau and washstand. 
The blood poured upward to the young 
adventurer's face. Was this his room ? 
Had he been ill and dreamed strange 
happenings? He freed his arms and sat up. 
No; there was no room in his father's 
house exactly like this, monotonous as 
were the furnishing and architecture of 
the time. 
He took his head between his hands 
and thought ; the events of the past weeks 
marched through his brain in rapid and 
precise succession up to a certain point : 
his senses had been frozen in the Sierras. 
From a raging snowstorm to this blister 
ing bed all was blank. 
He disencumbered himself, slipped to 
the floor, and opened the door, then 
scrambled back to bed as best he could; 
his legs felt as if they had been boned. 
He was also one vast desire for food and 
drink. But that glimpse through the 
door had raised his spirits. He was in a 
great adobe house surrounding a court in 
which a fountain splashed among ferns 
and little orange-trees. It was the house 
of a grandee, but there was none like it in 
the neighbourhood of the Rancho de los 
Palos Verdes. 
He waited with what patience he could 
muster until his open door should attract 
attention, listening to the murmur of the 
fountain, inhaling the fragrance of orange 
 
and magnolia, wondering if Adan, too, 
were safe, angrily resenting his weakness. 
The door cautiously opened wide, and a 
woman, stout, brown, but of exceeding 
grace and elegance, entered and bent over 
him. 
" Good-day, seiiora," said Roldan, politely. 
" I am very hungry. Where am I ? And 
is Adan here ? " 
The lady smiled and patted his cheek 
with a shapely and flashing hand. 
" He is well and sleeping, my son, and 
you are both in the Casa of Don Tiburcio 
Carillo, of the Rancho Encarnarcion, in 
a great valley many, many leagues from 
the Sierras and the snow Madre de 
dios ! Pobrecitos ! So cold you must 
have been, so frightened and you the 
sons of great rancheros, no ? " 
Roldan modestly named his fortunate 
status, then sat up and kissed her hand, as 
he had seen his gallant brothers kiss the 
hands of lovely young donas. The lady 
looked much pleased and drew a chair 
beside the bed. Rolclan wondered if he 
should ever satisfy his raging appetite, but 
 
was too polite to mention the subject 
again, and determined to satisfy his 
curiosity instead. 
" Senora, tell me how we came here," he 
asked. " My head will burst until I know." 
" Our bell mare, the most valuable on 
our rancho, strayed far the day before yes 
terday. All that day and the next six 
vaqueros looked for her. One traced her 
to the Sierras and went on in spite of the 
storm. He found her, and, just afterward 
you. He thought you were dead, but 
poured arguardiente down your throats. 
You swallowed but did not awaken, 
although he shook you and pounded you. 
Then he strapped your friend Adan, no ? 
upon the back of Lolita, took you in his 
arms, and galloped for home you were 
almost at the foot of the mountain. Ay! 
but I was frightened when you came. 
Gracias a dios that you are well and not 
frozen. Bueno, I go to send you a good 
breakfast. Hasta luego." 
She went out, and Roldan lay wonder 
ing if the breakfast were already cooked. 
The door opened again. Roldan sat up. 
 
But it was Adan. He wore a long night 
gown and dug his knuckles into his eyes. 
His knees, too, were shaky. 
" Hist, Roldan," he whispered loudly. 
" Are you there, or do I dream ? " 
" Come into my bed and have breakfast 
breakfast, Adan ! " 
Adan gathered his remaining energies, 
bolted across the room, and climbed into 
bed. 
" Dios de mi alma, Roldan," he gasped- 
" Where are we, and why are we sweltered 
like sick babies ? This is a fine place. 
Ay ! may I never see snow nor a redwood 
again ! " 
Roldan told what he knew of the begin 
ning of their new chapter, and soon after he 
finished two Indian servants entered with 
trays, set them on the bed, and retired. 
" Ay ! this looks like home," cried Adan, 
almost in tears. "Chocolate! Tortillas! 
Chicken with yellow rice ! " He crossed 
himself fervently and attacked the fragrant 
meal. 
It was not a large breakfast, for it was 
many hours since they had eaten before ; 
 
they left not a grain of rice nor a shred on 
a bone. But half-satisfied, although very 
comfortable, they made up their minds to 
dress. On the chair was a complete out 
fit, suitable for a young don. Roldan 
concluded it had been thoughtfully placed 
at his disposal that he might not appear 
in the sala of Casa Carillo garbed like a 
coyote. How he hated the memory of 
that ugly and infested garment. 
" I, too, have a silk jacket and breeches 
by my bed," said Adan, " and a lace shirt 
and silk stockings, and shoes with buckles. 
There must be those of our age in the 
Casa Carillo, my friend. Bueno ! I go to 
make a caballero of myself. Hasta luego." 
He opened the door and peered out, 
then ran hastily down the corridor to his 
room. Who knew but there might be girls 
at the Casa Carillo? Horrible thought! 
The boys met a half hour later on the 
corridor, still weak, but magnificent to 
look upon. Roldan's head was very high, 
despite his protesting knees : he felt him 
self again. 
" It is the hour of siesta," he said. " Let 
 
us lie in these hammocks and wait. Ay ! 
but it is warm, and the sky is blue, and 
the sun looks like the copper lamp of my 
mother the one that came from Boston. 
Who even an Indian would live in 
the mountains when the valleys are so big 
and warm ? " 
They extended themselves in two ham 
mocks swung across the corridor and 
watched the many doors on the several 
sides of the court. All were closed, and 
the forest had hardly been more quiet than 
the Casa Carillo in its hour of siesta. 
Through the arch of the gateway they 
could see the green of fields, a corner of a 
vineyard, and rolling hills. On either side 
of the entrance was a large magnolia-tree 
with broad shining leaves and bunches of 
cream-white fragrance. The oranges were 
 
very yellow, the palms very stately, the 
red tiles on the sloping roofs above the 
white walls looked very fresh and red. 
There was colour and beauty everywhere ; 
and the boys were quite at peace, and con 
tent to be so. Their appetite for 
adventure was dulled for the moment. 
XIV 
ADO OR on the opposite corridor 
opened and a youth came forth. 
He jerked his head diffidently at the 
guests and took the longest way round 
instead of crossing the court ; but when he 
reached the boys, who were risen and 
awaiting him, he wore a dignified air of 
welcome, as befitted a young gentleman 
of his race. 
" Welcome to Casa Carillo, senors," he 
said gravely. " The house is yours. Burn 
it if you will. I, myself, Rafael Carillo, am 
your slave." 
To which Roldan replied : " We are at 
your feet, for you and yours have rescued 
us from death and given us food and cloth 
ing when we most needed it. Our lives 
are yours to do with as you wish." 
" Then would we keep you here always, 
Don Roldan and Don Adan. All guests 
 
are welcome at Casa Carillo, but doubly 
those that need it." 
Then, formalities over, as boys are 
pretty much alike the world round, Rafael 
was soon pouring forth eager questions, 
and our heroes were reliving the events of 
the past weeks. Arm in arm they strolled 
out into the wide beautiful valley, green 
with sprouting winter, the distant moun 
tains of terrible memory quivering under 
a dark blue mist. 
"Hist!" said Rafael, suddenly. "Do 
you know what day this is ? " 
" Day ? " The adventurers had lost all 
count of time. 
" It is the day before Christmas, my 
friends." 
" No ! Madre de dios ! " Roldan and 
Adan stood still. For a moment they felt 
homesick. They saw the reproachful faces 
of their parents and brothers and sisters, to 
say npthing of visions of unclaimed pres 
ents. But Rafael gave them no time for 
regrets. He was the only child at home, 
and delighted with his new companions. 
" To-morrow many people will come, " 
 
he said. " I have ten married sisters and 
brothers. They all come from their 
ranchos, and many more. It will be very 
gay, my friends." 
" Good," said Rolclan, dismissing regret. 
" We will enjoy." 
" And after Christmas is gone I know 
of something else," said Rafael, myste 
riously. He glanced about. They stood 
in the midst of a great vineyard, each en 
gaged upon a large purple bunch. " Come," 
said Rafael, with an air of mystery. " Not 
here. Some one may hide beneath the 
vines." 
It was extremely unlikely, but the ad 
venturers liked the suggestion and followed 
their host breathlessly into the open field. 
" One day in the summer," whispered 
Rafael, his eyes rolling about, " I went with 
four vaqueros with a present of venison to 
Father Osuna. He was not at the Mis 
sion, and a brother told us that he walked 
among the hills. I thought I would go to 
meet him and receive his blessing. For a 
time I saw no one, and I thought, Ca- 
ramba! but the padre has long legs this 
 
hot weather! Just then he stood before 
me. He had walked out of the side of the 
hill through a hole no wider than himself. 
He sweated like a bull after collar, and his 
cassock was gathered in his two hands, 
leaving his bare shanks no more sacred 
than an Indian's. He did not look like a 
priest at all, and I forgot to kneel to him, 
but stared with my mouth open. And 
what do you think he did, my friends ? 
He turned white like the hand of a doiia 
in her teens and and dropped his cas 
sock. And " 
"Well? well?" 
"What do you think rolled to the 
ground, my friends? Chunks of yellow 
stuff that glittered, and a shower of spark 
ling yellow sand beautiful as sunshine 
on the floor. I gave a cry and ran to pick 
it up. I had never seen anything so beau 
tiful, I never had wanted anything so 
much. I felt that I would die for it in 
that moment, my friends. But that priest, 
what do you think he did? He gave a 
yell of rage, as if he could tear me in 
pieces, and flung himself all over that 
sunshine of earth. My gold ! he cried. 
 Mine ! mine ! You shall not take it from 
me! If it is yours it is not mine, my 
father," I said, feeling ashamed, though 
I still wanted it; I will help you to pick 
it up. He got up then, his face very red 
again, and I could see that he was trying 
to put on his dignity as fast as he had put 
down his cassock he looked better with 
both in place. My son, he said, * the day 
is warm and I am very tired, and, I fear, a 
little ill. These rocks are nothing. They 
please my eye, and I pick them up some 
times as I walk among the hills. Leave 
them there. I do not want them. We 
will return to the Mission. If you do 
not want them, then may I have them ? I 
asked the blood flew all over my body, 
