to go about it.  I can’t seem to make up my mouth to speak to folks
first; and then you can’t tell whether a man ain’t a gambler, or on for
the horse-races anyway.  So we’ve been here a week now, and you’re the
first ones we’ve spoken to besides the waiters since we came.”

I couldn’t help laughing, their experience was so exactly as I had
imagined it when I first saw this disconsolate party.  In my triumph at
my own penetration, I would not have had their suffering in the past one
pang the less; but the simple frankness of his confession fixed me in the
wish that the future might be brighter for them.  I thought myself
warranted by my wife’s imprudence in taking a step toward their further
intimacy on my own account, and I said:

“Well, perhaps I ought to tell you that I haven’t been inside the
Saratoga Club or bet on the races since I’ve been here.  That’s my name
in full,”—and I gave him my card,—“and I’m in the literary line; that is,
I’m the editor of a magazine in New York—the Every Other Week.”

“Oh yes; I know who you are,” said my companion, with my card in his
hand.  “Fact is, I was round at your place this morning trying to get
rooms, and the clerk told me all about you from my description.  I felt
as mean as pu’sley goin’; seemed to be takin’ kind of an advantage of
you.”

“Not at all; it’s a public house,” I interrupted; but I thought I should
be stronger with Mrs. March if I did not give the fact away to her, and I
resolved to keep it.

“But they couldn’t rest easy till I tried, and I was more than half glad
there wasn’t any rooms.”

“Oh, I’m very sorry,” I said; and I indulged a real regret from the
vantage I had.  “It would have been very pleasant to have you there.
Perhaps later—we shall be giving up our rooms at the end of the month.”

“No,” he said, with a long breath.  “If I’ve got to leave ’em, I guess
it’ll be just as well to leave ’em where they’re acquainted with the
house anyway.”  His remark betrayed a point in his thinking which had not
perhaps been reached in his talk with the ladies.  “It’s a quiet place,
and they’re used to it; and I guess they wouldn’t want to stay through
the rest of the month, quite.  I don’t believe my wife would, anyway.”

He did not say this very confidently, but hopefully rather, and I thought
it afforded me an opening to find out something yet more definite about
the ladies.

“Miss Gage is remarkably fine-looking,” I began.

“Think so?” he answered.  “Well, so does my wife.  I don’t know as I like
her style exactly,” he said, with a kind of latent grudge.

“Her style is magnificent,” I insisted.

“Well, maybe so.  I guess she’s good enough looking, if that’s what you
mean.  But I think it’s always a kind of a mistake for three persons to
come off together, I don’t care who they are.  Then there’s three
opinions.  She’s a nice girl, and a good girl, and she don’t put herself
forward.  But when you’ve got a young lady on your hands, you’ve got
her, and you feel bound to keep doin’ something for her all the time; and
if you don’t know what to do yourself, and your wife can’t tell—”

I added intelligently, “Yes.”

“Well, that’s just where it is.  Sometimes I wish the whole dumb town
would burn up.”  I laughed and laughed; and my friend, having begun to
unpack his heart, went on to ease it of the rest of its load.  I had not
waited for this before making some reflections concerning him, but I now
formulated them to myself.  He really had none of that reserve I had
attributed to him the night before; it was merely caution and this is the
case with most country people.  They are cautious, but not reserved; if
they think they can trust you, they keep back none of their affairs; and
this is the American character, for we are nearly all country people.  I
understood him perfectly when he said, “I ruther break stone than go
through what I have been through the last week!  You understand how it
is.  ’Tain’t as if she said anything; I wish she would; but you feel all
the while that it ain’t what she expected it to be, and you feel as if it
was you that was to blame for the failure.  By George! if any man was to
come along and make an offer for my contract I would sell out cheap.
It’s worse because my wife asked her to come, and thought she was doin’
her all kinds of a favour to let her.  They’ve always been together, and
when we talked of coming to Saratoga this summer, nothing would do my
wife but Julia must come with us.  Her and her father usually take a trip
off somewhere in the hot weather, but this time he couldn’t leave;
president of our National Bank, and president of the village, too.”  He
threw in the fact of these dignities explanatorily, but with a
willingness, I could see, that it should affect me.  He went on: “They’re
kind of connections of my first wife’s.  Well, she’s a nice girl; too
nice, I guess, to get along very fast.  I see girls all the way along
down gettin’ acquainted on the cars and boats—we come east on the
Ogdensburg road to Rouse’s Point, and then took the boat down Lake
Champlain and Lake George—but she always seemed to hold back.  I don’t
know’s she’s proud either; I can’t make it out.  It balls my wife all up,
too.  I tell her she’s fretted off all the good her trip’s goin’ to do
her before she got it.”

He laughed ruefully, and just then the band began to play the “Washington
Post.”

“What tune’s that?” he demanded.

“‘Washington Post,’” I said, proud of knowing it.

“By George! that tune goes right to a fellow’s legs, don’t it?”

“It’s the new march,” I said.

He listened with a simple joy in it, and his pleasure strengthened the
mystic bond which had formed itself between us through the confidences he
had made me, so flatteringly corroborative of all my guesses concerning
him and his party.




IV


I LONGED to have the chance of bragging to my wife; but this chance did
not come till the concert was quite over, after I rejoined her with my
companion, and she could take leave of them all without seeming to
abandon them.  Then I judged it best to let her have the word; for I knew
by the way she ran her hand through my arm, and began pushing me along
out of earshot, that she was full of it.

“Well, Basil, I think that is the sweetest and simplest and kindest
creature in the world, and I’m perfectly in love with her.”

I did not believe somehow that she meant the girl, but I thought it best
merely to suggest, “There are two.”

“You know very well which I mean, and I would do anything I could for
her.  She’s got a difficult problem before her, and I pity her.  The
girl’s very well, and she is a beauty; and I suppose she has been
having a dull time, and of course you couldn’t please Mrs. Deering half
so well as by doing something for her friend.  I suppose you’re feeling
very proud that they’re just what you divined.”

“Not at all; I’m so used to divining people.  How did you know I knew
it?”

“I saw you talking to him, and I knew you were pumping him.”

“Pumping?  He asked nothing better than to flow.  He would put to shame
the provoked spontaneity of any spring in Saratoga.”

“Well, did he say that he was going to leave them here?”

“He would like to do it—yes.  He was very sweet and simple and kind, too,
Isabel.  He complained bitterly of the goddess, and all but said she
sulked.”

“Why, I don’t know,” said my wife.  “I think, considering, that she is
rather amiable.  She brightened up more and more.”

“That was prosperity, or the hope of it, my dear.  Nothing illumines us
like the prospect of pleasant things.  She took you for society smiling
upon her, and of course she smiled back.  But it’s only the first smile
of prosperity that cheers.  If it keeps on smiling it ends by making us
dissatisfied again.  When people are getting into society they are very
glad; when they have got in they seem to be rather gloomy.  We mustn’t
let these things go too far.  Now that you’ve got your friends in good
humour, the right way is to drop them—to cut them dead when you meet
them, to look the other way.  That will send them home perfectly
radiant.”

“Nonsense!  I am going to do all I can for them.  What do you think we
can do?  They haven’t the first idea how to amuse themselves here.  It’s
a miracle they ever got that dress the girl is wearing.  They just made a
bold dash because they saw it in a dressmaker’s window the first day, and
she had to have something.  It’s killingly becoming to her; but I don’t
believe they know it, and they don’t begin to know how cheap it was: it
was simply thrown away.  I’m going shopping with them in the morning.”

“Oh!”

“But now the question is, what we can do to give them some little glimpse
of social gaiety.  That’s what they’ve come for.”

We were passing the corner of a large enclosure which seems devoted in
Saratoga to the most distracting of its pleasures, and I said: “Well, we
might give them a turn on the circular railway or the switchback; or we
could take them to the Punch and Judy drama, or get their fortunes told
in the seeress’s tent, or let them fire in the shooting-gallery, or buy
some sweet-grass baskets of the Indians; and there is the pop-corn and
the lemonade.”

“I will tell you what,” said Mrs. March, who had not been listening to a
word I said; for if she had heard me she would not have had patience with
my ironical suggestions.

“Well, what?”

“Or, no; that wouldn’t do, either.”

“I’m glad you don’t approve of the notion, on second thoughts.  I didn’t
like it from the beginning, and I didn’t even know what it was.”

“We could have them up to the house this evening, and introduce them to
some of our friends,—only there isn’t a young man in the whole place,—and
have them stay to the charades.”

“What do you think,” I said, “of their having come up this morning and
tried to get rooms at our house?”

“Yes; they told me.”

“And don’t you call that rather forth-putting?  It seems to me that it
was taking a mean advantage of my brags.”

“It was perfectly innocent in them.  But now, dearest, don’t be tiresome.
I know that you like them as well as I do, and I will take all your
little teasing affectations for granted.  The question is, what can we do
for them?”

“And the answer is, I don’t in the least know.  There isn’t any society
life at Saratoga that I can see; and if there is, we are not in it.  How
could we get any one else in?  I see that’s what you’re aiming at.  Those
public socialities at the big hotels they could get into as well as we
could; but they wouldn’t be anywhere when they got there, and they
wouldn’t know what to do.  You know what hollow mockeries those things
are.  Don’t you remember that hop we went to with the young Braceys the
first summer?  If those girls hadn’t waltzed with each other they
wouldn’t have danced a step the whole evening.”

“I know, I know,” sighed my wife; “it was terrible.  But these people are
so very unworldly that don’t you think they could be deluded into the
belief that they were seeing society if we took a little trouble?  You
used to be so inventive!  You could think up something now if you tried.”

“My dear, a girl knows beyond all the arts of hoodwinking whether she’s
having a good time, and your little scheme of passing off one of those
hotel hops for a festivity would never work in the world.”

“Well, I think it is too bad!  What has become of all the easy gaiety
there used to be in the world?”

“It has been starched and ironed out of it, apparently.  Saratoga is
still trying to do the good old American act, with its big hotels and its
heterogeneous hops, and I don’t suppose there’s ever such a thing as a
society person at any of them.  That wouldn’t be so bad.  But the
unsociety people seem to be afraid of one another.  They feel that there
is something in the air—something they don’t and can’t understand;
something alien, that judges their old-fashioned American impulse to be
sociable, and contemns it.  No; we can’t do anything for our hapless
friends—I can hardly call them our acquaintances.  We must avoid them,
and keep them merely as a pensive colour in our own vivid memories of
Saratoga.  If we made them have a good time, and sent them on their way
rejoicing, I confess that I should feel myself distinctly a loser.  As it
is, they’re a strain of melancholy poetry in my life, of music in the
minor key.  I shall always associate their pathos with this hot summer
weather, and I shall think of them whenever the thermometer registers
eighty-nine.  Don’t you see the advantage of that?  I believe I can
ultimately get some literature out of them.  If I can think of a fitting
fable for them Fulkerson will feature it in Every Other Week.  He’ll
get out a Saratoga number, and come up here and strike the hotels and
springs for ad’s.”

“Well,” said Mrs. March, “I wish I had never seen them; and it’s all your
fault, Basil.  Of course, when you played upon my sympathies so about
them, I couldn’t help feeling interested in them.  We are a couple of
romantic old geese, my dear.”

“Not at all, or at least I’m not.  I simply used these people
conjecturally to give myself an agreeable pang.  I didn’t want to know
anything more about them than I imagined, and I certainly didn’t dream of
doing anything for them.  You’ll spoil everything if you turn them from
fiction into fact, and try to manipulate their destiny.  Let them alone;
they will work it out for themselves.”

“You know I can’t let them alone now,” she lamented.  “I am not one of
those who can give themselves an agreeable pang with the unhappiness of
their fellow-creatures.  I’m not satisfied to study them; I want to
relieve them.”

She went on to praise herself to my disadvantage, as I notice wives will
with their husbands, and I did not attempt to deny her this source of
consolation.  But when she ended by saying, “I believe I shall send you
alone,” and explained that she had promised Mrs. Deering we would come to
their hotel for them after tea, and go with them to hear the music at the
United States and the Grand Union, I protested.  I said that I always
felt too sneaking when I was prowling round those hotels listening to
their proprietary concerts, and I was aware of looking so sneaking that I
expected every moment to be ordered off their piazzas.  As for convoying
a party of three strangers about alone, I should certainly not do it.

“Not if I’ve a headache?”

“Not if you’ve a headache.”

“Oh, very well, then.”

“What are you two quarrelling about?” cried a gay voice behind us, and we
looked round into the laughing eyes of Miss Dale.  She was the one
cottager we knew in Saratoga, but when we were with her we felt that we
knew everybody, so hospitable was the sense of world which her kindness
exhaled.

“It was Mrs. March who was quarrelling,” I said.  “I was only trying to
convince her that she was wrong, and of course one has to lift one’s
voice.  I hope I hadn’t the effect of halloaing.”
