the frail craft was flung forward as if from a catapult.
And in it shot with speed that simply dazed the Americans; but it was
toward shore--toward shore!
They had passed the breakers!
And Clif gave a gasp of delight as he felt the wild leap forward. It
seemed but a second more before the rush ended.
The bow of the rowboat struck and the frail object was whirled round and
flung over, its occupants being fairly hurled into the air.
When they struck the water it was to find themselves within a few feet
of dry land. They staggered to a standing position to find that they
were in water only up to their waists. And the great wave was tugging
them out to sea again.
They struggled forward wildly, clutching at each other. A minute later,
breathless, exhausted and half drowned, but wild with joy, they
staggered out upon a sandy beach and sank down to gasp for breath.
"We're safe!" panted Clif. "Safe!"
Safe! And on the island of Cuba, the stronghold of their deadly enemies!
CHAPTER IX.
THE ENEMY'S COUNTRY.
It must have been at least five minutes before those exhausted men moved
again; when at last they managed to rise to their feet it was to find
themselves in the midst of absolute darkness, with the wild sea on one
side of them and on the other no one knew what.
The faint point of light which they had seen had now disappeared: but
they took it to mean that there were Spaniards in the neighborhood.
And they did not fail to recognize the peril in which they were. The
firing had probably been heard and the wreck of the merchantman seen. If
so, the Americans could not be in a much worse place.
"We may be right in front of a battery," whispered Clif.
The first thing the sailors did was to see to their revolvers and
cutlasses. And after that they started silently down the shore.
"We won't try to go far," Clif said, "but we must find a hiding-place."
But in that darkness the hiding-places were themselves hidden; the best
the Americans could do was to stumble down the shore for a hundred yards
or so, being careful to walk where the waves would wash out their
footprints.
Then they were a short distance from the wreck and felt a trifle safer.
"We may as well strike back in the country now," said the leader, "at
least until we can find some bushes or something to conceal us."
That was a rather more ticklish task, and the men crouched and stole
along in silence. They had no idea what they might meet.
It was fortunate for them that they were quiet. Otherwise they would
have gotten into very serious trouble indeed.
They stole up the sandy beach a short ways, feeling their way along and
getting further and further away from the sea. They were struggling
through soft dry sand.
And suddenly Clif, who was in front, saw something loom up before him, a
dark line. And he put out his hand to touch it.
He found that the sand rose gradually into a sort of drift or bank. It
was high, and seemed to reach for some distance.
The sailors stopped abruptly, and Clif crept softly forward, feeling
along with his hands; suddenly the men heard him mutter a startled
exclamation under his breath.
"Men," he whispered, "we're in a terrible fix; I ran into a gun!"
"A gun!"
"Yes--a big one. We've struck a Spanish battery, and we must be near
some town!"
The sailors stared at him aghast; and then suddenly came a startling
interruption--one that fairly made their blood grow chill.
"Who goes there?"
It was a loud, stern hail in Spanish, and it seemed to come from almost
beside them!
Quick as a flash the Americans dropped, crouching close together in the
darkness. They could hear the beating of each others' hearts.
There were several moments of agonizing suspense; the Spaniard who had
shouted out was evidently awaiting a reply. And then suddenly he
repeated his challenge.
"Who goes there?"
And a moment later came a sound of hurrying footsteps.
"What's the matter?" Clif heard a voice demand.
He was the only one in the party who understood Spanish, and knew what
was said. But it was plain to the rest that it was a conversation
between a sentry and an officer.
"I heard a footstep, senor capitan!" cried the man. "Quidada! Take care!
It's very near."
There was a moment's pause.
"You must be mistaken," said the officer.
"I am not mistaken," repeated the man firmly. "Santa Maria, my ears do
not deceive me. You said to be watchful, for you have heard firing."
To that the Americans had listened in trembling silence; but the next
made them jump. "I will light this lantern," said the officer.
And the instant they heard it Clif rose silently to his feet; the men
did likewise, and began to creep softly off to one side.
But careful as they were they could not help the grinding sound of their
footsteps in the sand, and it caught the quick ear of the Spaniard.
"Hear it!" he cried. "Por dios, again! Somebody is stealing upon us!"
And an instant later the air was rent by a sharp crack of a rifle--the
sentry had fired!
There was wild confusion at once, and the unfortunate castaways were
aghast. For an instant Clif thought of charging the battery--with four
men. But he realized the folly of that.
"Quick!" he cried, "let us hide. Forward!"
Lights were flashing and men shouting and running about behind the sand
wall just in front of them, but the sailors were still unseen. They
broke into a run and fairly flew down the shore.
They fancied the whole Spanish company was at their heels; but after
they had run for some distance they found that they had not been
pursued.
For the enemy were so taken by surprise at the sudden alarm that they
were if possible more frightened than the Americans.
And so the men stopped for breath.
They stared at each other, as if hardly able to realize the peril into
which they had so suddenly been plunged.
"I think that was the quickest adventure I ever had in my life,"
muttered Clif.
The suddenness of it made him laugh; they had almost walked into a
Spanish fort.
But it was no laughing matter, certainly; it was a confounded piece of
ill-luck.
"For they'll be watching for us now!" muttered Clif. "I'm afraid that
will settle us."
"They'll follow our footsteps!" exclaimed one of the sailors.
That was so, and it was an unpleasant prospect; it was plain that if the
Americans wished to find any safety they must get some distance away
from that battery.
"We'll make one more effort to get back into the country," muttered
Clif.
And amid silence and anxious suspense they once more started up the
sloping seashore.
They crept along as it seemed by inches. But fortunately they did not
run across any more "guns." When they came across an embankment it was
of solid earth and marked the end of the beach.
And there were some trees and bushes there, so the Americans began to
feel more comfortable. For all they knew they might in the darkness have
been strolling into a town.
But they were apparently out in the open country, there seemed to be no
people and no houses near. So they started boldly forward.
It was then late at night, a dark and damp and windy night; so they were
not likely to find many people wandering about.
"What we want to do," Clif said, "is to get back in the country a while
where we can hide until morning. Then if we can find some Cubans we'll
be all right."
Clif was about tired to death. He had done far more work that day than
any of those sailors. But there was no time for resting then.
He gritted his teeth and started; they took their bearings from the sea,
and then went straight on, watching and listening carefully, but meeting
with no trouble.
At first their walk led through what had evidently once been a
cultivated country, for it was level and had but few trees upon it. At
present, however, it was overgrown with weeds.
Once they almost ran into a house, which it may readily be believed gave
them a start. It was creepy business, anyhow, this stumbling along
through the enemy's country without being able to see ten yards in
front.
But the house seemed to be empty. In fact, it could hardly be called a
house any more, for it was half burned down.
The Americans thought that it was empty, for Clif had stumbled and
fallen with a crash over a pile of dry sticks and rubbish. But when he
rose to his feet to listen anxiously there was no movement or sign that
anybody had heard him.
"It probably belonged to some of the reconcentrados," he muttered.
He was about to turn and give the word to proceed.
Then suddenly a new idea occurred to him, and he gave a pleased
exclamation.
"This is lucky!" he whispered. "Men, what is the matter with hiding
there?"
That was a rather startling proposition; for they could not be at all
sure but some one lived there after all.
But Clif had come several miles by that time, and he was disposed to be
a trifle desperate.
A person can get so tired that he will be anxious to enter even a
Spanish dungeon in order to get a chance to rest.
"We will search the house," he said. "If we find anybody we'll hold them
up and make them prisoners; and if we don't, we'll spend the night
there."
And then without another word he started silently forward. The sailors
were right behind him.
What was evidently the front of the house was the part that had been
burned. Clif picked his way over the ruins and into the rear, where
there was a roof still remaining.
There was a door there, half shut; one may readily believe that in
pushing it open Clif was rather nervous.
But nothing occurred to startle him, and so they went forward once more.
The place about him seemed deserted.
Then suddenly Clif did a startling thing.
He took a deep breath and called aloud.
"Anybody here?"
And then for at least a minute or two the little party stood waiting in
silence; but no answer was heard.
"I guess it's deserted," Clif said. "Scatter and search it thoroughly."
And that was quickly done. To their relief the Americans found that the
place was not inhabited and that there was no one near. That once made
sure it may be believed that they wasted no more time in delay.
"I don't think it will be necessary for us to keep watch," he said. "Our
safety lies in our hiding."
They made their way into one of the smaller rooms of the little
building, one which had a key to the door. And having secured themselves
as best they could from danger of discovery, the wearied men sank down
upon the floor.
CHAPTER X.
A STARTLING DISCOVERY.
It may seem strange that they were able to sleep in the perilous
situation they were in; but they were men who were used to holding their
lives in their hands. They say that Napoleon could take a nap, during a
lull in battle, while he was waiting for his reserves to be brought up.
The men were cold and damp, of course, but it was impossible for them to
light a fire, even had they dared to take such a risk. But the darkness
was their principal shield.
But all the cold in the world could not have kept Clif awake; he and the
rest of the men were soon fast asleep, hidden away in the enemy's
country, and surrounded by perils innumerable, yet resting as quietly as
if they were at home.
And none of them awakened either, as the dark night wore on. The day
began to break over the mountains to the eastward, and the gay sunbeams
streamed into the room to find the sailors still undisturbed and
unconscious.
The sun had risen and was half an hour up in the sky before any of the
Americans showed signs of awakening. One of the sailors turned over and
then sat up and stared about him.
It was not strange that the man wondered where he was, for a moment; he
had been through so much during the previous day.
He found himself seated in a little bare apare apartment half charred by
fire, and having damp straw for flooring. His companions, including the
officer, were stretched out upon it.
They seemed in blissful ignorance of the fact that it was damp.
The sailor rose to his feet; he was rather stiff and sore, and somewhat
hungry, but he felt that he ought to be glad to be alive.
And then he stole quickly over to the tiny window to look out; naturally
enough he was a little curious to see what sort of a place it was they
had hit on in the darkness.
There was light, then, plenty of it--too much in fact, so the man
thought. It showed him everything.
And the everything must have included something rather startling. For
the sailor acted in a most surprising way.
He took a single glance out of the window; and then he staggered back as
if some one had shot him.
The man's face was as white as a sheet.
He stood for a moment seemingly dazed, his eyes staring vacantly. And
then suddenly he made a leap across the room and seized Clif by the
shoulder.
It was a startling way for Clif to be awakened; the face of that man had
a sort of nightmare look.
"What is it?" Clif gasped. "Quick!"
"The window!" panted the sailor. "Look!".
The man in his excitement had awakened the rest and they were sitting up
staring at him.
Clif meanwhile had rushed to the window, and when he looked out he acted
just as the sailor had done.
It might be well to describe in a few words what he saw.
There was a small clearing around the deserted building, and beyond that
a heavy wood. Clif remembered having made his way through those woods.
And now somebody else had done likewise. There was a squad of a dozen
soldiers standing on the clearing's edge.
And they were Spaniards!
"Can they have surrounded us?" gasped the cadet.
"Or perhaps they don't know we're here," whispered one of the men.
The full meaning of that startling discovery was made evident to them an
instant later. The officer of the Spaniards was standing to one side
watching a man, who, with bowed head, was carefully scanning the ground.
And he was coming slowly toward the building.
"They're tracking us," whispered Clif.
And just then the man raised up his head and Clif got a glimpse of his
face.
"The villain!" he gasped.
It was Ignacio!
Yes, it was the villainous Spanish spy. He and his Spanish companions
must have succeeded in getting ashore. And they had tracked their
unsuspecting enemies to their hiding-place.
"I wish I had killed him!" Clif muttered half to himself.
One of the sailors heard him, and he drew his revolver significantly.
"It's not too late, sir," he said.
But Clif held up his hand.
"No, no," he whispered. "Not yet!"
That suggestion called him back to action. Not yet--because they had not
yet been discovered.
Ignacio was apparently off the scent; he did not know whether his
victims had dodged the building or had the temerity to enter.
And instantly Clif leaped forward, over to the other side of the
building. If none of the enemy was there it might not be too late for
flight.
"If they are," Clif muttered to himself, "by jingo, they've still got
the building to capture."
Whatever was to be done had to be done quickly, for Ignacio was a
cunning fellow, and wouldn't be apt to delay very long.
Clif gazed out in the other direction and saw to his delight that the
thicket came close to the house, and there were no Spaniards in sight.
He called in a low voice to the men, who stole silently over toward him.
"Quick!" he gasped. "Out, for your lives!"
It was a thrilling moment, and Clif was trembling with eagerness. One by
one he watched the men crawl out of the low window and gather in the
shelter of the building.
And a moment later he himself dropped down; the instant he struck the
ground he started forward.
"To the woods!" he whispered. "And not a sound, for your lives."
And the men sprang softly forward, not even pausing to glance over their
shoulders to see if they were discovered.
Clif fancied at that instant that he was safe. The building was between
him and the Spaniards.
But he did not know that at that moment Ignacio had observed a footprint
in the damp ground that made him aware that they had gone into the
building; he rushed around to the other side just in time to see a blue
uniform vanish in the thicket.
The next moment a wild yell came from his throat.
"Mira!" he shrieked. "Forward! Here they are now!"
CHAPTER XI.
A RUNNING FIGHT.
That cry seemed the death knell of the Americans, and their hearts
leaped up in their throats when they heard it. For a moment Clif thought
of stopping and giving battle then and there.
But he realized the hopelessness of that; it was hopeless too, to run,
