"No," replied Rupert, laughing, "but I enjoy the wild mountain scenery;
don't you?"
"No; a mountain isn't much to see."
"Then there are the valleys, the woods and the waterfalls."
"Oh, I've seen plenty of them. I don't care for them."
"I suppose that is why you don't care for them. You are too familiar
with them."
"I reckon so," drawled Ben.
"Don't you enjoy seeing anything? Is there anything you would rather see
than this wild and romantic scenery?"
"Yes. I would rather see cities. Where do you live when you are at
home?"
"In New York."
"That is a wonderful city, isn't it?"
"Yes."
"I expect it is a great deal larger than Denver?"
"Yes; forty or fifty times as large."
At this time Denver probably had a population of less than thirty
thousand.
Ben Boone's eyes opened.
"And I suppose there are some grand buildings?" he said, inquiringly.
"Yes," and Rupert told his guide something about the great city, of the
horse-car lines, the elevated trains running thirty feet above the
ground, the big hotels, the Brooklyn bridge, and other marvels, to which
Ben Boone listened with rapt attention.
"I should like to see New York before I die," he said.
"Have you ever been there?"
"No."
"But you have probably seen other cities--St. Louis, or Chicago?"
"No; I have only seen Denver. Well, yes, I saw St. Louis when I was a
boy. It seemed a large city to me then, but I reckon New York is much
bigger."
"Yes, it is a great deal larger--several times as large as St. Louis was
when you saw it."
"Does it cost a great deal of money to go to New York?"
"I think one might go there for fifty dollars, ten less by second
class."
"Second class is good enough for me."
"Yes, you would be a good deal more comfortable traveling second class
than we are on our hunting trip."
"Then I should be satisfied. I ain't used to living first class."
"I should think you would like to go to New York. Is there any reason
why you should not go?"
"There's the money."
"But, as I told you, it doesn't cost a very large sum."
"Fifty dollars is a good deal to me. I never had so much money in my
life."
"Because you don't save up your money."
"I don't know how to save money," said Ben Boone in a listless manner.
"But you could. Now how much money is Mr. Packard paying you for going
with me?"
"Three dollars a day."
"Now suppose we are out ten days--that will make thirty dollars, won't
it?"
"Yes; but I had to leave some money with my wife."
"You will at any rate have twenty-five dollars. Now, why can't you put
that aside, and add to it when you can. Then by and by you will have
money enough to go to New York. When you get there you can find work and
earn enough to keep you and pay your expenses back."
"Yes, I reckon I might," said Ben, not knowing how to controvert
Rupert's statement.
"If you really try hard to save, I will give you something toward your
expenses myself."
"Are you rich?" asked Ben, looking up quickly.
"No, but I have some money."
"How much?"
This question Rupert did not care to answer. Ben Boone was a very good
guide and hunting companion, but he was not exactly the kind of man he
would choose as a confidant.
"I think everybody is rich that lives in New York," said Ben, with a
touch of envy.
"What makes you think that?"
"I have had New York people with me before. I have traveled with them,
and hunted with them. They always seemed to have plenty of money."
"It may be so with those who come out here, but there are plenty who
never travel at all, who live in poor houses in a poor way, who earn
small wages, and are no better off than you, perhaps not so well off. I
was very poor myself once, and had scarcely money enough to buy myself
food."
"But you got over it. You got rich after a while."
Rupert protested that he was not rich, but Ben Boone was incredulous,
though he did not say so. He talked more and more about New York. He
seemed to want to learn all he could about it.
Rupert was not surprised. He remembered that when he was a boy in the
country, he, too, thought and dreamed a great deal about the great city.
After he lived there and grew familiar with its marvels, he became
indifferent to it, as much so as Ben Boone was to the wonderful mountain
scenery. He felt disposed to joke a little about is.
"There is one thing you have here that we don't have in New York," he
said with a laugh.
"What is that?"
"Rattlesnakes."
"No. I reckon not. I shouldn't miss rattlesnakes."
Ben Boone said this so gravely that Rupert could not forbear laughing.
"Nor I," he said. "I am willing that Colorado should keep all her
rattlesnakes."
Ben Boone, for a wonder, lay awake beyond his usual time. He could not
get New York and its wonders out of his head. The more he thought of it
the more he longed to see it.
And there wasn't so much time, either. He was forty-nine years old, and
yet he had never been on the other side of the Mississippi River. Yet
here was Rupert, who couldn't be more than sixteen or seventeen years
old, who had actually lived in New York, and now had wandered to the far
West and seen that also. If a boy could have those happy experiences,
why not he?
Why not?
The question was easily answered. The difference between them was
money. He didn't know how much money Rupert had, but probably he had
more than the sum necessary to carry him to New York. Ben felt that it
was not fair that a mere boy should have so much and he so little.
This was a dangerous path of thought, and led to a strong temptation.
This temptation was increased when, waking at an early hour, he looked
across at Rupert, lying not many yards away, and noticed that his
pocketbook had in some way dropped out of his pocket and was lying on
the grass beside him.
Ben's eyes sparkled with unholy excitement. An eager curiosity assailed
him to learn how much money the pocketbook contained. It was a
temptation which he did not seem able to resist.
He looked over towards Rupert again. The boy was sleeping calmly,
peacefully. There was little chance that he would wake up.
Ben rose cautiously from his couch, and with a stealthy step he made his
way to the sleeping boy.
He stooped down and picked up the wallet and then opened it, peering
eagerly at the contents.
There was a thick roll of bills. He counted them in a quick, stealthy
way, and his heart beat with excitement when he ascertained that the
roll contained eighty-one dollars.
"Why, that will take me to New York," he thought.
Yes, it would take him to New York. There would be no weary waiting, no
probable disappointment in the end. The dream of his life might be
realized, and at once.
Ben was not naturally dishonest. If he had not had a special use for the
money it would not have tempted him. But he wanted to go to New York,
and the temptation seemed too great for him to resist.
His resolution was taken. With one backward glance at the sleeping boy
he thrust the wallet into his pocket and started for the river, where
the skiff awaited him.
CHAPTER XXXIV.
RUPERT'S PREDICAMENT.
Rupert did not wake till later than usual. The previous day had been
unusually fatiguing and nature had asserted her rights.
He turned over and mechanically looked over to where his companion lay
at the time he went to sleep. He was a little surprised to find that he
was not visible. Usually Boone slumbered till Rupert went over and waked
him up.
"Ben has gone to take a walk," he said to himself. "It must be later
than usual."
He looked at his watch and found that it was eight o'clock.
"Well, I did oversleep myself," he said, as he rose to his feet. "No
wonder Boone got the start of me."
Upon reflection he decided that Ben had probably gone down to the boat,
which was tied to a small tree on the river bank not more than five
minutes' walk distant. He turned his steps in that direction. When he
reached the place where the skiff was fastened, a surprise awaited him.
The boat was not there!
Still he had not the faintest suspicion that his guide had played him
false and deserted him in the wilderness.
"Ben must have taken a row himself," he decided. "It is rather strange,
for he isn't generally enterprising enough for that. He must have had a
headache or something that prevented his sleeping. Well, I might as well
take breakfast."
There was something left from supper of the night before. Rupert ate
this with a hearty relish. He did not stop to make any hot coffee. Ben
usually attended to this duty, and he was likely to appear at any
moment.
"I will wait for Ben to come," Rupert said to himself. "I hope he hasn't
gone very far."
After eating he lay back on the ground, for he still felt a little
tired.
"It seems odd to be alone," he reflected.
He had not formed any particular attachment to Ben Boone, but he had a
certain satisfaction in his companionship. They had become closely
acquainted, and though Ben was not especially sociable, they had had
some long talks together, so that Rupert felt a certain interest in his
rough companion.
Half an hour passed, and Rupert began to feel impatient, as well as
solitary.
"Why doesn't Ben come?" he asked himself. "It is very strange that he
should go away so early and stay away so long."
As this thought came to him he happened to put his hand into the pocket
where he usually kept his money.
The pocket was empty.
A suspicion for the first time dawned upon him that startled and alarmed
him. He made a hurried examination of the ground around him, for he knew
that it was possible that the pocketbook had slipped out of his pocket.
But his search was fruitless. The pocketbook was nowhere to be seen.
Was it possible, he asked himself, that he had been robbed? Was Ben
capable of such black treachery?
The thought that his companion had proved false disturbed him more at
first than the sense of his loss, but he began almost immediately to
realize his predicament.
Probably he was a hundred miles away from the ranch of his friend Giles
Packard. Not only this, but he was without money and without provisions,
except the small supply of food which remained over from his frugal
breakfast.
Then, again, he was without a boat, for the skiff had been carried away
by Ben. He was alone in a wilderness.
There were very few houses within the distance over which they had
traveled. If he had been in any portion of the Eastern States, among
settlements and villages, he would not have minded his destitute
condition--that is, not so much. He would have felt sure of getting
along somehow. But as it was, there was no one to appeal to. There was
no one to lend him a helping hand.
If only Ben had left him the boat, matters would not have been so bad.
He would, of course, have instantly started on his return. He didn't
feel at all tempted to explore farther. The fine mountain scenery which
he had enjoyed yesterday had no attraction for him now.
"I'd give fifty dollars--if I had it"--he added, as the thought came to
him that he had no money whatever, "to be back with Giles Packard on his
ranch. Shall I ever see him again, or am I doomed to starve to death in
this wilderness?"
CHAPTER XXXV.
RUPERT MAKES A DISCOVERY.
It was not easy for Rupert to form plans in his present destitute
condition. The money which he had lost was a minor consideration. The
boat and provisions were much more important.
Besides this, he still had his gun and his watch. Both these were likely
to prove useful.
He wondered a little why Ben had not taken the watch. But his wonder
diminished when he remembered that Boone had told him one day that he
had never owned a watch.
"How, then, do you tell time?" Rupert inquired.
"By the sun," answered Ben.
Rupert had tested him more than once, and found that from long and close
observation his guide could always guess within a few minutes of the
correct time. To Ben the watch had no value, and it didn't occur to him
that he might raise money on it when he reached the settlements.
Rupert felt that he must lose no time in forming some plan of reaching
the point from which he started. He went down to the river, faintly
hoping that he might see Ben returning in the skiff, but this he owned
to himself was extremely improbable.
Ben was ten, perhaps fifteen miles on the way back. What his object
could have been in playing him such a dastardly trick, or what possible
excuse he could make to Giles Packard for returning alone, Rupert could
not conjecture.
He took it for granted that Boone would go back to his old home at Red
Gulch. He did not dream of his plan of going to New York. If he had,
this would have explained his sudden defection.
Rupert stood on the shore of the river and looked up the stream.
Everything was calm and placid, and lonely. At the East he would have
seen houses, on the banks and passing boats, but here he found himself
alone with nature.
Without thinking especially what he was doing, he started to walk up
stream, that is, along the river bank in an easterly direction.
"If I could only come across a boat," he soliloquized, "no matter how
poor, I should think it a piece of great luck."
But it was too great luck for him. Still he kept on walking and looking
about him, but he not only saw no boat, but no indication of any human
presence.
He had walked quite five miles, as he judged from the passage of time,
when at last he made a discovery. Moored to the bank was a dismantled
raft, if such an expression is allowable. Rupert remembered now that on
their trip down the river Boone had called his attention to it, saying:
"It must have been left there by some party of travelers."
Rupert little thought how serviceable this would prove to him.
His eyes lighted up with joy, for he hailed the finding of the raft as a
good omen, and foresaw how important it would prove to him.
"But was it in a condition for use?"
That was the important question.
Rupert bent down and examined it critically. The boards were still
pretty firm, though water-soaked, and seemed to be securely fastened
together. The rope that fastened it to the small sapling on the bank was
quite rotten, and it was a wonder that it had not parted.
Rupert pulled on it to see how secure it was, and it broke. This,
however, was of little consequence. He selected a long stick to serve as
an oar, and getting on the raft, pushed out into the stream.
The stick, however, made a very poor substitute for an oar. Still he
found that it was of some use.
But just as he was starting he discovered, almost covered with
underbrush, the paddle which had probably been used by the parties who
had constructed and used the raft. This worked tolerably well, and he
was glad to have found it.
At last he was ready, and started on his journey. He found his progress
slow, and his task toilsome. Still he was making progress, and that was
encouraging.
How rapid this progress he could only conjecture. It might be two miles
an hour; probably it was not more than that, and he was obliged to
confess with a sinking of the heart that it would take a very long time
at this rate before he would get back.
He had tugged away possibly three hours, when his strength began to give
out. He began to feel faint and hungry, especially as his breakfast had
not been very satisfying.
Then, for the first time, with a sinking heart, he realized that he had
made a serious blunder. What few provisions were left after breakfast he
had left behind him, and he was absolutely without a mouthful to eat.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
A LUCKY ENCOUNTER.
Unsatisfied hunger is always a serious discomfort. What it was to a
young, healthy boy like Rupert, who had been working hard for several
hours, may be imagined.
Even if there had been a prospect of his dining in two or three hours,
it would have been inconvenient, but he could have endured it. As it
was, he did not know when he could satisfy his appetite, if at all.
He discovered in his pockets some silver change which Ben hadn't taken,
but that could do him no good in the Colorado wilderness.
Rupert was in general sanguine and light-hearted. But it must be owned
that he felt terribly depressed about this time. He had his gun with
him, but even if he should succeed in shooting anything, how could he
cook it? He had not even a match with which to light a fire.
Was he destined to starve in this out of the way region? he asked
