which still further cramped the narrow space where 
she gave it. Her own delight in it shone from her 
smiling face, which was appealingly happy. Just be 
fore it should have ended, one of those wandering 
waves that roam the smoothest sea struck the ship, 
and Clementina caught herself skilfully from falling, 
and reeled to her seat, while the room rang with the 
applause and sympathetic laughter for the mischance 
she had baffled. There was a storm of encores, but 
Clementina called out, " The ship tilts so ! " and her 
naivete won her another burst of favor, which was at 
its height when Lord Lioncourt had an inspiration. 
He jumped up and said, " Miss Claxon is going to 
oblige us with a little bit of dramatics, now, and I 'm 
sure you 'll all enjoy that quite as much as her beauti 
ful dancing. She 's going to take the principal part 
in the laughable after-piece of Passing round the Hat, 
 
and I hope the audience will a a a do the rest. 
She 's consented on this occasion to use a hat or cap, 
rather of her own, the charming Tarn O Shanter in 
which we 've  all seen her, and a admired her about 
the ship for the week past." 
He caught up the flat woolen steamer-cap which 
Clementina had left in her seat beside Mrs. Milray 
when she rose to dance, and held it aloft. Some one 
called out, " Chorus ! For he 's a jolly good fellow," 
and led off in his praise. Lord Lioncourt shouted 
through the uproar the announcement that while Miss 
Claxon was taking up the collection, Mr. Ewins, of 
Boston, would sing one of the student songs of Cam 
bridge no ! Harvard University ; the music being 
his own. 
Everyone wanted to make some joke or some com 
pliment to Clementina about the cap which grew 
momently heavier under the sovereigns and half sov 
ereigns, half crowns and half dollars, shillings, quar 
ters, greenbacks and every fraction of English and 
American silver ; and the actor who had given the 
imitations, made bold, as he said, to ask his lordship 
if the audience might not hope, before they dispersed, 
for something more from Miss Claxon. He was sure 
she could do something more ; he for one would be 
glad of anything ; and Clementina turned from putting 
her cap into Mrs. Milray 's lap, to find Lord Lioncourt 
bowing at her elbow, and offering her his arm to lead 
her to the spot where she had stood in dancing. 
The joy of her triumph went to her head ; she 
wished to retrieve herself from any shadow of defeat. 
She stood panting a moment, and then, if she had had 
the professional instinct, she would have given her 
admirers the surprise of something altogether differ 
ent from what had pleased them before. That was 
what the actor would have done, but Clementina 
thought of how her dance had been brought to an 
untimely close by the rolling of the ship ; she burned 
to do it all as she knew it, no matter how the sea be 
haved, and in another moment she struck into it again. 
This time the sea behaved perfectly, and the dance 
ended with just the swoop and swirl she had meant 
it to have at first. The spectators went generously 
wild over her; they cheered and clapped her, and 
crowded upon her to tell how lovely it was ; but she 
escaped from them, and ran back to the place where 
she had left Mrs. Milray. She was not there, and 
Clementina 's cap full of alms lay abandoned on the 
chair. Lord Lioncourt said he would take charge of 
the money, if she would lend him her cap to carry it 
in to the purser, and she made her way into the sa 
loon. In a distant corner she saw Mrs. Milray with 
Mr. Ewins. 
She advanced in a vague dismay toward them, and 
as she came near Mrs. Milray said to Mr. Ewins, " I 
don 't like this place. Let 's go over yonder." She 
rose and rushed him to the other end of the saloon. 
Lord Lioncourt came in looking about. " Ah, have 
you found her ? " he asked, gayly. " There were 
twenty pounds in your cap, and two hundred dollars." 
" Yes," said Clementina, " she 's over the a." She 
pointed, and then shrank and slipped away. 
XVIII. 
AT breakfast Mrs. Milray would not meet Clemen 
tina 's eye ; she talked to the people across the table 
in a loud, lively voice, and then suddenly rose, and 
swept past her out of the saloon. 
The girl did not see her again till Mrs. Milray came 
up on the promenade at the hour when people who 
have eaten too much breakfast begin to spoil their 
appetite for luncheon with the tea and bouillon of the 
deckstewards. She looked fiercely about, and saw 
Clementina seated in her usual place, but with Lord 
Lioncourt in her own chair next her husband, and 
Ewins on foot before her. They were both talking 
to Clementina, whom Lord Lioncourt was accusing of 
being in low spirits unworthy of her last night 's tri 
umphs. He jumped up,. and offered his place, "I 've  
got your chair, Mrs. Milray." 
" Oh, no," she said, coldly, " I was just coming to 
look after Mr. Milray. But I see he 's in good hands." 
She turned away, as if to make the round of the 
deck, and Ewins hurried after her. He came back 
directly, and said that Mrs. Milray had gone into the 
 
library to write letters. He stayed, uneasily, trying 
to talk, but with the air of a man who has been 
snubbed, and has not got back his composure. 
Lord Lioncourt talked on until he had used up the 
incidents of the night before, and the probabilities of 
their getting into Queenstown before morning ; then 
he and Mr. Ewins went to the smoking-room together, 
and Clementina was left alone with Milray. 
" Clementina," he said, gently, " I don 't see every 
thing ; but isn 't there some trouble between you and 
Mrs. Milray ? " 
Why, I don 't know what it can be," answered 
the girl, with trembling lips. "I 've  been trying to 
find out, and I can 't undastand it." 
" Ah, those things are often very obscure," said 
Milray, with a patient smile. 
Clementina wanted to ask him if Mrs. Milray had 
said anything to him about her, but she could not, 
and he did not speak again till he heard her stir in 
rising from her chair. Then he said, " I haven 't for 
gotten that letter to my sister, Clementina. I will 
give it to you before we leave the steamer. Are you 
going to stay in Liverpool, over night, or shall you go 
up to London at once ? " 
" I don 't know. It will depend upon how Mrs. 
Landa feels." 
" Well, we shall see each other again. Don 't be 
worried." He looked up at her with a smile, and he 
could not see how forlornly she returned it. 
As the day passed, Mrs. Milray 's angry eyes seemed 
to search her out for scorn whenever Clementina 
 
found herself the centre of her last night 's celebrity. 
Many people came up and spoke to her, at first with 
a certain expectation of knowingness in her, which 
her simplicity baffled. Then they either dropped her, 
and went away, or stayed and tried to make friends 
with her because of this ; an elderly English clergy 
man and his wife were at first compassionately anxious 
about her, and then affectionately attentive to her in 
her obvious isolation. Clementina 's simple-hearted 
response to their advances appeared to win while it 
puzzled them ; and they seemed trying to divine her 
in the strange double character she wore to their more 
single civilization. The theatrical people thought 
none the worse of her for her simple-heartedness, 
apparently ; they were both very sweet to her, and 
wanted her to promise to come and see them in their 
little box in St. John 's Wood. Once, indeed, Clem 
entina thought she saw relenting in Mrs. Milray 's 
glance, but it hardened again as Lord Lioncourt and 
Mr. Ewins came up to her, and began to talk with her. 
She could not go to her chair beside Milray, for his 
wife was now keeping guard of him on the other side 
with unexampled devotion. Lord Lioncourt asked 
her to walk with him and she consented. She thought 
that Mr. Ewins would go and sit by Mrs. Milray, of 
course, but when she came round in her tour of the 
ship, Mrs. Milray was sitting alone beside her husband. 
After dinner she went to the library and got a 
book, but she could not read there ; every chair was 
taken by people writing letters to send back from 
Queensto\vn in the morning; and she strayed into the 
ladies sitting room, where no ladies seemed ever to 
sit, and lost herself in a miserable muse over her open 
page- 
Some one looked in at the door, and then advanced 
within and came straight to Clementina ; she knew 
without looking up that it was Mrs. Milray. " I have 
been hunting for you, Miss Claxon," she said, in a 
voice frostily fierce, and with a bearing furiously for 
mal. " I have a letter to Miss Milray that my hus 
band wished me to write for you, and give you with 
his compliments." 
" Thank you," said Clementina. She rose mechan 
ically to her feet, and at the same time Mrs. Milray 
sat down. 
" You will find Miss Milray," she continued, with 
the same glacial hauteur, " a very agreeable and cul 
tivated lady." 
Clementina said nothing ; and Mrs. Milray added, 
" And I hope she may have the happiness of being 
more useful to you than I have." 
" What do you mean, Mrs. Milray ? " Clementina 
asked with unexpected spirit and courage. 
" I mean simply this, that I have not succeeded in 
putting you on your guard against your love of ad 
miration especially the admiration of gentlemen. A 
young girl can 't be too careful how she accepts the 
attentions of gentlemen, and if she seems to invite 
them " 
" Mrs. Milray ! " cried Clementina. " How can you 
say such a thing to me ? " 
" How ? I shall have to be plain with you, I see. 
Perhaps I have not considered that, after all, you know 
nothing about life and are not to blame for things 
that a person born and bred in the world would un 
derstand from childhood. If you don 't know already, 
I can tell you that the way you have behaved with 
Lord Lioncourt during the last two or three days, and 
the way you showed your pleasure the other night in 
his ridiculous flatteries of you, was enough to make 
you the talk of the whole steamer. I advise you for 
your own sake to take my warning in time. You are 
very young, and inexperienced and ignorant, but that 
will not save you in the eyes of the world if you keep 
on." Mrs. Milray rose. " And now I will leave you 
to think of what I have said. Here is the letter for 
Miss Milray " 
Clementina shook her head. " I don 't want it." 
" You don 't want it ? But I have written it at Mr. 
Milray 's request, and I shall certainly leave it with 
you " 
" If you do," said Clementina, " I shall not take 
it!" 
" And what shall I say to Mr. Milray ? " 
" What you have just said to me." 
" What have I said to you ? " 
" That I 'm a bold girl, and that I 've  tried to make 
men admi a me." 
Mrs. Milray stopped as if suddenly daunted by a 
fact that had not occurred to her before. " Did I say 
that?" 
" The same as that," 
" I didn 't mean that I merely meant to put you 
 
on your guard. It may be because you are so inno 
cent yourself, that you can 't imagine what others 
think, and I did it out of my regard for you." 
Clementina did not answer. 
Mrs. Milray went on, " That was why I was so pro 
voked with you. I think that for a young girl to 
stand up and dance alone before a whole steamer full 
of strangers " Clementina looked at her without 
speaking, and Mrs. Milray hastened to say, "To be 
sure I advised you to do it, but I certainly was sur 
prised that you should give an encore. But no mat 
ter, now. This letter " 
" I can 't take it, Mrs. Milray," said Clementina, 
with a swelling heart. 
" Now, listen !" urged Mrs. Milray. "You think 
I 'm just saying it because, if you don 't take it I shall 
have to tell Mr. Milray I was so hateful to you, you 
couldn t. Well, I should hate to tell him that ; but 
that isn 't the reason. There ! " She tore the letter 
in pieces, and threw it on the floor. Clementina did 
not make any sign of seeing this, and Mrs. Milray 
dropped upon her chair again. " Oh, how hard yoil 
are ! Can 't you say something to me ? " 
Clementina did not lift her eyes. " I don 't feel 
like saying anything just now." 
Mrs. Milray was silent a moment. Then she sighed. 
" Well, you may hate me, but I shall always be your 
friend. What hotel are you going to in Liverpool ? " 
"I don 't know," said Clementina. 
" You had better come to the one where we go. 
I 'm afraid Mrs. Lander won 't know how to manage 
I 
RAGGED LADY. 
very well, and we 've  been in Liverpool so often. May 
I speak to her about it ? " 
" If you want to," Clementina coldly assented. 
" I see ! " said Mrs. Milray. " You don 't want to 
be under the same roof with me. Well, you needn 't ! 
But I 'll tell you a good hotel : the one that the trains 
start out of ; and I 'll send you that letter for Miss 
Milray." Clementina was silent. "Well, I 'll send 
it, anyway." 
Mrs. Milray went away in sudden tears, but the girl 
remained dry-eyed. 
XIX. 
MRS. Lander realized when the ship came to anchor 
in the stream at Liverpool that she had not been sea 
sick a moment during the voyage. In the brisk cold 
of the winter morning, as they came ashore in the 
tug, she fancied a property of health in the European 
atmosphere, which she was sure would bring her right 
up, if she stayed long enough ; and a regret that she 
had never tried it with Mr. Lander mingled with her 
new hopes for herself. 
But Clementina looked with home-sick eyes at the 
strangeness of the alien scene : the pale, low heaven 
which seemed not to be clouded and yet was so dim ; 
the flat shores with the little railroad trains running 
in and out over them ; the grimy bulks of the city, 
and the shipping in the river, sparse and sombre after 
the gay forest of sails and stacks at New York. 
She did not see the Milrays after she left the tug, 
in the rapid dispersal of the steamer 's passengers. 
They both took leave of her at the dock, and Mrs. 
Milray whispered with penitence in her voice and eyes, 
" I will write," but the girl did not answer. 
Before Mrs. Lander 's trunks and her own were 
 
passed, she saw Lord Lioncourt going away with his 
heavily laden man at his heels. Mr. Ewins came up 
to see if he could help her through the customs, but 
