she thought something might prevent my getting it."
"Then I had better pawn my ring. The landlord won't wait even a day for
his money."
"Don't be in a hurry, mother. The rent is not due till day after
to-morrow, and something may happen between now and then to put me in
funds."
"Perhaps you are right, Mark."
Five minutes later there was a knock at the door. Opening it, Mark saw
another telegraph boy in the entrance. He had a paper in his hand.
"You're to go there," he said, handing Mark a card. "Put on your best
clothes. It's a lady to take to the theater."
"All right, Jimmy. I'll be ready in a jiffy. Do you know what theater?"
"No, I don't. The lady will tell you."
"Mother, I'll be home late," said Mark. "I must put on some clean
clothes. Is my collar dirty?"
"Yes, you had better put on a clean one. I don't like your being out so
late. I thought you were through for the day."
"I'll get extra pay, mother, and every little helps."
"I say, Mark," said Jimmy, "you'd better wear your dress suit and
diamond scarf-pin."
"I would, Jimmy, only I lent 'em both to a bootblack of my acquaintance
who's going to attend a ball on Fifth Avenue to-night."
Jimmy laughed.
"You've always got an answer ready, Mark," he said. "Well, so long! Hope
you'll have a good time."
"Where does the lady live, Mark?" asked Mrs. Mason.
"At No. 90 West Forty-Fifth Street. I haven't much time to spare. I must
go as soon as I can get ready."
It was half-past seven o'clock before Mark rang the bell at a fine brown
stone house on West Forty-Fifth Street. The door was opened by a colored
servant, who, without speaking to Mark, turned his head, and called out:
"The messenger's come, Miss Maud."
"I'm so glad," said a silvery voice, as a young lady of twenty,
already dressed for the street, came out of a room on the left of the
hall. Mark took off his hat politely.
"So you are the messenger boy?" she said. "You are to take me to Daly's
Theater."
"Yes, miss. So I heard."
"Let us go at once. We will take the horse cars at Sixth Avenue, and get
out at Thirtieth Street."
Before she had finished they were already in the street.
"I must explain," she said, "that my uncle bought two tickets this
morning and expected to accompany me, but an important engagement has
prevented. I was resolved to go, and so I sent for a messenger. Perhaps
you had better take the tickets."
"All right, Miss----."
"Gilbert. As you are to be my escort I will ask your name."
"Mark Mason."
"Shall I call you Mark, or Mr. Mason?" she asked with a roguish smile.
"I would rather you would call me Mark."
"Perhaps, as you are taking the place of my uncle, it would be proper to
call you Uncle Mark," she laughed.
"All right, if you prefer it," said Mark.
"On the whole I won't. I am afraid you don't look the character. Are you
quite sure you can protect me?"
"I'll try to, Miss Gilbert."
"Then I won't borrow any trouble."
Maud Gilbert had carefully observed Mark, and as he was an
attractive-looking boy she felt satisfied with the selection made for
her.
"I am glad you didn't wear your uniform," she said. "I forgot to speak
about that."
"When I heard what I was wanted for I thought it would be better to
leave off the uniform," said Mark.
"That was right. Now I can pass you off as a young friend. If I meet any
young lady friend, don't call me Miss Gilbert, but call me Maud. Perhaps
you had better call me that at any rate."
"I will--Maud."
"That's right, and I will call you--let me see, Cousin Mark. I don't
want my friends to think I had to send for an escort to a telegraph
office."
When they entered Daly's Miss Gilbert met an old school friend--Louisa
Morton.
"Why, Maud, are you here?" said her friend. "How delightful! And who is
this young gentleman?"
"My cousin, Mark Mason."
"Indeed! Well, I congratulate you on having such a nice escort. If he
were a few years older I might try to make you jealous."
Maud laughed gaily.
"Oh, you can't get him away. He is devoted to me. Aren't you, Cousin
Mark?"
Mark was about to say "You bet," but it occurred to him that this would
not be comme il faut, so he only said, "You are right, Maud."
"Where are your seats? I hope they are near ours."
They proved to be in the same row, but on the other side of the center
aisle.
As Mark and the young lady took seats two pairs of astonished eyes noted
their entrance. These belonged to Edgar and his father, who sat two rows
behind. Edgar was the first to catch sight of them.
"Look, father!" he said, clutching his father's arm. "There is Mark
Mason and a beautiful girl just taking their seats. What does it mean?"
"I don't know," returned Mr. Talbot. "She seems to be a fashionable
young lady."
"How in the world did he get acquainted with such people? She treats him
as familiarly as if he were a brother or cousin."
"It is very strange."
"Please take the opera-glass, Mark," Edgar heard Miss Gilbert say. "You
know I must make you useful."
For the rest of the evening the attention of Edgar and his father was
divided between the play and Miss Gilbert and Mark. For the benefit
chiefly of her friend, Maud treated her young escort with the utmost
familiarity, and quite misled Solon Talbot and Edgar.
When the play was over Mark carefully adjusted Miss Gilbert's wraps. As
he passed through the aisle he saw for the first time Edgar and his
father looking at him with astonished eyes.
"Good evening," he said with a smile. "I hope you enjoyed the play."
"Come, Mark, it is growing late," said Maud.
Mark bowed and passed on.
"Well, if that doesn't beat all!" ejaculated Edgar. "They seemed very
intimate."
When Mark bade Miss Gilbert good night after ringing the bell at her
home, she pressed a bank note into his hand.
"Thank you so much," she said. "Keep the change, and when I want another
escort I will send for you."
By the light of the street lamp Mark inspected the bill and found it was
a five.
"That will give me over three dollars for myself," he said joyfully. "So
the rent is secure."
The next day about two o'clock he was in the office of a prominent
banker to whom he had carried a message, when a wild-looking man with
light brown hair and wearing glasses, rushed in, and exclaimed
dramatically to the astonished banker, "I want a hundred thousand
dollars! Give it to me at once, or I will blow your office to atoms."
He pointed significantly to a small carpet bag which he carried in his
left hand.
The broker turned pale, and half rose from his chair. He was too
frightened to speak, while two clerks writing in another part of the
office seemed ready to faint.
CHAPTER V.
MARK AS A HERO.
THE situation was critical. That the wild-eyed visitor was demented,
there was hardly a doubt, but his madness was of a most dangerous
character.
The eyes of all were fixed with terror upon the innocent-looking valise
which he held in his left hand, and in the mind of all was the terrible
thought, DYNAMITE!
"Well, will you give me the money?" demanded the crank fiercely.
"I--I don't think I have as much money in the office," stammered the
pallid banker.
"That won't work," exclaimed the visitor angrily. "If you can't find it
I will send you where you won't need money," and he moved his arm as if
to throw the valise on the floor.
"I--I'll give you a check," faltered Luther Rockwell, the banker.
"And stop payment on it," said the crank with a cunning look. "No, that
won't do."
"Give me half an hour to get the money," pleaded Rockwell desperately.
"Perhaps twenty minutes will do."
"You would send for a policeman," said the intruder. "That won't do, I
must have the money now. Or, if you haven't got it, bonds will answer."
Luther Rockwell looked helplessly toward the two clerks, but they were
even more terrified than he. There was one to whom he did not look for
help, and that was the telegraph boy, who stood but three feet from the
crank, watching him sharply. For a plan of relief had come into the mind
of Mark Mason, who, though he appreciated the danger, was cooler and
more self-possessed than any one else in the office.
Standing just behind the crank, so that he did not attract his
attention, he swiftly signaled to the clerks, who saw the signal but did
not know what it meant. Mark had observed that the dangerous satchel was
held loosely in the hands of the visitor whose blazing eyes were fixed
upon the banker. The telegraph boy had made up his mind to take a
desperate step, which depended for its success on rapid execution and
unfaltering nerves.
Luther Rockwell was hesitating what reply to make to his visitor's
demand when Mark, with one step forward, snatched the valise from the
unsuspecting visitor and rapidly retreated in the direction of the two
clerks.
"Now do your part!" he exclaimed in keen excitement.
The crank uttered a howl of rage, and turning his fierce, bloodshot eyes
upon Mark dashed towards him.
The two clerks were now nerved up to action. They were not cowards, but
the nature of the peril had dazed them. One was a member of an athletic
club, and unusually strong.
They dashed forward and together seized the madman. Mr. Rockwell, too,
sprang from his seat, and, though an old man, joined the attacking
party.
"Quick!" he shouted to Mark. "Take that valise out of the office, and
carry it where it will do no harm. Then come back!"
Mark needed no second bidding. He ran out of the office and down-stairs,
never stopping till he reached the nearest police station. Quickly he
told his story, and two policemen were despatched on a run to Mr.
Rockwell's office.
They arrived none too soon. The crank appeared to have the strength of
three men, and it seemed doubtful how the contest between him and the
three who assailed him would terminate.
The two policemen turned the scale. They dexterously slipped handcuffs
over his wrists, and at last he sank to the floor conquered. He was
panting and frothing at the mouth.
Luther Rockwell fell back into his seat exhausted.
"You've had a trying time, sir!" said one of the policemen respectfully.
"Yes," ejaculated the banker with dry lips. "I wouldn't pass through it
again for fifty thousand dollars. I've been as near a terrible death as
any man can be--and live! But for the heroism of that boy--where is he?"
The question was answered by the appearance of Mark Mason himself, just
returned from the police station.
"But for you," said the banker gratefully, "we should all be in
eternity."
"I too!" answered Mark.
"Let me get at him!" shrieked the crank, eying Mark with a demoniac
hatred. "But for him I should have succeeded."
"Was there really dynamite in the bag?" asked one of the policemen.
"Yes," answered Mark. "The sergeant opened it in my presence. He said
there was enough dynamite to blow up the biggest building in the city."
"What is going to be done with it?" asked the banker anxiously.
"The policemen were starting with it for the North River."
"That's the only safe place for it."
"If you have no further use for this man we'll carry him to the
station-house," said one of the officers.
"Yes, yes, take him away!" ejaculated the banker with a shudder.
Struggling fiercely, the crank was hurried down the stairs by the two
official guardians, and then Mr. Rockwell, who was an old man, quietly
fainted away.
When he came to, he said feebly, "I am very much upset. I think I will
go home. Call a cab, my boy."
Mark soon had one at the door.
"Now, I want you to go with me and see me home. I don't dare to go by
myself."
Mark helped the old gentleman into his cab, and up the stairs of his
dwelling. Mr. Rockwell paid the cab driver adding, "Take this boy back
to my office. What is your name, my boy?"
"Mark Mason, No. 79."
Luther Rockwell scribbled a few lines on a leaf torn from his memorandum
book, and gave it to Mark.
"Present that at the office," he said. "Come round next week and see
me."
"Yes, sir," answered Mark respectfully, and sprang into the cab.
As he was riding through Madison Avenue he noticed from the window his
uncle Solon and Edgar walking slowly along on the left hand side. At the
same moment they espied him.
"Look, father!" cried Edgar in excitement. "Mark Mason is riding in that
cab."
"So he is!" echoed Mr. Talbot in surprise.
Catching their glance, Mark smiled and bowed. He could understand their
amazement, and he enjoyed it.
Mechanically Mr. Talbot returned the salutation, but Edgar closed his
lips very firmly and refused to take any notice of his cousin.
"I don't understand it," he said to his father, when the cab had passed.
"Doesn't it cost a good deal to ride in a cab in New York?"
"Yes. I never rode in one but once, and then I had to pay two dollars."
"And yet Mark Mason, who is little more than a beggar, can afford to
ride! And last evening he was at the theater in company with a
fashionable young lady. Telegraph boys must get higher pay than he
said."
"Perhaps, Edgar," suggested his father with an attempt at humor, "you
would like to become a telegraph boy yourself."
"I'd scorn to go into such a low business."
"Well, I won't urge you to do so."
Meanwhile Mark continued on his way in the cab. As he passed City Hall
Park Tom Trotter, who had just finished shining a gentleman's boots,
chanced to look towards Broadway. As he saw his friend Mark leaning back
in the cab, his eyes opened wide.
"Well, I'll be jiggered!" he exclaimed. "How's that for puttin' on
style? Fust thing you know Mark Mason will have his name down wid de
Four Hundred!"
It did not occur to Mark to look at the paper given him by Mr. Rockwell
till he got out of the cab.
This was what he read:
       *       *       *       *       *
MR. NICHOLS: Give this boy ten dollars.
LUTHER ROCKWELL.
       *       *       *       *       *
His eyes flashed with delight.
"This is a lucky day!" he exclaimed. "It's worth while running the risk
of being blown up when you're so well paid for it."
Nichols, the chief clerk, at once complied with his employer's
directions.
"You're a brave boy, 79," he said. "If it hadn't been for you, we'd all
have been blown higher than a kite. How did you leave Mr. Rockwell?"
"He seems pretty well upset," answered Mark.
"No wonder; he's an old man. I don't mind saying I was upset myself, and
I am less than half his age. You were the only one of us that kept his
wits about him."
"Somehow I didn't think of danger," said Mark. "I was considering how I
could get the better of the crank."
"You took a great risk. If the valise had fallen, we'd have all gone up,
and he pointed significantly overhead. I am glad Mr. Rockwell has given
you something. If he had given you a hundred dollars, or a thousand, it
wouldn't have been too much."
"He told me to call at the office next week."
"Don't forget to do it. It will be to your interest."
CHAPTER VI.
"THE EVENING GLOBE."
WHILE Mark was passing through these exciting scenes Mrs. Mason went
about her daily duties at home, anxiously considering how the rent was
to be paid on the following day. Mark had not told her of his gift from
Maud Gilbert, intending it as a surprise.
As she was washing the breakfast dishes, there was a little tap at the
door. To her surprise, the visitor turned out to be Mrs. Mack, of the
floor above, to whom Mark had applied for a loan without success. As
Mrs. Mack seldom left her room, Mrs. Mason regarded her with surprise.
"Come in and sit down, Mrs. Mack," she said kindly.
She had no regard for the old woman, but felt that she deserved some
consideration on account of her great age.
Mrs. Mack hobbled in and seated herself in a rocking-chair.
"I hope you are well," said Mrs. Mason.
"Tollable, tollable," answered the old woman, glancing curiously about
the room, as if making an inventory of what it contained.
"Can't I give you a cup of tea? At your age it will be strengthening."
"I'm not so very old," said the old woman querulously. "I'm only
seventy-seven, and my mother lived to be eighty-seven."
"I hope you will live as long as you wish to. But, Mrs. Mack, you must
