was intending to perpetrate. It would not be so bad as being scalded,
but it would probably be very disagreeable to Jed to be roused from a
sound sleep by a dash of cold water.
"I hope he won't wake up before I get there," thought Mr. Fogson, as he
descended to the kitchen in his stocking feet to procure the water.
He pumped for a minute or two in order that the water might be colder,
and then with the dipper in hand ascended two flights of stairs to the
attic.
Up there it was still profoundly dark. There was but one window, and
that was screened by a curtain. Moreover, it was very dark outside. Mr.
Fogson, however, was not embarrassed, for he knew just where Jed's bed
was situated, and, even if he had not, the loud snoring, which still
continued, would have been sufficient to guide him to the place.
"It beats me how a boy can snore like that," soliloquized Fogson. "He
must have eaten something at Dr. Redmond's that didn't agree with him.
If I didn't know it was Jed I should feel frightened at such an
unearthly hubbub. However, it won't continue long," and Fogson laughed
to himself as he thought of the sensation which his dipper of water was
likely to produce.
He approached a little nearer, and in spite of the darkness could see
the outlines of a form on the bed, but he could not see clearly enough
to make out the difference between it and Jed's.
He poised himself carefully, and then dashed the water vigorously into
the face of the sleeping figure.
The results were not exactly what he had anticipated.
CHAPTER VIII.
MR. FOGSON IS ASTONISHED.
The sleeper had already slept off pretty nearly all the effects of his
potations, and the sudden cold bath restored him wholly to himself. But
it also aroused in him a feeling of anger, justifiable under the
circumstances, and, not belonging to the Peace Society, he was moved to
punish the person to whom he was indebted for his unpleasant experience.
With a smothered imprecation he sprang from the bed and seized the
astonished Fogson by the throat, while he shook him violently.
"You--you--scoundrel!" he ejaculated. "I'll teach you to play such a
scurvy trick on a gentleman."
Mr. Fogson screamed in fright. He did not catch his late victim's words,
and was still under the impression that it was Jed who had tackled him.
Meanwhile the intruder was flinging him about and bumping him against
the floor so forcibly that Mrs. Fogson's attention was attracted.
Indeed, she was at the foot of the stairs, desiring to enjoy Jed's
dismay when drenched with the contents of the tin dipper.
"What's the matter, Simeon?" she cried.
"Jed's killing me!" called out Fogson in muffled tones.
"You don't mean to say you ain't a match for that boy!" ejaculated Mrs.
Fogson scornfully. "I'll come up and help you."
Disregarding her light attire she hurried up stairs, and was astonished
beyond measure when she saw how unceremoniously her husband was being
handled. She rushed to seize Jed, when she found her hands clutching a
mustache.
"Why, it ain't Jed!" she screamed in dismay.
"No, it ain't Jed," said the intruder. "Did you mean that soaking for
Jed, whoever he is?"
"Yes, yes, it was--quite a mistake!" gasped Fogson.
"I am glad to hear you say so, for I meant to fling you down stairs,
and might have broken your neck."
"Oh, what a dreadful man!" ejaculated Mrs. Fogson. "How came you here
and where is Jed?"
"I am here!" answered Jed, who had waked up two or three minutes
previous and was enjoying the defeat of his persecutor.
"Did you bring in this man?" demanded Mrs. Fogson sternly.
"No. I walked in myself," answered the intruder. "I was rather
mellow--in other words I had drunk too much mixed ale, and I really
didn't know where I was. I had an idea that this was a hotel."
"You made a mistake, sir. This is the Scranton poorhouse."
"So the boy told me when he came in. I wouldn't have taken a bed here if
I had known your playful way of pouring cold water on your guests."
"Sir, apart from your assault on me, me, the master of the poorhouse,"
said Fogson, trying to recover some of his lost dignity, "you committed
a trespass in entering the house without permission and appropriating a
bed."
"All right, old man, but just remember that I was drunk."
"I don't think that is an excuse."
"Isn't it? Just get drunk yourself, and see what you'll do."
"I don't allow Mr. Fogson to get drunk," said his wife with asperity.
"Maybe my wife wouldn't let me, if there was any such a person, but I
haven't been so fortunate as Mr. Fogson, if that is his name."
"Mrs. F.," said her husband with a sudden thought, "you are not dressed
for company."
Mrs. Fogson, upon this hint, scuttled down stairs, and the intruder
resumed: "If I've taken a liberty I'm willing to apologize. What's more,
I'll pay you fifty cents for the use of your bed and stay the night
out."
He was appealing to Mr. Fogson's weak point, which was a love of money.
"I see you're ready to do the square thing," he said in softened
accents. "If you'll say seventy-five----"
"No, I won't pay over fifty. I don't care to take it another night on
those terms, if I am to be waked up by a dipper of water. You've wet the
sheet and pillow so that I may take my death of cold if I sleep here any
longer."
"I'll bring you a comforter which you can lay over the wet clothes."
"All right! Bring it up and I'll hand you the fifty cents."
"And--and if you would like breakfast in the morning, for the small
extra sum of twenty-five cents----"
"Isn't that rather steep for a poorhouse breakfast?"
"You will not eat with the paupers, of course, but at a private table,
with Mrs. Fogson and myself."
"All right! Your offer is accepted."
Mr. Fogson brought up the comforter, and the visitor resumed the
slumbers which had been so unceremoniously interrupted.
The sun rose early, and when its rays crept in through the side window
both Jed and his companion were awake.
"I say, boy, come over here and share my bed. I want to talk to you."
Jed's curiosity was excited, and he accepted the invitation.
He found his roommate to be a good-looking young man of perhaps thirty,
and with a pleasant expression.
"So you are Jed?" he asked.
"Yes, sir."
"And you live in the poorhouse?"
"Yes," answered Jed, half-ashamed to admit it, "but I don't mean to stay
here."
"Good! A smart boy like you ought not to be a pauper. You are able to
earn your own living outside. But perhaps you are attached to the queer
people who made me a visit last night."
"Not much!" answered Jed emphatically.
"I don't admire them much myself. I didn't see the old lady. Is she
beautiful?"
Jed laughed heartily.
"You'll see her at the breakfast table," he said. "Then you can judge
for yourself."
"I don't think I shall do anything to excite Fogson's jealousy. Zounds,
if this isn't the queerest hotel I ever struck. I am sorry to have
taken your bed from you."
"I was glad not to be in it when Mr. Fogson came up."
"You're right there," said the other laughing. "Whew! how the cold water
startled me. Sorry to have deprived you of it."
"Mr. Fogson got a dose himself yesterday, only it was hot water."
"You don't say so! Was that meant for you, too?"
"Yes;" and Jed told the story of his struggle with Mr. Fogson, and his
wife's unfortunate interference.
"That's a capital joke," said the visitor laughing. "Now I suppose you
wonder who I am."
"Yes; I should like to know."
"I'm Harry Bertram, the actor. I don't know if you ever heard of me."
"I never attended the theatre in my life."
"Is that so? Why, you're quite a heathen. Never went to a theatre? Well,
I am surprised."
"Is it a good business?" asked Jed.
"Sometimes, if the play happens to catch on. When you are stranded five
hundred miles from home, and your salary isn't paid, it isn't exactly
hilarious."
"Are you going to play anywhere near here?" asked Jed, who was beginning
to think he would like to see a performance.
"We are billed to play in Duncan to-morrow evening, or rather this
evening, for it's morning now."
"Duncan is only five miles away."
"If you want to attend I'll give you a pass. It's the least I can do to
pay for turning you out of your bed."
"I could walk the five miles," said Jed.
"Then come. I'll see you at the door and pass you in. Ask for Harry
Bertram."
"Thank you, Mr. Bertram."
"Old Fogson won't make a fuss about your going, will he?"
"Yes, he will; but I've made up my mind to leave the poorhouse, and I
might as well leave it to-day as any time."
"Good! I admire your pluck."
"I wish I knew what I could do to make a living."
"Leave that to me. I'll arrange to have you travel with the show for
two or three days and bunk with me. Have you got any--any better clothes
than those?" and Bertram pointed to the dilapidated garments lying on a
chair near by.
"Yes, I am promised a good suit by a friend of mine in the village. I'll
go there and put them on before starting."
"Do; the actors sometimes look pretty tough, but I never saw one dressed
like that."
"Jed!" screamed Mrs. Fogson from the bottom of the stairs. "You get
right up and come down stairs!"
"They're calling me," said Jed, starting up.
"Will I have to get up too?"
"No; Mr. and Mrs. Fogson don't breakfast till seven. They'll send me up
to call you."
"All right! We'll soon be travelling together where there are no
Fogsons."
"I hope so," and Jed went down stairs with new life in his step.
CHAPTER IX.
JED LEAVES THE POORHOUSE.
At eight o'clock Harry Bertram was summoned to breakfast in the private
sitting-room of Mr. and Mrs. Fogson. In spite of the poor fare of which
the paupers complained the Fogsons took care themselves to have
appetizing meals, and the well-spread table looked really attractive.
"Sit down here, Mr. Bertram," said Mrs. Fogson, pointing to a seat. The
place opposite was vacant, as the heads of the table were occupied by
Mr. and Mrs. Fogson.
"Mrs. Fogson," said the actor, "I am going to ask a favor."
"What is it?" returned the lady, wreathing her features into a frosty
smile.
"I see the seat opposite me is unoccupied. Will you oblige me by letting
the boy Jed take it?"
Mrs. Fogson's face changed.
"I should prefer not to have him here," she answered in a forbidding
tone.
"Of course I propose to pay for his breakfast the same price that I pay
for my own."
"The boy is insubordinate and disobedient," said the lady coldly.
"Still he gave me his bed last night. Some boys would have objected."
"My dear," said Fogson, whose weakness for money has already been
mentioned, "I think, as the gentleman has agreed to pay for Jed's
breakfast, we may give our consent, merely to gratify him."
"Very well," answered Mrs. Fogson, resolved to claim the twenty-five
cents for herself.
She rose from her seat, went to the window, and opening it, called to
Jed, who was at work in the yard.
He speedily made his appearance.
"Sit down to the table, Jedediah," said Mr. Fogson with dignity. "Mr.
Bertram desires you to breakfast with him."
Jed was very much surprised, but as he noted the warm biscuit and
beefsteak, which emitted an appetizing odor, he felt that it was an
invitation not to be rejected.
"I am very much obliged to Mr. Bertram," he said, "and also to you and
Mrs. Fogson."
This was a politic remark to make, and he was served as liberally as the
guest.
"Do you find your position a pleasant one, Mr. Fogson?" asked Bertram
politely.
"No, Mr. Bertram, far from it. The paupers are a thankless, ungrateful
set, but I am sustained by a sense of duty."
"The paupers were spoiled by our predecessors, Mr. and Mrs. Avery,"
chimed in Mrs. Fogson. "Really, Mr. Bertram, you would be surprised to
learn how unreasonable they are. They are always complaining of their
meals."
"I am sure they must be unreasonable if they complain of meals like
this, Mrs. Fogson," said the actor.
"Of course we can't afford to treat them like this. The town would
object. But we give them as good fare as we can afford. Are you going to
stay long in Scranton?"
"No; I am merely passing through. I shall sleep to-night at Duncan."
"At the poorhouse?" asked Jed with a comical smile.
"Yes, if I could be sure of as good fare as this," replied the actor
with an answering smile. "But that would be very doubtful."
Mrs. Fogson, who, cross-grained as she was, was not above flattery,
mentally pronounced Mr. Bertram a most agreeable young man--in fact, a
perfect gentleman.
"I am really ashamed," continued Bertram, "to have entered your house in
such a condition, but I was feeling a little internal disturbance, and
fancied that whisky would relieve it. Unfortunately I took too much."
"It might have happened to anyone," said Fogson considerately. "I am
myself a temperance man, but sometimes I find whisky beneficial to my
health."
Bertram, noticing the ruddy hue of Mr. Fogson's nose, was quite ready to
believe this statement.
"May I ask if you are a business man?" remarked Fogson.
"My business is acting. I belong to the Gold King Company, which is to
play at Duncan to-night."
"Indeed!" said Mrs. Fogson, with a glance of curiosity. "I never saw an
actor before."
"I am sorry you should see such an unworthy representative of the
Thespian art. If we were to play in Scranton, it would give me pleasure
to offer you and Mr. Fogson complimentary tickets."
"I wish you were to play here," said Mrs. Fogson in a tone of regret. "I
haven't seen a play for five years."
"I suppose you couldn't come to Duncan?"
"No; we could not be spared. Besides, we have no horse and carriage,"
said Fogson. "We must wait till you perform in Scranton."
Jed was very much relieved to hear this remark, for it would have
interfered with his own plans if Mr. and Mrs. Fogson had accepted an
invitation to witness the play at Duncan.
"Is it a good paying business?" asked Mr. Fogson.
"Well, so so. My salary is fifty dollars a week."
"You don't say so!" exclaimed Fogson in envious surprise. "You ought to
lay up money."
"It seems so, but in the summer we generally have a long vacation.
Besides, we have to pay our hotel bills; so that, after all, we don't
have as much left as you would suppose. Besides, we have to buy our
costumes, and some of them are quite expensive."
In spite of these drawbacks the Fogsons evidently looked upon Bertram as
a wealthy young man.
At length they rose from the table. Jed had never before eaten such a
meal since he entered the poorhouse, and he felt in a degree envious of
Mr. and Mrs. Fogson, who probably fared thus every day. When he
considered, however, how they nearly starved the poor people of whom
they had charge he felt indignant, and could not help wishing that some
time they might exchange places with the unfortunate paupers.
He went out to the yard again, and resumed his work at the woodpile.
Harry Bertram strolled out and lazily watched him.
"I suppose you never did work of this kind, Mr. Bertram?" said Jed.
"Oh yes, I lived for nearly a year with an aunt who required me to
prepare all the wood for the kitchen stove. I can tell you one thing,
though, I did not enjoy it, and when I left her I retired forever from
that line of business."
"Are you going to stay in Scranton to-day?"
"No; I must be getting over to Duncan. We have taken on a new actor and
shall be obliged to have a rehearsal. Will you go along with me?"
"I should like to, but it would only get me into trouble. I will start
about four o'clock, and go over to Dr. Redmond's to get the suit of
clothes he promised me."
"I suppose you won't have to take a trunk of clothes from here?"
"About all the clothes I own are on my back. If I leave any behind me,
anyone is welcome to them."
"Do you think there will be any difficulty in your getting away?"
"I think I can slip off without being noticed."
"Do you think they will go after you?"
"They might if they suspected where I was going."
"Then I shall have to help you. Join me at the theatre, and it will go
hard if, between us, we cannot foil the enemy."
"Thank you, Mr. Bertram. You are a real friend."
"Some people say I am everybody's friend but my own. You can judge for
yourself about that when you know me better."
Harry Bertram walked off whistling, and Jed was left to his reflections.
It is needless to say that he felt in an excited mood, for it seemed to
him that he had come to a turning-point in his life. As far back as he
