had a hard time with Miss Maria, which made him 
queerer. He is old fashioned to be sure " 

"lam sorry he is so much older than you." 

« Well — he grows younger, he really does," and there 
was a pleasant ring in the wife's voice. "Then you 
know I had grown so used to papa." 

They turned about. 

"I keep Miss Maria's room for the guest chamber. 
He had some cousins come from Farmington and they 
had such a nice visit. They had quarreled with Miss 
Maria, though they attended the funeral. I liked them 
ever so much. And we haven't changed any of the par- 
lor furniture, only to put up curtains and a few pictures, 





and here is a beautiful lamp husband gave me for my 
birthday, and father gave me this chair when I was mar- 
ried. Gertie, your gift was lovely. And you have been so 
generous. You must not pinch yourself." 

She had pinched herself more than once. 

Agnes had a hand-lamp in her hand. The parlor 
would have looked gloomy but for the drapery at the 
window. And it had the chill of unused rooms, even in 
the summer. 

" You had better save up a little I think if you can 
spare any," said the thoughtful younger sister. " You 
see you have been away from home so much, and you 
don't quite understand. Mamma has not the first idea 
of the value of money. And papa was behindhand. 
Mamma wanted a grand wedding, but I said it really 
wasn't suitable for Mr. Rowdon. We just had a little 
party, and quite an elaborate supper when we came home 
here. And now papa is pretty well out of debt. I made 
some of your gowns and your coat over for Lu, and they 
did real well all winter. I gave papa twenty-five dollars 
of your money and he was so delighted. Poor papa," 
and she sighed. 

" Why I would have sent it to him " 

"I know, dear, I asked you to send it to me. You 
see mamma or Lu would have spent it injudiciously. 
And now papa's expenses are smaller, with only three of 
them, and I want Lu to keep at school and graduate. 
Then she could teach." 

"Or marry," said Gertrude, with a laugh. 
"I hope she will be sensible about that. She ought 
to steady down. But we will have some good long talks. 
You must come over here and stay. You can't think 
how papa enjoys coming to Sunday night supper." 





"My room upstairs is all refurnished," Agnes added, 
" but I will save that to show you next time. O, there- 
are so many things to say." 

Mr. Rowdon was actually teasing his young sister-in- 
law, who was sitting on the porch step. 

" And you fell in with all those Maine people again," 
began Agnes. Gertrude was glad to talk about them. 
But Lu bounced up presently and declared they must go 
home. 

It was like being in a different world, Gertrude found 
in a few days. Sometimes she smiled to herself over the 
complacent narrowness. And yet most of these people 
were happy comparing notes about everything in their 
small round, exchanging recipes and sleeve and skirt 
patterns, and having their hats and bonnets trimmed with 
"just such a bow as Mrs. Golden had on hers." Miss 
Frear, the milliner, did not have to rack her brains for 
original ideas. The style was what every one adopted, 
and even last year's gown was not so utterly out of place. 

She settled to the assurance that Agnes was truly 
happy. And she learned one fact to which she had given 
little thought before, that Agnes took a very fervent de- 
light in making others happy. She put Mr. Rowdon at 
his best, and really there were some good points that Miss 
Maria had nipped off in her arbitrary fashion, because 
they neither saved nor made money. Hoarding up had 
been the poor woman's religion. 

The years between them were not so dreadfully in 
evidence. Agnes looked well, she had taken up the 
cares of life too soon to have any real girlhood. She 
had been her father's adviser the last three years, and she 
soon slipped into the same place with Mr. Rowdon. 
The alterations in the house, the garden with its thrifty 





vegetables, its clean paths, the pretty flower-beds, where 
she often weeded or transplanted with him, the neat table 
with its pretty porcelain and snowy cloth instead of the 
checked and chipped dishes soon became his pride. 

Was it not beauty and orderliness in the common ways 
of life? Was it not really the finer endeavor to make 
those around one happy ? Agnes had no ambition for 
the high places. There was no restless yearning, no 
thought of being wasted in the small round. She read 
the newspaper to her husband, and Gertrude found she 
had some very correct and sensible opinions. They 
went out driving, they called upon the neighbors, though 
this was rather a trial to him ; he enjoyed their coming 
in much more. And Agnes dressed better. She dis- 
carded the depressing greys for pretty ginghams, because 
Mr. Rowdon liked them. And little Virginia was a 
source of interest to them both. 

Every day she went over home and gave Nancy some 
suggestions and listened to her mother's complainings 
with a tender patience, as if she recognized that any at- 
tempt to alter the current of the weak, opinionated mind 
would be futile. Yet Mrs. Maurice had come to have a 
great respect for her married daughter, and treated her 
with a deference that astonished Gertrude. 

Luella's restlessness was a source of some disquiet. 
Agnes said much the same thing about her to Gertrude 
as Mrs. Maurice had, only in a different manner. But 
Lu seized the first opportunity to express her desires quite 
vigorously. 

" I'm just as tired of this place as you ever were, Ger- 
trude," she said, decisively. "And I wish you'd find 
me something to do in the city." 

" At what? " in rather amused inquiry. 





" ( >, I don't rare. I could tend in a store. I suppose 
I couldn't find a Mrs. Tovvnsend to take me up. Gert, 
you are lucky ! " 

''You couldn't fill the place; you could not at pres- 
ent take any position where responsibility and experience 
were demanded. You need training " 

" You get the experience by doing things," interrupted 
the younger. " And I just hate the little things over and 
over. I want something wider and different, where you 
can have some pleasure." 

"If you begin with the pleasures, you will be sadly 
disappointed." 

" I am sure you have had lots of them." 

" I have been fortunate, I think. But I was older than 
you, and had my school training. You couldn't do any- 
thing in such a place, Lu. And you would get tired of 
writing letters and seeing people who did not interest 
you, who were unreasonable and full of vanity and con- 
ceit, and who thought they could be put in the front 
ranks and make a future at once." 

"I'd send them flying " 

"But you couldn't. You must be polite, and as gra- 
cious as possible. You cannot understand, Luella. You 
have been so used to doing just what you like, or grum- 
bling about the things you don't like. And girls in stores 
and offices make long days and earn a poor living, many 
of them. They have a small room in a poor boarding- 
house, and no society to speak of. Everything costs so 
much in a city. Then if you are teaching, it is some 
years before you come up to a good salary." 

"But girls do have a good time somewhere. There 
are places to go, and — and theatres and parties " 

' ' When you are through school and have graduated, 





and have toned down a little, if I am in the city, I will 
promise you an outing, so you will see what the city is 
like, and whether a life of work looks so inviting. But 
you must try and be more ladylike and gentle in your 
ways, and refined." 

"You are a fussy old thing!" flung out Luella. 
"You'll just be an old maid, as mamma says." 

" There are plenty of them in the great cities. There 
are not so many chances to marry." 

"I should think there would be more. And I mean 
to marry," with emphasis. 

"Then you ought to fit yourself for home-making. 
You couldn't have a better pattern than Agnes." 

" Well, I'm not going to marry an old fellow like that, 
and never go to parties or dances, and just putter around 
about housework ! You'll see ! " and Luella tossed her 
head airly. " But it does seem as if you might do some- 
thing for me." 

Gertrude studied the unreasonable, ignorant child, and 
then she laughed at the foolishness of trying to argue 
with her. 

"You needn't laugh, either." Lu turned very red 
and her eyes sparkled. 

"I will do something, if you will fit yourself for it. 
This is a promise, Luella. If you will graduate fairly 
well, I will be on the watch for an opportunity. At 
least, you may come and try— if I keep my position." 

a Well— I can't graduate next year. I didn't get in 
the class," she said, disconsolately. 

" Two years. You will be young then." 

"I wish you'd send me some money," she began, 
presently. " Why should Agnes have it all? And I do 
want a silk gown so." 





"I'll give you a silk gown, if that will make you 
hap})y." 

"O, that will be great! Two of the girls are going 
to have birthday parties in the fall. And Gertrude, if I 
could have a real party — would it cost very much?" 

"We might all join and help you out," and Gertrude 
smiled. Had she ever been as silly as this? She had 
recognized the limitations of a small income, and Agnes 
had been sensible all her life. What could she do to 
improve this inconsequent, thoughtless girl, who seemed 
to have no idea but personal enjoyment of the flightiest 
kind, and not as sensible as little Virginia. And of all 
things in this world common sense was needed most. 

"Luella," she began again, gravely, "if you mean to 
be or do anything worth while, you will find education 
is a necessity. And pretty, refined manners ' ' 

"O gracious! don't lecture any more!" exclaimed 
the younger. 

For Lu was still a hoyden, and ran races and climbed 
trees and could take a fence equal to a boy. What a 
pity she had not been a boy ! 

"Events do go contrariwise in this world," she said to 
Agnes, with a sigh, after she had repeated the gist of this 
conversation. 

"And some go smoothly enough, or would, if we did 
not interfere," said the younger, with a smile. "I'm 
not sure but a boy like Lu would be the finish of us all. 
I sometimes wonder why all these children were given to 
mamma, who doesn't understand a thing about managing 
children, when there are so many people in the world 
longing for one or two. We can only hope Lu will tame 
down in a year or two." 



CHAPTER VI. 

IN A STRAIT BETWIXT TWO. 

THE greatest surprise of Gertrude's month at home 
was a note from Sherburne Beaumanoir, a pleas- 
ant, chatty, off-hand epistle, detailing some of their sum- 
mer pleasures, and wishing she could be there to share 
them, and announcing that he should run up from Bal- 
timore and make a call upon her. 
