written to you. That he has seemed to neglect you." 
Nanda's visitor looked so far about as to take the 
neighborhood in general into the confidence of his sur- 
prise. "To neglect me ?" 
"Well, others too, I believe — with whom we're not 
concerned. He has been so taken up. But you above 
all." 
Mr. Longdon showed, on this, a coldness that somehow 
spoke for itself as tlie greatest with which he had ever in 
his life met an act of reparation, and that was infinitely 
confirmed by his sustained immobility. "But of what 
have I complained ?" 
"Oh, I don't think he fancies you've complained." 
"And how could he have come to see me," he con- 
tinued, "when for so many months past I've been so little 
in town ?" 
He was not more ready with objections, however, than 
his companion had by this time become with answers. 
"He must have been thinking of the time of your pres- 
ent stay. He said he hadn't seen you." 
"He has quite sufficiently tried — he has left cards," 
Mr. Longdon returned. " What more does he want ?" 
Nanda looked at him with her long, grave straight- 
ness, which had often a play of light beyond any smile. 
" Oh, you know, ho does want more." 
  
" Then it was open to him — " 
" So he so strongly feels " — she quickly took him np- 
 '' that you must have felt. And therefore it is that 
speak for him." 
" Don't !" said Mr. Longdon. 
''But I promised him I would." 
"Don't I" the old man repeated. 
She had kept, for the time, all her fine clearnesj 
turned to him ; but she might on this have been takei 
as giving him up with a movement of obedience and 
strange soft sigh. The smothered sound might even 
have represented to a listener at all initiated a consent- 
ing retreat before an effort greater than her reckoning 
— a retreat that was in so far the snap of a sharp ten- 
sion. The next minute, none the less, she evidently 
found a fresh provocation in the sight of the pale and 
positively excessive rigor she had imposed, so that, 
though her friend was only accommodating himself to 
her wish, she had a sudden impulse of criticism. 
'' You're proud about it— too proud !" 
"Well, what if I am ?" He looked at her with a com- 
plexity of communication that no words could have med- 
dled with. "Pride's all right when it helps one to bear 
things." 
"Ah," said Nanda, "but that's only when one wants 
to take least from them. When one wants to take 
most — " 
" Well ?" — he spoke, as she faltered, with a certain 
small hardness of interest. 
She faltered, however, indeed. "Oh, I don't know 
how to say it." She fairly colored with the attempt. 
"One must let the sense of all that I speak of — well, all 
come. One must rather like it. I don't know — but I 
suppose one must rather grovel." 
Mr. Longdon, though with visible reluctance, turned 
it over. " That's very fine — but you're a woman." 
Yes — that must make a difference. But being a 
woman, in such a case, has then," Nanda went on, "its 
advantages." 
On this point perhaps her friend might presently have 
been taken as relaxing.  ''It strikes me that even at 
that, the advantages are mainly for others. I'm glad, 
God knows, that you're not also a young man." 
" Then we're suited all round." 
She had spoken with a promptitude that appeared 
again to act on him slightly as an irritant, for he met it — 
with more delay — by a long, derisive murmur. " Oh, my 
pride — !" But this she in no manner took up ; so that he 
was left for a little to his thoughts. " That's what you 
were plotting when you told me the other day that you 
wanted time ?" 
''Ah, I wasn't plotting — though I was, I confess, try- 
ing to work things out. That particular idea of simply 
asking Mr. Van, by letter, to present himself — that par- 
ticular flight of fancy hadn't in fact then at all occurred 
to me." 
''It never occurred, I'm bound to say, to me, "said 
Mr. Longdon. "I've never thought of writing to 
him." 
"Very good. But you haven't the reasons. I wanted 
to attack him." 
" Not about me, I hope to God !" Mr. Longdon, dis- 
tinctly a little paler, rejoined. 
" Don't be afraid. I think I had an instinct of how 
you would have taken that. It was about mother." 
" Oh !" said her visitor. 
"He has been worse to her than to you," she con- 
tinued. "But he'll make it all right." 
Mr. Longdon's attention retained its grimness. "If 
he has such a remedy for the more then, what has he for 
the less ?" 
Nanda, however,was but for an instant checked. " Oh, 
  
it's I who make it up to you. To mother, you see, there ' 
no one, otherwise, to make it up." 
This at first, unmistakably, sounded to him too compli 
Gated for acceptance. But his face changed as ligl 
dawned. " That puts it then that you will come ?" 
'I'll come if you'll take me as I am — which is, moi 
than I've ever done before, what I must previously explain to you. But what he means by what you call hi  
remedy is my making you feel better about himself." 
The old man gazed at her.  ''Your' doing it is t( 
beautiful ! And he could really come to you for the pu: 
pose of asking you ?" 
' Oh no," said the girl briskly,  Mie came simply for 
the purpose of doing what he had to do. After my letter 
how could he not come ? Then he met most kindly what 
I said to him for mother and what he quite understood to 
be all my business with him ; so that his appeal to me to 
plead with you for — well, for his credit — was only thrown 
in because he had so good a chance." 
This speech brought Mr. Longdon abruptly to his feet, 
but before she could warn him again of the patience she 
continued to need he had already, as if what she evoked 
for him left him too stupefied, dropped back into sub- 
mission. " The man stood there for you to render him a 
service ? — for you to help him and praise him ?" 
"Ah, but it wasn't to go out of my way, don't you see ? 
He knew you were presently to be here." Her anxiety 
that he should understand gave her a rare, strained 
smile. "I mustn't make — as a request from him — too 
much of it, and I've not a doubt that, rather than you 
should think any ill of him for wishing me to say a word, 
he would gladly be left with whatever bad. appearance he 
may actually happen to have." She pulled up on these 
words as if with a quick sense of their really, by their 
mere sound, putting her in deeper ; and could only give 
her friend one of the looks that expressed : " If I could 
 
trust you not to assent even more than I want, I should 
say ' You know what I mean !' " She allowed him, at all 
events — or tried to allow him — no time for uttered irony 
before going on : "He was everything you could have 
wished ; quite as beautiful about you — " 
 '' As about you ?" — Mr. Longdon took her up. 
She demurred. ''As about mother. ' With which 
she turned away as if it handsomely settled the question. 
But it only left him, as she went to the window, sit- 
ting there sombre. '' I like, you know," he brought out 
as his eyes followed her,  ''your saying you're not proud ! 
Thank God you are, my dear. Yes — it's better for us." 
At this, after a moment, in her place, she turned round 
to him. 'Tm glad I'm anything — whatever you may 
call it and though I can't call it the same — that's good 
for you." 
He said nothing more for a little, as if, by such a 
speech, something in him were simplified and softened. 
 '' It would be good for me — by which I mean it would 
be easier for me — if you didn't quite so immensely care 
for him." 
" Oh !" came from Nanda with an accent of attenua- 
tion at once so precipitate and so vague that it only made 
her attitude at first rather awkward. " Oh I" she im- 
mediately repeated, but with an increase of the same 
effect. After which, conscious, she made, as if to save 
herself, a quick addition. ''Dear Mr. Longdon, isn't 
it rather yourself most — ?" 
"It would be easier for me," he went on heedless, "if 
you didn't, my poor child, so wonderfully love him." 
"Ah, but I don't — please believe me when I assure 
you I don'tr she broke out. It burst from her, flaring 
up, in a queer quaver that ended in something queerer 
still — in her abrupt collapse, on the spot, into the nearest 
chair, where she choked with a torrent of tears. Her 
buried face could only, after a moment, give way to the 
  
flood, and she sobbed in a passion as sharp and brief 
the flurry of a wild thing for an instant uncaged ; an
old friend meantime keeping his place in the silence
broken by her sound and distantly — across the room- 
closing his eyes to his helplessness and her shame. Tin 
they sat together while their trouble both conjoined and
divided them. She recovered herself, however, with an 
effort worthy of her fall, and was on her feet again as 
she stammeringly spoke and angrily brushed at her eyes  
" What difference in the world does it make — what difference ever ?" Then, clearly, even with the words, her 
checked tears suffered her to see that it made the difference that he too had been crying; so that 'I don't 
know why you mind" she, on this, with extravagance, 
wailed. 
" You don't know what I would have done for him. 
You don't know, you don't know I" he repeated — while 
she looked as if she naturally couldn't — as with a renewal 
of his dream of beneficence and of the soreness of his personal wound. 
"Well, but he does you justice — he knows. So it 
shows, so it shows — !" 
But in this direction too, unable to say what it showed, 
she had again broken down, and again could only hold 
herself and let her companion sit there. " Ah, Nanda, 
Nanda !" he deeply murmured ; and the depth of the 
pity was, vainly and blindly, as the depth of a reproach. 
" It's I — it's I, therefore," she said as if she must then 
so look at it with him ; " it's I who am the horrible im- 
possible and who have covered everything else with my 
own impossibility. For some different person you could 
have done what you speak of, and for some different per- 
son you can do it still." 
He stared at her with his barren sorrow. '' A person 
different from him ?" 
"A person different from we." 
 
"And what interest have I in any such person ?" 
"But your interest in me— you see well enough where 
that lands us." 
Mr. Longdon now got to his feet and somewhat stiffly 
remained ; after which, for all answer, "You say you 
.loill come then ?" he asked. Then as — seemingly with 
her last thought — she kept silent: "You understand 
clearly, I take it, that this time it's never again to leave 
me — or to le left." 
" I understand," she presently replied. " Never again. 
That," she continued, " is why I asked you for these 
days." 
"Well then, since you've taken them — " 
" Ah, but have you ?" said Nanda. They were close to 
each other now, and with a tenderness of warning that 
was helped by their almost equal stature she laid her 
hand upon his shoulder. " What I did more than any- 
thing else write to him for," she had now regained her 
clearness enough to explain, "was that — with whatever 
idea you had — -you should see for yourself how he could 
come and go." 
"And what good was that to do me ? HadnH I seen 
for myself ?" 
" Well — you've seen once more. Here he was. I didn't 
care what he thought. Here I brought him. And his 
reasons remain." 
She kept her eyes on her companion's face, but his 
own, now and afterwards, seemed to wander far. " What 
do I care for his reasons so long as they're not mine ?" 
She thought an instant, still holding him gently and as 
if for successful argument. " But perhaps you don't alto- 
gether understand them." 
"And why the devil, altogether, sliould I ?" 
"Ah, because you distinctly want to," said Nanda, 
ever so kindly. "You've admitted as much when we've 
talked—" 
  
"Oh, but when have we talked?" he sharply interJ 
rupted. 
This time he had challenged her so straight that it w( 
her own look that strayed. ''' When ?" 
"When." 
She hesitated. " When haven't we ?" 
" Well, you may have : if that's what you call talking 
— never saying a word. But I haven't. Tve only to do  
at any rate, in the way of reasons, with my own." 
"And yours too then remain ? Because, you know,'  
the girl pursued, "I am like that." 
"Like what?" 
"Like what he thinks." Then so gravely that it wj 
almost a supplication, "Don't tell me," she added, "thai 
you don't kiiow what he thinks. You do know." 
Their eyes, on that strange ground, could meet at last,  
and the effect of it was presently for Mr. Longdon. "I 
do know." 
"Well?" 
" Well !" He raised his hands and took her face, 
which he drew so close to his own that, as she gently 
let him, he could kiss her with solemnity on the forehead. 
"Come !" he then very firmly said — quite indeed as if it 
were a question of their moving on the spot. 
It literally made her smile, which, with a certain com- 
punction, she immediately corrected by doing for him, 
in the pressure of her lips to his cheek, what he had just 
done for herself. "To-day?" she more seriously asked. 
He looked at his watch. " To-morrow." 
She paused, but clearly for assent. "That's what I 
mean by. your taking me as I am. It is, you know, for a 
girl — extraordinary." 
" Oh, I know what it is !" he exclaimed with an odd 
weariness in his tenderness. 
But she continued, with the shadow of her scruple, to 
explain. " We're many of us, we're most of us — as you 
 
long ago saw and showed you felt — extraordinary now. 
We can't help it. It isn't really our fault. There's so 
much else that's extraordinary that if we're in it all so 
much loe must naturally be." It was all obviously clearer 
to her than it had ever been, and her sense of it found 
renewed expression ; so that she might have been, as she 
wound up, a very much older person than her friend. 
"Everything's different from what it used to be." 
''Yes, everything," he returned with an air of final 
indoctrination. '' That's what he ought to have recog- 
nized." 
"As you have?" Nanda was once more — and com- 
pletely now — enthroned in high justice. " Oh, he's more 
old-fashioned than you." 
"Much more," said Mr. Longdon with a queer face. 
" He tried," the girl went on — " he did his best. But 
he couldn't. And he's so right — for himself." 
Her visitor, before meeting this, gathered in his hat 
and stick, which for a minute occupied his attention. 
"He ought to have married — " 
