are using pretty big words.' " They both laughed. 
But suddenly Evelyn added : 
"Why don't you do it?" 
" Do what ?" 
 
'' Write a. story about it — what Miss McDonald 
calls ' invest thie region with romance.' " 
The appeal was very direct, and it was enforced 
by those wonderful eyes that seemed to Philip 
to discern his powers, as he felt them, and his 
ambitions, and to express absolute confidence in 
him. His vanity was touched in its most sus- 
ceptible spot. Here seemed to be a woman, nay, 
a soul, who understood him, understood him even 
better than Celia, the life-long confidante. It is a 
fatal moment for men and women, that in which 
they feel the subtle flattery of being understood 
by one of the opposite sex. Philip's estimation 
of himself rose pari passu with his recognition 
of the discernment and intellectual quality of the 
frank and fascinating girl who seemed to believe 
in him. But he restrained himself and only asked, 
after a moment of apparent reflection upon the 
general proposition : 
" Well, Miss Mavick, you have been here some 
time. Have you discovered any material for such 
use ?" 
" Why, perhaps not, and I might not know 
what to do with it if I had. But perhaps you 
don't mean what I mean. I mean something 
fittins: the setting. Not the domestic novel. 
Miss McDonald says we are vulgarized in all 
our ideals by so much domesticity. She says 
that Jennie Deans would have been just an 
 
ordinary, commonplace girl but for Walter 
Scott." 
" Then you want a romance ?" 
" No. I don't know exactly what I do want. 
But I know it when I see it." And Evelyn 
looked down and appeared to be studying her 
delicate little hands, interlacing her taper, ivory 
fingers — but Philip knew she did not see them — 
and then looked up in his face again and said : 
" I'll tell you. This morning as we came up I 
was talking all the way with your cousin. It 
took some time to break the ice, but gradually 
she began to say things, half stories, half poetic, 
not out of books, things, that if said with assur- 
ance, in the city would be called wit. And then 
began to see her emotional side, her pure imag- 
ination, such a refinement of appreciation and 
justice — I think there is an immovable basis of 
justice in her nature — and charity, and I think 
she'd be heroic, witb all her gentleness, if occa- 
sion offered." 
" I see," said Philip, rather lightly, " that you 
improved your time in finding out what a rare 
creature Alice is. But," and this more gravely, 
" it would surprise her that you have found it 
out." 
" I believe you. I fancy she has not the least 
idea what her qualities are, or her capacities of 
doing or of suffering, and the world will never 
 
know — that is the point — unless some genius 
comes along and reveals them." 
"How?" 
" Why, through a tragedy, a drama, a story, 
in which she acts out her whole self. Some act 
it out in society. She never will. Such sweet- 
ness and strength and passion — yes, I have no 
doubt, passion under all the reserve ! I feel it 
but I cannot describe it ; I haven't imagination 
to make you see what I feel." 
" You come very near it," said Philip, with a 
smile. And after a moment the girl broke out 
again : 
" Materials ! You writers go searching all 
round for materials, just as painters do, fit for 
j^our genius." 
" But don't you know that the hardest thing 
to do is the obvious, the thing close to you ?" 
" I dare say. But you won't mind ? It is just 
an illustration. I went the other day with mother 
to Alice's house. She was so sort of distant and 
reserved that I couldn't know her in the least as 
I know her now. And there was the rigid Puri- 
tan, her father, representing the Old Testament ; 
and her placid mother, with all the spirit of the 
New Testament ; and then that dear old maiden 
aunt, representing I don't know what, maybe a 
blind attempt through nature and art to escape 
out of Puritanism; and the typical old frame 
 
farm-house — why, here is material for the sweet- 
est, most pathetic idyl. Yes, the Story of Alice. 
In another generation people would come long 
distances to see the valley where Alice lived, and 
her spirit would pervade it." 
There could be but one end to such a burst of 
enthusiasm, and both laughed and felt a relief in 
a merriment that was, after all, sympathetic. But 
Evelyn was a persistent creature, and presently 
she turned to Philip, again with those appealing 
eyes. 
" Now, why don't you do it ?" 
Philip hesitated a moment and betrayed some 
embarrassment under the questioning of the 
truthful eyes. 
" Pve a good mind to tell you. I have — I 
am writing something." 
" Yes ?" 
" Not that exactly. I couldn't, don't you see, 
betray and use my own relatives in that way." 
" Yes, I see that." 
" It isn't much. I cannot tell how it will 
come out. I tell you — I don't mean that I have 
any right to ask you to keep it as a secret of 
mine, but it is this way : If a writer gives away 
his imagination, his idea, before it is fixed in form 
on paper, he seems to let the air of all the world 
upon it and it disappears, and isn't quite his as it 
was before to grow in his own mind." 
THAT FOETITNE 
" I can understand that," Evelyn replied. 
" Well — " and Philip found himself launched. 
It is so easy to talk about one's self to a sympa- 
thetic listener. He told Evelyn a little about his 
life, and how the valley used to seem to him as 
a boy, and how it seemed now that he had had 
experience of other places and people, and how 
his studies and reading had enabled him to see 
things in their proper relations, and how, finally, 
gradually the idea for a stor^' in this setting had 
developed in his mind. And then he sketched 
in outline the story as he had developed it, and 
left the misty outlines of its possibilities to the 
imagination. 
The girl listened with absorbing interest, and 
looked the approval which she did not put in 
words. Perhaps she knew that a bud will never 
come to flower if you pull it in pieces. When 
Philip had finished he had a momentary regret 
for this burst of confidence, which he had never 
given to any one else. But, in the light of 
Evelyn's quick approval and understanding, it 
was only momentary. Perhaps neither of them 
thought what a dangerous game this is, for two 
young souls to thus unbosom themselves to each 
other. 
A call from Mrs. Mavick brought them to 
their feet. It was time to go. Evelyn simply 
said: 
 
" I think the valley, Mr. Burnett, looks a little 
different already." 
As they drove home along the murmuring 
river through the golden sunset, the party were 
mostly silent. Only Mrs. Mavick and Philip, who 
sat together, kept up a lively chatter, lively be- 
cause Philip was elated with the event of the 
day, and because the nap under the beech-tree 
in the open air had brightened the wits of one 
of the cleverest women Philip had ever met. 
If the valley did seem different to Evelyn, 
probably she did not think so far as to own to 
herself whether this was owing to the outline of 
the story, which ran in her mind, or to the pres- 
ence of the young author. 
Alice and Philip were set down at the farm- 
house, and the company parted with mutual en- 
thusiasm over the success of the excursion. 
" She is a much more interesting girl than I 
thought," Alice admitted. "Not a bit fashion- 
able." 
" And she likes you." 
"Me?" 
" Yes, your ears would have burned." 
" Well, I am glad, for I think she is sincere." 
" And I can tell you another thing. I had a 
long talk while you were taking your siesta. She 
takes an abstract view of things, judging the 
right and wrong of them, without reference to 
 
conventionalities or the practical obstacles to 
carrying out her ideas, as if she had been edu- 
cated by reading and not by society. It is very 
interesting." 
" Philip," and Alice laid her hand on his shoul- 
der, " don't let it be too interesting." 
CHAPTER Xin 
When Philip said that Evelyn was educated ia 
the world of literature and not in the conflicts 
of life he had hit the key-note of her condition 
at the moment she was coming into the world 
and would have to act for herself. The more he 
saw of her the more was he impressed with the 
fact that her discrimination, it might almost be 
called divination, and her judgment were based 
upon the best and most vital products of the hu- 
man mind. A selection had evidently been made 
for her, until she had acquired the taste, or the 
habit rather, of choosing only the best for her- 
self. Very little of the trash of literature, or the 
ignoble — that is to say, the ignoble view of life 
— had come into her mind. Consequently she 
judged the world as she came to know it by 
high standards. And her mind was singularly 
pure and free from vulgar images. 
It might be supposed that this sort of educa- 
tion would have its disadvantages. The world 
is firmly fixed in the idea that both for its pleas- 
ure and profit it is necessary to know good and 
 
evil. Ignorance of the evil in the world is, how- 
ever, not to be predicated of those who are famil- 
iar only with the great masterpieces of liter- 
ature, for if they are masterpieces, little or great, 
they exhibit human nature in all its aspects. 
And, further than this, it ought to be demonstra- 
ble, a priori^ that a mind fed on the best and 
not confused by the weak and diluted, or cor- 
rupted by images of the essentially vulgar and 
vile, would be morally healthy and best fitted to 
cope with the social problems of life. The Testa- 
ments reveal about everything that is known 
about human nature, but such is their clear, hiffh 
spirit, and their quality, that no one ever traced 
mental degeneration or low taste in literature, or 
want of virility in judgment, to familiarity with 
them. On the contrary, the most vigorous in- 
tellects have acknowledged their supreme in- 
debtedness to them. 
It is not likely that Philip made any such elab- 
orate analysis of the girl with whom he was in 
love, or attempted, except by a general reference 
to the method of her training, to account for the 
purity of her mind and her vigorous discernment. 
He was in love with her more subtle and hidden 
personality, with the girl just becoming a woman, 
with the mysterious sex that is the inspiration of 
most of the poetry and a good part of the hero- 
ism in the world. And he would have been in 
 
love with her, let her education have been what 
it might. He was in love before he heard her 
speak. And whatever she would say was bound 
to have a quality of interest and attraction that 
could be exercised by no other lips. It might be 
argued — a priori again, for the world is bound 
to go on in its own way — that there would be 
fewer marriages if the illusion of the sex did not 
suffice for the time to hide intellectual poverty, 
and, what is worse, ignobleness of disposition. 
It was doubtless fortunate for this particular 
love-making, though it did not seem so to Philip, 
that it was very much obstructed by lack of op- 
portunities, and that it was not impaired in its 
lustre by too much familiarity. In truth, Philip 
would have said that he saw very little of Evelyn, 
because he never saw her absolutely alone. To 
be sure he was much in her presence, a welcome 
member of the group that liked to idle on the 
veranda of the inn, and in the frequent excur- 
sions, in which Philip seemed to be the compan- 
ion of Mrs. Mavick rather than of her daughter. 
But she was never absent from his thought, his 
imagination was wholly captive to her image, 
and the passion grew in these hours of absence 
until she became an indispensable associate in all 
that he was or could ever hope to be. Alice, who 
discerned very clearly Mrs. Mavick and her am- 
bition, was troubled by Philip's absorption and 
 
the cruel disappointment in store for him. To 
her he was still the little boy, and all her tender- 
ness for him was stirred to shield him from the 
suffering she feared. 
But what could she do ? Philip liked to talk 
about Evelyn, to dwell upon her peculiarities and 
qualities, to hear her praised ; to this extent he 
was confidential with his cousin, but never in re- 
gard to his own feeling. That was a secret con- 
cerning which he was at once too humble and 
too confident to share with any other. None 
knew better than he the absurd presumption of 
aspiring to the hand of such a great heiress, and 
yet he nursed the vanity that no other man could 
ever appreciate and love her as he did. 
Alice was still more distracted and in sympathy 
with Philip's evident aspirations by her own love 
for Evelyn and her growing admiration for the 
girl's character. It so happened that mutual sym- 
pathy — who can say how it was related to Philip? 
— had drawn them much together, and chance 
had given them many opportunities for knowing 
each other. Alice had so far come out of her 
shell, and broken the reserve of her life, as to 
make frequent visits at the inn, and Mrs. Mavick 
