“And give it to me to keep.”
“It--it won’t do you any good, I--I am so poor.”
“I’ll take the chance of that. You’ve got more money in your pocket
than would bury you five times over.”
“No--no,” protested the old man in alarm. “You--you frighten me,
James. I don’t feel well. Won’t you go away?”
“There is no need to be scared, dad. I don’t want your money.”
“Is that true, James?” said the old man, in a tone of relief. “I have
so little it wouldn’t do you any good.”
“Didn’t that boy tell you I wanted to make you a present?”
“Yes, he said so.”
“Yet you hid away from me and wouldn’t let me know where you lived.”
“Did Paul tell you? How did you find me out, James?”
“No, he didn’t tell me, but I found out all the same. Never mind how!
Only I warn you it won’t do you any good to hide from me in future. I
have ways of finding you out. But let me convince you that I don’t need
your money. Do you see that?”
As he spoke he drew out a roll of counterfeit bills and exhibited them
to the astonished eyes of old Jerry.
The old man regarded him with new respect as the possessor of such
unexpected wealth.
“Are--are they square?” he asked.
“Of course they are,” answered James. “I intended to give you a present
if you hadn’t treated me so coolly--”
“I meant no offense, James,” said the old man, eying the money with a
look of greed.
“Well, if you apologize, it’s all right!” said James, with noble
magnanimity. “You’ll find you haven’t judged me right. I can do more
for you than that telegraph kid. But I want you to trust me, and treat
me kind, do hear?”
“Yes,” answered Jerry, meekly.
“To show you that I’m in earnest, I’ll make you a fair offer. Give me
two of those five dollar gold pieces, and I’ll give you these two ten
dollar bills. If that isn’t a handsome offer, I don’t know what is.”
Jerry was dazzled by this offer. The fact that it was made by such a
scapegrace as he knew his son to be should have put him on his guard,
but cupidity blinded him.
“Do you mean it, James?” he asked, surveying the bills with avidity.
“Certainly I do. I make the present just to show you that I don’t bear
no grudge, and want to live friendly.”
“Let me see the bills, James.”
“There, take them in your hand if you like.”
Old Jerry took the bills, and eyed them at first longingly, but as he
marked their new appearance a suspicion entered his mind. If they were
counterfeit his son’s unexpected liberal offer would be accounted for.
James’s character, too, made it very probable that he would engage in
circulating counterfeit bills.
“I--I would rather keep the gold, James,” he said, handing back the
bills.
“Then you’re a fool!” said James Barclay roughly. “I see you don’t want
to be friendly. I wanted to be on good terms with you, seein’ you’re my
father, but now I don’t care. Give me that gold!”
“Go away!” said the old man, in renewed alarm.
James Barclay’s reply was to rise from his seat, and stride over to
where his father was sitting on the bed. He seized the old man roughly
by the shoulder, and made a motion to search the pocket containing the
gold pieces.
“Give it up peaceably or I’ll hurt you!” he said.
Jerry uttered a shrill cry, and tried to make a feeble opposition, but
he was like a child in the hands of the burly ruffian.
“Stop your whimpering!” said James, fiercely. “That gold I mean to
have, and you’d best give it up.”
Jerry again uttered a cry, which was heard by Mrs. Hogan, an opposite
neighbor, who, opening the door, saw, unnoticed by either, the uneven
struggle between Jerry and his assailant.
Mrs. Hogan was a brave woman. She dashed back into her own room, and
returned in an instant with a dipper of hot water. Armed with this she
was prepared for hostilities.
“Let the old man alone, you thafe of the worruld!” she exclaimed,
indignantly.
James Barclay turned, and, seeing that it was a woman, replied
scornfully, “Get out of here, woman, or it’ll be the worse for you!”
CHAPTER XX. JAMES BARCLAY COMES TO GRIEF.
“Get out yourself!” retorted Mrs. Hogan, as with undaunted mien she
faced the ruffian. “What are you doin’ to old Jerry?”
“Mind your business, woman, and leave the room, if you don’t want to
get hurt!”
James Barclay still retained his grip upon the old man as he spoke.
He was as bold as his father was timid, and did not mean to be
frightened away by a woman.
“I’m no more a woman than yourself,” said Mrs. Hogan, angrily, who
preferred to be addressed as a lady.
“Well, you’re dressed like one, any way,” rejoined Barclay, with a
smile of amusement. “My father and I have a little business together,
and you’re not wanted.”
“Is he your son, Jerry?” asked Mrs. Hogan, not certain whether the
statement was true.
“Yes,” answered Jerry, feebly, “but he wants to rob me. Take him away,
Mrs. Hogan.”
“Ain’t you ashamed of yourself to trate your old father so manely?”
demanded Mrs. Hogan, indignantly.
“Give me the money, father, and I’ll go,” said Barclay, thinking it
politic to get away as soon as possible.
“Take him away!” said old Jerry, feebly.
“I’ll do it!” responded Mrs. Hogan. “I’ll tache him, the murtherin’
thafe!”
She suited the action to the word, and dashed the scalding hot water
into the face of James Barclay.
He uttered a hoarse cry of mingled rage and pain, and, leaving his
father, dashed after his bold assailant.
He was partially blinded, however, by the pain, and she easily escaped.
Scarcely knowing where he went, he ran against an athletic, broad
shouldered man, who was bringing up a basket of coal.
“O, that’s your game, is it?” said the newcomer, fancying the assault
intentional. “I don’t know who you are, but I’ll give ye all ye want.
No man can hit Dennis O’Brien widout gettin’ as good as he gives.”
In a trice the two men were grappling, and, losing their balance,
tumbled down the stairs, receiving some hard knocks on the way. The
result was that both were arrested by a passing policeman, and locked
up.
James Barclay, whose burns were severe, was sent to the hospital on the
Island, and it was thirty days before he was free to pursue his plans
again.
Old Jerry, picking himself up after his narrow escape, carefully
counted his gold pieces, and to his great relief found that none were
missing.
He breathed a sigh of relief when he learned that his son had been
arrested, and determined to deposit his gold in the savings bank, so as
to guard against future robbery.
It was about this time that Paul, called up town by some errand, was
crossing Madison Square, when he heard his name called.
Looking up he recognized, with no little pleasure the smiling face of
Jennie Cunningham.
She was accompanied by a boy of about Paul’s size, fashionably dressed,
and wearing an expression of high self appreciation on his rather
narrow face.
“How are you, Paul? It’s an age since I saw you,” said the young
heiress, cordially, offering her hand.
“I am glad to see you, Miss Jennie,” responded Paul.
“Why haven’t you been up to see us? I have been expecting you for a
long time.”
“I wasn’t sure I wouldn’t be intruding.”
“Then I’ll tell you once for all, you needn’t be a bit afraid. I want
to beat you at dominoes. You beat me last time, didn’t you?”
“I believe so,” said Paul.
“Then I want my revenge. When will you come?”
“Whenever I am invited,” said Paul, smiling.
“That reminds me--how stupid I was to forget it--that I am to have a
fancy dress party of young people next Wednesday evening. You’ll come,
won’t you?”
“I am afraid I have no clothes fit to wear at a party.”
“O, you are to come in costume. Come as a telegraph boy. That will be
the very thing. You’ll act the character naturally, you know, and no
one will know that you are a real telegraph boy.”
“I should like very much to come, if I can come in my uniform.”
“That’s just what I want. Mind, then, Wednesday evening, at eight
o’clock. What is the number of your office?”
“No. ---- Broadway.”
“I will send you a regular card of invitation. Then you will be treated
just like the rest.”
She was about to turn away when a thought struck her.
“O, I forgot to introduce you to my cousin, Mark Sterling. Mark, this
is Paul Parton, the boy who drove off the burglar when papa was gone to
Washington. You’ve heard me speak of him?”
“O, yes, I’ve heard of him,” said Mark, coldly. “He behaved in a very
creditable way--for a telegraph boy,” he continued, in a patronizing
tone.
“Or for any other boy!” rejoined Jennie, quickly. “Really, I look upon
Paul quite as a hero.”
“I am afraid I am not entitled to such high praise,” said Paul,
modestly.
“You must make allowances for my Cousin Jennie,” said Mark. “She is a
girl, and girls are all apt to gush.”
“This particular girl isn’t, Mark,” said his cousin, indignantly. “Have
you ever seen the burglar since, Paul?”
“Yes.”
“O, tell me where.”
“On Broadway.”
“Why didn’t you have him arrested?”
“There was no policeman at hand. Besides, I told him that night that if
he would go peaceably I would not molest him.”
“Such a promise doesn’t count,” said Mark, in a tone of authority. “You
should have called a policeman.”
“My promise always counts!” said Paul, firmly.
“Even if given to a burglar?” said Mark, with a sneer.
“Yes, even if given to a burglar.”
Mark took off his hat mockingly.
“Really, I wasn’t prepared to find such a lofty sense of honor--in a
telegraph boy!” he said, with a satirical smile.
“I am afraid you are not very well acquainted with telegraph boys,”
said Paul, good naturedly.
He quite understood that Mark meant to sneer at him, but being
confident of Jennie Cunningham’s favor, he felt quite indifferent to
the opinion of her cousin.
“No,” said Mark, significantly; “I have never had the honor of
associating much with that class of--persons.”
“Come, Mark, don’t make yourself so disagreeable,” said Jennie,
unceremoniously. “Remember that Paul is a particular friend of mine.”
“Thank you, Miss Jennie,” said Paul, gratefully.
“I was not aware of that,” said Mark, stiffly.
“I am afraid I must be going; my time is not my own,” said Paul. “Good
morning, Miss Jennie; good morning, Mr. Sterling.”
Jennie Cunningham responded cordially, but Mark affected not to hear
the telegraph boy’s farewell. He was not in the best of humor, having
a partiality for his pretty cousin, and being disposed to regard with
jealousy any kindness bestowed by her upon other boys. He was foolish
enough to venture upon a remonstrance, without reflecting that this was
the poorest possible way of recommending himself to the favor of his
companion.
“Jennie,” he commenced, “I am very much surprised at the notice you
take of that low telegraph boy.”
“Do you mean Paul Parton?”
“Yes, if that is the fellow’s name.”
“Then I wish you to understand that he is not a low boy.”
“What do you know of him? What do you know of his family?”
“Nothing, except that he has neither father nor mother living.”
“Probably they were low persons.”
“Why probably?”
“You know well enough that nice boys don’t become telegraph messengers.”
“Paul is a nice boy,” asserted Jennie, with spirit.
“You seem to be infatuated with him,” said Mark, shrugging his
shoulders.
“Because I treat him with common politeness?”
“Didn’t you invite him to your party next Wednesday?”
“Suppose I did?”
“Do you think it suitable to have a boy like that among your guests?”
“Yes, I do.”
“I don’t believe your mother will approve of it.”
“My mother invited Paul to spend the evening whenever he had time.”
This rather took Mark by surprise. He could not very well say anything
in condemnation of his aunt, though he chose to lecture his cousin.
“I hope you won’t expect me to take any notice of him,” he said, with
dignity.
“O, I don’t think he will insist upon it. I will take care that he
feels himself at home.”
Mark did not venture to say more, but walked beside his cousin in a
disgusted frame of mind. I am afraid he was really jealous of Paul,
whom, against his will, he was forced to admit to be a very good
looking boy.
CHAPTER XXI. THE FANCY DRESS PARTY.
Paul might have hesitated about accepting the invitation to attend a
fashionable party if he had not been on such cordial and friendly terms
with his young hostess and her family. He was sure to be kindly treated
by them and by the majority of the guests who very properly follow the
lead of their entertainers. He foresaw that Mark would snub him if he
had an opportunity, but for this he cared little. It was clear that
Mark was foolishly puffed up with an idea of his own consequence, and
had been accustomed to look with scorn upon all who were not on the
same social plane as himself.
Paul had for some time been thinking of ordering another and newer
uniform, and thought it good policy to do so at once, that he might
have the new suit to wear for the first time at Jennie Cunningham’s
party. It is the custom for boys to obtain them from the company,
paying by installments, or regular weekly deductions from their pay.
The next morning some surprise was excited at the office by the receipt
of a square envelope, of perfumed French paper, directed to
  PAUL PARTON, A. D. T., No. 91.
“A love letter, I suppose,” said the chief, with a smile, as he handed
the note to Paul.
Paul opened it, and, having no reason for secrecy, passed it to the
superintendent.
“An invitation to a fancy dress party!” said that official, in
surprise. “You seem to be pretty thick with the Cunninghams, Number 91.”
“They are very polite and kind,” said Paul.
“I suppose you are trying to ingratiate yourself with the young lady.”
“I am too young to think of that,” answered the telegraph boy, very
sensibly.
“Shall you accept the invitation?”
“Yes, sir.”
“You must go in fancy dress.”
“I have already decided to go as a telegraph boy.”
“Then you knew of this before?”
“I met Miss Jennie yesterday in Madison Square, and was told she meant
to invite me.”
“You are a lucky boy.”
“So I think, sir.”
From that time Paul was treated with greater consideration in the
office, the chief regarding him as a protege of the Cunninghams. This
was an advantage, for he was now employed on the most agreeable and
desirable commissions that came to the office.
On Wednesday morning Paul said to old Jerry: “I shall be home late
tonight, Jerry.”
“Why, Paul? Will you be kept at the office?”
“No; I am to attend a party.”
Jerry opened his eyes.
“A party! Where, Paul?”
“In Fifty First Street. It is a fancy dress party.”
“But how came they to invite you?”
“They employed me on one occasion, and have treated me in a friendly
way since.”
“I don’t understand it, Paul. Is it a--a rich family?”
“Yes, Jerry.”
The old man’s eyes lighted up hopefully.
“And they are good friends of yours, Paul?” he asked.
“Yes, grand--yes, Jerry.”
“Then, Paul, you can do me a great favor. You will, won’t you?” pleaded
the old man, coaxingly.
“What is it?” inquired Paul, suspiciously.
“Tell them how poor I am, Paul, and ask them if they won’t help me.
It would be nothing to rich folks to send an old man ten dollars, or
twenty, and would do me a sight of good.”
“You must be crazy to ask me such a thing,” answered Paul, sternly.
“Have you no shame, or do you think I have none, to beg money of
strangers?”
“But I am so poor, Paul,” whined the miser.
“I am tired of hearing of that, Jerry,” said the boy, with an
expression of disgust on his face. “It was bad enough when I believed
you to be really poor, but now that I know you to have plenty of money,
and are very likely rich, it makes me sick to hear you tell such
falsehoods.”
