BETTY returned home much elated with the success 
of her visit. She heard the voice of her cousin Jack 
Emory in the parlor and went at once to her room 
to dress. The voice sounded solemn, and so did her 
mother's ; they doubtless were sitting in conference 
upon her. She selected her evening gown with some 
care ; her cousin was an old story, but he was a very 
attractive man, and coquetry would hold its own in 
her, become she never so intellectual. 
Jack Emory had been her undeclared lover since 
his middle teens. Somewhere in the same immature 
interval, just after her first return from Europe, she 
had imagined herself passionately in love with him. 
But she had a large fortune left her by her maternal 
grandfather, besides a hundred thousand her father had 
died too soon to spend, and Jack was the son of a 
 
Virginian who had been a Rebel to his death, haughtily 
refusing to have his disabilities removed, and threatening to shoot any negro in his employ who dared to go 
to the ballot-box. He had left his son but a few 
thousands out of his large inheritance, and adjured him 
on his death-bed to hold no office under the Federal 
government and to shoot a Yankee rather than shake 
his hand. Jack inherited his father's prejudices without his violent temper. He had a contemptuous 
dislike for the North, a loathing for politics, and a 
distaste for everybody outside his own diminishing 
class. Love for Betty Madison had driven him West 
in the hope of retrieving his fortunes, but he was essentially a gentleman and a scholar ; the hustling quality 
was not in him, and he returned South after two years 
of unpleasant endeavor and started a small produce 
farm adjoining an old house on the outskirts of Washington, left him by his mother. Here he lived with 
his books, and made enough money to support himself decently. He never had asked Betty to marry 
him, although he knew that his aunt would champion 
his cause. During the period of Betty's maiden passion his pride had caused her as much suffering as her 
youth and buoyant nature would permit; but as the 
years slipped by she felt inclined to personify that 
pride and burn a candle beneath it. Even before 
her mind had awakened, the energy and strength of 
her character had cured her of love for a man as 
supine as Jack Emory. He was charming and well- 
read, all that she could desire in a brother, but 
as a husband he would be intolerable. As his love 
cooled she liked him better still, particularly as his 
loyalty would not permit him to acknowledge even to 
 
himself that he could change ; but its passing left him 
with fewer clouds on a rather melancholy spirit, a 
readier tongue, and a complete recovery from the 
habits of sighing and of leaving the house abruptly. 
Betty's maid dressed her in a bright blue taffeta, 
softened with much white lace, and she went slowly 
down to the hall, rustling her skirts that Emory might 
hear and come out for a word before dinner if he 
liked. It was a relief to be able to coquet with him 
without fearing that he would go home and shoot him- 
self; and it helped him to sustain the pleasant fiction 
that he still was in love with her. 
He came out at once and raised her hand to his 
lips, murmuring a compliment as his grandfather might 
have done. He was only thirty-two, but his face was 
sallow and lined from trouble and fever. Otherwise 
he was very handsome, with his golden head and intellectual blue eyes, his haughty profile and tall figure, 
listlessly carried as it was. In spite of the fact that 
he took pride in dressing well, he always looked a little 
old-fashioned. When with Betty, invariably as smart 
as Paris and New York could make her, he almost 
appeared as if wearing his father's old clothes. His 
Southern accent and intonation were nearly as broad 
as a negro's. Betty had almost lost hers ; she retained 
just enough to enrich and individualize without a touch 
of provincialism. She belonged to that small class 
of Americans whose ear-mark is the absence of all 
Americanisms. 
Mr. Emory looked perturbed. 
" There is something I should like to say," he remarked hesitatingly. "There is yet a quarter of an 
hour before dinner. I think this old hall with its 
 
portraits of your grandmothers is a good place to say 
it in " 
" Molly has pressed you into service, I see. Let us 
have it out, by all means. Please straighten your 
necktie before you begin. You cannot possibly be 
impressive while it looks as if it were standing on one 
leg." 
" Please be serious, Betty dear. I am indeed most 
disturbed. It surely cannot be that you meant what 
you told your mother this morning, that you intended 
to change the whole current of your life in such an 
unprecedented manner." 
" Great heavens ! One would think I was about 
to go on the stage or enter a convent." 
" I would rather you did either than soil your mind 
with the politics of this country. I say nothing about 
there being no statesmen, there is not an honest 
man in politics the length and breadth of the Union. 
The country is a sink of corruption, as far as politics 
are concerned. Every Congressman buys his seat or 
is put in as the agent of some disgraceful trust or 
syndicate or railroad corporation." 
Betty drew her eyelids together in a fashion that 
robbed her eyes of their coquetry and fire and made 
them look unpleasantly judicial. 
" Exactly how much do you know about American 
politics?" she asked coldly. "I have known you 
all my life and I never heard you mention them 
before " 
"I never have considered them a fit subject for you 
to listen to " 
" I have been in your library a great many times and 
I do not recall a copy of the Congressional Record. 
 
You have said often that you despise the newspapers 
and only read the telegrams ; that the only paper you 
read through is the London Times. So, I repeat, 
what do you know about the American politics of 
to-day?" 
" What I have told you." 
" Where did you learn it ? Do you ever go to the 
Senate or the House?" 
" God forbid ! But I am a man, and those things 
are in the atmosphere; a man's brain accumulates 
naturally all widely diffused impressions. I've been 
a great deal in the smoking-cars of railroad-trains, and 
spent two years in a Western State where a man who 
had taken a fortune out of a mine made no bones 
of buying a seat in the Senate from the Legislature, 
nor the Legislature about selling it. It was the most 
abominable transaction I ever came close to, and had 
as much to do with my leaving the place as anything 
else." 
" And you mean to say that you judge all the old 
States of the country by a newly settled community of 
adventurers out West?" 
" New York and Pennsylvania are notorious." 
" There are bad boys in every school. What I want 
to know is can you assert on your knowledge that 
all the Southern and New England States are corrupt 
and send only small politicians to Washington? This 
is a more serious charge than Molly's assertion that 
they all use toothpicks." 
" I repeat that I do not believe there is an honest 
man in that Capitol." 
" Do you know this ? Have you investigated the 
life of every man in the Senate and the House?" 
 
" What a good district attorney you would make ! " 
" You are talking a lot of copybook platitudes with 
which you have allowed your mind to stagnate. But 
you must convince me, for if what you say is true I 
shall have nothing to do with politics. Let us begin 
with Senator North. How and when did he buy his 
seat, and what Trust does he represent?" 
"Oh, I never have heard anything against North. 
He is too big a gun in Washington " 
" You will admit then that he is not corrupt " 
" I don't doubt he has his own methods " 
" I don't care three cents about your suppositions. 
I want facts. How about Senator Maxwell?" 
" He has been in Congress since before I was born. 
One never hears him discussed." 
" And his Puritanical State has heaped every honor 
on him that it can think of. Tell me the biography of 
Senator Ward all that is too awful to be printed in 
the Congressional Directory " 
"He is from one of those dreadful Northwestern 
States and bound to be corrupt," cried Emory, triumphantly. He wished desperately that he had waited 
and got up his case. He spoke from sincere conviction. " There may be a rag of decency left in the 
older States, but the West is positively fetid. I give 
you my word I am speaking the truth, Betty dear, 
and in your own interest. If I have no more details 
to give you, it is because I promised my father on 
his death-bed that I would have nothing to do with 
politics, and I have kept my word to the extent of 
reading as little about them as possible. But I can 
assure you that I know as much about them as anybody 
not in the accursed business. It is in the air " 
 
" There are so many things in the air that they get 
mixed up. Your whole argument is based on air. 
Now, mon ami, you turn to to-morrow and study up 
the record of every man in that Senate, as well as the 
legislative methods of his State. When you know 
all about it, I shall be delighted to be instructed. 
But I don't want any more air. Now come in to 
dinner, and if you allude to the subject before Molly, 
I'll leave the table." 
He bowed over her hand again with his old-fashioned 
courtesy. " When you issue a command I am bound 
to obey," he said, " and although you have set me 
an unpleasant, an obnoxious task, I certainly shall 
accomplish that also to the best of my ability. You 
belong to this old house, Betty, to this old set ; I love 
to think of you as the last rose on the old Southern 
tree, and you shall not be blighted if I can help it." 
Betty tapped him lightly with her fan. 
" I belong to the whole country, my dear boy ; I 
am no old cabbage rose on a half-dead bush, but the 
same vegetable under a new name, the American 
Beauty Rose. Do you see the parable ? And I've a 
great many thorns on my long stem. Remember that 
also." 
BETTY, in accordance with a time-honored habit, was 
the last to arrive at the dinner-party on the following 
evening. She had arranged her heavy large -waved 
hair low on her neck, and the pale green velvet of 
her gown lifted its dull mahogany hue and the deep 
 
Southern whiteness of her skin. She did not take 
a beautiful picture, for her features had the national 
irregularity, but she seldom entered a room that several 
men did not turn and stare at her. She carried herself 
with the air of one used to commanding the homage 
of men, her lovely coloring was always enhanced 
by dress, and she radiated magnetism. It was such 
an alive, warm, buoyant personality that men turned 
to her as naturally as children do to the maternal 
woman ; even when they did not love her they liked 
to be near her, for she recalled some vague ideal. 
She knew her power perfectly, and after one or two 
memorable lessons had put from her the temptation 
to give it active exercise. It should be the instrument 
of unqualified happiness when her hour came ; mean- 
while she cultivated an impersonal attitude which 
baffled men unable to propose and tempered the 
wind to those that could. 
During the few moments in the drawing-room she 
could gather only a collective impression of the men 
who stared at her to-night. There was a general 
suggestion of weight, in the sculptor's sense, and 
repose combined with alertness, and they stood very 
squarely on their feet. Betty had only had time to 
single out one long beard dependent from a visage 
otherwise shorn, and to observe further that some 
of the women were charmingly dressed, while others 
wore light silk afternoon frocks, when dinner was 
announced. 
Her partner was evidently one of the younger Sena- 
tors, one of those juvenile enthusiasts of forty-five who 
beat their breasts for some years upon the Senate's 
impassive front. He was extremely good-looking, 
 
with a fair strong impatient face, trimmed with a 
moustache only, and a well-built figure full of nervous 
energy. He had less repose than most of the men 
about him, but he suggested the same solidity. He 
might fail or go wrong, but not because there was 
any room in his mind for shams. His name was 
Burleigh, but what his section was, Betty, as they 
exchanged amenities and admired the lavish display 
of flowers, could not determine ; he had no accent 
whatever, and although his voice was deep and sonorous, it had not the peculiar richness of the South. 
His gray eyes smiled as they met hers, and his manners 
were charming; but Betty, accustomed to grasp the 
salient points of character in a first interview, fancied 
that he could be overbearing and truculent. 
"Are they going to talk politics to-night?" she 
asked, when the platitudes had run their course. 
t( I hope not. I 've had enough of politics, all 
day," 
" Oh, I hoped you would," said Betty, in a deeply 
disappointed tone. 
He looked amused. 
"Why?" he asked. 
" Oh, I am so interested. That sounds very vague, 
but I am. When Lady Mary told me she was dining 
members of the two Committees, I thought it was to 
talk politics, and and settle it amicably or something." Betty could look infantile when she chose, 
and was always ready to cover real ignorance with 
an exaggerated assumption which inspired doubt. 
" We have the excessive pleasure of discussing the 
bill in Senator North's comfortable Committee room 
for several hours every few days, and we usually are 
 
amiable. We are merely dining out to-night in each 
other's good company. Still, I guess your desire will 
be more or less gratified. Second nature is strong, 
and one or two will probably get down to it about 
the middle of dinner." 
"You are from New England," exclaimed Betty, 
triumphantly. " I have been waiting for you to say ' I 
reckon ' or < I guess.' " 
" I was born and educated in Maine, but I went 
West to practise law as soon as I knew enough, and I 
am Senator from one of the middle Western States." 
"Ah!" Betty gave him a swift side glance. He 
looked anything but "corrupt," and that truculent 
note in his voice did not indicate subservience to party 
bosses. She determined to write to Jack Emory in the 
morning and command him to look up Senator Burleigh's record at once. 
" I suppose all the Senators here to-night are the 
the big ones?" 
" Oh, no ; North and Ward are the only two on this. 
Committee belonging to the very first rank. The other 
four here are in that group that is pressing close upon 
their heels ; and myself, who am a new member : I 've 
been here four years only. Would you mind telling me 
who you are? Of course American women don't take 
much interest in politics, but do you know as little as 
you pretend?" 
" I wish I knew more ; but I've been abroad for the 
