“Yes, I admit that, though he tells me he has no anxieties.”
“He is too young to understand what it is to be thrown on his own
resources.”
“I think not. He is strong and self-reliant.”
“Strength and self-reliance are good things, but a fair sum of money is
better. That emboldens me to mention to you a plan which has occurred
to me. You own the land about the cabin, do you not?”
“Yes; I pre-empted it, and have a government title.”
“So I supposed. Of course it will be of little value to Gerald. I
propose to buy it of you. How many acres are there in your holding?”
“Eighty.”
“I will give you two hundred dollars for it.”
“I do not feel that I have a right to sell it. It belongs to Gerald.”
“Not yet.”
“It soon will.”
“Of course if I buy it I do not wish to interfere with your occupation
of it as long as you live.”
“No, I suppose not. There is no place for me to go. But I think the
land will some time be worth a good deal more than at present, and I
want Gerald to reap the benefit of it.”
“I am offering you more than it is worth at present,” said Wentworth
impatiently. “Two hundred dollars for eighty acres makes two dollars
and a half an acre.”
“I cannot sell the boy’s little patrimony,” said Mr. Lane firmly.
“It seems to me he ought to be consulted. As you say, he will soon be
the owner.”
At this moment Gerald entered the cabin.
“Gerald,” said his father, “Mr. Wentworth has offered me two hundred
dollars for our little home, including the cabin and land. He thinks
you ought to be consulted in the matter.”
“I don’t want to sell, father,” said Gerald. “This place is the only
home I have, and I don’t want to part with it.”
“But the money will be very useful to you,” interrupted Wentworth, “and
from what your father says, money will be scarce with you.”
“I suppose it will,” said Gerald with a steady look at the visitor,
“though it ought not to be if we had our rights. But, be that as it
may, I do not care to have the property sold.”
Opposition only made Mr. Wentworth more eager. “I will give you two
hundred and fifty dollars,” he said.
“It is of no use, Mr. Wentworth. This humble home is all father has to
leave me. For a time, at least, I wish to retain it.”
Mr. Wentworth bit his lip, and was silent. He saw by the resolute face
of Gerald, so much stronger and firmer than his father’s, that it would
be of no use to prolong the discussion.
The evening wore away. It was a question how the guest was to be
accommodated for the night. But Gerald settled the question. He had a
small single bed in one corner while his father occupied a larger one.
He surrendered his bed to the guest, and stretched himself out, fully
dressed, on a buffalo robe near the door. They retired early, as Gerald
and his father usually did. Mr. Wentworth did not ordinarily keep early
hours, but he had been fatigued by his walks during the day, partly
because he had traversed considerable ground, but partly on account of
the high altitude which made the air rarer, and exertion more difficult.
All three slept soundly. Though his bed was a hard one, Gerald was no
child of luxury and rested peacefully.
About seven o’clock Mr. Wentworth rose and dressed himself. Gerald
was already up, preparing breakfast. All at once he was startled by
an exclamation. Looking around he saw Bradley Wentworth examining his
pockets in a high state of excitement.
“What’s the matter?” asked Gerald.
“Matter enough!” returned the visitor. “I’ve been robbed during the
night, and you,” he added fiercely, with a furious glance at Gerald,
“you are the thief!”
CHAPTER VII.
TRACKING THE THIEF.
GERALD blushed with indignation at the unexpected accusation.
“What do you mean, Mr. Wentworth?” he demanded angrily.
“I mean just what I say. During the night my wallet, which was full of
bank bills, has been stolen. Of course your father couldn’t have taken
it. There was no one else in the room except yourself.”
“You are making a poor return for our hospitality,” said Gerald coldly.
“In what pocket did you keep your wallet?”
“In the inside pocket of my coat.”
“Look about on the floor. It may have slipped out.”
Bradley Wentworth deigned to accept this suggestion. Both he and Gerald
looked about on the floor, but could discover no trace of the lost
article.
“Just as I expected,” observed Wentworth in a significant tone.
Gerald colored and felt mystified.
“I don’t understand it,” he said slowly.
“Probably the wallet walked off without hands,” sneered Wentworth.
“It must have been taken,” said Gerald quietly, “but who could have
done it?”
“Yes, who could have done it?” repeated Wentworth with another sneer.
“I will trouble you to speak in a different tone,” said Gerald with
quiet dignity. “My father and I are poor enough, but no one ever
charged us with dishonesty.”
Mr. Lane, awakening from sleep, heard the last words.
“What is the matter? What has happened?” he asked dreamily.
“Mr. Wentworth misses his pocketbook, father,” exclaimed Gerald.
“How much money was there in your wallet, Bradley?” asked the sick man.
“Nearly two hundred dollars.”
“That is a great deal of money to lose. You are sure it was in your
pocket when you went to bed?”
“Yes, I felt it there.”
“Some one must have got into the cabin during the night.”
“But the door was locked,” said Wentworth.
“True, but there is a window near your bed. There was no fastening,
and it could be raised easily. And that reminds me,” he continued with
a sudden thought, “I waked up during the night, that is I partially
awakened, and thought I saw a figure near your bed in a stooping
position. It must have been the thief going through your pockets.”
“Why didn’t you speak, father?”
“Because I was more asleep than awake, and my mind was too torpid to
reason upon what I saw.”
“Did the figure remind you of anyone, father? What was it like?”
“A man of medium height, stout and broad-shouldered.”
Bradley Wentworth started, and a sudden conviction flashed upon him.
The description tallied exactly with Jake Amsden, the man with whom he
had had a conference the day before.
“Is there any such person who lives near by?” he asked.
“Yes, a worthless, dissipated fellow named Jake Amsden.”
“I think I caught sight of him yesterday during my walk. Is his hair
red?”
“Yes. Did you speak to him?”
“I spoke to him,” said Wentworth evasively, for he did not care to
mention the subject of their conversation.
“Did he know where you were staying?”
“I believe I mentioned it.”
“And from your appearance doubtless he concluded that you had money.”
“Possibly. Has he ever stolen anything from you?”
“I am too poor to attract burglars. Besides, theft in this neighborhood
is a serious offense. Only last year a man living five miles away was
lynched for stealing a horse.”
“This is an awkward loss for me,” said Wentworth. “If I were at home
I could step into a bank and get all the money I wanted. Here it is
different.”
“Have you no money left? Did the wallet contain all you had?”
“I have some besides in an inside pocket, but not as much as I may have
occasion to use. Is there any hope of recovering the wallet from this
man—that is, provided he has taken it?”
“After breakfast I will go with you,” said Gerald, “and see if we can
find Jake Amsden. If we do we will make him give up the money.”
“But will it be safe? He looks like a rough character.”
“So he is; but the two of us ought to be more than a match for him.”
“I have no arms.”
“I will lend you my father’s pistol, and I have one of my own.”
Gerald spoke so calmly, and seemed so cool and courageous that
Wentworth gave him a look of admiration.
“That boy has more in him than I thought. He is no milk-and-water youth
as his father probably was.
“Very well,” he said aloud. “I will accept your offer—that is, after
breakfast. I am afraid I shouldn’t muster up courage enough to meet
this rough fellow on an empty stomach. I don’t feel like giving up such
a sum of money without a struggle to recover it. Do you know Amsden?”
“Yes; he has been in this vicinity almost as long as we have.”
“Are you on friendly terms?”
“We are not unfriendly, but he is not a man that I cared to be intimate
with.”
“Will he be likely to leave the neighborhood with his booty?” asked
Wentworth anxiously.
“No; he is not a coward, and will stay. Besides, he probably thinks
that he has covered his tracks, and will not be suspected.”
Breakfast was prepared and eaten. As they rose from the table Gerald
said: “Now, Mr. Wentworth, I am at your service.”
They took their way partly through woods till they reached the poor
cabin occupied by Jake Amsden. The door was open and they looked in.
But there was no sign of the occupant.
“He is gone!” said Wentworth, in accents that betrayed his
disappointment.
“I didn’t much expect he would be here,” said Gerald.
“Have you any idea where he is?”
“Yes; he is very fond of whisky, and there is a place at the foot of
the hill where drink can be obtained. It is kept by a negro, a man of
bad reputation.”
“Then let us go there. There is no time to be lost,” said Wentworth,
anxiously.
As they walked along Wentworth broached the old subject of selling the
cabin and the land attached.
“I think you make a mistake, Gerald,” he said, “in not selling me the
cabin. Two hundred dollars would be very useful to you.”
“The place is worth more.”
“I offered you two hundred and fifty, and I stand by that offer.”
“I may desire to sell it some time, but not at present.”
“You don’t mean to remain here after your father dies?”
“Please don’t refer to that, Mr. Wentworth,” said Gerald with emotion.
“I don’t want to think of it.”
“But you know he can’t recover.”
“I know it, but I don’t like to think of it.”
“This is only weakness. You ought to think of it, and be forming your
plans.”
“Excuse me, Mr. Wentworth,” said Gerald with sad dignity, “but I cannot
and will not speak of my father’s death at present. When God takes him
from me it will be time to consider what I shall do.”
“Suit yourself,” said Bradley Wentworth stiffly, “but you must not
forget that I am your father’s friend, and——”
“Are you my father’s friend?” asked Gerald with a searching look.
“Of course I am,” answered Wentworth, coloring. “Hasn’t he told you we
were young men together?”
“Yes, he has told me that.”
“Then you understand it. I am his friend and yours.”
“I am glad to hear it,” said Gerald gravely, “but there,” he added,
pointing to a low, one-story frame building, “is the place where Jake
Amsden probably came to buy liquor.”
Over the entrance was a large board on which was painted in rude
characters:
  P. JOHNSON,
  Saloon.
CHAPTER VIII.
FOILING A THIEF.
MR. PETER JOHNSON, the proprietor of the saloon, hearing voices, came
to the door. He was a dirty looking negro of medium size, dressed in a
shoddy suit, common enough in appearance, but with a look of cunning in
his small round eyes.
“Good mornin’, gemmen,” he said rubbing his hands and rolling his eyes.
“What can I do for you dis mornin’?”
“Has Jake Amsden been around here?” asked Gerald abruptly.
“No, sir,” answered Peter.
In spite of his answer there was a look in his eyes that belied his
statement.
“You have seen nothing of him?” continued Gerald, sharply.
“No, sir. What for should Jake Amsden come here for, Mr. Gerald?”
“He might feel thirsty,” suggested Wentworth, “just as I am. Have you
got some good whisky?”
“Yes, sir,” answered Peter briskly.
“Well, go in and get a couple of glasses,” said Wentworth.
“None for me,” commenced Gerald, but Wentworth gave him a quick look
that silenced him. He saw that his companion had an object in view.
Wentworth made a motion to go in, but the negro interfered hastily.
“Stay where you are, gemmen, I’ll bring out de whisky.”
“We can go in as well as not, and save you trouble,” said Wentworth,
and despite Peter’s opposition the two followed him in.
They looked about scrutinizingly, but saw nothing to repay their search.
There was a counter, such as is usually found in saloons, and Mr.
Johnson going behind this brought out glasses and a bottle of whisky.
“Help yourselves, gemmen!” he said, but there was an uneasy look on his
face.
Wentworth poured out a small quantity of whisky and drank it down. He
poured out a less quantity for Gerald, but the boy merely touched his
lips to the glass.
“So you say Jake Amsden has not been here?” repeated Wentworth in a
loud voice.
“No, stranger, no, on my word he hasn’t,” answered Peter earnestly. But
he was immediately put to confusion by a voice from behind the bar; a
voice interrupted by hiccoughs: “Who’s callin’ me? Is it you, Pete?”
“Come out here, Jake,” said Wentworth, showing no surprise. “Come out
here, and have a drink with your friends.”
The invitation was accepted. Jake, who was lying behind the counter
half stupefied, got up with some difficulty, and presented himself to
the company a by no means attractive figure. His clothes were even more
soiled than usual by contact with a floor that was seldom swept.
Wentworth poured out a glass of whisky and handed it to the inebriate,
who gulped it down.
“Now you drink with me!” stuttered Jake, who was too befuddled to
recognize the man who had treated him.
“All right, Jake, old boy!” said Wentworth with assumed hilarity.
He poured out for himself a teaspoonful of whisky, but did not
replenish Gerald’s glass, as Amsden was not likely to notice the
omission.
“Now pay for it, Jake,” prompted Wentworth.
“Never mind!” said Peter hastily, “’nother time will do!”
“Jake has money. He doesn’t need credit,” said Wentworth.
“Yes, I’ve got money,” stammered Amsden, and pulled out the wallet he
had stolen from Wentworth.
“Give it to me, I’ll pay,” said Wentworth, and Jake yielded, not
knowing the full meaning of what was going on.
“I take you to witness, Gerald,” said Wentworth, “this is my
pocketbook, which this man Amsden stole from me last night. I’ll keep
it.”
“Stop there, gemmen!” said Pete Johnson. “Dat don’t go down. Dat wallet
belongs to Jake, I’ve seen him have it a dozen times. I won’t ’low no
stealin’ in my saloon.”
“Be careful, Mr. Johnson,” said Wentworth sternly. “There are papers in
this wallet that prove my ownership. You evidently intended to relieve
Jake of the wallet when he was sleeping off the effects of the whisky.
If you make a fuss I’ll have you arrested as a confederate of Jake
Amsden in the robbing.”
“’Fore Hebbin, massa!” said Peter, becoming alarmed, “I didn’t know
Jake stole the money.”
“Did you ever know him have so much money before?” demanded Gerald.
“Didn’t know but he might a had some money lef’ him,” said Peter
shrewdly.
“Well, you know now. When this gentleman lay asleep in our cabin last
night Jake stole in and took his wallet.”
“What’ll I do, gemmen? When Jake wakes up” (he had dropped on the
floor, where he was breathing hard with his eyes closed) “he’ll ’cuse
me of takin’ his money.”
“Tell him that the man he stole it from came here and got it,” said
Gerald.
Gerald and his companion left the saloon, leaving Peter Johnson quite
down in the mouth. His little game had been spoiled, for rightly
supposing that Jake did not know how much money there was in the
wallet, he had intended to abstract at least half the contents and
appropriate it to his own use.
“Did he use much of your money, Mr. Wentworth?” asked Gerald.
“I will examine and find out,” answered his companion.
He sat down under the tree and took out the roll of bills.
“Only five dollars are missing,” he said in a tone of satisfaction.
“Have you a son?” asked Gerald. “I think I heard my father say you had
one somewhere near my own age.”
“How old are you?”
“Sixteen.”
“My son—Victor—is seventeen. You have one advantage over him.”
“What is that, sir?”
“You are a poor man’s son.”
“Do you consider that an advantage?”
“Money is a temptation,” returned Bradley Wentworth slowly, “especially
to a boy. Victor knows that I am rich—that is, moderately rich,” he
added cautiously, “and he feels at liberty to spend money, often in
ways that don’t do him any good. He buys clothes extravagantly, but
