
"Oh, don't get any older! I like the young men. And as for wisdom----"

She paused and colored, turning her face half away, but the roundness
of the young cheek and the graceful curve where it softly lost itself
in the white neck were truly lovely.

"We will dismiss wisdom and age," laughingly.

"Oh, where are we going!" She reigned her horse in sudden alarm.

"This is the last of the ravine. I wanted you to see the picture
beyond. Nay, there is nothing to fear."

The frowning rocks and overhanging trees on both sides almost shut
out the daylight. It did quite in summer when the foliage was thick.
Then it lightened, and the clear whistle of a bird rang out as if
heralding the end. The break was almost a level. The creek broadened
out here. The westward sun struck it and made beautiful reflections on
the undulating stretches of land. The leafless trees showed golden and
brown-red tints through the dun haze, the birches wore a rosy silver
light. Back of it the hills rose with the mysterious suggestiveness of
coming spring, full of quivering lights as the wind made perceptible
waves in the air.

"It is wonderful!" she said softly. "It is like those emotions one can
never describe, that penetrate every nerve, that make you feel half
awed. Oh, the world is beautiful!"

The eager, yet chastened, expression of her face moved him. She sat her
horse finely, girl as she was, her head proudly erect, her shoulders
in the velvet coat shaped exquisitely, the sleeve showing the arm's
perfect roundness at the top and the slope down to the slender waist.

He had meant to call her attention to this scene, but her quickness of
vision gratified him.

"It is my favorite prospect," he said. "I have watched it many a time
just at this hour in the afternoon. From early spring to midwinter the
sun makes a picture of it. We are rich in beautiful scenery, and when
we are done fighting and quarreling we should be a nation of artists.
So far we have only been inspired to portraits."

"It would be curious to be able to paint a picture. I never thought of
it before."

"That is genius, I suppose. Now, here is a nice clear bit of road. Let
us have a sharp canter out to that bend in the creek and back, then we
must hasten home before the evening dampness sets in."

Daphne threw up her head at the touch of the whip, and was off like
a flash. Roger Carrington allowed her to reach the bend first, to the
discomfiture of Ajax. Jaqueline turned her bright, rosy face, full of
smiling triumph.

"I accept," nodding with gallantry. "We should have been timed to a
second. You are an excellent rider."

"Seeing that I have been trained from babyhood it would be disgraceful
if I were not. Oh, what crazy things we have done--Louis and I! And
then we would bind ourselves by a solemn promise not to betray each
other. Children must have charmed lives!"

"You are hardly out of childhood yet."

"Wait until you see me in the gorgeousness of a train and a top-knot.
You will wonder at my dignity. Perhaps you will not recognize me. The
gown is pink. That may be some help."

"Pink. The pink roses are the sweetest, I believe."

She nodded with a spice of coquetry.

"And now are we to crawl through this dismal glade? Think of Indians
lying in ambush!"

"Nay, do not spoil a pleasant ride by such a grewsome suggestion."

He led the way, and they soon emerged to the open again. The Capital
loomed up; the scattered houses made quite a show, after all.

That evening Roger and she were partners at whist against his mother
and grandmother, and the ladies won.

The next day the girls went over to Washington.

"I wish your visit could have been longer," Mrs. Carrington said. "I
should have enjoyed asking in the young people about here and having a
dance."

Patricia was very sorry. She had been on the extreme confines of
young-ladyhood.

"It was just delightful!" Jaqueline explained to Mrs. Jettson. "Both
ladies are lovely, but Madam is grand and holds you in a little awe.
She looks like some old picture stepped out of a frame. And they are
just crazy over girls--no, you cannot imagine such stately ladies being
crazy over anything. They made so much of Patty that she put on airs."

"I'm almost as tall as you, Miss Jaqueline!"

"But you would look ridiculous with a train and your hair done up high,
and a mincing step----"

"I didn't think that you minced very much!" interrupted the younger.
"I saw you run down the garden walk, and Mr. Ralph said----" making a
sudden halt.

"Well, what did he say?"

Patty paused, for she recalled the fact that Mr. Ralph's comment had
been distinctly complimentary.

"Don't dispute, girls. Patty, you are nothing but a child, if you are
tall, and you know you wouldn't like to give up racing and climbing and
dancing to old Sam's fiddle. You girls do have the best of everything,
while poor Dolly and Marian----"

"I'm glad grandpapa isn't any real relation to me!" exclaimed Patricia.
"I like father a million times better."

"That comes of being a bachelor when you are married. I'm sure an old
maid couldn't be any queerer. But then Mr. Madison is said to be very
indulgent to his wife, and I'm sure he treats her like a prince. And
father seems to be just as bitter against him as he was against Mr.
Jefferson. It seems to me the world goes around just the same, no
matter who is President. Mr. Ralston came in this morning and begged
me to send for Marian. I couldn't tell him exactly why; and I'm sure
I wish Mrs. Greaves was back again, and there wouldn't be any look for
Marian."

"Lieutenant Ralston was over to the Carringtons' a while last evening,"
said Jaqueline, and somehow she flushed in a quick manner that
surprised herself, then added--"Mr. Carrington will be at the levee."

"Oh, of course. It will be a fine affair. And Congress will adjourn so
soon, I doubt if there will be another. There are to be state dinners
to the Cabinet and the diplomats, but next winter there will no doubt
be many gayeties. Jaqueline, you must run to bed and get your beauty
sleep, there is no knowing how late we will be up to-morrow night."

"I think Jane might feel a little sorry that I can't go," said Patty
lugubriously, as they were preparing for bed. "It's Marian all the
time."

"You don't understand, Patty----"

"Yes I do. That handsome young Mr. Ralston is in love with her, and
grandpapa is going to make her marry that old Mr. Greaves because he
has a big farm next to his. I'd marry the man I liked."

"Nonsense! I'm not thinking about marrying."

"Jaqueline, would you marry Mr. Roger?"

"I've understood that it was good manners to wait until you were
asked," turning to hide a blush.

"I mean to marry someone," answered the younger.

"Sleep on it first, Patty."

The next afternoon the hairdresser came and added much state to Mrs.
Jettson's appearance. There was pearl powder, a luxury to be indulged
in only on great occasions. And though rouge was used, Mrs. Jettson had
enough color of her own, and Jaqueline was resplendent with youth and
health.

This affair was in the state drawing room, which had grown rather
shabby. Congress was considering an appropriation of five thousand
dollars for refurnishing. The sofas were stiff, faded, and worn
threadbare, and the window hangings were limp and had lost their color.
But the light from the numerous candles softened and relieved the
impairment of time.

Mrs. Madison was in the yellow velvet; new gowns were not considered
necessary for every occasion. Her beautiful neck and arms, which still
kept the roundness of early womanhood, were adorned with strings of
pearls, the short puffed sleeves rendered still prettier by a fall of
exquisite lace. The skirt was drawn aside and displayed a white satin
petticoat embroidered with gold thread, and her slippers were adorned
with buckles that almost covered her dainty feet.

About her were arranged the members of the official family, the ladies
on one side, the gentlemen on the other. It was quite a little court.
Most of the senators and the wives who were brave enough to give up
home comforts to spend a winter in Washington had already met Mrs.
Madison; indeed, by this time there were not many among the strangers
who had not been presented.

And so Miss Jaqueline Mason made her bow to the first lady of the land
and glancing up with a quick rift of color caught the cordial smile
that came with a warm clasp of the hand.

"You have a good old Virginian name," she said. "Many of us are proud
to call it home. It is my second home, the first in my affection now,"
and she gave the child another sweet smile.

Jaqueline was more abashed than she had thought possible. She stepped
aside in a little confusion.

"Ah, here is Mr. Carrington. Shall I commend this young lady to your
care? There are some places she might like to see and some curiosities.
You are so much at home here."

Roger Carrington bowed. Mrs. Jettson had found a friend in the wife
of one of the more recent senators, and they were having a little
chat, as it was that lady's first visit to Washington to attend the
inauguration. So Roger slipped the fair hand within his arm, and they
began a tour of the still unfurnished White House, though much nearer
completion and in a better state than Abigail Adams had found it in her
brief sojourn.

Mrs. Madison's tact and grace had brought about a more congenial state
of affairs even while wife of the secretary of state. There was in
the conduct of both men and women a trifle of formality verging to a
certain grandeur, yet gracious and truly courteous. There was no mad
rush then for the first places.

Presently the company broke up into chatty little groups. Jaqueline
found herself quite a center in the midst of other centers. Here were
two or three elderly men who had known her father. She saw a young
neighbor in the throng whose eyes expressed so much amazement that she
could not help smiling. Lieutenant Ralston had come in his soldier
trappings, and there was quite a sprinkling of military men, with
others in the Continental costume that gave such a picturesque aspect.

Jaqueline had a fresh, girlish charm, and to-night she certainly
looked lovely. Women and girls, when they were admitted to society,
were expected to make themselves agreeable. No abstruse learning was
required, and though they might have strong political preferences they
were delicately veiled. Mrs. Madison had gone through four years of
unusual stress, and the few enemies she had made were only those who
envied her popularity. She had been discretion itself outwardly, and
her opinions, her conferences, and her advice had been lodged only in
her husband's bosom.

Jaqueline had no care, no experience to conceal, and she had already
tried her prentice hand on the students at Williamsburg. And that
natural art of making men pleased with themselves, that charming
deference, so great a factor in that day, was hers in an eminent
degree. Roger Carrington watched her as she caught up the merry
badinage and returned it with gay sparkles, and the pretty air that
was half girlish demureness, the other half the indefinable charm of
budding womanhood.

Lieutenant Ralston took her in to the refreshment table set in the
large dining room.

"I wonder when you will see Miss Floyd?" he began in a low tone. "I
hoped to the last moment that Mrs. Jettson could persuade her parents
to let her sister come for a few days. You go to the Pineries quite
often?"

"Why, yes--some of us. Father has a truly fervent regard for
grandmamma, and the girls come down frequently. They like better to
come to us, I think. There is no real fun in staying at the Pineries.
Of course when we were children we went dutifully."

She gave a soft, light laugh.

Ralston was considering. "Mrs. Jettson would be likely to know--of a
visit?" hesitatingly.

"She might--if we sent her the word."

"I wonder if you will ever feel friendly enough to invite me? I
like your father extremely. I was very glad to have the opportunity
of meeting him. And your mother. You know we are all interested in
Kentucky just now."

"I think my parents would give you a very pleasant visit," Jaqueline
said with a grave yet encouraging smile. The sort of conspiracy
interested her. It was quite tempting to be able to hold out a hand of
encouragement to Marian, who hated the dull life at the Pineries and
did so enjoy amusement. Then, a real love affair thrilled Jaqueline
with a delightful sensation.

He was considering how to obtain the invitation honorably, when she
furnished the key.

"I think you would like my brother Louis," she remarked with a becoming
shade of diffidence that went to his heart, it wore such a charming
air of innocence. "He will be home in the early summer, and he always
comes up to Mrs. Jettson's at once. Arthur takes a great interest in
him. He is to study law and the science of government, if there is such
a science. Father has an eye to the Presidency for him, I think."

They both laughed at that.

"The summer is a long way off," he commented rather despondingly.

"The robins are singing and violets are in bloom. At home, no doubt, I
shall find trailing arbutus."

"They are spring indications."

"You are hard to satisfy."

"Am I? Well, I would rather have that reputation than one of being
