DR. THORNE (with puzzled impatience, addressing the Loafer).
Here!--You! Why, it’s Jerry! Just tell me, will you, Jerry, where the
accident was, and how much was the lady hurt?
(The Loafer stares stupidly at DR. THORNE, but makes no answer.)
       [Exit Loafer.
DR. THORNE (with trouble on his face, more gently addresses the
Priest, whom he slightly touches on the arm). Sir!--Oh, Father
Sullivan! Look here, Father! I’m ashamed to confess, I have lost my way.
Would you direct me to the house of the well-known merchant, Frederick
Fayth? I am due there on an urgent professional errand, and--I cannot
explain the phenomenon--but I have lost my way!
(The Priest repeats an Ave under his breath. He looks DR. THORNE
full in the face, but does not reply.)
DR. THORNE. And will you be so kind as to tell me whether you have heard
of a carriage accident down-town--and how much was the lady hurt? Did
you--
PRIEST(looks blindly over DR. THORNE’S head; mutters). Nay--Nay. I
see nothing. (He crosses himself). Ave Sanctissima! Ora pro nobis!
(He lifts his arms and, with a troubled and confused expression, makes
the sign of the cross in the air over DR. THORNE. Priest passes on.)
DR. THORNE (gently). Thank you, Father.
       [Exit Priest.
DR. THORNE (stands sunken in thought for a few moments; suddenly starts
and knots his hands together, then separates them with the motion of one
blind or of one feeling his way in the dark). I must see Helen! I must
go to Helen!--Helen! Helen!
(Sudden darkness settles. When it passes, the wreck of the buggy is
removed.)
Enter DR. THORNE. (Walks rapidly and
perplexedly, still with the manner of a
man who has lost his way.)
       [Exit.
Re-enter.
       [Exit.
Re-enter (speaks).
I must get home. I will get home. I will see Helen! (Stops
sharply, as if smitten by an unseen force; cannot take another step;
contends, as if with an invisible power; droops, as if vanquished;
turns, and retraces his way; his head hangs to his breast. He speaks.)
What thwarts me from my home? Who constrains me from my wife?
(Lifts his face angrily to the sky.) Is this hypnotism? (Laughs
sarcastically.) Am I an infant--or a maniac? It must be anæsthesia
passing off. Perhaps I was etherized by some blank fool after that
shock.--The accident! That is it, of course, of course! It is the
cerebral concussion--a simple case.... I shouldn’t like this to get out.
I believe I’ll go into my office--if I can find my office--and wait till
this passes off. It is a perfectly simple case. (Walks feverishly up
and down the street, searching for his own office; mutters.) Ever since
I yielded to that demand for a noon office hour downtown for business
men--it has crowded me without mercy. If they hadn’t been my old
patients, I wouldn’t have succumbed to it. It’s just another strand in
the whiplash that has driven me to death. Well (draws a long
breath)--I seem to be out of sorts to-night. I shall get over all this
nonsense when I see Helen. Helen will set me right. Helen will make a
live man of me again.
END OF SCENE II.
SCENE III.
The interior of a down-town office. DR. THORNE
is seen in the consulting room; the door is closed into
the reception room. One gas-jet burns over the desk;
patient’s chair and physician’s chair are seen in the
usual places; the desk is in order for the night; a
movable telephone, of the kind in use in offices, stands
upon the desk.
DR. THORNE (throws himself heavily
into his revolving chair). What the devil
am I here for? (Violently. The light
grows dim as he says this.) Why in--why
in the name of all the laws of Nature
cannot I get home? (After a pause, brokenly.)
Well--well! It’s something to
be here; to get out of the street--in out
of the night--it’s a good deal. I’d begun
to understand how outcasts feel--felons,
apparitions, fugitives. In the name of the
laws of mystery, thank Heaven for so much!
(The light brightens. It reveals his face,
which is haggard and pinched. He pushes
his case books about, aimlessly. Suddenly
his hand hits the receiver of the telephone.
He springs and cries out:) The telephone!
The telephone! I must have gone stark
mad not to think of it.--See! I’m not a
drinking man, am I? (Puts his hand to
his head.) No. I do not drink. Helen
would not like to have me.--No. And
I’ve been all these hours without telephoning
to Helen. She’ll think I did it on purpose--poor
Helen--because of the words
I said. If a man could slay the words he
says.... They harry me--like ghosts.
(Rings the telephone violently.) Central?
48.4--48.4, I say. Why don’t you give
me 48.4? I tell you I’m in a hurry. 48.4!
And be quick with it! (Rings again.) Why
in--why don’t you attend to your business
there? It is Dr. Thorne--Dr. Esmerald
Thorne. My errand is most urgent. Give
me my home, and make short work of it.
48.4! Do you hear? (Rings again.)
(A MAN’S VOICE FROM THE EXCHANGE
comes faintly over the wire, reverberating
through the transmitter, so as to be audible
at a distance from the instrument.) Why
don’t you speak? We cannot make out a
word you say.
DR. THORNE (rings again, wildly). I
tell you I want my home--48.4! I must
speak to my wife. Give me 48.4--Helen?
Helen!
VOICE FROM THE TELEPHONE. Stop
ringing your bell if you can’t use your
tongue. Put your mouth close to the transmitter.
Are you drunk? Or are you dead?
DR. THORNE (still ringing). I will report
you for this. It shall cost you your
place. 48.4, I say. Give me my house.
I will not submit to this. Give me 48.4!
(The telephone ceases to reply.)
DR. THORNE (rises, hangs up the receiver,
and paces the office tempestuously;
speaks). The very forces of Nature are in
league against me.... My own nervous
system--the night--the atmosphere--electricity--they
are all gone foes to me.
They are serried like an army between myself
and her. Helen will be--Helen will
suffer--oh, poor girl!
(The telephone call bell rings suddenly.)
DR. THORNE (leaping to the receiver).
Who calls? I am here. Who wants Dr.
Thorne? (He snatches the receiver greedily
to his ear; listens a moment; cries
wildly:) Oh, Helen! Is that you, dear?
Speak louder, darling.... Yes, I’m
here--at my office down-town. I’ll be
home soon. Don’t be frightened--but I
met with a trifling accident. Helen? Helen!
What’s the trouble? Don’t you hear me,
Helen?
WOMAN’S VOICE FROM THE TELEPHONE.
Is my husband there? Esmerald! Are
you there?
DR. THORNE. Why, Helen! Don’t you
hear me? What does ail this cursed telephone?
Central! Give me a decent wire.
My wife can’t hear a word I say....
Helen? I’m not at all hurt--only shaken
up a little. I’ll get back just as soon as--Helen?
Helen!
WOMAN’S VOICE FROM THE TRANSMITTER.
Central? I cannot find my husband at his
office. Please give me the Hospital.--I
must communicate with my husband.
(VOICE FROM THE TRANSMITTER dies
away.)
DR. THORNE (rings madly). Central,
you’ve cut me off! You’ve cut me off
from my home. Give me 48.4 again.
Helen?--Helen! Can’t you hear me?
Don’t you understand me, Helen? Oh, I
could hear you--your own dear voice, my
girl! I wanted to tell you--I can’t wait
till I see you to say--Helen? She does
not hear me.--Helen!
(The transmitter is silent.)
(DR. THORNE lays the receiver down. He
hides his face in his hands.)
END OF SCENE III.
SCENE IV.
Morning in a business street down-town. Many
people are passing, among them the PRIEST, the SUBURBAN,
and the LOAFER. A crowd thickens before
the bulletin boards of “The Earth,” a prominent daily
newspaper. At the extreme left are the headquarters
of “The Universe,” a rival paper. Not far from
“The Earth” building can be seen the modest sign
of the eminent physician:--
+------------------------------------+
|      DR. ESMERALD THORNE.          |
| OFFICE HOUR 12-1 O’CLOCK. |
+------------------------------------+
(A door opens within. DR. THORNE appears in the entrance to the
corridor.)
Enter DR. THORNE (upon the sidewalk.
Standing irresolute, he seems to wince
from the daylight and the morning
air; he mutters).
Now it is light, I can find my way to Helen. (Steps slowly along the
sidewalk; shades his eyes from the sun. He wears no hat, and his pallor
has increased. No person addresses him.)
(On the bulletin boards of “The Earth” can be seen the following
announcement:
                    WAR WITH THE ISLAND OF BORNEO.
                    BORNEO LAYS DOWN HER ULTIMATUM.
               THE PRESIDENT HAS CALLED FOR VOLUNTEERS.
                        PANIC IN STOCK STREET.
              SANTA MA FALLEN 30 POINTS SINCE YESTERDAY.
                   DISSENSION AT THE CITY HOSPITAL.
                 RUMORS OF ACCIDENT AT THE WEST END.)
Enter DR. GAZELL (a short, blond, thick-set,
suave man of middle age) and DR.
CARVER (a very young man; the latter
reading a fresh copy of “The Universe”).
DR. GAZELL (with emotion). Shocking! Shocking! I cannot express--I am
overcome!
DR. CARVER (without emotion). Yes. It is very sad. You’ll be apt to
find these things in “The Universe” before “The Earth” gets them. I
wonder if he--
DR. GAZELL. No. Never. He was above reproach. A hard man to get along
with--willful, but above reproach. I am greatly shocked!
DR. THORNE (stepping out into the crowd). Ah, Gazell! Good-morning. I
am--I am very glad to see you, Dr. Gazell (pathetically).
(DR. GAZELL continues reading his paper. He does not look up.)
DR. THORNE (with embarrassment). Gazell! (He moves directly in front
of the office of “The Earth.” At that moment a new bulletin flashes in
large letters, over the heads of the crowd, these words:--
                           RUMOR CONFIRMED.
                          SHOCKING ACCIDENT!
                           TERRIBLE TRAGEDY.
                       RUNAWAY AT THE WEST END.
                MRS. FREDERICK FAYTH DANGEROUSLY HURT.
                  THE EMINENT AND POPULAR PHYSICIAN,
                         DR. ESMERALD THORNE,
                          KILLED INSTANTLY.)
(DR. THORNE reads, and reels; stares about him appealingly.)
(Murmurs are heard from the crowd.)
Enter two Office Girls.
(FIRST OFFICE GIRL starts, and points to the bulletin.)
SECOND OFFICE GIRL. Oh! Oh! (She bursts into tears.)
SUBURBAN. Too bad! He was a clever fellow. He saved my little boy’s life
last summer.
LOAFER. He took a t’orn out av me eye onct and divil a cint did he
charrge for ’t.
PRIEST. Pater Noster in Cœlo--gone without absolution, poor soul! An
attractive heretic--merciful to the poor of my parish.
DR. GAZELL. He drove too fast a horse. And he drove the horse too fast.
I always told him so. But I am greatly agitated by this!
DR. CARVER (reading aloud). Now “The Universe” had it already in type:
“Dr. Thorne was dragged for some distance before the horse broke free.
He was found near the buggy, which was a wreck. The robe was over him,
and his face was hidden. Life was extinct when he was discovered, which
was not for an unaccountably long time. His watch had stopped at five
minutes past seven o’clock. He was not immediately identified. By some
unpardonable blunder the body of the distinguished and favorite
physician was taken to the morgue.”
DR. GAZELL. That accounts for it.
DR. CARVER (reads on). “It was not until nearly midnight that the
mistake was discovered. A message was dispatched to the elegant
residence of the popular doctor. Mrs. Thorne is a young and beautiful
woman, on whom, with their only child, an infant son, this blow falls
with uncommon cruelty.”
DR. THORNE (utters a long, heartrending moan. But no person hears the
sound. He stretches out his hands. The crowd shrinks from but does not
see him. Staring at the bulletin, he stands apart. He raises his
clenched right hand in the air; speaks). It is a dastardly lie! It is
one of those cursed canards manufactured to harass men--and--break the
hearts of women. God!--She has seen it by this time. Let me pass! Let me
go to her! You may kill her with this, but you can’t kill me.
Gentlemen, make way for me! I am Dr. Thorne!
(The crowd pays no attention to this outcry.)
Enter NEWSBOY (shrilly piping).
NEWSBOY. “Earth!” “Universe!” Latest--8.30. All about the accident! Dr.
Thorne killed instantly--Mrs. Fayth still breathin’--“Earth,” sir? Two
cents, sir.
(DR. THORNE clutches the newsboy by the arm, and would tear the paper
from him. DR. THORNE’S fingers grope over it--touch it. He tries
several times to obtain it. The paper remains in the hands of the boy.)
Enter BRAKE, the broker.
(DR. THORNE staggers against BRAKE, who is reading “The Universe.”)
[Exit the Suburban, consulting his watch.
DR. THORNE (more gently; addresses the loafer). Jerry! Is that you,
Jerry! Tell these gentlemen, will you, that I am Dr. Thorne? I should
take it--kindly--of you, Jerry.
LOAFER (stares; mutters). Divil a cint did he charrge me for ’t.
DR. THORNE (addresses the broker). Oh, Brake! I am glad to see you! I
couldn’t get down to save my Santa Ma. But that is of no
consequence.... I’ve been hurt--an accident--and I am confused. I am
suffering from hallucinations. They have got beyond my control. I
wonder if you wouldn’t call a cab for me? I thought Dr. Gazell would
take me home in his carriage,--but he didn’t seem to hear me when I
spoke to him. If you’ll call a cab, I’ll get home--to my wife.
[Exeunt DR. GAZELL, DR. CARVER, and
BRAKE, without replying.
(DR. THORNE watches them with a piteous expression; stands back and
apart from the crowd.)
END OF ACT I.
ACT II.
SCENE I.
A small ward--the women’s ward--in a hospital;
several cots with patients in them are visible. One
patient is in a wheeled chair. Screens stand by the
cots. There are plants, pictures, the cheerful features
of the modern hospital. Two nurses are seen busy
with patients.
Enter DR. GAZELL and DR. CARVER.
DR. GAZELL (seats himself by one of the patients; speaks blandly). And
how do we find ourselves to-day?
PATIENT (turning her face, on which can be seen traces of tears). Bad
enough--worse. I’ve been so upset by--
