But the horses of Aurora, flying and flaming through the morning skies,
could not have held the man back.  A madman--delirious with joy--he
swept through the hall and flung the door open.  Dr. Armstrong ran
after him to give him his hat, but Avery paid no attention to the
dentist.
Bareheaded, fleet-footed, with quivering lip, with shining eye, he fled
down the street.  Like the hurricane that had never sunk the Dream, he
swept past the club.  He saw the fellows through the window; their
cigars gleamed in their mouths and in their hands; they looked to him
like marionettes moving on a mimic stage; he felt as if he would like
to kick them over, and see if they would rattle as they rolled.  As he
rushed, hatless, past the Church of the Happy Saints, an officer on
night duty recognized the lawyer, and touched his helmet in surprise,
but did not follow the disordered figure--Mr. Avery was not a drinking
man.  He was allowed to pursue his eccentricity undisturbed.  He met
one or two men he knew, and they said, "Hilloa, Avery!"  But he did not
answer them.  He ran on in the rain; his heart sang:--
"I did n't do it--I never did it!  I did not treat her so.  I was
not that fellow.  Oh, thank God, I was not that brute!"  He hurried on
till he lost his breath; then collected himself, and came up more
quietly to his own door.
He felt for his latch-key, and was relieved to find it in his pocket,
as usual; the impression that it lay off the Shoals somewhere at the
bottom had not entirely vanished yet.  He opened the door and closed it
softly.  The hall gas was burning.  Otherwise the house was dark.  It
was perfectly still.  The silence somewhat checked his mood, and the
violence of his haste abated; with it abated an indefinable measure of
his happiness.  He raised his hand to take off his hat; then found that
he had not worn any.  It occurred to him that he had better not waken
Jean too abruptly--it might hurt her: he was going to be very
thoughtful of Jean.  She must not be startled.  He went upstairs
quietly.
In the upper hall he paused.  Pink, in the nursery, was grinding her
teeth in her sleep.  The baby was not restless, and Molly was sleeping
heavily.  From his wife's room there came no sound.
Jean almost always waked when he came home late, if indeed she had
slept at all before she heard his step.  But this was not inevitable.
Sometimes he did not arouse her.  And he remembered that to-night she
had been feeble, and had not got to sleep as early as usual.  As he
stood uncertain before her door the clock on the mantel struck eleven.
He passed on, and into his own room.  He wondered if he ought to
undress and go to bed without disturbing her.  But he could not bring
himself to do this.  He was still too much agitated; and the necessity
of keeping quiet did not tend to calm him.  He turned up his gas, and
the light rose warmly.  Then he saw that the door into his wife's room
was partly open.  "Jean!" he said softly.  She did not answer him.
Sometimes, if she were sleepy, or exhausted, she did not incline to
talk when he came home.
"Jean?" he repeated, "are you awake, my darling?  I want to speak to
you....  I must speak to you," added the husband impetuously, when
Jean did not reply.
He pushed the door wide and went in.  The only light in the room came
from the night candle, which was burning dimly.  It was a blue candle,
and it had a certain ghastly look to him, as he stood gazing across the
little table at the bed.
"After all," he thought, "I suppose I ought not to wake her--just
because I 've got all that to tell her."
He stood, undecided what to do.
Jean was lying on the bed in her lace-frilled nightdress, with her
bright hair braided in long braids, as she wore it for the night.
Something in her attitude and expression startled him.  So she had
lain--so she had looked--  His temples throbbed suddenly.  The blood
froze at his heart.
"Jean!" he cried loudly.  "Dear Jean!"
But Jean did not reply.  He sprang to her, and tore open the nightdress
at her throat; he crushed at her hands; they were quite cold.  He put
his ear to her heart; he could not hear it beat.  Jean lay in her
loveliness, with gentle, half-open eyes, and a desolate little smile on
her sweet lips, as she might have looked when she called him and asked
him to come back and kiss her good-night.  And he had not come.  One of
her hands clasped the cord of the electric bell.  But no one had heard
Jean's bell.
Now, the truth smote the man like the hammer of Thor.  His wandering
spirit--gone; who knew how? who knew where? while the brain drifted
into anæsthesia--had sought out and clutched to itself the terrible
fact.  At the instant when this perception reached his consciousness
there came with it the familiar delusion of his vision.
"Jean cannot be dead.  There must be some mistake."
He dashed to the window, opened it wide, and raised her towards the
air.  The sleeping maid, aroused and terrified, rushed to his help.  In
his agony he noticed that the children were both crying--Pink like a
lady, and the boy like a little wild beast.  Pink began to wail:
"Mummer Dee!  Mummer Dee!"
Jean did not stir.
He dispatched the servants madly--one to the telephone, one for
stimulants; while he rubbed his wife's hands and feet, and tried to get
brandy between her lips in the futile fashion of the inexperienced.  He
could not stimulate any signs of life, and he dared not leave her.
Molly reported, sobbing, that Dr. Thorne was not at home, but that Mrs.
Thorne had bade her call the nearest doctor; she had rung up the one at
the corner, and he was coming.
The nearest doctor came, and he lost no time about it.  He was a
stranger, and young.  Avery looked stupidly at his inexperienced face.
The physician stooped and put his ear to Jean's heart.  He went through
the form of feeling the pulse, and busied himself in various uncertain
ways about her.  In a short time he rose, and stood looking at the
carpet.  He did not meet the husband's eye.
"You can keep on stimulating if you like," he said.  "Perhaps you would
feel better.  But in my opinion it is of no use."
"For God's sake, man, are n't you going to do something?" demanded
the husband in a voice which the nearest doctor had occasion to
remember.
"In my opinion the patient is dead," persisted the stranger.  He turned
and took up his hat.  "I will do anything you like, of course, sir," he
added politely.  "But life is extinct."
Avery made no reply, and the strange physician went uncomfortably away.
Avery stared after him with bloodshot eyes.  He now held his wife, half
sitting, against his own warm body; he had a confused idea that he
could will her alive, or love her alive; that if he could make her
understand how it all was, she could not die.  She loved him too
much.  But Jean's gray face fell upon his breast like stiffening clay.
Her pulse was imperceptible.  He turned piteously to the Irish girl.
"Molly!  Can't you think of anything more we can do for her?"
At this moment a carriage dashed to the door, and came to a violent
stop.
"Mother of God!" cried Molly.  "Here is Dr. Thorne!"
With a resounding noise Esmerald Thorne flung back the opening front
door.  With his hat on his head he cleared the stairs.  Molly stood
wringing her hands on the threshold of Mrs. Avery's room.  He hurled
the girl away as if she had been a wrong prescription left by a
blundering rival.  His blazing eye concentrated itself on the patient
like a burning-glass.  That which had been Jean Avery, half reclining,
held against her husband's heart, lay unresponsive.  One arm with its
slender hand hung over the edge of the bed, straight down.
"Change the position!" cried Dr. Thorne loudly.  "Put her head
down--so--flat--perfectly horizontal.  Now get out of my way--the whole
of you."
He knelt beside the bed, and with great gentleness, curiously at
contrast with his imperious and one might have called it angry manner,
put his ear to Jean's heart.
"It's dead she is.  The other doctor do be sayin' so," sobbed Molly,
who found it perplexing that Mr. Avery did not speak, and felt that the
courtesies of the distressing occasion devolved upon herself.  Dr.
Thorne held up an imperious finger.  In the stillness which obeyed him
the clock on the mantel ticked obtrusively, like the rhythm of life in
a vital organism.
At the instant when he reached her side, Dr. Thorne had laid Jean's
hanging hand gently upon the bed, warming it and covering it as he did
so.  But he had paid no attention to it otherwise till now, when he was
seen to put his fingers on the wrist.  It occurred to Avery that the
physician did this rather to satisfy or to sustain hope in the family
than from any definite end which he himself hoped to attain by it.  The
husband managed to articulate.
"Is there any pulse?"
"No."
"Does her heart beat?"
Dr. Thorne made no reply.  He was putting a colorless, odorless liquid
between her lips.  His expression of indignation deepened.  One might
have said that he was in a rage with death.  His first impulse to
express that emotion noisily had passed.  He issued his orders with
perfect quiet and consummate self-possession, but the family fled
before them like leaves before the wind.  Stimulants, hot water, hot
stones, fell into the doctor's hands.  He took control of the
despairing household as a great general takes command of a terrible
retreat.  Stern, uncompromising, rigid, he flung his whole being
against the fate which had snatched his old patient beyond his rescue.
His face was almost as white as Jean's.
"There sits the man as fights with death!" cried Molly, in
uncontrollable excitement.  She and the cook fell on their knees.
Pink, in her nightdress, stole in, and leaned against the door; the
child was too frightened to cry.  The baby had gone to sleep.  The
house grew ominously still.  The mantel clock struck the half-hour.  It
was now half-past eleven.  Avery glanced at the physician's face, and
buried his own in his hands.
The doctor rose, and stood frowning.  He seemed to hesitate for the
first time since he had been in the room.
"Is there no heart-beat yet?  Can't you detect anything?" asked Avery
again.  He could not help it.  Dr. Thorne looked at him; the physician
seemed to treat the question as he would an insult.
"When I have anything to say, I 'll say it," he answered roughly.  He
stood pondering.
"A glass!" he called peremptorily.  Molly handed him a tumbler.  He
pushed it away.
"I said a glass!  A mirror!"
Some one handed him Jean's little silver toilet hand-glass.  The
physician held it to her lips, and laid it down.  After a moment's
irresolution he took it up, and bending over the body put it to the
woman's lips again, and studied it intently for some moments.  Avery
asked no questions this time, nor did he dare glance at the glass.
"How long," demanded Dr. Thorne suddenly, "has she been like this?"
"I found her so when I came in.  It was then eleven o'clock."
"How long had she been alone?"
"I went out at twenty minutes past ten.  I went to have a tooth
extracted.  That was forty minutes."
"Did she speak to you when you went out?"
"Yes--she spoke to me."
"What did she say?"
Marshall Avery made no reply.
"Were there any symptoms of this heart-failure then?  Out with it!--No.
Never mind.  It's evident enough."
The clock on the mantel struck the quarter before twelve.
"She has been as she is an hour and a quarter," said Dr. Thorne.  His
voice and manner were disheartened.  He stood a moment pondering, with
a dark face.
"Do you call her dead?" entreated Avery.  It seemed to him that he had
reached the limit of endurance.  He would pull the worst down on his
head at one toppling blow.
"No!" cried the physician, in a deep, reverberating tone.
"But is it death?" persisted Avery wildly.
"I do not know," said Dr. Thorne.
"Do you give her up?"
"No!" thundered Dr. Thorne again.  "The drowned have been
resuscitated after six hours," he added between his teeth.  "That's the
latest contention."
At this moment a messenger summoned by telephone from the corner
pharmacy arrived, running, and pealed and thundered at the door.  Some
one laid upon the bed within the doctor's reach a small pasteboard box.
He opened it in silence, and took from it a tiny crystal or shell of
thin glass.  This he broke upon a handkerchief, and held the linen
cautiously to Jean's face.  A powerful, pungent odor filled the room.
Avery felt his head whirl as he breathed it.  The doctor removed the
handkerchief and scrutinized Jean's face.  Neither hope nor despair
could be detected on his own.  Without a word he went to work again.
Not discarding, but not now depending altogether on the aid of warmth,
stimulants, and the remedies upon which he had been trained to rely in
his duels with death, the physician turned the force of his will and
his skill in the direction of another class of experiments.
So far as he could, and at such disadvantage as he must, he put certain
of the modern processes of artificial respiration to the proof.  He did
not allow himself to be hampered in this desperate expedient by an
element of danger involved in lifting the patient's arms above her
head; for Jean had passed far beyond all ordinary perils.  Obstacles
seemed to serve only to whip his audacity.  His countenance grew dogged
and grim.  He worked with an ineffable gentleness, and with an
indomitable determination that gave a definite grandeur to his bearing.
Avery looked on with dull, blind eyes; he felt that he was witnessing
an unsuccessful attempt at miracle.  He began to resent it as an
interference with the sanctity of death.  He began to wish that the
doctor would let his wife alone.  The clock on the mantel struck
twelve.  Pink had fallen asleep, and somebody had carried her back to
her own bed.  The two women huddled together by the door.  The
physician had ceased to speak to any person.  His square jaws came
together like steel machinery that had been locked.  In his eyes
immeasurable pity gathered; but no one could see his eyes.  The clock
timed the quarter past midnight.
Avery had now moved round to the other side of the bed; he buried his
face in his wife's pillow, and, unobserved, put out his hand to touch
her.  He reached and clasped her thin left hand on which her
wedding-ring hung loosely.  Her fingers were not very cold,--he had
often known them colder when she was ill,--and as his hand closed over
them it seemed to him for a wild instant that hers melted within it;
that it relaxed, or warmed beneath his touch.
"I am going mad," he thought.  He raised his head.  The clock called
half-past twelve.  Dr. Thorne was holding the little mirror at Jean's
lips again.  A silvery film--as delicate as mist, as mysterious as
life, as mighty as joy--clouded it from end to end.
"Jean Avery!" cried the physician, in a ringing tone.
Afterwards Avery thought of that other Healer who summoned his dearest
friend from the retreat of death "in a loud voice."  But at the moment
he thought not at all.  For Jean sighed gently and turned her face, and
her husband's eyes were the first she saw when the light of her own
high soul returned to hers.
In the dim of the dawn Avery followed the exhausted physician into the
hall, and led him to an empty room.
"Rest, if you can, doctor," he pleaded; "we can call you.  If she
sleep, she shall do well," he added in a broken voice.  The miracle was
yet in his mind.
"Unless you see some change, she may sleep one hour.  Call me by then,"
said Dr. Thorne abstractedly.  "And telephone my wife and the hospital
that I spend the morning here."  He turned his face to the window.
Avery, glancing at it in the gray light, saw that great tears were
falling unashamed down the doctor's cheeks.
"These sudden deaths are so horrible!" he muttered.  "They are the
felonies of Nature."  Long after this, when the eminent physician met
the fate which has been elsewhere recorded of him, and which those who
have read his memoirs may recall, Marshall Avery remembered these
words; and the expression of the man's face as he uttered them.
He went back to his wife's room, and lay down on the bed by her side.
She slept like some sweet child who was tired out with a nervous
strain, and would wake, by the sanctities of Nature, refreshed for
vigorous life.  He dared not fall asleep himself for a careless moment,
but propped himself on one elbow and watched her hungrily.  Her pulse
beat weakly yet, but with some steadiness, and rose in volume as the
day deepened.  In fact, the tide was coming to the flood.
Off there on the Shoals, reaching up around the gray Cape, inch upon
patient inch, the waves climbed to their appointed places.  With them
the vitality of the woman, obeying the most mysterious law in Nature's
mighty code, advanced, and held its own.
Avery looked at his wife, sleeping, as she, waking, would never see him
look.  All that was noble in shame, all that was permanent in love,
harmonized in his eyes.  Between his rapture and his reverence, resolve
itself seemed to escape him, like a spirit winged for flight because no
longer needed in a human heart, being invisibly displaced by stronger
angels whose names are known only to the love of married man and woman
when ultimate fate has challenged it and found defeat.
Avery's lips moved.  He spoke inaudible things.  "All I ask," he said,
"is another chance."  He was not what is called a praying man.  But
when he had said this, he added the words--"Thou God!"
Jean stirred at this moment.  The morning was strong in the room.  Her
own smile swept across her face like a wing of light.
"Dear," she said distinctly, "did you have the tooth out?  Did it hurt
you very much?  You poor, poor boy!"
She put up her weak hand and touched his cheek.
The doctor could not sleep.  He stole in anxiously.
Jean had closed her eyes once more.  They opened happily as he entered.
"Why, doctor!  You here?  What for?"
As if by accident Dr. Thorne's fingers brushed her wrist.  The
physician's face assumed a noble radiance.  He looked affectionately at
his old patient.
"Oh, I thought I 'd drop in and see how you were getting along."  He
