she flushed. 
“Jaques rejoined them. He had beaten the man down 
to his customer’s amount, but the purse had not been 
found. They walked on together. 
“Do you live in this direction?” Angelique questioned. 
“Yes, Madame. A little street called Beauvier. My 
husband is a boatman. He is seldom away so long as 
this, and there are so many stories of pirates about the 
Gulf. I have been much worried. My two boys are at 
work in one of the warehouses on the levee. It is not 
good, but boys cannot starve. And I give lessons some- 
times. But so few people care to learn English. Oh, I 
desire to go East again. We thought there were better 
chances here, but ” 
The tears that she was too proud to wipe away over- 
flowed her eyes. 
“I have been trying to learn a little English,” said 
Angelique, “but my cousin went away.” 
“Oh, if Madame would allow me to restore the money 
that way ” 
“You are quite welcome to it. I am glad we rescued 
you. Do not go into the shop again.” 
“Indeed, I shall not. But, Madame, can you not under- 
stand how much better satisfied I would be to pay the 
debt ? I am honest,” with an accent of pride. 
Something in the face interested Angelique, and she 
had so few sources of interest now. 
“If you like to have it so. Afterward you may con- 
tinue them,” with her charming smile that warmed the 
troubled heart. “But it is a long way out — on the 
St. John road.” 
She was too delicate to propose to come into town, yet 
the woman looked so worn she was sorry to put her to 
the trouble. 
“It is so beautiful in that direction, Madame — I am 
not sure it is Madame ” coloring deeply. 
“No,” Angelique smiled with charming grace. 
“I said so in the shop because I did not see that you 
were attended. Marriage carries so much weight here, 
and that beast might have insulted a young girl.” 
“Thank you for that thoughtfulness.” 
“Girls marry so young here. Oh, I like the East 
much better. I could have courage to walk all the way 
back, but one must needs eat. And there are the boys. 
Mam’selle, will you allow me to come to-morrow ?” 
“If you prefer, yes.” 
“We sometimes walk out that way on Sundays. There 
is no Protestant Church, you see, and the way is so 
beautiful one can worship God by the roadside. In that 
direction there is a very pretty girl who has a hound 
which belonged to an American, a Mr. Norton.” 
“Oh, do you know him ?” 
“My husband did a little. He is a very fine, generous 
man. My boys thought the dog so splendid, and they 
have seen it with the child.” 
“She is my cousin. We will both study English.” 
“You are so good, Mam’selle. I can never thank 
you.” 
“It was only a little thing.” Angelique colored now. 
“It is the little things that show people’s goodness. 
Great things may be done from any other motive. Here 
is my street, not a very fine situation, but the house is not 
bad, and I could not endure the crowded rows. Why, 
when there was so much room, did they build so close 
together?” 
“They had then to think of defence from enemies. 
And it is improving all the time ; Jaques” — who was 
walking behind, — “this lady is to come up to-morrow. 
I shall explain to Aunt.” 
The woman made her adieus in a manner that showed 
she was not ignorant of the usages of society. Then the 
two walked on. 
“Are you quite sure, Mam’selle, it is the proper thing 
to do? You know nothing about the woman,” Jaques 
began in an anxious tone. 
“No, I am not sure it is. She is an American, and 
certainly shows some breeding. I felt very sorry for her. 
We found so many friends on our coming here, and we 
ought to help others if we can. I am tired of my little 
round and long for something different. Shall I marry, 
Monsieur Jaques?” 
She turned her face archly and smiled out of sparkling 
eyes. 
“There is no one now that Master Gervaise is gone — 
and all demoiselles need looking after.” 
“Oh, yes, you are a host in yourself. See how soon 
you brought that beast of a shopkeeper to terms. And 
Barbel Then there is the American’s dog.” 
“And Carlos would tear any one in pieces. But every 
day I think how wild it was to let M’sieu Gervaise go 
away. For I know Sieur Hugh must be dead.” 
Angelique sighed. She was losing faith herself. 
Barbe hesitated a little over the new acquaintance. 
Sylvie was all curiosity and eagerness. 
“I know quite a good many English words,” she said. 
“I repeat them to Hylas. Do you suppose he was bom 
in America ?” 
“Why, it is all America, Sylvie. I wish we knew a 
little more about the country. If it was the fashion to 
learn a great many things !” 
Angelique sighed. A girl’s life bounded only by 
needlework, French and Spanish, a few pleasures, balls 
and dancing, festas in which they only looked on, and 
marriage, seemed narrow. A curious discontent stirred 
within her, a kind of awakening that she longed for and 
dreaded. Did ever a young girl before want things and 
not know what they were ? 
Mrs. Murch came the next morning. She had a rather 
faded gingham gown, and a white kerchief about her 
shoulders. Now they could see a striking difference 
between her and most of the women they met. She had 
none of the languorous softness of the South. She had 
not even that sort of repressed dignity that characterized 
Barbe. Her complexion was fair ; now her skin seemed 
full of minute blue veins that gave it a striking pallor. 
Her hair was brown and worn smoothly, not indebted 
to the hair-dresser’s art or ideas. Her face was thin and 
long, her features rather aquiline, her voice smooth, low, 
but rather weak. She was not at all effusive, though one 
could see the gratitude in her eyes. 
Before her marriage she had been a school-teacher in 
an Eastern town. Everything was so different here, she 
admitted. A few accomplishments and the catechism 
seemed all that was necessary. “But at the East you 
learned about countries, products, what people had done, 
what they were doing, the principles of government, 
y 
the true purposes of religion, the advancement of 
humanity.” 
“But are women never laughed at? There was the 
Hotel Rambouillet and La Precieuses in Paris ” 
Yes. Mrs. Murch knew about them. And kings and 
queens and wars and conquests. 
“But that is not learning English,” said Mrs. Murch, 
with a faint smile. “I have brought a primer with me. 
Have you any books ?” 
Gervaise had left one of his. 
Sylvie was delighted and eager. She too was a little 
tired of the round, of Laure’s inconsequent complaining, 
of Hortense’s passionate adoration. As for Zenobie, she 
held her head loftily these days. And the crane appeared 
to have reached the limit of his educational faculties. 
Hylas alone never wearied her. 
Mrs. Murch was to come three days in a week. The 
salary seemed much too high for the services she de- 
clared. Angelique thought it rather meagre, but their 
own income was not large. Barbe was quite stiff at first, 
but she soon became interested in the poor woman, who 
must at one time have been such a lady. They could 
hardly understand how a person of so much refinement 
could cheerfully consent to take up menial employments 
even in her own home. 
Hylas approved of her. He was rather aristocratic 
too. And when one Sunday the boys were allowed to 
come up and renew acquaintance with him, they were 
wild with delight. Anthon had once carried Mr. Nor- 
ton’s valise for him, though the little negroes or big ones 
either, generally took such jobs as their share. Dick was 
younger ; both were blue-eyed and sunburned, even as to 
hair. No one knew what their mother suffered when 
they started off in their shrunken white suits, and bare- 
footed ; still they were clean and merry, and thought New 
Orleans a marvellous place. 
“But we’re sure to go back,” said Anthon, decidedly. 
“I shouldn’t want to live here always unless I could have 
a garden and a house like this.” 
“I never saw such a funny crane,” laughed Dick. “I’ve 
seen performing dogs, and I think you could teach Hylas 
anything, only he is so fine and grand you would hate to 
see him do ridiculous things ! Think of his trying to 
dance like Telano!” and the boy laughed heartily. 
The conversation was carried on in a rather funny 
manner. The boys had picked up a good deal of French 
and Spanish, but when they talked in real earnest they 
ran off on a siding which was English. Sylvie had to 
question and puzzle her brain, then they would all laugh 
at the misunderstandings. 
“It’s been splendid!” declared Sylvie, breathlessly. “I 
like boys better than girls. They have so many things to 
talk about. And they are not so silly. Then they do 
not keep telling you ” 
Sylvie paused suddenly and turned scarlet. 
“How to behave?” inquired Angelique, mirthfully. 
“And all your little faults?” 
Sylvie was about to say, “How beautiful and how dear 
you are!” For Hortense had begun to weary her with 
'‘mere ange! My little heart! My sweetest flower; my 
star of light, I love you !” And yet as the boys were 
going away, Dick looked her straight in the face and ex- 
claimed, with the candor of one not yet in his teens : 
“I never saw any one as beautiful as you. Miss Sylvie. 
You look like an angel with all that golden hair and your 
eyes just the color of heaven.” 
So the little girl locked that up with her other secrets. 
It had not even called a blush to her cheek. 
Hylas had enjoyed the boys wonderfully, too. He had 
run races with them, being compelled by his wilful 
mistress to give them long odds and then distance them 
in the end. They had rolled and tumbled about until the 
white suits were almost the color of the dog. He had 
found articles hidden away, he had brought sticks, and if 
he could not dance, the supple curves of his long lithe 
body and slim legs were splendid. 
Sylvie was tired and swung in the hammock. Hylas 
went over to Angelique, who sat puzzling over some 
words in the barbarous language that sounded so strong 
and forceful as the boys uttered the ringing sentences. 
“Why do you look at me so,” she asked, with a kind 
of sweet indignation. “It is as if you knew — every- 
thing !” 
Yes, it was as if he said, “Do you remember my 
master? Wherever he goes he carries about with him 
your image. He never forgets you any more than I 
forget him.” 
Then she kept her eyes fixed steadily on her book. 
So they studied and blundered and laughed and 
listened to Mrs. Murch’s stories about girls at the East, 
and books and wonderful lives of dead and gone people 
that were fast spoiling them for the dreamy, languid life 
and the chatter about lovers to come, and settlements for 
the future. Letters too from Gervaise. They had found 
some tidings of Hugh. He had been in several Indian 
skirmishes, wounded in one and carried off a prisoner, 
nursed by an old Indian woman in a solitary wigwam. 
Some one had found it later on burned to the ground. 
It was said a friend had taken the sick man to the South. 
And there all trace of him stopped. They were going 
on to the eastward, would visit some of the larger cities 
and see the President of this great, new nation. “Oh,” 
Gervaise wrote, "T do not wonder Norton is an enthusi- 
astic American. The wonderful achievements are almost 
enough to turn one’s brain.” 
And now autumn was coming on with its greater rich- 
ness of foliage, its luscious fruits, its gorgeous flowers, 
its sunsets full of splendor, the soft languor giving way 
to a kind of briskness even in pleasure. 
One day Claire Fleurien surprised them by a visit. 
Eugene had come down to see some sugar-buyers, Claire 
for a visit home, and they were to bring back Angelique 
and the little Sylvie. 
“But she is no longer little,” in amaze. “Papa 
Fleurien held Felice on his knee and told her baby stories, 
but, merci! Sylvie is a big girl. And now you will be in 
season to see the sugar-making. There is so much on a 
big plantation. Ours is large, but M. Poydras’s is like 
a little town, only not gay with balls and cafes and bal- 
conies full of pretty, gayly dressed women. Ah, New 
Orleans is charming, and I shall come down when the 
holidays set in for a visit. Eugene and I — papa has 
consented, and we shall dance and be merry to our heart’s 
content.” 
Claire was a little rounder and rosier and suggested 
her mother, so fresh and vivacious that she made one’s 
blood start with enjoyment and hope. 
To make a visit on a big plantation and to stay at the 
sugar-making! They had gone out to Monsieur de 
Bore’s for a day at a time, but this would be quite dif- 
ferent. And Claire with all her brightness ! 
“If I could only take Hylas and Telano,” sighed 
Sylvie. “Nothing is ever quite perfect.” 
Telano had spent many sad hours since the advent of 
Hylas. 
“It is queer,” Sylvie had complained a little to Barbe, 
“that if there are two to care for you, one is always jealous. 
Hortense adores Zenobie herself, but she does not want 
me to like her very much, and Zenobie always flings out 
about Hortense, and can’t see why I should care for her. 
And then she accuses me of a penchant for poor Laure, 
who has no one to love her. Not that Laure is really 
lovable, but one feels sorry for her. Madame Milhet is 
good in a duty way, but Laure is soon going to live in the 
convent.” 
“The best place for her, since she has no people.” 
“And if I had none, would I have been put in a convent, 
Barbe?” 
“God forbid !” Barbe embraced her fondly. “Though 
the Sisters are good to the poor and the orphans and the 
friendless, and try to civilize the little Indians. There 
must be good in any belief that leads you to worship God 
and be upright and honest and love your neighbor. Per- 
haps all cannot believe alike.” 
Barbe sighed a little. She had grown broader in this 
new country. 
“So I cannot take you, Hylas,” Sylvie said to the dog, 
who listened with sorrowful eyes. “But the little 
Murch boys shall come up on Sunday ; they are so fond 
of you, and you can have a good romp with them. If 
you only could understand Telano you might condole with 
each other, for he will miss me still more than you. Jaques 
is so fond of you, and Father Antoine when he comes 
over, while no one but Viny can sympathize with poor 
Telano.” 
Hylas understood it all, but his answer had a plaint 
in it, and he put his nose in Sylvie’s small hand, while his 
eyes were sorrowful. 
“And M’sieu Norton doesn’t forget you either.” 
The whine had a sound of tender appreciation in it. 
The ears were erect, he looked as if he could fly. 
Barbe at the last was quite unwilling to have the child 
go. She had never been separated from her. But Ange- 
