ing Ellen, too. It did not occur to him that he 
could be physically worsted, or that his vehement 
 
age would be no match for the other 's vigorous 
youth. All he thought was that it would not avail, 
except to make known to every one what none 
but her dearest could now conjecture. Bittridge 
could then publicly say, and doubtless would say, 
that he had never made love to Ellen; that if there 
had been any love-making it was all on her side; 
and that he had only paid her the attentions which 
any young man might blamelessly pay a pretty girl. 
This would be true to the facts in the case, though 
it was true also that he had used every tacit art to 
make her believe him in love with her. But 
how could this truth be urged, and to whom? So 
far the affair had been quite in the hands of Ellen 's 
family, and they had all acted for the best, up to 
the present time. They had given Bittridge no 
grievance in making him feel that he was un 
welcome in their house, and they were quite with 
in their rights in going away, and making it 
impossible for him to see her again anywhere in 
Tuskingum. As for his seeing her in New York, 
Ellen had but to say that she did not wish it, and 
that would end it. Now, however, by treating him 
rudely, Kenton was aware that he had bound himself 
to render Bittridge some account of his behavior 
throughout, if the fellow insisted upon it. 
" I want nothing to do with you, sir," he said, less 
violently, but, as he felt, not more effectually. " You 
are in my house without my invitation, and against 
my wish !" 
"I didn 't expect to find you here. I came in 
 
because I saw the door open, and I thought I 
might see Dick or his wife and give them this 
paper for you. But I 'm glad I found you, and if 
you won 't give me any reason for not wanting me 
here, I can give it myself, and I think I can make 
out a very good case for you." Kenton quivered 
in anticipation of some mention of Ellen, and Bit- 
tridge smiled as if he understood. But he went on 
to say : " I know that there were things happened 
after you first gave me the run of your house that 
might make you want to put up the bars again 
if they were true. But they were not true. And 
I can prove that by the best of all possible wit 
nesses by Uphill himself. He stands shoulder to 
shoulder with me, to make it hot for any one who 
couples his wife 's name with mine." 
"Humph!" Kenton could not help making this 
comment, and Bittridge, being what he was, could 
not help laughing. 
"What 's the use?" he asked, recovering himself. 
"I don 't pretend that I did right, but you know 
there wasn 't any harm in it. And if there had 
been I should have got the worst of it. Honestly, 
judge, I couldn 't tell you how much I prized being 
admitted to your house on the terms I was. Don 't 
you think I could appreciate the kindness you all 
showed me? Before you took me up, I was alone 
in Tuskingum, but you opened every door in the 
place for me. You made it home to me; and you 
won 't believe it, of course, because you 're prejudiced, 
but I felt like a son and brother to you all. I felt 
 
towards Mrs. Kenton just as I do towards my own 
mother. I lost the best friends I ever had when you 
turned against me. Don 't you suppose I ve seen 
the difference here in Tuskingum? Of course, 
the men pass the time of day with me when 
we meet, but they don 't look me up, and there 
are more near-sighted girls in this town!" Ken- 
ton could not keep the remote dawn of a smile 
out of his eyes, and Bittridge caught the far - off 
gleam. " And everybody 's been away the whole 
winter. Not a soul at home, anywhere, and I had 
to take my chance of surprising Mrs. Dick Kenton 
when I saw your door open here." He laughed for 
lornly, as the gleam faded out of Kenton 's eye again. 
" And the worst of it is that my own mother isn 't 
at home to me, figuratively speaking, when I go 
over to see her at Ballardsville. She got wind of 
my misfortune, somehow, and when I made a clean 
breast of it to her, she said she could never feel 
the same to me till I had made it all right with the 
Kentons. And when a man 's own mother is down 
on him, judge!" 
Bittridge left Kenton to imagine the desperate 
case, and in spite of his disbelief in the man and 
all he said, Kenton could not keep his hardness of 
heart towards him. "I don 't know what you 're 
after, young man," he began. "But if you expect 
me to receive you under my roof again " 
"Oh, I don t, judge, I don t!" Bittridge inter 
posed. " All I want is to be able to tell my mother 
I don 't care for anybody else that I saw you, 
 
 
and you allowed me to say that I was truly sorry 
for the pain if it was pain; or annoyance, anyway 
that I had caused you, and to go back to her 
with the hope of atoning for it sometime or some 
how. That 's all." 
"Look here!" cried Kenton. "What have you 
written to my daughter for?" 
" Wasn 't that natural ? I prized her esteem more 
than I do yours even; but did I ask her any 
thing more than I ve asked you? I didn 't expect 
her to answer me; all I wanted was to have her 
believe that I wasn 't as black as I was painted 
not inside, anyway. You know well enough any 
body knows that I would rather have her think 
well of me than any one else in this world, except 
my mother. I haven 't got the gift of showing out 
what 's good in me, if there is any good, but I believe 
Miss Ellen would want to think well of me if I 
gave her a chance. If ever there was an angel on 
earth, she 's one. I don 't deny that I was hopeful 
of mercy from her, because she can 't think evil, 
but I can lay my hand on my heart and say that 
I wasn 't selfish in my hopes. It seemed to me that 
it was her due to understand that a man whom she 
had allowed to be her friend wasn 't altogether un 
worthy. That 's as near as I can come to putting 
into words the motive I had in writing to her. I 
can 't even begin to put into words the feeling I have 
towards her. It 's as if she was something sacred." 
This was the feeling Kenton himself had towards 
his daughter, and for the first time he found himself 
 
on common ground with the scapegrace who pro 
fessed it, and whose light, mocking face so little 
enforced his profession. If Bittridge could have 
spoken in the dark, his words might have carried 
a conviction of his sincerity, but there, in plain 
day, confronting the father of Ellen, who had every 
wish to believe him true, the effect was different. 
Deep within his wish to think the man honest, 
Kenton recoiled from him. He vaguely perceived 
that it was because she could not think evil that 
this wretch had power upon her, and he was sensi 
ble, as he had not been before, that she had no 
safety from him except in absence. He did not 
know what to answer; he could not repel him in 
open terms, and still less could he meet him with 
any words that would allow him to resume his 
former relations with his family. He said, finally: 
" We will let matters stand. We are going to Eu 
rope in a week, and I shall not see you again. I will 
tell Mrs. Kenton what you say." 
"Thank you, judge. And tell her that I ap 
preciate your kindness more than I can say." The 
judge rose from his chair and went towards the 
window, which he had thrown open. " Going to 
shut up? Let me help you with that window; it 
seems to stick. Everything fast up-stairs?" 
"I I think so," Kenton hesitated. 
"I 'll just run up and look," said Bittridge, and 
he took the stairs two at a time, before Kenton 
could protest, when they came out into the hall 
together. " It 's all right," he reported on his quick 
 
return. "Ill just look round below here," and he 
explored the ground-floor rooms in turn. " No, you 
hadn 't opened any other window," he said, glancing 
finally into the library. " Shall I leave this paper 
on your table?" 
" Yes, leave it there," said Kenton, helplessly, 
and he let Bittridge close the front door after 
him, and lock it. 
" I hope Miss Lottie is well," he suggested in 
handing the key to Kenton. " And Boyne ?" he 
added, with the cordiality of an old family friend. 
" I hope Boyne has got reconciled to New York a 
little. He was rather anxious about his pigeons 
when he left, I understand. But I guess Dick 's 
man has looked after them. I d have offered to 
take charge of the cocoons myself if I d had a 
chance." He walked, gayly chatting, across the 
intervening lawn with Kenton to his son 's door, 
where at sight of him Mrs. Kichard Kenton eva 
nesced into the interior so obviously that Bittridge 
could not offer to come in. "Well, I shall see 
you all when you come back in the fall, judge, and 
I hope you 'll have a pleasant voyage and a good 
time in Europe." 
" Thank you," said Kenton, briefly. 
" Eemember me to the ladies !" and Bittridge took 
off his hat with his left hand, while he offered the 
judge his right. " Well, good-bye !" 
Kenton made what response he could, and escaped 
in-doors, where his daughter-in-law appeared from 
the obscurity into which she had retired from Bit- 
 
tridge. "Well, that fellow does beat all! How in 
the world did he find you, father ?" 
"He came into the house," said the judge, 
much abashed at his failure to deal adequate 
ly with Bittridge. He felt it the more in the 
presence of his son 's wife, "I couldn 't seem 
to get rid of him in any way short of kicking 
him out." 
"No, there 's nothing equal to his impudence. I 
do believe he would have come in here, if he hadn 't 
seen me first. Did you tell him when you were 
going back, father? Because he d be at the train 
to see you off, just as sure !" 
" No, I didn 't tell him," said Kenton, feeling 
more shaken now from the interview with Bittridge 
than he had realized before. He was ashamed to let 
Mary know that he had listened to Bittridge 's jus 
tification, which he now perceived was none, and 
he would have liked to pretend that he had not 
silently condoned his offences, but Mary did not 
drive him to these deceptions by any further al 
lusions to Bittridge. 
"Well, now, you must go into the sitting-room 
and lie down on the lounge; I promised Dick to 
make you. Or would you rather go up-stairs to 
your room?" 
" I think I 'll go to my room," said Kenton. 
He was asleep there on the bed when Richard 
came home to dinner and looked softly in. He 
decided not to wake him, and Mary said the sleep 
would do him more good than the dinner. At table 
 
they talked him over, and she told her husband what 
she knew of the morning 's adventure. 
"That was pretty tough for father," said Rich- 
ard. " I wouldn 't go into the house with him, be 
cause I knew he wanted to have it to himself; and 
then to think of that dirty hound skulking in! 
Well, perhaps it 's for the best. It will make it 
easier for father to go and leave the place, and 
they ve got to go. They ve got to put the Atlantic 
Ocean between Ellen and that fellow." 
" It does seem as if something might be done," 
his wife rebelled. 
" They ve done the best that could be done," said 
Richard. " And if that skunk hasn 't got some sort 
of new hold upon father, I shall be satisfied. The 
worst of it is that it will be all over town in an 
hour that Bittridge has made up with us. I don 't 
blame father; he couldn 't help it; he never could 
be rude to anybody." 
" I think I 'll try if I can 't be rude to Mr. Bit 
tridge, if he ever undertakes to show in my presence 
that he has made it up with us" said Mary. 
Richard tenderly found out from his father 's 
shamefaced reluctance, later, that no great mischief 
had been done. But no precaution on his part avail 
ed to keep Bittridge from demonstrating the good 
feeling between himself and the Kentons when the 
judge started for New York the next afternoon. 
He was there waiting to see him off, and he all 
but took the adieux out of Richard 's hands. He 
got possession of the judge 's valise, and pressed past 
 
the porter into the sleeping-car with it, and remain 
ed lounging on the arm of the judge 's seat, making 
conversation with him and Richard till the train 
began to move. Then he ran outside, and waved 
his hand to the judge 's window in farewell, before 
all that leisure of Tuskingum which haunted the 
arrival and departure of the trains. 
Mary Kenton was furious when her husband came 
home and reported the fact to her. 
" How in the world did he find out when father 
was going?" 
"He must have come to all the through trains 
since he say him yesterday. But I think even you 
would have been suited, Mary, if you had seen his 
failure to walk off from the depot arm-in-arm with 
me." 
" I wouldn 't have been suited with anything short 
of your knocking him down, Dick." 
" Oh, that wouldn 't have done," said Richard. 
After a while he added, patiently, " Ellen is making 
a good deal of trouble for us." 
That was what Mary was thinking herself, and 
it was what she might have said, but since Dick 
had said it she was obliged to protest. " She isn 't 
to blame for it." 
" Oh, I know she isn 't to blame." 
The father of the unhappy girl was of the same 
mixed mind as he rode sleeplessly back to New York 
in his berth, and heard the noises of slumber all 
round him. From time to time he groaned softly, and 
turned from one cheek to the other. Every half- 
hour or so he let his window-curtain fly up, and 
lay watching the landscape fleeting past; and then 
he pulled the curtain down again and tried to 
sleep. After passing Albany he dozed, but at Pough- 
keepsie a zealous porter called him by mistake, and 
the rest of the way to New York he sat up in the 
smoking-room. It seemed a long while since he had 
drowsed; the thin nap had not rested him, and the 
old face that showed itself in the glass, with the 
