steps. At the same instant a man appeared at the foot of the hill, and
Elerson waved his hand, saying: "Here's that mad Irishman, Tim Murphy,
back already."
Murphy came jauntily up the hill, saluted me with easy respect, and drew
from his pouch a small packet of papers which he handed me, nodding
carelessly at Elerson and staring hard at Mount as though he did not
recognize him.
"Phwat's this?" he inquired of Elerson--"a Frinch cooroor, or maybe a
Sac shquaw in a buck's shirrt?"
"Don't introduce him to me," said Mount to Elerson; "he'll try to kiss
my hand, and I hate ceremony."
"Quit foolin'," said Elerson, as the two big, over-grown boys seized
each other and began a rough-and-tumble frolic. "You're just cuttin'
capers, Tim, becuz you've heard that we're takin' the war-path--quit
pullin' me, you big Irish elephant! Is it true we're takin' the
war-path?"
"How do I know?" cried Murphy; but the twinkle in his blue eyes betrayed
him; "bedad, 'tis home to the purty lasses we go this blessed day, f'r
the crool war is over, an' the King's got the pip, an--"
"Murphy!" I said.
"Sorr," he replied, letting go of Mount and standing at a respectful
slouch.
"Did you get Beacraft there in safety?"
"I did, sorr."
"Any trouble?"
"None, sorr--f'r me."
I opened the first despatch, looking at him keenly.
"Do we take the war-path?" I asked.
"We do, sorr," he said, blandly. "McDonald's in the hills wid the McCraw
an'ten score renegades. Wan o' their scouts struck old man Schell's farm
an' he put buckshot into sivinteen o' them, or I'm a liar where
I shtand!"
"I knew it," muttered Elerson to Mount. "Where you see smoke, there's
fire; where you see Murphy, there's trouble. Look at the grin on
him--and his hatchet shined up like a Cayuga's war-axe!"
I opened the despatch; it was from Schuyler, countermanding his
instructions for me to go to Stanwix, and directing me to warn every
settlement in the Kingsland district that McDonald and some three
hundred Indians and renegades were loose on the Schoharie, and that
their outlying scouts had struck Broadalbin.
I broke the wax of the second despatch; it was from Harrow, briefly
thanking me for the capture of Beacraft, adding that the man had been
sent to Albany to await court-martial.
That meant that Beacraft must hang; a most disagreeable feeling came
over me, and I tore open the third and last paper, a bulky document,
and read it:
     "VARICK MANOR,
     "June the 2d.
     "An hour to dawn.
     "In my bedroom I am writing to you the adieu I should have
     said the night you left. Murphy, a rifleman, goes to you with
     despatches in an hour: he will take this to you, ...
     wherever you are.
     "I saw the man you sent in. Father says he must surely hang.
     He was so pale and silent, he looked so dreadfully tired--and
     I have been crying a little--I don't know why, because all
     say he is a great villain.
     "I wonder whether you are well and whether you remember me."
     ("me" was crossed out and "us" written very carefully.) "The
     house is so strange without you. I go into your room
     sometimes. Cato has pressed all your fine clothes. I go into
     your room to read. The light is very good there. I am reading
     the Poems of Pansard. You left a fern between the pages to
     mark the poem called 'Our Deaths'; did you know it? Do you
     admire that verse? It seems sad to me. And it is not true,
     either. Lovers seldom die together." (This was crossed out,
     and the letter went on.) "Two people who love--" ("love" was
     crossed out heavily and the line continued)--"two friends
     seldom die at the same instant. Otherwise there would be no
     terror in death.
     "I forgot to say that Isene, your mare, is very well. Papa
     and the children are well, and Ruyven a-pestering General
     Schuyler to make him a cornet in the legion of horse, and
     Cecile, all airs, goes about with six officers to carry her
     shawl and fan.
     "For me--I sit with Lady Schuyler when I have the
     opportunity. I love her; she is so quiet and gentle and lets
     me sit by her for hours, perfectly silent. Yesterday she came
     into your room, where I was sitting, and she looked at me for
     a long time--so strangely--and I asked her why, and she shook
     her head. And after she had gone I arranged your linen and
     sprinkled lavender among it.
     "You see there is so little to tell you, except that in the
     afternoon some Senecas and Tories shot at one of our distant
     tenants, a poor man, one Christian Schell; and he beat them
     off and killed eleven, which was very brave, and one of the
     soldiers made a rude song about it, and they have been
     singing it all night in their quarters. I heard them from
     your room--where I sometimes sleep--the air being good there;
     and this is what they sang:
     "'A story, a story
       Unto you I will tell,
     Concerning a brave hero,
       One Christian Schell.
     "'Who was attacked by the savages.
       And Tories, it is said;
     But for this attack
       Most freely they bled.
     "'He fled unto his house
       For to save his life.
     Where he had left his arms
       In care of his wife.
     "'They advanced upon him
       And began to fire,
     But Christian with his blunderbuss
       Soon made them retire.
     "'He wounded Donald McDonald
       And drew him in the door,
     Who gave an account
       Their strength was sixty-four.
     "'Six there was wounded
       And eleven there was killed
     Of this said party,
       Before they quit the field.'
     "And I think there are a hundred other verses, which I will
     spare you; not that I forget them, for the soldiers sang them
     over and over, and I had nothing better to do than to lie
     awake and listen.
     "So that is all. I hear my messenger moving about below; I am
     to drop this letter down to him, as all are asleep, and to
     open the big door might wake them.
     "Good-bye.
       *       *       *       *       *
     "It was not my rifleman, only the sentry. They keep double
     watch since the news came about Schell. "Good-bye. I am
     thinking of you.
     "DOROTHY.
     "Postscript.--Please make my compliments and adieux to Sir
     George Covert.
     "Postscript.--The rifleman is here; he is whistling like a
     whippoorwill. I must say good-bye. I am mad to go with him.
     Do not forget me!
     "My memories are so keen, so pitilessly real, I can scarce
     endure them, yet cling to them the more desperately.
     "I did not mean to write this--truly I did not! But here, in
     the dusk, I can see your face just as it looked when you said
     good-bye!--so close that I could take it in my arms despite
     my vows and yours!
     "Help me to reason; for even God cannot, or will not, help
     me; knowing, perhaps, the dreadful after-life He has doomed
     me to for all eternity. If it is true that marriages are made
     in heaven, where was mine made? Can you answer? I cannot.
     (The whimper of the whippoorwill again!) Dearest, good-bye.
     Where my body lies matters nothing so that you hold my soul a
     little while. Yet, even of that they must rob you one day.
     Oh, if even in dying there is no happiness, where, where does
     it abide? Three places only have I heard of: the world,
     heaven, and hell. God forgive me, but I think the last could
     cover all.
     "Say that you love me! Say it to the forest, to the wind.
     Perhaps my soul, which follows you, may hear if you only say
     it. (Once more the ghost-call of the whippoorwill!) Dear lad,
     good-bye!"
XVII
THE FLAG
Day after day our little scout of four traversed the roads and forests
of the Kingsland district, warning the people at the outlying
settlements and farms that the county militia-call was out, and that
safety lay only in conveying their families to the forts and responding
to the summons of authority without delay.
Many obeyed; some rash or stubborn settlers prepared to defend their
homes. A few made no response, doubtless sympathizing with their Tory
friends who had fled to join McDonald or Sir John Johnson in the North.
Rumors were flying thick, every settlement had its full covey; every
cross-road tavern buzzed with gossip. As we travelled from settlement to
settlement, we, too, heard something of what had happened in distant
districts: how the Schoharie militia had been called out; how one
Huetson had been captured as he was gathering a band of Tories to join
the Butlers; how a certain Captain Ball had raised a company of
sixty-three royalists at Beaverdam and was fled to join Sir John; how
Captain George Mann, of the militia, refused service, declaring himself
a royalist, and disbanding his company; how Adam Crysler had thrown his
important influence in favor of the King, and that the inhabitants of
Tryon County were gloomy and depressed, seeing so many respectable
gentlemen siding with the Tories.
We learned that the Schoharie and Schenectady militia had refused to
march unless some provision was made to protect their families in their
absence; that Congress had therefore established a corps of invalids,
consisting of eight companies, each to have one captain, two
lieutenants, two ensigns, five sergeants, six corporals, two drums, two
fifes, and one hundred men; one company to be stationed in Schoharie,
and to be called the "Associate Exempts"; that three forts for the
protection of the Schoharie Valley were nearly finished, called the
Upper, Lower, and Middle forts.
More sinister still were the rumors from the British armies: Burgoyne
was marching on Albany from the north with the finest train of artillery
ever seen in America; St. Leger was moving from the west; McDonald had
started already, flinging out his Indian scouts as far as Perth and
Broadalbin, and Sir Henry Clinton had gathered a great army at New York
and was preparing to sweep the Hudson Valley from Fishkill to Albany.
And the focus of these three armies and of Butler's, Johnson's, and
McDonald's renegades and Indians was this unhappy county of Tryon, torn
already with internal dissensions; unarmed, unprovisioned, unorganized,
almost ungarrisoned.
I remember, one rainy day towards sunset, coming into a small hamlet
where, in front of the church, some score of farmers and yokels were
gathered, marshalled into a single line. Some were armed with rifles,
some with blunderbusses, some with spears and hay-forks. None wore
uniform. As we halted to watch the pathetic array, their fifer and
drummer wheeled out and marched down the line, playing Yankee Doodle.
Then the minister laid down his blunderbuss and, facing the company,
raised his arms in prayer, invoking the "God of Armies" as though he
addressed his supplication before a vast armed host.
Murphy strove to laugh, but failed; Mount muttered vaguely under his
breath; Elerson gnawed his lips and bent his bared head while the old
man finished his prayer to "The God of Armies!" then picked up his
blunderbuss and limped to his place in the scanty file.
And again I remember one fresh, sweet morning late in June, standing
with my riflemen at a toll-gate to see some four hundred Tryon County
militia marching past on their way to Unadilla on the Susquehanna, where
Brant, with half a thousand savages, had consented to a last parley.
Stout, wholesome lads they were, these Tryon County men; wearing brown
and yellow uniforms cut smartly, and their officers in the Continental
buff and blue, riding like regulars; curved swords shining and their
epaulets striking fire in the sunshine.
"Palatines!" said Mount, standing to salute as an officer rode by.
"That's General Herkimer--old Honikol Herkimer--with his hard,
weather-tanned jaws and the devil lurking under his eyebrows; and that
young fellow in his smart uniform is Colonel Cox, old George Klock's
son-in-law; and yonder rides Colonel Harper! Oh, I know 'em, sir; I was
not in these parts for nothing in '74 and '75!"
The drums and fifes were playing "Unadilla" as the regiment marched
past; and my riflemen, lounging along the roadside, exchanged
pleasantries with the hardy Palatines, or greeted acquaintances in their
impudent, bantering manner:
"Hello! What's this Low Dutch regiment? Say, Han Yost, the pigs has eat
off your queue-band! Bedad, they marrch like Albany ducks in fly-time!
Musha, thin, luk at the fat dhrummer laad! Has he apples in thim two
cheeks, Jack? I dunnoa! Hey, there goes Wagner! Hello, Wagner! Wisha,
laad, ye're cross-eyed an' shquint-lipped a-playin' yere fife
hind-end furrst!"
And the replies from the dusty, brown ranks, steadily passing:
"Py Gott! dere's Jack Mount! Look alretty, Jacob! Hello, Elerson! Ish
dot true you patch your breeches mit second-hand scalps you puy in
Montreal? Vat you vas doing down here, Tim Murphy? Oh, joost look at dem
devils of Morgan! Sure, Emelius, dey joost come so soon as ve go. Ya!
Dey come to kiss our girls, py cricky! Uf I catch you round my girl
alretty, Dave Elerson--"
"Silence! Silence in the ranks!" sang out an officer, riding up. The
brown column passed on, the golden dust hanging along its flanks. Far
ahead we could still hear the drums and fifes playing "Unadilla."
"They ought to have a flag; a flag's a good thing to fight for," said
Mount, looking after them. "I fought for the damned British rag when I
was fifteen. Lord! it makes me boil to think that they've forgot what we
did for 'em!"
"We Virginians carried a flag at the siege o' Boston," observed Elerson.
"It was a rattlesnake on a white ground, with the motto, 'Don't tread
on me!'"
I told them of the new flag that our Congress had chosen, describing it
in detail. They listened attentively, but made no comment.
It was on these expeditions that I learned something of these rough
riflemen which I had not suspected--their passionate devotion to the
forest. What the sea is to mariners, the endless, uncharted wilderness
was to these forest runners; they loved and hated it, they suspected and
trusted it. A forest voyage finished, they steered for the nearest port
with all the eager impatience of sea-cloyed sailors. Yet, scarcely were
they anchored in some frontier haven than they fell to dreaming of the
wilderness, of the far silences in the trackless sea of trees, of the
winds ruffling the forest's crests till ten thousand trees toss their
leaves, silver side up, as white-caps flash, rolling in long patches on
a heaving waste of waters.
Yet, in all those weeks I never heard one word or hint of that devotion
expressed or implied, not one trace of appreciation, not one shadow of
sentiment. If I ventured to speak of the vast beauty of the woods, there
was no response from my shy companions; one appeared to vie with another
in concealing all feeling under a careless mask and a bantering manner.
Once only can I recall a voluntary expression of pleasure in beauty; it
came from Jack Mount, one blue night in July, when the heavens flashed
under summer stars till the vaulted skies seemed plated solidly with
crusted gems.
"Them stars look kind of nice," he said, then colored with embarrassment
and spat a quid of spruce-gum into the camp-fire.
Yet humanity demands some outlet for accumulated sentiment, and these
men found it in the dirge-like songs and laments and rude ballads of the
wilderness, which I think bear a close resemblance to the sailor-men's
songs, in words as well as in the dolorous melodies, fit only for the
scraping whine of a two-string fiddle in a sugar-camp.
The magic of June faded from the forests, smothered under the
magnificent and deeper glory of July's golden green; the early summer
ripened into August, finding us still afoot in the Kingsland district
gathering in the loyal, warning the rash, comforting the down-cast,
threatening the suspected. Twice, by expresses bound for Saratoga, I
sent full reports to Schuyler, but received no further orders. I
wondered whether he was displeased at my failure to arrest Walter
Butler; and we redoubled our efforts to gain news of him. Three times we
heard of his presence in or near the Kingsland district: once at Tribes
Hill, once at Fort Plain, and once it was said he was living quietly in
a farm-house near Johnstown, which he had the effrontery to enter in
broad daylight. But we failed to come up with him, and to this day I do
not know whether any of this information we received was indeed correct.
It was the first day of August when we heard of Butler's presence near
Johnstown; we had been lying at a tavern called "The Brick House," a
two-story inn standing where the Albany and Schenectady roads fork near
Fox Creek, and there had been great fear of McDonald's renegades that
week, and I had advised the despatch of an express to Albany asking for
troops to protect the valley when I chanced to overhear a woman say that
firing had been heard in the direction of Stanwix.
The woman, a slattern, who was known by the unpleasant name of Rya's
Pup, declared that Walter Butler had gone to Johnstown to join St. Leger
before Stanwix, and that the Tories would give the rebels such a
