afternoon teas, without any pretence of giving garden parties, and there
also the young ones danced, sometimes on marble pavements in great old
rooms that smelt slightly of musty furniture, but were cool and
pleasant. Besides these things, there were picnic dinners at Frascati
and Castel Gandolfo, and everybody drove home across the Campagna by
moonlight. Altogether, and chiefly in Cecilia Palladio's honour, there
was a very pretty little revival of winter gaiety, which is not always
very gay in Rome, nowadays.
The young girl accepted it all much more graciously than her mother had
expected, and was ready to enjoy everything that people offered her,
which is a great secret of social success. The Countess had always
feared that Cecilia was too fond of books and of serious talk to care
much for what amuses most people. But, instead, she suddenly seemed to
have been made for society; she delighted in dancing, she liked to be
well dressed, she smiled at well-meaning young men who made compliments
to her, and she chatted with young girls about the myriad important
nothings that grow like wild flowers just outside life's gate.
Every one liked her, and she let almost every one think that she liked
them. She never said disagreeable things about them, and she never
attracted to herself the young gentleman who was looked upon as the
property of another. Every one said that she was going to marry d'Este
in the autumn, though the engagement was not yet announced. Wherever she
was, he was there also, generally accompanied by his inseparable friend,
Lamberto Lamberti.
The latter had grown thinner during the last few weeks. When any one
spoke of it, he explained that life ashore did not suit him, and that he
was obliged to work a good deal over papers and maps for the ministerial
commission. But he was evidently not much inclined to talk of himself,
and he changed the subject immediately. His life was not easy, for he
was not only in serious trouble himself, but he was also becoming
anxious about Guido.
The one matter about which a man is instinctively reticent with his most
intimate man friend is his love affair, if he has one. He would rather
tell a woman all about it, though he does not know her nearly so well,
than talk about it, even vaguely, with the one man in the world whom he
trusts. Where women are concerned, all men are more or less one
another's natural enemies, in spite of civilisation and civilised
morals; and each knows this of the other, and respects the other's
silence as both inevitable and decent.
Guido had told Lamberti that he should be the first to know of the
engagement as soon as there was any, and Lamberti waited. He did not
know whether Guido had spoken yet, nor whether there was any sort of
agreement between him and Cecilia by which the latter was to give her
answer after a certain time. He could not guess what they talked of
during the hour they spent together nearly every day. People made
inquiries of him, some openly and some by roundabout means, and he
always answered that if his friend were engaged to be married he would
assuredly announce the fact at once. Those who received this answer were
obliged to be satisfied with it, because Lamberti was not the kind of
man to submit to cross-questioning.
He wondered whether Cecilia knew that he loved her, since what he had
foreseen had happened, and he did not even try to deny the fact to
himself. He would not let his thoughts dwell on what she might feel for
him, for that would have seemed like the beginning of a betrayal.
She never asked him questions nor did anything to make him spend more
time near her than was inevitable, and neither had ever gone back to the
subject of their dreams. She had asked Lamberti to come to the house at
an hour when there would not be other visitors, but he had not come, and
neither had ever referred to the matter since. He sometimes felt that
she was watching him earnestly, but at those times he would not meet her
eyes lest his own should say too much.
It was hard, it was quite the hardest thing he had ever done in his
life, and he was never quite sure that he could go on with it to the
end. But it was the only honourable course he could follow, and it would
surely grow easier when he knew definitely that Cecilia meant to marry
Guido. It was bitter to feel that if the man had been any one but his
friend, there would have been no reason for making any such sacrifice.
He inwardly prayed that Cecilia would come to a decision soon, and he
was deeply grateful to her for not making his position harder by
referring to their first conversation at the Villa Madama.
Guido had not the slightest suspicion of the true state of things, but
he himself was growing impatient, and daily resolved to put the final
question. Every day, however, he put it off again, not from lack of
courage, nor even because he was naturally so very indolent, but because
he felt sure that the answer would not be the one hoped for. Though
Cecilia's manner with him had never changed from the first, it was
perfectly clear that, however much she might enjoy his conversation, she
was calmly indifferent to his personality. She never blushed with
pleasure when he came, nor did her eyes grow sad when he left her; and
when she talked with him she spoke exactly as when she was speaking with
her mother. He listened in vain for an added earnestness of tone, meant
for him only; it never came. She liked him, beyond doubt, from the
first, and liking had changed to friendship very fast, but Guido knew
how very rarely the friendship a woman feels for a man can ever turn to
love. Starting from the same point, it grows steadily in another
direction, and its calm intellectual sympathy makes the mere suggestion
of any unreasoning impulse of the heart seem almost absurd.
But where the man and woman do not feel alike, this state of things
cannot last for ever, and when it comes to an end there is generally
trouble and often bitterness. Guido knew that very well and hesitated in
consequence.
Princess Anatolie could not understand the reason for this delay, and
was not at all pleased. She said it would be positively not decent if
the girl refused to marry Guido after acting in public as if she were
engaged to him, and Monsieur Leroy agreed with her. She asked him if he
could not do anything to hasten matters, and he said he would try. The
old lady had felt quite sure of the marriage, and in imagination she had
already extracted from Guido's wife all the money she had made Guido
lose for her. It is now hardly necessary to say that she had received
spirit messages through Monsieur Leroy, bidding her to invest money in
the most improbable schemes, and that she had followed his advice in
making her nephew act as her agent in the matter. Monsieur Leroy had
pleaded his total ignorance of business as a reason for keeping out of
the transaction, by which, however, it may be supposed that he profited
indirectly for a time. He never hesitated to say that the unfortunate
result was due to Guido's negligence and failure to carry out the
instructions given him.
But the Princess knew that at least a part of the fault belonged to
Monsieur Leroy, though she never had the courage to tell him so; and
though it looked as if nothing could sever the mysterious tie that
linked their lives together, he had forfeited some of his influence over
her with the loss of the money, and had only recently regained it by
convincing her that she was in communication with her dead child. So
long as he could keep her in this belief he was in no danger of losing
his power again. On the contrary, it increased from day to day.
"Guido is so very quixotic," he said. "He hesitates because the girl is
so rich. But we may be able to bring a little pressure to bear on him.
After all, you have his receipts for all the money that passed through
his hands."
"Unless he marries this girl, they are not worth the paper they are
written on."
"I am not sure. He is very sensitive about matters of honour. Now a
receipt for money given to a lady looks to me very much like a debt of
honour. What happened in the eyes of the world? You lent him money which
he lost in speculation."
"No doubt," answered the Princess, willing to be convinced of any
absurdity that could help her to get back her money. "But when a man has
no means of paying a debt of honour----"
"He shoots himself," said Monsieur Leroy, completing the sentence.
"That would not help us. Besides, I should be very sorry if anything
happened to Guido."
"Of course!" cried Monsieur Leroy. "Not for worlds! But nothing need
happen to him. You have only to persuade him that the sole way to save
his honour is to marry an heiress, and he will marry at once, as a
matter of conscience. Unless something is done to move him, he will
not."
"But he is in love with the girl!"
"Enough to occupy him and amuse him. That is all. By-the-bye, where are
those receipts?"
"In the small strong-box, in the lower drawer of the writing table."
Monsieur Leroy found the papers, and transferred them to his
pocket-book, not yet sure how he could best turn them to account, but
quite certain that their proper use would reveal itself to him before
long.
"And besides," he concluded, "we can always make him sell the Andrea del
Sarto and the Raphael. Baumgarten thinks they are worth a good sum. You
know that he buys for the Berlin gallery, and the British Museum people
think everything of his opinion."
In this way the Princess and her favourite disposed of Guido and his
property; but he would not have been much surprised if he could have
heard their conversation. They were only saying what he had expected of
them as far back as the day when he had talked with Lamberti in the
garden of the Arcadians.
                               CHAPTER XII
It is not strange that Cecilia should have been much less disturbed than
Lamberti by what he had described to the doctor as a possession of the
devil, or a haunting. Men who have never been ailing in their lives
sometimes behave like frightened children if they fall ill, though the
ailment may not be very serious, whereas a hardened old invalid,
determined to make the best of life in spite of his ills, often laughs
himself into the belief that he can recover from the two or three mortal
diseases that have hold of him. Bearing bodily pain is a mere matter of
habit, as every one knows who has had to bear much, or who has tried it
as an experiment. In barbarous countries conspirators have practised
suffering the tortures likely to be inflicted on them to extract
confession.
Lamberti had never before been troubled by anything at all resembling
what people call the supernatural, nor even by anything unaccountable.
It was natural that he should be made nervous and almost ill by the
persistence of the dreams that had visited him since he had met Cecilia,
and by what he believed to be the closing of a door each time he awoke
from them.
Cecilia, on the contrary, had practised dreaming all her life and was
not permanently disturbed by any vision that presented itself, nor by
anything like a "phenomenon" which might accompany it. She felt that her
dreams brought her nearer to a truth of some sort, hidden from most of
the world, but of vital value, and after which she was groping
continually without much sense of direction. The specialist whom
Lamberti had consulted would have told her plainly that she had learned
to hypnotise herself, and a Japanese Buddhist monk would have told her
the same thing, adding that she was doing one of the most dangerous
things possible. The western man of science would have assured her that
a certain resemblance of the face in the dream to Lamberti was a mere
coincidence, and that since she had met him the likeness had perfected
itself, so that she now really dreamed of Lamberti; and the doctor would
have gone on to say that the rest of her vision was the result of
auto-suggestion, because the story of the Vestal Virgins had always had
a very great attraction for her. She had read a great deal about them,
she had followed Giacomo Boni's astonishing discoveries with breathless
interest, she knew more of Roman history than most girls, and probably
more than most men, and it was not at all astonishing that she should be
able to construct a whole imaginary past life with all its details and
even its end, and to dream it all at will, as if she were reading a
novel.
She would have admitted that the pictured history of Cecilia, the last
Vestal, had been at first fragmentary, and had gradually completed
itself in her visions, and that even now it was constantly growing, and
that it might continue to grow, and even to change, for a long time.
Further, if the specialist had known positively that similar fragments
of dreams were little by little putting themselves together in
Lamberti's imagination, though the latter had only once spoken with
Cecilia of one or two coincidences, he would have said, provided that he
chose to be frank with a mere girl, that no one knows much about
telepathy, and that modern science does not deny what it cannot explain,
as the science of the nineteenth century did, but collects and examines
facts, only requiring to be persuaded that they are really facts and not
fictions. No one, he would have said, would build a theory on one
instance; he would write down the best account of the case which he
could find, and would then proceed to look for another. Since wireless
telegraphy was possible, the specialist would not care to seek a reason
why telepathy should not be a possibility, too. If it were, it explained
thoroughly what was going on between Cecilia and Lamberti; if it were
not, there must be some other equally satisfactory explanation, still to
be found. The attitude of science used to be extremely aggressive, but
she has advanced to a higher stage; in these days she is serene. Men of
science still occasionally come into conflict with the official
representatives of different beliefs, but science herself no longer
assails religion. Lamberti's specialist professed no form of faith,
wherefore he would rather not have been called upon to answer all three
of Kant's questions: What can I know? What is it my duty to do? What may
I hope? But it by no means followed that his answers, if he gave any,
would have been shocking to people who knew less and hoped more than he
did.
Cecilia thought much, but she followed no such form of reasoning to
convince herself that her experiences were all scientifically possible;
on the contrary, the illusion she loved best was the one which science
and religion alike would have altogether condemned as contrary to faith
and revolting to reason, namely, her cherished belief that she had
really once lived as a Vestal in old days, and had died, and had come
back to earth after a long time, irresistibly drawn towards life after
having almost attained to perfect detachment from material things.
Her meeting with Lamberti, and, most of all, her one short conversation
with him, had greatly strengthened her illusion. He had come back, too,
and they understood each other. But that should be all.
Then she took up Nietzsche again, not because every one read Thus spake
Zarathushthra, or was supposed to read the book, and talked about it in
a manner that discredited the supposition, but because she wanted to
decide once for all whether his theory of the endless return to life at
all suited her own case.
She turned over the pages, but she knew the main thought by heart. Time
is infinite. In space there is matter consisting of elements which,
however numerous, are limited in number, and can therefore only combine
in a finite number of ways. When those possible combinations are
exhausted, they must repeat themselves. And because time is infinite,
they must repeat themselves an infinite number of times. Therefore
precisely the same combinations have returned always and will return
again and again for ever. Therefore in the past, every one of us has
lived precisely the same life, in a precisely similar world, an infinite
number of times, and will live the same life over again, to the minutest
detail, an infinite number of times in the future. In the fewest words,
this is Nietzsche's argument to prove what he calls the "Eternal
Return."
No. That was not at all what she wished to believe, nor could believe,
though it was very plausible as a theory. If men lived over again, they
did not live the same lives but other lives, worse or better than the
first. Nietzsche in this was speaking only of matter which combined and
combined again. If it did, each combination might have a new soul of its
own. It was conceivable that different souls should be made to suffer
and enjoy in precisely the same way. And as for the rest, as for a good
deal of Thus spake Zarathushthra, including the Over-Man, and the
overcoming of Pity, and the Man who had killed God, she thought it
merely fantastic, though much of it was very beautiful and some of it
was terrible, and she thought she had understood what Nietzsche meant.
Tired of reading, she lay back in her deep chair and let the open book
fall upon her knees. She was in her own room, late in the morning, and
the blinds were drawn together to keep out the glare of the wide street,
for it was June and the summer was at hand. Outside, the air was all
alive with the coming heat, as it is in Italy at the end of spring, and
perhaps nowhere else. The sunshine seems to grow in it, like a living
thing, that also fills everything with life. It gets into the people,
too, and into their voices, and even the grave Romans unbend a little,
and laugh more gaily, and their step is more elastic. By-and-by, when
the full warmth of summer fills the city, the white streets will be
almost deserted in the middle of the day, and men who have to be abroad
will drag themselves along where the walls cast a narrow shade, and
everything will grow lazy and sleepy and silently hot. But the first
good sunshine in June is to the southern people the elixir of life, the
magic gold-mist that floats before the coming gods, the breath of the
gods themselves breathed into mortals.
Within the girl's room the light was very soft on the pale blue damask
hangings, and a gentle air blew now and then from window to window, as
if a sweet spirit passed by, bringing a message and taking one away. It
stirred Cecilia's golden hair, and fanned her forehead, and somehow,
just then, it brought intuitions of beautiful unknown things with it,
and inspiration with peace, and clear sight.
Maidenhood is blessed with such moments, beyond all other states. In all
times and in all countries it has been half divine, and ever
mysteriously linked with divine things. The maid was ever the priestess,
the prophetess, and the seer, whose eyes looked beyond the veil and
whose ears heard the voices of the immortals; and she of Orleans was not
the only maiden, though she was the last, that lifted her fallen country
up out of despair and led men to fight and victory who would follow no
man-leader where all had failed.
Maidenhood meets evil, and passes by on the other side, not seeing;
maidenhood is whole and perfect in itself and sweetly careless of what
it need not know; maidenhood dreams of a world that is not, nor was, nor
shall be, hitherwards of heaven; maidenhood is angelhood. In its
unconsciousness of evil lies its strength, in its ignorance of itself
lies its danger.
Cecilia was not trying to call up visions now; she was thinking of her
