bank.
Some of the firemen had run down to the bridge when they saw that the
skiff was not going to be of any use, and one of them had got out of the
window of the bridge onto the middle pier, with a long pole in his hand.
It had an iron hook at the end, and it was the kind of pole that the men
used to catch drift-wood with and drag it ashore. When the people saw Blue
Bob with that pole in his hand, they understood what he was up to. He was
going to wait till the water brought the roof with Jim Leonard on it down
to the bridge, and then catch the hook into the shingles and pull it up to
the pier. The strongest current set close in around the middle pier, and
the roof would have to pass on one side or the other. That was what Blue
Bob argued out in his mind when he decided that the skiff would never
reach Jim Leonard, and he knew that if he could not save him that way,
nothing could save him.
Blue Bob must have had a last name, but none of the little fellows knew
what it was. Everybody called him Blue Bob because he had such a thick,
black beard that when he was just shaved his face looked perfectly blue.
He knew all about the river and its ways, and if it had been of any use
to go out with a boat, he would have gone. That was what all the boys
said, when they followed Blue Bob to the bridge and saw him getting out
on the pier. He was the only person that the watchman had let go on the
bridge for two days.
The water was up within three feet of the floor, and if Jim Leonard's roof
slipped by Blue Bob's guard and passed under the bridge, it would scrape
Jim Leonard off, and that would be the last of him.
All the time the roof was coming nearer the bridge, sometimes slower,
sometimes faster, just as it got into an eddy or into the current; once it
seemed almost to stop, and swayed completely round; then it just darted
forward.
Blue Bob stood on the very point of the pier, where the strong stone-work
divided the current, and held his hooked pole ready to make a clutch at
the roof, whichever side it took. Jim Leonard saw him there, but although
he had been holloing and yelling and crying all the time, now he was
still. He wanted to say, "O Bob, save me!" but he could not make a sound.
It seemed to him that Bob was going to miss him when he made a lunge at
the roof on the right side of the pier; it seemed to him that the roof was
going down the left side; but he felt it quiver and stop, and then it gave
a loud crack and went to pieces, and flung itself away upon the whirling
and dancing flood. At first Jim Leonard thought he had gone with it; but
it was only the rat that tried to run up Blue Bob's pole, and slipped off
into the water; and then somehow Jim was hanging onto Blue Bob's hands and
scrambling onto the bridge.
Blue Bob always said he never saw any rat, and a good many people said
there never was any rat on the roof with Jim Leonard; they said that he
just made the rat up.
He did not mention the rat himself for several days; he told Pony Baker
that he did not think of it at first, he was so excited.
Pony asked his father what he thought, and Pony's father said that it
might have been the kind of rat that people see when they have been
drinking too much, and that Blue Bob had not seen it because he had signed
the temperance pledge.
But this was a good while after. At the time the people saw Jim Leonard
standing safe with Blue Bob on the pier, they set up a regular election
cheer, and they would have believed anything Jim Leonard said. They all
agreed that Blue Bob had a right to go home with Jim and take him to his
mother, for he had saved Jim's life, and he ought to have the credit of
it.
Before this, and while everybody supposed that Jim Leonard would surely be
drowned, some of the people had gone up to his mother's cabin to prepare
her for the worst. She did not seem to understand exactly, and she kept
round getting breakfast, with her old clay pipe in her mouth; but when she
got it through her head, she made an awful face, and dropped her pipe on
the door-stone and broke it; and then she threw her check apron over her
head and sat down and cried.
But it took so long for her to come to this that the people had not got
over comforting her and trying to make her believe that it was all for
the best, when Blue Bob came up through the bars with his hand on Jim's
shoulder, and about all the boys in town tagging after them.
Jim's mother heard the hurrahing and pulled off her apron, and saw that
Jim was safe and sound there before her. She gave him a look that made him
slip round behind Blue Bob, and she went in and got a table-knife, and she
came out and went to the pear-tree and cut a sucker.
She said, "I'll learn that limb to sleep in a cow-barn when he's got a
decent bed in the house!" and then she started to come towards Jim
Leonard.
IV
THE SCRAPE THAT JIM LEONARD
GOT THE BOYS INTO
As I said, it was in the spring that Jim Leonard's hair-breadth escape
happened. But it was late in the summer of that very same year that he got
Pony Baker and all the rest of the boys into about one of the worst
scrapes that the Boy's Town boys were ever in.
At first, it was more like a dare than anything else, for when Jim Leonard
said he knew a watermelon patch that the owner had no use for, the other
boys dared him to tell where it was. He wagged his head, and said that he
knew, and then they dared him to tell whose patch it was; and all at once
he said it was Bunty Williams's, and dared them to come and get the melons
with him. None of the boys in the Boy's Town would take a dare, and so
they set off with Jim Leonard, one sunny Saturday morning in September.
Some of the boys had their arms round one another's necks, talking as loud
as they could into one another's faces, and some whooping and holloing,
and playing Indian, and some throwing stones and scaring cats. They had
nearly as many dogs as there were boys, and there were pretty nearly all
the boys in the neighborhood. There seemed to be thirty or forty of them,
they talked so loud and ran round so, but perhaps there were only ten or
eleven. Hen Billard was along, and so were Piccolo Wright and Archie
Hawkins, and then a great lot of little fellows.
Pony Baker was not quite a little fellow in age; and there was something
about him that always made the big boys let him go with their crowd. But
now, when they passed Pony's gate and his mother saw them, and because it
was such a warm morning and she thought they might be going down to the
river and called out to him, "You mustn't go in swimming, Pony, dear;
you'll get the ague," they began to mock Pony as soon as they got by, and
to hollo, "No, Pony, dear! You mustn't get the ague. Keep out of the water
if you don't want your teeth to rattle, Pony, dear!"
This made Pony so mad that he began to cry and try to fight them, and they
all formed in a ring round him and danced and whooped till he broke
through and started home. Then they ran after him and coaxed him not to do
it, and said that they were just in fun. After that they used Pony
first-rate, and he kept on with them.
Jim Leonard was at the head, walking along and holloing to the fellows to
hurry up. They had to wade the river, and he was showing off how he could
hop, skip, and jump through, when he stepped on a slippery stone and sat
down in the water and made the fellows laugh. But they acted first-rate
with him when they got across; they helped him to take off his trousers
and wring them out, and they wrung them so hard that they tore them a
little, but they were a little torn already; and they wrung them so dry
that he said they felt splendid when he got them on again. One of his
feet went through the side of the trouser leg that was torn before it got
to the end, and made the fellows laugh.
When the boys first started Jim said he had got to go ahead so as to be
sure that they found the right patch. He now said that Bunty Williams had
two patches, one that he was going to sell the melons out of, and the
other that he was going to let them go to seed in; and it was the second
melon patch that he had deserted.
But pretty soon after they got over the river he came back and walked with
the rest of the boys, and when they came to a piece of woods which they
had to go through, he dropped behind. He said it was just the place for
Indian, and he wanted to be where he could get at them if they started up
when the boys got by, as they would very likely do.
Some of the big fellows called him a cowardy-calf; but he said he would
show them when the time came, and most of the little boys believed him and
tried to get in front. It was not long before he stopped and asked, What
if he could not find the right patch? But the big boys said that they
reckoned he could if he looked hard enough, and they made him keep on.
One of the dogs treed a squirrel, and Jim offered to climb the tree and
shake the squirrel off; but Hen Billard said his watermelon tooth was
beginning to trouble him, and he had no time for squirrels. That made all
the big boys laugh, and they pulled Jim Leonard along, although he held
back with all his might and told them to quit it. He began to cry.
Pony Baker did not know what to make of him. He felt sorry for him, but it
seemed to him that Jim was acting as if he wanted to get out of showing
the fellows where the patch was. Pony lent him his handkerchief, and Jim
said that he had the toothache, anyway. He showed Pony the tooth, and the
fellows saw him and made fun, and they offered to carry him, if his tooth
ached so that he could not walk, and then suddenly Jim rushed ahead of the
whole crowd.
They thought he was trying to run away from them, and two or three of the
big fellows took after him, and when they caught up with him, the rest of
the boys could see him pointing, and then the big boys that were with him
gave a whoop and waved their hats, and all the rest of the boys tore along
and tried which could run the fastest and get to the place the soonest.
They knew it must be something great; and sure enough it was a watermelon
patch of pretty near an acre, sloping to the south from the edge of the
woods, and all overrun with vines and just bulging all over with
watermelons and muskmelons.
The watermelons were some of the big mottled kind, with lightish blotches
among their darker green, like Georgia melons nowadays, and some almost
striped in gray and green, and some were those big, round sugar melons,
nearly black. They were all sizes, but most of them were large, and you
need not "punk" them to see if they were ripe. Anybody could tell that
they were ripe from looking at them, and the muskmelons, which were the
old-fashioned long kind, were yellow as gold.
Now, the big fellows said, you could see why Bunty Williams had let this
patch go to seed. It was because they were such bully melons and would
have the best seeds; and the fellows all agreed to save the seeds for
Bunty, and put them where he could find them. They began to praise Jim
Leonard up, but he did not say anything, and only looked on with his
queer, sleepy eyes, and said his tooth ached, when the fellows plunged
down among the melons and began to burst them open.
They had lots of fun. At first they cut a few melons open with their
knives, but that was too slow, and pretty soon they began to jump on them
and split them with sharp-edged rocks, or anything, to get them open
quick. They did not eat close to the rind, as you do when you have a melon
on the table, but they tore out the core and just ate that; and in about a
minute they forgot all about saving the seeds for Bunty Williams and
putting them in one place where he could get them.
Some of the fellows went into the edge of the woods to eat their melons,
and then came back for more; some took them and cracked them open on the
top rail of the fence, and then sat down in the fence corner and plunged
their fists in and tore the cores out. Some of them squeezed the juice out
of the cores into the shells of the melons and then drank it out of them.
Piccolo Wright was stooping over to pull a melon and Archie Hawkins came
up behind him with a big melon that had a seam across it, it was so ripe;
and he brought it down on Piccolo's head, and it smashed open and went all
over Piccolo. He was pretty mad at first, but then he saw the fun of it,
and he took one end of the melon and scooped it all out, and put it on in
place of his hat and wore it like a helmet. Archie did the same thing with
the other end, and then all the big boys scooped out melons and wore them
for helmets. They were all drabbled with seeds and pulp, and some of the
little fellows were perfectly soaked. None of them cared very much for the
muskmelons.
Somehow Pony would not take any of the melons, although there was nothing
that he liked so much. The fellows seemed to be having an awfully good
time, and yet somehow it looked wrong to Pony. He knew that Bunty Williams
had given up the patch, because Jim Leonard said so, and he knew that the
boys had a right to the melons if Bunty had got done with them; but still
the sight of them there, smashing and gorging, made Pony feel anxious. It
almost made him think that Jim Leonard was better than the rest because he
would not take any of the melons, but stayed off at one side of the patch
near the woods, where Pony stood with him.
He did not say much, and Pony noticed that he kept watching the log cabin
where Bunty Williams lived on the slope of the hill about half a mile off,
and once he heard Jim saying, as if to himself: "No, there isn't any smoke
coming out of the chimbly, and that's a sign there ain't anybody there.
They've all gone to market, I reckon."
It went through Pony that it was strange Jim should care whether Bunty was
at home or not, if Bunty had given up the patch, but he did not say
anything; it often happened so with him about the things he thought
strange.
The fellows did not seem to notice where he was or what he was doing; they
were all whooping and holloing, and now they began to play war with the
watermelon rinds. One of the dogs thought he smelled a ground-squirrel and
began to dig for it, and in about half a minute all the dogs seemed to be
fighting, and the fellows were yelling round them and sicking them on; and
they were all making such a din that Pony could hardly hear himself think,
as his father used to say. But he thought he saw some one come out of
Bunty's cabin, and take down the hill with a dog after him and a hoe in
his hand.
He made Jim Leonard look, and Jim just gave a screech that rose above the
din of the dogs and the other boys, "Bunty's coming, and he's got his
bulldog and his shotgun!" And then he turned and broke through the woods.
All the boys stood still and stared at the hill-side, while the dogs
fought on. The next thing they knew they were floundering among the vines
and over the watermelon cores and shells and breaking for the woods; and
as soon as the dogs found the boys were gone, they seemed to think it was
no use to keep on fighting with nobody to look on, and they took after the
fellows.
The big fellows holloed to the little fellows to come on, and the little
fellows began crying. They caught their feet in the roots and dead
branches and kept falling down, and some of the big fellows that were
clever, like Hen Billard and Archie Hawkins, came back and picked them up
and started them on again.
Nobody stopped to ask himself or any one else why they should be afraid of
Bunty if he had done with his melon patch, but they all ran as if he had
caught them stealing his melons, and had a right to shoot them, or set his
dog on them.
They got through the woods to the shore of the river, and all the time
they could hear Bunty Williams roaring and shouting, and Bunty Williams's
bulldog barking, and it seemed as if he were right behind them. After
they reached the river they had to run a long way up the shore before they
got to the ripple where they could wade it, and by that time they were in
such a hurry that they did not stop to turn up their trousers' legs; they
just splashed right in and splashed across the best way they could. Some
of them fell down, but everybody had to look out for himself, and they did
not know that they were all safe over till they counted up on the other
side.
Everybody was there but Jim Leonard, and they did not know what had become
of him, but they were not very anxious. In fact they were all talking at
the tops of their voices, and bragging what they would have done if Bunty
had caught them.
Piccolo Wright showed how he could have tripped him up, and Archie Hawkins
said that snuff would make a bulldog loosen his grip, because he would
have to keep sneezing. None of them seemed to have seen either Bunty's
shotgun or his bulldog, but they all believed that he had them because
Jim Leonard said so, just as they had believed that Bunty had got done
with his melon patch, until all at once one of them said, "Where is Jim
Leonard, anyway?"
Then they found out that nobody knew, and the little fellows began to
think that maybe Bunty Williams had caught him, but Hen Billard said: "Oh,
he's safe enough, somewheres. I wish I had him here!"
Archie Hawkins asked, "What would you do to him?" and Hen said: "I'd show
you! I'd make him go back and find out whether Bunty really had a bulldog
with him. I don't believe he had."
Then all the big boys said that none of them believed so, either, and that
they would bet that any of their dogs could whip Bunty's dog.
Their dogs did not look much like fighting. They were wet with running
through the river, and they were lying round with their tongues hanging
out, panting. But it made the boys think that something ought to be done
to Jim Leonard, if they could ever find him, and some one said that they
ought to look for him right away, but the rest said they ought to stop
and dry their pantaloons first.
Pony began to be afraid they were going to hurt Jim Leonard if they got
hold of him, and he said he was going home; and the boys tried to keep him
from doing it. They said they were just going to build a drift-wood fire
and dry their clothes at it, and they told him that if he went off in his
wet trousers he would be sure to get the ague. But nothing that the boys
could do would keep him, and so the big fellows said to let him go if he
wanted to so much; and he climbed the river bank and left them kindling a
fire.
When he got away and looked back, all the boys had their clothes off and
were dancing round the fire like Indians, and he would have liked to turn
back after he got to the top, and maybe he might have done so if he had
not found Jim Leonard hiding in a hole up there and peeping over at the
boys. Jim was crying, and said his tooth ached awfully, and he was afraid
to go home and get something to put in it, because his mother would whale
him as soon as she caught him.
He said he was hungry, too, and he wanted Pony to go over into a field
with him and get a turnip, but Pony would not do it. He had three cents in
his pocket--the big old kind that were as large as half-dollars and seemed
to buy as much in that day--and he offered to let Jim take them and go and
get something to eat at the grocery.
They decided he should buy two smoked red herrings and a cent's worth of
crackers, and these were what Jim brought back after he had been gone so
long that Pony thought he would never come. He had stopped to get some
apples off one of the trees at his mother's house, and he had to watch his
chance so that she should not see him, and then he had stopped and taken
some potatoes out of a hill that would be first-rate if they could get
some salt to eat them with, after they had built a fire somewhere and
baked them.
