ingulfed us in some sea-churned crevice hidden by the bracken. And how
the gray gulls squealed, high whirling over us, and the wild ducks in
the sedge rose with clapping wings, craning their necks, only to swing
overhead in circles, whimpering, and drop, with pendent legs and wings
aslant, back into the bog from which we startled them.
A ride into an endless gray land, sweet with sea-scents, rank with the
perfume of salty green things; a ride into a land of gushing winds,
wet as spray, strong and caressing, too, and full of mischief; winds
that set miles of sedge rippling; sudden winds, that turned still
pools to geysers and set the yellow gorse flowers flying; winds that
rushed up with a sea-roar like the sound in shells, then, sudden, died
away, to leave the furrowed clover motionless and the tall reeds still
as death.
So, by strange ways and eccentric circles, like the aërial paths of
homing sea-birds, I came at last to the spot I had set out for,
consciously; yet it surprised me to find I had come there.
Before I crossed the little bridge I scented the big orange-tinted
tea-roses and the pinks. Leaves on apricots were falling; the fig-tree
was bare of verdure, and the wind chased the big, bronzed leaves
across the beds of herbs, piling them into heaps at the base of the
granite wall.
A boy took my horse; a servant in full Breton costume admitted me;
the velvet humming of Sylvia Elven's spinning-wheel filled the
silence, like the whirring of a great, soft moth imprisoned in a
room:
              "Woe to the Maids of Paradise,
                   Yvonne!
               Twice have the Saxons landed--twice!
                   Yvonne!
               Yet shall Paradise see them thrice!
                   Yvonne! Yvonne! Marivonik!
              "Fair is their hair and blue their eyes,
              Yvonne!
              Body o' me! their words are lies,
              Yvonne!
              Maids of Paradise, oh, be wise!
              Yvonne! Yvonne! Marivonik!"
The door swung open noiselessly; the whir of the wheel and the sound
of the song filled the room for an instant, then was shut out as the
Countess de Vassart closed the door and came forward to greet me.
In her pretty, soft gown, with a tint of blue ribbon at the neck and
shoulders, she seemed scarcely older than a school-girl, so radiant,
so sweet and fresh she stood there, giving me her little hand to touch
in friendship.
"It was so good of you to come," she said; "I know you made it a
duty and gave up a glorious gallop to be amiable to me. Did you?"
I tried to say something, but her loveliness confused me.
Somebody brought tea--I don't know who; all I could see clearly was
her gray eyes meeting mine--the light from the leaded window touching
her glorious, ruddy hair.
As for the tea, I took whatever she offered; doubtless I drank it, but
I don't remember. Nor do I remember what she said at first, for
somehow I began thinking about my lions, and the thought obsessed me
even while striving to listen to her, even in the tingling maze of
other thoughts which kept me dumb under the exquisite spell of this
intimacy with her.
The delicate odor of ripened herbs stole into the room from the
garden; far away, through the whispering whir of the spinning-wheel, I
heard the sea.
"Do you like Sylvia's song?" she asked, turning her head to listen.
"It is a very old song--a very, very old one--centuries old. It's all
about the English, how they came to harry our coasts in those
days--and it has almost a hundred verses!" Something of the Bretonne
came into her eyes for a moment, that shadow of sadness, that patient
fatalism in which, too, there is something of distrust. The next
instant her eyes cleared and she smiled.
"The Trécourts suffered much from the English raiders. I am a
Trécourt, you know. That song was made about us--about a young girl,
Yvonne de Trécourt, who was carried away by the English. She was
foolish; she had a lover among the Saxons,... and she set a signal for
him, and they came and sacked the town, and carried her away, and that
was what she got for her folly."
She bent her head thoughtfully; the sound of the sea grew louder in
the room; a yellow light stole out of the west and touched the
window-panes, slowly deepening to orange; against it the fruit trees
stood, a leafless tracery of fragile branches.
"It is the winter awaking, very far away," she said, under her
breath.
Something in the hollow monotone of the sea made me think again of the
low grumble of restless lions. The sound was hateful. Why should it
steal in here--why haunt me even in this one spot in all the world
where a world-tired man had found a moment's peace in a woman's eyes.
"Are you troubled?" she asked, then colored at her own question, as
though deeming the impulse to speak unwarranted.
"No, not troubled. Happiness is often edged with a shadow. I am
content to be here."
She bent her head and looked at the heavy rose lying in solitary
splendor on the table. The polished wood reflected it in subdued tints
of saffron.
"It is a strange friendship," I said.
"Ours?... yes."
I said, musing: "To me it is like magic. I scarce dare speak, scarce
breathe, lest the spell break."
She was silent.
"--Lest the spell break--and this house, this room, fade away,
leaving me alone, staring at the world once more."
"If there is a spell, you have cast it," she said, laughing at my
sober face. "A wizard ought to be able to make his spells endure."
Then her face grew graver. "You must forget the past," she said;
"you must forget all that was cruel and false and unhappy,... will
you not?"
"Yes, madame."
"I, too," she said, "have much to forget and much to hope for; and
you taught me how to forget and how to hope."
"I, madame?"
"Yes,... at La Trappe, at Morsbronn, and here. Look at me. Have I not
changed?"
"Yes," I said, fascinated.
"I know I have," she said, as though speaking to herself. "Life
means more now. Somehow my childhood seems to have returned, with all
its hope of the world and all its confidence in the world, and its
certainty that all will be right. Years have fallen from my shoulders
like a released burden that was crushing me to my knees. I have
awakened from a dream that was not life at all,... a dream in which
I, alone, staggered through darkness, bearing the world on my
shoulders--the world doubly weighted with the sorrows of mankind,... a
dream that lasted years, but...you awoke me."
She leaned forward and lifted the rose, touching her face with it.
"It was so simple, after all--this secret of the world's malady. You
read it for me. I know now what is written on the eternal tablets--to
live one's own life as it is given, in honor, charity, without malice;
to seek happiness where it is offered; to share it when possible; to
uplift. But, most of all, to be happy and accept happiness as a
heavenly gift that is to be shared with as many as possible. And this
I have learned since ... I knew you."
The light in the room had grown dimmer; I leaned forward to see her
face.
"Am I not right?" she asked.
"I think so.... I am learning from you."
"But you taught this creed to me!" she cried.
"No, you are teaching it to me. And the first lesson was a gift,...
your friendship."
"Freely given, gladly given," she said, quickly. "And yours I have
in return,... and will keep always--always--"
She crushed the rose against her mouth, looking at me with inscrutable
gray eyes, as I had seen her look at me once at La Trappe, once in
Morsbronn.
I picked up my gloves and riding-crop; as I rose she stood up in the
dusk, looking straight at me.
I said something about Sylvia Elven and my compliments to her,
something else about the happiness I felt at coming to the château
again, something about her own goodness to me--Heaven knows what!--and
she gave me her hand and I held it a moment.
"Will you come again?" she asked.
I stammered a promise and made my way blindly to the door which a
servant threw open, flung myself astride my horse, and galloped out
into the waste of moorland, seeing nothing, hearing nothing save the
low roar of the sea, like the growl of restless lions.
XVI
A RESTLESS MAN
When I came into camp, late that afternoon, I found Byram and Speed
groping about among a mass of newspapers and letters, the first mail
we circus people had received for nearly two months.
There were letters for all who were accustomed to look for letters
from families, relatives, or friends at home. I never received
letters--I had received none of that kind in nearly a score of years,
yet that curious habit of expectancy had not perished in me, and I
found myself standing with the others while Byram distributed the
letters, one by one, until the last home-stamped envelope had been
given out, and all around me the happy circus-folk were reading in
homesick contentment. I know of no lonelier man than he who lingers
empty-handed among those who pore over the home mail.
But there were newspapers enough and to spare--French, English,
American; and I sat down by my lion's cage and attempted to form some
opinion of the state of affairs in France. And, as far as I could read
between the lines, this is what I gathered, partly from my own
knowledge of past events, partly from the foreign papers, particularly
the English:
When, on the 3d of September, the humiliating news arrived that the
Emperor was a prisoner and his army annihilated, the government, for
the first time in its existence, acted with promptness and decision
in a matter of importance. Secret orders were sent by couriers to the
Bank of France, to the Louvre, and to the Invalides; and, that same
night, train after train rushed out of Paris loaded with the
battle-flags from the Invalides, the most important pictures and
antique sculptures from the Louvre, the greater part of the gold and
silver from the Bank of France, and, last but by no means least, the
crown and jewels of France.
This Speed and I already knew.
These trains were despatched to Brest, and at the same time a telegram
was directed to the admiral commanding the French iron-clad fleet in
the Baltic to send an armored cruiser to Brest with all haste
possible, there to await further orders, but to be fully prepared in
any event to take on board certain goods designated in cipher. This we
knew in a general way, though Speed understood that Lorient was to be
the port of departure.
The plan was a good one and apparently simple; and there seemed to be
no doubt that jewels, battle-flags, pictures, and coin were already
beyond danger from the German armies, now plodding cautiously
southward toward the capital, which was slowly recovering from its
revolutionary convulsions and preparing for a siege.
The plan, then, was simple; but, for an equally simple reason, it
miscarried in the following manner. Early in August, while the French
armies from the Rhine to the Meuse were being punished with frightful
regularity and precision, the French Mediterranean squadron had sailed
up and down that interesting expanse of water, apparently in patriotic
imitation of the historic
             "King of France and twenty thousand men."
For, it now appeared, the French admiral was afraid that the Spanish
navy might aid the German ships in harassing the French transports,
which at that time were frantically engaged in ferrying a sea-sick
Algerian army across the Mediterranean to the mother country.
Of course there was no ground for the admiral's suspicions. The German
war-ships stayed in their own harbors, the Spaniards made no offensive
alliance with Prussia, and at length the French admiral sailed
triumphantly away with his battleships and cruisers.
On the 7th of August the squadron of four battleships, two armored
corvettes, and a despatch-boat steamed out of Brest, picking up on its
way northward three more iron-clad frigates, and several cruisers and
despatch-boats; and on the 11th of August, 1870, the squadron anchored
off Heligoland, from whence Admiral Fourichon proclaimed the blockade
of the German coast.
It must have been an imposing sight! There lay the great iron-clads,
the Magnanime, the Héroine, the Provence, the Valeureuse, the
Revanche, the Invincible, the Couronne! There lay the cruisers,
the Atalante, the Renaud, the Cosmao, the Decrès! There, too,
lay the single-screw despatch-boats Reine-Hortense, Renard, and
Dayot. And upon their armored decks, three by three, stalked the
French admirals. Yet, without cynicism, it may be said that the
admirals of France fought better, in 1870, on dry land than they did
on the ocean.
However, the German ships stayed peacefully inside their fortified
ports, and the three French admirals pranced peacefully up and down
outside, until the God of battles intervened and trouble naturally
ensued.
On the 6th of September all the seas of Europe were set clashing under
a cyclone that rose to a howling hurricane. The British iron-clad
Captain foundered off Finistère; the French fleet in the Baltic was
scattered to the four winds.
In the midst of the tempest a French despatch-boat, the Hirondelle,
staggered into sight, signalling the flag-ship. Then the French
admiral for the first time learned the heart-breaking news of Sedan,
and as the tempest-tortured battle-ship drove seaward the signals went
up: "Make for Brest!" The blockade of the German coast was at an
end.
On the 4th of September the treasure-laden trains had left Paris for
Brest. On the 5th the Hirondelle steamed out towards the fleet with
the news from Sedan and the orders for the detachment of a cruiser to
receive the crown jewels. On the 6th the news and the orders were
signalled to the flag-ship; but the God of battles unchained a tempest
which countermanded the order and hurled the iron-clads into outer
darkness.
Some of the ships crept into English ports, burning their last lumps
of coal, some drifted into Dunkerque; but the flag-ship disappeared
for nine long days, at last to reappear off Cherbourg, a stricken
thing with a stricken crew and an admiral broken-hearted.
So, for days and days, the treasure-laden trains must have stood
helpless in the station at Brest, awaiting the cruiser that did not
come.
On the 17th of September the French Channel squadron, of seven heavy
iron-clads, unexpectedly steamed into Lorient harbor and dropped
anchor amid thundering salutes from the forts; and the next day one of
the treasure-trains came flying into Lorient, to the unspeakable
relief of the authorities in the beleaguered capital.
Speed and I already knew the secret orders sent. The treasures,
including the crown diamonds, were to be stored in the citadel, and an
armored cruiser was to lie off the arsenal with banked fires, ready to
receive the treasures at the first signal and steam to the French
fortified port of Saïgon in Cochin China, by a course already
determined.
Why on earth those orders had been changed so that the cruiser was to
lie off Groix I could not imagine, unless some plot had been
discovered in Lorient which had made it advisable to shift the
location of the treasures for the third time.
Pondering there at the tent door, amid my heap of musty newspapers, I
looked out into the late, gray afternoon and saw the maids of Paradise
passing and repassing across the bridge with a clicking of wooden
shoes and white head-dresses glimmering in the dusk of the trees.
The town had filled within a day or two; the Paradise coiffe was not
the only coiffe to be seen in the square; there was the
delicate-winged head-dress of Faöuet, the beautiful coiffes of
Rosporden, Sainte-Anne d'Auray, and Pont Aven; there, too, flashed the
scarlet skirts of Bannalec and the gorgeous embroidered bodices of the
interior; there were the men of Quimperlé in velvet, the men of
Penmarch, the men of Faöuet with their dark, Spanish-like faces and
their sombreros, and their short yellow jackets and leggings. All in
holiday costume, too, for the maids were stiff in silver and lace, and
the men wore carved sabots and embroidered gilets.
"Governor," I called out to Byram, "the town is filling fast. It's
like a Pardon in Morbihan; we'll pack the old tent to the
nigger's-heaven!"
"It's a fact," he said, pushing his glasses up over his forehead and
fanning his face with his silk hat. "We're going to open to a lot of
money, Mr. Scarlett, and ... I ain't goin' to forgit them that stood
by me, neither."
He placed a heavy hand on my shoulder, and, stooping, peered into my
face.
"Air you sick, m' friend?" he asked.
"I, governor? Why, no."
"Ain't been bit by that there paltry camuel nor nothin', hev ye?"
"No; do I look ill?"
"Peaked--kind o' peaked. White, with dark succles under your eyes.
Air you nervous?"
"About the lions? Oh no. Don't worry about me, governor."
He sighed, adjusted his spectacles, and blew his nose.
"Mr. Speed--he's worriting, too; he says that Empress Khatoun means
to hev ye one o' these days."
"You tell Mr. Speed to worry over his own affairs--that child,
Jacqueline, for instance. I suppose she made her jump without trouble
to-day? I was too nervous to stay and watch her."
