you."
"Why so? You live. You flourish. You bloom."
"Ah, how you've all always hated me!" he murmured with a pensive gaze
again at the window.
"No one could be less of a mere cherished memory," she declared as if
she had not heard him. "You're an actual person, if there ever was one.
We agreed just now that you're beautiful. You strike me, you know,
as--in your own way--much more firm on your feet than I am. Don't put
it to me therefore as monstrous that the fact that we are, after all,
parent and child should at present in some manner count for us. My idea
has been that it should have some effect for each of us. I don't at
all, as I told you just now," she pursued, "make out your life; but
whatever it is I hereby offer you to accept it. And, on my side, I'll
do everything I can for you."
"I see," said Lionel Croy. Then, with the sound of extreme relevance,
"And what can you?" She only, at this, hesitated, and he took up her
silence. "You can describe yourself--to yourself--as, in a fine
flight, giving up your aunt for me; but what good, I should like to
know, would your fine flight do me?" As she still said nothing he
developed a little. "We're not possessed of so much, at this charming
pass, please to remember, as that we can afford not to take hold of any
perch held out to us. I like the way you talk, my dear, about 'giving
up!' One doesn't give up the use of a spoon because one's reduced to
living on broth. And your spoon, that is your aunt, please consider, is
partly mine as well." She rose now, as if in sight of the term of her
effort, in sight of the futility and the weariness of many things, and
moved back to the poor little glass with which she had communed before.
She retouched here again the poise of her hat, and this brought to her
father's lips another remark in which impatience, however, had already
been replaced by a funny flare of appreciation. "Oh, you're all right!
Don't muddle yourself up with me!"
His daughter turned round to him. "The condition Aunt Maud makes is
that I shall have absolutely nothing to do with you; never see you, nor
speak, nor write to you, never go near you nor make you a sign, nor
hold any sort of communication with you. What she requires is that you
shall simply cease to exist for me."
He had always seemed--it was one of the marks of what they called the
"unspeakable" in him--to walk a little more on his toes, as if for
jauntiness, in the presence of offence. Nothing, however, was more
wonderful than what he sometimes would take for offence, unless it
might be what he sometimes wouldn't. He walked at any rate on his toes
now. "A very proper requirement of your Aunt Maud, my dear--I don't
hesitate to say it!" Yet as this, much as she had seen, left her silent
at first from what might have been a sense of sickness, he had time to
go on: "That's her condition then. But what are her promises? Just what
does she engage to do? You must work it, you know."
"You mean make her feel," Kate asked after a moment, "how much I'm
attached to you?"
"Well, what a cruel, invidious treaty it is for you to sign. I'm a poor
old dad to make a stand about giving up--I quite agree. But I'm not,
after all, quite the old dad not to get something for giving up."
"Oh, I think her idea," said Kate almost gaily now, "is that I shall
get a great deal."
He met her with his inimitable amenity. "But does she give you the
items?"
The girl went through the show. "More or less, I think. But many of
them are things I dare say I may take for granted--things women can do
for each other and that you wouldn't understand."
"There's nothing I understand so well, always, as the things I needn't!
But what I want to do, you see," he went on, "is to put it to your
conscience that you've an admirable opportunity; and that it's moreover
one for which, after all, damn you, you've really to thank me."
"I confess I don't see," Kate observed, "what my 'conscience' has to do
with it."
"Then, my dear girl, you ought simply to be ashamed of yourself. Do you
know what you're a proof of, all you hard, hollow people together?" He
put the question with a charming air of sudden spiritual heat. "Of the
deplorably superficial morality of the age. The family sentiment, in
our vulgarised, brutalised life, has gone utterly to pot. There was a
day when a man like me--by which I mean a parent like me--would have
been for a daughter like you a quite distinct value; what's called in
the business world, I believe, an 'asset.'" He continued sociably to
make it out. "I'm not talking only of what you might, with the right
feeling do for me, but of what you might--it's what I call your
opportunity--do with me. Unless indeed," he the next moment
imperturbably threw off, "they come a good deal to the same thing. Your
duty as well as your chance, if you're capable of seeing it, is to use
me. Show family feeling by seeing what I'm good for. If you had it as
I have it you'd see I'm still good--well, for a lot of things.
There's in fact, my dear," Mr. Croy wound up, "a coach-and-four to be
got out of me." His drop, or rather his climax, failed a little of
effect, indeed, through an undue precipitation of memory. Something his
daughter had said came back to him. "You've settled to give away half
your little inheritance?"
Her hesitation broke into laughter. "No--I haven't 'settled' anything."
"But you mean, practically, to let Marian collar it?" They stood there
face to face, but she so denied herself to his challenge that he could
only go on. "You've a view of three hundred a year for her in addition
to what her husband left her with? Is that," the remote progenitor of
such wantonness audibly wondered, "your morality?"
Kate found her answer without trouble. "Is it your idea that I should
give you everything?"
The "everything" clearly struck him--to the point even of determining
the tone of his reply. "Far from it. How can you ask that when I refuse
what you tell me you came to offer? Make of my idea what you can; I
think I've sufficiently expressed it, and it's at any rate to take or
to leave. It's the only one, I may nevertheless add; it's the basket
with all my eggs. It's my conception, in short, of your duty."
The girl's tired smile watched the word as if it had taken on a small
grotesque visibility. "You're wonderful on such subjects! I think I
should leave you in no doubt," she pursued, "that if I were to sign my
aunt's agreement I should carry it out, in honour, to the letter."
"Rather, my own love! It's just your honour that I appeal to. The only
way to play the game is to play it. There's no limit to what your
aunt can do for you."
"Do you mean in the way of marrying me?"
"What else should I mean? Marry properly----"
"And then?" Kate asked as he hung fire.
"And then--well, I will talk with you. I'll resume relations."
She looked about her and picked up her parasol. "Because you're not so
afraid of any one else in the world as you are of her? My husband, if
I should marry, would be, at the worst, less of a terror? If that's
what you mean, there may be something in it. But doesn't it depend a
little also on what you mean by my getting a proper one? However," Kate
added as she picked out the frill of her little umbrella, "I don't
suppose your idea of him is quite that he should persuade you to live
with us."
"Dear no--not a bit." He spoke as not resenting either the fear or the
hope she imputed; met both imputations, in fact, with a sort of
intellectual relief. "I place the case for you wholly in your aunt's
hands. I take her view, with my eyes shut; I accept in all confidence
any man she selects. If he's good enough for her--elephantine snob as
she is--he's good enough for me; and quite in spite of the fact that
she'll be sure to select one who can be trusted to be nasty to me. My
only interest is in your doing what she wants. You shan't be so beastly
poor, my darling," Mr. Croy declared, "if I can help it."
"Well then, good-bye, papa," the girl said after a reflection on this
that had perceptibly ended for her in a renunciation of further debate.
"Of course you understand that it may be for long."
Her companion, hereupon, had one of his finest inspirations. "Why not,
frankly, for ever? You must do me the justice to see that I don't do
things, that I've never done them, by halves--that if I offer you to
efface myself, it's for the final, fatal sponge that I ask, well
saturated and well applied."
She turned her handsome, quiet face upon him at such length that it
might well have been for the last time. "I don't know what you're like."
"No more do I, my dear. I've spent my life in trying, in vain, to
discover. Like nothing--more's the pity. If there had been many of us,
and we could have found each other out, there's no knowing what we
mightn't have done. But it doesn't matter now. Good-bye, love." He
looked even not sure of what she would wish him to suppose on the
subject of a kiss, yet also not embarrassed by his uncertainty.
She forbore in fact for a moment longer to clear it up. "I wish there
were some one here who might serve--for any contingency--as a witness
that I have put it to you that I'm ready to come."
"Would you like me," her father asked, "to call the landlady?"
"You may not believe me," she pursued, "but I came really hoping you
might have found some way. I'm very sorry, at all events, to leave you
unwell." He turned away from her, on this, and, as he had done before,
took refuge, by the window, in a stare at the street. "Let me put
it--unfortunately without a witness," she added after a moment, "that
there's only one word you really need speak."
When he took this up it was still with his back to her. "If I don't
strike you as having already spoken it, our time has been singularly
wasted."
"I'll engage with you in respect to my aunt exactly to what she wants
of me in respect to you. She wants me to choose. Very well, I will
choose. I'll wash my hands of her for you to just that tune."
He at last brought himself round. "Do you know, dear, you make me sick?
I've tried to be clear, and it isn't fair."
But she passed this over; she was too visibly sincere. "Father!"
"I don't quite see what's the matter with you," he said, "and if you
can't pull yourself together I'll--upon my honour--take you in hand.
Put you into a cab and deliver you again safe at Lancaster Gate."
She was really absent, distant. "Father."
It was too much, and he met it sharply. "Well?"
"Strange as it may be to you to hear me say it, there's a good you can
do me and a help you can render."
"Isn't it then exactly what I've been trying to make you feel?"
"Yes," she answered patiently, "but so in the wrong way. I'm perfectly
honest in what I say, and I know what I'm talking about. It isn't that
I'll pretend I could have believed a month ago in anything to call aid
or support from you. The case is changed--that's what has happened; my
difficulty's a new one. But even now it's not a question of anything I
should ask you in a way to 'do.' It's simply a question of your not
turning me away--taking yourself out of my life. It's simply a question
of your saying: 'Yes then, since you will, we'll stand together. We
won't worry in advance about how or where; we'll have a faith and find
a way.' That's all--that would be the good you'd do me. I should
have you, and it would be for my benefit. Do you see?"
If he didn't it was not for want of looking at her hard. "The matter
with you is that you're in love, and that your aunt knows and--for
reasons, I'm sure, perfect--hates and opposes it. Well she may! It's a
matter in which I trust her with my eyes shut. Go, please." Though he
spoke not in anger--rather in infinite sadness--he fairly turned her
out. Before she took it up he had, as the fullest expression of what he
felt, opened the door of the room. He had fairly, in his deep
disapproval, a generous compassion to spare. "I'm sorry for her,
deluded woman, if she builds on you."
Kate stood a moment in the draught. "She's not the person I pity
most, for, deluded in many ways though she may be, she's not the person
who's most so. I mean," she explained, "if it's a question of what you
call building on me."
He took it as if what she meant might be other than her description of
it. "You're deceiving two persons then, Mrs. Lowder and somebody
else?"
She shook her head with detachment. "I've no intention of that sort
with respect to any one now--to Mrs. Lowder least of all. If you fail
me"--she seemed to make it out for herself--"that has the merit at
least that it simplifies. I shall go my way--as I see my way."
"Your way, you mean then, will be to marry some blackguard without a
penny?"
"You ask a great deal of satisfaction," she observed, "for the little
you give."
It brought him up again before her as with a sense that she was not to
be hustled; and, though he glared at her a little, this had long been
the practical limit to his general power of objection. "If you're base
enough to incur your aunt's disgust, you're base enough for my
argument. What, if you're not thinking of an utterly improper person,
do your speeches to me signify? Who is the beggarly sneak?" he
demanded as her response failed. Her response, when it came, was cold
but distinct. "He has every disposition to make the best of you. He
only wants in fact to be kind to you."
"Then he must be an ass! And how in the world can you consider it to
improve him for me," her father pursued, "that he's also destitute and
impossible? There are asses and asses, even--the right and the
wrong--and you appear to have carefully picked out one of the wrong.
Your aunt knows them, by good fortune; I perfectly trust, as I tell
you, her judgment for them; and you may take it from me once for all
that I won't hear of any one of whom she won't." Which led up to his
last word. "If you should really defy us both----!"
"Well, papa?"
"Well, my sweet child, I think that--reduced to insignificance as you
may fondly believe me--I should still not be quite without some way of
making you regret it."
She had a pause, a grave one, but not, as appeared, that she might
measure this danger. "If I shouldn't do it, you know, it wouldn't be
because I'm afraid of you."
"Oh, if you don't do it," he retorted, "you may be as bold as you like!"
"Then you can do nothing at all for me?"
He showed her, this time unmistakably--it was before her there on the
landing, at the top of the tortuous stairs and in the midst of the
strange smell that seemed to cling to them--how vain her appeal
remained. "I've never pretended to do more than my duty; I've given you
the best and the clearest advice." And then came up the spring that
moved him. "If it only displeases you, you can go to Marian to be
consoled." What he couldn't forgive was her dividing with Marian her
scant share of the provision their mother had been able to leave them.
She should have divided it with him.
II
She had gone to Mrs. Lowder on her mother's death--gone with an effort
the strain and pain of which made her at present, as she recalled them,
reflect on the long way she had travelled since then. There had been
nothing else to do--not a penny in the other house, nothing but unpaid
bills that had gathered thick while its mistress lay mortally ill, and
the admonition that there was nothing she must attempt to raise money
on, since everything belonged to the "estate." How the estate would
turn out at best presented itself as a mystery altogether gruesome; it
had proved, in fact, since then a residuum a trifle less scant than,
with Marian, she had for some weeks feared; but the girl had had at the
beginning rather a wounded sense of its being watched on behalf of
Marian and her children. What on earth was it supposed that she
wanted to do to it? She wanted in truth only to give up--to abandon her
own interest, which she, no doubt, would already have done had not the
point been subject to Aunt Maud's sharp intervention. Aunt Maud's
intervention was all sharp now, and the other point, the great one, was
that it was to be, in this light, either all put up with or all
declined. Yet at the winter's end, nevertheless, she could scarce have
said what stand she conceived she had taken. It wouldn't be the first
time she had seen herself obliged to accept with smothered irony other
people's interpretation of her conduct. She often ended by giving up to
them--it seemed really the way to live--the version that met their
convenience.
The tall, rich, heavy house at Lancaster Gate, on the other side of the
Park and the long South Kensington stretches, had figured to her,
through childhood, through girlhood, as the remotest limit of her vague
young world. It was further off and more occasional than anything else
in the comparatively compact circle in which she revolved, and seemed,
by a rigour early marked, to be reached through long, straight,
discouraging vistas, which kept lengthening and straightening, whereas
almost everything else in life was either, at the worst, round about
Cromwell Road, or, at the furthest, in the nearer parts of Kensington
Gardens. Mrs. Lowder was her only "real" aunt, not the wife of an
uncle, and had been thereby, both in ancient days and when the greater
trouble came, the person, of all persons, properly to make some sign;
in accord with which our young woman's feeling was founded on the
impression, quite cherished for years, that the signs made across the
interval just mentioned had never been really in the note of the
situation. The main office of this relative, for the young Croys--apart
from giving them their fixed measure of social greatness--had struck
them as being to form them to a conception of what they were not to
expect. When Kate came to think matters over with the aid of knowledge,
she failed quite to see how Aunt Maud could have been different--she
had rather perceived by this time how many other things might have
been; yet she also made out that if they had all consciously lived
under a liability to the chill breath of ultima Thule they couldn't,
either, on the facts, very well have done less. What in the event
appeared established was that if Mrs. Lowder had disliked them she had
yet not disliked them so much as they supposed. It had at any rate been
for the purpose of showing how she struggled with her aversion that she
sometimes came to see them, that she at regular periods invited them to
her house, and in short, as it now looked, kept them along on the terms
that would best give her sister the perennial luxury of a grievance.
This sister, poor Mrs. Croy, the girl knew, had always judged her
resentfully, and had brought them up, Marian, the boys and herself, to
the idea of a particular attitude, for signs of the practice of which
they watched each other with awe. The attitude was to make plain to
Aunt Maud, with the same regularity as her invitations, that they
sufficed--thanks awfully--to themselves. But the ground of it, Kate
lived to discern, was that this was only because she didn't suffice
