lar masonry from which the vault sprang. 
Malipieri stopped short, with both lights in his hand, 
and uttered an exclamation. 
"What is it? " asked Sabina. " Oh ! " she cried, as 
she saw what he had come upon. 
For some moments neither spoke, and they stood side 
by side, pressed against each other in the narrow way 
and gazing down, for before them lay the most beauti- 
ful marble statue Sabina had ever seen. In the yellow 
light it was like a living woman asleep rather than a 
marble goddess, hewn and chipped, smoothed and 
polished into shape ages ago, by men's hands. 
She lay a little turned to one side and away; the 
arm that was undermost was raised, so that the head 
seemed to be resting against it, though it was not ; 
the other lying along and across the body, its perfect 
hand just gathering up a delicately futile drapery. 
The figure was whole and unbroken, of cream-like 
marble, that made soft living shadows in each dimple 
and hollow and seemed to quiver along the lines of 
beauty, the shoulder just edging forwards, the bent 
arm, the marvellous sweep of the limbs from hip 
to heel. 
"It is a Venus, is it not?" asked Sabina with an 
odd little timidity. 
"Aphrodite," answered Malipieri, almost uncon- 
sciously. 
It was not the plump, thick-ankled, doubtfully 
decent Venus which the late Greeks made for their 
 
Roman masters ; it was not that at all. It was 
their own Aphrodite, delicate, tender and' deadly as 
the foam of the sea whence she came to them. 
Sabina would scarcely have wondered if she had 
turned and smiled, there on the ground, to brush the 
shadows of ages from her opening eyes, and to say " I 
must have slept," like a woman waked by her lover 
from a dream of kisses. That would have seemed 
natural. 
Malipieri felt that he was holding his breath. Sabina 
was so close to him that it was as if he could feel her 
heart beating near his own, and as fast ; and for a mo- 
ment he felt one of those strong impulses which strong 
men know when to resist, but to resist which is like 
wrestling against iron hands. He longed, as he had 
never longed for anything in his life, to draw her yet 
closer to him and to press his lips hard upon hers, with- 
out a word. 
Instead, he edged away from her, and held the lights 
low beside the wonderful statue so that she might see 
it better; and Aphrodite's longing mouth, that had 
kissed gods, was curved with a little scorn for men. 
The air was still and dry, and Sabina felt a strange 
little thrill in her hair and just at the back of her neck. 
Perhaps, in the unknown ways of fruitful nature, the 
girl was dimly aware of the tremendous manly impulse 
of possession, so near her in that narrow and silent 
place. Something sent a faint blush to her cheek, and 
she was glad there was not much light, and she did not 
wish to speak for a little while. 
" I hate to think that she has lain so long beside that 
gilded Ronian monster," said Malipieri presently. 
The vast brutality of the herculean emperor had not 
disgusted him at first; it had merely displeased his 
taste. Now, it became suddenly an atrocious contrast 
to the secret loveliness of unveiled beauty. That was 
a manly instinct in him, too, and Sabina felt it. 
" Yes," she said softly. " And she seems almost 
alive." 
" The gods and goddesses live for ever," Malipieri 
answered, smiling and looking at her, in spite of 
himself. 
Her eyes met his at once, and did not turn away. 
He fancied that they grew darker in the shadow, and 
in the short silence. 
" I suppose we ought to be going," she said, still look- 
ing at him. " Poor old Sassi is waiting in the cellar." 
" We have not been all round the vault yet," he 
answered. "There may be something more." 
" No, she has been alone with the monster, all these 
centuries. I am sure of it. There cannot be anything 
else." 
"We had better look, nevertheless," said Malipieri. 
" I want you to see everything there is, and you cannot 
come here again — not in this way." 
" Well, let us go round." Sabina moved. 
" Besides," continued Malipieri, going slowly forward 
and lighting the way, " I am going to leave the palace 
the day after to-morrow." 
" Why ? " asked Sabina, in surprise. 
 
" Because Volterra has requested me to go. I may 
have to leave Rome altogether." 
» Leave Rome ? " 
Her own voice sounded harsh to her as she spoke 
the words. She had been so sure that he was in love 
with her, she had begun to know that she would soon 
love him ; and he was going away already. 
" Perhaps," he answered, going on. " I am not 
sure." 
" But — " Sabina checked herself and bit her lip. 
" What ? " 
"Nothing, Go on, please. It must be getting late." 
There was nothing more in the vault. They went all 
round the gilt statue without speaking, came back to 
the feet of the Aphrodite from the further side and 
stopped to look again. Still neither spoke for a long 
time. Malipieri held the light's in several positions, 
trying to find the best. 
" Why must you leave Rome ? " Sabina asked, at 
last, without turning her face to him. 
"I am not sure that I must. I said I might, that 
was all." 
Sabina tapped the ground impatiently with her foot. 
" Why ' may ' you have to go, then ? " she asked a 
little sharply. 
"Volterra may be able to drive me away. He will 
try, because he is afraid I may wish to get a share in 
the discovery." 
" Oh ! Then you will not leave Rome, unless you 
are driven away ? " 
Malipieri tried to see her eyes, but she looked steadily 
down at the statue. 
" No," he said. « Certainly not." 
Sabina said nothing, but her expression changed and 
softened at once. He could see that, even in the play 
of the shadows. She raised her head, glanced at him, 
and moved to go on. After making a few steps in the 
direction of the aperture she stopped suddenly as if 
listening. Mallpieri held his breath, and then he 
heard, too. 
It was the unmistakable sound of water trickling 
faster and faster over stones. For an instant his 
blood stood still. Then he set the lamp down, grasped 
Sabina's wrist and hurried her along, carrying only the 
lantern. 
" Come as fast as you can," he said, controlling his 
voice. 
She understood that there was danger and obeyed 
without losing her head. As he helped her up through 
the hole in the vault, she felt herself very light in hie 
hands. In a moment he was beside her, and they were 
hurrying towards the inclined passage, bending low. 
CHAPTER XIV 
A BEOAD stream of water was pouring down, and 
spreading on each side in the space between the vaults. 
In a flash, Malipieri understood. The dry well had 
filled, but the overflow shaft was covered with the 
weighted boards, and only a little water could get 
down through the cracks. The rest was pouring 
down the passage, and would soon fill the vault, 
which was at a much lower level. 
" Stay here ! Do not move ! " 
Sabina stood still, but she trembled a little, as he 
dashed up through the swift, shallow stream, not 
ankle deep, but steady as fate. In a moment he had 
disappeared from her sight, and she was all alone in 
the dismal place, in darkness, save for a little light 
that forced its way up from below through the hole. 
It seemed five minutes before his plashing footsteps 
stopped, up there in the passage ; then came instantly 
the noise of stones thrown aside into the water, and 
of heavy pieces of board grating and bumping, as 
they floated for a moment. Almost instantly a loud 
roar came from the same direction, as the inflowing 
stream from the well thundered down the shaft. 
Sabina heard Malipieri's voice calling to her, and his 
approaching footsteps. 
" The water cannot reach you now ! " he cried. 
It had already stopped running down the passage, 
when Malipieri emerged, dripping and holding out 
the lantern in front of him, as his feet slipped on 
the wet stones. Sabina was very pale, but quite 
quiet. 
" What has happened ? " she asked mechanically. 
" The water has risen suddenly," he said, paler than 
she, for he knew the whole danger. " We cannot 
get out till it goes down." 
" How soon will that be ? " Sabina asked steadily. 
"I do not know." 
They looked at each other, and neither spoke for a 
moment. 
"Do you think it may be several hours?" asked 
Sabina. 
"Yes, perhaps several hours." 
Something in his tone told her that matters might 
be worse than that. 
" Tell me the truth," she said. " It may be days 
before the water goes down. We may die here. Is 
that what you mean ? " 
" Unless I can make another way out, that is what 
may happen. We may starve here." 
"You will find the other way out," Sabina said 
quietly. "I know you will." 
She would rather have died that moment than have 
let him think her a coward ; and she was really brave, 
and was vaguely conscious that she was, and that she 
could trust her nerves, as long as her bodily strength 
 
lasted. But it would be very horrible to die of hunger, 
and in such a place. It was better not to think of 
it. He stood before her, with his lantern, a pale, 
courageous, strong man, whom she could not help 
trusting ; he would find that other way. 
" You had better get down again," he said, after a 
little reflection. " It is dry below, and the lamp is there." 
" I can help you." 
Malipieri looked at the slight figure and the little 
gloved hands and smiled. 
" I am very strong," Sabina said, " much stronger 
than you think. Besides, I could not sit all alone 
down there while you are groping about. The water 
might come down and drown me, you know." 
" It cannot run down, now. If it could, I should 
be drowned first." 
" That would not exactly be a consolation," an- 
swered Sabina. " What are you going to do ? I 
suppose we cannot break through the roof where we 
are, can we ? " 
" There must be ten or fifteen feet of earth above 
it. We are under the courtyard here." 
Sabina's slight shoulders shuddered a little, for the 
first time, as she realized that she was perhaps buried 
alive, far beyond the possibility of being heard by any 
human being. 
" The water must have risen very soon after we 
came down," Malipieri said thoughtfully. "That is 
why my man could not get to us. He could not get 
into the well." 
" At all events he is not here," Sabina answered, 
" so it makes no difference where he is." 
" He wni try to help us from without. That is 
what I am thinking of. The first thing to be done 
is to put out that lamp, for we must not waste light. 
I had forgotten that." 
Sabina had not thought of it either, and she waited 
while he went down again and brought the lamp up. 
He extinguished it at once and set it down. 
" Only three ways are possible," he said, " and two 
are out of the question. We cannot get up the old 
shaft above the well. It is of no use to think of 
that. We cannot get down the overflow and out by 
the drains because the water is pouring down there, 
and besides, the Tiber must have risen with the rain." 
"Which is the third way?" 
"To break an opening through the wall in the 
highest part of the passage. It may take a long 
time, for I have no idea how thick the wall may be, 
and the passage is narrow. But we must try it, and 
perhaps Masin will go to work nearly at the same 
spot, for he knows as much about this place as I do, 
and we have often talked about it. I have some 
tools down here. Will you come? We must not 
waste time." 
" I can hold the lantern," said Sabina. " That may 
be of some use." 
Malipieri gave her the lantern and took up the 
crowbar and pickaxe which lay near the hole in the 
vault. 
 
"You will wet your feet, I am afraid," he said, 
as they went up the passage, and he was obliged to 
speak in a louder tone to be heard above the steady 
roar of the water. 
He had marked the spot where he had expected that 
a breach would have to be made to admit visitors con- 
veniently, and he had no trouble in finding it. He set 
the stones he had taken off the boards in a proper posi- 
tion, laid one of the wet boards upon them, and then 
took off his coat and folded it for a cushion, more or less 
dry. He made Sabina sit down with the lantern, though 
she protested. 
" I cannot work with my coat on," he answered, " so 
you may as well sit on it." 
He set to work, and said no more. The first thing 
to be done was to sound the thickness of the wall, if 
possible, by making a small hole through the bricks. 
If this could be done, and if Masin was on the other 
side, a communication could be established. He knew 
well enough that even with help from without, many 
hours might be necessary in order to make a way big 
enough for Sabina to get out ; it was most important 
to make an opening through which food could be 
passed in for her. He had to begin by using his pick- 
axe because the passage was so narrow that he could 
not get his crowbar across it, much less use it with any 
effect. It was very slow work at first, but he did it 
systematically and with steady energy. 
Sabina watched him in silence for a long time, vaguely 
wondering when he would be tired and would be 
obliged to stop and rest. Somehow, it was impossible to 
feel that the situation was really horrible, while such a 
man was toiling before her eyes to set her free. From 
the first, she was perfectly sure that he would succeed, 
but she had not at all understood what the actual 
labour must be. 
He had used his pickaxe for more than half an hour, 
and had made a hollow about a foot and a half deep, 
when he rested on the shaft of the tool, and listened 
attentively. If the wall were not enormously thick, 
