message to Mrs. Newsome, in answer to her own, had 
consisted of the words: "Judge best to take another 
month, but with full appreciation of all reinforcements." 
He had added that he was writing, but he was of course 
always writing ; it was a practice that continued, oddly 
enough, to relieve him, make him come nearer than any- 
thing else to the consciousness of doing something ; so 
that he often wondered if he had not really, under his 
recent stress, acquired some hollow trick, one of the 
specious arts of make-believe. Wouldn't the pages he 
still so frequently despatched by the American post have 
been worthy of a showy journalist, some master of the 
great new science of beating the sense out of words? 
Wasn't he writing against time and mainly to show he was 
kind ? — since it had become quite his habit not to like to 
read himself over. On those Hnes he could still be liberal, 
yet it was at best a sort of whistling in the dark. It was 
unmistakable, moreover, that the sense of being in the dark 
now pressed on him more sharply — creating thereby the 
need for a louder and livelier whistle. He whistled long 
and hard after sending his message ; he whistled again 
and again in celebration of Chad's news ; there was an 
interval of a fortnight in which this exercise helped him. 
He had no great notion of what, on the spot, Sarah 
Pocock would have to say — though he had indeed confused 
premonitions ; but it shouldn't be in her power to say — it 
shouldn't be in anyone's anywhere to say — that he was 
neglecting her mother. He might have written before 
more freely, but he had never written more copiously ; and 
he frankly gave for a reason, at Woollett, that he wished 
to fill the void created by Sarah's departure. 
The increase of his darkness, however, and the quicken- 
ing, as I have called it, of his tune, resided in the fact that 
he was hearing almost naught. He had for some time 
been aware that he was hearing less than before, but he 
was now clearly following a process by which Mrs. New- 
some's letters could only, logically, stop. He had not had 
a line for many days, and he needed no proof — though he 
was, in time, to have plenty — that she wouldn't have put 
pen to paper after receiving the hint that had determined 
her telegram. She wouldn't write till Sarah should have 
seen him and reported on him. It was strange, though it 
might well be less so than his own behaviour appeared at 
Woollett. It was at any rate significant, and what was 
remarkable was the way his friend's nature and manner 
put on for him, through this very drop of demonstration, 
a greater intensity. It struck him really that he had 
never so lived with her as during this period of her silence, 
the silence being a sacred hush, a finer, clearer medium, in 
which her idiosyncrasies showed. He walked about with 
her, sat with her, drove with her, and dined face to face 
with her — a rare treat " in his life," as he could perhaps 
have scarce escaped phrasing it ; and if he had never seen 
her so soundless, so, on the other hand, he had never felt 
her so highly, so almost austerely, her very self: pure and 
by the vulgar estimate " cold," but deep, devoted, delicate, 
sensitive, noble. Her vividness in these respects became 
for him, in the special conditions, almost an obsession ; 
and though the obsession sharpened his pulses, adding 
really to the excitement of time, there were hours at 
which, to be less on the stretch, he directly sought forget- 
fulness. He knew it for the queerest of adventures — such 
a circumstance as could play such a part only for Lambert 
Strether — that in Paris itself, of all places, he should find 
this ghost of the lady of Woollett more importunate than 
any other presence. 
When he went back to Maria Gostrey it was for the 
change to something else. And yet, after all, the change 
scarcely operated, for he talked to her of Mrs. Newsome 
in these days as he had never talked before. He had 
observed in that particular hitherto a discretion and a law ; 
considerations that at present broke down quite as if 
relations had altered. They hadn't really altered, he said 
to himself, so much as that came to ; for if what had 
occurred was of course that Mrs. Newsome had ceased to 
trust him, there was nothing, on the other hand, to prove 
that he shouldn't win back her confidence. It was quite 
his present theory that he would leave no stone unturned 
to do so ; and in fact if he now told Maria things about 
her that he had never told before, this was largely because 
it kept before him the idea of the honour of such a 
woman's esteem. His relation with Maria as well was, 
strangely enough, no longer quite the same ; this truth — 
though not too disconcertingly — had come up between 
them on the renewal of their meetings. It was all con- 
tained in what she had then almost immediately said to 
him ; it was represented by the remark she had needed 
but ten minutes to make, and that he had not been disposed to gainsay. He could toddle alone, and the 
difference that showed was extraordinary. The turn taken 
by their talk had promptly confirmed this difference ; his 
larger confidence on the score of Mrs. Newsome did the 
rest; and the time seemed already far off when he had 
held out his small thirsty cup to the spout of her pail. 
Her pail was scarce touched now, and other fountains had 
flowed for him ; she fell into her place as but one of his 
tributaries ; and there was a strange sweetness— a melan- 
choly mildness that touched him — in her acceptance of the 
altered order. 
This marked for himself the flight of time, or at any 
rate what he was pleased to think of with irony and pity 
as the rush of experience, it having been but the day 
before yesterday that he sat at her feet and held on by 
her garment and was fed by her hand. It was the propor- 
tions that were changed, and the proportions were at all 
times, he philosophised, the very conditions of perception, 
the terms of thought. It was as if, with her effective little 
entresol and her wide acquaintance, her activities, varieties, 
promiscuities, duties and devotions, which consumed nine- 
tenths of her time and of which he got, guardedly, but the 
side wind — it was as if she had shrunk to a secondary 
element and had consented to the shrinkage with the   
perfection of tact. This perfection had never failed her ; ' 
it had originally been greater than his prime measure for 
it ; it had kept him quite apart, kept him out of the shop,   
as she called her huge general acquaintance, made their 
commerce as quiet, as much a thing of the home alone — 
the opposite of the shop — as if she had never another 
customer. She had been wonderful to him at first, with I 
the memory of her little entresol, the image to which, on ; 
most mornings at that time, his eyes directly opened ; 
but now she mainly figured for him as but part of the 
bristling total — though of course always as a person to 
whom he should never cease to be indebted. It would 
never be given to him certainly to have inspired a greater 
kindness. She had decked him out for others, and he saw 
at this point at least nothing she would ever ask for. She 
only wondered and questioned and listened, rendering him 
the homage of a wistful speculation. She expressed it 
repeatedly ; he was already far beyond her and she must 
prepare herself to lose him. There was but one little il 
chance for her. 
Often as she had said it he met it — for it was a touch   
he liked — each time tiiesame way. " My coming to grief?" 
" Yes — then I might patch you up." ' 
" Oh, for my real smash, if it takes place, there will be   
no patching." 
 ' But you surely don't mean it will kill you." 
" No — worse. It will make me old." 
" Ah, nothing can do that ! The wonderful and special 
thing about you is that you are, at this time of day, youth." 
Then she always made, further, one of those remarks that 
she had completely ceased to adorn with hesitations or 
apologies, and that had, by the same token, in spite of 
their extreme straightness, ceased to produce in Strether 
the least embarrassment. She made him believe them, 
and they became thereby as impersonal as truth itself. 
" It's just your particular attraction." 
His answer, too, was always the same. "Of course I'm 
youth— youth for the trip to Europe. I began to be 
young, or at least to get the benefit of it, the moment I 
met you at Chester, and that's what has been taking place 
ever since. I never had the benefit at the proper time, 
which comes to saying that I never had the thing itself. 
I'm having the benefit at this moment ; I had it the other 
day when I said to Chad ' Wait ' ; I shall have it still 
again when Sarah Pocock arrives. It's a benefit that 
would make a poor show for many people ; and I don't 
know who else but )'ou and I, frankly, could begin to see 
in it what I feel. I don't get drunk ; I don't pursue the 
ladies ; I don't spend money ; I don't even write sonnets. 
But, nevertheless, I'm making up late for what I didn't 
have early. I cultivate my little benefit in my own little 
way. It amuses me more than anything that has happened 
to me in all my life. They may say what they like — it's 
my surrender, it's my tribute, to youth. One puts that in 
where one can — it has to come in somewhere, if only out 
of the lives, the conditions, the feelings of other persons. 
Chad gives me the sense of it, for all his gray hairs, which 
merely make it solid in him and safe and serene ; and she 
does the same, for all her being older than he, for all her 
marriageable daughter, her separated husband, her agitated 
history. Though they're young enough, my pair, I don't 
say they're, in the freshest way, their own absolutely 
prime adolescence, for that has nothing to do with it. The 
point is that they're mine. Yes, they're my youth, since 
somehow, at the right time, nothing else ever was. What 
I meant just now therefore is that it would all go — go 
before doing its work — if they were to fail me." 
On which, just here, Miss Gostrey inveterately questioned. 
" What do you, in particular, call its work ? " 
" Well, to see me through." 
" But through what ? " She liked to get it all out 
of him. 
" Why, through this experience." That was all that 
would come. 
It regularly gave her, none the less, the last word. 
" Don't you remember how, in those first days of our 
meeting, it was / who was to see you through ? " 
" Remember ? Tenderly, deeply." He always rose to 
it. "You're just doing your part in letting me maunder 
to you thus." I 
 ' Ah, don't speak as if my part were small, since what- ' 
ever else fails you " 
" You won't — ever, ever, ever ? " He thus took her up. ' 
" Oh, I beg your pardon. You necessarily, you inevitably   
zvi7/. Your conditions — that's what I mean — won't allow 
me anything to do for you." 
" Let alone — I see what you mean — that I'm drearily, 
dreadfully old. I a n ; but there's a service — possible for 
you to render — that I know, all the same, I shall think of." 
" And what will it be ? " , 
This, in fine, however, she would never tell him. " You 
shall hear only if your smash takes place. As that is 
really out of the question, I won't expose myself" — a ' 
point at which, for reasons of his own, Strether ceased to 
press. 
He came round, for publicity — it was the easiest thing — 
to the idea that his smash ivas out of the question, and , 
this rendered idle the discussion of what might follow it. 
He attached an added importance, as the da 'S elapsed, to 
the arrival of the Pococks ; he had even a shameful sense   
of waiting for it insincerely and incorrectly. He accused 
himself of making believe to his own mind that Sarah's 
presence, her impression, her judgment would simplify and 
harmonise ; he accused himself of being so afraid of what 
they might do, that he sought refuge, to beg the whole 
question, in a vain fury. He had abundantly seen at home 
what they were in the habit of doing, and he had not  
at present the smallest ground. His clearest vision was 
when he made out that what he most desired was an 
account more full and free of Mrs. Newsome's state of 
mind than any he felt he could now expect from herself 
That calculation, at least, went hand in hand with the 
sharp consciousness of wishing to prove to himself that he 
was not afraid to look his behaviour in the face. If he 
was, by an inexorable logic, to pay for it, he was literally 
impatient to know the cost ; he held himself ready to pay 
in instalments. The first instalment would be, precisely, 
this entertainment of Sarah, as a consequence of which, 
moreover, he should know vastly better how he stood. 
XIX 
He rambled largely alone during these few days, the ejfifect 
of the incident of the previous week having been to 
simplify in a marked fashion his mixed relations with 
Waymarsh. Nothing had passed between them in refer- 
ence to Mrs. Newsome's summons but that Strether had 
mentioned to his friend the departure of the deputation 
actually at sea, giving him thus an opportunity to confess   
to the occult intervention he imputed to him. Waymarsh,   
however, in the event confessed to nothing ; and though ! 
this falsified in some degree Strether's forecast, the latter 
saw in it amusedly the same depth of good conscience, 
out of which the dear man's impertinence had originally  
sprung. He was patient with the dear man now, was   
delighted to observe that he had unmistakably put on 
flesh. He felt his own holiday so successfully large and ; 
free that he was full of allowances and charities in respect   
to those cabined and confined ; his instinct toward a spirit 
so strapped down as Waymarsh's was to walk round it on 
tiptoe for fear of waking it up to a sense of losses by this 
time irretrievable. It was all very funny, he knew, and 
but the difference, as he often said to himself, of tweedle-   
dum and tweedledee — an emancipation so purely compara- 
tive that it was like the advance of the doormat on the 
scraper. Yet the present crisis was happily to profit by 
it and the pilgrim from Milrose to know himself more ' 
than ever in the right. 
Strether felt that when he heard of the approach of the 
Pococks the impulse of pity quite sprang up to him beside 
the impulse of triumph. That was exactly why Waymarsh 
had looked at him with eyes in which the heat of justice 
was measured and shaded. He had looked very hard, as 
if affectionately sorry for the friend — the friend of fifty- 
five — whose frivolity had had thus to be recorded ; becom- 
ing, however, but obscurely sententious and leaving his 
companion to formulate a charge. It was in this general 
attitude that he had of late altogether taken refuge ; with 
the drop of discussion, they were solemnly, sadly super- 
ficial. Strether recognised in him the mere portentous 
rumination to which Miss Barrace had so good-humour- 
edly described herself as assigning a corner of her salon. 
It was quite as if he knew the step he had taken had been 
divined, and it was also as if he missed the chance to 
explain the purity of his motive. But this privation of 
opportunity should be precisely his small penance ; it was 
not amiss for Strether that he should find himself to that 
degree uneasy. If he had been challenged or accused, 
rebuked for meddling or otherwise pulled up, he would 
probably have shown, on his own system, all the height 
of his consistency, all the depth of his good faith. Explicit 
resentment of his course would have made him take the 
floor, and the thump of his fist on the table would have 
aflfirmed him as consciously incorruptible. Was what had 
now really prevailed with Strether but a dread of that 
thump — a dread of wincing a little painfully at what it might 
invidiously demonstrate? However this might be, at any 
rate, one of the marks of the situation was a visible lapse, 
in Waymarsh, of expectation. As if to make up to his 
comrade for the stroke by which he had played providence, 
he now conspicuously ignored his movements, withdrew 
himself from the pretension to share them, stiffened up his 
sensibility to neglect, and, clasping his large empty hands 
and swinging his large restless foot, clearly looked to 
another quarter for relief. 
This made for independence on Strether's part, and he 
had in truth at no moment of his stay been so free to 
go and come. The early summer brushed the picture 
over and blurred everything but the near. It made a vast, 
warm, fragrant medium, in which the elements floated 
together on the best of terms, in which rewards were 
