person to interfere with me?”
“Really, gentlemen, I don’t know what to say,” answered the landlord,
who was a weak and vacillating man. “If I knew the law----”
“I’ll tell you what the law is,” said the miner. “Before I went out West
I spent a year in a law office at Burlington, Vermont. These men haven’t
shown any papers--they haven’t proved this gentleman to be out of his
mind. It’s just a high-handed violation of the law they are trying.”
“In that case, I guess you’d better stop,” said the landlord. “This
gentleman is probably right, and----”
“He’s a fool!” interposed Roque angrily.
“Haven’t these eminent physicians declared my cousin to be a lunatic?”
“They look more like tramps than eminent physicians,” remarked Joshua
Stackpole.
“We have wasted time enough with this fool,” said Roque. “Dr. Brown,
take one arm, and you, Dr. Jones, take the other, and we will soon put
an end to this foolery.”
“Do it at your peril!” exclaimed Joshua Stackpole sternly.
The doctors looked somewhat apprehensive, but at a nod from James Roque,
and confident in the realization that they were three to one, they
proceeded to obey orders. Then something unexpected happened.
Joshua Stackpole sprang upon James Roque and pitched him headlong from
the piazza. Then he started for Dr. Brown, and that luckless physician
followed his principal.
The miner was about to turn his attention to Dr. Jones when the latter
threw up his hands and begged for mercy.
“This is an outrage!” exclaimed Mr. Snowdon, much disconcerted. “Isn’t
there a constable at hand, landlord, to arrest this bold ruffian?
Bernard Brooks, I want you.”
“Aha!” said Stackpole, “what do you want him for? Is he another
lunatic?”
“No; but he is my pupil, who has rebelled against my lawful authority,
and run away from his happy home at Snowdon Institute.”
“How is that, sonny?” asked Joshua Stackpole.
“He tried to horsewhip me,” said Bernard.
“And I will do it yet,” cried Mr. Snowdon, with more anger than
prudence.
“Ha! It seems there is more work for me to do. You are an old man, and I
don’t want to hurt you, but if you don’t get into your wagon and hurry
home, I’ll----”
Joshua Stackpole looked so determined that Mr. Snowdon was alarmed.
“Come, Septimus,” he said; “we’d better be going. I’ll go to a
magistrate and get a warrant for this man’s arrest.”
By this time James Roque had risen from his recumbent position.
“Dr. Brown and Dr. Jones,” he exclaimed in a passion, “are we to be
worsted by a single man? Seize William Penrose.”
“Excuse me!” said Dr. Brown, rubbing his shins.
“And me, too!” added Dr. Jones, with an apprehensive look at Joshua
Stackpole.
“Sir,” said James Roque, addressing Mr. Snowdon, “as I can get no help
from these cowards, will you lend me your co-operation?”
“I wish you success, sir,” replied Snowdon hurriedly, “but I ought to
return to Snowdon Institute, where my presence is imperatively
required.”
“I think, squire, you’d better give it up for a bad job,” said
Stackpole. “If you make another attempt to abduct this man I’ll treat
you worse than before.”
With a look of baffled rage James Roque entered his carriage, followed
by the two doctors.
“You have escaped this time,” he said to William Penrose, “but I will
have you yet.”
Penrose shuddered as he saw the evil look on his cousin’s face.
“I’ve got something to say to that, squire,” remarked
Joshua Stackpole coolly. “Do you see that?” and he displayed a revolver.
“Don’t shoot!” exclaimed James Roque, falling back, his face assuming a
sickly pallor.
“I don’t intend to--now,” said Stackpole composedly, “but I can’t answer
for what I would do if I heard of your trying to abduct your cousin.”
“I should like to lock you up in an insane asylum,” said Roque, with an
ugly look.
“So you think me insane, do you?”
“You are stark, staring mad!”
“Thank you, squire. If I should happen to shoot you accidentally,
that’ll let me off.”
James Roque did not think it wise to reply, but drove off hurriedly.
“My friend,” said Penrose, offering his hand, “you have done me a great
favor. But for you that man would have carried me to an asylum.”
“What is his object?”
“Unfortunately I am rich and he is poor. As a near relative, he wants to
get control of my property. Your brave interference has saved me.”
“Don’t mention it! There wasn’t anything brave about it. The whole pack
of them are cowards. Have those doctors ever seen you before?”
“Never.”
“Yet after a mere glance they are ready to pronounce you insane. I don’t
believe they are doctors at all.”
“Nor I. They are tools of my cousin. But nothing is easier than to throw
a sane man into an asylum on the evidence of such creatures.”
“They’d have a lively time making out me to be insane.”
“James Roque says you are stark, staring mad,” said Penrose, with a
smile.
“He’d have reason to think so if I got hold of him,” returned Stackpole
grimly. “And now, my friend. I am going to give you a piece of advice.”
“What is it?”
“Get out of this as soon as you can. There’s an ugly look about your
cousin’s face, and he may make you trouble yet. Of course, he has no
legal right to interfere with you, but that won’t stop a man like him.
He hasn’t got hold of your property yet?”
“No.”
“Then if you have money at command, go off where he will not be able to
track you. Why not go to Europe, or to Colorado, my State? If he tried
any of his tricks there, we’d soon stop him with a rope.”
“Your advice is good and I will follow it. But I don’t like to leave my
young friend here. He, too, is in a tight place.”
“Don’t trouble about him. I’ll look after him for a time. It will be
better for you to part, as your cousin will probably describe you as
traveling in his company.”
“All right! I will make my way at once to New York and take passage for
Europe. I have long intended to go there, and this is a favorable
opportunity. But I must first show my good will to Bernard by offering
him this.”
He drew a ten-dollar bill from his pocketbook and handed it to Bernard.
“Ought I to take so much, Mr. Penrose?” asked Bernard, in a tone of
hesitation.
“I am rich. I can spare it,” said William Penrose. “You need not
hesitate.”
“Then, I will take it with thanks, for I have got to make my own way,
and I have no one to depend upon. My guardian will be angry when he
learns that I have run away from Mr. Snowdon.”
“You can adopt me for your guardian for a short time,” said Mr.
Stackpole. “And now I move that we get away from Poplar Plains as soon
as possible.” A carriage was secured, and within fifteen minutes the
three were on their way to the nearest railroad station.
CHAPTER IX.  ON THE HUDSON RIVER BOAT.
|William Penrose kept on his way to New York, but Bernard and Mr.
Stackpole stopped at Albany.
“I have a little business to attend to here,” said Mr. Stackpole, “so if
you don’t mind, we’ll stay over here a day.”
“All right, sir; I have no pressing business to hurry me on. I have
never been in Albany, and shall be glad to go about and see the city.”
The next morning they took the day boat down the Hudson. The great
steamer was a floating palace, and had every accommodation that could be
desired.
Just before going aboard Bernard bought from a newsboy a copy of the
Albany Argus. He glanced rapidly over the contents of the paper, and
his attention was arrested by the account of the mysterious
disappearance of a package of government bonds--five thousand
dollars--from the banking house of Murdock & Co.
“The loss was not discovered till about the close of business,” said the
account. “No one in the office could throw any light upon the matter.
Whether it was an employee or an outside party is uncertain. Mr. Murdock
remembers seeing the package on a desk, but assuming that the clerk was
preparing to put it in the safe, gave no more thought to it till it was
found to be missing. Detectives have the matter in charge, and it is
hoped that the thief will be captured within twenty-four hours.”
Bernard read the account with languid interest. He knew none of the
parties, and had no special reason to dwell on the paragraph.
“Will you allow me to look at your paper?” asked a young man of
twenty-five, dressed in showy style, and carrying a small satchel in his
hand.
“Certainly, sir,” answered Bernard politely.
“Anything interesting in it?” asked the young man languidly.
“There is an account of the theft of some government bonds from Murdock
& Co.”
“Ah, that is a prominent house!”
“I don’t know anything about Albany firms,” said Bernard.
“Then you don’t live in Albany?”
“I never saw the city till yesterday.”
The young man read the paragraph.
“Rather a clever robbery,” he said, in a tone of indifference.
“I think any robbery is foolish,” responded Bernard.
“Yes, of course; that is the proper view to take of it. I suppose you
attend Sunday school?”
There was a lurking sneer in the young man’s tone, as Bernard thought.
“I am not connected with a Sunday school at present,” he said.
“I don’t think Sunday school boys are better than any other.”
“They ought to be.”
“True, but we have to consider facts. Won’t you go down-stairs and drink
a glass of beer?”
“No, thank you.”
“Oh, I forgot that you were a Sunday school boy. Well, ta, ta! I’ll see
you again.”
There was something peculiar about the young man. Though it was a warm
day he wore an ulster, which he never took off. Then he carried round
his portmanteau with him all the time.
During the next two or three hours Bernard saw him several times.
There was something else also that drew his attention to the young man.
He scanned his fellow passengers attentively, rather as if he was afraid
of meeting some objectionable person. He seemed very restless also. He
would seldom stay more than fifteen minutes in one spot.
Bernard had asked him his destination, but he evaded a straightforward
reply.
“I am going wherever the boat does,” he said, with a smile. “How is it
with you?”
“I suppose I shall land in New York.”
“Do you know any one there?”
“Yes, I know Mr. Cornelius McCracken.”
“Never heard of him. Is he an uncle of yours?”
“No, he is my guardian.”
“Your guardian?” repeated the young man, with interest. “Then you have
property?”
“I don’t think so. Mr. McCracken says I have none.”
“Then what is the use of a guardian?”
“Not much. Probably he will throw me off.”
“Why?”
“Because I have run away from a school where he placed me.”
“Humph! Why did you do that?”
“I was not well treated. The teacher wanted to whip me.”
“And you objected?” said the young man, laughing.
“Yes.”
“I can’t blame you. I should have acted in the same way probably. Who is
that man I have seen with you--he looks like a Yankee.”
“He is an acquaintance I made yesterday.”
“Are you traveling with him?”
“Yes.”
“He has a Western look.”
“I think he has been a miner in Colorado.”
“So. Has he much money, do you think?” Bernard began to think his
companion too inquisitive, and he answered shortly, “I don’t know.”
“Hasn’t told you, I suppose. Well, I shouldn’t mind going out West
myself and trying mining.”
“What business are you in?” asked Bernard, thinking he had a right to
ask questions also.
“I am a traveling man,” answered the young man, after a slight
hesitation.
They passed Newburg early in the afternoon. Shortly after reaching this
place, as Bernard was sitting on a bench on the upper deck, his friend
in the ulster came up to him hurriedly.
“Please take charge of my portmanteau a few minutes,” he said, “if it
won’t be too much trouble.”
“No trouble at all,” replied Bernard politely.
The portmanteau was a small one, and it was hard to conjecture from its
appearance what it might contain. Upon this point, however, Bernard was
not curious.
“It can’t contain anything very valuable,” he reflected, “or the owner
would hardly trust a stranger with it.”
They reached Newburg, and remained some time. Bernard thought of going
down to the lower deck, but it occurred to him that the owner of the
portmanteau might come back for it and be unable to find him. This was
rather embarrassing and he felt sorry that he had been so obliging as to
assume charge of property not his own.
As they left Newburg he went to the rear part of the boat, and took a
look at the place. He knew from the history he studied in school that
Washington had at one time had his headquarters here. If there had been
time he would have liked to have gone on shore. But even then he could
hardly have done so with the portmanteau in charge.
He fixed his eyes carelessly upon the historic town, not expecting to
see anything of special interest.
He was destined to a great surprise. There on the pier stood the young
man in the ulster. He could not mistake him. Not alone the ulster, but
the scanty yellowish mustache and pallid complexion betrayed him.
“He must have been left behind!” thought Bernard, “and I have his
portmanteau!”
He took another look at the young man in the ulster. Certainly be
betrayed no signs of having been left against his will. He stood in a
careless position with a quiet and composed face, looking at the great
steamer as it steadily widened the distance between him and his late
companion.
Bernard was very much puzzled.
“He doesn’t seem to care. Does he remember that I have his portmanteau?”
 he asked himself.
He tried to attract the young man’s attention, but in vain.
“What shall I do?” he asked himself. “I don’t know the name of the man
who intrusted me with the valise. I wonder if there is any name on it.”
He examined it, but found nothing to indicate the identity of the owner.
“I must ask Mr. Stackpole what to do,” thought Bernard. “It is certainly
a queer position to be in. I may find it necessary to open the
portmanteau, and ascertain the contents.”
He looked around the boat in search of Mr. Stackpole; but the steamer
was large and quite crowded. Then there were so many divisions to it
that somehow he missed seeing his mining friend. There was nothing now
to interfere with his going where he liked, as there was no chance of
the young man in the ulster looking for him.
At length he sat down again, and became interested in a German family
where there were three or four young children. He got on quite sociable
terms with a roguish looking young boy named Herman. Bernard was fond of
children, and easily won their sympathy and attachment.
A small man dressed in a drab suit came upstairs and looked keenly about
him. Finally his glance rested upon Bernard and his portmanteau.
He stepped up to Bernard and said, in a tone of quiet authority, “Young
man, I would like to examine that portmanteau.”
Bernard looked up in surprise.
“The portmanteau is not mine,” he said. “What do you want of it?”
“Nevertheless, I must look at it.”
Bernard still hesitated.
“Come,” said the other firmly, “it won’t be wise for you to object. I am
a detective.”
CHAPTER X.  HATCH, DETECTIVE.
|Bernard was startled. He had heard of detectives and read about them,
but this was the first time he had been brought face to face with one.
It must be confessed that the quiet little man hardly came up to his
expectations.
“You can open it if you like,” he said.
“Where is the key?”
“I haven’t got it.”
“Young man,” said the detective sternly, “I advise you not to throw any
obstacles in my way. It may do you harm.”
“But,” said Bernard earnestly, “I am speaking the truth. The owner of
the portmanteau no doubt has the key, but he didn’t give it to me.”
“The owner? Isn’t it yours?”
“No, sir.”
“Whose is it, then?”
“It belongs to a young man in an ulster, who handed it to me for safe
keeping.”
“Where is the young man?” asked the detective searchingly.
“He got off at Newburg.”
“Leaving the portmanteau with you?”
“Yes.”
“When is he going to get it back from you?”
“I don’t know.”
“And you don’t know his name?”
“No, sir.”
