Captive. " There is much fire in this," I said; 
" once I thought it would explode, I did. It was 
a shot that would have been heard around the 
world, sir! Only I could not pull the trigger." 
The man stared at me, and so I burned it, page 
by page, and laughed, and sang a foolish song 
that I thought of: Stride la vampa! 
And afterward I unwrapped the journal. I 
laughed at my journal — 'tis a foolish thing; but 
then all at once my conscience touched me. I 
said: " Is it not a shame? Is it not small of you? 
They would not heed you! — fool, what of it? 
Perhaps it is not their fault — certainly it is their 
sorrow. But you will not get much higher than 
you are now by trampling upon them." 
And so I stopped; and I wrapped up my 
journal again. " You have fire enough now, sir," 
I said to the man. " I will keep this to build an- 
other fire with." 
I went on. " Let them have it," I said, " let 
them make what they can out of it." And then I 
laughed aloud: "And they will discuss it! And 
there will be reviews of it! And wise articles 
about it ! And learned scholars will write tomes 
upon it, showing how many sentences there are 
in it ending with a punctuation mark; and old 
ladies and Methodist ministers will shake their 
heads over it and say: ' See what comes of not 
believing in Adam! ' " 
I walked on, singing the Ride of the Valkyr- 
ies, the children staring at me, going to Sunday- 
school. 
But I was glad that there was another copy of 
The Captive left. I love even that wicked editor 
now. 
— All that was a day and a half ago. I am not 
so happy now, but I am very calm. I have found 
my righteousness again, and I can take whatever 
comes. 
And tasks in hours of insight willed 
Can be in hours of gloom fulfilled ! 
June 3d. 
I have now three days more to wait, to learn 
if The Captive is accepted. I have money 
enough to last me till then. If it is not accepted 
I should obviously have to starve, should I not? 
For I will never serve the world again. And 
am I a sheep that must be driven? No, I shall 
find a quicker way of dying than by starvation. 
In the meanwhile I live my life and say my 
prayer. 
I have thought a great deal about the thing, 
and it seems by no means best for the world that 
it should treat all the men who have my gift as 
it has treated me. Let the world take notice that 
I perish because I have not cheap qualities. Be- 
cause I was born to sing and to worship! Be- 
cause I have no alloy, because I will not compro- 
mise, because I do not understand the world, and 
do not serve its uses! If I only knew all the 
book-gossip of the hour, and all the platitvides of 
the reviews! If only I knew anything of all the 
infinite frivolity and puerility that occupies the 
minds of men! But I do not, and so I am an out- 
cast, and must work as a day laborer for my 
bread. 
— The infinite irrationality of it seems to me 
notable. Why, upon the men of genius of the 
past you feed your lives, you blind and foolish 
men ! They are the bread and meat of your souls 
— they make your civilizations — they mold your 
thoughts — they put into you all that little life 
which you have. And your reviews have use 
enough for them! Your publishers pubHsh 
enough of them! But what thoughts have you 
about the NEW teacher, the NEW inspirer? 
The madness of the thing! I read books 
enough, it seems to me, telling of the sufiferings 
of the poets of a century ago! — of the indififer- 
ence of the critics, the blindness of the public, of 
a century ago. And those things pain you all so 
cruelly! But the possibility of their happening 
to the poets of the present — it never seems to 
enter into your heads ! Why, that very man who 
sent me back his curt refusal by his secretary — 
he writes about the agonies of Shelley and Keats 
in a way that brings the tears into your eyes! 
And that is only one example among thou- 
sands. 
What do these men think? Is it their idea 
that the public and the critics are now so true 
and so eager that the poets have nothing more to 
fear? That stupidity and blindness and indiffer- 
ence are quite entirely gone out of the world? 
That aspiration and fervor are now so much the 
rule that the least penny-a-liner can judge the 
new poet? 
And they think that the soul is dead then! 
And that God has stopped sending into this 
world new messages and new faiths! 
Oh you civilization! You society! You 
critics and lovers of books! Why, that new mes- 
sage and that new faith ought to be the one thing 
in all this world that you bend your faculties to 
save! It is that upon which all your life is built 
— it is that by which this Republic, for one thing, 
is to be made a factor in the history of mankind. 
But what do you do? What have you done? 
Here I am; and come now and tell me what it is 
that you think you have done. For I have the 
message! — I have the faith! And you have 
starved me, and you have beaten me, until I am 
too ill to drag myself about! 
And what can I do? Where can I turn? 
What hope have I, except, as Swift's phrase has 
it, to "die like a poisoned rat in a hole"? I 
could wish that you would think over that phrase 
a little while, cultivated ladies and gentlemen. It 
is not pleasant — to die like a poisoned rat in a 
hole. 
You ask me to believe in your civilization; 
you ask me to believe in your love of light! Let 
me tell you when I would believe in your civiliza- 
zation and your love of light. 
I say that the last and the highest thing in 
this world is Genius. I say that Religion and 
Art and Progress and Enlightenment — that all 
these things are made out of Genius; and that 
Genius is first and last, highest, and best, and 
fundamental. And I say that when you recog- 
nize that fact — when you believe in Genius — 
when you prepare the way for it and make 
smooth the paths for it — I say that then and then 
alone may you tell me that you are civilized. 
The thing shrieks against heaven — your 
cruelty, your stupidity. Since ever the first poet 
came into this world it has been the same story 
of agony, indignity, and shame. And what do 
you do? 
It is poverty that I talk about, poverty alone! 
The poet wants nothing in this world but to be 
let alone to listen to the voices of his soul. He 
wants nothing from you in all this world but that 
you give him food while he does it — while he 
does it, miserable people — not for himself, but 
for you. 
This is the shame upon you — that you expect 
— that you always have expected — that the poet, 
besides doing the fearful task his inspiration lays 
upon him — that he shall go out into the coarse, 
ruthless world and slave for his bread! That is 
the shame! That is the indignity, that is the 
brutality, the stupidity, the infamy! Shame 
upon you, shame upon you, world! 
The poet ! He comes with a heart trembling 
with gladness; he comes with tears of rapture in 
his eyes! He comes with bosom heaving and 
throat choking and heart breaking. He comes 
with tenderness and with trust, with joy in the 
beauty that he beholds. He comes a minstrel, 
with a harp in his hand — and you set your dogs 
upon him — you drive him torn and bleeding from 
your gates! 
The poet! You make him go out into the 
market and chaffer for his bread! You subject 
him to the same law to which you subject your 
loafers and your louts — that he who will not work 
can not eat! Your drones, and your drunkards 
— and your poets! Every man must earn for 
himself, every man must pay his way! No man 
must ask favors, no man must be helped, no man 
shall be any dififerent from other men! For 
shame ! For shame ! 
And you love letters! You love poetry! 
You are civilized, you are liberal, you are en- 
lightened! You are fools! 
I tell you the agony of this thing is in me yet 
— it has heaped itself up in my soul all my days. 
It was my life, it was my life that cried out ! And 
now that I can not save my own self — oh, let me 
at least save the others! O God, let me not die 
till I have said one word that reaches their hearts, 
till I have done something to change this ghastly 
thing! The voices of the ages cry out to me. 
Not only the hundreds who have gone before — 
but the hundreds and the thousands who are to 
come! What are we to do? they cry — who shall 
save usf Are we to share the same fate — are we 
too to struggle and die in vain? And in this world 
that is civilized! In this world that seeks prog- 
ress! In this world that wants nothing but light! 
Not to the mob I speak, not to those who 
once mocked me; if none but they lived, I should 
hold my tongue and go. But you men who are 
leaders, you men who stand upon the top, you 
men who see! — can I not find some word to 
reach you? You men who really love books — 
who have money — who want nothing but to 
put it to use! — can I not find some word to 
reach youf 
God! And it is all so simple. 
Itell you this land will never be civilized, 
this land will never lead mankind, it will never be 
anything but the torture-house that I have found 
it, until it makes some provision for its men of 
Genius! Until this simple fundamental thing be 
true — that a man may know that if he have Genius 
— that the day he shows he has Genius — he will 
be honored and protected by society and not 
trampled and kicked like a dog. That he will not 
have to go out into the market-place and vend 
his wares! That he will not have to make sick 
his soul haggling for his bread ! That if he turns 
his strength to higher things, and exposes him- 
self to the world thereby, he will not be trodden 
down in the struggle for existence! That he will 
not have to bear indignities and insults; that he 
will not have to write till he be ripe, or be stunted 
and deformed by early deprivation. 
Genius. And am I not to die now? — And 
what matters the world? 
Therefore let me write it: that I was a man 
of Genius. And that you have trodden me down 
in the struggle for existence. That I saw things 
that no other man has ever seen, I would have 
written things that no other man can ever write. 
And that you have trodden me down in the strug- 
gle for existence — that you have trodden me 
down because I could not earn my bread! 
This is what I tell you — this is what I cry 
out to you, that the man of Genius can not earn 
his bread! That the work by which he develops 
his power is something absolutely and utterly 
dififerent from the work by which he earns his 
bread! And that every hour which he gives to 
the one, he lessens his power and his capacity for 
the other! Every hour that he gives to the earn- 
ing of his bread, he takes from his soul, he weak- 
ens his work, he destroys beauty which never 
again can he know or dream ! 
And this again is what I tell you, this again 
is what I cry out to you: that the power by 
which a man of Genius does his work, and the 
power by which he earns his bread, are things 
so entirely distinct that they may not occur together 
at all! The man may have both, but then again 
he may only have the former. — And in that case 
he will die like a poisoned rat in a hole. 
What is the first principle of the democracy 
of which we boast, if it be not that excellence, 
that power, that Genius, is not the attribute of 
the rich or the nable, but that it may make its ap- 
pearance anywhere among men? And you who 
sigh for men of talent to raise American letters 
— what do you do about it? I will tell you some- 
thing right now, to begin with; it will startle you, 
perhaps, and you may not believe it; but I mean 
to prove it later on. For the present I say this: 
that of the seven poets who constitute the glory 
of the literature of England in the nineteenth 
century, four of them were rich men, five of them 
were independent, one of them was endowed 
when he was a youth, and the seventh, the 
greatest of them all, died like a poisoned rat 
in a hole. 
And what do you do about it? What you do 
is to lean back in your chair and say : " The Uter- 
ary market was never so wide-awake as it is now, 
and the publishers never so anxious for new tal- 
ent"! 
Fools ! And you think that the publishers are 
in business for the developing of talent, and for 
the glory of literature! And that they care about 
whether a man of Genius dies in the streets, or 
not! Why, have I not heard them tell me, with 
their own lips, that " a publisher who published 
books that the trade did not want would be 
driven out of business in a year"? 
And you tell me that the author is an inde- 
pendent man nowadays! And can earn his liv- 
ing with his books! 
It is your privilege to think that, if you 
choose; but perhaps you will not mind hearing 
what I tell you — that the author can find no way 
to a living more degrading to him than the earn- 
ing of it with his books. I have shoveled snow, 
and shoveled manure too, in the streets, and 
shoveled food for swine in a restaurant.. But I 
never did anything so degrading as I should have 
had to do if I had tried to earn my Hving with 
my books. 
Oh, the author may be independent, may he! 
And you will escape with that fine platitude, 
and with that bitter mockery ! And never think 
that the author's independence is but the fine 
phrase for your own indifference! 
Again it is your privilege to think what you 
choose; but again perhaps you will not mind 
hearing what I tell you — that there can never 
be any man in this world more dependent than 
