The lightning pain of the shock when she recognized the uniform
interfered with breath and speech; confused, she raised her gloved hand
and laid it unconsciously over her heart; and the colonel of the Fourth
Missouri waited.
"I am the Special Messenger," she said faintly.
For a moment he scarcely understood that this slender young fellow, with
dark hair as closely clipped and as curly as his own, could be a woman.
Stern surprise hardened his narrowing gaze; he stood silent, handsome
head high, looking down at her; then slowly the latent humor flickered
along the edges of lip and lid, curbed instantly as he bowed, faultless,
handsome--only the persistently upturned mustache impairing the
perfectly detached and impersonal decorum with a warning of the beau
sabreur behind it all.
"Will you be seated, madam?"
"Thank you."
She sat down; the wet poncho was hot and she shifted it, throwing one
end across her shoulder. In her uniform she appeared willowy and slim,
built like a boy, and with nothing of that graceful awkwardness which
almost inevitably betrays such masqueraders. For her limbs were straight
at the knees and faultlessly coupled, and there seemed to be the
adolescent's smooth lack of development in the scarcely accented
hips--only a straightly flowing harmony of proportion--a lad's grace
muscularly undeveloped.
Two leather straps crossed her breast, one weighted with field glasses,
the other with a pouch. From the latter she drew her credentials and
would have risen to present them, but the colonel of the Fourth Missouri
detained her with a gesture, himself rose, and took the papers from her
hand.
While he sat reading, she, hands clasped in her lap, gazed at his
well-remembered uniform, busy with her memories once more, and the
sweetness of them--and the pain.
They were three years old, these memories, now glimmering alive again
amid the whitening ashes of the past; only three years--and centuries
seemed to dim the landmarks and bar the backward path that she was
following to her girlhood!
She thought of the white-pillared house as it stood at the beginning of
the war; the severing of old ties, the averted faces of old friends and
neighbors; the mortal apprehension, endless suspense; the insurgent
flags fluttering from porch and portico along the still, tree-shaded
street; her own heart-breaking isolation in the community when Sumter
fell--she an orphan, alone there with her brother and bedridden
grandfather.
And she remembered the agony that followed the news from Bull Run, the
stupor that fell upon her; the awful heat of that battle summer; her
evening prayers, kneeling there beside her brother; the red moons that
rose, enormous, menacing, behind the trees; and the widow bird calling,
calling to the dead that never answer more.
Her dead? Why hers? A chance regiment passing--cavalry wearing the
uniform and number of the Fourth Missouri. Ah! she could see them again,
sun-scorched, dusty, fours crowding on fours, trampling past. She could
see a young girl in white, fastening the long-hidden flag to its
halyards as the evening light faded on the treetops!... And then--and
then--he came--into her life, into her house, into her heart,
alas!--tall, lean, calm-eyed, yellow-haired, wrapped in the folds of his
long, blue mantle!... And she saw him again--a few moments before his
regiment charged into that growling thunder beyond the hills somewhere.
And a third time, and the last, she saw him, deathly still, lying on her
own bed, and a medical officer pulling the sheet up over his bony face.
                 *       *       *       *       *
The colonel of the Fourth Missouri was looking curiously at her; she
started, cleared the dimness from her eyes, and steadied the trembling
underlip.
After a moment's silence the colonel said: "You undertake this duty
willingly?"
She nodded, quietly touching her eyes with her handkerchief.
"There is scarcely a chance for you," he observed with affected
carelessness.
She lifted her shoulders in weary disdain of that persistent shadow
called danger, which had long since become too familiar to count very
heavily.
"I am not afraid--if that is what you mean. Do you think you can get me
through?"
The colonel said coolly: "I expect to do my part. Have you a rebel
uniform?"
She nodded.
"Where is it?"
"On me--under this."
The colonel looked at her; a slight shudder passed over him.
"These orders suggest that I start before sunset," he said. "Meanwhile
this tent is yours. My orderly will serve you. The regiment will move
out about sunset with some six hundred sabres and Gray's Rhode Island
flying battery."
He walked to the tent door; she followed.
"Is that your horse?" he asked.
"Yes, Colonel."
"Fit for the work?" turning to look at her.
"Yes, sir."
"And you?"
She smiled; through the open tent a misty bar of sunshine fell across
her face, turning the smooth skin golden. Outside a dismounted trooper
on guard presented his carbine as the tall, young colonel strode out. An
orderly joined him; they stood a moment consulting in whispers, then the
orderly ran for his saddled horse, mounted, and rode off through the
lanes of the cavalry camp.
From the tent door the Special Messenger looked out into the camp. Under
the base of a grassy hill hundreds of horses were being watered at a
brook now discolored by the recent rains; beyond, on a second knoll, the
guns of a flying battery stood parked. She could see the red trimmings
on the gunners' jackets as they were lounging about in the grass.
The view from the tent door was extensive; a division, at least, lay
encamped within range of the eye; two roads across the hills were full
of wagons moving south and east; along another road, stretching far into
the valley, masses of cavalry were riding--apparently an entire
brigade--but too far away for her to hear the trample of the horses.
From where she stood, however, she could make out the course of a fourth
road by the noise of an endless, moving column of horses. At times,
above the hillside, she could see their heads, and the enormous
canvas-covered muzzles of siege guns; and the racket of hoofs, the
powerful crunching and grinding of wheels, the cries of teamsters united
in a dull, steady uproar that never ceased.
From their camp, troopers of the Fourth Missouri were idly watching the
artillery passing--hundreds of sunburned cavalrymen seated along the
hillside, feet dangling, exchanging gibes and jests with the drivers of
the siege train below. But from where she stood she could see nothing
except horses' heads tossing, blue caps of mounted men, a crimson guidon
flapping, or the sun glittering on the slender, curved blade of some
officer's sabre as he signaled.
North, east, west, south--the whole land seemed to be covered with
moving men and beasts and wagons; flags fluttered on every eminence;
tents covered plowed fields, pastures, meadows; smoke hung over all,
crowning the green woods with haze, veiling hollows, rolling along the
railway in endless, yellow billows.
The rain had washed the sky clean, but again this vast, advancing host
was soiling heaven and blighting earth as it passed over the land
toward that beleaguered city in the South.
War! Everywhere the monotony of this awful panorama, covering her
country day after day, month after month, year after year--war, always
and everywhere and in every stage--hordes of horses, hordes of men,
endless columns of deadly engines! Everywhere, always, death, or the
preparation for death--every road and footpath crammed with it, every
field trampled by it, every woodland shattered by it, every stream
running thick with its pollution. The sour smell of marching men, the
stale taint of unclean fires, the stench of beasts--the acrid,
indescribable odor that hangs on the sweating flanks of armies seemed to
infect sky and earth.
A trooper, munching an apple and carrying a truss of hay, passed, cap
cocked rakishly, sabre banging at his heels; and she called to him and
he came up, easily respectful under the grin of bodily well being.
"How long have you served in this regiment?" she asked.
He swallowed the bite of apple which crowded out his freckled cheeks:
"Three years, sir."
She drew involuntarily nearer the tent door.
"Then--you were at Sandy River--three years ago?"
"Yes, sir."
"Do you remember the battle there?"
The soldier looked doubtful. "We was there--I know that; yes, an' we had
a fight----"
"Yes--near a big white house."
The soldier nodded. "I guess so; I don't seem to place no big white
house----"
She asked calmly: "Your regiment had a mounted band once?"
He brightened.
"Yes, sir-ee! They played us in at Sandy River--and they got into it,
too, and was cut all to pieces!"
She motioned assent wearily; then, with an effort: "You don't know,
perhaps, where he--where their bandmaster was buried?"
"Sir?"
"The bandmaster of the Fourth Missouri? You remember him--that tall,
thin young officer who led them with his sabre--who sat his horse like a
colonel of regulars--and wore a cap of fur like--like a hussar of some
militia State guard----"
"Well, you must mean Captain Stanley, who was at that time bandmaster of
our regiment. He went in that day at Sandy River when our mounted band
was cut to pieces. Orders was to play us in, an' he done it."
There was a silence.
"Where is he--buried?" she asked calmly.
"Buried? Why, he ain't dead, is he?"
"He died at Sandy River--that day," she said gently. "Don't you
remember?"
"No, sir; our bandmaster wasn't killed at Sandy River."
She looked at him amazed, almost frightened.
"What do you mean? He is dead. I--saw him die."
"It must have been some other bandmaster--not Captain Stanley."
"I saw the bandmaster of your regiment, the Fourth Missouri Cavalry,
brought into that big white house and laid on my--on a bed----" She
stared at the boy, caught him by the sleeve: "He is dead, isn't he? Do
you know what you are telling me? Do you understand what I am saying?"
"Yes, sir. Captain Stanley was our bandmaster--he wasn't captain then,
of course. He played us in at Sandy River--by God! I oughter know,
because I got some cut up m'self."
"You--you tell me that he wasn't killed?" she repeated, steadying
herself against the canvas flap.
"No, sir. I heard tell he was badly hurt--seems like I kinder
remember--oh, yes!" The man's face lighted up. "Yes, sir; Captain
Stanley, he had a close shave! It sorter comes back to me now, how the
burial detail fetched him back saying they wasn't going to bury no man
that twitched when they shut his coffin. Yes, sir--but it's three years
and a man forgets, and I've seen--things--lots of such things in three
years with Baring's dragoons. Yes, sir."
She closed her eyes; a dizziness swept over her and she swayed where she
stood.
"Is he here?"
"Who? Captain Stanley? Yes, sir. Why, he's captain of the Black Horse
troop--F, third squadron.... They're down that lane near the trees.
Shall I take you there?"
She shook her head, holding tightly to the canvas flap; and the trooper,
saluting easily, resumed his truss of hay, hitched his belt, cocked his
forage cap, and went off whistling.
All that sunny afternoon she lay on the colonel's camp bed, hands
tightly clenched on her breast, eyes closed sometimes, sometimes wide
open, gazing at the sun spots crawling on the tent wall.
To her ears came bugle calls from distant hills; drums of marching
columns. Sounds of the stirring of thousands made tremulous the dim
silence of the tent.
Dreams long dead arose and possessed her--the confused dreams of a
woman, still young, awakened from the passionless lethargy of the past.
Vaguely she felt around her the presence of an earth new born, of a new
heaven created. She realized her own awakening; she strove to comprehend
his resurrection, and it frightened her; she could not understand that
what was dead through all these years was now alive, that the ideal she
had clung to, evoking it until it had become part of her, was real--an
actual and splendid living power. In this vivid resurgence she seemed to
lose her precise recollections of him now that he was alive.
While she had believed him dead, everything concerning his memory had
been painfully real--his personal appearance, the way he moved, turned,
the sound of his voice, the touch of his hand as it tightened in hers
when he lay there at sunset, while she and Death watched the color
fading from his face.
But now--now that he was living--here in this same world with her
again--strive as she would she could neither fix either his features nor
the sound of his voice upon her memory. Only the stupefying wonder of it
possessed her, dulling her senses so that even the happiness of it
seemed unreal.
                 *       *       *       *       *
How would they meet?--they two, who had never met but thrice? How would
they seem, each to the other, when first their eyes encountered?
In all their lives they had exchanged so little speech! Yet from the
first--from the first moment, when she had raised her gaze to him as he
entered in his long, blue cloak, her silence had held a deeper meaning
than her speech. And on that blessed night instinct broke the silence;
yet, with every formal word exchanged, consciousness of the occult bond
between them grew.
But it was not until she thought him dead that she understood that it
had been love--love unheralded, unexpected, incredible--love at the
first confronting, the first encountering glance. And to the memory of
that mystery she had been faithful from the night on which she believed
he died.
How had it been with him throughout these years? How had it been with
him?
The silvery trumpets of the cavalry were still sounding as she mounted
her horse before the colonel's tent and rode out into the splendour of
the setting sun.
On every side cavalrymen were setting toe to stirrup; troop after troop,
forming by fours, trotted out to the crest of the hill where the Western
light lay red across the furrowed grass.
A blaze of brilliant color filled the road where an incoming Zouave
regiment had halted, unslinging knapsacks, preparing to encamp, and the
setting sun played over them in waves of fire, striking fiercely across
their crimson fezzes and trousers.
Through their gorgeous lines the cavalry rode, colonel and staff
leading; and with them rode the Special Messenger, knee to knee with the
chief trumpeter, who made his horse dance when he passed the gorgeous
Zouave color guard, to show off the gridiron of yellow slashings across
his corded and tasseled breast.
And now another infantry regiment blocked the way--a heavy, blue column
tramping in with its field music playing and both flags flying in the
sunset radiance--the Stars and Stripes, with the number of the regiment
printed in gold across crimson; and the State flag--white, an Indian and
an uplifted sword on the snowy field: Massachusetts infantry.
On they came, fifes skirling, drums crashing; the colonel of the Fourth
Missouri gave them right of way, saluting their colors; the Special
Messenger backed her horse and turned down along the column.
Under the shadow of her visor her dark eyes widened with excitement as
she skirted the halted cavalry, searching the intervals where the troop
captains sat their horses, naked sabres curving up over their shoulder
straps.
"Not this one! Not this one," her little heart beat hurriedly; and
then, without warning, panic came, and she spurred up to the major of
the first squadron.
"Where is Captain Stanley?" Her voice almost broke.
"With his troop, I suppose--'F,'" replied that officer calmly; and her
heart leaped and the color flooded her face as she saluted, wheeled, and
rode on in heavenly certainty.
A New York regiment, fresh from the North, was passing now, its
magnificent band playing "Twinkling Stars"; and the horses of the
cavalry began to dance and paw and toss their heads.
One splendid black animal reared suddenly and shook its mane out; and at
the same moment she saw him--knew him--drew bridle, her heart in her
mouth, her body all a-tremble.
He was mastering the black horse that had reared, sitting his saddle
easily, almost carelessly, his long, yellow-striped legs loosely
graceful, his straight, slim figure perfect in poise and balance.
And now the trumpets were sounding; captain after captain turned in his
saddle, swung his sabre forward, repeating the order: "Forward--march!
Forward--march!"
The Special Messenger whirled her horse and sped to the head of the
column.
"I was just beginning to wonder--" began the colonel, when she broke in,
breathless:
"May I ride with Captain Stanley of F, sir?"
"Certainly," he replied, surprised and a trifle amused. She hesitated,
nervously picking at her bridle, then said: "When you once get me
through their lines--I mean, after I am safely through and you are ready
to turn around and leave me--I--I would like--to--to----"
"Yes?" inquired the colonel, gently, divining some "last message" to
deliver. For they were desperate chances that she was taking, and those
in the beleaguered city would show her no mercy if they ever caught her
within its battered bastions.
But the Special Messenger only said: "Before your regiment goes back,
may I tell Captain Stanley who I am?"
