father. Keeping together "as long as ye both do 
live." 

"Ruth!" called father. 

It might have been minutes or hours, it seemed an 
endless while to me. 

"Did you get the paper? Come down. I want to 
make out some bills. Dan's gone to Batavia for two 
days, left his good-by. Why, Ruth, you look like a 
ghost, what is the matter?" 





"Do I?" I tried to laugh, but my mouth was stiff, 
and I felt numb all over. "I don't think it anything. 
I may have walked too fast. The sun is hot." 

He put me in the big rocking chair. I picked up 
a fan. I was cold enough, Heaven knew, but I wanted 
to make some movement. 

"Ruth, I think you are not well. You grow thinner 
all the time, and you have no flesh to lose. We must 
have the doctor. Child, I have been comforting my 
self that matters were better with you " 

His kindly eyes were full of solicitude. 

I made a great effort. "If you mean with Dan," 
I said, "they are. He is much pleasanter. I think he 
has gotten over the trouble about the house, though 
sometimes I have wondered whether he might not have 
it when I am gone." 

"No," father replied, almost with set teeth. "You 
need not go for that. I'm not sure but it would be 
better for you to deed it back to me. Still if things 
go on, well " 

He hobbled to the closet and brought me some wine. 
That refreshed me. Then he opened the package, 
made out some bills, straightened his accounts when 
it was supper-time. 

John came over in the evening, and father would 
keep him all night. I felt quite as well as usual. 
When I went upstairs I laid the soiled things away, 
hung up his trousers, but his vest fell to the floor, and 
his knife and pencil rolled out with a bit of paper. I 
put the two back, crumpled up the paper, then be 
thought myself it might be a memorandum of some- 



 

thing and spread it out, took it over to the candle. It 
was a pencil scrawl. 

"You will find me at Weesaukie's lodge at twi 
light." It was not Dan's writing. 

There was no name. He had taken Duke and gone 
in the buggy. Was he to have a companion? It 
turned me sick and cold again. Polly's glittering, 
mocking eyes and her insolent tones with their half 
veiled gayety swept over me. Was it would it be 
Polly? Oh, no, no, Dan could not do such a thing as 
that! 

For all Polly's brave show of mourning it was 
whispered that her married life had not been altogether 
serene, and that she made little ado about the loss of 
her grandeur. 

All night something haunted me, a kind of imper 
sonal agency, treacherous, trying to lure me some 
where in darkness and vagueness, while I had to make 
a great effort to hold back. And then I was wandering 
over wild, dreary prairie land, at last coming out to 
a strange black, silent lake. What splashed into it? 
The cry woke me, and my heart beat with a great 
terror. 

"John," I said to the young cousin, "I want you to 
go down to the Morrison house this noon and take a 
note, but do not give it to any one except Polly. If 
she isn't home, and she may not be, you say it is all 
right, and be sure to bring the note back to me. Don't 
leave your name or anything. Come back to 
night." 

It was a daring thing if Polly was home. 





I busied myself about household duties, and in the 
afternoon a neighbor came in with her two little ones. 
What made every one so anxious to know how much 
fortune Norman would have? Still I was glad of the 
break, for father had gone out to look after the men. 
The weather was fine and he was anxious to get in 
some of the crops. Then he took a rest in his easy 
chair. 

I walked down the street a short distance. John 
came hurrying along whistling, but stopped, thrust his 
hand in his pocket. 

"She wasn't home, Cousin Ruth. The woman 
wanted the note, but I wouldn't give it to her. She 
told me to come on Friday." 

"Yes," I returned breathlessly. "Do not mention 
it to father," and I took the missive. 

Then Polly was away as well ! 

Dan came home late Friday night, good natured, 
bustling, and announced that he must start early the 
next morning for Galena on some important business. 
He hoped I had not missed him much. He was sorry 
to go away at this busy season, but he would make it 
all right with father. Indeed, he began to think with 
so much business of his own they would really need a 
regular overseer. 

"Now if that Gaynor boy was four or five years 
older, he might come." 

I was thunderstruck. "I thought you did not like 
him," I half faltered. 

"I don't, but your father seems to like him." 

The tone was rather sarcastic. I made no reply. I 



 

was glad he did not proffer me so much as a kiss. In 
five minutes he was asleep. 

So to Galena he went the next morning after a brief 
colloquy with father. 

"I'd like to know what's got into Dan Hayne," 
father said, almost angrily. "I s'pose he's had a streak 
of luck somewhere, he's gay as a lark, but he is sober 
enough, and I'm pretty sure he hasn't been off on a 
carouse. I suppose it is all right between you ?" study 
ing me sharply. 

"It was all pleasant, if that is what you mean." 

He nodded, but did not look satisfied. 

"I'll have to hunt up Jake Esden and I suppose he 
will be too busy to lend a hand. This kind of weather 
can't last. If I wasn't such a battered old hulk!" 

I clasped my arms around his neck, but I did not 
sigh nor sob, though both rose in my heart. Whatever 
came it would be we two. 

"We'll have a week to ourselves anyhow," he said, in 
a gratified tone. 

A week in which to be glad that the husband of one's 
life would be away. What a bitter travesty it was. 
But this time Polly was home, making preparations to 
go to Vincennes for quite a stay. 



CHAPTER XVIII 



DAN 



I WAS all alone that August afternoon. It was hot out 
on the porch and I took my sewing inside. I liked to 
sew when anything perplexed me. There seems a 
quiet kind of diversion in the effort one has to make, 
which is not much of an effort, after all. Father had 
gone down to the warehouse to see about loading one 
of the boats. One of the men was with him, though 
he had learned to get about quite comfortably. 

I heard a step on the walk. Dan's week was up and 
he might be home any day. It had been a pleasant 
and busy week, and it seemed as if most of the people 
I had ever known had visited me. There was my old 
friend, Mrs. Chadwick, who had come for her brother. 
He was rather ailing now, and it was thought a change 
would benefit him, so she would take him home with 
her. She was still sweet and charming and intelligent 
and we had a pleasant visit. Sophie came up with the 
four children, and we enjoyed a merry, romping time. 
Of course, she couldn't let Polly alone, but she ad 
mitted the matter might have worn itself out, and now 



 

she was preparing to take quite a journey. "Joy go 
with her," declared Sophie. 

Ben had returned, a fine, fresh-looking fellow, tall 
and with a strong frame, rather thin now, but he was 
full of ambition. He had been doing very well, and 
oh, what joy it would be to see Norman, the most 
splendid fellow in the world. Any day he might 
arrive. 

Chris, too, was full of delight. I had no time to 
brood over my own infelicities. 

No one had come yet to-day. It was too warm for 
womenkind to go visiting even with the prospect of a 
supper in which they had had no hand. 

So when I heard the step I did not stir, neither did 
I take the next stitch, but just listened for the voice. 
Chris had a way of beginning his conversation on the 
lowest step and talking all the way along. It must be 
Ben, stopping to pet the cat. Then I turned, but could 
not see who was in the hall, rose, and took a step 
forward, and then we stood face to face with all 
the years between. I was no longer a little girl, and 
this was a fine, resolute man, clear eyed, the strong 
features toned down by the tenderness and sympathy 
the years had demanded of him, a face one could 
trust to the death Norman Hayne in his ripe man 
hood. 

There came to me in that one instant a flash of 
awful knowledge that I had no right to. I swayed 
uncertainly. I put out my hand and all went dark 
before my eyes. 

"Oh, Little Girl! Little Girl!" 





The longing sweetness of the voice pierced my very 
soul, but I went plunging down some deep abyss. Was 
I really dying? 

When I came to, Jolette and father and a neighbor 
stood there beside Norman. 

"What was the matter?" I asked. "Why, I never 
fainted in my life." 

"Once is always the first time," said Mrs. Miller, 
sententiously. 

Father was pale with fright, and shook as if with 
an ague, while his eyes transfixed mine. 

"I came upon her too suddenly," Norman explained. 
"I was so impatient, and I could not find any one." 

"She has not been well of late," exclaimed father. 

"And it has been a hot afternoon. Oh, how did you 
stand it?" and I caught his hand. 

"I was in a tolerably cool place. There is a breeze 
coming up, and the sun has gone under a cloud." 

"Yes. I think we might take her out on the porch," 
said Mrs. Miller. "Jolette, you carry the big rocking 
chair." 

"I am all right," and I gave a tremulous little laugh. 
"Did I frighten you very much?" 

"It was a pretty severe faint," Norman replied, still 
looking anxiously at me. 

Mrs. Miller would lead me, though I could walk 
very well, and only felt a little shaky. 

The wind came up in a fluttering sort of gale, as if 
it hardly knew whether to behave at its best or worst. 
