played its part. He clutched, however, at what he could best clutch
at--the fact that she let him off, definitely let him off. She let him
off, it seemed, even from so much as answering; so that while he smiled
back at her in return for her information he felt his lips remain closed
to the successive vaguenesses of rejoinder, of objection, that rose for
him from within. Charlotte herself spoke again at last--“You may want to
know what I get by it. But that’s my own affair.” He really didn’t want
to know even this--or continued, for the safest plan, quite to behave as
if he didn’t; which prolonged the mere dumbness of diversion in which he
had taken refuge. He was glad when, finally--the point she had wished to
make seeming established to her satisfaction--they brought to what might
pass for a close the moment of his life at which he had had least to
say. Movement and progress, after this, with more impersonal talk, were
naturally a relief; so that he was not again, during their excursion, at
a loss for the right word. The air had been, as it were, cleared; they
had their errand itself to discuss, and the opportunities of London,
the sense of the wonderful place, the pleasures of prowling there, the
question of shops, of possibilities, of particular objects, noticed by
each in previous prowls. Each professed surprise at the extent of the
other’s knowledge; the Prince in especial wondered at his friend’s
possession of her London. He had rather prized his own possession, the
guidance he could really often give a cabman; it was a whim of his own,
a part of his Anglomania, and congruous with that feature, which had,
after all, so much more surface than depth. When his companion, with the
memory of other visits and other rambles, spoke of places he hadn’t
seen and things he didn’t know, he actually felt again--as half the
effect--just a shade humiliated. He might even have felt a trifle
annoyed--if it hadn’t been, on this spot, for his being, even more,
interested. It was a fresh light on Charlotte and on her curious
world-quality, of which, in Rome, he had had his due sense, but
which clearly would show larger on the big London stage. Rome was, in
comparison, a village, a family-party, a little old-world spinnet for
the fingers of one hand. By the time they reached the Marble Arch it was
almost as if she were showing him a new side, and that, in fact, gave
amusement a new and a firmer basis. The right tone would be easy for
putting himself in her hands. Should they disagree a little--frankly
and fairly--about directions and chances, values and authenticities, the
situation would be quite gloriously saved. They were none the less,
as happened, much of one mind on the article of their keeping clear of
resorts with which Maggie would be acquainted. Charlotte recalled it
as a matter of course, named it in time as a condition--they would keep
away from any place to which he had already been with Maggie.
This made indeed a scant difference, for though he had during the last
month done few things so much as attend his future wife on her making
of purchases, the antiquarii, as he called them with Charlotte, had not
been the great affair. Except in Bond Street, really, Maggie had had
no use for them: her situation indeed, in connection with that order of
traffic, was full of consequences produced by her father’s. Mr. Verver,
one of the great collectors of the world, hadn’t left his daughter to
prowl for herself; he had little to do with shops, and was mostly, as
a purchaser, approached privately and from afar. Great people, all over
Europe, sought introductions to him; high personages, incredibly high,
and more of them than would ever be known, solemnly sworn as everyone
was, in such cases, to discretion, high personages made up to him as
the one man on the short authentic list likely to give the price. It had
therefore been easy to settle, as they walked, that the tracks of
the Ververs, daughter’s as well as father’s, were to be avoided; the
importance only was that their talk about it led for a moment to
the first words they had as yet exchanged on the subject of Maggie.
Charlotte, still in the Park, proceeded to them--for it was she who
began--with a serenity of appreciation that was odd, certainly, as a
sequel to her words of ten minutes before. This was another note on
her--what he would have called another light--for her companion, who,
though without giving a sign, admired, for what it was, the simplicity
of her transition, a transition that took no trouble either to trace or
to explain itself. She paused again an instant, on the grass, to make
it; she stopped before him with a sudden “Anything of course, dear as
she is, will do for her. I mean if I were to give her a pin-cushion from
the Baker-Street Bazaar.”
“That’s exactly what I meant”--the Prince laughed out this allusion to
their snatch of talk in Portland Place. “It’s just what I suggested.”
She took, however, no notice of the reminder; she went on in her own
way. “But it isn’t a reason. In that case one would never do anything
for her. I mean,” Charlotte explained, “if one took advantage of her
character.”
“Of her character?”
“We mustn’t take advantage of her character,” the girl, again unheeding,
pursued. “One mustn’t, if not for HER, at least for one’s self. She
saves one such trouble.”
She had spoken thoughtfully, with her eyes on her friend’s; she might
have been talking, preoccupied and practical, of someone with whom he
was comparatively unconnected. “She certainly GIVES one no trouble,”
 said the Prince. And then as if this were perhaps ambiguous or
inadequate: “She’s not selfish--God forgive her!--enough.”
“That’s what I mean,” Charlotte instantly said. “She’s not selfish
enough. There’s nothing, absolutely, that one NEED do for her. She’s
so modest,” she developed--“she doesn’t miss things. I mean if you love
her--or, rather, I should say, if she loves you. She lets it go.”
The Prince frowned a little--as a tribute, after all, to seriousness.
“She lets what--?”
“Anything--anything that you might do and that you don’t. She lets
everything go but her own disposition to be kind to you. It’s of herself
that she asks efforts--so far as she ever HAS to ask them. She hasn’t,
much. She does everything herself. And that’s terrible.”
The Prince had listened; but, always with propriety, he didn’t commit
himself. “Terrible?”
“Well, unless one is almost as good as she. It makes too easy terms for
one. It takes stuff, within one, so far as one’s decency is concerned,
to stand it. And nobody,” Charlotte continued in the same manner, “is
decent enough, good enough, to stand it--not without help from religion,
or something of that kind. Not without prayer and fasting--that is
without taking great care. Certainly,” she said, “such people as you and
I are not.”
The Prince, obligingly, thought an instant. “Not good enough to stand
it?”
“Well, not good enough not rather to feel the strain. We happen each, I
think, to be of the kind that are easily spoiled.”
Her friend, again, for propriety, followed the argument. “Oh, I don’t
know. May not one’s affection for her do something more for one’s
decency, as you call it, than her own generosity--her own affection, HER
‘decency’--has the unfortunate virtue to undo?”
“Ah, of course it must be all in that.”
But she had made her question, all the same, interesting to him. “What
it comes to--one can see what you mean--is the way she believes in one.
That is if she believes at all.”
“Yes, that’s what it comes to,” said Charlotte Stant.
“And why,” he asked, almost soothingly, “should it be terrible?” He
couldn’t, at the worst, see that.
“Because it’s always so--the idea of having to pity people.”
“Not when there’s also, with it, the idea of helping them.”
“Yes, but if we can’t help them?”
“We CAN--we always can. That is,” he competently added, “if we care for
them. And that’s what we’re talking about.”
“Yes”--she on the whole assented. “It comes back then to our absolutely
refusing to be spoiled.”
“Certainly. But everything,” the Prince laughed as they went on--“all
your ‘decency,’ I mean--comes back to that.”
She walked beside him a moment. “It’s just what I meant,” she then
reasonably said.
                            VI
The man in the little shop in which, well after this, they lingered
longest, the small but interesting dealer in the Bloomsbury street who
was remarkable for an insistence not importunate, inasmuch as it was
mainly mute, but singularly, intensely coercive--this personage fixed
on his visitors an extraordinary pair of eyes and looked from one to the
other while they considered the object with which he appeared mainly to
hope to tempt them. They had come to him last, for their time was nearly
up; an hour of it at least, from the moment of their getting into a
hansom at the Marble Arch, having yielded no better result than the
amusement invoked from the first. The amusement, of course, was to have
consisted in seeking, but it had also involved the idea of finding;
which latter necessity would have been obtrusive only if they had found
too soon. The question at present was if they were finding, and they
put it to each other, in the Bloomsbury shop, while they enjoyed the
undiverted attention of the shopman. He was clearly the master, and
devoted to his business--the essence of which, in his conception,
might precisely have been this particular secret that he possessed for
worrying the customer so little that it fairly made for their relations
a sort of solemnity. He had not many things, none of the redundancy of
“rot” they had elsewhere seen, and our friends had, on entering, even
had the sense of a muster so scant that, as high values obviously
wouldn’t reign, the effect might be almost pitiful. Then their
impression had changed; for, though the show was of small pieces,
several taken from the little window and others extracted from a
cupboard behind the counter--dusky, in the rather low-browed place,
despite its glass doors--each bid for their attention spoke, however
modestly, for itself, and the pitch of their entertainer’s pretensions
was promptly enough given. His array was heterogeneous and not at all
imposing; still, it differed agreeably from what they had hitherto seen.
Charlotte, after the incident, was to be full of impressions, of several
of which, later on, she gave her companion--always in the interest of
their amusement--the benefit; and one of the impressions had been that
the man himself was the greatest curiosity they had looked at. The
Prince was to reply to this that he himself hadn’t looked at him; as,
precisely, in the general connection, Charlotte had more than once, from
other days, noted, for his advantage, her consciousness of how, below
a certain social plane, he never SAW. One kind of shopman was just like
another to him--which was oddly inconsequent on the part of a mind that,
where it did notice, noticed so much. He took throughout, always, the
meaner sort for granted--the night of their meanness, or whatever name
one might give it for him, made all his cats grey. He didn’t, no doubt,
want to hurt them, but he imaged them no more than if his eyes acted
only for the level of his own high head. Her own vision acted for
every relation--this he had seen for himself: she remarked beggars, she
remembered servants, she recognised cabmen; she had often distinguished
beauty, when out with him, in dirty children; she had admired “type” in
faces at hucksters’ stalls. Therefore, on this occasion, she had found
their antiquario interesting; partly because he cared so for his
things, and partly because he cared--well, so for them. “He likes his
things--he loves them,” she was to say; “and it isn’t only--it isn’t
perhaps even at all--that he loves to sell them. I think he would love
to keep them if he could; and he prefers, at any rate, to sell them to
right people. We, clearly, were right people--he knows them when he
sees them; and that’s why, as I say, you could make out, or at least I
could, that he cared for us. Didn’t you see”--she was to ask it with an
insistence--“the way he looked at us and took us in? I doubt if either
of us have ever been so well looked at before. Yes, he’ll remember
us”--she was to profess herself convinced of that almost to uneasiness.
“But it was after all”--this was perhaps reassuring--“because, given his
taste, since he HAS taste, he was pleased with us, he was struck--he
had ideas about us. Well, I should think people might; we’re
beautiful--aren’t we?--and he knows. Then, also, he has his way;
for that way of saying nothing with his lips when he’s all the while
pressing you so with his face, which shows how he knows you feel
it--that is a regular way.”
Of decent old gold, old silver, old bronze, of old chased and jewelled
artistry, were the objects that, successively produced, had ended by
numerously dotting the counter, where the shopman’s slim, light fingers,
with neat nails, touched them at moments, briefly, nervously, tenderly,
as those of a chess-player rest, a few seconds, over the board, on a
figure he thinks he may move and then may not: small florid ancientries,
ornaments, pendants, lockets, brooches, buckles, pretexts for dim
brilliants, bloodless rubies, pearls either too large or too opaque
for value; miniatures mounted with diamonds that had ceased to dazzle;
snuffboxes presented to--or by--the too-questionable great; cups, trays,
taper-stands, suggestive of pawn-tickets, archaic and brown, that
would themselves, if preserved, have been prized curiosities. A few
commemorative medals, of neat outline but dull reference; a classic
monument or two, things of the first years of the century; things
consular, Napoleonic, temples, obelisks, arches, tinily re-embodied,
completed the discreet cluster; in which, however, even after tentative
reinforcement from several quaint rings, intaglios, amethysts,
carbuncles, each of which had found a home in the ancient sallow satin
of some weakly-snapping little box, there was, in spite of the due
proportion of faint poetry, no great force of persuasion. They looked,
the visitors, they touched, they vaguely pretended to consider, but
with scepticism, so far as courtesy permitted, in the quality of their
attention. It was impossible they shouldn’t, after a little, tacitly
agree as to the absurdity of carrying to Maggie a token from such a
stock. It would be--that was the difficulty--pretentious without being
“good”; too usual, as a treasure, to have been an inspiration of the
giver, and yet too primitive to be taken as tribute welcome on any
terms. They had been out more than two hours and, evidently, had found
nothing. It forced from Charlotte a kind of admission.
“It ought, really, if it should be a thing of this sort, to take its
little value from having belonged to one’s self.”
“Ecco!” said the Prince--just triumphantly enough. “There you are.”
Behind the dealer were sundry small cupboards in the wall. Two or three
of these Charlotte had seen him open, so that her eyes found themselves
resting on those he had not visited. But she completed her admission.
“There’s nothing here she could wear.”
It was only after a moment that her companion rejoined. “Is there
anything--do you think--that you could?”
It made her just start. She didn’t, at all events, look at the objects;
she but looked for an instant very directly at him. “No.”
“Ah!” the Prince quietly exclaimed.
“Would it be,” Charlotte asked, “your idea to offer me something?”
“Well, why not--as a small ricordo.”
“But a ricordo of what?”
“Why, of ‘this’--as you yourself say. Of this little hunt.”
“Oh, I say it--but hasn’t my whole point been that I don’t ask you to.
Therefore,” she demanded--but smiling at him now--“where’s the logic?”
“Oh, the logic--!” he laughed.
“But logic’s everything. That, at least, is how I feel it. A ricordo
from you--from you to me--is a ricordo of nothing. It has no reference.”
“Ah, my dear!” he vaguely protested. Their entertainer, meanwhile, stood
there with his eyes on them, and the girl, though at this minute more
interested in her passage with her friend than in anything else, again
met his gaze. It was a comfort to her that their foreign tongue covered
what they said--and they might have appeared of course, as the Prince
now had one of the snuffboxes in his hand, to be discussing a purchase.
“You don’t refer,” she went on to her companion. “I refer.”
He had lifted the lid of his little box and he looked into it hard. “Do
you mean by that then that you would be free--?”
“‘Free’--?”
“To offer me something?”
This gave her a longer pause, and when she spoke again she might have
seemed, oddly, to be addressing the dealer. “Would you allow me--?”
“No,” said the Prince into his little box.
“You wouldn’t accept it from me?”
“No,” he repeated in the same way.
She exhaled a long breath that was like a guarded sigh. “But you’ve
touched an idea that HAS been mine. It’s what I’ve wanted.” Then she
added: “It was what I hoped.”
He put down his box--this had drawn his eyes. He made nothing, clearly,
of the little man’s attention. “It’s what you brought me out for?”
“Well, that’s, at any rate,” she returned, “my own affair. But it won’t
do?”
“It won’t do, cara mia.”
“It’s impossible?”
“It’s impossible.” And he took up one of the brooches.
She had another pause, while the shopman only waited. “If I were to
accept from you one of these charming little ornaments as you suggest,
what should I do with it?”
He was perhaps at last a little irritated; he even--as if HE might
understand--looked vaguely across at their host. “Wear it, per Bacco!”
“Where then, please? Under my clothes?”
“Wherever you like. But it isn’t then, if you will,” he added, “worth
talking about.”
“It’s only worth talking about, mio caro,” she smiled, “from your having
begun it. My question is only reasonable--so that your idea may stand
or fall by your answer to it. If I should pin one of these things on
for you would it be, to your mind, that I might go home and show it to
Maggie as your present?”
They had had between them often in talk the refrain, jocosely,
descriptively applied, of “old Roman.” It had been, as a pleasantry,
in the other time, his explanation to her of everything; but nothing,
truly, had even seemed so old-Roman as the shrug in which he now
indulged. “Why in the world not?”
“Because--on our basis--it would be impossible to give her an account of
the pretext.”
“The pretext--?” He wondered.
“The occasion. This ramble that we shall have had together and that
we’re not to speak of.”
“Oh yes,” he said after a moment “I remember we’re not to speak of it.”
“That of course you’re pledged to. And the one thing, you see, goes with
the other. So you don’t insist.”
He had again, at random, laid back his trinket; with which he quite
turned to her, a little wearily at last--even a little impatiently. “I
don’t insist.”
