long, piercing, piteous cry. It was the cry of 
a sentient being in mortal agony. It rose 
and fell, and rose again. 
Miriam dropped her crayon, and stood quiv- 
ering ; something in that agonized voice drove 
 
the blood from her heart. She went as white 
as the frightened pigeon. She stood as still as 
the statue of Pity beside her. Her eyes sought 
the face of the Christ blindly. The heart-rend- 
ing sound increased, and died away. What 
wound did it open in the girl's heart? She 
looked smitten and ashen. Her sketch fell to 
the floor. Panting and faint, she fled from the 
room. 
CHAPTER V 
Miriam ran out from the art school and went 
straight to the neighboring building. Through 
the inattention with which one treats famil- 
iar points of interest, she had forgotten that 
this was the Galen Medical School. The fact 
occurred to her now with no special signifi- 
cance. She listened for a few moments for the 
piercing sounds that she had heard, but there 
was no repetition of them. With the assur- 
ance of position, and the impulsiveness of her 
agitation, she went up the steps and spoke 
to a man (presumably the janitor) who was 
sweeping the vestibule. 
" I heard a dog's cries in here," she began 
hotly ; " he is in suffering somewhere. Go and 
find him ! " 
The man leaned with his chin on the 
broom, and regarded the lady with a blank, 
impassive face. 
" I don't understand you," he replied 
frostily. 
 
"I am sure of it," insisted Miss Lauriat. 
" It was a dog's cry of agony. I thought — 
the voice " — She broke off. 
" Probably, Miss, it was an accident in the 
street. Those blue cars often run over them." 
The sweeper leisurely resumed his occu- 
pation as if he had no interest in a subject so 
remote from his experience. " Excuse me ; it 
ain't very clean here for you, and the young 
gentlemen are just coming out." 
A cloud of dust puffed around Miriam as 
she turned. She felt as if she were being swept 
down the steps. At the bottom she stopped 
again, and looked up at the building irreso- 
lutely. Hovering high in the air she thought 
she saw the white pigeon that had tapped on 
the window of the art school. A very young 
student came out of the door at this moment, 
and ran whistling down. 
"Pardon me," said Miriam, with the tone 
and manner which instantly brought the hat 
from the young man's head, and the cigarette 
from his mouth. " Won't you tell me before 
the rest come out — I came here — I'm so 
disturbed — I heard distressing cries ! I came 
here to find out what they mean." 
The janitor — if he it was — had stopped 
sweeping and was closely watching the two. 
But the very young student, who stood with 
his back to this sub-official, frankly answered 
the lady's question. 
" Oh, it 's nothing of any consequence, 
madam. Do not disturb yourself." 
" But it was a dog ! " cried Miriam. " It 
sounded as if it were a little dog." 
" I know what that was," answered the boy 
candidly. " We are having some very pretty 
psychological experiments." 
" Oh," said Miriam, a little relieved, " that 
means mental experiments, doesn't it ? " 
" Certainly," replied the student pompously. 
" It means experimentation on the intelli- 
gence, the affections, and the will. One sub- 
ject is all we need for the purpose, and I 
assure you, madam, it never suffers." 
" Then I " — began Miriam with her charm- 
ing manner — " must have been mistaken — 
but" — 
At this moment a torrent of students poured 
from the door. Baffled and perplexed, Miss 
Lauriat turned away. 
She could not forget the incident, however. 
 
It pursued her painfully. She did not return 
to finish her pastel lesson, but went directly 
home, and shut herself up alone for the rest of 
the day. She was glad to have the house to her- 
self, and once a year this privilege fell to her. 
Mrs. Percy B. Jeffries, who, in common 
with many of her neighbors, found it conven- 
ient to change her legal residence on the first 
of May, had already been some ten days at 
the shore in Miss Lauriat's summer home. She 
was accustomed to say that she went in ad- 
vance to open the house for Miriam, and sus- 
tained the little pose even with her lawyer, to 
whom she had said plaintively, when Surbridge 
accompanied her to the safety vaults to cut her 
May coupons : " That child can't do such things 
for herself. She is absorbed. She is unpracti- 
cal. Those people down there are monopolizing 
all her youth. I wish you had never allowed 
her to invest a dollar in the slums." 
" Pardon me," the young attorney had 
explained, " you forget this was an inherited 
investment. My father was responsible for 
that, and I assure you," he added loyally, " it 
has proved an excellent one. She has nothing 
better ; and consider the usefulness of it. She 
 
makes a lot of people happy, and clean. Per- 
mit me, Mrs. Jeffries — these P. and Q. coupons 
are worth thirty dollars apiece. I wouldn't put 
them in the ink bottle, if I were you." 
" You have your father's manner, Philip," 
said Mrs. Jeffries sentimentally. "It is always 
a comfort to have you around. There
I 'll mind my P's and Q's to please you. Be 
sure and run down this summer as usual. We 
expect a good many pleasant people. Dr. 
Steele is coming out every Saturday. The 
S. P. D. & C. T. & E. is an important society, 
and we have to confer. I wish Miriam took 
more interest in it; but she doesn't care 
about the animal philanthropies. She says 
the human race is enough for her." 
It so happened that on the evening of the 
day when the episode at the art school oc- 
curred, a matter of business took Philip Sur- 
bridge to Miriam's house. She received him 
in the drawing-room. The windows were open ; 
the gas was low. The large room, which 
had gone into its linen shrouding for the 
summer, had a dismal, unfamiliar air. When 
Miriam paused before the gauze-covered mir- 
ror, it reflected her mistily, as if she had been 
a ghost. She seemed somehow unreal to 
Philip ; her body looked uninhabited like the 
house. When he explained his errand — it 
was some mechanic's contract — he saw that 
she was giving no attention to it. She as- 
sented indifferently to his suggestions, and 
sat with listless hands crossed over her black 
skirt. The evening was warm, and she wore 
a white silk waist, which Philip noticed be- 
cause it was so long since he had seen her in 
anything but mourning. She had an unusual 
pallor — perhaps a reflection from the ivory- 
tinted stuff into which her face seemed to 
melt, or out of which it seemed to grow. She 
was so unlike herself that Philip refrained 
from any unnecessary conversation, and with 
his natural delicacy quickly terminated the 
interview, and arose to go. 
" So soon ? " asked Miriam languidly. 
" You seem tired ; I think it 's better." 
" Wait a minute." Miriam uncrossed her 
hands slowly, and, rising, stood tall and still 
in the dim room beside him. He could feel 
how constrained she was. 
" Such a strange thing happened to-day," 
she began. She had not meant to tell him, 
 
nor to tell any one ; in fact, though she could 
hardly have explained why, she felt a poignant 
reluctance to repeating the experience of the 
morning. But she was used to telling things 
to Philip. She always had ; sometimes she 
suspected that most people did. He was that 
kind of a man. His presence in the lonely 
house (deserted now of the whole family ex- 
cepting the old seamstress and Maggie) inde- 
finably soothed her. Suddenly it seemed to 
her necessary to speak, and she told him the 
story. 
Surbridge listened in silence. As she 
talked, he crossed to the open window and 
stood with his hands in his pockets. 
" Go on," he said when she paused. 
" That is all," said Miriam with a sigh of 
relief. 
Philip turned away from the window and 
asked a few quiet questions, naturally enough ; 
but Miriam quickly detected the professional 
instinct beneath the personal sympathy. 
" You cross-examine ! " she cried. 
So Philip laughed and left her. Now, as 
he passed up the street, he came face to face 
with Dr. Steele. 
 
" By the way," said the lawyer carelessly, 
" may I walk a few steps with you ? I want 
to ask you about a certain matter." 
Philip retraced his way, and the two gen- 
tlemen walked back towards the house. Sur- 
bridge spoke in a low voice, and could not 
have been overheard by passers, but as the 
physiologist listened an expression of cold an- 
noyance stiffened his face. Before they came 
to Miss Lauriat's door he halted. 
" Why should I answer these questions ? " 
His lips sharpened. "I am not on the witness 
stand. You will excuse me, Surbridge." 
Surbridge laughed again — he had a sin- 
gularly quiet, pleasant laugh — and walked 
back. He had not gone a block when he ad- 
mitted to himself an unpardonable curiosity. 
He glanced around, and saw Dr. Steele com- 
ing away from Miss Lauriat's house. Plainly 
he had not been admitted. 
" Now," thought Philip, " what 's the mean- 
ing of that t " 
This question Miriam herself could not have 
answered. 
Dr. Steele plunged his hands deep into the 
 
water. He bathed them with something more 
than his usual scrupulousness, repeating the 
act a good many times. As he held his long 
and slender but strong fingers to the light, a 
slight shadow fell upon them from the window 
near which he stood — there was a coo, a whir 
— and some pigeons flew from the sill ; one, 
it seemed, was white. He glanced at it idly. 
The principal thought that it suggested to him 
couched itself in some such words as these : 
" Those Germans have done remarkably in- 
teresting work with the brains of doves." 
" Down ! " A raucous voice jarred from 
the adjoining room. " Down, I say ! " 
There was no mistaking the tone or the 
accent of his assistant. Somehow, it always 
grated on Steele, even now, and after all. He 
turned impatiently, and looked into the labor- 
atory. There, a picture, something new even 
to his wide experience, presented itself. 
A black spaniel of the cocker breed stood 
upon the table before which Bernard was sta- 
tioned. It must have been originally a very 
beautiful spaniel ; its scarred forehead was 
parted with white, and a white ruff like a 
shirt-frill stood out thickly from its breast. It 
 
had large hazel eyes, perhaps also once beau- 
tiful, but now, for reasons and by processes 
known only to these two men, the spaniel's 
expression had become mysteriously dulled. 
Yet a flicker of terror lighted it at the touch 
of Bernard's significant hands. At this mo- 
ment, when Dr. Steele looked up, the little 
creature had raised itself with difficulty, and, 
reaching up, put both arms around the ex- 
perimenter's neck. Bernard unclasped them 
roughly. The dog repeated the piteous ges- 
ture ; he did not cry nor whine, but with the 
inextinguishable trust and tenderness of his 
race entreated the man. But Bernard pushed 
the spaniel off. As he did so he fingered the 
dog-board greedily. 
Steele stood hesitating. The scene annoyed 
him — who should say why ? He had wit- 
nessed a thousand worse. It occurred to him 
that he had never seen that particular pose 
before. Perhaps another thought — but again, 
who could say why there should be any such 
thought? — at that hour, and in that place? 
" Let the dog be for to-day, if you please," 
he said with authoritative courtesy. " Give it 
a rest — for a while." 
 
" What 's the matter with you ? " demanded 
Bernard roughly. He dropped the spaniel 
(who, cowering from him, leaped from the 
table), and turned his sullen face towards his 
superior. 
" I'm going out of town," replied Dr. Steele. 
" I can't go on with these experiments to-day." 
" But I can," urged Bernard, with an evil 
expression. " Vacation 's the time for it — no 
students around." 
" Oblige me by regarding my wishes," per- 
sisted the professor. " I prefer to be present 
when these researches are continued. Send the 
dog back to its cage." 
"All right," answered Bernard, with his 
unpleasant smile. " I understand." 
The released spaniel, moved by God knew 
what impulse, stopped as it passed by the 
young professor of physiology, and tried to 
kiss his hand. An expression which could not 
be interpreted as one of pity, and which was 
far from indicating a sense of regret, but 
