where there were some more good-byes to be 
said, though there was quite a procession going to 
the train. 
So Daisy was divided about again. Helen 
hardly knew whether she felt pleased or sorry. 
She had been almost sure there would be an 
overflow of sentiment on Daisy's part, after their 
tender reconciliation. But it had been hurrying 
and scurrying, laughing and jesting with one and 
another ; perhaps this was best. 
The wagon hurried down with its load of 
trunks. The train came shrieking into the 
station. 
"I shall write and tell you all about the com- 
mencement," said Daisy. "I hate to say good- 
bye. Oh, I want you, dear, dear girl, you sweet, 
splendid friend, to love me ! Love me always." 
Then the train whistled and went on. Helen 
 
joined the other girls and walked back in a 
curious mood, trying not to believe there was a 
small pang at her heart. 
CHAPTER IV 
THE NEXT HAPPENINGS 
Each one of the few who remained felt lan- 
guid, but nearly half of the school had gone. 
Miss Craven devoted the early evening to her 
two little girls whose father was to come for 
them to-morrow. Helen and several others sat 
out on the porch in the moonlight, but the talk 
went on without her. She could not just tell 
why her heart was heavy. She had her dear 
friend Mrs. Bell, nothing could happen that would 
shut her out again. She would have a splendid 
year at school and her strongest wishes granted — 
she would go to college without any worriment of 
mind, what then disturbed her? 
The wisdom of this world often comes with 
a pang since it is brought with experience. She 
smiled a little to herself, but it was not joyful, 
and she could not all at once cast out the bitter- 
ness. But why should there be any bitterness? 
Had she been so thoroughly imbued with trust 
in Daisy's friendship even before the break in 
the winter? She was volatile and careless, but 
 
very sweet. The present mood dominated her to 
the exclusion of most other demands. Helen had 
taken her back so loyally after her fright and 
faltering confession, had almost wished that she 
could give the very best of herself, and after all, 
it had been only one of many things to Daisy. 
Was she jealous, Helen queried of herself? No, 
truly she did not wish the first place in Daisy's 
heart. But it hurt her to be so lightly tossed 
aside even momentarily. She had been question- 
ing whether she should not have been more frank 
about her summering, for she had left out the 
explanation that Miss Craven had been included, 
lest it might mar the newly mended friendship. 
She would never trouble again as to whether 
she should place Juliet's friendship on a higher 
round — it had made the place for itself just as 
truth and steadfastness are sure to. 
"I shall always be one of many to Daisy," she 
said to herself and it absolved her troubled con- 
science. 
The house was being stripped of faded vines 
and flowers the next morning and another relay 
of girls went away. Mrs. Wiley was to spend 
a year in Europe chaperoning three motherless 
girls, but Miss Wiley would keep her position, 
although Miss Grace Aldred would take her 
former place. Already there had been some ap- 
plications for the coming year ; the boarding de- 
partment was likely to be filled up rapidly. 
Mr. Gartney came for his little girls. He 
asked to see Miss Craven. 
"I hardly know how to thank you," he said, 
"for showing the children so much kindliness. 
Their letters have been full of delight in the en- 
joyment you have given them, and they have 
improved very much. I thought at first you must 
be on the teaching staff, it is so unusual for an 
elder scholar to take such an interest in the 
younger ones. Accept my earnest gratitude. 
And I was glad to hear that they would have your 
influence and affection another year." 
Juliet Craven colored with pleasure though 
she answered a little awkwardly; the praise was 
so sincere. 
"So I shall be thankful to bring them back. 
I dare say they are wishing there was no vaca- 
tion. Come midgets, say good-bye." 
They said it with tears and tender embraces. 
There were tears too in Juliet's eyes. 
"You would do for a head mother in an orphan 
asylum," began Helen as they walked back 
through the hall. "I am glad you have had some 
human beings to love. For though you may 
adore pictures and dote on precious books they 
are not quite humanity." 
"They were so sad and lonely. I can't quite 
understand how any woman can wish to turn 
children out of their father's heart when it is 
large enough to hold them all." 
"He should not have allowed them to be turned 
out," Helen declared warmly. 
"I think he hasn't quite. He seemed delighted 
to see them. But it looks as if there was hardly 
room in the home for them. And the new mother 
cannot care to see them since they are not to go 
home, but to an almost stranger. I hope the 
aunt has a tender place in her heart." 
"You have dropped down on quite a romance," 
and Helen smiled. There was a flush on Juliet's 
cheek and a light, half of indignation, in her 
eyes that gave them a new force. 
"I'd like to have them for two little sisters. 
If they had neither father nor mother — " 
"Oh, Juliet, I hope you will not adopt a whole 
orphan asylum. I don't want to be crowded 
out;" and the pretty light in her eyes was half 
teasing. 
"There is no fear. You are my first love. I 
shall never find a girl like you again. But I do 
not want to take all and crowd others out." 
"You need not fear. You will not crowd any- 
body." 
Miss Craven was to go to Hope with Helen. 
Her friend, Mrs. Howard, was in the Adiron- 
dacks nursing her husband through the fluctua- 
tions of his disease. There appeared little chance 
of his recovery. 
It seemed to Helen that she must have been 
away a much longer time, judging from her own 
experiences, and yet there were very few changes. 
There were the same stores, the same pictur- 
esquely shaded streets, some of the houses re- 
joicing in a new coat of paint, others shabby. 
She recalled the Saturday so long ago that she 
had been sent over to shop and all the events 
that had grown out of it. 
She met Mr. Walters, who greeted her delight- 
edly. His book had created considerable interest 
from the advance sheets, and orders were coming 
in. His pride and joy were really infectious. 
"It will owe much of its success to you and 
your father. I do believe I should only have 
dreamed over it all the rest of my life, but your 
vigor inspired me," he declared. 
Helen's eyes sparkled with delight. Mrs. 
Walters was overjoyed to see her. 
"I do believe husband has gone back a good 
 
half dozen years," she said. "Don't you notice 
how bright and young he looks? His journey 
last winter did him a world of good and roused 
him up. And that book has been a powerful 
tonic." 
Mrs. Dayton had aged a little but was as warm- 
hearted as ever. There were only a few board- 
ers, old friends. 
"I could have had a houseful but I thought I 
wouldn't bother. There's no one for me to make 
money and lay up for, though cousins to the 
tenth degree are ready enough to lay claim to 
the little you leave behind." 
Mr. Warfield had gone away the day before 
her return, and on Saturday had sailed for 
Europe. 
"I think he ought to pick up some nice wife 
to keep him from growing queerer. He isn't 
half as bright and jolly as he used to be, but I 
do suppose the big boys are trying." 
"And the girls might be, too," laughed Helen. 
Mr. Wilmarth had made all arrangements for 
the summering. The cottage was on the great 
South Bay on Long Island. Some acquaintances 
had gone there, so they really would not be lone- 
some. There was a man to do the rough work 
and care for the horse, and Mrs. Wilmarth would 
take their own servant. The cottage was fairly 
well furnished, and a piano had been hired. 
Everything was ready for them to go in and take 
possession. 
"I have been so afraid something would hap- 
pen to change your mind," Mrs. Wilmarth de- 
clared with her affectionate greeting. "It does 
seem hard to take you away from Mrs. Dayton, 
and I expect your aunt will think me as much 
of an evil genius as Mrs. Van Dorn. But if I 
couldn't have had you I do believe I should have 
given up the struggle, though the doctor insists 
that I am better." 
"And you certainly do look improved," re- 
turned the young girl eagerly. 
"I didn't want to look ungrateful when you 
are going to be so good as to devote the next 
ten weeks to me. But I wish— oh, Helen, what 
fascination is there about college life for you 
young girls? I'd like you to be my girl instead. 
I could provide for you — " 
"You are all so good to me. I wonder if ever 
any girl found so many friends ?" 
"You deserve them all. I think you win them 
yourself," and the tender tone touched her. 
Helen smiled with luminous eyes. 
Miss Craven was to stay with Mrs. Wilmarth 
 
while Helen went to her aunt's, that they might 
get used to each other, the girl said laughingly. 
They were all so glad to see her that Helen's 
heart almost failed her though she had explained 
her plans by letter some time before. Uncle 
Jason greeted her with such fatherly love that it 
fairly melted her heart. Aunt Jane was distinctly 
captious, yet she could not hide her interest and 
affection. Nat was full of joy and had so many 
improvements to explain to her. Joe Northrup, 
he admitted, gave him good suggestions. 
"We're going to be the two best farmers any- 
where around here!" he exclaimed with pride. 
"There's no sense in folks dropping down so and 
saying there isn't money in this or that. Half 
the men are too lazy to dig up the money. 
Father's mighty pleased, I can tell you. I don't 
believe the Cummings blood had all the virtues ;" 
and he laughed with a joyous ring. 
He was getting to be quite fine and intelligent- 
looking. Education did make a difference. 
The younger children were doing well. Aurelia 
had grown prettier, but otherwise she seemed a 
hopeless case. 
Jenny and Joe Northrup were prospering. 
Baby Helen was good-natured and smiled at the 
slightest encouragement, while little Joe was a 
sturdy boy. 
Aunt Jane made the same old lament, that it 
was very hard Helen could go about everywhere 
and never have any time for her own folks, who 
had looked after her when there was no one 
else to lend a hand. And she didn't see any 
sense in spending money and years over book 
learning when one knew enough to get along in 
the world. And most women who had a chance 
married, and what they needed to know most of 
all was housekeeping and that you couldn't get 
out of books. 
"But they are writing books on the best meth- 
ods of housekeeping," declared Helen in a bright, 
gay tone. "And in the cities they are teaching 
it to the poor women who have had to work in 
shops and factories all their young lives." 
"Jenny worked in a shop and I'll risk any one 
finding a better housekeeper if they'd studied a 
thousand books !" was the decisive answer. 
There was no use arguing. Aunt Jane would 
be "set in her ways" and beliefs to the end of the 
chapter. 
Helen wondered if it was quite fair to turn 
from these olden friends to newer, more delight- 
ful ways! For she did find more pleasure in 
 
them, more satisfaction. She was different from 
most of the girls she saw plainly. Now the talk 
ran largely on beaux and fun and how gowns 
were to be made, and oh, how glad half a dozen 
of them were that they had graduated and there 
was no more tiresome old school. Westchester 
was on a much higher intellectual plane. Mrs. 
Wilmarth sighed a little about it. 
But there was no changing of the plan, and 
when Helen's visits were finished she said good- 
bye with a lingering touch of sadness. 
"Do not think me ungrateful — " her arms were 
around Mrs. Dayton's neck. "All the good 
things of my life had their start here with you, 
and I do sometimes feel as if I ought to stay and 
be your daughter." 
There was a glitter of tears on her bronze 
lashes and the lines about her mouth had a tempt- 
ing indecision. 
"I wish you werCy Helen. I've wished it a 
good many times. But then you see you would 
be a different kind of girl. I think you have 
some of your father's qualities or you wouldn't 
have so much vigor and spirit and desire for 
knowledge. Then I see Uncle Jason's cheerful- 
ness in you and your present enjoyment of things 
that keeps you bright and happy. And I do sup- 
pose if this had not been just the career marked 
out by Providence for you it would not have 
shaped that way — " 
Helen laughed as she interrupted. "But you 
know I would have come over here and worked 
for a home just for the chance of the high school. 
And I meant to work my way through college. 
O dear! What dreams I had! And I do owe 
a good deal to Mr. Warfield. I shall always feel 
