"Thank you, Arthur. It is not because Fanny or Sylvia needs looking
after. But when I was their age anything of the sort would have been
thought so common. Yet then, what was common at that time seems to
have been accepted since. Now, there is a chance to call me
old-fashioned."
"I can do better than that," said Annandale, "I can call you grande
dame."
"Yes," Fanny threw in, "and that, don't you think, is so superior to
being merely--ahem--demned grand."
"Why, Fanny!" And Mrs. Waldron, at once amused at the jest and
startled at the expression, shook her finger at her.
But Annandale hastened to her rescue. "Fanny is quite right, Mrs.
Waldron. You meet women nowadays whose grandfathers, if they had any,
were paving the streets while your own were governing the country and
who, just because they happen to be beastly rich, put on airs that
would be comical in an empress. Now, won't you change your mind and
come with us? At Sherry's there are always some choice selections on
view."
"You are not very tempting, Arthur. But if the girls think otherwise,
take them. And don't forget. You dine with us tonight."
Thereat, presently, after a scurry through sunshine and streets,
Sherry's was reached.
There Annandale wanted to order a châteaubriand. The girls rebelled.
A maitre d'hôtel suggested melons and a suprème with a bombe to
follow.
Annandale turned to him severely. "Ferdinand, I object to your telling
me what you want me to eat."
"Let me order," said Sylvia. "Fanny, what would you like?"
"Cucumbers, asparagus, strawberries."
"Chicken?"
Fanny nodded.
"Yes," said Annandale to the chastened waiter, "order that and some
moselle, and I want a Scotch and soda. There's Orr," he interrupted
himself to announce. "I wonder what he is doing uptown? And there's
Loftus."
At the mention of Orr, Fanny, who had been eying an adjacent gown,
evinced no interest. But at the mention of Loftus she glanced about
the room.
It was large, high-ceiled, peopled with actresses and men-about-town,
smart women and stupid boys, young girls and old beaux. From a balcony
there dripped the twang of mandolins. In the air was the savor of
pineapple, the smell of orris, the odor of food and flowers.
On entering Sylvia had stopped to say a word at one table, Fanny had
loitered at another. Then in their trip to a table already reserved,
a trip conducted by the maitre d'hôtel whom Annandale had rebuked,
murmurs trailed after them, the echo of their names, observations
profoundly analytical. "That's Fanny Price, the great beauty." "That's
Miss Waldron, who is engaged to Arthur Annandale." "That is Annandale
there"--the usual subtleties of the small people of a big city. Now,
at the entrance, Orr and Loftus appeared.
"Shall I ask them to join us?" Annandale asked.
"Yes, do," said Fanny. "I like Mr. Orr so much."
But Loftus, who, with his hands in his pockets, a monocle in his eye,
had been looking about with an air of great contempt for everybody,
already with Orr was approaching. On reaching the table very little
urging was required to induce them to sit, and, when seated they were,
Loftus was next to Fanny.
"What are you doing uptown at this hour?" Annandale asked Orr, who had
got between Loftus and Sylvia. "I thought you lawyers were all so
infernally busy."
"Everybody ought to be," Orr replied. "Although an anarchist who had
managed to get himself locked up, and whom I succeeded in getting out,
confided to me that only imbeciles work. By way of exchange I had to
confide to him that it is only imbeciles that do not."
"Now that," said Annandale, who had never done a stroke of work in his
life, "is what I call a very dangerous theory."
"A theory that is not dangerous," Orr retorted, "can hardly be called
a theory at all."
With superior tact Sylvia intervened. "But what is anarchy,
Melanchthon? Socialism I know about, but anarchy--?"
"To put it vulgarly, I drink and you pay."
"But suppose I am an anarchist?"
"Then Sherry pays."
"But supposing he is an anarchist?"
"Then there is a row. And there will be one. The country is drifting
that way. It will, I think, be bloody, but I think, too, it will be
brief. Anarchists, you know, maintain that of all prejudices capital
and matrimony are the stupidest. What they demand is the free
circulation of money and women. As a nation, we are great at
entertaining, but we will never entertain that."
"Why, then, did you not let the beggar rot where he was?" Annandale
swiftly and severely inquired.
"Oh, you know, if I had not got him out someone else would have, and I
thought it better that the circulation of money should proceed
directly from his pocket to mine."
"You haven't any stupid prejudices yourself, that's clear," said
Annandale, helping himself as he spoke to more Scotch. "Sylvia," he
continued, "if I am ever up for murder I will retain Melanchthon Orr."
Orr laughed. "That retainer will never reach me. You would not hurt a
fly."
"Wouldn't I?" And Annandale assumed an expression of great ferocity.
"You don't know me. I can imagine circumstances in which I could wade
in gore. By the way, I have ordered a revolver."
"What!"
"Yes, a burglar got in my place the night before last and woke me up.
If he comes back and wakes me up again I'll blow his head off."
Sylvia looked at him much as she might at a boastful child. "Yes, yes,
Arthur, but please don't take so much of that whisky."
"I think I will have a drop of it, if I may," said Loftus, who
meanwhile had been talking to Fanny. In a moment he turned to her
anew.
"Where are you going this summer?"
"To Narragansett. It is cool and cheap. Why don't you come?"
"It is such a beastly hole."
"Well, perhaps. But do you think you would think so if I were there?"
"That would rather depend on how you treated me."
"You mean, don't you, that it would rather depend on how I let you
treat me?" Fanny, as she spoke, looked Loftus in the eyes and made a
face at him.
That face, Loftus, after a momentary interlude with knife and fork,
tried to mimic. "If a chap gave you the chance you would drive him to
the devil."
On Fanny's lips a smile bubbled. She shook her pretty head. "No, not
half so far. Not even so far as the other end of Fifth avenue, where I
saw you trying to scrape acquaintance with that girl. Apropos. You
might tell me. How are matters progressing? Has the castle
capitulated?"
"I haven't an idea what you are talking about."
"That's right. Assume a virtue though you have it not. It's a good
plan."
"It does not appear to be yours."
"Appearances may be deceptive."
"And even may not be."
Sylvia interrupted them. "What are you two quarreling about?"
"Mr. Loftus does not like my hat. Don't you like it, Mr. Orr?"
"I like everything about you, everything, from the crown of your head
to the soles of your feet."
"There!" exclaimed Fanny. "That is the way I like to have a man talk."
"It is dreadfully difficult," Loftus threw in.
"You seem to find it so," Fanny threw back.
Sylvia raised a finger. "Mr. Loftus, if you do not stop quarreling
with Fanny I will make you come and sit by me."
"If I am to look upon that as a punishment, Miss Waldron," Loftus with
negligent gallantry replied, "what would you have me regard as a
reward?"
"Arthur! Arthur!" Fanny cried. "Did you hear that? This man is making
up to Sylvia."
But Annandale did not seem in the least alarmed. He was looking about
for Ferdinand. "Here," he began, when at last the waiter appeared.
"You neglect us shamefully. We want some more moselle and more
Scotch."
"None for me," said Loftus rising. "I have an appointment."
"Appointment," Fanny announced, "is very good English for
rendezvous."
"And taisez-vous, mademoiselle, is very good French for I wish it
were with yourself."
"I have not a doubt of it."
"Fanny!" Sylvia objected. "You are impossible."
"Yes," Fanny indolently replied. "Yet then, to be impossible and seem
the reverse is the proper caper for a debutante. Heigho! I wish girls
smoked here. I would give a little of my small change for a cigarette.
Are you really off, Royal. Well, my love to the lady."
CHAPTER III
THE EX-FIRST LADY
Loftus, letting himself into a hansom, sailed away. At Morris Park
that afternoon there were to be races, and up the maelstrom of Fifth
avenue came scudding motors, fleeting traps.
As the hansom descended the current Loftus nodded to this acquaintance
and to that, occasionally raising his hat as women smiled and bowed.
Occasionally, too, he contemplated what he could of himself in the
little mirror at the side of the cab. He looked triumphant and
treacherous.
Fanny, he reflected, was ideal. But exacting, ambitious even. She had
a perfect mania for matrimony. There was another girl that he had in
mind whom he fancied more reasonable. This other was Marie Durand.
In just what way he had met her was never quite clear. Fanny, who had
witnessed the preliminary skirmish, always believed that he had
picked her up. Afterward, at the time of the trial, it was so
reported. The report was false in addition to being vulgar. Marie
Durand was not of that sort. There was nothing fast or flirtatious
about her. But she was a human being. She had eyes. She had a heart.
By nature she was sensitive. Moreover, she was but nineteen. Being
human, sensitive, and not very old, having eyes to see and a heart
that throbbed, she was impressionable and, to her misfortune, Loftus
impressed her.
Loftus was rather used to impressing people. He saw the girl on Fifth
avenue, followed her home, learned her name--or thought he did--and
sent her flowers every day until he saw her again, when he presumed to
accost her. At that impertinence Marie tilted her nose and trotted on,
distant, disdainful, demure.
But not indifferent. Not oblivious either. Often she had seen him.
Occasionally on a high drag behind a piebald four-in-hand. In crowded
Fifth avenue, drags, with or without piebalds, are infrequent. This
drag Marie had seen not merely tooling along the street but pictured
in the press. With, of course, full accounts of the driver. As a
consequence she knew who he was, knew that he was one of the rich
young men of New York and that he moved and had his being in the upper
circles.
Marie's own sphere of life was obscure. She lived with her father in
Gay street. Her father, a tailor by trade, was a naturalized
Frenchman, a gaunt Gaul, who had a sallow face, walked with a stoop,
complained of his heart and adored his daughter. To him she was a
pearl, a perle, rather. For though he had been long in New York and
spoke English well, he had never quite acquired the accent.
Marie spoke English without any accent whatever. She also spoke
French, sang in it, too, sang in Italian and, with a view to the lyric
stage, or, more exactly, with the hope of studying for it abroad, was,
at the time when this drama begins, taking lessons in what is termed
the bel canto.
But her aspirations, in so far as they concerned Europe, her father
was unable to gratify. He could not let her go alone and he could not
afford to throw up what he called his beesness. Here, then, was this
girl, pretty as a picture, with a lovely contralto voice, with
aspirations entirely worldly, with wings, you might say, cooped in Gay
street, spiritually and mentally starved there.
Gay street lies back of Jefferson Market. In shape a crescent, it
curves briefly in a lost and dismal way through a region which,
though but a block or two from Fifth avenue, is almost squalid. At one
end of its short curve is a saloon, at the other an apothecary.
It was from this apothecary that Loftus learned Marie's name--or
thought he did. For inadvertently the man got things mixed as his
drugs and supplied Loftus with the name of a young woman who lived in
a house next to the one in which Loftus had seen the girl enter.
What is more interesting is the fact that, though, while he was
following her there, she had looked neither to the right nor to the
left, or anywhere save straight ahead, she had been fully aware that
he was behind her. How? We cannot tell. It is one of the mysteries of
femininity. But once safely in, boldly she peeked out. Loftus was
crossing the street. Presently he entered the shop. For what, it did
not take Marie more than a minute to conjecture.
Later in the day a motor van appeared in that street. On it was the
name of a Broadway florist. Since the memory of man never before had
such a thing happened. From the van a groom had hopped and, if you
please, with roses. That, too, was phenomenal. Yet thereafter every
day for a week there was the motor, the groom and flowers at a dollar
and a half apiece. The recipient of these attentions was Miss Rebecca
Cohen, the daughter of Mr. Abraham Cohen, who also, like Marie's
father, was a tailor.
Marie saw the van, divined the mistake, and, being as full of fun as a
kitten, greatly enjoyed the continued humor of it. For still into that
sordid street the flowers poured. Every day, to the unhallowed
surprise of Mr. Cohen and to the equal bewilderment of his offspring,
a box of radiant roses was handed out.
In that surprise and bewilderment the neighborhood joined. Scandalized
at the scandal Cohen questioned the groom, questioned the chauffeur.
He might have saved himself the trouble. Then he inquired at the
florist's. But there no one could be found who knew anything at all
about anything whatever. Already he had questioned Rebecca. It seemed
to him that in spite of her protests she must be engaged in some
fathomless intrigue. But Rebecca, whose commercial instinct was
beautifully developed, not only protested but appeased. She told her
father that the roses were worth money. Furthermore, that which is
worth money can be sold. Thereupon sold they were. But quite as
inexplicably as the van had appeared so did its visits cease. When
that happened Mr. Cohen felt and declared that he was robbed. He had
come to regard the roses as assets.
Marie meanwhile, whom the humor of the situation had amused, ended by
worrying over it. She was a good girl, as such conscientious, and it
troubled her, at first only a little and then very much, to think that
Loftus must believe that she was knowingly accepting his flowers.
Moreover, her father had commented upon them; in commenting he had
wondered. Marie began to fear that Loftus might discover the mistake
and turn in and inundate her. She did not know quite what to do. She
thought of writing to him, very distantly, in the third person, or
else anonymously. But the letter did not seem to get itself framed.
Then, from thinking of that, she fell to thinking of him.
To see him she had only to close her eyes. Once he visited her in
dream. He came accompanied by butterflies that fluttered about her and
changed into kisses on her lips. Again she fancied him much sought
after by ladies and became hotly and unaccountably vexed at the idea.
It would be so lovely to really know him, she always decided. But she
did not see at all how that ever could come about.
Yet, of course, it did come about. It came about, moreover, in a
fashion as sordid as the street she lived in.
That street, though sordid, is relatively silent. It is beyond, in
Sixth avenue, that you get a sample of real New York noise. The
slam-bang of the trains overhead, the grinding grunt of the surface
cars, the demon draymen, the clanging motors, the ceaseless crowds,
collaborate in an uproar beside which a bombardment is restful. But
though the entire thoroughfare is appalling, Jefferson Market, behind
which Gay street squats, is infernal.
Loftus loathed it. Until he pursued the girl into its horrors never
before had he been there. Nor, save for her, would he have returned.
But return he did. For recompense he beheld her. She was strolling
along, a roll of music under her arm, in the direction of Fifth
avenue.
It was there he attempted to accost her. Without deigning to seem even
aware that he had presumed to do so, she passed on and, in passing,
turned into Washington Square, where, ascending the steps of a house,
she vanished. It was then three by the clock of a beautiful day in
April.
Loftus was as well able as another to put two and two together. He
knew that young girls do not stroll about with a music roll under
their arm for the fun of it. A music roll predicates lessons, and
there where lessons are must also be a teacher.
From that teacher he was unaware of any good and valid reason why he
should not himself take lessons. But fate is not unrelenting. Of such
toil he was spared. He spared himself too any further toil that day.
He felt that he had done enough. He had quarried the girl again,
stalked her to what was obviously a boarding-house. He turned on his
heel.
The next day he was back at that house, inquiring at the door. As a
result he was shown into a shabby back parlor where he made the
acquaintance of Mme. Machin, a tired old Frenchwoman, who, with rouge
on her yellow cheeks, powder on her pointed nose, confided to him that
she had been prima donna, though whether assoluta or dissoluta she
omitted to state.
But her antecedents, her possibilities as well, Loftus divined at a
glance and, while he was at it, divining too, that, personally, she
was no better, and, financially, no better off than the law allows,
