as she watched the poor little vessel in the distance.
"You like it, don't you?" asked Marcello, as he looked at her.
"I love it!" she answered enthusiastically. "And I may never see it all
again," she added after a little pause.
"Never?" Marcello started a little. "Are you going away?"
"We are going to Rome to-day. But that is not what I mean. We have
always come down every year for ever so long. How long is it, Marcello?
We were quite small the, first time."
"It must be five years. Four or five--ever since my mother bought the
land here."
"We were mere children," said Aurora, with the dignity of a grown
person. "That is all over."
"I wish it were not!" Marcello sighed.
"How silly you are!" observed Aurora, throwing back her beautiful head.
"But then, I am sure I am much more grown up than you are, though you
are nineteen, and I am not quite eighteen."
"You are seventeen," said Marcello firmly.
"I shall be eighteen on my next birthday!" retorted Aurora with warmth.
"Then we shall see who is the more grown up. I shall be in society, and
you--why, you will not even be out of the University."
She said this with the contempt which Marcello's extreme youth deserved.
"I am not going to the University."
"Then you will be a boy all your life. I always tell you so. Unless you
do what other people do, you will never grow up at all. You ought to be
among men by this time, instead of everlastingly at home, clinging to
your mother's skirts!"
A bright flush rose in Marcello's cheeks. He felt that he wanted to box
her ears, and for an instant he wished himself small again that he might
do it, though he remembered what a terrible fighter Aurora had been
when she was a little girl, and had preserved a vivid recollection of
her well-aimed slaps.
"Don't talk about my mother in that way," he said angrily.
"I'm not talking of her at all. She is a saint, and I love her very
much. But that is no reason why you should always be with her, as if
you were a girl! I don't suppose you mean to begin life as a saint
yourself, do you? You are rather young for that, you know."
"No," Marcello answered, feeling that he was not saying just the right
thing, but not knowing what to say. "And I am sure my mother does not
expect it of me, either," he added. "But that is no reason why you
should be so disagreeable."
He felt that he had been weak, and that he ought to say something sharp.
He knew very well that his mother believed it quite possible for a boy
to develop into saintship without passing through the intermediate state
of sinning manhood; and though his nature told him that he was not of
the temper that attains sanctity all at once, he felt that he owed to
his mother's hopes for him a sort of loyalty in which Aurora had made
him fail. The reasonings of innocent sentiment are more tortuous than
the wiles of the devil himself, and have amazing power to torment the
unfledged conscience of a boy brought up like Marcello.
Aurora's way of thinking was much more direct.
"If you think I am disagreeable, you can go away," she said, with a
scornful laugh.
"Thank you. You are very kind." He tried to speak sarcastically, but it
was a decided failure.
To his surprise, Aurora turned and looked at him very quietly.
"I wonder whether I shall like you, when you are a man," she said in a
tone of profound reflection. "I am rather ashamed of liking you now,
because you are such a baby."
He flushed again, very angry this time, and he moved away to leave her,
without another word.
She turned her face to the storm and took no notice of him. She thought
that he would come back, but there was just the least doubt about it,
which introduced an element of chance and was perfectly delightful while
it lasted. Was there ever a woman, since the world began, who did not
know that sensation, either by experience or by wishing she might try
it? What pleasure would there be in angling if the fish did not try to
get off the hook, but stupidly swallowed it, fly and all? It might as
well crawl out of the stream at once and lay itself meekly down in the
basket.
And Marcello came back, before he had taken four steps.
"Is that what you meant when you said that you might never come here
again?" he asked, and there was something rough in his tone that pleased
her.
"No," she answered, as if nothing had happened. "Mamma talked to me a
long time last night."
"What did she say?"
"Do you want to know?"
"Yes."
"There is no reason why I should not tell you. She says that we must not
come here after I go into society, because people will think that she is
trying to marry me to you."
She looked at him boldly for a moment, and then turned her eyes to the
sea.
"Why should she care what people think?" he asked.
"Because it would prevent me from marrying any one else," answered
Aurora, with the awful cynicism of youth. "If every one thought I was
engaged to you, or going to be, no other man could ask for me. It's
simple enough, I'm sure!"
"And you wish other men to ask you to marry them, I suppose?"
Marcello was a little pale, but he tried to throw all the contempt he
could command into his tone. Aurora smiled sweetly.
"Naturally," she said. "I'm only a woman."
"Which means that I'm a fool to care for you!"
"You are, if you think I'm not worth caring for." The girl laughed.
This was so very hard to understand that Marcello knit his smooth young
brow and looked very angry, but could find nothing to say on the spur of
the moment. All women are born with the power to put a man into such a
position that he must either contradict himself, hold his tongue, or fly
into a senseless rage. They do this so easily, that even after the
experience of a life-time we never suspect the trap until they pull the
string and we are caught. Then, if we contradict ourselves, woman utters
an inhuman cry of triumph and jeers at our unstable purpose; if we lose
our tempers instead, she bursts into tears and calls us brutes; and
finally, if we say nothing, she declares, with a show of reason, that we
have nothing to say.
[Illustration: "HE FLUSHED AGAIN, VERY ANGRY THIS TIME, AND HE MOVED
AWAY TO LEAVE HER, WITHOUT ANOTHER WORD."]
Marcello lost his temper.
"You are quite right," he said angrily. "You are not worth caring for.
You are a mere child, and you are a miserable little flirt already, and
you will be a detestable woman when you grow up! You will lead men on,
and play with them, and then laugh at them. But you shall not laugh at
me again. You shall not have that satisfaction! You shall wish me back,
but I will not come, not if you break your silly little heart!"
With this terrific threat the boy strode away, leaving her to watch the
storm alone in the lee of the sandbank. Aurora knew that he really meant
to go this time, and at first she was rather glad of it, since he was in
such a very bad temper. She felt that he had insulted her, and if he had
stayed any longer she would doubtless have called him a brute, that
being the woman's retort under the circumstances. She had not the
slightest doubt of being quite reconciled with him before luncheon, of
course, but in her heart she wished that she had not made him angry. It
had been very pleasant to watch the storm together, and when they had
come to the place, she had felt a strong presentiment that he would kiss
her, and that the contrast between the kiss and the howling gale would
be very delightful.
The presentiment had certainly not come true, and now that Marcello was
gone it was not very amusing to feel the spray and the sand on her
face, or to watch the tumbling breakers and listen to the wind. Besides,
she had been there some time, and she had not even had her little
breakfast of coffee and rolls before coming down to the shore. She
suddenly felt hungry and cold and absurdly inclined to cry, and she
became aware that the sand had got into her russet shoes, and that it
would be very uncomfortable to sit down in such a place to take them off
and shake it out; and that, altogether, misfortunes never come singly.
After standing still three or four minutes longer, she turned away with
a discontented look in her face, all rosy with the wind and spray. She
started as she saw Corbario standing before her, for she had not heard
his footsteps in the gale. He wore his shooting-coat and heavy leathern
gaiters, but he had no gun. She thought he looked pale, and that there
was a shade of anxiety in his usually expressionless face.
"We wondered where you were," he said. "There is coffee in the verandah,
and your mother is out already."
"I came down to look at the storm," Aurora answered. "I forgot all about
breakfast."
They made a few steps in the direction of the cottage. Aurora felt that
Corbario was looking sideways at her as they walked.
"Have you seen Marcello?" he asked presently.
"Did you not meet him?" Aurora was surprised. "It is not five minutes
since he left me."
"No. I did not meet him."
"That is strange."
They went on in silence for a few moments.
"I cannot understand why you did not meet Marcello," Aurora said
suddenly, as if she had thought it over. "Did you come this way?"
"Yes."
"Perhaps he got back before you started. He walks very fast."
"Perhaps," Corbario said, "but I did not see him. I came to look for you
both."
"Expecting to find us together, of course!" Aurora threw up her head a
little disdainfully, for Marcello had offended her.
"He is generally somewhere near you, poor boy," answered Corbario in a
tone of pity.
"Why do you say 'poor boy' in that tone? Do you think he is so much to
be pitied?"
"A little, certainly." Corbario smiled.
"I don't see why."
"Women never do, when a man is in love!"
"Women"--the flattery was subtle and Aurora's face cleared. Corbario was
a man of the world, without doubt, and he had called her a woman, in a
most natural way, as if she had been at least twenty years old. It did
not occur to her to ask herself whether Folco had any object in wishing
to please her just then, but she knew well enough that he did wish to do
so. Even a girl's instinct is unerring in that; and Corbario further
pleased her by not pursuing the subject, for what he had said seemed all
the more spontaneous because it led to nothing.
"If Marcello is not in the cottage," he observed, as they came near,
"he must have gone off for a walk after he left you. Did you not see
which way he turned?"
"How could I from the place where I stood?" asked Aurora in reply. "As
soon as he had turned behind the bank it was impossible to say which way
he had gone."
"Of course," assented Folco. "I understand that."
Marcello had not come home, and Aurora was sorry that she had teased him
into a temper and had then allowed him to go away. It was not good for
him, delicate as he was, to go for a long walk in such weather without
any breakfast, and she felt distinctly contrite as she ate her roll in
silence and drank her coffee, on the sheltered side of the cottage,
under the verandah. The Signora Corbario had not appeared yet, but the
Contessa was already out. As a rule the Signora preferred to have her
coffee in her room, as if she were in town. For some time no one spoke.
"Had we not better send Ercole to find Marcello?" the Contessa asked at
last.
"I had to send Ercole to Porto d'Anzio this morning," Corbario answered.
"I took the opportunity, because I knew there would be no quail with
this wind."
"Marcello will come in when he is hungry," said Aurora, rather sharply,
because she really felt sorry.
But Marcello did not come in.
Soon after eight o'clock his mother appeared on the verandah. Folco
dropped his newspaper and hastened to make her comfortable in her
favourite chair. Though she was not strong, she was not an invalid, but
she was one of those women whom it seems natural to help, to whom men
bring cushions, and with whom other women are always ready to
sympathise. If one of Fra Angelico's saints should walk into a modern
drawing-room all the men would fall over each other in the scramble to
make her comfortable, and all the women would offer her tea and ask her
if she felt the draught.
The Signora looked about, expecting to see her son.
"Marcello has not come in," said Folco, understanding. "He seems to have
gone for a long walk."
"I hope he has put on his thick boots," answered the Signora, in a
thoughtful tone. "It is very wet."
She asked why Folco was not with him shooting, and was told that there
were no birds in such weather. She had never understood the winds, nor
the points of the compass, nor why one should see the new moon in the
west instead of in the east. Very few women do, but those who live much
with men generally end by picking up a few useful expressions, a little
phrase-book of jargon terms with which men are quite satisfied. They
find out that a fox has no tail, a wild boar no teeth, a boat no prow,
and a yacht no staircase; and this knowledge is better than none.
The Signora accepted the fact that there were no birds that morning, and
began to talk to Maddalena. Aurora got a book and pretended to read, but
she was really listening for Marcello's footsteps, and wondering
whether he would smile at her, or would still be cross when he came in.
Corbario finished his paper and went off to look at the weather from the
other side of the house, and the two women talked in broken sentences as
old friends do, with long intervals of silence.
The wind had moderated a good deal, but as the sun rose higher the glare
in the sky grew more yellow, the air was much warmer, and the trees and
shrubs and long grass began to steam as if they had been half boiled.
All manner of tiny flies and gnats chased each other in the lurid light.
"It feels as if there were going to be an earthquake," said Maddalena,
throwing back the lace from her grey hair as if even its light weight
oppressed her.
"Yes."
The women sat in silence, uneasy, their lips a little parted. Not that
an earthquake would have disturbed them much, for slight ones are common
enough in Italy, and could do no harm at all to a wooden cottage; it was
a mere physical breathlessness that they felt, as the gale suddenly
dropped and the heavy air became quite still on the sheltered side of
the cottage.
Aurora threw aside her book impatiently and rose from her chair.
"I am going to look for Marcello," she said, and she went off without
turning her head.
On the other side of the cottage, as she went round, she found Folco
sitting on the steps of the verandah, his elbows on his knees and his
chin resting on his folded hands, apparently in deep thought. He had a
cigar between his teeth, but it had gone out.
"I am going to look for Marcello," said Aurora, as she passed close
beside him.
He said nothing, and hardly moved his head. Aurora turned and looked at
him as she stepped upon the path.
"What is the matter?" she asked, as she saw his face. "Is anything
wrong?"
Corbario looked up quickly, as if he had been in a reverie.
"Anything the matter? No. Where did you say you were going?"
"To find Marcello. He has not come in yet."
"He has gone for a walk, I suppose. He often walks alone on off days. He
will be back before luncheon, and you are not going to town till the
afternoon."
"Will you come with me?" Aurora asked, for she was in a good humour with
Folco.
He rose at once.
"I'll go with you for a stroll," he said, "but I don't think it is of
any use to look for Marcello near the house."
"It can do no harm."
"And it will do us good to walk a bit."
They went down the path and through the trees towards the break in the
bank.
"The sand was very wet this morning, even inside the bank," Aurora
said. "I daresay we shall find his footsteps and be able to guess which
way he went."
"Very likely," Folco answered.
He pushed back his tweed cap a little and passed his handkerchief across
his smooth brow. Aurora noticed the action, because he did not usually
get warm so easily.
"Are you hot?" she asked carelessly.
"A little," he answered. "The air is so heavy this morning."
"Perhaps you are not quite well," said Aurora. "You are a little pale."
Apparently something in her youthfully patronising tone came as near
irritating him as anything ever could.
"What does it matter, whether I am hot or not?" he asked, almost
impatiently, and again he passed his handkerchief over his forehead.
"I did not mean to annoy you," Aurora answered with uncommon meekness.
They came near the break in the bank, and she looked at the sand on each
side of her. She thought it seemed smoother than usual, and that there
were not so many little depressions in it, where there had been
footsteps on previous days, half obliterated by wind and rain.
"I cannot see where you and I passed an hour ago," she said, in some
surprise.
"The wind draws through the gap with tremendous strength," Folco
explained. "Just before the gale moderated there was a heavy squall with
rain."
"Was there? I did not notice that--but I was on the lee side of the
house. The wind must have smoothed the sand, just like a flat-iron!"
"Yes." Corbario answered indifferently and gazed out to sea.
Aurora left his side and looked about, going to a little distance from
the gap, first on one side and then on the other.
"It is as if the wind had done it on purpose!" she cried impatiently.
