spent it freely, lost some of it, helped friends in distress. Now, he
was going out to that wonderful land that had been the dream of the
Spaniard, and another nation had brought the dream true. He would
visit the little old village once more, and see how it had fared with
his early love and his old friends, and then say good-bye forever. And
knowing she was near to death, Laverne Westbury told him her sad
story, and he read between the broken sentences that he had been her
early love, her only love.
So they whiled the time away, the man's dreams growing more vivid, the
child's fading. They passed strange countries, there were seas of
peerless blue, seas of emerald green, then strange colors commingled.
There were cloudless skies and broad sheets of sunshine that seemed to
envelop the whole world in a blaze; there were nights of such glowing
stars as one seldom sees on land, there were gray days with sullen
winds, and storms that sent a thrill to the stoutest hearts, when the
vessel groaned and creaked and the women cried in terror. But Laverne
only crept closer in Uncle Jason's arms and felt safe.
They stopped here and there at a port, places they hunted up on the
map, cities that seemed marvels to the little girl, shores with waving
blooming forests and almost steaming fragrance. Strange birds, strange
many-hued fish, darting hither and thither, seaweed that in the
sunshine looked like masses of bloom, or living things swimming about.
Curious people, too, speaking languages no little girl could
understand, then leaving the warmth, and shivering with blasts of cold
air, wonderful islands and capes jutting out--some bleak and bare and
rocky, others shining in verdure and waving smiles of welcome, it
seemed; going safely round the Horn with half their journey done and
finding more wonders, great mountain ranges, shores thickly studded
with islands, natives swimming about like fishes, queer, half ruinous
old Spanish towns, and when they stopped at a port, such a clatter of
tongues, such a screaming of voices, such a confusion, one was glad to
get out of it to lovely, enchanting peace once more.
Warmer grew the air with a languorous, permeating fragrance. Moonlight
silvering the water that leaped softly up and down as if playing hide
and seek with the next wave. All the boundless space lighted with it,
going round the world, swelling, decreasing, a golden crescent, then a
pale gibbous thing and afterward darkness when the ship crept softly
along.
If one came in near the shore it was like the blast of a furnace.
Then, passing the equator with the queer ceremony among the sailors,
and looking across at the little neck of land joining the two
countries, past Central America, which the little girl insisted made
three Americas. She had listened to the tales of the early explorers
and their cruel lust for gold until she had shuddered.
"Uncle Jason, are you going for gold in California, and will the
people murder whole nations and rob them? I would rather not have the
gold."
"No, my little girl; and the country that has the gold belongs to us.
But it has many other delightful things as well. It is not like bleak
Maine."
"What a strange journey it has been, and oh, how beautiful most of the
time. I do not believe I shall ever be afraid of storms again."
"You have made a most excellent sailor. It will seem queer to be on
land again. You will keep your sea legs for some time to come."
"Sea legs?" She laughed inquiringly.
"The faculty one acquires of walking with the roll of the ship.
Sailors always do it on land. And you will see that you have an
inclination to go from side to side as if the street was hardly wide
enough;" and he looked at her out of humorous eyes.
He had a way of nearly shutting one eye, which gave an absolutely
funny expression to his face. He had buffeted so many storms and
narrow escapes that he looked fully ten years beyond his age, which
was but thirty-five. He had a tall, vigorous frame, with a little
stoop in the shoulders and a way of sitting down all in a heap. The
little girl told him he made a cave for her to sit in. Every day she
loved him more dearly, and to him she was the one thing that
brightened his way and gave him new aims. He had been going to
California simply to see a strange and new land. He had not been won
by the wonderful tales of gold, he had cared very little for wealth.
But now he would make a fortune for her and have it so safely invested
that she should not come to want if she lived to be old. He could
never forget the afternoon he had come to Laverne Westbury's home,
that she had been warned to leave in the spring, and found her almost
on the verge of starvation, too proud to keep asking charity, worn out
and disheartened, with only the county house looming before her.
Little Verne should never know this, never suffer as her mother had
done.
And this was one reason he led her thoughts away from the old life.
She was too young to know that he had loved her mother, she took the
relationship for granted. And even on the long voyage there had been
so much to entertain her. The only child on board, and a winsome one
at that, she had been a universal favorite; and Jason Chadsey hardly
less so. The trio, as the three single women had been dubbed, though
the married ones often said "the old maids," after a little,
established very friendly relations with Mr. Chadsey. Miss Holmes was
past thirty, and had worn herself almost out teaching school. A sea
voyage had been prescribed to avoid consumption, that scourge of the
eastern towns. She had gained in health and strength, and certainly in
looks. When she found the little girl and her uncle poring over their
old map, she brought out some of her school books, to Laverne's great
delight. Among them was the story of the Argonauts that caught the
young imagination, and even Dick Folsom became interested in the
various explorers who had dreamed of gold and of the straight route to
China. Miss Gaines had been a dressmaker until a troublesome pain in
her side warned her to seek a different occupation, and Miss Alwood
had kept house, done nursing, and they had planned to make better
fortunes in the new country, where there were fewer women. Mrs. Dawson
was going out to meet her husband, who had been among the
"Forty-miners," and now kept a sort of lodging ranch, that with her
help could be transformed into a regular hotel, much in demand at that
time.
And so they had made quite a little colony on shipboard. Slowly they
came up the Pacific Coast, past the long peninsula of Southern
California, and there, fairly in sight, was the Golden Gate.
CHAPTER II
OLD SAN FRANCISCO
Was it any wonder the old explorers missed the narrow outlet from the
great bay when the hills from the farther shore cast a great gloomy
shadow, and dreary rocks flanked the shore, inhabited by cormorants
and auks and gulls, screaming out their discordant music? What if the
tide did run out sweeping like a torrent--were they going to breast
the danger back of it? Was the great rocky point worth their
consideration? In the islands off the shore seals and sea lions had it
all their own way and basked and frolicked in the sunshine.
It had changed then, in the early fifties, but half a century has
almost forgotten the bareness of it then. And yet it was magnificent
in the October sunset as the old ship made its way, puffing from the
strains of its long journey. They had nearly all huddled on deck to
view their land of promise. There are few enthusiastic emigrants now,
everything is viewed with commercial eyes. Afar to the westward
stretched the magnificent ocean, a sheet of billowy ranges tipped with
molten gold, changing to a hundred iridescent tints and throwing up
the gold again in prodigal fashion, sweeping it over to foreign seas.
And, on the other hand, the mile-wide gap, the gateway to the
wonderful land, tranquil enough now, with frowning rocks like the
cave of Scylla on the one hand, that was to be transformed into a
wonderful city. They are piloted through to the great magnificent bay
that seems endless at the first glance of its seventy miles. Northward
long lines of rolling hills, purple and blue and black, with glints of
the setting sun fighting the shadows like some strange old gods with
their fire-tipped arrows. At the south it fades into misty dreamland.
Red Rock stands up defiant. And so they look at their new country and
then at each other. There is shipping at the rude wharves, and they
find a place to anchor, but it is too late to look for a home and so
they make themselves content. But if they thought they were coming to
great space, and semi-loneliness they were mistaken and confused by
the noise and tumult, the crowds, the bustle of business, the people
of all countries it seemed.
"Why, I had no idea," the women said to one another. "The place must
be overcrowded."
What chance was there then for women who had come to seek their
fortunes?
They soon found that San Francisco was the stopping place of nearly
every nation, and yet there was room for more, and work for those
willing to do it.
Mr. Dawson came down to meet his wife the next morning, and was made
acquainted with the little party that had become such friends in their
long journey.
"We can take some of you in if you will accept the accommodations," he
said cordially. "They might be worse," with a shrug of the shoulders.
"Luckily, I escaped being burnt out. Will you come and take a view of
our town?"
What an odd place it was, built on the hills like Rome. On the ocean
side great frowning rocks that suggested fortresses. At the extreme
end, the highest of hills, the city began, and it spread out over
little valleys and other hills, sloping to the busy, beautiful bay.
And it seemed right in the heart of it lay devastation, débris and
ashes. Hundreds of men were clearing, laying foundations again,
rearing new structures.
"It was an awful fire," explained their guide. "We had thought
fireproof bricks and iron-bound structures would at least stay the
devastating hand of destruction, and even that proved useless. But for
the loss one might have enjoyed the magnificent spectacle of the
immense fiery field. The fierce roar of the flames, the shouts and
shrieks of the flying people, the glowing crackling mass sending
spires up to the very sky, it seemed, was something we shall never
forget. It was said to have been visible a hundred miles away."
The ruins were startling even now. Then the party turned, crossed
Market Street and came into Spear Street. Here there was a rambling
frame building that had been added to several times, two stories for
the most part, but a long ell of only one story. The main end bore the
name of "Dawson House." It was not a hotel, and had no bar, that usual
accompaniment. Round in the next street, Mr. Dawson had a clubhouse
that supplied this want, and all games of chance, but this place was
of the better sort.
The Farnsworths had gone to friends only a few squares from the wharf.
Mr. Dawson made friends at once with young Folsom and offered him a
position.
"I'm in for the gold fields," he declared with boyish eagerness.
"You'd better consider a day or two," suggested his mother.
"And I'll take the mother, too, if she is as good a housekeeper as she
looks to be," Mr. Dawson subjoined laughingly. "If I don't, young
fellow, some man will snap your mother up before you'll have a chance
to see the color of his eyes."
"Well, here are four husbandless women," she retorted gayly. "He could
have a choice."
They were ushered into a spacious room with a painted floor and
nondescript furnishing. In one corner was a large desk at which sat a
clerk. This opened into a dining room, in which the long table was
seldom without a guest. Several were seated there now. On the other
side were two smaller rooms tolerably well furnished, one a sleeping
chamber.
"You'll find we're suffering from the want of woman's hands and
woman's wit. I could hardly believe my wife had consented to come. You
see those who are worth anything are soon offered homes of their own,
and the others----" He made a peculiar little gesture, that elicited a
shrewd smile from Jason Chadsey.
It was comforting to find a place of refuge so soon, they all thought.
On the second floor were lodging rooms for the better class. The ell
was fitted up with rows of bunks, and there was seldom a vacancy by
midnight.
Laverne kept tight hold of Uncle Jason's hand, and when Mr. Dawson
smiled over to her, half hid her face on Uncle Jason's ample frame.
"Are we all going to live here?" she asked in a low tone.
"For a little while, I think. We would not want to go away alone. And
there must be some one to keep the house when I get one."
"But you know that I helped mother, oh, for a long while. Sometimes I
chopped up the wood. And in the autumn I dug the potatoes and husked
the corn, but we had to kill the poor hens, after all," and she
sighed. "I swept up the house, too. Oh, I can do a great many things."
He took the slim little hand in his and tried to smile over her
eagerness, but his heart ached as he thought of her mother, and the
hardships he could not save.
"Will it be winter soon?" she inquired.
"Not a Maine winter, my child. I believe there is no real winter."
"Everything looks queer and dried up, yet it isn't cold. And what a
great city, it is almost as large as New York."
He laughed at that, then he was grave a moment. "It may be as great,
some day. The Pacific will be a big rival to the Atlantic."
"To think we are clear over here! Why don't they build a
railroad--just so?" and she made a mark with her small finger.
"No doubt that will come also."
They made arrangements about staying for the present. It seemed queer
to the child that the friend she had known so long should be Mr.
Dawson's wife. Already she was giving some orders and telling what
she wanted done, and did not seem a bit afraid of the portly man who
could speak so sharply to the Chinese servants.
Laverne thought them very odd. She had only seen pictures of them
before. They walked so softly in their pointed slippers, and looked a
little like women in their loose blue shirts with hanging sleeves. The
long queue twisted around their heads, and their slanting eyes seemed
weird enough.
She saw many other queer people in their walk back to the boat. Uncle
Jason thought it too long, but she pleaded so to go. There were other
curious dark-eyed and dark-skinned men, small and bright Japanese she
came to know, and tall Spaniards in picturesque attire with handsome
sashes about their waists; Indians, too, and a group of squaws girt
about with blankets, two carrying their babies on their backs, and
these made her think of the Maine clear across the continent, for you
occasionally saw them there.
The old vessel seemed almost like home to her. They gathered up their
luggage and that belonging to the ladies and ordered it sent to the
Dawson House. Then they went up on Telegraph Hill, and half the world
seemed spread out before them. The sun was shining in well-nigh
blinding brilliancy. There was the narrow passageway that hardly
looked its real width, there was the northern peninsula, Mount
Tamalpais, Belvidere, Sausalito, and all the places she was to come to
know so well. And there over the bay were the low spurs of the Coast
Range, at whose feet were to spring up towns and cities. The bay
looked to her like a smaller ocean. But boats were plying back and
forth. And they could see the other hills about, and the town
spreading here and there outside of the burned district.
Suddenly she said she was very tired, and her steps lagged a little.
Uncle Jason would have been glad to carry her, he had occasionally
carried greater burdens in times of peril, but that would be hardly
admissible, they were going downhill too, which was easier. She had
not seen all the strange people yet, for they met a group of
Portuguese sailors with big hoop earrings, who were gesticulating
fiercely, and some Russians with high caps and black, bushy beards.
She was glad she had studied so much geography on shipboard, and she
began to feel quite wise about different countries.
When she reached their present home she begged that she might go to
bed. She did not want to eat even a tempting bit of cake. Mrs. Dawson
took her into her room and put a pillow on the lounge, and while the
others talked and planned she slept soundly.
"What a pretty child she is," Mr. Dawson said. "You will have to watch
her closely that no one steals her."
"Oh!" Uncle Jason said thoughtfully. But in this wild, bustling life
few would want to be burdened with a child not belonging to them.
When Laverne woke there was a queer, rushing, rustling sound, and it
was dark like twilight. Where was she? What was happening? Then she
sprang up and remembered. The ladies were talking in the next room.
Oh, it rained and the wind seemed blowing a gale.
"Oh, what a nice sleep you have had!" exclaimed Mrs. Dawson. "And now
you must be hungry, though we shall have dinner in a very short time.
You look rested," and she smiled cheerfully.
"Yes, I am. I don't know what made me so tired." She had not climbed a
hill in a long while.
"We didn't have any hills to climb on shipboard, and in all these
months we did get out of practice," said Miss Holmes. "I was tired as
well. And now the rainy season has begun, and Mr. Dawson has been
saying that in a week or two the country will look like spring."
"And won't there be any winter? Though I don't like winter very much,"
she added naïvely. "Only the sledding and skating."
"I shouldn't care to live in Maine," and Miss Gaines gave a little
shiver. "All my life I have longed for a warm winter climate. And if
this doesn't suit, I shall go further south."
"You women without husbands are very independent," laughed Mrs.
Dawson.
"You certainly can go where you like if you have money enough to take
you there," was the reply. "Verne, come sit here and tell me if you
like San Francisco as well as the ship and the voyage."
"It's queer and such lots of queer people, and how they can understand
each other I can't see, for they all seem to talk different. I'd
rather not live on a ship all my life."
"Then do not marry a sea captain. But your uncle may take a fancy to
go to China or Japan. It is not so far from here. Grace, have you
written any letters this afternoon?"
"No," replied Miss Alwood. "I think my friends will not be immediately
alarmed."
