"I believe, sir," said the young gentleman, "that you advertised for
a--aw--a secretary."
"A clerk, yes, sir."
"Aw, all the same. Well, sir--aw--if we can agree upon terms, I should
be--aw--flattered to proffer my services."
"Ah, indeed!" And the jeweler raised his eyebrows slightly.
"Yes, sir. You will be pleased to learn that all my
connections--aw--move in the first circles."
"Undoubtedly that is very gratifying. But you mentioned terms. May I ask
you what you expect?"
"Well, sir, perhaps a couple of thousand or so, a year. Then, I should
wish to make certain stipulations--aw--as to the time I'm employed."
"Go on."
"For example, I never--aw--get up very early. I think it injures the
health. But I think I could manage to get to the office by ten in the
morning."
"I see."
"Then, I should want--aw--to have Saturday afternoons to myself, both in
winter and summer. I always go to the theater matinées--so
many--aw--pretty girls there," continued the dude.
"And what else?"
"I should not want to work later than five in the afternoon. Excessive
labor is injurious to the health."
"Perhaps that is true."
"Then I should--aw--wish it understood that I could have five or six
weeks off in the summer, so that I can visit the springs or the
seashore," continued the dude. "Is that satisfactory?"
"I suppose it would be, to you," answered the jeweler.
"I think so."
"It wouldn't satisfy us at all."
"Really! That is too bad!"
"We want a man here who can work, and who is not afraid of long hours,
and who doesn't set quite such a high figure on his services. You'll
never fill the bill in the wide world. Good-day!"
"Really!" murmured the dude, and after staring at the jeweler, he turned
on his heel and left in utter disgust. Several who had overheard the
interview laughed out-right.
"What a perfect fool!" thought Nat. "I wonder if anybody will ever give
him anything to do?"
"What can I do for you, young man?" asked the jeweler, turning to the
boy.
"I am looking for work, sir."
"Are your expectations as high as those of the chap who just left?"
"No, sir. I am willing to work hard and I am not afraid of long hours."
"Then you are not a dude?"
"No, sir. Do I look like one?"
"You look like a country lad."
"I came from the country about a month ago. I've been working for
Trumbull & Davison, the paper dealers. But they have sold out to
another firm and don't need me any longer."
"I see. Well, I am sorry for you, for you look bright and honest. But I
need somebody with experience in the jewelry line."
"Then you haven't any place that I can fill?"
"No, I--but hold on. I'll tell you what I might do. Do you know anything
about horses?"
"Yes, sir."
"And about a garden?"
"Yes, sir. I was brought up on a farm."
"I need a man around my country home in New Jersey. I might try you
there, at twelve dollars a month and your board."
Again Nat's face fell.
"Thank you, but I want to get something to do in the city," said he. "I
am tired of farm life."
"Then I can't give you anything," and the jeweler turned away.
During the remainder of the day Nat visited several other stores and
offices. But everywhere he received the same answer--that he was too
late and the position advertised was already filled.
"Perhaps I did wrong not to take that position over in New Jersey," he
thought, on his way to his boarding house. "But I don't want to go back
to farm work if I can help it."
Two additional days passed, and still Nat found nothing to do, although
he tramped from Forty-second Street clear down to the Battery several
times. Then he obtained a job which lasted three days and paid him but
two dollars.
"This isn't earning a living," he reasoned. "Unless I do better I'll
have to try selling papers or blacking boots."
One morning he did try selling papers, under the tutorship of Dick, but
the effort was not a success. By noon he had earned exactly nineteen
cents and had sixteen papers still on hand.
"I guess you wasn't cut out for a newsboy," said Dick, frankly. "What
you want to do is, to get a steady job in a store or office."
"Yes, but the jobs are mighty scarce," answered Nat.
A week passed, and the country boy could find nothing more to do that
was steady. One day he helped a man distribute bills, and on another
occasion he carried out packages for a florist, and the two jobs brought
him in just a dollar. By this time the soles were worn from his shoes
and he had to have them mended.
"Making one's way in the city isn't so easy after all," he thought one
night, as he sat in his little room, on the edge of the bed. He had
been counting up his money and found that he had but a little over four
dollars left.
"I'll have to give Mrs. Talcott three and a half of that," he continued,
"and that will leave me sixty-five cents. I've got to hustle or I'll be
high and dry by next week."
Nat hustled all of the next week, but without results. In one store the
proprietor was unusually harsh to him, and he came back to Mrs.
Talcott's house more downcast than ever.
"I guess they don't want me in New York after all," he mused. "If I
can't get something to do I can't stay here, for Mrs. Talcott can't
afford to keep me. I'll have to starve!"
He was so disheartened that he did not feel like eating. Immediately
after the meal he went to his little room. Then, of a sudden he thought
of the letter Paul Hampton had given him.
"I may as well open that," he reasoned. "Goodness knows I am short
enough of funds, and pretty well discouraged too."
The letter was in his pocket, still pinned fast, and he brought it forth
and gazed at it speculatively.
"It would be just like him to put a five-dollar bill in it," he thought.
With his penknife he slit the envelope open, and looked inside. It
contained a slip of paper and another slip, of a green color.
"A bill, as sure as I'm in this room!" he ejaculated. "I don't suppose
it's less than a five, and maybe it's a ten. If he--well I declare!"
Nat rushed to the window to look at the bill, and then with a gasp he
sank back on the only chair which the little bedroom contained. He could
scarcely believe the evidence of his senses.
The bank bill was one for a hundred dollars.
CHAPTER XI
WHAT A HUNDRED DOLLARS DID
Nat continued to gaze at the bill like one in a dream. He had never seen
a greenback that was worth a hundred dollars before, but he had no doubt
of its genuineness.
"A hundred dollars!" he repeated several times. "Why, it's a small
fortune!"
Then he began to wonder if Paul Hampton had not made a mistake, and
turned to the slip of paper, upon which he found written:
     "I give you this hundred dollars for what you did for me at Niagara
     Falls. Don't be discouraged. If you ever need a friend, write or
     come and see me. I sincerely hope the money will bring you good
     fortune."
"What a kind man," murmured Nat, and read the note again. "It was a
mighty lucky thing for me that I went to the Falls."
When he went to bed he felt rich, and he came to the breakfast table
whistling merrily.
"Hullo," cried Dick, "have you struck luck at last?"
"I'm in luck in one way," answered our hero. "Look at that," and he
showed the bank bill.
"Why, it's a hundred dollars, Nat!" And the newsboy's eyes opened
widely.
"Exactly."
"Where on earth did you get the money?"
"A gentleman gave it to me."
"What for?"
"For saving his life. But I didn't know I had it until I went to bed
last night."
"You're talking in riddles."
"I'll explain," and then our hero told as much of the Niagara Falls
episode as he deemed necessary.
"Here is the note," he concluded, showing the slip of paper, which was
unsigned. "I don't feel at liberty to mention the gentleman's name. I
don't think it would be just right."
"A rich man like that would be a fool to commit suicide," said Dick,
bluntly. "What are you going to do with all that money?"
"I don't know. But I shan't squander it, I can tell you that."
"You can go into business for yourself on that amount."
"Maybe, but I guess I had better keep on hunting for a job. I can go
into business for myself when I know more about New York."
"That's where you are sensible. You might lose your money in
double-quick time in your own business."
Nat put the bill away very carefully, and then went out to look for a
position as before. But the week passed and nothing turned up.
On Sunday the country boy attended a church in the vicinity of his
boarding house, and in the afternoon he took a walk to Central Park. In
the evening he stayed at home and read a paper which Dick brought in.
As was natural Nat read over the want advertisements very carefully. It
was not long before he came to one which excited his curiosity. The
advertisement was as follows:
     "WANTED--A clerk, to whom a liberal salary will be paid. One
     preferred who comes from the country and is not too old. References
     expected. Must deposit $100 as security, for which interest will be
     paid. Inquire Room 24, Dallax Building, Broadway."
"That ought to strike me," mused Nat, as he laid down the paper. "Just
the thing, and no mistake. I'll go and see about it."
Our hero had acquired sufficient knowledge of New York to find the place
indicated in the advertisement without much trouble. It was a four-story
stone building, and he walked up two flights of stairs until he reached
Room 24. On the door was the sign:
         HAMILTON DART
    BROKERAGE AND COMMISSIONS
Entering the office he found it plainly but neatly furnished with two
desks and several chairs. In front of one of the desks sat a middle-aged
man, well dressed, and smoking a cigar.
"Is this Mr. Dart?" questioned Nat, taking off his hat.
"That is my name," responded Hamilton Dart, with a keen glance at our
hero.
"Did you advertise for a clerk. I saw an advertisement----"
"Oh, yes!" interrupted the man. "Pray be seated," and he motioned to one
of the chairs. "You came to see about the place, did you?"
"Yes, sir. You advertised that you would like somebody from the country,
and that hits me."
"You came from the country to try your luck?"
"Yes, sir. I got tired of the farm."
Hamilton Dart smiled good-naturedly, and blew a cloud of smoke toward
the ceiling of his office.
"I don't blame you. I got tired of the farm myself when I was about your
age, and came here with less than a hundred dollars in my pocket."
"Well, I came with just a little more than that," answered Nat,
innocently.
"Indeed! Then you are better off than I was. But I shan't complain, for
I have made money right along. But what do you think I am worth now?"
"I don't know, I am sure--five or ten thousand dollars maybe."
"Nearly fifty thousand dollars," and Hamilton Dart looked at Nat, coolly
and innocently.
"Fifty thousand!" cried the boy. "You've certainly been lucky. I wish I
could make that much."
"You have the same opportunities that I had. Let me see, what did you
say your name was?"
"I didn't say. It is Nat Nason."
"I am glad to know you. You have a bright and honest face, and faces
count a good deal with me."
This was gratifying to Nat, and he could not help but think that Mr.
Dart was a pleasant gentleman with whom to deal.
"I advertised for a country young man because I was that myself once,
and I like to help country young men along," continued Hamilton Dart.
"You are out of work at present?"
"Yes, sir. I worked for a firm, but they sold out to another firm."
"I see. Have you any recommendations? Not that they are strictly
necessary from one who looks so honest."
"I can refer you to the firm I worked for."
"That will be satisfactory, although I don't mind telling you that I am
very particular in the selection of my clerks. So far I have rejected
seventeen who applied."
"I should try my best to do what was right," answered Nat, modestly.
"That is the way I like to hear a person talk."
"Then you will take me?"
"We haven't agreed on terms yet. What do you expect in the way of
salary?"
"I guess I'll leave that to you," answered Nat, after some hesitation.
"What did you get at your last place?"
"Seven dollars a week."
"Humph! Your employer was not very liberal. A clerk that is worth
anything to me is worth ten dollars a week at least."
The mentioning of ten dollars made Nat's heart jump.
"If you'll pay me ten dollars a week, Mr. Dart, I'll do my level best to
earn it."
"Do you write a fair hand?"
"Here is my handwriting," answered the boy, and wrote his name on a
piece of paper.
"That is quite good--for a boy. I think you will improve by practice.
Here you will have quite some writing to do, and bills to sort out. But
the work will not be difficult, for the summer is our dull season."
"I see."
"By the way, I suppose you know I require a deposit of one hundred
dollars from each of my clerks," went on Hamilton Dart, with assumed
carelessness. "Sometimes my clerks have quite some money to handle for
me."
"I can make that deposit," answered Nat. "Will I get a receipt for it?"
"To be sure, and I will also pay you six per cent. interest on the
money. You can have it back whenever you leave my service. When can you
make the deposit?"
"Right now, if you say so."
"Very well; I'll make out the receipt."
Hamilton Dart wrote out a receipt for a hundred dollars, and signed his
name with a flourish. He passed it to Nat, and the boy handed him the
hundred-dollar bill.
"You don't believe in carrying small bills," said the man, with an
assumed smile.
"That is the only big bill I ever owned," was the answer.
Hamilton Dart pocketed the bill, and looked out of the window as if in
deep thought.
"I was thinking you might go to work to-day, but perhaps it will be as
well to go to work to-morrow," he said, after a pause. "Come at nine
o'clock sharp."
"I will, sir."
"Then that is all for the present. I am sure we will get along very well
together. To-morrow another clerk will be here to help you along."
Hamilton Dart turned to his desk, and began to write. Feeling himself
dismissed, Nat said "good-morning," and bowed himself out. The man
listened to his footsteps as he descended the stairs, and then gave a
low chuckle.
"That was easy, Nick," he muttered. "Two so far. I wonder how many more
fools I'll catch before the game plays out?"
CHAPTER XII
ON THE BROOKLYN BRIDGE
"Well, I've struck luck again," said Nat, when he arrived at his
boarding place, and met Dick Talcott.
"Got a job?" questioned the newsboy.
"Yes."
"I hope you're going to get pretty good wages?"
"Ten dollars per week," answered Nat, with just a trace of pride in his
voice.
"Ten dollars. That is luck. What at?"
"I'm in a broker's office, and I'm to do writing and sorting out bills."
"Where is the place?"
"Down on Broadway."
"I'm glad to hear of this, Nat," said the newsboy. "Wish I could strike
something like that."
"Perhaps you will some day, Dick."
"The trouble is I can't write very well. I never had much schooling."
"If you wish, I'll teach you how to write. It always came easy to me."
"Will you teach me? I'll do my best to learn. We can go at it nights."
Early on the following morning, Nat presented himself at the office on
Broadway. He had shined his shoes and brushed his clothes, and presented
a very neat appearance. He found Hamilton Dart at his desk, and smoking
as before.
"I wish you to go to the post office for me," said the man, as soon as
he entered. "Go to the general delivery window and ask for letters for
Samuel Barrows. That is my sick brother-in-law who is visiting me from
Michigan."
"Yes, sir."
"Of course you know where the post office is?"
