" It is now two years and more that we have 
been excited over the prospect of this visit," she 
said. " But if you will tell me what you have 
been doing all this time I, at least, will forgive 
you ; for you will never be able to imagine, senor, 
how I long to hear of the great world. I stare at 
the map, then at the few pictures we have, I know 
many books of travel by heart; but I am afraid 
my imagination is a poor one, for I cannot conjure up great cities filled with people — thousands 
of people! Dios de mi alma! A world where 
there is something besides mountains and water, 
grain fields, orchards, forests, earthquakes and 
climate! Will you, senor! " 
" For quite as many hours as you will listen to 
me. I propose a compact. You shall improve 
my Spanish. I will impart all I know of Europe 
— and of Asia — if your curiosity reaches that 
far." 
" Even of Japan? " There was a wicked 
sparkle in her eye. 
'' I see you already have some knowledge of 
the cause of my delay." His voice was even, 
but a wound smarted. " It is quite true, seniorita, 
that the first embassy to Japan, from which we 
hoped so much, was a humiliating failure, and 
that I was played with for six months by a people whom we had regarded as a nation of mon- 
keys. "When my health began to suffer from the 
long confinement on shipboard — we had previously been fourteen months at sea — and I asked 
to be permitted to live on shore while my claims 
to an audience were under consideration, I was 
removed with my suite to a cage on a strip of 
land nearly surrounded with water, where I had 
less liberty and exercise than on shipboard. Finally, I had a ridiculous interview with a ' great 
man,' in which I accomplished nothing but the 
preservation of what personal dignity a man may 
while sitting on his heels; the superb presents 
of the Tsar were returned to me, and I was po- 
litely told to leave; Japan wanted neither the 
friendship of Russia nor her gimcracks. That, 
senorita, is the history of the first Russian Embassy — for the tentative visit of Adam Lanx- 
mann, twelve years before, can be dignified by 
no such title — to Oriental waters. It is to be 
hoped that Count Golofkin, who was to undertake 
a similar mission to China, has met with a better 
fate.'' 
Underneath the polished armor of a man who 
was a courtier when he chose and the dominating 
 
spirit always, he was hot and quick of temper. 
His light cold eyes glowed with resentment at the 
dancing lights in hers, as he cynically gave her 
a bald abstract of the unfortunate mission. He 
reflected that commonly he would have fitted a 
different mask to the ugly skull of fact, but this 
young barbarian, as he chose to regard her, excited the elemental truth in him, defying him to 
appear at his worst. He was astonished to see 
her eyes suddenly soften and her mouth tremble. 
" It must have been a hateful experience — hateful! '' Her voice, beginning on its usual low 
soft note, rose to a hoarse pitch of indignation. 
" I should have killed somebody! To be a man, 
and strong, and caressed all one's life by fortune 
— and to be as helpless as an Indian! Madre de 
Dios! '' 
" I shall take my revenge,'' said Eezanov 
shortly; but the wound closed, and once more he 
became aware of the poignant sweetness of Castilian roses. Concha wore one in her soft dusky 
hair, and another where the little round jacket of 
white linen, gayly embroidered with pink, met on 
her bosom. But if sentiment tempted him, he was 
quickly poised by her next remarks. She uttered 
theni in a low tone, although the animated conversation of the rest of the party — Davidov alone 
romping on the piazza with the children — wonld 
have permitted the two on the sofa to exchange 
the vows of love unheard. 
" But what a practice for your diplomatic talents, Excellency! Poor California! At least let 
me be the first to hear what you have come for ? ' ' 
Her voice dropped to a soft cooing note, although 
her eyes twinkled. " For the love of God, senor ! 
I am so bored in this life on the edge of the world ! 
To see the seams and ravellings of a diplomatic 
intrigue! I have read and heard of many, but 
never had I hoped to link my finger in anything 
subtler than a quarrel between priest and Gover- 
nor, or the jealousy of Los Angeles for Monterey. 
I even will help you — if you mean no harm to my 
father or my country. And I am not a friend to 
scorn, sehor, for my blessed father is as wax in my 
hands, the dear old governor adores me, and even 
Padre Abella, who thinks himself a great diplomat, and is watching us out of the corner of his 
eye, while I make him believe you pay me so many 
compliments my poor little head turns round — 
Bueno senor! " As she raised her voice she 
plucked the rose from her dress and tossed it to 
 
Eezanov. Then she lifted her chin and pouted her 
childish lips at the ironical smile of the priest. 
Eezanov was close to betraying his surprise; 
but as he cherished a belief that the souls of all 
pretty women went to school to the devil before 
entering upon earthly enterprise, he wondered 
that he had been open to the illusion of complete 
ingenuousness in a descendant of one of the 
oldest and subtlest civilizations of Earth. Within 
that luminous shell of youth there were, no 
doubt, whispering memories of men and women 
steeped in court intrigue to the eyes, of triumphant beauties that had lived for love 
and their power over the passions of men as 
ardent as himself. It was quite possible that she 
might be as useful as she desired. But his impulses were in leash. He merely looked and murmured his admiration. 
" Better ask, what chance have I, a defenceless 
man, who has not seen a charming woman for 
three years, against such practised art? If you 
can hoodwink a Spanish priest, and manipulate 
a Governor who has won the confidence of the 
most suspicious court in Europe, what fortune 
for a barbarian of the north? Less than with 
Japan, I should think.'' 
He divested the rose of its thorns and many 
tight little buds, and thrust the stem underneath 
the star of St. Ann. She lifted her chin again 
and tossed her head. 
" You do not trust me, but you will. I fancy 
it will be before long — for it is quite true that 
the Californians are not so easily outwitted. And 
— even did I not help you, I would not — I vow, 
senor! — betray you. Is it true that Russia is at 
war with Spain? " 
"What!" 
'' Have you not heard! It was for that we 
were all so excited this morning. We thought your 
ship might be the first of a fleet. " 
'' I have heard no such rumor, and you may 
dismiss it. Russia is too much occupied with 
Napoleon Bonaparte, who has had himself 
crowned Emperor and by this time is probably 
at war with half Europe '' 
She interrupted him with flashing eyes. The 
pink in her cheeks had turned red. The thin 
nostrils of her pretty Roman nose fluttered like 
paper. " Ah! '' she exclaimed, again with that 
note of hoarseness in her voice. " There is a 
great man, not a mere king on a throne his ancestors made for him. Papa hates him because 
he has seized a throne. Ay yi ! Dios ! you should 
hear the words fly when we go to war together. 
But I do not care that " — she snapj)ed her firm 
white fingers — " for all the Bourbons that are 
in Europe. Bonaparte! Do you know him? 
Have you seen him? '' 
'' I have seen him insult poor Markov, our 
ambassador to France, when I can assure you 
that he looked like neither a demi-god nor a gentleman. When you have improved my Spanish 
I will tell you many anecdotes of him. Meanwhile, am I to assume that you reserve your admiration for the man that carves his career in 
defiance of the rusty old machinery? " 
" I do ! I do ! My father was of the people, a 
poor boy. He has risen to be the most powerful 
of all Californians, although the King he adores 
never makes him Gobernador Proprietario. I tell 
him he should be the first to recognize the genius 
and the ambitions of a Bonaparte. The mere 
thought horrifies him. But in me that same 
strong plebeian blood makes another cry, and if 
my father had but enough men at his back, and 
the will to make himself King of the Californias 
Madre de Dios! how I should help him! '' 
" At least I know her better than she knows 
 
me," thought Eezanov, as the inner door was 
thrown open and another bare room with a long 
table laden with savory food on a superb silver 
service was revealed. "' And if I know anything 
of women I can trust her — for as long as she may 
be necessary, at all events.'' 
" Santiago! " whispered Concha. " Do not go 
down to the ship. Take me for a walk. I have 
much to say.'' 
Santiago, who had not been asked to form one 
of the escort upon the return of the Russians to 
the Juno for the night, felt injured and sulky, 
and deigned no reply. 
" If you do not, I'll not braid your hair to- 
morrow," said his sister, giving his arm a little 
shake; and he succumbed. The luxuriant tresses 
of the male Argiiellos were combed and braided 
and tied with a ribbon every morning by the 
women of the family, and Concha's fingers were 
the gentlest and deftest. And Concha and Santiago were more intimate than even the rest of 
that united family. They had studied and read 
together, were equally dissatisfied with their narrow existence, ambitious for a wider experience. 
Santiago consoled himself with cards and training roosters for battle, and otherwise as a man 
may. He was but fifteen, tliis haughty severe- 
looking young hidalgo, but while in some respects 
many years older than his sister, in others he was 
younger, for he possessed none of her illuminating instinct. 
She led him through a postern gate, round the 
first of the dunes, and they were alone in a waste 
of sand. Then she demanded abruptly: 
" What do you think of our illustrious visitor? '' 
'' I like him. He would wring your neck if you 
got in his way, but has a kind heart for those that 
call him master. I like that sort of a man. I wish 
he would take me away with him. " 
" He shall — one of these days. Santiago mio, 
let me whisper " She pulled his ear down to 
her lips. " He will marry me. I feel it. I know 
it. He has talked to me the whole day. He has 
told me grave secrets. Not even to you would I 
reveal them. So many have loved me — why 
should not he? I shall live in St. Petersburg, 
and see all Europe! — thousands of people — Dios 
mio! Dios mio! '' 
' Indeed! '' Santiago, still unamiable, responded to this confidence with a sneer. " You 
aspire very high for a little girl of the wilderness, 
without fortune, and only half a coat-of-arms, so 
to speak. Do you know that this Rezanov — Dr. 
 
Langsdorff has told us all about Mm — is a great 
noble, one of the ten barons of Eussia, and a 
Chamberlain not merely by the accident of birth 
as in Austria or Germany, but in accordance with 
a decree of Peter the Great that court titles should 
be bestowed as a reward for distinguished services 
alone? He got a fortune in his youth by marriage with a daughter of Shelikov — that Siberian 
who founded the Eussian colonies in America. 
The wife died almost immediately, but the Baron 's 
influence remained with Shelikov — for his influence at court was even greater — and after the 
older man's death, with his mother-in-law, who is 
uncommonly clever. Shelikov 's schemes were but 
sketches beside Eezanov's, who from merely a 
courtier and a gay blood about town developed 
into a great man of business, with an ambition 
to correspond. It was he who got the Imperial 
ukase that gave the Eussian-American Company 
its power to squeeze all the other fur hunters and 
traders out of the northeast, and make Eezanov 
and everybody belonging to it so rich your head 
would swim if I told you the number of doubloons 
they spend in a year. Nobody has ever been so 
clever at managing those old beasts of autocrats 
as he. They think him merely the accomplished 
courtier, a brilliant dilettante, a condescendiiig 
patron of art and letters, a devotee of pleasure, 
and all the time he is pulling their befuddled old 
intellects about to suit himself. The Tsar 
Paul was a lunatic and they murdered him, but 
meanwhile he signed the ukase. The Tsar 
Alexander, who is not so bad nor so silly as the 
others, thinks there is no man so clever as 
Rezanov, who addresses him personally when 
sending home his reports. Do you know what all 
that means? Your plenipotentiary is not only 
a chamberlain at court, a privy counsellor, and 
the Tsar himself on this side of the world, but 
when his inspections and reforms are concluded, 
and he is one of the wealthiest men in Russia, he 
will return to St. Petersburg and become so high 
and mighty that a princess would snap at him. 
And you aspire ! I never heard such nonsense. ' ' 
'' His excellency told me much of this,'' replied 
Concha imperturbably. " And I am sure that he 
cares nothing for princesses and will marry 
whom he most admires. He would not say, but I 
know he cared nothing for that poor little wife, 
dead so long ago. It was a mariage de convenance, such as all the great world is accustomed 
to. He will love me more than all the fine ladies 
 
lie has ever seen. I feel it! I know it! And I 
am quite happy.'' 
" Do you love him? " asked Santiago, looking 
curiously at his sister's flushed and glowing face. 
It seemed to him that she had never looked so 
young. " Many have loved you. I had begun to 
think you had no heart for men, no wish for anything but admiration. And now you give your 
heart in a day to this Eussian — who must be 
nearly forty — unasked. ' ' 
" I have not thought of my heart at all. But 
I could love him, of course. He is so handsome, 
so kind, so grand, so gay! But love is for men 
and wives — has not my mother said so! Now I 
think only of St. Petersburg ! of Paris ! of London! of the beautiful gowns and jewels I shall 
wear at court — a red velvet train as long as a 
queen's, and all embroidered with gold, a white 
veil spangled with gold, a head-dress a foot high 
studded with jewels, ropes of diamonds and 
pearls — I made him tell me how the great ladies 
dressed. Ah! there is the pleasure of being a 
girl — to think and dream of all those beautiful 
things, not of when the wife must live always 
for the husband and children. That comes soon 
enough. And why should I not have all! all! — 
there is so little in life for the girl. It seems to 
me now that I have had nothing. When he asks 
me to marry him he will tell me of the 
fine things I shall have and the great sights 
I shall witness — the ceremonies at court, the winter streets — with snow — snow, Santiago! — where 
the great nobles drive four horses through the 
drifts like little hills and are wrapped in furs 
like bears! The grand military parades — how I 
shall laugh when I think of our poor little 
Presidios with their dozen officers strutting 
about '' She stopped abruptly and bursting 
