" I have never dreamed of denying it," said Si- 
ward. " I have tried to find it through the accepted 
sources — accepted by me, too. God has not helped me 
in the conventional way or through traditional methods ; 
but that has not inclined me to doubt Him as the tribu- 
nal of last resort," he added hastily. " I don't for a 
moment waver in faith because I am ignorant of the 
proper manner to approach Him. The Arbiter of all 
knows that I desire to be decent. He must be aware, 
too, that all anchors save one have failed to hold me." 
" You mean — Miss Landis ? " 
" Yes. It may be weakness ; it may be to my shame 
that the cables of pride and self-respect, even the spir- 
itual respect for the Highest, cannot hold me when this 
one anchor holds. All I know is that it holds — so far. 
It held me at Shotover; it holds me again, now. And 
the rocks were close abeam. Plank — very close — when 
she spoke to me over the wires, through the rain, that 
dark day in March." 
He moistened his lips feverishly. 
 
" She said that I might sec her. I liave waited a 
long time. I have taken my fighting chance again and 
I've won out, so far." 
He looked up at Plank, curiously embarrassed : 
" Your body is normal ; your intelligence wholesome, 
balanced, sane; and I want to ask you if you think 
that perhaps, without understanding how, I have found 
in her, or through her, in some way, the spiritual source 
that I think might help me to help myself.'' " 
And, as Plank made no reply : 
" Or am I talking sentimental cant.? Don't answer, 
if you think that. I can't trust my own mind any more, 
anyway ; and," with an ugly laugh, " I'll know it all 
some day — the sooner the better ! " 
" Don't say that ! " growled Plank. " You were 
sane a moment ago." 
Siward looked up sharply, but the other silenced him 
with a gesture. 
" Wait ! You asked me a perfectly sane question — 
so wholesome, so normal, that I'm trying' to frame an an- 
swer worthy of itf I intimated that after the physical, 
the mental, the ethical phenomena, there remained al- 
ways the spiritual instinct. Like a wireless current, if 
a man can establish communication it is well for him, 
whatever the method. You assented, I think." 
" Yes." 
" And you ask me if I believe it possible that she 
can be the medium? " 
" Yes." 
Plank said deliberately : " Yes, I do think so." 
The silence was again broken by Plank : " Siward, 
you have asked me what I think. Now you must listen 
to the end. If you believed that through her — her love, 
marrying her — you stood the best chance in the world 
 
to win out, it would be cowardly to ask her to take the 
risk. As much as I care for you I had rather see you 
lose the fight than accept such a risk from her. Now 
you know what I think — but you don't know all. Si- 
ward, I say to you that if you are man enough to take 
her, take her! And I say that of the two risks she is 
running to-day, the chance she might take with you 
is infinitely the lesser risk. For with you, if you con- 
tinue slowly losing your fight, the mental suffering only 
will be hers. But if she closes this bargain with Quar- 
rier, selling to him her body, the light will go out of 
her soul for ever." 
He leaned heavily toward Siward, stretching out his 
powerful arm: 
" You marry her ; and keep open your spiritual com- 
munication through her, if that is the way it has been 
established, and hang on to your God that way until 
your body is dead ! I tell you, Siward, to mari'y her. 
I don't care how you do it; I don't care how you get 
her. Take her! Yours, of the two, is the stronger 
character, or she would not be where she is. Does she 
want what you cannot give her.'' Cure that desire — it 
is more contemptible than the craving that shatters you ! 
I say, let the one-eyed lead the blind. Miracles are 
worked out by mathematics — if you have faith enough." 
He rose, striding the length of the room once or 
twice, turned, holding out his broad hand: 
" Good-bye," he said. " Harrington is about due at 
my office; Quarrier will probably tura up to-night. I 
am not vindictive; I shall be just with them — as just as 
I know how, which is to be as merciful as I dare be. 
Good-bye, Siward. I — I believe you and she are going 
to get well." 
When he had gone, Siward lay back in his chair, 
 
very still, eyes closed. A faint colour had mounted to 
his face and remained there. 
It was late in the afternoon when he went down- 
stairs, using his crutches lightly. Gumble handed him 
a straw hat and opened the door, and Siward cautiously 
descended the stoop, stood for a few moments on the 
sidewalk, looking up at the blue sky, then wheeled and 
slowly made his way toward Washington Square. The 
avenue was deserted; his own house appeared to be the 
only remaining house still open in all that old-fashioned 
but respectable quarter. 
He swung leisurely southward, a slim, well-built 
young fellow, strangely out of place on crutches. The 
poor always looked at him ; beggars never importuned 
him, yet found him agreeable to watch. Children, who 
seldom look up into the air far enough to notice grown 
people, always became conscious of him when he passed ; 
often smiled, sometimes spoke. As for stray curs and 
tramp cats, they were for ever making advances. As 
long as he could remember, there was scarcely a week 
in town but some homeless dog attached himself to Si- 
ward's heels, sometimes trotting several blocks, some- 
times following him home — where the outcast was always 
cared for, washed, fed, and ultimately shipped out to 
the farm, where scores of these " fresh-air " dogs re- 
sided on his bounty and rolled in luxury on his lawns. 
Cats, too, were prone to notice him, rising as he 
passed to hoist an interrogative tail and make tentative 
observations. 
In Washington Square, these, and the ragged chil- 
dren, knew him best of all. The children came from 
Minetta Lane and the purlieus south and west of it ; the 
cats from the Mews, which Siward always thought most 
appropriate. 
 
And now, as he passed the nuirble arch and entered 
the square, glancing behind him he saw the inevitable 
cat trotting, and, at his left, a very dirty little girl 
pretending to trundle a hoop, but plainly- enough keep- 
ing sociable pace with him. 
" Hello ! " said Siward. The cat stopped : the child 
tossed her clustering curls, gave him a rapid but fear- 
less sidelong glance, laughed, and ran on in the wake of 
her hoop. When she caught it she sat down on a bench 
opposite the fountain and looked around at Siward. 
" It's pretty warm, isn't it? " said Siward, coming 
up and seating himself on the same bench. 
" Are you lame.'' " asked the child. 
" Oh, a little." 
'' Is your leg broken ? " 
'' Oh, no, not now." 
" Is that your cat .'' " 
Siward looked around; the cat was seated on the 
bench beside him. But he was accustomed to that sort 
of thing, and he caressed the creature with his gloved 
hand. 
" Are you rich ? " asked the child, shaking her blond 
curls from her eyes and staring up solemn!}- at him. 
" Not very," he answered, smiling. " Why do you 
ask.?" 
" You look rich, somehow," said the child shyly. 
" What ! With these old and very faded clothes ? " 
She shook her head, swinging her plump legs : " You 
look it, somehow. It isn't the clothes that matter." 
" I'll tell you one thing," said Siward, laughing: 
" I'm rich enough to buy all the hokey-pokey you can 
eat ! " and he glanced meaningly at the pedlar of that 
staple who had taken station between a vender of peaches 
and a Greek flower-seller. 
 
The child looked, too, but made no coninicnt. 
" How about it? " asked Siward. 
" I'd rather have something to remember you by," 
said the girl innocently. 
" What? " he said, perplexed. 
" A rose. They are five cents, and hokey-pokey 
costs that much — I mean, for as much as you can eat." 
" Do you really want a rose? " he said amused. 
But the child fell shy, and he beckoned the Greek 
and selected a dozen big, perfumed jacks. 
Then, as the child sat silent, her ragged arms piled 
with roses, he asked her jestingly what else she desired. 
" Nothing. I like to look at you," she answered 
simpl}'. 
" And I like to look at you. Will you tell me your 
name? " 
" Molly." 
But that is all the information he could extract. 
Presently she said she was going, hesitated, looked a 
very earnest good-bye, and darted away across the park, 
her hoop over one arm, the crimson roses bobbing above 
her shoulders. Something in her flight attracted the er- 
rant cat, for she, too, jumped down and bounded after 
the little flying feet, but, catlike, halted half-waj to 
scratch, and then forgetting what she was about, wan- 
dered off toward the Mews again, whence she had been 
lured by instinctive fascination. 
Siward, intensely amused, sat there in the late sun- 
light which streamed through the park, casting long 
shadows from the elms and sj'camores. It was that time 
of the day, just before sunset, when the old square 
looked to him as he remembered it as a child. Even 
the marble arch, pink in the evening sun, did not dis- 
turb the harmony of his memories. He saw his father 
 
once more, walking home from down town, tall, slim, 
laughingly stopping to watch him as he played there 
with the other children — the nurses, seated in a row, 
crocheting under the sycamores; he saw the old-fash- 
ioned carriage pass, Mockett on the box. Wands beside 
him, and his pretty mother leaning forward to wave her 
hand to him as the long-tailed, long-maned horses 
wheeled into Fifth Avenue. Little unimportant scenes, 
trivial episodes, grew in the spectral garden of mem- 
ory : the first time he ever saw Marion Page, when, aged 
five, she was attempting to get into the fountain, pur- 
sued by a shrieking nurse; and a certain flight across 
the grass he had indulged in with Leila Mortimer, then 
Leila Egerton, aged six, in hot pursuit, becauce she 
found that it bored him hon-ibly to be kissed, and she 
was bound to do it. He had a fight once, over by that 
gnarled, old, silver poplar-tree, with Kemp Ferrall — he 
could not remember what about, only that they ended by 
unanimously assaulting their nurses and were dragged 
howling homeward. 
He turned, looking across to where the gray towers 
of the University once stood. There had been an old 
stone church there, too; and, south of that, old, old 
houses with hip-roofs and dormers where now the high 
white cliffs of modern architecture rose, riddled with 
tiny windows, every pane glittering in the sun. South, 
the old houses still remained, now degraded to sordid 
uses. North, the square, red-brick mansions, with their 
white pillars and steps, still faced the sunset — the last 
practically unbroken rank of the old regime, the last 
of the old guard, standing fast and still confronting, 
still resisting the Inevitable looming in limestone and 
granite, story piled on story, aloft in the kindling, 
southern sky. 
 
A cab, driven smartly, passed through the park, the 
horses' feet slapping the asphalt till the echoes rattled 
back from the marble arch. He followed it idly with 
his eyes up Fifth Avenue; saw it suddenly halt in the 
middle of the street; saw a woman spring out, stand 
for a moment talking to her companion, then turn and 
look toward the square. 
She stood so long, and she was so far away, that he 
presently grew tired of watching her. A dozen ragged 
urchins were prowling around the fountain, casting 
sidelong glances at a distant policeman. But it was 
not hot enough that evening to permit the children to 
splash in the water, and the policeman drove them off. 
" Poor little devils ! " said Siward to himself ; and 
he rose, adjusted his crutches, and started through 
the park with a vague idea of seeing what could be 
done. 
As he limped onward, the sun level in his eyes, he 
heard somebody speak behind him, but did not catch 
the words or apply the hail to himself. Then, " Mr. 
Siward ! " came the low, breathless voice at his elbov,-. 
His heart stopped as he did. The sun had dazzled 
his eyes, and when he turned on his crutches he could 
not see clearly for a second. That past, he looked 
at S'lvia, looked at her outstretched hand, took it me- 
chanically, still staring at her with only a dazed unbe- 
lief in his eyes. 
" I am in town for a day," she said. " Leila 
Mortimer and I were driving up town from the bank 
when we saw you; and the next thing that happened 
was me, on Fifth Avenue, running after you — no, the 
next thing was my flying leap from the hansom, and 
my standing there looking down the street and across 
the square where you sat. Then Leila told me I was 
 
probably crazy, and I immediately confirmed her diag- 
nosis by running after you ! '' 
She stood laughing, flushed, sunburned, and breath- 
less, her left hand still in his, her right hand laid over it, 
" Oh," she said, with a sudden change to anxiety, 
" does it tire you to stand ? " 
" No. I was going to saunter along." 
" May I saunter with you for a moment ? I mean 
— I only mean, I am glad to see you." 
" Do you think I am going to let you go now.'' " he 
asked, astonished. 
She looked at him, then her eyes evaded his : " Let 
us walk a little," she said, withdrawing her hand, '' if 
you think you are strong enough." 
" Strong ! Look, Sylvia ! " and he stood unsup- 
ported by his crutches, then walked a little wa}', slowly, 
but quite firmly. " I am rather a coward about my 
foot, that is all. I shall not lug these things about 
after to-day." 
" Did the doctor say you might? " 
" Yes, after to-day. I could walk home now with- 
out them. I could do a good many things I couldn't do 
a few minutes ago. Isn't that curious ? " 
" Very," she said, avoiding his eyes. 
He laughed. She dared not look at him. The ex- 
citement and impetus of sheer impulse had carried her 
this far; now all the sadness of it was clutching hard 
at her throat and for awhile she could not speak — walk- 
ing there in her dainty, summer gown beside him, the 
very incarnation of youth and health, with the sea-tan 
on wrist and throat, and he, white, hollow-eyed, crippled, 
limping, at her elbow ! 
Yet at that very moment his whole frame seemed to 
glow and his heart clamour with the courage in it, for 
