‘No,’ he said very slowly. ‘I would not have you refuse what he
asks. It would be neither right nor just.’
In spite of the almost intolerable pain she was suffering, a glow
of wonder rose in her eyes; and there was no shadow of doubt to dim
it. At his worst, in the old days, he had always told the truth.
‘God bless you for that!’ she cried suddenly, and then her voice
dropped low. ‘You have travelled far on the good road since we last
talked together,’ she said. ‘Further than I.’
He shook his head gravely.
‘No,’ he answered. ‘You have led me, and I have followed.’
‘We have journeyed together,’ she said, ‘though we have been apart.
We may be separated, as we must be now, to the end, but we cannot
be divided any more. I wanted to tell you something else too, this
last time, and you have made it easy to say it, and altogether
right. It is this. I do not take back one word of what I said to
you and wrote to you before I knew Montalto was coming home. I do
not want you to think that I have changed my mind, or that the life
we were going to lead seems to me now one little bit less good and
true and honourable than it seemed to me that first time we talked
together here.’
‘Do you think I doubted you for a moment?’
‘You might. But it is only that other things have changed. We have
not, and I know we never shall, and in the end we are to meet where
there is peace, and somehow it will be right then, and we shall all
three understand that it is. Can you believe that too?’
‘I wish to. I shall try to. If anything could make a man believe in
God, it is the love of such a woman as you are.’
‘You have my love,’ Maria answered. ‘And some day you will believe
as I do, but in your own way, and we shall be together where there
are no partings. Yes, I am sure that we could have lived as we
meant to, and could have helped each other to rise higher and
higher, far above these dying bodies of ours. But we shall reach
the good end more quickly by our suffering than we ever could by
our happiness.’
‘That may be,’ said Castiglione, ‘but one thing is far more
certain: we must part now, cost what it may.’
‘Cost what it may!’ She pressed her hands to her eyes and was
silent a little while.
‘Has he spoken of Leone in his letters?’ Castiglione asked after a
time, in a tone that was almost timid.
Maria dropped her hands upon her knees at once and met his look.
‘Not to me,’ she answered. ‘But he gave orders about the child’s
room to the steward he sent from Montalto. Everything was to be
arranged for Leone just as I wished. That was all.’
‘Will he be kind to the boy, do you think?’ asked Castiglione, very
low.
‘I know he will try to be,’ Maria answered generously.
That was her greatest cause for fear in the future; it was the
stumbling-block she saw in the way of Montalto’s wish to take her
back; but although he might treat the boy coldly, and avoid seeing
him, and insist that he should be sent away to a school as soon as
he was old enough, she believed that her husband would be just, and
she was sure she should leave him if he were not. There was one
sacrifice which should not be exacted of her: she would not tamely
submit to see her child ill-treated. At that she would rebel, and
she would be dangerous for any man to face.
‘Yes,’ she repeated, ‘I know he will try to be kind.’
Castiglione merely nodded and said nothing, but Maria saw his
looks; and she was not all a saint yet, for with the sight came the
thrill of fierce elemental motherhood, rejoicing in the strength of
the man who could kill. There was nothing very saintly about that,
and she knew it.
‘We must not think of such things,’ she said, as she felt the deep
vibrations grow faint and die away. ‘Let us take it for granted
that my husband will be very just. That is all I have a right to
ask of him.’
Again Castiglione bent his head in assent. Then both were silent
for a long time.
‘Am I never to know anything of your life after this?’ he asked
suddenly.
‘You will know what every one may know,’ she said.
‘Nothing more? Only to hear that you are ill or well? Never to
be told whether he really does what he can to make it bearable
for you? May I not have news of you sometimes? Through Giuliana
Parenzo, for instance? Is it to be always outer darkness?’
‘Giuliana will know what you all will know, and no more,’ Maria
answered. ‘If I must not tell you what I suffer, do you think I
would tell her? I shall not tell myself!’ There was one bitter note
in that phrase. ‘You will always know something that no one else
can,’ she went on, and her voice softened. ‘And so shall I, and
that must be enough for us. Is it so little?’
‘Ah, no! It is all of us two that really lives!’
She heard the deeper tone of rising passion not far away, and she
interrupted him.
‘It is all I shall have for the rest of my life,’ she said, and she
rose suddenly and held out her hand, meaning that it was time to
part.
‘Already?’ he asked, not leaving his seat yet, and looking up
beseechingly.
‘Yes,’ she said. ‘You must not stay. We have told each other what
had to be said, and to say more would not be right. Less would not
have been just to you.’
He also had risen now and stood before her, meaning to be as brave
as she, cost what it might.
‘We are only human,’ she went on, ‘only a man and a woman alone
together, and if I let you stay longer this one last time, there
may be some word, some look, between us that we shall regret.
Though Diego is not here yet, I became his wife again in real truth
on the day I accepted his forgiveness; and as his wife, no word to
you shall pass my lips that he might not hear. We have tried to do
right, you and I; if we have not failed altogether, God help us
to do better! If we did wrong in those few sweet days, then God
pardon us! I thank you from my soul for being brave and true when
you might have dragged me down. For the past we have forgiven each
other, as we hope to be forgiven. And so good-bye. I would bless
you, if I dared; I can ask a blessing for you, and it will come; I
am sure it will. If I die first, I shall wait for you somewhere,
and you will come. If you are taken before me, wait for me!
Good-bye, good-bye, good-bye!’
Her voice was sweet and steady to the very end, but when he took
her hand at last it was cold, and it quivered in his. He began to
lift it to his lips, but it resisted him gently, and he obeyed its
resistance.
‘Good-bye,’ he said, as well as he could.
But she hardly heard the syllables; and then, in a moment, he was
gone.
CHAPTER XII
The day had come, and Maria was waiting alone for her husband
in one of the great rooms of the Palazzo Montalto. She had told
Leone that she would send for him when he was wanted, and he was
thoughtfully consoling himself for not being allowed to stay with
her by polishing the barrel of his tin rifle with his tooth-brush
and tooth powder, and he had the double satisfaction of seeing the
gun shine beautifully and of making the hated instrument useless
for its proper purpose. And meanwhile he wondered what his papa
would be like, and whether he should always hate him.
But Maria walked restlessly up and down the drawing-room, and her
head felt a little light. Now and then she stopped near one of
the open windows and listened for the sound of wheels below and
looked at her watch; and when she saw that it was still early, she
breathed more freely at first and sat down, trying to rest and
collect herself; but it was like thinking of resting ten minutes
before execution, and she rose almost directly and began to walk
again.
In her deep mourning she looked smaller and slighter in the great
room than in the simpler surroundings she had left. She had indeed
grown a little thinner of late, but she was not ill, nor even as
tired as she had expected to be at the crucial moment. The people
who feel most are not those whose nerves go to pieces in trouble,
and who get absolute rest then by the doctor’s orders; they are
more often those who are condemned to bear much, for the very
reason that they cannot break down. In the age of torture the weak
fainted or died and felt no more, but the strong were conscious and
suffered to the end, and that was very long in coming. Yet no one
ever pities the strong people.
Leone had told his mother that the white patch in her hair near
her left temple had grown so much larger of late that three of
his fingers only just covered it, and he had kindly offered to
ink it for her; and she was somewhat thinner and a little paler
than she had been a month earlier. But that was all there was to
show that she had lived through weeks of distress. Montalto would
scarcely notice the white lock at first, and her figure looked a
shade more perfect for being slighter. She had never been a beauty,
but she had more grace and charm than ever, and she was only
seven-and-twenty. Giuliana Parenzo was much handsomer, but few men
would have hesitated between her and Maria, who had that nameless
something in every easy movement, in every lingering smile, in each
soft tone of her warm voice, that wakes the man in men, as early
spring stirs the life in the earth, deep down and out of sight.
She did not understand what she had, and for years she had lived
so much away from the lighter side of her own world that she had
almost forgotten how the men used to gather round her and crowd
upon each other instinctively to come nearer to her in the first
year of her marriage, as they never did for Giuliana. She used to
notice it then, and she had a laugh and a quick answer for each
that showed no preference for any, and maddened them all till they
were almost ready to quarrel with each other; but she had been very
young then, and she had not understood, till one more reckless than
the rest, the very one she trusted too much because she loved him
only and too well, had laid waste for ever her fair young being,
half-wrecked his own life, and broken the heart of an honest man.
And this honest man had forgiven her, for love of her; he too, and
he more than any, had felt that her smile, and her breath, and
her touch could drive him mad; and now that he was coming back,
the minutes were passing quickly--a very few were left--still
fewer--the last but one--the very last, as she heard his carriage
roll in through the great arched entrance almost directly under her
feet.
The doors were open beyond the drawing-room towards the
ante-chamber; one door only was shut between that and the outer
hall where the butler and footmen in deep mourning were waiting for
their master.
She heard it opened, a once familiar voice asked in a formal
tone where she was, and a servant answered. Then came the
well-remembered step. In the painful tension of her hearing she
heard it far away, even on the soft carpet, more clearly than she
had ever heard it on tiled floor or marble pavement.
She steadied herself for a moment against the corner of a heavy
table; and then the drawing-room door, which had been open, was
shut, and Montalto was in the room, grey and hollow-eyed, coming
towards her with thin hands outstretched in greeting. By a miracle
of strength she went forward and met them with her own; met his
eyes, and let him kiss her. She sank into a chair then, and he was
close beside her, trying to speak in his old formal way, though he
could hardly control his voice.
He seemed dreadfully changed, and when she saw him clearly a sharp
pang of pity wrung her heart. His hair and pointed beard were quite
grey, his colourless cheeks were painfully thin, and his hollow
eyes burned with a feverish fire; he stopped speaking suddenly, in
the middle of a sentence, as if he were paralysed, and his lips
were parched, but his burning gaze did not waver from her face. She
was a little frightened.
‘You are ill!’ she cried. ‘Let me get you something!’
She half rose, but his thin hand caught her and held her back.
‘No,’ he said hoarsely, ‘I am not ill. It is only that--that I have
not--seen you--for so long!’
The words came in gasps; the last ones broke out in a frantic sob.
She was moved, and willing to be touched, and though she had felt
the old physical repulsion for him again the instant he came near
her, she took one of his hands now and held it on her knees and
stroked it kindly.
‘Diego!’
She did not know what to say, so she pronounced his name as softly
and as affectionately as she could. But she had not spoken yet, and
at the sound of her sweet voice the man broke down completely.
‘Oh, Maria, Maria!’ he moaned, drawing her hand to his chest and
rocking himself a little. ‘It was all a dreadful dream--and I have
got you back again--Maria----’
The over-strained, over-wrenched nerves gave way and he broke into
a flood of tears; the drops ran down the furrows of his thin cheeks
and his grey beard and wet her hand as he pressed passionate kisses
upon it, rocking himself over it and sobbing convulsively.
Maria had lived through a good deal of suffering and some moments
that now seemed too horrible to have been real, but she had never
had any emotion forced upon her from without that had been harder
to bear calmly than what she felt now.
If anything could strengthen the physical repulsion that made her
shrink from her husband’s touch it was the sight of his unmanly
tears and the sound of his hysterical sobbing. If anything could
make it more difficult to hide her loathing it was the knowledge
that she had wronged him and that she owed him gratitude for his
free forgiveness. She would much rather have had him turn upon her
like a maniac and strike her than be obliged to watch the painful
heaving of his thin, bent shoulders, and feel the hot tears that
ran down upon her hands.
It was so unutterably disgusting that she felt a terribly strong
impulse to throw him off, to scream out that she would not take his
forgiveness at any price, that he must let her go back and lead her
own life with her child, as she had lived for so many years. He
would suffer a little more, but what was a little more or less to a
man who seemed half mad?
Then the wave of pity rushed back, and that was even worse. It was
the pity a delicate woman feels for some wretched living thing half
killed in an accident, so crushed and torn that the mere thought
of touching it makes her shrink back and shiver to her very feet
because the suffering creature is not her own. If it were hers but
ever so little, if it were her dog, she would feel nothing but the
instant womanly need of saving it if she could, of helping it to
die easily if she could not.
Maria’s hand shrank from the scalding tears and writhed under the
man’s frantic kisses. She shut her eyes and threw back her head;
her face was drawn and white, and she prayed as she had never
prayed in her life, for strength to bear all that was before her.
It had seemed just possible, because she had imposed it upon
herself as her honourable duty, and because the husband she
remembered had been before all things proud, and as full of a
certain exaggerated dignity and self-respect as Spaniards sometimes
are, though he was only half-Spanish. She had felt him coming back
to her from far away, like a dark instrument of fate, to which she
must give herself up body and mind, if she hoped to expiate her sin
to the end. It had seemed hard, even dreadfully hard; but this was
worse. Instead of the erect and formal figure and the grave dark
face that had a certain strength in it which she could at least
respect--instead of that, it was a broken-down man who came to her,
prematurely old, a neurasthenic invalid no better than a hysterical
woman, palsied with unmanly emotion, lacking all strength,
self-respect and dignity, and without even a rag of vanity that
might have passed for pride.
She was not stronger in her hands than other women, but she was
sure that it would be easy to throw him from her; he would fall in
a heap on the carpet, and would lie there helpless and sobbing. As
she felt the instant contempt for his weakness, she prayed the more
for courage to humble her own strength to it; and her eyes were
still shut tight and her face was white and drawn. This was but the
beginning of what must last for years, ten, twenty, as long as he
lived, or until she died of it.
The future stretched out before her in length without end; she
forgot everything else, and did not know that the tears ceased to
flow and presently dried, nor that Montalto drew back from her into
his own chair as the storm subsided within him. His voice woke her
from the dream of pain to come.
‘I trust you will forgive my first emotion, my dear,’ he said with
all his characteristic formality. ‘I see that I have made a painful
impression on you. I shall not allow it to occur again.’
It was such a quick relief to see him more like himself, that she
had almost a sensation of pleasure, and she smiled faintly while
she tried to say something.
‘No--please--I’m so sorry----’
She could find no connected sentence. He rose and began to walk up
and down before her, making half a dozen steps each way, a shadowy
figure in black, passing and repassing before her.
‘I believe that I have made everything clear in my letters,’ he
said, and then he glanced at her from time to time without pausing
in his walk while he talked. ‘I shall not repeat anything I have
written, but there are one or two other matters of which I must
speak to you before we begin life again together, Maria. They need
not be mentioned more than once either. It is better to be done
with everything which may be in the least painful to you as soon as
possible.’
In spite of the formal manner, there were kind inflections in his
