outstretched arms, hoping to sweep them altogether into the water from
a place where they had so little foothold. The woman held her breath.
One of the three men, active as a monkey, dodged past the astrologer,
caught the knotted rope, and began climbing it. The other two fell,
their feet entangled in the line-rove through the tail-block, and with
the strong man's weight behind them they tumbled headlong down the
incline. With a heavy splash, and scarcely more than one for all
three, Gorlias and his opponents fell into the water.
There was silence then, while the other man climbed higher and higher.
The woman watched in horror. In falling, the men had struck against
the stem of the skiff, dragging the painter from the peg. The other
boat was not moored at all, and both were now adrift on the sluggish
stream. The woman steadied herself, and tried to see.
The man climbed fast, and above him the dark figure moved quickly
upwards. But Zeno's pursuer was fresher than he, and as quick as a
cat, and gained on him. If he caught him, he might crook his leg round
the knotted rope to drag Zeno down and hurl him to the ground.
Still he gained, while the boats began to drift, but still the woman
could make out both figures, nearer and nearer to each other. Now
there were not ten feet between them.
A faint cry was heard, a heavy thud on the stones, and silence again.
Zeno had cut the rope below him. The woman drew a sharp breath between
her closed teeth. There was no noise, now, for the man that had been
as active as a cat was dead.
But an instant later one of the other three was out of the water, and
on the edge of the pier, panting for breath.
The woman took up one of the oars, and tried to paddle with it. She
thought that the man who had come up must be Gorlias, and that the
other two were drowned, and she tried to get the boat to the pier
again; she had never held an oar in her life, and she was trembling
now. High in mid-air Zeno was hanging on what was left of the rope,
slowly working his way upwards, fully fifty feet above the base of the
tower.
The skiff bumped against the other boat alongside, and the woman began
to despair of getting nearer to the land, and tried to shove the empty
boat away with her hands. The effect was to push her own skiff towards
the pier, for the other was much the heavier of the two. Then,
paddling a little, she made a little way. The man ashore seemed to be
examining the body of the one who had been killed; it lay sprawling on
the stones, the head smashed. The living one was not Gorlias; the
woman could see his outline now. She was strong, and with the one oar
shoved her skiff still farther from the other boat, and nearer to the
pier. The man heard her, got upon his feet, and slipped down to the
water's edge again.
'Hold out the end of the oar to me,' he said, 'and I will pull the
boat in.'
It was not the voice of Gorlias that spoke, and the woman did not obey
the instructions it gave. On the contrary she tried to paddle away,
lest the man should jump aboard. Strangely enough the skiff seemed to
answer at once to her will, as if some unseen power were helping her.
It could not be her unskilled, almost helpless movements of the oar
that guided it away.
But the man rose to his feet, on the lowest course of the stones,
where there was a ledge, and he sprang forwards, struck the water
without putting his head under, and was at the stern of the boat in a
few seconds.
The woman seemed fearless, for she stepped quickly over the after
thwart, taking her oar with her, and a moment later she struck a
desperate blow with it at the swimmer, and raised it again. She could
not see him any more, and she knew that if she had struck his head he
must have sunk instantly; but she waited a little longer in the stern,
the oar still uplifted in both her hands.
At that moment, the repeated call of the owlet came down from far
above. It could only mean that Zeno had reached the upper window in
safety. Then the boat rocked violently two or three times, and the
woman was thrown down, sitting, in the stern sheets; she saw that a
man was getting in over the bows, and was already on board.
'That was well done, Kokóna,' said the voice of Gorlias, softly.
Zoë sank back in the stern, half-fainting with exhaustion, pain, and
past anxiety.
'Is he safe?' she managed to ask.
'That was his call. He has reached the window again, but it was a
narrow escape.'
She could hardly breathe. Gorlias had taken the oars, and the skiff
was moving.
CHAPTER XI
Zeno found the two occupants of the room terrorstruck, and standing on
one side of the window, from which they had not dared to look out
after the cry of alarm had been given from below. Indeed they were in
a dangerous pass, unless all three of the men who had attempted to
stop Zeno were dead, or if the first cry had roused the sleeping
captain and guards of the tower from their drugged sleep.
But Zeno's own situation was quite as bad. It was out of the question
to shout to Gorlias, on the mere chance of his being still alive and
on the pier. No communication was possible, and the rope was cut
below. It was true that the whole of the fishing-line still lay coiled
on the floor of the room, but even if it were long enough to double it
would hardly bear the man's weight; and Carlo guessed that he had cut
off nearly three-quarters of the knotted rope below him.
There was no time to be lost either. He did not know the number of his
assailants, and though he gave his signal when he reached the window,
on the mere chance of being heard, he would not have trusted the
answer to it if it had come. Any one could imitate such a sound after
hearing it once. If he let down the remaining length of the rope by
the fishing-line, and if his enemies were on the pier instead of
Gorlias, they would have wit enough to knot the rope where it had been
cut, and to send it up again, for him to come down by, and he would
drop into their very midst.
He understood all this in an instant, and without hesitation he cast
off everything above, and dropped the rope and the fishing-line out of
the window. He knew Gorlias well enough to be sure that he would come
back before daylight and land if there were no one on the pier, and
remove all traces of the attempt.
'We are all lost!' moaned the big woman.
'My hour has come,' said the Emperor Johannes in solemn terror.
Thereupon he began to say his prayers, and paid no more attention to
the others. Zeno took the woman by the wrist.
'We are not lost unless your husband is awake,' he said. 'Take me to
him.'
The captain's wife stared at him.
'There is no other way. If he is awake, you will tell him that I got
into the tower, and that you have betrayed me into his hands. You will
be safe at least, and I will take my chance. If he is asleep I have
nothing to fear.'
He drew her to the door and began to unbar it himself. She had
understood that he was right, so far as her own safety was concerned,
and she helped him. A horn lantern stood on the stone floor in the
entry at the head of the stair, where she had left it when she had
last come up. Before going down she barred the door outside as usual,
and then led the way.
At the first landing she opened a door as softly as she could and went
in, leaving Zeno on the threshold. It was the sleeping room, and Zeno
heard the captain's stertorous breathing with relief. He went in and
looked at the sleeping man's face, which was congested to a dark red
by the powerful drug, and Zeno thought it doubtful whether he would
ever wake again. The woman, ignorant of the effects of much opium, was
afraid her husband might open his eyes, and she plucked at Zeno's
sleeve, anxious to get him away; but the Venetian smiled.
'He is good for twelve hours' sleep,' he said. 'Give me his cloak and
helmet. If I find no one awake I will leave them at the outer gate.
Otherwise I will send them to the tower in a clothes-basket to-morrow
morning.'
The captain's wife obeyed, less frightened than she had been at first;
Zeno muffled half his face in the big cloak, and threw the end over
his shoulder whence it hung down, displaying the three broad stripes
of gold lace that formed the border distinctive of a captain's rank in
the guards. The bright helmet had a gilt eagle for a crest, scarcely
differing from that of the modern German Gardes du Corps regiment.
'Now show me the way,' Zeno said.
Under the folds of the cloak he had the short broad sheath-knife ready
in his grasp, and it was no bad weapon in the hand of such a fighter
as Carlo Zeno. The captain's wife led the way with the lantern.
  [Illustration: The captain's wife obeyed, less frightened than she had
   been at first.]
At the foot of the next flight of stairs she almost stumbled over the
sentinel, half-seated on the lowest step in a drunken sleep; his
shaggy head had fallen forwards on his breast, and his legs stuck
straight out before him, wide apart, like the legs of a wooden doll.
His hands lay open with the palms upwards, one on his knee, the other
on the step beside him; and his helmet, which had rolled off his head,
had happened to stop just between his feet, the right side up, and
facing him, as if it were watching him in his slumber like a living
thing.
The story they had now reached contained the living room of the
captain and his wife, and no sentinel was needed higher up in the
tower. An iron door, fastened on the inside, cut off the descent, and
had to be opened for Zeno to pass. But being constantly in use the
lock was well oiled, and the bolts slipped back almost without noise.
Nevertheless, as he followed his companion down the next flight, Zeno
drew up the folds of the cloak on his right arm till the edge barely
covered the drawn knife in his hand.
They reached the next story below, where the upper guard-room was. The
door was half-open, and a lamp was burning within, but as the window
was over the great court of Blachernæ no light had been visible from
the water. Zeno heard voices, and caught sight of two guards carousing
at the end of an oak table. At the sound of footsteps one of the men
rose quickly, but staggered when he tried to walk to the door.
'Who goes there?' he called out, steadying himself by the door-post,
and looking out.
The captain's wife had the presence of mind to hold up the lantern, so
that the light fell full upon the helmet Zeno wore. Instantly the
soldier tried to straighten himself to an attitude of attention, with
his hands by his sides. But this was too much for his unstable
balance, and he reeled backwards half across the room within, till he
struck the table behind him, and tumbled down with a clatter of
accoutrements and a rattling of the horn drinking-cups that were
thrown to the ground. His companion, who was altogether too drunk even
to leave his seat, broke into a loud idiotic laugh at his accident.
'You have done your share well, Kyría,' said Zeno, as he followed her
again. 'The Emperor's friends could have brought him down by the
stairs in triumph without being stopped.'
'You are not out of the palace precincts yet,' answered the captain's
wife in a warning tone.
She went on, treading more softly as she descended, and carrying the
lantern low lest she or her companion should stumble over another
sleeping sentinel; but the staircase and the door that led into the
court were deserted, for the captain was a very exact man, and had his
supper at the same hour every evening, and went to bed soon afterwards
like an honest citizen, after setting the watch and locking the iron
door of his own lower landing. In two years he had never once come
down the tower after sunset. The consequence was that the guards, who
were mostly rough barbarians from the Don country and the shores of
the Black Sea, did as they pleased, or as their lieutenant pleased;
for he found it pleasant to spend his nights in another part of the
palace, and was extremely popular with his men, because they were
thus enabled to go to bed like good Christians and sleep all night.
All this the captain's wife knew well enough. Her apprehension was for
what might happen to Zeno between leaving the tower and passing the
great gate, which was the only way to get out of the fortified
precincts. The wide courtyard was very dark, but there were lights
here and there in the windows of the buildings that surrounded it on
three sides, the great mass of the palace on the right, the barracks
of the guards along the wall to the left, and the main post at the
great gate in front with the buildings on each side of it, some
occupied by slaves and some used as stables.
Zeno wished that he had stripped one of the sleeping soldiers and had
put on his dress, for he had been informed of the captain's habits,
and knew that the disguise was no longer a safe one after leaving the
tower. Indeed it was a chief part of the captain's duty never to go
out after dark, on any excuse, and he apparently made sure of obeying
this permanent order by going to bed early and getting up late. For
the rest, he had always left the personal care of his prisoner to his
wife, judging that her stout middle-age and fiery cheeks sufficiently
protected his domestic honour. She had been young and very pretty
once, it was true, but the captain did not know that Johannes had even
seen her then, much less did he guess that many years ago, when the
Emperor was a handsome young prince and she was a lovely girl in the
old Empress's train, she had worshipped him and he had condescended
to accept her admiration for a few weeks. But this was the truth, as
Zeno's grandson the bishop very clearly explains.
She left her lantern just inside the door and came out with Carlo into
the open air. After walking a few steps she laid her hand on his arm,
stopped, looked round, and listened. As yet they had not exchanged two
words about the situation, and were far from sure that the watch which
had detected Carlo from the water and had failed to catch him, had not
come round by land to the palace gate to give the alarm.
Zeno slipped the cloak from his shoulders and wrapped it round the
helmet, so that the captain's wife could carry both conveniently.
'It is hopeless,' she whispered, as she took them. 'This morning he
promised that he would leave the prison if you could bring him out. He
has often spoken to me as he spoke to you this evening--he loves the
boy dearly; but I was sure that he had made up his mind to risk
everything, else I would not have shown the red light.'
'After all,' Zeno observed, 'it is just as well that he would not
come, since we were seen, though I really believe Gorlias was too much
for the men who almost caught us. He and I together could certainly
have settled them all--there were only three. I saw them distinctly
when they first jumped ashore, and one was killed by the fall when I
cut the rope. Gorlias silenced the other two, for if they were alive
there would have been an alarm here by this time.'
'Yes,' the woman answered. 'But some one must have betrayed us. We
cannot try that way again.'
'I shall not try that, or any other way again!' Zeno said with
emphasis. 'In the name of the Evangelist, why should I risk my neck to
free a man who prefers to be a prisoner?'
'The wonder is that you are alive this time!'
'It will not even be safe to communicate by the thread again. Will you
take him a message?'
'As well as I can remember it.'
'Tell him that the next time he asks my help he must send me, by the
same messenger, a deed giving Tenedos to Venice, signed and sealed.
Otherwise I will not stir!'
'Shall I tell him that?'
'Yes. Tell him so from me. And now, go back, Kyría, and thank you for
your guidance and your lantern in those dark stairs.'
'How shall you pass the gate?' asked the captain's wife.
She spoke anxiously, for Zeno was a handsome man, and she had seen how
brave he was.
'I do not know,' he answered, 'but one of two things must happen.'
'What things?'
'Either I shall get out or I shall never see daylight again! I shall
not let myself be taken alive to be impaled in the Hippodrome, I
assure you. Thank you again, and good-night.'
She drew back into the shadow of the tower door and watched the
handsome young man with the peculiar half-motherly, half-sentimental
anxiety of the middle-aged woman, who was a flirt in her youth and
turned the heads of just such men, who knows that she is grown fat and
ugly and can never turn the head of another, but who has preserved
many tender and pleasant recollections of all the sex.
Zeno did not walk straight towards the gate, though it was easily
distinguished from the adjacent buildings by the greater number of its
lights. He crossed the wide court diagonally to the right, in the
direction of the stables, till he was near enough to see distinctly
any one who chanced to come under the rays of one of the scattered
lamps that burned here and there in doorways and open windows. Before
long he saw a trooper of the guards emerging rather unsteadily out of
the darkness into one of these small circles of light. Zeno could not
help smiling to himself at the idea that there was hardly one sober
man awake among the guards that night, and that they had all drunk
themselves stupid with his money.
He overtook the man in half-a-dozen strides, and spoke to him in a low
voice.
'Hi! comrade! You who are still perfectly sober, help a friend who is
very drunk!'
The man stopped, steadied himself, and answered with ponderous
gravity.
'Perfectly--hic--hic--sober!'
'I wish I were!' replied Zeno. 'The truth is, I am exceedingly drunk,
though I do not show it. Wine only affects my brains, never my legs
or my tongue. It is a very strange thing!'
'Very--cu--hic--rious!' responded the soldier, trying to see his
interlocutor clearly, by screwing up his eyes.
'Extraordinarily cuhicrious, as you justly observe,' Zeno answered
gravely. 'But the fact is----'
'Excuse me--hic,' interrupted the soldier. 'Are you one man--hic--or
two men?'
'One man,' Zeno answered. 'Only one, and so drunk that I have quite
forgotten the password.'
'Sec--hic--ret,' hiccoughed the man. 'Password secret,' he repeated,
with a tremendous effort.
