against the dark foliage of the Park. He stood a moment, angry at the
desertion of his cabman, then turned and reëntered the dark hall,
closing the door behind him.
Up the staircase he felt his way to the first landing, and, lighting a
match, looked for the electric button.
"Am I crazy, or was there no electric button in this hall?" he thought.
The match burned low; he had to drop it. Perplexed, he struck another
match and opened the door leading into the front room, and stood on the
threshold a moment, looking about him at the linen-shrouded furniture
and pictures. This front room, closed for the summer, he had not before
entered, but he stepped in now, poking about for any possible intruder,
lighting match after match.
"I suppose I ought to go over this confounded house inch by inch," he
murmured. "What could have possessed me to leave the front door ajar
this morning?"
For an instant he thought that perhaps Mrs. Nolan, the woman who came in
the morning to make his bed, might have left the door open, but he knew
that couldn't be so, because he always waited for her to finish her work
and leave before he went out. So either he must have left the door open,
or some marauder had visited the house--was perhaps at that moment in
the house! And it was his duty to find out.
"I'd better be about it, too," he thought savagely, "or I'll never make
my train."
He struck his last match, looked around, and, seeing gas jets among the
clustered electric bulbs of the sconces, tried to light one and
succeeded.
He had left his suit case in the passageway between the front and rear
rooms, and now, cautiously, stick in hand, he turned toward the dim
corridor leading to the bedroom. There was his suit case, anyway! He
picked it up and started to push open the door of the rear room; but at
the same time, and before he could lay his hand on the knob, the door
before him opened suddenly in a flood of light, and a woman stood there,
dark against the gas-lit glare, a pistol waveringly extended in the
general direction of his head.
CHAPTER XVI
"Good heavens!" he said, appalled, and dropped his suit case with a
crash.
"W-what are you d-doing--" She controlled her voice and the wavering
weapon with an effort. "What are you doing in this house?"
"Doing? In this house?" he repeated, his eyes protruding in the
direction of the unsteady pistol muzzle. "What are you doing in this
house--if you don't mind saying!"
"I--I m-must ask you to put up your hands," she said. "If you move I
shall certainly s-shoot off this pistol."
"It will go off, anyway, if you handle it like that!" he said,
exasperated. "What do you mean by pointing it at me?"
"I mean to fire it off in a few moments if you don't raise your hands
above your head!"
He looked at the pistol; it was new and shiny; he looked at the athletic
young figure silhouetted against the brilliant light.
"Well, if you make a point of it, of course." He slowly held up both
hands, higher, then higher still. "Upon my word!" he breathed. "Held up
by a woman!" And he said aloud, bitterly: "No doubt you have assistance
close at hand."
"No doubt," she said coolly. "What have you been packing into that
valise?"
"P-packing into what? Oh, into that suit case? That is my suit case."
"Of course it is," she said quietly, "but what have you inside it?"
"Nothing you or your friends would care for," he said meaningly.
"I must be the judge of that," she retorted. "Please open that suit
case."
"How can I if my hands are in the air?" he expostulated, now intensely
interested in the novelty of being held up by this graceful and vaguely
pretty silhouette.
"You may lower your arms to unpack the suit case," she said.
"I--I had rather not if you are going to keep me covered with your
pistol."
"Of course I shall keep you covered. Unpack your booty at once!"
"My--what?"
"Booty."
"Madam, do you take me for a thief? Have you, by chance, entered the
wrong house? I--I cannot reconcile your voice with what I am forced to
consider you--a housebreaker--"
"We will discuss that later. Unpack that bag!" she insisted.
"But--but there is nothing in it except samples of marble--"
"What!" she exclaimed nervously. "What did you say? Samples of
marble?"
"Marble, madam! Georgia marble!"
"Oh! So you are the young man who goes about pretending to peddle
Georgia marble from samples! Are you? The famous marble man I have heard
of."
"I? Madam, I don't know what you mean!"
"Come!" she said scornfully; "let me see the contents of that suit case.
I--I am not afraid of you; I am not a bit afraid of you. And I shall
catch your accomplice, too."
"Madam, you speak like an honest woman! You must have managed to enter
the wrong house. This is number thirty-eight, where I live."
"It is number thirty-six; my house!"
"But I know it is number thirty-eight; Mr. Lee's house," he protested
hopefully. "This is some dreadful mistake."
"Mr. Lee's house is next door," she said. "Do you not suppose I know my
own house? Besides, I have been warned against a plausible young man who
pretends he has Georgia marble to sell--"
"There is a dreadful mistake somewhere," he insisted. "Please p-p-put up
your p-pistol and aid me to solve it. I am no robber, madam. I thought
at first that you were. I'm living in Mr. Lee's house, No. 38 East
Eighty-third Street, and I've looked carefully at the number over the
door of this house and the number is thirty-eight, and the street is
East Eighty-third. So I naturally conclude that I am in Mr. Lee's
house."
"Your arguments and your conclusions are very plausible," she said,
"but, fortunately for me, I have been expressly warned against a young
man of your description. You are the marble man!"
"It's a mistake! A very dreadful one."
"Then how did you enter this house?"
"I have a key--I mean I found the front door unlatched. Please don't
misunderstand me; I know it sounds unconvincing, but I really have a key
to number thirty-eight."
He attempted to reach for his pocket and the pistol glittered in his
face.
"Won't you let me prove my innocence?" he asked.
"You can't prove it by showing me a key. Besides, it's probably a
weapon. Anyhow, if, as you pretend, you have managed to get into the
wrong house, why did you bring that suit case up here?"
"It was here. It's mine. I left it here in this passageway."
"In my house?" she asked incredulously.
"In number thirty-eight; that is all I know. I'll open the suit case if
you will let me. I have already described its contents. If it has
samples of marble in it you must be convinced!"
"It will convince me that it is your valise. But what of that? I know it
is yours already," she said defiantly. "I know, at least, that you are
the marble man--if nothing worse!"
"But malefactors don't go about carrying samples of Georgia marble," he
protested, dropping on one knee under the muzzle of her revolver and
tugging at the straps and buckles. In a second or two he threw open the
case--and the sight of the contents staggered him. For there, thrown in
pellmell among small square blocks of polished marble was a complete kit
of burglar's tools, including also a mask, a dark lantern, and a
blackjack.
"What--w--w--what on earth is this?" he stammered. "These things don't
belong to me. I won't have them! I don't want them. Who put them into my
suit case? How the deuce--"
"You are the marble man!" she said with a shudder. "Your crimes are
known! Your wretched accomplice will be caught! You are the marble
man--or something worse!"
Kneeling there, aghast, bewildered, he passed his hand across his eyes
as though to clear them from some terrible vision. But the suit case was
still there with its incriminating contents when he looked again.
"I am sorry for you," she said tremulously. "I--if it were not for the
marble--I would let you go. But you are the marble man!"
"Yes, and I'm probably a madman, too. I don't know what I am! I don't
know what is happening to me. I ought to be going, that is all I know--"
"I cannot let you go."
"But I must! I've got to catch a train."
The feebleness of his excuse chilled her pity.
"I shall not let you go," she said, resting the hand which held the
pistol on her hip, but keeping him covered. "I know you came to rob my
house; I know you are a thoroughly bad and depraved young man, but for
all that I could find it in my heart to let you go if you were not also
the marble man!"
"What on earth is the marble man?" he asked, exasperated.
"I don't know. I have been earnestly warned against him. Probably he is
a relative of my butler--"
"I'm not a relative of anybody's butler!"
"You say you are not. How do I know? I--I will make you an offer. I
will give you one last chance. If you will return to me the jewels that
my butler took--"
"Good heavens, madam! Do you really take me for a professional burglar?"
"How can I help it?" she said indignantly. "Look at your suit case full
of lanterns and masks--full of marble, too!"
Speechless, he stared at the burglar's kit.
"I am sorry--" Her voice had altered again to a tremulous sweetness. "I
can't help feeling sorry for you. You do not seem to be hardened; your
voice and manner are not characteristically criminal. I--I can't see
your face very clearly, but it does not seem to be a brutally inhuman
face--"
An awful desire to laugh seized Kerns; he struggled against it;
hysteria lay that way; and he covered his face with both hands and
pinched himself.
She probably mistook the action for the emotion of shame and despair
born of bitter grief; perhaps of terror of the law. It frightened her a
little, but pity dominated. She could scarcely endure to do what she
must do.
"This is dreadful, dreadful!" she faltered. "If you only would give me
back my jewels--"
Sounds, hastily smothered, escaped him. She believed them to be groans,
and it made her slightly faint.
"I--I've simply got to telephone for the police," she said pityingly. "I
must ask you to sit down there and wait--there is a chair. Sit
there--and please don't move, for I--this has unnerved me--I am not
accustomed to doing cruel things; and if you should move too quickly or
attempt to run away I feel certain that this pistol would explode."
"Are you going to telephone?" he asked.
"Yes, I am."
She backed away, cautiously, pistol menacing him, reached for the
receiver, and waited for Central. She waited a long time before she
realized that the telephone as well as the electric light was out of
commission.
"Did you cut all these wires?" she demanded angrily.
"I? What wires?"
She reached out and pressed the electric button which should have rung a
bell in her maid's bedroom on the top floor. She kept her finger on the
button for ten minutes. It was useless.
"You laid deliberate plans to rob this house," she said, her cheeks pink
with indignation. "I am not a bit sorry for you. I shall not let you
go! I shall sit here until somebody comes to my assistance, if I have to
sit here for weeks and weeks!"
"If you'd let me telephone to my club--" he began.
"Your club! You are very plausible. You didn't offer to call up any club
until you found that the telephone was not working!"
He thought a moment. "I don't suppose you would trust me to go out and
get a policeman?"
"Certainly not."
"Or go into the front room and open a window and summon some passer-by?"
"How do I know you haven't confederates waiting outside?"
"That's true," he said seriously.
There was a silence. Her nerves seemed to trouble her, for she began to
pace to and fro in front of the passageway where he sat comfortably on
his chair, arms folded, one knee dropped over the other.
The light being behind her he could not as yet distinguish her features
very clearly. Her figure was youthful, slender, yet beautifully rounded;
her head charming in contour. He watched her restlessly walking on the
floor, small hand clutching the pistol resting on her hip.
The ruddy burnished glimmer on the edges of her hair he supposed, at
first, was caused by the strong light behind her.
"This is atrocious!" she murmured, halting to confront him. "How dared
you sever every electric connection in my house?"
As she spoke she stepped backward a pace or two, resting herself for a
moment against the footboard of the bed--full in the gaslight. And he
saw her face.
For a moment he studied her; an immense wave of incredulity swept over
him--of wild unbelief, slowly changing to the astonishment of dawning
conviction. Astounded, silent, he stared at her from his shadowy corner;
and after a while his pulses began to throb and throb and hammer, and
the clamoring confusion of his senses seemed to deafen him.
[Illustration: "'This is atrocious,' she murmured, halting to confront
him."]
She rested a moment or two against the footboard of the bed, her big
gray eyes fixed on his vague and shadowy form.
"This won't do," she said.
"No," he said, "it won't do."
He spoke very quietly, very gently. She detected the alteration in his
voice and started slightly, as though the distant echo of a familiar
voice had sounded.
"What did you say?" she asked, coming nearer, pistol glittering in
advance.
"I said 'It won't do.' I don't know what I meant by it. If I meant
anything I was wrong. It will do. The situation is perfectly agreeable
to me."
"Insolence will not help you," she said sharply. And under the sharpness
he detected the slightest quaver of a new alarm.
"I am going to free myself," he said coolly.
"If you move I shall certainly shoot!" she retorted.
"I am going to move--but only my lips. I have only to move my lips to
free myself."
"I should scarcely advise you to trust to your eloquence. I have been
duly warned, you see."
"Who warned you?" he asked curiously. And, as she disdained to reply:
"Never mind. We can clear that up later. Now let me ask you something."
"You are scarcely in a position to ask questions," she said.
"May I not speak to you?"
"Is it necessary?"
He thought a moment. "No, not necessary. Nothing is in this life, you
know. I thought differently once. Once--when I was younger--six years
younger--I thought happiness was necessary. I found that a man might
live without it."
She stood gazing at him through the shadows, pistol on hip.
"What do you mean?" she asked.
"I mean that happiness is not necessary to life. Life goes on all the
same. My life has continued for six years without that happiness which
some believe to be essential."
After a silence she said: "I can tell by the way you speak that you are
well born. I--I dread to do what I simply must do."
He, too, sat silent a long time--long enough for an utterly perverse and
whimsical humor to take complete possession of him.
"Won't you let me go--this time?" he pleaded.
"I cannot."
"You had better let me go while you can," he said, "because, perhaps,
you may find it difficult to get rid of me later."
Affronted, she shrank back from the doorway and stood in the center of
her room, angry, disdainful, beautiful, under the ruddy glory of her
lustrous hair.
His perverse mood changed, too; he leaned forward, studying her
minutely--the splendid gray eyes, the delicate mouth and nose, the full,
sweet lips, the witchery of wrist and hand, and the flowing, rounded
outline of limb and body under the pretty gown. Could this be she?
This lovely, mature woman, wearing scarcely a trace of the young girl he
had never forgotten--scarcely a trace save in the beauty of her eyes and
hair--save in the full, red mouth, sweet and sensitive even in its
sudden sullenness?
"Once," he said, and his voice sounded to him like voices heard in
dreams--"once, years and years ago, there was a steamer, and a man and a
young girl on board. Do you mind my telling you about it?"
She stood leaning against the footboard of the bed, not even deigning to
raise her eyes in reply. So he made the slightest stir in his chair; and
then she looked up quickly enough, pistol poised.
"The steamer," said Kerns slowly, "was coming into Southampton--six
years ago. On deck these two people stood--a man of twenty-eight, a girl
of eighteen--six years ago. The name of the steamer was the Carnatic.
Did you ever hear of that ship?"
She was looking at him attentively. He waited for her reply; she made
none; and he went on.
"The man had asked the girl something--I don't know what--I don't know
why her gray eyes filled with tears. Perhaps it was because she could
not do what the man asked her to do. It may have been to love him; it
may have been that he was asking her to marry him and that she couldn't.
Perhaps that is why there were tears in her eyes--because she may have
been sorry to cause him the pain of refusal--sorry, perhaps, perhaps a
little guilty. Because she must have seen that he was falling in love
with her, and she--she let him--knowing all the time that she was to
