be surpassed show merely that they know nothing about it. At Athens,
where Pheidias created a palpable Olympos, Pallas stood colossally, a
torch in her hand, a lance at her shoulder, a shield at her side, a
plastron of gold on her immaculate breast, a golden robe about her
ivory form, and on her immortal brow a crown of gold, beneath which,
sapphire eyes, that saw and foresaw, glittered. To-day the place where
the marvellous creation stood is vacant. With the gorgeous host Pallas
has departed. But the torch she held still burns. From the emptiness
of her virginal arms, that never were filled, proceeds all
civilization.
Adjacently at Eleusis was Demeter. Pallas was the soul of Greece.
Eleusis was the Jerusalem, Demeter the Madonna.
Demeter--the earth, the universal mother--had, in a mystic hymen with
her brother Zeus, conceived Persephone. The latter, when young and a
maiden, beckoned perhaps by Eros, wandered from Olympos and was
gathering flowers when Pluto, borne by black horses, erupted, raped
her, and tore her away. The cries of the indignant Demeter sterilized
the earth. To assuage her, Zeus undertook to have Persephone
recovered, provided that in Hades, of which Pluto was lord, she had
eaten nothing. But the girl had--a pomegranate grain. It was the
irrevocable. Demeter yielded, as the high gods had to yield, to what
was higher than they, to Destiny. Meanwhile, in the shadows below,
Persephone was transfigured.
  Thou art more than the day or the morrow, the seasons that laugh and
      that weep;
  For these give joy and sorrow: but thou, Proserpina, sleep....
  O daughter of earth, of my mother, her crown and blossom of birth,
  I am also, I also, thy brother; I go as I came unto earth.
  In the night where thine eyes are as moons are in heaven, the night
      where thou art,
  Where the silence is more than all tunes, where sleep overflows from
      the heart, ...
  And the murmur of spirits that sleep in the shadow of gods from afar
  Grows dim in thine ears and deep as the deep dim soul of a star.
  In the sweet low light of thy face, under heavens untrod by the sun,
  Let my soul with their souls find place and forget what was done or
      undone.
  Thou art more than the gods that number the days of our temporal breath
  For these give labour and slumber; but thou, Proserpina, death.
Like Hesiod, Swinburne erred, though perhaps intentionally, as poets
should, for the greater glory of the Muses. Persephone brought not
death but life. The aisles of despair she filled with hope.
Transfigured herself, Pluto she transformed. She changed what had been
hell into what was to be purgatory. It was not yet Elysium, but it was
no longer Hades. Plato said that those who were in her world had no
wish at all for this.
It is for that reason that Demeter is the Madonna of Greece, as her
ethereal daughter was the saviour. The myth of it all, brought by
Pythagoras from Egypt is very old. Known in Memphis, it was known too
in Babylon, perhaps before Memphis was. But the legend of Isis and
that of Ishtar--both of whom descended into hell--lack the transparent
charm which this idyl unfolds and of which the significance was
revealed only to initiate in epiphanies at Eleusis.
Before these sacraments Greece stood, a finger to her lips. Yet the
whispers from them that have reached us, while furtive perhaps, are
clear. They furnished the poets with notes that are resonant still.
They lifted the drama to heights that astound. Even in the fancy balls
of Aristophanes, where men were ribald and the gods were mocked,
suddenly, in the midst of the orgy, laughter ceased, obscenities were
hushed. Afar a hymn resounded. It was the chorus of the Initiate going
measuredly by.
The original mysteries were Hermetic. Enterable only after a prolonged
novitiate, the adept then beheld an unfolding of the theosophy of the
soul. In visions, possibly ecstatic, he saw the series of its
incarnations, the seven cycles through which it passed, the Ship of a
Million Years on which the migrations are effected and on which, at
last, from the Valley of the Shadow of Death, it sails to its primal
home.
That home was colour, its sustenance light. There, in ethereal
evolutions, its incarnations began. At first unsubstantial and wholly
ineffable, these turned for it every object into beauty, every sound
into joy. Without needs, from beatitude to beatitude blissfully it
floated. But, subjected to the double attraction of matter and of sin,
the initiate saw the memories and attributes of its spirituality fade.
He saw it flutter, and fluttering sink. He saw that in sinking it
enveloped itself in garments that grew heavier at each descent.
Through the denser clothing he saw the desires of the flesh pulsate.
He saw them force it lower, still lower, until, fallen into its
earthly tenement, it swooned in the senses of man. From the chains of
that prison he learned that the soul's one escape was in a recovery of
the memory of what it had been when it was other than what it had
become.
That memory the mysteries provided. Those of Eleusis differed from the
Egyptian only in detail. At Eleusis, in lieu of visions, there were
tableaux. Persephone, beckoned by desire, straying then from Olympos,
afterward fainting in the arms of Pluto, but subsequently, while
preparing her own reascension, saving and embellishing all that
approach, was the symbol, in an Hellenic setting, of the fall and
redemption of man.
The human tragedy thus portrayed was the luminous counterpart of the
dark dramas that Athens beheld. There, in the theatre--which itself
was a church with the stage for pulpit--man, blinded by passions, the
Fates pursued and Destiny felled.
The sombre spectacle was inexplicable. At Eleusis was enlightenment.
"Eskato Bebeloï"--Out from here, the profane--the heralds shouted as
the mysteries began. "Konx ompax"--Go in peace--they called when the
epiphanies were completed.
In peace the initiate went, serenely, it is said, ever after. From
them the load of ignorance was lifted. But what their impressions were
is unrecorded. They were bound to secrecy. No one could learn what
occurred without being initiated, or without dying. For death too is
initiation.
The mysteries were schools of immortality. They plentifully taught
many a lesson that Christianity afterward instilled. But their drapery
was perhaps over ornate. Truth does not need any. Truth always should
be charming. Yet always it should be naked as well. About it the
mysteries hung a raiment that was beautiful, but of which the rich
embroideries obscured. The mysteries could not have been more
fascinating, that is not possible, but, the myths removed, in simple
nudity they would have been more clear. Doubtless it was for that very
reason, in order that they might not be transparent, that the myths
were employed. It is for that very reason, perhaps, that Christianity
also adopted a few. Yet at least from cant they were free. Among the
multiple divinities of Greece, hypocrisy was the unknown god.
Consideration of the others is, to-day, usually effected through the
pages of Ovid. One might as well study Christianity in the works of
Voltaire. Christianity's brightest days were in the dark ages. The
splendid glamour of them that persists is due to many causes, among
which, in minor degree, may be the compelling glare of Greek genius.
That glare, veiled in the mysteries, philosophy reflects.
Philosophy is but the love of wisdom. It began with Socrates. He had
no belief in the gods. The man who has none may be very religious. But
though Socrates did not believe in the gods he did not deny them. He
did what perhaps was worse. He ignored their perfectly poetic
existence. He was put to death for it, though only at the conclusion
of a long promenade during which he delivered Athenian youths of their
intelligence. Facility in the operation may have been inherited.
Socrates was the son of a midwife. His own progeny consisted in a
complete transfiguration of Athenian thought. He told of an
Intelligence, supreme, ethical, just, seeing all, hearing all,
governing all; a creator made not after the image of man but of the
soul, and visible only in the conscience. It was for that he died.
There was no such god on Olympos.
There was an additional indictment. Socrates was accused of perverting
the jeunesse dorée. At a period when, everywhere, save only in
Israel, the abnormal was usual, Socrates was almost insultingly
chaste. The perversion of which he was accused was not of that order.
It was that of inciting lads to disobey their parents when the latter
opposed what he taught.
"I am come to set a man against his father," it is written in
Matthew. The mission of Socrates was the same. Because of it he
died. He was the first martyr. But his death was overwhelming in its
simplicity. Even in fairyland there has been nothing more calm. By way
of preparation he said to his judges: "Were you to offer to acquit me
on condition that I no longer profess what I believe, I would answer;
'Athenians, I honour and I love you, but a god has commanded me and
that god I will obey, rather than you.'"
In the speech was irony, with which Athens was familiar. But it also
displayed a conception, wholly new, that of maintaining at any cost
the truth. The novelty must have charmed. When Peter and the apostles
were arraigned before the Sanhedrin, their defence consisted in the
very words that Socrates had used: "We should obey God rather than
man."[38]
[Footnote 38: Acts v. 29.]
Socrates wrote nothing. The Buddha did not either. Neither did the
Christ. These had their evangelists. Socrates had also disciples who,
as vehicle for his ideas, employed the nightingale tongue of beauty
into which the Law and the Prophets were translated by the Septuagint
and into which the Gospels were put.
It would be irreverent to suggest that the latter are in any way
indebted to Socratic inspiration. It would be irrelevant as well. For,
while the Intelligence that Socrates preached differed as much from
the volage and voluptuous Zeus as the God of Christendom differs from
the Jahveh of Job, yet, in a divergence so wide, an idealist, very
poor except in ideas; a teacher killed by those who knew not what they
did; a philosopher that drained the cup without even asking that it
pass from him; a mere reformer, though dangerous perhaps as every
reformer worth the name must be; but, otherwise, a mere man like any
other, only a little better, could obviously have had no share. For
reasons not minor but major, Plato could have had none either.
It is related that a Roman invader sank back, stricken with
deisidaimonia--the awe that the gods inspired--at the sight of the
Pheidian Zeus. It is with a wonder not cognate certainly, yet in a
measure relative, that one considers what Socrates must have been if
millennia have gone without producing one mind approaching that of his
spiritual heir. It was uranian; but not disassociated from human
things.
Plato, like his master, was but a man in whom the ideal was intuitive,
perhaps the infernal also. In the gardens of the Academe and along the
banks of the Ilissus, he announced a Last Judgment. The announcement,
contained in the Phædo, had for supplement a picture that may have
been Persian, of the righteous ascending to heaven and the wicked
descending to hell. In the Laws, the picture was annotated with a
statement to the effect that whatever a man may do, there is an eye
that sees him, a memory that registers and retains. In the Republic
he declared that afflictions are blessings in disguise. But his
"Republic," a utopian commonwealth, was not, he said, of this world,
adding in the Phædo, that few are chosen though many are called.
The mystery of the catholicism of the Incas, reported back to the Holy
Office, was there defined as an artifice of the devil. With finer
circumspection, Christian Fathers attributed the denser mystery of
Greek philosophy to the inspiration of God.
Certainly it is ample. As exemplified by Plato it has, though, its
limitations. There is no charity in it. Plato preached humility, but
there is none in his sermons. His thought is a winged thing, as the
thought of a poet ever should be. But in the expression of it he seems
smiling, disdainful, indifferent as a statue to the poverties of the
heart. That too, perhaps, is as it should be. The high muse wears a
radiant peplum. Anxiety is banished from the minds that she haunts.
Then, also, if, in the nectar of Plato's speech, compassion is not an
ingredient, it may be because, in his violet-crowned city, it was
strewn open-handed through the beautiful streets. There, public
malediction was visited on anyone that omitted to guide a stranger on
his way.
Israel was too strictly monotheistic to raise an altar to Pity, the
rest of antiquity too cruel. In Athens there was one. In addition
there were missions for the needy, asylums for the infirm. If
anywhere, at that period, human sympathy existed, it was in Greece.
The aristocratic silence of Plato may have been due to that fact. He
would not talk of the obvious, though he did of the vile. In one of
his books the then common and abnormal conception of sexuality was, if
not authorized, at least condoned. It is conjectural, however, whether
the conception was more monstrous than that which subsequent mysticity
evolved.
Said Ruysbroeck: "The mystic carries her soul in her hand and gives it
to whomsoever she wishes." Said St. Francis of Sales: "The soul draws
to itself motives of love and delectates in them." What the gift and
what the delectation were, other saints have described.
Marie de la Croix asserted that in the arms of the celestial Spouse
she swam in an ocean of delight. Concerning that Spouse, Marie
Alacoque added: "Like the most passionate of lovers he made me
understand that I should taste what is sweetest in the suavity of
caresses, and indeed, so poignant were they, that I swooned." The
ravishments which St. Theresa experienced she expressed in terms of
abandoned precision. Mme. Guyon wrote so carnally of the divine that
Bossuet exclaimed; "Seigneur, if I dared, I would pray that a seraph
with a flaming sword might come and purify my lips sullied by this
recital."[39]
[Footnote 39: Relation sur le Quiétisme.]
Augustin pleasantly remarked that we are all born for hell. One need
not agree with him. In the presence of the possibly monstrous and the
impossibly blasphemous, there is always a recourse. It is to turn
away, though it be to Zeus, a belief in whom, however stupid, is
ennobling beside the turpitudes that Christian mysticism produced.
At Athens, meanwhile, the religion of State persisted. So also did
philosophy. When, occasionally, the two met, the latter bowed. That
was sufficient. Religion exacted respect, not belief. It was not a
faith, it was a law, one that for its majesty was admired and for its
poetry was beloved. In the deification of whatever is exquisite it was
but an artistic cult. The real Olympos was the Pantheon. The other was
fading away. Deeper and deeper it was sinking back into the golden
dream from which it had sprung. Further and further the crystal
parapets were retreating. Dimmer and more dim the gorgeous host
became. In words of perfect piety Epicurus pictured them in the
felicity of the ideal. There, they had no heed of man, no desire for
worship, no wish for prayer. It was unnecessary even to think of them.
Decorously, with every homage, they were being deposed.
But if Epicurus was decorous, Evemerus was devout. It was his
endeavour, he said, not to undermine but to fortify. The gods he
described as philanthropists whom a grateful world had deified. Zeus
had waged a sacrilegious war against his father. Aphrodite was a
harlot and a procuress. The others were equally commendable. Once they
had all lived. Since then all had died. Evemerus had seen their tombs.
One should not believe him. Their parapets are dimmer, perhaps, but
from them still they lean and laugh. They are immortal as the
hexameters in which their loves unfold. Yet, oddly enough, presently
the oracle of Delphi strangled. In his cavern Trophonios was gagged.
The voice of Mopsos withered.
That is nothing. On the Ionian, the captain of a ship heard some one
calling loudly at him from the sea. The passengers, who were at table,
looked out astounded. Again the loud voice called: "Captain, when you
reach shore announce that the great god Pan is dead."[40]
[Footnote 40: Plutarch: de Oracul. defect. 14.]
It may be that it was true. It may be that after Pan the others
departed. When Paul reached Athens he found a denuded Pantheon, a
vacant Olympos, skies more empty still.
VII
JUPITER
The name of the national deity of Israel is unpronounceable. The name
of the national divinity of Rome is unknown. To all but the
hierophants it was a secret. For uttering it a senator was put to
death. But Tullius Hostilius erected temples to Fear and to Pallor. It
may have been Fright. The conjecture is supported by the fact that, as
was usual, Rome had any number of deified epithets, as she had also a
quantity of little bits of gods. These latter greatly amused the
Christian Fathers. Among them was Alemona, who, in homely English, was
Wet-nurse.
Tertullian, perhaps naïvely, remarked: "Superstition has invented
these deities for whom we have substituted angels." In addition to the
diva mater Alemona was the divus pater Vaticanus, the holy father
Vatican, who assisted at a child's first cry. There was the equally
holy father Fabulin, who attended him in his earliest efforts at
speech. Neither of them had anything else to do.
Pavor had. At thunder, at lightning, at a meteor, at moisture on a
wall, at no matter what, at silence even, the descendants of a
she-wolf's nursling quailed. They lived in a panic. In panic the gods
were born. It is but natural, perhaps, that Fright should have been
held supreme. The other gods, mainly divinities of prey and of havoc,
were lustreless as the imaginations that conceived them. Prosaic,
unimaged, without poetry or myth, they dully persisted until pedlars
appeared with Hellenic legends and wares. To their tales Rome
listened. Then eidolons of the Olympians became naturalized there.
Zeus was transformed into Jupiter, Aphrodite into Venus, Pallas into
Minerva, Demeter into Ceres, and all of them--and with them all the
others--into an irritable police. The Greek gods enchanted, those of
Rome alarmed. Plutarch said that they were indignant if one presumed
to so much as sneeze.
Worship, consequently, was a necessary precaution, an insurance
against divine risks, a matter of business in which the devout
bargained with the divine. Ovid represented Numa trying to elude the
