slightest offer of human interference he tightened 
his teeth in the coat or the flesh, wherever they 
happened to be set at the moment. 
"Oh, Clyde!" cried Cara in unbearable distress, 
" let go that gentleman ! Let go ! He is a friend 
of mine, I tell you, sir ! Clyde, how dare you bite 
 
my friends ! If you don't let go I shall — I shall 
scold you, sir ! " Clyde's teeth slid down the
surgeon's arm, and rested on his wrist and hand. 
" Clyde, if you don't let go, I shall — have to — 
whip you, sir ! " 
For the first and only time in his life Clyde 
replied to his mistress with an ominous growl. His 
teeth closed on the man's wrist, just around the 
artery. 
It was Dr. Frost's right hand, — the hand that 
had torn a hundred veins and nerves from living 
dogs bound and helpless, but conscious of their 
torments. It was the experimenter's expert right 
hand, whose merciless dexterity had created his 
professional success. It occurred to Dr. Dane 
what the loss of this hand, or even its partial 
disability, would mean to the vivisector. 
" Surely I can strangle the creature off ! " he 
cried. He caught the collie by the throat. But 
Miss Sterling pulled him back. 
" He will tear him to pieces if you do that ! " 
She had got to her knees now, by the side of her 
dog, and began to entreat him. 
" Clyde ! Come, Clyde. "This is a mistake, Clyde. 
Let him alone. You 've got the wrong man." 
At these words a hoarse guttural went up from 
the dog. It sounded like a laugh. 
" See, Clyde ! You 've made a blunder — Stop, 
 
dear, and listen to me. Clyde, you must listen to 
me ! " She put her arms around the dog's neck, 
and laid her cheek against the scar upon his 
forehead. She could feel it throbbing violently 
beneath her touch. 
" Look out ! " cried Dr. Dane, anxiously. " The 
creature might hurt you. Can't any of you suggest 
anything ? " he asked, whirling. 
A gentleman standing by called a caddie. " Go 
to the green-keeper, and tell him to bring his
pistol. Tell him to run ! " 
Cara Sterling's soft hand stole down over the 
collie's cheek and jaw. 
"Do not — take any risks — for me," gasped 
Frost. " Please move away, Miss Sterling. There's 
no harm done yet. I don't think there will be. 
Really I don't, I — " 
" Hush ! " said Cara Sterling. " Please be still, 
everybody. I can manage my own dog — yet. 
Keep perfectly quiet, Dr. Frost." 
Very slowly, very delicately and quietly, talking 
all the while in an undertone to the frenzied 
but, it could be seen, now attentive dog, the girl's 
white fingers slid past his jaws and gently urged 
themselves between his teeth. 
A cry came from somewhere on the piazza; but 
Cara held up her other hand to enforce silence. 
Before the quickest perception could grasp her 
 
full intention, she had managed to insert her hand, 
finger by finger, between the animal's teeth, flat 
upon the physiologist's wrist. " There, Clyde ! " 
she said softly. " You know you wouldn't hurt 
me. 
The collie's jaws relaxed but did not open. He 
lifted his fine eyes, and regarded his mistress with 
a puzzled and wounded reproach. 
" Dear Clyde ! " said Cara. After a moment's 
hesitation he loosened his grip; the man's wrist 
fell free; the dog kissed the girl's hand — half 
piteously, it seemed — and laid his panting face 
upon her knee. 
The piazza was now packed and the clubhouse 
full. Somebody cheered, and then such a hurrah 
arose that the girl felt her head swim. Frost went 
very white; he did not speak. Cara still knelt by 
the dog. Her head fell over on his forehead. 
The Balsam Groves doctor bent to ask her if she 
felt faint. But Mab Miller offered her whiskey 
gallantly. 
" God have mercy on our souls ! " cried Douce 
Marriot, suddenly. " Here is Sterling Hart ! " 
Every eye in the Country Club turned at the 
name. The dog and the physiologist became 
instantly a past sensation, and Cara was quite
forgotten. Dr. Dane helped her to her feet, and she 
got to a piazza chair with her trembling fingers 
locked on Clyde's collar. Frost took himself away, 
and passed the portiere of clematis and wood- 
bine, which he brushed and bruised as he went 
through. 
A man, head and shoulders above any other in 
the company, stood gazing perplexedly at the 
scene. He was of imposing physique, well 
proportioned, and cast in every respect on a larger 
mould than ordinary men. He wore no beard or 
mustache, and there was something Roman in his 
features and in the shape of his head. His eyes 
were dark and strikingly fearless, his mouth 
strenuous and grave, although it melted into a beautiful 
and sometimes a peculiarly happy smile. He had a 
commanding mien, and something of the peculiar 
self-possession of one accustomed to appear before 
masses of people. He was not a very young man, 
seeming something past forty, and his hair was 
slightly strewn with gray. 
"Why, Cousin Carolyn!" he said, in an 
authoritative tone. "What does this mean?" 
"Oh, Cousin Sterling!" cried the girl. " I can't 
have you scolding Clyde. He isn't in your 
diocese." 
CHAPTER III 
The two in the dog-cart drove home more rapidly 
than they came. The dog with the shirt frill 
was not allowed to follow this time. Clyde sat at 
their feet, his head on the girl's knee, and her 
hand on his collar. Miss Sterling seemed very 
tired. Dr. Dane watched her with a professional 
eye, not always so alert to the occasion. He was 
not a particularly observant physician; he dis- 
liked his profession, and objected to himself for 
being in it, but tried to make the best of his
blunder, as thousands of young men do in the 
acceptance of mistaken careers. 
They had got away from the Country Club as 
quickly and as quietly as possible. Cara had said, 
" Come here, Cousin Sterling, and I 'll confess all 
about it." And that eminent clergyman, in whose 
big arm she had linked her own while she whis- 
pered a few words in his bending ear, had 
protected her departure and the offending collie's. 
Sterling Hart's wide shoulders towered over Mrs. 
Marriot, the champion, Tracie Benton, and the 
rest, while the excited and exhausted girl slipped 
away. As he stood on the outer edge of the 
 
portiere of vines watching her off, with lifted hat, 
the Reverend Sterling Hart had so grave an 
expression that his cousin would have noticed it if 
she had been less absorbed ; for his warm smile 
was always hers without asking, and outside of his 
pulpit he was counted the best of good company. 
Socially he never preached or prayed. 
The physiologist had not reappeared; he was 
reported by the gentleman who sent for pistols to 
be in the dressing-room bathing bruises, consoling 
scratches, pinning tatters, and generally occupied 
in the line of repairs. The Reverend Mr. Hart 
made an inquiry for him when he returned to the 
club piazza ; and the popular version of the recent 
scene was promptly offered him. 
" I haven't seen anything better since I was in 
the Theatre Francais last January," observed Mrs. 
Marriot, critically. " It was legitimate drama, Mr. 
Hart; suitable even for the clergy. Pity you 
missed it ! " 
Sterling Hart regarded Douce Marriot without 
reply. She felt that she hated him when he looked 
at her like that. His eyes passed from her to the 
talkative girl at her side ; to the champion,
swinging her feet from the rail; to the young ladies and 
gentlemen in the dining-room, with the tall 
tumblers in their hands. Most of these people knew 
him well , many of them were his parishioners in 
 
town, and had long since learned when to let him 
alone. It was quite plain now that he had one of 
his attacks when he would not talk. He turned 
away thoughtfully, and went to his locker for the 
broken lofter whose surgical needs he had come 
to attend. 
The young people in the dog-cart were almost 
as silent as he. They had ridden as far as Solomon 
Hops's house before either spoke. When they 
came in sight of the chocolate eclair, the doctor 
looked the other way; he was afraid that some 
patients would waylay him (it being, in fact, his 
office hours), and he had no visible intention of 
blotting out this shining moment for any of the 
physical woes of his limited clientele. The young 
lady spoke now, not with any obvious interest in 
what she said : — 
" How did you manage it ? I should as soon have 
thought of asking them to take me to board at 
Westminster, or proposing to our late Minister to 
England to have me for a * mealer.' Solomon would 
see the whole summer population starve before he 
would take in any of us" 
" Oh, rheumatism was my friend at court," 
replied Dane, lightly. " He has developed a species 
that he holds at a high figure, like his marsh lots. 
He told me that he thought it might be handy to 
have me around, in case he had spells. I believe 
the old Balsam doctor got tired of the case. I 
realize that I am in luck, — while it lasts. He may 
turn me into the street, you know, any day, if I 
don't cure him." 
" Nannie is such a pretty girl, don't you think 
so?" asked Miss Sterling, abruptly enough. 
"Who? Oh, she? Yes, quite pretty," replied 
Dr. Dane, without enthusiasm. 
"She is studying art," pursued Miss Sterling, 
with a little smile. "A good many of them do, 
you know; I can't see why, can you? She comes 
up to see my portfolios. I felt as if I 'd conquered 
a battalion the first day she did it. Most of the 
village girls hate us so. I can't help wondering 
why." 
" It would be wonderful," bungled the young 
man, " if they hated you." The trite and fatuous 
words were not off his lips before he crimsoned 
with mortification at their escape. Miss Sterling 
had given him a swift, and, for so gentle a lady, 
somewhat imperious glance ; but when she per- 
ceived his embarrassment she laughed outright. 
" Oh, it will do ! " she cried. " Anything will do, 
after what we have been through this afternoon." 
Now, again, as once over there in the clubhouse, 
he felt his head grow light. But he answered 
steadily enough : — 
 
" I am glad you are able to speak of it. I thought 
I 'd wait till you could. It was a tremendous scene. 
You went through it like — " He broke off. 
" I can't understand why Clyde has taken such 
a dislike to Dr. Frost," she proceeded, speaking 
slowly and with some difficulty. " He never liked 
him — never. But the last few months I 've had to 
keep the two apart whenever he has called. And 
he and his family are old friends of ours. Father 
thinks a great deal of him." 
She said " Keep the two apart " precisely as if 
she referred to two gladiators, or other picked 
specimens of the human race distinguished for 
their belligerent qualities. It seldom occurred to 
Cara that her dog was classified among the inferior 
species. An eminent scientist at dinner one 
day had quite hurt her feelings by speaking of 
Clyde as a beautiful and sagacious animal. 
" If it had been that golf girl," suggested Dr. 
Dane, with a brush of non-athletic scorn, " she 
could have stood it. Their sensibilities must be 
developed like their arms, I fancy, — all biceps and 
deltoid. But you — " he ventured again. 
He was young, and his fancy set an aureola 
about this girl, — modest, finely finished, very 
woman of very woman, a beautiful anachronism, 
he thought, a fair, illuminated window which let 
in the light of another and a less rude day than 
 
ours. His profession, which (if we may be permitted 
the word) deidealizes women earlier in life 
and more roughly than any other, had not spoiled 
for the Balsam Groves doctor the glamour natural 
to his sex and his years, perhaps because he experienced 
so little interest in the profession. He 
thought of Carolyn Sterling in poetic phrases and 
in aesthetic phases; as violets breathe, as white 
roses bud, as blush clouds float, as fawns flee, as 
all shy and lovely things exist. He thought of her 
as a beino: to be sheltered all her life from the 
prick of a thorn or the approach of a draft ; a girl 
not to be caused a tear nor to endure a pang ; a 
girl never to hear bad news or a sharp word. He 
had been thinking of her in this way, and for some 
time ; ever since her father's case fell into his hands 
in April. This unexpected drive was " a vision and 
a glory in the earth " to Chanceford Dane. 
He had dwelt upon what he should say in taking 
her home, and how she would look, and act, and 
to what sacred economy he could best put that 
precious span of time. A rainbow like this, — 
which might never arch his life again, — by what 
fine color laws could its splendid hues be detached 
from the prism, hanging heaven high and held to 
light his heart ? 
Now the ride was almost over, and they had 
scarcely exchanged twenty words; these of the 
 
most indifferent and evasive sort. A dog and a 
physiologist (confusion be on Thomas Frost !) had 
smitten the rainbow out of the sky. The village 
doctor drove like a man under a blackening cloud, 
hurrying to get to her father's house ; cutting short 
his own prismatic moment, and driving the faster 
because he perceived that Miss Sterling was more 
exhausted than she knew. She was such a healthy 
girl — more well than strong, as women free from 
every disorder but that of their own sensitive- 
ness are — that it did not occur to Cara that she 
had experienced anything which would justify the 
sensations of collapse so new to her that they 
seemed nothing less than abnormal. Her words 
came with more and more difficulty; and she 
