have tried harder to keep him if I had cared what he did, but I was
faithful to him, in my own way, and it was much harder than you can
guess, or any one. Oh, it was not any living man that made it
hard--not that! It was the other. He came back--dead men do
sometimes--and he told me I was his, and not Leven's wife; and I
fought against that, just as if a man had made love to me in society.
It didn't seem honest and true to my real husband, in my thoughts, you
know, and in some things thoughts are everything. I fought with all my
might against that one, that dear one. I think that was the beginning
of my work--being sorry for other women who perhaps had tried to fight
too, and wondering whether I should do much better if my dead man came
back alive. Do you see? I'm telling you things I've hardly ever told
myself, let alone any one else.'
'Yes, I see. I didn't know any one could be as good as that.'
'You can guess the rest,' Lady Maud went on, not heeding what he said.
'When I believed that Leven was dead the fight was over, and I took my
dead man back, because I was really free. But now, if Leven is alive
after all, it must begin again. I ought to be brave and fight against
it; I must--but I can't, I can't! It's too hard, now! These two months
have been the happiest in my life since the day he was killed! How can
I go back again! And yet, if I cannot be an honest woman in my
thoughts I'm not an honest woman at all--I'm no better than if I
deserved to be divorced. I never believed in technical virtue.'
Van Torp had seen many sides of human nature, good and bad, but he had
never dreamed of anything like this, even in the clear depths of this
good woman's heart, and what he heard moved him. Men born with great
natures often have a tender side which the world does not dream of;
call it nervousness, call it degeneracy, call it hysterical who will;
it is there. While Lady Maud was finishing her poor little story in
broken phrases, with her heart quivering in her voice, Mr. Rufus Van
Torp's eyes became suddenly so very moist that he had to pass his hand
over them hastily lest a drop or two should run down upon his flat
cheeks. He hoped she would not notice it.
But she did, for at that moment she turned and looked at his face, and
her own eyes were dry, though they burned. She saw that his glistened,
and she looked at him in surprise.
'I'm sorry,' he said, apologising as if he had done something rude. 'I
can't help it.'
Their hands were hanging near together as they walked, and hers
touched his affectionately and gratefully, but she said nothing, and
they went on in silence for some time before she spoke again.
'You know everything now. I must be positively sure whether Leven is
alive or dead, for what I have got back in these last two months is my
whole life. A mere recognition at first sight and at ten yards is not
enough. It may be only a marvellous resemblance, for they say every
one has a "double" somewhere in the world.'
'They used to say, too, that if you met your "double" one of you would
die,' observed Van Torp. 'Those things are all stuff and nonsense, of
course. I was just thinking. Well,' he continued, dwelling on his
favourite monosyllable, 'if you decide to come on the yacht, and if
the man doesn't blow away, we shall know the truth in three or four
days from now, and that's a comfort. And even if he turns out to be
Leven, maybe we can manage something.'
Lady Maud chose not to ask what her friend thought he could 'manage';
for she had glanced at his face when he had spoken, and though it was
half turned away from her, she saw his expression, and it would have
scared a nervous person. She did not like him to be in that mood, and
was sorry that she had brought him to it.
But Mr. Van Torp, who was a strong man, and had seen more than one
affray in his ranching days, could not help thinking how uncommonly
easy it would be to pick up Count Kralinsky and drop him overboard on
a dark night next week, when the Lancashire Lass would be doing
twenty-two knots, and there might be a little weather about to drown
the splash.
CHAPTER XIII
The millionaire did things handsomely. He offered to motor his party
to Venice, and as Margaret declined, because motoring was bad for her
voice, he telegraphed for a comfortable special carriage, and took his
friends down by railway, managing everything alone, in some
unaccountable way, since the invaluable Stemp was already gone in
search of something for Mrs. Rushmore to eat; and they were all very
luxuriously comfortable.
Kralinsky was not on board the yacht when they came alongside at
sunset in two gondolas, following the steam-launch, which carried a
load of luggage and the two maids. The Primadonna's trunks and
hat-boxes towered above Mrs. Rushmore's, and Mrs. Rushmore's above
Lady Maud's modest belongings, as the Alps lift their heads above the
lower mountains, and the mountains look down upon the Italian
foot-hills; and Potts sat in one corner of the stern-sheets with
Margaret's jewel-case on her knee, and Justine, with Mrs. Rushmore's,
glared at her viciously from the other corner. For the fierce Justine
knew that she was going to be sea-sick on the yacht, and the meek
Potts never was, though she had crossed the ocean with the Diva in
rough weather.
Stemp led the way, and Mr. Van Torp took the three ladies to their
cabins: first, Mrs. Rushmore, who was surprised and delighted by the
rich and gay appearance of hers, for it was entirely decorated in pink
and gold, that combination being Stemp's favourite one. The brass
bedstead had pink silk curtains held back by broad gold ribbands;
there was a pink silk coverlet with a gold fringe; everything that
could be gold was gilt, and everything that could be pink was rosy,
including the carpet.
Mr. Van Torp looked at Stemp with approval, and Stemp acknowledged
unspoken praise with silent modesty.
'Beg pardon, madam,' he said, addressing Mrs. Rushmore, 'this is not
exactly the largest cabin on the yacht, but it is the one in which you
will find the least motion.'
'It's very sweet,' said the American lady. 'Very dainty, I'm sure.'
On the writing-table stood a tall gilt vase full of immense pink
roses, with stems nearer four feet long than three. Mrs. Rushmore
admired them very much.
'How did you know that I love roses above all other flowers?' she
asked. 'My dear Mr. Van Torp, you are a wizard, I'm sure!'
Lady Maud and Margaret had entered, and kept up a polite little chorus
of admiration; but they both felt uneasy as to what they might find in
their respective cabins, for Margaret hated pink, and Lady Maud
detested gilding, and neither of them was especially fond of roses.
They left Mrs. Rushmore very happy in her quarters and went on. Lady
Maud's turn came next, and she began to understand, when she saw a
quantity of sweet wood violets on her table, just loosened, in an old
Murano glass beaker.
'Thank you,' she said, bending to smell them. 'How kind of you!'
There was not a trace of gilding or pink silk. The cabin was panelled
and fitted in a rare natural wood of a creamy-white tint.
'Beg pardon, my lady,' said Stemp. 'This and Miss Donne's cabin
communicate by this door, and the door aft goes to the dressing-room.
Each cabin has one quite independent, and this bell rings the pantry,
my lady, and this one rings Miss Donne's maid's cabin, as I understand
that your ladyship has not brought her own maid with her.'
'Very nice,' said Lady Maud, smelling the violets again.
Mr. Van Torp looked at Stemp as he would have looked at a horse that
had turned out even better than he had expected. Stemp threw open the
door of communication to the cabin he had prepared for the Primadonna.
The two cabins occupied the whole beam of the vessel, excepting the
six-foot gangway on each side, and as she was one of the largest
yachts afloat at the time, there was no lack of room.
'Carnations, at this time of year!' cried Margaret, seeing half an
armful of her favourite dark red ones, in a silver wine-cooler before
the mirror. 'You really seem to know everything! Thank you so much!'
She buried her handsome face in the splendid flowers and drew in a
deep, warm breath, full of their sensuous perfume, the spicy scent of
a laden clove-tree under a tropical sun.
'Thank you again!' she said enthusiastically. 'Thank you for
everything, the delightful journey, and this lovely room, and the
carnations!'
She stood up suddenly to her height, in sheer pleasure, and held out
her hand to him. He pressed it quietly, and smiled.
'Do as you would be done by,' he said. 'That's the Company's rule.'
She laughed at the allusion to their agreement, of which Lady Maud
knew nothing, for they had determined to keep it secret for the
present.
Mr. Van Torp had not found an opportunity of speaking to Lady Maud
alone, but he wished her to know when Kralinsky might be expected.
'Stemp,' he said, before leaving the cabin, 'have you heard from the
Count?'
'Yes, sir. He got here this morning from Vienna in his motor, sir, and
sent his things with his man, and his compliments to you and the
ladies, and he will come on board in time for dinner. That was all, I
think, sir.'
  [Illustration: "She buried her handsome face in the splendid
   flowers."]
Lady Maud heard, and made a scarcely perceptible movement of the head
by way of thanks to her friend, while listening to Margaret's
enthusiastic praise of everything she saw. Mr. Van Torp and his man
departed, just as Potts appeared, accompanied by a very neat-looking
English stewardess in a smart white cap. Lady Maud was unusually
silent, but she smiled pleasantly at what Margaret said, and the
latter made up her mind to drown her anger against Logotheti, and at
the same time to be avenged on him, in an orgy of luxurious comfort,
sea-air, and sunshine. The capacity of a perfectly healthy and
successful singer for enjoying everything, from a halfpenny bun and a
drive in a hansom to a millionaire's yacht and the most expensive fat
of the land, or sea, has never been measured. And if they do have
terrible fits of temper now and then, who shall blame them? They are
always sorry for it, because it is bad for the voice.
Mr. Van Torp reached his quarters, and prepared to scrub and dress
comfortably after a week at Bayreuth and a railway journey.
'Stemp.'
'Yes, sir.'
'That was quite nicely done. You must have had a lively time.'
'Yes, sir. Thank you, sir. Hope everything is tolerably satisfactory
to you, sir.'
'Yes. Find anything good to eat? Chickens don't take gilding well, you
know--doesn't taste together. But I suppose you found something. Seen
the cook?'
'Yes, sir. I think things will be tolerable, sir, though this is not
London, I must say.'
Mr. Van Torp showed no surprise at the statement, and disappeared into
his bath-room, well pleased with himself and his man. But a moment
later he opened the door again and thrust out his square sandy head.
'Stemp, where have you put the Count? Far from here? I don't want him
near me.'
'Last cabin forward on the port side, sir, next to the smoking-room.
Very good cabin, sir.'
'Whereabouts is port, right or left?'
'Left-hand side of the vessel, sir,' answered Stemp, who had been on
many yachts. 'There are ten more cabins empty, sir, between large and
small, if you should think of asking any ladies and gentlemen to join
at another point, sir.'
'May pick up a couple somewhere. Can't tell yet.' And Mr. Van Torp
disappeared definitely.
Lady Maud did not begin to dress at once, as there was plenty of time
before dinner; she left the stewardess to unpack her things, and came
out upon the six-foot gangway outside her cabin door to breathe the
air, for it was warm. The city lay half a mile away in the after-glow
of the sunset. The water was very green that evening, as it sometimes
is in the Lagoons, though not always, and it was shaded off through
many opalescent tints to heliotrope; then it was suddenly black below
the steps of the Piazzetta and the Ducal Palace. Within the mysterious
canal to the right she could make out the Bridge of Sighs, and there
was the Ponte della Paglia, and the long line of irregular buildings
to the eastward of the Prisons, as far as the Public Gardens. To the
left there was the wide mouth of the Grand Canal, the Salute and the
Custom-House, and the broad opening of the Giudecca. It was familiar
to her, for she had seen it several times. She missed the Campanile,
which she had been made to climb by an energetic governess when she
was twelve years old, but all the rest was there and unchanged, a
dream of evening colour, an Eastern city rising out of an enchanted
water, under an Italian sky.
At any other time she would have enjoyed the sight almost without a
thought, as she enjoyed everything that seemed to her beautiful or
even pretty, though she had no pretensions to cultivated artistic
taste or knowledge. But now she felt none of that healthy pleasure
which a lovely sight naturally gave her. She was at a crisis of her
life, and the exquisite evening scene was the battlefield of a coming
struggle, with herself, or with another, she hardly knew. In half an
hour, or in an hour, at most, she was to sit at table with a man she
fully believed to be the husband for whom she had been wearing
mourning, out of mere decency, but with the profound inward
satisfaction of being free.
She was brave, and could try to think of what was before her if it
turned out that she was not mistaken, and she could attempt to
understand what had happened. She had already come to the conclusion
that if Kralinsky was really Leven, the latter had seized the
opportunity offered him by his own supposed death to disappear from
St. Petersburg, and had taken another name. Leven had been a ruined
man when he had tried to divorce her; when he died, or disappeared, he
left nothing but debts, which were extinguished with him, for no one
attempted to make his widow responsible for them, since there was no
estate and she had no fortune beyond the allowance her father made
her. Lord Creedmore was far from being a rich peer, too, and what he
gave her was not much, although it would more than suffice for her
simple wants, now that she intended to live with him again.
But if Leven had not been killed and had turned into Kralinsky, he now
had plenty of ready money, though it was not easy to guess how he had
obtained possession of a quantity of valuable Asiatic rubies within
the few weeks that had elapsed between his supposed destruction by the
bomb and the date of Van Torp's transaction with him in New York. That
was a mystery. So was his possible acquaintance, or connexion, with
the Eastern girl who was looking for him, if there was a shadow of
truth in Logotheti's story. Lady Maud did not believe there was, and
she felt morally sure that the tale had evolved itself out of the
Greek's fertile brain, as a fantastic explanation of his atrocious
conduct.
While she was thinking over these matters and rehearsing in her
thoughts the scene that was before her, she saw a gondola making
straight for the yacht across the fast fading green of the lagoon that
lay between the vessel and the Piazzetta. It came nearer, and she drew
back from the rail against her cabin door, under the shadow of the
promenade deck, which extended over the gangway and was supported by
stanchions, as on an ocean liner. The Lancashire Lass, with her
single huge yellow funnel, her one short signal mast, her
turret-shaped wheel-house, and her generally business-like appearance,
looked more like a cross between a fast modern cruiser and an ocean
'greyhound' than like a private yacht. She even had a couple of
quick-firing guns mounted just above her rail.
Lady Maud looked at the gondola, and as it came still nearer, she saw
that it brought only one passenger, and that he had a fair beard. She
quietly opened her cabin door, and went in to dress for dinner.
Meanwhile Mr. Van Torp had completed his toilet, and was rather
surprised to find himself magnificently arrayed in a dark-blue
dinner-jacket, with perfectly new gilt buttons, and an unfamiliar
feeling about the pockets. He had belonged to a yacht club for years,
because it seemed to be expected of him, and Stemp and the tailor had
thought fit that he should possess the proper things for a yachtsman.
'Stemp,' he said, 'is this the correct thing? I suppose you know.'
'Yes, sir. Very smart indeed, sir. White caps are usually worn by
yachting gentlemen in the Mediterranean, sir.' Stemp offered him the
cap in question, resplendent with a new enamelled badge. 'Beg pardon,
sir, but as to caps, most gentlemen lift them to ladies, just like
hats, sir, but the captain and the officers touch theirs. His Grace
always lifted his cap, sir.'
'I guess that'll be all right,' answered Mr. Van Torp, trying on the
cap. 'Send the captain to my study, Stemp, and find out about when the
ladies will be ready for dinner.'
Stemp disappeared, and in a few moments pink-faced Captain Brown
appeared, quiet, round, and smart.
'I suppose you're ready at any moment, Captain?' inquired the
millionaire.
'Yes, sir. The pilot is on board, and the gentleman you expected is
just coming alongside.'
'Oh, he is, is he?'
Mr. Van Torp evidently expected no answer to his favourite form of
question when he was thinking over what had just been said; and the
captain was silent.
'Then you can start now,' said the owner, after a moment's thought.
'Where are we bound, sir?'
'Oh, well, I don't know. I wanted to say a few words about that,
Captain. Do you happen to know anything about a yacht called the
Erinna, belonging to a Mr. Logotheti, a Greek gentleman who lives in
Paris?'
'Yes, sir,' answered Captain Brown, for it was a part of his business
to read the yachting news. 'She was at Cowes when we sailed. She was
reported the other day from Gibraltar as having entered the
Mediterranean after taking fresh provisions, owner and party on board.
There is no further word of her.'
'Well,' said Mr. Van Torp, 'I have an idea she's gone to Naples, but I
want you to find her right away wherever she is, owner and party on
board. That's all, Captain. If you happen to see her anywhere, you
just come and tell me if I'm alone, and if I'm not, why send one of
