the East Side.
He had broken bread and eaten salt at Cavenaugh's table; and now it was
decreed that he must betray him. It was not a pleasant thought. And
still less pleasant was the thought of telling Kate (in a roundabout
fashion, it is true) that her father was not an honest man. According to
financial ethics, what Cavenaugh did was simply keen business instinct;
nothing more. If you or I should happen to bend an odd cornice of the
majestic pillar of law, we'd be haled off to the county jail forthwith;
but if we possessed the skill to smash the whole fabric or rather, to
continue the metaphor, the whole pillar, the great world would sit up
and admire us. What are old laws for, anyhow? Build you never so wisely
your law, there will always be some one to come along and tack on a nice
little amendment, subtly undoing in a moment what it took years of labor
to accomplish. In this instance, Cavenaugh had been careless; he had
forgotten to introduce his amendment. An infinitesimal grain of sand
will stop the best regulated clock. The infallible invariably die on the
heels of their first victory.
On leaving the train, Carrington espied the Cavenaugh station carriage.
The coachman was talking to a little wiry old man, whose gray eyes
twinkled and whose complexion was mottled and withered like a wind-fall
apple. Seeing Carrington draw nigh, the coachman touched his hat
respectfully, while the little old man, who was rather shabbily dressed,
stepped quickly around the corner of the platform. Evidently he did not
wish to be inspected at close range. Carrington threw his suit-case and
golf-bag into the carriage, and followed them. Thereupon the coachman
touched the horses lightly, and they started westward at a brisk trot.
"Who's your friend?" asked Carrington, who, though never familiar, was
always friendly toward his inferiors.
"He's no friend of mine, sir," answered the coachman, with well-bred
contempt. "Miss Cavenaugh directed me to drive you straight to the club,
sir."
"Very well," replied Carrington, lighting a cigar and settling back
among the cushions.
Immediately he forgot all about the shabby old man, and began to
inventory his troubles. He must hide the papers somewhere. All the
evidence he had, together with the names of the witnesses, was on his
person; for in making the whole he had prudently destroyed the numerous
scraps. If this document fell into alien hands, the trouble would double
itself. He puffed quickly, and the heat of the cigar put a smart on his
tongue. He had nothing to do but wait.
On the steps of the club's porte-cochère he was greeted by Miss
Cavenaugh, who was simply and tastefully dressed in white. If there was
a sudden cardiac disturbance in Carrington's breast, the girl's tender
beauty certainly justified it. The fresh color on her cheeks and lips,
the shining black hair that arched a white forehead, the darkly fringed
blue eyes, the slender, rounded figure, the small feet and shapely
hands, all combined to produce a picture of feminine loveliness
warranted to charm any masculine eye. Let the curious question
Cavenaugh's antecedents, if they were so inclined, thought Carrington;
here was abundant evidence of what a certain old poet called the
splendid corpuscle of aristocracy.
Her sister went by the sonorous name of Norah. She was seventeen, a bit
of a tomboy, but of the same build and elegant carriage that
distinguished Kate from ordinary mortals; only Norah's eyes were
hazel-tinted and her hair was that warm brown of the heart of a
chestnut-bur. She was of merry temperament, quick to like or to dislike,
and like her sister, loyal to those she loved. Both girls possessed that
uncommon gift in women, the perfect sense of justice. You never heard
them gossiping about anybody; and when a veranda conversation drifted
toward scandal, the Cavenaugh girls invariably drifted toward the
farther end of the veranda. All the men admired them; they were such
good fellows.
The mother of the girls was, as I have remarked, good-natured and
amiable, inclined toward stoutness, and a willing listener to all that
was going on. She considered it her bounden duty to keep informed
regarding the doings of her intimate friends, but with total lack of
malice. At this moment she occupied her favorite corner on the club
veranda, and was engaged in animated tittle-tattle. She nodded and
smiled at Carrington.
Norah was playing tennis. She waved her racket at the new arrival.
Carrington was her beau-ideal.
He hurried into the dressing-room and shortly returned in his golf
flannels. He was a sturdy chap, not at all handsome, but possessing a
countenance full of strong lines. He inspired your trust and confidence,
which is far better than inspiring your admiration.
"I am not going to play to-day," said Kate, "so I'll follow over the
course and watch you play. I haven't seen you for a whole week; and I
can't talk and play, too," smiling.
"Forward, then!" cried Carrington, beckoning to his caddy.
He played a nervous, fidgety game that afternoon. Every time he teed his
ball the document spoke from his pocket with an ominous crackle. There
was not one brilliant stroke to his credit. This puzzled the girl, for
only the previous week he had been runner-up in the annual tournament
for crack amateurs. He made the ninth hole indifferently, then turned to
the girl, smiling whimsically.
"You are not playing up to your form to-day, John," she observed.
"I admit it," he replied, tossing his club to the caddy, who, well
versed in worldly affairs, serenely shouldered the bag and made off
toward the club house. "My heart isn't in the game, Kate. The fact is,
I'm in a peck of trouble." He determined to tell her at once. There
might not be another opportunity like this.
"Why, John!" reproachfully.
"Oh, it came only yesterday. I haven't been hiding it. I'm in a kind of
pocket, and can't exactly see my way out. I want your advice; and you
must be the jury and judge rolled into one."
They were standing on a hill, and far away they could see the pale line
where the shimmering summer sea met the turquoise bowl of heaven.
"Tell me what your difficulty is, John, and I will judge it the best I
know how."
He never knew what a simple, beautiful name John was till it fell from
the lips of this girl. Many called him Jack; but only his mother and
this girl called him John. He motioned toward the sandbox, and they sat
down. The other players were well scattered about, out of hearing. He
made out his case skilfully enough, giving his plaintiff and defendant
fictitious names. The thing grew so real to him, as he went on, that
toward the end he rose to the dramatics. The girl listened, but with
never a glance at him. Rather her gaze roved over the dancing gray
waters and followed the lonely white sail that stood out to sea. And
when he reached the climax, silence of some duration fell upon them.
"Should this man be punished?" he asked at length.
"He is guilty; he has broken two laws, the civic and human. Oh, the poor
people!" pathetically. "They are never at peace; the wolf harries them,
and the jackal; they are robbed, beaten and spurned. They are like
sheep, not knowing how to fight. They arrest a man for his poverty; they
applaud him for his greed. It is all very wrong."
The sail fell under the shadow of a cloud, and they both watched it till
it flashed into the sunlight again.
"A woman's intuition is sometimes abnormally keen. You are strong enough
to fight such things without the advice of a woman. Is there not
something vital to me in all this? Is it not ... is it not my father,
John?"
                                   II
CARRINGTON faced her swiftly. He had not expected this. There was
something in her handsome eyes that barred the way to subterfuge. The
lie died unspoken, and he dropped his gaze and began to dig up the turf
with the toe of his shoe.
"Is it my father, John?"
"Yes. Oh, Kate," with a despairing gesture, "I'm the most miserable
fellow alive! To think that this should fall into my hands, of all hands
in the world!"
"Perhaps it is better so," quietly. "Nothing is without purpose. It
might have come to test your honesty. But you are sure, John; it is not
guess-work?"
"All the evidence is in my pocket. Say the word, and the wind shall
carry it down to the sea. Say the word, heart o' mine!"
He made a quick movement toward his pocket, but she caught his arm.
"Do nothing foolish or hasty, John. Tearing up the evidence would not
undo what is done. Sooner or later murder will out. If my father is
culpable, if in his thoughtless greed for money he has robbed the poor,
he must be made to restore what he has taken. I know my father; what he
has done appears perfectly legitimate to him. Can he be put in prison?"
"It all depends upon how well he defends himself," evasively.
She went on. "I have been dreading something like this; so it is no
great surprise to me. He is money-mad, money-mad; and he hears, sees,
thinks nothing but money. But it hurts, John; I am a proud woman. My
grandfather...." Her lips shut suddenly. "Money!" with a passionate wave
of the hand. "How I hate the name of it, the sound of it, the thought of
it! I love my father," with a defiant pride; "he has always been tender
and kind to me; and I should not be of his flesh and blood had I not the
desire to shield and protect him."
"The remedy is simple and close at hand," suggested Carrington gently.
"Simple, but worthy of neither of us. I abhor anything that is not
wholly honest. It is one of those strange freaks of nature (who holds
herself accountable to no one) to give to me honesty that is the sum
total of what should have been evenly distributed among my ancestors. If
I were to tell all I know, all I have kept locked in my heart...."
"Don't do it, girl; it wouldn't matter in the least. You are you; and
that is all there is to love. Why, I could not love you less if your
great-great-grandfather was a pirate," lightly. "Love asks no questions;
and ancestors worry me not at all; they are all comfortably dead."
"Not always. But if my perception of honor were less keen, I should
laugh at what you call your evidence."
"Laugh?"
"Yes, indeed. I very well understand the tremendous power of money."
"Not more than I," sadly.
She laughed brokenly. "More than you. I can picture to you just what
will happen." She rose. "There will, of course, be a great newspaper
clamor; the interstate commissioners will put their heads together;
there will be investigations by the government. That will be the attack.
The keenest lawyers are on the side of corporations; that is because the
state is niggard with her pay. Let me outline the defense. Father will
resign from his high office, to be reëlected later when the public cools
off! A new directorate will fill the place of the present one. Suddenly
falsified entries will be discovered; the head bookkeeper will have
disappeared. All fingers will point to him. He will be in South America,
having been paid several thousand to go there. All this will make the
passing of the dividend perfectly logical. The matter will never be
tried in court. Money will do all this."
"My dear little woman, you reason like Pythagoras; but," Carrington
added gravely, "when I undertook to untangle this affair, I realized its
huge proportions. For every redoubt your father has, I have an assault,
for every wall a catapult, for every gate a petard. But, as I said
before, you have only to say the word, and for the present nobody will
be any the wiser."
"If I permitted you to do this, I should destroy my faith in both of us.
It would erect a barrier which would be insurmountable. That is not the
way out."
"I have weighed all these things," discouragedly.
He took the document from his pocket and caught it in a way that
indicated how easily it might be ripped into halves, the halves into
quarters, the quarters into infinitesimal squares of meaningless
letters.
"Once more, shall I, Kate?"
"No, John. That would only make our difficulties greater. But I do ask
this one favor; put your evidence into the hands of a strange attorney,
have nothing to do with the prosecution; for my sake."
"I must have the night to think it over. Most of my attacks are not
herein written; I dared keep them only in my head."
"I am very unhappy," said the girl.
He took her hand and kissed it reverently. He longed to console her, but
no words he had in mind seemed adequate.
"Fore!" came lazily over the knoll. They were no longer alone. So
together they wandered slowly back to the club-house. Tea was being
served, and Carrington drank his abstractedly. From time to time he
joined the conversation, but without any heart. Some of the busier
ladies whispered that it looked this time as though Kate had given the
young man his congé.
On the way home Norah, with her humorous comment on the weekly budget of
gossip, saved the situation from any possible contretemps. Mrs.
Cavenaugh was easy-going, but for all that she possessed remarkably
observant eyes; and her eldest daughter was glad that they were occupied
elsewhere.
Kate was very unhappy; her father was not honest, and the man she loved
had come into the knowledge of the fact. Ah, how quickly shadow can
darken sunshine!
"What did you make it in to-day, Mr. Carrington?" asked Norah.
"Make what?" he counter-questioned absently.
"The course, Mr. Goose! What did you think I meant?"
"Oh," lamely, "I made a bad play at the beginning, and gave it up."
By this time they had arrived at the gates, and everybody was thankful;
Mrs. Cavenaugh, because her nose smarted with sunburn; Norah, because
the gown she was to wear at the dance that night was new; Kate, because
she wanted to be alone; and Carrington, because he wanted to learn
whether the Angel threw Jacob or Jacob threw the Angel. The driver and
the horses were glad to arrive because they were hungry.
It took the young lawyer some time to dress for dinner that night. His
usually direct mind vacillated between right and wrong, wrong and right;
and he floated from one to the other like an unattached cork. He made a
dozen annoying blunders in dressing. And when finally the pier-glass
reflected an irreproachable and finished picture, he searched his
cast-off vest for his growing monster and transferred it to the pocket
of his coat. Monster! Here was no story-monster, like the creature of a
Frankenstein; it was genuine, and was like to turn upon him at any
moment and rend him. He shrugged and proceeded down the stairs. There
are soliloquies that sometimes leave an unpleasant taste behind. So he
pinned his faith to the banner of the late genial and hopeful Micawber:
something might turn up for the benefit of all concerned.
The hall and living-room at the Cavenaugh manor were one and the same.
There were bookcases ranging along the walls, window-seats, a
reading-table and an ancient chimney-seat. As Carrington turned the
first landing he stopped.
"Father, I think it positively dreadful the way you treat poor grandpa."
This was Norah.
There was a crackle of a newspaper.
"Never mind, Norah, darling; your grandpa is used to it. It doesn't
matter at all."
It was the sight of the last speaker that brought Carrington to a stand.
Norah's grandpa was no less a person than the shabbily dressed old man
he had seen at the station that afternoon. What kind of family skeleton
in the closet was he that they kept him en camera? He coughed and went
on.
Norah was plucky, whole-hearted, frank and encouraging.
"Mr. Carrington," she said immediately, "this is my grandpa."
Carrington did not hesitate a moment, but smiled and thrust out his
hand, which the other grasped with a questioning air of diffidence.
"Glad to meet you, sir," said Carrington.
Cavenaugh fils glanced over the top of his paper, scowled, and resumed
his reading. Kate hadn't come down yet, so she missed this scene. When
she did appear, there was no visible sign of any previous agitation. She
and Norah were thoroughbreds.
"Why, grandpa!" she cried, extending her hand.
The old man bowed over it and kissed it, and his action was lacking
neither in grace nor gallantry.
"I happened to be down this way on business," said the old man with a
covert glance at his son, "and thought I'd drop in."
"Dinner is served," said the splendid butler, as he slid back the doors
to the dining-room.
The old man looked about him questioningly, and Norah slipped her arm
through his. "You'll have to take me in, grandpa," she laughed.
The old man's eyes shone for a moment, and he patted her hand.
"I'm as proud as a king, Norah."
Now, Carrington could read between the lines. It was manifestly plain
that grandpa was not welcome to Cavenaugh. But why? Mrs. Cavenaugh
scarcely tolerated him. While the girls seldom if ever spoke of him, it
was evident that both held him in their affections. There were many
strange things going on in the Cavenaugh manor; and Carrington entered
the dining-room in a subdued state of mind.
By degrees Norah succeeded in drawing the pariah out of himself.
Carrington was soon listening to an amazing range of adventures. The old
man had seen Cuba in the filibusters' time, he had fought the Canadian
constabulary as a Fenian, he had been a sailor, and had touched the
shores of many strange lands. Grandpa Cavenaugh was anything but
illiterate. Quite often there was a flash of wit, a well-turned phrase,
a quotation. He had, besides, a comprehensive grasp of the politics of
all countries.
Carrington saw at once that his half-formed opinion was a house of
cards. There was no reason in the world why they should be ashamed of
him, shunt him off into the side-track of obscurity, and begrudge him a
plate at the table. Carrington realized that he was very close to some
peculiar mystery, and that the old man's bitterest enemy was his son.
Throughout the meal the millionaire preserved a repelling silence. From
time to time, when there was laughter, he scowled. Once or twice Mrs.
Cavenaugh essayed to pass an observation across the table to him, but a
curt nod was all she received for her pains. Presently Cavenaugh dropped
his knife on his plate, and the pariah retreated meekly into his shell.
In fact, he looked frightened, as if the thought had come to him that he
had made an irreparable blunder in warming under his grandchildren's
smiles.
"Carrington," said Midas, balling his napkin and tossing it on the
table, "your particular branch is corporation law, isn't it?"
