Eddy’s tomb, from all over the world-admission, the Christian-Science
Dollar (payable in advance)--purchases of consecrated glass beads,
candles, memorial spoons, aureoled chrome-portraits and bogus autographs
of Mrs. Eddy; cash offerings at her shrine no crutches of cured cripples
received, and no imitations of miraculously restored broken legs and
necks allowed to be hung up except when made out of the Holy Metal
and proved by fire-assay; cash for miracles worked at the tomb: these
money-sources, with a thousand to be yet invented and ambushed upon the
devotee, will bring the annual increment well up above a billion. And
nobody but the Trust will have the handling of it. In that day, the
Trust will monopolize the manufacture and sale of the Old and New
Testaments as well as the Annex, and raise their price to Annex rates,
and compel the devotee to buy (for even to-day a healer has to have the
Annex and the Scriptures or he is not allowed to work the game), and
that will bring several hundred million dollars more. In those days, the
Trust will have an income approaching five million dollars a day, and
no expenses to be taken out of it; no taxes to pay, and no charities
to support. That last detail should not be lightly passed over by the
reader; it is well entitled to attention.

No charities to support. No, nor even to contribute to. One searches in
vain the Trust’s advertisements and the utterances of its organs for
any suggestion that it spends a penny on orphans, widows, discharged
prisoners, hospitals, ragged schools, night missions, city missions,
libraries, old people’s homes, or any other object that appeals to a
human being’s purse through his heart.

I have hunted, hunted, and hunted, by correspondence and otherwise, and
have not yet got upon the track of a farthing that the Trust has spent
upon any worthy object. Nothing makes a Scientist so uncomfortable as to
ask him if he knows of a case where Christian Science has spent money
on a benevolence, either among its own adherents or elsewhere. He is
obliged to say “No” And then one discovers that the person questioned
has been asked the question many times before, and that it is getting to
be a sore subject with him. Why a sore subject? Because he has written
his chiefs and asked with high confidence for an answer that will
confound these questioners--and the chiefs did not reply. He has written
again, and then again--not with confidence, but humbly, now--and has
begged for defensive ammunition in the voice of supplication. A reply
does at last come to this effect: “We must have faith in Our Mother, and
rest content in the conviction that whatever She does with the money
it is in accordance with orders from Heaven, for She does no act of any
kind without first ‘demonstrating over’ it.”

That settles it--as far as the disciple is concerned. His mind
is satisfied with that answer; he gets down his Annex and does an
incantation or two, and that mesmerizes his spirit and puts that to
sleep--brings it peace. Peace and comfort and joy, until some inquirer
punctures the old sore again.

Through friends in America I asked some questions, and in some cases
got definite and informing answers; in other cases the answers were not
definite and not valuable. To the question, “Does any of the money go to
charities?” the answer from an authoritative source was: “No, not in
the sense usually conveyed by this word.” (The italics are mine.) That
answer is cautious. But definite, I think--utterly and unassailably
definite--although quite Christian-Scientifically foggy in its phrasing.
Christian-Science testimony is generally foggy, generally diffuse,
generally garrulous. The writer was aware that the first word in his
phrase answered the question which I was asking, but he could not help
adding nine dark words. Meaningless ones, unless explained by him. It is
quite likely, as intimated by him, that Christian Science has invented
a new class of objects to apply the word “charity” to, but without an
explanation we cannot know what they are. We quite easily and naturally
and confidently guess that they are in all cases objects which will
return five hundred per cent. on the Trust’s investment in them,
but guessing is not knowledge; it is merely, in this case, a sort
of nine-tenths certainty deducible from what we think we know of the
Trust’s trade principles and its sly and furtive and shifty ways.

Sly? Deep? Judicious? The Trust understands its business. The Trust does
not give itself away. It defeats all the attempts of us impertinents to
get at its trade secrets. To this day, after all our diligence, we have
not been able to get it to confess what it does with the money. It does
not even let its own disciples find out. All it says is, that the matter
has been “demonstrated over.” Now and then a lay Scientist says, with
a grateful exultation, that Mrs. Eddy is enormously rich, but he stops
there; as to whether any of the money goes to other charities or not,
he is obliged to admit that he does not know. However, the Trust is
composed of human beings; and this justifies the conjecture that if it
had a charity on its list which it was proud of, we should soon hear of
it.

“Without money and without price.” Those used to be the terms. Mrs.
Eddy’s Annex cancels them. The motto of Christian Science is, “The
laborer is worthy of his hire.” And now that it has been “demonstrated
over,” we find its spiritual meaning to be, “Do anything and everything
your hand may find to do; and charge cash for it, and collect the money
in advance.” The Scientist has on his tongue’s end a cut-and-dried,
Boston-supplied set of rather lean arguments, whose function is to show
that it is a Heaven-commanded duty to do this, and that the croupiers of
the game have no choice but to obey.

The Trust seems to be a reincarnation. Exodus xxxii. 4.

I have no reverence for the Trust, but I am not lacking in reverence for
the sincerities of the lay membership of the new Church. There is every
evidence that the lay members are entirely sincere in their faith, and
I think sincerity is always entitled to honor and respect, let the
inspiration of the sincerity be what it may. Zeal and sincerity can
carry a new religion further than any other missionary except fire and
sword, and I believe that the new religion will conquer the half of
Christendom in a hundred years. I am not intending this as a compliment
to the human race; I am merely stating an opinion. And yet I think that
perhaps it is a compliment to the race. I keep in mind that saying of
an orthodox preacher--quoted further back. He conceded that this new
Christianity frees its possessor’s life from frets, fears, vexations,
bitterness, and all sorts of imagination-propagated maladies and pains,
and fills his world with sunshine and his heart with gladness. If
Christian Science, with this stupendous equipment--and final salvation
added--cannot win half the Christian globe, I must be badly mistaken in
the make-up of the human race.

I think the Trust will be handed down like the other Papacy, and will
always know how to handle its limitless cash. It will press the button;
the zeal, the energy, the sincerity, the enthusiasm of its countless
vassals will do the rest.




CHAPTER VIII

The power which a man’s imagination has over his body to heal it or make
it sick is a force which none of us is born without. The first man had
it, the last one will possess it. If left to himself, a man is most
likely to use only the mischievous half of the force--the half which
invents imaginary ailments for him and cultivates them; and if he is
one of these--very wise people, he is quite likely to scoff at the
beneficent half of the force and deny its existence. And so, to heal
or help that man, two imaginations are required: his own and some
outsider’s. The outsider, B, must imagine that his incantations are the
healing-power that is curing A, and A must imagine that this is so. I
think it is not so, at all; but no matter, the cure is effected, and
that is the main thing. The outsider’s work is unquestionably valuable;
so valuable that it may fairly be likened to the essential work
performed by the engineer when he handles the throttle and turns on the
steam; the actual power is lodged exclusively in the engine, but if
the engine were left alone it would never start of itself. Whether the
engineer be named Jim, or Bob, or Tom, it is all one--his services are
necessary, and he is entitled to such wage as he can get you to pay.
Whether he be named Christian Scientist, or Mental Scientist, or Mind
Curist, or King’s-Evil Expert, or Hypnotist, it is all one; he is merely
the Engineer; he simply turns on the same old steam and the engine does
the whole work.

The Christian-Scientist engineer drives exactly the same trade as the
other engineers, yet he out-prospers the whole of them put together.

Is it because he has captured the takingest name? I think that that is
only a small part of it. I think that the secret of his high prosperity
lies elsewhere.

The Christian Scientist has organized the business. Now that was
certainly a gigantic idea. Electricity, in limitless volume, has
existed in the air and the rocks and the earth and everywhere since
time began--and was going to waste all the while. In our time we have
organized that scattered and wandering force and set it to work,
and backed the business with capital, and concentrated it in few and
competent hands, and the results are as we see.

The Christian Scientist has taken a force which has been lying idle in
every member of the human race since time began, and has organized it,
and backed the business with capital, and concentrated it at Boston
headquarters in the hands of a small and very competent Trust, and there
are results.

Therein lies the promise that this monopoly is going to extend its
commerce wide in the earth. I think that if the business were conducted
in the loose and disconnected fashion customary with such things, it
would achieve but little more than the modest prosperity usually secured
by unorganized great moral and commercial ventures; but I believe that
so long as this one remains compactly organized and closely concentrated
in a Trust, the spread of its dominion will continue.




CHAPTER IX

Four years ago I wrote the preceding chapters. I was assured by the wise
that Christian Science was a fleeting craze and would soon perish. This
prompt and all-competent stripe of prophet is always to be had in the
market at ground-floor rates. He does not stop to load, or consider, or
take aim, but lets fly just as he stands. Facts are nothing to him, he
has no use for such things; he works wholly by inspiration. And so, when
he is asked why he considers a new movement a passing fad and quickly
perishable, he finds himself unprepared with a reason and is more or
less embarrassed. For a moment. Only for a moment. Then he waylays the
first spectre of a reason that goes flitting through the desert places
of his mind, and is at once serene again and ready for conflict. Serene
and confident. Yet he should not be so, since he has had no chance
to examine his catch, and cannot know whether it is going to help his
contention or damage it.

The impromptu reason furnished by the early prophets of whom I have
spoken was this:

“There is nothing to Christian Science; there is nothing about it
that appeals to the intellect; its market will be restricted to the
unintelligent, the mentally inferior, the people who do not think.”

They called that a reason why the cult would not flourish and endure. It
seems the equivalent of saying:

“There is no money in tinware; there is nothing about it that appeals to
the rich; its market will be restricted to the poor.”

It is like bringing forward the best reason in the world why Christian
Science should flourish and live, and then blandly offering it as a
reason why it should sicken and die.

That reason was furnished me by the complacent and unfrightened
prophets four years ago, and it has been furnished me again to-day. If
conversions to new religions or to old ones were in any considerable
degree achieved through the intellect, the aforesaid reason would be
sound and sufficient, no doubt; the inquirer into Christian Science
might go away unconvinced and unconverted. But we all know that
conversions are seldom made in that way; that such a thing as a serious
and painstaking and fairly competent inquiry into the claims of a
religion or of a political dogma is a rare occurrence; and that the
vast mass of men and women are far from being capable of making such
an examination. They are not capable, for the reason that their minds,
howsoever good they may be, are not trained for such examinations. The
mind not trained for that work is no more competent to do it than
are lawyers and farmers competent to make successful clothes without
learning the tailor’s trade. There are seventy-five million men and
women among us who do not know how to cut out and make a dress-suit, and
they would not think of trying; yet they all think they can competently
think out a political or religious scheme without any apprenticeship to
the business, and many of them believe they have actually worked that
miracle. But, indeed, the truth is, almost all the men and women of our
nation or of any other get their religion and their politics where they
get their astronomy--entirely at second hand. Being untrained, they are
no more able to intelligently examine a dogma or a policy than they are
to calculate an eclipse.

Men are usually competent thinkers along the lines of their specialized
training only. Within these limits alone are their opinions and
judgments valuable; outside of these limits they grope and are
lost--usually without knowing it. In a church assemblage of five hundred
persons, there will be a man or two whose trained minds can seize upon
each detail of a great manufacturing scheme and recognize its value
or its lack of value promptly; and can pass the details in intelligent
review, section by section, and finally as a whole, and then deliver a
verdict upon the scheme which cannot be flippantly set aside nor easily
answered. And there will be one or two other men there who can do the
same thing with a great and complicated educational project; and one
or two others who can do the like with a large scheme for applying
electricity in a new and unheard-of way; and one or two others who can
do it with a showy scheme for revolutionizing the scientific world’s
accepted notions regarding geology. And so on, and so on. But the
manufacturing experts will not be competent to examine the educational
scheme intelligently, and their opinion about it would not be valuable;
neither of these two groups will be able to understand and pass upon the
electrical scheme; none of these three batches of experts will be able
to understand and pass upon the geological revolution; and probably not
one man in the entire lot will be competent to examine, capably, the
intricacies of a political or religious scheme, new or old, and deliver
a judgment upon it which any one need regard as precious.

There you have the top crust. There will be four hundred and
seventy-five men and women present who can draw upon their training and
deliver incontrovertible judgments concerning cheese, and leather,
and cattle, and hardware, and soap, and tar, and candles, and patent
medicines, and dreams, and apparitions, and garden trucks, and cats, and
baby food, and warts, and hymns, and time-tables, and freight-rates, and
summer resorts, and whiskey, and law, and surgery, and dentistry, and
blacksmithing, and shoemaking, and dancing, and Huyler’s candy, and
mathematics, and dog fights, and obstetrics, and music, and sausages,
and dry goods, and molasses, and railroad stocks, and horses, and
literature, and labor unions, and vegetables, and morals, and lamb’s
fries, and etiquette, and agriculture. And not ten among the five
hundred--let their minds be ever so good and bright--will be competent,
by grace of the requisite specialized mental training, to take hold of a
complex abstraction of any kind and make head or tail of it.

The whole five hundred are thinkers, and they are all capable
thinkers--but only within the narrow limits of their specialized
trainings. Four hundred and ninety of them cannot competently examine
either a religious plan or a political one. A scattering few of them do
examine both--that is, they think they do. With results as precious as
when I examine the nebular theory and explain it to myself.

If the four hundred and ninety got their religion through their minds,
and by weighed and measured detail, Christian Science would not be a
scary apparition. But they don’t; they get a little of it through their
minds, more of it through their feelings, and the overwhelming bulk of
it through their environment.

Environment is the chief thing to be considered when one is proposing to
predict the future of Christian Science. It is not the ability to reason
that makes the Presbyterian, or the Baptist, or the Methodist, or the
Catholic, or the Mohammedan, or the Buddhist, or the Mormon; it is
environment. If religions were got by reasoning, we should have the
extraordinary spectacle of an American family with a Presbyterian in it,
and a Baptist, a Methodist, a Catholic, a Mohammedan, a Buddhist, and
a Mormon. A Presbyterian family does not produce Catholic families
or other religious brands, it produces its own kind; and not
by intellectual processes, but by association. And so also with
