ful ways; she swung in the hammock to the 
music of birds and the murmur of the fragrant 
air ; she read verses aloud ; she told over col- 
lege episodes, and all the while one dear face 
haunted her, a tender, fatherly face, and she 
could hear the words of welcome, “ In Daisy's 
place.” She must make up to these elderly 
people what they had lost. Oh, she must! 
She could not be so cruel as to thrust aside 
this longing love. 



“ I must go early next week,” she said to 
herself, standing on the wide porch in the 
morning sunshine, breathing in the fragrant 
air. “ It is the thing to do, to accept. I sup- 
pose love will come. There is no one else, I 
have not even fancied what my hero would be 
like. And Willard has made a fine man of 
himself; any girl might be proud of him. I 
wonder what the hardness about me can be! 
Perhaps I am a little like father, but I must 
strive to conquer it. If I have been weak 
enough to drift into it, blind enough not to 
discriminate between love and friendship, I 
must pay the penalty. There will be a whole 
year — ” 

A messenger boy was running up the drive 
with a yellow envelope in his hand. 

“ Miss Helen Grant,” he ejaculated breath- 
lessly. She tore off the end. 

“ Father died suddenly Wednesday night. 
I reached home this morning. Come to us at 
once. 

“ Willard Bell.” 


 


Helen stood stunned. Just as she was think- 
ing, resolving, for his dear sake ! All the 
world about her seemed blurred, and a shiver 
sped through every nerve. 

‘‘Helen, what is it? You look like a 
ghost." 

She held the telegram before Juliet. 

“ Oh, what a sad, dreadful thing! Yes, you 
must go. What can I do to help you? Had 
Mr. Bell been in ill health?" 

“ Not that I know of." Her voice was 
tremulous. 

Then they glanced into each other’s eyes. 
Was a secret half-suspected, half-confessed? 
Juliet kissed her tenderly, looked up trains, 
ordered the carriage, and was soon driving 
her down to the station. 

Helen still seemed dazed, incredulous. How 
could it be ! She had never dreamed of such 
an event, though she had felt anxious about 
Mrs. Bell. How would she bear this second 
stroke I 

Willard came to meet her, grave, and yet 
so sweet that her heart smote her. Oh, any 



other girl would love him, must love him! It 
was her duty now to try. 

“ Father hasn’t been quite up to the mark 
in some time, mother thinks. You see he 
missed her a great deal in the winter. They 
had never been separated for more than a 
week or two. And he was worried about 
Daisy. She had everything, to be sure ” — 
he made a little halt — “ but Duel* wasn’t the 
kind of man she should have married. He 
was all for pleasure and excitement, and it 
wore her out. Father had not complained 
any, but he didn’t seem to care so much about 
the garden as he used. He would sit and read 
to mother; you know how fond he was of 
those simple little poems. When he came 
home that afternoon he lay on the lounge 
awhile, then he asked mother to go to drive. 
After supper he sat in his big easy chair by 
the window. A woman had been there doing 
some work, and she was pouring her wants 
and woes in mother’s ears. She went to look 
up some clothing for the poor body, and when 
she came in the room she thought father 
asleep, and would not disturb him. So it 


 

was nearly nine when she spoke to him, and 
she couldn’t believe at first. Some one hur- 
ried for the doctor, but she knew in a few 
moments that he was beyond earthly help. I 
hadn’t expected to return quite so soon and 
must go back again. Both girls came up this 
morning ; they were there when I reached 
home. I sent the message at once. Oh, 
Helen! I am so glad you came. You were 
so dear to him; Daisy hadn’t a friend he 
cared so much about, and he was very fond 
of young girls. All our misfortunes seem to 
come at once. And now I tremble for 
mother.” 

Yet she found Mrs. Bell quite composed, 
though the greeting went to her heart and 
was another link in the chain binding her ; 
she suddenly gave up the struggle and ac- 
cepted the fate that seemed a duty. Marjorie 
gave her a sisterly welcome ; she felt that it 
was taken for granted that she was to be one 
of the circle. 

It was not altogether sorrowful. Indeed, 
while he was still in the house it seemed as 
if he must rise out of his sleep and join them. 



There were so many sweet remembrances 
called to light, there was the sure abiding that 
he had changed his earthly home for a 
heavenly one. 

After Daisy's interment they had decided 
to make a new resting-place at Woodlawn 
and had removed the one little child lost years 
before. The funeral services were to be at 
Vernon Park. So many of their old friends 
had gone away, and as it seemed most likely 
now that the home of years would be given 
up, for Marjorie had insisted that her mother 
should remain with her, Mr. Hollis had taken 
charge of the funeral, and the service was at 
his church. 

They all went to the rectory afterward. 
Mrs. Bell took possession of Helen. She 
seemed to love to linger over the visits, the 
talks, the readings. 

“ There are some volumes of poems I want 
you to have, for I know you will value tllem,” 
she said in her tender tone. “ I can see this 
is going to change my life for me, although 
many times last winter I thought if I once 
came back, nothing would ever induce me to 


 

give up my home. But I could not stand the 
loneliness without him. Then Willard’s 
affiliations will be in the city, and it would be 
too much to ask him to take his father’s 
place. We had our youth there, and times 
change. Willard must be free to settle where 
it is best when his time of home-making 
comes. He is to go west again for several 
weeks. I should like to keep you — ” wist- 
fully. “ But it would be lonely and sorrow- 
ful, for we could not help going over the past 
and missing him. The hardest part of the 
loss is not at first. And your vacation ought 
to be cheerful and bright to help you through 
your next arduous year. Mr. Bell was so 
proud of your success. He counted on com- 
ing to see you graduate. And now it is your 
senior year. I shall want to hear from you 
often.” 

“ And surely you shall,” Helen returned 
with eager sympathy. 

“ You seem to have more of Daisy’s girl- 
hood life than her sisters, and you will al- 
ways be dear to me, believe that.” 

“ Oh, I do ! And I recall the old times 



when I was troubled and came to you for 
advice. There was no one so like a mother.” 

Mrs. Bell kissed her fondly. “ I shall al- 
ways want your love, my dear. And you must 
come to me in any trouble or perplexity. 
Sometimes, paths are confusing. Oh, never 
be afraid ! ” 

“ I could trust your love, your judgment, 
in every case,” returned Helen, much moved. 

Mrs. Towne came up for the day with her 
two children. Her husband's mother was 
quite an invalid now. The little girl was 
pretty and charming, the boy a hearty, robust 
little fellow, full of questions and laughter. 
They were a great pleasure to Mrs. Bell; 
Helen could see that. 

“ Come out and walk,” Willard said the 
last morning. He was to leave at noon. 
“ I've hardly had a moment with you. It was 
too bad about commencement. You see it is 
just here: Mr. Loring’s sight is failing him 
and he hates to admit it, so he wants some 
one to depend upon that he can trust, con- 
fidentially. He has taken a fancy to me; he 
always admired father. It is a fine opening 


 

for a young fellow,” and there was a ring of 
pride in his voice. 

“ I am so glad — for your sake.” 

“ And I hope it will be for your sake, as 
well. Oh, Helen, I do get impatient at times ! 
It is not as if we could see each other often. 
I do not get any chance to plead my cause.” 

“ But — we were to wait until — there is 
my year of study,” in a little confusion. 

“ Oh, yes ! And I can foresee that I shall 
be much engrossed. Only it seems as if you 
might give me some sort of promise to live 
upon.” 

A few days ago she was ready to promise 
any thing, all things. What was the matter 
with her? Why, when she actually faced this 
fact did she shrink from it? It was like sign- 
ing something away that she did not know 
the value of, walking blindly in a path whose 
turnings she was unaccustomed to, and she 
experienced a touch of apprehension. Was 
it a struggle between the holiest and tenderest 
qualities of her soul and a question of duty? 

“ You see, if we were really engaged,” he 
began, then hesitated. A vague feeling rose 


 

in his mind that a girl ought to give of her 
best without argument if she really loved. 

“ It is best as it is,” and her tone had a 
falter in it that did touch him. “ I shall 
have a good deal of hard study this year, and 
you will be engrossed with business. The 
waiting will not harm either of us, and we 
shall be more certain — ” 

“ I am certain enough now,” rather im- 
patiently. “ Helen, you are a queer girl. 
You seem at times full of tenderness, then you 
are hard and cold. I wonder if you really 
understand all that love means ? ” 

A sudden courage came to Helen. She 
straightened with a latent dignity and resolve. 

“No, I do not,” she made answer. “ There 
are girls in college wearing engagement-rings, 
and they laugh and chatter about their lovers. 
There seems something sacred in it to me, 
that is, if it should go down deep in one’s 
heart. Perhaps I am not ready for that high- 
est of all love. Oh ! ” softening her tone 
though she did not raise her eyes, “ let us be 
friends as we were, for this year — ” 

“ Tell me, is there any one else? ” 
