I said that in Altruria we all worked, and that personal service was
honored among us like medical attendance in America; I did not know what
other comparison to make; but I said that any one in health would think
it as unwholesome and as immoral to let another serve him as to let a
doctor physic him. At this Mrs. Makely and her husband laughed so that I
found myself unable to go on for some moments, till Mrs. Makely, with a
final shriek, shouted to him: “Dick, do stop, or I shall die! Excuse me,
Mr. Homos, but you are so deliciously funny, and I know you’re just
joking. You won’t mind my laughing? Do go on.”

I tried to give her some notion as to how we manage, in our common life,
which we have simplified so much beyond anything that this barbarous
people dream of; and she grew a little soberer as I went on, and seemed
at least to believe that I was not, as her husband said, stuffing them;
but she ended, as they always do here, by saying that it might be all
very well in Altruria, but it would never do in America, and that it was
contrary to human nature to have so many things done in common. “Now,
I’ll tell you,” she said. “After we broke up housekeeping in Thirty-third
Street, we stored our furniture--”

“Excuse me,” I said. “How--stored?”

“Oh, I dare say you never store your furniture in Altruria. But here we
have hundreds of storage warehouses of all sorts and sizes, packed with
furniture that people put into them when they go to Europe, or get sick
to death of servants and the whole bother of house-keeping; and that’s
what we did; and then, as my husband says, we browsed about for a year
or two. First, we tried hotelling it, and we took a hotel apartment
furnished, and dined at the hotel table, until I certainly thought I
should go off, I got so tired of it. Then we hired a suite in one of the
family hotels that there are so many of, and got out enough of our
things to furnish it, and had our meals in our rooms; they let you do
that for the same price, often they are glad to have you, for the
dining-room is so packed. But everything got to tasting just the same as
everything else, and my husband had the dyspepsia so bad he couldn’t half
attend to business, and I suffered from indigestion myself, cooped up in
a few small rooms, that way; and the dog almost died; and finally we gave
that up, and took an apartment, and got out our things--the storage cost
as much as the rent of a small house--and put them into it, and had a
caterer send in the meals as they do in Europe. But it isn’t the same
here as it is in Europe, and we got so sick of it in a month that I
thought I should scream when I saw the same old dishes coming on the
table, day after day. We had to keep one servant--excuse me, Mr. Homos:
domestic--anyway, to look after the table and the parlor and
chamber work, and my husband said we might as well be hung for a sheep as
a lamb, and so we got in a cook; and, bad as it is, it’s twenty million
times better than anything else you can do. Servants are a plague, but
you have got to have them, and so I have resigned myself to the will of
Providence. If they don’t like it, neither do I, and so I fancy it’s
about as broad as it’s long.” I have found this is a favorite phrase of
Mrs. Makely’s, and that it seems to give her a great deal of comfort.

“And you don’t feel that there’s any harm in it?” I ventured to ask.

“Harm in it?” she repeated. “Why, aren’t the poor things glad to get the
work? What would they do without it?”

“From what I see of your conditions I should be afraid that they would
starve,” I said.

“Yes, they can’t all get places in shops or restaurants, and they have to
do something, or starve, as you say,” she said; and she seemed to think
what I had said was a concession to her position.

“But if it were your own case?” I suggested. “If you had no alternatives
but starvation and domestic service, you would think there was harm in
it, even although you were glad to take a servant’s place?”

I saw her flush, and she answered, haughtily, “You must excuse me if I
refuse to imagine myself taking a servant’s place, even for the sake of
argument.”

“And you are quite right,” I said. “Your American instinct is too strong
to brook even in imagination the indignities which seem daily, hourly,
and momently inflicted upon servants in your system.”

To my great astonishment she seemed delighted by this conclusion. “Yes,”
 she said, and she smiled radiantly, “and now you understand how it is
that American girls won’t go out to service, though the pay is so much
better and they are so much better housed and fed--and everything.
Besides,” she added, with an irrelevance which always amuses her husband,
though I should be alarmed by it for her sanity if I did not find it so
characteristic of women here, who seem to be mentally characterized by
the illogicality of the civilization, “they’re not half so good as the
foreign servants. They’ve been brought up in homes of their own, and
they’re uppish, and they have no idea of anything but third-rate
boarding-house cooking, and they’re always hoping to get married, so
that, really, you have no peace of your life with them.”

“And it never seems to you that the whole relation is wrong?” I asked.

“What relation?”

“That between maid and mistress, the hirer and the hireling.”

“Why, good gracious!” she burst out. “Didn’t Christ himself say that the
laborer was worthy of his hire? And how would you get your work done, if
you didn’t pay for it?”

“It might be done for you, when you could not do it yourself, from
affection.”

“From affection!” she returned, with the deepest derision. “Well, I
rather think I shall have to do it myself if I want it done
from affection! But I suppose you think I ought to do it
myself, as the Altrurian ladies do! I can tell you that in America it
would be impossible for a lady to do her own work, and there are no
intelligence-offices where you can find girls that want to work for love.
It’s as broad as it’s long.”

“It’s simply business,” her husband said.

They were right, my dear friend, and I was wrong, strange as it must
appear to you. The tie of service, which we think as sacred as the tie of
blood, can be here only a business relation, and in these conditions
service must forever be grudgingly given and grudgingly paid. There is
something in it, I do not quite know what, for I can never place myself
precisely in an American’s place, that degrades the poor creatures who
serve, so that they must not only be social outcasts, but must leave such
a taint of dishonor on their work that one cannot even do it for one’s
self without a sense of outraged dignity. You might account for this in
Europe, where ages of prescriptive wrong have distorted the relation out
of all human wholesomeness and Christian loveliness; but in America,
where many, and perhaps most, of those who keep servants and call them so
are but a single generation from fathers who earned their bread by the
sweat of their brows, and from mothers who nobly served in all household
offices, it is in the last degree bewildering. I can only account for it
by that bedevilment of the entire American ideal through the retention of
the English economy when the English polity was rejected. But at the
heart of America there is this ridiculous contradiction, and it must
remain there until the whole country is Altrurianized. There is no other
hope; but I did not now urge this point, and we turned to talk of other
things, related to the matters we had been discussing.

“The men,” said Mrs. Makely, “get out of the whole bother very nicely, as
long as they are single, and even when they’re married they are apt to
run off to the club when there’s a prolonged upheaval in the kitchen.”

“I don’t, Dolly,” suggested her husband.

“No, you don’t, Dick,” she returned, fondly. “But there are not
many like you.”

He went on, with a wink at me, “I never live at the club, except in
summer, when you go away to the mountains.”

“Well, you know I can’t very well take you with me,” she said.

“Oh, I couldn’t leave my business, anyway,” he said, and he laughed.




X


I had noticed the vast and splendid club-houses in the best places in the
city, and I had often wondered about their life, which seemed to me a
blind groping towards our own, though only upon terms that forbade it to
those who most needed it. The clubs here are not like our groups, the
free association of sympathetic people, though one is a little more
literary, or commercial, or scientific, or political than another; but
the entrance to each is more or less jealously guarded; there is an
initiation-fee, and there are annual dues, which are usually heavy enough
to exclude all but the professional and business classes, though there
are, of course, successful artists and authors in them. During the past
winter I visited some of the most characteristic, where I dined and
supped with the members, or came alone when one of these put me down, for
a fortnight or a month.

They are equipped with kitchens and cellars, and their wines and dishes
are of the best. Each is, in fact, like a luxurious private house on a
large scale; outwardly they are palaces, and inwardly they have every
feature and function of a princely residence complete, even to a certain
number of guest-chambers, where members may pass the night, or stay
indefinitely in some cases, and actually live at the club. The club,
however, is known only to the cities and larger towns, in this highly
developed form; to the ordinary, simple American of the country, or of
the country town of five or ten thousand people, a New York club would be
as strange as it would be to any Altrurian.

“Do many of the husbands left behind in the summer live at the club?” I
asked.

“All that have a club do,” he said. “Often there’s a very good
table d’hôte dinner that you couldn’t begin to get for the same price
anywhere else; and there are a lot of good fellows there, and you can
come pretty near forgetting that you’re homeless, or even that you’re
married.”

He laughed, and his wife said: “You ought to be ashamed, Dick; and me
worrying about you all the time I’m away, and wondering what the cook
gives you here. Yes,” she continued, addressing me, “that’s the worst
thing about the clubs. They make the men so comfortable that they say
it’s one of the principal obstacles to early marriages. The young men try
to get lodgings near them, so that they can take their meals there, and
they know they get much better things to eat than they could have in a
house of their own at a great deal more expense, and so they simply don’t
think of getting married. Of course,” she said, with that wonderful,
unintentional, or at least unconscious, frankness of hers, “I don’t blame
the clubs altogether. There’s no use denying that girls are expensively
brought up, and that a young man has to think twice before taking one of
them out of the kind of home she’s used to and putting her into the kind
of home he can give her. If the clubs have killed early marriages,
the women have created the clubs.”

“Do women go much to them?” I asked, choosing this question as a safe
one.

“Much!” she screamed. “They don’t go at all! They can’t!
They won’t let us! To be sure, there are some that have rooms
where ladies can go with their friends who are members, and have lunch or
dinner; but as for seeing the inside of the club-house proper, where
these great creatures”--she indicated her husband--“are sitting up,
smoking and telling stories, it isn’t to be dreamed of.”

Her husband laughed. “You wouldn’t like the smoking, Dolly.”

“Nor the stories, some of them,” she retorted.

“Oh, the stories are always first-rate,” he said, and he laughed more
than before.

“And they never gossip at the clubs, Mr. Homos--never!” she added.

“Well, hardly ever,” said her husband, with an intonation that I did not
understand. It seemed to be some sort of catch-phrase.

“All I know,” said Mrs. Makely, “is that I like to have my husband belong
to his club. It’s a nice place for him in summer; and very often in
winter, when I’m dull, or going out somewhere that he hates, he can go
down to his club and smoke a cigar, and come home just about the time I
get in, and it’s much better than worrying through the evening with a
book. He hates books, poor Dick!” She looked fondly at him, as if this
were one of the greatest merits in the world. “But I confess I shouldn’t
like him to be a mere club man, like some of them.”

“But how?” I asked.

“Why, belonging to five or six, or more, even; and spending their whole
time at them, when they’re not at business.”

There was a pause, and Mr. Makely put on an air of modest worth, which he
carried off with his usual wink towards me. I said, finally, “And if the
ladies are not admitted to the men’s clubs, why don’t they have clubs of
their own?”

“Oh, they have--several, I believe. But who wants to go and meet a lot of
women? You meet enough of them in society, goodness knows. You hardly
meet any one else, especially at afternoon teas. They bore you to death.”

Mrs. Makely’s nerves seemed to lie in the direction of a prolongation of
this subject, and I asked my next question a little away from it. “I wish
you would tell me, Mrs. Makely, something about your way of provisioning
your household. You said that the grocer’s and butcher’s man came up to
the kitchen with your supplies--”

“Yes, and the milkman and the iceman; the iceman always puts the ice into
the refrigerator; it’s very convenient, and quite like your own house.”

“But you go out and select the things yourself the day before, or in the
morning?”

“Oh, not at all! The men come and the cook gives the order; she knows
pretty well what we want on the different days, and I never meddle with
it from one week’s end to the other, unless we have friends. The
tradespeople send in their bills at the end of the month, and that’s all
there is of it.” Her husband gave me one of his queer looks, and she went
on: “When we were younger, and just beginning housekeeping, I used to go
out and order the things myself; I used even to go to the big markets,
and half kill myself trying to get things a little cheaper at one place
and another, and waste more car-fare and lay up more doctor’s bills than
it would all come to, ten times over. I used to fret my life out,
remembering the prices; but now, thank goodness, that’s all over. I don’t
know any more what beef is a pound than my husband does; if a thing isn’t
good, I send it straight back, and that puts them on their honor, you
know, and they have to give me the best of everything. The bills average
about the same, from month to month; a little more if we have company
but if they’re too outrageous, I make a fuss with the cook, and she
scolds the men, and then it goes better for a while. Still, it’s a great
bother.”

I confess that I did not see what the bother was, but I had not the
courage to ask, for I had already conceived a wholesome dread of the
mystery of an American lady’s nerves. So I merely suggested, “And that is
the way that people usually manage?”

“Why,” she said, “I suppose that some old-fashioned people still do their
marketing, and people that have to look to their outgoes, and know what
every mouthful costs them. But their lives are not worth having. Eveleth
Strange does it--or she did do it when she was in the country; I dare say
she won’t when she gets back--just from a sense of duty, and because she
says that a housekeeper ought to know about her expenses. But I ask her
who will care whether she knows or not; and as for giving the money to
the poor that she saves by spending economically, I tell her that the
butchers and the grocers have to live, too, as well as the poor, and so
it’s as broad as it’s long.”



