had been set up in the outer court were almost denuded of the flower
pieces the countrywomen had brought in to sell, but I bought a wreath at
the solicitation of a peasant in a picturesque head-dress, and followed
the crowd. The cemetery is on three sides of the entrance and enclosed
by a high brick wall. I stood a moment at the inner official entrance,
hardly knowing which way to turn; but seeing a number of staring people
in a corridor on my right that faced one great division of the cemetery,
I was turning into it mechanically when a policeman waved me back with
the information that the entrance was at the other end. But not until I
had seen, stared, and gasped. In an alcove was a figure, almost upright,
that, in the first dazed seconds I took to be a wax-work, but
immediately knew to be a dead woman. As I almost ran out I recalled that
in Bavaria the dead are taken from the house within six hours, and are
kept in a public mortuary for three days, or until all danger of
premature interment is over.
"I do not think I should mind, particularly, seeing a ghost; I am sure
my mental curiosity would get the better of my unwilling flesh; but I
have a real horror of the corpse. I tried to forget the grotesque
exhibition I had stumbled upon, in the novel and interesting scene about
me. The long aisles of the cemetery were filled with well-dressed
people, some strolling, others decorating, all apparently enjoying
themselves. Almost all of the graves and monuments were bedecked, and
presented a most Elysian appearance with the masses of bright flowers,
the streamers of wide ribbon, the lighted lanterns, many of them antique
and beautiful, above all the tall flambeaux, whose flames looked white
and unearthly against the bright atmosphere. Above was a deep-blue sky
with those thick low masses of snow-white clouds one sees only in
Bavaria.
"But that grotesque little figure with its shrunken yellow face under
the pitiless sun glare, its bony old hands, attached I knew, to the
string of a distant bell, did not leave my mind for an instant. I walked
down every path, I examined every interesting monument, I even went into
the other divisions where there are so many statues in the alcove tombs;
but all in vain. I felt that I should see that old woman to the end of
my days. I could recall the very pattern of the cheap black lace of her
cap. There was but one way to rid my mind of the obsession, and that
was to return to the corridor, stand in front of every earthen figure,
remain there until my mind was satiated, in consequence delivered.
"I set my teeth and went back to the Leichenhalle. Of course there were
many to keep me company. I looked long and unflinchingly at two
gentlemen in evening clothes, an old maid dressed for once on earth as a
bride, a young woman and her infant. The coffins lay on an inclined
plane and the edges were so concealed by a mass of flowers and greenery
that the ghastly company looked as if half rising to hold a reception.
"And then I stood for I do not know how long before the alcove next to
the old woman beside the exit, not knowing whether I were turned to
stone or sitting by the Rosewater marsh indulging in some wild morbid
flight of imagination.
"For there he was. For a second I did not fully recognize him, he was so
yellow, his lower jaw had so hideously retreated, completely altering
the slightly cynical expression of the mouth. The bright gay sunlight
searched out every line carved by too much living, the little wrinkles
about the eyes, the weakness of the handsome polished hands. He looked
unspeakably aged and hideous. I had never dreamed that a brilliant mind
could leave so miserable a shell behind it, that the body was such a
mean poverty-stricken thing, a thing to be thrust out of sight as soon
as it had fulfilled its work of balking and ruining the soul. I had
never looked at Veronica after her death, and only once at my father,
who had not horrified me, for here the undertaker has arts unknown,
apparently, in Bavaria.
"My love died without a gasp. I shrank and curdled with horror that I
had loved that hideous clay. What he had aroused in me was merely the
response of youth to the masculine magnet, a trifle more specialized
than I had heretofore encountered; the inevitable fever when infection
appears. All personal feeling vanished out of me so completely that even
while I stood there I felt the same pity for him that I had for the
others, the helpless dead so mercilessly exposed to the vulgar
indifferent crowd. If I could have hurried him into the privacy of the
grave I would have exerted every effort, but before the laws of the
country I was powerless. As I was leaving the cemetery I discovered that
I still carried the wreath. I went back and added it to the bank of
greenery which his valet no doubt had provided.
"When I returned to my pension I sent for the man and learned that he
and the Consul-General of the United States had done all that the
authorities had left in their hands. The body was to be shipped to New
York within the month. He had died of Bright's disease. It had declared
itself a day or two after I left. After ten days of intermittent
suffering, during which the valet had felt no apprehension, he had died
suddenly.
"I left Munich the same day. If I have failed to give you any adequate
impression of my agonies, it will be next to impossible to describe my
subsequent states of mind. Indeed I have little remembrance of my mental
condition during the weeks of travel in Switzerland and Italy that
followed. I was deliberately living up on the surface of my nature,
indifferent to what was awaiting recognition below, although I knew it
to be nothing unwelcome. Then, finally, I felt the time had come when I
could draw aside the black curtain which I had hung for decency's sake
between my consciousness and my depths, and tell the new guest to come
forth. The guest was the liberty I had waited for all my life. I felt
indescribably free, light, strong. The tyranny of love, even while it
was but the love idea, that had shackled me for so many years, narrowing
my interests, warping my imagination, clouding the future, was
dissipated at last. I had paid the tribute to my youth and sex. I felt
really alive for the first time, existing in the actual not in the dream
world. There are women and women; and quite enough of the fine old
domestic order to keep the world going; but there is a vast and
increasing number that are never really alive and worth anything to
themselves or life until they have worked through that necessary
madness, buried it, and settled down to those infinite interests upon
which matrimony, happy or otherwise, bolts a thousand doors. Some day I
will tell you my theory of what such women are really born for, but you
have had enough for one night and the story is finished."
XI
Gwynne, between the fog and the story, felt congealed to the marrow. He
leaned his elbows on his knees and stared at the bottom of the boat. It
was the second time that the dark and carefully guarded recesses of the
human soul had been opened to him, but Zeal's at least were a man's, and
he had listened to him with a certain passive acceptance cut with
lightning-like visions of his own ruined future. He had never been
invited into a woman's crypts before, and he hardly knew whether he were
gratified or repelled. She had been as brutally truthful as he would
have expected her to be if she spoke at all, but he doubted if he
understood her as well as he had expected. He had been assured that she
had once at least possessed the capacity for intense feeling, but what
was the result? And were the depths frozen solid? Or merely buried
alive?
He remarked after a moment: "I cannot think of anything appropriate to
say, so perhaps it is as well to say nothing. I certainly do not feel
that you are in any need of my sympathies, for you are quite terribly
strong. When did all this happen?"
"About eight months before I went to England."
"What did you do with yourself in the interval?"
"I climbed in the Alps a bit, then went to Rome and studied the
Campagna, then travelled somewhat in Spain. By that time the desire for
California had grown insistent. The novelty of Europe had worn thin. I
was tired of playing at doing things, and only at home could I really
accomplish anything. I suddenly made up my mind to pay the long-delayed
visit to England, stopping in Paris by the way for frocks. I doubt if I
ever enjoyed anything more than those three weeks in Paris, where I
completely forgot every unpleasant association. It was my first fine
wardrobe, my first opportunity to experience to the full the delight of
clothes. I have felt quite happy here. California is so far from every
other place that it is almost like living on a detached planet. You
forget the rest of the world for months at a time. For days after I
returned I wandered about out-of-doors in a gay irresponsible mood, and
carolled all over the house. Of course it was nothing but the
electricity of the climate and that I was in my own State once more and
took an insane pride in it. You do not even need to be born here for
that; it comes with the inevitable sense of isolation. You will feel it
in time. If I had not known that so certainly I should never have dared
to urge you to come."
Gwynne smiled with a pardonable cynicism; but while he was not unwilling
the conversation should turn upon himself, his curiosity was not
satisfied. The fog had gone and the moon had risen. He could see Isabel
quite plainly. She had turned her head and was gazing out over the great
expanse desolated by the moonlight, and he studied her profile for the
first time, often as he had observed it. To-night with the moonlight on
it and against the dark hills it was almost repellently unmodern in its
sharply cut regularity, the classic modelling of the eye-socket and
chin, the nose with its slight arch. Her hair had fallen from its pins
and hung in a braid, its length concealed by her position, and making
the effect of a queue. She had long since taken off her hat and wrapped
its veil about her head. The veil had slipped and might easily have been
mistaken for a ribbon confining the queue at the base of the head. For
an instant Gwynne's senses swam. He recalled the portraits of their
Revolutionary ancestors in the house on Russian Hill. It might have been
a medallion suspended before him. He drew in his breath; then his eye
fell to the short thin sensitive upper lip, rarely quiet for all her
extraordinary repose; to the full enticing under lip, and the little
black moles. Then his gaze wandered down to the rough shooting-jacket,
to the rubber boots reaching to her waist, and he only restrained
himself from laughing aloud because he feared to rush down the curtain
before that secretive nature.
"Then you have no faith in love as the best thing in the world?" he
asked.
She turned upon him her clear dreaming eyes. "I have faith enough in
love, as I have faith in death, or any other of the uncontrovertible
facts, as well as in its mission. But not as the best thing in life; not
for my sort at least. Not for even the domestic, for that matter, unless
they are utterly brainless. I believe that from the beginning of time
the misery of the world has been caused by the superstition that love
was all. It must continue to be the fate of the child-bearing woman, I
suppose--for a while at least; but others have blundered upon the fact
that it is a mere incident, and are far happier in consequence. To women
like Anabel freedom means an indulgent husband and plenty of money. To
others it means something of which the Anabels know the bare
nomenclature: an absolute freedom of the soul, of which the outer
independence is but the symbol. As I said, we only find it when we have
finished with the bogie of love. It is a modern enough discovery. Think
of the poor old maids of the generations behind us, who, failing to
marry, collapsed into insignificance instead of revelling in their
deliverance. And what humiliation to know that in your youth you are
really wooed for the sake of the race alone, no matter what the
delusions. If any one doubts it let him compare the matrimonial
opportunities of the ugly maternal girl and the ugly clever girl. When
clever women realize that they are a sex apart and wait until their
first youth at least is over before selecting a companion of the sex
that I am quite willing to concede must always interest us more than our
own, and no doubt is necessary to our completion, then will the world
have taken its first step towards real happiness."
Gwynne repressed his gorge and answered practically: "Not a bad idea if
two were really suited, for no doubt companionship is one of the best
things in life, and a woman is more useful in many ways to a man than a
partner of his own sex. It is even apparent that she does equally well
in certain varieties of sport. I suppose the more experience a man has
had of life the more he hesitates to define what love really is. One has
attacks of such a severity and one recovers so completely! Doubtless
Schopenhauer was right: it is merely the furious determination of the
race to persist. Spencer tells us that it is 'absolutely antecedent to
all relative experience whatever.' Companionship--yes--perhaps----"
"It is necessary to a man; but by no means to all women----"
"Not for yourself, you mean. You are still blunted and somewhat
disgusted--"
"I have dismissed the question. You cannot imagine how happy I feel
every morning when I wake up, and every night when I go, always rather
tired, into my comfortable little bed, knowing that I shall sleep like
an infant. I love work. I love out-door life. I love the long evenings
with my books and my thoughts, and my plans for the future--all my own.
I revel in the thought that I can never be unhappy again, because now I
love no one. I loved my poor father, and suffered with him in his fits
of repentance and shame. I loved, of course, that man. I have absolutely
nothing in common with Paula, and my mother is merely a pretty memory. I
am fond of Anabel and perhaps several other friends--Mr. and Mrs.
Leslie; but that sort of affection does not go very deep. Love is
synonymous with selfishness and slavery--slavery because you no longer
own yourself. My brother-in-law adores my sister, makes a great point of
his fidelity, because before his marriage he was always flaunting some
painted female, without which possession, a few years ago, a San
Franciscan felt that he would lose the respect of his fellow-citizens.
But Lyster's reform makes him as exacting as a Turk. If my poor silly
little sister smiles at some fugitive thought he demands to know what it
is, and if she cannot remember he sulks for a day. He would possess her
very thoughts. She dares not have a man friend, talk to a man for half
an hour at a time. He won't let her belong to a club--clubs are all very
well for other women, but his wife is not as other women. On the other
hand, he has long since let her persuade him that he is the most
marvellous of men, and, in consequence, permits her to make every sort
of mean little sacrifice while he spends his money on himself. Her eyes
are in a measure open now, but it is too late, and she rebels in the
usual futile feminine way. There are millions like them. You will meet
Anne Montgomery. She is thirty-five now, quite plain, and makes a living
as a sort of itinerant housekeeper and caterer. She was a most lovely
girl, with a wild-rose complexion and starlike eyes, and full of life
and buoyant hope. Her great talent was for the violin, and she dreamed
of conquering the world. Teachers told her that with the proper study
she could at least become a professional of the first rank, although she
lacked the genius of creation. Her parents and an older sister--one of
the plain, domestic, unselfish kind, whose pleasure is in living for
others--were horrified at the bare suggestion. Not only because they
were old-fashioned--some of the most old-fashioned people on earth are
in San Francisco--but because it would mean separation from their idol.
They surrounded her like a flaming belt, not even a man could get at
her. They worshipped her as if she was a being of another world,
devoured her; all the treasures of life were centred in her. That there
might be the less temptation, they never took her to Europe; and
gradually induced her to lay aside the instrument altogether. She was
very sweet and gentle, and she loved them and submitted (I would have
throttled them all). But she faded rapidly, lost her lovely coloring and
animation, and she had no other beauty. Then her father speculated and
failed. While they were undergoing real privations the influenza swooped
down upon them and carried off the three older members of the family in
a week. Anne Montgomery is the most conspicuous victim of what are
generally supposed to be the higher affections that I know. They were
just commonplace animals--those three--nothing more."
"Real happiness may lie in forgetting that love is selfish, and in
overlooking the bitter in the sweet."
Isabel shrugged her shoulders. "If one can be happy without love why run
the risks?"
They felt that they had exhausted the subject for the present and there
was a long silence. Gwynne's eyes wandered over the inexpressibly
desolate and sinister landscape. The intense brilliancy of the moon
seemed to press darkness down upon the earth. It was true that every
object was as sharp of outline as if cut against crystal, but they were
a hard dark brown: the hills that jutted out into the windings of the
marsh, the marsh itself, the more distant mountains. It looked like a
landscape upon which the sun had set for ever, smitten with death--or
not yet born into the solar system; some terrible formless menacing
globe on the edge of the Universe. As he had approached San Francisco on
the afternoon of his arrival, standing on the forward deck of the boat
in a high wind, he had thought it the most stranded lonely city he had
ever seen. He recalled the impression now, and in a flash he appreciated
the Californian's attitude to the rest of the world, the effect of such
isolation upon the character of a people that had created a great and
important city out of the wilderness, and in half a century. In spite of
the obstinate aloofness of his ego he felt an involuntary thrill of
pride in his connection with such a people; and hoped it might be
premonitory. But again the eerie landscape claimed him and he became
aware of the weird night sounds that broke out with violent abruptness
after intervals of throbbing quiet: the loud honk-honk of geese, the
shriek of loons, the noisy capricious serenade of the frogs. He
experienced a feeling of such utter isolation that he almost started
when Isabel spoke.
"These waste places in California are almost terrifying by moonlight,"
said she. "They always look as if they were brooding, crouching,
concentrating their energies for a convulsion. No earthquake country can
be quite normal in any of its aspects, nor quite beautiful. Here comes
the tide. How Mac will grumble at us! But he is sure to have kept the
fire going, and you shall have a cup of hot coffee before you start for
home."
XII
Gwynne, on the following day, was making a late toilet, and in anything
but a good-humor, for he had grown accustomed to early rising, when he
received a note from Isabel.
It ran:
     DEAR PARTNER,--Anabel has just told me over the telephone that Tom
     and Mr. Leslie and two other representative citizens are going out
     to see you this afternoon. I have the ghost of an idea that a
     friendly call is not their only object. Do be plastic--it is
     better in the beginning--until you know your ground. Above all,
     don't be too English. You are vastly improved, but you have lapses.
