making of history to-night, Mr. Montague.”
Perhaps half an hour later, Montague, standing beside Bates, saw his
hand jerked violently several times.
“That means pull up!” cried he. “Quick!”
And he seized the rope. “Put your weight on it,” he whispered. “It
will hold.”
They proceeded to haul. Rodney helped them by catching hold of the
cornice of the window and lifting himself. Then there was a moment
of great straining, during which Montague held his breath; after
which the weight grew lighter again. Rodney had got his knees upon
the cornice.
A few moments later his fingers appeared, clutching the edge of the
sill. He swung himself up, and Montague and Bates grasped him under
the arms, and fairly jerked him into the room.
He staggered to his feet; and there was a moment’s pause, while all
three caught their breath. Then Rodney leaped at Bates, and grasped
him by the shoulders. “Old man!” he cried. “We landed them! We
landed them!”
“We landed them!” laughed the other in exultation.
“Oh, what a scoop!” shouted Rodney. “There was never one like it.”
The two were like schoolboys in their glee. They hugged each other,
and laughed and danced about. But it was not long before they became
serious again. Montague turned on the lights, and pulled down the
window; and Rodney stood there, with his clothing dishevelled and
his face ablaze with excitement, and talked to them.
“Oh, you can’t imagine that scene!” he said. “It makes my hair stand
on end to think of it. Just fancy--I was not more than twenty feet
from Dan Waterman, and most of the time he seemed to be glaring
right at me. I hardly dared wink, for fear he’d notice; and I
thought every instant he would jump up and run to the window. But
there he sat, and pounded on the table, and glared about at those
fellows, and laid down the law to them.”
“I’ve heard him talk,” said Bates. “I know how it is.”
“Why, he fairly knocked them over!” said the other. “You could have
heard a pin drop when he got through. Oh, it was a mad thing to
see!”
“I’ve hardly been able to get my breath,” said Bates. “I can’t
believe it.”
“They have no idea what it will mean,” said Montague.
“They know,” said Rodney; “but they don’t care. They’ve smelt blood.
That’s about the size of it--they were like a lot of hounds on the
trail. You should have seen Waterman, with that lean, hungry face of
his. ‘The time has come,’ said he. ‘There’s no one here but has
known that sooner or later this work had to be done. We must crush
them, once and for all time!’ And you should have seen him turn on
Prentice, when he ventured a word.”
“Prentice doesn’t like it, then?” asked Montague.
“I should think he wouldn’t!” put in Bates.
“Waterman said he’d protect him,” said Rodney. “But he must place
himself absolutely in their hands. It seems that the Trust Company
of the Republic has a million dollars with the Gotham Trust, and
that’s to be withdrawn.”
“Imagine it!” gasped Bates.
“And wait!” exclaimed the other; “then they got on to politics. I
would have given one arm if I could have got a photograph of Dan
Waterman at that moment--just to spread it before the American
people and ask them what they thought of it! David Ward had made the
remark that ‘A little trouble mightn’t have a bad effect just now.’
And Waterman brought down his fist on the table. ‘This country needs
a lesson,’ he cried. ‘There’s been too much abuse of responsible
men, and there’s been too much wild talk in high places. If the
people get a little taste of hard times, they’ll have something else
to think about besides abusing those who have made the prosperity of
the country; and it seems to me, gentlemen, that we have it in our
power to put an end to this campaign of radicalism.’”
“Think of it, think of it!” gasped Bates. “The old devil!”
“And then Duval chimed in, with a laugh, ‘To put it in a nutshell,
gentlemen, we are going to smash Ryder and scare the President!’”
“Was the conference over?” asked Bates, after a moment’s pause.
“All but the hand-shakes,” said the other. “I didn’t dare to stay
while they were moving about.”
And Bates started suddenly to his feet. “Come!” he said. “We haven’t
any time to waste. Our work isn’t done yet, by a long sight.”
He proceeded to untie the rope and coil it up. Rodney took the
blanket and put it on the bed, covering it with the spread, so as to
conceal the holes which had been worn by the rope. He wound up the
ball of cord, and dropped it into the bag with the rest of the
stuff. Bates took his hat and coat and started for the door.
“You will excuse us, Mr. Montague,” he said. “You can understand
that this story will need a lot of work.”
“I understand,” said Montague.
“We’ll try to thank you by and by,” added the other. “Come around
after the paper goes to press, and we’ll have a celebration.”
CHAPTER XX
They went out; and Montague waited a minute or two, to give them a
chance to get out of the way, and then he rang the elevator bell and
entered the car.
It stopped again at the next floor, and he gave a start of
excitement. As the door opened, he saw a group of men, with Duval,
Ward, and General Prentice among them. He moved behind the elevator
man, so that none of them should notice him.
Montague had caught one glimpse of the face of General Prentice. It
was deathly pale. The General said not a word to anyone, but went
out into the corridor. The other hesitated for a moment, then, with
a sudden resolution, he turned and followed. As his friend passed
out of the door, he stepped up beside him.
“Good evening, General,” he said. The General turned and stared at
him, half in a daze.
“Oh, Montague!” he said. “How are you?”
“Very well,” said Montague.
In the street outside, among a group of half a dozen automobiles, he
recognised the General’s limousine car.
“Where are you going?” he asked.
“Home,” was the reply.
“I’ll ride with you, if you like,” said Montague. “I’ve something to
say to you.”
“All right,” said the General. He could not very well have refused,
for Montague had taken him by the arm and started toward the car; he
did not intend to be put off.
He helped the General in, got in himself, and shut to the door
behind him. Prentice sat staring in front of him, still half in a
daze.
Montague watched him for a minute or so. Then suddenly he leaned
toward him, and said, “General, why do you let them persuade you to
do it?”
“Hey?” said the other.
“I say,” repeated Montague, “why do you let them persuade you?”
The other turned and stared at him, with a startled look in his
eyes.
“I know all about what has happened,” said Montague. “I know what
went on at that conference.”
“What do you mean?” gasped the General.
“I know what they made you promise to do. They are going to wreck
the Gotham Trust Company.”
The General was dumfounded. “Why!” he gasped. “How? Who told you?
How could you--”
Montague had to wait a minute or two until his friend had got over
his dismay.
“I cannot help it,” he burst out, finally. “What can I do?”
“You can refuse to play their game!” exclaimed Montague.
“But don’t you suppose that they would do it just the same? And how
long do you suppose that I would last, if I refused them?”
“But think of what it means!” cried Montague. “Think of the ruin!
You will bring everything about your head.”
“I know, I know!” cried the General, in a voice of anguish. “Don’t
think that I haven’t realised it--don’t think that I haven’t fought
against it! But I am helpless, utterly helpless.”
He turned upon Montague, and caught his sleeve with a trembling
hand. “I never thought that I would live to face such an hour,” he
exclaimed. “To despise myself--to be despised by all the world! To
be browbeaten, and insulted, and dragged about--”
The old man paused, choking with excess of emotion. “Look at me!” he
cried, with sudden vehemence. “Look at me! You think that I am a
man, a person of influence in the community, the head of a great
institution in which thousands of people have faith. But I am
nothing of the kind. I am a puppet--I am a sham--I am a disgrace to
myself and to the name I bear!”
And suddenly he clasped his hands over his face, and bowed his head,
so that Montague should not see his grief.
There was a long silence. Montague was dumb with horror. He felt
that his mere presence was an outrage.
Finally the General looked up again. He clenched his hand, and
mastered himself.
“I have chosen my part,” he said. “I must play it through. What I
feel about it makes no difference.”
Montague again said nothing.
“I have no right to inflict my grief upon you,” the General
continued. “I have no right to try to excuse myself. There is no
turning back now. I am Dan Waterman’s man, and I do his bidding.”
“But how can you have got into such a position?” asked Montague.
“A friend of mine organised the Trust Company of the Republic. He
asked me to become president, because I had a name that would be
useful to him. I accepted--he was a man I knew I could trust. I
managed the business properly, and it prospered; and then, three
years ago, the control was bought by other men. That was when the
crisis came. I should have resigned. But I had my family to think
of; I had friends who were involved; I had interests that I could
not leave. And I stayed--and that is all. I found that I had stayed
to be a puppet, a figurehead. And now it is too late.”
“But can’t you withdraw now?” asked Montague.
“Now?” echoed the General. “Now, in the most critical moment, when
all my friends are hanging upon me? There is nothing that my enemies
would like better, for they could lay all their sins at my door.
They would class me with Stewart and Ryder.”
“I see,” said Montague, in a low voice.
“And now the crisis comes, and I find out who my real master is. I
am told to do this, and do that, and I do it. There are no threats;
I understand without any. Oh, my God, Mr. Montague, if I should tell
you of some of the things that I have seen in this city--of the
indignities that I have seen heaped upon men, of the deeds to which
I have seen them driven. Men whom you think of as the most
honourable in the community--men who have grown grey in the service
of the public! It is too brutal, too horrible for words!”
There was a long silence.
“And there is nothing you can do?” asked Montague.
“Nothing,” he answered.
“Tell me, General, is your institution sound?”
“Perfectly sound.”
“And you have done nothing improper?”
“Nothing.”
“Then why should you fear Waterman?”
“Why?” exclaimed the General. “Because I am liable for eighty per
cent of my deposits, and I have only five per cent of reserves.”
“I see!” said Montague.
“It is a choice between Stanley Ryder and myself,” added the other.
“And Stanley Ryder will have to fight his own battle.”
There was nothing more said. Each of the men sat buried in his own
thoughts, and the only sound was the hum of the automobile as it
sped up Broadway.
Montague was working out another course of action. He moved to
another seat in the car where he could see the numbers upon the
street lamps as they flashed by; and at last he touched the General
upon the knee. “I will leave you at the next corner,” he said.
The General pressed the button which signalled his chauffeur, and
the car drew up at the curb. Montague descended.
“Good night, General,” he said.
“Good night,” said the other, in a faint voice. He did not offer to
take Montague’s hand. The latter closed the door of the car, and it
sped away up the street.
Then he crossed over and went down to the River drive, and entered
Lucy’s apartment house.
“Is Mrs. Taylor in?” he asked of the clerk.
“I’ll see,” said the man. Montague gave his name and added, “Tell
her it is very important.”
Lucy came to the door herself, clad in an evening gown.
One glance at his haggard face was enough to tell her that something
was wrong. “What is it, Allan?” she cried.
He hung up his hat and coat, and went into the drawing-room.
“What is it, Allan?” she cried again.
“Lucy, do you know where Stanley Ryder is?” he asked.
“Yes,” she answered, and added quickly, “Oh! it’s some bad news!”
“It is,” said he. “He must be found at once.”
She stared at him for a moment, hesitating; then, her anxiety
overcoming every other emotion, she said, “He is in the next room.”
“Call him,” said Montague.
Lucy ran to the door. “Come in. Quickly!” she called, and Ryder
appeared.
Montague saw that he was very pale; and there was nothing left of
his air of aristocratic serenity.
“Mr. Ryder,” he began, “I have just come into possession of some
news which concerns you very closely. I felt that you ought to know.
There is to be a directors’ meeting to-morrow morning, at which it
is to be decided that the bank which clears for the Gotham Trust
Company will discontinue to do it.”
Ryder started as if he had been shot; his face turned grey. There
was no sound except a faint cry of fright from Lucy.
“My information is quite positive,” continued Montague. “It has been
determined to wreck your institution!”
Ryder caught at a chair to support himself. “Who? Who?” he
stammered.
“It is Duval and Waterman,” said Montague.
“Dan Waterman!” It was Lucy who spoke.
Montague turned to look at her, and saw her eyes, wide open with
terror.
“Yes, Lucy,” he said.
“Oh, oh!” she gasped, choking; then suddenly she cried wildly, “Tell
me! I don’t understand--what does it mean?”
“It means that I am ruined,” exclaimed Ryder.
“Ruined?” she echoed.
“Absolutely!” he said. “They’ve got me! I knew they were after me,
but I didn’t think they’d dare!”
He ended with a furious imprecation; but Montague had kept his eyes
fixed upon Lucy. It was her suffering that he cared about.
He heard her whisper, under her breath, “It’s for me!” And then
again, “It’s for me!”
“Lucy,” he began; but suddenly she put up her hand, and rushed
toward him.
“Hush! he doesn’t know!” she panted breathlessly. “I haven’t told
him.”
And then she turned toward Ryder again. “Oh, surely there must be
some way,” she cried, wildly. “Surely--”
Ryder had sunk down in a chair and buried his face in his hands.
“Ruined!” he exclaimed. “Utterly ruined! I won’t have a dollar left
in the world.”
“No, no,” cried Lucy, “it cannot be!” And she put her hands to her
forehead, striving to think. “It must be stopped. I’ll go and see
him. I’ll plead with him.”
“You must not, Lucy!” cried Montague, starting toward her.
But again she whirled upon him. “Not a word!” she whispered, with
fierce intensity. “Not a word!”
And she rushed into the next room, and half a minute later came back
with her hat and wrap.
“Allan,” she said, “tell them to call me a cab!”
He tried to protest again; but she would not hear him. “You can ride
with me,” she said. “You can talk then. Call me a cab! Please--save
me that trouble.”
He gave the message: and Lucy, meanwhile, stood in the middle of the
room, twisting her hands together nervously.
“Now, Allan, go downstairs,” she said; “wait for me there.” And
after another glance at the broken figure of Ryder, he took his hat
and coat and obeyed.
Montague spent his time pacing back and forth in the entrance-hall.
The cab arrived, and a minute later Lucy appeared, wearing a heavy
veil. She went straight to the vehicle, and sprang in, and Montague
followed. She gave the driver the address of Waterman’s great marble
palace over by the park; and the cab started.
Then suddenly she turned upon Montague, speaking swiftly and
intensely.
“I know what you are going to say,” she cried. “But you must spare
me--and you must spare yourself. I am sorry that you should have to
know this--God knows that I could not help it! But it cannot be
undone. And there is no other way out of it. I must go to him, and
try to save Ryder!”
“Lucy,” he began, “listen to me--”
“I don’t want to listen to you,” she cried wildly--almost
hysterically. “I cannot bear to be argued with. It is too hard for
me as it is!”
“But think of the practical side of it!” he cried. “Do you imagine
that you can stop this huge machine that Waterman has set in
motion?”
