Then, with a burst of confidence: "There will be kings and dukes at your
feet!"
"Enough!"
"Pardon, signora, I forgot. But listen; I bring a message. A boy came to
say that the rehearsal will be at four this afternoon. It is now after
twelve."
"So late? I did not know. We must be off to lunch."
"And the letter up-stairs on the floor?"
"Some day, Bettina, you will enter the Forbidden Chamber, and I shall
have to play Bluebeard. This time, however, I do not mind. Leave it
there or burn it," indifferently.
Bettina knew her mistress. She thought best to leave the letter where it
lay, forgotten for the time being.
CHAPTER IV
BLINDFOLDED
For two days the club steward only nodded when Hillard came in; he had
no letters to present.
"I am thirty-three years old," Hillard mused, as he sought the
reading-room. "Down-town I am looked upon as a man of affairs, a
business man, with the care of half a dozen fortunes on my hands. Now,
what's the matter with me? I begin to tremble when I look that sober old
steward in the face. If he had handed me a letter to-night, I should
have had to lean against the wall for support. This will never do at
all. I have not seen her face, I do not know her name; for all I know,
she may be this Leddy Lightfinger.... No, that would be impossible.
Leddy Lightfinger would have made an appointment. What possesses me to
dwell in this realm of fancy, which is less tangible than a cloud of
smoke? Have I reached my dotage by the way of the seven-league boots? Am
I simply bored with the monotony of routine, and am I groping blindly
for a new sensation?" He smoked thoughtfully. "Or, am I romantic? To
create romance out of nothing; I used to do that when I was a boy. But
I'm a boy no longer. Or,  am  I a boy, thirty-three years old?... She
does not answer my letter. Sensible woman. In her place I shouldn't
answer it. But in my place I want her to. Two weeks ago I was haunting
the curio-shops for a Roman cameo two thousand years old; to-night I
might take it as a gift. I have ceased to be interested in something
that has always interested me. Something is wrong; what is it? She sent
for my letter. That indicates that she read it. Well, well!" reaching
for the  London Illustrated News ; "let's see what their Majesties have
been doing the past fortnight."
The King of England was preparing to descend to the Riviera; the King of
Spain was killing pigeons; the Kaiser was calling for more battleships;
the Czar of all the Russias was still able to sit for his photograph;
the King of Italy was giving a fête; and Leopold of Belgium was winning
at Monte Carlo. Among the lesser nobles the American duchesses were
creating a favorable impression in spite of their husbands.
"What a fine sensation it must be," Hillard murmured, "to be able at any
time to plunge one's noble white hand into a sack of almost
inexhaustible American dollars!"
He dropped the paper. The same old stories, warmed over. There was
really nothing new in the world. If Giovanni returned to Italy in the
spring, he was of a mind to go with him. He looked up and was glad to
see Merrihew in the doorway.
"Been looking for you, Jack. Want your company to-night. Kitty Killigrew
is giving a little bite to eat after the performance, and has asked me
to bring you along. Will you come?"
"With pleasure, Dan. Are you dining with any one to-night?" Hillard was
lonesome.
"Yes. A little bridge till eleven."
"You're hopeless. I can see you in limbo, matching coffin-plates with
Charon. I'll hunt you up at eleven."
"Heard the talk?"
"About what?"
"Why, some one in the club has been using the agony column. The J.H's
are being guyed unmercifully, and you'll come in for it presently. It's
a case of wine on the man who did it."
Hillard felt of his collar and drew down his cuffs. "Probably some
joke," he ventured tentatively.
"If it isn't, the man who would stoop to such tommyrot and tack the name
of his club to it must be an ass."
"No doubt about that. Odd that this is the first time I have heard about
it." But silently Hillard was swearing at his folly. There was one crumb
of comfort: the incident would be forgotten in a few days.
"I may depend upon you to-night, then?" said Merrihew.
"I shall be pleased to meet Miss Killigrew," which was a white one.
Hillard would have paid court to a laundress rather than offend
Merrihew.
And promptly at eleven he went up to the card-room and dragged Merrihew
away. Merrihew gave up his chair reluctantly. He was winning. He would
have been just as reluctant, however, had he been losing. The amateur
gambler never wants to stop.
On the way to the Killigrew apartment, Merrihew's moods varied. At one
moment he was on the heights, at the next in the depths. He simply could
not live without Kitty. Perhaps if this trip abroad turned out badly she
might change her mind. Seven thousand  could  be made to muster. Twice
Hillard came very near making his friend a confidant of his own affair;
but he realized that, while Merrihew was to be trusted in all things, it
was not yet time.
He found a pleasing and diverting company. There was Mère Killigrew, a
quaint little old lady who deplored her daughter's occupation but
admitted that without her success, Heaven only knew how they would have
got along. There was the genial Thomas O'Mally, a low-comedian of
genuine ability, whom Hillard knew casually; Smith, a light-comedian;
and Worth, a moderately successful barytone to whom Hillard took one of
those instant and unaccountable dislikes. These three and Kitty were
going abroad. And there were several members of  The Modern Maid 
company, which went on tour the following Monday.
Kitty fancied Hillard from the start; and he on his side found her well
educated, witty and unaffected. She was even prettier than her
photograph. Merrihew's face beamed upon them both, in a kind of
benediction. He had known all along that once Jack saw Kitty, he would
become a good ally in fighting down her objections.
"Think of singing in Italy!" cried Kitty. "Isn't it just wonderful?"
"And has Merrihew told you to get a return ticket before you sail?" with
half a jest.
"Don't you think it will be successful?" a shade of disappointment.
"There will be thousands of lonesome Americans over there. Out of
patriotism, if for nothing else, they ought to come and see us."
"They certainly ought to. But I'm an old killjoy."
"No, no; go on and tell me all your doubts. You have been over there so
many times."
"Well, supposing your tourists are tired, after having walked all day
through the churches and galleries? They may want to go to bed early.
But you never can tell till you try. You may become the rage on the
continent. Yet, you go into the enemy's country. It isn't the same as
going to London, among tolerant cousins. In Italy and in Germany there
is always so much red tape, blundering, confusing red tape, custom
duties, excessive charges. But your manager must know what he is doing."
"He has everything in black and white, I believe. But your advice is
sensible."
"Do you know anything about Italy or Germany?"
"Only what I learned in my geographies," laughing. "Rome, Florence,
Genoa, Venice, Nice, Milan, Strasburg, Cologne, and on to Berlin! It is
like a fairy story come true."
"Who is your prima donna?" he asked.
"Ah!" Kitty's face became eager with excitement. "Now you have put your
finger on the mystery that is bothering us all. Not one of us has seen
her or knows her name. She has not rehearsed with us and will not till
we reach Naples, where we rest a week. When we speak of her, the manager
smiles and says nothing; and as none of us has seen the backer, Mr.
Worth thinks that she herself is the prima donna and backer in one. We
think that she is some rich young woman who wishes to exploit her voice.
There's a lot of them in the world. I wish I knew her. I am dying of
curiosity. The manager is not a man to fool away his time. She doubtless
can act and sing. Little has been said about the venture in the papers,
and I'm glad. We may prove a perfect fizzle, and the less said the
better. As we can't walk back, I must learn to swim.... Lunch is ready,
every one!"
The mummers and the outsiders flocked into the small dining-room. There
was plenty to eat--beer, soda, whisky, and two magnums of champagne,
Merrihew's contribution to the feast. Hillard listened with increasing
amusement to the shop-talk. Such and such a person (absent) never could
act; such and such a composer (absent) was always giving the high note
to the wrong singer; such and such a manager (absent) never staged the
opera right. It was after one when they returned to the sitting-room,
where the piano stood. The wine was now opened and toasts were drunk.
O'Mally told inimitable stories. There was something exceedingly droll
in that expressive Irish face of his and the way he lingered over his
wine.
"There is nothing so good as a glass of champagne," he observed, "unless
it is another."
Worth did not drink, but Hillard did not like his handsome face any the
more for this virtue. He sang remarkably well, however, and with a
willingness Hillard had not believed he possessed. He wondered vaguely
why he disliked the man. He had never met him before, and knew nothing
at all about him. It was one of those inexplicable things which can not
be answered. Otherwise Hillard enjoyed himself vastly. He found these
people full of hope, light-hearted, generous, intelligent, and generally
improvident.
"Mr. Merrihew has been telling me all about you," said Kitty.
"You mean, of course, my good qualities," replied Hillard.
"To hear him talk, one would think that you possessed nothing else. But
I am sure that you have glaring faults, such as a man might pass over
and a woman go round."
"I believed that Merrihew had a serious fault till to-night," he said;
and he made no attempt to disguise the admiration in his eyes.
She looked at him quickly and colored. It was a good sign.
"Has the foolish boy been telling you that I refused to marry him? I
like him very much," she added gravely; "but I shall never marry any man
till I have ceased to love the stage. Just now I can not wisely love
anything else."
"I understand," he said.
"I am not a whit less extravagant than he is. How could the two of us
live on an income which he himself admits that he can not live within?
But that isn't it; a million would not make any difference. I am like a
young colt; I have no desire to be harnessed yet. A month after I am
gone he will forget all about me; or, at least, he will only recollect
me with a sigh of relief. There will be others; only I hope they will
treat him as frankly as I have done."
"Merrihew is the most loyal man I know," Hillard declared, bound to
defend his comrade against this shrewd insight to his character.
"Of course he is loyal! And he is always in earnest--for the moment."
She laughed. "But if he marries any one while I am gone, I shall hate
him."
And then they both laughed.
"I'll wager another magnum," cried Merrihew from across the room, "that
I'm the subject under discussion."
"Another magnum!" murmured O'Mally rapturously.
"No more magnums," said Kitty resolutely.
"On abstract principles, then!" insisted Merrihew.
"You win," Kitty replied merrily. "We have been saying only nice things
about you."
It was outrageously late, nearly four, when the revelers took leave of
their hostess. Merrihew was happy with that evanescent happiness which
goes hand in glove with late suppers and magnums. In the morning he
would have a headache.
"Isn't she a little wonder, Jack? Do you blame me?"
"Not at all, Dan. It might be a good thing for you to marry a sensible
little woman like that. But she won't have you."
"No, she won't." Merrihew reached for his watch. "Four A.M. Wonder if we
can't find another bottle somewhere."
"You are going home, my boy."
"All right, if you say so,"--good-humoredly. "Say, what do you think of
that man Worth?"
"Very good voice; but he's too handsome. Being a plain duffer myself, I
don't take kindly to handsome men."
"Oh, go on! You're as fine a looking chap as there's in New York. But
this man Worth has the looks of a lady-killer. He's been eying Kitty,
but it doesn't go. Hang it, I can't see why she won't marry me now.
She's got to, some time or other."
"You must have patience."
"Or more money. Can't O'Mally tell a good story, though?"
"Good company, too; but I should hate to turn him loose in my
wine-cellars. I imagine that he's not a connoisseur, and will praise
anything that's good to drink, unless it's water."
Merrihew roared.
"Well, here's your station, Dan. You go home like a good boy. Shall I
see you to-morrow?"
"Eight-thirty in the park. Gallop off headache. Nothing like a horse for
a headache. Good night."
Merrihew climbed the elevated stairs and vanished. Hillard arrived home
tired and sleepy; but as he saw a letter on the stand in the hall, his
drowsiness passed quickly. There was no other blue envelope like it. She
now had his house address; she was interested enough to look it up. She
did not follow his lead and write in Italian; she wrote in
English--crisp English, too. Again there was neither beginning nor
ending. But this was a letter; there was something here of the woman,
something to read and read again.
     I had told the maid to burn your letter. But she left it on the
     floor where I had thrown it, and I came across it this morning. It
     looked rather pathetic. So I am writing you against my better
     judgment. Yes, I know your name; I find that I am well acquainted
     with people you know. I am a woman who often surrenders to the
     impulse of the moment; I may or may not answer any future letter
     from you. You write very good Italian; but it will surprise you to
     learn that I detest all things that are Italian. Once I loved them
     well. Why should you wish to know me? Our ways are as divergent as
     the two poles. Happy because I sing? There are some things over
     which we can sing or laugh, but of which we can not speak without
     crying. Happy or unhappy, what can this matter to you? To you I
     shall always remain the Lady in the Fog. Are you rich, young,
     talented? I care not in the least. Perhaps it amuses me to add to
     your confusion. Find me? I think not. Seek me? Do so; I permit you
     to. And would you know me if you found me? Misguided energy!
Hillard put the letter away, extinguished the lights, and passed up to
his room. She defied him to find her? This was a direct challenge. He
would accept it. This time he would use no personal to tell her that a
letter awaited her. She should make the inquiries herself. And from the
mail-clerk he would obtain a description of the elusive Madame Angot.
Next morning he rode in the park with Merrihew. Again he saw the veiled
lady on the Sandford black. Out of normal curiosity he telephoned the
stables and made inquiries. The reply was short. No one at the stables
knew the lady, but she rode the horse on proper authority.
That night he wrote:
     I shall keep on writing till you cease to reply. Let me be frank
     with you. I am bored; so are you. The pleasure you derive in
     keeping up this mystery engages you. You bid me to find you. I
     accept the challenge. You must understand at once that it is the
     mystery that interests me. It is the unknown that attracts me. I am
     mentally painting you in all sorts of radiant colors. You defy me
     to find you. There is nothing so reliable as the unexpected,
     nothing so desperately uncertain as a thing assured. I warn you
     that I shall lay all manner of traps, waylay your messengers, bribe
     them. I shall find out where you live. The rest will be simple.
She replied:
     I have no desire to alleviate your confessed boredom. Your
     persistence would be praiseworthy if well directed. Waters wear away
     stone, the wind crumbles the marble, but a woman is not moved till
     she wishes to be. I never thought that I should dabble in an
     intrigue of this sort, and I am surprised at the amusement it
     affords me. I really owe you some gratitude. The few I have met who
     know you tell me that you are a "nice young man."
He rebelled at the adjective. Every man has some portion of self-love.
So his next effort was a passionate denial that he was nice. When should
he meet her? The postman brought him a letter which contained one
word-- Nimmer!  He sent her four pages, a frank and witty description of
himself and friends, his past and some of theirs.
On the day she received this letter a cablegram came to her from the far
Mediterranean. Whatever it contained had the effect to cause all
restraint to disappear from the tone of her letters. They became
charming; and more and more Hillard found himself loving a Voice. All
his watching, all his traps, came to no successful end. She was too
clever for him. He sought the mail-department of the great newspaper;
the clerk couldn't remember, there were so many calling for mail.
Letters passed to and fro daily now, but always she declared that it was
impossible for them to meet. To write a letter was one thing, to meet a
strange man in an unconventional manner was another. No, it was out of
the question to dine with him in a restaurant. It was equally out of the
question to cook a dinner where she lived, as she and her maid dined at
a small restaurant near-by. Would he not be content with the romance and
let the reality go? Finally he proposed to bring the dinner all cooked
from the club. Two days went by without a sign; then the blue letter
came.
     I surrender. The most fatal thing in life is curiosity. It has the
     power to lead us into all manner of trouble. And I have my share of
     curiosity. Remember, you never would have found me. I may dwell in
     a garret; I may be hideous; perhaps nothing remains to me but my
     voice. Whatever you have painted me in your imagination, I tell you
     that I shall prove directly the opposite. And now the terms. And if
     you do not follow them confidently and blindly, your dinner will
