And Mrs. Winnie put up her hands and took him by the lapels of his
coat. "I know that you love me," she said; "I saw it in your eyes just
now, before he came in: It is simply that you won't let yourself go.
You have so many doubts and so many fears. But you will see that I am
right; you will learn to love me. You won't be able to help it--I shall
be so kind and good! Only don't go away--"
Mrs. Winnie was so close to him that her breath touched his cheek.
"Promise me, dear," she whispered--"promise me that you won't stop
seeing me--that you will learn to love me. I can't do without you!"
Montague was trembling in every nerve; he felt like a man caught in a
net. Mrs. Winnie had had everything she ever wanted in her life; and
now she wanted him! It was impossible for her to face any other thought.
"Listen," he began gently.
But she saw the look of resistance in his eyes, and she cried "No
no--don't! I cannot do without you! Think! I love you! What more can I
say to you? I cannot believe that you don't care for me--you HAVE been
fond of me--I have seen it in your face. Yet you're afraid of me--why?
Look at me--am I not beautiful to look at! And is a woman's love such a
little thing--can you fling it away and trample upon it so easily? Why
do you wish to go? Don't you understand--no one knows we are here--no
one cares! You can come here whenever you wish--this is my place--mine!
And no one will think anything about it. They all do it. There is
nothing to be afraid of!"
She put her arms about him, and clung to him so that he could feel the
beating of her heart upon his bosom. "Oh, don't leave me here alone
to-night!" she cried.
To Montague it was like the ringing of an alarm-bell deep within his
soul. "I must go," he said.
She flung back her head and stared at him, and he saw the terror and
anguish in her eyes. "No, no!" she cried, "don't say that to me! I
can't bear it--oh, see what I have done! Look at me! Have mercy on me!"
"Mrs. Winnie," he said, "you must have mercy on ME!"
But he only felt her clasp him more tightly. He took her by the wrists,
and with quiet force he broke her hold upon him; her hands fell to her
sides, and she stared at him, aghast.
"I must go," he said, again.
And he started toward the door. She followed him dumbly with her eyes.
"Good-bye," he said. He knew that there was no use of any more words;
his sympathy had been like oil upon flames. He saw her move, and as he
opened the door, she flung herself down in a chair and burst into
frantic weeping. He shut the door softly and went away.
He found his way down the stairs, and got his hat and coat, and went
out, unseen by anyone. He walked down the Avenue-and there suddenly was
the giant bulk of St. Cecilia's lifting itself into the sky. He stopped
and looked at it--it seemed a great tumultuous surge of emotion. And
for the first time in his life it seemed to him that he understood why
men had put together that towering heap of stone!
Then he went on home.
He found Alice dressing for a ball, and Oliver waiting for her. He went
to his room, and took off his coat; and Oliver came up to him, and with
a sudden gesture reached over to his shoulder, and held up a trophy.
He drew it out carefully, and measured the length of it, smiling
mischievously in the meanwhile. Then he held it up to the light, to see
the colour of it.
"A black one!" he cried. "Coal black!" And he looked at his brother,
with a merry twinkle in his eyes. "Oh, Allan!" he chuckled.
Montague said nothing.
CHAPTER XX
It was about a week from the beginning of Lent, when there would be a
lull in the city's gaieties, and Society would shift the scene of its
activities to the country clubs, and to California and Hot Springs and
Palm Beach. Mrs. Caroline Smythe invited Alice to join her in an
expedition to the last-named place; but Montague interposed, because he
saw that Alice had been made pale and nervous by three months of
night-and-day festivities. Also, a trip to Florida would necessitate
ten or fifteen thousand dollars' worth of new clothes; and these would
not do for the summer, it appeared--they would be faded and passe by
that time.
So Alice settled back to rest; but she was too popular to be let
alone--a few days later came another invitation, this time from General
Prentice and his family. They were planning a railroad trip--to be gone
for a month; they would have a private train, and twenty five people in
the party, and would take in California and Mexico--"swinging round the
circle," as it was called. Alice was wild to go, and Montague gave his
consent. Afterward he learned to his dismay that Charlie Carter was one
of those invited, and he would have liked to have Alice withdraw; but
she did not wish to, and he could not make up his mind to insist.
These train trips were the very latest diversion of the well-to-do; a
year ago no one had heard of them, and now fifty parties were leaving
New York every month. You might see a dozen of such hotel-trains at
once at Palm Beach; there were some people who lived on board all the
time, having special tracks built for them in pleasant locations
wherever they stopped. One man had built a huge automobile railroad
car, shaped like a ram, and having accommodation for sixty people. The
Prentice train had four cars, one of them a "library car," finished in
St. Iago mahogany, and provided with a pipe-organ. Also there were
bath-rooms and a barber-shop, and a baggage car with two autos on board
for exploring purposes.
Since the episode of Mrs. Winnie, Oliver had apparently concluded that
his brother was one of the initiated. Not long afterward he permitted
him to a glimpse into that side of his life which had been hinted at in
the songs at the bachelors' dinner.
Oliver had planned to take Betty Wyman to the theatre; but Betty's
grandfather had come home from the West unexpectedly, and so Oliver
came round and took his brother instead.
"I was going to play a joke on her," he said. "We'll go to see one of
my old flames."
It was a translation of a French farce, in which the marital
infidelities of two young couples were the occasion of many mishaps.
One of the characters was a waiting-maid, who was in love with a
handsome young soldier, and was pursued by the husband of one of the
couples. It was a minor part, but the young Jewish girl who played it
had so many pretty graces and such a merry laugh that she made it quite
conspicuous. When the act was over, Oliver asked him whose acting he
liked best, and he named her.
"Come and be introduced to her," Oliver said.
He opened a door near their box. "How do you do, Mr. Wilson," he said,
nodding to a man in evening dress, who stood near by. Then he turned
toward the dressing-rooms, and went down a corridor, and knocked upon
one of the doors. A voice called, "Come in," and he opened the door;
and there was a tiny room, with odds and ends of clothing scattered
about, and the girl, clad in corsets and underskirt, sitting before a
mirror. "Hello, Rosalie," said he.
And she dropped her powder-puff, and sprang up with a cry--"Ollie!" 'In
a moment more she had her arms about his neck.
"Oh, you wretched man," she cried. "Why don't you come to see me any
more? Didn't you get my letters?"
"I got some," said he. "But I've been busy. This is my brother, Mr.
Allan Montague."
The other nodded to Montague, and said, "How do you do?"--but without
letting go of Oliver. "Why don't you come to see me?" she exclaimed.
"There, there, now!" said Oliver, laughing good-naturedly. "I brought
my brother along so that you'd have to behave yourself."
"I don't care about your brother!" exclaimed the girl, without even
giving him another glance. Then she held Oliver at arm's length, and
gazed into his face. "How can you be so cruel to me?" she asked.
"I told you I was busy," said he, cheerfully. "And I gave you fair
warning, didn't I? How's Toodles?"
"Oh, Toodles is in raptures," said Rosalie. "She's got a new fellow."
And then, her manner changing to one of merriment, she added: "Oh,
Ollie! He gave her a diamond brooch! And she looks like a
countess--she's hoping for a chance to wear it in a part!"
"You've seen Toodles," said Oliver, to his brother "She's in 'The
Kaliph of Kamskatka.'".
"They're going on the road next week," said Rosalie. "And then I'll be
all alone." She added, in a pleading voice: "Do, Ollie, be a good boy
and take us out to-night. Think how long it's been since I've seen you!
Why, I've been so good I don't know myself in the looking-glass.
Please, Ollie!"
"All right," said he, "maybe I will."
"I'm not going to let you get away from me," she cried. "I'll come
right over the footlights after you!"
"You'd better get dressed," said Oliver. "You'll be late."
He pushed aside a tray with some glasses on it, and seated himself upon
a trunk; and Montague stood in a corner and watched Rosalie, while she
powdered and painted herself, and put on an airy summer dress, and
poured out a flood of gossip about "Toodles" and "Flossie" and "Grace"
and some others. A few minutes later came a stentorian voice in the
hallway: "Second act!" There were more embraces, and then Ollie brushed
the powder from his coat, and went away laughing.
Montague stood for a few moments in the wings, watching the
scene-shifters putting the final touches to the new set, and the
various characters taking their positions. Then they went out to their
seats. "Isn't she a jewel?" asked Oliver.
"She's very pretty," the other admitted.
"She came right out of the slums," said Oliver--"over on Rivington
Street. That don't happen very often."
"How did you come to know her?" asked his brother.
"Oh, I picked her out. She was in a chorus, then. I got her first
speaking part."
"Did you?" said the other, in surprise. "How did you do that?"
"Oh, a little money," was the reply. "Money will do most anything. And
I was in love with her--that's how I got her."
Montague said nothing, but sat in thought.
"We'll take her out to supper and make her happy," added Oliver, as the
curtain started up. "She's lonesome, I guess. You see, I promised Betty
I'd reform."
All through that scene and the next one Rosalie acted for them; she was
so full of verve and merriment that there was quite a stir in the
audience, and she got several rounds of applause. Then, when the play
was over, she extricated herself from the arms of the handsome young
soldier, and fled to her dressing-room, and when Oliver and Montague
arrived, she was half ready for the street.
They went up Broadway, and from a group of people coming out of another
stage-entrance a young girl came to join them--an airy little creature
with the face of a doll-baby, and a big hat with a purple feather on
top. This was "Toodles"--otherwise known as Helen Gwynne; and she took
Montague's arm, and they fell in behind Oliver and his companion.
Montague wondered what one said to a chorus-girl on the way to supper.
Afterward his brother told him that Toodles had been the wife of a
real-estate agent in a little town in Oklahoma, and had run away from
respectability and boredom with a travelling theatrical company. Now
she was tripping her part in the musical comedy which Montague had seen
at Mrs. Lane's; and incidentally swearing devotion to a handsome young
"wine-agent." She confided to Montague that she hoped the latter might
see her that evening--he needed to be made jealous.
"The Great White Way" was the name which people had given to this part
of Broadway; and at the head of it stood a huge hotel with flaming
lights, and gorgeous marble and bronze, and famous paintings upon the
walls and ceilings inside. At this hour every one of its many
dining-rooms was thronged with supper-parties, and the place rang with
laughter and the rattle of dishes, and the strains of several
orchestras which toiled heroically in the midst of the uproar. Here
they found a table, and while Oliver was ordering frozen poached eggs
and quails in aspic, Montague sat and gazed about him at the revelry,
and listened to the prattle of the little ex-sempstress from Rivington
Street.
His brother had "got her," he said, by buying a speaking part in a play
for her; and Montague recalled the orgies of which he had heard at the
bachelors' dinner, and divined that here he was at the source of the
stream from which they were fed. At the table next to them was a young
Hebrew, whom Toodles pointed out as the son and heir of a great
clothing manufacturer. He was "keeping" several girls, said she; and
the queenly creature who was his vis-a-vis was one of the chorus in
"The Maids of Mandalay." And a little way farther down the room was a
boy with the face of an angel and the air of a prince of the blood--he
had inherited a million and run away from school, and was making a name
for himself in the Tenderloin. The pretty little girl all in green who
was with him was Violet Pane, who was the artist's model in a new play
that had made a hit. She had had a full-page picture of herself in the
Sunday supplement of the "sporting paper" which was read here--so
Rosalie remarked.
"Why don't you ever do that for me?" she added, to Oliver.
"Perhaps I will," said he, with a laugh. "What does it cost?"
And when he learned that the honour could be purchased for only fifteen
hundred dollars, he said, "I'll do it, if you'll be good." And from
that time on the last trace of worriment vanished from the face and the
conversation of Rosalie.
As the champagne cocktails disappeared, she and Oliver became
confidential. Then Montague turned to Toodles, to learn more about how
the "second generation" was preying upon the women of the stage.
"A chorus-girl got from ten to twenty dollars a week," said Toodles;
and that was hardly enough to pay for her clothes. Her work was very
uncertain--she would spend weeks at rehearsal, and then if the play
failed, she would get nothing. It was a dog's life; and the keys of
freedom and opportunity were in the keeping of rich men, who haunted
the theatres and laid siege to the girls. They would send in notes to
them, or fling bouquets to them, with cards, or perhaps money, hidden
in them. There were millionaire artists and bohemians who kept a
standing order for seats in the front rows at opening performances;
they had accounts with florists and liverymen and confectioners, and
gave carte blanche to scores of girls who lent themselves to their
purposes. Sometimes they were in league with the managers, and a girl
who held back would find her chances imperilled; sometimes these men
would even finance shows to give a chance to some favourite.
Afterward Toodles turned to listen to Oliver and his companion; and
Montague sat back and gazed about the room. Next to him was a long
table with a dozen, people at it; and he watched the buckets of
champagne and the endless succession of fantastic-looking dishes of
food, and the revellers, with their flushed faces and feverish eyes and
loud laughter. Above all the tumult was the voice of the orchestra,
calling, calling, like the storm wind upon the mountains; the music was
wild and chaotic, and produced an indescribable sense of pain and
confusion. When one realized that this same thing was going on in
thousands of places in this district it seemed that here was a flood of
dissipation that out-rivalled even that of Society.
It was said that the hotels of New York, placed end to end, would reach
all the way to London; and they took care of a couple of hundred
thousand people a day--a horde which had come from all over the world
in search of pleasure and excitement. There were sight-seers and
"country customers" from forty-five states; ranchers from Texas, and
lumber kings from Maine, and mining men from Nevada. At home they had
reputations, and perhaps families to consider; but once plunged into
the whirlpool of the Tenderloin, they were hidden from all the world.
They came with their pockets full of money; and hotels and restaurants,
gambling-places and pool-rooms and brothels--all were lying in wait for
them! So eager had the competition become that there was a tailoring
establishment and a bank that were never closed the year round, except
on Sunday.
Everywhere about one's feet the nets of vice were spread. The head
waiter in one's hotel was a "steerer" for a "dive," and the house
detective was "touting" for a gambling-place. The handsome woman who
smiled at one in "Peacock Alley" was a "madame"; the pleasant-faced
young man who spoke to one at the bar was on the look-out for customers
for a brokerage-house next door. Three times in a single day in another
of these great caravanserais Montague was offered "short change"; and
so his eyes were opened to a new kind of plundering. He was struck by
the number of attendants in livery who swarmed about him, and to whom
he gave tips for their services. He did not notice that the boys in the
wash-rooms and coat-rooms could not speak a word of English; he could
not know that they were searched every night, and had everything taken
from them, and that the Greek who hired them had paid fifteen thousand
dollars a year to the hotel for the privilege.
So far had the specialization in evil proceeded that there were places
of prostitution which did a telephone-business exclusively, and would
send a woman in a cab to any address; and there were high-class
assignation-houses, which furnished exquisite apartments and the
services of maids and valets. And in this world of vice the modern
doctrine of the equality of the sexes was fully recognized; there were
gambling-houses and pool-rooms and opium-joints for women, and
drinking-places which catered especially for them. In the "orange room"
of one of the big hotels, you might see rich women of every rank and
type, fingering the dainty leather-bound and gold-embossed wine cards.
In this room alone were sold over ten thousand drinks every day; and
the hotel paid a rental of a million a year to the Devon estate. Not
far away the Devons also owned negro-dives, where, in the early hours
of the morning, you might see richly-gowned white women drinking.
In this seething caldron of graft there were many strange ways of
making money, and many strange and incredible types of human beings to
be met. Once, in "Society," Montague had pointed out to him a woman who
had been a "tattooed lady" in a circus; there was another who had been
a confederate of gamblers upon the ocean steamships, and another who
had washed dishes in a mining-camp. There was one of these great hotels
whose proprietor had been a successful burglar; and a department-store
whose owner had begun life as a "fence." In any crowd of these
revellers you might have such strange creatures pointed out to you; a
multimillionaire who sold rotten jam to the people; another who had
invented opium soothing-syrup for babies; a convivial old gentleman who
disbursed the "yellow dog fund" of several railroads; a handsome
chauffeur who had run away with an heiress. 'Once a great scientist had
