though it was a warm afternoon in June, each carried a black cloak on
his arm. Their long hair was parted and smoothed with even more than
customary neatness, and Trombin's yellow locks were so wonderfully
arranged that they might easily have been taken for a wig. His pink face
wore a more than usually boyish and innocent expression, and as he stood
beside his companion listening to what the latter was saying in an
undertone, his eyes gazed steadily at Ortensia's graceful figure. Both
men were evidently indifferent to the possibility of her turning and
seeing them, and in fact they had taken up their present position in the
hope of being seen by Stradella himself from the organ, acting the part
of protectors to his wife.
'We have trusted each other in much more dangerous affairs than this,'
Gambardella said, almost in a whisper, 'but I have never before known
you to lose your heart to the subject of our operations.'
'"Subject" is good!' answered Trombin. '"Subject" is excellent! You
speak like a teacher of anatomy! But, so far, you are right, for I
cannot take my eyes from that adorable lady. My friend, do you notice
the exquisite curve from the throat to the shoulder and from the
shoulder to the elbow? And the marvellously suggestive fall of the
skirt? And the reflection of the sunshine from overhead in her wonderful
hair where it shows from under her veil? Answer me, have you ever seen
anything more perfect in art or nature?'
'No, nor anything more complete than your madness,' answered
Gambardella. 'If you speak a little louder she will hear you!'
'And turn her angel's eyes to mine!' whispered Trombin sentimentally.
'There is no poetry in your soul, my friend! You were certainly born
without any heart, or, if I may say so, with a heart like a German
prune, all dried up and hard, and needing to be boiled for hours in
syrup to soften it! On the other hand, I may compare my own to the fresh
fruit on the tree in July, delicate, juicy, and almost palpitating in
the sunshine with its own sweetness!'
Gambardella smiled sourly and shook his head.
'You once had a good intelligence,' he said, 'but it is shattered. Are
you capable of listening to me like a sensible being, while that lady is
in sight? If not, come with me behind the pilaster, for I have something
to say before we separate.'
As if admitting that he was helpless so long as he could gaze on
Ortensia, Trombin allowed his friend to lead him away into the shadow.
'Now, listen,' said Gambardella. 'We are playing three games, and if you
call yours one, it is the fourth, and the stakes are high. The smallest
mistake or hesitation will lose us everything, as you know, and before
long we shall be living in an attic again and supping on salt fish and
olives. But if we win we shall have money enough to enjoy a whole year
of luxury, and with a little economy to live comfortably for a much
longer time.'
'I know it,' answered Trombin, on whom the stronger will of his
companion made an impression. 'I shall keep my head at the right moment,
never fear!'
'But in order that we may risk nothing, I had better play the first part
of the comedy, since that is the most important to the success of the
whole.'
The two cut-throats looked at each other steadily for some moments, as
if neither meant to give way, and possibly they remembered their first
meeting, a good many years earlier; for their acquaintance had begun in
a sharp quarrel, in which they had almost instantly fallen to fighting,
and it was not till they had fenced for nearly twenty minutes, without a
scratch on either side, though each was trying to kill the other, that
they had both lowered their rapiers in mutual admiration, and had
forthwith made the alliance which had never been shaken since.
Yet, though they were so evenly matched in strength and skill,
Gambardella was the more determined character, and in important moments
like the present his decision generally prevailed; and so it ended now,
for Trombin at last turned his round eyes away and nodded his assent.
'Very well,' he said, in a tone of resignation. 'Then I will wait for
Stradella at the door of the sacristy. That was the original plan. Hark!
He is singing now!'
The two came out from behind the pillar and stood still to listen; and
Gambardella's eyes gazed steadily at the vast mosaic above the tribune,
while his friend's look fixed itself again on Ortensia's graceful
figure, and he feasted his sight, while his ears were filled with the
most rare music that the world had ever heard in that day.
Only those who have listened to a beautiful voice singing in the Lateran
towards evening can understand that, in spite of the grievous
disfigurements of the barocco age, and the exaggerated modern
decorations of the nineteenth century, the 'Mother of all Churches,' as
the Basilica is called, can still seem the most deeply and truly
hallowed place of worship in Christendom. There is a mystery in it at
the sunset hour which is felt by all men, though none can explain it;
the light glows and fades there as nowhere else, the shadows have a
sweet solemnity of their own, and consummate art, or supreme
good-fortune, has made the vast nave and colonnaded aisles responsive to
the softest notes the human voice can breathe. First the full organ
blares out triumphantly alone, and by and by the chorus, borne up by the
master instrument, swells from a hundred throats in such tremendous
harmonies that the marble pavement seems alive and thrilling under a
man's feet; yet the words are not lost in a clashing din of senseless
noise, for every one of them is complete and reaches the astonished ear
unbroken and distinct. Then, in an instant, the enormous gale of sound
is hushed and leaves no echo, and one voice alone is singing a low
melody, divinely spiritual as an angel's prayer. It rises presently,
full and strong, but every syllable rings out clear and perfect, even to
the outer doors; it sinks to all but a whisper, yet each delicate
articulation floats unbroken to the remotest corner of the outer aisle,
till he who listens feels the word vibrating in his heart rather than in
his outward ears.
Ortensia felt more than that, for the music was that of the man she
loved so well, and the single voice was his too, and the prayer it sang
was for her, and was in her heart while she listened; and, moreover,
Alessandro Stradella was not matched in voice or genius by any singer of
his age. It would be as hopeless to attempt a description of his singing
on that day as to analyse the feelings that thrilled Ortensia. There are
delights that must be felt to be believed, and only three are noble,
for they have their sources in true love, and in supreme art, and in
honourable fight for wife and child and country. Ortensia felt the first
two of these together; but he who dies, not having known even one of
them, had better not have lived at all.
As afternoon turned to evening, the straight golden beams overhead
melted to a red glow that spread downwards and illuminated all the great
church for a little while; then the light deepened to purple, and that
softened to violet, and the candles about the high altar under the
tabernacle shone out through thin clouds of incense like many stars.
Again Stradella's voice was heard alone, and Ortensia sank upon her
knees beside her pillar, though it was not yet quite time for kneeling.
It was as if she could bear no more of such intense pleasure without
praying to heaven that it might be hers hereafter to love her true love
to all ages, and for ever to hear his voice singing to her in a place of
peace.
The Bravi had now parted company, and Trombin had quietly gone out of
the church, leaving Gambardella alone. The dark-faced man in black moved
slowly and noiselessly as a shadow; he crossed the nave far down by the
door, and walked up the outer aisle on the south side, till he could go
no farther up for the crowd; then he turned to his right, making his way
quietly through the multitude wherever the people were least closely
packed, and he emerged at last not far from where Ortensia was kneeling,
and with all the appearance of having come out of the thick of the
press, which was exactly what he wished her to believe.
She was still kneeling, and Cucurullo was standing beside her, hat in
hand. It was now so dark in the body of the Basilica that Stradella
could not possibly see any one there, especially as he was dazzled by
the many candles that illuminated the upper end of the church.
Gambardella bowed gravely and bent down to speak near Ortensia's ear.
'I have a message from the Maestro for you,' he said, almost in a
whisper.
Ortensia had already looked up with a little surprise, which now
increased.
'A message?' she repeated. 'We came here together, and he has not left
the organ loft since!'
'Precisely,' answered Gambardella, unmoved. 'I was standing in the crowd
just below, and when he had finished directing the motett he made me a
sign to go to the steps at the back. I went, and he was already halfway
down the ladder. He seemed much agitated. You must have noticed how
strangely his voice thrilled in that last piece he sang.'
'Yes. Tell me what he said!'
Ortensia was already breathless with anxiety, and as she spoke she got
upon her feet. Gambardella helped her.
'He had a note in his hand. It was a warning which some one had brought
to him in the loft. Altieri's plan is to conceal a number of men in your
apartment this last night that you are to sleep there. When all is quiet
they are to gag you and your husband, and carry you downstairs to Don
Alberto's carriage. If you attempt to go home to the palace the scheme
will inevitably succeed.'
Ortensia stood leaning back against the pilaster very white. Gambardella
continued.
'The Maestro asked me if I knew of any place of safety to which you
could both go to-night before leaving Rome to-morrow. I told him that my
friend and I have just hired a small house in a quiet part of the city,
which is at your service, especially as we have not yet moved to it. He
begged me to take you there at once before Don Alberto can leave the
church, and possibly see you driving away with me.'
'But my husband----' interrupted Ortensia.
'My friend Trombin is already at the door of the sacristy, and will
bring him to you as soon as he can get away. It will be nearly half an
hour before the Benediction is over. But there is no time to be lost.
Ah--I forgot! He wished Cucurullo to hasten to the palace and get his
manuscripts and his lute, and any small necessaries for you that can be
hidden under a cloak. Your man can get there, and be on his way back
before Don Alberto can be at home. Even if the men are already concealed
in the apartment they will not trouble Cucurullo for fear of betraying
their master. As for your woman, Altieri has probably had her arrested
and taken away.'
Gambardella had purposely told his story so that Cucurullo could hear
it, and had glanced at him from time to time to be sure that he
understood.
'Are you afraid to go alone?' asked the Bravo, not at all
contemptuously.
'No, sir. I am not afraid. Where shall I find my master when I have got
the things?'
'Do you know where Santa Prassede is, in that narrow street near Santa
Maria Maggiore?'
'Certainly, sir. Shall I wait at the side door of the church? It is a
lonely place.'
'Yes. Be there as soon as you can. The house is close by, but I could
not easily make you understand which it is.' Gambardella turned to
Ortensia. 'Will you come with me?' he asked. 'My friend and I have a
carriage, and it is at the main door.'
Ortensia laid her hand on the Bravo's arm, not doubting that she was
obeying her husband's wishes for her safety and his. It would have taken
more than Don Alberto's rude assertion to make her and Stradella
distrust the men who had helped them so efficiently in their flight. The
two might be Bravi, as he said, but they were friends, and in such a
case as this they were the very friends the young couple needed.
The three entered the inner aisle to avoid all possibility of being seen
by Don Alberto, and hastened towards the main door. Though Ortensia was
not timid, her heart beat a little faster when she thought of the danger
from which she was escaping. It was already nearly dark in the church,
but the twilight was still bright outside, and the carriage was standing
quite close to the old porch; for the present portico was not built
then, and the steep carriage road ended in a square patch of pavement
before the doors.
Cucurullo glanced at the coachman and recognised Tommaso, who nodded to
him with a friendly smile. Then the hunchback hurried away on his
errand, leaving Gambardella to take care of Ortensia, who was already
getting in.
'To Santa Prassede,' said the Bravo to the coachman, in a tone meant for
Ortensia's ears.
Then he got in, shut the door, and seated himself beside her, bolt
upright, with his rapier between his knees, and his hands clasped on the
hilt. Ortensia glanced at him in the dim light, and noticed his attitude
with satisfaction, and not without reflecting on the terror she would
feel if Don Alberto were in his place. Nothing could be more reassuring
than Gambardella's behaviour.
'I suppose the carriage will go back for my husband?' she said. 'The
Canons lent us one of theirs to bring us to the church and take us home,
but you will not trust to that, will you?'
'No, indeed! If you do not mind being alone in the house for twenty
minutes I will go back with this carriage, or it can go without me and I
will stay with you.'
'I shall not be afraid,' Ortensia answered rashly. 'On the contrary, I
shall feel much safer if I know that you are going for my husband
yourself, for there can be no mistake then.'
'Precisely,' Gambardella said. 'That will be the best way.'
'How kind you are!' Ortensia sighed, and leaned back in the deep seat.
She did not know Rome very well yet, and it was the hour when all the
little snail-shell lamps were being lighted for the feast, and their
glimmer still further confused her; besides, she was not quite sure
where Santa Prassede was, nor in what sort of neighbourhood it was
situated. In that wide region, then almost without inhabitants, and
mostly divided into hedged vineyards and market-gardens, small groups of
houses stood here and there, more or less alike, but generally in the
neighbourhood of the ancient churches which had been built before the
city was unpeopled in the Middle Ages. Ortensia was not in the least
surprised when the carriage stopped before a decent-looking little
house, after ascending a steep hill. Gambardella opened the carriage and
got out to help her down.
'Are you quite sure that you do not mind being left alone here for a
while?' he asked, as he unlocked the door of the house, and held it open
for her to go in.
'If you can give me a light I shall not mind being alone at all,'
Ortensia answered, and she went in.
He followed her at once, shut the door behind him to keep out the chilly
breeze, and began the process of getting a light with flint and steel
and tinder and one of those wooden matches dipped in sulphur, which had
then been recently invented. By the sparks he made Ortensia saw that he
was standing beside an old marble table on which stood a brass lamp with
a three-cornered bowl that slid up and down on a stem.
The place had the peculiar odour of small Italian houses that are built
of stone, that stand in vineyards or market-gardens, and that are rarely
opened; it is a smell compounded of the odour of the worm-eaten
furniture, smoke-stained kitchen ceiling and wall, and the dusty plaster
within the house, combined with a faint sub-odour of growing things,
from vines to broccoli, which finds its way through the cracks of badly
fitting doors and windows.
When there was light at last, Ortensia saw that she was in a commonplace
little whitewashed vestibule, from which a single flight of stone stairs
led directly to the door of the living rooms above. Gambardella went up
first, holding the brass lamp low down for her to see the steps. The
room into which he led her had a Venetian pavement, and was sufficiently
well furnished. The walls were painted to represent views which were
presumably visible from the windows by day.
'Are you quite sure there is no one in the house?' asked Ortensia, who
liked the prospect of solitude less and less as the time for being left
alone came nearer.
'There is a bedroom at each end,' answered Gambardella. 'You shall see
for yourself. Above this there is a sort of attic which can only be
reached from outside by steps that also lead to a terrace on the roof.'
He showed her the two bedrooms, which had evidently been just cleaned
and put in order, and looked very neat. Ortensia was reassured.
'And what is there downstairs?' she asked.
'A kitchen and a dining-room,' Gambardella answered. 'But I must be off
if I am to fetch the Maestro. We shall be here in half an hour at the
utmost.'
Just then a great bell not very far off tolled three strokes, then four,
then five, and then one, and an instant later it rang out in a peal.
'It is Ave Maria,' Gambardella said. 'The Benediction is over by this
time. You had better come down with me and hook the chain inside the
front door.'
Ortensia followed him down the stairs again, and he carried the lamp. As
he went she heard him hurriedly repeating the Angelus.
'"Angelus Domini nuntiavit,"' he began, quite audibly, but the words
that followed were said in a whisper.
Ortensia repeated the prayer to herself too, partly by force of habit,
no doubt, but partly because it was a comfort to say it with the
kind-hearted friend who had once more intervened to help her and her
husband in time of danger. Even the Bravo, who could say his prayers
uncommonly fast, had not finished when they reached the foot of the
stairs, and as Ortensia set the lamp on the corner of the yellow marble
table she distinctly heard him say the first words of the third
responsory.
'"And dwelt with us,"' she answered quietly and clearly.
He laid his hand on the lock of the hall door, and when he turned to her
his eyes met hers with a look she had never seen. Both repeated the
third Ave Maria aloud, while he gazed earnestly at her pure young face,
so sweetly framed in the soft folds of the veil. Then without waiting
for the final prayer he opened the door, and as he shut it after him she
heard him say something aloud, but the words were so strange and
unexpected that she repeated them to herself twice while she was hooking
the chain before she quite realised what they were, and understood them.
'"And Judas went out and hanged himself."'
That was what he had said as he went away.
CHAPTER XXI
