proceeded to place the ferns in their new 
home. 
“ Oh, who has some scissors ? ” cried Edna 
March. “ See this long — is it a root ? I 
can’t break it. And look what is growing on 
the end ! ” 
Helen turned. “ Oh, don’t cut it ! Why, 
that is quite a prize. This little sort of sprout 
on the end is a new fern, a baby, though it has 
gone a long way from its mother. It is called 
a traveling fern. It sends out this wiry sort 
of shoot that presently touches the ground and 
takes root and a new fern grows.” 
“ Can we make it grow here ? ” 
“ I think so. We will try.” 
“ And here is an old root,” — doubtfully, 
holding it up in her hand. 
“We are going to bury that and see if the 
warmth will not make it think it is spring, 
and it may poke up its gray, fuzzy head. 
Perhaps we can't deceive it, though,” and she 
laughed. 
“ Well, we will try. Oh, won’t it be 
funny ! ” 
“ Florists are doing this all the time. They 
make lilies of the valley blossom at Christmas, 
and many other summer flowers.” 
They had more than enough to fill their box, 
and Mr. Underwood sent them a large flat pot 
that had come last year with some Easter 
tulips. 
The compositions on their outing were so 
well done that Miss Grant sent them in to Mr. 
Underwood, who commended them warmly. 
And Mr. Hildreth came in to see the fern bed 
and express his pleasure that they had enjoyed 
it so much. 
The next grand adventure was chestnutting. 
Most of the school turned out for that, except 
some of the older girls who did not want to be 
in such a rabble. Mr. Underwood went to 
thrash the trees, he said, since he was not al- 
lowed to thrash any boys. 
They had a grand time and a great deal of 
fun. Early autumn, and warm weather was 
over. The gardens were despoiled of all 
blooms except the chrysanthemums. The 
trees were well-nigh leafless, only here and 
there an oak or a copper beech stood out de- 
fiantly. How beautiful the slim white birches 
looked ! There were still a few field asters 
and here and there a belated daisy. Great 
clumps of golden-rod were growing fuzzy. 
They gathered a good supply of chestnuts. 
There had been no tramps to despoil the 
woods. They sang songs and then ran races, 
the boys against the girls. 
“ Did you ever run races when you were 
little?” inquired Allen Millard wistfully, 
 
watching the flying children. He had come 
to be a very warm admirer of Miss Grant. 
“ Oh, yes. And when I was big, too, at col- 
lege. We had a course and there was a 
prize for that and other athletic feats,” and 
Helen laughed at the thought of the old 
times. 
“ Did you ever win a prize ? ” 
Helen flushed. “ The freshmen run against 
the sophomores, then they against the juniors, 
and so on. There is a great time. Yes, I 
won twice.’ 
“Oh, I wish I could have seen you!” and 
he drew a long breath. “ I want to go to col- 
lege, Miss Grant, but I shall never be able to 
do any of those things, and you can’t 
think ” His voice broke. 
“Yes, I can, for I have been in it myself. 
There is so much friendly rivalry, so much 
that stirs the blood and the very soul. I am 
sorry to have you handicapped, but I should 
go all the same.” 
“ I like you so much,” in a low tone. 
“ Won’t you come to tea some night and tell 
us all about it ? ” 
Helen promised. 
There was a great deal of fun in the racing. 
The boys beat, of course, but Helen said the 
girls had no regular training and did not know 
how to manage their strength. It was a very 
good-natured contest. 
“ I’ve been almost made over into a boy,” 
Mr. Underwood declared. “ I don’t know 
when I have enjoyed such a frolic. I wish my 
wife had come, Miss Grant, you rouse one’s 
enthusiasm. And to-day you look just six- 
teen. But you manage admirably. The boys 
have improved in their studies. May be by the 
end of the year we may be not quite dis- 
couraged,” laughingly. 
In certain ways they had improved; recita- 
tions and exercises were better, but there was 
still a sort of covert insolence on the part of 
Eastman and occasionally the others. Helen 
did not notice it. Miss Jaynes said, “ It is such 
a pleasure to teach with you ! Oh, I hope noth- 
ing will take you away for years ! ” 
Helen’s eyes were bright with pleasure. 
“ Oh, Miss Grant ! ” one of the girls said 
Friday afternoon when school had closed, 
 
“ do you know any Hallowe'en tricks ? The 
boys are going to have a procession, and it will 
be queer enough! I have been making some 
cotton doughnuts and some salt caramels. I 
wanted to have a real party but mother said 
they would be too uproarious, and I could have 
it later on.” 
They talked over various charms and Helen 
told of some that were simple, yet amusing. 
Mr. Underwood cautioned the boys about com- 
mitting willful mischief, as that would be 
punished. 
Mrs. Stirling closed her old-fashioned board 
shutters. “ I do not suppose they will come up 
as far as here,” she said, “ but it is well enough 
to be prepared.” 
They heard the horns and the clang of tin 
pans now and then, and for a long while all 
was silent. Then there seemed stealthy steps, 
but they died away. 
After a little while, a light ring at the door- 
bell. Jane was going to bed, and with a 
candlestick in her hand she paused to open the 
door and give the intruder a piece of her mind. 
But her little space was pushed so rudely open 
that the door struck her, and something fell 
heavily to the floor. 
Jane screamed with affright. Mrs. Stirling 
came out in the hall. There lay a figure of 
a boy or man, with blood spattered here and 
there on his clothing. A hand lay by itself, 
frightfully white. 
“ Oh, Jane! are you hurt? What is it? 
What dreadful thing ” 
“ My face has had a pretty bad bang.” She 
kicked the form viciously. “ Why, it’s — 
it’s — ” with another and harder kick — “ a 
log — dressed up. And that’s no real hand. 
Drat them boys! I’d like to horsewhip 
them ! ” 
The girls had come out. It was a log hav- 
ing a false face and a long coat wrapped 
around it, with small patches of red flannel 
pinned here and there to simulate blood. The 
hand was made of cotton cloth and stuffed, 
and a red gash on that. 
“ Let us drag it in,” said Mrs. Stirling. 
“ The police must be notified. Why, Jane, if 
it had struck you it would have knocked you 
down. As it is your cheek begins to swell and 
 
your eye also. Why, if it had been your tem- 
ple it might have killed you! ” 
They shut the door and barred it. Then 
they went back to the kitchen and bathed Jane’s 
face with hot water and witch hazel. 
“ The door came so suddenly against me. I 
had meant to open it just a little crack. It 
was such a sort of lady-like ring I didn’t 
suspect, and I thought it might be some one 
from the Cooks’.” 
Helen drew a long breath. “ It was a cruel 
and dastardly thing, and the perpetrators ought 
to be severely punished.” Was it meant as an 
insult or fright to her? 
“ I only hope we can discover them,” said 
Mrs. Stirling. “ And now let us all go to bed. 
The door will not be opened again to-night.” 
True to her word she sallied out early the 
next morning. An officer came to view the 
figure, which was as much as he could lift. 
He took off the wrappings and the mask and 
rolled them up, and dragged the log out of 
doors with instructions to let it lie there for 
a while. 
Soon after there came a reporter for the 
evening paper, and Mrs. Stirling in her indig- 
nation withheld no particulars. Jane’s face 
was still swollen and her eye inflamed. 
Mr. Hildreth came in presently. 
“If there were a crowd of young people 
having a merry party here, one might under- 
stand the cowardly trick. But a small house- 
hold of women! And such a dangerous thing! 
I shall make every effort to find the perpetra- 
tors, for there were several, no doubt.” 
The Stirling house was quite besieged 
through the day. The gates and signs that 
had been exchanged, the steps and fences 
marked up with red and blue chalk were quite 
thrown into the shade by this piece of mischief 
that might have had a fatal result. The whole 
town was indignant over the account in the 
evening paper. Mr. and Mrs. Underwood 
came up to offer their condolence. 
“ If any of the school boys are concerned in 
this they shall be made to suffer, Miss Grant.” 
In a lower tone just for her ear, “ Do you 
suspect any one ? ” 
Helen colored. “ Will not the coat betray 
the perpetrator?” she asked rather confusedly. 
 
“ The coat — I had not thought of that. All 
the things are at the precinct. I can’t quite un- 
derstand ” He knit his brows and looked 
sharply at Helen. “No one can have a grudge 
against Mrs. Stirling. And her niece is a very 
quiet person. If she were a boy, now! ” 
Helen tried to keep down the rising color 
that she felt flooded her face, and leaned over 
to straighten the table-cover that had been 
pushed away. 
“ It was a dastardly act. I should be sorry 
to be the mother of a boy capable of such a* 
thing.” 
“ I do not suppose he really meant serious 
harm. Boys are so thoughtless.” 
“ What is the good of all our training if we 
cannot make them think of the injury to their 
neighbors ? And the churches, the Sunday 
schools? ” 
How fine and spirited her face looked in its 
indignation! Was it the training that had 
made her strong and clear-eyed, reticent, too? 
Any other person having suffered insolence 
from the speech of Dick Eastman would have 
accused him at a venture. 
CHAPTER VIII 
KEEPING A SECRET 
Mrs. Stirling was quite exhausted on Sun- 
day, from the talk and the excitement, and did 
not go to church. There were callers all the 
afternoon. Jane’s discolored eye attested the 
extent of the injury, though it had been from 
the force with which the heavy door had been 
thrown open. She had come down to dinner 
and was now ensconced in the Morris chair 
with the cushions about her. Habitually pale, 
she had a wan and startled look. 
One and another was relating grievances 
and defacements. 
“ Though it’s not as bad as real paint. 
There was a grotesque figure on my nice 
newly-painted front door — with horns and a 
tail, and even if it was too new to touch I had 
it scrubbed off,” complained a neighbor. 
“ Now it will have to be done over. Mr. Kent 
has been driving the boys out of the apple 
orchard, — we have a few very fine trees and 
we count on what they bring in to us. It is a 
shame to have your property destroyed and 
your crops ruined or stolen.’ 
“ Some stringent measures must be taken to 
stop these depredations,” said Mr. Hildreth. 
“ I don’t know that I am altogether in favor 
of the high school,” continued the indignant 
Mrs. Kent. “ We have had some rest from 
mischief these two years, while the large boys 
have been away, and now it has begun again.” 
“ What about the high school? ” asked Mr. 
Underwood, who had just entered with his 
wife. “ That is the apple of Mr. Hildreth’s 
eye, the idol of his heart,” and he laughed over 
to him. “ Mrs. Stirling, I hope you are not 
suffering from the shock too severely. Noth- 
ing can exceed my regret that you should have 
been made the victim of such a cruel trick.” 
“ I had rather have the high school closed 
than turn out such miscreants,” Mr. Hildreth 
exclaimed indignantly. 
“ But why the high school ? There are boys 
down in the paper mill, in the cloth mill as 
well. Some of them frequent the saloons, 
and many of these mischiefs seem like half- 
drunken capers. I can’t have our boys blamed 
for everything.” 
“ But you see we had comparative peace 
last fall, and the mill boys were there. Most 
of them have been in the public school. You 
should have trained them better, Mr. Under- 
wood.” 
That gentleman flushed with a spasm of 
anger, as he replied: 
“ You seem to forget that boys will be boys 
and that for a few years they are the very 
embodiment of mischief. But they turn out 
very fair men afterward.” 
“Well, I’m thankful I never had a boy!” 
declared Mrs. Kent. 
