under clerk and says—
“Where is America?   What  is America?”
The under clerk answered up prompt and says—
“There ain’t any such orb.”
“ Orb ?” says I.  “Why, what are you talking about, young man?  It ain’t
an orb; it’s a country; it’s a continent.  Columbus discovered it; I
reckon likely you’ve heard of  him, anyway.  America—why, sir, America—”
“Silence!” says the head clerk.  “Once for all, where—are—you— from ?”
“Well,” says I, “I don’t know anything more to say—unless I lump things,
and just say I’m from the world.”
“Ah,” says he, brightening up, “now that’s something like!   What 
world?”
Peters, he had  me, that time.  I looked at him, puzzled, he looked at
me, worried.  Then he burst out—
“Come, come, what world?”
Says I, “Why,  the  world, of course.”
“ The  world!” he says.  “H’m! there’s billions of them! . . . Next!”
That meant for me to stand aside.  I done so, and a sky-blue man with
seven heads and only one leg hopped into my place.  I took a walk.  It
just occurred to me, then, that all the myriads I had seen swarming to
that gate, up to this time, were just like that creature.  I tried to run
across somebody I was acquainted with, but they were out of acquaintances
of mine just then.  So I thought the thing all over and finally sidled
back there pretty meek and feeling rather stumped, as you may say.
“Well?” said the head clerk.
“Well, sir,” I says, pretty humble, “I don’t seem to make out which world
it is I’m from.  But you may know it from this—it’s the one the Saviour
saved.”
He bent his head at the Name.  Then he says, gently—
“The worlds He has saved are like to the gates of heaven in number—none
can count them.  What astronomical system is your world in?—perhaps that
may assist.”
“It’s the one that has the sun in it—and the moon—and Mars”—he shook his
head at each name—hadn’t ever heard of them, you see—“and Neptune—and
Uranus—and Jupiter—”
“Hold on!” says he—“hold on a minute!  Jupiter . . . Jupiter . . . Seems
to me we had a man from there eight or nine hundred years ago—but people
from that system very seldom enter by this gate.”  All of a sudden he
begun to look me so straight in the eye that I thought he was going to
bore through me.  Then he says, very deliberate, “Did you come  straight
here  from your system?”
“Yes, sir,” I says—but I blushed the least little bit in the world when I
said it.
He looked at me very stern, and says—
“That is not true; and this is not the place for prevarication.  You
wandered from your course.  How did that happen?”
Says I, blushing again—
“I’m sorry, and I take back what I said, and confess.  I raced a little
with a comet one day—only just the least little bit—only the tiniest
lit—”
“So—so,” says he—and without any sugar in his voice to speak of.
I went on, and says—
“But I only fell off just a bare point, and I went right back on my
course again the minute the race was over.”
“No matter—that divergence has made all this trouble.  It has brought you
to a gate that is billions of leagues from the right one.  If you had
gone to your own gate they would have known all about your world at once
and there would have been no delay.  But we will try to accommodate you.”
He turned to an under clerk and says—
“What system is Jupiter in?”
“I don’t remember, sir, but I think there is such a planet in one of the
little new systems away out in one of the thinly worlded corners of the
universe.  I will see.”
He got a balloon and sailed up and up and up, in front of a map that was
as big as Rhode Island.  He went on up till he was out of sight, and by
and by he came down and got something to eat and went up again.  To cut a
long story short, he kept on doing this for a day or two, and finally he
came down and said he thought he had found that solar system, but it
might be fly-specks.  So he got a microscope and went back.  It turned
out better than he feared.  He had rousted out our system, sure enough.
He got me to describe our planet and its distance from the sun, and then
he says to his chief—
“Oh, I know the one he means, now, sir.  It is on the map.  It is called
the Wart.”
Says I to myself, “Young man, it wouldn’t be wholesome for you to go down
 there  and call it the Wart.”
Well, they let me in, then, and told me I was safe forever and wouldn’t
have any more trouble.
Then they turned from me and went on with their work, the same as if they
considered my case all complete and shipshape.  I was a good deal
surprised at this, but I was diffident about speaking up and reminding
them.  I did so hate to do it, you know; it seemed a pity to bother them,
they had so much on their hands.  Twice I thought I would give up and let
the thing go; so twice I started to leave, but immediately I thought what
a figure I should cut stepping out amongst the redeemed in such a rig,
and that made me hang back and come to anchor again.  People got to eying
me—clerks, you know—wondering why I didn’t get under way.  I couldn’t
stand this long—it was too uncomfortable.  So at last I plucked up
courage and tipped the head clerk a signal.  He says—
“What! you here yet?  What’s wanting?”
Says I, in a low voice and very confidential, making a trumpet with my
hands at his ear—
“I beg pardon, and you mustn’t mind my reminding you, and seeming to
meddle, but hain’t you forgot something?”
He studied a second, and says—
“Forgot something? . . . No, not that I know of.”
“Think,” says I.
He thought.  Then he says—
“No, I can’t seem to have forgot anything.  What is it?”
“Look at me,” says I, “look me all over.”
He done it.
“Well?” says he.
“Well,” says I, “you don’t notice anything?  If I branched out amongst
the elect looking like this, wouldn’t I attract considerable
attention?—wouldn’t I be a little conspicuous?”
“Well,” he says, “I don’t see anything the matter.  What do you lack?”
“Lack!  Why, I lack my harp, and my wreath, and my halo, and my
hymn-book, and my palm branch—I lack everything that a body naturally
requires up here, my friend.”
Puzzled?  Peters, he was the worst puzzled man you ever saw.  Finally he
says—
“Well, you seem to be a curiosity every way a body takes you.  I never
heard of these things before.”
I looked at the man awhile in solid astonishment; then I says—
“Now, I hope you don’t take it as an offence, for I don’t mean any, but
really, for a man that has been in the Kingdom as long as I reckon you
have, you do seem to know powerful little about its customs.”
“Its customs!” says he.  “Heaven is a large place, good friend.  Large
empires have many and diverse customs.  Even small dominions have, as you
doubtless know by what you have seen of the matter on a small scale in
the Wart.  How can you imagine I could ever learn the varied customs of
the countless kingdoms of heaven?  It makes my head ache to think of it.
I know the customs that prevail in those portions inhabited by peoples
that are appointed to enter by my own gate—and hark ye, that is quite
enough knowledge for one individual to try to pack into his head in the
thirty-seven millions of years I have devoted night and day to that
study.  But the idea of learning the customs of the whole appalling
expanse of heaven—O man, how insanely you talk!  Now I don’t doubt that
this odd costume you talk about is the fashion in that district of heaven
you belong to, but you won’t be conspicuous in this section without it.”
I felt all right, if that was the case, so I bade him good-day and left.
All day I walked towards the far end of a prodigious hall of the office,
hoping to come out into heaven any moment, but it was a mistake.  That
hall was built on the general heavenly plan—it naturally couldn’t be
small.  At last I got so tired I couldn’t go any farther; so I sat down
to rest, and begun to tackle the queerest sort of strangers and ask for
information, but I didn’t get any; they couldn’t understand my language,
and I could not understand theirs.  I got dreadfully lonesome.  I was so
down-hearted and homesick I wished a hundred times I never had died.  I
turned back, of course.  About noon next day, I got back at last and was
on hand at the booking-office once more.  Says I to the head clerk—
“I begin to see that a man’s got to be in his own Heaven to be happy.”
“Perfectly correct,” says he.  “Did you imagine the same heaven would
suit all sorts of men?”
“Well, I had that idea—but I see the foolishness of it.  Which way am I
to go to get to my district?”
He called the under clerk that had examined the map, and he gave me
general directions.  I thanked him and started; but he says—
“Wait a minute; it is millions of leagues from here.  Go outside and
stand on that red wishing-carpet; shut your eyes, hold your breath, and
wish yourself there.”
“I’m much obliged,” says I; “why didn’t you dart me through when I first
arrived?”
“We have a good deal to think of here; it was your place to think of it
and ask for it.  Good-by; we probably sha’n’t see you in this region for
a thousand centuries or so.”
“In that case,  o revoor,” says I.
I hopped onto the carpet and held my breath and shut my eyes and wished I
was in the booking-office of my own section.  The very next instant a
voice I knew sung out in a business kind of a way—
“A harp and a hymn-book, pair of wings and a halo, size 13, for Cap’n Eli
Stormfield, of San Francisco!—make him out a clean bill of health, and
let him in.”
I opened my eyes.  Sure enough, it was a Pi Ute Injun I used to know in
Tulare County; mighty good fellow—I remembered being at his funeral,
which consisted of him being burnt and the other Injuns gauming their
faces with his ashes and howling like wildcats.  He was powerful glad to
see me, and you may make up your mind I was just as glad to see him, and
feel that I was in the right kind of a heaven at last.
Just as far as your eye could reach, there was swarms of clerks, running
and bustling around, tricking out thousands of Yanks and Mexicans and
English and Arabs, and all sorts of people in their new outfits; and when
they gave me my kit and I put on my halo and took a look in the glass, I
could have jumped over a house for joy, I was so happy.  “Now  this  is
something like!” says I.  “Now,” says I, “I’m all right—show me a cloud.”
Inside of fifteen minutes I was a mile on my way towards the cloud-banks
and about a million people along with me.  Most of us tried to fly, but
some got crippled and nobody made a success of it.  So we concluded to
walk, for the present, till we had had some wing practice.
We begun to meet swarms of folks who were coming back.  Some had harps
and nothing else; some had hymn-books and nothing else; some had nothing
at all; all of them looked meek and uncomfortable; one young fellow
hadn’t anything left but his halo, and he was carrying that in his hand;
all of a sudden he offered it to me and says—
“Will you hold it for me a minute?”
Then he disappeared in the crowd.  I went on.  A woman asked me to hold
her palm branch, and then  she  disappeared.  A girl got me to hold her
harp for her, and by George,  she  disappeared; and so on and so on, till
I was about loaded down to the guards.  Then comes a smiling old
gentleman and asked me to hold  his  things.  I swabbed off the
perspiration and says, pretty tart—
“I’ll have to get you to excuse me, my friend,— I  ain’t no hat-rack.”
About this time I begun to run across piles of those traps, lying in the
road.  I just quietly dumped my extra cargo along with them.  I looked
around, and, Peters, that whole nation that was following me were loaded
down the same as I’d been.  The return crowd had got them to hold their
things a minute, you see.  They all dumped their loads, too, and we went
on.
When I found myself perched on a cloud, with a million other people, I
never felt so good in my life.  Says I, “Now this is according to the
promises; I’ve been having my doubts, but now I am in heaven, sure
enough.”  I gave my palm branch a wave or two, for luck, and then I
tautened up my harp-strings and struck in.  Well, Peters, you can’t
imagine anything like the row we made.  It was grand to listen to, and
made a body thrill all over, but there was considerable many tunes going
on at once, and that was a drawback to the harmony, you understand; and
then there was a lot of Injun tribes, and they kept up such another
war-whooping that they kind of took the tuck out of the music.  By and by
I quit performing, and judged I’d take a rest.  There was quite a nice
mild old gentleman sitting next me, and I noticed he didn’t take a hand;
I encouraged him, but he said he was naturally bashful, and was afraid to
try before so many people.  By and by the old gentleman said he never
could seem to enjoy music somehow.  The fact was, I was beginning to feel
the same way; but I didn’t say anything.  Him and I had a considerable
long silence, then, but of course it warn’t noticeable in that place.
After about sixteen or seventeen hours, during which I played and sung a
little, now and then—always the same tune, because I didn’t know any
other—I laid down my harp and begun to fan myself with my palm branch.
Then we both got to sighing pretty regular.  Finally, says he—
“Don’t you know any tune but the one you’ve been pegging at all day?”
“Not another blessed one,” says I.
“Don’t you reckon you could learn another one?” says he.
“Never,” says I; “I’ve tried to, but I couldn’t manage it.”
“It’s a long time to hang to the one—eternity, you know.”
“Don’t break my heart,” says I; “I’m getting low-spirited enough
already.”
After another long silence, says he—
“Are you glad to be here?”
Says I, “Old man, I’ll be frank with you.  This  ain’t  just as near my
idea of bliss as I thought it was going to be, when I used to go to
church.”
Says he, “What do you say to knocking off and calling it half a day?”
“That’s me,” says I.  “I never wanted to get off watch so bad in my
life.”
So we started.  Millions were coming to the cloud-bank all the time,
happy and hosannahing; millions were leaving it all the time, looking
mighty quiet, I tell you.  We laid for the new-comers, and pretty soon
I’d got them to hold all my things a minute, and then I was a free man
again and most outrageously happy.  Just then I ran across old Sam
Bartlett, who had been dead a long time, and stopped to have a talk with
him.  Says I—
“Now tell me—is this to go on forever?  Ain’t there anything else for a
change?”
Says he—
“I’ll set you right on that point very quick.  People take the figurative
language of the Bible and the allegories for literal, and the first thing
they ask for when they get here is a halo and a harp, and so on.  Nothing
that’s harmless and reasonable is refused a body here, if he asks it in
the right spirit.  So they are outfitted with these things without a
word.  They go and sing and play just about one day, and that’s the last
you’ll ever see them in the choir.  They don’t need anybody to tell them
that that sort of thing wouldn’t make a heaven—at least not a heaven that
a sane man could stand a week and remain sane.  That cloud-bank is placed
where the noise can’t disturb the old inhabitants, and so there ain’t any
harm in letting everybody get up there and cure himself as soon as he
comes.
“Now you just remember this—heaven is as blissful and lovely as it can
be; but it’s just the busiest place you ever heard of.  There ain’t any
idle people here after the first day.  Singing hymns and waving palm
branches through all eternity is pretty when you hear about it in the
pulpit, but it’s as poor a way to put in valuable time as a body could
contrive.  It would just make a heaven of warbling ignoramuses, don’t you
see?  Eternal Rest sounds comforting in the pulpit, too.  Well, you try
it once, and see how heavy time will hang on your hands.  Why,
Stormfield, a man like you, that had been active and stirring all his
life, would go mad in six months in a heaven where he hadn’t anything to
do.  Heaven is the very last place to come to  rest  in,—and don’t you be
afraid to bet on that!”
Says I—
“Sam, I’m as glad to hear it as I thought I’d be sorry.  I’m glad I come,
now.”
Says he—
“Cap’n, ain’t you pretty physically tired?”
Says I—
“Sam, it ain’t any name for it!  I’m dog-tired.”
“Just so—just so.  You’ve earned a good sleep, and you’ll get it.  You’ve
earned a good appetite, and you’ll enjoy your dinner.  It’s the same here
as it is on earth—you’ve got to earn a thing, square and honest, before
you enjoy it.  You can’t enjoy first and earn afterwards.  But there’s
this difference, here: you can choose your own occupation, and all the
powers of heaven will be put forth to help you make a success of it, if
you do your level best.  The shoemaker on earth that had the soul of a
poet in him won’t have to make shoes here.”
“Now that’s all reasonable and right,” says I.  “Plenty of work, and the
kind you hanker after; no more pain, no more suffering—”
“Oh, hold on; there’s plenty of pain here—but it don’t kill.  There’s
plenty of suffering here, but it don’t last.  You see, happiness ain’t a
 thing in itself —it’s only a  contrast  with something that ain’t
pleasant.  That’s all it is.  There ain’t a thing you can mention that is
happiness in its own self—it’s only so by contrast with the other thing.
And so, as soon as the novelty is over and the force of the contrast
dulled, it ain’t happiness any longer, and you have to get something
fresh.  Well, there’s plenty of pain and suffering in heaven—consequently
there’s plenty of contrasts, and just no end of happiness.”
Says I, “It’s the sensiblest heaven I’ve heard of yet, Sam, though it’s
about as different from the one I was brought up on as a live princess is
different from her own wax figger.”
                                * * * * *
Along in the first months I knocked around about the Kingdom, making
friends and looking at the country, and finally settled down in a pretty
