of them, eternity began. 
"Well, William, how are you? Is Miss 
Barhyte at home?" 
"Yes, sir, Miss Barhyte has just come in. 
I hope I see you very well, sir. It's a long 
time, sir " 
Taking Welden's hat and stick, the servant showed him into the library, which apparently, was unaltered. The cushions on 
the sofa were as colourful as before. Oppo 
site, the piano stood, and from the walls powdered heads looked down. But, from the 
table, the Sicilians had gone. In place of 
Greek poetry there was now a book of 
French verse. Otherwise the room was quite 
as it had been the year previous and, apart 
from a black band on the sleeve of his grey 
coat, Welden himself was unchanged. There 
was the same smile in his eyes, the same glint 
in his hair, the same appearance of suppleness and strength. 
He had opened the book and was loitering 
in its languors when William reappeared. 
"I am sorry, sir. I made a mistake. Miss 
Barhyte is not at home." 
The mistake must have been anticipated. 
Welden manifested no surprise. 
"Is the general in?" he asked, his eyes still 
on the book. 
"No, sir. The general is not at home 
either." 
But now Welden put the book aside and 
nodded. 
"Give him my compliments and say that 
I will wait on him at nine to-night. How is 
he?" 
 
"Pretty well, sir." The man moved out 
through the reception room to the marble 
of the hall, where he handed Welden his hat 
and stick. "That was a nasty accident he 
had last summer. He limps a little still. 
Yes, sir." 
Opening the door, he held it open until 
Welden reached the street. 
Welden sauntered on. Five days previous 
he had left Santa Barbara. It was but an 
hour or two before that he had reached New 
York. In his head he could still feel the motion of the cars. That would pass, he told 
himself, as all things do. It would pass, as 
would also pass a girl's disinclination to be 
at home. 
He sauntered on, turned into Fifth ave 
nue, and sauntered up. At once, a man whom 
he knew stopped him, buttonholed, ques 
tioned, platitudinised. From passing traps 
and motors, women bowed, two other men 
joined him and, at the curb, a withered creature tossed from a barrel-organ a strain of 
Italian love. 
The men annoyed him. It wearied him 
to talk about what had happened. It wearied him as much to be told about stocks. Pretexting a pretext he hailed a hansom and 
sailed away. 
Presently, at the Plaza, where he had put 
up, it was comforting to find that his luggage had arrived. After the philistinism of 
the West, it was agreeable to be lodged in 
an artistic inn. After the horrors of a transcontinental trip, it was a pleasure to dress 
at ease. After the convict fare of the Limited, food properly served was a relief. After a tragedy, a change of air is good for the 
nerves. 
Welden, as he sat at table that evening, 
his recent mourning indicated in his shirt by 
two small black studs, considered momen 
tarily these minor gifts of the minor gods. 
But he had work ahead of him and, at five 
 
minutes to nine, hailing a hansom, he sailed 
back to Madison avenue. 
At a door there, as he rang, a melody of 
Beethoven's which was being played within, 
ceased abruptly. The door opened and Wil 
liam, after taking his hat and coat, showed 
him into the dining-room where, before a 
wide table, the general sat, looking, as perhaps a general should, very fierce. 
"William," he ordered, "close the door be 
hind you." 
Then, rising, he turned at Welden. 
"Had you left your address this after 
noon, I would have warned you not to call 
here. Your conduct has been dastardly. 
Dastardly! God bless my soul, there is no 
other word for it." 
He paused, removed his glasses and shook 
them. 
"After an accident which I experienced 
and Maud had joined me at Frascati's, you 
picked a quarrel with Malakoff , induced the 
duchess to obtain a divorce and married the 
lady, married her, God bless my soul, when 
you were engaged to my daughter and to 
day, your wife barely cold in her grave, you 
have the impudence to come here. Damn 
me, sir, if I had acted as you have I would 
have come expecting the cowhide." 
As the tirade proceeded the general's voice 
mounted to the diapason of a roar. At its 
conclusion he stamped a foot. 
"Yes, damn me, the cowhide." 
Immediately, but without heat, Welden 
took it up. 
"From no other man living would I en 
dure for an instant that expression, nor yet 
the one which preceded it. But you are 
right, right, that is, from your point of view. 
It would be dastardly, and it would be the 
cowhide I should expect, if I had acted as 
you say I have, intentionally." 
"Intentionally," the general shouted. 
"Intentionally" 
 
He would have run on but Welden cut in. 
"When your daughter left Deauville I 
was on my way to Paris. She wrote me of 
your accident, telling me she was going to 
you at once, and asking me to join you both 
at Frascati's " 
"Damn me, sir, this is ancient history." 
Welden nodded. "Yes, to you and to 
your daughter. But not to me. The letter 
which your daughter wrote at Deauville on 
the morning of the Fourth of July, I received less than a fortnight since at Santa 
Barbara." 
"Even so what of it? They were not 
dumb at the Malakoff's, I suppose. They 
all knew of it. Anyone could have told 
you." 
"General, not only no one told me that 
your daughter had gone, but I was led to believe that she was still there and did not wish 
to see me." 
"Stuff and nonsense! Do you mean to say 
that you are a born fool? How could any 
one gammon you with such rubbish?" 
There are explanations which explain 
nothing. Unhesitatingly Welden advanced 
one. 
"For the very reason you have given. Because I was a fool. But however much of a 
fool I may have been I am not a knave. 
Your daughter will appreciate that." 
General Barhyte reached forward and 
touched a bell. 
"Never," he answered. "I shall not allow 
you to see her and even if I did, she would 
refuse to do so." 
The servant entered. 
"William, the door for this gentleman." 
He turned his back, took up an evening 
paper and sat down. To him Welden had 
apparently ceased to exist. 
But Welden was thoroughly alive. Preceded by William, he passed into the drawing room and on to the hall. There, after 
 
getting his hat and coat, instead of going 
out, he turned into the reception room and 
went through it to the library beyond. 
At the piano, a sheet of music before her, 
was a girl who, as he entered, turned slowly 
and slowly arose. 
Welden, his hat in his hand, his coat on 
his arm, looked at her. Unlike the room, she 
had altered. The allurement of her face, the 
caress which she had exhaled, the charm of 
manner which always she had conveyed, 
these emanations were absent. In place of 
allurement was blankness ; in lieu of the caress was rigidity; instead of the charm, a 
chill. In her eyes and about her mouth was 
an expression of distant inquiry, an air of 
saying: Who are you and what do you 
want? 
Welden, prepared for the situation, began 
methodically at its demolition. 
"Maud, there has been that between us 
which I know you will come to believe justifies me in disregarding any instructions you 
may have given, your father's orders as well. 
When I returned the sapphire 
Insecure in her intrenchments the girl let 
fire. "It was your right to do so. It was 
a right which I had given you and expressly 
stipulated that you should use. In return 
ing it you said everything there was to be 
said. There can be nothing to add to 
it." 
"When I returned the sapphire," Welden 
continued, "it was because I thought you 
wished it." 
"You may or may not have been mistaken, 
but you cannot possibly have been as mis 
taken in me as I have been in you." 
"When I returned the sapphire," Welden 
persisted, "it was because I believed I had 
seen you in Malakoff's arms." 
For a second, with diligent disdain, the 
girl considered him. Then at once, after the 
fashion which royalty has devised to signify 
 
that a conversation is at an end, she moved 
back. 
Welden had been prepared for that also. 
"Do you recall our last night together?" 
At the memory evoked, the girl coloured 
and the disdain mounting with the flush, in 
creased, accentuated by the wantonness of 
the question. 
"Forgive me for referring to it," Welden 
added. "But that night when I entered your 
room, the disposition of it was such that I 
saw at first but your head. The next night 
I saw you as before, with this difference 
however, Malakoff was with you with you 
I say, for it was but recently I learned that 
that night you were at Frascati's and that 
your room was occupied by a Mme. Oppensheim, a person whom I did not know ex 
isted." 
On the music stool behind her the girl sank 
down. The flush had gone from her face but 
the disdain remained. 
"Do you know of her?" Welden asked. 
Maud, without unbending, bent a little; 
"She reached the villa as I was leaving it." 
"Then you are aware of the resemblance 
between you. Her hair is precisely the colour of yours. Now do me this favour; put 
yourself in my place. Had you seen me as 
I thought I saw you, would you not have 
acted as I did?" 
The girl straightened herself. "No," she 
answered shortly. 
"Do you mean that it would not have affected your relations with me?" 
"I mean nothing of the kind." 
"Without indiscretion, may I ask then 
what you do mean?" 
"Because I happened to fancy that you 
were volage, I myself would not have be 
come so." 
"Forgive me, Maud, I do not quite follow 
you." 
"Nor can I allow you, nor do I wish to. 
 
Admitting your delusion, one by the way 
which must have been almost self-evident, 
the slightest effort on your part would have 
corrected it." 
"Maud, believe me, I had no oppor 
tunity." 
"I do believe you, your opportunity lay 
elsewhere." 
"No," Welden protested, "it did not. 
Moreover, the opportunity to which you refer came months later, and though utilised 
then, it was only for the wretchedest and 
therefore the most human of reasons, in or 
der that I might at least be revenged." 
"On Malakoff ?" the girl tauntingly threw 
at him. 
"Damn me, sir," some one was angrily 
calling, "when I instructed my servant to 
show you the door " 
Welden turned. Before him the general 
stood. Immediately Maud interposed her 
self between them. 
"Father," she said, pushing him as she 
spoke, toward the adjoining room, "go in 
there, I must speak to you." 
"You told me," the old man remonstrated, 
trying vainly to resist. "You told me " 
"I have not a doubt of it," Maud, pushing 
still, replied. "But I told you also never to 
believe a word a woman said." 
The door closed suddenly. Welden could 
at last put down his hat and coat. He had 
not, he knew, demolished all the intrenchments, but in view of the girl's defence of 
him, he f elfthat he had sapped their base. 
He was quite in error. None the less, in 
a few moments, when Maud-issued unaccompanied from the conflict in the outer room, 
her parliamentaries there may have suggest 
ed a temporary truce. She stopped at the 
table, took up the book of verse, looked at 
it, replaced it and with tolerable irrelevance 
remarked : 
"That was very terrible about Sally. 
 
Have you any suspicion who did it?" 
"No," Welden answered. "None what 
ever." 
"I ought, I suppose, to condole with you, 
but I cannot. Neither of you I think be 
haved very well. She knew about Mme. Oppensheim even if, as you say, you did not. It 
was because of her that she got the decree. 
Everybody knew that. It was not in the 
papers, but it was common talk. Were you 
deaf at the time?" 
"Partially," Welden replied. "At Chan- 
tilly I made rather a mess of it." 
Of that mess the girl had been informed. 
At the time and since she had thought it not 
unmerited. What she did not know and 
what she never learned was the fact that the 
mess was intentional. For there are some 
things that some men do not talk about. 
Even otherwise, there are times and seasons 
