was cast. The final acceptance of the inevitable, and the steadfast
setting of my face Northward, ensued upon the persuasion that the one
and only thing for a sensible, God-fearing woman to do was to make the
very best of what no human power could avert.
It is a family saying, based upon the assertion of my eldest daughter,
that “if mother were set down in the middle of the Desert of Sahara,
and made to comprehend that she must spend the rest of her days there,
she would, within ten minutes, begin to expatiate upon the many
advantages of a dry climate as a residential region.”
By the time we stayed our flight in Richmond, where we spent our
Christmas, I took from the worn and harassed man of the hour the burden
of explanation and defence of the reasons for tearing ourselves up
by the roots and transplanting the tender vine into what some of our
best wishers called, “alien soil.” I had worked myself into an honest
defender of the Middle States in contradistinction to “Yankee land,”
before we departed, bag, baggage, and baby, for the new home.
Mr. Terhune had preached twice in Newark, in December, after formally
accepting the call. We removed to that city in February of 1859.
With the Saharan spirit in full flow, I met the welcoming “people”;
settled in the house we bought in a pleasant quarter of the
growing city—then claiming a population of less than seventy-five
thousand—installed white servants; received and returned calls, and
was, for the first time in my life, homesick at heart for three months.
In the recollection of the eighteen years that succeeded that period of
blind rebellion against the gentle leading which was, for us, wisdom
and loving-kindness throughout, I write down the confession in shame
and confusion of face, and abasement of soul.
I stay the course of the narrative at this point to record, devoutly
and gratefully, that never had pastor and pastor’s wife, in any section
of our land, a parish in which “pleasant places” did more richly
abound. I would write down, yet more emphatically and thankfully, the
amazing fact that, in the dozen-and-a-half years of my dwelling among
them, I never had a word of unkind criticism of myself and my ways; not
a remark that could wound or offend was ever addressed to me.
I wish I might have that last paragraph engraved in golden capitals and
set to the everlasting credit of that Ideal Parish! To this hour, I
turn instinctively in times of joy and of sorrow, as to members of the
true household of faith, to the comparatively small band of the once
large congregation who are left alive upon the earth.
For eighteen years I walked up the central aisle of the church, as
I might tread the halls and chambers of my father’s house in that
far Southern town, with the consciousness that we were surrounded by
an atmosphere of affectionate appreciation, at once comforting and
invigorating.
All this—and I understate, rather than exaggerate, the real state of
circumstance and feeling I am trying to depict—was the more surprising,
because I went to this people young, and with little experience as a
clergyman’s wife. In Charlotte, I had, as we have seen, done no “church
work.” I was petted and made much of, in consideration of my position
as the wife of the idolized pastor, and my newness to the duties of
country housekeeping and the nursery. In Newark, I was gradually to
discover that I could not shirk certain obligations connected with
parish and city charities. The logic of events—never the monitions of
friends and parishioners—opened my eyes to the truth. When, at length,
I took charge of a girls’ Bible Class, and, some years after, worked
up the Infant Class from tens to hundreds, there was much expression
of unfeigned gratification and eager rallying to my help, not an
intimation of relief that I “had, at last, seen my way clear to the
performance of what everybody else had expected of a minister’s wife.”
I have never had a higher compliment than was paid me by the
invitation, a dozen years back, to address the Alumni of Union
Theological Seminary in New York City upon the subject of “Ministers’
Wives.”
I took occasion, in the presence of that grave and reverend assembly of
distinguished theologues, to pay a brief tribute, as strong as words
could make it, to that Ideal Parish. I could not withhold it then. I
cannot keep it back now. I believe my experience in this regard to be
highly exceptional. More’s the pity and the shame!
Five children were born to us in those happy, busy years. Each was
adopted lovingly by the people, so far as prideful affection and
generous deeds implied adoption. We were all of one family.
Returning to the direct line of my narrative—the spring of 1860 found
us well, at work, and contented. I had good servants, kindly neighbors,
and a growing host of congenial acquaintances. Our proximity to New
York was an important factor in the lives of both of us, bringing us,
as it did, within easy reach of the best libraries and shops in the
country, and putting numberless means of entertainment and education at
our very door. There were two babies by now—healthy, happy, bright—in
every way thoroughly satisfactory specimens of infant humanity. In
the matter of children’s nurses, I have been extraordinarily blessed
among American women. In the twenty-one years separating the birth of
our elder boy from the day when the younger was released from nursery
government, I had but three of these indispensable comforts. Two
married after years of faithful service; the third retired upon an
invalid’s pension. All were Irish by birth. After much experience in,
and more observation of, the Domestic Service of these United States,
I incline to believe that, as a rule, we draw our best material from
Celtic emigrant stock.
So smoothly ran the sands of life that I recall but one striking
incident in the early part of 1860. That was the visit of the Prince of
Wales to this country. We witnessed the passage of the long procession
that received and escorted him up-town, to his quarters at the, then,
new and fashionable hostelry—the Fifth Avenue Hotel. My husband went
down to the Battery to see the princeling’s review of the regiments
drawn up in line before him, as he rode from end to end of the
parade-ground.
Joining us at the window, from which we had a splendid view of the
pageant, the critic, who was an accomplished horseman, reported
disdainfully that “the boy was exceedingly awkward. He had no seat to
speak of, leaning forward, until his weak chin was nearly on a line
with the horse’s ears, and sticking his feet out stiffly on each side.”
Our impression of the imperial youth was not more agreeable. He sat
back in the open coach, “hunched” together in an ungainly heap, looking
neither to the right nor the left, evincing no consciousness of the
existence of the shouting throngs that lined the pavements ten deep,
other than by raising, with the lifeless precision of a mechanical toy,
the cocked hat he wore as part of the uniform of a British colonel.
There was a big ball the next night, at which gowns of fabulous prices
were sported, and reported by the newspapers, and Albert Edward flitted
on to his mother’s dominions of Canada, leaving not a ripple in the
ocean of local and national happenings.
That ocean was stilling and darkening with the brooding of a
threatening storm. Newspapers bristled with portents and denunciations;
demagogues bellowed themselves hoarse in parks and from stumps;
torchlight processions displayed new and startling features.
“So much for so little!” sighed I, upon our return from a lookout
at the nearest corner, commanding long miles of marching men. “It
was ingenious and amusing; but what a deal of drilling those embryo
patriots must have gone through to do it so well! And for what? The
President will be elected, as other Presidents have been, and as maybe
a hundred others will be, and there the farce will end. Does it pay to
amuse themselves so very hard?”
“If we could be sure that it would end there!” answered my husband,
with unexpected gravity. “The sky is red and lowering in the South.
Between politicians, and the freedom of the press to play with all
sorts of explosives, there is no telling what the rabble may do.”
I looked up, startled.
“You are not in earnest? The good Ship of State has been driving
straight on to the rocks ever since I can recollect, and she has not
struck yet. Think of the Clay and Polk campaign!”
“Child’s play compared with the fight that is on now!” was the curt
retort.
Something—I know not what—in his manner moved me to put a leading
question.
“Have you made up your mind how you will vote?”
“Yes.”
“A month ago, you said you had not.”
“A good deal has happened in that month.”
It was not like him to be sententious with me, but I pushed the subject.
“I have never interfered with your political opinions, as you know,
and I don’t care to vote, myself; but if I had a vote, I should be in
no doubt where to cast it. Lovers of peace and concord should unite
upon Bell and Everett. That party seems to me to represent the sanest
element in this mammoth muddle.”
He smiled.
“To say nothing of your fondness for Mr. Everett. A charming gentleman,
I grant. But the helm of state is not to be in his hands. Even,
supposing”—grave again, and sighing slightly—“that they are strong
enough to hold it in a storm.”
There was a boding pause. Then I spoke, and unadvisedly:
“I ask no questions that I think you would not care to answer. But I
do hope you are not thinking of voting for Abraham Lincoln? Think of
him in the White House! Mr. Buchanan may be weak—and a Democrat. I
heard father say, as the one drop of comfort he could express from his
election: ‘At any rate, he is a gentleman by birth and breeding.’ Mr.
Lincoln is low-born, and has no pretensions to breeding.”
“Then, if I should be so far lost to the proprieties as to vote for
him, I would better not let either of you know.” And he glanced
teasingly at Alice, who had just entered the room.
“I could never respect you if you did!” she said, spiritedly. “I am
persuaded better things of you.”
A teasing rejoinder was all she got out of him. The matter was never
brought up again by any of us. When Election Day came, I was too proud
to seem inquisitive. But in my inmost soul I was assured that reticence
boded no good to my hope of one gallant gentleman’s vote for Bell and
Everett.
Months afterward, when we were once again of one mind with respect to
the nation’s peril and the nation’s need, he told me that he had kept
his own counsel, not only because the truth might grieve me, but that
party feeling ran so high in his church he thought it best not to
intimate to any one how he meant to vote.
“And, like Harry Percy’s wife, I could be trusted not to tell what I
did not know?” said I.
“You might have been catechised,” he admitted. “There are times when
the Know-nothing policy is the safest.”
XXXVII
THE PANIC OF ’61—A VIRGINIA VACATION—MUTTERINGS OF COMING STORM
BAYARD TAYLOR said to me once of a publishing house, “An honest firm,
but one that has an incorrigible habit of failing!”
The habit was epidemic in the first half of 1861. Among others who
caught the trick were my publishers. Like a thunderbolt came the
announcement, when I was expecting my February semi-annual remittance
of fat royalties: “We regret to inform you that we have been compelled
to succumb to the stringency of the times.”
The political heavens were black with storm-clouds, and, as was
inevitable then, and is now, the monetary market shut its jaws tightly
upon everything within reach. We could not reasonably have expected
immunity, but we had. We had never known the pinch of financial
“difficulties.” Prudent salaried men are the last to feel hard times,
if their wage is paid regularly. I had three books in the hands of the
“failing” firm. All were “good sellers,” and I had come to look upon
royalties as my husband regarded his salary, as a sure and certain
source of revenue.
We had other and what appeared to us graver anxieties. My sister Alice
had passed the winter with us, and the climate had told unhappily upon
her throat. My husband had not escaped injury from the pernicious
sea-fogs and the malarial marshes, over which the breath of the
Atlantic flowed in upon us. He had a bronchial cough that defied
medical treatment; and March, the worst month of the twelve for tender
throats and susceptible lungs, would soon be upon us. His physician,
a warm personal friend, ordered him South, and the church seconded
the advice by a formal grant of an out-of-season vacation. We did not
change our main plan in consequence of the disappointment as to funds.
Nor did we noise our loss abroad. Somehow, the truth leaked out. Not a
word of condolence was breathed to us. But on the afternoon of the day
but one before that set for our departure, the daughter of a neighborly
parishioner dropped in to leave a basket of flowers, and to say that
her father and mother “would like to call that evening, if we were
to be at home.” I answered that we should be glad to see them, and
notified my husband of the impending call. The expected couple appeared
at eight o’clock, and by nine the parlors were thronged with guests
who “dropped in, in passing, to say ‘Good-bye.’” None stayed late, and
before any took leave, there was the presentation of a parcel, through
the hands of Edgar Farmer, a member of the Consistory, who, in days to
come, was to be to my husband as David to Jonathan. He was young then,
and of a goodly presence, with bright, kind eyes and a happy gift of
speech. Neither Mr. Terhune nor I had any misgivings of what was in
prospect, when he was asked to step forward and face the spokesman
deputed to wish us Bon voyage and recovery of health in our old home.
Mr. Farmer said this felicitously, and with genuine feeling. Then he
asked the pastor’s acceptance of a parcel “containing reading-matter
for the journey.”
The reading-matter was bank-bills, the amount of which made us open
our eyes wide when the company had dispersed and we undid the ribbons
binding the “literature.”
That was their way of doing things in the “Old First.” A way they never
lost. In a dozen-and-a-half years we should have become used to it, but
we never did. Each new manifestation of the esteem in which they held
their leader, and of the royally generous spirit that interfused the
whole church, as it might the body and soul of one man, remained to the
last a fresh and delicious surprise.
Ten days out of the six weeks of our vacation were spent in Charlotte.
Mr. Terhune’s successor was Rev. Henry C. Alexander, one of a family
of notable divines whose praise is in all the Presbyterian churches.
He was a bachelor, and the “nest among the oaks” was rented to an
acquaintance. I did not enter it then, or ever again. I even looked
the other way when we drove or walked past the gate and grove. To let
this weakness be seen would have been ungracious, in the face of the
hospitalities enlapping us during every hour of our stay. We dined with
one family, supped with another, spent the night and breakfasted with
a third, and there was ever a houseful of old friends to meet us. My
husband wrote to his father:
    “Swinging around the circle at a rate that would turn
    steadier heads. And talk of the fat of the land and groaning
    tables! These tables fairly shriek, and the fat flows like
    a river. Heaven send we may live through it! We like it,
    all the same!”
And enjoyed every hour, albeit senses less agreeably preoccupied might
have detected the smell of gunpowder in the air.
I am often asked if we were not uneasy for the safety of the Union,
while in the thick of sectional wordy strife, and how it was possible
to enjoy visits when much of the talk must have jarred upon the
sensibilities of loyal lovers of that Union.
The truth is that I had been used to political wrangling from my youth
up. The fact that South Carolina and six other States had seceded
in name from the control of the Federal government; that, in every
county and “Cross-Roads” hamlet, from the Gulf of Mexico to Chesapeake
Bay, bands of volunteers were drilling daily and nightly, and that
cargoes of arms were arriving from the North and in distribution among
the enlisted militiamen; that the Southern papers sounded the tocsin
of war to the death, and “Death in the last ditch!” and “Down with
the Yankees!” with every red-hot issue; that a convention had been
solemnly summoned to meet in Richmond to decide upon the action of the
Old Dominion at the supreme moment of the nation’s destiny—weighed
marvellously little against the settled conviction, well-nigh sublime
in its fatuousness, that the right must prevail, and that such furious
folly must die ignominiously before the steadfast front maintained by
the Union men of the infected section.
To my apprehension, so much that we heard was sheer gasconade, amusing
for a time from its very unreason and illogical conclusions, and often
indicative of such blatant ignorance of the spirit and the resources of
the Federal government, that I failed to attach to it the importance
the magnitude of the mischief deserved to have.
I refused stubbornly to let the clear joy of my holiday be clouded by
the smoke from blank cartridges. So light was my spirit that I made
capital for fun of bombastic threats and gloomy predictions, touching
the stabling of Confederate cavalry in Faneuil Hall inside of three
months from the day of the inauguration of the “Springfield Ape” at
Washington. The Vice-President was a full-blooded negro, or, at the
least, a mulatto, I was assured over and over. Wasn’t his name damning
evidence of the disgraceful fact? What white man ever called his child
“Hannibal”?
I supplied other confirmation to one fiery orator:
“‘Ham-lin’ sounds suspicious, too. I wonder you have not thought of
the color that gives to your theory.”
The youth foamed at the mouth. He wore a Secession cockade on his
breast, and proved, to a demonstration, that any Southerner over
fourteen years old was equal, on the battle-field, to five Yankees. Why
not seven, I could never ascertain.
Such funny things were happening hourly, and such funnier things were
said every minute, that I was in what we used to call, when I was a
child, “a continual gale.”
Let one bit of nonsense illustrate the frivolity that, in the
retrospect, resembles the pas seul of a child on the edge of a
reeking crater.
I was summoned to the drawing-room, one forenoon, to receive a call
from the son of an old friend who had promised his mother to look me
up, in passing through the city on his way to the “Republic of South
Carolina.” That was the letter-head of epistles received from the
Palmetto State.
