justly to be denounced; but I forgive him for the sake of that ancestor
who in the seventeenth century planted this shady walk. Never was a
prettier approach to a town than by these low-roofed light-chequered
corridors. Their only defect is that they prepare you for a town of
rather more rustic coquetry than Genzano exhibits. It has quite the
usual allowance, the common cynicism, of accepted decay, and looks
dismally as if its best families had all fallen into penury together and
lost the means of keeping anything better than donkeys in their great
dark, vaulted basements and mending their broken window-panes with
anything better than paper. It was on the occasion of this drear Genzano
that I had a difference of opinion with a friend who maintained that
there was nothing in the same line so pretty in Europe as a pretty New
England village. The proposition seemed to a cherisher of quaintness on
the face of it inacceptable; but calmly considered it has a measure of
truth. I am not fond of chalk-white painted planks, certainly; I vastly
prefer the dusky tones of ancient stucco and peperino; but I succumb
on occasion to the charms of a vine-shaded porch, of tulips and dahlias
glowing in the shade of high-arching elms, of heavy-scented lilacs
bending over a white paling to brush your cheek.
“I prefer Siena to Lowell,” said my friend; “but I prefer Farmington to
such a thing as this.” In fact an Italian village is simply a miniature
Italian city, and its various parts imply a town of fifty times the
size. At Genzano are neither dahlias nor lilacs, and no odours but
foul ones. Flowers and other graces are all confined to the high-walled
precincts of Duke Cesarini, to which you must obtain admission twenty
miles away. The houses on the other hand would generally lodge a New
England cottage, porch and garden and high-arching elms included, in
one of their cavernous basements. These vast grey dwellings are all of
a fashion denoting more generous social needs than any they serve
nowadays. They speak of better days and of a fabulous time when Italy
was either not shabby or could at least “carry off” her shabbiness. For
what follies are they doing penance? Through what melancholy stages have
their fortunes ebbed? You ask these questions as you choose the shady
side of the long blank street and watch the hot sun glare upon the
dust-coloured walls and pause before the fetid gloom of open doors.
I should like to spare a word for mouldy little Nemi, perched upon a
cliff high above the lake, at the opposite side; but after all, when I
had climbed up into it from the water-side, passing beneath a great arch
which I suppose once topped a gateway, and counted its twenty or thirty
apparent inhabitants peeping at me from black doorways, and looked at
the old round tower at whose base the village clusters, and declared
that it was all queer, queer, desperately queer, I had said all that is
worth saying about it. Nemi has a much better appreciation of its
lovely position than Genzano, where your only view of the lake is from a
dunghill behind one of the houses. At the foot of the round tower is
an overhanging terrace, from which you may feast your eyes on the only
freshness they find in these dusky human hives--the blooming seam, as
one may call it, of strong wild flowers which binds the crumbling walls
to the face of the cliff. Of Rocca di Papa I must say as little, It
consorted generally with the bravery of its name; but the only object
I made a note of as I passed through it on my way to Monte Cavo, which
rises directly above it, was a little black house with a tablet in its
face setting forth that Massimo d’ Azeglio had dwelt there. The story
of his sojourn is not the least attaching episode in his delightful
Ricordi. From the summit of Monte Cavo is a prodigious view, which you
may enjoy with whatever good-nature is left you by the reflection that
the modern Passionist convent occupying this admirable site was erected
by the Cardinal of York (grandson of James II) on the demolished ruins
of an immemorial temple of Jupiter: the last foolish act of a foolish
race. For me I confess this folly spoiled the convent, and the convent
all but spoiled the view; for I kept thinking how fine it would have
been to emerge upon the old pillars and sculptures from the lava
pavement of the Via Triumphalis, which wanders grass-grown and untrodden
through the woods. A convent, however, which nothing spoils is that of
Palazzuola, to which I paid my respects on this same occasion. It rises
on a lower spur of Monte Cavo, on the edge, as we have seen, of the
Alban Lake, and though it occupies a classic site, that of early Alba
Longa, it displaced nothing more precious than memories and legends so
dim that the antiquarians are still quarrelling about them. It has a
meagre little church and the usual sham Perugino with a couple of tinsel
crowns for the Madonna and the Infant inserted into the canvas; and it
has also a musty old room hung about with faded portraits and charts and
queer ecclesiastical knick-knacks, which borrowed a mysterious
interest from the sudden assurance of the simple Franciscan brother who
accompanied me that it was the room of the Son of the King of Portugal.
But my peculiar pleasure was the little thick-shaded garden which
adjoins the convent and commands from its massive artificial foundations
an enchanting view of the lake. Part of it is laid out in cabbages and
lettuce, over which a rubicund brother, with his frock tucked up, was
bending with a solicitude which he interrupted to remove his skullcap
and greet me with the unsophisticated sweet-humoured smile that every
now and then in Italy does so much to make you forget the ambiguities of
monachism. The rest is occupied by cypresses and other funereal
umbrage, making a dank circle round an old cracked fountain black with
water-moss. The parapet of the terrace is furnished with good stone
seats where you may lean on your elbows to gaze away a sunny half-hour
and, feeling the general charm of the scene, declare that the best
mission of such a country in the world has been simply to produce, in
the way of prospect and picture, these masterpieces of mildness. Mild
here as a dream the whole attained effect, mild as resignation, mild
as one’s thoughts of another life. Such a session wasn’t surely an
experience of the irritable flesh; it was the deep degustation, on a
summer’s day, of something immortally expressed by a man of genius.
{Illustration: CASTEL GANDOLFO.}
From Albano you may take your way through several ancient little cities
to Frascati, a rival centre of villeggiatura, the road following the
hillside for a long morning’s walk and passing through alternations
of denser and clearer shade--the dark vaulted alleys of ilex and the
brilliant corridors of fresh-sprouting oak. The Campagna is beneath you
continually, with the sea beyond Ostia receiving the silver arrows of
the sun upon its chased and burnished shield, and mighty Rome, to the
north, lying at no great length in the idle immensity around it.
The highway passes below Castel Gandolfo, which stands perched on an
eminence behind a couple of gateways surmounted with the Papal tiara and
twisted cordon; and I have more than once chosen the roundabout road for
the sake of passing beneath these pompous insignia. Castel Gandolfo is
indeed an ecclesiastical village and under the peculiar protection of
the Popes, whose huge summer-palace rises in the midst of it like a
rural Vatican. In speaking of the road to Frascati I necessarily revert
to my first impressions, gathered on the occasion of the feast of the
Annunziata, which falls on the 25th of March and is celebrated by
a peasants’ fair. As Murray strongly recommends you to visit this
spectacle, at which you are promised a brilliant exhibition of all
the costumes of modern Latium, I took an early train to Frascati and
measured, in company with a prodigious stream of humble pedestrians, the
half-hour’s interval to Grotta Ferrata, where the fair is held. The road
winds along the hillside, among the silver-sprinkled olives and through
a charming wood where the ivy seemed tacked upon the oaks by women’s
fingers and the birds were singing to the late anemones. It was
covered with a very jolly crowd of vulgar pleasure-takers, and the only
creatures not in a state of manifest hilarity were the pitiful
little overladen, overbeaten donkeys (who surely deserve a chapter to
themselves in any description of these neighbourhoods) and the horrible
beggars who were thrusting their sores and stumps at you from under
every tree. Every one was shouting, singing, scrambling, making light of
dust and distance and filling the air with that childlike jollity which
the blessed Italian temperament never goes roundabout to conceal. There
is no crowd surely at once so jovial and so gentle as an Italian crowd,
and I doubt if in any other country the tightly packed third-class
car in which I went out from Rome would have introduced me to so much
smiling and so little swearing. Grotta Ferrata is a very dirty little
village, with a number of raw new houses baking on the hot hillside and
nothing to charm the fond gazer but its situation and its old fortified
abbey. After pushing about among the shabby little booths and declining
a number of fabulous bargains in tinware, shoes and pork, I was glad
to retire to a comparatively uninvaded corner of the abbey and
divert myself with the view. This grey ecclesiastical stronghold is
a thoroughly scenic affair, hanging over the hillside on plunging
foundations which bury themselves among the dense olives. It has massive
round towers at the corners and a grass-grown moat, enclosing a church
and a monastery. The fore-court, within the abbatial gateway, now serves
as the public square of the village and in fair-time of course witnesses
the best of the fun. The best of the fun was to be found in certain
great vaults and cellars of the abbey, where wine was in free flow
from gigantic hogsheads. At the exit of these trickling grottos shady
trellises of bamboo and gathered twigs had been improvised, and under
them a grand guzzling proceeded. All of which was so in the fine old
style that I was roughly reminded of the wedding-feast of Gamacho. The
banquet was far less substantial of course, but it had a note as of
immemorial manners that couldn’t fail to suggest romantic analogies to a
pilgrim from the land of no cooks. There was a feast of reason close
at hand, however, and I was careful to visit the famous frescoes of
Domenichino in the adjoining church. It sounds rather brutal perhaps to
say that, when I came back into the clamorous little piazza, the sight
of the peasants swilling down their sour wine appealed to me more than
the masterpieces--Murray calls them so--of the famous Bolognese. It
amounts after all to saying that I prefer Teniers to Domenichino; which
I am willing to let pass for the truth. The scene under the rickety
trellises was the more suggestive of Teniers that there were no costumes
to make it too Italian. Murray’s attractive statement on this point was,
like many of his statements, much truer twenty years ago than to-day.
Costume is gone or fast going; I saw among the women not a single
crimson bodice and not a couple of classic head-cloths. The poorer sort,
dressed in vulgar rags of no fashion and colour, and the smarter ones
in calico gowns and printed shawls of the vilest modern fabric, had
honoured their dusky tresses but with rich applications of grease. The
men are still in jackets and breeches, and, with their slouched and
pointed hats and open-breasted shirts and rattling leather leggings,
may remind one sufficiently of the Italian peasant as he figured in the
woodcuts familiar to our infancy. After coming out of the church I found
a delightful nook--a queer little terrace before a more retired and
tranquil drinking-shop--where I called for a bottle of wine to help me
to guess why I “drew the line” at Domenichino.
This little terrace was a capricious excrescence at the end of
the piazza, itself simply a greater terrace; and one reached it,
picturesquely, by ascending a short inclined plane of grass-grown
cobble-stones and passing across a little dusky kitchen through whose
narrow windows the light of the mighty landscape beyond touched up old
earthen pots. The terrace was oblong and so narrow that it held but a
single small table, placed lengthwise; yet nothing could be pleasanter
than to place one’s bottle on the polished parapet. Here you seemed
by the time you had emptied it to be swinging forward into
immensity--hanging poised above the Campagna. A beautiful gorge with
a twinkling stream wandered down the hill far below you, beyond which
Marino and Castel Gandolfo peeped above the trees. In front you could
count the towers of Rome and the tombs of the Appian Way. I don’t know
that I came to any very distinct conclusion about Domenichino; but it
was perhaps because the view was perfection that he struck me as more
than ever mediocrity. And yet I don’t think it was one’s bottle of wine,
either, that made one after all maudlin about him; it was the sense of
the foolishly usurped in his tenure of fame, of the derisive in his ever
having been put forward. To say so indeed savours of flogging a dead
horse, but it is surely an unkind stroke of fate for him that Murray
assures ten thousand Britons every winter in the most emphatic manner
that his Communion of St. Jerome is the second finest picture in the
world. If this were so one would certainly here in Rome, where such
institutions are convenient, retire into the very nearest convent; with
such a world one would have a standing quarrel. And yet this sport
of destiny is an interesting case, in default of being an interesting
painter, and I would take a moderate walk, in most moods, to see one of
his pictures. He is so supremely good an example of effort detached from
inspiration and school-merit divorced from spontaneity, that one of his
fine frigid performances ought to hang in a conspicuous place in every
academy of design. Few things of the sort contain more urgent lessons
or point a more precious moral; and I would have the head-master in the
drawing-school take each ingenuous pupil by the hand and lead him up
to the Triumph of David or the Chase of Diana or the red-nosed Persian
Sibyl and make him some such little speech as the following: “This great
picture, my son, was hung here to show you how you must never paint;
to give you a perfect specimen of what in its boundless generosity the
providence of nature created for our fuller knowledge--an artist whose
development was a negation. The great thing in art is charm, and the
great thing in charm is spontaneity. Domenichino, having talent, is here
and there an excellent model--he was devoted, conscientious, observant,
industrious; but now that we’ve seen pretty well what can simply be
learned do its best, these things help him little with us, because his
imagination was cold. It loved nothing, it lost itself in nothing, its
efforts never gave it the heartache. It went about trying this and
that, concocting cold pictures after cold receipts, dealing in the
second-hand, in the ready-made, and putting into its performances
a little of everything but itself. When you see so many things in a
composition you might suppose that among them all some charm might be
born; yet they’re really but the hundred mouths through which you may
hear the unhappy thing murmur ‘I’m dead!’ It’s by the simplest thing it
has that a picture lives--by its temper. Look at all the great talents,
Domenichino as well as at Titian; but think less of dogma than of plain
nature, and I can almost promise you that yours will remain true.” This
is very little to what the aesthetic sage I have imagined might say;
and we are after all unwilling to let our last verdict be an unkind one
on any great bequest of human effort. The faded frescoes in the chapel
at Grotta Ferrata leave us a memory the more of man’s effort to dream
beautifully; and they thus mingle harmoniously enough with our multifold
impressions of Italy, where dreams and realities have both kept such
pace and so strangely diverged. It was absurd--that was the truth--to
be critical at all among the appealing old Italianisms round me and to
treat the poor exploded Bolognese more harshly than, when I walked
back to Frascati, I treated the charming old water-works of the Villa
Aldobrandini. I confound these various products of antiquated art in a
genial absolution, and should like especially to tell how fine it was to
watch this prodigious fountain come tumbling down its channel of mouldy
rock-work, through its magnificent vista of ilex, to the fantastic old
hemicycle where a dozen tritons and naiads sit posturing to receive it.
The sky above the ilexes was incredibly blue and the ilexes themselves
incredibly black; and to see the young white moon peeping above the
trees you could easily have fancied it was midnight. I should like
furthermore to expatiate on Villa Mondragone, the most grandly
impressive hereabouts, of all such domestic monuments. The Casino in the
midst is as big as the Vatican, which it strikingly resembles, and
it stands perched on a terrace as vast as the parvise of St. Peter’s,
looking straight away over black cypress-tops into the shining vastness
of the Campagna. Everything somehow seemed immense and solemn; there
was nothing small but certain little nestling blue shadows on the Sabine
Mountains, to which the terrace seems to carry you wonderfully near.
The place been for some time lost to private uses, since it figures
fantastically in a novel of George Sand--La Daniella--and now, in
quite another way, as a Jesuit college for boys. The afternoon was
perfect, and as it waned it filled the dark alleys with a wonderful
golden haze. Into this came leaping and shouting a herd of little
collegians with a couple of long-skirted Jesuits striding at their
heels. We all know--I make the point for my antithesis--the monstrous
practices of these people; yet as I watched the group I verily believe
I declared that if I had a little son he should go to Mondragone and
receive their crooked teachings for the sake of the other memories, the
avenues of cypress and ilex, the view of the Campagna, the atmosphere
of antiquity. But doubtless when a sense of “mere character,” shameless
incomparable character, has brought one to this it is time one should
pause.
THE AFTER-SEASON IN ROME
One may at the blest end of May say without injustice to anybody that
the state of mind of many a forestiero in Rome is one of intense
impatience for the moment when all other forestieri shall have
taken themselves off. One may confess to this state of mind and be no
misanthrope. The place has passed so completely for the winter months
into the hands of the barbarians that that estimable character the
passionate pilgrim finds it constantly harder to keep his passion clear.
He has a rueful sense of impressions perverted and adulterated; the
all-venerable visage disconcerts us by a vain eagerness to see itself
mirrored in English, American, German eyes. It isn’t simply that you are
never first or never alone at the classic or historic spots where
you have dreamt of persuading the shy genius loci into confidential
utterance; it isn’t simply that St. Peter’s, the Vatican, the Palatine,
are for ever ringing with the false note of the languages without style:
it is the general oppressive feeling that the city of the soul
has become for the time a monstrous mixture of watering-place and
curiosity-shop and that its most ardent life is that of the tourists who
haggle over false intaglios and yawn through palaces and temples. But
you are told of a happy time when these abuses begin to pass away, when
Rome becomes Rome again and you may have her all to yourself. “You may
like her more or less now,” I was assured at the height of the season;
“but you must wait till the month of May, when she’ll give you all she
has, to love her. Then the foreigners, or the excess of them, are gone;
the galleries and ruins are empty, and the place,” said my informant,
who was a happy Frenchman of the Académie de France, “renait a
ellememe.” Indeed I was haunted all winter by an irresistible prevision
of what Rome must be in declared spring. Certain charming places
seemed to murmur: “Ah, this is nothing! Come back at the right weeks and
see the sky above us almost black with its excess of blue, and the
new grass already deep, but still vivid, and the white roses tumble in
odorous spray and the warm radiant air distil gold for the smelting-pot
that the genius loci then dips his brush into before making play with
