population of hucksters and peddlers, giving an effect 
of permanency to the festivity such as a solemnity of 
ours seldom has. When we bought our tickets we 
found, in the familiarity with the event expected of 
us, that there was no one to show us to our places; 
but by dint of asking we got to the Grand Stand, and 
mounted to our seats, which, when we stood up from 
them, commanded a wholly satisfactory prospect of the 
whole field. 
I do not know the dimensions of the Doncaster track, 
 
or how far they exceed those of the Saratoga track. 
Possibly one does not do its extent justice because 
there is no track at Doncaster: there is nothing but 
a green turf, with a certain course railed off on it. I 
hope the reader will be as much surprised as I was 
to realize that the sport of horse-racing in England 
gets its name of Turf from the fact that the races are 
run on the grass, and not on the bare ground, as with 
us. We call the sport the Turf, too, but that is be- 
cause in this, as in so many other things, we lack in- 
centive and invention, and are fondly colonial and im- 
itative ; we ought to call it the Dirt, for that is what it 
is with us. As a spectacle, the racing lacks the defini- 
tion in England which our course gives, and when it 
began, I missed the relief into which our track throws 
the bird-like sweep of the horses as they skim the naked 
earth in the distance. 
I missed also the superfluity of jockeying which de- 
lays and enhances the thrill of the start with us, and 
I thought the English were not so scrupulous about an 
even start as we are. But, above all, I missed the 
shining faces and the gleaming eyes of the black 
jockeys, who lend so much gayety to our scene, where 
they seem born to it, if not of it. The crowd thick- 
ened in English bloom and bulk, which is always fine 
to see, and bubbled over with the babble of multitudi- 
nous voices, crossed with the shouts of the book-makers. 
Having failed to enter any bets with the book-makers 
of The Pavement in York, I did not care to make them 
here. With all my passion for racing, I never know 
or care which horse wins ; but I tried to enter into the 
joy of a diffident young fellow near me at the Grand 
Stand rail, who was so proud of having guessed as 
winner the horse next to the winner at the first race; 
it was coming pretty close. By the end of the third 
 
race he had softened into something like confidence 
toward me ; certainly into conversability ; such was the 
effect of my being a dead-game sport, or looking it. 
But how account for the trustfulness of the young 
woman on my other hand who wore her gold watch 
outside her dress, and who turned to the elderly stranger 
for sympathy in a certain supreme moment? This 
was when the crowd below crumpled suddenly together 
like the crushing of paper and the sense of something 
tragically mysterious in the distance clarified itself as 
the death of one of the horses. It had dropped from 
heart-break in its tracks, as if shot, and presently a 
string of young men and boys came dragging to some 
spoliarium the long, slender body of the pretty creature 
over the turf which its hoofs had beaten a moment be- 
fore. Then it was that the girl, with the watch on her 
breast, turned and asked, " Isn't it sad ?" 
IV 
She was probably not the daughter of a hundred 
earls, but there must have been some such far-descended 
fair among the ladies who showed themselves from time 
to time in the royal paddock across a little space from 
our Grand Stand. The enclosure has no doubt a more 
technical name, which I would call it by if I knew it, 
for I do not wish to be irreverent ; but paddock is very 
sporty, and it must serve my occasion. The King never 
showed himself there at all, though much craned round 
for and eagerly expected. But ladies and gentlemen 
moved about in the close, and stood and talked together ; 
very tall people, very easily straight and well set up, 
very handsome, and very amiable-looking; they may 
have been really kind and good, or they may have 
 
looked so to please the King and keep his spirits up. 
I did not then, but I do now, realize that these were 
courtiers, such as one has always read of, and were of 
very historical quality in their attendance on the mon- 
arch. I trust it will not take from the dignity of the 
fact if I note that several of the courtiers wore derby 
hats, and one was in a sack coat and a topper. I am 
not sure what the fairer reader will think if I tell that 
one of the ladies had on a dress with a white body and 
crimson skirt and sleeves, and a vast black picture-hat, 
and wore it with a charming air of authority. 
The weather, in the excitement of the races, had not 
known whether it was raining or not, but we feared its 
absent-mindedness, and at the end of the third race we 
went away. It is not well to trust an English day too 
far; this had begun with brilliant sunshine, but it 
dimmed as it wore on, and we could not know that 
it was keeping for us the surprise of a very refined 
sunset. My memory does not serve as to just how 
we had got out to the race-ground; I think, from our 
being set down at the very gate, that it was by hansom 
or by fly ; but now we promised ourselves to walk back 
to town. We did not actually do so; we went back 
most of the way by tram ; but we were the firmer about 
walking at the outset, because we presently found our- 
selves in a lane of gypsy tents, where there was an 
alluring sight and smell of frying fish and potatoes. 
In the midst of the refection, you could have your 
fortune told, very favorably, for a very little money. 
All up and down this happy avenue there went girls 
of several dozen sizes and ages, crying a particular 
kind of taffy, proper to the day and place, and never 
to be had on any other day in any other place. 
We had an hour before train-time, and we thought 
we would go and see the Parish Church of Doncaster, 
which we had read was worth seeing. Our belief was 
confirmed by a group of disappointed ladies in the 
churchyard, who said it was a most beautiful church 
inside, but that they had not seen it because it was 
shut. We proved the fact by trying the door, and then 
we came away consoling ourselves with the scoff that 
it was probably closed for the races. At the book- 
seller's, where we stopped to buy some photographs of 
the interior of the church we had not seen, we lamented 
our disappointment, and the salesman said, " Perhaps 
it was closed for the races." So our joke seemed to 
turn earnest, and on reflection it did not surprise us 
in that England of close-knit unities where people and 
prince are of one texture in their pleasures and de- 
votions, and the Church is hardly more national than 
the Turf. 
At Durham, which was my next excursion from 
York, I cannot claim, therefore, that my mission 
was more serious because it almost solely concerned 
the Church, or that it was more frivolous at Don- 
caster, where it almost solely concerned the Turf. My 
train started in a fine mist that turned to sun, but not 
before it had shown me with the local color, which a 
gray light lends everything, a pack of hounds cross- 
ing a field near the track with two huntsmen at their 
heels. They were not chasing, but running leisurely, 
and with their flower-like, loose spread over the green, 
and the pink - coated hunters on their brown mounts, 
they afforded a picture as vivid and of as perfect sem- 
blance to all my visions of fox-hunting as I could have 
asked. I had been hoping that I might see something 
of the famous sport, almost as English as the Church 
 
or the Turf, and there, suddenly and all unexpectedly, 
the sight fully and satisfyingly was. Now, indeed, 
I felt that my impression of English society was com- 
plete, and that I might go home and write novels of 
English high life, and do something to redeem myself 
a little from the disgrace I had fallen into with my 
fellow-plebeians by always writing of common Amer- 
icans, like themselves, and never grandes dames or 
ideal persons, or people in the best society. 
But I did not want to go home at once, or turn back 
from going to Durham through that pleasant landscape, 
where the mist hung between the trees which seemed 
themselves only heavier bulks of mist. The wheat in 
some of the fields was still uncut, and in others, where 
it had been gathered into sheaves, the rooks by hun- 
dreds were noisily gleaning in the track of the reapers. 
From this conventionally English keeping, I passed 
suddenly to the sight of the gaunt, dry, gravelly bed 
of a wide river, such as I had known in Central Italy, 
or the Middle West at home ; and I realized once again 
that England is no island of one simple complexion, 
but is a condensed continent, with all continental va- 
rieties of feature in it. You must cover thousands and 
thousands of miles in our tedious lengths and breadths 
for the beauties and sublimities of scenery which you 
shall gather from fewer hundreds in England; I have 
no doubt they have even volcanoes there, but I did not 
see any, probably because the English are so reticent, 
and hate to make a display of any sort. 
VI 
It is because they are so, or possibly because of my 
ignorance, that I did not know or at all imagine how 
magnificent the Cathedral of Durham, is, or what a 
matchless seat it has on the bluffs of the river, with 
depths of woods below its front, tossing in the rich 
chill of the September wind. As it takes flight for 
the heavens, to which its business is to invite the 
thought, it seems to carry the earth with it, for if 
you climb those noble heights, you find your feet still 
on the ground, in a most stately space of open level 
between the cathedral and its neighbor castle, which 
alone could be worthy of its high company. 
The castle is Tudor, but the cathedral is beyond all 
other English cathedrals, I believe, Norman, though to 
the naked eye it looks so Gothic, and probably is. Here 
I will leave the reader with any pictures or memories 
of it which he happens to have, for I have always held 
it a sin to try describing architecture, or if not a sin, 
a bore. What chiefly remains to me of my impression 
of Durham Cathedral is, strangely enough, an objec- 
tion: I did not like those decorated pillars, alternating 
with the clustered columns of the interior, and I do 
not suppose I ever shall: the spiral furrows, the zig- 
zag and lozenge figures chiselled in their surfaces, weak- 
ened them to the eye and seemed to trifle with their 
proud bulk. 
But to the castle of Durham I have no objection 
whatever. I should like to live in it, as I should in all 
other Tudor houses, great or small, that I saw, where, 
as I am constantly saying, a high ideal of comfort is 
realized. It is almost as nobly placed as the cathedral, 
and it is approached by a very stately court-yard, of 
like spacious effect with the cathedral piazza. Inside 
it there is a kitchen of the sixteenth century, with a 
company of neat serving-maids, too comely and young 
to be, perhaps, of the same period, that gives the tourist 
a high sense of the luxury in which the Bishop of Dur- 
ham and the Judges of the Assize Courts live when 
they are residents in the castle. One sees their apart- 
ments, dim and rich, and darkly furnished, but not 
gloomily, both where they sleep and where they eat, 
and flatteringly envies them in a willingness for the 
moment to be a judge or a bishop for the sake of such 
a fit setting. There is also a fine crypt, with a fine 
dining-hall and a black staircase of ancient oak, and a 
gallery with classic busts, and other pictures worthy 
of wonder, let alone a history from the time of Will- 
iam the Conqueror, who first fancied a castle where it 
stands, down to the present day. The memory of such 
successive guests as the Empress Matilda and Henry 
II. her son, King John, Henry III., Edwards I., II., 
and III., Queen Philippa, Henry VI., and James I., 
and Charles I., and Edward VII., abides in the guide- 
book, and may be summoned from its page to the cham- 
bers of the beautiful old place by any traveller intend- 
ing impressions for literary use from a mediaeval en- 
vironment in perfect repair. 
VII 
One must be hard to satisfy if one is not satisfied 
with Durham Castle, and its interior contented me as 
fully as the exterior of the Cathedral. I went a walk, 
after leaving the castle, for a further feast of the 
Cathedral from the paths along the shelving banks of 
the beautiful Weare. There, at a certain point, I 
met a studious - looking gentleman who I am sure 
must have been a professor of Durham University 
hard by; and I asked him, with due entreaty for 
pardon, " What river was that." He quelled the sur- 
prise he must have felt at my ignorance and an- 
swered gently, " The Weare." " Ah, to be sure ! The 
Weare," I said, and thanked him, and longed for more 
talk with him, but felt myself so unworthy that I had 
not the face to prompt him further. He passed, and 
then I met a man much more of my own kind, if not 
probably so little informed. That rich, chill gale was 
still tossing and buffeting the tree tops, and he made 
occasion of this to say, " This is a cold wynd a-blowin', 
Mister." " It is, rather," I assented. " I was think- 
in'," he observed from an apparent generalization, 
" that I wished I was at home." Then he sudden- 
ly added, " Help a poor man !" I was not wholly sur- 
prised at the climax, and I offered him, provisionally, 
a penny. " Will that do ?" He hesitated perceptibly ; 
then he allowed, with a subtle reluctance, " Yes, that 
'll do," and so passed on to satisfy, I hope, the wish 
he thought he had. 
I pursued my own course, as far as the bridge which 
spans the Weare near a most picturesque mill, and then 
T stopped a kindly - looking workman and asked him 
whether he thought I could find a fly or cab anywhere 
near that would take me into the town. He answered, 
briefly but consistently with his looks, " Ah doot," and 
as he owned If hat it w r as a long way to town, I let his 
doubt decide me to go back to the station. 
I felt that I ought to have driven from there into 
the town, and seen it, and taken to York a later train 
than the one I had in mind. In the depravity in- 
duced by my neglect of this plain duty, I went, with 
my third - class return ticket conscious in my pocket, 
into the first-class refreshment-room, and had tea there, 
as if I had been gentry at the very least, and possibly 
nobility. Then, having a good deal of time still on my 
hands, I loitered over the book-stall of the station, and 
stole a passage of conversation with a kindly clergy- 
 
man whom I found looking at the pretty shilling edi- 
tions filling the cases. I said, How nice it was to have 
Hazlitt in that green cloth; and he said, Yes, but he 
held for Gibbon in leather; and just then his train 
came in and he ran off to it, and left me to my guilt 
in not having gone to see Durham. It was now twi- 
light, and too late; but there the charming old town 
still is, and will long remain, I hope, with its many 
memories of war and peace, for whoever will visit it. 
Certainly there had been no lack of adventures in my 
ample hour. It was as charming to weave my con- 
jectures, about the two gentlemen with whom I had so 
barely spoken, as to have carried my acquaintance with 
them further, and I cannot see how it would have 
profited me to know more even of that fellow - man 
who, in the cold wynd a-blowing, had just been think- 
ing he wished he was at home. 
