prey to longings and terrors. Wild ecstasies 
came to him, and then followed plunges into mel- 
ancholy. He longed to see her, and other things 
stood in the way, and he did not know why he 
should be so tormented. 
Just to be in love would have been enough. But 
to have been given the love of a being like Miss 
Gladys — peerless and imapproachable, almost 
imimaginable! 
after hours of pacing the streets, he called 
to see Her. And she came to him, her face aKght 
with eager curiosity, and crying, " Tell me all 
about it! " 
She listened, almost dumb with amazemeM. 
" And you said that to my father! " she exclaimed 
again and again. " And to Mr. Hickman! And 
to old Mr. Ciui;is ! Samuel! Samuel!" 
" It was all true. Miss Gladys," he insisted. 
" Yes," she said — " but — to say it to them! " 
" They turned me out of the chru-ch," he went 
on. " Had they a right to do that? " 
" I don't know," she answered. " OH, my, what 
a time there will be! " 
" And what are you going to do now? " she 
asked after a pause. 
" I don't know. I wanted to talk about it with 
you." 
" But what do you think of doing? " 
" I must expose them to the people." 
Miss Gladys looked at him quickly. " Oh, no, 
Samuel," she said — "you mustn't do that!" 
"Why not. Miss Gladys?" 
" Because — it wouldn't do." 
" But Miss Gladys " 
" It wouldn't be decent, Samuel. And it's so 
much more effective to talk with people privately, 
as you have been doing." 
" But who else is there to talk to? '* 
" Why, I don't know. We'll have to think." 
" It's your father and Mr. Hickman I have to 
deal with, Miss Gladys. And they won't listen 
to me any morel " 
" Perhaps not. But, then, see how much you 
have done already! " 
" What have I done? " 
" Think how ashamed you have made them! " 
" But what difference does that make. Miss 
Gladys? Don't you see they've still got the 
money they've taken? " 
There was a pause. " This is something I have 
been thinking," said Samuel gravely. " I've had 
this great burden laid upon me, and I must 
carry it. I have to see the thing through to the 
end. And I'm afraid it will be painful to you. 
You may feel that you can't possibly marry 
me." 
At these words Miss Gladys gave a wild start. 
She stared at him in consternation. " Marry 
you!" she gasped. 
" Yes," he said ; and then, seeing the look upon 
her face, he stopped. 
" Marry you! " she panted again. 
A silence followed, while they gazed at eacn 
other. 
" Why, Samuel! " she exclaimed. 
" Miss Gladys," he said in a low voice, " you 
told me that you loved me." 
"Yes," she said, "but surely — " And then 
suddenly she bit her lips together exclaiming, 
" .This has gone too far! " 
" Miss Gladys! " he cried. 
" Samuel," she said, " we have been two bad 
children; and we must not go on in this way." 
The boy gave a gasp of amazement. 
" I had no idea that you were taking me so 
seriously," she continued. " It wasn't fair to 
me." 
" Then — then you don't love me! " he panted. 
" Why — perhaps," she replied, " how can I 
tell? But one does not marry because one loves, 
Samuel." 
He gazed at her, speechless. 
" I thought we were playing with each other; 
and I thought you imderstood it. It wasn't very 
wise, perhaps " 
" Playing with each other! " whispered the boy, 
his voice almost gone. 
" You take everything with such frightful 
seriousness," she protested. " Really, I don't 
think you had any right " 
"Miss Gladys!" he cried in sudden an- 
guish; and she stopped and stared at him, 
frightened. 
" Do you know what you have done to me? " 
he exclaimed. 
" Samuel," she said in a trembling voice, " I 
am very much surprised and upset. I had no 
idea of such a thing; and you must stop, before 
it is too late." 
" But I love you! " he cried, half beside him- 
self. 
" Yes," she said in great agitation — " and 
that's very good of you. But there are some 
things you must remember " 
" You — you let me embrace you, Miss Gladys! 
You let me think of you so ! Why, what is a man 
to do? What was I to make of it? I had never 
loved a woman before. And you — you led me 
on 
" Samuel, you must not talk like this! " she 
broke in. " I can't listen to you. It was a mis- 
understanding, and you must forget it all. You 
must go away. We must not meet again." 
" Miss Gladys! " he cried in horror. 
" Yes," she exclaimed, " you must go " 
" You are going to turn me off I " he panted. 
" Oh, how can you say such a thing? Why, think 
what you have done to me! " 
" Samuel," protested the girl angrily, " this 
is perfectly preposterous behavior of you! You 
have no right to go on in this way. You never 
had any right to — to think such things. How 
could you so forget yoiu* place? " 
And he started as if stung with a whip. " My 
place ! " he gasped. 
" Yes," she said. 
" I see, I see ! " he burst out. " It's my * place ' 
again. It's the fact that I have no money! " 
"Why, Samuel!" she exclaimed. "What a 
thing to say! It's not that " 
" It's that, and it's nothing but that! It never 
is anything but that! It's because I am a poor 
boy, and couldn't help myself ! You told me that 
you loved me, and I believed you. You were so 
beautiful, and I thought that you must be good! 
Why, I worshiped the very ground you walked 
on. I would have done anything in the world 
for you — I would have died for you! I went 
about thinking about you all day — I made you 
into a dream of everything that was good and 
perfect ! And now — now — you say that you were 
only playing with me! Using me for your self- 
ish pleasure — just as you do all the other poor 
people ! " 
" Samuel ! " she gasped. 
" Just as your father does the children in his 
mill! Just as your cousin does the poor girls he 
seduces ! Just as you do everything in life that 
you touch! " 
The girl had turned scarlet with anger. " How 
dare you speak to me that way? " she cried. 
" I dare to speak the truth to anyone! And 
that is the truth about you! You are like all the 
rest of them — the members of your class. You 
are parasites — vampires — you devour other peo- 
pie's lives ! And you are the worst, because you 
are a woman! You are beautiful, and you ought 
to be all the things that I imagined you were I 
But you use your beauty for a snare — you wreck 
men's lives with it " 
"Stop, Samuel!" 
"I won't stop! You shall hear me! You 
drew me on deliberately — you wanted to amuse 
yourself with me, to see what I would do. And 
you had never a thought about me, or my rights, 
or the harm you might be doing to me! And 
now you've got tired — and you tell me to end it! 
You tell me about my ' place ! ' What am I in 
the world for, but to afford you amusement? 
What are all the working people for but to save 
you trouble and keep you beautiful and happy? 
What are the children for but to spin clothes for 
you to wear? And you — what do you do for 
them, to pay for their wasted lives, for all their 
toil and suffering? " 
" Samuel Prescott! " cried the outraged girl. 
" I will not hear another word of this I " 
" Yes, that's just what your father said! And 
what yoiu" cousin said! And what yotir clergy- 
man said! And you can send for the butler and 
have me put out — but let me tell you that will 
not be the end of it. We shall find some way to 
get at you I The people will not always be your 
slaves — they will not always give their lives to 
keep you in idleness and luxury! You were bom 
to it — you've had everything in the world that 
you wanted, from the first hour of your life. 
And you think that will go on forever, that 
nothing can ever change it ! But let me tell you 
that it seems different to the people underneath! 
We are tired of being robbed and spit upon! 
And we mean to fight! We mean to fight! We 
don't intend to be starved and tormented for- 
ever!" 
And then, in the midst of his wild tirade, Sam- 
uel stopped, and stared with horror in his eyes — 
realizing that this was Miss Gladys to whom he 
was talking! And suddenly a storm of sobs rose 
in him; and he put his hands to his face, and burst 
into tears, and turned and rushed from the room. 
He went down the street, like a himted animal, 
beside himself with grief, and looking for some 
place to hide. And as he ran on, he pulled out 
the faded pictures he had carried next to his heart, 
and tore them into pieces and flung them to the 
winds. 
CHAPTER XXVII 
WHEN Sophie came home that evening, 
Samuel had mastered himself. He told 
her the story without a tremor in his voice. And 
this was well, for he was not prepared for the 
paroxysm of emotion with which the child re- 
ceived the news. Miss Gladys had been the last 
of Samuel's illusions; but she was the only one 
that Sophie had ever had. The child had made 
her life all over out of the joy of working for 
her; and now, hearing the story of her treatment 
of Samuel, she was almost beside herself with 
grief. 
Samuel was frightened at her violence. " Lis- 
ten, Sophie," he said, putting his arm around her. 
" We must not forget our duty." 
" I could never go back there again! " ex- 
claimed the child wildly. " I should die if I had 
to see her again! " 
" I don't mean that," said the other quickly — 
seeking to divert her thoughts. " But you must 
remember what I have to do ; and you must help 
me." 
He went on to tell her of his plan to fight for 
the possession of St. Matthew's Church. " And 
we must not give way to bitterness," He said; 
" it would be a very wicked thing if we did it 
from anger." 
" But how can you help it? " she cried. 
"It is hard," said Samuel; "but I have been 
wrestling with myself. We must not hate these 
people. They have done evil to us, but they do 
not realize it — they are poor himian beings like 
the rest of us." 
" But they are bad, selfish people! " exclaimed 
the child. 
" I have thought it all out," said he. " I have 
been walking the streets all day, thinking about 
it. And I will not let myself feel anything but 
pity for them. They have done me wrong, but 
it is nothing to the wrong they have done them- 
selves." 
"Oh, Samuel, you are so good!" exclaimed 
Sophie; and he winced — because that was what 
Miss Gladys had said to him. 
" I had to settle it with myself," he explained. 
" I have got to carry on a fight against them, 
and I have to be sure that I'm not just venting 
my spite." 
" What are you going to do? " asked Sophie. 
" I am going to put the facts before the con- 
gregation of the church. If they will do nothing, 
I am going to the people." 
"But how, Samuel?" 
" I am going to call a meeting. See, I have 
written this." 
And he took from his pocket a piece of paper, 
on which he had printed, in capital letters, as 
follows: 
TO THE MEMBERS OF ST. MATTHEW'S! 
" There is corruption in the church. Members 
of its vestry have bribed the government of the 
town. They are robbing the people. The vestry 
has refused me a hearing and turned me out of 
the church. I appeal to the congregation. Next 
Wednesday evening, at eight o'clock, I will ad- 
dress a meeting on the vacant lot opposite the 
church, and will tell what I know. 
" Samuel Peescott." 
" And what are you going to do with that? " 
asked Sophie in wonder. 
" I am going to have it printed on little slips, 
and give them out to the people when they are 
coming out of the church to-morrow morning." 
" Oh, Samuel! " gasped the child. 
" I have to do it," he said, 
"But, Samuel, everyone will come — people 
from all over town." 
" I can't help that," he answered. " I can't 
afford to hire a hall; and they wouldn't let me 
speak in the church." 
" But can you get this printed so quickly? " 
" I don't know," said he. " I must find some 
one." 
Sophie clapped her hands suddenly. " Oh, I 
know just the very thing! " she cried. " Fried- 
rich Bremer has a printing press!" 
"What!" 
" Yes. His father used to print things. They 
will tell us." 
And so, without stopping to eat, the two hur- 
ried off to the Bremer family; and mother and 
father and all the children sat and listened in as- 
tonishment while Samuel told his tale. Fried- 
