" Do you know what you said ? You said you slapped him." 
" Yes, I did," said Bess, in her dull patience. It began 
to seem to her at last a little thing to have raised a pother 
so inconceivably great. Or perhaps it was a large thing and 
she was again proven to be incompetent to meet these exi- 
gencies. " I slapped him, but I knew I hadn't behaved like 
a lady and I went to tell him so. Good-night." 
She rose, and put her arms above her head with the silent 
yawn which Celia meant some time to abolish in her, but 
which still seemed, so sweet she was, so fragrant the red 
mouth she opened, not undesirable after all. 
" But what made you ? " Celia was pressing, not believing 
in the heinous deed in the least, and yet having to approach 
what had really happened by that only possible way. " What 
had he done to you ? " 
But that was never to be told. Nor would Bess lie, for 
 
she was going to her own room as soon as might be, to say, 
" Now I lay me," and it was not a square game to approach 
her kind personal deity save with clean lips. 
"I slapped him," she repeated. " That's all." 
And though Celia held her dress, ostensibly to kiss her, 
she was resolutely gone. 
When Winterbourne heard Catherine coming, he laid 
down his book. Some announcing aura told him he was to 
discourse with her in the way that tired and terrified him 
because it ended nowhere. What was the use of communing, 
he would have said, battling with clumsy clouts of words to 
approach an understanding where none is ? If you understand,
you two souls who are talking together, you can do 
it without words. If you don't leap at apprehension, keep 
silence, for words will never help you. As he saw her com- 
ing, pathetic in the trouble of her brows, he remembered 
those other first days when he was ready to help halting 
words with kisses and appear to acquiesce while his mind 
was yet afar. But that day was past. It belonged to the 
spring of life when God Himself seemed to have decreed 
that kisses were a part of the substance of things. Not now. 
They had ceased to be a part of the game. But what she 
had in hand for him was neither argument nor appeal. It 
was pure amazed assertion. 
"Everything she does is right to you, every single 
thing." 
Winterbourne was taken by assault. Here was something 
that sounded like accusation, and yet the partisanship she 
chid him for could not be wrong. 
" It isn't a sin to go to see a young man," he bade her re- 
member, speaking mildly, taking up his book. " Not here 
in Clyde. When you get a nymph into your house, a crea- 
ture that washes oflF her conscience every day in mountain 
 
brooks, why, you mustn't corrupt her by the moth-eaten 
rules of a blasted old world. You just can't do it, Cat." 
It was the harum-scarum name he had called her in mo- 
ments of their young gayety together, but it could not move 
her now. She was seeing how she had been wronged, by 
nature, by the chance of life. Her starved being was perpet- 
ually on its knees before that ineffable picture of the perfect 
love, and Winterbourne seemed her tyrant because he might 
have completed it for her and would not by a really tender 
word. 
" Shan't I look out for her ? " she persisted, rather breath- 
lessly. " Shan't I prevent her from doing the things nice 
young girls don't do ? " 
" Yes," said Winterbourne. He laid down his book again 
and reminded his old irritation to lie low. "If she 's got to be 
a nice girl. But why can't you let her be what she is ? She 's 
as clean as Venus before the sea waves were dried off. She's 
like a creature made out of the earth and stuck together with 
honey, and given fragrances for breath. See how she makes 
an old jaded lingerer like me sit up and remember his poetry. 
She 's divine, Cat, because she 's so human. She 's all service 
and love and darlingness. Don't you spoil her.'' 
He had given rein to picturesque simile because he really 
wanted very much to show her how desirable it would be to 
recognize a jewel when they had it. 
"You don't say Celia's divine," his wife reminded him. 
A little red spot had come upon each cheek. Her eyes 
had bright points in them, not of anger but of many passions 
blended. Winterbourne thought he might be about to return 
to his book, and laid a loving hand on it. 
" Celia ! " he said. The tone sounded to her contemptuous, . 
so careless was it. " I don't know what Celia is. She doesn't 
herself, yet. You've moulded her and pushed and pinched 
 
and praised and reprimanded, until she 's a kind of model 
of what you want her to be. She 's no more like what 's in- 
side her than a corset 's like a figure. The other girl 's un- 
touched." 
" She pleases you," his wife continued, in her low rapid 
voice, that seemed to hold unspoken accusation. " Every- 
thing she does is right. You love her." 
It was not the word. That might reasonably have been 
used to indicate a man's atmosphere toward even an adopted 
daughter. The tone struck him in the face, and he could not 
look at her for the shame of it. But he had to look, and see- 
ing the piteousness of her agitation, he quieted himself and 
answered, — 
"That's a big word. I don't like such big words every 
day." 
Her face quivered into grief. 
" I can't please you," she lamented, yet softly as if she were 
afraid to err. "I thought I could if I came back. I never 
can. 
Winterbourne sat still, his strong hands tight on the chair- 
arms, thinking. Suddenly he got up and brought a seat for 
her. 
" Sit down, Catherine," he said, out of his miserable kind- 
liness toward her. "We don't want to talk about these things. 
We want to look at the fire in the winter when there is one. 
We want to read our book in summer, or listen to the leaves 
swishing. That 's what belongs to our time of life." 
But not to hers, he knew, and her soft rebellious face told 
him. She had not had all her life as women count it, and the 
broken ideal of it she was ever holding to her breast and 
cherishing. He could have groaned over the pity of it, the 
futility. 
" You think everything she does is right," she insisted. 
 
" Well, everything she does is right, pretty nearly." Then 
he thought she had not cared about the sliver in Dwight 
Hunter's hand and chuckled a little to himself. 
" Celia is as perfect as she is." 
"Celia's thinking about herself," said Winterbourne. 
" Don't you see that 's the beauty of Bess ? She never thinks 
of herself for a minute. Her cheek 's no softer than Celia's. 
She may not be as pretty, but she 's on the side of nature, 
and at the same time everlasting righteousness." 
Catherine sat silent for a moment. Then she opened her 
mouth to the saying he had heard from her lips the day they 
had their last talk before she went abroad, and he came down 
here to his solitude ; it was incredible that she should ever 
say that thing again. There had been no answer to it then, 
and yet it had hurt them both so boundlessly that he could 
not conceive of her even mustering courage to break that 
ground a second time. 
" You don't love me." 
" Don't, dear," he said, and it was all he thought he could 
say. 
But the kind word liberated her tongue, and indeed now 
she had passed into that other chamber of the house of life 
where, in spite of temperance and reason, old wrongs lift up 
their heads and claim to speak. 
" Cat," said Winterbourne, " don't. Look here. It 's non- 
sense for us to be fighting over two young baggages like 
these of yours, as if it made any difference anyway what we 
thought of 'em or what we did n't. They'll marry, and this 
place shall know them no more. I only tell you Bess never 
thinks of herself — and see where it 's led us ! " 
He was smiling at her whole-heartedly, every nerve in him 
praying her not to suffer any more, and even for his poor 
sake to go to bed and let him decline upon his book in 
peace. But she was looking at him with a blurred, wistful 
face. 
" You mean," she mused, " it 's what George Eliot tells 
us. Bess has learned renunciation." 
" My Lord, no ! I mean she 's a part of the natural world. 
She's got sympathy. She sees what you want and does it. 
She knows I want my dinner in peace and a quiet hour with 
my book. If she could do the pesky God-forsaken things 
you want her to, — stand up in a long-tailed gown and sing 
to a horde of people that don't know bad air when they 
breathe it, — she'd even do that; but the poor devil! she 
doesn't know how. She 's so natural that when you put her 
into your kaleidoscope and shake it up round her, she gets 
bemused." 
" Yes," said Catherine to herself really now, " you love 
her." 
Winterbourne felt his face grow hot, and he put a hand 
impatiently to his eyes, as if in an instant he expected sting- 
ing tears. His brain, the brain that gave him delight, — also 
some other part of him within that always told him it was the 
real being subservient to no sense, no organ, and these were 
all his servants, — his brain that rail about over the natural 
world and brought him back colors and scents to delight in, 
asked him at this point if he could answer her when she 
forced upon him the old issue — love. After all, what did he 
think of it i It was easy to abjure emotion, but when it came 
back in its chariot, overriding caution and the old fear of it, 
what was it anyway but a savage king never to be defeated, 
only to be deflected perhaps and leave the territory unrav- 
aged, and grass to lift its head? Winterbourne had thought 
he was going to be actually happy in his middle life, even in 
old age, and now that Catherine had come sweeping back 
upon him, he wished she, too, might be happy. He laid his 
hand for an instant on hers where it gripped the chair-arm 
in a nervous tension. 
" Cat," he said, " there are a lot of things I 'd like to tell 
you. I believe I 've learned 'em before you. Maybe you 
never'll learn 'em at all. But I 'd like to tell you." 
So intimate a suggestion drew her mind nearer him. She 
quieted her wish to whimper childishly, and listened. But 
Winterbourne could not at once speak. His mind went back 
over all he had read, all he had lived, and his approach to a 
solving of this terrible discontent the human creature has for 
another creature who, it assumes, might make it at home in 
these fastnesses of an alien world. Catherine was implying 
that because she had once loved him she could love him 
still ; that because the index of spring had pointed to him as 
arbiter of the sunniest of hours, he had to be that now when 
the dial had changed. Vain hope! He was another man, she 
was another woman, not the younglings of that earlier time, 
and they had not lived together through those common tasks 
that bind human souls each to each. But all he was feeling 
he could only put into the inapposite statement, — 
" Catherine, we 're awfully fragmentary." 
" I don't understand you," she said, listening hope- 
fully, as if perhaps he meant to say some illuminating 
thing. 
Winterbourne thought of the old simpler peoples. It 
seemed to him reasonable that a Greek might have had the 
vision of Diana in the thicket and been faithful unto the death 
that meant Olympus and the sight of the goddess face to face. 
But here in this modern day the face of things was broken 
up into little facets, and sometimes they reflect one light, 
sometimes another, until we tire of them and long for the 
russet peace of autumn days. But out of this bog he had to 
flounder if he was to get anywhere at all. 
 
" Don't tell me I love folks," he said whimsically. "I just 
feel kindly toward 'em. That's all that 's left in us when 
we 're tending toward fifty.' 
" It ought not to be all that 's left," she cried, with her old 
wildness of rebuttal. " Things ought to go on to be more 
and more." 
" But they don't, child, they don't. You might as well say 
my eyes ought to be sharper and sharper — but they 're not. 
I use glasses, and when I lose 'em I swear damnably because 
I can't see a page." 
Catherine remembered a solemn word used a great deal in 
the lectures and reading she loved. 
" You talk," she said, " as if the soul didn't exist." 
" No, I don't. Be whipped if I do," said Winterbourne. 
He ran his eloquent fingers through his brush of curling hair. 
He was now defending what he believed in and what he did 
love. " But the soul looks through a great many windows 
here. It sees a good many colors. It's haunted by strange 
odors — the ships that come from far. Cat — the souls that 
sail in from other planets. They bring these things. The 
soul, she sits there and looks out ; but what she sees she 
doesn't want to possess, not if she's been looking out a good 
long time. Catherine, I am forty-six years old. I 'm as gnarled 
as an apple tree. Don't you act as if I were a lilac in bloom. 
I'm not." 
Most of this was misty enough to her, but she returned 
to the question in hand. 
" I can't help it," she said. "You look at Bess as if she 
were another lilac-bush in bloom. You love to have her in 
the room with you. You turn to her for every single thing 
you want." 
" Why, God bless me, of course I do ! " said Winterbourne, 
in an extreme of irritation. " It 's like having a bunch of roses 
 
in the room. Besides, she understands me. I understand hen 
The girl 's as immediate to me as my own hand." 
Then he saw what he had done. Catherine got up, and 
stood a moment, her white face toward him. The eyes did 
not seem to reproach him, or to bid him mark their dis- 
tended misery. 
" Good-night," she said, 
f She seemed to melt away. Wintcrbournc sat there looking 
into the grate where the fire might have been. He was dis- 
gusted, all through, with his rash habit of speech, with a life 
that so classified as to leave the unclassified no chance to 
exist in decency. 
"There 's something," he said, "to spoil every damned 
thing." 
He did not think he had sat there a long time, though he 
was not reading, when there was a little stir beside him. He 
looked up. Bess was there. When she got to her own room 
she had sat down by the window to coax back her peace of mind, 
because there was no great pleasure in praying when you had 
probably committed sin. And now here she was at his side, 
looking at him with kind eyes that always had a petition in 
them, the prayer that they might do something for him. 
" I wanted to ask you, sir," she said, " if you think I 've 
done wrong. I want to be — " she hesitated over the word, 
it meant so many strictures and hatefulnesses, and then 
brought it out with a gulp — "a lady." 
There she stood, still holding him with those beseeching 
eyes. Winterbourne looked into them for a long moment. 
They seemed to him like wells of comfort where a man might 
wash himself of offence, if he were conscious of it. But there 
was no need of his bathing there, to come out clean. She 
was, as he had said in that hurried moment, as immediate to 
him as his own hand, but how sweeter than all the roses of 
 
all the Junes, — a rose of heaven for him. He wanted to say 
a great many things to her, now that she had been thrown 
by his forced declaration into such communion with him. 
He wanted to ask her whether she, too, did not wish they 
were innocent, free creatures by some inland sea, uninhabited 
by these phantasms of an artificial world. But waking, he 
said to her gravely, — 
" You are a lady, Bess." 
Her eyes interrogated him. She also had evidently a little 
explanation to make. 
"I wish I could be — what she wants me to." 
This was either tribute to Catherine's ideals or an avowal 
of affection for her. Winterbourne was pretty sure it was not 
