Bugles sounded persistently; he set spurs to his tired horse and
rode toward the buglers, and found himself beside Colonel Arran,
who, crimson in the face, was whipping his way out with dripping
sabre.
Across a rivulet on the edge of the woods he could see the
regimental colours and the bulk of his regiment re-forming; and he
spurred forward to join them, skirting the edge of a tangle of
infantry, dragoons, and lancers who were having a limited but
bloody affair of their own in a cornfield where a flag tossed
wildly--a very beautiful, square red flag, its folds emblazoned
with a blue cross set with stars,
Out of the melee a score of dishevelled lancers came plunging
through the corn, striking right and left at the infantry that
clung to them with the fury of panthers; the square battle flag,
flung hither and thither, was coming close to him; he emptied his
revolver at the man who carried it, caught at the staff, missed,
was almost blinded by the flashing blast from a rifle, set spurs to
his horse, leaned wide from his saddle, seized the silk, jerked it
from its rings, and, swaying, deluged with blood from a
sword-thrust in the face, let his frantic horse carry him whither
it listed, away, away, over the swimming green that his sickened
eyes could see no longer.
CHAPTER XVI
On every highway, across every wood trail, footpath, and meadow
streamed the wreckage of seven battle-fields.  Through mud and rain
crowded heavy artillery, waggons, herds of bellowing cattle,
infantry, light batteries, exhausted men, wounded men, dead men on
stretchers, men in straw-filled carts, some alive, some dying.
Cannoneers cut traces and urged their jaded horses through the
crush, cursed and screamed at by those on foot, menaced by bayonets
and sabres.  The infantry, drenched, starving, plastered with mud
to the waists, toiled doggedly on through the darkness; batteries
in deplorable condition struggled from mud hole to mud hole; the
reserve cavalry division, cut out and forced east, limped wearily
ahead, its rear-guard firing at every step.
To the north, immense quantities of stores--clothing, provisions,
material of every description were on fire, darkening the sky with
rolling, inky clouds; an entire army corps with heavy artillery and
baggage crossed the river enveloped in the pitchy, cinder-laden
smoke from two bridges on fire.  The forests, which had been felled
from the Golden Farm to Fair Oaks to form an army's vast abattis,
were burning in sections, sending roaring tornadoes of flame into
rifle pits, redoubts, and abandoned fortifications.  Cannon
thundered at Ellison's Mills; shells rained hard on Gaines's Farm;
a thousand simultaneous volleys of musketry mingled with the awful
uproar of the cannon; uninterrupted sheets of light from the shells
brightened the smoke pall like the continuous flare of electricity
against a thundercloud.  The Confederacy, victorious, was advancing
wrapped in flame and smoke.
At Savage's Station the long railroad bridge was now on fire;
trains and locomotives burned fiercely; millions of boxes of hard
bread, barrels of flour, rice, sugar, coffee, salt pork, cases of
shoes, underclothing, shirts, uniforms, tin-ware, blankets,
ponchos, harness, medical stores, were in flames; magazines of
ammunition, flat cars and box cars loaded with powder, shells, and
cartridges blazed and exploded, hurling jets and spouting fountains
of fire to the very zenith.
And through the White Oak Swamp rode the Commander-in-chief of an
army in full retreat, followed by his enormous staff and escort,
abandoning the siege of Richmond, and leaving to their fate the
wretched mass of sick and wounded in the dreadful hospitals at
Liberty Hall.  And the red battle flags of the Southland fluttered
on every hill.
Claymore's mixed brigade, still holding together, closed the rear
of Porter's powder-scorched corps d'armee.
The Zouaves of the 3rd Regiment--what was left of them--marched as
flankers; McDunn's battery, still intact, was forced to unlimber
every few rods; and the pouring rain turned to a driving golden
fire in the red glare of the guns, which lighted up the halted
squadrons of the Lancers ranged always in support.
Every rod in retreat was a running combat.  In the darkness the
discharge of the Zouaves' rifles ran from the guns' muzzles like
streams of molten metal spilling out on the grass.  McDunn's guns
spirted great lumps of incandescence; the fuses of the shells in
the sky showered the darkness with swarming sparks.
Toward ten o'clock the harried column halted on a hill and
bivouacked without fires, food, or shelter.  The Zouaves slept on
their arms in the drenched herbage; the Lancers, not daring to
unsaddle, lay down on the grass under their patient horses, bridle
tied to wrist.  An awful anxiety clutched officers and men.  Few
slept; the ceaseless and agonised shrieking from an emergency
hospital somewhere near them in the darkness almost unnerved them.
At dawn shells began to plunge downward among the Dragoons.
McDunn's battery roused itself to reply, but muddy staff-officers
arrived at full speed with orders for Claymore to make haste; and
the starving command staggered off stiffly through the mud, their
ears sickened by the piteous appeals of the wounded begging not to
be abandoned.
Berkley, his face a mass of bloody rags, gazed from his wet saddle
with feverish eyes at the brave contract surgeons standing silent
amid their wounded under the cedar trees.
Cripples hobbled along the lines, beseeching, imploring, catching
at stirrups, plucking feebly, blindly at the horses' manes for
support.
"Oh, my God!" sobbed a wounded artilleryman, lifting himself from
the blood-stained grass, "is this what I enlisted for?  Are you
boys going to leave us behind to rot in rebel prisons?"
"Damn you!" shrieked another, "you ain't licked!  What'n hell are
you runnin' away for?  Gimme a gun an' a hoss an' I'll go back with
you to the river!"
And another pointed a mangled and shaking hand at the passing
horsemen.
"Oh, hell!" he sneered, "we don't expect anything of the cavalry,
but why are them Zouaves skedaddlin'?  They fit like wild cats at
the river.  Halt! you red-legged devils.  You're goin' the wrong
way!"
A Sister of Charity, her snowy, wide-winged headdress limp in the
rain, came out of a shed and stood at the roadside, slender hands
joined imploringly.
"You mustn't leave your own wounded," she kept repeating.  "You
wouldn't do that, gentlemen, would you?  They've behaved so well;
they've done all that they could.  Won't somebody tell General
McClellan how brave they were?  If he knew, he would never leave
them here."
The Lancers looked down at her miserably as they rode; Colonel
Arran passed her, saluting, but with heavy, flushed face averted;
Berkley, burning with fever, leaned from his saddle, cap in hand.
"We can't help it, Sister.  The same thing may happen to us in an
hour.  But we'll surely come back; you never must doubt that!"
Farther on they came on a broken-down ambulance, the mules gone,
several dead men half buried in the wet straw, and two Sisters of
Charity standing near by in pallid despair.
Colonel Arran offered them lead-horses, but they were timid and
frightened; and Burgess gave his horse to the older one, and
Berkley took the other up behind him, where she sat sideways
clutching his belt, white coiffe aflutter, feet dangling.
At noon the regiment halted for forage and rations procured from a
waggon train which had attempted to cross their line of march.  The
rain ceased: a hot sun set their drenched clothing and their
horses' flanks steaming.  At two o'clock they resumed their route;
the ragged, rain-blackened pennons on the lance heads dried out
scarlet; a hot breeze set in, carrying with it the distant noise of
battle.
All that afternoon the heavy sound of the cannonade jarred their
ears.  And at sunset it had not ceased.
Berkley's Sister of Charity clung to his belt in silence for a
while.  After a mile or two she began to free her mind in regard to
the distressing situation of her companion and herself.  She
informed Berkley that the negro drivers had become frightened and
had cut the traces and galloped off; that she and the other Sister
were on their way to the new base at Azalea Court House, where
thousands of badly wounded were being gathered from the battles of
the last week, and where conditions were said to be deplorable,
although the hospital boats had been taking the sick to Alexandria
as fast as they could be loaded.
She was a gentle little thing, with ideas of her own concerning the
disaster to the army which was abandoning thousands of its wounded
to the charity and the prisons of an enemy already too poor to feed
and clothe its own.
"Some of our Sisters stayed behind, and many of the medical staff
and even the contract surgeons remained.  I hope the rebels will be
gentle with them.  I expected to stay, but Sister Aurelienne and I
were ordered to Azalea last night.  I almost cried my eyes out when
I left our wounded.  The shells were coming into the hospital
yesterday, and one of them killed two of our wounded in the straw.
Oh, it was sad and terrible.  I am sure the rebels didn't fire on
us on purpose.  Do you think so?"
"No, I don't.  Were you frightened, Sister."
"Oh, yes," she said naively, "and I wished I could run into the
woods and hide."
"But you didn't?"
"Why, no, I couldn't," she said, surprised.
The fever in his wound was making him light-headed.  At intervals
he imagined that it was Ailsa seated behind him, her arms around
his waist, her breath cool and fragrant on his neck; and still he
knew she was a phantom born of fever, and dared not speak--became
sly, pretending he did not know her lest the spell break and she
vanish into thin air again.
What the little sister said was becoming to him only a pretty
confusion of soft sounds; at moments he was too deaf to hear her
voice at all; then he heard it and still believed it to be Ailsa
who was speaking; then, for a, few seconds, reality cleared his
clouded senses; he heard the steady thunder of the cannonade, the
steady clattering splash of his squadron; felt the hot, dry wind
scorching his stiffened cheek and scalp where the wound burned and
throbbed under a clotted bandage.
When the regiment halted to fill canteens the little sister washed
and re-bandaged his face and head.
It was a ragged slash running from the left ear across the
cheek-bone and eyebrow into the hair above the temple--a deep,
swollen, angry wound.
"What were you doing when you got this?" she asked in soft
consternation, making him as comfortable as possible with the
scanty resources of her medical satchel.  Later, when the bugles
sounded, she came back from somewhere down the line, suffered him
to lift her up behind him, settled herself, slipped both arms
confidently around his waist, and said:
"So you are the soldier who took the Confederate battle flag?  Why
didn't you tell me?  Ah--I know.  The bravest never tell."
"There is nothing to tell," he replied.   "They captured a guidon
from us.  It evens the affair."
She said, after a moment's thought; "It speaks well for a man to
have his comrades praise him as yours praise you."
"You mean the trooper Burgess," he said wearily.  "He's always
chattering."
"All who spoke to me praised you," she observed.  "Your colonel
said: 'He does not understand what fear is.  He is absolutely
fearless.'"
"My colonel has been misinformed, Sister.  I am intelligent enough
to be afraid--philosopher enough to realise that it doesn't help
me.  So nowadays I just go ahead."
"Trusting in God," she murmured.
He did not answer.
"Is it not true, soldier?"
But the fever was again transfiguring her into the shape of Ailsa
Paige, and he remained shyly silent, fearing to disturb the
vision--yet knowing vaguely that it was one.
She sighed; later, in silence, she repeated some Credos and Hail
Marys, her eyes fixed on space, the heavy cannonade dinning in her
ears.  All around her rode the Lancers, tall pennoned weapons
swinging from stirrup and loop, bridles loose under their clasped
hands.  The men seemed stupefied with fatigue; yet every now and
then they roused themselves to inquire after her comfort or to
offer her a place behind them.  She timidly asked Berkley if she
tired him, but he begged her to stay, alarmed lest the vision of
Ailsa depart with her; and she remained, feeling contented and
secure in her drowsy fatigue.  Colonel Arran dropped back from the
head of the column once to ride beside her.  He questioned her
kindly; spoke to Berkley, also, asking with grave concern about his
wound.  And Berkley answered in his expressionless way that he did
not suffer.
But the little Sister of Charity behind his back laid one finger
across her lips and looked significantly at Colonel Arran; and when
the colonel again rode to the head of the weary column his face
seemed even graver and more careworn.
By late afternoon they were beyond sound of the cannonade, riding
through a golden light between fields of stacked wheat.  Far behind
in the valley they could see the bayonets of the Zouaves
glistening; farther still the declining sun glimmered on the guns
of the 10th battery.  Along a parallel road endless lines of
waggons stretched from north to south, escorted by Egerton's
Dragoons.
To Berkley the sunset world had become only an infernal pit of
scarlet strung with raw nerves.  The terrible pain in his face and
head almost made him lose consciousnesss.  Later he seemed to be
drifting into a lurid sea of darkness, where he no longer felt his
saddle or the movement of his horse; he scarcely saw the lanterns
clustering, scarcely heard the increasing murmur around him, the
racket of picket firing, the noise of many bewildered men, the
cries of staff-officers directing divisions and brigades to their
camping ground, the confused tumult which grew nearer, nearer,
mounting like the ominous clamour of the sea as the regiment rode
through Azalea under the July stars.
He might have fallen from his saddle; or somebody perhaps lifted
him, for all he knew.  In the glare of torches he found himself
lying on a moving stretcher.  After that he felt straw under him;
and vaguely wondered why it did not catch fire from his body, which
surely now was but a mass of smouldering flame.
For days the fever wasted him--not entirely, for at intervals he
heard cannon, and always the interminable picket firing; and he
heard bugles, too, and recognised the various summons.  But it was
no use trying to obey them--no use trying to find his legs.  He
could not get up without his legs--he laughed weakly at the
thought; then, drowsy, indifferent, decided that they had been shot
away, but could not remember when; and it bothered him a good deal.
Other things bothered him; he was convinced that his mother was in
the room.  At intervals he was aware of Hallam's handsome face, cut
out like a paper picture from Harper's Weekly and pasted flat on
the tent wall.  Also there were too many fire zouaves around his
bed--if it was a bed, this vague vibrating hammock he occupied.  It
was much more like a hollow nook inside a gigantic pendulum which
swung eternally to and fro until it swung him into
senselessness--or aroused him with fierce struggles to escape.
But his mother's slender hand sometimes arrested the maddening
motion, or--and this was curiously restful--she cleverly
transferred him to a cradle, which she rocked, leaning close over
him.  Only she kept him wrapped up too warmly.
And after a long while there came a day when his face became
cooler, and his skin grew wet with sweat; and on that day he partly
unclosed his eyes and saw Colonel Arran sitting beside him.
Surprised, he attempted to sit up, but not a muscle of his body
obeyed him, and he lay there stupid, inert, hollow eyes fixed
meaninglessly on his superior, who spoke cautiously.
"Berkley, do you know me?"
His lips twitched a voiceless affirmative.
Colonel Arran said: "You are going to get well, now. . . .  Get
well quickly, because--the regiment misses you. . . .  What is it
you desire to say?  Make the effort if you wish."
Berkley's sunken eyes remained focussed on space; he was trying to
consider.  Then they turned painfully toward Colonel Arran again.
"Ailsa Paige?" he whispered.
The other said quietly: "She is at the base hospital near Azalea.
I have seen her.  She is well. . . .  I did not tell her you were
ill.  She could not have left anyway. . . .  Matters are not going
well with the army, Berkley."
"Whipped?"  His lips barely formed the question.
Colonel Arran's careworn features flushed.
"The army has been withdrawing from the Peninsula.  It is the
commander-in-chief who has been defeated--not the Army of the
Potomac."
"Back?"
"Yes, certainly we shall go back.  This rebellion seems to be
taking more time to extinguish than the people and the national
authorities supposed it would require.  But no man must doubt our
ultimate success.  I do not doubt it.  I never shall.  You must
not.  It will all come right in the end."
"Regiment?" whispered Berkley.
"The regiment is in better shape, Berkley.  Our remounts have
arrived; our wounded are under shelter, and comfortable.  We need
rest, and we're getting it here at Azalea, although they shell us
