truly loved a man, I have loved you. And I do love you, dearly,
honestly, cleanly, without other excuse than that, until to-night, you
have been sweet to me and made me happier and better than I have ever
been."
He sprang to his feet confused, deeply moved, suddenly ashamed of his
own inexplicable attitude that seemed to be driving him into a
bitterness that had no reason.
"Valerie," he began, but she interrupted him:
"I ask you, Kelly, to look back with me over our brief and happy
companionship--over the hours together, over all you have done for me--"
"Have you done less for me?"
"I? What have I done?"
"You say you have given me--love."
"I have--with all my heart and soul. And, now that I think of it, I have
given you more--I have given you all that goes with love--an unselfish
admiration; a quick sympathy in your perplexities; quiet solicitude in
your silences, in your aloof and troubled moments." She leaned nearer, a
brighter flush on either cheek:
"Louis, I have given you more than that; I gave you my bodily self for
your work--gave it to you first of all--came first of all to you--came
as a novice, ignorant, frightened--and what you did for me then--what
you were to me at that time--I can never, never forget. And that is why
I overlook your injustice to me now!"
She sat up on the sofa's edge balanced forward between her arms, fingers
nervously working at the silken edges of the upholstery.
"You ought never to have doubted my interest and affection," she said.
"In my heart I have not doubted yours--never--except to-night. And it
makes me perfectly wretched."
"I did not mean--"
"Yes, you did! There was something about you--your expression--when you
saw me throwing roses at everybody--that hurt me--and you meant to."
"With Querida's arm around you, did you expect me to smile?" he asked,
savagely.
"Was it that?" she demanded, astonished.
"What?"
"Querida's arm--" She hesitated, gazing straight into his eyes in utter
amazement.
"It wasn't that?" she repeated. "Was it?... You never cared about such
petty things, did you? Did you? Do you care? Because I never dreamed
that you cared.... What has a little imprudence--a little silly
mischief--to do with our friendship? Has it anything to do with it?
You've never said anything--and ... I've flirted--I've been spoons on
men--you knew it. Besides, I've nearly always told you. I've told you
without thinking it could possibly matter to you--to you of all men!
What do you care what I do?--as long as I am to you what I have always
been?"
"I--don't--care."
"Of course not. How can you?" She leaned nearer, dark and curious gaze
searching his. Then, with a nervous laugh voicing the impossible--"You
are not in love with me--that way. Are you?" she asked, scarcely
realising what she was saying.
"No," he said, forcing a smile. "Are you with me?"
She flushed scarlet:
"Kelly, I never thought--dreamed--hoped--" Her voice caught in her
throat a moment; "I--such a matter has not occurred to me." She looked
at him partly dismayed, partly confused, unable now to understand
him--or even herself.
"You know--that kind of love--" she began--"real love, never has
happened to me. You didn't think that, did you?--because--just because
I did flirt a little with you? It didn't mean anything serious--anything
of that kind. Kelly, dear, have you mistaken me? Is that what
annoys you? Were you afraid I was silly enough, mad enough to--to really
think of you--in that way?"
"No."
"Oh, I was sure you couldn't believe it of me. See how perfectly frank
and honest I have been with you. Why, you never were sentimental--and a
girl isn't unless a man begins it! You never kissed me--except last
summer when you were going away--and both of our hearts were pretty
full--"
"Wait," he said, suddenly exasperated, "are you trying to make me
understand that you haven't the slightest real emotion concerning
me--concerning me as a man--like other men?"
She looked at him, still confused and distressed, still determined he
should not misunderstand her:
"I don't know what you mean; truly I don't. I'm only trying to make you
believe that I am not guilty of thinking--wishing--of pretending that in
our frank companionship there lay concealed anything of--of deeper
significance--"
"Suppose--it were true?" he said.
"But it is not true!" she retorted angrily--and looked up, caught his
gaze, and her breath failed her.
"Suppose it were true--for example," he repeated. "Suppose you did find
that you or I were capable of--deeper--"
"Louis! Louis! Do you realise what you are saying to me? Do you
understand what you are doing to the old order of things between us--to
the old confidences, the old content, the happiness, the--the innocence
of our life together? Do you? Do you even care?"
"Care? Yes--I care."
"Because," she said, excitedly, "if it is to be--that way with
you--I--I can not help you--be of use to you here in the studio as I
have been.... Am I taking you too seriously? You do not mean that you
really could ever love me, or I you, do you? You mean that--that you
just want me back again--as I was--as we were--perfectly content to be
together. That is what you mean, isn't it, Kelly, dear?" she asked,
piteously.
He looked into her flushed and distressed face:
"Yes," he said, "that is exactly what I mean, Valerie--you dear,
generous, clear-seeing girl! I just wanted you back again; I miss you; I
am perfectly wretched without you, and that is all the trouble. Will you
come?"
"I--don't--know. Why did you say such a thing?"
"Forgive me, dear!"
She slowly shook her head:
"You've made me think of--things," she said. "You shouldn't ever have
done it."
"Done what, Valerie?"
"What you did--what you said--which makes it impossible for me to--to
ever again be what I have been to you--even pose for you--as I did--"
"You mean that you won't pose for me any more?" he asked, aghast.
"Only--in costume." She sat on the edge of the sofa, head averted,
looking steadily down at the hearth below. There was a pink spot on
either cheek.
He thought a moment. "Valerie," he said, "I believe we had better finish
what we have only begun to say."
"Is there--anything more?" she asked, unsmiling.
"Ask yourself. Do you suppose things can be left this way between
us--all the happiness and the confidence--and the innocence, as you say,
destroyed?"
"What more is there to say," she demanded, coldly.
"Shall--I--say it?" he stammered.
She looked up, startled, scarcely recognising the voice as his--scarcely
now recognising his altered features.
"What is the matter with you?" she exclaimed nervously.
"Good God," he said, hoarsely, "can't you see I've gone quite mad about
you!"
"About--me!" she repeated, blankly.
"About you--Valerie West. Can't you see it? Didn't you know it? Hasn't
it been plain enough to you--even if it hasn't been to me?"
"Louis! Louis!" she cried in hurt astonishment, "what have you said to
me?"
"That I'm mad about you, and I am. And it's been so--for
months--always--ever since the very first! I must have been crazy not to
realise it. I've been fool enough not to understand what has been the
matter. Now you know the truth, Valerie!" He sprang to his feet, took a
short turn or two before the hearth, then, catching sight of her face in
its colourless dismay and consternation:
"I suppose you don't care a damn for me--that way!" he said, with a
mirthless laugh.
"What!" she whispered, bewildered by his violence. Then: "Do you mean
that you are in love with me!"
"Utterly, hopelessly--" his voice broke and he stood with hands
clenched, unable to utter a word.
She sat up very straight and pale, the firelight gleaming on her neck
and shoulders. After a moment his voice came back to his choked throat:
"I love you better than anything in the world." he said in unsteady
tones. "And that is what has come between us. Do you think it is
something we had better hunt down and destroy--this love that has come
between us?"
"Is--is that true?" she asked in the awed voice of a child.
"It seems to be," he managed to say. She slid stiffly to the floor and
stood leaning against the sofa's edge, looking at him wide-eyed as a
schoolgirl.
"It never occurred to you what the real trouble might be," he asked,
"did it?"
She shook her head mechanically.
"Well, we know now. Your court of inquiry has brought out the truth
after all."
She only stared at him, fascinated. No colour had returned to her
cheeks.
He began to pace the hearth again, lip caught savagely between his
teeth.
"You are no more amazed than I am to learn the truth," he said. "I never
supposed it was that.... And it's been that from the moment I laid eyes
on you. I know it now. I'm learning, you see--learning not to lie to
myself or to you.... Learning other things, too--God knows what--if this
is love--this utter--suffering--"
He swung on his heel and began to pace the glimmering tiles toward her:
"Discontent, apathy, unhappiness, loneliness--the hidden ache which
merely meant I missed you when you were not here--when I was not beside
you--all these are now explained before your bed of justice. Your court
has heard the truth to-night; and you, Valerie, are armed with
justice--the high, the middle, and the low."
Pale, mute, she raised her dark eyes and met his gaze.
In the throbbing silence he heard his heart heavy in his breast; and now
she heard her own, rapid, terrifying her, hurrying her she knew not
whither. And again, trembling, she covered her eyes with her hands.
"Valerie," he said, in anguish, "come back to me. I will not ask you to
love me if you cannot. Only come back. I--can't--endure it--without
you."
There was no response.
He stepped nearer, touched her hands, drew them from her face--revealing
its pallid loveliness--pressed them to his lips, to his face; drew them
against his own shoulders--closer, till they fell limply around his
neck.
She uttered a low cry: "Louis!" Then:
"It--it is all over--with us," she faltered. "I--had never thought of
you--this way."
"Can you think of me this way, now?"
"I--can't help it."
"Dearest--dearest--" he stammered, and kissed her unresponsive lips, her
throat, her hair. She only gazed silently at the man whose arms held
her tightly imprisoned.
Under the torn lace and silk one bare shoulder glimmered; and he kissed
it, touched the pale veins with his lips, drew the arm from his neck and
kissed elbow, wrist, and palm, and every slender finger; and still she
looked at him as though dazed. A lassitude, heavy, agreeable to endure,
possessed her. She yielded to the sense of fatigue--to the confused
sweetness that invaded her; every pulse in her body beat its assent,
every breath consented.
"Will you try to care for me, Valerie?"
"You know I will."
"With all your heart?" he asked, trembling.
"I do already."
"Will you give yourself to me?"
There was a second's hesitation; then with a sudden movement she dropped
her face on his shoulder. After a moment her voice came, very small,
smothered:
"What did you mean, Louis?"
"By what--my darling?"
"By--my giving myself--to you?"
"I mean that I want you always," he said in a happy, excited voice that
thrilled her. But she looked up at him, still unenlightened.
"I don't quite understand," she said--"but--" and her voice fell so low
he could scarcely hear it--"I am--not afraid--to love you."
"Afraid!" He stood silent a moment, then: "What did you think I meant,
Valerie? I want you to marry me!"
She flushed and laid her cheek against his shoulder, striving to think
amid the excited disorder of her mind, the delicious bewilderment of
her senses--strove to keep clear one paramount thought from the heavenly
confusion that was invading her, carrying her away, sweeping her into
paradise--struggled to keep that thought intact, uninfluenced, and cling
to it through everything that threatened to overwhelm her.
Her slim hands resting in his, her flushed face on his breast, his words
ringing in her ears, she strove hard, hard! to steady herself. Because
already she knew what her decision must be--what her love for him had
always meant in the days when that love had been as innocent as
friendship. And even now there was little in it except innocence; little
yet of passion. It was still only a confused, heavenly surprise,
unvexed, and, alas! unterrified. The involuntary glimpse of any future
for it or for her left her gaze dreamy, curious, but unalarmed. The
future he had offered her she would never accept; no other future
frightened her.
"Louis?"
"Dearest," he whispered, his lips to hers.
"It is sweet of you, it is perfectly dear of you to wish me to be
your--wife. But--let us decide such questions later--"
"Valerie! What do you mean?"
"I didn't mean that I don't love you," she said, tremulously. "I believe
you scarcely understand how truly I do love you.... As a matter of fact,
I have always been in love with you without knowing it. You are not the
only fool," she said, with a confused little laugh.
"You darling!"
She smiled again uncertainly and shook her head:
"I truly believe I have always been in love with you.... Now that I
look back and consider, I am sure of it." She lifted her pretty head and
gazed at him, then with a gay little laugh of sheer happiness almost
defiant: "You see I am not afraid to love you," she said.
"Afraid? Why should you be?" he repeated, watching her expression.
"Because--I am not going to marry you," she announced, gaily.
He stared at her, stunned.
"Listen, you funny boy," she added, framing his face with her hands and
smiling confidently into his troubled eyes: "I am not afraid to love you
because I never was afraid to face the inevitable. And the inevitable
confronts me now. And I know it. But I will not marry you, Louis. It is
good of you, dear of you to ask it. But it is too utterly unwise. And I
will not."
"Why?"
"Because," she said, frankly, "I love you better than I do myself." She
forced another laugh, adding: "Unlike the gods, whom I love I do not
destroy."
"That is a queer answer, dear--"
"Is it? Because I say I love you better than I do myself? Why, Louis,
all the history of my friendship for you has been only that. Have you
ever seen anything selfish in my affection for you?".
"Of course not, but--"
"Well, then! There isn't one atom of it in my love for you, either. And
I love you dearly--dearly! But I'm not selfish enough to marry you.
Don't scowl and try to persuade me, Louis, I've a perfectly healthy mind
of my own, and you know it--and it's absolutely clear on that subject.
You must be satisfied with what I offer--every bit of love that is in
me--" She hesitated, level eyed and self-possessed, considering him
with the calm gaze of a young goddess:
"Dear," she went on, slowly, "let us end this marriage question once and
for all. You can't take me out of my world into yours without suffering
for it. Because your world is full of women of your own kind--mothers,
sisters, relatives, friends.... And all your loyalty, all your tact, all
their tact and philosophy, too, could not ease one moment in life for
you if I were unwise enough to go with you into that world and let you
try to force them to accept me."
"I tell you," he began, excitedly, "that they must accept--"
"Hush!" she smiled, placing her hand gently across his lips; "with all
your man's experience you are only a man; but I know how it is with
women. I have no illusions, Louis. Even by your side, and with the
well-meant kindness of your family to me, you would suffer; and I have
not the courage to let you--even for love's sake."
"You are entirely mistaken--" he broke out; but she silenced him with a
pretty gesture, intimate, appealing, a little proud.
"No, I am not mistaken, nor am I likely to deceive myself that any woman
of your world could ever consider me of it--or could ever forgive you
for taking me there. And that means spoiling life for you. And I will
not!"
"Then they can eliminate me, also!" he said, impatiently.
"What logic! When I have tried so hard to make you understand that I
will not accept any sacrifice from you!"
"It is no sacrifice for me to give up such a--"
"You say very foolish and very sweet things to me, Louis, but I could
not love you enough to make up to you your unhappiness at seeing me in
your world and not a part of it. Ah, the living ghosts of that world,
Louis! Yet I could endure it for myself--a woman can endure anything
when she loves; and find happiness, too--if only the man she loves is
