And the thought is always torture to me that you 
are accomplishing so much more than I ! I was think- 
ing of your letters to-night, and I recalled some words 
that seemed to speak more of your love for me. Oh, 
Thyrsis, if your letters are fiery and passionate, is it 
for love of me that they are? I'm almost afraid at 
times, when I read your letters when you tell me of 
the kind of woman you want to love. 
I at present am certainly not she. And do you know 
that when we are married we shall be united forever? 
I don't know why I write you these things, they are 
not at all inspiring thoughts to me. 
And yet I was able to go in swimming this afternoon, 
and forget everything and frolic around as happily as 
any water-baby! 
VII 
MY DEAR CORYDON: 
I came off to write my poem, but I have been thinking 
about you, and I must write a long letter. It is one 
of the kind that you do not like. 
In the first place, you complain of the contradictions 
in my letters. I am sorry. I live so, struggling always 
with what is not best in me, and continually falling 
down. Also, in this matter I am an utter stranger, 
groping my way ; and there is an element of passion 
in it, a dangerous element, which leads me continually 
astray. 
I can only say that in my ideal of love, which is utter 
 
love and spiritual love, I think of living my life with 
you in entire nakedness of soul. Therefore. I shall 
always be before you exactly as I should be by myself. 
And I shall write you now exactly what I have been 
thinking, what is hard and unkind in it, as well as the 
rest. You will learn to know me as a man far from 
perfect, often going astray himself, often feeling wrong 
things, often leading you astray and making you 
wretched. But behind all this there is the thing often 
lost sight of, but always present the iron duty that I 
have, and the force in me which drives me to it. 
All this morning I have been thinking of my book, 
losing myself in it and filling myself with its glory. 
This afternoon I fell to thinking about us ; and thoughts 
which have been lurking in my mind for a long time got 
the upper hand for the first time. They were that I 
did not love you as I ought to, that I could not ; that 
the love which I felt was a thing from my own 
heart, and that it had carried me away because I was 
anxious to persuade myself I had found my ideal upon 
earth ; that you could not satisfy the demands upon 
life that I made, and that if I married you it would 
be to make you wretched, and myself as well ; that you 
had absolutely nothing of the things that I needed, and 
that the life which your nature required was entirely 
different from mine ; that you had no realization of the 
madness that was driving me, could find and give me 
none of the power I needed; and that I ought to write 
and tell you this, no matter what it cost that I owed 
it to the sacr-ed possibility of my own soul, to live alone 
if I could live better alone. And when I had said these 
words, I felt a sense of relief, because they were haunt- 
ing me, and had been for a long time. 
How they will affect you I cannot tell, it depends upon 
 
how deep your love for me is ; certainly they mean for 
me that my love is not deep, that you have not made 
yourself necessary to me. I think that in that last 
phrase I put the whole matter in its essence you have 
not bound yourself to me ; I am always struggling 
to keep my love firm and right, to hold myself to you. 
The result is that there is no food for my soul in the 
thought of our love, in my thought of you ; and there- 
fore, I am continually dissatisfied and doubting, con- 
tinually feeling the difference between the love I have 
dreamed and our love. 
I tried to think the matter out, and get to the very 
bottom of it. The first thing that came to me on the 
other side was your absolute truth; your absolute de- 
votion to what was right and noble in our ideal. So 
that, as I was thinking, I suddenly stopped short with 
this statement "If you cannot find right love with that 
girl, it must be because you do not honor love, or care 
for it." And then I thought of your helplessness, of 
your lack of training and opportunity for growth; 
and I told myself how absurd it was of me to expect 
satisfying love from you when all that I knew about 
in life, and thought of, was entirely unknown to you. 
I realized that I was a man who had tasted more or 
less of all knowledge, and had an infinite vision of 
knowledge yet before him, and an infinite hunger for 
it; and that you were a school-girl, with all of a 
school-girl's tasks on your hands. So I said to myself 
that the reason for the dissatisfaction was a fault of 
my own, that it had come from my own blindness. I 
had gone wrong in my attitude to you ; I had failed in 
my sternness and my high devotion to perfection ; I had 
contented myself with lesser things, had come down from 
my best self, and had failed to make you see what a 
 
task was before you, if you ever meant to know my best 
self. You perceive that this is a return to my old-time 
attitude; I am sorry if it makes you wretched, but I 
cannot help it. It is a surgical operation that must 
be borne. I shall not make it necessary again, I hope. 
Now, dear Corydon, I am not trying to choose 
pleasant words in this letter, this is the way I talk 
to myself. And if anything good comes from our love, 
it will be because of this letter. I challenge what is 
noblest in you to rise to meet the truth of it. I should 
not care to write to you if I did not feel that it would. 
You have had a possibility offered to you, and because 
you are very hungry for life you have clasped it to 
you, placed all your happiness in it. The possibility is 
the love of a man whose heart has been filled with the 
fire of genius. There are few men whom life takes 
hold of as it does me, who sacrifice themselves for their 
duty as I do, who demand experience knowledge, 
power, beauty as I do. There are very few men who 
will wrest out of existence as much as I will, or know 
and have as much of life. I am a boy just now, and 
only beginning to live ; but I have my purpose in hand, 
and I know that if I am given health and life, there 
is nothing that men have known that I shall not know, 
nothing that is done in the world that I shall not do, 
or try to. I have a strong physique, and I labor day 
and night, and always shall. I shall always be hungry 
and restless, always dissatisfied with myself, and with 
everything about me, and acting and feeling most of 
the time like a person haunted by a devil. I make no 
apologies to you for the conceit of what I am saying ; 
it is what I think of myself, without caring what other 
people think. I know that I have a tremendous tempera- 
ment, tremendous powers hidden within me, and they 
 
have got to come out. When they do, the world will 
know what I know now. 
Now Corydon, as you understand, I dream love ab- 
solute, and would scorn any other kind. I can master 
my passion, if it be that upon earth there is no woman 
willing or able to go with me to the last inch of my 
journey. I dream a life-companion to follow wherever 
my duty drives me; to feel all the desperateness of de- 
sire that I feel, to be stern and remorseless as I must 
be, wild and savage as I must be ; to race through 
knowledge with me and to share my passion for truth 
with me ; a woman with whom I need have no shame in 
the duty of my genius ! As I tell you, if I marry you, 
I expect to give myself to you as your own heart; and 
then I think of the gentle and mild existence you have 
led! 
It is very hard for me even to tell about my life, or 
to explain this thing that drives me mad. But I am 
writing this letter to you for the purpose of making 
clear to you that there are two alternatives before you, 
and that you must choose one or the other and stick 
by it, and bear the consequences. It is painful to me 
to think that I have fascinated you by what oppor- 
tunities I have, even by what power and passion and 
talents I have, and filled you with a hunger for me- 
when really you do not realize at all what I am, or 
what I must be, and when what I have to do will terrify 
you. I write in the thought of terrifying you now, 
and making you give up this red-hot iron that you are 
trying to hold on to; or else to show you my life so 
plainly that never afterwards can you blame me, or 
shrink back except by your own fault. 
You must not blame me for writing these words, 
for wondering if a woman, if any woman has power 
 
to stand what I need to do. And when I talk to you 
about giving me up, you must not think that is cold, 
but know that it is my faithfulness to my vision, which 
is the one thing to which I owe any duty in the world. 
Nor is it right that you should expect to be essential 
to me, when I have labored to be all to myself. You 
could become necessary to me in the years to come ; if 
I marry you to-day I shall marry you for what you 
are to become, and for that alone at any rate if I 
am true to myself. 
If you are to be my wife you are to be my soul 
to live my soul's life and bear its pain. You are to 
understand that I talk to you as I talk to myself, call 
you the names I call myself, and if you cry, give you 
up in disgust ; that I am to deny you all pleasure as I
do myself, and what God knows will be ten thousand 
times harder, let you take pleasure, and then spring 
up in the very midst of it you know what I mean ! 
That I am to be ever dissatisfied with you, ever incon- 
siderate of your feelings, and ever declaring that you 
are failing! That however much I may love you, I am 
to be your conscience, and therefore keep you just 
about as you are now, miserable ! You told me that you 
would gladly be whipped to learn to live ; and this can 
be the only thing to happen to you. 
You must understand why I act in this way. I am 
a weak and struggling man, with a thousand tempta- 
tions ; and when I marry you, you will be the greatest 
temptation of all. You are a beautiful girl, and I love 
you, and every instinct of my nature drives me to you ; 
for me to live with you without kissing you or putting 
my arms about you, will remain always difficult. It will 
be so for you, as for me, and it will always be our 
danger, and always make us wretched. Your soul rises 
 
in you as I write this, and you say (as you've said 
before) that if I offered to kiss you after it, it would 
be an insult. But only wait until we meet ! 
This is the one thing that has become clear to me: 
just as soon as there comes the least thought of satis- 
faction in our love, just so soon does it cease to satisfy 
my best self. You cannot satisfy my best self, you 
do not even know it ; and if it were a question of that, 
I should never dream of marrying you ! I love you for 
this and for this alone because you are an undeveloped 
soul, the dream of whose infinite possibilities is my one 
delight in the matter. I think that you are perfect 
in character, that you are truth itself; and therefore, 
no matter how helpless you may be, I have no fear of 
failing to make you "all the world to me", provided only 
that I am not false to my ideal. You must know from 
what I have written before that I can love, that I do 
know what love is, and that you may trust me. I am 
not trying to degrade passion I simply see how pas- 
sion throws the burden on the woman, and therefore it 
is utterly a crime with us the least thought of it ! I 
ought to consider you as a school-girl, really just that; 
and instead of that I write you love letters ! 
I tell you there is nothing more hateful for me to 
look back upon than that childish business of ours, 
that time when we went upstairs that we might kiss 
each other unseen. I tell you, it revolts my soul, from 
love and from you ! I should be perfectly willing to 
take all the blame I do ; only I have led you to like 
that (or to act as if you did) and I must stop it. Can 
you not understand how hateful it is to me to think of 
making you anything that I should be disgusted with? 
I expect you to read over this letter until you realize 
that it is, every word of it, completely true and noble, 
 
and until you can write me so. You and I are to feel 
ourselves two school-children and live just so. It is 
not usual for school-children to marry, but that we dare 
upon the strength of our purpose, and in defiance of all 
counsel, and of every precedent. We are to feel that 
we owe our duty to our ideal ; and that simply because 
of the strength and passion of our love for each other, 
we demand perfection, each of the other. My setting 
this stern challenge before you is nothing but my de- 
termination to give you my right love, to demand that 
you be a perfect woman. 
I promise you therefore no quarter; I shall make no 
sacrifice of my ideal for your sake. As I wrote you, I 
mean to be absolutely one with you, and I expect you 
to be the same. You shall have (if you wish it) all of 
my soul I shall live my life with you and think all my 
thoughts aloud study to give you everything that I 
have. And God only, who knows my heart, knows what 
utter love for you lies in those words, what utter trust 
of you how I think of you as being purity and holi- 
ness itself. To offer to take any other being into my 
soul, to lay bare all the secret places of it to its gaze, 
all the weaknesses as well as all the strength, and all 
that is vain as well as all that is sacred! You cannot 
know how I feel about my heart, but this you may 
know, that no one else has had a glimpse of it, you are 
the first and the last; and so sure am I of you that I 
dare to say it, all my life will I live in your presence, 
and trust to your sympathy and truth and feel that 
I am false to love if I do not. If there were anything 
in my heart so foul that I feared to speak of it, I should 
give you that first, as the sacrifice of love; or any 
vanity or foible such things are really hardest to have 
others know, so great is our conceit. 
 
If I could talk to you to-night, I should do just as 
I did up on the hill in the moonlight frighten you, 
and make you wonder if there was any woman who 
wished to bear such a burden ; and perhaps the saddest 
thing of all to me is that I do not bear it instead I 
bear the gnawing of a conscience bitter and ashamed 
of itself. And could you bear that burden? For Cory- 
don, as I look at myself to-night, I am before God, 
a coward and a dastard ! I have not done my work ! 
I have not borne the pain He calls me to bear, I have 
not wrested out the strength He put in my secret 
heart! And here I am chattering, talking about work 
to you! And these things are like a nightmare J;o me; 
they turn all my life's happiness to gall. And you are 
taking upon yourself this same burden coming to 
help me to get rid of it. Or if you do not wish to, for 
God's sake, and mine, and yours, don't come near me 
you have come too near as it is ! Can you not see 
that when I am face to face with these fearful things 
and you come and ask me to give my life to you, to 
worship you with the best faculties I possess that I 
have no right to say yes? 
You once told me you were happy because I called 
you "mein guter Geist, mein bess'res Ich" ; well, you 
are not in the least that. The name that I give you, 
and that you may keep, is "the beautiful possibility of 
