that dignified place which is yours, Jim, by every right.
"Now that it’s over, and the mist blown clear of your path forever, I
want to confess to you how dreadfully I felt to see you here in such a
capacity.  More than that, your light talk about the arts, your light
and graceful accomplishments in them, your tendency to drift back toward
a career for which you are no more fitted than I—all these things
troubled me deeply, so that, sometimes, I even dreamed of them, and
finally came to regard your facility with actual fear, so jealous was I
for your real career, so anxious was I that you should become your real
self.
"I suppose you will scarcely believe it, Jim, when I tell you that this
feeling began from the very moment when you offered to go with Silvette
and me to Adriutha.  Somehow, blindly, I understood even then that it
was not the thing for you to do; and, remember, I knew you scarcely at
all.
"Yet my instinct resented your going, and if I did not actually protest,
perhaps you may recollect that my attitude was not cordial; that you had
to ask me many times for my vote; that, after all, I never cast it, but
simply refrained from voting at all.
"I suppose this was cowardly in me; yet, Jim, what else could I have
done?  I scarcely knew you; I dared not appear ungrateful after your
kindness to Silvette and to me.
"Forgive this self-defense.  I merely wanted you to know; I only wish
you to understand that, at heart anyway, I have been, from the
beginning, loyal to the best interests of a friend and a kinsman who was
most kind to two girls alone in the world."
"This is a still, golden, autumn world—autumn no longer, alas! for we
are already well along in November.  But autumn lingers in this land of
hills and waters, and the frost was not severe enough to blacken the
late roses.  If the weather is unseasonable, it is also charming, and I
love it.  Russet and gold always did fascinate me—like the hangings and
tapestries in your studio, with the dusty sunlight falling over all.
"Eh bien, monsieur, I must conclude my monologue.  You are a brave man
if you have read as far as the name you gave me once—centuries ago.
"JAPONETTE."
She closed and sealed her letter, wrote his name on the envelope, rested
awhile, blue eyes seeing nothing; then, touching the envelope with her
lips, she laid it between the leaves of her portfolio.
Since that day in this very place, Edgerton had spoken no more of love
to her.  She knew that he never would again, that what had begun here on
the Path to Yesterday had ended where the path ended.  Never again would
he retrace those steps with her; never again travel them alone.  For it
was a lost road to him, a blind trail already overgrown with briars.
The days made it fainter, the months were hiding it, the years would
obliterate it for him.  But for her, alas—she had many a pilgrimage yet
to make along that briar-grown path; and many a scar, yet unmade, must
heal before that path closed before her pilgrim feet, and shut out
forever from her eyes the hidden shrine it led to, where the sky was
rosy above the river and the starlings called through the golden light
of Paradise.
And now, as she stood up, the subtle scent of autumn hung heavy in the
air—a faint odor of ripening, hinting of decay and death. Summer had
gone indeed—on earth and in her heart.
Never again would life be the same to her after this day, in this place,
alone with memory; never again would she be the same.  How old her heart
had become—how old—how old! O amari dies!  O flebiles noctes!
She rode that afternoon with Colonel Curmew, accepting him instead of
another because she thought his chatter might leave her freer to follow
her own thoughts.
But after a while it seemed to her as though she could no longer endure
them, and that the colonel’s inanities were preferable.
They were riding down a mountain road, the horses picking a cautious way
among the scattered stones.
He was paying court to her, as usual, and she had been riding on,
smiling absently, preoccupied with her own thoughts and mentally
oblivious to him, when there came a clatter of stones from behind, and
Scott Wallace galloped recklessly up at the risk of his horse’s neck as
well as his own.
"Halloo!" he said cheerfully; "hope I’m not smashing a twosome,
colonel."
The colonel glanced sourly at him.  Diana laughed with pleasure: "Not at
all, Scott! Colonel Curmew and I are old acquaintances, and the
resources of sentiment were long ago exhausted between us.  Where are
you going?"
"Nowhere; I just felt like a gallop.  All the chaps are kickin’ over the
flight, which either isn’t goin’ to materialize or passed over Sunday
and made boobs of the bunch of us. Where are you goin’?"
"Nowhere in particular; come with us.  My nerves needed soothing, so I
took the colonel along."
"As a tonic or quieter?" asked Wallace so seriously that Diana threw
back her pretty head and the woodlands were melodious.
The colonel laughed loudly, too, and began to hate young Wallace with a
hatred that passes all understanding.
Wallace turned to her.  "What’s wrong with your nerves?  I supposed
you hadn’t any."
"I didn’t know it either, Scott.  Probably I’ve played with cards and
cigarettes too hard. For all the sunshine, to-day has been a gray one
for me....  Shall we gallop?"
She launched her horse into a trot, a canter, then into a dead run.
Behind her tore the two men through the afternoon sunlight, on, on,
until their winded mounts topped the homeward crest of the hill and they
looked down on the meadows of Adriutha.
They wended their way down the mountain in silence—Diana, grave and
apparently tired; Wallace smiling slightly, and glancing at her from
moment to moment; Colonel Curmew pop-eyed, expressionless, curling his
mustache with gloved fingers.
He was furious with Diana, with Wallace, with himself.  Yet even he
could not see how he might have resented the young man’s intrusion
otherwise than by the lack of cordiality which he had certainly
manifested.  Besides Diana had invited him to remain with them.  Of what
low tricks women are capable! Because she knew well enough that he had
desired and sought a tête-à-tête.
Curling his mustache tighter, he rode on, a good figure in the saddle
always—ruminating, considering, angry because of the interruption.
For Colonel Follis Curmew had for days, now, been carefully preparing
the way for something he meant to say to Diana.  He was a cautious man
with women; he reconnoitered by degrees, inch by inch, carefully
watching effect.  Hint, innuendo, double meanings, sly feelers, veiled
intent, was the strategy he usually employed at first, skirmishing as
close to the dead line as he dared; furtive, alert, ready always for a
brilliant and resistless climax at the psychological moment.
A few minutes ago he had believed that the psychological moment was
approaching.  He had said one or two things so cleverly that not the
least resentment had altered her smile; but how was he to know that, if
she had heard him at all, she had not in the least understood him?  It
takes more than one to play a game of that kind.  The trouble was that
her smiling inattention had deceived him—had always deceived him.  He
was entirely persuaded that she had drifted into the game long ago.
Surely, surely the psychological moment had been close at hand when that
big fool of a boy had come clattering downhill and smashed their
approaching understanding into smithereens for the moment.  The colonel
silently damned him as he rode.  It took time and patience to gather up
and piece together the fragments and smithereens; it took skill and
watchfulness to choose another such propitious day and hour—to select
the scenery and the moment for what he meant to say to this young girl.
As he dismounted her at the foot of the terrace he pressed her arm
significantly, and said under his breath:
"Can we get away for a moment together this evening?"
Wallace was close by, and the colonel spoke so low and pinched so
discreetly that she neither understood nor noticed his amenities, so she
merely nodded smilingly, thanked him for his escort, and ran up the
steps beside Wallace.
"I’ll be in the billiard room later, if that interests you," she called
back over her shoulder to Wallace as she ascended the stairs.
"It certainly does!" he replied promptly, and went away to change.
Diana continued on to her own room, disturbing Jack and Silvette on the
stairs, and gaily jeering at them as she banged the door. A curious
reaction had set in from the sadness of the morning—a feverish desire to
escape from herself, from the misery that lay always heavy in her
breast, the relentless hours that weighted her heart so that its dull
beating had become a burden.
The bath refreshed her; so did the tea.  She put on her little Japanese
gown and her straw sandals, and curled up by the window, sipping her tea
and watching the declining sun.
Dusk came swiftly, and with it Silvette who bent over and kissed her,
and tasted the tea, and wandered about the rooms gossiping, too full of
the joy of living to endure silence in herself or in anybody else.
Pangs of swift remorse and self-reproach stabbed her at intervals when
she thought of her own happiness and remembered Diana’s late unhappy
affair.
How far Diana had cured herself, she did not know, but she knew that her
sister was still more or less unhappy about Edgerton.
"Did you send him my note?" she inquired.
"Yes: I wrote him, and inclosed it."
"He’s a dear boy....  How well he must be doing!  He ought to go down on
his knees and thank you every day of his life for what he is turning out
to be."
"He would have turned out all right anyway, sooner or later."
"Well, he’s a horrid pig if he isn’t grateful to you....  I don’t
suppose he has the slightest idea what his regeneration cost you."
"Don’t talk that way, Silvie."
"What way?  I’m merely saying——"
"Don’t say it, dear....  If it cost me anything, he is never going to
know it."
Silvette looked at her wistfully.  "If I could only see you as happy as
I am, Di.... Sometimes I can scarcely bear to be as happy as I am, and
remember that you are not sharing it."
"True," said Diana, smiling; "Jack can’t marry us both, so we can’t
share your happiness, dear."
Silvette came and sat on the arm of the chair, drawing one arm about
Diana’s neck.
"Do you still care for him very much?" she asked sorrowfully.
"Very much."
"Do you think it will last?"
"Yes."
"What are you going to do?"
"Nothing."
"Isn’t there something to do?"
"Nothing."
"Perhaps, all this time he really cares for you."
"There is not the slightest possibility.  I had my chance; he cared for
me—at that moment—when he told me so....  Those men out there"—she made
a vague gesture toward the unseen hills—"are no more deadly cool when
they shoot than was I when I deliberately killed in him whatever love he
may have had for me....  I slew it, I tell you.  There is no
resurrection for dead things."
Silvette sighed heavily, and laid her smooth cheek against her sister’s
hair.
"Still," she murmured half to herself, "there are miracles."
"There were."
"There may be others yet."
"No; I wounded his pride."
"You aroused it."
"By wounding it, and at the expense of what fell dead beside it.  Love
died that day, little sister, and for that death there is no
reincarnation."
Again the feverish desire for escape came over her, seeming to burn
through every vein, and she sprang to her feet and rang for the maid.
"I’m likely to do almost anything to-night," she said.  "Shall I make it
a double event when you’re ready?"
"A double—what?"
"Double event—double wedding?  I can easily do so.  Is it a good way to
drown your griefs, Silvie?  Because the prospect of being alone after
you and Jack marry actually terrifies me."
"You little goose, you’ll live with us!"
"I see myself doing it!—the superfluous spinster to be reckoned with,
counted in at dinners, mollified by kindness, secretly feared for her
acidulated tongue, to be employed later in either bribing or
disciplining the children."
"Di!"
"What?"
"If—in the—the——"
"Course of human events——"
"Jack and I have children," continued Silvette, flushing, "we’ll also
have nurses to look out for the grubby little things."
"Grubby!  You don’t know what you’re saying.  You’ll be the most
adoring—and adorable mother——"
"Well, please don’t talk about it....  I don’t care for children now....
I don’t know how I’ll feel later."
Diana stood in the middle of the room—the smile fading from her face,
her small hands clenching.
"I’ve learned to like children," she said. "I’ve learned to love them,
somehow—even babies....  I want one of my own," she added fiercely.  "I
wish for one very much; and if I can’t have one—and it’s impossible, of
course—I—I’ll marry some man and have one!"
"Good heavens!" exclaimed Silvette, horrified, "what are you talking
about?  I’ll let you have one of mine!"
"I don’t want yours!  How do you know you’ll have any?  How do you know
you’ll have more than one?"
Her eyebrows were bent inward, her lips compressed; she turned her head
and stared out at the stars—from where, they say, all babies come, and
where they all return at last.
"You know," she said calmly, "that I wouldn’t really do such a
thing—even to have what I care for so much....  And yet—if a woman is
tired, hopeless, alone, isn’t marrying some man a help to her?  Can’t
she stand the passing years better?  Doesn’t it give her some respite
from the eternal pain—here"—she laid a slim hand on her breast—"doesn’t
it give her something to live for, especially if children should come?
I don’t know, Silvie; I ask you because I’m tired and confused with the
pain of it."
"My darling!"
She dropped her head on Silvette’s shoulder for a moment; then, as the
maid knocked, lifted it calmly and bade her come in.
That night at dinner she was very gay—a charming, sparkling, bewildering
creature. Through and through Colonel Curmew shot intermittent pangs of
jealousy and doubt, mercifully assuaged by hope; through and through
Scott Wallace her blue eyes seemed to penetrate, exposing to her
laughing gaze his youthful and very susceptible heart.
[Illustration: "That night at dinner she was very gay—a charming,
sparkling, bewildering creature."]
"Certainly I’m bowled over," he admitted cheerfully to himself.  "She is
the cunnin’est thing that ever missed a pheasant; but she’s found me,
all right, with both barrels, and the sky’s full of feathers, and I’m on
the sod, kickin’."
Me managed to tell her so that evening, in language sportsmanlike and
picturesque, before they cut for partners at auction.  She was standing
on the stairs, two steps up; he below her, with his handsome face
lifted.
"All you’ve got to do is to send your dogs forward, and retrieve me,
Diana.  I’m grassed in the open in plain sight."
"Suppose I should take you up, Scott?"
"Is it a go?"
She smiled down at him.
"Take care, young man.  I’m approaching spinsterhood at a terrifying
speed.  How do you know that I may not clutch wildly at you?"
"For Heaven’s sake, clutch!" he urged her.
"How?  Shall I roll up my eyes and whisper, ’Oh, Scott!’—or shall I take
a flying leap at you from here, and rope you before you can get away?
Instruct me, please, because I really don’t know as much about such
customs as perhaps you think I do."
"Take the flyer, Diana; I’ll catch you.  Are you ready?  Come on; be a
sport!"
"I can’t be a sport, Scott.  I try; I make a brave effort to be
cigaretteful and naughty, but—I’m ashamed to say it isn’t in me.  Now
you’ll run, I suppose."
"After you—yes....  Diana, I do love you.  I haven’t said it right,
that’s all.  Will you marry me and make somethin’ out of me besides a
loafin’ lout in puttees?"
"Oh, Scott, you’re so beautiful in puttees! I wouldn’t make anything
else out of you if I could; you must be perfectly gorgeous in pink."
"Come down to the next hunt ball and see. They’re a fine bunch at
Meadowbrook.  You’ll like ’em; maybe you’ll learn to like me."
"I do now, you scatter-brain!  I adore you, Scott; but, you know, love
is a different game."
"That’ll come all right," he protested. "When you’re the missus, and you
see me come a cropper over five bars, you’ll suddenly wake up to find
you love hubby.  And I won’t be hurt, but you’ll think I am, and you’ll
pull up and scramble down and look me over, and cover my pale and
beautiful face with kisses and—I’ll play foxy and let you," he ended
with pleased satisfaction.
The smile on her face had suddenly become fixed: for what he was saying
had conjured up a vision of the polo field, and a young fellow in white
picking himself up from the trampled sod.
Wallace, looking around to see that the hall was empty, sprang up the
two steps and took her hand in his.
"Diana, I do love you dearly," he said. "Will you take me on for a trial
gallop?"
"Do you mean an engagement?" she said, looking him over.
"Yes, I do; will you?"
"What kind of an engagement?"
