“Then I shall give him a chance--as I should particularly like you to go
back and deal with those overwhelming children.”
“Ah, they don’t overwhelm you, father!”--the girl put it with some
point.
“If you mean to say I overwhelmed them, I dare say I did,” he
replied--“from my view of that vast collective gape of six hundred
painfully plain and perfectly expressionless faces. But that was only
for the time: I pumped advice--oh such advice!--and they held the
large bucket as still as my pet pointer, when I scratch him, holds his
back. The bucket, under the stream--”
“Was bound to overflow?” Lady Grace suggested.
“Well, the strong recoil of the wave of intelligence has been not
unnaturally followed by the formidable break. You must really,” Lord
Theign insisted, “go and deal with it.”
His daughter’s smile, for all this, was perceptibly cold. “You work
people up, father, and then leave others to let them down.”
“The two things,” he promptly replied, “require different natures.” To
which he simply added, as with the habit of authority, though not of
harshness, “Go!”
It was absolute and she yielded; only pausing an instant to look as with
a certain gathered meaning from one of the men to the other. Faintly and
resignedly sighing she passed away to the terrace and disappeared.
“The nature that can let you down--I rather like it, you know!” Lord
John threw off. Which, for an airy elegance in them, were perhaps just
slightly rash words--his companion gave him so sharp a look as the two
were left together.
VI
Face to face with his visitor the master of Dedborough betrayed the
impression his daughter appeared to have given him. “She didn’t want
to go?” And then before Lord John could reply: “What the deuce is the
matter with her?”
Lord John took his time. “I think perhaps a little Mr. Crimble.”
“And who the deuce is a little Mr. Crimble?”
“A young man who was just with her--and whom she appears to have
invited.”
“Where is he then?” Lord Theign demanded.
“Off there among the pictures--which he seems partly to have come for.”
“Oh!”--it made his lordship easier. “Then he’s all right--on such a
day.”
His companion could none the less just wonder. “Hadn’t Lady Grace told
you?”
“That he was coming? Not that I remember.” But Lord Theign, perceptibly
preoccupied, made nothing of this. “We’ve had other fish to fry, and you
know the freedom I allow her.”
His friend had a vivid gesture. “My dear man, I only ask to profit by
it!” With which there might well have been in Lord John’s face a light
of comment on the pretension in such a quarter to allow freedom.
Yet it was a pretension that Lord Theign sustained--as to show himself
far from all bourgeois narrowness. “She has her friends by the score--at
this time of day.” There was clearly a claim here also--to know the
time of day. “But in the matter of friends where, by the way, is your
own--of whom I’ve but just heard?”
“Oh, off there among the pictures too; so they’ll have met and taken
care of each other.” Accounting for this inquirer would be clearly the
least of Lord John’s difficulties. “I mustn’t appear to Bender to have
failed him; but I must at once let you know, before I join him, that,
seizing my opportunity, I have just very definitely, in fact very
pressingly, spoken to Lady Grace. It hasn’t been perhaps,” he continued,
“quite the pick of a chance; but that seemed never to come, and if
I’m not too fondly mistaken, at any rate, she listened to me without
abhorrence. Only I’ve led her to expect--for our case--that you’ll be
so good, without loss of time, as to say the clinching word to her
yourself.”
“Without loss, you mean, of--a--my daughter’s time?” Lord Theign,
confessedly and amiably interested, had accepted these intimations--yet
with the very blandness that was not accessible to hustling and was
never forgetful of its standing privilege of criticism. He had come in
from his public duty, a few minutes before, somewhat flushed and blown;
but that had presently dropped--to the effect, we should have guessed,
of his appearing to Lord John at least as cool as the occasion required.
His appearance, we ourselves certainly should have felt, was in all
respects charming--with the great note of it the beautiful restless,
almost suspicious, challenge to you, on the part of deep and mixed
things in him, his pride and his shyness, his conscience, his taste and
his temper, to deny that he was admirably simple. Obviously, at this
rate, he had a passion for simplicity--simplicity, above all, of
relation with you, and would show you, with the last subtlety of
displeasure, his impatience of your attempting anything more with
himself. With such an ideal of decent ease he would, confound you,
“sink” a hundred other attributes--or the recognition at least and the
formulation of them--that you might abjectly have taken for granted in
him: just to show you that in a beastly vulgar age you had, and small
wonder, a beastly vulgar imagination. He sank thus, surely, in defiance
of insistent vulgarity, half his consciousness of his advantages,
flattering himself that mere facility and amiability, a true effective,
a positively ideal suppression of reference in any one to anything that
might complicate, alone floated above. This would be quite his religion,
you might infer--to cause his hands to ignore in whatever contact any
opportunity, however convenient, for an unfair pull. Which habit it was
that must have produced in him a sort of ripe and radiant fairness; if
it be allowed us, that is, to figure in so shining an air a nobleman of
fifty-three, of an undecided rather than a certified frame or outline,
of a head thinly though neatly covered and not measureably massive, of
an almost trivial freshness, of a face marked but by a fine inwrought
line or two and lighted by a merely charming expression. You might
somehow have traced back the whole character so presented to an ideal
privately invoked--that of his establishing in the formal garden of his
suffered greatness such easy seats and short perspectives, such winding
paths and natural-looking waters, as would mercifully break up the
scale. You would perhaps indeed have reflected at the same time that the
thought of so much mercy was almost more than anything else the thought
of a great option and a great margin--in fine of fifty alternatives.
Which remarks of ours, however, leave his lordship with his last
immediate question on his hands.
“Well, yes--that, of course, in all propriety,” his companion has
meanwhile replied to it. “But I was thinking a little, you understand,
of the importance of our own time.”
Divinably Lord Theign put himself out less, as we may say, for
the comparatively matter-of-course haunters of his garden than for
interlopers even but slightly accredited. He seemed thus not at all to
strain to “understand” in this particular connection--it would be his
familiarly amusing friend Lord John, clearly, who must do most of the
work for him. “‘Our own’ in the sense of yours and mine?”
“Of yours and mine and Lady Imber’s, yes--and a good bit, last not
least, in that of my watching and waiting mother’s.” This struck no
prompt spark of apprehension from his listener, so that Lord John went
on: “The last thing she did this morning was to remind me, with her fine
old frankness, that she would like to learn without more delay where, on
the whole question, she is, don’t you know? What she put to me”--the
younger man felt his ground a little, but proceeded further--“what she
put to me, with her rather grand way of looking all questions straight
in the face, you see, was: Do we or don’t we, decidedly, take up
practically her very handsome offer--‘very handsome’ being, I mean,
what she calls it; though it strikes even me too, you know, as rather
decent.”
Lord Theign at this point resigned himself to know. “Kitty has of course
rubbed into me how decent she herself finds it. She hurls herself again
on me--successfully!--for everything, and it suits her down to the
ground. She pays her beastly debt--that is, I mean to say,” and he took
himself up, though it was scarce more than perfunctory, “discharges
her obligations--by her sister’s fair hand; not to mention a few other
trifles for which I naturally provide.”
Lord John, a little unexpectedly to himself on the defensive, was yet
but briefly at a loss. “Of course we take into account, don’t we? not
only the fact of my mother’s desire (intended, I assure you, to be most
flattering) that Lady Grace shall enter our family with all honours, but
her expressed readiness to facilitate the thing by an understanding over
and above----”
“Over and above Kitty’s release from her damnable payment?”--Lord Theign
reached out to what his guest had left rather in the air. “Of course
we take everything into account--or I shouldn’t, my dear fellow, be
discussing with you at all a business one or two of whose aspects so
little appeal to me: especially as there’s nothing, you easily conceive,
that a daughter of mine can come in for by entering even your family,
or any other (as a family) that she wouldn’t be quite as sure of by just
staying in her own. The Duchess’s idea, at any rate, if I’ve followed
you, is that if Grace does accept you she settles on you twelve
thousand; with the condition--”
Lord John was already all there. “Definitely, yes, of your settling the
equivalent on Lady Grace.”
“And what do you call the equivalent of twelve thousand?”
“Why, tacked on to a value so great and so charming as Lady Grace
herself, I dare say such a sum as nine or ten would serve.”
“And where the mischief, if you please, at this highly inconvenient
time, am I to pick up nine or ten thousand?”
Lord John declined, with a smiling, a fairly irritating eye for his
friend’s general resources, to consider that question seriously. “Surely
you can have no difficulty whatever--!”
“Why not?--when you can see for yourself that I’ve had this year to
let poor dear old Hill Street! Do you call it the moment for me to have
liked to see myself all but cajoled into planking down even such a
matter as the very much lower figure of Kitty’s horrid incubus?”
“Ah, but the inducement and the quid pro quo,” Lord John brightly
indicated, “are here much greater! In the case you speak of you will
only have removed the incubus--which, I grant you, she must and you must
feel as horrid. In this other you pacify Lady Imber and marry Lady
Grace: marry her to a man who has set his heart on her and of whom she
has just expressed--to himself--a very kind and very high opinion.”
“She has expressed a very high opinion of you?”--Lord Theign scarce
glowed with credulity.
But the younger man held his ground. “She has told me she thoroughly
likes me and that--though a fellow feels an ass repeating such
things--she thinks me perfectly charming.”
“A tremendous creature, eh, all round? Then,” said Lord Theign, “what
does she want more?”
“She very possibly wants nothing--but I’m to that beastly degree,
you see,” his visitor patiently explained, “in the cleft stick of my
fearfully positive mother’s wants. Those are her ‘terms,’ and I don’t
mind saying that they’re most disagreeable to me--I quite hate ‘em:
there! Only I think it makes a jolly difference that I wouldn’t
touch ‘em with a long pole if my personal feeling--in respect to Lady
Grace--wasn’t so immensely enlisted.”
“I assure you I’d chuck ‘em out of window, my boy, if I didn’t believe
you’d be really good to her,” Lord Theign returned with the properest
spirit.
It only encouraged his companion. “You will just tell her then, now
and here, how good you honestly believe I shall be?”
This appeal required a moment--a longer look at him. “You truly hold
that that friendly guarantee, backed by my parental weight, will do your
job?”
“That’s the conviction I entertain.”
Lord Theign thought again. “Well, even if your conviction’s just, that
still doesn’t tell me into which of my very empty pockets it will be of
the least use for me to fumble.”
“Oh,” Lord John laughed, “when a man has such a tremendous assortment
of breeches--!” He pulled up, however, as, in his motion, his eye caught
the great vista of the open rooms. “If it’s a question of pockets--and
what’s in ‘em--here precisely is my man!” This personage had come back
from his tour of observation and was now, on the threshold of the hall,
exhibited to Lord Theign as well. Lord John’s welcome was warm. “I’ve
had awfully to fail you, Mr. Bender, but I was on the point of joining
you. Let me, however, still better, introduce you to our host.”
VII
Mr. Bender indeed, formidably advancing, scarce had use for this
assistance. “Happy to meet you--especially in your beautiful home,
Lord Theign.” To which he added while the master of Dedborough stood
good-humouredly passive to his approach: “I’ve been round, by your kind
permission and the light of nature, and haven’t required support; though
if I had there’s a gentleman there who seemed prepared to allow me any
amount.” Mr. Bender, out of his abundance, evoked as by a suggestive
hand this contributory figure. “A young, spare, nervous gentleman with
eye-glasses--I guess he’s an author. A friend of yours too?” he asked of
Lord John.
The answer was prompt and emphatic. “No, the gentleman is no friend at
all of mine, Mr. Bender.”
“A friend of my daughter’s,” Lord Theign easily explained. “I hope
they’re looking after him.”
“Oh, they took care he had tea and bread and butter to any extent; and
were so good as to move something,” Mr. Bender conscientiously added,
“so that he could get up on a chair and see straight into the Moretto.”
This was a touch, however, that appeared to affect Lord John
unfavourably. “Up on a chair? I say!”
Mr. Bender took another view. “Why, I got right up myself--a little more
and I’d almost have begun to paw it! He got me quite interested”--the
proprietor of the picture would perhaps care to know--“in that Moretto.”
 And it was on these lines that Mr. Bender continued to advance. “I take
it that your biggest value, however, Lord Theign, is your splendid Sir
Joshua. Our friend there has a great deal to say about that too--but it
didn’t lead to our moving any more furniture.” On which he paused as to
enjoy, with a show of his fine teeth, his host’s reassurance. “It has
yet, my impression of that picture, sir, led to something else. Are you
prepared, Lord Theign, to entertain a proposition?”
Lord Theign met Mr. Bender’s eyes while this inquirer left these few
portentous words to speak for themselves. “To the effect that I part to
you with ‘The Beautiful Duchess of Waterbridge’? No, Mr. Bender, such a
proposition would leave me intensely cold.”
Lord John had meanwhile had a more headlong cry. “My dear Bender, I
envy you!”
“I guess you don’t envy me,” his friend serenely replied, “as much as I
envy Lord Theign.” And then while Mr. Bender and the latter continued to
face each other searchingly and firmly: “What I allude to is an overture
of a strong and simple stamp--such as perhaps would shed a softer light
on the difficulties raised by association and attachment. I’ve had some
experience of first shocks, and I’d be glad to meet you as man to man.”
Mr. Bender was, quite clearly, all genial and all sincere; he intended
no irony and used, consciously, no great freedom. Lord Theign, not less
evidently, saw this, and it permitted him amusement. “As rich man to
poor man is how I’m to understand it? For me to meet you,” he added,
“I should have to be tempted--and I’m not even temptable. So there we
are,” he blandly smiled.
His blandness appeared even for a moment to set an example to Lord John.
“‘The Beautiful Duchess of Waterbridge,’ Mr. Bender, is a golden apple
of one of those great family trees of which respectable people don’t lop
off the branches whose venerable shade, in this garish and denuded age,
they so much enjoy.”
Mr. Bender looked at him as if he had cut some irrelevant caper. “Then
if they don’t sell their ancestors where in the world are all the
ancestors bought?”
“Doesn’t it for the moment sufficiently answer your question,” Lord
Theign asked, “that they’re definitely not bought at Dedborough?”
“Why,” said Mr. Bender with a wealthy patience, “you talk as if it were
my interest to be reasonable--which shows how little you understand.
I’d be ashamed--with the lovely ideas I have--if I didn’t make you
kick.” And his sturdy smile for it all fairly proclaimed his faith.
“Well, I guess I can wait!”
This again in turn visibly affected Lord John: marking the moment from
which he, in spite of his cultivated levity, allowed an intenser and
more sustained look to keep straying toward their host. “Mr. Bender’s
bound to have something!”
It was even as if after a minute Lord Theign had been reached by his
friend’s mute pressure. “‘Something’?”
“Something, Mr. Bender?” Lord John insisted.
It made their visitor rather sharply fix him. “Why, have you an
interest, Lord John?”
This personage, though undisturbed by the challenge, if such it was,
referred it to Lord Theign. “Do you authorise me to speak--a little--as
if I have an interest?”
Lord Theign gave the appeal--and the speaker--a certain attention, and
then appeared rather sharply to turn away from them. “My dear fellow,
you may amuse yourself at my expense as you like!”
“Oh, I don’t mean at your expense,” Lord John laughed--“I mean at Mr.
Bender’s!”
“Well, go ahead, Lord John,” said that gentleman, always easy, but
always too, as you would have felt, aware of everything--“go ahead, but
don’t sweetly hope to create me in any desire that doesn’t already exist
in the germ. The attempt has often been made, over here--has in fact
been organised on a considerable scale; but I guess I’ve got some
peculiarity, for it doesn’t seem as if the thing could be done. If the
germ is there, on the other hand,” Mr. Bender conceded, “it develops
independently of all encouragement.”
Lord John communicated again as in a particular sense with Lord Theign.
“He thinks I really mean to offer him something!”
Lord Theign, who seemed to wish to advertise a degree of detachment from
the issue, or from any other such, strolled off, in his restlessness,
toward the door that opened to the terrace, only stopping on his way
to light a cigarette from a matchbox on a small table. It was but after
doing so that he made the remark: “Ah, Mr. Bender may easily be too much
for you!”
“That makes me the more sorry, sir,” said his visitor, “not to have been
enough for you!”
