foreign experts; and a notification to one or two local millionaires
that the Dankmere Galleries never shaded prices or exchanged canvases.
Having accomplished the last of the day's work remaining up to that
particular minute, Jessie Vining leaned back in her chair, rubbed her
pretty eyes, glanced partly around toward Lord Dankmere but checked
herself, and, with her lips the slightest shade pursed up into a hint of
primness, picked up the library novel which she had been reading during
intervals of leisure.
It was mainly about a British Peer. The Peer did not resemble Dankmere
in any particular; she had already noticed that. And now, as she read
on, and, naturally enough, compared the ideal peer with the real one,
the difference became painfully plain to her.
Could that short young man in rather mussy summer clothes, sorting
prints over there, be a peer of the British realm? Was this young man,
whom she had seen turning handsprings on the grass in the backyard, a
belted Earl?
In spite of herself her short upper lip curled slightly as she turned
from her book to glance at him. He looked up at the same moment, and
smiled on meeting her eye--such a kindly yet diffident smile that she
blushed a trifle.
"I say, Miss Vining, I've gone over all these prints and I can't find
one that resembles the Hogarth portrait--if it is a Hogarth."
"Mr. Quarren thinks it is."
"I daresay he's quite right, but there's nothing here to prove it"; and
he slapped the huge portfolio shut, laid his hands on the table, vaulted
to the top of it, and sat down. Miss Vining resumed her reading.
"Miss Vining?"
"Yes?" very leisurely.
"How old do you think I am?"
"I beg your pardon----"
"How old do you think I am?"
"Really I hadn't thought about it, Lord Dankmere."
"Oh."
Miss Vining resumed her reading.
When the Earl had sat on top of the table long enough he got down and
dropped into the depths of an armchair.
"Miss Vining," he said.
"Yes?" incuriously.
"Have you thought it out yet?"
"Thought out what, Lord Dankmere?"
"How old I am."
"Really," she retorted, half laughing, half vexed, "do you suppose that
my mind is occupied in wondering what your age might be?"
"Isn't it?"
"Of course not."
"Don't you want to know?"
She began to laugh again:
"Why, if you wish to tell me of course it will interest me most
profoundly." And she made him a graceful little bow.
"I'm thirty-three," he said.
"Thank you so much for telling me."
"You are welcome," he returned gravely. "Do you think I'm too old?"
"Too old for what?"
"Oh, for anything interesting."
"What do you mean by 'interesting'?"
But Lord Dankmere apparently did not know what he did mean for he made
no answer.
After a little while he said: "Wouldn't it be odd if I ever have income
enough to pay off my debts?"
"What?"
He repeated the observation.
"I don't know what you mean. You naturally expect to pay them, don't
you?"
"I saw no chance of doing so before Mr. Quarren took hold of these
pictures."
She was sorry for him:
"Are you very deeply in debt?"
He named the total of his liabilities and she straightened her young
shoulders, horrified.
"Oh, that's nothing," he said. "I know plenty of chaps in England who
are far worse off."
"But--that is terrible!" she faltered.
Dankmere waved his hand:
"It's not so bad. That show business let me in for a lot."
"Why did you ever do it?"
"I like it," he explained simply.
She flushed: "It seems strange for a--a man of your kind to sing comic
songs and dance before an audience."
"Not at all. I've a friend, Exford by name--who goes about grinding a
barrel-organ."
"Why?"
"He likes to do it.... I've another pal of sorts who chucked the Guards
to become a milliner. He always did like to crochet and trim hats. Why
not?--if he likes it!"
"It is not," said Jessie Vining, "my idea of a British peer."
"But for Heaven's sake, consider the peer! Now and then they have an
idea of what they'd like to do. Why not let them do it and be happy?"
"Then they ought not to have been born to the peerage," she said firmly.
"Many of them wouldn't have been had anybody consulted them."
"You?"
"It's brought me nothing but debt, ridicule, abuse, and summonses."
"You couldn't resign, could you?" she said, smiling.
"I am resigned. Oh, well, I'd rather be what I am than anything else,
I fancy.... If the Topeka Museum trustees purchase that Gainsborough
I'll be out of debt fast enough."
"And then?" she inquired, still smiling.
"I don't know. I'd like to start another show."
"And leave Mr. Quarren?"
"What use am I? We'd share alike; he'd manage the business and I'd
manage a musical comedy I'm writing after hours----"
He jumped up and went to the piano where for the next ten minutes he
rattled off some lively and very commonplace music which to Jessie
Vining sounded like everything she had ever before heard.
"Do you like it?" he asked hopefully, swinging around on his stool.
"It's--lively."
"You don't like it!"
"I--it seems--very entertaining," she said, reddening.
The Earl sat looking at her in silence for a moment; then he said:
"To care for anything and make a failure of it--can you beat it for
straight misery, Miss Vining?"
"Oh, please don't speak that way. I really am no judge of musical
composition."
He considered the key-board gloomily; and resting one well-shaped hand
on it addressed empty space:
"What's the use of liking to do a thing if you can't do it? Why the
deuce should a desire torment a man when there's no chance of
accomplishment?"
The girl looked at him out of her pretty, distressed eyes but found no
words suitable for the particular moment.
Dankmere dropped the other hand on the keys, touched a chord or two
softly, then drifted into the old-time melody, "Shannon Water."
His voice was a pleasantly modulated barytone when he chose; he sang the
quaint and lovely old song in perfect taste. Then, very lightly, he sang
"The Harp," and afterward an old Breton song made centuries ago.
When he turned Miss Vining was resting her head on both hands, eyes
lowered.
"Those were the real musicians and poets," he said--"not these Strausses
and 'Girls from the Golden West.'"
"Will you sing some more?"
"Do you like my singing?"
"Very much."
So he idled for another half hour at the piano, recalling half-forgotten
melodies of the Age of Faith, which, like all art of that immortal age,
can never again be revived. For art alone was not enough in those days,
the creator of the beautiful was also endowed with Faith; all the world
was so endowed; and it was such an audience as never again can gather to
inspire any maker of beautiful things.
Quarren came up to listen; Jessie prepared tea; and the last golden hour
of the afternoon drifted away to the untroubled harmonies of other days.
Later, Jessie, halting on the steps to draw on her gloves, heard
Dankmere open the door behind her and come out.
They descended the steps together, and she was already turning north
with a nod of good-night, when he said:
"Are you walking?"
She was, to save carfare.
"May I go a little way?"
"Yes--if----"
Lord Dankmere waited, but she did not complete whatever it was she had
meant to say. Then, very slowly she turned northward, and he went, too,
grasping his walking-stick with unnecessary firmness and carrying
himself with the determination and dignity of a man who is walking
beside a pretty girl slightly taller than himself.
CHAPTER XIII
Strelsa had gone to town with her maid, remained there the entire
afternoon, and returned to Witch-Hollow without seeing Quarren or even
letting him know she was there.
It was the beginning of the end for her and she knew it; and she had
already begun to move doggedly toward the end through the blind
confusion of things, no longer seeing, hearing, heeding; impelled
mechanically toward the goal which meant to her only the relief of
absolute rest.
For her troubles were accumulating and she found in herself no resisting
power--only the nervous strength left to get away from them. Troubles of
every description were impending; some had already come upon her, like
Quarren's last letter which she knew signified that the termination of
their friendship was already in sight.
But other things were in sight, too, so she spent the afternoon in town
with her lawyers; which lengthy séance resulted in the advertising for
immediate sale of her house in town and its contents, her town car,
brougham, victoria and three horses.
Through her lawyers, also, every jewel she possessed, all her wardrobe
except what she had with her at Witch-Hollow, and her very beautiful
collection of old lace, were placed in the hands of certain discreet
people to dispose of privately.
Every servant in her employment except her maid was paid and dismissed;
her resignation from the Province Club was forwarded, all social
engagements for the summer cancelled.
There remained only two other matters to settle; and one of them could
be put off--without hope of escape perhaps--but still it could be
avoided for a little while longer.
The other was to write to Quarren; and she wrote as follows:
     "I have been in town; necessity drove me, and I was too unhappy to
     see you. But this is the result: I can hold out a few months
     longer--to no purpose, I know--yet, you asked it of me, and I am
     trying to do it. Meanwhile the pressure never eases; I feel your
     unhappiness deeply--deeply, Rix!--and it is steadily wearing me
     out. And the pressure from Molly in your behalf, from Mrs. Sprowl
     by daily letter in behalf of Sir Charles, from Langly in his own
     interest never slackens for one moment.
     "And that is not all; my late husband left no will, and I have
     steadily refused to make any contest for more than my dower rights.
     "That has been swept away, now; urgent need has compelled me to
     offer for sale everything I possess except what wardrobe and
     unimportant trinkets I have with me.
     "So many suits have been threatened and even commenced against
     me--you don't know, Rix--but while there remains any chance of
     meeting my obligations dollar for dollar I have refused to go
     through bankruptcy.
     "I need not, now, I think. But the selling of everything will not
     leave me very much; and in the end my cowardice will do what you
     dread, and what I no longer fear, so utterly dead in me is every
     emotion, every nerve, every moral. Men bound to the wheel have
     slept; I want that sleep. I long for the insensibility, the endless
     lethargy that the mortally bruised crave; and that is all I hope or
     care for now.
     "Love, as man professes it, would only hurt me--even yours. There
     can be no response from a soul and body stunned. Nothing must
     disturb their bruised coma.
     "The man I intend to marry can evoke nothing in me, will demand
     nothing of me. That is already mutually understood. It's merely a
     bargain. He wants me as the ornament for the House of Sprowl. I can
     carry out the pact without effort, figure as the mistress of his
     domain, live life through unharassed as though I stood alone in a
     vague, warm dream, safe from anything real.
     "Meanwhile, without aim, without hope, without even desire to
     escape my destiny, I am holding out because you ask it. To what
     end, my friend? Can you tell me?"
One morning Molly came into her room greatly perturbed, and Strelsa,
still in bed, laid aside the New Testament which she had been reading,
and looked up questioningly at her agitated hostess.
"It's your fault," began Molly without preliminaries--"that old woman
certainly suspects what you're up to with her nephew or she wouldn't
bother to come up here----"
"Who?" said Strelsa, sitting up. "Mrs. Sprowl?"
"Certainly, horse, foot, and dragoons! She's coming, I tell you, and
there's only one motive for her advent!"
"But where will she stop?" asked Strelsa, flushing with dismay.
"Where do you suppose?"
"With Langly?"
"He wouldn't have her."
"She is not to be your guest, is she?"
"No. She wrote hinting that she'd come if asked. I pretended not to
understand. I don't want her here. Every servant I have would leave--as
a beginning. Besides I don't require the social prestige of such a
visitation; and she knows that, too. So what do you think she's done?"
"I can't imagine," said Strelsa wearily.
"Well, she's manœuvred, somehow; and this morning's paper announces that
she's to be entertained at South Linden by Mary Ledwith."
Strelsa reddened.
"Why should that concern me?" she asked calmly.
"Concern you, child! How can it help concerning you? Do you see what
she's done?--do you count all the birds she's knocked over with one
stone. Mary Ledwith returns from Reno and Mrs. Sprowl fixes and secures
her social status by visiting her at once. And it's a perfectly plain
notice to Langly, too, and--forgive me, dear!--to you!"
Strelsa scarlet and astonished, sat up rigid, her beautiful head thrown
back.
"If she means it that way, it is slanderous," she said. "The entire
story is a base slander! Did you believe it, Molly?"
"Believe it? Of course I believe it----"
"Why should you? Because a lot of vile newspapers have hinted at such a
thing? I tell you it is an infamous story without one atom of truth in
it----"
"How do you know?" asked Molly bluntly.
"Because Langly says so."
"Oh. Did you ask him?"
"No. He spoke of it himself."
"He denied it?"
"Absolutely on his word of honour."
"Then why didn't he sue a few newspapers?"
"He spoke of that, too. He said that his attorneys had advised him not
to bring any actions because the papers had been too clever to lay
themselves open to suits for libel."
"Oh," said Molly softly.
Strelsa, flushed, breathing rapidly and irregularly, sat there in bed
watching her; but Molly avoided her brilliant, level gaze.
"There's no use in talking to you," she said, "but why on earth you
don't marry Sir Charles----"
"Molly! Please don't----"
"--Or Rix----"
"Molly! Molly! Can't you let me alone! Can't we be together for ten
minutes unless you urge me to marry somebody? Why do you want me to
marry anybody!--Why----"
"But you're going to marry Langly, you say!"
"Yes, I am! I am! But can't you let me forget it for a moment or two?
I--I'm not very well----"
"I can't help it," said Molly, grimly. "I'm sorry, darling, but the
moment your engagement to Langly is announced there'll be a horrid
smash and some people are going to be spattered----"
"It isn't announced!" said the girl hotly. "Only you and Rix know
about it except Langly and myself!"
Molly Wycherly rose from her chair, went over and seated herself on the
foot of the bed:
"Tell me something, will you, Strelsa?"
"What?"
"Why does Langly desire to keep your engagement to him a secret?"
"He wishes it for the present."
"Why?"
"For that very reason!" said Strelsa, fiercely--"because of the
injustice the papers have done him in this miserable Ledwith matter. He
chooses to wait until it is forgotten--in order to shield me, I suppose,
from any libellous comment----"
"You talk like a little idiot!" said Molly between her teeth. "Strelsa,
I could shake you--if it would wake you up! Do you suppose for a moment
that this Ledwith matter will be forgotten? Do you suppose if there were
nothing in it but libel that he'd be afraid? You listen to me; that man
is not apt to be afraid of anything, but he evidently is afraid, now!
Of what, then?"
"Of my being annoyed by newspaper comment."
"And you think it's merely that?"
