forever. I don't know. I shall never love another man. And all my life I
have wanted love. It is here; and I may not be brave enough to deny it
and live my life out in ignorance of it. But, Jim, if you only could
understand--if you only knew what I can be to you--to the world for your
sake--what I can become merely because I love you--what I am capable of
for the sake of your pride in--in me--and----" She turned very white.
"Because it is better for your sake, Jim. I am not thinking of myself,
and how wonderful it would be for me--truly I am not. Don't you believe
me? Only--there is so much to me--I am really so much of a woman--that
it would begin to trouble you if ever I became anything--anything less
than your--wife. And you would feel sorry for me--and I couldn't
truthfully console you because all the while I'd know in my heart what
you had thrown away that might have belonged to us both."

"Your life?" he said, with dry lips.

"Oh, Jim! I mean more than your life and mine! For our lives--yours and
mine--would not be all you would throw away and deny. Before we die we
would want children. Ought I not to say it?" She turned away, blind with
tears, and dropped onto the sofa. "I'm wondering if I'm in my right
mind," she sobbed, "for yesterday I did not even dare think of these
things I am saying to you now! But--somehow--even while Captain
Herrendene was speaking--it all flashed into my mind. I don't know how I
knew it, but I suddenly understood that you belonged to me--just as you
are, Jim--all the good, all the evil in you--everything--even your
intentions toward me--how you may deal with me--all, all belonged to me!
And so I went back to you, to help you. And now I have said this
thing--for your sake alone, not for my own--only so that in years to
come you may not have me on your conscience. For if you do not marry
me--and I let myself really love you--you will wish that the beginning
was to be begun again, and that we had loved each other--otherwise."

He came over and stood looking down at her for a moment. His lips were
twitching.

"Would you marry me now," he managed to say, "now, after you know what
a contemptible cad I am?"

"You are only a man. I love you, Jim. I will marry you--if you'll let
me----"

Suddenly she covered her eyes with her hands. He seated himself beside
her, sick with self-contempt, dumb, not daring to touch her where she
crouched, trembling in every limb.

For a long while they remained so, in utter silence; then the doorbell
startled them. Jacqueline fled to her room; Desboro composed himself
with a desperate effort and went out into the hall.

He welcomed his guests on the steps when Farris opened the door,
outwardly master of himself once more.

"We came over early, Jim," explained Daisy, "because Uncle John is
giving a dinner and father and mother need the car. Do you mind?"

He laughed and shook hands with her and Elena, who looked intently and
unsmilingly into his face, and then let her expressionless glance linger
for a moment on her husband, who was holding out a huge hand to Desboro.

"I'm glad to see you, Clydesdale," said Desboro pleasantly, and took
that bulky gentleman's outstretched hand, who mumbled something
incoherent; but the fixed grin remained. And that was the
discomforting--yes, the dismaying--characteristic of the man--his grin
never seemed to be affected by his emotions.

Mrs. Quant bobbed away upstairs, piloting Daisy and Elena. Clydesdale
followed Desboro to the library--the same room where he had discovered
his wife that evening, and had learned in what esteem she held the law
that bound her to him. Both men thought of it now--could not avoid
remembering it. Also, by accident, they were seated very nearly as they
had been seated that night, Clydesdale filling the armchair with his
massive figure, Desboro sitting on the edge of the table, one foot
resting on the floor.

Farris brought whiskey; both men shook their heads.

"Will you have a cigar, Clydesdale?" asked the younger man.

"Thanks."

They smoked in silence for a few moments, then:

"I'm glad you came," said Desboro simply.

"Yes. Men don't usually raise that sort of hell with each other unless a
woman starts it."

"Don't talk that way about your wife," said Desboro sharply.

"See here, young man, I have no illusions concerning my wife. What
happened here was her doing, not yours. I knew it at the time--if I
didn't admit it. You behaved well--and you've behaved well ever
since--only it hurt me too much to tell you so before to-day."

"That's all right, Clydesdale----"

"Yes, it is going to be all right now, I guess." A curious expression
flitted across his red features, softening the grin for a moment. "I
always liked you, Desboro; and Elena and I were staying with the
Hammertons, so she told that Daisy girl to ask you to invite us. That's
all there is to it."

"Good business!" said Desboro, smiling. "I'm glad it's all clear between
us."

"Yes, it's clear sailing now, I guess." Again the curiously softening
expression made his heavy red features almost attractive, and he
remained silent for a while, occupied with thoughts that seemed to be
pleasant ones.

Then, abruptly emerging from his revery, he grinned at Desboro:

"So Mrs. Hammerton has our pretty friend Miss Nevers in tow," he said.
"Fine girl, Desboro. She's been at my collection, you know, fixing it up
for the hammer."

"So you are really going to sell?" inquired Desboro.

"I don't know. I was going to. But I'm taking a new interest in my
hobby since----" he reddened, then added very simply, "since Elena and I
have been getting on better together."

"Sure," nodded Desboro, gravely understanding him.

"Yes--it's about like that, Desboro. Things were rotten bad up to that
night. And afterward, too, for a while. They're clearing up a little
better, I think. We're going to get on together, I believe. I don't know
much about women; never liked 'em much--except Elena. It's funny about
Miss Nevers, isn't it?"

"What do you mean?"

"Mrs. Hammerton's being so crazy about her. She's a good girl, and a
pretty one. Elena is wild to meet her."

"Didn't your wife ever meet her at your house?" asked Desboro dryly.

"When she was there appraising my jim-cracks? No. Elena has no use for
my gallery or anybody who goes into it. Besides, until this morning she
didn't even know that Miss Nevers was the same expert you employed. Now
she wants to meet her."

Desboro slowly raised his eyes and looked at Clydesdale. The unvaried
grin baffled him, and presently he glanced elsewhere.

Clydesdale, smoking, slowly crossed one ponderous leg over the other.
Desboro continued to gaze out of the window. Neither spoke again until
Daisy Hammerton came in with Elena. If the young wife remembered the
somewhat lurid circumstances of her last appearance in that room, her
animated and smiling face betrayed no indication of embarrassment.

"When is that gay company of yours going to return, Jim?" she demanded.
"I am devoured by curiosity to meet this beautiful Miss Nevers. Fancy
her coming to my house half a dozen times this winter and I never
suspecting that my husband's porcelain gallery concealed such a
combination of genius and beauty! I could have bitten somebody's head
off in vexation," she rattled on, "when I found out who she was. So I
made Daisy ask you to invite us to meet her. Is she so unusually
wonderful, Jim?"

"I believe so," he said drily.

"They say every man who meets her falls in love with her
immediately--and that most of the women do, too," appealing to Daisy,
who nodded smiling corroboration.

"She is very lovely and very clever, Elena. I think I never saw anything
more charming than that rainbow dance she did for us last night in
Chinese costume," turning to Desboro, "'The Rainbow Skirt,' I think it
is called?"

"A dance some centuries old," said Desboro, and let his careless glance
rest on Elena for a moment.

"She looked," said Daisy, "like some exquisite Chinese figure made of
rose-quartz, crystal and green jade."

"Jade?" said Clydesdale, immediately interested. "That girl knows jades,
I can tell you. By gad! The first thing she did when she walked into my
gallery was to saw into a few glass ones with a file; and good-night to
about a thousand dollars in Japanese phony!"

"That was pleasant," said Desboro, laughing.

"Wasn't it! And my rose-quartz Fêng-huang! The Chia-Ching period of the
Ming dynasty! Do you get me, Desboro? It was Jap!"

"Really?"

Clydesdale brought down his huge fist with a thump on the table:

"I wouldn't believe it! I told Miss Nevers she didn't know her business!
I asked her to consider the fact that the crystallisation was
rhombohedral, the prisms six-sided, hardness 7, specific gravity 2.6, no
trace of cleavage, immune to the three acids or the blow-pipe alone, and
reacted with soda in the flame. I thought I knew it all, you see. First
she called my attention to the colour. 'Sure,' I said, 'it's a little
faded; but rose-quartz fades when exposed to light!' 'Yes,' said she,
'but moisture restores it.' So we tried it. Nix doing! Only a faint
rusty stain becoming visible and infecting that delicious rose colour.
'Help!' said I. 'What the devil is it?' 'Jap funny business,' said she.
'Your rose-quartz phoenix of the Ming dynasty is common yellow crystal
carved in Japan and dyed that beautiful rose tint with something, the
composition of which my chemist is investigating!' Wasn't it horrible,
Desboro?"

Daisy's brown eyes were very wide open, and she exclaimed softly:

"What a beautiful knowledge she has of a beautiful profession!" And to
Desboro: "Can you imagine anything in the world more fascinating than to
use such knowledge? And how in the world did she acquire it? She is so
very young to know so much!"

"Her father began her training as a child," said Desboro. There was a
slight burning sensation in his face, and a hotter pride within him.
After a second or two he felt Elena's gaze; but did not choose to
encounter it at the moment, and was turning to speak to Daisy Hammerton
when Jacqueline entered the library.

Clydesdale lumbered to his feet and tramped over to shake hands with
her; Daisy greeted her cordially; she and Elena were presented, and
stood smiling at each other for a second's silence. Then Mrs. Clydesdale
moved a single step forward, and Jacqueline crossed to her and offered
her hand, looking straight into her eyes so frankly and intently that
Elena's colour rose and for once in her life her tongue remained silent.

"Your husband and I are already business acquaintances," said
Jacqueline. "I know your very beautiful gallery, too, and have had the
privilege of identifying and classifying many of the jades and
porcelains."

Elena's eyes were level and cool as she said: "If I had known who you
were I would have received you myself. You must not think me rude. Mr.
Desboro's unnecessary reticence concerning you is to blame; not I."

Jacqueline's smile became mechanical: "Mr. Desboro's reticence
concerning a business acquaintance was very natural. A busy woman
neither expects nor even thinks about social amenities under business
circumstances."

[Illustration: "'Business is kinder to men than women sometimes
believe'"]

Elena's flush deepened: "Business is kinder to men than women sometimes
believe--if it permits acquaintance with such delightful people as
yourself."

Jacqueline said calmly: "All business has its compensations,"--she
smiled and made a friendly little salute with her head to Clydesdale and
Desboro,--"as you will witness for me. And I am employed by other
clients who also are considerate and kind. So you see the woman who
works has scarcely any time to suffer from social isolation."

Daisy said lightly: "Nobody who is happily employed worries over social
matters. Intelligence and sweet temper bring more friends than a busy
girl knows what to do with. Isn't that so, Miss Nevers?"

Jacqueline turned to Elena with a little laugh: "It's an axiom that
nobody can have too many friends. I want all I can have, Mrs.
Clydesdale, and am most grateful when people like me."

"And when they don't," asked Elena, smiling, "what do you do then, Miss
Nevers?"

"What is there to do, Mrs. Clydesdale?" she said gaily. "What would you
do about it?"

But Elena seemed not to have heard her, for she was already turning to
Desboro, flushed, almost feverish in her animation:

"So many things have happened since I saw you, Jim----" she hesitated,
then added daringly, "at the opera. Do you remember Ariane?"

"I think you were in the Barkley's box," he said coolly.

"Your memory is marvellous! In point of fact, I was there. And since
then so many, many things have happened that I'd like to compare notes
with you--sometime."

"I'm quite ready now," he said.

"Do you think your daily record fit for public scrutiny, Jim?" she
laughed.

"I don't mind sharing it with anybody here," he retorted gaily, "if you
have no objection."

His voice and hers, and their laughter seemed so perfectly frank that
thrust and parry passed as without significance. She and Desboro were
still lightly rallying each other; Clydesdale was explaining to Daisy
that lapis lazuli was the sapphire of the ancients, while Jacqueline was
showing her a bit under a magnifying glass, when the noise of sleighs
and motors outside signalled the return of the skating party.

As Desboro passed her, Elena said under her breath: "I want a moment
alone with you this evening."

"It's impossible," he motioned with his lips; and passed on with a smile
of welcome for his returning guests.

