“But the — what is it? You’ll have to write 
these queer names out for me. And to-morrow, 
when I am in town, I’ll buy a big picture diction- 
ary, and every time you come over you shall have 
it.” 
“Oh, thank you! Well, before there were any 
people in the world there were all kinds of animals 
and beasts and things, and this was a horrid great 
thing, but they hadn’t any names yet, the Bible 
says so. And this beast of a thing went around 
eating up all the smaller ones, who had to fly for 
their lives. They grew awfully tired of it, and held 
a council where they thought up ever so many 
plans, but they all seemed rather lame. Then a 
cunning fox said: 
“ ‘ There’s a great quagmire over there in that 
boggy place, and if he once got in, he is so big and 
clumsy he never could get out. Instead of hiding 
away, let’s form a great body and go leaping before 
him. We’re so light we can skip from bog to bog, 
and we’ll keep well in advance.’ 
“ They all shouted so that the beast woke up, 
and presently he found where they were. They 
chattered and screamed, and some of them made 
piteous cries, as if they were afraid. When he saw 
 
the great concourse he put off after them, picking 
his way. But presently his forefeet went down 
pretty deep and he plunged around, and when he 
got them out he gave a big leap where the quag- 
mire was awfully soft and down he went with all 
four feet. Then he couldn’t get out, and it began 
to rain and the great marsh filled up, but he kept 
sinking deeper and deeper. When it cleared up 
the other things came back, and the great hornets 
stung him and the eagles and condors clawed him, 
the foxes and the wolves tore great pieces out of 
him and had a fine feast, and so the poor fellow 
soon died. Well, after that there was a great 
landslide that covered him up, and the earth and 
the rocks buried him, and that was thousands of 
years ago. Then there came people on the earth, 
and they cleared it up and leveled it and began to 
make houses and farms. And one day a lot of 
workmen got down to him and they threw out 
heaps of bones. And then a man with a notebook 
and a pair of spectacles came along and looked 
them over and said they were great curiosities and 
wanted them, and an Italian who was working 
on a railroad came and said, ' Me gather um, me 
gather um,’ and so he did, and put them in a great 
bag to be taken to a museum, and they strung them 
on wires and the man thought that a good name; 
but he wanted to be polite and he called it Meg-a- 
thei-um, and that’s the way it is in the dic- 
tionary.” 
“ Primrose, you have the genius of a discov- 
erer,” and Mr. Mann laughed again heartily. “ I’ll 
get the dictionary for you and you shall pay me by 
degrees.” 
“ They’re not real stories and we only tell them 
for fun, but teacher sometimes reads stories aloud 
that aren’t a bit better.” 
“ You’ll do for Scheherazade.” 
‘‘ Oh, Mr. Mann, it’s just the children’s foolish- 
ness — you know they have to amuse each other. 
We haven’t any neighbors. And we have had such 
a lovely day ! It’s just a Thanksgiving. We never 
had one like it. But we must go. There’ll be the 
fire to make up ” 
She partly rose with Laurel in her arms, and 
then leaned back again. How sort of pretty and 
girlish she looked, her cheeks flushed with the 
warmth, and that deprecating expression in her 
eyes. For a moment he stared. The children were 
expressing their joy and made quite a hub- 
bub. 
“ Oh, children ! ” she exclaimed helplessly. 
‘‘ And the twins are fast asleep.” 
Rhoda lay with her head in the lap of Amaryl- 
 
lis, and they made a pretty group on the floor. A 
curious longing pervaded the man’s heart. 
“ Mrs. Firth, please let some of them stay; the 
twins and ” he looked eagerly. Should he 
choose Prim or Marigold, so he compromised on 
Amaryllis. “ And my boy Chan here, and Tip, if 
he will ” 
Oh, yes,” interrupted Mrs. Alden. We can 
make them comfortable.” 
“ It’s too much trouble. I can’t impose on you 
so. And they haven’t any nighties,” she said, in 
a flurried tone. 
“ We can find something.” 
“ Why, you can put them in a pillowcase and 
pin it up about the neck. The Esquimau children 
are put in a fur bag with a cap over their heads 
and just a little breathing hole,” announced Mari- 
gold. 
Mrs. Firth stood Laurel on the floor and Rilla 
woke up her mate. No, she couldn’t consent to 
their staying. They would be bundled up warm 
and a good fire would soon be blazing in the stove. 
Oh, they must go, and she really appealed to Mr. 
Mann with such beseeching eyes that he gave in. 
Dan brought the sleigh around. The babies were 
bundled up head and ears, one in the mother’s 
arms, the other in the eldest sister’s. The fur robes 
were packed around tightly, and Tip and Chan ran 
back into the warm house. 
“ It seems cruel to take those little ones out,” 
said Mrs. Alden. 
“ And now, children, you must go to bed,” said 
their host. “ Tip, the bears have all hidden in 
their holes and they wouldn’t come out for ten little 
boys. Chan, my little lad, good-night.” 
CHAPTER XVI 
MAKING A DREAM COME TRUE 
Adonijah Mann came back to the room where 
the echo of children’s voices seemed to linger. 
How merry they had been ! That was what houses 
were for, to be made into delightful homes with 
children growing up in them, loving, enjoying, 
having good times that would shed a radiance all 
along manhood and womanhood. 
He took out his cigar, bit off the end, but did 
not light it. If they were here he should give up 
smoking; he had never cared much for it. With 
him it had been a lonely man’s comfort. He 
moved his chair a little so he could see the willow 
rocker where she had been sitting with the sleep- 
ing child in her arms when the thought had startled 
him. Well, why not.? It would come hard to 
have her household depleted. It would perhaps 
cause heart burnings to have two or three of them 
on the fortunate and indulged side of life and the 
others struggling with poverty. Oh, it would 
never do! 
 
What did he want with all this prosperity ? He 
was not a millionaire, but business was going on 
well with him and Mr. Ross. There would be 
enough. And why not spend it on these children 
instead of leaving it to an orphan home when he 
was dead? 
Besides, he was learning that he had a large 
social side to his nature, also a longing for affec- 
tion. He had been shut out of that, starved in 
the earlier years. He was five-and-forty now; 
there might be a quarter of a century added to his 
years — some men live to fourscore. Time enough 
to see them all grown up, the girls to have lovers 
and husbands, the boys to make their way in the 
world and have homes. Then there would be 
grandchildren. Twenty lovely, heartsome years. 
And she — he could count up her years. Married 
at twenty-three, only a little over fifteen years 
ago. Their ages would be suitable, certainly. And 
if they stayed in the little old red house the hard- 
est pull was yet to come. And the children might 
never reach the standing for which nature had 
really given them the ability. Poverty was a hard 
master and made many slaves. 
Was that Dan coming back so soon? How long 
he had sat here dreaming. He rose and went to 
the door. 
 
You left them all right? ” 
“Oh, yes. Well, it's been a great day! And 
they sang all the way home. They’re the jolliest 
crew you’d meet in a month of Mondays. They 
did have a grand good time.” 
“ Thank you.” 
“ Why, I think I’ve had a wonderful Thanks- 
giving, too,” rejoined Dan. 
Why shouldn’t they have a grand good time all 
the rest of their lives? 
The little old house was dark and cold, but they 
soon had lights and a fire and the pleasures were 
sandwiched between the discomforts, for they kept 
up a stream of gay laughter. The twins were laid 
in a bundle on the trundle-bed, while their nighties 
were brought out to warm. There were two pieces 
of soapstone on the stove heating, for the garret 
was cold. 
“ See here,” exclaimed Linn; “ I’ll bring Chan’s 
cot out here and the girls can sleep in my bed. 
With the doors open it will soon be warm all 
through.” 
“ That’s ever so good of you, Linn,” and Rilla 
kissed him. 
“After having had such a splendid day one 
ought to ” 
“ And the dinner I And that elegant fire ! And 
 
then sitting on the floor. It gave you such a good, 
homey feeling.’’ 
But you were foolish, Prim. The stories do 
here at home, but when you are out ” 
“ Momsey, we don’t often go out. No one ever 
asked us all at once except on the Sunday-school 
picnic, and then you have to take your own pro- 
visions, and they made Rilla run about and wait 
on folks. And, oh my! To have some one come 
in and take away the dinner and bring in lovely 
plates and dessert and all ! I don’t think Mr. Mann 
minded very much.” 
He enjoyed every bit of it,” declared Linn 
stoutly. “ He’s of the merry sort.” 
“ And that dimple in his cheek I Oh, I wish I 
had it ! ” confessed Marigold for about the hun- 
dredth time. 
“ And here’s a lovely big basket of things ” 
“ I’m hungry. Why, we could almost eat our 
breakfast. Oh, yes, let’s have some of these nice 
biscuits and just a bite of the ham,” begged Linn. 
“ I don’t believe we’ll ever have another such a 
feast in all our lives.” 
Mrs. Firth protested and they gave in. It was 
midnight before they were all in bed, and it was 
hard for Linn to get up by lamplight and turn 
out in the frosty morning for his more than a 
 
mile walk. But he laughed and whistled on the 
way and tried to get in every syllable of the Kron. 
Mrs. Firth did not have to go out to work, 
and there was no school until Monday. How for- 
tunate that Linn was earning a little, for her sew- 
ing was dropping off. It was quite dull last winter, 
she remembered. Most people were sewing up new 
frocks and aprons for Christmas gifts and hoard- 
ing the money to buy them. But there was work 
enough to be done at home. 
And let us cut up the rest of the rubbish into 
carpet rags,” said housewifely Amaryllis. “ If we 
could have two new breadths in the spring! I 
mean to fix up the west end of the garret real nice 
so it will look almost like a room. If we could 
only have some kind of a bureau to put our nicest 
things in, Goldie and I.” 
“ When old Mrs. Preston dies, and it can’t be 
long now, Eliza Ann is going to sell out all the 
things and go to her brother’s. It’s all hundred- 
year-old truck, like Aunt Kitty’s, but sometimes a 
piece or two comes in handy. Maybe we might 
buy something.” 
Prim told the twins Mother Goose and all the 
rhyming stories she could remember and sewed 
carpet rags almost as fast as she talked. They 
had a dinner feast from the basket. 
 
I suppose Tip and Chan are having nice things, 
and at the Beers’ there’ll be the Thanksgiving frag- 
ments for Linn, so we can eat up the good things 
without any misgivings of conscience, as Granny 
Keen calls it. I hope some one gave her a nice 
dinner. We haven’t seen her in a long while.” 
“ Poor old soul,” commented Mrs. Firth sym- 
pathetically. 
Now, Mis’ Firth,” began Marigold, in a mum- 
bling way, as if her teeth were out, would you 
druther be lost at sea er in a railroad smosh? 
’Cause if you’re wracked on the land, there you 
stand, an’ if you’re lost in the sea, there you be. 
I hain’t never been able to make up my mind.” 
It was an excellent imitation of Granny Keen, 
and one of her never-solved puzzles, rather funny, 
seeing she was not likely to journey either way. 
“ Oh, Marigold ! ” her mother protested, yet she 
laughed. 
It was almost night when Dan brought the two 
boys home. They had been taken over to Ridge- 
wood and went to some lovely stores. In one 
there was a band and the funniest little play in 
which the actors never spoke but made signs, only 
you could tell what they meant just as plain as 
day. And at another place there was a Punch 
and Judy show the like of which they had never 
 
seen before, and which Tip never tired of exploit- 
ing afterward for the benefit of the twins, but 
Rilla had to rig him up another doll. 
And he was just as good as he could be,” said 
Chan, “ and never cried a word.” 
“ Why, there wasn’t nothing to cry about,” said 
Tip, in a sort of grandiose manner. 
Chan sat down beside his mother when it was 
too dark to do anything. The others were around 
by the stove engrossed with Punch and Judy. 
“ Chan dear,” his mother began, in a low tone, 
“ did Mr. Mann say anything about — about your 
coming 
“ No, mother; but I guess it was because I said 
Fd have to stay home and help you now that 
Linn was away. But he’s awful good and sweet 
to me, and calls me his little boy, and he’s going 
to get a pretty bookcase over there for me to keep 
all those nice books in, and I can make believe 
borrow them and bring home one at a time to 
read. I know he loves me very mluch; you can 
