 
her toward the door. ''You clear out of 
here, do you understand me? And as 
quickly as you can!" 
The woman shook her arm loose, and 
sneered into his face. "Come now, you — 
you can talk to me a little more poHtely, 
eh?" 
''Will you go?" shouted George, com- 
pletely beside himself. "Will you go, or 
must I go out and look for a policeman?" 
"A policeman!" demanded the woman. 
"For what?" 
"To put you outside! You are behaving 
yourself like a thief." 
"A thief? I? What do you mean?" 
"I mean that you are demanding money 
which doesn't belong to you." 
"More than that," in broke Madame 
Dupont, "you are destroying that poor little 
baby! You are a wicked woman!" 
"I will put you out myself!" shouted 
George, and seized her by the arm again. 
"Oh, it's like that, is it?" retorted the 
nurse. "Then you really want me to tell 
you why I am going away?" 
"Yes, tell me!" cried he. 
 
His mother added, ''Yes, yes!'' 
She would have spoken differently had 
she chanced to look behind her and seen 
Henriette, who at that moment appeared 
in the doorway. She had been about to go 
out, when her attention had been caught 
by the loud voices. She stood now, 
amazed, clasping her hands together, while 
the nurse, shaking her fist first at Madame 
Dupont and then at her son, cried loudly, 
"Very well! I'm going away because I 
don't want to catch a filthy disease here!" 
"Hush!'' cried Madame Dupont, and 
sprang toward her, her hands clenched as 
if she would choke her. 
''Be silent!" cried George, wild with 
terror. 
But the woman rushed on without drop- 
ping her voice, ''Oh, you need not be trou- 
bling yourselves for fear anyone should 
overhear! All the world knows it! Your 
other servants were listening with me at 
your door! They heard every word your 
doctor said!" 
"Shut up!" screamed George. 
His mother seized the woman fiercely 
 
by the arm. ''Hold your tongue!" she 
hissed. 
But again the other shook herself loose. 
She was powerful, and now her rage was 
not to be controlled. She waved her hands 
in the air, shouting, "Let me be, let me be! 
I know all about your brat — 'that you will 
never be able to raise it — that it's rotten 
because it's father has a filthy disease he 
got from a woman of the street!" 
She got no farther. She was interrupted 
by a frenzied shriek from Henriette. The 
three turned, horrified, just in time to see 
her fall forward upon the floor, convulsed. 
"My God!" cried George. He sprang 
toward her, and tried to lift her, but she 
shrank from him, repelling him with a 
gesture of disgust, of hatred, of the most 
profound terror. "Don't touch me!" she 
screamed, like a maniac. "Don't touch 
me!" 
CHAPTER V 
IT was in vain that Madame Dupont 
sought to control her daughter-in-law. 
Henriette was beside herself, frantic, 
she could not be brought to listen to any 
one. She rushed into the other room, and 
when the older woman followed her, 
shrieked out to be left alone. Afterwards, 
she fled to her own room and barred herseK 
in, and George and his mother waited dis- 
tractedly for hours until she should give 
some sign. 
Would she kill herself, perhaps? Madame 
Dupont hovered on guard about the door 
of the nursery for fear that the mother in 
her fit of insanity might attempt some harm 
to her child. 
The nurse had slunk away abashed when 
she saw the consequences of her outburst. 
But by the time she had got her belongings 
packed, she had recovered her assurance. 
 
 
She wanted her five hundred; also she 
wanted her wages and her railroad fare 
home. She wanted them at once, and she 
would not leave until she got them. George 
and his mother, in the midst of all their 
anguish of mind, had to go through a dis- 
gusting scene with this coarse and angry 
woman. 
They had no such sum of money in the 
house, and the nurse refused to accept a 
check. She knew nothing about a check. 
It was so much paper, and might be some 
trick that they were playing on her. She 
kept repeating her old formula, ''I am noth- 
ing but a poor country woman. '' Nor 
would she be contented with the promise 
that she would receive the money the next 
day. She seemed to be afraid that if she 
left the house she would be surrendering 
her claim. So at last the distracted George 
had to sally forth and obtain the cash from 
some tradesmen in the neighborhood. 
The woman took her departure. They 
made her sign a receipt in full for all claims, 
and they strove to persuade themselves 
that this made them safe; but in their 
 
hearts they had no real conviction of safety. 
What was the woman's signature, or her 
pledged word, against the cupidity of her 
husband and relatives. Always she would 
have the dreadful secret to hold over them, 
and so they would live under the shadow 
of possible blackmail. 
Later in the day Henriette sent for her 
mother-in-law. She was white, her eyes 
were swollen with weeping, and she spoke 
in a voice choked with sobs. She wished 
to return at once to her father's home, 
and to take little Gervaise with her. 
Madame Dupont cried out in horror at this 
proposition, and argued and pleaded and 
wept — but all to no purpose. The girl 
was immovable. She would not stay under 
her husband's roof, and she would take 
her child with her. It was her right, and 
no one could refuse her. 
The infant had been crying for hours, but 
that made no difference. Henriette in- 
sisted that a cab should be called at once. 
So she went back to the home of Mon- 
sieur Loches and told him the hideous story. 
Never before in her life had she discussed 
 
such subjects with any one, but now in her 
agitation she told her father all. As 
George had declared to the doctor, Mon- 
sieur Loches was a person of violent temper; 
at this revelation, at the sight of his daugh- 
ter's agony, he was almost beside himself. 
His face turned purple, the veins stood out 
on his forehead; a trembling seized him. 
He declared that he would kill George — 
there was nothing else to do. Such a 
scoundrel should not be permitted to live. 
The effort which Henriette had to make 
to restrain him had a calming effect upon 
herself. Bitter and indignant as she was, 
she did not want George to be killed. 
She clung to her father, beseeching him to 
promise her that he would not do such a 
thing; and all that day and evening she 
watched him, unwilling to let him out of 
her sight. 
There was a matter which claimed their 
immediate attention, and which helped 
to withdraw them from the contemplation 
of their own sufferings. The infant must 
be fed and cared for — 'the unhappy victim 
of other people's sins, whose Hfe was now 
 
imperilled. A dry nurse must be found 
at once, a nurse competent to take every 
precaution and give the child every chance. 
This nurse must be informed of the nature 
of the trouble — another matter which re- 
quired a great deal of anxious thought. 
That evening came Madame Dupont, tor- 
mented by anxiety about the child's welfare, 
and beseeching permission to help take 
care of it. It was impossible to refuse 
such a request. Henriette could not endure 
to see her, but the poor grandmother would 
come and sit for hours in the nursery, 
watching the child and the nurse, in silent 
agony. 
This continued for days, while poor 
George wandered about at home, suffering 
such torment of mind as can hardly be 
imagined. Truly, in these days he paid 
for his sins; he paid a thousand-fold in 
agonized and impotent regret. He looked 
back upon the course of his life, and traced 
one by one the acts which had led him and 
those he loved into this nightmare of tor- 
ment. He would have been willing to give 
his life if he could have undone those acts. 
 
But avenging nature offered him no such 
easy dehverance as that. We shudder 
as we read the grim words of the Jehovah 
of the ancient Hebrews; and yet not all 
the learning of modern times has availed 
to deliver us from the cruel decree, that 
the sins of the fathers shall be visited 
upon the children. 
George wrote notes to his wife, imploring 
her forgiveness. He poured out all his 
agony and shame to her, begging her to 
see him just once, to give him a chance to 
plead his defense. It was not much of a 
defense, to be sure; it was only that he 
had done no worse than the others did — 
only that he was a wretched victim of 
ignorance. But he loved her, he had 
proven that he loved her, and he pleaded 
that for the sake of their child she would 
forgive him. 
When all this availed nothing, he went 
to see the doctor, whose advice he had so 
shamefully neglected. He besought this 
man to intercede for him — 'which the doc- 
tor, of course, refused to do. It was an 
extra-medical matter, he said, and George 
was absurd to expect him to meddle in it. 
 
But, as a matter of fact, the doctor had 
already been interceding — 'he had gone 
farther in pleading George's cause than he 
was willing to have George know. For 
Monsieur Loches had paid him a visit — 'his 
purpose being to ask the doctor to continue 
attendance upon the infant, and also to give 
Henriette a certificate which she could use 
in her suit for a divorce from her husband. 
So invariably there had been a discussion 
of the whole question between the two men. 
The doctor had granted the first request, 
but refused the second. In the first place, 
he said, there was a rule of professional 
secrecy which would prevent him. And 
when the father-in-law requested to know 
if the rule of professional secrecy compelled 
him to protect a criminal against honest 
people, the doctor answered that even 
if his ethics permitted it, he would still 
refuse the request. ''I would reproach 
myseK forever,'' he said, "if I had aided 
you to obtain such a divorce." 
"Then," cried the old man, vehemently, 
"because you profess such and such theories, 
because the exercise of your profession 
 
makes you the constant witness of such 
miseries — therefore it is necessary that my 
daughter should continue to bear that 
man's name all her life!'' 
The doctor answered, gently, "Sir, I 
understand and respect your grief.. But 
believe me, you are not in a state of mind to 
decide about these matters now." 
"You are mistaken," declared the other, 
controlling himself with an effort. "I 
have been thinking about nothing else for 
days. I have discussed it with my daughter, 
and she agrees with me. Surely, sir, 
you cannot desire that my daughter should 
continue to live with a man who has struck 
her so brutal, so cowardly, a blow." 
"If I refuse your request," the doctor 
answered, "it is in the interest of your 
daughter." Then, seeing the other's excite- 
ment returning, he continued, "In your 
state of mind. Monsieur Loches, I know that 
you will probably be abusing me before 
five minutes have passed. But that will 
not trouble me. I have seen many cases. 
And since I have made the mistake of 
letting myself be trapped into this discus- 
 
sion, I must explain to you the reason for 
my attitude. You ask of me a certificate 
so that you may prove in court that your 
son-in-law is afflicted with syphilis. '' 
''Precisely.' said the other. 
''And have you not reflected upon this — 
that at the same time you will be publicly 
attesting that your daughter has been 
exposed to the contagion? With such an 
admission, an admission officially registered 
in the public records, do you believe that 
