was I that I could hear the feeding trout splashing along the reaches,
and the deer, one by one, retreating from the shore.
Birds that haunt woodland edges were singing, spite of their moulting
fever; and I heard the Scarlet Tanager, the sweet call of the Crimson
Cardinal, the peeping of the Recollet chasing gnats above the water,
the lovely, linked notes of the White-throat trailing to a minor
infinitely prolonged.
Greyer, greyer grew the woods; louder sang the birds; suddenly a
dazzling shaft of pink struck the forest; the first shred of mist
curled, detached itself, and floated slowly upward. The sun had risen.
Against the blinding glory, looming gigantic in the mist, I saw the
Sagamore, an awful apparition in his paint, turn to salute the rising
sun. Then, the mysterious office of his priesthood done, he lifted his
rifle, tossed the heavy piece lightly to his shoulder, and strode
toward me.
I shook the sleeping Oneidas, and, as they sprang to their feet, I
pointed out their posts to them, laid my rifle on my sack, and dropped
where I stood like a lump of lead.
I was aroused toward nine by the Mohican, and sat up as wide awake as a
disturbed tree-cat, instantly ready for trouble.
"An Oneida on the Ouleout," he said.
"Where?"
"Yonder--just across."
"Friendly?"
"He has made the sign."
"An ambassador?"
"A runner, not a belt-bearer."
"Bring him to me."
Strung along the banks of the Ouleout, each behind a tree, I saw my
Indians crouching, rifles ready. Then, on the farther bank, at the
water's shallow edge, I saw the strange Indian--a tall, spare young
fellow, absolutely naked except clout, ankle moccasins, hatchet-girdle,
and pouch; and wearing no paint except a white disc on his forehead the
size of a shilling. A single ragged frond hung from his scalp lock.
Answering the signal of the Mohican, he sprang lightly into the stream
and crossed the shallow water. My Oneidas seemed to know him, for they
accosted him smilingly, and Tahoontowhee turned and accompanied him
back toward the spot where I was standing, naively exhibiting to the
stranger his first scalp. Which seemed to please the dusty and
brier-torn runner, for he was all smiles and animation until he caught
sight of me. Then instantly the mask of blankness smoothed his
features, so that when I confronted him he was utterly without
expression.
I held out my hand, saying quietly:
"Welcome, brother."
"I thank my brother for his welcome," he said, taking my offered hand.
"My brother is hungry," I said. "He shall eat. He is weary because he
has came a long distance. He shall rest unquestioned." I seated myself
and motioned him to follow my example.
The tall, lank fellow looked earnestly at me; Tahoontowhee lighted a
pipe, drew a deep, full inhalation from it, passed it to me. I drew
twice, passed it to the runner. Then Tahoontowhee laid a square of bark
on the stranger's knees; I poured on it from my sack a little parched
corn, well salted, and laid beside it a bit of dry and twisted meat.
Tahoontowhee did the same. Then, very gravely and in silence we ate our
morning meal with this stranger, as though he had been a friend of many
years.
"The birds sing sweetly," observed Tahoontowhee politely.
"The weather is fine," said I urbanely.
"The Master of Life pities the world He fashioned. All should give
thanks to Him at sunrise," said the runner quietly.
The brief meal ended, Tahoontowhee laid his sack for a pillow; the
strange Oneida stretched out on the ground, laid his dusty head on it,
and closed his eyes. The next moment he opened them and rose to his
feet. The ceremony and hospitality devolving upon me had been formally
and perfectly accomplished.
As I rose, free now to question him without losing dignity in his eyes,
he slipped the pouch he wore around in front, where his heavy knife and
hatchet hung, and drew from it some letters.
Holding these unopened in my hand, I asked him who he was and from whom
and whence he came.
"I am Red Wings, a Thaowethon Oneida of Ironderoga, runner for General
Clinton--and my credentials are this wampum string, so that you shall
know that I speak the truth!" And he whipped a string of red and black
wampum from his pouch and handed it to me.
Holding the shining coil in my hands, I looked at him searchingly.
"By what path did you come?"
"By no path. I left Otsego as you left, crossed the river where you had
crossed, recrossed where you did not recross, but where a canoe had
landed."
"And then?"
"I saw the Mengwe," he said politely, as the Sagamore came up beside
him.
Mayaro smiled his appreciation of the Algonquin term, then he spat,
saying:
"The Mengwe were Sinako and Mowawak. One has joined the Eel Clan."
"The Red Wings saw him. The Cat-People of the Sinako sat in a circle
around that scalpless thing and sang like catamounts over their dead!"
It is impossible to convey the scorn, contempt, insult, and loathing
expressed by the Mohican and the Oneida, unless one truly understand
the subtlety of the words they used in speaking of their common enemies.
"The Red Wings came by the Charlotte River?" I asked.
"By the Cherry, Quenevas, and Charlotte to the Ouleout. The Mengwe
fired on me as I stood on a high cliff and mocked them."
"Did they follow you?"
"Can my brother Loskiel trail feathered wings through the high air
paths? A little way I let them follow, then took wing, leaving them to
whine and squall on the Susquehanna."
"And Butler and McDonald?" I demanded, smiling.
"I do not know. I saw white men's tracks on the Charlotte, not two
hours old. They pointed toward the Delaware. The Minisink lies there."
I nodded. "Now let the Red Wings fold his feathers and go to rest," I
said, "until I have read my letters and considered them."
The Oneida immediately threw himself on the ground and drew his pouch
under his head. Before I could open my first letter, he was asleep and
breathing quietly as a child. And, on his naked shoulder, I saw a smear
of balsam plastered over with a hazel leaf, where a bullet had left its
furrow. He had not even mentioned that he had been hit.
The first letter was from my General Clinton:
"Have a care," he wrote, "that your Indians prove faithful. The
Wyandotte I assigned to your command made a poor impression among our
Oneida guides. This I hear from Major Parr, who came to tell me so
after you had left. Remember, too, that you and your Mohican are most
necessary to General Sullivan. Interpreters trained by Guy Johnson are
anything but plenty; and another Mohican who knows the truest route to
Catharines-town is not to be had for whistling."
This letter decided me to rid myself of the Wyandotte. Here was
sufficient authority; time enough had elapsed since he had joined us
for me to come to a decision. Even my Indians could not consider my
judgment hasty now.
I cast a cold glance at him, where he stood in the distance leaning
against a huge walnut tree and apparently keeping watch across the
Ouleout. The Grey-Feather was watching there, too, and I had no doubt
that his wary eyes were fixed as often on the Wyandotte as on the
wooded shore across the stream.
A second letter was from Major Parr, and said:
"An Oneida girl called Drooping Wings, of whom you bought some trumpery
or other, came to the fort after you had left, and told me that among
the party in their camp was an adopted Seneca who had seen and
recognized your Wyandotte as a Seneca and not as a Huron.
"Not that this information necessarily means that the Indian called
Black-Snake is a traitor. He brought proper credentials from the
officer commanding at Pitt. But it is best that you know of this, and
that you feel free to use your judgment accordingly."
"Yes," said I to myself, "I'll use it."
I took another long look at the suspect, then opened my third and last
letter. It was from Lois; and my heart beat the "general" so violently
that for a moment it stopped my breath:
"Euan Loskiel, my comrade, and my dear friend: Since you have gone,
news has come that our General Wayne, with twelve hundred light
infantry, stormed and took Stony Point on the Hudson on the 15th of
this past month. All the stores, arms, ammunition, and guns are ours,
with more than five hundred prisoners. The joy at this post is
wonderful to behold; our soldiers are mad with delight and cheer all
day long.
"Lieutenant Beatty tells me that we have taken fourteen pieces of good
ordnance, seven hundred stand of arms, tents, rum, cheese, wine, and a
number of other articles most agreeable to recount.
"On Wednesday morning last a sad affair; at Troop Beating three men
were brought out to be shot, all found guilty of desertion, one from
the 4th Pennsylvania, one from the 6th Massachusetts, and one from the
3rd New York. The troops were drawn up on the grand parade. Two of the
men were reprieved by the General; the third was shot.... It meant more
to me, kneeling in my room with both hands over my ears to shut out the
volley, than it meant to those who witnessed the awful scene. Marching
back, the fifes and drums played 'Soldiers' Joy.' I had forgotten to
stop my ears, and heard them.
"On Tuesday rain fell. News came at noon that Indians had surprised and
killed thirty-six haymakers near Fort Schuyler; and that other Indians
had taken fifteen or seventeen of our men who were gathering
blueberries at Sabbath Day Point. Whereupon Colonel Gansevoort
immediately marched for Canajoharie with his regiment, which had but
just arrived; and in consequence Betty Bleecker and Angelina are
desolate.
"As you see from this letter, we have left Croghan's new house, and are
living at Otsego in a fine Bush House, and near to the place where
Croghan's old house stood before it was destroyed.
"Sunday, after an all night rain, clear skies; and all the officers
were being schooled in saluting with the sword, the General looking on.
In the afternoon the Chaplain, 'Parson' Gano, as the soldiers call him,
gave us a sermon. I went with Betty and Angelina. Miss Helmer went on
the lake in a batteau with Mr. Boyd. The Rifles tried their guns on the
lake, shooting at marks. Murphy and Elerson made no misses.
"On Monday the officers had a punch, most respectable and gay. We
ladies went with Major Parr, Lieutenant Boyd, and the Ensign you so
detest, to view the hilarity, but not to join, it being a sociable
occasion for officers only, the kegs of rum being offered by General
Clinton--a gentleman not famed for his generosity in such matters.
"This, Euan, is all the general news I have to offer, save that the
army expects its marching orders at any moment now.
"Euan, I am troubled in my heart. First, I must acquaint you that Lana
Helmer and I have become friends. The night you left I was sitting in
my room, thinking; and Lana came in and drew my head on her shoulder.
We said nothing to each other all that night, but slept together in my
room. And since then we have come to know each other very well in the
way women understand each other. I love her dearly.
"Euan, she will not admit it, but she is mad about Lieutenant Boyd--and
it is as though she had never before loved and knows not how to
conduct. Which is strange, as she has been so courted and is deeply
versed in experience, and has lived more free of restraint than most
women I ever heard of. Yet, it has taken her like a pernicious fever;
and I do neither like nor trust that man, for all his good looks, and
his wit and manners, and the exceedingly great courage and military
sagacity which none denies him.
"Yesterday Lana came to my little room in our Bush House, where I sleep
on a bed of balsam, and we sat there, the others being out, and she
told me about Clarissa, and wept in the telling. What folly will not a
woman commit for love! And Sir John riding the wilderness with his
murdering crew! May the Lord protect and aid all women from such birds
o' passage and of prey! And I thought I had seen the pin-feathers of
some such plumage on this man Boyd. But he may moult to a prettier
colour. I hope so--but in my heart I dare not believe it. For he is of
that tribe of men who would have their will of every pretty petticoat
they notice. Some are less unscrupulous than others, that is the only
difference. And he seems still to harbour a few scruples, judging from
what I see of him and her, and what I know of her.
"Yet, if a man bear not his good intention plainly written on his face,
and yet protests he dies unless you love him, what scruples he may
entertain will wither to ashes in the fiercer flame. And how after all
does he really differ from the others?
"Euan, I am sick of dread and worry, what with you out in the West with
your painted scouts, and Mr. Boyd telling me that he has his doubts
concerning the reliability of one o' them! And what with Lana so white
and unhappy, and coming into my bed to cry against my breast at
night----"
Here the letter ended abruptly, and underneath in hurried writing:
"Major Parr calls to say that an Oneida runner is ordered to try to
find you with despatches from headquarters. I had expected to send this
letter by some one in your own regiment when it marched. But now I
shall intrust it to the runner.
"I know not how to close my letter--how to say farewell--how to let you
know how truly my heart is yours. And becomes more so every hour. Nor
can you understand how humbly I thank God for you--that you are what
you are--and not like Sir John and--other men.
"Women are of a multitude of kinds--until they love. Then they are of
but two kinds. Of one of these kinds shall I be when I love. Not that I
doubt myself, yet, who can say what I shall be? Only three, Euan--God,
the man who loves me, and myself."
"I sit here waiting for a rifleman to take my letter to the General who
has promised to commit it to the runner.
"A regiment is trying its muskets at the lake. I hear the firing.
"I have a tallow dip and wax and sand, ready to close my letter
instantly. No one comes."
"Lana comes, very tired and pale. Her eyes frighten me, they seem so
tragic. I learn that the army marches on the 9th. Yet, you went
earlier, and I do not think my eyes resembled hers."
"Soldiers passing, drums beating. A Pennsylvania regiment. Lana lies on
my bed, her face to the wall, scarce breathing at all, as far as I can
see. Conch-horns blowing--the strange and melancholy music of your
regiment. It seems to fill my heart with dread unutterable."
"The runner is here! Euan--Euan! Come back to me!
                                                "Lois de Contrecoeur."
My eyes fell from the letter to the sleeping runner stretched out at my
feet, then shifted vaguely toward the river.
After a while I drew my tablets, quill, and ink-horn from my pouch, and
setting it on my knees wrote to her with a heart on fire, yet perfectly
controlled.
And after I had ended, I sealed the sheet with balsam, pricking the
globule from the tree behind me, and setting over it a leaf of
partridge-berry. Also I wrote letters to General Clinton and to Major
Parr, sealed them as I had sealed the other, and set a tiny, shining
leaf on each.
Then, very gently I bent forward and aroused the Oneida runner. He sat
up, rubbed his eyes, then got to his feet smiling. And I consigned to
him my letters.
The Mohican, on guard by the Susquehanna, was watching me; and as soon
as the Red Wings had started on his return, and was well across the
Ouleout, I signalled the Sagamore to come to me, leaving the Mole and
Tahoontowhee by the Susquehanna.
"Blood-brother of mine," I said as he came up, "I ask counsel of a
wiser head and a broader experience than my own. What is to be done
with this Wyandotte?"
"Must that be decided now, Loskiel?"
"Now. Because the Unadilla lies below not far away, and beyond that the
Tioga. And I am charged to get myself thither in company with you as
soon us may be. Now, what is a Sagamore's opinion of this Wyandotte?"
"Erie," he said quietly.
"You believe it?"
"I know it, Loskiel."
"And the others--the Oneidas and the Stockbridge?"
"They are as certain as I am."
"Good God! Then why have you not told me this before, Mayaro?"
"Is there haste?"
"Haste? Have I not said that we march immediately? And you would have
let me give my order and include that villain in it!"
"Why not? It is an easier and safer way to take a prisoner to Tioga
Point than to drag him thither tied."
"But he may escape----"
The Sagamore gave me an ironic glance.
"Is it likely," he said softly, "when we are watching?"
"But he may manage to do us a harm. You saw how cunningly he has kept
up communication with our enemies, to leave a trail for them to follow."
"He has done us what harm he is able," said the Sagamore coolly.
I hesitated, then asked him what he meant.
"Why," he said, "their scouts have followed us. There are two of them
now across the Susquehanna."
Thunderstruck, I stared at the river, where its sunlit surface
glittered level through the trees.
"Do the others know this?" I asked.
"Surely, Loskiel."
I looked at my Indians where they lay flat behind their trees, rifles
poised, eyes intent on the territory in front of them.
"If my brother does not desire to bring the Wyandotte to General
Sullivan, I will go to him now and kill him," said the Mohican
carelessly.
"He ought to hang," I said between my teeth.
"Yes. It is the most dreadful death a Seneca can die. He would prefer
the stake and two days' torture. Loskiel is right. The Erie has been a
priest of Amochol. Let him die by the rope he dreads more than the
stake. For all Indians fear the rope, Loskiel, which chokes them so
