
'twas a miracle, your goin’ from that little old 
house an’ cornin’ here. Shouldn’t think you’d 
know yourself. Keep a man to work all the time, 
I s’pose? Why, you’ve got ’most a farm, an’ nice 
lot of fruit trees, if they pesky catterpillers don’t 
chew up everything. I s’pose the children of Isrul 
must have brought ’em out of Egypt, but I sh’d ’a’ 
thought they’d been mighty careful, seein’ they 
was sent to plague the ’Gyptians. But you can’t 
tell what the crops are goin’ to be, even if you do 
pray an’ trust the Lord.” 

“ Oh, we had a good deal of fruit on the old 
place,” returned Mrs. Mann. 

Then Mr. Pine must see the horses and the 
carriage-house, and have a talk with Dan, while 
Granny went on with her rather grudging surprise. 
Some of it made the little mother wince. 

“ Come, Granny,” he said presently, “ we must 
be gettin’ on. It’s a’most twelve. Wife’ll 
be waitin’ dinner and think I’ve ’loped with 
you.” 

Granny gave a cackle at the idea. 

“ Why, it don’t seem an hour,” in an aggrieved 
tone. I ain’t had half a visit. I must come 
again when I’m not hurried off so. I s’pose you 
have lots of fine clo’es that I ain’t seen. Mrs. 
Burnham said you had a reel weddin’-dress, an’ 




the children were all in white. Why, you ain’t told 
me half. 

“ Well, it’s a sort of gettin’ in the land of 
Canaan, though ther’ wa’n’t any fightin’ in your 
wilderness. I hope you’ll live to enjoy it, and 
that the man will make you a good husband.” 

“ Come, Granny; get on your togs.” 

Granny grumbled. While her mother was help- 
ing the old lady, Rilla packed a basket of goodies 
that really surprised her into gratitude. Mr. Pine 
assisted the mummy-like figure into the wagon and 
drove off. 

And she never asked her old question. 
Mother,” laughed Rilla. 

I’m glad she isn’t any relation to us,” said 
Primrose. Oh, suppose she was our very own 
grandmother, grudging us everything. Why, we’d 
run away.” 

And leave me to bear it alone?” said their 
mother with a funny expression flitting across her 
face. 

‘‘ If she was our grandmother, she’d be differ- 
ent,” Rilla commented thoughtfully. 

“ Yes,” returned Mrs. Mann. If your grand- 
mother had lived, she would have been a sweet old 
lady, glad for you to have everything. It is hard 
for you to live alongside of people who do not 




care for you, and Joe’s wife is not very ami- 
able.” 

I mean to snap that question on father,” said 
Prim. I had almost forgotten it.” 

They were summoned to luncheon, and Prim 
tried her query on Mrs. Alden, who really was 
puzzled to decide. Then they had a little talk 
about poor Granny. 

“ You see, she used to come over quite often 
when we lived in the lane,” said Rilla. And she 
was always wanting a little of something. We 
felt sorry for her.” 

She has a lonely life,” said Mrs. Mann. 

‘‘ Mother, I think people ought to be sweet and 
nice as they grow old,” interposed Prim. “ I mean 
to be the loveliest old lady. But I want a lot of 
grandchildren and Pll be just as good as pie to 
them.” 

Mrs. Alden hoped she would. She had been 
hearing about Granny Keen and Denby folks gen- 
erally. 

They’re just green with envy because Mrs. 
Mann’s got such a prize,” said Cap. Them old 
maids would have jumped at the chance, an’ said 
thank’ee, too. An’ I’m glad he took her, for she’s 
as sweet as June roses. An’ I’m glad for my share 
of her, cornin’ here to live. Even Pop seems to 



have a kind of gredge about the children, and 
thinks some of ’em ought to be put out. They’re 
the nicest children I know, and I’m glad they have 
such a splendid father. Granny Keen will have 
enough to talk about for a good month.” 

Father,” began Prim, as they walked down 
the street to meet him, “ here is a weighty ques- 
tion. Would you rather be wrecked on the land or 
on the sea? ” 

There’s a catch in that. Come to consider. I’d 
rather not be wrecked at all,” and there was a 
merry twinkle in his eyes. 

“ If you’re wrecked on the land, there you stand. 

If you’re wrecked on the sea, there you be.” 

Prim made a pause, laughter playing about her 
lips. 

Please’m, if the price is just the same. I’ll be 
wrecked on the land. I have an accident insur- 
ance policy. What about your old lady ? ” 

Why, she has never been able to make up her 
mind and was always asking mother. The funny 
thing is she has never been in a steam-car, nor in a 
boat. To be sure, you might be wrecked in a 
wagon,” and Prim laughed. There was so much 
to surprise her here, and she was so full of com- 
plaints and forebodings lest we should turn out 




bad, or you turn us out. Oh, Father, dear,” and 
she clasped his arm, “ do you suppose you ever 
will get tired of us? There are so many of 
us.” 

“ Child,” he stooped and kissed her, “ don’t let 
such an idea find lodgment in your brain. You 
will get tired of me first. Some nice young man 
will come along with new charms and graces, and 
you’ll turn your back on the old fellow. But I 
shall have your mother left to comfort me.” 

“ Poor old Granny Keen has had a rather hard 
life,” interposed their mother gently. “ You see,” 
glancing at her husband, she was left with two 
rooms in the ell part, and her living from the farm; 
that went to the son. The son’s wife does seem 
to grudge it to her and gives her as little as pos- 
sible.” 

“ Then she grudges every one else any good for- 
tune,” said Amaryllis. Don’t you suppose' that 
if she were a little sweeter and better and more 
thankful ” 

The girl stopped and flushed. 

Yes, my dear, I think she would have won 
more from Joe’s wife in the beginning.” 

And, you see, she really envied Mrs. Bachman 
so much of our old stuff. And think what a lot 
she has piled up in her bedroom ! Why, she can 



hardly squeeze in herself. She doesn’t need half 
of that.” 

The boys had to hear the story over again, and 
farmer Pine’s comments were added to it. 

The girls were to start for school the next 
week. Linn felt quite delighted about it. Mrs. 
Read came to call with her two daughters, and 
several of the neighbors had turned very friendly. 
Mrs. Chedister was amazed to see Mrs. Brenner 
step out of her elegant coupe to make a call. 

Though she drops people as easily as she takes 
them up,” she said. “ Her favor doesn’t last.” 

There had been some discussion about Laurel. 
Mr. Mann was opposed to her being sent to school, 
since she did not want to go. 

There was a neighbor a little farther down the 
street, a Mrs. Boyse, a gentle, unassuming woman, 
who had taken a great fancy to Mrs. Mann. She 
had one son in a technical school, and Amy, of 
seven, a rather delicate child. Two between had 
died of scarlet fever, and they were very choice, 
indeed, of their little daughter. 

I don’t care for card-playing nor the Club,” she 
explained to Mrs. Mann. “ And though I love 
music, I don’t make any pretension to being mu- 
sical. I find so much to do in housekeeping and 
sewing. I teach my little girl ; Mr. Boyse doesn’t 




want her to go to school yet this year. I am 
so glad for her to have a playmate near by. She 
often gets lonesome. I envy you about half of 
your children.” 

“ I don’t know which half I could spare,” said 
Mrs. Mann, in a tone of amusement. 

“ And their father is so delightful with them.” 

He is extravagantly fond of children,” was the 
reply. I think if there had been ten he would 
not have been willing to give up one.” 

You certainly have an admirable husband,” 
was the comment. 

So the little girls became great friends. They 
rode their dolls up and down the sidewalk, they 
visited each other, and played tea, and Cap thought 
they should have been twins, they were so alike. 

Mr. Mann took his three daughters over to 
school with an air of proprietorship that was quite 
impressive. Amaryllis was diffident, but Linn had 
been coaching her and imbuing her with courage, 
and she passed very well. Linn and Goldie were 
put in the same class. Prim had a fashion of 
bringing all her knowledge to the fore, and caught 
at any point by a sort of intuition rather than real 
study. In a week she was a great favorite, and 
there was something infectious about her fun. 

They had all been to tea at the Rectory, and Miss 




Evans enjoyed them very much. The Bradley 
boys were asked to Mrs. Mann’s, and had a delight- 
ful time indoors and out. Mr. Mann had a 
swing set in the shade of a big apple-tree, and they 
went to foreign lands in it. 

Gladys Chedister looked on with longing eyes. 
Miss Hunt came every morning and gave her two 
hours’ teaching, but she thought if she could only 
make one in the gay swinging-party, or the great 
carriage load Dan took out in the late afternoon ! 


CHAPTER XVIII 


CHILDREN AND CHILDREN 

Then their mother was whisked off again, this 
time to Boston and some other towns. 

“ You’ll see, Rilla, that the girls don’t get quite 
wild at school, and that they behave in the trolley. 
I do wish school was near enough for them to walk. 
You will find other passengers commenting on rude 
schoolgirls.” 

“ But we often do walk home. Of, course. 
Mother, Prim can’t help saying funny things, and 
everybody thinks her great yellow braids are so 
wonderful. Will her hair always stay yellow?” 

“ Oh, I hope it will grow darker. And do try 
to be well-behaved.” 

They did not feel so lonesome this time, there 
were so many new interests, and the walks after 
school were delightful. Nature study was inter- 
esting them. Sometimes they really did loiter. 
