self together and hear me." 
"Let me see Mary Abbott!" she insisted, again 
and again. "It may not be what you want — but 
I demand to see her." 
So at last he said, "You cannot see Mrs. 
Abbott. She has gone back to New York." 
And then, at her look of consternation: "That is 
one of the things I have to talk to you about." 
"Why has she gone back?" cried Sylvia. 
"Because I was unwilling to have her here." 
"You mean you sent her away?" 
"I mean that she imderstood she was no longer 
welcome." 
 
Sylvia drew a quick breath and turned away to 
the window. 
He took advantage of the opportunity to come 
near, and draw up a chair for her. "Will you 
not pleased to be seated," he said. And at last 
she turned, rigidly, and seated herself. 
"The time has come," he declared, "when we 
have to settle this question of Mrs. Abbott, and 
her influence upon your life. I have argued with 
you about such matters, but now what has hap- 
pened makes further discussion impossible. You 
were brought up among people of refinement, and 
it has been incredible to me that you should be 
willing to admit to your home such a woman as 
this — not merely of the commonest birth, but 
without a trace of the refinement to which you 
have been accustomed. Now you see the conse- 
quences of yoiu" having brought such a person 
into our life!" 
He paused. She made no sound, and her gaze 
was riveted upon the window-curtain. 
"She happens to be here," he went on, "at a 
time when a dreadful calamity befalls us — when 
we are in need of the utmost sympathy and con- 
sideration. Here is an obscure and terrible 
affliction, which has baffled the best physicians in 
the country; but this ignorant farmer's wife con- 
siders that she knows all about it. She proceeds 
to discuss it with every one — sending your poor 
aimt almost into hysterics, setting the nurses to 
gossiping — God knows what else she has done, or 
what she will do, before she gets through. I 
 
don't pretend to know her ultimate purpose — 
blackmail, possibly " 
"Oh, how can you!" she broke out, invol- 
untarily. "How can you say such a thing about 
a friend of mine?" 
"I might answer with another question — how 
can you have such a friend? A woman who has 
cast off every restraint, every consideration of 
decency, — and yet is able to persuade a daughter 
of the Castlemans to make her an intimate! 
Possibly she is an honest fanatic. Dr. Perrin tells 
me she was the wife of a brutal farmer, who 
mistreated her. No doubt that has embittered 
her against men, and accounts for her mania. 
You see that her mind leaped at once to the most 
obscene and hideous explanation of this misfor- 
tune of ours — an explanation which pleased her 
because it blackened the honor of a man." 
He stopped again. Sylvia's eyes had moved 
back to the window-curtain. 
"I am not going to insult your ears," he said, 
"with discussions of her ideas. The proper per- 
son to settle such matters is a physician, and if 
you wish Dr. Perrin to do so, he will tell you 
what he knows about the case. But I wish you 
to realize somehow what this thing has meant to 
me. I have managed to control myself — " He 
saw her shut her hps more tightly. "The doctors 
tell me that I must not excite you. But picture 
-the situation. I come to my home, bowed 
down with grief for you and for my child. And 
this mad woman thrusts herself forward, shoves 
 
aside your aunt and yoitr physicians, and comes 
in the launch to meet me at the station. And 
then she accuses me of being criminally guilty of 
the blindness of my child — of having wiKully 
deceived my wife! Think of it — that is my wel- 
come to my home!" 
"Douglas," she cried, wildly, "Mary Abbott 
would not have done such a thing without 
reason " 
"I do not purpose to defend myself," he said, 
coldly. "If you are bent upon filling yom* mind 
with such matters, go to Dr. Perrin. He will tell 
you that he, as a physician, knows that the 
charge against me is preposterous. He will tell 
you that even granting that the cause of the 
blindness is what Mrs. Abbott guesses, there are 
a thousand ways in which such an infection can 
be contracted, which are perfectly innocent, 
involving no guilt on the part of anyone. Every 
doctor knows that drinking-cups, wash-basins, 
towels, even food can be contaminated. He 
knows that any person can bring the affliction 
into a home — servants, nurses, even the doctors 
themselves. Has your mad woman friend told 
you any of that?" 
"She has told me nothing. You know that I 
have had no opportimity to talk with her. I only 
know what the nurses believe " 
"They believe what Mrs. Abbott told them. 
That is absolutely all the reason they have for 
believing anything!" 
She did not take that quite as he expected. 
"So Mary Abbott did tell them!" she cried. 
 
He hurried on: "The poisonous idea of a 
vulgar Socialist woman — this is the thing upon 
which you base your suspicious of your husband!" 
"Oh!" she whispered, half to herself. "Mary 
Abbott did say it! 
"What if she did?" 
"Oh Douglas, Mary would never have said such 
a thing to a nurse unless she had been certain 
of it!" 
"Certain?" he broke out. "What certainty 
could she imagine she had? She is a bitter, 
frantic woman — a divorced woman — who jumped 
to the conclusion that pleased her, because it 
involved the humillation of a rich man." 
He went on, his voice trembling with suppressed 
passion: "When you know the real truth, the 
thing becomes a nightmare. You, a delicate 
woman, lying here helpless — the victim of a cruel 
misfortune, and with the life of an afflicted infant 
depending upon your peace of mind. Yom" 
physicians planning day and night to keep you 
quiet, to keep the dreadful, unbearable truth 
from you " 
"Oh, what truth? That's the terrifying thing 
— to know that people are keeping things from me! 
What was it they were keeping?" 
"First of all, the fact that the baby was blind; 
and then the cause of it " 
"Then they do know the cause?" 
"They don't know positively — no one can 
know positively. But poor Dr. Perrin had a 
dreadful idea, that he had to hide from you, 
 
because otherwise he could not bear to continue 
in your house " 
"Why, Douglas! What do you mean?" 
"I mean that a few days before your conjfine- 
ment, he was called away to the case of a negro- 
woman — you knew that, did you not?" 
"Go on." 
"He has the torturing suspicion that possibly 
he was not careful enough in sterilizing his instru- 
ments, and that he, your friend and protector, 
may be the one who is to blame." 
"Oh! Oh!" Her voice was a whisper of 
horror. 
"That is one of the secrets your doctors have 
been trying to hide." 
There was silence, while her eyes searched his 
face. Suddenly she stretched out her hands to 
him, crying desperately: "Oh, is this true?" 
He did not take the outstretched hands. 
"Since I am upon the witness-stand, I have to 
be careful of my replies. It is what Dr. Perrin 
tells me. Whether the explanation he gives is 
the true one — whether he himself, or the nurse 
he recommended, may have brought the infec- 
tion " 
"It couldn't have been the nurse," she said, 
quickly. "She was so careful—" 
He did not allow her to finish. "You seem 
determined," he said, coldly, "to spare everyone 
but your husband." 
"No!" she protested, "I have tried hard to be 
fair — to be fair to both you and my friend. Of 
 
course, if Mary Abbott was mistaken, I have 
done you a great injustice " 
He saw that she was softening, and that it was 
safe for him to be a man. "It has been with 
some difficulty that I have controlled myseK 
throughout this experience," he said, rising to 
his feet. "If you do not mind, I think I will not 
cany the discussion any further. I don't feel 
that I can trust myseK to listen to a defense of 
that woman from your lips. I will only tell you 
my decision in the matter. I have never before 
used my authority as a husband. I hoped I 
should never have to use it. But the time has 
come when you will have to choose between Mary 
Abbott and your husband. I will positively not 
tolerate your corresponding with her, or having 
anything further to do with her. I take my 
stand upon that, and nothing will move me. I 
will not even permit of any discussion of the 
subject. And now I hope you will excuse me. 
Dr. Perrin wishes me to tell you that either he 
or Dr. Gibson are ready at any time to advise 
you about these matters, which have been forced 
upon your mind against their judgment and 
protests." 
 
 
 
You can see that it was no easy matter for 
Sylvia to get at the truth. The nurses, already 
terrified because of their indiscretion, had been 
first professionally thrashed, and then carefully 
drilled as to the answers they were to make. But 
as a matter of fact they did not have to make 
any answers at all, because Sylvia was unwilling 
to reveal to anyone her distrust of her husband. 
One of two things was certain: either she had 
been horribly wronged by her husband, or now 
she was horribly wronging him. Which was the 
truth? Was it conceivable that I, Mary Abbott, 
would leap to a false conclusion about such a 
matter? She knew that I felt intensely, almost 
fanatically, on the subject; and also that I had 
been imder great emotional stress. Was it 
possible that I would have voiced mere suspicions 
to the nurses? Sylvia could not be sure, for my 
standards were as strange to her as my Western 
accent. She knew that I talked freely to every- 
one about such matters — and would be as apt to 
select the nurses as the ladies of the house. On 
the other hand, how was it conceivable that I 
could know positively? To recognize a disease 
might be easy; but to specify from what source 
it had come — that was surely not in human power! 
They did not leave her alone for long. Mrs. 
Tuis came in, with her feminine terrors. " Sylvia, 
 
you must know that you are treating your hus- 
band dreadfully! He has gone away down the 
beach by him self, and has not even seen his baby!" 
"Aunt Varina — " she began, "wont you please 
go away?" 
But the other rushed on: "Your husband 
comes here, broken with grief because of this 
affiction; and you overwhelm him with the most 
cruel and wicked reproaches — with charges you 
have no way in the world of proving — " The 
old lady caught her niece by the hand. "My 
child! Come, do your duty!" 
"My duty?" 
"Make yourself fit, and take your husband to 
see his baby." 
"Oh, I can't!" cried Sylvia. "I don't want to 
be there when he sees her! If I loved him — " 
Then, seeing her aunt's face of horror, she was 
seized with a sudden impulse of pity, and caught 
the poor old lady in her arms. "Aunt Varina," 
she said, "I am making you suffer, I know — I am 
making everyone suffer! But if you only knew 
how I am suffering myself! How can I know 
what to do." 
Mrs. Tuis was weeping; but quickly she got 
herself together, and answered in a firm voice, 
"Your old Auntie can tell you what to do. You 
must come to your senses, my child — you must 
let your reason prevail. Get your face washed, 
make yourself presentable, and come and take 
your husband to see your baby. Women have 
to suffer, dear; we must not shirk our share of 
life's burdens." 
 
"There is no danger of my shirking," said 
Sylvia, bitterly. 
"Come, dear, come," pleaded Mrs. Tuis. She 
was trying to lead the girl to the mirror. If only 
she could be made to see how distraught and 
disorderly she looked! "Let me help you to 
dress, dear — you know how much better it always 
makes you feel." 
Sylvia laughed, a trifle wildly — but Mrs. Tuis 
had dealt with hysteria before. "What would 
you like to wear?" she demanded. And then, 
without waiting for an answer, "Let me choose 
something. One of your pretty frocks." 
"A pretty frock, and a seething volcano under- 
neath! That is your idea of a woman's life!" 
The other responded, very gravely, "A pretty 
frock, my dear, and a smile — instead of a vulgar 
scene, and ruin and desolation afterwards." 
Sylvia made no reply. Yes, that was the life 
of woman — her old aunt knew! And her old 
aunt knew also the psychology of her sex. She 
did not go on talking about pretty frocks in the 
abstract; she turned at once to the clothes- 
closet, and ban laying pretty frocks upon the 
bed! 
 
 
Sylvia emerged upon the "gallery", clad in 
dainty pink muslin, her beautiful shiny hair 
