frequently beguiled Clive,--not that he required any persuading to
follow this young and lovely creature who ranged the full boundaries
of her environment, living to the full life as it had been allotted
her.
Wholesome with that charming and rounded slenderness of perfect health
there yet seemed no limit to her capacity for the enjoyment of all
things for which an appetite exists--pleasures, mental or physical--it
did not seem to matter.
She adored walking; to exercise her body delighted her. Always she ate
and drank with a relish that fascinated; she was mad about the theatre
and about music:--and whatever she chanced to be doing she did with
all the vigour, intelligence, and pleasure of which she was capable,
throwing into it her entire heart and soul.
It led to temporary misunderstandings--particularly with the men she
met--even in the small circle of friends whom she received and with
whom she went about. Arthur Ensart entirely mistook her until fiercely
set right one evening when alone with him; James Allys also listened
to a curt but righteously impassioned discourse which he never forgot.
Hargrave's gentlemanly and suavely villainous intentions, when finally
comprehended, became radically modified under her coolly scornful
rebuke. Welter, fat and sentimental, never was more than tiresomely
saccharine; Ferris and Lyndhurst betrayed symptoms of being
misunderstood, but it was a toss-up as to the degree of seriousness in
their intentions.
The intentions of men are seldom more serious than they have to be.
But they all were helplessly, hopelessly caught in the magic, gossamer
web of Athalie's beauty and personal charm; and some merely kicked and
buzzed and some tried to rend the frail rainbow fabric, and some
struggled silently against they knew not what--themselves probably.
And some, like Dane, hung motionless, enmeshed, knowing that to
struggle was futile. And some, like Clive, were still lying under her
jewelled feet in the very centre of the sorcery, so far silent and
unstirring, awaiting to see whether the grace of God would fall upon
them or the coup-de-grâce that ended all. Eventually, however, like
all other men, Clive gave signs of life and impatience.
"Can't you love me, Athalie?" he said abruptly one night, when they
had returned from the theatre and he had already taken his leave--and
had come back from the door to take it again more tenderly. The girl
let him kiss her.
She, in her clinging, sparkling evening gown was standing by her
crystal, the fingers of one hand lightly poised upon it, looking down
at it.
"Love you, Clive," she repeated in smiling surprise. "Why, I do, you
dear, foolish boy. I've admitted it to you. Also haven't you just
kissed me?"
"I know.... But I mean--couldn't you love me above all other
men--above everything in this world--"
"But I do! Were you annoyed because I was silly with Cecil
to-night?"
"No.... I understand. You simply can't help turning everybody's head.
It's in you,--it's part of you--"
"I'm merely having a good time," she protested. "It means no more than
you see, when I flirt with other men.... It never goes any
farther--except--once or twice I have let men kiss me.... Only two or
three.... Before you came back, of course--"
"I didn't know that," he said sullenly.
"Didn't you? Then the men were more decent than I supposed.... Yes, I
let John Lyndhurst kiss me once. And Francis Hargrave did it.... And
Jim Allys tried to, against my wishes--but he never attempted it after
that."
She had been looking down again at the crystal while speaking; her
attitude was penitential, but the faint smile on her lips adorably
mischievous. Presently she glanced up at him to see how he was taking
it. He must have been taking it very badly, for:
"Clive!" she said, startled; "are you really annoyed with me?"
The gathering scowl faded and he forced a smile. Then the frown
returned; he flung one arm around her supple waist and gathered both
her hands into his, holding them closely imprisoned.
"You must love!" he said almost roughly.
"My dear! I've told you that I do love you."
"And I tell you you don't! Your calm and cheerful friendship for me
isn't love!"
"Oh. What else is it, please?"
He kissed her on the mouth. She suffered his lips again without
flinching, then drew back laughingly to avoid him.
"Why are you becoming so very demonstrative?" she asked. "If you are
not careful it will become a horrid habit with you."
"Does it mean nothing more than a habit to you?" he asked,
unsmilingly.
"It means that I care enough for you to let you do it more than once,
doesn't it?"
He shrugged and turned his face toward the window:
"And you believe that you love me," he said, sullenly and partly to
himself.
"You amazingly sulky man, what are you muttering to yourself?" she
demanded, bending forward and across his shoulder to see his face
which was still turned from her. He swung about and caught her
fiercely in his arms; and the embrace left her breathless and flushed.
"Clive--please--"
"Can't you care for me! For God's sake show it if you can!"
"Please, dear--I--"
"Can't you!" he repeated unsteadily, drawing her closer. "You know
what I am asking. Answer me!"
She bent her head and rested it against his shoulder a moment,
considering; she then looked away from him, troubled:
"I don't want to be your--mistress," she said. Truth disconcerts the
vast majority. It disconcerted him--after a ringing silence through
which the beating of rain on the window came to him like the steady
tattoo of his own heart.
"I did not ask that," he said, very red.
"You meant that.... Because I've been everything to you except that."
"I want you for my wife," he interrupted sharply.
"But you are married, Clive. So what more can I be to you, unless I
become--what I don't want to become--"
"I merely want you to love me--until I can find some way out of this
hell on earth I'm living in!"
"Dear, I'm sorry! I'm sorry you are so unhappy. But you can't get
free,--can you? She won't let you, will she?"
"I've got to have my freedom! I can't stand this. Good God! Must a man
do life for being a fool once? Isn't there any allowance to be made
for a first offence? I've always wanted to marry you. I was a
miserable, crazy coward to do what I did! Haven't I paid for it? Do
you know what I've been through?"
She said very sweetly and pitifully: "Dear, I know what people
suffer--what lonely hearts endure. I think I understand what you have
been through."
"I know you understand! Fool that I am who enlightened you. But yours
was the injury of bruised faith--the suffering caused by outrage. No
hell of self-contempt set you crawling about the world in agony; no
despicable self-knowledge drove you out into the waste places. Yours
was the sorrow of a self-respecting victim; mine the grief of the
damned fool who has done to death all that he ever loved for the love
of expediency and of self!"
"Clive!--"
"That's what I am!" he interrupted fiercely, "a damned fool! I don't
know what else I am, but I can't live without you, and I won't!"
She said: "You told me that being in love with me would not make you
unhappy. So I told you to love me. I was wrong to let you do it."
"You darling! I am more than happy!"
"It was a dreadful mistake, Clive! I shouldn't have let you."
"Do you think you could have stopped me?"
"I don't know. Couldn't I? I've stopped other men.... I shouldn't have
let you. But it was so delightful--to be really loved by you! All my
pride responded. It seemed to dignify everything; it seemed to make me
really a woman, with a place among other women--to be loved by such a
man as you ... and I was not selfish about it; I did ask you whether
it would make you unhappy to be in love with me. Oh, I see now that I
was very wrong, Clive--very foolish, very wrong! Because it is
making you restless and unhappy--"
"If you could only love me a little in return!"
"I don't know how to love you except the way I am doing--"
"There is a more vital emotion--"
"It seems impossible that I could care for you more deeply than I
do."
"If you could only respond with a little tenderness--"
"I do respond--as well as I know how," she said piteously.
He drew her nearer and touched her cheek with his lips:
"I know, dear. I don't mean to complain."
"Oh, Clive! I have let you fall in love with me and it is making you
miserable! And now it's making me miserable, too, because you are
disappointed in me."
"No--"
"You are! I'm not what you expected--not what you wanted--"
"You are everything I want!--if I could only wake your heart!" he said
in a low tense voice.
"It isn't my heart that is asleep.... I know what you miss in me....
And I can't help it. I--I don't wish to help it--or to be different."
She dropped her head against his shoulder. After a few moments she
spoke from there in a muffled, childish voice:
"What can I do about it? I don't want to be your mistress, Clive.... I
never wanted to do--anything--like that."
A deeper colour burnt his face. He said: "Could you love me enough to
marry me if I managed to free myself?"
"I have never thought of marrying you, Clive. It isn't that I couldn't
love you--that way. I suppose I could. Probably I could. Only--I don't
know anything about it--"
"Let me try to free myself, anyway."
"How is it possible?"
He said, exasperated: "Do you suppose I can endure this sort of
existence forever?"
The swift tears sprang to her eyes. "I don't know--I don't know," she
faltered. "I thought this existence of ours ideal. I thought you were
going to be happy; I supposed that our being together again would
bring happiness to us both. It doesn't! It is making us wretched. You
are not contented with our friendship!" She turned on him
passionately: "I don't wish to be your mistress. I don't want you to
make me wish to be. No girl naturally desires less than she is
entitled to, or more than the law permits--unless some man teaches her
to wish for it. Don't make such a girl of me, Clive! You--you are
beginning to do it. And I don't wish it! Truly I don't!"
In that fierce flash of candour,--of guiltless passion, she had
revealed herself. Never, until that moment, had he supposed himself so
absolutely dominant, invested with such power for good or evil. That
he could sway her one way or the other through her pure loyalty,
devotion, and sympathy he had not understood.
To do him justice he desired no such responsibility. He had meant to
be honest and generous and unselfish even when the outlook seemed most
hopeless,--when he was convinced that he had no chance of freedom.
But a man with the girl he loves in his arms might as well set a net
to catch the wind as to set boundaries to his desires. Perhaps he
could not so ardently have desired his freedom to marry her had he not
as ardently desired her love.
Love he had of her, but it was an affection utterly innocent of
passion. He knew it; she realised it; realised too that the capacity
for passion was in her. And had asked him not awaken her to it,
instinctively recoiling from it. Generous, unsullied, proudly
ignorant, she desired to remain so. Yet knew her peril; and candidly
revealed it to him in the most honest appeal ever made to him.
For if the girl herself suspected and dreaded whither her loyalty and
deep devotion to him might lead her, he had realised very suddenly
what his leadership meant in such a companionship.
Now it sobered him, awed him,--and chilled him a trifle.
Himself, his own love for her, his own passion he could control and in
a measure subdue. But, once awakened, could he control such an ally as
she might be to his own lesser, impatient and hot-headed self?
Where her disposition was to deny, he could still fetter self and
acquiesce. But he began to understand that half his strength lay in
her unwillingness; half of their safety in her inexperience, her
undisturbed tranquillity, her aloofness from physical emotion and her
ignorance of the mastery of the lesser passions.
The girl had builded wholesomely and wisely for herself. Instinct had
led her truly and well as far as that tangled moment in her life.
Instinct still would lead her safely if she were let alone,--instinct
and the intelligence she herself had developed. For the ethical view
of the question remained only as a vague memory of precepts mechanical
and meaningless to a healthy child. She had lost her mother too early
to have understood the casual morals so gently inculcated. And nobody
else had told her anything.
Also intelligence is often a foe to instinct. She might, with little
persuasion accept an unconventional view of life; with a little
emotional awakening she might more easily still be persuaded to a
logic builded on false foundations. Add to these her ardent devotion
to this man, and her deep and tender concern lest he be unhappy, and
Athalie's chances for remaining her own mistress were slim enough.
Something of this Clive seemed to understand; and the understanding
left him very serious and silent where he stood in the soft glow of
the lamp with this young girl in his arms and her warm, sweet head on
his breast.
He said after a long silence: "You are right, Athalie. It is better,
safer, not to respond to me. I'm just in love with you and I want to
marry you--that's all. I shall not be unhappy about it. I am not, now.
If I marry you, you'll fall in love, too, in your own way. That will
be as it should be. I could desire no more than that. I do desire
nothing more."
He looked down at her, smiled, releasing her gently. But she clung to
him for a moment.
"You are so wonderful, Clive--so dear! I do love you. I will marry
you if I can. I want to make up everything to you--the lonely years,
your deep unhappiness--even," she added shyly, "your little
disappointment in me--"
"You don't understand, Athalie. I am not disappointed--"
"I do understand. And I am thinking of what will happen if you fail
to free yourself.... Because I realize now that I don't propose to
leave you to grow old all alone.... I shall live with you when you're
old whatever people may think. I tell you, Clive, I'm the same child,
the same girl that you once knew, only grown into a woman. I know
right from wrong. I had rather not do wrong. But if I've got to--I
won't whimper. And I'll do it thoroughly!"
"You won't do it at all," he said, smiling at her threat to the little
tin gods.
"I don't know. If they won't give you your freedom, and if--"
"Nonsense, Athalie," he said, laughing, coolly master of himself once
more. "We mustn't be unwholesomely romantic, you and I. I'll marry you
if I can; if I can't, God help us, that's all."
But she had become very grave: "God help us," she repeated slowly.
"Because I believe that, rightly or wrongly, I shall one day belong to
you."
He said: "It can be only in one way. The right way." Perhaps he had
awakened too late to a realisation of his power over her, for the girl
made no response, no longer even looked at him.
"Only one way," he repeated, uneasily;--"the right way, Athalie."
But into her dark blue eyes had come a vague and brooding beauty
which he had never before seen. In it was tenderness, and a new
wisdom, alas! and a faint and shadowy something, profound, starlike,
inscrutable.
"As for love," he said, forcing a lighter tone, "there are fifty-seven
different varieties, Athalie; and only one is poisonous,--unless taken
with the other fifty-six, and in small doses."
She smiled faintly and walked to the window. Rain beat there in the
darkness spattering the little iron balcony. Below, the bleared lights
of the city stretched away to the sky-line.
He followed, and slipped his arm through hers; and she bent her wrist,
interlacing her slim fingers with his.
"You know," he said, "that when I often speak with apparent authority
I am wrong. In the final analysis you are the real leader, Athalie.
Your instincts are the right ones; your convictions honest, your
conclusions just. Mine are too often confused with selfishness and
indecision. For mine is an irresolute character;--or it was. I'm
trying to make it firmer."
She pressed his hand lightly, her eyes still fixed on the
light-smeared darkness.
He went on more gravely: "Candour and the intuition born of common
sense,--that is where you are so admirable, dear. Add to that the
tenderest heart that ever beat, and a proud ignorance of the lesser,
baser emotions--and, who am I to interfere,--to come into the sweet
order of your life with demands that confuse you--with complaints
against the very destiny I brought upon us both--with the clamour of
a selfish and ignoble philosophy which your every instinct rejects,
and which your heart entertains only because it is your heart, and
its heavenly sympathy has never failed me yet.... Oh, Athalie,
Athalie, it would be a shameful day for me and a bitter day for you if
my selfishness and irresolution ever swerved you. What I have lost--if
I have indeed lost it--is lost irrevocably. And I've got to learn to
face it."
She said, still gazing absently into the darkness: "Yes. But I am just
beginning to wonder what it is that I may have lost,--what it is
that I have never known."
"Don't think of it! Don't permit anything I have said or done to
trouble you or stir you toward such an awakening.... I don't want to
stand charged with that. You are tranquil, now--"
