  For seeing Black Cross Farm, which he had long
  Boasted the fittest theme for tale or song
  In all that charming region round about:
  Something that must not really be left out
  Of the account of things to do for me.
  It was a teasing bit of mystery,
  He said, which he and his had tried in vain,
  Ever since they had found it, to explain.
  The right way was to happen, as they did,
  Upon it in the hills where it was hid;
  But chance could not be always trusted, quite,
  You might not happen on it, though you might;
  Encores were usually objected to
  By chance. The next best thing that we could do
  Was in his carryall, to start together,
  And trust that somehow favoring wind and weather,
  With the eccentric progress of his horse,
  Would so far drift us from our settled course
  That we at least could lose ourselves, if not
  Find the mysterious object that we sought.
  So one blithe morning of the ripe July
  We fared, by easy stages, toward the sky
  That rested one rim of its turquoise cup
  Low on the distant sea, and, tilted up,
  The other on the irregular hilltops. Sweet
  The sun and wind that joined to cool and heat
  The air to one delicious temperature;
  And over the smooth-cropt mowing-pieces pure
  The pine-breath, borrowing their spicy scent
  In barter for the balsam that it lent!
  And when my friend handed the reins to me,
  And drew a fuming match along his knee,
  And, lighting his cigar, began to talk,
  I let the old horse lapse into a walk
  From his perfunctory trot, content to listen,
  Amid that leafy rustle and that glisten
  Of field, and wood, and ocean, rapt afar,
  From every trouble of our anxious star.
  From time to time, between effect and cause
  In this or that, making a questioning pause,
  My friend peered round him while he feigned a gay
  Hope that we might have taken the wrong way
  At the last turn, and then let me push on,
  Or the old horse rather, slanting hither and yon,
  And never in the middle of the track,
  Except when slanting off or slanting back.
  He talked, I listened, while we wandered by
  The scanty fields of wheat and oats and rye,
  With patches of potatoes and of corn,
  And now and then a garden spot forlorn,
  Run wild where once a house had stood, or where
  An empty house yet stood, and seemed to stare
  Upon us blindly from the twisted glass
  Of windows that once let no wayfarer pass
  Unseen of children dancing at the pane,
  And vanishing to reappear again,
  Pulling their mother with them to the sight.
  Still we kept on, with turnings left and right,
  Past farmsteads grouped in cheerful neighborhoods,
  Or solitary; then through shadowy woods
  Of pine or birch, until the road, grass-grown,
  Had given back to Nature all her own
  Save a faint wheel-trace, that along the slope,
  Rain-gullied, seemed to stop and doubt and grope,
  And then quite ceased, as if 't had turned and fled
  Out of the forest into which it led,
  And left us at the gate whose every bar
  Was nailed against us. But, "Oh, here we are!"
  My friend cried joyously. "At last, at last!"
  And making our horse superfluously fast,
  He led the way onward by what had been
  A lane, now hid by weeds and briers between
  Meadows scarce worth the mowing, to a space
  Shaped as by Nature for the dwelling-place
  Of kindly human life: a small plateau
  Open to the heaven that seemed bending low
  In liking for it. There beneath a roof
  Still against winter and summer weather-proof,
  With walls and doors and windows perfect yet,
  Between its garden and its graveyard set,
  Stood the old homestead, out of which had perished
  The home whose memory it dumbly cherished,
  And which, when at our push the door swung wide,
  We might have well imagined to have died
  And had its funeral the day before:
  So clean and cold it was from floor to floor,
  So lifelike and so deathlike, with the thrill
  Of hours when life and death encountered still
  Passionate in it. They that lay below
  The tangled grasses or the drifted snow,
  Husband and wife, mother and little one,
  From that sad house less utterly were gone
  Than they that living had abandoned it.
  In moonless nights their Absences might flit,
  Homesick, from room to room, or dimly sit
  Around its fireless hearths, or haunt the rose
  And lily in the neglected garden close;
  But they whose feet had borne them from the door
  Would pass the footworn threshold nevermore.
  We read the moss-grown names upon the tombs,
  With lighter melancholy than the glooms
  Of the dead house shadowed us with, and thence
  Turning, my heart was pierced with more intense
  Suggestion of a mystical dismay,
  As in the brilliance of the summer day
  We faced the vast gray barn. The house was old,
  Though so well kept, as age by years is told
  In our young land; but the barn, gray and vast,
  Stood new and straight and strong--all battened fast
  At every opening; and where once the mow
  Had yawned wide-windowed, on the sheathing now
  A Cross was nailed, the bigness of a man,
  Aslant from left to right, athwart the span,
  And painted black as paint could make it. Hushed,
  I stood, while manifold conjecture rushed
  To this point and to that point, and then burst
  In the impotent questionings rejected first.
  What did it mean? Ah, that no one could tell.
  Who put it there? That was unknown as well.
  Was there no legend? My friend knew of none.
  No neighborhood story? He had sought for one
  In vain. Did he imagine it accident,
  With nothing really implied or meant
  By the boards set in that way? It might be,
  But I could answer that as well as he.
  Then (desperately) what did he guess it was:
  Something of purpose, or without a cause
  Other than chance? He slowly shook his head,
  And with his gaze fixed on the symbol said:
  "We have quite ceased from guessing or surmising,
  For all our several and joint devising
  Has left us finally where I must leave you.
  But now I think it is your part to do
  Yourself some guessing. I hoped you might bring
  A fresh mind to the riddle's unraveling.
  Come!"
        And thus challenged I could not deny
  The sort of right he had to have me try;
  And yielding, I began--instinctively
  Proceeding by exclusion: "We agree
  It was not put there as a pious charm
  To keep the abandoned property from harm?
  The owner could have been no Catholic;
  And yet it was no sacrilegious trick
  To make folks wonder; and it was not chance
  Assuredly that set those boards askance
  In that shape, or before or after, so
  Painted them to that coloring of woe.
  Do you suppose, then, that it could have been
  Some secret sorrow or some secret sin,
  That tried to utter or to expiate
  Itself in that way: some unhappy hate
  Turned to remorse, or some life-rending grief
  That could not find in years or tears relief?
  Who lived here last?"
                        "Ah," my friend made reply,
  "You know as much concerning that as I.
  All I could tell is what those gravestones tell,
  And they have told it all to you as well.
  The names, the dates, the curious epitaphs
  At whose quaint phrase one either sighs or laughs,
  Just as one's heart or head happens to be
  Hollow or not, are there for each to see.
  But I believe they have nothing to reveal:
  No wrong to publish, no shame to conceal."
    "And yet that Cross!" I turned at his reply,
  Fixing the silent symbol with my eye,
  Insistently. "And you consent," I said,
  "To leave the enigma uninterpreted?"
    "Why, no," he faltered, then went on: "Suppose
  That some one that had known the average woes
  Of human nature, finding that the load
  Was overheavy for him on life's road,
  Had wished to leave some token in this Cross,
  Of what had been his gain and been his loss,
  Of what had been his suffering and of what
  Had also been the solace of his lot?
  Whoever that unknown brother-man might be,
  I think he must have been like you and me,
  Who bear our Cross, and when we fail at length,
  Bow down and pray to it for greater strength."
    I mused, and as I mused, I seemed to find
  The fancy more and still more to my mind.
    "Well, let it go at that! I think, for me,
  I like that better than some tragedy
  Of clearer physiognomy, which were
  In being more definite the vulgarer.
  For us, what, after all, would be the gain
  Of making the elusive meaning plain?
  I really think, if I were you and yours,
  I would not lift the veil that now obscures
  The appealing fact, lest I should spoil the charm
  Deeding me for my own the Black Cross Farm."
    "A good suggestion! I am glad," said he,
  "We have always practised your philosophy."
    He smiled, we laughed; we sighed and turned away,
  And left the mystery to the summer day
  That made as if it understood, and could
  Have read the riddle to us if it would:
  The wide, wise sky, the clouds that on the grass
  Let their vague shadows dreamlike trail and pass;
  The conscious woods, the stony meadows growing
  Up to birch pastures, where we heard the lowing
  Of one disconsolate cow. All the warm afternoon,
  Lulled in a reverie by the myriad tune
  Of insects, and the chirp of songless birds,
  Forgetful of the spring-time's lyric words,
  Drowsed round us while we tried to find the lane
  That to our coming feet had been so plain,
  And lost ourselves among the sweetfern's growth,
  And thickets of young pine-trees, nothing loath,
  Amidst the wilding loveliness to stray,
  And spend, if need were, looking for the way,
  Whole hours; but blundered into the right course
  Suddenly, and came out upon our horse,
  Where we had left him--to our great surprise,
  Stamping and switching at the pestering flies,
  But not apparently anxious to depart,
  When nearly overturning at the start,
  We followed down that evanescent trace
  Which, followed up, had brought us to the place.
    Then, all the wayside scenes reversing, we
  Dropped to the glimpses of the distant sea,
  Content as if we brought, returning thus,
  The secret of the Black Cross back with us.
                                 XIII
                        THE CRITICAL BOOKSTORE
It had long been the notion of Frederick Erlcort, who held it
playfully, held it seriously, according to the company he was in, that
there might be a censorship of taste and conscience in literary
matters strictly affiliated with the retail commerce in books. When he
first began to propose it, playfully, seriously, as his listener
chose, he said that he had noticed how in the great department stores
where nearly everything to supply human need was sold, the shopmen and
shopwomen seemed instructed by the ownership or the management to deal
in absolute good faith with the customers, and not to misrepresent the
quality, the make, or the material of any article in the slightest
degree. A thing was not to be called silk or wool when it was partly
cotton; it was not to be said that it would wash when it would not
wash, or that the color would not come off when it would come off, or
that the stuff was English or French when it was American.
When Erlcort once noted his interest in the fact to a floor-walker
whom he happened to find at leisure, the floor-walker said, Yes, that
was so; and the house did it because it was business, good business,
the only good business. He was instantly enthusiastic, and he said
that just in the same way, as an extension of its good faith with the
public, the house had established the rule of taking back any article
which a customer did not like, or did not find what she had supposed
when she got it home, and refunding the money. This was the best sort
of business; it held custom; the woman became a customer for life. The
floor-walker laughed, and after he had told an anxious applicant,
"Second aisle to the left, lady; three counters back," he concluded to
Erlcort, "I say she because a man never brings a thing back when he's
made a mistake; but a woman can always blame it on the house. That
so?"
Erlcort laughed with him, and in going out he stopped at the
book-counter. Rather it was a bookstore, and no small one, with ranks
of new books covering the large tables and mounting to their level
from the floor, neatly piled, and with shelves of complete editions
and soberer-looking volumes stretching along the wall as high as the
ceiling. "Do you happen to have a good book--a book that would read
good, I mean--in your stock here?" he asked the neat blonde behind
the literary barricade.
"Well, here's a book that a good many are reading," she answered, with
prompt interest and a smile that told in the book's favor; it was a
protectingly filial and guardedly ladylike smile.
"Yes, but is it a book worth reading--worth the money?"
"Well, I don't know as I'm a judge," the kind little blonde replied.
She added, daringly, "All I can say is, I set up till two last night
to finish it."
"And you advise me to buy it?"
"Well, we're not allowed to do that, exactly. I can only tell you what
I know."
"But if I take it, and it isn't what I expected, I can return it and
get my money back?"
"That's something I never was asked before. Mr. Jeffers! Mr. Jeffers!"
she called to a floor-walker passing near; and when he stopped and
came up to the counter, she put the case to him.
He took the book from Erlcort's hand and examined the outside of it
curiously if not critically. Then he looked from it to Erlcort, and
said, "Oh, how do you do again! Well, no, sir; I don't know as we
could do that. You see, you would have to read it to find out that you
didn't want it, and that would be like using or wearing an article,
wouldn't it? We couldn't take back a thing that had been used or
worn--heigh?"
"But you might have some means of knowing whether a book is good or
not?"
"Well, yes, we might. That's a point we have never had raised before.
Miss Prittiman, haven't we any means of knowing whether a book's
something we can guarantee or not?"
"Well, Mr. Jeffers, there's the publisher's advertisement."
"Why, yes, so there is! And a respectable publisher wouldn't indorse a
book that wasn't the genuine article, would he now, sir?"
"He mightn't," Erlcort said, as if he felt the force of the argument.
"And there are the notices in the newspapers. They ought to tell,"
Miss Prittiman added, more convincingly. "I don't know," she said, as
from a sensitive conscience, "whether there have been any about this
book yet, but I should think there would be."
"And in the mean time, as you won't guarantee the book so that I can
bring it back and get my money if I find it worthless, I must accept
