condition," he added gravely.
"And that?"
"You will ask me no questions regarding my past."
Kitty looked squarely into his eyes and he returned the glance steadily
and calmly.
"Very well; I accept the condition,"
Thomas was mightily surprised.
CHAPTER VIII
He had put forward this condition, perfectly sure that she would refuse
to accept it.  He could not understand.
"You accept that condition?"
"Yes."  Having gone thus far with her plot, Kitty would have died
rather than retreated; Irish temperament.
Thomas was moved to a burst of confidence.  "I know that I am poor, and
to the best of my belief, honest.  Moreover, perhaps I should be
compelled by the exigencies of circumstance to leave you after a few
months.  I am not a rich man, masquerading for the sport of it; I am
really poor and grateful for any work.  It is only fair that I should
tell you this much, that I am running away from no one.  Beyond the
fact that I am the son of a very great but unknown scholar, a farmer of
mediocre talents who lost his farm because he dreamed of humanity
instead of cabbages, I have nothing to say."  He said it gravely,
without pride or veiled hauteur.
"That is frank enough," replied Kitty, curiously stirred.  "You will
not find us hard task-masters.  Be here this afternoon at three.  My
father will wish to talk to you.  And be as frank with him as you have
been with me."
She smiled and nodded brightly, and turned away.  He had a glimpse of a
tan shoe and a slim tan-silk ankle, which poised birdlike above the
high doorsill; and then she vanished into the black shadow of the
companionway.  She afterward confessed to me that her sensation must
have been akin to that of a boy who had stolen an apple and beaten the
farmer in the race to the road.
We all make the mistake of searching for our drama, forgetting that it
arrives sooner or later, unsolicited.
Bewitched.  Thomas should have been the happiest man alive, but the
devil had recruited him for his miserables.  Her piquant face no longer
confronting and bewildering him, he saw this second net into which he
had permitted himself to be drawn.  As if the first had not been
colossal enough!  Where would it all end?  Private secretary and two
hundred the month--forty pounds--this was a godsend.  But to take her
orders day by day, to see her, to be near her. . . .  Poverty-stricken
wretch that he was, he should have declined.  Now he could not; being a
simple Englishman, he had given his word and meant to abide by it.
There was one glimmer of hope; her father.  He was a practical merchant
and would not permit a man without a past (often worse than a man with
one) to enter his establishment.
Thomas was not in love with Kitty.  (Indeed, this isn't a love story at
all.)  Stewards, three days out, are not in the habit of falling in
love with their charges (Maundering and Drool notwithstanding).  He was
afraid of her; she vaguely alarmed him; that was all.
For seven years he had dwelt in his "third floor back"; had breakfasted
and dined with two old maids, their scrawny niece, and a muscular young
stenographer who shouted militant suffrage and was not above throwing a
brickbat whenever the occasion arrived.  There was a barmaid or two at
the pub where he lunched at noon; but chaff was the alpha and omega of
this acquaintance.  Thus, Thomas knew little or nothing of the sex.
The women with whom he conversed, played the gallant, the hero, the
lover (we none of us fancy ourselves as rogues!) were those who peopled
his waking dreams.  She was La Belle Isoude, Elaine, Beatrice,
Constance; it all depended upon what book he had previously been
reading.  It is when we men are confronted with the living picture of
some one of our dreams of them that women cease to dwell in the
abstract and become issues, to be met with more or less trepidation.
Back among some of his idle dreams there had been a Kitty, blue-eyed,
black-haired, slender and elfish.
Kitty sat down in her chair.  "Well," she said, "I have found him."
"Found whom?" asked Mrs. Crawford.
"The private secretary."
"What?"  Killigrew swung his feet to the deck.  "What the dickens have
you been doing now?  Who is it?"
"Webb."
"The steward?"
"Yes."
"Well, if that . . ." began Killigrew belligerently.
"Dad, either mother and I act as we please, or you may attend to the
home-bureau yourself.  Mother, it was agreed and understood that I
should select any employee we might happen to need."
"It was, my dear."
"Very good.  I want some one who will attend to the affairs honestly
and painstakingly.  There must be no idler about the house; and any
young man . . ."
"Wouldn't an old one do?" suggested Killigrew.
"Whose set ideas would clash constantly with ours.  And any young man
we know would idle and look on the whole affair as a fine joke.  I've
had a talk with Webb.  He's not a university man, but he's educated.  I
found him reading Morte d'Arthur."
"Ah!"--from Crawford.
"He became a steward because he could find nothing else to do at the
present time.  He has been poor, and I dare say he has known the pinch
of poverty.  You said only this morning, dad, that he was the most
attentive steward you had ever met on shipboard.  Besides, there is a
case in point.  Our butler was a steward before you engaged him, six
years ago."
Killigrew began to smile.  "How much have you offered him as a salary?"
"Two hundred a month, to be paid out of the funds."
"Janet," said Crawford, "it's a good thing I'm married, or I'd apply
for the post myself."
"All right," agreed Killigrew; "a bargain's a bargain."
"A wager's a wager," thought Kitty.
"If you wake up some fine morning and find the funds gone . . ."
"Mother and I will attend to all checks, such as they are."
"Kitty, any day you say I'll take you into the firm as chief counsel.
But before I approve of your selection, I'd like to have a talk with
our friend Webb."
"He expects it.  You are to see him on the main-deck at three this
afternoon."
"Molly, how long have we been married?"
"Thirty years, Daniel."
"How old is Kitty?"
"Mother!"
"Twenty-two," answered Mrs. Killigrew relentlessly.
"Well, I was going to say that I've learned more about the Killigrew
family in these four months of travel than in all those years together."
"Something more than ornaments," suggested Kitty dryly.
"Yes, indeed," replied her father amiably.
And when he returned to the boat-deck that afternoon for tea (which, by
the way, he never drank, being a thorough-going coffee merchant), he
said to Kitty: "You win on points.  If Webb doesn't pan out, why, we
can discharge him.  I'll take a chance at a man who isn't afraid to
look you squarely in the eyes."
At the precise time when Kitty retired and Thomas went aft for his good
night pipe--eleven o'clock at sea and nine in New York--Haggerty found
himself staring across the street at an old-fashioned house.  Like the
fisherman who always returns to the spot where he lost the big one, the
detective felt himself drawn toward this particular dwelling.  Crawford
did not live there any more; since his marriage he had converted it
into a private museum.  It was filled with mummies and cartonnages,
ancient pottery and trinkets.
What a game it had been!  A hundred thousand in precious gems, all
neatly packed away in the heels of Crawford's old shoes!  And where was
that man Mason?  Would he ever return?  Oh, well; he, Haggerty, had got
his seven thousand in rewards; he was living now like a nabob up in the
Bronx.  He had no real cause to regret Mason's advent or his escape.
Yet, deep in his heart burned the chagrin of defeat: his man had got
away, and half the game (if you're a true hunter) was in putting your
hand on a man's shoulder and telling him to "Come along."
He crossed the street and entered the, alley and gazed up at the
fire-escape down which Mason had made his escape.  What impelled the
detective to leap up and catch the lower bars of the ground-ladder he
could not have told you.  He pulled himself up and climbed to the
window.
Open!
Haggerty had nerves like steel wires, but a slight shiver ran down his
spine.  Open, and Crawford yet on the high seas.  He waited, listening
intently.  Not a sound of any sort came to his ears.  He stepped inside
courageously and slipped with his back to the wall, where he waited,
holding his breath.
Click!  It seemed to come from his right.
"Come out o' that!" he snarled.  "No monkey-business, or I'll shoot."
He flashed his pocket-lamp toward the sound, and aimed.
A blow on the side of the head sent the detective crashing against a
cartonnage, and together the quick and the dead rolled to the floor.
Instinctively Haggerty turned on his back, aimed at the window and
fired.
Too late!
CHAPTER IX
When the constellation, which was not included among the accepted
theories of Copernicus, passed away, Haggerty sat up and rubbed the
swelling over his ear, tenderly yet grimly.  Next, he felt about the
floor for his pocket-lamp.  A strange spicy dust drifted into his nose
and throat, making him sneeze and cough.  A mummy had reposed in the
overturned cartonnage and the brittle bindings had crumbled into
powder.  He soon found the lamp, and sent its point of vivid white
light here and there about the large room.
Pursuit of his assailant was out of the question.  Haggerty was not
only hard of head but shrewd.  So he set about the accomplishment of
the second best course, that of minute and particular investigation.
Some one had entered this deserted house: for what?  This, Haggerty
must find out.  He was fairly confident that the intruder did not know
who had challenged him; on the other hand, there might be lying around
some clue to the stranger's identity.
Was there light in the house, fluid in the wires?  If so he would be
saved the annoyance of exploring the house by the rather futile aid of
the pocket-lamp, which stood in need of a fresh battery.  He searched
for the light-button and pressed it, hopefully.  The room, with all its
brilliantly decorated antiquities, older than Rome, older than Greece,
blinded Haggerty for a space.
"Ain't that like these book chaps?" Haggerty murmured.  "T' go away
without turning off th' meter!"
The first thing Haggerty did was to scrutinize the desk which stood
near the center of the room.  A film of dust lay upon it.  Not a mark
anywhere.  In fact, a quarter of an hour's examination proved to
Haggerty's mind that nothing in this room had been disturbed except the
poor old mummy.  He concluded to leave that gruesome object where it
lay.  Nobody but Crawford would know how to put him back in his box,
poor devil.  Haggerty wondered if, after a thousand years, some one
would dig him up!
Through all the rooms on this floor he prowled, but found nothing.  He
then turned his attention to the flight of stairs which led to the
servants' quarters.  Upon the newel-post lay the fresh imprint of a
hand.  Haggerty went up the stairs in bounds.  There were nine rooms on
this floor, two connecting with baths.  In one of these latter rooms he
saw a trunk, opened, its contents carelessly scattered about the floor.
One by one he examined the garments, his heart beating quickly.  Not a
particle of dust on them; plenty of finger-prints on the trunk.  It had
been opened this very night--by one familiar, either at first-hand or
by instruction.  He had come for something in that trunk.  What?
From garret to cellar, thirty rooms in all; nothing but the hand-print
on the newel-post and the opened trunk.  Haggerty returned to the
museum, turned out all the lights except that on the desk, and sat down
on a rug so as not to disturb the dust on the chairs.  The man might
return.  It was certain that he, Haggerty, would come back on the
morrow.  He was anxious to compare the thumb-print with the one he had
in his collection.
For what had the man come?  Keep-sakes?  Haggerty dearly wanted to
believe that the intruder was the one man he desired in his net; but he
refused to listen to the insidious whisperings; he must have proof,
positive, absolute, incontestable.  If it was Crawford's man Mason, it
was almost too good to be true; and he did not care to court ultimate
disappointment.
Proof, proof; but where?  Why had the man not returned the clothes to
the trunk and shut it?  What had alarmed him?  Everything else
indicated the utmost caution. . . .  A glint of light flashing and
winking from steel.  Haggerty rose and went over to the window.  He
picked up a bunch of keys, thirty or forty in all, on a ring, weighing
a good pound.  The detective touched the throbbing bump and sensed a
moisture; blood.  So this was the weapon?  He weighed the keys on his
palm.  A long time since he had seen a finer collection of skeleton
keys, thin and flat and thick and short, smooth and notched, each a gem
of its kind.  Three or four ordinary keys were sandwiched in between,
and Haggerty inspected these curiously.
"H'm.  Mebbe it's a hunch.  Anyhow, I'll try it.  Can't lose anything
trying."
He turned out the desk light and went down to the lower hall, his
pocket-lamp serving as guide.  He unlatched the heavy door-chains,
opened the doors and closed them behind him.  He inserted one of the
ordinary keys.  It refused to work.  He tried another.  The door swung
open, easily.
"Now, then, come down out o' that!" growled a voice at the foot of the
steps.  "Thought y'd be comin' out by-'n-by.  No foolin' now, 'r I blow
a hole through ye!"
Haggerty wheeled quickly.  "'S that you, Dorgan?  Come up."
"Haggerty?" said the astonished patrolman.  "An' Mitchell an' I've been
watchin' these lights fer an hour!"
"Some one's been here, though; so y' weren't wasting your time.  I
climbed up th' fire-escape in th' alley an' got a nice biff on th' coco
for me pains.  See any one running before y' saw th' lights?"
"Why, yes!"
"Ha!  It's hard work t' get it int' your heads that when y' see a man
running at this time o' night, in a quiet side-street it's up t' you t'
ask him questions."
"Thought he was chasin' a cab."
"Well, listen here.  Till th' owner comes back, keep your eyes peeled
on this place.  An' any one y' see prowling around, nab him an' send
for me.  On your way!"
Haggerty departed in a hurry.  He had already made up his mind as to
what he was going to do.  He hunted up a taxicab and told the chauffeur
where to go, advising him to "hit it up."  His destination was the
studio-apartment of J. Mortimer Forbes, the artist.  It was late, but
this fact did not trouble Haggerty.  Forbes never went to bed until
there was positively nothing else to do.
The elevator-boy informed Haggerty that Mr. Forbes had just returned
from the theater.  Alone?  Yes.  Haggerty pushed the bell-button.  A
dog bayed.
"Why, Haggerty, what's up?  Come on in.  Be still, Fritz!"
The dachel's growl ended in a friendly snuffle, and he began to dance
upon Haggerty's broad-toed shoes.
"Bottle of beer?  Cigar?  Take that easy chair.  What's on your mind
tonight?"  Forbes rattled away.  "Why, man, there's a cut on the side
of your head!"
"Uhuh.  Got any witch-hazel?"  The detective sat down, stretched out
his legs, and pulled the dachel's ears.
Forbes ran into the bathroom to fetch the witch-hazel.  Haggerty poured
a little into his palm and dabbled the wound with it.
"Now, spin it out; tell me what's happened," said Forbes, filling his
calabash and pushing the cigars across the table.
For a year and a half these two men, the antitheses of each other, had
been intimate friends.  This liking was genuine, based on secret
admiration, as yet to be confessed openly.  Forbes had always been
drawn toward this man-hunting business; he yearned to rescue the
innocent and punish the guilty.  Whenever a great crime was committed
he instantly overflowed with theories as to what the criminal was
likely to do afterward.  Haggerty enjoyed listening to his patter; and
often there were illuminating flashes which obtained results for the
detective, who never applied his energies in the direction of logical
deduction.  Besides, the chairs in the studio were comfortable, the
imported beer not too cold, and the cigars beyond criticism.
Haggerty accepted a cigar, lighted it, and amusedly watched the eager
handsome face of the artist.
"Any poker lately?"
"No; cut it out for six months.  Come on, now; don't keep me waiting
any longer."
"Mum's th' word?"--tantalizingly.
"You ought to know that by this time"--aggrieved.
Haggerty tossed the bunch of keys on the table.
"Ha!  Good specimens, these," Forbes declared, handling them.  "Here's
a window-opener."
"Good boy!" said Haggerty, as a teacher would have commended a bright
pupil.
"And a door-chain lifter.  Nothing lacking.  Did he hit you with these?"
"Ye-up."
"What are these regular keys for?"
"One o' them unlocks a door."  Haggerty smoked luxuriously.
Forbes eyed the ordinary keys with more interest than the burglarious
ones.  Haggerty was presently astonished to see the artist produce his
own key-ring.
"What now?"
"When Crawford went abroad he left a key with me.  I am making some
drawings for an Egyptian romance and wanted to get some atmosphere."
