ing thread which was a broad river. 
"Yes," mused Stent, "Siurd von Glahn and 
I were comrades on many a foot tour through 
such mountains as these. He was a delight 
ful fellow, my classmate Siurd " 
Brown's swift rigid grip on his arm checked 
him to silence; there came the clink of an 
iron-shod foot on the ledge ; they snatched their 
rifles from the fern patch; two figures stepped 
around the shelf of rock, looming up dark 
against the dazzling sky. 
CHAPTER V 
PABNASSTJS 
Brown, squatting cross-legged among the 
alpine roses, squinted along his level rifle. 
"Halt!" he said with a pleasant, rising in 
flection in his quiet voice. "Stand very still, 
gentlemen," he added in German. 
"Drop your rifles. Drop em quick!" he 
repeated more sharply. "Up with your hands 
hold them up high ! Higher, if you please ! 
quickly. Now, then, what are you doing on this 
alp?" 
What they were doing seemed apparent 
enough two gentlemen of Teutonic persua 
sion, out stalking game deer, rehbok or chamois one a tall, dark, nice-looking young fellow wearing the usual rough gray jacket with 
stag-horn buttons, green felt hat with feather, 
and leather breeches of the alpine hunter. His 
knees and aristocratic ankles were bare and 
bronzed. He laughed a little as he held up his 
arms. 
The other man was stout and stocky rather 
than fat. He had the square red face and 
bushy beard of a beer-nourished Teuton and 
the spectacles of a Herr Professor. He held 
up his blunt hands with all ten stubby fingers 
spread out wide. They seemed rather soiled. 
From his rucksack stuck out a butterfly 
net in two sections and the deeply scalloped, 
silver-trimmed butt of a sporting rifle. Edel 
weiss adorned his green felt hat; a green tin 
box punched full of holes was slung from his 
broad shoulders. 
Brown, lowering his rifle cautiously, was already getting to his feet from the trampled 
bracken, when, behind him, he heard Stent's 
astonished voice break forth in pedantic German: 
"Siurd! Is it thou then?" 
"Harry Stent!" returned the dark, nice-looking young fellow amiably. And, in a delightful voice and charming English: 
"Pray, am I to offer you a shake hands," he 
"Drop your rifles. Drop cm, quick!" he repeated more 
sharply. 
inquired smilingly; "or shall I continue to in 
voke the Olympian gods with classically up 
lifted and imploring arms?" 
Brown let Stent pass forward. Then, step 
ping back, he watched the greeting between 
these two old classmates. His rifle, grasped 
between stock and barrel, hung loosely between 
both hands. His expression became vacantly 
good humoured ; but his brain was working like 
lightning. 
Stent's firm hand encountered Von Glahn's 
and held it in questioning astonishment. Look 
ing him in the eyes he said slowly: "Siurd, it 
is good to see you again. It is amazing to 
meet you this way. I am glad. I have never 
forgotten you. . . . Only a moment ago I was 
speaking to Brown about you of our won 
derful ibex hunt! I was telling Brown my 
comrade " he turned his head slightly and 
presented the two young men "Mr. Brown, 
an American " 
"American!" repeated Von Glahn in his gen 
tle, well-bred voice, offering his hand. And, in 
turn, becoming sponsor, he presented his stocky 
companion as Dr. von Dresslin; and the ceremony instantly stiffened to a more rigid etiquette. 
Then, in his always gentle, graceful way, 
Von Glahn rested his hand lightly on Stent's 
shoulder : 
"You made us jump you two Americans 
as though you had been British. Of what could 
two Americans be afraid in the Carnic Alps 
to challenge a pair of wandering ibex stalkers ?" 
"You forget that I am Canadian," replied 
Stent, forcing a laugh. 
"At that, you are practically American and 
civilian " He glanced smilingly over their 
equipment, carelessly it seemed to Stent, as 
though verifying all absence of military in 
signia. "Besides," he added with his gentle 
humour, "there are no British in Italy. And 
no Italians in these mountains, I fancy; they 
have their own affairs to occupy them on the 
Isonzo I understand. Also, there is no war be 
tween Italy and Germany." 
Stent smiled, perfectly conscious of Brown's 
telepathic support in whatever was now to 
pass between them and these two Germans. He 
knew, and Brown knew, that these Germans 
must be taken back as prisoners; that, suspicious or not, they could not be permitted 
to depart again with a story of having met 
an American and a Canadian after ibex among 
the Carnic Alps. 
These two Germans were already their prisoners; but there was no hurry about telling 
them so. 
"How do you happen to be here, Siurd?" 
asked Stent, frankly curious. 
Von Glahn lifted his delicately formed eye 
brows, then, amused: 
"Count von Plessis invites me; and" he 
laughed outright "he must have invited you, 
Harry, unless you are poaching!" 
"Good Lord!" exclaimed Stent, for a brief 
second believing in the part he was playing; 
"I supposed this to be a free alp." 
He and Von Glahn laughed; and the latter 
said, still frankly amused: "Soyez tranquille, 
Messieurs; Count von Plessis permits my 
friends in my company to shoot the Queen's 
aim." 
With a lithe movement, wholly graceful, he 
slipped the rucksack from his shoulders, let 
it fall among the alpenrosen beside his sport 
ing rifle. 
"We have a long day and a longer night 
ahead of us," he said pleasantly, looking from 
Stent to Brown. "The snow limit lies just 
above us; the ibex should pass here at dawn 
on their way back to the peak. Shall we consolidate our front, gentlemen and make it 
a Quadruple Entente?" 
Stent replied instantly: "We join you with 
thanks, Siurd. My one ibex hunt is no experience at all compared to your record of a 
veteran " He looked full and significantly 
at Brown; continuing: "As you say, we have 
all day and a long night before us. Let us 
make ourselves comfortable here in the sun 
before we take our final stations." 
And they seated themselves in the lee of the 
crag, foregathering fraternally in the warm 
alpine sunshine. 
The Herr Professor von Dresslin grunted 
as he sat down. After he had lighted his pipe 
he grunted again, screwed together his butterfly net and gazed hard through thick-lensed 
spectacles at Brown. 
"Does it interest you, sir, the pursuit of the 
diurnal Lepidopteraf he inquired, still staring 
intently at the American. 
"I don't know anything about them," explained Brown. "What are Lepidoptera ?" 
"The schmetterling the butterfly. In Amerika, sir, you have many fine species, notably 
Parnassus clodius and the Parnassus smintheus 
of the four varietal forms." His prominent 
eyes shifted from one detail of Brown's costume to another not apparently an intelligent 
examination, but a sort of protruding and 
indifferent stare. 
His gaze, however, was arrested for a moment where the lump under Brown's tunic in 
dicated something concealed a hunting knife, 
for example. Brown's automatic was strapped 
there. But the bulging eyes, expressionless 
still, remained fixed for a second only, then 
travelled on toward the Koss rifle the Atha 
basca Eegiment having been permitted to exchange this beloved weapon for the British 
regulation piece recently issued to the Canadians. From behind the thick lenses of his 
spectacles the Herr Professor examined the 
rifle while his monotonously dreary voice continued an entomological monologue for Brown's 
edification. And all the while Von Glahn and 
Stent, reclining nearby among the ferns, were 
exchanging what appeared to be the frankest 
of confidences and the happiest of youthful 
reminiscences. 
"Of the Parnassians," rumbled on Professor 
von Dresslin, "here in the Alps we possess 
one notable example namely, the Parnassus 
Apollo. It is for the capture of this never-to- 
be-sufficiently studied butterfly that I have, 
upon this ibex-hunting expedition, myself 
equipped with net and suitable paraphernalia." 
"I see," nodded Brown, eyeing the green tin 
box and the net. The Herr Professor's pop- 
eyed attention was now occupied with the service puttees worn by Brown. A sportsman also 
might have worn them, of course. 
"The Apollo butterfly," droned on Professor 
Dresslin, "iss a butterfly of the larger magnitude among European Lepidoptera, yet not of 
the largest. The Parnassians, allied to the 
Papilionidse, all live only in high altitudes, 
and are, by the thinly scaled and always-to-be- 
remembered red and plack ge-spotted wings, 
to be readily recognized. I haf already two 
specimens captured this morning. I haff the 
honour, sir, to exhibit them for your inspection " 
He fished out a flat green box from his pocket, 
opened it under Brown's nose, leaning close 
enough to touch Brown with an exploring and 
furtive elbow and felt the contour of the 
automatic. 
Amid a smell of carbolic and camphor cones 
Brown beheld, pinned side by side upon the 
cork-lined interior of the box, two curiously 
pretty butterflies. 
Their drooping and still pliable wings 
seemed as thin as white tissue paper; their 
bodies were covered with furry hairs. Brick- 
red and black spots decorated the frail membrane of the wings in a curiously pleasing 
harmony of pattern and of colour. 
"Very unusual," he said, with a vague idea 
he was saying the wrong thing. 
Monotonously, paying no attention, Professor 
von Dresslin continued: "I, the life history of 
the Parnassus Apollo, haff from my early 
youth investigated with minuteness, diligence, 
and patience." His protuberant eyes were now 
fixed on Brown's rifle again. "For many years 
I haff bred this Apollo butterfly from the egg, 
from the caterpillar, from the chrysalis. I have 
the negroid forms, the albino forms, the dwarf 
forms, the hybrid forms investigated under 
effery climatic condition. Notes sufficient for 
three volumes of quarto already exist as a 
residuum of my investigations 
He looked up suddenly into the American's 
face which was the first sudden movement the 
Herr Professor had made 
"Ach wass ! Three volumes ! It is nothing. 
There iss material for thirty! A lifetime is
too short to know all the secrets of a single 
species. ... If I may inquire, sir, of what 
pattern is your most interesting and admirable 
rifle?" 
"A Boss," said Brown, startled into a second's hesitation. 
"So? And, if I may inquire, of what nation 
ality iss it, a K-r-ross?" 
"It's a Canadian weapon. We Americans use 
it a great deal for big game." 
"So? . . . And it iss also by the Canadian 
military employed perhaps, sir!" 
"I believe," said Brown, carelessly, "that the 
British Government has taken away the Boss 
rifle from the Canadians and given them the 
regulation weapon." 
"So? Permit that I examine, sir!" 
Brown did not seem to hear him or notice 
the extended hand blunt-fingered, hairy, persistent. 
The Professor, not discouraged, repeated: 
"Sir, bitte darf ich, may I be permitted?" 
And Brown's eyes flashed back a lightning 
shaft of inquiry. Then, carelessly smiling, he 
passed the Eoss rifle over to the Herr Professor; and, at the same time, drew toward him 
that gentleman's silver-mounted weapon, and 
carelessly cocked it. 
"Permit me," he murmured, balancing it innocently in the hollow of his left arm, apparently preoccupied with admiration at the florid 
workmanship of stock and guard. No move 
ment that the Herr Professor made escaped 
him; but presently he thought to himself 
"The old dodo is absolutely unsuspicious. My 
nerves are out of order. . . . What odd eyes 
that Fritz has!" 
When Herr Professor von Dresslin passed 
back the weapon Brown laid the German sporting piece beside it with murmured complimentary comment. 
"Yess," said the German, "such rifles kill 
when properly handled. We Germans may 
cordially recommend them for our American 
friends " Here was the slightest hesitation "Pardon! I mean that we may safely 
guarantee this rifle to our friends." 
Brown looked thoughtfully at the thick lenses 
of the spectacles. The popeyes remained expressionless, utterly, Teutonically inscrutable. 
A big heather bee came buzzing among the 
alpenrosen. Its droning hum resembled the 
monotone of the Herr Professor. 
Behind them Brown heard Stent saying: "Do 
yon remember our ambition to wear the laurels 
of Parnassus, Siurd? Do you remember our 
notes at the lectures on the poets? And our 
ambition to write at least one deathless poem 
apiece before we died?" 
Von Glahn's dark eyes narrowed with merriment and his gentle laugh and attractive voice 
sounded pleasantly in Brown's ears. 
"You wrote at least one famous poem to 
Rosa," he said, still laughing. 
"To Rosa? Oh! Rosa of the Cafe Luitpold! 
By Jove I did, didn't I, Siurd? How on earth 
did you ever remember that?" 
"I thought it very pretty." He began to repeat aloud: 
"Rosa with the Trinsome eyea, 
When my beer you bring to me; 
I can see through your diagmise! 
I my goddess recognize 
Hebe, young immortally, 
Sweet nepenthe pouring me!" 
Stent laughed outright: 
"How funny to think of it now and to think 
of Rosa! . . . And you, Siurd, do you for 
get that you also composed a most wonderful 
war-poem to the metre of Fly, Eagle, Fly! 
Do you remember how it began? 
"Slay, Eagle, Slay! 
They die who dare decry us! 
Red dawns The Day. 
The western cliffs defy us! 
Turn their grey flood 
To seas of blood! 
And, as they flee, Slay, Eagle! Slay! 
