"No, of course not," I said. "Grue can stay."
"I don't need anybody," she said quickly. "Anyway, I'm rather afraid of
Grue."
"Afraid of Grue?" I repeated.
"Not exactly afraid. But he's--unpleasant."
"I'll remain with Miss Grey," said Kemper politely.
"Oh," she exclaimed, "I couldn't ask that. It is true that I feel a
little tired and nervous, but I can go with you and Mr. Smith and Grue--"
I surveyed Kemper in cold perplexity. As chief of the expedition, I
couldn't very well offer to remain with Evelyn Grey, but I didn't propose
that Kemper should, either.
"Take Grue," he suggested, "and look about the woods for a while. Perhaps
after dinner Miss Grey may feel sufficiently rested to join us."
"I am sure," she said, "that a few hours' rest in camp will set me on my
feet. All I need is rest. I didn't sleep very soundly last night."
I felt myself growing red, and I looked away from them both.
"Oh," said Kemper, in apparent surprise, "I thought you had slept soundly
all night long."
"Nobody," said I, "could have slept very pleasantly during that musical
performance of yours."
"Were you singing?" she asked innocently of Kemper.
"He was singing when he wasn't firing off his pistol," I remarked. "No
wonder you couldn't sleep with any satisfaction to yourself."
Grue had disappeared into the forest; I stood watching for him to come
out again. After a few minutes I heard a furious but distant noise of
flapping; the others also heard it; and we listened in silence, wondering
what it was.
"It's Grue killing something," faltered Evelyn Grey, turning a trifle
pale.
"Confound it!" I exclaimed. "I'm going to stop that right now."
Kemper rose and followed me as I started for the woods; but as we passed
the beached boats Grue appeared from among the trees.
"Where have you been?" I demanded.
"In the woods."
"Doing what?"
"Nothing."
There was a bit of down here and there clinging to his cotton shirt and
trousers, and one had caught and stuck at the corner of his mouth.
"See here, Grue," I said, "I don't want you to kill any birds except for
camp purposes. Why do you try to catch and kill birds?"
"I don't."
I stared at the man and he stared back at me out of his glassy eyes.
"You mean to say that you don't, somehow or other, manage to catch and
kill birds?"
"No, I don't."
There was nothing further for me to say unless I gave him the lie. I
didn't care to do that, needing his services.
Evelyn Grey had come up to join us; there was a brief silence; we
all stood looking at Grue; and he looked back at us out of his pale,
washed-out, and unblinking eyes.
"Grue," I said, "I haven't yet explained to you the object of this
expedition to Black Bayou. Now, I'll tell you what I want. But first let
me ask you a question or two. You know the Black Bayou forests, don't
you?"
"Yes."
"Did you ever see anything unusual in these forests?"
"No."
"Are you sure?"
The man stared at us, one after another. Then he said:
"What are you looking for in Black Bayou?"
"Something very curious, very strange, very unusual. So strange and
unusual, in fact, that the great Zoölogical Society of the Bronx in New
York has sent me down here at the head of this expedition to search the
forests of Black Bayou."
"For what?" he demanded, in a dull, accentless voice.
"For a totally new species of human being, Grue. I wish to catch one and
take it back to New York in that folding cage."
His green eyes had grown narrow as though sun-dazzled. Kemper had stepped
behind us into the woods and was now busy setting up the folding cage.
Grue remained motionless.
"I am going to offer you," I said, "the sum of one thousand dollars in
gold if you can guide us to a spot where we may see this hitherto unknown
species--a creature which is apparently a man but which has, in the back
of his head, a third eye--"
I paused in amazement: Grue's cheeks had suddenly puffed out and were
quivering; and from the corners of his slitted mouth he was emitting a
whimpering sound like the noise made by a low-circling pigeon.
"Grue!" I cried. "What's the matter with you?"
"What is he doing?" screamed Grue, quivering from head to foot, but not
turning around.
"Who?" I cried.
"The man behind me!"
"Professor Kemper? He's setting up the folding cage--"
With a screech that raised my hair, Grue whipped out his murderous knife
and hurled himself backward at Kemper, but the latter shrank aside
behind the partly erected cage, and Grue whirled around, snarling,
hacking, and even biting at the wood frame and steel bars.
And then occurred a thing so horrid that it sickened me to the pit of my
stomach; for the man's sagging straw hat had fallen off, and there, in
the back of his head, through the coarse, black, ratty hair, I saw a
glassy eye glaring at me.
"Kemper!" I shouted. "He's got a third eye! He's one of them! Knock him
flat with your riflestock!" And I seized a shot-gun from the top of
the baggage bundle on the ground beside me, and leaped at Grue, aiming
a terrific blow at him.
[Illustration: "'Kemper!' I shouted.... 'He is one of them! Knock him
flat with your riflestock!'"]
But the glassy eye in the back of his head was watching me between the
clotted strands of hair, and he dodged both Kemper and me, swinging his
heavy knife in circles and glaring at us both out of the front and back
of his head.
Kemper seized him by his arm, but Grue's shirt came off, and I saw his
entire body was as furry as an ape's. And all the while he was snapping
at us and leaping hither and thither to avoid our blows; and from the
corners of his puffed cheeks he whined and whimpered and mewed through
the saliva foam.
"Keep him from the water!" I panted, following him with clubbed shot-gun;
and as I advanced I almost stepped on a soiled heap of foulness--the dead
buzzard which he had caught and worried to death with his teeth.
Suddenly he threw his knife at my head, hurling it backward; dodged,
screeched, and bounded by me toward the shore of the lagoon, where the
pretty waitress was standing, petrified.
For one moment I thought he had her, but she picked up her skirts, ran
for the nearest boat, and seized a harpoon; and in his fierce eagerness
to catch her he leaped clear over the boat and fell with a splash into
the lagoon.
As Kemper and I sprang aboard and looked over into the water, we
could see him going down out of reach of a harpoon; and his body seemed
to be silver-plated, flashing and glittering like a burnished eel, so
completely did the skin of air envelope him, held there by the fur that
covered him.
And, as he rested for a moment on the bottom, deep down through the clear
waters of the lagoon where he lay prone, I could see, as the current
stirred his long, black hair, the third eye looking up at us, glassy,
unwinking, horrible.
       
A bubble or two, like globules of quicksilver, were detached from the
burnished skin of air that clothed him, and came glittering upward.
Suddenly there was a flash; a flurrying cloud of blue mud; and Grue was
gone.
       
After a long while I turned around in the muteness of my despair. And
slowly froze.
For the pretty waitress, becomingly pale, was gathered in Kemper's arms,
her cheek against his shoulder. Neither seemed to be aware of me.
"Darling," he said, in the imbecile voice of a man in love, "why do you
tremble so when I am here to protect you? Don't you love and trust me?"
"Oo--h--yes," she sighed, pressing her cheek closer to his shoulder.
I shoved my hands into my pockets, passed them without noticing them, and
stepped ashore.
And there I sat down under a tree, with my back toward them, all alone
and face to face with the greatest grief of my life.
But which it was--the loss of her or the loss of Grue, I had not yet made
up my mind.
THE IMMORTAL
I
As everybody knows, the great majority of Americans, upon reaching the
age of natural selection, are elected to the American Institute of Arts
and Ethics, which is, so to speak, the Ellis Island of the Academy.
Occasionally a general mobilization of the Academy is ordered and, from
the teeming population of the Institute, a new Immortal is selected for
the American Academy of Moral Endeavor by the simple process of
blindfolded selection from Who's Which.
The motto of this most stately of earthly institutions is a peculiarly
modest, truthful, and unintentional epigram by Tupper:
"Unknown, I became Famous; Famous, I remain Unknown."
And so I found it to be the case; for, when at last I was privileged to
write my name, "Smith, Academician," I discovered to my surprise that I
knew none of my brother Immortals, and, more amazing still, none of them
had ever heard of me.
This latter fact became the more astonishing to me as I learned the
identity of the other Immortals.
Even the President of our great republic was numbered among these
Olympians. I had every right to suppose that he had heard of me. I had
happened to hear of him, because his Secretary of State once mentioned
him at Chautauqua.
It was a wonderfully meaningless sensation to know nobody and to discover
myself equally unknown amid that matchless companionship. We were like a
mixed bunch of gods, Greek, Norse, Hindu, Hottentot--all gathered on
Olympus, having never heard of each other but taking it for granted that
we were all gods together and all members of this club.
My initiation into the Academy had been fixed for April first, and I was
much worried concerning the address which I was of course expected to
deliver on that occasion before my fellow members.
It had to be an exciting address because slumber was not an infrequent
phenomenon among the Immortals on such solemn occasions. Like dozens of
dozing Joves a dull discourse always set them nodding.
But always under such circumstances the pretty ushers from Barnard
College passed around refreshments; a suffragette orchestra struck up;
the ushers uprooted the seated Immortals and fox-trotted them into
comparative consciousness.
But I didn't wish to have my inaugural address interrupted, therefore I
was at my wits' ends to discover a subject of such exciting scientific
interest that my august audience could not choose but listen as
attentively as they would listen from the front row to some deathless
stunt in vaudeville.
That morning I had left the Bronx rather early, hoping that a long walk
might compose my thoughts and enable me to think of some sufficiently
entertaining and unusual subject for my inaugural address.
I walked as far as Columbia University, gazed with rapture upon its
magnificent architecture until I was as satiated as though I had arisen
from a banquet at Childs'.
To aid mental digestion I strolled over to the noble home of the Academy
and Institute adjoining Mr. Huntington's Hispano-Moresque Museum.
It was a fine, sunny morning, and the Immortals were being exercised by a
number of pretty ushers from Barnard.
I gazed upon the impressive procession with pride unutterable; very soon
I also should walk two and two in the sunshine, my dome crowned with
figurative laurels, cracking scientific witticisms with my fellow
inmates, or, perhaps, squeezing the pretty fingers of some--But let that
pass.
I was, as I say, gazing upon this inspiring scene on a beautiful morning
in February, when I became aware of a short and visibly vulgar person
beside me, plucking persistently at my elbow.
"Are you the great Academician, Perfessor Smith?" he asked, tipping his
pearl-coloured and somewhat soiled bowler.
"Yes," I said condescendingly. "Your description of me precludes further
doubt. What can I do for you, my good man?"
"Are you this here Perfessor Smith of the Department of Anthropology in
the Bronx Park Zoölogical Society?" he persisted.
"What do you desire of me?" I repeated, taking another look at him. He
was exceedingly ordinary.
"Prof, old sport," he said cordially, "I took a slant at the papers
yesterday, an' I seen all about the big time these guys had when you rode
the goat--"
"Rode--what?"
"When you was elected. Get me?"
I stared at him. He grinned in a friendly way.
"The privacy of those solemn proceedings should remain sacred. It were
unfit to discuss such matters with the world at large," I said coldly.
"I get you," he rejoined cheerfully.
"What do you desire of me?" I repeated. "Why this unseemly apropos?"
"I was comin' to it. Perfessor, I'll be frank. I need money--"
"You need brains!"
"No," he said good-humouredly, "I've got 'em; plenty of 'em; I'm
overstocked with idees. What I want to do is to sell you a few--"
"Do you know you are impudent!"
"Listen, friend. I seen a piece in the papers as how you was to make the
speech of your life when you ride the goat for these here guys on April
first--"
"I decline to listen--"
"One minute, friend! I want to ask you one thing! What are you going
to talk about?"
I was already moving away but I stopped and stared at him.
"That's the question," he nodded with unimpaired cheerfulness, "what
are you going to talk about on April the first? Remember it's the
hot-air party of your life. Ree-member that each an' every paper in the
United States will print what you say. Now, how about it, friend? Are you
up in your lines?"
Swallowing my repulsion for him I said: "Why are you concerned as to what
may be the subject of my approaching address?"
"There you are, Prof!" he exclaimed delightedly; "I want to do business
with you. That's me! I'm frank about it. Say, there ought to be a wad of
the joyful in it for us both--"
"What?"
"Sure. We can work it any old way. Take Tyng, Tyng and Company, the
typewriter people. I'd be ashamed to tell you what I can get out o'
them if you'll mention the Tyng-Tyng typewriter in your speech--"
"What you suggest is infamous!" I said haughtily.
"Believe me there's enough in it to make it a financial coup, and I ask
you, Prof, isn't a financial coup respectable?"
"You seem to be morally unfitted to comprehend--"
"Pardon me! I'm fitted up regardless with all kinds of fixtures. I'm
fixed to undertake anything. Now if you'd prefer the Bunsen Baby Biscuit
bunch--why old man Bunsen would come across--"
"I won't do such things!" I said angrily.
"Very well, very well. Don't get riled, sir. That's only one way to build
on Fifth Avenoo. I've got one hundred thousand other ways--"
"I don't want to talk to you--"
"They're honest--some of them. Say, if you want a stric'ly honest deal
I've got the goods. Only it ain't as easy and the money ain't as big--"
"I don't want to talk to you--"
"Yes you do. You don't reelize it but you do. Why you're fixin' to make
the holler of your life, ain't you? What are you goin' to say? Hey?
What you aimin' to say to make those guys set up? What's the use of
up-stagin'? Ain't you willin' to pay me a few plunks if I dy-vulge to
you the most startlin' phenomena that has ever electrified civilization
sense the era of P.T. Barnum!"
I was already hurrying away when the mention of that great scientist's
name halted me once more.
The little flashy man had been tagging along at my heels, talking
cheerfully and volubly all the while; and now, as I halted again, he
struck an attitude, legs apart, thumbs hooked in his arm-pits, and his
head cocked knowingly on one side.
"Prof," he said, "if you'd work in the Tyng-Tyng Company, or fix it up
with Bunsen to mention his Baby Biscuits as the most nootritious of
condeements, there'd be more in it for you an' me. But it's up to you."
"Well I won't!" I retorted.
"Very well, ve-ry well," he said soothingly. "Then look over another line
o' samples. No trouble to show 'em--none at all, sir! Now if P.T.
Barnum was alive--"
I said very seriously: "The name of that great discoverer falling from
your illiterate lips has halted me a second time. His name alone invests
your somewhat suspicious conversation with a dignity and authority
heretofore conspicuously absent. If, as you hint, you have any scientific
information for sale which P.T. Barnum might have considered worth
purchasing, you may possibly find in me a client. Proceed, young sir."
"Say, listen, Bo--I mean, Prof. I've got the goods. Don't worry. I've got
information in my think-box that would make your kick-in speech the event
of the century. The question remains, do I get mine?"
"What is this scientific information?"
We had now walked as far as Riverside Drive. There were plenty of
unoccupied benches. I sat down and he seated himself beside me.
For a few moments I gazed upon the magnificent view. Even he seemed awed
by the proportions of the superb iron gas tank dominating the prospect.
I gazed at the colossal advertisements across the Hudson, at the freight
trains below; I gazed upon the lordly Hudson itself, that majestic sewer
which drains the Empire State, bearing within its resistless flood
millions of tons of insoluble matter from that magic fairyland which we
call "up-state," to the sea. And, thinking of disposal plants, I thought
