in Brookhollow.
Naturally neither she nor I thought about the incident any further.
Murad did not come again; but a few days later the Turkish Chargé
d'Affaires was present at a very large dinner given by Princess Naïa.
And two curious conversations occurred at that dinner:
The Turkish Chargé suddenly turned to me and asked me in English
whether I were not the daughter of the Reverend Wilbour Carew who once
was in charge of the American Mission near Trebizond. I was so
surprised at the question; but I answered yes, remembering that Murad
must have mentioned me to him.
He continued to ask me about my father, and spoke of his efforts to
establish a girls' school, first at Brusa, then at Tchardak, and
finally near Gallipoli. I told him I had often heard my father speak
of these matters with my mother, but that I was too young to remember
anything about my own life in Turkey.
All the while we were conversing, I noticed that the Princess kept
looking across the table at us as though some chance word had
attracted her attention.
After dinner, when the gentlemen had retired to the smoking room, the
Princess took me aside and made me repeat everything that Ahmed Mirka
had asked me.
I told her. She said that the Turkish Chargé was an old busybody,
always sniffing about for all sorts of information; that it was safer
to be reticent and let him do the talking; and that almost every scrap
of conversation with him was mentally noted and later transcribed for
the edification of the Turkish Secret Service.
I thought this very humorous; but going into the little salon where
the piano was and where the music was kept, while I was looking for an
old song by Messager, from "La Basoche," called "Je suis aimé de la
plus belle--" Ahmed Mirka's handsome attaché, Colonel Izzet Bey, came
up to where I was rummaging in the music cabinet.
He talked nonsense in French and in English for a while, but somehow
the conversation led again toward my father and the girls' school at
Gallipoli which had been attacked and burned by a mob during the first
month after it had been opened, and where the German, Herr Wilner, had
been killed.
"Monsieur, your reverend father, must surely have told you stories
about the destruction of the Gallipoli school, mademoiselle," he
insisted.
"Yes. It happened a year before the mission at Trebizond was destroyed
by the Turks." I said maliciously.
"So I have heard. What a pity! Our Osmanli--our peasantry are so
stupid! And it was such a fine school. A German engineer was killed
there, I believe."
"Yes, my father said so."
"A certain Herr Conrad Wilner, was it not?"
"Yes. How did you hear of him, Colonel Izzet?"
"It was known in Stamboul. He perished by mistake, I believe--at
Gallipoli."
"Yes; my father said that Herr Wilner was the only man hurt. He went
out all alone into the mob and began to cut them with his riding whip.
My father tried to save him, but they killed Herr Wilner with
stones."
"Exactly." He spread his beautifully jewelled hands deprecatingly and
seemed greatly grieved.
"And Herr Wilner's--property?" he inquired. "Did you ever hear what
became of it?"
"Oh, yes," I said. "My father took charge of it."
"Oh! It was supposed at the time that all of Herr Wilner's personal
property was destroyed when the school and compound burned. Do you
happen to know just what was saved, mademoiselle?"
Of course I immediately thought of the bronze demon, the box of
instruments, and the photographs and papers at home with which I used
to play as a child. I remembered my father had said that these things
were taken on board the Oneida when he, my mother, and I were
rescued by marines and sailors from our guard vessel which came
through the Bosporus to the Black Sea, and which escorted us to the
Oneida. And I was just going to tell this to Izzet Bey when I also
remembered what the Princess had just told me about giving any
information to Ahmed Pasha. So I merely opened my eyes very innocently
and gazed at Colonel Izzet and shook my head as though I did not
understand his question.
The next instant the Princess came in to see what I was about so long,
and she looked at Izzet Bey with a funny sort of smile, as though she
had surprised him in mischief and was not angry, only amused. And when
Colonel Izzet bowed, I saw how red his face had grown--as red as his
fez.
The Princess laughed and said in French: "That is the difference
between professional and amateur--between Nizam and Redif--between
Ahmed Pasha and our esteemed but very youthful attaché--who has much
yet to learn about that endless war called Peace!"
I didn't know what she meant, but Izzet Bey turned a bright scarlet,
bowed again, and returned to the smoking room.
And that night, while Suzanne was unhooking me, Princess Naïa came
into my bedroom and asked me some questions, and I told her about the
box of instruments and the diary, and the slippery linen papers
covered with drawings and German writing, with which I used to play.
She said never to mention them to anybody, and that I should never
permit anybody to examine those military papers, because it might be
harmful to America.
How odd and how thrilling! I am most curious to know what all this
means. It seems like an exciting story just beginning, and I wonder
what such a girl as I has to do with secrets which concern the Turkish
Chargé in Paris.
Don't you think it promises to be romantic? Do you suppose it has
anything to do with spies and diplomacy and kings and thrones, and
terrible military secrets? One hears a great deal about the embassies
here being hotbeds of political intrigue. And of course France is
always thinking of Alsace and Lorraine, and there is an ever-present
danger of war in Europe.
Mr. Neeland, it thrills me to pretend to myself that I am actually
living in the plot of a romance full of mystery and diplomacy and
dangerous possibilities. I hope something will develop, as something
always does in novels.
And alas, my imagination, which always has been vivid, needed almost
nothing to blaze into flame. It is on fire now; I dream of courts and
armies, and ambassadors, and spies; I construct stories in which I am
the heroine always--sometimes the interesting and temporary victim of
wicked plots; sometimes the all-powerful, dauntless, and adroit
champion of honour and righteousness against treachery and evil!
Did you ever suppose that I still could remain such a very little
girl? But I fear that I shall never outgrow my imagination. And it
needs almost nothing to set me dreaming out stories or drawing
pictures of castles and princes and swans and fairies. And even this
letter seems a part of some breathlessly interesting plot which I am
not only creating but actually a living part of and destined to act
in.
Do you want a part in it? Shall I include you? Rather late to ask your
permission, for I have already included you. And, somehow, I think the
Yellow Devil ought to be included, too.
Please write to me, just once. But don't speak of the papers which
father had, and don't mention Herr Conrad Wilner's box if you write.
The Princess says your letter might be stolen.
I am very happy. It is rather cold tonight, and presently Suzanne will
unhook me and I shall put on such a pretty negligée, and then curl up
in bed, turn on my reading light with the pink shade, and continue to
read the new novel recommended to me by Princess Naïa, called "Le
Crime de Sylvestre Bonnard." It is a perfectly darling story, and
Anatole France, who wrote it, must be a darling, too. The Princess
knows him and promises that he shall dine with us some day. I expect
to fall in love with him immediately.
Good night, dear Mr. Neeland. I hope you will write to me.
                           Your little Gayfield friend grown up,
                                                       Ruhannah Carew.
This letter he finally did answer, not voluminously, but with all
cordiality. And, in a few days, forgot about it and about the girl to
whom it was written. And there was nothing more from her until early
summer.
Then came the last of her letters--an entirely mature missive, firm in
writing, decisive, concise, self-possessed, eloquent with an
indefinite something which betrayed a calmly ordered mind already
being moulded by discipline mondaine:
                 
My dear Mr. Neeland:
I had your very kind and charming letter in reply to mine written last
January. My neglect to answer it, during all these months, involves
me in explanations which, if you like, are perhaps due you. But if you
require them at all, I had rather surrender them to you personally
when we meet.
Possibly that encounter, so happily anticipated on my part, may occur
sooner than you believe likely. I permit myself to hope so. The note
which I enclose to you from the lady whom I love very dearly should
explain why I venture to entertain a hope that you and I are to see
each other again in the near future.
As you were kind enough to inquire about myself and what you describe
so flatteringly as my "amazing progress in artistic and worldly
wisdom," I venture to reply to your questions in order:
They seem to be pleased with me at the school. I have a life-drawing
"on the wall," a composition sketch, and a "concours" study in oil.
That I have not burst to atoms with pride is a miracle inexplicable.
I have been told that my progress at the piano is fair. But I am very
certain I shall do no more with vocal and instrumental music than to
play and sing acceptably for such kind and uncritical friends as do
not demand much of an amateur. Without any unusual gifts, with a
rather sensitive ear, and with a very slightly cultivated and
perfectly childish voice--please do not expect anything from me to
please you.
In French I am already becoming fluent. You see, except for certain
lessons in it, I have scarcely heard a word of English since I came
here; the Princess will not use it to me nor permit its use by me. And
therefore, my ear being a musical one and rather accurate, I find--now
that I look back upon my abysmal ignorance--a very decided progress.
Also let me admit to you--and I have already done so, I see--that,
since I have been here, I have had daily lessons in English with a
cultivated English woman; and in consequence I have been learning to
enlarge a very meagre vocabulary, and have begun to appreciate
possibilities in my own language of which I never dreamed.
About my personal appearance--as long as you ask me--I think perhaps
that, were I less thin, I might be rather pretty. Dress makes such a
vast difference in a plain girl. Also, intelligent care of one's
person improves mediocrity. Of course everybody says such gracious
things to a girl over here that it would not do to accept any pretty
compliment very literally. But I really believe that you might think
me rather nice to look at.
As for the future, the truth is that I feel much encouraged. I made
some drawings in wash and in pen and ink--just ideas of mine. And
Monsieur Bonvard, who is editor of The Grey Cat--a very clever
weekly--has accepted them and has paid me twenty-five francs each for
them! I was so astonished that I could not believe it. One has been
reproduced in last week's paper. I have cut it out and pasted it in my
scrapbook.
I think, take it all in all, that seeing my first illustrations
printed has given me greater joy than I shall ever again experience on
earth.
My daily intercourse with the Princess Mistchenka continues to comfort
me, inspire me, and fill me with determination so to educate myself
that when the time comes I shall be ready and able to support myself
with pen and pencil.
And now I must bring my letter to its end. The prospect of seeing you
very soon is agreeable beyond words. You have been very kind to me. I
do not forget it.
                                         Yours very sincerely,
                                                       Ruhannah Carew.
                 
The enclosure was a note from the Princess Mistchenka:
                 
Dear Jim:
If in the past it has been my good fortune to add anything to yours,
may I now invoke in you the memory of our very frank and delightful
friendship?
When you first returned to America from Paris I found it possible to
do for you a few favours in the way of making you known to certain
editors. It was, I assure you, merely because I liked you and believed
in your work, not because I ever expected to ask from you any favour
in return.
Now, Fate has thrown an odd combination from her dice-box; and Destiny
has veiled herself so impenetrably that nobody can read that awful
visage to guess what thoughts possess her.
You, in America, have heard of the murder of the Austrian Archduke, of
course. But--have you, in America, any idea what the consequences of
that murder may lead to?
Enough of that. Now for the favour I ask.
Will you go at once to Brookhollow, go to Ruhannah's house, open it,
take from it a chest made of olive wood and bound with some metal
which looks like silver, lock the box, take it to New York, place it
in a safe deposit vault until you can sail for Paris on the first
steamer that leaves New York?
Will you do this--get the box I have described and bring it to me
yourself on the first steamer that sails?
And, Jim, keep your eye on the box. Don't trust anybody near it. Rue
says that, as she recollects, the box is about the size and shape of a
suitcase and that it has a canvas and leather cover with a handle
which buttons over it.
Therefore, you can carry it yourself exactly as though it were your
suitcase, keep it with you in the train and on shipboard.
Will you do this, Jim? It is much to ask of you. I break in upon your
work and cause you great inconvenience and trouble and expense.
But--will you do it for me?
Much depends upon your doing this. I think that possibly the welfare
of your own country might depend on your doing this for me.
If you find yourself embarrassed financially, cable me just one word,
"Black," and I shall arrange matters through a New York bank.
If you feel that you do not care to do me this favour, cable the
single word, "White."
If you have sufficient funds, and are willing to bring the box to me
yourself, cable the word, "Blue."
In case that you undertake this business for me, be careful of the
contents of the box. Let nobody see it open. Be certain that the
contents are absolutely secure. I dare not tell you how vitally
important to civilisation these papers already are--how much they may
mean to the world; what powers of evil they might encourage if in any
way they fall into other hands than the right ones.
Jim, I have seldom taken a very serious tone with you since we have
known each other. I am very serious now. And if our friendship means
anything to you, prove it!
                                                        Yours,
                                                                 Naïa.
                 
As he sat there in his studio, perplexed, amazed, annoyed, yet
curious, trying to think out what he ought to do--what, in fact, must
be done somehow or other--there came a ring at his door bell. A
messenger with a cable despatch stood there; Neeland signed, tore open
the envelope, and read:
                 
Please go at once to Brookhollow and secure an olive-wood box bound
with silver, containing military maps, plans, photographs, and papers
written in German, property of Ruhannah Carew. Lose no time, I implore
you, as an attempt to rob the house and steal the papers is likely.
Beware of anybody resembling a German. Have written, but beg you not
to wait for letter.
                                                                 Naïa.
                 
Twice he reread the cablegram. Then, with a half-bewildered,
half-disgusted glance around at his studio, his belongings, the
unfinished work on his easel, he went to the telephone.
It being July he had little difficulty in reserving a good stateroom
on the Cunarder Volhynia, sailing the following day. Then, summoning
the janitor, he packed a steamer trunk and gave order to have it taken
aboard that evening.
On his way downtown to his bank he stopped at a telegraph and cable
office and sent a cable message to the Princess Mistchenka. The text
consisted of only one word: "Blue."
He departed for Gayfield on the five o'clock afternoon train, carrying
with him a suitcase and an automatic pistol in his breast pocket.
CHAPTER XIV
A JOURNEY BEGINS
It was a five-hour trip. He dined aboard the train with little desire
for food, the July evening being oppressive, and a thunder storm
brewing over the Hudson. It burst in the vicinity of Fishkill with a
lively display of lightning, deluging the Catskills with rain. And
when he changed to a train on the Mohawk division the cooler air was
agreeably noticeable.
He changed trains again at Orangeville, and here the night breeze was
delightful and the scent of rain-soaked meadows came through the open
car window.
It was nearly ten o'clock and already, ahead, he caught sight of the
lights of Neeland's Mills. Always the homecoming was a keen delight to
him; and now, as he stepped off the train, the old familiar odours
were in his nostrils--the unique composite perfume of the native place
which never can be duplicated elsewhere.
