with a simple directness as though he were there daily, and Anne
impulsively went forward to him. She felt she knew him very well. They
were quite friends. Alston, smiling at her and taking her hand on the
way to the colonel and Jeff, seemed to recognise that, and greeted her
less formally than the others. The colonel was moved at seeing him. The
Choates were among the best of local lineage, men and women
distinguished by clear rigidities of conduct. Their friendship was a
promissory note, bound to be honoured to the full. Lydia was for some
reason abashed, and Jeff, both she and Anne thought, not adequately
welcoming. But how could he be, Anne considered. He was in a position of
unique loneliness. He lacked fellowship. Nobody but Alston, in their
stratum at least, had come in person. No wonder he looked warily, lest
he assume too much.
Before they settled down, the elderly lady, with a thud of feet softly
shod, walked through the hall and stood at the library door regarding
them benignantly. And then Jeff, with an outspoken sound of pleasure and
surprise, got up and drew her in, and Choate smiled upon her as if she
were delightfully unlike anybody else. The colonel, with a quick, moved
look, just said her name:
"Amabel!"
She gave warm, quick grasps from a firm hand, gave them all round, not
seeming to know she hadn't met Anne and Lydia, and at once took off her
bonnet. It had strings and altogether belonged to an epoch at least
twenty years away. The bonnet she "laid aside" on a table with a certain
absent care, as ladies were accustomed to treat bonnets before they got
into the way of jabbing them with pins. Then she sat down, earnestly
solicitous and attentive as at a consultation. Anne thought she was the
most beautiful person she had ever seen. It was a pity Miss Amabel
Bracebridge could not have known that impetuous verdict. It would have
brought her a surprised, spontaneous laugh: nothing could have convinced
her it was not delicious foolery. She was tall and broad and heavy. When
she stood in the doorway, she seemed to fill it. Now that she sat in the
chair, she filled that, a soft, stout woman with great shoulders and a
benign face, a troubled face, as if she were used to soothing ills, yet
found for them no adequate recompense. Her dark grey dress was buttoned
in front, after the fashion of a time long past. It was so archaic in
cut, with a little ruffle at neck and sleeves, that it did more than
adequate service toward maturing her. Indeed, there was no youth about
Miss Amabel, except the youth of her eyes and smile. There were
childlike wistfulness and hope, but experience chiefly, of life, of the
unaccounted for, the unaccountable. She had, above all, an expression of
well-wishing. Now she sat and looked about her.
"Dear me!" she said, "how pleasant it is to see this house open again."
"But it's been open," Lydia impulsively reminded her.
"Yes," said Miss Amabel. "But not this way." She turned to Jeff and
regarded him anxiously. "Don't you smoke?" she asked.
He laughed again. He was exceedingly pleased, Anne saw, merely at seeing
her. Miss Amabel was exactly as he remembered her.
"Yes," said he. "Want us to?"
She put up her long eyebrows and smiled as if in some amusement at
herself.
"I've learned lately," she said, "that gentlemen are so devoted to it
they feel lost without it."
"Light up, Choate," said Jeffrey. "My sisters won't mind. Will you?" He
interrogated Anne. "They get along with me."
No, Anne didn't mind, and she rose and brought matches and little trays.
Lydia often wondered how Anne knew the exact pattern of man's
convenience. But though Choate accepted a cigar, he did not light it.
"Not now," he said, when Jeffrey offered him a light; he laid the cigar
down, tapping it once or twice with his fine hand, and Anne thought he
refrained in courtesy toward her and Lydia.
"This is very pleasant," said the colonel suddenly. "It's good to see
you, Amabel. Now I feel myself at home."
But what, after the first settling was over, had they to say? The same
thought was in all their minds. What was Jeffrey going to do? He knew
that, and moved unhappily. Whatever he was going to do, he wouldn't talk
about it. But Miss Amabel was approaching him with the clearest
simplicity.
"Jeff, my dear," she said, "I can't wait to hear about your ideal
republic."
And then, all his satisfaction gone and his scowl come back, Jeff shook
his head as if a persistent fly had lighted on him, and again he
disclaimed achievement.
"Amabel," said he, "I'm awfully sick of that, you know."
"But, dear boy, you revolutionised--" she was about to add, "the
prison," but stumbled lamely--"the place."
"The papers told us that," said Choate. It was apparent he was helping
somebody out, but whether Jeff or Miss Amabel even he couldn't have
said.
"It isn't revolutionised," said Jeff. He turned upon Choate brusquely.
"It's exactly the same."
"They say it's revolutionised," Miss Amabel offered anxiously.
"Who says so?" he countered, now turning on her.
"The papers," she told him. "You didn't write me about it. I asked you
all sorts of questions and you wouldn't say a word."
"But you wrote me," said Jeff affectionately, "every week. I got so used
to your letters I sha'n't be able to do without them; I shall have to
see you every day."
"Of course we're going to see each other," she said. "And there's such a
lot you can do."
She looked so earnestly entreating that Choate, who sat not far from
her, gave a murmured: "Ah, Miss Amabel!" In his mind the
half-despairing, wholly loving thought had been: "Good old girl! You're
spending yourself and all your money, but it's no use--no use."
She was going on with a perfect clarity of purpose.
"Oh, you know, Jeff can do more for us than anybody else."
"What do you want done for you?" he inquired.
His habit of direct attack gave Lydia a shiver. She was sure people
couldn't like it, and she was exceedingly anxious for him to be liked.
Miss Amabel turned to Farvie.
"You see," she said, "Addington is waking up. I didn't dwell very much
on it," she added, now to Jeff, "when I wrote you, because I thought
you'd like best to think of it as it was. But now--"
"Now I'm out," said Jeff brutally, "you find me equal to it."
"I think," said Miss Amabel, "you can do so much for us." Nothing
troubled her governed calm. It might almost be that, having looked from
high places into deep ones, no abyss could dizzy her. "Weedon Moore
feels as I do."
"Weedon Moore?" Jeffrey repeated, in a surprised and most uncordial
tone. He looked at Choate.
"Yes," said Choate, as if he confirmed not only the question but Jeff's
inner feeling, "he's here. He's practising law, and besides that he
edits the Argosy."
"Owns it, too, I think," said Farvie. "They told me so at the
news-stand."
"Well," said Choate pointedly, "it's said Miss Amabel owns it."
"Then," said Jeff, including her abruptly, "you've the whip-hand. You
can get Moore out of it. What's he in it for anyway? Did you have to
take him over with the business?"
Miss Amabel was plainly grieved.
"Now why should you want to turn him out of it?" she asked, really of
Choate who had started the attack. "Mr. Moore is a very able young man,
of the highest ideals."
Jeff laughed. It was a kindly laugh. Anne was again sure he loved Miss
Amabel.
"I can't see Moore changing much after twenty-five," he said to Choate,
who confirmed him briefly:
"Same old Weedie."
"Mr. Moore is not popular," said Miss Amabel, with dignity, turning now
to Farvie. "He never has been, here in Addington. He comes of plain
people."
"That's not it, Miss Amabel," said Choate gently. "He might have been
spawned out of the back meadows or he might have been--a Bracebridge."
He bowed to her with a charming conciliation and Miss Amabel sat a
little straighter. "If we don't accept him, it's because he's Weedon
Moore."
"We were in school with him, you know: in college, too," said Jeff, with
that gentleness men always accorded her, men of perception who saw in
her the motherhood destined to diffuse itself, often to no end: she was
so noble and at the same time so helpless in the crystal prison of her
hopes. "We knew Weedie like a book."
Miss Amabel took on an added dignity, proportioned to the discomfort of
her task. Here she was defending Weedon Moore whom her outer
sensibilities rejected the while his labelled virtues moved her soul.
Sometimes when she found herself with people like these to-night,
manifestly her own kind, she was tired of being good.
"I don't know any one," said she, "who feels the prevailing unrest more
keenly than Weedon Moore."
At that instant, Mary Nellen, her eyes brightening as these social
activities increased, appeared in the doorway, announcing doubtfully:
"Mr. Moore."
Jeffrey, as if actually startled, looked round at Choate who was
unaffectedly annoyed. Anne, rising to receive the problematic Moore,
thought they had an air of wondering how they could repel unwarranted
invasion. Miss Amabel, in a sort of protesting, delicate distress, was
loyally striving to make the invader's path plain.
"I told him I was coming," she said. "It seems he had thought of
dropping in." Then Anne went out on the heels of Mary Nellen, hearing
Miss Amabel conclude, as she left, with an apologetic note unfamiliar to
her soft voice, "He wants you to write something, Jeff, for the
Argosy."
Anne, even before seeing him, became conscious that Mary Nellen regarded
the newcomer as undesirable; and when she came on him standing, hat in
hand, she agreed that Weedon Moore was, in his outward integument,
exceedingly unpleasant: a short, swarthy, tubby man, always, she was to
note, dressed in smooth black, and invariably wearing or carrying, with
the gravity of a funeral mourner, what Addington knew as a "tall hat".
When the weather gave him countenance, he wore a black coat with a cape.
One flashing ring adorned his left hand, and he indulged a barbaric
taste in flowing ties. Seeing Anne, he spoke at once, and if she had not
been prepared for him she must have guessed him to be a man come on a
message of importance. There was conscious emphasis in his voice, and
there needed to be if it was to accomplish anything: a high voice,
strident, and, like the rest of him, somehow suggesting insect life. He
held out his hand and Anne most unwillingly took it.
"Miss French," said he, with no hesitation before her name, "how is
Jeff?"
The mere inquiry set Anne vainly to hoping that he need not come in. But
he gave no quarter.
"I said I'd run over to-night, paper or no paper. I'm frightfully busy,
you know, cruelly, abominably busy. But I just wanted to see Jeff."
"Won't you come in?" said Anne.
Even then he did not abandon his hat. He kept his hold on it, bearing it
before him in a way that made Anne think absurdly of shields and
bucklers. When, in the library, she turned to present him, as if he were
an unpleasant find she had got to vouch for somehow, the men were
already on their feet and Jeff was setting forward a chair. She could
not help thinking it was a clever stage business to release him from the
necessity of shaking hands. But Moore did not abet him in that
informality. His small hand was out, and he was saying in a sharp,
strained voice, exactly as if he were making a point of some kind, an
oratorical point:
"Jeff, my dear fellow! I'm tremendously glad to see you."
Anne thought Jeff might not shake hands with him at all. But she saw him
steal a shamefaced look at Miss Amabel and immediately, as if something
radical had to be done when it came to the friend of a beloved old girl
like her, strike his hand into Moore's, with an emphasis the more
pronounced for his haste to get it over. Moore seemed enraptured at the
handshake and breathless over the occasion. Having begun shaking hands
he kept on with enthusiasm: the colonel, Miss Amabel and Lydia had to
respond to an almost fervid greeting.
Only Choate proved immune. He had vouchsafed a cool: "How are you,
Weedie?" when Moore began, and that seemed all Moore was likely to
expect. Then they all sat down and there was, Lydia decided, as she
glanced from one to another, no more pleasure in it. There was talk.
Moore chatted so exuberantly, his little hands upon his fattish knees,
that he seemed to squeeze sociability out of himself in a rapture of
generous willingness to share all he had. He asked the colonel how he
liked Addington, and was not abashed at being reminded that the colonel
had known Addington for a good many years.
"Still it's changed," said Moore, regarding him almost archly.
"Addington isn't the place it was even a year ago."
"I hope we've learned something," said Miss Amabel earnestly and yet
prettily too.
"My theory of Addington," said Choate easily, "is that we all wish we
were back in the Addington of a hundred years ago."
"You'd want to be in the dominant class," said Moore. There was
something like the trammels of an unwilling respect over his manner to
Choate; yet still he managed to be rallying. "When the old merchants
were coming home with china and bales of silk and Paris shoes for madam.
And think of it," said he, raising his sparse eyebrows and looking like
a marionette moulded to express something and saying it with painful
clumsiness, almost grotesquerie, "the ships are bringing human products
now. They're bringing us citizens, bone and sinew of the republic, and
we cry back to china and bales of silk."
"I didn't answer you, Moore," said Choate, turning to him and speaking,
Lydia thought, with the slightest arrogance. "I should have wanted to
belong to the governing class--of course."
"Now!" said Miss Amabel. She spoke gently, and she was, they saw, pained
at the turn the talk had taken. "Alston, why should you say that?"
"Because I mean it," said Alston. His quietude seemed to carry a private
message to Moore, but he turned to her, as he spoke and smiled as if to
ask her not to interpret him harshly. "Of course I should have wanted to
be in the dominant class. So does everybody, really."
"No, my dear," said Miss Amabel.
"No," agreed Choate, "you don't. The others like you didn't. I won't
embarrass you by naming them. You want to sit submerged, you others, and
be choked by slime, if you must be, and have the holy city built up on
your shoulders. But the rest of us don't. Moore here doesn't, do you,
Weedie?"
Weedon gave a quick embarrassed laugh.
"You're so droll," said he.
"No," said Choate quietly, "I'm not being droll. Of course I want to
belong to the dominant class. So does the man that never dominated in
his life. He wants to overthrow the over-lords so he can rule himself.
He wants to crowd me so he can push into a place beside me."
Moore laughed with an overdone enjoyment.
"Excellent," he said, squeezing the words out of his knees. "You're such
a humourist."
If he wanted to be offensive, that was the keenest cut he could have
delivered.
"I have often thought," said the colonel, beginning in a hesitating,
deferent way that made his utterance rather notable, "that we saddle
what we call the lower orders with motives different from our own."
"Precisely," Choate clipped in. "We used to think, when they committed a
perfectly logical crime, like stealing a sheep or a loaf of bread, that
it was absolutely different from anything we could have done. Whereas in
their places we should have tried precisely the same thing. Just as
cleanliness is a matter of bathtubs and temperature. We shouldn't bathe
if we had to break the ice over a quart of water and then go out and run
a trolley car all day."
Lydia's face, its large eyes fixed upon him, said so plainly "I don't
believe it" that he laughed, with a sudden enjoyment of her, and, after
an instant of wider-eyed surprise, she laughed too.
"And here's Miss Amabel," Choate went on, in the voice it seemed he kept
for her, "going to the outer extreme and believing, because the
labouring man has been bled, that he's incapable of bleeding you. Don't
you think it, Miss Amabel. He's precisely like the rest of us. Like me.
Like Weedon here. He'll sit up on his platform and judge me like forty
thousand prophets out of Israel; but put him where I am and he'll cling
with his eyelids and stick there. Just as I shall."
Miss Amabel looked deeply troubled and also at a loss.
"I only think, Alston," she said, "that so much insight, so much of the
deepest knowledge comes of pain. And the poor have suffered pain so many
centuries. They've learned things we don't know. Look how they help one
another. Look at their self-sacrifice."
"Look at your own self-sacrifice," said Choate.
"Oh, but they know," said she. The flame of a great desire was in her
face. "I don't know what it is to be hungry. If I starved myself I
shouldn't know, because in somebody's pantry would be the bread-box I
could put my hand into. They know, Alston. It gives them insight. When
they remember the road they've travelled, they're not going to make the
mistakes we've made."
"Oh, yes, they are," said Choate. "Pardon me. There are going to be
robbers and pirates and Napoleons and get-rich-quicks born for quite a
while yet. And they're not going to be born in my class alone--nor
Weedon's."
Weedon squirmed at this, and even Jeff thought it rather a nasty cut.
But Jeff did not know yet how well Choate knew Weedon in the ways of
men. And Weedon accepted no rebuff. He turned to Jeff, distinctly
leaving Choate as one who would have his little pleasantries.
"Jeff," he said, "I want you to do something for the Argosy."
Jeff at once knew what.
"Queer," he said, "how you all think I've got copy out of jail."
Anne resented the word. It was not jail, she thought, a federal prison
where gentlemen, when they have done wrong or been, like Jeff, falsely
accused, may go with dignity.
"My dear," said Miss Amabel, in a manner at once all compassion and
inexorable demand, "you've got so much to tell us. You men in
that--place," she stumbled over the word and then accepted
