which for those once abandoned to it is indeed a kind of enchantment. As
I knew it then and afterward, it has always had far more of my honor
and respect than those ignorant of it know how to render. One incident
of it at this time so especially moved me that I will give it place in
this wayward tale, though it is probably not more to the credit of the
press than unnumbered others which others could cite. A miserable man
came late one night to ask that a certain report which involved his good
name, and with it the good name of a miserable woman, and the peace of
their families, might be withheld. He came with legal counsel, and
together they threshed the matter out with our editorial force upon the
point whether we ought or ought not to spare him, our contention being
that as a prominent citizen he was even less to be spared than a more
unimportant person. Our professional conscience was apparently in that
scruple; how it was overcome I do not remember, but at last we promised
mercy and the report was suppressed.
It was one of the ironies of life that after the only suspected avenue
to publicity had been successfully guarded, the whole fact should have
cruelly come out in another paper the next morning. But I cannot feel
even yet that the beauty of our merciful decision was marred by this
mockery of fate, or that the cause of virtue was served by it, and I
think that if I had been wiser than I was then I would have remained in
the employ offered me, and learned in the school of reality the many
lessons of human nature which it could have taught me. I did not remain,
and perhaps I could not; it might have been the necessity of my morbid
nerves to save themselves from abhorrent contacts; in any case, I
renounced the opportunity offered me by that university of the streets
and police-stations, with its faculty of patrolmen and ward politicians
and saloon-keepers. The newspaper office was not the Capitol of Ohio; I
was not by the fondest imputation a part of the state government, and I
felt the difference keenly. I was always very homesick; I knew nobody
in the city, and I had no companionship except that of my constant
friend, whom I saw only in our hours of work. I had not even the poor
social refuge of a boarding-house; I ate alone at a restaurant, where I
used sadly to amuse myself with the waiters' versions of the orders
which they called down a tube into the kitchen below. The one which
cheered me most was that of a customer who always ordered a double
portion of corn-cakes and was translated as requiring "Indians, six on a
plate."
Nearly all the frequenters of this restaurant were men from their stores
and offices, snatching a hasty midday meal, but a few were women, clerks
and shop-girls of the sort who now so abound in our towns and cities,
but then so little known. I was so altogether ignorant of life that I
thought shame of them to be boldly showing themselves in such a public
place as a restaurant. I wonder what they would have thought, poor,
blameless dears, of the misgivings in the soul of the conscious youth as
he sat stealing glances of injurious conjecture at them while he overate
himself with the food which was the only thing that could appease for a
moment the hunger of his homesick heart. If I could not mercifully
imagine them, how could I intelligently endure the ravings of the
drunken woman which I heard one night in the police-station where my
abhorred duties took me for the detestable news of the place? I suppose
it was this adventure, sole of its sort, which clinched my resolve to
have no more to do with the money-chance offered to me in journalism. My
longing was for the cleanly respectabilities, and I still cannot think
that a bad thing, or if experience cannot have more than the goodly
outside in life, that this is not well worth having. There was a relief,
almost an atonement, or at least a consolation in being sent next day
to report a sermon, in fulfilment of my friend's ideal of journalistic
enterprise, and though that sermon has long since gone from me and was
perhaps at the time not distinctly with me, still I have a sense of
cleansing from the squalor of the station-house in listening to it. If
all my work could have been the reporting of sermons, with intervals of
sketching the graduating ceremonies of young ladies' seminaries, such as
that where once a girl in garnet silk read an essay of perhaps no
surpassing interest, but remained an enchanting vision, and the material
of some future study in fiction; if it could have been these things,
with nothing of police-stations in it, I might have tried longer to
become a city editor. But as it was I decided my destiny in life
differently.
V
I must not conceal the disappointment which my father delicately
concealed when I returned and took up my old work in the
printing-office. He might well have counted on my help in easing him of
his load of debt, from the salary I had forgone, but there was no hint
of this in the welcome given me in the home where I was again so doubly
at home with my books and manuscripts. Now and then my friend of the
Gazette management managed to have some sketch of mine accepted for
it, and my life went on in my sister's literary companionship on much
the same terms as before our venture into the world the winter before.
My father's clerkship had ended with the adjournment of the legislature
in the spring, but in the autumn, when it grew toward winter, I asked
again for the correspondence of the Gazette. I got this by favor of my
friend, and then I had courage to ask for that of the Cleveland
Herald, which the interest of the blithe sexagenarian sufficed to
secure me, and I returned to the capital with no pretense that I was
not now writing the letters solely and entirely myself. But almost
before my labors began my health quite broke under the strain of earlier
over-study and later overwork. I gave up my correspondence for both
those honored newspapers to my father, who wrote it till the close of
the session, and at his suggestion the letters of the Gazette fell the
next winter to the fit and eager hands of a young man who had just then
sold his country newspaper and had come to try his fortune in the
capital. His name was Whitelaw Reid, in the retrospect a tall, graceful
youth with an enviable black mustache and imperial, wearing his hair
long in the Southern fashion, and carrying himself with the native ease
which availed him in a worldly progress uninterrupted to the end. He
wrote the legislative letters so acceptably that when the Civil War
broke out the Gazette people were glad to make him their correspondent
in the field, where he distinguished himself beyond any other war
correspondent in the West, or the East for what I knew. The world knows
how riches and honors followed him all his days, and how when he died
the greatest Empire sent his dust home to the greatest Republic in such
a war-ship as the war correspondent of those years could not have
dreamed of. From time to time we saw each other, but not often; he was
about his business in the State House, and now I was about mine in the
office of the Ohio State Journal, the organ of the Republican party,
which had been newly financed and placed on a firm footing after rather
prolonged pecuniary debility.
I was at home in the autumn, as I had been all the summer, eating my
heart out (as I would have said in those days) when the call to a place
on the Journal's editorial staff incredibly, impossibly came, and I
forgot my ills, and eagerly responded. I hardly know how to justify my
inconsistency when I explain that this place was the same which I had
rejected at twice the salary on the Cincinnati Gazette. Perhaps I
accepted it now because I could no longer endure the disappointment and
inaction of my life. Perhaps I hoped that in the smaller city the duties
would not be so odious or so onerous; perhaps it was because I would
have been glad to return to Columbus on any terms; in any case it fell
out that the duties of the place were undertaken by another who doted on
them, and quite different and far more congenial functions were assigned
to me.
My chief was Henry D. Cooke, the successful editor and proprietor of a
newspaper in northern Ohio, and brother of the banker Jay Cooke, once
nationally noted in our finance and himself afterward Governor of the
District of Columbia, the easiest of easy gentlemen, formed for
prosperity and leisure, with an instinct for the choice of subordinates
qualified to do the journalistic work he soon began to relinquish in his
preoccupation with the politics of the capital. I have had no sweeter
friend in a life abounding in friends, and after fifty years I think of
his memory with gratitude for counsels which availed me much when given
and would avail me still if I should ever again be a youth of
twenty-one, proposing to do and say the things I then proposed. He
rarely blamed anything I did in the stirring and distracted period of
our relation, but one morning he brought me a too graphic paragraph,
about a long-forgotten homicide done by an injured husband, and said,
"Never, never write anything you would be ashamed to read to a woman,"
and so made me lastingly ashamed of what I had done, and fearful of ever
doing the like again, even in writing fiction. It seems not to be so now
with our novelists, begun or beginning; they write many things they
ought to be ashamed to read to women, or if they are of that sex,
things they should be ashamed to read to men. But perhaps they are
ashamed and only hold out writing so for art's sake; I cannot very well
speak for them; but I am still very Victorian in my preference of
decency.
Mr. Cooke must have been often of a divided mind about his assistants,
or about their expression of the opinions which he reticently held in
common with them. He was a thorough Republican; he undoubtedly believed
that the time had come for calling black black, but his nature would
have been to call it dark gray, at least for that day or for the next.
He would have oftenest agreed with us in what we said of the pro-slavery
party and partisans, North and South, though he held it not honesty to
have it thus set down. He would have liked better the milde Macht of a
Hahnemannian treatment, while we were blistering and cauterizing, and
letting blood wherever we saw the chance, and there were every day
chances enough. I had been made news editor, and in the frequent
intervals of our chief's abeyance I made myself the lieutenant of the
keen ironical spirit who mostly wrote our leaders, but did not mind my
dipping my pen in his ink when I could turn from the paste and scissors
which were more strictly my means of expression. My work was to look
through the exchange newspapers which flocked to us in every mail, and
to choose from them any facts that could be presented to our readers as
significant. I called my column or two "News and Humors of the Mail,"
and I tried to give it an effect of originality by recasting many of the
facts, or, when I could not find a pretext for this, by offering the
selected passages with applausive or derisive comment. We had French and
Spanish and German exchanges, and I sometimes indulged a boyish vanity
by prefacing a paragraph from these with such a sentence as, "We
translate from the Courrier des États Unis," or, "We find in La
Cronaca of New York," or "We learn from the Wachter am Erie," as the
case might be. Why I should have been suffered to do this without
admonition from our chief or sarcasm from my senior I do not know;
perhaps the one thought it best to let youth have its head when the head
was harmlessly turned; and perhaps the other was too much occupied with
his own work to trouble himself with mine; but certainly if I had caught
a contemporary in such folly I should have tried what unsparing
burlesque could do to make him wiser.
The reader who has no follies to own will probably not think me wise in
owning mine, but from time to time I must do so; there were so many. It
is with no hope of repairing these follies now that I confess the pride
I felt in the poor little Spanish, German, and French which it had cost
me so much to acquire unaided and unguided, and I was willing that my
acquirements should shed luster on the newspaper I loved almost as much
as I loved myself. I admired it even more, and I wished to do all that I
could to make it admirable, even enviable, with others. I think now that
I was not using one of the best means to do it; I only contend that it
was one of the best I could think of then. If any contemporary had
turned it against us, I hope I should have been willing to suffer
personally for it, but I cannot now be sure.
VI
We aspired at least tacitly to a metropolitan character in our
journalism; there were no topics of human interest which we counted
alien to us anywhere in the range of politics, morals, literature, or
religion; and I was suffered my say. The writer who was more habitually
and profitably suffered his say was, I still think, a man of very
uncommon qualities and abilities. He was a journalist who could rightly
be called a publicist, earnest if things came to that, of a faithful
conscience and of a mocking skill in the chances pretty constantly
furnished us by our contemporaries, especially some of our Southern
contemporaries whom it was difficult to take as seriously as they took
themselves. When they made some violent proclamation against the North,
or wreaked themselves in some frenzy of pro-slavery ethics, we took our
pleasure in shredding the text into small passages and tagging each of
these with a note of open derision or ironical deprecation. We called it
"firing the Southern heart," in a phrase much used at the time. It was
not wise, it was not well, but it was undeniably amusing, and we carried
it to any lengths that the very intermittent supervision of our nominal
chief would allow. We may have supposed that it would help laugh away
the madness of the South which few in the North believed more than a
temporary insanity, but the uneasy honesty which always lurks somewhere
in my heart to make me own my errors must acquit my fellow-editor of the
worst excesses in this sort, so mainly literary with me. He was not only
a man of high journalistic quality, of clear insight, shrewd judgment,
and sincere convictions, but I do not believe that in the American press
of the time he was surpassed as a clear thinker and brilliant writer.
All the days of journalism are yesterdays; and the name of Samuel R.
Reed will mean nothing to these oblivious morrows, even in Ohio, but all
the more I wish to do his memory such honor as I may. We were of course
daily together in our work, and often in our walks on the Sundays which
were as other days to his steadfast agnosticism. The word was not yet,
but the thing has always been, and especially it always was in the
older West, where bold surmise of the whence and whither of life often
defied the authority of Faith, then much more imperative than now.
Reed's favorite author, whom he read as critically as if he were not his
favorite, was Shakespeare; but his far more constant reading was the
Bible, especially the Old Testament. I could not say why he read it so
much, but he may have felt in it the mystical power which commands the
imagination of men and holds them in respectful contemplation of a
self-sufficing theory of the universe such as nothing in science or
philosophy affords. He quoted it for a peculiar joy in the fitness of
its application to every circumstance; he quoted Dickens, as everybody
did then; he quoted Shakespeare a great deal more both in his talking
and in his writing; and later in his life, long after mine had parted
from it, he amused the spare moments of his journalistic leisure by a
study of Shakespeare's women whom he did not take at the generally
accepted critical appraisement.
I am tempted out of the order of these confessions to follow him to the
end which death put to the long kindness between us, and I recall with
tenderness our last meeting near New York where he was hesitating
whether to continue on his way to Europe. He had at last given up his
work in Cincinnati where he had spent the many years after the few years
we spent together in Columbus. He owned that he had worn himself out in
that work, toiling incessantly through many homicidal Cincinnati
summers, and he blamed himself for the sacrifice. He felt that he had
turned from it too late; and in fact he died at sea soon after. He
accepted his impending doom with the stoical calm which he always kept,
and which I had once seen him keep so wonderfully after the war began,
when a Southern Unionist, the formerly famous, now forgotten Parson
Brownlow of Tennessee, came to reproach him for the part which he held
that such writing as Reed's had borne in bringing on the strife. Reed
suffered the good man's passion almost with compassion, and when
Brownlow was gone he would not let me blame him, but said that he had
played a noble part in the struggle to hold his region in the Union. He
always kept a countenance of bland calm, lit by pale-blue eyes which
gave no hint of the feeling within, and if I had not loved him so much
and known him so well I might have thought the habitual smile of his
clean-shaven lip sometimes a little cruel. He let his full soft beard
grow inordinately long, and he had a way of stroking it as he slightly
smiled and crisply spoke; it was the only touch of quaintness in him at
a time when beards were self-indulgently worn in many fantastic ways. He
was the best-dressed man I knew, in fashions as little aged as possible
in their transition from the East to the West, and he was of a
carefulness in such minor morals as gloves and boots very uncommon in
our somewhat slovenly ways.
After his liking for Shakespeare and Dickens he liked the Ingoldsby
Legends, but he did not care for the poetry which I was constantly
reading and trying to write. The effect of my endeavor as it appeared in
the passionate or pessimistic verse which I contributed to Eastern
periodicals must have amused him; but perhaps he tolerated me because,
along with this poetical effusiveness in which I was grievously
sensitive to any breath of sarcasm, I had a tooth as sharp as his own in
our journalism. He was intelligently and I suppose scientifically fond
of music, since he failed of no chance to hear the best, a chance rare
in our city; and he held that the composition of grand opera was the
highest feat of the human intellect, which was to me a stumbling-block
and foolishness, though I liked dramatic singing, and indeed singing of
all kinds. We came together in our fondness for the theater, and after
our evening's work was done he sometimes turned with me into the
barnlike structure on State Street which served the pathetic need of the
drama in Columbus at that day. The place was heated in the winter for
its twenty or thirty frequenters by two huge cast-iron stoves, one on
either side of the orchestra: stoves such as I have since seen in
English cathedrals; but when the curtain rose the blast of freezing air
that swept out upon us made us shiver for the players in their bare arms
and necks and their thin hosiery and drapery. They were often such bad
players that they merited their sufferings; the prompter audibly bore a
very leading part in the performance as he still does in the Italian
theater; yet for all his efforts we one night saw Hamlet in two acts; it
was, to be sure, a very cold night, of an air eagerer and nippinger than
even that the ghost walked in at Elsinore, and we would not have had the
play longer. Yet we often saw very well given some of the old English
comedies which are now no longer well or ill given; and between the
acts, somewhere, a plain young girl, in a modest modicum of stocking,
represented the ballet by dancing the Highland Fling, always the
Highland Fling. Such plays as "The Lady of Lyons" happened now and then,
and "The Daughter of the Regiment" must have been, at least partly,
sung. We did not lack the more darkling melodrama, and there were heroic
pieces which gave the leading actor opportunities not lost upon him,
however they failed of effect with the rest of the cast. I remember how
one night a robustuous periwig-pated fellow ramped and roared up and
down the stage, but left quite cold a large group of the dramatis
