was in it. Hal's replies took the form of little sermons on 
working-class solidarity. Each time the man would start 
to " pump " him, Hal would explain the importance of 
the present issue to the miners, how they must stand by 
one another and make sacrifices for the good of all. After 
he had talked abstract theories for half an hour, Apos- 
tolikas gave up and moved on to Mike Sikoria, who, hav- 
ing been given a wink by Hal, talked about " scabs ' and 
the dreadful things that honest workingmen would do to 
them. When finally the Greek grew tired again, and lay 
down on the floor, Hal moved over to Old Mike and whisr 
pered that the first name of Apostolikas must be Judas ! 
 Old Mike went to sleep quickly; but Hal had 
not worked for several days, and had exciting thoughts to 
keep him awake. He had been lying quiet for a couple 
of hours, when he became aware that some one was moving 
in the room. There was a lamp burning dimly, and 
through half -closed eyes he made out one of the men lift- 
ing himself to a sitting position. At first he could not be 
sure which one it was, but finally he recognised the Greek. 
Hal lay motionless, and after a minute or so he stole 
another look and saw the man crouching and listening, his 
han.ds still on the floor. Through half opened eye-lids 
Hal continued to steal glimpses, while the other rose and 
tip-toed towards him, stepping carefully over the sleeping 
forms. 
Hal did his best to simulate the breathing of sleep : no 
easy matter, with the man stooping over him, and a knife- 
thrust as one of the possibilities of the situation. He took* 
the chance, however ; and after what seemed an age, he felt 
the man's fingers lightly touch his side. They moved 
down to his coat-pocket. 
" Going to search me ! " thought Hal ; and waited, ex- 
pecting the hand to travel to other pockets. But after 
what seemed an interminable period, he realised that Apos- 
tolikas had risen again, and was stepping back to his place. 
In a minute more he had lain down, and all was still in the 
cabin. 
Hal's hand moved to the pocket, and his fingers slid in- 
side. They touched something, which he recognised in- 
stantly as a roll of bills. 
"I see ! " thought he. " A frame-up ! " And he 
laughed to himself, his mind going back to early boyhood 
— to a dilapidated trunk in the attic of his home, con- 
taining story-books that his father had owned. He could 
see them now, with their worn brown covers and crude 
pictures : " The Luck and Pluck Series," by Horatio 
Alger ; " Live or Die," " Eough and Beady," etc. How 
he had thrilled over the story of the country-boy who comes 
to the city, and meets the villain who robs his employer's 
cash-drawer and drops the key of it into the hero's pocket ! 
Evidently some one connected with the General Fuel Com- 
pany had read Horatio Alger ! 
Hal realised that he could not be too quick about get- 
ting those bills out of his pocket. He thought of return- 
ing them to " Judas," but decided that he would save them 
for Edstrom, who was likely to need money before long. 
 
He gave the Greek half an hour to go to sleep, then with 
his pocket-knife he gently picked out a hole in the cinders 
of the floor and buried the money as best he could. After 
which he wormed his way to another place, and lay think- 
ing. 
 Would they wait until morning, or would they 
come soon? He was inclined to the latter guess, so he 
was only slightly startled when, an hour or two later, he 
heard the knob of the cabin-door turned. A moment later 
came a crash and the door was burst open, with the shoul- 
der of a heavy man behind it. 
The room was in confusion in a second. Men sprang 
to their feet, crying out; others sat up bewildered, still 
half asleep. The room was bright from an electric torch 
in the hands of one of the invaders. " There's the fel- 
low ! " cried a voice, which Hal instantly recognised as 
belonging to Jeff Cotton, the camp-marshal. " Stick 'em 
up, there ! You, Joe Smith ! " Hal did not wait to see 
the glint of the marshal's revolver. 
There followed a silence. As this drama was being 
staged for the benefit of the other men, it was necessary to 
give them time to get thoroughly awake, and to get their 
eyes used to the light. Meantime Hal stood, his hands 
in the air. Behind the torch he could make out the faces 
of the marshal, Bud Adams, Alec Stone, Jake Predovich, 
and two or three others. 
"Now, men," said Cotton, at last, "you are some of 
the fellows that want a check-weighman. And this is the 
man you chose. Is that right ? "  
There was no answer. 
" I'm going to show you the kind of fellow he is. He 
came to Mr. Stone here and offered to sell you out." 
" It's a lie, men," said Hal, quietly. 
" He took some money from Mr. Stone to sell you out ! " 
insisted the marshal. 
 
"It's a lie," said Hal, again, 
" He's got that money now ! " cried the other. 
And Hal cried, in turn, " They are trying to frame 
something on me, boys ! Don't let them fool you ! " 
" Shut up," commanded the marshal ; then, to the men, 
" I'll show you. I think he's got that money on him now. 
Jake, search him." 
The store-clerk advanced. 
" Watch out, boys ! " exclaimed Hal. " They will put 
something in my pockets." And then to Old Mike, who 
had started angrily forward, " It's all right, Mike ! Let 
them alone ! " 
" Jake, take off your coat," ordered Cotton. " Koll up 
your sleeves. Show your hands." 
It was for all the world like the performance of a 
prestidigitator. The little Jew took off his coat and rolled 
up his sleeves above his elbows. He exhibited his hands 
to the audience, turning them this way and that; then, 
keeping them out in front of him, he came slowly towards 
Hal, like a hypnotist about to put him to sleep. 
" Watch him ! " said Cotton. " He's got that money 
on him, I know." 
" Look sharp ! " cried Hal. " If it isn't there, they'll 
put it there." 
" Keep your hands up, young fellow," commanded the 
marshal. " Keep back from him there ! " This last to 
Mike Sikoria and the other spectators, who were pressing 
nearer, peering over one another's shoulders. 
It was all very serious at the time, but afterwards, when 
Hal recalled the scene, he laughed over the grotesque figure 
of Predovich searching his pockets while keeping as far 
away from him as possible, so that every one might know 
that the money had actually come out of Hal's pocket. 
The searcher put his hands first in the inside pockets, then 
in the pockets of Hal's shirt. Time was needed to build 
up this climax! 
 
" Turn around," commanded Cotton; and Hal turned, 
and the Jew went through his trouser-pockets. He took 
out in turn Hal's watch, his comb and mirror, his hand- 
kerchief ; after examining them and holding them up, he 
dropped them onto the floor. There was a breathless hush 
when he came to Hal's purse, and proceeded to open it. 
Thanks to the greed of the company, there was nothing in 
the purse but some small change. Predovich closed it and 
dropped it to the floor. 
" Wait now ! He's not through ! " cried the master of 
ceremonies. "He's got that money somewhere, boys! 
Did you look in his side-pockets, Jake ? " 
" Not yet," said Jake. 
" Look sharp ! " cried the marshal ; and every one craned 
forward eagerly, while Predovich stooped down on one 
knee, and put his hand into one coat pocket and then into 
the other. 
He took his hand out again, and the look of dismay 
upon his face was so obvious that Hal could hardly keep 
from laughing. " It ain't dere I " he declared. 
" What ? " cried Cotton, and they stared at each other. 
" By God, he's got rid of it!" 
" There's no money on me, boys ! " proclaimed Hal. 
" It's a job they are trying to put over on us." 
"He's hid it!" shouted the marshal. "Find it, 
Jake!" 
Then Predovich began to search again, swiftly, and with 
less circumstance. He was not thinking so much about 
the spectators now, as about all that good money gone for 
nothing! He made Hal take off his coat, and ripped open 
the lining; he unbuttoned the trousers and felt inside; he 
thrust his fingers down inside Hal's shoes. 
But there was no money, and the searchers were at a 
standstill. " He took twenty-five dollars from Mr. Stone 
to sell you out ! " declared the marshal. " He's managed 
to get rid of it somehow." 
" Boys ' cried Hal, " they sent a spy in here, and told 
him to put money on me." He was looking at Aposto- 
likas as he spoke ; he saw the man start and shrink back. 
" That's him ! He's a scab ! " cried Old Mike. " He's 
got the money on him, I bet ! " And he made a move to- 
wards the Greek. 
So the camp-marshal realised suddenly that it was time 
to ring down the curtain on this drama. " That's enough 
of this foolishness," he declared. "Bring that fellow 
along here ! " And in a flash a couple of the party had 
seized Hal's wrists, and a third had grabbed him by the 
collar of his shirt. Before the miners had time to realise 
what was happening, they had rushed their prisoner out 
of the cabin. 
The quarter of an hour which followed was an uncom- 
fortable one for the would-be check-weighman. Outside, 
in the darkness, the camp-marshal was free to give vent 
to his rage, and so was Alec Stone. They poured out 
curses upon him, and kicked him and cuffed him as they 
went along. One of the men who held his wrists twisted 
his arm, until he cried out with pain; then they cursed 
him harder, and bade him hold his mouth. Down the 
dark and silent street they went swiftly, and into the 
camp-marshal's office, and upstairs to the room which 
served as the North Valley jail. Hal was glad enough 
when they left him here, slamming the iron door behind 
them. 
 It had been a crude and stupid plot, yet Hal 
realised that it was adapted to the intelligence of the men 
for whom it was intended. But for the accident that he 
had stayed awake, they would have found the money on 
him, and next morning the whole camp would have heard 
that he had sold out. Of course his immediate friends, the 
members of the committee, would not have believed it ; but 
 
the mass of the workers would have believed it, and so 
the purpose of Tom Olson's visit to North Valley would 
have been balked. Throughout the experiences which 
were to come to him, Hal retained his vivid impression of 
that adventure; it served to him as a symbol of many 
things. Just as the bosses had tried to bedevil him, to 
destroy his influence with his followers, so later on he 
saw them trying to bedevil the labour-movement, to con- 
fuse the intelligence of the whole country. 
Now Hal was in jail. He went to the window and 
tried the bars — but found that they had been made for 
such trials. Then he groped his way about in the dark- 
ness, examining his prison, which proved to be a steel cage 
built inside the walls of an ordinary room. In one corner 
was a bench, and in another corner another bench, some- 
what broader, with a mattress upon it. Hal had read a 
little about jails — enough to cause him to avoid this mat- 
tress. He sat upon the bare bench, and began to think. 
It is a fact that there is a peculiar psychology inci- 
dental to being in jail; just as there is a peculiar psy- 
chology incidental to straining your back and breaking 
your hands loading coal-cars in a five foot vein; and an- 
other, and quite different psychology, produced by living 
at ease off the labours of coal-miners. In a jail, you have 
first of all the sense of being an animal ; the animal side 
of your being is emphasised, the animal passions of hatred 
and fear are called into prominence, and if you are to 
escape being dominated by them, it can only be by intense 
and concentrated effort of the mind. So, if you are a 
thinking man, you do a great deal of thinking in a jail; 
the days are long, and the nights still longer — you have 
time for all the thoughts you can have. 
The bench was hard, and seemed to grow harder. There 
was no position in which it could be made to grow soft. 
Hal got up and paced about, then he lay down for a while, 
then got up and walked again; and all the while he 
 
thought, and all the while the jail-psychology was being 
impressed upon his mind. 
First, he thought about his immediate problem. What 
were they going to do to him ? The obvious thing would 
be to put him out of camp, and so be done with him ; but 
would they rest content with that, in their irritation at the 
trick he had played? Hal had heard vaguely of that 
native American institution, the " third degree," but had 
never had occasion to think of it as a possibility in his own 
life. What a difference it made, to think of it in that 
way! 
Hal had told Tom Olson that he would not pledge him- 
self to organise a union, but that he would pledge himself 
to get a check-weighman ; and Olson had laughed, and 
seemed quite content — apparently assuming that it would 
come to the same thing. And now, it rather seemed that 
Olson had known what he was talking about. For Hal 
found his thoughts no longer troubled with fears of labour 
union domination and walking delegate tyranny; on the 
contrary, he became suddenly willing for the people of 
North Valley to have a union, and to be as tyrannical as 
they knew how ! And in this change, though Hal had no 
idea of it, he was repeating an experience common among 
reformers; many of whom begin as mild and benevolent 
advocates of some obvious bit of justice, and under the 
operation of the jail-psychology are made into blazing 
and determined revolutionists. "Eternal spirit of the 
chainless mind," says Byron. " Greatest in dungeons 
Liberty thou art ! " 
The poet goes on to add that "When thy sons to fet- 
ters are confined — " then "Freedom's fame finds wings 
on every wind." And just as it was in Chillon, so it 
seemed to be in North Valley. Dawn came, and Hal stood 
at the window of his cell, and heard the whistle blow and 
saw the workers going to their tasks, the toil-bent, pallid 
faced creatures of the underworld, like a file of baboons 
 
in the half-light. He waved his hand to them, and they 
stopped and stared, and then waved back ; he realised that 
every one of those men must be thinking about his im- 
prisonment, and the reason for it — and so the jail-psy- 
chology was being communicated to them. If any of them 
cherished distrust of unions, or doubt of the need of or- 
ganisation in North Valley — that distrust and that doubt 
were being dissipated! 
— There was only one thing discouraging about the 
matter, as Hal thought it over. Why should the bosses 
have left him here in plain sight, when they might so 
easily have put him into an automobile, and whisked him 
down to Pedro before daylight? Was it a sign of the 
contempt they felt for their slaves ? Did they count upon 
the sight of the prisoner in the window to produce fear 
instead of resentment? And might it not be that they 
understood their workers better than the would-be check- 
weighman? He recalled Mary Burke's pessimism about 
them, and anxiety gnawed at his soul ; and — such is the 
operation of the jail-psychology — he fought against this 
anxiety. He hated the company for its cynicism, he 
clenched his hands and set his teeth, desiring to teach the 
bosses a lesson, to prove to them that their workers were 
not slaves, but men ! 
