and acted; the large clear rooms almost furnished 
themselves, moreover, thanks to pleasant propor 
tion and surface, without the aid of redundancy. 
He gave himself with relief, with gratitude for 
their luck, to all they had escaped knowing, all 
that, in the vulgarest of ages, they had succeeded 
in not inheriting. There wasn't a chimney-piece, 
an arched recess, a glazed and columned cupboard, 
that hadn't for our young man the note of struc 
tural style, not a cornice nor a moulding that his 
eye didn't softly brush, not a sunk glass, above a 
shelf, unevenly bevelled and however tarnished, 
in which shadows didn't condense themselves into 
shapes, not an old hinge nor an old brass, lock 
that he couldn't work with love of the act, not 
an echo on the great stairs he had from the first 
classed the staircase as "great" that he didn't 
each time pause to catch again. He drew himself 
along the banister like a schoolboy yearning for a 
slide; all the more that the banister of hammered 
iron, admirably flourished and scalloped and with 
a handrail of polished oak, vaguely commended 
itself to him as French and matchable in an old 
Paris hotel. A museum the place on this occasion 
more than ever became, but a museum of held re- 
6? 
  
verberations still more than of kept specimens. 
It contained more of these latter than his fondest 
dream had originally pleaded for, but he felt at 
moments that even had they all been absent the 
sense of the whole would have been scarce less 
saved or the composition less happy. The walls 
and windows and floors sufficiently produced the 
effect the perfect "state" of everything suffi 
ciently sounded the note. 
There were questions more even than he could 
meet that came up for him in the act of absence; 
but these questions either practically answered 
themselves by contact, or, so far as they didn't, 
merged themselves in others to which the answers 
might wait. Had the array of appurtenances, 
such as it was, been there from of old, or were 
they objects got together with the modern motive 
and precisely for the sake of their suggestion ? 
Did they in their elegant sparseness render the 
house technically "furnished," and could it in 
point of fact be lived in without additions and 
excrescences that would make it wrong ? Were 
the things honest rarities such as collectors would 
jump at, or only a fortuitous handful that roughly 
and loosely harmonised ? How came it that if 
they were really "good" they were not on every 
one's tongue, and how above all that if they were 
poor they so convinced and beguiled ? These 
would have been matters to clear up by putting 
them to the test, and Ralph knew of more ways 
  
than one in which, should he ask for an hour from 
an obliging expert, his eyes would probably open. 
But experts and tests were, as it happened, and 
as I have already signified, quite what he was as 
yet least moved to cultivate; his instinct, with 
so much more on his consciousness, from the first 
concussion, than he could fairly handle, having 
been all to postpone the social complication, the 
presentation of letters, the looking up of friends. 
It had struck him that, marked out by his odd 
fate for an hospitality so rare and so special, he 
might temporarily neglect any minor appeal. 
There was already before him, goodness knew, 
matter enough for response. 
This evening at any rate, while the day dark 
ened and the weather shrouded his vigil, he in 
voked convenient illusions with a tremour he had 
not yet felt; he arrived, between his fondness and 
his fear, at the easiest compromise with concen 
tration. Unmistakably, as the afternoon waned, 
he held off as much as he hovered. It was a 
natural effect of his restlessness that he didn't 
for the present see himself settled. It was posi 
tively as if, with the cup so held to his lips, the 
taste of 1710 might prove too stiff a dose. He 
would judge, as it were, when he came back 
back, as who should say also, from everywhere 
else. He would go of course everywhere else; 
intellectually now he could so well afford to. 
This would make all the general initiation that, 
  
as a preliminary, was indispensable the series of 
scattered dashes and superficial dips. Strange his 
divination, or whatever one might call it, that 
from such a plunge at Number Nine as would 
thoroughly penetrate he might possibly not emerge 
undamaged or even, it was actually to be fig 
ured, not emerge at all. He might remain there 
below, remain in the quintessential depth that 
stood so ready for a real resident. He pulled up 
his patrol as it again came to him that for this 
privilege of real residence he had a candidate in 
hand. He loitered anew, looked and listened, 
strolled and stopped, paused at moments, with 
hands in pockets, to gaze all too gravely at a 
mere panel in a wainscot, a mere seam in a cur 
tain, and repeat over vaguely the name of Mrs. 
Midmore of Drydown. She had gradually be 
come for him less abstract, and he reflected with 
interest that she was the one historic figure he 
was as yet in position to introduce into the view. 
There were in fact moments of desultory thought 
when he felt as if she were already in it by her 
own act so close a relation to it seemed asserted 
by her proved resolution. This proved resolution 
was, so far as his wondering mind could now place 
her before him, what was most the mark of her 
aspect, and there were literally for him flights of 
fancy through which, as she stood there, she 
looked out at him with a hard old face. Yes, she 
would be old, Mrs. Midmore of Drydown in the 
sense at least that she wouldn't be new: she 
wouldn't without that have what he could only 
phrase as the connection; and she would not less 
assuredly be hard: she wouldn't without that have 
what he could only think of as the nerve. He 
dressed her, with unwitting confusion, in the old 
manner of the house the manner of the two or 
three portraits of women (these, alas, plainly 
enough, not from illustrious or even from known 
hands) inserted in the woodwork of the reception 
rooms, he heard for an instant, hallucinated, the 
scrape of her stiff petticoat on the floor, and the 
tap of her shoes, if it weren't rather the click of 
her small crutch, on the stone stair. She wore a 
little black hood fastened under her chin by an 
ornament that old-time trinket would be price 
less of a truth; and her pronunciation of certain 
words made her, as she talked, difficult to under 
stand. Could she, he wistfully wondered, live in 
the house as it stood ? it being, as might have 
been made out, a puzzle to him to see her there 
so poorly convenienced, and yet not less a pain 
to equip her with a background of cosy corners 
or photographs framed in leather, of tailor-made 
ladies doing tricks with little dogs and gentlemen 
in tweed mixtures tilting back "good" chairs. 
The few portraits of men in the house were not 
sensibly superior to the three or four women's, 
besides being, in a couple of cases, of a date ob 
servably later; but they had alike that prime and 
sufficient property of the old portrait they had, 
as Ralph put it to himself, their more or less 
attaching "look" to give out. They had in short 
those painted eyes for the particular purpose of 
following their friend as he moved; and one of the 
things he actually found himself most doing was 
to circulate in their presence just to see for his 
amusement how far they would in this fashion go. 
They all had somehow the art of going further 
than he had ever perceived such a company 
on the walls of a museum for instance to coin 
cide in going. His amusements, it will be noted, 
were for a rainy hour simple enough, and a pro 
tected observer of some of his proceedings would 
doubtless have pronounced them pointless to the 
verge of puerility. This, however, would result 
partly from the difficulty of his making a lucid 
plea for what all the while took place within him. 
It was a ferment deep enough even while he 
might superficially have appeared but to be ask 
ing the flat framed images what they thought of 
the question of his admitting Mrs. Midmore. He 
>. read into them as he lingered before them the 
knowledge of her being of their company; they 
had had on occasion, it would seem, to live with 
her, they had witnessed her ways and could give 
him the answer he watched and waited for. 
Nothing could have been more amusing, if, al 
ways, he was amused than his impression at 
once that they really gave it and that he yet 
quite as really couldn't make it out. Portraits of 
the dead are at best ironic things, but, unknown 
and unnamed as were these victims of fate, none 
had ever so affected him as after all reacting upon 
it. This general innuendo, as he felt himself take 
it from them, was quite out of scale with their 
general obscurity. It represented none the less 
for his question neither a yea nor a nay; though 
it might have made one or the other if he could 
only have told which. It was thus their charac 
ter, excepting only one, that they defied inter 
pretation, and the character of the exception 
scarce bettered the case. 
In presence of the single picture in which any 
thing to call art had been appreciably active 
Ralph was luckily able from the point of view 
of diversion to treat himself to the sense of 
something like a prodigy. Let into the upper 
wainscot of the innermost and smallest of the 
three drawing-rooms, a charming panelled parlour 
lighted from the large walled court behind the 
house, which made a decent distance for other 
roofs, chimneys and windows, this work, promi 
nent in its place over the mantel, depicted a per 
sonage who simply appeared to have sought to 
ignore our friend's appeal by turning away his 
lace. This it was that constituted the prodigy, 
for Ralph had truly never seen a gentleman 
painted, and painted beautifully, in so thankless 
a posture. It gave the figure a conscious air 
which might have made for ridicule had it not 
so positively made for life; whereby to laugh 
at it would verily have been, in spite of its 
averted look, too much like laughing in a gentle 
man's face. The gentleman in question here had 
turned his back, and for all the world as if he had 
turned it within the picture. This of course was 
far from the first time Ralph had admired and 
studied him, but it was the first time of his find 
ing his attention throb with the idea that the 
actual attitude might change that it had even 
probably, that it had in fact repeatedly, done so. 
Extravagant enough such an imagination, but 
now settling on our young man in force the 
prodigy that when one wasn't there the figure 
looked as figures in portraits inveterately look, 
somewhere into the room, and that this miracu 
lous shift, the concealment of feature and iden 
tity, took place only when one's step drew near. 
Who in the world had ever "sat" though in 
point of fact the model in this case stood in 
a position that so trifled with the question of 
resemblance ? The only explanation conceivable 
was some motive on the sitter's part since it 
surely wouldn't have been on the artist's for 
wishing resemblance minimised; a situation in 
which a refusal to sit at all would have been a 
much easier course. From the first occasion of 
his pausing there Ralph Pendrel had spun his fine 
thread, matching the wilful position with this and 
  
that hypothesis; only not till now had his view of 
the possible taken this monstrous jump. He had 
read into the picture the notion of a wager, a 
joke, or even of some particular vanity as to 
poise of head, form of ear, shape of shoulder, or 
even fit of coat, some whim of old-time elegance, 
some conceit of the age of the bucks among 
whom, not indistinguishably, the original of the 
portrait might have figured. Had he otherwise, 
failing these possibilities, a face to be so depre 
cated, a face so inferior to the rest of his person 
as to constitute a deformity prohibitive or repre 
sent an identity in some way compromised ? 
There was nothing Ralph had in fine been able to 
think of that was not more or less met by the ob 
jection that an easier choice is usually open to 
the afflicted and the dishonoured. 
The honours were exactly what this representa 
tion in a high degree enjoyed; for if it had not 
been placed in the largest and best room it had 
claimed, still better, a room all to itself. The 
little innermost parlour was moreover for its new 
proprietor the most consecrated corner of the 
house. It was there that, as he had repeatedly 
said to himself, the spell worked best; it was 
there, for instance, that, as he was perfectly sure, 
Mrs. Midmore of Drydown would like best to 
sit; but didn't it by the same token precisely hap 
pen that the absence of another portrait was what 
would permit the fullest license within the frame 
to the subject of this one ? He might turn about 
as he liked when he didn't turn before other eyes. 
When once this conceit of his turning had lodged 
itself in Pendrel's brain the way our friend played 
with it would have exposed him perhaps more 
than anything else had there been observation 
of him too to that charge of apparent levity 
which we have rejoiced for him that there was no 
one to bring. He came and went, passed into the 
next room and then returned quickly, presented 
his own back to the chimney-piece and wheeled 
round on a sudden all as if he might have caught 
his mystificator bringing off the trick. No other 
trick however was provably played on him but 
that, little by little and as dusk began to gather, 
he found himself interested almost to impatience, 
perplexed almost to pain. His companion on the 
wall indescribably lived, and yet lived only to 
cheat him. When he had at last in meditation 
fixed the ground of his complaint he found in it 
the quite defensible position that, painted as 
people are always painted, the subject would have 
had something to say to him. That was a con 
tention valid enough, and one with which he was 
at last able to associate his grievance. He had 
somehow lost a friend by the perversity of the 
posture he was so sure of the friend he should 
have gained had the face been presented. 
The more he looked at everything else the less 
it was credible there should have been anything 
