be sure, Cleland.  You never can tell what traits are going to reveal
themselves in the young.  There’s no knowing what may crop out in them.
No—no telling; no telling.  Of course, sometimes they turn out well.
M-m-m’yes, quite well. That’s our experience in the Charities
Association. But, more often, they—don’t!—to be perfectly frank with
you—they don’t turn out very well."
Cleland’s features had grown alarmingly red.
"I’m not apprehensive," he managed to say.
"Oh, no, of course, it’s no use worrying.  Time will show.  M-m-m!  Yes.
It will all be made manifest in time.  M-m-m’yes!  Time’ll show,
Cleland—time’ll show.  But—I knew my sister," he added sadly, "and I am
afraid—very much afraid."
At the entrance for motors they parted.  Grismer got into a shabby
limousine driven by an unkempt chauffeur.
"Going my way, Cleland?"
"Thanks, I have my car."
"In that case," returned Grismer, "I shall take my leave of you.
Good-bye, and God be with you," he said piously.  "And good-bye to
you, my pretty little miss," he added graciously, distorting his
parchment features into something resembling a smile.  "Tell your papa
to bring you to see me sometime when my boy is home from school; and,"
he added rather vaguely, "we’ll have a nice time and play games.
Good-bye!"
"Who was that man, Daddy?" asked Stephanie, as their own smart little
car drew up.
"Oh, nobody—just a man with whom I have a—a sort of acquaintance,"
replied Cleland.
"Was that his boy who kept looking at me all the while in the station,
Daddy?"
"I didn’t notice.  Come, dear, jump in."
So he took Stephanie back to the house where instruction in the three
R’s awaited her, with various extras and embellishments suitable for the
education of the daughter of John William Cleland.
The child crept up close to him in the car, holding tightly to his arm
with both of hers.
"I’m lonely for Jim," she whispered.  "I——" but speech left her suddenly
in the lurch.
"You’re going to make me proud of you, darling; aren’t you?" he
murmured, looking down at her.
The child merely nodded.  Grief for the going of her first boy had now
left her utterly dumb.
                             *CHAPTER VII*
There is a serio-comic, yet charming, sort of tragedy—fortunately only
temporary—in the attachment of a little girl for an older boy.  It often
bores him so; and she is so daintily in earnest.
The one adores, tags after, and often annoys; the other, if chivalrous,
submits.
It began this way between Stephanie Quest and Jim Cleland.  It
continued.  She realized with awe the discrepancy in their ages; he was
amiable enough to pretend to waive the discrepancy.  And his
condescension almost killed her.
The poor child grew older as fast as she possibly could; resolute,
determined to overtake him somewhere, if that could be done.  For in
spite of arithmetic she seemed to know that it was possible.  Moreover,
it was wholly characteristic of her to attack with pathetic confidence
the impossible—to lead herself as a forlorn hope and with cheerful and
reckless resolution into the most hopeless impasse.
Cleland Senior began to notice this trait in her—began to wonder whether
it was an admirable trait or a light-headed one.
Once, an imbecile canary, purchased by him for her, and passionately
cherished, got out of its open cage, out of the open nursery window, and
perched on a cornice over one of the windows.  And out of the window
climbed Stephanie, never hesitating, disregarding consequences, clinging
like a desperate kitten to sill and blind, negotiating precarious ledges
with steady feet; and the flag-stones of the area four stories below
her, and spikes on the iron railing.
A neighbour opposite fainted; another shouted incoherently.  It became a
hair-raising situation; she could neither advance nor retreat.  The
desperate, Irish keening of Janet brought Meacham; Meacham, at the
telephone, notified the nearest police station, and a section of the
Fire Department.  The latter arrived with extension ladders.
It was only when pushed violently bed-ward, as punishment, that the
child realized there had been anything to be frightened about.  Then she
became scared; and was tearfully glad to see Cleland when he came in
that evening from a print-hunting expedition.
And once, promenading on Fifth Avenue with Janet, for the sake of her
health—such being the régime established—she separated two violently
fighting school-boys, slapped the large one, who had done the bullying,
soundly, cuffed another, who had been enjoying the unequal combat, fell
upon a fourth, and was finally hustled home with her expensive clothing
ruined.  But in her eyes and cheeks still lingered the brilliant fires
of battle, when Janet stripped her for a bath.
And once in the park she sprang like a young tigress upon a group of
ragamuffins who had found a wild black mallard duck, nesting in a
thicket near the lake, and who were stoning the frightened thing.
All Janet could see was a most dreadful melée agitating the bushes, from
which presently burst boy after boy, in an agony of flight, rushing
headlong and terror-stricken from that dreadful place where a wild-girl
raged, determined on their extermination.
Stephanie’s development was watched with tender, half-fearful curiosity
by Cleland.
As usual, two separate columns were necessary to record the varied
traits so far apparent in her.  These traits Cleland noted in the book
devoted to memoranda concerning the child, writing them as follows:
      Inclined to self−indulgence.       Easily moved to impulsive
      Consequently, a trifle           self−sacrifice.
    selfish at times.                    Ardent in her affections;
      Over−sensitive and likely        loyal to friendship; and
    to exaggerate.                     essentially truthful.
      Very great talent latent:          Indignation quickly excited
    possibly histrionic.               by any form of cruelty or
      Anger, when finally              treachery.  Action likely to
    aroused, likely to lead to         be immediate without regard
    extremes.                          for personal considerations.
      Generous with her possessions.
So far he could discover nothing vicious in her, no unworthy inherited
instincts beyond those common to young humans, instincts supposed to be
extirpated by education.
She was no greedier than any other healthy child, no more self-centred;
all her appetites were normal, all her inclinations natural.  She had a
good mind, but a very human one, fairly balanced but sensitive to
emotion, inclination, and impulse, and sometimes rather tardy in
readjusting itself when logic and reason were required to regain
equilibrium.
But the child was more easily swayed by gratitude than by any other of
the several human instincts known as virtues.
So she grew toward adolescence, closely watched by Cleland,
good-naturedly tolerated by Jim, worshipped by Janet, served by Meacham
with instinctive devotion—the only quality in him not burnt out in his
little journeys through hell.
There were others, too, in the world, who remembered the child.  There
was her aunt, who came once a month and brought always an expensive
present, over the suitability of which she and Cleland differed to the
verge of rudeness.  But they always parted on excellent terms. And there
was Chiltern Grismer, who sat sometimes for hours in his office,
thinking about the child and the fortune which threatened her.
Weeks, adhering to one another, became months; months totalled
years—several of them, recorded so suddenly that John Cleland could not
believe it.
He had arrived at that epoch in the life of man when the years stood
still with him: when he neither felt himself changing nor appeared to
grow older, though all around him he was constantly aware of others
aging. Yet, being always with Stephanie, he could not notice her rapid
development, as he noted the astonishing growth of his son when the boy
came home after brief absences at school.
Stephanie, still a child, was becoming something else very rapidly.  But
still she remained childlike enough to idolize Jim Cleland and to show
it, without reserve. And though he really found her excellent company,
amusing and diverting, her somewhat persistent and dog-like devotion
embarrassed and bored him sometimes. He was at that age.
Young Grismer, in Jim’s hearing, commenting upon a similar devotion
inflicted on himself by a girl, characterized her as "too damn
pleasant"—a brutal yet graphic summary.
And for a while the offensive phrase stuck in Jim’s memory, though
always chivalrously repudiated as applying to Stephanie.  Yet, the poor
girl certainly bored him at times, so blind her devotion, so pitiful her
desire to please, so eager her heart of a child for the comradeship
denied her in the dreadful years of solitude and fear.
For a year or two the affair lay that way between these two; the
school-boy’s interest in the little girl was the interest of polite
responsibility; consideration for misfortune, toleration for her sex,
with added allowance for her extreme youth.  This was the boy’s
attitude.
Had not boarding-school and college limited his sojourn at home, it is
possible that indifference might have germinated.
But he saw her so infrequently and for such short periods; and even
during the summer vacation, growing outside interests, increasing
complexity in social relations with fellow students—invitations to house
parties, motor trips, camping trips—so interrupted the placid continuity
of his vacation in their pleasant summer home in the northern
Berkshires, that he never quite realized that Stephanie Quest was really
anything more than a sort of permanent guest, billeted indefinitely
under his father’s roof.
When he was home in New York at Christmas and Easter, his gravely
detached attitude of amiable consideration never varied toward her.
The few weeks at a time that he spent at "Runner’s Rest," his father’s
quaint and ancient place on Cold River, permitted him no time to realize
the importance and permanency of the place she already occupied as an
integral part of the house of Cleland.
A thousand new interests, new thoughts, possessed the boy in the full
tide of adolescence.  All the world was beginning to unclose before him
like the brilliant, fragrant petals of a magic flower.  And in this
rainbow transformation of things terrestrial, a boy’s mind is always
unbalanced by the bewildering and charming confusion of it all—for it is
he who is changing, not the world; he is merely learning to see instead
of to look, to comprehend instead of to perceive, to realize instead of
to take for granted all the wonders and marvels and mysteries to which a
young man is heir.
It is drama, comedy, farce, tragedy, this inevitable awakening; it is
the alternate elucidation and deepening of mysteries; it is a day of
clear, keen reasoning succeeding a day of illogical caprice; an hour
aquiver with undreamed-of mental torture followed by an hour of
spiritual exaltation; it is the era of magnificent aspiration, of
inexplicable fear, of lofty abnegations, of fierce egotisms, of dreams
and of convictions, of faiths for which youth dies; and, alas, it is a
day of pitiless development which leaves the shadowy memory of faith
lingering in the brain, and, on the lips, a smile.
And, amid such emotions, such impulses, such desires, fears,
aspirations, hopes, regrets, the average boy puts on that Nessus coat
called manhood.  And he has, in his temporarily dislocated and
unadjusted brain, neither the time nor the patience, nor the interest,
nor the logic at his command necessary to see and understand what is
happening under his aspiring and heavenward-tilted nose.  Only the
clouds enrapture him; where every star beckons him he responds in a
passion of endeavour.
And so he begins the inevitable climb toward the moon—the path which
every man born upon the earth has trodden far or only a little way, but
the path all men at least have tried.
In his freshman year at Harvard, he got drunk.  The episode was quite
inadvertent on his part—one of those accidents incident to the vile,
claret-coloured "punches" offered by some young idiot in "honour" of his
own birthday.
The Cambridge police sheltered him over night; his fine was
over-subscribed; he explored the depths of hell in consequence of the
affair, endured the agony of shame, remorse, and self-loathing to the
physical and mental limit, and eventually recovered, regarding himself
as a reformed criminal with a shattered past.
However, the youthful gloom and melancholy dignity with which this
clothed him had a faint and not entirely unpleasant flavour—as one who
might say, "I have lived and learned.  There is the sad wisdom of
worldly things within me."  But he cut out alcohol. It being the fashion
at that time to shrug away an offered cup, he found little difficulty in
avoiding it.
In his Sophomore year, he met the inevitable young person.  And, after
all that had been told him, all that he had disdainfully pictured to
himself, did not recognize her when he met her.
It was one of those episodes which may end any way.  And it ended, of
course, in one way or another. But it did end.
Thus the limited world he moved in began to wear away the soft-rounded
contours of boyhood; he learned a little about men, nothing whatever
about women, but was inclined to consider that he understood them sadly
and perfectly.  He wrote several plays, novels and poems to amuse
himself; wrote articles for the college periodicals, when he was not too
busy training with the baseball squad or playing tennis, or lounging
through those golden and enchanted hours when the smoke of undergraduate
pipes spins a magic haze over life, enveloping books and comrades in
that exquisite and softly brilliant web which never tears, never fades
in memory while life endures.
He made many friends; he visited many homes; he failed sometimes, but
more often he made good in whatever he endeavoured.
His father came on to Cambridge several times—always when his son
requested it—and he knew the sympathy of his father in days of triumph,
and he understood his father’s unshaken belief in his only son when that
son, for the moment, faltered.
For he had confided in his father the episodes of the punch and the
young person.  Never had his father and he been closer together in mind
and spirit than after that confession.
In spite of several advances made by Chiltern Grismer, whose son,
Oswald, was also at Harvard and a popular man in his class, John Cleland
remained politely unreceptive; and there were no social amenities
exchanged.  Jim Cleland and Oswald Grismer did not visit each other,
although friendly enough at Cambridge.  Cleland Senior made no
particular effort to discourage any such friendly footing, and he was
not inclined to judge young Grismer by his father.  He merely remained
unresponsive.
In such cases, he who makes the advances interprets their non-success
according to his own nature.  And Grismer concluded that he had been a
victim of insidious guile and sharp practice, and that John Cleland had
taken Stephanie to his heart only after he had learned that, some day,
she would inherit the Quest fortune from her eccentric relative.
Chagrin and sullen irritation against Cleland had possessed him since he
first learned of this inheritance; and he nourished both until they grew
into a dull, watchful anger.  And he waited for something or other that
might in some way offer him a chance to repair the vital mistake he had
made in his attitude toward the child.
But Cleland gave him no opening whatever; Grismer’s social advances were
amiably ignored.  And it became plainer and plainer to Grismer, as he
interpreted the situation, that John Cleland was planning to unite,
through his son Jim, the comfortable Cleland income with the Quest
millions, and to elbow everybody else out of the way.
"The philanthropic hypocrite," mused Grismer, still smarting from a note
expressing civil regrets in reply to an invitation to Stephanie and Jim
to join them after church for a motor trip to Lakewood.
"Can’t they come?" inquired Oswald.
"Previous engagement," snapped Grismer, tearing up the note.  His wife,
an invalid, with stringy hair and spots on her face, remarked with
resignation that the Clelands were too stylish to care about plain,
Christian people.
"Stylish," repeated Grismer, "I’ve got ten dollars to Cleland’s one.  I
can put on style enough to swamp him if I’ve a mind to!—m-m-m’yes, if
I’ve a mind to."
"Why don’t you?" inquired Oswald, with a malicious side glance at his
father’s frock coat and ready-made cravat.  "Chuck the religious game
and wear spats and a topper!  It’s a better graft, governor."
Chiltern Grismer, only partly attentive to his son’s impudence, turned a
fierce, preoccupied glance upon him.  But his mind was still intrigued
with that word "stylish."  It began to enrage him.
He repeated it aloud once or twice, sneeringly:
"So you think we may not be sufficiently stylish to suit the Clelands—or
that brat they picked out of the sewer?  M-m-m’yes, out of an east-side
sewer!"
Oswald pricked up his intelligent and rather pointed ears.
"What brat?" he inquired.
Chiltern Grismer had never told his son the story of Stephanie Quest.
In the beginning, the boy had been too young, and there seemed to be no
particular reason for telling him.  Later, when Grismer suddenly
developed ambitions in behalf of his son for the Quest fortune, he did
not say anything about Stephanie’s origin, fearing that it might
prejudice his son.
Now, he suddenly concluded to tell him, not from spite entirely, nor to
satisfy his increasing resentment against Cleland; but because Oswald
would, some day, inherit the Grismer money.  And it might be just as
well to prime him now, in the event that any of the Clelands should ever
start to reopen the case which had deprived Jessie Grismer of her own
inheritance so many years ago.
The young fellow listened with languid astonishment as the links of the
story, very carefully and morally polished, were displayed by his father
for his instruction and edification.
"That is the sort of stylish people they are," concluded Grismer, making
an abrupt end.  "Let it be a warning to you to keep your eye on the
