approved by the great mass of Frenchwomen or not, 
has done its insidious work. And for many years 
now there has been the omnipresent American woman 
with her careless independence; and, still more recently, the desperate fight of the English women for 
liberty. 
It was quite natural when this war swept across 
Europe like a fiery water-spout, for the French woman 
of even the bourgeoisie to come forth from her shell 
(although at first not to the same degree as the 
noblesse) and work with other women for the men 
at the Front and the starving at home. Not only 
did the racing events of those first weeks compel immediate action, but the new ideas they had imbibed, however unwillingly, dictated their course as inevitably as that of the more experienced women across 
the channel. The result was that these women for 
the first time in their narrow intensive lives found 
themselves meeting, daily, women with whom they had 
had the most distant if any acquaintance; sewing, 
knitting, talking more and more intimately over their 
work, running all sorts of ceuvres, founding homes for 
refugees, making up packages for prisoners in Germany (this ceuvre was conceived and developed into 
 
an immense organization by Madame Wallestein), 
serving on six or eight committees, becoming more 
and more interdependent as they worked for a common and unselfish cause; their circle of acquaintances 
and friends as well as their powers of usefulness, their 
independent characteristics which go so far toward 
the making of personality, rising higher and higher 
under the impetus of deprisoned tides until they flowed 
gently over the dam of the centuries; the flood, be it 
noted, taking possession of wide pastures heretofore 
sacred to man. 
Naturally these women spent very little time at 
home; although, such is the incomparable training of 
those practical methodical minds, even with a diminished staff of servants the domestic machinery ran as 
smoothly as when they devoted to it so many superfluous hours. 
And with these new acquaintances, all practically 
of their own class, they talked in time not only of 
the war and their ever augmenting duties, but, bar- 
riers lowered by their active sympathies, found them- 
selves taking a deep interest in other lives, and in 
the things that had interested other women of more 
intelligence or of more diversified interests than their 
own. 
Insensibly life changed, quite apart from the rude 
shocks of war; lines were confused, old ideals were 
analyzed in many instances as hoary conventions, 
which had decayed inside until a succession of sharp 
 
quick contacts caused the shell to cave in upon emptiness. 
A year passed. During that time husbands did not 
return from the front unless ill or maimed (and thousands of husbands are even to-day quite intact). Then 
came Chapter Two of the domestic side of the War, 
which should be called "Les Permissionnaires." Officers and soldiers were allowed a six days' leave of 
absence from the front at stated intervals. 
The wives were all excitement and hope. They 
snatched time to replenish their wardrobes, and once 
more the thousand corridors of the Galeries Lafayette 
swarmed, the dressmakers breathed again. Shop win- 
dows blossomed with all the delicate fripperies with 
which a Frenchwoman can make old garments look 
new. Hotel keepers emerged from their long night 
like hibernates that had overslept, and rubbing their 
hands. The men were coming back. Paris would 
live again. And Paris, the coquette of all the ages, 
forgot her new role of lady of sorrows and smiled 
once more. 
The equally eager husband (to pass over "les 
autres") generally sneaked into his house or apartment by the back stairs and into the bathtub before 
he showed himself to his adoring family; but after 
those first strenuous hours of scrubbing and disinfecting and shaving, and getting into a brand new uniform of becoming horizon blue, there followed hours 
 
of rejoicing unparalleled by anything but a victory 
over "Les Bodies." 
For two days husband and wife talked as incessantly 
as only Gauls can ; but by degrees a puzzled look contracted the officer's brow, gradually deepening into a 
frown. His fluent wife, whose animation over trifles 
had always been a source of infinite refreshment, was 
talking of things which he, after a solid year of monotonous warfare far from home, knew nothing. He 
cared to know less. He wanted the old exchange of 
personalities, the dear domestic gabble. 
The wife meanwhile was heroically endeavoring to 
throw off a feeling of intolerable ennui. How was it 
that never before had she found the hearthstone dull ? 
The conversation of her life partner (now doubly 
honored) induced a shameful longing for the seventh 
day. 
So it was. During that year these two good people 
had grown apart. The wife's new friends bored the 
husband, and the gallant soldier's stories of life at 
the Front soon became homogeneous. Whether he 
will accept his wife's enlarged circle and new interests 
after the war is over is one of the problems, but nothing is less likely than that she will rebuild the dam, 
recall the adventurous waters of her personality, 
empty her new brain cells, no matter how much she 
may continue to love her husband and children. 
 
VI 
Nor to give up her new power. In those divisions 
of the bourgeoisie where the wife is always the husband's partner, following a custom of centuries, and 
who to-day is merely carrying on the business alone, 
there will be no surrender of responsibilities grown 
precious, no sense of apprehension of loss of personal 
power. But in those more leisured circles where, for 
instance, a woman has been for the first time complete 
mistress of all expenditures, domestic or administrative, and of her childrens' destinies; has learned to 
think and act for herself as if she were widowed in 
fact ; and in addition has cultivated her social sense to 
an extreme unprecedented in the entire history of the 
bourgeoisie, she will never return to the old status, 
even though she disdain feminism per se and continue 
to prefer her husband to other men — that is to say, to 
find him more tolerable. 
A young woman of this class, who until the war 
widowed her had been as happy as she was favored 
by fortune: wealthy, well-bred, brilliantly educated, 
and "elle et lui" with her husband, told me that no 
American could understand the peculiarly intensive 
life led by a French couple who found happiness in 
each other and avoided the fast sets. And whereas 
what she told me would have seemed natural enough 
in the life of a petite bourgeoisie, I must confess I 
was amazed to have it from the lips of a clever and 
beautiful young woman whom life had pampered until 
death broke loose in Europe. 
The husband, she told me, did the thinking. Before 
he left home in the morning he asked his wife what 
she intended to order for dinner and altered the menu 
to his liking; also the list of guests, if it had been 
thought well to vary their charming routine with a 
select company. 
Before his wife bought a new gown she submitted 
the style and colors to what seems literally to have 
been her other half, and he solemnly pondered over 
both before pronouncing his august and final opinion. 
If they had children, the interest was naturally extended. His concern in health and in illness, in play 
and in study, was nothing short of meticulous. I 
asked my informant if Frenchwomen would ever again 
submit to a man's making such an infernal nuisance 
of himself, and, sad as she still was at her own- 
great loss, she replied positively that they would not. 
They had tasted independence and liked it too well 
ever to drop back into insignificance. 
"Nor," she added, "will we be content with rflerely 
social and domestic life in the future. We will love 
our home life none the less, but we must always work 
at something now; only those who have lost their 
health, or are natural parasites will ever again be 
content to live without some vital personal interest 
outside the family." 
Words of tremendous import to France, those. 
 
VII 
I caught a glimpse more than once of the complete 
submergence of certain Frenchwomen by husbands 
too old for war, but important in matters of State. 
They bored me so that I only escaped betraying acute 
misery by summoning all my powers of resistance and 
talking against time until I could make a graceful 
exit. They were, these women (who looked quite 
happy), mere echoes of the men to whom their eyes 
wandered in admiration and awe. The last thing I 
had imagined, however, was that the men would concern themselves about details that, in Anglo-Saxon 
countries at least, have for centuries been firmly relegated to the partner of the second part. How many American women drive their husbands to the club by 
their incessant drone about the iniquities of servants 
and the idiosyncrasies of offspring? 
And much as the women of our race may resent 
that their role in matrimony is the one of petty detail, 
while the man enjoys the "broader interests," I think 
few of us would exchange our lot for one of constant niggling interference. It induces a certain pleasure to reflect that so many Frenchwomen have reformed. Frenchmen, with all their conservatism, are 
the quickest of wit, the most supple of intellect in 
the world. No doubt after a few birth-pains they 
will conform, and enjoy life more than ever. Perhaps, also, they will cease to prowl abroad for secret 
entertainment. 
 
VIII 
Nothing, it is safe to say, since the war broke out, 
has so astonished Frenchwomen — those that loved 
their husbands and those that loved their lovers — as 
the discovery that they find life quite full and interesting without men. At the beginning all their faculties were put to so severe a strain that they had no 
time to miss them; as France settled down to a state 
of war, and life was in a sense normal again, it was 
only at first they missed the men — quite aside from 
their natural anxieties. But as time went on and there 
was no man always coming in, husband or lover, no 
man to dress for, scheme for, exercise their imaginations to please, weep for when he failed to come, or 
lapsed from feyer heat to that temperature which suggests exotic fevers, they missed him less and less. 
Unexpected resources were developed. Their work, 
their many works, grew more and more absorbing. 
Gradually they realized that they were looking at life 
from an entirely different point of view. 
Voila! 
Is the reign of the male in the old countries of 
Europe nearing its end, even as Kings and Kaisers 
are reluctantly approaching the vaults of history? An 
American woman married to a Frenchman said to me 
one day : 
"Intelligent Frenchwomen complain to me that they 
never win anything on their merits. They must exert 
finesse, seduction, charm, magnetism. For this reason they are always in a state of apprehension that 
some other woman equally feminine, but more astute 
and captivating, will win their man away. The result 
is the intense and unremitting jealousies in French 
society. They see in this war their opportunity to 
show men not only their powers of individual usefulness, often equal if not superior to that of their husband or lover, but their absolute indispensability. 
They are determined to win respect as individuals, 
rise above the rank of mere females." 
IX 
Moreover, this war is bringing a liberty to the 
French girl which must sometimes give her the impression that she is living in a fantastic dream. Young 
people already had begun to rebel at the old order 
of matrimonial disposition by parental authority, but 
it is doubtful if they will ever condescend to argument again, or even to the old formal restrictions 
during the period of the long engagement. Not only 
will husbands be too scarce to dicker about, but these 
girls, too, are living their own lives, going to and 
coming from hospital work daily (unless at the 
Front), spending long hours by convalescent cots, corresponding with filleuls, attending half a dozen clubs 
for work; above all, entertaining their brothers' 
friend during those oases known as permission, or 
six days' leave. And very often the friends of their 
brothers are young men of a lower rank in life, whose 
 
valor or talents in the field have given them a quick 
promotion. 
The French army is the one perfect democracy in 
the world. Its men, from duke to peasant-farmer, 
have a contemptuous impatience for social pretense 
when about the business of war, and recognition is 
swift and practical. As the young men of the aristocracy and haute bourgeoisie have lost more and more 
of their old friends they have replaced them with men 
they like for good masculine reasons alone, and these 
they have taken to bringing home, when permission
-naires at the same time. Nothing can be more certain 
than that girls, once haughty and exacting, will marry 
these young men and be glad to get them. 
A student of his race said to me one day : "France 
is the most conservative country in Europe. She goes 
on doing the same thing generation after generation 
paying no attention to rebellious mutters, hardly hearing them in fact. She believes herself to have been 
moulded and solidified long since. Then, presto! 
Something sudden and violent happens. Old ideas 
are uprooted. New ones planted. Is there a struggle? 
Not for a moment. They turn an intellectual somersault and are immediately as completely at home with 
the new as the old." 
During the second year of the war a feminist was 
actually invited to address the graduation class of a 
fashionable girls' school. She told them that the 
time had come when girls of all classes should be 
trained to earn their living. This war had demonstrated the uncertainty of human affairs. Not a fam- 
ily in France, not even the haute finance, but would 
have a curtailed income for years to come, and many 
girls of good family could no longer count on a dot 
if the war lasted much longer. Then there was the 
decrease in men. Better go out into the world and 
make any sort of respectable career than be an old 
maid at home. She gave them much practical advice, 
told them that one of the most lucrative employments 
was retouching photographs, and implored them to 
cultivate any talent they might have and market it as 
soon as possible. * 
The girls sat throughout this discourse as stunned 
as if a bomb had dropped on the roof. They were 
still discussing it when I left Paris. No doubt it is 
already beginning to bear fruit. Few of them but 
have that most dismal of all fireside ornaments, a 
half-effaced old-maid sister, one of the most tragic 
and pitiable objects in France. The noble attributes 
which her drab and eventless life sometimes leave unwithered were superbly demonstrated to the American 
audience some years ago by Nance O'Neil in "The 
Lily." 
One of the new officers I happened to hear of was a 
farmer who not only won the Croix de Guerre and the 
Croix de la Legion d'Honneur very early in the war 
but rose in rank until, when I heard the story, he was 
a major. One day a brother officer asked him if he 
 
should remain in the army after peace was declared. 
"No," he replied, and it was evident that he had 
thought the matter over. "My wife is not a lady. She 
is wholly unfitted to take her place in the officers' class. 
There is no democracy among women. Better for us 
both that I return whence I came." 
This is a fair sample of the average Frenchman's 
ironic astuteness, that clear practical vision that sees 
life without illusions. But if the war should drag on 
for years the question is, would he be willing to surrender the position of authority to which he had grown 
accustomed, and which satisfies the deepest instincts 
of a man's nature after youth has passed ? After all 
there may be a new "officers' class." 
I heard another story, told me by a family doctor, 
equally interesting. The son of a wealthy and aristocratic house and his valet were mobilized at the same 
time. The young patrician was a good and a gallant 
soldier but nothing more. The valet discovered extraordinary capacities. Not only did he win the cov- 
eted medals in the course of the first few months, but 
when his shattered regiment under fire in the open 
was deprived of its officers he took command and led 
the remnant to victory. A few more similar performances proving that his usefulness was by no 
means the result of the moment's exaltation but of 
real however unsuspected gifts, he was rapidly promoted until he was captain of his former employer's 
company. There appears to have been no mean envy 
in the nature of the less fortunate aristocrat. Several times they have received their permission together and he has taken his old servant home with 
