" But I won't have Ellen frightened." 
" Frightened at Ben? He doesn't want her to be 
frightened any more than you and I do." 
"No," said Hugh doubtfully. "Not at any other 
time. But to-night — the devil's got into everybody to- 
night." 
They began their pacing back and forth, Larry in the 
path and Hugh beside him. 
"You mustn't forget," said Larry finally, "you and 
she are young. You've got a lot of time before you." 
" I've got this week," said Hugh. 
"You can't do anything in it. Leave it all, Hugh. 
Trust to her. She never'll live with him. And some- 
 
thing — something legal — " he hesitated. "Itll have 
to be done." 
" I canH stop to think about that," said Hugh, " talk- 
ing, putting off — and I'm going back, you know." 
« Ellen ! " called Larry. 
The silence of the house answered him adequately, 
though he did not know it. She was willful, he thought, 
indignant with them, perhaps contrary in her old sweet 
way. 
" Ellen ! " he called again. " Ben's gone, and we're 
going. But I'll stay in the edge of the woods, so you 
won't be alone. I shall hear you breathe." 
He thought that would move her. She would surely 
tell him to go home to his bed and Smilie. She was no 
more afraid, he thought, than a shy fox in the night. 
But there was no answer. They waited a minute and 
still the lonely house did not tell them what it knew. 
They turned away together, and at the lane Hugh 
stopped and said, with a ring of something envious in 
his voice: 
" How you spoke to her then ! " 
".What do you mean? " asked Larry. 
"As if you knew her — as I don't know. Why 
don't I, Larry? Why can't I get near enough to know 
her? I could, in these few days even, noj^r she under- 
stands. But you — I suppose, in this time I've been 
away you've got to be great friends." . 
There was pain, not quite jealousy, in his voice. 
"Yes," said Larry simply, in no trimnph. "We're 
friends. It began when she was a baby — almost. 
You know all about that. Her father and I used to 
talk by the hour, and Ellen sat hugged up to him and 
watched us both with her great eyes. I've often won- 
dered what the deuce she thought we were talking about. 
Perhaps it sunk in without her knowing it, and now 
it's coming out. David Brock was a good deal of a man. 
There was honesty in him — and revolt." 
The little tinge of jealousy ran out of Hugh; but he 
was sad. 
" Larry," said he, " do you s'pose I shall ever get 
her?" 
"Why," said Larry, "you've got her, haven't you? 
She won't look at anybody else." 
" But there's such a devil of a time to make up — 
years when she wouldn't speak. I don't mean literally, 
you know. I mean when we neither of us spoke as we 
do now. I couldn't. She wouldn't listen." 
It seemed to Larry if he had youth before him he could 
wait in a certainty that in the end, not so far off, he 
would compass his warm earthly happiness. But he only 
said, in a dull solacing: 
"It'll be all right. Ben won't bother her. He's a 
decent fellow. He's only indecently tiresome now be- 
cause he's so mad. And you can't blame him. Whether 
he loves her or not, he's lost her. And he's been made 
ridiculous, for no fault of his. Come, go home to bed. 
It'll plague your mother to have you vagabonding round. 
I'm a kind of a night-owl, you know. I won't be far 
away." 
Hugh did go home across the orchard and found his 
mother at the step, waiting for him. She put her hand 
on his shoulder, when he came up to her, and though it 
was firm he imagined he felt the tingling of her relief to 
have him close. 
" Where's Ben? " he asked. 
"Gone up to bed. Hugh, you'll go, too, won't you? 
You've got hard days before you." 
It was a curious echo of his father's spur to work: 
" It's goin' to be a hard day to-morrer." That would 
probably never be said again in the old peremptory way. 
He took his mother's hand from his shoulder and kissed 
it,' and she caught her breath once, as if she might have 
sobbed. 
" So Ben's gone up? " he said. 
" Yes," said Mary. " Some time ago. Hugh, I've 
put you into the shed chamber. You boys won't want 
to be together — " 
" Not yet," said Hugh. 
He knew that was the word she wanted to add. So he 
kissed her good-night and went up to the shed chamber. 
Ben had really gone up to bed and then had got softly 
out of his window and slipped down the trellis, the old 
way when stairs were "no thoroughfare." He stopped 
a minute close by the house, to listen. Aunt Tab came 
to her window, he thought, and then stole away again. 
From his father's room there was no sound. He went 
out over the gritss to the road, and hurried down the 
way Ellen went later, and under the trees where Mary 
and Grissie had talked that other day he found Grissie 
waiting. She was a little dark figure, shrouded, though 
it was so warm, in her mother's cloak. 
" Is it you? " said Ben, when he came up to her. " I 
thought you'd gone." 
" I meant to, but I couldn't — " said Grissie, and im- 
mediately she began to tremble, and Ben was sorry for 
her because she had always been so equal to the moment, 
daringly in advance of it, indeed, the laughing creature 
who had beckoned him on. Instantly, in the face of one 
who prized him enough to shudder over their common 
destiny, he felt a rush of answering emotion. Hugh and 
Ellen were triumphantly ranged against him. His 
mother was only, he knew, unwillingly friendly because 
 
he was her son and she had a duty toward him. But 
here was Grissie who had never set a hindrance in the 
way of being unreservedly his own. He put out his 
hands toward her and they touched her slender shoulders. 
He would have caught her to him, but she stepped back 
and his arms fell. 
"Why, no, Ben," said she. "You can't do that. 
You can't kiss Ellen and me, too." 
" I haven't kissed Ellen," said Ben angrily, enraged 
at the childishness of his plight. 
She gave a little cry at that. Such relief it meant — 
Ben wondered, at the moment, that he could be vital to 
anybody. 
"Is it me?" asked Grissie. She forgot all her bril- 
liant work at the Academy, and pounced on her joyous 
pronoun? " Does she believe it about me? * Did you tell 
her? O Ben, did you? " 
"I don't know whether she believes it or not," said 
Ben. He could not tell her about Hugh. Kind Grissie, 
who loved him as he was and didn't shy at the reali- 
ties, was still in some outer room where all the Glea- 
sons lived, not quite to be admitted to that inner place 
with Hugh and his mother and Ellen. Though he didn't 
love Ellen, he assured himself. He wasn't going to love 
anybody that gave him so much trouble. " But," he 
added conclusively, " she won't live with me. And I 
sha'n't ask her to. There'll be no trouble about that. 
I shall see Pettis." 
Grissie understood. Sometime, some blessed time, the 
cruel deed was to be undone, and she and Ben would be 
as they were before, and he would marry her. But 
though Grissie had fronted life in the mad triumph of 
her young body, she had not learned that things would 
not be the same again. Ben might return to his old idle 
 
acceptance of the world as it is to the atoms of the 
air, and she, because she was the kind of woman to 
respond to what the man demands, would answer his 
least whim of pleasure with a whim as light, like 
thistledown blowing together down the wind. But the 
old Gleason rigor of decency and prescribed godliness 
come awake in her would lie hid and secret in her heart, 
and be for the constraining of her children to what life 
mysteriously demanded. 
" Good-night," said she. 
" Good-night," said Ben. 
They turned and left each other, and each wished in- 
wardly the other would run back with some warm, child- 
ish cry. And then, as Ben was walking slowly home- 
ward, he saw another figure coming through the dusk 
and knew it to be Ellen. At the same moment he saw 
she was hurrying breathlessly, and it came to him she was 
running away from them all. She saw him, he knew, 
she must have recognized him ; but she bent her head and 
sped past, the width of the road between them. Ben 
walked slowly on. Something choked him. He wanted 
to call to her, to tell her she needn't run : there was noth- 
ing there to hurt her. His heart was up in his throat 
with misery for her, poor little Ellen, who was always 
queer but nicer than anybody else. And then he remem- 
bered how he had damaged his cause by standing at her 
door and demanding to be let in. If he called to her now, 
her heart would run faster and her feet would try harder 
to outspeed it. He stopped, now that she was well out 
of range, and listened. She would be going by the Glea- 
sons'. Would she see Grissie.? And where was she go- 
ing? Was there anything as foolish in Ellen as there 
was obstinate and passionate? Could she run into 
harm? So he turned and followed her, fast, at first, 
 
until he had got by the Gleasons' where there was laugh- 
ter from the unlighted house, and then, when he caught 
sight of her through the darkness, slowly, so that, if she 
looked behind, she might not be desperately hurried on 
again. 
Next morning, just before the dawn, when the birds 
began to call, Larry, at the edge of the wood where he 
had watched and thought of the earth and the stars and 
the cold wet air that was creeping under his skin — the 
last with a rueful smile over the way fate throws us in the 
race by the simple expedient of stiffening up our legs — 
closed his vigil and went home. Nobody could terrify 
Ellen, he knew, now that the foes of night were not by to 
scare her with unreasoning panics. As soon as the 
blessed sun was up, Hugh would still be gloriously Hugh 
to her ; Ben would be only Ben. Smilie, shut in at home, 
greeted him wildly with a wholeheartedness free of re- 
proach for the treachery of denying her this amazing 
adventure of a night away from walls, and they had early 
breakfast in the peace that comes of habit happily re- 
newed. After all, Larry told her, she was the best of 
old girls, and he wouldn't treat her so again. 
" You'd have acted like thunder," he explained to her, 
" and barked and roused the whole neighborhood." 
While he sat smoking his pipe at the window, some one 
drove up: Brother Abial in the shiny buggy, himself 
in his go-to-meeting suit. This was a portent, so early 
in the morning, but Larry understood. Yet, as he went 
out to meet his brother, his heart knocking at her walls 
in sheer excitement, he told hjmself he probably didn't 
take it in, for the thing simply couldn't be. Abial was a 
fine figure of a man, sitting there in his prosperous state. 
He had shaved that morning — this did not happen daily 
 
— and, scrutinizing himself after the ceremony, told him- 
self he did actually look like the latest silhouette of the 
eighteenth-century squire. It was true. There was the 
lovely line of forehead, nose and chin. But what had 
Abial himself, clumsy artificer, done to the face in the time 
he had had the molding of it? That Abial, you will 
never know. When the world denies you the tribute that 
line of forehead) nose and chin demands, you will mutter 
over your bad luck. You won't divine that while you 
fashioned your destinies you were at work also on your 
face. Larry went out to him, and speciously forbore the 
ironical salute of two fingers to his cap. He wasn't go- 
ing to antagonize him at the start. Abial sat in the 
wagon, reins loose and horse easing a glossy neck, and 
stared unseeingly down the road. It was an effort of 
the will that turned him to his brother, though for a mo- 
ment he could not look at him, so distasteful was the 
speech he had to make. But when he did compass it and 
Larry returned his glance seriously, not at all like a 
triumphant creditor who had made a successful deal and 
was not above crowing, he felt he could, though grudg- 
ingly, begin. 
" What was it," said he, " about somethin' you wrote? " 
"Pll get it," said Larry. "It's type-written. You 
can nm your eye over it easily." 
He went back into the house and returned with the 
type-written sheets. He was glad his vaporing about the 
stories had not been a bluff. It might have been, he 
knew. Conscience didn't enter into this little drama of 
the grotesquely possible. Abial took the papers and held 
them at a convenient distance, and then, deciding it 
wouldn't do, after all, muttered his distaste for eyes that 
showed their age, got out his spectacles and put them 
on. Then he read. The soft morning air fluttered 
 
the pages slightly; but nothing, Larry thought, cojuld 
move that face. The spectacles did queerly lend him 
a tinge of benevolence. Now he was like a grand- 
wm father Greene who used to carry stick cinnamon in 
mtne: his pocket for little boys. Larry stood there in the un- 
moving attitude of. the man who waits upon the decision 
of another, not obtruding himself, not indicating any 
personality of his own. Indeed he was acutely afraid of 
breaking the moment by the kindling of old antagonisms. 
He wanted to get to the horse's head and whisper a few 
observations while they were both idle, of the relation of 
the world to horses and men, but he dared not do it. He 
put his lips together to whistle, and then reahzed Brother 
Abial mustn't be jarred in his balancing of values. Larry 
had become as nearly negative in his relation to the uni- 
verse as it was possible for him to be when Abial fin- 
ished the last page, took oif his spectacles and returned 
them to their case. But he gave no sign of remembering 
there was a waiting Larry in the world. He looked 
straight before him into the distance, and frowned. But 
he did not give the papers back. Finally, unwillingly, as 
he had before, he dragged his gaze circuitously to Larry. 
He could not look at him directly. The gaze went over 
his head. 
" Is this the kind o' stuff you print? " he inquired. 
Larry still stood unmoving, and he answered meekly: 
" This is better than most of it. You see, when I do 
New England stories I have to make 'em up. But these 
were true, 'Bial, don't you see? They were the better 
for that. Don't you know there's a saying: 'Truth is 
stranger than fiction'? Well, it is. It's more interest- 
ing. People'd rather have it. They're all the time try- 
ing to get it — and pay for it. There's no comparison in 
what they'd pay." 
 
" Then/* said Abial, as if he had him there, " if you 
can get more for the truth, what makes ye write lies? " 
" Different reasons," said Larry, in a persistent sunny 
patience. " Sometimes the truth is dangerous. You 
can't put it in print. You'd get into trouble. Some- 
times it would hurt folks' feelings. You couldn't do that, 
you know." 
" You're willin' to hurt my feelin's," said Abial, in an 
unexpected burst. It surprised him, too. He had not 
