this subject of appeal might indeed for the mo- 
ment have been as embarrassed between the vari- 
ous requisitions of response as Gray had just 
before shown himself. But as the tide could 
surge for one of the pair so it could surge for the 
other, and the large truth of what Horton most 
grasped appeared as soon as he had spoken. 
"The name of your complaint, you poor dear 
delightful person, or the name at least of your 
necessity, your predicament and your solution, is 
marriage to a wife at short order. I mean of 
course to an amiable one. There, so obviously, 
is your aid and your prop, there are the sources 
of success for interest in your fortune, and for 
the whole experience and enjoyment of it, as you 
can't find them elsewhere. What are you but 
just 'fixed' to marry, and what is the sense of 
your remarks but a more or less intelligent clam- 
our for it?" 
Triumphant indeed, as we have said, for lucid- 
ity and ease, was this question, and yet it had 
filled the air, for its moment, but to drop at once 
by the practical puncture of Gray's perfect recog- 
nition. ''Oh of course I've thought of that — but 
it doesn't meet my case at all." Had he been 
capable of disappointment in his friend he might 
almost have been showing it now. 
 
Horton had, however, no heat about it. "You 
mean you absolutely don't want a wife — in con- 
nection, so to speak, with your difficulties; or with 
the idea, that is, of their being resolved into 
blessings ?" 
"Well" — Gray was here at least all prompt 
and clear— "I keep down, in that matter, so much 
as I can any a priori or mere theoretic want. 
I see my possibly marrying as an effect, I mean 
— I somehow don't see it at all as a cause. A 
cause, that is" — he easily worked it out — "of 
my getting other things right. It may be, in 
conditions, the greatest Tightness of all; but I 
want to be sure of the conditions." 
"The first of which is, I understand then" — 
for this at least had been too logical for Haughty 
not to have to match it — "that you should fall 
so tremendously in love that you won't be able 
to help yourself." 
Graham just debated; he was all intelligence 
here. "Falling tremendously in love — the way 
you grands amoureux talk of such things !" 
"Where do you find, my boy," Horton asked, 
"that I'm a grand amoureux?" 
Well, Gray had but to consult his memory of 
their young days together; there was the admis- 
sion, under pressure, that he might have confused 
the appearances. "They were at any rate always 
up and at you— -which seems to have left me with 
the impression that your life is full of them." 
 
"Every man's life is full of them that has a 
door or a window they can come in by. But the 
question's of yourself," said Haughty, " and just 
exactly of the number of such that you'll have 
to keep open or shut in the immense facade you'll 
now present." 
Our young man mfght well have struck him 
as before all else inconsequent. "I shall present 
an immense facade ? "— Gray, from his tone of 
surprise, to call it nothing more, would have 
thought of this for the first time. 
But Horton just hesitated. "You've great 
ideas if you see it yourself as a small one." 
"I don't see it as any. I decline," Gray re- 
marked, "to have a facade. And if I don't I 
shan't have the windows and doors." 
"You've got 'em already, fifty in a row" — 
Haughty was remorseless — "and it isn't a 
question of 'having': you are a facade; stretch- 
ing a mile right and left. How can you not 
be when I'm walking up and down in front of 
you?" 
"Oh you walk up and down, you make the 
things you pass, and you can behave of course 
if you want like one of the giants in uniform, 
outside the big shops, who attend the ladies in 
and out. In fact," Gray went on, "I don't in 
the least judge that I am, or can be at all ad- 
vertised as, one of the really big. You seem all 
here so hideously rich that I needn't fear to count 
 
as extraordinary; indeed I'm very competently 
assured I'm by all your standards a very mod- 
erate affair. And even if I were a much greater 
one" — he gathered force — "my appearance of it 
would depend only on myself. You can have 
means and not be blatant; you can take up, by 
the very fact itself, if you happen to be decent, 
no more room than may suit your taste. I'll be 
hanged if I consent to take up an inch more than 
suits mine. Even though not of the truly bloated 
I've at least means to be quiet. Every one among 
us — I mean among the moneyed — isn't a monster 
on exhibition." In proof of which he abounded. 
"I know people myself who aren't." 
Horton considered him with amusement, as 
well apparently as the people that he knew! 
"Of course you may dig the biggest hole in the 
ground that ever was dug — spade-work comes 
high, but you'll have the means — and get down 
into it and sit at the very bottom. Only your 
hole will become then the feature of the scene, 
and we shall crowd a thousand deep all round 
the edge of it." 
Gray stood for a moment looking down, then 
faced his guest as with a slight effort. "Do you 
know about Rosanna Gaw?" And then while 
Horton, for reasons of his own, failed at once to 
answer: "She has come in for millions " 
"Twenty-two and a fraction," Haughty said 
at once. "Do you mean that she sits, like Truth, 
 
at the bottom of a well?" he asked still more 
divertedly. 
Gray had a sharp gesture. "If there's a person 
in the world whom I don't call a facade !" 
"You don't call her one?" — Haughty took it 
right up. And he added as for very compassion : 
"My poor man, my poor man !" 
"She loathes self-exhibition; she loathes being 
noticed; she loathes every form of publicity." 
Gray quite flushed for it. 
Horton went to the mantel for another cigar- 
ette, and there was that in the calm way of it 
that made his friend, even though helping him 
this time to a light, wait in silence for his word. 
"She does more than that" — it was brought quite 
dryly out. "She loathes every separate dollar 
she possesses." 
Gray's sense of the matter, strenuous though 
it was, could just stare at this extravagance of 
assent; seeing however, on second thoughts, what 
there might be in it. "Well then if what I have 
is a molehill beside her mountain, I can the more 
easily emulate her in standing back." 
"What you have is a molehill?" Horton was 
concerned to inquire. 
Gray showed a shade of guilt, but faced his 
judge. "Well — so I gather." 
The judge at this lost patience. "Am I to 
understand that you positively cultivate vague- 
ness and water it with your tears?" 
 
"Yes" — the culprit was at least honest — "I 
should rather say I do. And I want you to let 
me. Do let me." 
"It's apparently more then than Miss Gaw 
does!" 
"Yes" — Gray again considered; "she seems 
to know more or less what she's worth, and she 
tells me that I can't even begin to approach it." 
"Very crushing of her!" his friend laughed. 
"You 'make the pair', as they say, and you 
must help each other much. Her 'loathing' it 
exactly is — since we know all about it ! — that 
gives her a frontage as wide as the Capitol at 
Washington. Therefore your comparison proves 
little — though I confess it would rather help 
us," Horton pursued, "if you could seem, as you 
say, to have asked one or two of the questions 
that I should suppose would have been open to 
you." 
"Asked them of Mr. Crick, you mean ?" 
"Well, yes — if you've nobody else, and as you 
appear not to have been able to have cared to 
look at the will yourself." 
Something like a light of hope, at this, kindled 
in Gray's face. "Would you care to look at it, 
Vinty?" 
The inquiry gave Horton pause. "Look at it 
now, you mean ? " 
"Well — whenever you like. I think," said 
Gray, "it must be in the house." 
 
"You're not sure even of that ?" his companion 
wailed. 
"Oh I know there are two" — our young man 
had coloured. "I don't mean different ones, but 
copies of the same," he explained; "one of which 
Mr. Crick must have." 
"And the other of which" — Horton pieced 
it together — "is the one you offer to show me?" 
"Unless, unless !" and Gray, casting about, 
bethought himself. "Unless that one !" 
With his eyes on his friend's he still shamelessly 
wondered. 
"Unless that one has happened to get lost," 
Horton tenderly suggested, "so that you can't 
after all produce it ? " 
"No, but it may be upstairs, upstairs " 
Gray continued to turn this over. "I think it 
is" he then recognised, "where I had perhaps 
better not just now disturb it." 
His recognition was nothing, apparently, how- 
ever, to the clear quickness of Horton's. "It's 
in your uncle's own room ?" 
"The room," Gray, assented, "where he lies 
in death while we talk here." This, his tone 
suggested, sufficiently enjoined delay. 
Horton's concurrence was immediately such 
that, once more turning off, he measured, for 
the intensity of it, half the room. "I can't ad- 
vise you without the facts that you're unable to 
give," he said as he came back, "but I don't' 
 
indeed invite you to go and rummage in that 
presence." He might have exhaled the faintest 
irony, save that verily by this time, between these 
friends — by which I mean of course as from one 
of them only, the more generally assured, to the 
other — irony would, to an at all exhaustive analy- 
sis, have been felt to flicker in their medium. 
Gray might in fact, on the evidence of his next 
words, have found it just distinguishable. 
"We do talk here while he lies in death" — 
they had in fine all serenity for it. "But the 
extraordinary thing is that my putting myself 
this way at my ease — and for that matter putting 
you at yours — is exactly what the dear man 
made to me the greatest point of. I haven't the 
shade of a sense, and don't think I ever shall 
have, of not doing what he wanted of me; for 
what he wanted of me," our particular friend 
continued, "is — well, so utterly unconventional. 
He would like my being the right sort of well- 
meaning idiot that you catch me in the very 
fact of. I warned him, I sincerely, passionately 
warned him, that I'm not fit, in the smallest de- 
gree, for the use, for the care, for even the most 
rudimentary comprehension, of a fortune; and 
that exactly it was which seemed most to settle 
him. He wanted me clear, to the last degree, 
not only of the financial brain, but of any sort 
of faint germ of the money-sense whatever — 
down to the very lack of power, if he might be 
so happy (or if / might!) to count up to ten on 
my fingers. Satisfied of the limits of my arith- 
metic he passed away in bliss." 
To this, as fairly lucid, Horton had applied 
his understanding. "You can't count up to ten ?" 
 
"Not all the way. Still," our young man 
smiled, "the greater inspiration may now give 
me the lift." 
His guest looked as if one might by that time 
almost have doubted. But it was indeed an ex- 
traordinary matter. "How comes it then that 
your want of arithmetic hasn't given you a want 
of order? — unless indeed I'm mistaken and you 
were perhaps at sixes and sevens?" 
"Well, I think I was at sixes — though I never 
got up to sevens ! I've never had the least rule 
or method; but that has been a sort of thing I 
could more or less cover up — from others, I mean, 
not from myself, who have always been help- 
lessly ashamed of it. It hasn't been the disorder 
of extravagance," Gray explained, "but the 
much more ignoble kind, the wasteful thrift that 
doesn't really save, that simply misses, and that 
neither enjoys things themselves nor enjoys their 
horrid little equivalent of hoarded pence. I 
haven't needed to count far, the fingers of one 
hand serving for my four or five possessions; 
and also I've kept straight not by taking no 
liberties with my means, but by taking none 
with my understanding of them. From fear of 
counting wrong, and from loathing of the act 
of numerical calculation, and of the humiliation 
of having to give it up after so few steps from 
the start, I've never counted at all — and that, 
you see, is what has saved me. That has been 
 
my sort of disorder — which you'll agree is the 
most pitiful of all." 
Horton once more turned away from him, but 
slowly this time, not in impatience, rather with 
something of the preoccupation of a cup-bearer 
whose bowl has been filled to the brim and who 
must carry it a distance with a steady hand. So 
for a minute or two might he have been taking 
this care; at the end of which, however, Gray 
saw him stop in apparent admiration before a 
tall inlaid and brass-bound French bahut; with 
the effect, after a further moment, of a sharp 
break of their thread of talk. "You've got some 
things here at least to enjoy and that you ought 
to know how to keep hold of; though I don't 
so much mean," he explained, "this expensive 
piece of furniture as the object of interest perched 
on top." 
"Oh the ivory tower! — yes, isn't that, Vinty, 
