"Yes?"
"Then--then if she finds out that she loves me----"
"Yes, Jim--if she finds that out.... And thank you for--asking me--so
sweetly."... She turned sharply and looked out over a valley suddenly
blurred.
For it had been otherwise with her in years gone by, and men had
spoken then quite as plainly but differently. Only d'Eblis, burnt out,
done for, and obsessed, had wearily and unwillingly advanced that
far.... And Ferez, too; but that was unthinkable of a creature in whom
virtue and vice were of the same virus.
Looking blindly out over the valley she said:
"If my Government deals justly with me, then I shall go to France with
you as your comrade. If I ever find that I love you I will be your
wife.... Until then----" She stretched out her hand, not looking
around at him; and they exchanged a quick, firm clasp.
And so matters progressed between, these two--rather ominously for
Barres, in case he entertained any really serious sentiments in regard
to Thessalie. And, recently, he had been vaguely conscious that he
entertained something or other concerning the girl which caused him to
look with slight amazement and unsympathetic eyes upon the all too
obvious behaviour of his comrade Westmore.
At present he was standing in the summer house which terminated the
blossoming tunnel of the rose arbour, watching water falling into a
stone basin from the fishy mouth of a wall fountain, and wondering
where Thessalie and Westmore had gone.
Dulcie, in a thin white frock and leghorn hat, roaming entranced and
at hazard over lawn and through shrubbery and garden, encountered him
there, still squinting abstractedly at the water spout.
It was the first time the girl had seen him since their arrival at
Foreland Farms. And now, as she paused under the canopy of fragrant
rain-drenched roses and looked at this man who had made all this
possible for her, she suddenly felt the change within herself, fitting
her for it all--a subtle metamorphosis completing itself within
her--the final accomplishment of a transmutation, deep, radical,
permanent.
For her, the stark, starved visage which Life had worn had relaxed; in
the grim, forbidding wall which had closed her horizon, a door opened,
showing a corner of a world where she knew, somehow, she belonged.
And in her heart, too, a door seemed to open, and her youthful soul
stepped out of it, naked, fearless, quite certain of itself and, for
the first time during their brief and earthly partnership, quite
certain of the body wherein it dwelt.
He was thinking of Thessalie when Dulcie came up and stood beside
him, looking down into the water where a few goldfish swam.
"Well, Sweetness," he said, brightening, "you look very wonderful in
white, with that big hat on your very enchanting red hair."
"I feel both wonderful and enchanted," she said, lifting her eyes. "I
shall live in the country some day."
"Really?" he said smiling.
"Yes, when I earn enough money. Do you remember the crazy way
Strindberg rolls around? Well, I feel like doing it on that lawn."
"Go ahead and do it," he urged. But she only laughed and chased the
goldfish around the basin with gentle fingers.
"Dulcie," he said, "you're unfolding, you're blossoming, you're
developing feminine snap and go and pep and je-ne-sais-quoi."
"You're teasing. But I believe I'm very feminine--and mature--though
you don't think so."
"Well, I don't think you're exactly at an age called well-preserved,"
he said, laughing. He took her hands and drew her up to confront him.
"You're not too old to have me as a playmate, Sweetness, are you?"
She seemed to be doubtful.
"What! Nonsense! And you're not too old to be bullied and coaxed and
petted----"
"Yes, I am."
"And you're not too old to pose for me----"
She grew pink and looked down at the submerged goldfish. And, keeping
her eyes there:
"I wanted to ask you," she said, "how much longer you think you would
require me--that way."
There was a silence. Then she looked at him out of her frank grey
eyes.
"You know I'll do what you wish," she said. "And I know it is quite
all right...." She smiled at him. "I belong to you: you made me....
And you know all about me. So you ought to use me as you wish."
"You don't want to pose?" he said.
"Yes, except----"
"Very well."
"Are you annoyed?"
"No, Sweetness. It's all right."
"You are annoyed--disappointed! And I won't have it. I--I couldn't
stand it--to have you displeased----"
He said pleasantly:
"I'm not displeased, Dulcie. And there's no use discussing it. If you
have the slightest feeling that way, when we go back to town I'll do
things like the Arethusa from somebody else----"
"Please don't!" she exclaimed in such naïve alarm that he began to
laugh and she blushed vividly.
"Oh, you are feminine, all right!" he said. "If it isn't to be you it
isn't to be anybody."
"I didn't mean that.... Yes, I did!"
"Oh, Dulcie! Shame! You jealous!--even to the verge of sacrificing
your own feelings----"
"I don't know what it is, but I'd rather you used me for your
Arethusa. You know," she added wistfully, "that we began it
together."
"Right, Sweetness. And we'll finish it together or not at all. Are you
satisfied?"
She smiled, sighed, nodded. He released her lovely, childlike hands
and she walked to the doorway of the summer house and looked out over
the wall-bed, where tall thickets of hollyhock and blue larkspur
stretched away in perspective toward a grove of trees and a little
pond beyond.
His painter's eye, already busy with the beauty of her face and
figure against the riot of flowers, and almost mechanically
transposing both into terms of colour and value, went blind suddenly
as she turned and looked at him.
And for the first time--perhaps with truer vision--he became aware of
what else this young girl was besides a satisfying combination of tint
and contour--this lithe young thing palpitating with life--this
slender, gently breathing girl with her grey eyes meeting his so
candidly--this warm young human being who belonged more truly in the
living scheme of things than she did on painted canvas or in marble.
From this unexpected angle, and suddenly, he found himself viewing her
for the first time--not as a plaything, not as a petted model, not as
an object appealing to his charity, not as an experiment in
altruism--nor sentimentally either, nor as a wistful child without a
childhood.
Perhaps, to him, she had once been all of these. He looked at her with
other eyes now, beginning, possibly, to realise something of the
terrific responsibility he was so lightly assuming.
He got up from his bench and went over to her; and the girl turned a
trifle pale with excitement and delight.
"Why did you come to me?" she asked breathlessly.
"I don't know."
"Did you know I was trying to make you get up and come to me?"
"What?"
"Yes! Isn't it curious? I looked at you and kept thinking, 'I want you
to get up and come to me! I want you to come! I want you!' And
suddenly you got up and came!"
He looked at her out of curious, unsmiling eyes:
"It's your turn, after all, Dulcie."
"How is it my turn?"
"I drew you--in the beginning," he said slowly.
There was a silence. Then, abruptly, her heart began to beat very
rapidly, scaring her dumb with its riotous behaviour. When at length
her consternation subsided and her irregular breathing became
composed, she said, quite calmly:
"You and all that you are and believe in and care for very naturally
attracted me--drew me one evening to your open door.... It will always
be the same--you, and what of life and knowledge you represent--will
never fail to draw me."
"But--though I am just beginning to divine it--you also drew me,
Dulcie."
"How could that be?"
"You did. You do still. I am just waking up to that fact. And that
starts me wondering what I'd do without you."
"You don't have to do without me," she said, instinctively laying her
hand over her heart; it was beating so hard and, she feared, so loud.
"You can always have me when you wish. You know that."
"For a while, yes. But some day, when----"
"Always!"
He laughed without knowing why.
"You'll marry some day, Sweetness," he insisted.
She shook her head.
"Oh, yes you will----"
"No!"
"Why?"
But she only looked away and shook her head. And the silent motion of
dissent gave him an odd sense of relief.
XXIII
A LION IN THE PATH
With the decline of day came enough of a chill to spin a delicate
cobweb of mist across the country and cover forests and hills with a
bluish bloom.
The sunset had become a splashy crimson affair, perhaps a bit too
theatrical. In the red blaze Thessalie and Westmore came wandering
down from the three pines on the hill, and found Barres on the lawn
scowling at the celestial conflagration in the west, and Dulcie seated
near on the fountain rim, silent, distrait, watching the scarlet
ripples spreading from the plashing central jet.
"You can't paint a thing like that, Garry," remarked Westmore. Barres
looked around:
"I don't want to. Where have you been, Thessa?"
"Under those pines over there. We supposed you'd see us and come up."
Barres glanced at her with an inscrutable expression; Dulcie's grey
eyes rested on Barres. Thessalie walked over to the reddened pool.
"It's like a prophecy of blood, that water," she said. "And over there
the world is in flames."
"The Western World," added Westmore, "I hope it's an omen that we
shall soon catch fire. How long are you going to wait, Garry?"
Barres started to answer, but checked himself, and glanced across at
Dulcie without knowing exactly why.
"I don't know," he said irresolutely. "I'm fed up now.... But----" he
continued to look vaguely at Dulcie, as though something of his
uncertainty remotely concerned her.
"I'm ready to go over when you are," remarked Westmore, placidly
smiling at Thessalie, who immediately presented her pretty profile to
him and settled down on the fountain rim beside Dulcie.
"Darling," she said, "it's about time to dress. Are you going to wear
that enchanting white affair we discovered at Mandel's?"
Barres senior came sauntering out of the woods and through the wall
gate, switching a limber rod reflectively. He obligingly opened his
creel and displayed half a dozen long, slim trout.
"They all took that midge fly I described to you this afternoon," he
said, with the virtuous satisfaction of all prophets.
Everybody inspected the crimson-flecked fish while Barres senior stood
twirling his monocle.
"Are we dining at home?" inquired his son.
"I believe so. There is a guest of honour, if I recollect--some fellow
they're lionising--I don't remember.... And one or two others--the
Gerhardts, I believe."
"Then we'd better dress, I think," said Thessalie, encircling Dulcie's
waist.
"Sorry," said Barres senior, "hoped to take you young ladies out on
the second lake and let you try for a big fish this evening."
He walked across the lawn beside them, switching his rod as
complacently as a pleased cat twitches its tail.
"We'll try it to-morrow evening," he continued reassuringly, as though
all their most passionate hopes had been bound up in the suggested
sport; "it's rather annoying--I can't remember who's dining with
us--some celebrated Irishman--poet of sorts--literary chap--guest of
the Gerhardts--neighbours, you know. It's a nuisance to bother with
dinner when the trout rise only after sunset."
"Don't you ever dine willingly, Mr. Barres, while the trout are
rising?" inquired Thessalie, laughing.
"Never willingly," he replied in a perfectly sincere voice. "I prefer
to remain near the water and have a bit of supper when I return." He
smiled at Thessalie indulgently. "No doubt it amuses you, but I wager
that you and little Miss Soane here will feel exactly as I do after
you've caught your first big trout."
They entered the house together, followed by Garry and Westmore.
A dim, ruddy glow still lingered in the quiet rooms; every window
glass was still lighted by the sun's smouldering ashes sinking in the
west; no lamps had yet been lighted on the ground floor.
"It's the magic hour on the water," Barres senior confided to Dulcie,
"and here I am, doomed to a stiff shirt and table talk. In other
words, nailed!" And he gave her a mysterious, melancholy, but
significant look as though she alone were really fitted to understand
the distressing dilemmas of an angler.
"Would it be too late to fish after dinner?" ventured Dulcie. "I'd
love to go with you----"
"Would you, really!" he exclaimed, warmly grateful. "That is the
spirit I admire in a girl! It's human, it's discriminating! And yet,
do you know, nobody except myself in this household seems to care very
much about angling? And, actually, I don't believe there is another
soul in this entire house who would care to miss dinner for the sake
of landing the finest trout in the second lake!--unless you would?"
"I really would!" said Dulcie, smiling. "Please try me, Mr. Barres."
"Indeed, I shall! I'll give you one of my pet rods, too! I'll----"
The rich, metallic murmur of a temple gong broke out in the dim quiet
of the house. It was the dressing bell.
"We'll talk it over at dinner--if they'll let me sit by you,"
whispered Barres senior. And with the smile and the cautionary gesture
of the true conspirator, he went away in the demi-light.
Thessalie came from the bay window, where she had been with Westmore
and Garry, and she and Dulcie walked away toward the staircase hall,
leisurely followed by the two men who, however, turned again into the
western wing.
       
Dulcie was the first to reappear and descend the stairs of the north
wing--a willowy white shape in the early dusk, slim as a young spirit
in the lamplit silence.
Nobody else had come down; a maid was turning up a lamp here and
there; the plebeian family cat came out of the shadows from somewhere
and made advances as though divining that this quiet stranger was a
friend to cats.
So Dulcie stooped to pet her, then wandered on through the place and
finally into the music room, where she seated herself at the piano and
touched the keys softly in the semi-dusk.
Among the songs--words and music--which her mother had left in
manuscript, was one which she had learned recently,--"Blue Eyes"--and
she played the air now, seated there all alone in the subdued lamp
light.
Presently people began to appear from above--Mrs. Barres, who motioned
her not to rise, and who seated herself near, watching the girl's
slender fingers moving on the keys; then Lee, who came and stood
beside her, followed in a few moments by Thessalie and the two younger
men.
"What is that lovely little air you are playing?" inquired Mrs.
Barres.
"It is called 'Blue Eyes,'" said Dulcie, absently.
"I have never before heard it."
The girl looked up:
"No, my mother wrote it."
After a silence:
"It is really exquisite," said Mrs. Barres. "Are there words to it?"
Some people had come into the entrance hall beyond; there was the low
whirring of an automobile outside.
"Yes, my mother made some verses for it," replied Dulcie.
"Will you sing them for me after dinner?"
"Yes, I shall be happy to."
Mrs. Barres turned to welcome her new guests, now entering the music
room convoyed by Barres senior, who was arrayed in the dreaded "stiff
shirt" and already indulging in "table talk."
"They took," he was explaining, "a midge-fly with no hackle--Claire,
here are the Gerhardts and Mr. Skeel!" And while his wife welcomed
them and introductions were effected, he continued explaining the
construction of the midge to anybody who listened.
At the first mention of Murtagh Skeel's name, the glances of Westmore,
Garry and Thessalie crossed like lightning, then their attention
became riveted on this tall, graceful, romantic looking man of early
middle age, who was being lionised at Northbrook.
The next moment Garry stepped back beside Dulcie Soane, who had turned
white as a flower and was gazing at Skeel as though she had seen a
ghost.
"Do you suppose he can be the same man your mother knew?" he
whispered, dropping his arm and taking her trembling hand in a firm
clasp.
"I don't know.... I seem to feel so.... I can't explain to you how it
pierced my heart--the sound of his name.... Oh, Garry!--suppose it is
