from everything." And then, seeing the dismay in the other's 
face: "I mean, let's take a walk in the country ." 
"Oh !" said Jimmie. 
. "I see it through the windows of the railroad-cars, but I 
don't set foot on it for months at a time. And I was brought 
up in the country. Were you ?" 
"I was brought up everywhere," said the little machinist. 
They got up, and paid each their ten cents to the proprietor 
of the "Buffeteria." Jimmie could not resist the temptation to 
introduce his hero, and show a pious Catholic that a Socialist 
Candidate had neither hoofs nor horns. The Candidate was 
used to being introduced for that purpose, and had certain spon- 
taneous and cordial words which he had said not less than ten 
thousand times before; with the result that the pious Catholic 
gave his promise to come to the meeting that night. 
They went out; and because some member of the Committee 
might be passing on Main Street, Jimmie took his hero by an 
alley into a back street; and they walked past the glass-factory, 
which to the outsider was a long board fence, and across the 
Atlantic Western railroad tracks, and past the carpet-factory, a 
huge four-story box made of bricks; after which the rows of 
wooden shacks began to thin out, and there were vacant lots 
and ash-heaps, and at last the beginning of farms. 
The Candidate's legs were long, and Jimmie's, alas, were 
short, so he had almost to run. The sun blazed down on them, 
and sweat, starting from the Candidate's bald head, stole under 
the band of his straw hat and down to his wilting collar; so he 
took off his coat and hung it over his arm, and went on, faster 
than ever. Jimmie raced beside him, afraid to speak, for he 
divined that the Candidate was brooding over the world-calamity, 
the millions of young men marching out to slaughter. On 
the placards which Jimmie had been distributing in Leesville, 
 
there were two lines about the Candidate, written by America's 
favourite poet: 
As warm heart as ever beat 
Betwixt here and judgment seat. 
So they went on for perhaps an hour, by which time they 
were really in the country. They came to a bridge which 
crossed the river Lee, and there the Candidate suddenly stopped, 
and stood looking at the water sliding below him, and at the 
vista through which it wound, an avenue of green trees with 
stretches of pasture and cattle grazing. "That looks fine," 
he said. "Let's go down." So they climbed a fence, and made 
their way along the river for a distance, until a turn of the 
stream took them out of sight of the road. 
There they sat on a shelving bank, and mopped the per- 
spiration from their foreheads and necks, and gazed into the 
rippling current. You couldn't exactly say it was crystal clear, 
for when there is a town every ten miles or so along a stream, 
with factories pouring various kinds of chemicals into it, the 
job becomes too much for the restoring forces of Mother Nature. 
But it would take a dirty stream indeed not to look inviting in 
midsummer after a four mile walk. So presently the Candidate 
turned to Jimmie, with a mischievous look upon his face. 
"Comrade Higgins, were you ever in a swimmin' hole?" 
"Sure I was!" said Jimmie. 
"Where?" 
"Everywhere. I was on the road off an' on ten years till 
I got married." 
"Well," said the Candidate, still smiling, "what do you say ?" 
"I say sure!" replied Jimmie. I 
He was almost beside himself with awe, at this unbelievable 
strange fortune, this real comradeship with the hero of his 
dreams. To Jimmie this man had been a disembodied intel- 
ligence, a dispenser of proletarian inspiration, a supernatural 
being who went about the country standing upon platforms and 
swaying the souls of multitudes. It had never occurred to 
Jimmie that he might have a bare body, and might enjoy 
splashing about in cool water like a boy playing "hookey" from 
school. The saying is that familiarity breeds contempt, but for 
Jimmie it bred rapture. 
VI 
They walked home again, more slowly. The Candidate 
asked Jimmie about his life, and Jimmie told the story of a 
Socialist not one of the leaders, the "intellectuals" but of the 
"rank and file." Jimmie's father was a workingman out of a 
job, who had left his family before Jimmie had joined it ; Jim- 
mie's mother had died three years later, so he did not remember 
her, nor could he recall a word of the foreign language he had 
spoken at home, nor did he even know what the language was. 
He had been taken in charge by the city, and farmed out to a 
negro woman, who had eight miserable starvelings under her 
.care, feeding them on gruel and water, and not even giving 
them a blanket in winter. You might not think that possible 
"I know America' put in the Candidate. 
Jimmie went on. At nine he had been boarded with a wood- 
saw man, who worked him sixteen hours a day and beat him 
in addition; so Jimmie had skipped out, and for ten years had 
lived the life of a street waif in the cities and a hobo on the 
road. He had learned a bit about machinery, helping in a 
garage, and then, in a rush-time, he had got a job in the Empire 
Machine Shops. He had stayed in Leesville, because he had 
got married; he had met his wife in a brothel, and she had 
wanted to quit the life, and they had taken a chance together. 
"I don't tell that to everybody' said Jimmie. "You know 
they mightn't unnerstand. But I don't mind you knowin'." 
"Thank you," replied the Candidate, and put his hand on 
Jimmie's shoulder. "Tell me how you became a Socialist' 
There was nothing special about that, was the answer. 
There had been a fellow in the shop who was always "chewing 
the rag"; Jimmie had laughed at him for his life had made 
him suspicious of everybody, and if there was any sort of poli- 
tician, it was just another scheme of somebody to wear a white 
collar and live off the workers. But the fellow had kept peg- 
ging away; and once Jimmie had been laid off for a couple of 
months, and the family had near starved, and that had given 
him time to think, and also the inclination. The fellow had 
come along with some papers, and Jimmie had read them, and 
it dawned upon him that here was a movement of his fellow- 
workers to put an end to their torments. 
"How long ago was that?" asked the Candidate, and Jimmie 
 
answered three years. "And you haven't lost your enthusiasm ?" 
This with an intensity that surprised Jimmie. No, he an- 
swered, he was not that kind. Whatever happened, he would 
keep pegging away at the task of freeing labour. He would 
not see the New Day, perhaps, but his children would see it; and 
a fellow would work like the devil to save his children. 
So they came to the city ; and the Candidate pressed Jimmie's 
arm. "Comrade," he said, "I want to tell you how much good 
this little trip has done me. I owe you a debt of gratitude." 
"Me ?" exclaimed Jimmie. 
"You have given me fresh hope and courage, and at a time 
when I felt beaten. I got into town this morning, and I'd had 
no sleep, and I tried to get some in the hotel and couldn't, be- 
cause of the horror that's happening. I wrote a dozen telegrams 
and sent them off, and then I was afraid to go back to the hotel- 
room, because I knew I'd only lie awake all afternoon. But 
now I remember that our movement is rooted in the hearts' 
of the people !" 
Jimmie was trembling. But all he could say was : "I wisht 
I could do it every Sunday." 
"So do I," said the Candidate. 
VII 
They walked down Main Street, and some ways ahead they 
saw a crowd gathered, filling the side-walk beyond the curb. 
"What is that?" asked the Candidate, and Jimmie answered 
that it was the office of the "Herald." There must be some 
news. 
The other hastened his steps ; and Jimmie, striding alongside, 
fell silent again, knowing that the gigantic burden and woe 
of the world was falling upon his hero's shoulders once more. 
They came to the edge of the crowd, and saw a bulletin in front 
of the newspaper office. But it was too far away for them to 
ratf , "What is it?" they asked. 
v "It says the Germans are going to march into Belgium. And 
they've shot a lot of Socialists in Germany." 
"Whatf And the Candidate's hand clutched Jimmie's 
arm. 
"That's what it says." 
"My God !" exclaimed the man. And he began pushing his 
way into the crowd, with Jimmie in his wake. They got to 
the bulletin, and stood reading the type-written words a bare 
announcement that more than a hundred leading German 
Socialists had been executed for efforts to prevent mobilisation. 
They continued staring, until people pushing behind them caused 
them to draw back. Outside the throng they stood, the Candi- 
date gazing into space, and Jimmie gazing at the Candidate, 
both of them dumb. It was a fact that they could not have 
been more shocked if the news had referred to the members of 
Local Leesville of the Socialist Party of America. 
The pain in the Candidate's face was so evident that Jimmie 
groped about in his head for something comforting to say. "At 
least they done what they could' he whispered. 
The other suddenly burst forth: "They are heroes! They 
have made the name Socialist sacred forever !" He rushed on, 
as if he were making a speech so strong becomes a life-time 
habit. "They have written their names at the very top of 
humanity's roll of honour ! It doesn't make any difference what 
happens after this, Comrade the movement has vindicated it- 
self ! All the future will be changed because of this event !" 
He began to walk down the street, talking more to himself 
than to Jimmie. He was borne away on the wings of his vision ; 
and his companion was so thrilled that he honestly did not know 
where he was. Afterwards, when he looked back upon this 
scene, it remained the most wonderful event of his life; he told 
the story, sooner or later, to every Socialist he met. 
Presently the Candidate stopped. "Comrade," he said, "I 
must go to the hotel. I want to write some telegrams. You 
explain to the Committee I'd rather not see any one till time 
for the meeting. I'll find the way myself." 
TN the Opera-house were gathered Comrade Mabel Smith and 
 Comrade Meissner and Comrade Goldstein, the secretary of 
the Ypsels, and the three members of the Reception Committee 
Comrade Norwood, the rising young lawyer, Comrade Dr. 
Service, and Comrade Schultze of the Carpet-weavers' Union. 
To them rushed the breathless Jimmie. "Have you heard the 
news?" 
"What is it?" 
"A hundred Socialist leaders shot in Germany!" 
"Herr Gott !" cried Comrade Schultze, in horror ; and every 
one turned instinctively, for they knew how this came home to 
him he had a brother who was a Socialist editor in Leipzig, 
and who was liable for the mobilisation. 
"Where did you see it?" cried Schultze; and Jimmie told 
what he knew. And then what a clamour broke forth ! Others 
were called from the back part of the hall, and came running, 
and there were questions and cries of dismay. Here, too, it 
was as if the crime had been committed against Local Leesville 
so completely did they feel themselves one with the victims. 
In a town where there was a brewery, needless to say there were 
German workers a-plenty; but even had this not been so, the 
feeling would have been the same, for the Socialists of the world 
were one, the soul of the movement was its internationalism. 
The Candidate, discovering that Jimmie was a Socialist, had 
asked and received no further introduction, but had been in- 
stantly his friend; and so it would have been with a comrade 
from Germany, Japan, or the heart of Africa he might not 
have known another word of English, the word "Socialist" would 
have sufficed. 
It was a long time before they thought of any other matter ; 
but finally some one referred to the trouble which had fallen 
upon the local the Candidate had not showed up. And Jimmie 
exclaimed, "Why, he's here!" And instantly all turned upon 
him. Where? When? How? 
"He came this morning." 
"And why didn't you let us know?" It was Comrade Dr. 
Service of the Eeception Committee who spoke, and with a de- 
cided sharpness in his tone. 
"He didn't want anybody to know," said Jimmie. 
"Did he want us to go to the train and think he had 
failed us?" 
Sure enough, it was after train-time ! Jimmie had entirely 
forgotten both the train and the committee, and now he had 
not the grace to hide his offence. All he could do was to tell 
his story how he had spent the afternoon walking in the coun- 
try with the Candidate, and how they had gone in swimming, 
and how they had got the news from the bulletin-board, and how 
the Candidate had acted and what he had said. Poor Jimmie 
never doubted but that his own thrill was shared by all the 
others ; and at the next regular meeting of the local, when Comrade Dr. Service sat down hard on some proposition which 
Jimmie had ventured to make, the little machinist had not the 
least idea what he had done to deserve the snub. He was 
lacking in worldly sense, he did not understand that a prosperous physician, who comes into the movement out of pure humanitarianism, contributing his prestige and his wealth to the certain detriment of his social and business interests, is entitled 
to a certain deference from the Jimmie Higginses, and even 
from a Candidate! 
You might have thought that Jimmie would be tired; but 
this was a day on which the flesh had no claims. First he 
helped Comrade Mabel in depositing upon every seat a leaflet 
containing a letter from the local candidate for Congress; then 
he rushed away to catch a street-car, and spent his last nickel 
to get to his home and keep his engagement with Lizzie. He 
would not make with her the mistake he had made with the 
Committee, you bet ! 
He found that Lizzie had faithfully carried out her part 
of the bargain. The three babies were done up in bright- 
coloured calico dresses; she had spent the morning in washing 
and ironing these garments also her own dress, which was 
half red and half green, and of generous, almost crinoline pro- 
portions. Lizzie herself was built on that scale, with broad 
hips and bosom, big brown eyes and heavy dark hair. She was 
a fine strong woman when she had shed her bedraggled house 
gown, and Jimmie was proud of his capability as a chooser of 
wives. It was no small feat to find a good woman, and to 
recognise her, where Jimmie had found Lizzie. She was five 
years older than he, a Bohemian, having been brought to 
America when she was a baby. Her former name you could 
hardly call it her "maiden" name, considering the circumstances 
was Elizabeth Huszar, which she pronounced so that for a 
long time Jimmie had understood it to be Eleeza Betooser. 
Jimmie snatched a bite of bread and drank a cup of metallic 
tasting tea, and packed the family into the baby-carriage, and 
trudged the mile and a half to the centre of the city. When 
they arrived, Lizzie took the biggest child, and Jimmie the 
other two, and so they trudged into the Opera-house. On this 
hot night it was like holding three stoves in your arms, and if 
the babies woke up and began to cry, the parents would have 
the painful choice of missing something, or else facing the 
disgusted looks of every one about them. In Belgium, at the 
"People's House," the Socialists maintained a creche, but the 
American movement had not yet discovered that useful insti- 
tution. 
Already the hall was half full, and a stream of people pour- 
ing in. Jimmie got himself and family seated, and then turned 
his eager eyes proudly to survey the scene. The would-be-con- 
gressman's circulars which he had placed in the seats were now 
being read by the sitters; the banners he had so laboriously 
hung were resplendent on the walls; there was a pitcher of ice 
water on the speaker's table, and a bouquet of flowers and a gavel 
for the chairman; the seats in the rear of the platform for the 
Liederkranz were neatly ranged, most of them already occupied 
by solid German figures topped by rosy German faces: to each 
detail of which achievements Jimmie had lent a hand. He 
had a pride of possession in this great buzzing throng, and in 
the debt they owed to him. They had no idea of it, of course; 
the boobs, they thought that a meeting like this just grew out 
of nothing! They paid their ten cents twenty-five cents for 
reserved seats and imagined that covered everything, with per- 
haps even a rake-off for somebody ! They would grumble, won- 
dering why the Socialists persisted in charging admission for 
their meetings why they could not let people in free as the 
Democrats and Republicans did. They would go to Democratic 
and Kepublican meetings, and enjoy the brass-band and the fire- 
works, pyrotechnical and oratorical never dreaming it was all 
a snare paid for by their exploiters ! 
Well, they would learn about it to-night! Jimmie thought 
of the Candidate, and how he would impress this man and that. 
For Jimmie knew scores who had got tickets, and he peered 
about after this one and that, and gave them a happy nod from 
