his, pressed it, and instantly reddened because he had done it. And
Tressa's bright flush responded so quickly that neither of them
understood, and both misunderstood.
The girl rose with heightened colour, not knowing why she stood up or
what she meant to do. And Cleves, misinterpreting her emotion as a
silent rebuke to the invasion of that convention tacitly accepted
between them, stood up, too, and began to speak carelessly of
commonplace things.
She made the effort to reply, scarcely knowing what she was saying, so
violently had his caress disturbed her heart,--and she was still
speaking when their telephone rang.
Cleves went; listened, then, still listening, summoned Tressa to his
side with a gesture.
"It's Selden," he said in a low voice. "He says he has the Yezidee Arrak
Sou-Sou under observation, and that he needs you desperately. Will you
help us?"
"I'll go, of course," she replied, turning quite pale.
Cleves nodded, still listening. After a while: "All right. We'll be
there. Good-bye," he said sharply; and hung up.
Then he turned and looked at his wife.
"I wish to God," he muttered, "that this business were ended. I--I can't
bear to have you go."
"I am not afraid.... Where is it?"
"I never heard of the place before. We're to meet Selden at 'Fool's
Acre.'"
"Where is it, Victor?"
"I don't know. Selden says there are no roads,--not even a spotted
trail. It's a wilderness left practically blank by the Geological
Survey. Only the contours are marked, and Selden tells me that the
altitudes are erroneous and the unnamed lakes and water courses are all
wrong. He says it is his absolute conviction that the Geological Survey
never penetrated this wilderness at all, but merely skirted it and
guessed at what lay inside, because the map he has from Washington is
utterly misleading, and the entire region is left blank except for a few
vague blue lines and spots indicating water, and a few heights marked
'1800.'"
He turned and began to pace the sitting-room, frowning, perplexed,
undecided.
"Selden tells me," he said, "that the Yezidee, Arrak Sou-Sou, is in
there and very busy doing something or other. He says that he can do
nothing without you, and will explain why when we meet him."
"Yes, Victor."
Cleves turned on his heel and came over to where his wife stood beside
the sunny window.
"I hate to ask you to go. I know that was the understanding. But this
incessant danger--your constant peril----"
"That does not count when I think of my country's peril," she said in a
quiet voice. "When are we to start? And what shall I pack in my trunk?"
"Dear child," he said with a brusque laugh, "it's a wilderness and we
carry what we need on our backs. Selden meets us at a place called
Glenwild, on the edge of this wilderness, and we follow him in on our
two legs."
He glanced across at the mantel clock.
"If you'll dress," he said nervously, "we'll go to some shop that
outfits sportsmen for the North. Because, if we can, we ought to leave
on the one o'clock train."
She smiled; came up to him. "Don't worry about me," she said. "Because I
also am nervous and tired; and I mean to make an end of every Yezidee
remaining in America."
"Sanang, too?"
They both flushed deeply.
She said in a steady voice: "Between God and Erlik there is a black gulf
where a million million stars hang, lighting a million million other
worlds.
"Prince Sanang's star glimmers there. It is a sun, called Yramid. And it
lights the planet, Yu-tsung. Let him reign there between God and Erlik."
"You will slay this man?"
"God forbid!" she said, shuddering. "But I shall send him to his own
star. Let my soul be ransom for his! And may Allah judge between
us--between this man and me."
Then, in the still, sunny room, the girl turned to face the East. And
her husband saw her lips move as though speaking, but heard no sound.
       *       *       *       *       *
"What on earth are you saying there, all to yourself?" he demanded at
last.
She turned her head and looked at him across her left shoulder.
"I asked Sansa to help me.... And she says she will."
Cleves nodded in a dazed way. Then he opened a window and leaned there
in the sunshine, looking down into Madison Avenue. And the roar of
traffic seemed to soothe his nerves.
But "Good heavens!" he thought; "do such things really go on in New York
in 1920! Is the entire world becoming a little crazy? Am I really in my
right mind when I believe that the girl I married is talking, without
wireless, to another girl in China!"
He leaned there heavily, gazing down into the street with sombre eyes.
"What a ghastly thing these Yezidees are trying to do to the
world--these Assassins of men's minds'!" he thought, turning away toward
the door of his bedroom.
As he crossed the threshold he stumbled, and looking down saw that he
had tripped over a white sheet lying there. For a moment he thought it
was a sheet from his own bed, and he started to pick it up. Then he saw
the naked blade of a knife at his feet.
With an uncontrollable shudder he stepped out of the shroud and stood
staring at the knife as though it were a snake. It had a curved blade
and a bone hilt coarsely inlaid with Arabic characters in brass.
The shroud was a threadbare affair--perhaps a bed-sheet from some cheap
lodging house. But its significance was so repulsive that he hesitated
to touch it.
However, he was ashamed to have it discovered in his room. He picked up
the brutal-looking knife and kicked the shroud out into the corridor,
where they could guess if they liked how such a rag got into the
Ritz-Carlton.
Then he searched his bedroom, and, of course, discovered nobody hiding.
But chills crawled on his spine while he was about it, and he shivered
still as he stood in the centre of the room examining the knife and
testing edge and point.
Then, close to his ear, a low voice whispered: "Be careful, my lord; the
Yezidee knife is poisoned. But it is written that a poisoned heart is
more dangerous still."
He had turned like a flash; and he saw, between him and the sitting-room
door, a very young girl with slightly slanting eyes, and rose and ivory
features as perfect as though moulded out of tinted bisque.
She wore a loose blue linen robe, belted in, short at the elbows and
skirt, showing two creamy-skinned arms and two bare feet in straw
sandals. In one hand she had a spray of purple mulberries, and she
looked coolly at Cleves and ate a berry or two.
"Give me the knife," she said calmly.
He handed it to her; she wiped it with a mulberry leaf and slipped it
through her girdle.
"I am Sansa," she said with a friendly glance at him, busy with her
fruit.
Cleves strove to speak naturally, but his voice trembled.
"Is it you--I mean your real self--your own body?"
"It's my real self. Yes. But my body is asleep in my mulberry grove."
"In--in China?"
"Yes," she said calmly, detaching another mulberry and eating it. A few
fresh leaves fell on the centre table.
Sansa chose another berry. "You know," she said, "that I came to Tressa
this morning,--to my little Heart of Fire I came when she called me. And
I was quite sleepy, too. But I heard her, though there was a night wind
in the mulberry trees, and the river made a silvery roaring noise in the
dark.... And now I must go. But I shall come again very soon."
She smiled shyly and held out her lovely little hand, "--As Tressa tells
me is your custom in America," she said, "I offer you a good-bye."
He took her hand and found it a warm, smooth thing of life and pulse.
"Why," he stammered in his astonishment, "you are real! You are not a
ghost!"
"Yes, I am real," she answered, surprised, "but I'm not in my body,--if
you mean that." Then she laughed and withdrew her hand, and, going, made
him a friendly gesture.
"Cherish, my lord, my darling Heart of Fire. Serpents twist and twine.
So do rose vines. May their petals make your path of velvet and sweet
scented. May everything that is round be a pomegranate for you two to
share; may everything that sways be lilies bordering a path wide enough
for two. In the name of the Most Merciful God, may the only cry you hear
be the first sweet wail of your first-born. And when the tenth shall be
born, may you and Heart of Fire bewail your fate because both of you
desire more children!"
She was laughing when she disappeared. Cleves thought she was still
there, so radiant the sunshine, so sweet the scent in the room.
But the golden shadow by the door was empty of her. If she had slipped
through the doorway he had not noticed her departure. Yet she was no
longer there. And, when he understood, he turned back into the empty
room, quivering all over. Suddenly a terrible need of Tressa assailed
him--an imperative necessity to speak to her--hear her voice.
"Tressa!" he called, and rested his hand on the centre table, feeling
weak and shaken to the knees. Then he looked down and saw the mulberry
leaves lying scattered there, tender and green and still dewy with the
dew of China.
"Oh, my God!" he whispered, "such things are! It isn't my mind that
has gone wrong. There are such things!"
The conviction swept him like a tide till his senses swam. As though
peering through a mist of gold he saw his wife enter and come to
him;--felt her arm about him, sustaining him where he swayed slightly
with one hand on the table among the mulberry leaves.
"Ah," murmured Tressa, noticing the green leaves, "she oughtn't to have
done that. That was thoughtless of her, to show herself to you."
Cleves looked at her in a dazed way. "The body is nothing," he muttered.
"The rest only is real. That is the truth, isn't it?"
"Yes."
"I seem to be beginning to believe it.... Sansa said things--I shall try
to tell you--some day--dear.... I'm so glad to hear your voice."
"Are you?" she murmured.
"And so glad to feel your touch.... I found a shroud on my threshold.
And a knife."
"The Yezidees are becoming mountebanks.... Where is the knife?" she
asked scornfully.
"Sansa said it was poisoned. She took it. She--she said that a poisoned
heart is more dangerous still."
Then Tressa threw up her head and called softly into space: "Sansa!
Little Silk-Moth! What are these mischievous things you have told to my
lord?"
She stood silent, listening. And, in the answer which he could not hear,
there seemed to be something that set his young wife's cheeks aflame.
"Sansa! Little devil!" she cried, exasperated. "May Erlik send his imps
to pinch you if you have said to my lord these shameful things. It was
impudent! It was mischievous! You cover me with shame and confusion, and
I am humbled in the dust of my lord's feet!"
Cleves looked at her, but she could not sustain his gaze.
"Did Sansa say to you what she said to me?" he demanded unsteadily.
"Yes.... I ask your pardon.... And I had already told her you did
not--did not--were not--in--love--with me.... I ask your pardon."
"Ask more.... Ask your heart whether it would care to hear that I am in
love. And with whom. Ask your heart if it could ever care to listen to
what my heart could say to it."
"Y-yes--I'll ask--my heart," she faltered.... "I think I had better
finish dressing----" She lifted her eyes, gave him a breathless smile as
he caught her hand and kissed it.
"It--it would be very wonderful," she stammered, "--if our necessity
should be-become our choice."
But that speech seemed to scare her and she fled, leaving her husband
standing tense and upright in the middle of the room.
       *       *       *       *       *
Their train on the New York Central Railroad left the Grand Central
Terminal at one in the afternoon.
Cleves had made his arrangements by wire. They travelled lightly,
carrying, except for the clothing they wore, only camping equipment for
two.
It was raining in the Hudson valley; they rushed through the outlying
towns and Po'keepsie in a summer downpour.
At Hudson the rain slackened. A golden mist enveloped Albany, through
which the beautiful tower and façades along the river loomed, masking
the huge and clumsy Capitol and the spires beyond.
At Schenectady, rifts overhead revealed glimpses of blue. At Amsterdam,
where they descended from the train, the flag on the arsenal across the
Mohawk flickered brilliantly in the sunny wind.
By telegraphic arrangement, behind the station waited a touring car
driven by a trooper of State Constabulary, who, with his comrade,
saluted smartly as Cleves and Tressa came up.
There was a brief, low-voiced conversation. Their camping outfit was
stowed aboard, Tressa sprang into the tonneau followed by Cleves, and
the car started swiftly up the inclined roadway, turned to the right
across the railroad bridge, across the trolley tracks, and straight on
up the steep hill paved with blocks of granite.
On the level road which traversed the ridge at last they speeded up,
whizzed past the great hedged farm where racing horses are bred, rushing
through the afternoon sunshine through the old-time Scotch settlements
which once were outposts of the old New York frontier.
Nine miles out the macadam road ended. They veered to the left over a
dirt road, through two hamlets; then turned to the right.
The landscape became rougher. To their left lay the long, low Maxon
hills; behind them the Mayfield range stretched northward into the open
jaws of the Adirondacks.
All around them were woods, now. Once a Gate House appeared ahead; and
beyond it they crossed four bridges over a foaming, tumbling creek where
Cleves caught glimpses of shadowy forms in amber-tinted pools--big
yellow trout that sank unhurriedly out of sight among huge submerged
boulders wet with spray.
The State trooper beside the chauffeur turned to Cleves, his purple tie
whipping in the wind.
"Yonder is Glenwild, sir," he said.
It was a single house on the flank of a heavily forested hill. Deep
below to the left the creek leaped two cataracts and went flashing out
through a belt of cleared territory ablaze with late sunshine.
The car swung into the farm-yard, past the barn on the right, and
continued on up a very rough trail.
"This is the road to the Ireland Vlaie," said the trooper. "It is
possible for cars for another mile only."
Splendid spruce, pine, oak, maple, and hemlock fringed the swampy,
uneven trail which was no more than a wide, rough vista cut through the
forest.
And, as the trooper had said, a little more than a mile farther the
trail became a tangle of bushes and swale; the car slowed down and
stopped; and a man rose from where he was seated on a mossy log and came
forward, his rifle balanced across the hollow of his left arm.
The man was Alek Selden.
       *       *       *       *       *
It was long after dark and they were still travelling through pathless
woods by the aid of their electric torches.
There was little underbrush; the forest of spruce and hemlock was first
growth.
Cleves shined the trees but could discover no blazing, no trodden path.
In explanation, Selden said briefly that he had hunted the territory for
years.
"But I don't begin to know it," he added. "There are vast and ugly
regions of bog and swale where a sea of alders stretches to the horizon.
There are desolate wastes of cat-briers and witch-hopple under leprous
tangles of grey birches, where stealthy little brooks darkle deep under
matted débris. Only wild things can travel such country.
"Then there are strange, slow-flowing creeks in the perpetual shadows of
tamarack woods, where many a man has gone in never to come out."
"Why?" asked Tressa.
"Under the tender carpet of green cresses are shining black bogs set
with tussock; and under the bog stretches quicksand,--and death."
"Do you know these places?" asked Cleves.
"No."
Cleves stepped forward to Tressa's side.
"Keep flashing the ground," he said harshly. "I don't want you to step
into some hell-hole. I'm sorry I brought you, anyway."
"But I had to come," she said in a low voice.
Like the two men, she wore a grey flannel shirt, knickers, and spiral
puttees.
They, however, carried rifles as well as packs; and the girl's pack was
lighter.
They had halted by a swift, icy rivulet to eat, without building a fire.
After that they crossed the Ireland Vlaie and the main creek, where
remains of a shanty stood on the bluff above the right bank--the last
sign of man.
Beyond lay the uncharted land, skimped and shirked entirely in certain
regions by map-makers;--an unknown wilderness on the edges of which
Selden had often camped when deer shooting.
It was along this edge he was leading them, now, to a lean-to which he
had erected, and from which he had travelled in to Glenwild to use the
superintendent's telephone to New York.
There seemed to be no animal life stirring in this forest; their torches
illuminated no fiery orbs of dazed wild things surprised at gaze in the
wilderness; no leaping furry form crossed their flashlights' fan-shaped
radiance.
There were no nocturnal birds to be seen or heard, either: no bittern
squawked from hidden sloughs; no herons howled; not an owl-note, not a
