they’re preaching. They don’t know what a hold they’ve got on the
mobs of the discontented!”
Peter went on to tell in detail about the propaganda of social
revolution, and about conspiracies against law and order, and the
property and even the lives of the rich. Peter noticed that when the
old man took a sip of water his hand trembled so that he could
hardly keep the water from spilling; and presently, when the phone
rang again, his voice became shrill and imperious. “I understand
they’re applying for bail for those men. Now Angus, that’s an
outrage! We’ll not hear to anything like that! I want you to see the
judge at once, and make absolutely certain that those men are held
in jail.”
Then again the old banker had a coughing fit. “Now, Gudge,” he said,
“I know more or less about all that. What I want to know is about
this conspiracy against me. Tell me how you came to find out about
it.”
And Peter told; but of course he embellished it, in so far as it
related to Mr. Ackerman--these fellows were talking about Mr.
Ackerman all the time, they had a special grudge against him.
“But why?” cried the old man. “Why?”
“They think you’re fighting them, Mr. Ackerman.”
“But I’m not! That’s not true!”
“Well, they say you put up money to hang Goober. They call
you--you’ll excuse me?”
“Yes, yes, of course.”
“They call you the `head money devil.’ They call you the financial
king of American City.”
“King!” cried the banker. “What rubbish! Why, Gudge, that’s fool
newspaper talk! I’m a poor man today. There are two dozen men in
this city richer than I am, and who have more power. Why--” But the
old man fell to coughing and became so exhausted that he sank back
into his pillows until he recovered his breath. Peter waited
respectfully; but of course he wasn’t fooled. Peter had carried on
bargaining many times in his life, and had heard people proclaim
their poverty and impotence.
“Now, Gudge,” the old man resumed. “I don’t want to be killed; I
tell you I don’t want to be killed.”
“No, of course not,” said Peter. It was perfectly comprehensible to
him that Mr. Ackerman didn’t want to be killed. But Mr. Ackerman
seemed to think it necessary to impress the idea upon him; in the
course of the conversation he came back to it a number of times, and
each time he said it with the same solemn assurance, as if it were a
brand new idea, and a very unusual and startling idea. “I don’t want
to be killed, Gudge; I tell you I don’t want to let those fellows
get me. No, no; we’ve got to circumvent them, we’ve got to take
precautions--every precaution--I tell you every possible
precaution.”
“I’m here for that purpose, Mr. Ackerman,” said Peter, solemnly.
“I’ll do everything. We’ll do everything, I’m sure.”
“What’s this about the police?” demanded the banker. “What’s this
about Guffey’s bureau? You say they’re not competent?”
“Well now, I’ll tell you, Mr. Ackerman,” said Peter, “It’s a little
embarrassing. You see, they employ me--”
“Nonsense!” exclaimed the other. “I employ you! I’m putting up the
money for this work, and I want the facts!--I want them all.”
“Well,” said Peter, “they’ve been very decent to me--”
“I say tell me everything!” exclaimed the old man. He was a most
irritable old man, and couldn’t stand for a minute not having what
he asked for. “What’s the matter with them?”
Peter answered, as humbly as he could: “I could tell you a great
deal that’d be of use to you, Mr. Ackerman, but you got to keep it
between you and me.”
“All right!” said the other, quickly. “What is it?”
“If you give a hint of it to anybody else,” persisted Peter, “then
I’ll get fired.”
“You’ll not get fired, I’ll see to that. If necessary I’ll hire you
direct.”
“Ah, but you don’t understand, Mr. Ackerman. It’s a machine, and you
can’t run against it; you gotta understand it, you gotta handle it
right. I’d like to help you, and I know I can help you, but you
gotta let me explain it, and you gotta understand some things.”
“All right,” said the old man. “Go ahead, what is it?”
“Now,” said Peter, “it’s like this. These police and all these
fellows mean well, but they don’t understand; it’s too complicated,
they ain’t been in this movement long enough. They’re used to
dealing with criminals; but these Reds, you see, are cranks.
Criminals ain’t organized, at least they don’t stand together; but
these Reds do, and if you fight ‘em, they fight back, and they make
what they call `propaganda.’ And that propaganda is dangerous--if
you make a wrong move, you may find you’ve made ‘em stronger than
they were before.”
“Yes, I see that,” said the old man. “Well?”
“Then again, the police dunno how dangerous they are. You try to
tell them things, they won’t really believe you. I’ve known for a
long time there was a group of these people getting together to kill
off all the rich men, the big men all over the country. They’ve been
spying on these rich men, getting ready to kill them. They know a
lot about them that you can’t explain their knowing. That’s how I
got the idea they had somebody in your house, Mr. Ackerman.”
“Tell me what you mean. Tell me at once.”
“Well, sir, every once in a while I pick up scraps of conversation.
One day I heard Mac--”
“Mac?”
“That’s McCormick, the one who’s in jail. He’s an I. W. W. leader,
and I think the most dangerous of all. I heard him whispering to
another fellow, and it scared me, because it had to do with killing
a rich man. He’d been watching this rich man, and said he was going
to shoot him down right in his own house! I didn’t hear the name of
the man--I walked away, because I didn’t want him to think I was
trying to listen in. They’re awful suspicious, these fellows; if you
watch Mac you see him looking around over his shoulder every minute
or two. So I strolled off, and then I strolled back again, and he
was laughing about something, and I heard him say these words; I
heard him say, `I was hiding behind the curtain, and there was a
Spanish fellow painted on the wall, and every time I peeked out that
bugger was looking at me, and I wondered if he wasn’t going to give
me away.’”
And Peter stopped. His eyes had got used to the twilight now, and he
could see the old banker’s eyes starting out from the crescents of
dark, puffy flesh underneath. “My God!” whispered Nelse Ackerman.
“Now, that was all I heard,” said Peter. “And I didn’t know what it
meant. But when I learned about that drawing that Mac had made of
your house, I thought to myself, Jesus, I bet that was Mr. Ackerman
he was waiting to shoot!”
“Good God! Good God!” whispered the old man; and his trembling
fingers pulled at the embroidery on the coverlet. The telephone
rang, and he took up the receiver, and told somebody he was too busy
now to talk; they would have to call him later. He had another
coughing spell, so that Peter thought he was going to choke, and had
to help him get some medicine down his throat. Peter was a little
bit shocked to see such obvious and abject fear in one of the gods.
After all, they were just men, these Olympians, as much subject to
pain and death as Peter Gudge himself!
Also Peter was surprised to find how “easy” Mr. Ackerman was. He
made no lofty pretence of being indifferent to the Reds. He put
himself at Peter’s mercy, to be milked at Peter’s convenience. And
Peter would make the most of this opportunity.
“Now, Mr. Ackerman,” he began, “You can see it wouldn’t be any use
to tell things like that to the police. They dunno how to handle
such a situation; the honest truth is, they don’t take these Reds
serious. They’ll spend ten times as much money to catch a plain
burglar as they will to watch a whole gang like this.”
“How can they have got into my home?” cried the old man.
“They get in by ways you’d never dream of, Mr. Ackerman. They have
people who agree with them. Why, you got no idea, there’s some
preachers that are Reds, and some college teachers, and some rich
men like yourself.”
“I know, I know,” said Ackerman. “But surely--”
“How can you tell? You may have a traitor right in your own family.”
So Peter went on, spreading the Red Terror in the soul of this old
millionaire who did not want to be killed. He said again that he did
not want to be killed, and explained his reluctance in some detail.
So many people were dependent upon him for their livings, Peter
could have no conception of it! There were probably a hundred
thousand men with their families right here in American City, whose
jobs depended upon plans which Ackerman was carrying, and which
nobody but Ackerman could possibly carry. Widows and orphans looked
to him for protection of their funds; a vast net-work of
responsibilities required his daily, even his hourly decisions. And
sure enough, the telephone rang, and Peter heard Nelse Ackerman
declare that the Amalgamated Securities Company would have to put
off a decision about its dividends until tomorrow, because he was
too busy to sign certain papers just then. He hung up the receiver
and said: “You see, you see! I tell you, Gudge, we must not let them
get me!”
Section 53
They came down to the question of practical plans, and Peter was
ready with suggestions. In the first place, Mr. Ackerman must give
no hint either to the police authorities or to Guffey that he was
dissatisfied with their efforts. He must simply provide for an
interview with Peter now and then, and he and Peter, quite
privately, must take certain steps to get Mr. Ackerman that
protection which his importance to the community made necessary. The
first thing was to find out whether or not there was a traitor in
Mr. Ackerman’s home, and for that purpose there must be a spy, a
first-class detective working in some capacity or other. The only
trouble was, there were so few detectives you could trust; they were
nearly all scoundrels, and if they weren’t scoundrels, it was
because they didn’t have sense enough to be--they were boobs, and
any Red could see thru them in five minutes.
“But I tell you,” said Peter, “what I’ve thought. I’ve got a wife
that’s a wonder, and just now while we were talking about it, I
thought, if I could only get Edythe in here for a few days, I’d find
out everything about all the people in your home, your relatives as
well as your servants.”
“Is she a professional detective?” asked the banker.
“Why no, sir,” said Peter. “She was an actress, her name was Edythe
Eustace; perhaps you might have heard of her on the stage.”
“No, I’m too busy for the theatre,” said Mr. Ackerman.
“Of course,” said Peter. “Well, I dunno whether she’d be willing to
do it; she don’t like having me mix up with these Reds, and she’s
been begging me to quit for a long time, and I’d just about promised
her I would. But if I tell her about your trouble maybe she might,
just as a favor.”
But how could Peter’s wife be introduced into the Ackerman household
without attracting suspicion? Peter raised this question, pointing
out that his wife was a person of too high a social class to come as
a servant. Mr. Ackerman added that he had nothing to do with
engaging his servants, any more than with engaging the bookkeepers
in his bank. It would look suspicious for him to make a suggestion
to his housekeeper. But finally he remarked that he had a niece who
sometimes came to visit him, and would come at once if requested,
and would bring Edythe Eustace as her maid. Peter was sure that
Edythe would be able to learn this part quickly, she had acted it
many times on the stage, in fact, it had been her favorite role. Mr.
Ackerman promised to get word to his niece, and have her meet Edythe
at the Hotel de Soto that same afternoon.
Then the old banker pledged his word most solemnly that he would not
whisper a hint about this matter except to his niece. Peter was most
urgent and emphatic; he specified that the police were not to be
told, that no member of the household was to be told, not even Mr.
Ackerman’s private secretary. After Mr. Ackerman had had this duly
impressed upon him, he proceeded in turn to impress upon Peter the
idea which he considered of most importance in the world: “I don’t
want to be killed, Gudge, I tell you I don’t want to be killed!” And
Peter solemnly promised to make it his business to listen to all
conversations of the Reds in so far as they might bear upon Mr.
Ackerman.
When he rose to take his departure, Mr. Ackerman slipped his
trembling fingers into the pocket of his jacket, and pulled out a
crisp and shiny note. He unfolded it, and Peter saw that it was a
five hundred dollar bill, fresh from the First National Bank of
American City, of which Mr. Ackerman was chairman of the board of
directors. “Here’s a little present for you, Gudge,” he said. “I
want you to understand that if you protect me from these villains,
I’ll see that you are well taken care of. From now on I want you to
be my man.”
“Yes, sir,” said Peter, “I’ll be it, sir. I thank you very much,
sir.” And he thrust the bill into his pocket, and bowed himself step
by step backwards toward the door. “You’re forgetting your hat,”
 said the banker.
“Why, yes,” said the trembling Peter, and he came forward again, and
got his hat from under the chair, and bowed himself backward again.
“And remember, Gudge,” said the old man, “I don’t want to be killed!
I don’t want them to get me!”
Section 54
Peter’s first care when he got back into the city was to go to Mr.
Ackerman’s bank and change that five hundred dollar bill. The
cashier gazed at him sternly, and scrutinized the bill carefully,
but he gave Peter five one hundred dollar bills without comment.
Peter tucked three of them away in a safe hiding-place, and put the
other two in his pocketbook, and went to keep his appointment with
Nell.
He told her all that had happened, and where she was to meet Mr.
Ackerman’s niece. “What did he give you?” Nell demanded, at once,
and when Peter produced the two bills, she exclaimed, “My God! the
old skint-flint!” “He said there’d be more,” remarked Peter.
“It didn’t cost him anything to say that,” was Nell’s answer. “We’ll
have to put the screws on him.” Then she added, “You’d better let me
take care of this money for you, Peter.”
“Well,” said Peter, “I have to have some for my own expenses, you
know.”
“You’ve got your salary, haven’t you?”
“Yes, that’s true, but--”
“I can keep it safe for you,” said Nell, “and some day when you need
it you’ll be glad to have it. You’ve never saved anything yourself;
that’s a woman’s job.”
Peter tried to haggle with her, but it wasn’t the same as haggling
with McGivney; she looked at him with her melting glances, and it
made Peter’s head swim, and automatically he put out his hand and
let her take the two bills. Then she smiled, so tenderly that he
made bold to remind her, “You know, Nell, you’re my wife now!”
“Yes, yes,” she answered, “of course. But we’ve got to get rid of
Ted Crothers somehow. He watches me all the time, and I have no end
of trouble making excuses and getting away.”
“How’re you’re going to get rid of him?” asked Peter, hungrily.
“We’ll have to skip,” she answered; “just as soon as we have pulled
off our new frame-up--”
“Another one?” gasped Peter, in dismay.
And the girl laughed. “You wait!” she said. “I’m going to pull some
real money out of Nelse Ackerman this time! Then when we’ve made our
killing, we’ll skip, and be fixed for life. You wait--and don’t talk
love to me now, because my mind is all taken up with my plans, and I
can’t think about anything else.”
So they parted, and Peter went to see McGivney in the American
House. “Stand up to him!” Nell had said. But it was not easy to do,
for McGivney pulled and hauled him and turned him about, upside down
and inside outwards, to know every single thing that had happened
between him and Nelse Ackerman. Lord, how these fellows did hang on
to their sources of graft! Peter repeated and insisted that he
really had played entirely fair--he hadn’t told Nelse Ackerman a
thing except just the truth as he had told it to Guffey and
McGivney. He had said that the police were all right, and that
Guffey’s bureau was stepping right on the tail of the Reds all the
time.
“And what does he want you to do?” demanded the rat-faced man.
Peter answered, “He just wanted to make sure that he was learning
everything of importance, and he wanted me to promise him that he
would get every scrap of information that I collected about the plot
against him; and of course I promised him that we’d bring it all to
him.”
“You going to see him any more?” demanded McGivney.
“He didn’t say anything about that.”
“Did he get your address?”
“No, I suppose if he wants me he’ll let you know, the same as
before.”
“All right,” said McGivney. “Did he give you any money?”
“Yes,” said Peter, “he gave me two hundred dollars, and he said
there was plenty more where that came from, so that we’d work hard
to help him. He said he didn’t want to get killed; he said that a
couple of dozen times, I guess. He spent more time saying that than
anything else. He’s sick, and he’s scared out of his wits.”
So at last McGivney condescended to thank Peter for his
faithfulness, and went on to give him further orders.
The Reds were raising an awful howl. Andrews, the lawyer, had
succeeded in getting a court order to see the arrested men, and of
course the prisoners had all declared that the case was a put-up
job. Now the Reds were preparing to send out a circular to their
fellow Reds all over the country, appealing for publicity, and for
funds to fight the “frame-up.”
