again that it is better to take one step forward than to take several
steps forward and then several steps backward. The Russian revolution
is not yet completed, so no one can say how many steps backward it will
be forced to take.
This revolution was an interesting combination of the ideas of Socialism
and Syndicalism. The trade unionists seized the factories, and made an
effort at democratic control of industry. At the same time the state was
overthrown by a political party, the Bolsheviks, who set up a
dictatorship of the proletariat. Because of civil war and outside
invasion, the democratic elements in the experiment have been more and
more driven into the background, and the authority of the state has
correspondingly increased. This causes us to think of the Soviet system
as necessarily opposed to democracy, but this is not in any way a
necessary thing. There is no inevitable connection between industrial
control by the workers and a dictatorship over the state. In Germany the
state is proceeding to organize a national parliament of industry, and
to provide for management of the factories by the labor unions. The
Italian government has promised to do the same thing. These, of course,
are capitalist governments, and they will keep their promises only as
they are made to; but it is a perfectly possible thing that in either of
these countries a vote of the people might change the government, and
put in authority men who would really proceed to turn industry over to
the control of the workers. That would be the Soviet or Syndicalist
system, brought about by democratic means, without dictatorship or civil
war.
Another group of revolutionary thinkers whose theories must be mentioned
are the Anarchists. The word Anarchy is commonly used as a synonym for
chaos and disorder, which it does not mean at all. It means the absence
of authority; and it is characteristic of people's view of life that
they are unable to conceive of there being such a thing as order, unless
it is maintained by force. The theory of the Anarchist is that order is
a necessity of the human spirit, and that people would conform to the
requirements of a just order by their own free will and without external
compulsion. The Anarchist believes that the state is an instrument of
class oppression, and has no other reason for being. He wishes the
industries to be organized by free associations of the people who work
in them.
Some of the greatest of the world's moral teachers have been Anarchists:
Jesus, for example, and Shelley and Thoreau and Tolstoi, and in our time
Kropotkin. These men voiced the highest aspirations of the human
spirit, and the form of society which they dreamed is the one we set
before us as our final goal. But the world does not leap into perfection
all at once, and meantime here we have the capitalist system and the
capitalist state, and what attitude shall we take to them? There are
impassioned idealists who refuse to make any terms with injustice, or to
submit to compulsion, and these preach the immediate destruction of
capitalist government, and capitalist government responds with prison
and torture, and so we have some Anarchists who throw bombs.
There are those who call themselves "philosophic" Anarchists, wishing to
indicate thereby that they preach this doctrine, but do not attempt to
carry it into action as yet. Some among these verge toward the Communist
point of view, and call themselves Communist-anarchists; such was
Kropotkin, whose theories of social organization you will find in his
book "The Conquest of Bread." There are others who call themselves
Syndicalist-anarchists, finding their centers of free association in the
radical labor unions.
After the Russian revolution, the Anarchists found themselves in a
dilemma, and their groups were torn apart like every other party and
class in Russia. Here was a new form of state set up in society, a
workers' state, and what attitude should the Anarchists take toward
that? Many of them stood out for their principles, and resisted the
Bolshevik state, and put the Bolsheviks under the embarrassing necessity
of throwing them into jail. We good orthodox Americans, who are
accustomed to dump Socialists and Communists and Syndicalists and
Anarchists all together into one common kettle, took Emma Goldman and
Alexander Berkman and shipped them over to Russia, where we thought they
belonged. Now our capitalist newspapers find it strange that these
Anarchists do not like the Russian government any better than they like
the American government!
On the other hand, a great many Anarchists have suddenly found
themselves compelled by the Russian situation to face the facts of life.
They have decided that a government is not such a bad thing after
all--when it is your own government! Robert Minor, for example, has
recanted his Anarchist position, and joined the Communists in advocating
the dropping of all differences among the workers, all theories as to
the future, and concentrating upon the immediate task of overthrowing
capitalist government and keeping it overthrown. In every civilized
nation the Russian revolution has had this effect upon the extreme
revolutionists. It has given them a definite aim and a definite program
upon which they can unite; it has presented to capitalist government the
answer of force to force; it has shown the masters of industry in
precise and definite form what they have to face--unless they set
themselves immediately and in good faith to the task of establishing
real democracy in industry.
CHAPTER LXV
SOCIAL REVOLUTION
     (How the great change is coming in different industries, and how we
     may prepare to meet it.)
From a study of the world's political revolutions we observe that a
variety of governmental forms develop, and that different circumstances
in each country produce different institutions. Suppose that back in the
days of the French monarchy some one asked you how France was going to
be governed as a political republic; how would elections be held, what
would be the powers of the deputies, who would choose the premier, who
would choose the president, what would be the duties of each? Who can
explain why in France and England the executive is responsible to the
parliament and must answer its questions, while in the United States the
executive is an autocrat, responsible to no one for four years? Who
could have foreseen that in England, supposed to remain a monarchy, the
constitution would be fluid; while in America, supposed to be a
democracy, the constitution would be rigid, and the supreme power of
rejecting changes in the laws would be vested in a group of reactionary
lawyers appointed for life? There will be similar surprises in the
social revolution, and similar differences between what things pretend
to be and what they are.
I used to compare the social revolution to the hatching of an egg. You
examine it, and apparently it is all egg; but then suddenly something
begins to happen, and in a few minutes it is all chicken. If, however,
you investigate, you discover that the chicken had been forming inside
the egg for some time. I know that there is a chicken now forming inside
our social egg; but having realized the complexity of social phenomena,
I no longer venture to predict the exact time of the hatching, or the
size and color of the chicken.
Perhaps it is more useful to compare the social revolution to a
child-birth. A good surgeon knows what is due to happen, but he knows
also that there are a thousand uncertainties, a thousand dangerous
possibilities, and all he can do is to watch the process and be prepared
to meet each emergency as it arises. The birth process consists of one
pang after another, but no one can say which pang will complete the
birth, or whether it will be completed at all. Karl Marx is author of
the saying that "force is the midwife of progress," so you may see that
I am not the inventor of this simile of child-birth.
There are three factors in the social revolution, each of which will
vary in each country, and in different parts of the country, and at
different periods. First, there is the industrial condition of the
country, a complex set of economic factors. The industrial life of
England depends primarily on shipping and coal. In the United States
shipping is of less importance, and railroads take the place. In the
United States the eastern portion lives mainly by manufacture, the
western by agriculture, while the south is held a generation behind by a
race problem. In France the great estates were broken up, and
agriculture fell into the hands of peasant proprietors, who are the main
support of French capitalism. In Prussia the great estates were held
intact, and remained the basis of a feudal aristocracy. In America land
changes hands freely, and therefore one-third of our farms are
mortgaged, and another third are worked by tenants. In Russia there was
practically no middle class, while in the United States there is
practically nothing but middle class; the rich have been rich for such a
short while that they still look middle class and act middle class, in
spite of all their efforts, while the working class hopes to be middle
class and is persuaded that it can become middle class. Such varying
factors produce in each country a different problem, and make inevitable
a different process of change.
The second factor is the condition of organization and education of the
workers. This likewise varies in every country, and in every part of
every country. There is a continual struggle on the part of the workers
to organize and educate themselves, and a continual effort on the part
of the ruling class to prevent this. In some industries in America you
find the workers one hundred per cent organized, and in other industries
you find them not organized at all. It is obvious that in the former
case the social change, when it comes, will be comparatively simple,
involving little bloodshed and waste; in the latter case there will be
social convulsions, rioting and destruction of property, disorganization
of industry and widespread distress.
The third factor is the state of mind of the propertied classes, the
amount of resistance they are willing to make to social change. I have
done a great deal of pleading with the masters of industry in my
country; I have written appeals to Vincent Astor and John D.
Rockefeller, to capitalist newspapers and judges and congressmen and
presidents. I have been told that this is a waste of my time; that these
people cannot learn and will not learn, and that it is foolish to appeal
either to their hearts or their understanding. But I perceive that the
class struggle is like a fraction; it has a numerator and a denominator,
and you can increase the fraction just as well by decreasing the
denominator as by increasing the numerator. To vary the simile, here are
two groups of men engaged in a tug of war, and you can affect the result
just as decisively by persuading one group to pull less hard, as by
persuading the other group to pull harder.
Picture to yourself two factories. In factory number one the owner is a
hard-driving business man, an active spirit in the so-called "open-shop"
campaign. He believes in his divine right to manage industry, and he
believes also in the gospel of "all that the traffic will bear." He
prevents his men from organizing, and employs spies to weed out the
radicals and to sow dissensions. When a strike comes, he calls in the
police and the strike-breaking agencies, and in every possible way he
makes himself hated and feared by his workers. Then some day comes the
unemployment crisis, and a wave of revolt sweeping over the country. The
workers seize that factory and set up a dictatorship of the proletariat
and a "red terror." If the owner resists, they kill him; in any case,
they wipe out his interest in the business, and do everything possible
to destroy his power over it, even to his very name. They run the
business by a shop committee, and you have for that particular factory a
Syndicalist, or even Anarchist form of social reconstruction.
Now for factory number two, whose owner is a humane and enlightened man,
studying social questions and realizing his responsibility, and the
temporary nature of his stewardship. He gives his people the best
possible working conditions, he keeps open books and discusses wages and
profits with them, he educates the young workers, he meets with their
union committees on a basis of free discussion. When the unemployment
crisis comes and the wave of revolt sweeps the country, this man and his
workers understand one another. He says: "I can no longer pay profits,
and so I can no longer keep going under the profit system; but if you
are ready to run the plant, I am ready to help you the best I can."
Manifestly, this man will continue the president of the corporation, and
if he trains his sons wisely, they will keep his place; so, instead of
having in that factory a dictatorship and a terror, you will have a
constitutional monarchy, gradually evolving into a democratic republic.
CHAPTER LXVI
CONFISCATION OR COMPENSATION
     (Shall the workers buy out the capitalists? Can they afford to do
     it, and what will be the price?)
The problem of whether the social revolution shall be violent or
peaceable depends in great part upon our answer to the question of
confiscation versus compensation. We are now going to consider, first,
the abstract rights and wrongs of the question, and, second, the
practical aspects of it.
There is a story very popular among single taxers and other advocates of
freedom of the land. An English land-owner met a stranger walking on his
estate, and rebuked him for trespassing. Said the stranger, "You own
this land?" Said the other, "I do." "And how did you get it?" "I
inherited it from my father." "And how did your father get it?" "He
inherited it from his father." So on for half a dozen more ancestors,
until at last the Englishman answered, "He fought for it." Whereupon the
stranger took off his coat and rolled up his sleeves and said, "I'll
fight you for it."
This is all there is to say on the subject of the abstract rights of
land titles. There is no title to land which is valid on a historical
basis. Everything rests upon fraud and force, continued through endless
ages of human history. We in the United States took most of our land
from the Indians, and in the process our guiding rule was that the only
good Injun was a dead Injun. We first helped the English kings to take
large sections of our country from the French and Spanish, and then we
took them from the English king by a violent revolution. We purchased
our Southwestern states from Mexico, but not until we had taken the
precaution of killing some thousands of Mexicans in war, which had the
effect of keeping down the purchase price. It would be a simple matter
to show that all public franchises are similarly tainted with fraud.
Proudhon laid down the principle that "property is theft," and from this
principle it is an obvious conclusion that society has the right to
scrap all paper titles to wealth, and to start the world's industries
over again on the basis of share and share alike.
But stop and consider for a moment. "Property is theft," you say. But go
to your corner grocery, and tell the grocer that you deny his title to
the sack of prunes which he exhibits in front of his counter. He will
tell you that he has paid for them; but you answer that the prunes were
raised on stolen land, and shipped to him over a railroad whose
franchise was obtained by bribery. Will that convince the grocer? It
will not. Neither will it convince the policeman or the judge, nor will
it convince the voters of the country. Most people have a deeply rooted
conviction that there are rights to property now definitely established
and made valid by law. If you have paid taxes on land for a certain
period, the land "belongs" to you; and I am sure you might agitate from
now to kingdom come without persuading the American people that New
Mexico ought to be returned to Mexico, or the western prairies to the
Indian tribes.
Such are the facts; now let us apply them to the right of exploitation,
embodied in the ownership of a certain number of bonds or shares of
stock in the United States Steel Corporation. "Pass a law," says the
Socialist, "providing for the taking over of United States Steel by the
government." At once to every owner comes one single thought--are you
going to buy this stock, or are you going to confiscate it? If you
attempt confiscation, the courts will declare the law unconstitutional;
and you either have to defy the courts, which is revolutionary action,
or to amend the constitution. If you adopt the latter course, you have
before you a long period of agitation; you have to carry both houses of
Congress by a two-thirds majority, and the legislatures of three-fourths
of the States. You have to do this in the face of the most bitter and
infuriated opposition of those who are defending what they regard as
their rights. You have to meet the arguments of the entire capitalist
press of the country, and you have the certainty of widespread bribery
of your elected officials.
The prospect of doing all this under the forms of law seems extremely
discouraging; so come the Syndicalists, saying, "Let us seize the
factories, and stop the exploitation at the point of production." So
come the Communists, saying, "Let us overthrow capitalist government,
and break the net of bourgeois legality, and establish a dictatorship of
the proletariat, which will put an end to privilege and class domination
all at once." What are we to say to these different programs?
Suppose we buy out the stockholders of United States Steel, and issue
to them government bonds, what have we accomplished? Nothing, say the
advocates of confiscation; we have changed the form of exploitation, but
the substance of it remains the same. The stockholders get their money
from the United States government, instead of from the United States
Steel Corporation; but they get their money just the same--the product,
not of their labor, but of the labor of the steel workers. Suppose we
carried out the same procedure all along the line; suppose the
government took over all industries, and paid for their securities with
government bonds. Then we should have capitalism administered by a
capitalist government, instead of by our present masters of industry; we
should have a state capitalism, instead of a private capitalism; we
should have the government buying and selling products, and exploiting
labor, and paying over the profits to an hereditary privileged class.
The capitalist system would go on just the same, except that labor would
have one all-powerful tyrant, instead of many lesser tyrants, as at
present.
So argue the advocates of confiscation. And the advocates of purchase
reply that in buying the securities of United States Steel, we should
fix the purchase price at the present market value of the property, and
that price, once fixed, would be permanent; all future unearned
increment of the steel industry would belong to the government instead
of to private owners. Consider, for example, what happened during the
world war. When I was a boy, soon after the Steel Trust was launched,
its stock was down to something like six dollars, and I knew small
investors who lost every dollar they had put in. But during the war,
steel stock soared to a hundred and thirty-six dollars per share; it
paid dividends of some thirty per cent per year, and accumulated
enormous surpluses besides.
The same thing was true of practically all the big corporations.
According to Secretary of the Treasury McAdoo, there were coal companies
which paid as high as eight hundred per cent per year; that is to say,
