matter at which end, her loyalty rose triumpha,nt above 
her social code, and she was not afraid to express it 
publicly. 
Toward Alexina she felt less a sister than a second 
mother, and gave her freely of her abundant maternal 
reservoir. That "little sister" had at times sulked 
under this proud determination to assist in the bringing- 
up of the last of the Ballinger-Groomes, did not discourage her. She might be soft in her affections but she 
never swerved from her duty as she saw it. Alexina 
was a darling wayward child, who only needed a firm 
hand to guide her along that proud secluded old avenue 
of the city's elect, until she had ambled safely to established respectability and power. I 
She had been alarmed at one time at certain symptoms of cleverness she noticed in the child, and at certain enthusiastic remarks in the letters of Ballinger 
Groome, with whose family Alexina had spent her vacations during her two years in New York at school. But 
 
there had been no evidence of anything but a young 
girl 's natural love of pleasure since her debut in society, 
and she was quite unaware of Alexina's wicked divagations. She had spent the winter in Santa Barbara, for 
the benefit of her oldest boy, whose lungs were delicate, 
and, like her mother, never deigned to read the society 
columns of the newspapers. Her reason, however, was 
her own. In spite of her blood, her indisputable position, her style, she cut but a small figure in those columns. She was not rich enough to vie with those who 
entertained constantly, and was merely set down as one 
of many guests. The fact induced a slight bitterness. 
IV 
She began tactfully. "I like this young Mr. Dwight 
very much, and shall ask him down, as mother desires it. 
But I hope, darling, that you will follow my example 
and not marry until you have had four years of society, 
in other words have seen something of the world " 
"California is not the world." 
' ' Society, in other words human nature, is everywhere 
much alike. As you know, I spent a year in England 
when I was a young lady, and was presented at court — 
by Lady Barnstable, who was Lee Tarlton, one of us. 
It was merely San Francisco on a large scale, with titles, 
and greater and older houses and parks, and more jewels, 
and more arrogance, and everything much grander, of 
course. And they talked politics a great deal, which 
bored me as I am sure they would bore you. The beauty 
of our society is its simplicity and lack of arrogance — 
consciousness of birth or of wealth. Even the more 
recent members of society, who owe their position to 
their fortunes, have a simplicity and kindness quite 
unknown in New York. Eastern people always remark 
it. And yet, owing to their constant visits to the East 
and to Europe, they know all of the world there is to 
know. ' ' 
"So do the young men, I suppose ! I never heard of 
their doing much traveling " 
"I should call them remarkably sophisticated young 
 
men. But the point is, darling, that if you wait as long 
as I did you will discover that the men who attract a 
girl in her first season would bore her to extinction in 
her fourth." 
"You mean after I've had all the bloom rubbed off, 
and men are forgetting to ask me to dance. Then I'll 
be much more likely to take what I can get. I want to 
marry with all the bloom on and all my illusions fresh." 
' ' But should you like to have them rubbed off by your 
husband? You've heard the old adage: 'marry in haste 
and repent ' " 
"I've been brought up on adages. They are called 
bromides now. As for illusions, everybody says they 
don't last anyway. I'd rather have them dispelled after 
a long wonderful honeymoon by a husband than by a lot 
of flirtations in a conservatory and in dark comers " 
"Good heavens! Do you suppose that I flirted in a 
conservatory and in dark corners?" 
"I'll bet you didn't, but lots do. And in the haute 
noblesse, the ancient aristocracy ! I 've seen 'em. ' ' 
"It isn't possible that you " 
' ' Oh, no, I love to dance too much. But I 'm not easily 
shocked. I'll tell you that right here. And I'll tell you 
what I confessed to mother this morning." 
"When she had finished Mrs. Abbott sat for a few moments petrified; but she was thirty-eight, not sixty-five, 
and there was neither dismay nor softening in her narrowed light blue eyes. 
' ' But that is abominable ! Abominable ! ' ' 
And Alexina, who was prepared for a scolding, shrank 
a little, for it was the first time that her doting sister 
had spoken to her with severity. 
"I don't care," she said stubbornly, and she set her 
soft lips until they looked stern and hard. 
' ' But you must care. You are a Groome. ' ' 
"Oh, yes, and a Ballinger, and a Geary, and all the 
rest of it. But I 'm also going to annex another name of 
 
my own choosing. I'll marry whom I damn please, and 
that is the end of it." 
' ' Alexina Groome ! ' ' Mrs. Abbott arose in her wrath. 
"Cannot you see for yourself what association with all 
these common people has done to you? It's the influence " 
"Of two years in New York principally. The girls 
there are as hard as nails — try to imitate the English. 
Ours are not a patch, not even Aileen, although she does 
her best. But I hadn't finished — I even powder my 
face. ' ' Alexina grinned up at her still rudderless sister. 
"After mother is asleep and I am ready to slip out." 
' ' I thought you were safe in New York under the eyes 
of Ballinger and Geary, or rather of Mattie and Charlotte. They are such earnest good women, so interested 
in charities " 
' ' Deadly. But you don 't know the girls. ' ' 
"And I have told mother again and again that she 
should not permit you to associate with Aileen Lawton." 
"She can't help herself. Aileen is one of us. Besides, mother is devoted to the Judge." 
"But powder! None of us has ever put anything but 
clean cold water on her face." 
"You'd look a long sight better if you did. Cold 
cream, too. You wouldn't have any wrinkles at your 
age, if you weren't so damn respectable — aristocratic, 
you call it. It's just middle class. And as out of date 
as speech without slang. As for me, I'd paint my lips 
as Aileen does, only I don't like the taste, and they're 
too red, anyhow. It's much smarter to make up than 
not to. Times change. You don't wear hoopskirts because our magnificent Grandmother Ballinger did. You 
dress as smartly as the Burlingame crowd. "Why does 
your soul turn green at make-up ? All these people you 
look down upon because our families were rich and 
important in the fifties are more up-to-date than you 
are, although I will admit that none of them has the 
woman-of-the-world air of the smartest New York women 
— not that terribly respectable inner set in New York — 
Aunt Mattie 's and Aunt Charlotte's — that just revels 
in looking mid- Victorian. . . . The newer people I 've met 
 
here — their manners are just as good as ours, if not 
better, for, as you said just now, they don't put on airs. 
You do, darling. You don't know it, but you would put 
an English duchess to the blush, when you suddenly 
remember who you are " 
Mrs. Abbott had resumed her seat on the cot. "If you 
have finished criticizing your elder sister, I should like 
to ask you a few questions. Do you smoke and drink 
cocktails?" 
"No, I don't. But I should if I liked them, and if 
they didn't make me feel queer." 
"You — you " Mrs. Abbot's clear crisp voice sank 
to an agonized whisper. For the first time she was really 
terrified. "Do you gamble?" 
"Why, of course not. I have too much fun to think 
of anything so stupid. ' ' 
"Does Aileen Lawton gamble?" 
"She just doesn't, and don't you insinuate such a thing." 
"She has bad blood in her. Her mother " 
"I thought her mother was your best friend." 
"She was. But she went to pieces, poor dear, and 
Judge Lawton wisely sent her East. I can't tell you 
why. There are things you don't understand." 
' ' Oh, don 't I ? Don 't you fool yourself. ' ' 
Mrs. Abbott leaned back on the cot and pressed it 
hard with either hand. 
"Alexina, I have never been as disturbed as I am at 
this moment. When Sally and I were your age, we were 
beautifully innocent. If I thought that Joan " 
"Oh, Joan'll get away from you. She's only fourteen 
now, but when she 's my age — well, I guess you and your 
old crowd are the last of the Mohicans. I doubt if 
there'll even be any chaperons left. Joan may not smoke 
nor drink. Who cares for 'vices,' anyhow? But you 
haven't got a moat and drawbridge round Eincona, and 
she'll just get out and mix. She'll float with the stream 
— and all streams lead to Burlingame." 
"I have no fear about Joan," said Mrs. Abbott, with 
dignity. "Pour years are a long time. I shall sow 
seeds, and she is a born Ballinger — I am dreadfully 
afraid that my dear father is coming out in you. Even 
the boys are Ballingers " 
VI 
"Tell me about father?" coaxed Alexina, who was 
repentant, now that the excitement of the day had 
reached its climax in the baiting of her admirable sister 
and was rapidly subsiding. "Mother let fall something 
this morning ; and once Aileen . . . she began, but shut 
up like a clam. Was he so very dreadful ? " 
"Well, since you know so much, he was what is called 
fast. Married men of his position often were in his day 
 — quite openly. Yesterday, I should have hesitated " 
"Fire away. Don't mind me. Yes, I know what fast 
is. Lots of men are to-day. Even members of the 
A. A." 
"A. A.?" 
"Ancient Aristocracy. The kind England and France 
would like to have." 
"I'm ashamed of you. Have you no pride of blood? 
The best blood of the South, to say nothing of " 
" I 'm tickled to death. I just dote on being a Groome, 
plus Ballinger, plus. And I 'm not guying, neither. I 'd 
hate like the mischief to be second rate, no matter what 
I won later. It must be awful to have to try to get to 
places that should be yours by divine right, as it were. 
But all that's no reason for being a moss-back, a back 
number, for not having any fun — to be glued to the 
ancestral rock like a lot of old limpets. . . . And it 
should preserve us from being snobs," she added. 
"Snobs?" 
"The 'I will maintain' sort, as Aileen puts it." 
"Don't quote that dreadful child to me. I haven't 
an atom of snobbery in my composition. I reserve the 
right to know whom I please, and to exclude from my 
house people to whom I cannot accustom myself. Why 
I know quite a number of people at Burlingame. I 
dined there informally last night." 
"Yes, because it has the fascination for you that wine 
has for the clergyman's son." Alexina once more yielded 
 
to temptation. "But the only people you really know 
at Burlingame except Mrs. Hunter are those of the old 
set, what you would call the pick of the bunch, if you 
were one of us. They went there to live because they 
were tired of being moss-backs. Why don't you follow 
their example and go the whole hog? They — and their 
girls — have a ripping time." 
"At least they have not picked up your vocabulary. 
I seldom see the young people. And I have never been 
to the Club. I am told the women drink and smoke 
quite openly on the verandah. ' ' 
"You may bet your sweet life they do. They are 
honest, and quite as sure of their position as you are. 
But tell me about father. How did mother come to 
marry him ? If he was such a naughty person I should 
think she would have exercised the sound Ballinger instincts and thrown him down." 
"Mother met him in Washington. Grandfather Ballinger was senator at the time " 
"From Virginia or California?" 
"It is shocking that you do not know more of the 
family history. From California, of course. He had 
great gifts and political aspirations, and realized that 
there would be more opportunity in the new state — 
particularly in such a famous one — than in his own 
where all the men in public life seemed to have taken 
root — I remember his using that expression. So, he 
came here with his bride, the beauty of Richmond " 
"Oh, Lord, I know all about her. Remember the 
flavor in my mother's milk " 
"Well, you'd look like her if you had brown eyes and 
a white skin, and if your mouth were smaller. And 
until you learn to stand up straight you'll never have 
anything like her elegance of carriage. However. . . . 
Of course they had plenty of money — for those days. 
They had come to Virginia in the days of Queen Elizabeth and received a large grant of land " 
"Don't fancy I haven't heard that.'" 
"Grandfather had inherited the plantation " 
' ' Sold his slaves, I suppose, to come to California and 
realize his ambitions. Funny, how ideals change ! ' ' 
 
"His abilities were recognized as soon as he arrived 
in the new community, ajid our wonderful grandmother 
became at once one of that small band of social leaders 
that founded San Francisco society : Mrs. Hunt McLane, 
the Hathaways, Mrs. Don Pedro Earle, the Montgomerys, the Gearys, the Talbots, the Belmonts, Mrs. Abbott, 
Tom's grandmother " 
"Never mind about them. I have them dished up 
occasionally by mother, although she prefers to des'eant 
upon the immortal eighties, when she was a leader herself and 'money wasn't everything.' We never had so 
much of it anyhow. I know Grandfather Ballinger bought 
this ramshackle old house -" 
Mrs. Abbott sat forward and drew herself up. She felt 
as if she were talking to a stranger, as, indeed, she was. 
"This house and its traditions are sacred " 
"I know it. You were telling me how mother came 
to marry a bad fast man. ' ' 
' ' He was not fast when she met him. It was at a ball 
in "Washington. He was a young congressman — he was 
wounded in his right arm during the first year of the 
war and returned at once to California ; of course he had 
been one of the first to enlist. He was of a fine old 
family and by no means poor. Of course in Washington 
he was asked to the best houses. At that time he was 
very ambitious and absorbed in polities and the advancement of California. Afterward he renounced Washing- 
ton for reasons I never clearly understood ; although he 
told me once that California was the only place for a 
man to live; and — well — I am afraid he could do more 
as he pleased out here without criticism — from men, at 
least. The standards — for men — were very low in those 
days. But when he met mother " 
' ' Was mother ever very pretty ? ' ' 
' ' She was handsome, ' ' replied Mrs. Abbott guardedly. 
"Of course she had the freshness and roundness of 
youth. I am told she had a lovely color and the brightest eyes. And she had a beautiful figure. She had 
several proposals, but she chose father." 
' ' And had the devil 's own time with him. She let out 
that much this morning. ' ' 
 
"I am growing accustomed to your language." Once 
more Mrs. Abbott was determined to be amiable and 
tactful. She realized that the child's brain was seething 
with the excitements of the day, but was aghast at the 
revelations it had recklessly tossed out, and admitted 
tha,t the problem of "handling her" could no longer be 
disposed of with home-made generalities. 
"Tes, mother did not have a bed of roses. Father 
was mayor at one time and held various other public 
offices, and no one, at least, ever accused him of civic 
corruptness. Quite the contrary. The city owes more 
than one reform to his determination and ability. 
"He even risked his life fighting the bosses and their 
political gangs, for he was shot at twice. But he was 
very popular in his own class; what men call a good 
fellow, and at that time there was quite a brilliant group 
of disreputable women here ; one could not help hearing 
