would be a very welcome recreation in his energetic life. If propinquity began to sprout its 
deadly fruit he fancied that she would close the 
episode abruptly. He was positive that he 
should, if for no other reason than because her 
husband was his friend. He might elope with 
the wife of a friend if he lost his head, but he 
would never dishonor himself in the secret intrigue. And he had not the least intention of 
leaving San Francisco. For the time being 
they were safe. It was like picking wild flowers 
in the field after a day's hot work. 
"Now,'' she said serenely, "read me Pippa 
Passes. " 
XIII 
NEVERTHELESS, he stayed away from 
her for a week. At the end of that time 
he received a peremptory little note bidding 
him call and expound Newman's "Apologia" to 
her. She could not understand it and she must. 
He smiled at the pretty imperiousness of the 
note so like herself} for her circle had spoiled 
her, and whatever her husband's idiosyncrasies she was certainly his petted darling. 
He went, of course. And before long he was 
spending every afternoon in the charming 
room so like a French salon of the Eighteenth 
Century that the raucous sounds of San Francisco beyond the closed and curtained windows 
beat upon it faintly like the distant traffic of a 
great city. 
Masters had asked himself humorously, 
Why not? and succumbed. There was no other 
place to go except the Club, and Mrs. Talbot 
was an infinitely more interesting companion 
 
than men who discussed little besides their 
business, professional, or demi-monde engrossments. It was a complete relaxation from his 
own driving work. He was writing the entire 
editorial page of his newspaper, the demand for his articles from Eastern magazines 
and weekly journals was incessant} which 
not only contributed to his pride and income, 
but to the glory of California. He was making 
her known for something besides gold, gamblers, and Sierra pines. 
But above all he was instructing and expanding a feminine but really fine mind. She sat at 
his feet and there was no doubt in that mind, 
both naive and gifted, that his was the most 
remarkable intellect in the world and that 
from no book ever written could she learn as 
much. He would have been more than mortal 
had he renounced his pedestal and he; was far 
too humane for the cruelty of depriving her of 
the stimulating happiness he had brought into 
her lonely life. There was no one, man or 
woman, to take his place. 
Nor was there any one to criticize. The 
world was out of town. They lived in the 
same hotel, and he rarely met any one in 
their common corrider. At first she mentioned his visits casually to her husband, and 
Howard grunted approvingly. Several times 
he took Masters snipe shooting in the marshes 
near Ravenswood, but he accepted his friend's 
attitude to his wife too much as a matter of 
course even to mention it. To him, a far better 
judge of men than of women, Langdon Masters was ambition epitomized, and if he wondered why such a man wasted time in any 
woman's salon, he concluded it was because, like 
men of any calling but his own (who saw far 
too much of women and their infernal ailments) 
he enjoyed a chat now and then with as charming a woman of the world as Madeleine. 
If anyone had suggested that Langdon Masters enjoyed Madeleine's intellect he would 
have told it about town as the joke of the 
season. 
Madeleine indulged in no introspection. She 
had suffered too much in the past not to quaff 
eagerly of the goblet when it was full and ask 
for nothing more. If she paused to realize how 
dependent she had become on the constant society of Langdon Masters and that literature 
was now no more than the background of life, 
 
she would have shrugged her shoulders gaily 
and admitted that she was having a mental 
flirtation, and that, at least, was as original as 
became them both. They were safe. The code 
protected them. He was her husband's friend 
and they were married. What was was. 
But in truth she never went so far as to admit 
that Masters and the books she loved were not 
one and inseparable. She could not imagine 
herself talking with him for long on any other 
subject, save, perhaps, the politics of the nation 
— ^which, in truth, rather bored her. As for 
small talk she would as readily have thought 
of inflicting the Almighty in her prayers. 
Nor was it often they drifted into personalities or the human problems. One day, however, he did ask her tentatively if she did not 
think that divorce was justifiable in certain circumstances. 
She merely stared at him in horror. 
"Well, there is your erstwhile friend, Sibyl 
Geary. She fell in love with another man, her 
husband was a sot, she got her divorce without 
legal opposition, and married Forbes — finest 
kind of fellow." 
"Divorce is against the canons of Church and 
 
Society. No woman should break her solemn 
vows, no matter what her provocation. Look 
at Maria Groome. Do you think she would 
divorce Alexander? She has provocation 
enough." 
"You are both High Church, but all women 
are not. Mrs. Geary is a mere Presbyterian. And at least she is as happy as she was 
wretched before." 
"No woman can be happy who has lost the 
respect of Society." 
" I thought you were bored with Society."
" Yes, but it is mine to have. Being bored 
is quite different from being cast out like a 
pariah." 
" Oh! And you think love a poor substitute ? " 
"Love, of course, is the most wonderful 
thing in the world. (She might be talking of 
maternal or filial love, thought Masters.) 
But it must have the sanction of one's principles, 
one's creed and one's traditions. Otherwise, 
it weighs nothing in the balance." 
" You are a delectable little Puritan," said 
Masters with a laugh that was not wholly 
mirthful. " I shall now read you Tennyson's 
 
* Maud,' as you approve of sentiment, at 
least. Tennyson will never cause the downfall 
of any woman, but if you ever see lightning on 
the horizon don't read 'The Statue and the 
Bust ' with the battery therof ." 
XIV 
WHEN people returned to town they 
were astonished at the change in 
Madeleine Talbot, especially after a summer in 
the duty that would have "torn their own 
nerves out by the roots.'' More than one had 
wondered anxiously if she were going into the 
decline so common in those days. They had 
known the cause of the broken spring, but none 
save the incurably sanguine opined that Howard Talbot had mended it. But mended it was 
and her eyes had never sparkled so gaily, nor 
her laugh rung so lightly since her first winter 
among them. Mrs. McLane suggested charitably that her tedium vitae had run its course 
and she was become a philosopher. 
But Madeleine reviva did not suggest the 
philosopher to the most charitable eye (not 
even to Mrs. McLane's), particularly as there 
was a "something'' about her — was it repressed excitement ? — which had been quite 
absent from her old self, however vivacious 
 
It was Mrs. Abbott, a lady of unquenchable 
virtue, whose tongue was more feared than that 
of any woman in San Francisco, who first verbalized what every friend of Madeleine's secretly wondered: Was there a man in the case ? 
Many loyally cried. Impossible. Madeleine 
was above suspicion. Above suspicion, yes. 
No one would accuse her of a liaison. But who 
was she or any other neglected young wife to 
be above falling in love if some fascinating 
creature laid siege? Love dammed up was 
apt to spring a leak in time, even if it did not 
overflow, and — well, it was known that water 
sought its level, even if it could not run uphill. 
Mrs. Abbott had lived for twenty years in San 
Francisco, and in New Orleans for thirty years 
before that, and she had seen a good many women in love in her time. This climate made 
a plaything of virtue. "Virtue — you said? 
— Precisely. She's not there or we'd see the 
signs of moral struggle, horror, in fact for 
she's not one to succumb easily. But mark my 
words, sh's on the way? 
That point settled, and it was Vastly interesting to believe it (Madeleine Talbot, of all 
people!), who was the man ? Duty to mundane affairs had kept many of the liveliest 
blades and prowling husbands in town all summer but Madeleine had known them all for 
three years or more. Besides, So and So was 
engaged to So and So, and So and So quite 
reprehensibly interested in Mrs. So and So. 
The young gentlemen were discreetly 
sounded, but their lack of anything deeper 
than friendly interest in the " loveliest of her 
sex'' was manifest. Husbands were ordered 
to retail the gossip of the Club, but exploded 
with fury when tactful pumping forced up the 
name of Madeleine Talbot. They were harridans, harpies, old-wives, infernal scandalmongers. If there was one completely blameless woman in San Francisco it was Howard 
Talbot's wife. 
No one thought of Langdon Masters. 
He appeared more rarely at dinners, and 
had never ventured in public with Madeleine 
even during the summer. When his acute 
news sense divined they were gossiping and 
speculating about her he took alarm and considered the wisdom of discontinuing his afternoon visits. But they had become as much a 
part of his life as his daily bread. Moreover, he 
 
could not withdraw without giving the reason 
and it was a more intimate subject than he cared 
to discuss with her. Whether he was in love 
with her or not was a question he deliberately 
refused to face. If the present were destroyed 
there was no future to take its place, and he 
purposed to live in his Fool's Paradise as long 
as he could. It was an excellent substitute for 
tragedy. 
But Society soon began to notice that she no 
longer honored kettledrums or the more 
formal afternoon receptions with her presence, 
and her calls were few and late. When atten- 
tive friends called on her she was "out.'' 
The clerk at the desk had been asked to protect her, as she "must rest in the afternoon." 
He suspected nothing and her word was his 
law. 
When quizzed, Madeleine replied laughingly that she could keep her restored health 
only by curtailing her social activities; but she 
blushed, for lying came hardly. As calling was 
a serious business in San Francisco, she compromised by the ancient clearing-house device 
of an occasional large " At Home," besides her 
usual dinners and luncheons. When Masters 
 
was a dinner guest he paid her only the polite 
attentions due a hostess and flirted elaborately 
with the prettiest of the women. Madeleine, 
who was unconscious of the gossip, was sometimes a Ihtle hurt, and when he avoided her at 
other functions and was far too attentive to 
Sally Ballinger, or Annette McLane, a beautiful girl just out, she had an odd palpitation and 
wondered what ailed her. Jealous ? Well, 
perhaps. Friends of the same sex were often 
jealous. Had not Sally been jealous at one 
time of poor Sibyl Geary ? And Masters was 
the most complete friend a woman ever had. 
She thought sadly that perhaps he had enough 
of her in the afternoon and welcomed a change. 
Well, that was natural enough. She found 
herself enjoying the society of other bright 
men at dinners, now that life was fair again. 
Nevertheless, she experienced a sensation of 
fright now and again, and not because she 
feared to lose him. 
XV 
THERE is nothing so carking as the pangs 
of unsatisfied curiosity. They may not 
cause the acute distress of love and hate, but 
no tooth ever ached more incessantly nor more 
insistently demanded relief. That doughty 
warrior, Mrs. Abbott, in her own homely language determined to take the bull by the horns. 
She sailed into the Occidental Hotel one afternoon and up the stairs without pausing at the 
desk. The clerk gave her a cursory glance. 
Mrs. Abbott went where she listed, and, moreover, was obviously expected. 
When she reached the Talbot parlor she 
halted a moment, and then knocked loudly. 
Madeleine, who often received parcels, innocently invited entrance. Mrs. Abbott promptly 
accepted the invitation and walked in upon 
Masters and his hostess seated before the fire. 
The former had a book in his hand, and, judging from the murmur that had penetrated 
her applied ear before announcing herself, had 
been reading aloud. (" As cozy as two bugs in 
a rug/' she told her friends afterward.) 
" Oh, Mrs. Abbott! How kind of you! '' 
Madeleine was annoyed to find herself blushing, but she kept her head and entered into no 
explanation. Masters, with his most politely 
aloof air, handed the smiling guest to the sof a, 
and as she immediately announced that the 
room was too warm for her, Madeleine removed her dolman. Mrs. Abbott as ever was 
clad in righteous black satin trimmed with bu- 
gles and fringe, and a small flat bonnet whose 
strings indifferently supported her chins. She 
fixed her sharp small eyes immediately on 
Madeleine's beautiful house gown of nile 
green camePs hair, made with her usual sweeping lines and without trimming of any sort. 
" Charming — charming — and so becoming 
with that lovely color you have. New York, I 
suppose — •' 
" Oh, no, a seamstress made it. You must 
let me get you cake and a glass of wine." The 
imwilling hostess crossed over to the hospitable 
cupboard and Mrs. Abbott amiably accepted a 
glass of port, the while her eyes could hardly 
tear themselves from the books on the table by 
the fire. There were at least a dozen of them 
and her astute old mind leapt straight at the 
truth. 
" I thought you had given all your books to 
the Mercantile Library," she remarked wonderingly. " We all thought it so hard on you, but 
Howard is set in his ways, poor old thing. 
He was much too old for you anyhow. I always said so. But I see he has relented. Have 
you been patronizing C. Beach ? Nice little 
book store. I go there myself at Christmas 
time — get a set in nice bindings for one of the 
children every year." 
" Oh, these are borrowed,'' said Madeleine 
lightly. " Mr. Masters has been kind enough 
to lend them to me." 
" Oh — h — h, naughty puss! What would 
Howard say if he found you out? " 
Masters, who stood on the hearth rug, looked 
down at her with an expression, which, she afterward confessed, sent shivers up her spine. 
"Talbot is a great friend of mine," he said 
with deliberate emphasis, "and not likely to 
object to his wife's sharing my library." 
" Don't be too sure. The whole town knows 
that Howard detests bluestockings and would 
 
rather his wife had a good honest flirtation 
than stuffed her brains. . . . Pretty little 
