the first time I met one, and behold, he was an open-faced, laughing
lad, with apple cheeks and two most beautiful rows of even white
teeth that gleamed at you!
“Fellow-worker Carpenter!” he cried; and caught the prophet by his
two hands. “You are an old friend of ours, though you may not know
it! We drink a toast to you in our jungles.”
“Is that so?” said Carpenter.
“I suppose I really have no right to see you,” continued the other,
“because I’m shadowed all the time, and you know my organization is
outlawed.”
“Why is it outlawed?”
“Well,” said Colver, “they say we burn crops and barns, and drive
copper-nails into fruit-trees, and spikes into sawmill lumber.”
“And do you do that?”
Colver laughed his merry laugh. “We do it just as often as you act
for the movies, Fellow-worker Carpenter!”
“I see,” said Carpenter. “What do you really do?”
“What we really do is to organize the unskilled workers.”
“For what do you organize them?”
“So that they will be able to run the industries when the system of
greed breaks down of its own rottenness.”
“I see,” said the prophet, and he thought for a moment. “It is a
slave revolt!”
“Exactly,” said the other.
“I know what they do to slave revolts, my brother. You are fortunate
if they only send you to prison.”
“They do plenty more than that,” said Colver. “I will give you our
pamphlet, ‘Drops of Blood,’ and you may read about some of the
lynching and tarring and feathering and shooting of Mobland.” His
eyes twinkled. “That’s a dandy name you’ve hit on! I shall be
surprised if it doesn’t stick.”
Carpenter went on questioning, bent upon knowing about this outlaw
organization and its members. It was clear before long that he had
taken a fancy to young John Colver. He made him sit beside him, and
asked to hear some of his poetry, and when he found it really vivid
and beautiful, he put his arm about the young poet’s shoulders.
Again I found memories of old childhood phrases stirring in my mind.
Had there not once been a disciple named John, who was especially
beloved?
XLII
Presently the young agitator began telling about an investigation he
had been making in the lumber country of the Northwest. He was
writing a pamphlet on the subject of a massacre which had occurred
there. A mob of ex-soldiers had stormed the headquarters of the
“wobblies,” and the latter had defended themselves, and killed two
or three of their assailants. A news agency had sent out over the
country a story to the effect that the “wobblies” had made an
unprovoked assault upon the ex-soldiers. “That’s what the papers do
to us!” said John Colver. “There have been scores of mobbings as a
result, and just now it may be worth a man’s life to be caught
carrying a red card in any of these Western states.”
So there was the subject of non-resistance, and I sat and listened
with strangely mingled feelings of sympathy and repulsion, while
this group of rebels of all shades and varieties argued whether it
was really possible for the workers to get free without some kind of
force. Carpenter, it appeared, was the only one in the company who
believed it possible. The gentle Comrade Abell was obliged to admit
that the Socialists, in using political action, were really
resorting to force in a veiled form. They sought to take possession
of the state by voting; but the state was an instrument of force,
and would use force to carry out its will. “You are an anarchist!”
 said the Socialist lawyer, addressing Carpenter.
To my surprise Carpenter was not shocked by this.
“If I admit no power but love,” said he, “how can I have anything to
do with government?”
More visitors called, and were admitted, and presently the little
room was packed with people, and a regular meeting was in progress.
I heard more strange ideas than I had ever known existed in the
world. I tried not to be offended; but I thought there ought to be
at least a few words said for plain ordinary human beings who carry
no labels, so I ventured now and then to put in a mild
suggestion--for example, that there were quite a few people in the
world who did not love all their neighbors, and could not be
persuaded to love them all at once, and it might be necessary to put
just a little restraint upon them for a time. Again I suggested,
maybe the workers were not yet sufficiently educated to run the
industries, they might need some help from the present masters.
“Just a little more education,” I ventured--
And John Colver laughed, the first ugly laugh I had heard from him.
“Education by the masters? Education at the end of a club!”
“My boy,” I argued, “I know there are plenty of employers who are
rough, but there are others who are good men, who would like to
change the system, would like to do something, if they knew what it
was. But who will tell them what to do? Take me, for example. I have
a great deal of wealth which I have not earned; but what can I do
about it? What do you say, Mr. Carpenter?”
I turned to him, as the true authority; and the others also turned
to him. He answered, without hesitation: “Sell everything that you
have and give it to the unemployed.”
“But,” said I, “would that really solve the problem. They would
spend it, and we should be right where we were before.”
Said Carpenter: “They are unemployed because you have taken from
them wealth which you have not earned. Give it back to them.”
And then, seeing that I was not satisfied, he added: “How hard it is
for a rich man to understand the meaning of social justice! Indeed,
it would be easier for a strike leader to get the truth published in
your ‘Times’, than for a rich man to understand what the word social
justice means.”
The company laughed, and I subsided, and let the wave of
conversation roll by. It was only later that I realized the part I
had just been playing. It had been easy for me to recognize T-S as
St. Peter, but I had not known myself as that rich young man who had
asked for advice, and then rejected it. “When he heard this, he was
very sorrowful; for he was very rich.” Yes, I had found my place in
the story!
XLIII
You may believe that next morning my first thought was to get hold
of the “Times” and see what they had done to my prophet. Sure
enough, there he was on the front page, three columns wide, with the
customary streamer head:
MOB OF ANARCHISTS RAID ST. BARTHOLMEW’S
PROPHET AND RAGGED HORDE BREAK UP CHURCH SERVICES
I skimmed over the story quickly; I noted that Carpenter was
represented as having tried to knock down the Reverend Mr.
Simpkinson, and that the prophet’s followers had assaulted members
of the congregation. I confess to some relief upon discovering that
my own humble part in the adventure had not been mentioned. I
suspected that my Uncle Timothy must have been busy at the telephone
on Sunday evening! But then I turned to the “Examiner,” and alas,
there I was! “A certain rich young man,” rising up to protect an
incendiary prophet! I remembered that my Uncle Timothy had had a
violent row with the publisher of the “Examiner” a year or two ago,
over some political appointment!
The “Times” had another editorial, two columns, double leaded.
Yesterday the paper had warned the public what to expect; today it
saw the prophecies justified, and what it now wished to know was,
had Western City a police department, or had it not? “How much
longer do our authorities propose to give rein to this fire-brand
imposter? This prophet of God who rides about town in a broken-down
express-wagon, and consorts with movie actresses and red agitators!
Must the police wait until his seditious doctrines have fanned the
flames of mob violence beyond control? Must they wait until he has
gathered all the others of his ilk, the advocates of lunacy and
assassination about him, and caused an insurrection of class envy
and hate? We call upon the authorities of our city to act and act at
once; to put this wretched mountebank behind bars where he belongs,
and keep him there.”
There was another aspect of this matter upon which the “Times” laid
emphasis. After long efforts on the part of the Chamber of Commerce
and other civic organizations, Western City had been selected as the
place for the annual convention of the Mobland Brigade. In three
days this convention would be called to order, and already the
delegates were pouring in by every train. What impression would they
get of law and order in this community? Was this the purpose for
which they had shed their blood in a dreadful war--that their
country might be affronted by the ravings of an impious charlatan?
What had the gold-star mothers of Western City to say to this? What
did the local post of the Mobland Brigade propose to do to save the
fair name of their city? Said the “Times”: “If our supine
authorities refuse to meet this emergency, we believe there are
enough 100% Americans still among us to protect the cause of public
decency, and to assert the right of Christian people to worship
their God without interference from the Dictatorship of the Lunatic
Asylum.”
Now, I had been so much interested in Carpenter and his adventures
that I had pretty well overlooked this matter of the Mobland Brigade
and its convention. I belong to the Brigade myself, and ought to
have been serving on the committee of arrangements; instead of
which, here I was chasing around trying to save a prophet, who, it
appeared, really wanted to get into trouble! Yes, the Brigade was
coming; and I could foresee what would happen when a bunch of these
wild men encountered Carpenter’s express wagon on the street!
XLIV
I swallowed a hasty cup of coffee, and drove in a taxi to the Labor
Temple. Carpenter had said he would be there early in the morning,
to help with the relief work again. I went to the rooms of the
Restaurant Workers, and found that he had not yet arrived. I noticed
a group of half a dozen men standing near the door, and there seemed
something uncordial in the look they gave me. One of them came
toward me, the same who had sought my advice about permitting
Carpenter to speak at the mass meeting. “Good morning,” he said; and
then: “I thought you told me this fellow Carpenter was not a red?”
“Well,” said I, taken by surprise, “is he?”
“God Almighty!” said the other. “What do you call this?” And he held
up a copy of the “Times.” “Going in and shouting in the middle of a
church service, and trying to knock down a clergyman!”
I could not help laughing in the man’s face. “So even you labor men
believe what you read in the ‘Times’! It happens I was present in
the church myself, and I assure you that Carpenter offered no
resistance, and neither did anyone else in his group. You remember,
I told you he was a man of peace, and that was all I told you.”
“Well,” said the other, somewhat more mildly, “even so, we can’t
stand for this kind of thing. That’s no way to accomplish anything.
A whole lot of our members are Catholics, and what will they make of
carryings-on like this? We’re trying to persuade people that we’re a
law-abiding organization, and that our officials are men of sense.”
“I see,” said I. “And what do you mean to do about it?”
“We have called a meeting of our executive committee this morning,
and are going to adopt a resolution, making clear to the public that
we knew nothing about this church raid, and that we don’t stand for
such things. We would never have permitted this man Carpenter to
speak on our platform, if we had known about his ideas.”
I had nothing to say, and I said it. The other was watching me
uneasily. “We hear the man proposes to come back to our relief
kitchen. Is that so?”
“I believe he does; and I suppose you would rather he didn’t. Is
that it?” The other admitted that was it, and I laughed. “He has had
his thousand dollars worth of hospitality, I suppose.”
“Well, we don’t want to hurt his feelings,” said the other. “Of
gourse our members are having a hard time, and we were glad to get
the money, but it would be better if our central organization were
to contribute the funds, rather than to have us pay such a price as
this newspaper publicity.”
“Then let your committee vote the money, and return it to Mr. T-S,
and also to Mary Magna.”
It took the man sometime to figure out a reply to this proposition.
“We have no objection to Mr. T-S coming here,” he said, “or Miss
Magna either.”
“That is,” said I, “so long as they obey the law, and don’t get in
bad with the Western City ‘Times’!” After a moment I added, “You may
make your mind easy. I will go downstairs and wait for Mr.
Carpenter, and tell him he is not wanted.”
And so I left the Labor Temple and walked up and down on the
sidewalk in front. It was really rather unreasonable of me to be
annoyed with this labor man for having voiced the same point of view
of “common sense” which I had been defending to Carpenter’s group on
the previous evening. Also, I was obliged to admit to myself that if
I were a labor leader, trying to hold together a group of
half-educated men in the face of public sentiment such as existed in
this city, I might not have the same carefree, laughing attitude
towards life as a certain rich young man whose pockets were stuffed
with unearned increments.
To this mood of tolerance I had brought myself, when I saw a white
robe come round the corner, arm in arm with a frock coat of black
broadcloth. Also there came Everett, looking still more ghastly, his
nose and lip having become purple, and in places green. Also there
was Korwsky, and two other men; Moneta, a young Mexican cigarmaker
out of work, and a man named Hamby, who had turned up on the
previous evening, introducing himself as a pacifist who had been
arrested and beaten up during the war. Somehow he did not conform to
my idea of a pacifist, being a solid and rather stoutish fellow,
with nothing of the idealist about him. But Carpenter took him, as
he took everybody, without question or suspicion.
XLV
I joined the group, and made clear to them, as tactfully as I could,
that they were not wanted inside. Comrade Abell threw up his hands.
“Oh, those labor skates!” he cried. “Those miserable, cowardly,
grafting politicians! Thinking about nothing but keeping themselves
respectable, and holding on to their fat, comfortable salaries!”
“Vell, vat you expect?” cried Korwsky. “You git de verkin’ men into
politics, and den you blame dem fer bein’ politicians!”
“Nothing was said about returning the money, I suppose?” remarked
Everett, in a bitter tone.
“Something was said,” I replied. “I said it. I don’t think the money
will be returned.”
Then Carpenter spoke. “The money was given to feed the hungry,” said
he. “If it is used for that purpose, we can ask no more. And if men
set out to preach a new doctrine, how can they expect to be welcomed
at once? We have chosen to be outcasts, and must not complain. Let
us go to the jail. Perhaps that is the place for us.” So the little
group set out in a new direction.
On the way we talked about the labor movement, and what was the
matter with it. Comrade Abell said that Carpenter was right, the
fundamental trouble was that the workers were imbued with the
psychology of their masters. They would strike for this or that
improvement in their condition, and then go to the polls and vote
for the candidates of their masters. But Korwsky was more vehement;
he was an industrial unionist, and thought the present craft unions
worse than nothing.
Little groups of labor aristocrats, seking to benefit themselves at
the expense of the masses, the unorganized, unskilled workers and
the floating population of casual labor! That was why those “skates”
 at the Labor Temple has so little enthusiasm for Carpenter and his
doctrine of brotherhood! In this country where every man was trying
to climb up on the face of some other man!
Our little group had come out on Broadway. It attracted a good deal
of attention, and a number of curiosity seekers were beginning to
trail behind us. “We’ll get a crowd again, and Carpenter ‘ll be
making a speech,” I thought; and as usual I faced a moral conflict.
Should I stand by, or should I sneak away, and preserve the dignity
of my family?
Suddenly came a sound of music, fifes and drums. It burst on our
ears from round the corner, shrill and lively--“The Girl I Left
Behind Me.” Carpenter, who was directly in front of me, stopped
short, and seemed to shrink away from what was coming, until his
back was against the show-window of a department-store, and he could
shrink no further.
It was a company of ex-service men in uniform; one or two hundred,
carrying rifles with fixed bayonets which gleamed in the sunshine.
There were two fifers and two drummers at their head, and also two
flags, one the flag of the Brigade, and the other the flag of
Mobland. I remembered having noted in the morning papers that the
national commander of the brigade was to arrive in town this
morning, and no doubt this was a delegation to do him honor.
The marchers swept down on us, and past us, and I watched the
prophet. His eyes were wide, his whole face expressing anguish. “Oh
God, my Father!” he whispered, and seemed to quiver with each thud
of the tramping feet on the pavement. After the storm had passed, he
stood motionless, the pain still in his face “It is Rome! It is
Rome!” he murmured.
“No,” said I, “it is Mobland.”
He went on, as if he had not heard me. “Rome! Eternal Rome! Rome
that never dies!” And he turned upon me his startled eyes. “Even the
eagles!”
For a moment I was puzzled; but then I remembered the golden eagle
with wings outspread, that perches on top of our national banner.
“We only use one eagle,” I said, somewhat feebly.
To which he answered, “The soul of one eagle is the same as the soul
of two.”
Now, I had felt quite certain that Carpenter would not get along
