it was a riddle, and four-square besides. Back in 
the States young women did not o£Per to play the 
Good Samaritan to strange young fools whom Jawn 
D. Barleycorn had sent to the mat for the count of 
nine: unless the young fooFs daddy had a bundle of 
coin. Maybe the girl was telling the truth, and 
then again, maybe she wasn't. 
The situation bothered him considerably. Things 
happened frequently over here that wouldn't happen 
in the States once in a hundred years. Who could 
say that the two weren't in collusion? When a 
chap like Spurlock jumped the traces, cherchez la 
Jemme  every time. He hadn't gambled or played 
the horses or hit the booze back there in little old 
New York . . . 
"Aw, piffle!" he said, half aloud and rather dis- 
gustedly, as he stepped out into the sunshine. "My 
old coco is disintegrating. I've bumped into so much 
of the underside that I can't see clean any more. No 
girl with a face like that       . And yet, dang 
it! I've seen 'em just as innocent looking that were 
prime vipers. Let's get to Hong-Kong, James, and 
hit the high spots while there is time." 
He signalled to Ah Cum; and the two of them 
crossed on foot into the city. 
 
It was not until the morning of the fifth day that 
tlie constant vigil was broken. The patient fell 
into a natural and refreshing sleep. So Ruth found 
that for a while her eyes were free. She tiptoed to 
the stand and gathered up the manuscripts which 
she carried to a chair by the window. Since the dis- 
covery of them, she had been madly eager to read 
these typewritten tales. Treasure caves to explore! 
All through these trying days she had recurrently 
wondered what this strange young man would have 
to say that Dickens and Hugo had not already said. 
That was the true marvel of it. No matter how 
many books one read, each was di£Perent, as each 
human being was different. Some had the dignity 
and the aloofness of a rock in the sea; and others 
wereasthepolished pebbles on the sands — one saw the 
difference of pebble from pebble only by close scru- 
tiny. Ruth, without suspecting it, had fallen upon 
a fundamental truth: that each and every book fitted 
into the scheme of human moods and intelligence. 
Ruth was at that stage where the absorption of 
facts is great, but where the mental digestion is not 
quite equal to the task. She was acquiring truths, 
but in a series of shocks rather than by the process 
of analysis. 
There were seven tales in all — short stories —  a 
method of expression quite strange to her, after the 
immense canvases of Dickens and Hugo. When 
she had finished the first tale, there was a sense of 
disappointment. She had expected a love story; 
and love was totally absent. It was a tale of battle, 
murder, and sudden death on the New York water- 
front. Sordid; but that was not Ruth's term for it; 
she had no precise commentary to offer. 
From time to time she would come upon a line of 
singular beauty or a paragraph full of haunting 
music; and these would send her rushing on for 
something that never happened. Each manuscript 
was like the other: the same lovely treatment of an 
imlovely subject. Abruptly would come the end. 
It was as if she had come upon the beautiful marble 
facade of a fairy palace, was invited to enter, and 
behind the door —  nothing. 
She did not realize that she was offering criticisms. 
The word "criticism" had no concrete meaning to her 
then; no more than "compromise." Some innate 
sense of balance told her that something was wrong 
with these tales. She could not explain in words why 
they disappointed her or that she was disappointed. 
Two hours had come and gone during this tan- 
talizing occupation. At the least, the tales had the 
ability to make her forget where she was; which was 
something in their favour. 
"My coat!" 
Ruth did not move but stared astonishedly at the 
patient. 
"My coat!" he repeated, his glance burning into 
hers. 
CHAPTER XI 
THE second call energized her into action. 
She dropped the manuscripts and swiftly 
brought the coat to him, noting that a button 
hung loose. Later, she would sew it on. 
"What is it you want?'' she asked, as she held 
out the coat. 
"Fold it under the pillow." 
This she did carefully, but inwardly commenting 
that he was still in the realm of strange fancies. 
Wanting his coat, when he must have known that 
the pockets were empty ! But the effort to talk had 
cost him something. The performance over, he re- 
laxed and closed his eyes. Even as she watched, 
the sweat of weakness began to form on his forehead 
and under the nether lip. She wet some absorbent 
cotton with alcohol and refreshed his face and neck. 
This done, she waited at the side of the bed; but he 
gave no sign that he was conscious of her nearness. 
The poor boy, wanting his empty coat! The in- 
cident, however, caused her to review the recent 
events. It was now evident that he had not been 
normal that first day. Perhaps he had had money 
in the coat, back in Hong-Kong, and had been rob- 
bed without knowing it. Perhaps these few words 
were the first real conscious words he had uttered 
in days. His letter of credit; probably that was it; 
and, observing the strangeness of the room he was in, 
his first concern on returning to consciousness would 
naturally relate to his letter of credit. How would 
he act when he learned that it had vanished? 
She gathered up the manuscripts and restored 
them to the envelope. This she put into the trunk. 
She noticed that this trunk was not littered with 
hotel labels. These little squares of coloured paper 
interested her mightily —  hotel labels. She was for 
ever scanning luggage and finding her way about the 
world, via these miniature pictures. London, Paris, 
Rome! There were no hotel labels on the patient's 
trunk, but there were ship labels; and by these she 
was able to reconstruct the journey : from New York 
to Naples, thence to Alexandria; from Port Said to 
Colombo; from Colombo to Bombay; from Calcutta 
to Rangoon, thence down to Singapore; from Singa- 
pore to Hong-Kong. The great world outside ! 
She stood motionless beside the trunk, deep in 
speculation; and thus the doctor found her. 
"Well?'' he whispered. 
"I beheve he is conscious," she answered. "He 
just asked for his coat, which he wanted under his 
pillow." 
"Conscious; well, that's good news. He'll be 
able to help us a little now. I hope that some day 
he'll understand how much he owes you." 
 
 'Oh, that!" she said, with a deprecating gesture. 
''Miss Enschede, you're seven kinds of a brick!" 
"A brick?" 
He chuckled.   I forgot. That's slang, meaning 
you're splendid." 
"I begin to see that I shall have to learn English 
all over again." 
"You have always spoken it?" 
"Yes; except for some native. I wasn't taught 
that; I simply fell into it from contact." 
" I see. So he's come around, then? That's fine." 
He approached the bed and laid his palm on the 
patient's forehead, and nodded. Then he took the 
pulse. 
"He will pull through?" 
"Positively. But the big job for you is yet to 
come. When he begins to notice things, I want you 
to trap his interest, to amuse him, keep his thoughts 
from reverting to his misfortunes." 
"Then he has been unfortunate?" 
"That's patent enough. He's had a hard knock 
somewhere; and until he is strong enough to walk, 
we must keep his interest away from that thought. 
After that, we'll go our several ways." 
" What makes you think he has had a hard knock? " 
"I'm a doctor, young lady." 
"You're fine, too. I doubt if you will receive 
anything for your trouble." 
"Oh, yes I will. The satisfaction of cheating 
Death again. You've been a great help these five 
days; for he had to have attendance constantly, and 
neither Wu nor I could have given that. And yet, 
when you offered to help, it was what is to come 
that I had in mind ' 
"To make him forget the knock?" 
"Precisely. I'm going to be frank; we must have 
a clear understanding. Can you afford to give this 
time? There are your own affairs to think of.' 
There's no hurry.' 
And money? 
"I'll have plenty, if I'm careful." 
"It has done me a whole lot of good to meet you. 
Over here a man quickly loses faith, and I find my- 
self back on solid ground once more. Is there any- 
thing you'd like?" 
"Books." 
"What kind?" 
"Dickens, Hugo." 
"I'll bring you an armful this afternoon. I've 
a lot of old magazines, too. There are a thousand 
questions I'd like to ask you, but I sha'n't ask them." 
"Ask them, all of them, and I will gladly answer. 
I mystify you; I can see that. Well, whenever you 
say, I promise to do away with the mystery." 
"All right. I'll call for you this afternoon when 
Wu is on. I'll show you the Sha-mien; and we can 
talk all we want." 
"I was never going to tell anybody," she added. 
 
' But you are a good man, and you'll understand. 
I believed I was strong enough to go on in silence; 
but Tm human like everybody else. To tell some- 
one who is kind and who will understand ! " 
"There, there!'' he said. There was a hint of 
tears in her voice. "That's all right. We'll get 
together this afternoon; and you can pretend that I 
am your father." 
"No! I have run away from my father. I shall 
never go back to him; never, never!" 
Distressed, embarrassed beyond measure by this 
unexpected tragic revelation, the doctor puttered 
about among the bottles on the stand. 
"We're forgetting," he said. "We mustn't dis- 
tiwb the patient. I'll call for you after lunch." 
"I'm sorry." 
She began to prepare the room for Wu's coming, 
while the doctor went downstairs. As he was leav- 
ing the hotel. Ah Cum stepped up to his side. 
"HowisMr. Taber?" 
"Begained consciousness this morning." 
Ah Cum nodded. "That is good." 
"You are interested?" 
"In a way, naturally. We are both graduates of 
Yale." 
"Ah! Did he tell you anything about himself?" 
"Aside from that, no. When will he be up?" 
"That depends. Perhaps in two or three weeks. 
Did he talk a httle when you took him into the city ? " 
"No. He appeared to be strangely uncommuiii- 
cative, though I tried to draw him out. He spoke 
only when he saw the sing-song girl he wanted to 
buy.'' 
"Why didn't you head him oflF, explain that it 
couldn't be done by a white man?" 
Ah Cum shrugged. "You are a physician; you 
know the vagaries of men in liquor. He was a 
stranger. I did not know how he would act if I 
obstructed him." 
"We found all his pockets empty." 
"Then they were empty when he left," replied Ah 
Cum, with dignity. 
I was only commenting. Did he act to you that 
day as if he knew what he was doing? 
'' JL was uuiy uuimucutiug. ± iu uc 
" 
"Not all of the time." 
"A queer case;" and the doctor passed on. 
Ah Cum made a movement as though to follow, 
but reconsidered. The word of a Chinaman; he had 
given it, so he must abide. There was now no 
honest way of warning Taber that the net had been 
drawn. Of course, it was ridiculous, this inclina- 
tion to assist the fugitive, based as it was upon an 
intangible university idea. And yet, mulling it 
over, he began to understand why the white man 
was so powerful in the world : he was taught loyalty 
and fair play in his schools, and he carried this spirit 
into the world which his forebears had conquered. 
Suddenly Ah Cum laughed aloud. He, a China- 
 
# 
man, troubling himself over Occidental ideas ! With 
his hands in his sleeves, he proceeded on his way. 
Ruth and the doctor returned to the hotel at 
four. Both carried packages of books and maga- 
zines. There was an air of repressed gaiety in her 
actions : the sense of freedom had returned ; her heart 
was empty again. The burden of decision had been 
transferred. 
And because he knew it was a burden, there was 
no gaiety upon the doctor s face; neither was there 
speech on his tongue. He knew not how to act, 
urged as he was in two directions. It would be use- 
less to tell her to go back, even heartless; and yet he 
could not advise her to go on, blindly, not knowing 
whether her aunt was dead or alive. He was also 
aware that all his arguments would shatter them- 
selves against her resolutions. There was a strange 
quality of steel in this pretty creature. He under- 
stood now that it was a part of her inheritance. The 
father would be all steel. One point in her narra- 
tive stood out beyond all others. To an unthink- 
ing mind the episode would be ordinary, trivial; but 
to the doctor, who had had plenty of time to think 
during his sojourn in China, it was basic of the 
child's unhappiness. A dozen words, and he saw 
Enschede as clearly as though he stood hard by in 
the flesh. 
To preach a fine sermon every Sunday so that he 
would lose neither the art nor the impulse; and this 
child, in secret rebellion, taking it down in long hand 
during odd hours in the week! Preaching grandilo- 
quently before a few score natives who understood 
little beyond the gestures, for the single purpose of 
warding o£P disintegration ! It reminded the doctor 
of a stubborn retreat; from barricade, to barricade, 
grimly fighting to keep the enemy at bay, that in- 
sidious enemy of the white man in the South Seas — 
inertia. 
The drunken beachcombers; the one-sided edu- 
cation ; the utter lone ness of a white child without 
