of forest all around Clinch's----" Lannis half rose on one stirrup and,
with a comprehensive sweep of his muscular arm, ending in a flourish:
"--He bought everything for miles and miles. And that started Clinch
down hill. Harrod tried to force Clinch to sell. The millionaire tactics
you know. He was determined to oust him. Clinch got mad and wouldn't
sell at any price. Harrod kept on buying all around Clinch and posted
trespass notices. That meant ruin to Clinch. He was walled in. No
hunters care to be restricted. Clinch's little property was no good.
Business stopped. His stepdaughter's education became expensive. He was
in a bad way. Harrod offered him a big price. But Clinch turned ugly and
wouldn't budge. And that's how Clinch began to go wrong."
"Poor devil," said Stormont.
"Devil, all right. Poor, too. But he needed money. He was crazy to make
a lady of Eve Strayer. And there are ways of finding money, you know."
Stormont nodded.
"Well, Clinch found money in those ways. The Conservation Commissioner
in Albany began to hear about game law violations. The Revenue people
heard of rum-running. Clinch lost his guide's license. But nobody could
get the goods on him.
"There was a rough backwoods bunch always drifting about Clinch's place
in those days. There were fights. And not so many miles from Clinch's
there was highway robbery and a murder or two.
"Then the war came. The draft caught Clinch. Malone exempted him, he
being the sole support of his stepchild.
"But the girl volunteered. She got to France, somehow--scrubbed in a
hospital, I believe--anyway, Clinch wanted to be on the same side of
the world she was on, and he went with a Forestry Regiment and cut trees
for railroad ties in southern France until the war ended and they sent
him home.
"Eve Strayer came back too. She's there now. You'll see her at dinner
time. She sticks to Clinch. He's a rat. He's up against the dry laws and
the game laws. Government enforcement agents, game protectors, State
Constabulary, all keep an eye on Clinch. Harrod's trespass signs fence
him in. He's like a rat in a trap. Yet Clinch makes money at law
breaking and nobody can catch him red-handed.
"He kills Harrod's deer. That's certain. I mean Harrod's nephew's deer.
Harrod's dead. Darragh's the young nephew's name. He's never been
here--he was in the army--in Russia--I don't know what became of
him--but he keeps up the Harrod preserve--game-wardens, patrols,
watchers, trespass signs and all."
Lannis finished his second cigarette, got back into his stirrups and,
gathering bridle, began leisurely to divide curb and snaffle.
"That's the layout, Jack," he said. "Yonder lies the Red Light district
of the North Woods. Mike Clinch is the brains of all the dirty work that
goes on. A floating population of crooks and bums--game violators,
boot-leggers, market hunters, pelt 'collectors,' rum-runners, hootch
makers, do his dirty work--and I guess there are some who'll stick you
up by starlight for a quarter and others who'll knock your block off for
a dollar.... And there's the girl, Eve Strayer. I don't get her at all,
except that she's loyal to Clinch.... And now you know what you ought
to know about this movie called 'Hell in the Woods.' And it's up to us
to keep a calm, impartial eye on the picture and try to follow the plot
they're acting out--if there is any."
Stormont said: "Thanks, Bill; I'm posted.... And I'm getting hungry,
too."
"I believe," said Lannis, "that you want to see that girl."
"I do," returned the other, laughing.
"Well, you'll see her. She's good to look at. But I don't get her at
all."
"Why?"
"Because she looks right and yet she lives at Clinch's with him and
his bunch of bums. Would you think a straight girl could stand it?"
"No man can tell what a straight girl can stand."
"Straight or crooked she stands for Mike Clinch," said Lannis, "and he's
a ratty customer."
"Maybe the girl is fond of him. It's natural."
"I guess it's that. But I don't see how any young girl can stomach the
life at Clinch's."
"It's a wonder what a decent woman will stand," observed Stormont.
"Ninety-nine per cent. of all wives ought to receive the D. S. O."
"Do you think we're so rotten?" inquired Lannis, smiling.
"Not so rotten. No. But any man knows what men are. And it's a wonder
women stick to us when they learn."
They laughed. Lannis glanced at his watch again.
"Well," he said, "I don't believe anybody has tipped off our man. It's
noon. Come on to dinner, Jack."
They cantered forward into the sunlit clearing. Star Pond lay ahead. On
its edge stood Clinch's.
III
Clinch, in his shirt sleeves, came out on the veranda. He had little
light grey eyes, close-clipped grey hair, and was clean shaven.
"How are you, Clinch," inquired Lannis affably.
"All right," replied Clinch; "you're the same, I hope."
"Trooper Stormont, Mr. Clinch," said Lannis in his genial way.
"Pleased to know you," said Clinch, level-eyed, unstirring.
The troopers dismounted. Both shook hands with Clinch. Then Lannis led
the way to the barn.
"We'll eat well," he remarked to his comrade. "Clinch cooks."
From the care of their horses they went to a pump to wash. One or two
rough looking men slouched out of the house and glanced at them.
"Hallo, Jake," said Lannis cheerily.
Jake Kloon grunted acknowledgment.
Lannis said in Stormont's ear: "Here she comes with towels. She's
pretty, isn't she?"
A young girl in pink gingham advanced toward them across the patch of
grass.
Lannis was very polite and presented Stormont. The girl handed them two
rough towels, glanced at Stormont again after the introduction, smiled
slightly.
"Dinner is ready," she said.
They dried their faces and followed her back to the house.
It was an unpainted building, partly of log. In the dining room half a
dozen men waited silently for food. Lannis saluted all, named his
comrade, and seated himself.
A delicious odour of johnny-cake pervaded the room. Presently Eve
Strayer appeared with the dinner.
There was dew on her pale forehead--the heat of the kitchen, no doubt.
The girl's thick, lustrous hair was brownish gold, and so twisted up
that it revealed her ears and a very white neck.
When she brought Stormont his dinner he caught her eyes a
moment--experienced a slight shock of pleasure at their intense
blue--the gentian-blue of the summer zenith at midday.
Lannis remained affable, even became jocose at moments:
"No hootch for dinner, Mike? How's that, now?"
"The Boot-leg Express is a day late," replied Clinch, with cold humour.
Around the table ran an odd sound--a company of catamounts feeding might
have made such a noise--if catamounts ever laugh.
"How's the fur market, Jake?" inquired Lannis, pouring gravy over his
mashed potato.
Kloon quoted prices with an oath.
A mean-visaged young man named Leverett complained of the price of
traps.
"What do you care?" inquired Lannis genially. "The other man pays. What
are you kicking about, anyway? It wasn't so long ago that muskrats were
ten cents."
The trooper's good-humoured intimation that Earl Leverett took fur in
other men's traps was not lost on the company. Leverett's fox visage
reddened; Jake Kloon, who had only one eye, glared at the State Trooper
but said nothing.
Clinch's pale gaze met the trooper's smiling one: "The jays and
squirrels talk too," he said slowly. "It don't mean anything. Only the
show-down counts."
"You're quite right, Clinch. The show-down is what we pay to see. But
talk is the tune the orchestra plays before the curtain rises."
Stormont had finished dinner. He heard a low, charming voice from behind
his chair:
"Apple pie, lemon pie, maple cake, berry roll."
He looked up into two gentian-blue eyes.
"Lemon pie, please," he said, blushing.
       
When dinner was over and the bare little dining room empty except for
Clinch and the two State Troopers, the former folded his heavy, powerful
hands on the table's edge and turned his square face and pale-eyed gaze
on Lannis.
"Spit it out," he said in a passionless voice.
Lannis crossed one knee over the other, lighted a cigarette:
"Is there a young fellow working for you named Hal Smith?"
"No," said Clinch.
"Sure?"
"Sure."
"Clinch," continued Lannis, "have you heard about a stick-up on the
wood-road out of Ghost Lake?"
"No."
"Well, a wealthy tourist from New York--a Mr. Sard, stopping at Ghost
Lake Inn--was held up and robbed last Saturday toward sundown."
"Never heard of him," said Clinch, calmly.
"The robber took four thousand dollars in bills and some private papers
from him."
"It's no skin off my shins," remarked Clinch.
"He's laid a complaint."
"Yes?"
"Have any strangers been here since Saturday evening?"
"No."
There was a pause.
"We heard you had a new man named Hal Smith working around your place."
"No."
"He came here Saturday night."
"Who says so?"
"A guide from Ghost Lake."
"He's a liar."
"You know," said Lannis, "it won't do you any good if hold-up men can
hide here and make a getaway."
"G'wan and search," said Clinch, calmly.
       
They searched the "hotel" from garret to cellar. They searched the barn,
boat-shed, out-houses.
While this was going on, Clinch went into the kitchen.
"Eve," he said coolly, "the State Troopers are after that fellow, Hal
Smith, who came here Saturday night. Where is he?"
"He went into Harrod's to get us a deer," she replied in a low voice.
"What has he done?"
"Stuck up a man on the Ghost Lake road. He ought to have told me. Do you
think you could meet up with him and tip him off?"
"He's hunting on Owl Marsh. I'll try."
"All right. Change your clothes and slip out the back door. And look out
for Harrod's patrols, too."
"All right, dad," she said. "If I have to be out to-night, don't worry.
I'll get word to Smith somehow."
Half an hour later Lannis and Stormont returned from a prowl around the
clearing. Lannis paid the reckoning; his comrade led out the horses. He
said again to Lannis:
"I'm sure it was the girl. She wore men's clothes and she went into the
woods on a run."
As they started to ride away, Lannis said to Clinch, who stood on the
veranda:
"It's still blue-jay and squirrel talk between us, Mike, but the
show-down is sure to come. Better go straight while the going's good."
"I go straight enough to suit me," said Clinch.
"But it's the Government that is to be suited, Mike. And if it gets you
right you'll be in dutch."
"Don't let that worry you," said Clinch.
       
About three o'clock the two State Troopers, riding at a walk, came to
the forks of the Ghost Lake road.
"Now," said Lannis to Stormont, "if you really believe you saw the girl
beat it out of the back door and take to the woods, she's probably
somewhere in there----" he pointed into the western forest. "But," he
added, "what's your idea in following her?"
"She wore men's clothes; she was in a hurry and trying to keep out of
sight. I wondered whether Clinch might have sent her to warn this
hold-up fellow."
"That's rather a long shot, isn't it?"
"Very long. I could go in and look about a bit, if you'll lead my
horse."
"All right. Take your bearings. This road runs west to Ghost Lake. We
sleep at the Inn there--if you mean to cross the woods on foot."
Stormont nodded, consulted his map and compass, pocketed both, unbuckled
his spurs.
When he was ready he gave his bridle to Lannis.
"I'd just like to see what she's up to," he remarked.
"All right. If you miss me come to the Inn," said Lannis, starting on
with the led horse.
       
The forest was open amid a big stand of white pine and hemlock, and
Stormont travelled easily and swiftly. He had struck a line by compass
that must cross the direction taken by Eve Strayer when she left
Clinch's. But it was a wild chance that he would ever run across her.
And probably he never would have if the man that she was looking for had
not fired a shot on the edge of that vast maze of stream, morass and
dead timber called Owl Marsh.
Far away in the open forest Stormont heard the shot and turned in that
direction.
But Eve already was very near when the young man who called himself Hal
Smith fired at one of Harrod's deer--a three-prong buck on the edge of
the dead water.
       
Smith had drawn and dressed the buck by the time the girl found him.
He was cleaning up when she arrived, squatting by the water's edge when
he heard her voice across the swale:
"Smith! The State Troopers are looking for you!"
He stood up, dried his hands on his breeches. The girl picked her way
across the bog, jumping from one tussock to the next.
When she told him what had happened he began to laugh.
"Did you really stick up this man?" she asked incredulously.
"I'm afraid I did, Eve," he replied, still laughing.
The girl's entire expression altered.
"So that's the sort you are," she said. "I thought you different. But
you're all a rotten lot----"
"Hold on," he interrupted, "what do you mean by that?"
"I mean that the only men who ever come to Star Pond are crooks," she
retorted bitterly. "I didn't believe you were. You look decent. But
you're as crooked as the rest of them--and it seems as if I--I couldn't
stand it--any longer----"
"If you think me so rotten, why did you run all the way from Clinch's to
warn me?" he asked curiously.
"I didn't do it for you; I did it for my father. They'll jail him if
they catch him hiding you. They've got it in for him. If they put him in
prison he'll die. He couldn't stand it. I know. And that's why I came
to find you and tell you to clear out----"
The distant crack of a dry stick checked her. The next instant she
picked up his rifle, seized his arm, and fairly dragged him into a
spruce thicket.
"Do you want to get my father into trouble!" she said fiercely.
The rocky flank of Star Peak bordered the marsh here.
"Come on," she whispered, jerking him along through the thicket and up
the rocks to a cleft--a hole in the sheer rock overhung by shaggy
hemlock.
"Get in there," she said breathlessly.
"Whoever comes," he protested, "will see the buck yonder, and will
certainly look in here----"
"Not if I go down there and take your medicine. Creep into that cave and
lie down."
"What do you intend to do?" he demanded, interested and amused.
"If it's one of Harrod's game-keepers," said the girl drily, "it only
means a summons and a fine for me. And if it's a State Trooper, who is
prowling in the woods yonder hunting crooks, he'll find nobody here but
a trespasser. Keep quiet. I'll stand him off."
IV
When State Trooper Stormont came out on the edge of Owl Marsh, the girl
was kneeling by the water, washing deer blood from her slender,
sun-tanned fingers.
"What are you doing here?" she enquired, looking up over her shoulder
with a slight smile.
"Just having a look around," he said pleasantly. "That's a nice fat buck
you have there."
"Yes, he's nice."
"You shot him?" asked Stormont.
"Who else do you suppose shot him?" she enquired, smilingly. She rinsed
her fingers again and stood up, swinging her arms to dry her hands,--a
lithe, grey-shirted figure in her boyish garments, straight, supple, and
strong.
"I saw you hurrying into the woods," said Stormont.
"Yes, I was in a hurry. We need meat."
"I didn't notice that you carried a rifle when I saw you leave the
house--by the back door."
"No; it was in the woods," she said indifferently.
"You have a hiding place for your rifle?"
"For other things, also," she said, letting her eyes of gentian-blue
rest on the young man.
"You seem to be very secretive."
