"Never said anything of the sort.  Didn't I tell you she always kept us
guessing?  I sometimes used to think that if it hadn't been for her
breeding and the standards that involves, and her wealth and position,
she'd have made a first-class adventuress."
"Was she a good liar?"
"She was insolently truthful, but I'm certain she wouldn't have
hesitated at a whopping lie if it would have served her purpose.  She
was certainly rusée."
"Well, the dinner should be highly interesting with all these
undercurrents.  I'll call for you at a quarter past eight.  I must run
now and do my column."
Clavering, often satirical and ironic, was positively brutal that
afternoon.  The latest play, book, moving picture, the inefficiency of
the New York police, his afflicting correspondents, were hacked to the
bone.  When he had finished, his jangling nerves were unaccountably
soothed.  Other nerves would shriek next morning.  Let 'em.  He'd been
honest enough, and if he chose to use a battle-axe instead of Toledo
steel that was his privilege.
He called down for a messenger boy and strolled to the window to soothe
his nerves still further.  Dusk had fallen.  Every window of the high
stone buildings surrounding Madison Square was an oblong of light.  It
was a symphony of gray and gold, of which he never tired.  It invested
business with romance and beauty.  The men behind those radiant panels,
thinking of nothing less, made their brief contribution to the beauty
of the world, transported the rapt spectator to a realm of pure
loveliness.
A light fall of snow lay on the grass and benches, the statues and
trees of the Square.  Motors were flashing and honking below and over
on Fifth Avenue.  The roar of the great city came up to him like a
flood over a broken dam.  Black masses were pouring toward the subways.
Life!  New York was the epitome of life.  He enjoyed forcing his way
through those moving masses, but it interested him even more to feel
above, aloof, as he did this evening.  Those tides swept on as
unconscious of the watchers so high above them as of the soaring beauty
of the Metropolitan Tower.  Ground hogs, most of them, but part of the
ever changing, ever fascinating, metropolitan pageant.
The arcade of Madison Square Garden was already packed with men and he
knew that a triple line reached down Twenty-sixth Street to Fourth
Avenue.  There was to be a prize fight tonight and the men had stood
there since noon, buying apples and peanuts from peddlers.  This was
Tuesday and there was no half-holiday.  These men appeared to have
unbounded leisure while the rest of the city toiled or demanded work.
But they were always warmly dressed and indubitably well-fed.  They
belonged to what is vaguely known as the sporting fraternity, and were
invariably in funds, although they must have existed with the minimum
of work.  The army of unemployed was hardly larger and certainly no
bread line was ever half as long.  Mounted police rode up and down to
avert any anticipation of the night's battle.  A loud barking murmur
rose and mingled with the roar of the avenues.
The great clock of the Metropolitan Tower began to play those sad and
sweetly ominous notes preliminary to booming out the hour.  They always
reminded him of the warning bell on a wild and rocky coast, with
something of the Lorelei in its cadences: like a heartless woman's
subtle allure, poignantly difficult to resist.
There was a knock on the door.  Clavering gave his daily stint to the
messenger boy.  He was hunting for change, when he recaptured his
column, sat down at his desk, and, running it over hastily, inserted
the word "authentic."  New York must have its Word, even as its topic.
"Authentic," loosed upon the world by Arnold Bennett, was the rage at
present.  The little writers hardly dared use it.  It was, as it were,
the trademark of the Sophisticates.
The boy, superior, indifferent, and chewing gum, accepted his tip and
departed.  Clavering returned to the window.  Gone was the symphony of
gold and gray.  The buildings surrounding the Square were a dark and
formless mass in the heavy dusk.  Only the street lights below shone
like globular phosphorescence on a dark and turbulent sea.
Two hours later he left his hotel and walked up Madison Avenue.
Twenty-sixth Street was deserted and as littered with papers, peanut
shells, and various other debris as a picnic train.  The mounted police
had disappeared.  From the great building came the first roar of the
thousands assembled, whether in approval or the reverse it would be
difficult to determine.  They roared upon the slightest pretext and
they would roar steadily until half-past ten or eleven, when they would
burst out of every exit, rending the night with their yells, while a
congested mass of motors and taxi-cabs shrieked and honked and squealed
and coughed; and then abruptly the silence of death would fall upon
what is now a business quarter where only an occasional hotel or little
old brownstone house--sole reminder of a vanished past when Madison
Square was the centre of fashion--lingered between the towering masses
of concrete and steel.
IX
When Clavering and Dinwiddie arrived at the Ogden house Judge Trent was
already there and mixing cocktails in the library.  He was a large man
who must have had a superb figure before it grew heavy.  He wore the
moustache of his generation and in common with what was left of his hair
it glistened like crystal.  His black eyes were still very bright and his
full loose mouth wore the slight smirk peculiar to old men whose sex
vanity perishes only in the grave.  Beside him stood a man some ten years
younger who was in the graying period, which gave him a somewhat dried
and dusty look; but whose figure was still slender and whose hard
outlines of face were as yet unblurred by flesh.  They were, of course,
faultlessly groomed, but if met in the wilds of Africa, clad in rags and
bearded like the jungle, to the initiate they still would have been New
Yorkers.
"Come in!  Come in!" cried the Judge heartily.  "Madame Zattiany will be
down in a minute--she prefers to be called Madame Zattiany, by the way.
Thinks titles in America are absurd unless wearers were born to
them--more particularly since continental titles today are worth about as
much as rubles and marks. . . .  Mr. Clavering, you know Mr. Osborne?
Madame Zattiany kindly permitted me to bring him as she was having a
little party.  Families old friends."
Clavering placed two fingers in the limp hand extended and met the cold
appraising eye calmly.  The New York assumption that all other Americans
are rank outsiders, that, in short, not to have been born in New York is
a social and irremediable crime, had often annoyed him but never caused
him to feel the slightest sense of inferiority.  He had his own
ancestors, as important in their day as any bewigged old Dutchmen--all of
whom, he reminded himself, had been but honest burghers in Holland.  But
he admired their consistency.  The rest of the country had been
commenting bitterly on the New York attitude since the eighteenth
century.  And when you got under their protective armor they were an
honorable and a loyal lot.  Meanwhile it paid to be as rude as themselves.
"I am delighted that Madame Zattiany has decided to come out of her shell
at last," said Judge Trent, shaking vigorously.  "I've been urging it for
some time.  But she has had a long and harrowing experience, and seemed
to want only to rest.  I think the stir she made at your first-nights,
Clavering, had something to do with it.  There was a time, you know, when
she never appeared without making a sensation--like poor Mary before
her--but young as she is all that seems almost too remote to recall.  Of
course if she had been able to live in London or Paris after the war it
would have been different, but she was stuck in Buda Pesth and
Vienna--ah!"
Madame Zattiany had entered the room.  She wore pale green chiffon with
floating sleeves that left her arms bare.  In the subdued light she
looked like a girl playing at Undine.
Clavering heard Dinwiddie give a sharp hiss.  "Gad!  More like Mary than
ever.  Nile-green was her favorite color."
She greeted the Judge and Clavering with her slight flickering smile and
then turned to the other two men.
"This must be Mr. Osborne, as Judge Trent pointed out Mr. Dinwiddie to me
one day on Fifth Avenue.  It was kind of you both to come in this
informal manner.  I appreciate it very much."
Her manner was a little like that of a princess giving audience,
Clavering reflected, a manner enhanced by her slight accent and profound
repose, the negligent lifting of her hand to be kissed; and as she stood
graciously accepting their expressions of unhoped for felicity she looked
less American, more European, than ever.  But Clavering wondered for the
first time if that perfect repose were merely the expression of a
profound indifference, almost apathy . . . but no, she was too young for
that, however the war may have seared her; and she was smiling
spontaneously, there was a genuine note of pleasure in her voice as she
turned to him.
"It was more than kind of you to watch my house until the policeman
came," she said on a lower key.  "I was really alarmed when I remembered
that broken window and all those dreadful stories in the newspapers.  But
you kept watch beneath my windows like a preux chevalier and I felt
safe."
"I felt rather a fool if the truth be told."  Her eyes had a curious
exploring look and Clavering felt unaccountably irritated, in spite of
all that her words implied.  "I'd have done the same if you had been old
and withered.  Served me right.  I should have thought before I left the
house to telephone for a watchman."
"Ah!  Quite so.  American men are famous for their gallantry, are they
not?  Myself, I have always liked them."  The smile rose to her wise
penetrating eyes, and Clavering colored like a schoolboy.  Then it faded
and her face looked suddenly rigid.  "I wonder," she muttered, then
turned her back abruptly.  "You must not forget your cocktail.  And
dinner has been announced."
Mr. Dinwiddie made a pretext of sipping his cocktail as the three raised
their glasses simultaneously to their hostess.  She had declined to join
them, with a little grimace.  "Perhaps in time I may become American
enough to like your strange concoctions, but so far I think cocktails
have a really horrid taste.  Shall we go in?"
The Judge offered his arm with the formal gallant air he could assume at
will and the other men followed at a discreet distance: her shimmering
gown had a long tail.  Mr. Dinwiddie's eyes seemed to bore into that
graceful swaying back, but he was not the man to discuss his hostess
until he had left her house, and Clavering could only wonder what
conclusions were forming in that avid cynical old brain.
The dining-room, long and narrow, was at the back of the hall and
extended along the entire width of the large house.  Like the hall it was
panelled and dark, an imposing room hung with family portraits.  A small
table at the end looked like a fairy oasis.  It glittered and gleamed and
the flowers were mauve, matching the tall wand-like candles.
"I do hope, Madame Zattiany," said Mr. Osborne, as he took a seat at her
left, "that you won't succumb to the prevailing mania for white, and
paint out this beautiful old walnut.  Too many of our houses look
entirely too sanitary.  One feels as if he were about to be shown up to a
ward, to be received by a hospital nurse with a warning not to speak too
loud."  There was no chill formality in his mien as he bent over his
young and beautiful hostess.
"Ah, you forget this is Countess Zattiany's house," she said, smiling.
"But I will admit that if it were mine I should make few changes.  White
was quite à la mode in London long before the war, but, myself, I never
liked it."
Judge Trent sat opposite his hostess at the round table.  She had placed
Mr. Dinwiddie and Mr. Osborne on either side of her, smiling at
Clavering.  "I am sorry I do not know any young ladies," she said
graciously, although there was a twinkle in her eye.  "You look rather
lonesome."
"Why should he?" growled Dinwiddie.  "He is young and you are young.  The
rest of us are the ones to feel out of it."
"Not a bit of it!  Not a bit of it!" exclaimed Judge Trent.  "You forget
that Madame Zattiany has lived in Europe since infancy.  She's talked to
elderly statesmen all her life."
"Well, we're not statesmen, the lord knows."  Dinwiddie could always be
relied on to make the obvious retort, thought Clavering, although it must
be admitted that he was seldom with none at all.  "But you must have seen
more young men than old during the war, Madame Zattiany.  I understand
that Mary turned her palace in Buda Pesth into a hospital and that you
were her chief assistant."
"That is quite true, and I had by no means confined myself before that to
elderly statesmen; but I had almost forgotten what a young man on his
feet looked like before the war finished.  Or Society, for that matter.
My one temptation to enter Society here would be the hope of forming a
relief organization--drive, do you call it?--for the starving children of
Austria.  Russian children are not the only pitiable objects in Europe,
and after all, the children of civilized countries are of more value to
the future of the world."
"Another drive!" Judge Trent groaned.  "New York flees to cover at the
word.  Enter Society by all means, but to give your youth its rights.
You have been deprived of them too long."
"I shall never feel as young as that again.  Nor will any girl who was
merely sixteen at the beginning of the war ever be the same as your
care-free young ladies here.  I sit in the restaurants and watch them
with amazement--often with anger.  What right have they . . .
however . . . as for myself I shall not reenter the world for any but the
object I have just mentioned.  Luncheons!  Dinners!  Balls!  I was
surfeited before the war.  And I have forgotten persiflage, small talk.
I am told that Americans avoid serious topics in Society.  I, alas, have
become very serious."
She swept her favored guests with a disarming smile.  They understood.
There was no sting in her words for them.
Clavering spoke up eagerly.  "Why should you bore yourself with social
functions?  If you want to raise money for the children I will not only
start a drive in my column but take you to call on several powerful
editors--or bring them here," he added hastily at the look of amazement
in her eyes, "and they will be more than willing to help you.  They have
only to meet you----"
"That is all very well," interrupted Judge Trent, who, like the other
elderly gentlemen, was glaring at the famous young columnist who daily
laid down the law to his admiring readers.  "But to raise money in large
amounts you've got to have a committee, and no committee is of any
use--for this sort of thing--without the names of fashionable women who
are as well known to our democratic public, that daily devours the
society columns, as the queens of the movies."
"Well--well--I do not know.  I must think.  It is not a step to take
lightly."
Clavering intercepted a flash between her eyes and Judge Trent's and the
old gentleman tightened his lips in a self-conscious smirk as he bent
over his fish.
"Damn him!" thought Clavering.  "He knows the whole truth and is laughing
at us in his sleeve."
Madame Zattiany had turned the subject gracefully to European politics,
and he watched her with a detached air.  Trent's attitude toward her
amused him.  It was more deferential and admiring than infatuated. . . .
Whatever her charm, she was no longer in her first youth, and only unripe
fruit could sting that senescent palate.  But the other two!  Clavering
smiled sardonically.  Dinwiddie, hanging on her every word, was hardly
eating.  He was a very handsome man, in spite of his shining pate and
heavy white moustache.  His features were fine and regular, his eyes, if
rather prominent, were clear and blue, his skin clean, and his figure but
little amplified.  He was only sixty-two.
Osborne, who looked barely fifty, was personable and clever enough to
attract any woman.  He, too, was astonishingly indifferent to the
excellent dinner, and both these gentlemen had reached an age, where, if
wary of excess for reasons of vanity and interior comfort, they derived
their sincerest enjoyment at the table.
That she possessed sex magnetism in a superlative degree in spite of her
deliberate aloofness, Clavering had, of course, been conscious from the
first.  Had not every male first-nighter been conscious of it?  There was
a surfeit of beauty in New York.  A stranger, even if invested with
mystery, must possess the one irresistible magnet, combined with some
unusual quality of looks, to capture and hold the interest of weary New
Yorkers as she had done.  Even the dramatic critics, who looked as if
they hated everybody, had been seen to gaze upon her with rare approval.
But tonight Clavering had a glimpse of something more than a magnetism
for which she was not responsible and to which she had seemed singularly
indifferent.  It was quite evident that he was watching charm in action.
She was sparkling and exerting herself, talking brilliantly and
illuminatingly upon the chaos still known as Europe, and it was patent
that her knowledge was not derived from newspapers or drawing-room
gossip.  Her personal acquaintance of public men had evidently been
extensive before the war, and she had as manifestly continued to see
those in and out of office in Vienna and Buda Pesth throughout all the
later fluctuations.  Her detestation of the old German militaristic party
was unmitigated and she spoke of the late ruler of the Dual Empire and of
his yearning heir with no respect whatever.  With other intelligent
people she believed Bolshevism to be an inevitable phase in a country as
backward and ignorant as Russia, but, to his surprise, she regarded the
Republican ideal of government as the highest that had yet been evolved
from finite minds, still far from their last and highest stages of
development.  She believed that the only hope of the present civilization
was to avert at any cost the successful rise of the proletariat to power
until the governing and employing classes had learned sufficient wisdom
to conciliate it and treat it with the same impartial justice they now
reserved for themselves.  ("And to educate themselves along the lines
laid down in 'The Mind in the Making,'" interpolated Clavering.)
Otherwise any victory the masses might achieve would be followed by the
same hideous results as in Russia--in other words, the same results that
had followed all servile uprisings since the dawn of history.  When the
underdog, who has never felt anything but an underdog, with all the
misery and black injustice the word implies, finds himself on top he will
inevitably torture and murder his former oppressors.  He hasn't the
intelligence to foresee the ultimate folly of his acts, or that the only
hope of the world is equal justice for all classes; he merely gratifies
his primitive instinct for vengeance--precisely the same today, as during
the first servile uprising of Rome--he butchers and slaughters and
wrecks, and then sinks with his own weight, while what brains are left
reconstruct civilization out of the ruins.  "The trouble is that the
