day in the light wagon. She was to have Aunt 
Euth's sleeping apartment. The crimson room with 
the bay-window had fallen into ordinary use as a 
sitting-room, and Kathie sewed, studied, and had all 
her fancy-work here. Not a nook or corner but spoke 
of Aunt Euth. 
They had heard from the boys in the mean while, 
who had reached their destination safely, and, if one 
could judge from the tenor of their letters, were well- 
nigh transformed into wild Indians themselves. Such 
rides over plains and prairies, such a scaling of 
mountains and hunting up of cascades and curious 
haunts and game of all kinds ! General Mackenzie 
was a most magnificent uncle, and Aunt Euth was a 
most lovely stepmother. Only if Kathie could be 
there ! 
She thought of them all as she was beautifying the 
room with flowers, and wondered a little if she could 
have given up such a pleasure for Ada's sake, feeling 
very glad that she had not been asked. 
" O, how cool and delightful ! >: Ada exclaimed. 
" What beautiful flowers ! There is an odd sweet 
home feeling about your house, after all." 
" I am glad you think so," Kathie said, pleased 
with the late praise. 
" Not but what they are very nice over at the 
Darrells'. It is quaint and old-fashioned, with their 
great rooms and low ceilings and heavy furniture. 
Sometimes I think " 
Ada paused so long that Kathie glanced shyly at 
her, and found her eyes filled with tears. 
" You are all very good," she said, in a tone that 
sounded cold and ungracious almost, and yet it was 
because her heart had been stirred to its very depths 
with a new and unwonted emotion. Love and grati- 
tude did not come to her naturally, and the first 
awakenings were a little constrained and awkward. 
Kathie went over to her presently, and kissed 
her quietly. Perhaps one great charm in her affec- 
tion was that it never overwhelmed, was never ob- 
trusive, but as simple and graceful as her own pure 
self. 
 
CHAPTEE VII. 
THE ENEMIES' TABES. 
" I WONDER what we shall do, or can do ? " Kathie 
said to her mother the next evening, in great per- 
plexity. 
It had been a long, quiet day. No one had " run 
in." Ada had rested and read and looked out of the 
windows. Kathie had gone up and down and in and 
out rather restlessly for her, sewed a little and tatted 
a little. 
" About what ? " asked her mother. 
" I want to try and entertain Ada, and I don't just 
know what to do. If Eob were home, or if all the 
larger girls were not away " 
" It seems to me the most necessary lesson for Ada 
to learn is to entertain herself." 
" But, mamma - 
" Not that you should be indifferent, my dear. Yet 
a great many of the loveliest li ves I have known were 
made up of common things and trifles. It cannot be 
 
one great holiday, and the quicker every one learns 
this the better." 
" But I am afraid Ada cannot understand." 
" You must not let your missionary work become 
a task and a burden. I cannot have my little girl's 
bright face grave and overclouded." 
" But, mamma, isn't it right that one should do 
everything for a friend, if one wanted to make her 
happier and ' " Better," Kathie was about to say, 
but paused, rather distrusting her own powers. 
" In one sense, yes ; in another, no. I am not sure 
that I can quite explain my meaning to you, so we 
will take Ada for an illustration. All her life she 
has been waited upon, amused, and had a constant 
variety in every respect. Eich people can nearly 
always do this, if they choose. It has made her en- 
tirely dependent upon others. Now she cannot have 
this constant ministering, and perhaps never will in 
her life again. Is it wise for all her friends to keep 
up the pretence ? " 
" But it isn't comfortable to feel that one is dull." 
" No. I should like to see you use all the means 
within your power, and though there are cases when 
we go out of our way and take upon ourselves a 
 
great deal of arduous perplexity, it does not seem to 
me that this is one of the instances where it can be 
rightly demanded. Ada has had very little come to 
interest her through the winter and spring, and I dare 
say it never occurred to her that she might go out 
and find something, use her own dormant energies 
instead of taxing other people. I think we know of 
one who made a little heaven below by her unselfish 
ways, when she had a great deal to suffer and no 
outside pleasures." 
" Oh ! Aunt Kuth," Kathie said, with a glad, bright 
