a vague idea of Greenfields. My drives have not 
been in that direction, and my walks mostly about 
Brentford." 
" It lies north-easterly, five or six miles. Green- 
fields is a sort of farming village that has hardly 
changed since my childhood. There's an old mill 
on the spur of the river. You take the road above 
it, half a mile or so. There is only one house 
between. If you like to ride out on Brown Bess, 
you would enjoy it wonderfully." 
" Thanks." 
Then Winchester lighted his lamp and began to 
read his paper. Olmstead's mind reverted to this 
episode, met in his last winter's work in New 
York. All that long life of threescore and ten 
had been devoted to money-getting. Here was a 
superior young life taking up the same aim, to the 
exclusion of all else. 
The soft summer darkness fell around. How 
quiet, fragrant, and peaceful it was out here ! 
Olmstead, who was no ascetic, wondered now and 
then what of the ills of life he should share with 
his brethren, as far-reaching, conscientious souls 
often do. 
He mounted brown Bess the next morning, 
and had a delightful gallop through country roads, 
sometimes narrowing almost to lanes. The undu- 
lating fields and broad meadows, broken here and 
there by a belt of timber in stately growth, made 
a series of beautiful, tranquil pictures. Here was 
the old ruined mill, the stream almost choked up 
with alders, willows, and clumps of wild bloom. 
From here, there was a decided ascent. He passed 
a small, low farmhouse, immaculate in white paint ; 
he came to the row of giant elms, with their long, 
drooping, fringy arms. He turned into the drive- 
way ; there was no gate. The' hard path took a 
slight curve, and deflected at the side of the house, 
— a large, low story and a half house, with a gradu- 
ally sloping roof that, after the small windows, 
seemed to continue itself in the wide porch roof. 
The thin turf all around hardly had leave to grow, 
the great tree-roots depriving it of sustenance. Yet 
they were far enough apart to let in the sunshine, 
though they crowded out the smaller shrubbery. 
At one corner stood a spreading syringa, at the 
other a tangle of vines and clustering roses still in 
bloom. The broad porch, raised only two steps, 
was in full view as you took the turn. There was 
a hammock across each end ; there were willow 
and splint lounging-chairs. The hall door stood 
hospitably open, a wide space losing itself at last 
in a mass of shady greenery. 
Two persons sat on the porch. The one in the 
high-back chair startled Olmstead by her pallor 
and the utter physical attenuation. Even the hand 
she raised seemed transparent. The waves of soft 
white hair, the draping folds of a white shawl wound 
about her, served to intensify the impression. It 
had a refined delicacy ; even the worn and wrinkled 
face still held traces of high-bred comeliness. 
The younger woman, sitting farther at the end, 
rose and took a step forward as he sprang off the 
horse. There was a strong likeness between them, 
and by some subtle intuition he knew these were 
the two he had come to find. 
" Miss Disbrowe will be back in a few mo- 
ments,' she said in a low, refined tone, with an 
old-fashioned accent of formalism. " Will you be 
seated, and shall I call her at once ? " 
" No, do not summon her. My errand is not so 
much with her. I came to find a Miss Barclay, 
and her sister, Mrs. Duane " — 
" I am Mrs. Duane, and this is my sister."
When Miss Barclay attempted to speak, she was 
interrupted by a spasm of coughing, which she 
tried to repress as one does after long experience. 
There was ten or a dozen years' difference in their 
ages ; indeed, Mrs. Duane was the youngest of 
quite a large family. 
" I am Mr. Olmstead, a clergyman from Brent- 
ford. Last winter I was in New York. I came 
to know a Mr. Rowland there, who died three 
months ago. Some years before, you had busi- 
ness — money transactions with him."
The sisters glanced at each other with terrified 
eyes. 
" He came to see many things in a truer light, 
and made restitution for wrongs that he repented 
of. This is one instance. The executors have 
 
been endeavoring to find you. We learned that 
you made a change in May, then all trace was lost 
for a while." 
" Yes,' Mrs. Duane said. " Restitution. You 
do not mean " — there was a kind of incredulous 
sob in her voice. 
''I mean that the original sum, with accrued 
interest,, is awaiting your pleasure." 
"O Margaret ! Thank God it has not come 
