is, pity and help the poor sufferer in your family who never knows
during day or night what it is to be without what you consider "the
fussiness that sets you wild." If this mother, or aunt, or sister,
does control herself, remember that she is stronger than you, as the
man who successfully curbs the fiery steed is more to be commended for
courage than he who holds the reins loosely over the back of the safe
farm-horse who does not know how to shy, kick, or run.
CHAPTER XI.
THE RULE OF TWO.
One character mentioned in the unique rhyme of Mary and her Little
Lamb, has never had due praise and consideration dealt out to him. The
teacher who heartlessly expelled from the temple of learning the
unoffending and guileless companion of the innocent maiden who is the
heroine of the above-mentioned ditty, was, in spite of his cruelty, a
philosopher. After the exit of the principal actors in the poem, we
are told that the following conversation ensued:
   "What makes the lamb love Mary so?"
     The eager children cry.
   "Because she loves the lamb, you know,"
     The teacher did reply.
The teacher was wise in his generation. In his "reply," lies a world
of meaning--one of the answers to the old question of the reason for
personal antipathies and attractions, and may perhaps be said, in this
case, to touch upon animal magnetism.
There are exceptions to every rule, and to the maxim that "love begets
love" there are many instances to be cited in which the contrary
proves true. We all have been so unfortunate at some time during our
lives as to be liked by people of whom we were not fond. But, if we
look the matter thoughtfully and honestly in the face, we will
acknowledge that in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred we are
attracted toward a person as soon as we learn that that person finds
us agreeable. Of course this knowledge must not be conveyed in a
manner that disgusts by effusiveness a sensitive person. None of us
like fulsome flattery, but a compliment so delicately hinted that it
does not shock, and scarcely surprises the person for whom it is
intended, seldom fails to produce an impression that is far from
disagreeable. Certainly no more graceful compliment can be paid a man
or woman by us selfish mortals than the acknowledgment of an affinity
between ourselves and the person whom we would honor by our
friendship. Said a well-known scholar to me:
"The most laudatory public speech ever addressed to me failed to make
my heart glow as warmly as did the remark of an old friend not long
ago. We had been separated for years, and at our reunion spent the
first hour in talking of old times, etc. Suddenly, my friend turned to
me, and grasping my hand exclaimed:
"'Old fellow! you always were, and still are, my affinity!'
"The subtle flattery of that one exclamation makes me even now thrill
with a delicious throb of self-conceit."
Not long ago, I asked of an acquaintance who is a wonderful reader of
character:
"Why has Mrs. S---- so many good friends?"
"Because she is such a good friend herself."
"But why is she attractive to so many people?" queried I.
"Because she is first attracted by them," was the quick response. "She
goes on the principle that there is some good in everybody, and sets
herself to work to find it. Each of us knows when she is thrown into
contact with a person who likes her. It is as if each were surrounded
with tinted atmospheres,--some green, some blue, some red, or
yellow--in fact, there are more shades and colors than you can
mention. When two reds meet, they mingle; when two harmonious tints
touch, they may form a pleasing combination; but when such enemies as
blue and green come together, they clash--fairly 'swear at one
another,' and the persons enveloped in the opposing atmospheres are
mutually disagreeable. The man who is surrounded by the color capable
of most harmonious combinations is said to have personal magnetism."
May not this explanation, while rather far-fetched, afford some clue
to the causes of personal popularity? And the thought following swift
upon this is: If this be true, how much may each of us have to do with
softening and making capable of harmony his and her own individual
atmosphere? While we cannot change our "colors" (to follow out my
friend's figure) we may shade them down and make them less pronounced,
so that in time they may become capable of a variety of combinations.
Does not Faber touch upon this point, when he says:
   "The discord is within which jars
     So roughly in life's song;
   'Tis we ourselves who are at fault
     When others seem so wrong,"
We blame others for being uncongenial When the "discord is within,"
that makes all things go awry. A drunken man sees the whole world go
around, and blames it, for its unsteadiness.
One way to render less obtrusive an inharmonious color, if we possess
such is to keep it out of a strong light that will attract all eyes to
it. Do not let us be proud of our personal defects and peculiarities.
They are subjects for regret, not pride. When a woman boasts that she
"knows she is often impatient, but she simply cannot help it, she is
so peculiarly constituted!" she acknowledges a weakness of which she
should be ashamed. If she is so undisciplined, so untrained, that she
cannot avoid making life uncomfortable for those around her, she would
better stay in a room by herself until she learns self-control. Often
the very eccentricities of character to which we cling so tenaciously
are but forms of vanity. Why should our preferences, our likes or
dislikes be of more account than those of thousands of other people?
Another great mistake we make is that we try the effect of other
colors with our own, and resent it hotly if they do not "go well
together." We do not insist that they shall be like ours in tint, but
they must act as good backgrounds, or form pleasing combinations with
ours, or we will none of them. Now it is quite possible for human
beings to hold contrary views from those entertained by you and me,
and still be excellent members of society and reputable Christians. To
many of us this seems incredible, but it is none the less true. Not
