gressive whist." 
"Thank you," said Sylvia. "When do we 
bji?' And she looked about — anywhere but 
at Frank Shirley, witb his face grown so old in 
four years. 
Xo one said anjrthing, no one made a move. 
Was everybody in the room conspiring to break 
her down? "I thout we were late," she said, 
desperately; and then, with anotiier eSort — 
"Shall I cut?"' she asked, of Julia. 
"If you please," said die girl; but she did not 
make a motion to pass Hie cards. Her manner 
seemed to say, You may cut all night, but it 
won't help you to rob me of thi« satisfaction. 
Sylvia made a still more determined ort. 
If the game was to be pos)oned indefinitdy, 
so iixsA people mit watch her and Frank — well, 
die would have to find something to talk about. 
"It is a surprise to see you again, Frank Shir- 
ley I ' she exclaimed- 
"Tes," he said. Tfia voice was a mumble, and 
he did not lift his eyes. 
'You have been in Hie West, I understand?' 
"Yes," again; but still he did not lift his eyes. 
Sylvia managed to lift hers as far as his cravat; 
and she saw in it an old piece of imitation jewelry 
which she had picked up once on the street and 
had handed to him in jest. He had worn it all 
these years! He had not thrown it away — not 
even when she had thrown him away! 
Again came a surge of emotion; and out of the 
mist she looked about her and saw the faces of 
tormenting demons, leering. "Well,'' she de- 
manded, 'are we going to play?'" 
 
"We were waiting for you to cut," said Julia, 
graciously; and Sylvia's fury helped to restore her 
self-possession. She cut the cards; and fate was 
kind, sparing both her and Frank the task of 
dealing. 
But then a new difficulty arose. Julia dealt, 
and thirteen cards lay in front of Frank Shirley; 
but he did not seem to know that he ought to 
pick them up. And when the opposing lady 
called him to time, in what seemed an imneces- 
sarily penetrating voice, he foimd that he was 
physically unable to get the cards from the 
table. And when with his fumbling efforts he 
got them into a bunch, he could not straighten 
them out — to say nothing of the labor of sorting 
them according to suit, which all whist-players 
know to be an indispensable preliminary to the 
game. When the opposing lady prodded him 
again, Frank's face changed from vivid scarlet 
to a dark and alarming purple. 
Miss Julia led the tray of clubs; and Frank, 
whose tvan came next, spilled three cards upon the 
table, and finally selected from them the king 
of hearts to play — hearts being trumps. "But 
you have a club there, Mr. Shirley," said his 
opponent; something that was pardonable, inas- 
much as the nine of clubs lay face up where he had 
shoved it aside. 
"Oh — I beg pardon," he stammered, and took 
back his king, and reached into his hand and 
pulled out the six of clubs, and a diamond with it. 
It was evident that this could not go on. Sylvia 
 
might be equal to the emergency, but Frank was 
not. He was too much of a human being and too 
little of a social automaton. Something must 
be done. 
"Don't they play whist out West, Mr. Shirley?" 
asked Juha, still smiling benevolently. 
And Sylvia lowered her cards. "Surely, my 
dear, you must imderstand," she said, gently. 
"Mr. Shirley is too much embarrassed to think 
about cards." 
"Oh!" said the other, taken aback. (L'atidace, 
toujours I'audace! runs the formula.) 
"You see," continued Sylvia, "this is the first 
time that Frank has seen me in more than three 
years. And when two people have been as much 
in love as he and I were, they are naturally dis- 
turbed when they meet, and cannot put their 
minds upon a game of cards." 
Julia was speechless. And Sylvia let her glance 
wander casually about the room. She saw her 
hostess and her daughters standing watching; and 
near the wall at the other side of the room stood 
the head-devil, who had planned this torment. 
"Mrs. Armistead," Sylvia called, "aren't you 
going to play tonight?" Of course everybody 
in the room heard this; and after it, anyone 
could have heard a pin drop. 
"I'm to keep score," said Mrs. Armistead. 
"But it doesn't need four to keep score," 
objected Sylvia — and looked at the three Wither- 
spoon ladies. 
"Dolly and Emma are staying out," said Mrs. 
