her supple way. She had sat down beside him, 
and begun to tug at the robes, before she saw that 
she was not alone in the dark carriage. 
" Don't let me startle you," said Yorke. 
She sat quite still, half leaning forward, for an 
 
instant ; then sank back. She did not speak, nor 
take the reins. He perceived that she trembled 
from head to foot. 
" I have done wrong ! " he cried remorsefully. 
" I did not expect to see you," she panted. 
" I was not quite myself. I have been going 
through a terrible scene. Where are the reins ? " 
" I have them. I shall keep them, by your 
leave." He touched Old Oak, and they started 
off slowly, plunging through the deep spring mud. 
" You will upset us in this quagmire," she com 
plained. " I know every stone and hole. Give 
me the reins." 
He did so, without comment. She drove stead 
ily, but feebly. She began to talk at once. 
" There 's a man in that house in delirium 
tremens. It is the worst case I ever had. They 
called me at three o clock. I 've just got him 
quiet. He was firing a revolver all over the house 
when I went." 
Yorke uttered a smothered cry. 
" At everything and everybody," said Doctor 
Zay. " Ball after ball, as fast as he could pull the 
trigger. They were all frightened. Nobody could 
do anything. I He is all right now. Nobody 
has been hurt. I got it away from him. He is 
asleep. I Mr. Yorke will you please to 
 
take the reins ? " She sank backwards, and 
slowly leaned and fell against the buggy 's side. 
" Don't be disturbed," she gasped. "I shall not 
faint. I never did in my life. I am only 
out of breath. I shall be all right soon." 
He resolutely put his arm about her, and got 
her into a more comfortable position. She panted, 
and was very pale, but had herself under soldierly 
control. He saw that she was right ; she would 
not faint. 
" Either, alone, would not have been too 
much," she said apologetically. " But both to 
gether to find you and then I was up all 
night with a patient who suffered horribly. And 
I haven't  eaten very much to-day. I am 
ashamed of myself ! " she added, in a stronger 
voice. 
" I'm glad you had a buggy," observed Yorke 
maliciously. 
" Oh, I had to," she said innocently. " Since 
the diphtheria my throat has been a little trouble 
some and these cold spring winds Thank 
you, Mr. Yorke, I am quite myself, now. I can 
sit up alone." 
" I don't think you can," he said decidedly. 
"Mr. Yorke" 
" Dear ? " 
 
Oli, hush ! " 
" I have overtaken Atalanta this time. She 
stopped for a leaden apple, for a revolver ball, 
and I got the start. Do you suppose I am go 
ing to forego my advantage so soon ? Do you 
think you are going to send me off again, after all 
we have gone through ? Do you think I will give 
you up to your pistols, and your diphtheria, and 
small-pox, you you, my darling, my poor, 
brave lonely girl ? Do you think I will ever leave 
this accursed State of Maine again without you ? 
You don't know what kind of a man you're deal 
ing with, then, that 's all," he added, by way of 
anti-climax. But his heart bounded to see that 
she did not protest and battle ; nor, indeed, did 
she answer him just then, at all. She was worn 
out, poor girl. 
He did not disturb her silence, which he felt 
stealing upon himself deliriously, as if it were 
the first fumes from the incense of her surrender. 
How should he breathe when the censer swung 
close ? 
" Mr. Yorke," at last, " are you sure?" 
" As I am of my life." 
" That it is me you want, a strong-minded 
doctor?" 
" A sweet-hearted woman ! It is only you." 
 
" How do you know I shan't  make a what 
was it ? cold, unnatural, unwomanly wife? 
How can you expect anything else, sir ? " 
" I never saw a woman in my life who would do 
as much, give as much, to make a man happy as 
you woula, as you will." 
" I wonder how you dare ! " she whispered. 
She turned her neck, with a reluctant move 
ment, to look at him, as if he had been some ob 
ject of fear. 
