other apartment beyond. A couple of bookcases were well filled 
with volumes, and there was a great heap of others upon the floor 
in the corner. Two large easy-chairs stood on opposite sides of the 
porcelain stove, which at that season was of course not in use. A 
broad table in the centre was covered with books, many of them 
new, and papers covered with notes or figures were strewn amongst 
them in the greatest disorder. Near one of the windows Greif 
noticed a writing-desk ; upon which lay a few drawing and writing 
materials and a large sheet of paper. It was clear that Rex had 
been at work here, for a bright lamp stood upon the desk and its 
strong light fell from beneath the green shade upon the mathe- 
matical figure that had absorbed the student's attention. 
' It is a very quiet lodging,' remarked Rex, drawing forward 
one of the arm-chairs and then seating himself in the other. ' It 
is just what I wanted. I do not like noise when I am reading.' 
Greif did not exactly know what to say. To visit a student in 
his rooms when he had only met him once, was a new experience, 
and Rex's stony blue eyes seemed to ask the object of his coming. 
It was evident that Rex only spoke of his habitation in order to 
break a silence which might have been awkward. 
' The fact is,' said Greif, as though answering a direct question, 
c I have been thinking of what you said the other day.' 
'You do my remarks an honour which I believe they have 
never received before,' replied Rex, bending his handsome head 
and smiling in his brown beard. 
' Do you remember ? I said that I needed only one thing to 
make me happy. I wanted to know the future. You answered 
that it must be easy to get my wish. Were you in earnest, or 
 
did you speak thoughtlessly ? That is what I came to ask 
you.' 
'Indeed?' Eex laughed. 'You said to yourself that your 
acquaintance was either a fool or an absent-minded person, did 
you not V 
'Well ' Greif hesitated and smiled. 'Either visionary or 
absent-minded,' he admitted. 'Yes, I could not explain your 
remark in any other way.' 
' Of course you could not, unless you suspected that I might be 
a charlatan.' 
' That did not occur to me ' 
' It might have occurred to you, considering what I had said. 
It might occur to you now, if I answered your question. But on 
the other hand it is of no importance whether it does or not. My 
reply will contribute to your peace of mind by helping you to 
catalogue a man you do not know among the fools and charlatans 
of whom you have heard. Would you like to know the future ? 
I can tell it to you, if you please.' 
' The vortex, I suppose,' answered Greif rather scornfully. 
'Yes. I can tell you the direction of the vortices of which 
you are composed, for a time, while they are on their way to join 
other vortices in the dance of death. The vortices do nothing but 
dance, spin and whirl for ever through life, the farce ; through death, 
the tragedy ; and through all the eternity of the epilogue. What 
do you wish to know ? ' 
'You are jesting!' exclaimed Greif moodily. 'I wish you 
would be in earnest.' 
'In earnest!' cried Rex contemptuously. 'What is earnest- 
ness ? ' 
He rose and went to the desk upon which the lamp was burning, 
opened it and took a fresh sheet of paper from \vithin. Greif 
watched him with considerable indifference. He had not found 
what he had sought and he already meditated a retreat. Rex 
paid no attention to him, but rapidly described a circle upon the 
paper and divided it into twelve parts with a ruler. 
'Do you remember the date of the day we met?' he asked, 
looking up. \ 
' It was a Monday,' replied Greif, wondering what his companion 
was doing. 
 I have a calendar,' said Rex. 
He consulted an almanac which he drew from his pocket, made 
a few short calculations, and jotted down certain signs and figures 
in various parts of the divided circle. When he had finished he 
looked attentively at what he had done. The whole operation 
had occupied about a quarter of an hour. 
'I do not wonder that you are anxious,' he remarked, as he 
resumed his seat in the easy-chair, still holding the sheet of paper 
in his hand. 
' What have you discovered ? ' inquired Greif, with an incredu- 
lous smile. 
'You are threatened by a great calamity, you and all who 
belong to you,' replied Rex. ' I suppose you know it, and that is 
the reason why you want to know the future.' 
Greif's cheek turned slowly pale, not at the announcement, 
but at the thought that this chance student perhaps knew of 
Rieseneck's existence, and of all that his return might involve. 
' Herr Rex,' he said sternly, ' be good enough to tell me what you 
know of me and my family from other sources than that bit of paper.' 
' Not much,' answered the other with a dry laugh. * I barely 
knew of your existence until I met you the other day, and I have 
not mentioned you nor heard your name spoken since.' 
' Why then, you can know nothing, and your figures cannot tell 
you,' said Greif, not yet certain whether to feel relief at the 
protestation of ignorance, or to doubt its veracity. 
' Shall I tell you what I see here ? ' 
' Tell me the nature of the calamity.' 
'Its nature, or the cause of it ?' inquired Rex, scrutinising the 
sheet of paper. 
' I suppose that they must be closely connected. Let me know 
the cause first it will be the surest test.' 
Rex laid the paper upon his knee, and folded his hands, 
