"What else is there?" she asked.
"Oh, nothing--nothing very much. A few experiments in bacteriology----"
"Sterilizing nursing bottles?"
"How on earth did you ever guess?" he cried, overwhelmed, but perfectly
alert to the kindling anger in her blue eyes. "Why, of course that is
it. It is included in the science of embryotics--"
"What science?"
"Embryotics. For instance, you take an embryo of any kind--say a--a baby.
Then you show exactly how to dress, undress, wash, feed, and finally
bring that baby to triumphant maturity. It's interesting, isn't it, Miss
Smith?"
She said nothing. He twirled the cat furiously until its tail gave way
and it flew into a corner.
"Captain Jones," she said, "as I understand it, this bill is a codified
conspiracy to turn every woman of this State into a--a washer of clothes,
a cleaner of floors, a bearer of children--and a Haus-frau!"
"I--I would not put it that way," he protested.
"And her reward," she went on, not noticing his interruption, "is
permission to vote--to use the inalienable liberty with which already
Heaven has endowed her."
Tears flashed in her eyes; she held her small head proudly and not one
fell.
"Captain Jones," she said, "do you realize what centuries of suppression
are doing to my sex? Do you understand that woman is degenerating into
an immobility--an inertia--a molluskular condition of receptive passivity
which is rendering us, year by year, more unfitted to either think or act
for ourselves? Even in the matter of marriage we are not permitted by
custom to assume the initiative. We may only shake our heads until the
man we are inclined toward asks us, when he is entirely ready to ask.
Then, like a row of Chinese dolls, we nod our heads. I tell you," she
said, tremulously, "we are becoming like that horrid, degenerate,
wingless moth which is born, mates, and dies in one spot--a living
mechanical incubator--a poor, deformed, senseless thing that has through
generations lost not only the use, but even the rudiments of the wings
which she once possessed. But the male moth flies more strongly and
frivolously than ever. There is nothing the matter with the development
of his wings, Captain Jones."
[Illustration]
[Illustration]
XVI
IT was now growing rather dark in the room.
"I'm terribly sorry you feel this way," he said.
She had averted her eyes and was now seated, chin in hand, looking out of
the window.
"Do you know," he said, "this is a rotten condition of affairs."
"What do you mean?" she asked.
"This attitude of women."
"Is it more odious than the attitude of men?"
"After all," he said, "man is born with the biceps. He was made to do the
fighting."
"Not all of the intellectual fighting."
"No, of course not. But--you don't want him to rock the cradle, do you?"
"Cradles are no longer rocked, Captain Jones. I don't think you would
be qualified to pass this examination with which you menace us."
He began to be interested. She turned from the window, saw he was
interested, hesitated, then:
"I wish I could talk to you--to such a man as you seem to be--sensibly,
without rancour, without personal enmity or prejudice----"
"Can't you?"
"Why, yes. I can. But--I am not sure what your attitude----"
"It is friendly," he said, looking at her. "I am perfectly hap--I mean
willing to listen to you. Only, sooner or later, you must return to me
those papers."
"Why?"
"The Governor entrusted them to me officially----"
She said smiling: "But you--your Governor I mean--can frame another
similar bill."
"I'm a soldier in uniform," he said dramatically. "My duty is to guard
those papers with my life!"
"I am a soldier, too," she said proudly, "in the Army of Human Progress."
"Very well," he said, "if you regard it that way."
"I do. Only brute violence can deprive me of these papers."
"That," he said, "is out of the question."
"It is no more shameful than the mental violence to which you have
subjected us through centuries. Anyway, you're not strong enough to get
them from me."
"Do you expect me to seize you and twist your arm until you drop those
papers?"
"You can never have them otherwise. Try it!"
He sat silent for a while, alternately twisting his moustache and the
cat's tail. Presently he flung the latter away, rose, inspected the stars
on the wall, and then began to pace to and fro, his gloved hands behind
his back, spurs and sword clanking.
"It's getting late," he said as he passed her. Continuing his promenade
he added as he passed her again. "I've had no luncheon. Have you?"
He poked around the room, examining the fantastic furnishings in all
their magnificence of cotton velvet and red cheesecloth.
"If this is Dill's room it's a horrible place," he thought to himself,
sitting down by a table and shuffling a pack of cards.
"Shall I cast your horoscope?" he asked amiably. "Here's a chart."
"No, thank you."
Presently he said: "It's getting beastly cold in this room."
"Really!" she murmured.
He came back and sat down in the gilded chair. It was now so dusky in the
room that he couldn't see her very plainly.
So he folded his arms and abandoned himself to gloomy patience until the
room became very dark. Then he got up, struck a match, and lighted the
gas.
"By Jupiter!" he muttered, "I'm hungry."
For nearly five minutes she let the remark go apparently unnoticed. But
