and unrestricted; liberty to choose, to reject, to ignore.
[Illustration: "They inspected each other, apparently bereft of the
power of speech."]
Now and then a brilliant swimming snake filled her with interest and
curiosity. Once, on a flat, low bush, she saw a dull, heavy,
blunt-bodied serpent lying asleep in the sun like an old and swollen
section of rubber hose. But when she ventured to touch the bush with her
paddle, the snake reared high and yawned at her with jaws which seemed
to be lined in white satin. Which fortunately made her uneasy, and she
meddled no more with the Little Death of the southern swamps.
She was now passing very close to the edge of the "hammock," where
palmettos overhung the water; and as the cool, dim woodlands seemed to
invite her, she looked about her leisurely for an agreeable landing
place. There were plenty to choose from; and she selected a little sandy
point under a red cedar tree, drove her canoe upon it, and calmly
stepped ashore. And found herself looking into the countenance of Jones.
For a full minute they inspected each other, apparently bereft of the
power of speech.
She said, finally: "About a year ago last February, did you happen to
walk down Fifth Avenue--very busily? Did you?"
It took him an appreciable time to concentrate for mental retrospection.
"Yes," he said, "I did."
"You were going down town, weren't you?"
"Yes."
"On business?"
"Yes," he said, bewildered.
"I wonder," she said timidly, "if you would tell me what that business
was? Do you mind? Because, really, I don't mean to be impertinent."
He made an effort to reflect. It was difficult to reflect and to keep
his eyes on her but also it is impolite to converse with anybody and
look elsewhere. This he had been taught at his mother's knee--and
sometimes over it.
"My business down town," he said very slowly, "was with an officer of
the Smithsonian Institution who had come on from Washington to see
something which I had brought with me from Florida."
"Would you mind telling me what it was you brought with you from
Florida?" she asked wistfully.
"No. It was malaria."
"What!"
"It was malaria," he repeated politely.
"I--I don't see how you could--could show it to him," she murmured,
perplexed.
"Well, I'll tell you how I showed it to him. I made a little incision in
my skin with a lancet; he made a smear or two----"
"A--what?"
"A smear--he put a few drops of my blood on some glass plates."
"Why?"
"To examine them under the microscope."
"Why?"
"So that he might determine what particular kind of malaria I had
brought back with me."
"Did he find out?" she asked, deeply interested.
"Yes," said Jones, displaying mild symptoms of enthusiasm, "he
discovered that I was fairly swarming with a perfectly new and
undescribed species of bacillus. That bacillus," he added, with modest
diffidence, "is now named after me."
She looked at him very earnestly, dropped her blue eyes, raised them
again after a moment:
"It must be--pleasant--to give one's name to a bacillus."
"It is an agreeable and exciting privilege. When I look into the culture
tubes I feel an intimate relationship with those bacilli which I have
never felt for any human being."
"You--you are a----" she hesitated, with a slight but charming colour in
her cheeks, "a naturalist, I presume?" And she added hastily, "No doubt
you are a famous one, and my question must sound ignorant and absurd to
you. But as I do not know your name----"
"It is Jones," he said gloomily, "--and I am not famous."
"Mine is Cecil Cassillis; and neither am I," she said. "But I thought
when naturalists gave their names to butterflies and microbes that
everything concerned immediately became celebrated."
Jones smiled; and she thought his expression very attractive.
"No," he said, "fame crowns the man who, celebrated only for his wealth,
names hotels, tug-boats, and art galleries after himself. Thus are
Immortals made."
She laughed, standing there gracefully as a boy, her hands resting on
her narrow hips. She laughed again. A tug-boat, a hotel, and a cigar
were named after her father.
"Fame is an extraordinary thing," she said. "But liberty is still more
wonderful, isn't it?"
"Liberty is only comparative," he said, smiling. "There is really no
such thing as absolute freedom."
"You have all the freedom you desire, haven't you?"
"Well--I enjoy the only approach to absolute liberty I ever heard of."
"What kind of liberty is that?"
"Freedom to think as I please, no matter what I'm obliged to do."
"But you do what you please, too, don't you?"
"Oh, no!" he said smiling. "The man was never born who did what he
pleased."
"Why not? You choose your own work, don't you?"
"Yes. But once the liberty of choice is exercised, freedom ends. I
choose my profession. There my liberty ends, because instantly I am
enslaved by the conditions which make my choice a profession."
She was deeply interested. A mossy log lay near them; she seated herself
to listen, her elbow on her knee, and her chin cupped in her hand. But
Jones became silent.
"Were you not in that funny little boat that passed the inlet about
three hours ago?" she asked.
"The Orange Puppy? Yes."
"What an odd name for a boat--the Orange Puppy!"
"An orange puppy," he explained, "is the name given in the Florida
