that never passed its iron gates were giving daily 
extracts from ancient history. This was the Convent 
de la Visitation. Its pious nuns had taken the vow 
never to look upon the face of man. If, as they paced 
under the great oaks of their close, or the stately 
length of their cloisters telling their beads, or meditating on the negation of earthly existence and the 
perfect joys of the future, they heard an echo of the 
conflict that was shaking Europe, it was only to utter 
a prayer that the souls of those who had obeyed the 
call- of their country and fallen gloriously as Frenchmen should rest in peace. Not for a moment did 
the idea cross their gentle minds that any mortal force 
short of invasion by the enemy could bring them into 
contact with it. 
But that force was already in possession of Bourg. 
Madame Dugas was a woman of endless resource. 
Like many another woman in this war the moment 
her executive faculties, long dormant, were stirred, 
that moment they began to develop like the police 
microbes in fevered veins. 
She had visited that convent. She knew that its 
great walls sheltered long rooms and many of them. 
It would make an ideal hospital and she determined 
that a hospital it should be. 
There was but one recourse. The Pope. Would 
she dare? People wondered. She did. The Pope, 
who knew that wounded men cannot wait, granted 
the holy nuns a temporary dispensation from their 
 
vows; and when I walked through the beautiful Convent of the Visitation with Madame Dugas, Madame 
Goujon, and M. Loiseau, there were soldiers under 
every tree and nuns were reading to them. 
Nuns were also nursing those still in the wards, for 
nurses are none too plentiful in France even yet, and 
Madame Dugas had stipulated for the nuns as well as 
for the convent. 
It was a southern summer day. The grass was 
green. The ancient trees were heavy with leaves. 
Younger and more graceful trees drooped from the 
terrace above a high wall in the rear. The sky was 
blue. The officers, the soldiers, looked happy, the 
nuns placid. It was an oasis in the desert of war. 
I leave obvious ruminations to the reader. 
When I met Madame Dugas, once more I wondered 
if all Frenchwomen who were serving or sorrowing 
were really beautiful or if it were but one more instance of the triumph of clothes. Madame Dugas 
is an infirmiere major, and over her white linen veil 
flowed one of bright blue, transparent and fine. She 
wore the usual white linen uniform with the red 
cross on her breast, but back from her shoulders as 
she walked through the streets with us streamed a 
long dark blue cloak. She is a very tall, very slender 
woman, with a proud and lofty head, a profile of that 
almost attenuated thinness that one sees only on a 
Frenchwoman, and only then when the centuries have 
done the chiseling. As we walked down those long, 
narrow, twisted streets of Bourg between the high 
 
walls with the trees sweeping over the coping, she 
seemed to me the most strikingly beautiful woman I 
had ever seen. But whether I shall still think so if I 
see her one of these days in a Paris ballroom I have 
not the least idea. 
Madame Dugas runs three hospitals at her own 
expense and is her own committee. Like the rest of 
the world she expected the war to last three months, 
and like the rest of her countrywomen who immediately offered their services to the state, she has no 
intention of resigning until what is left of the armies 
are in barracks once more. She lives in a charming 
old house in Bourg, roomy and well furnished and 
with a wild and classic garden below the terrace at 
the back. (Some day I shall write a story about that 
house and garden.) Here she rests when she may, 
and here she gave us tea. 
One wonders if these devoted Frenchwomen will 
have anything left of their fortunes if the war continues a few years longer. Madame Dugas made no 
complaint, but as an example of the increase in her 
necessary expenditures since 1914 she mentioned the 
steadily rising price of chickens. They had cost two 
francs at the beginning of the war and were now 
ten. I assumed that she gave her grands blesses 
chicken broth, which is more than they get in most 
hospitals. 
Many of the girls who had danced in her salons 
two years before, and even their younger sisters, who 
had had no chance to "come out," are helping Madame 
 
Dugas, both as nurses and in many practical ways; 
washing and doing other work of menials as cheerfully as they ever played tennis or rode in la chasse. 
II 
Curiously enough, the next woman whose work has 
made her notable, that Madame Goujon took me to see, 
was very much like Madame Dugas in appearance, certainly of the same type. 
Val de Grace is the oldest military hospital in Paris. 
It covers several acres and was begun by Louis XIII 
and finished by Napoleon. Before the war it was run 
entirely by men, but one by one or group by group 
these men, all reservists, were called out and it became a serious problem how to keep it up to its standard. Of course women were all very well as nurses, 
but it took strong men and many of them to cook 
for thousands of wounded, and there was the problem 
of keeping the immense establishment of many buildings well swept and generally clean. But the men 
