can not shut up a volcano. 
August 16th. 
There seems to be little use of struggling. I 
can not control myself. I wander around, rest- 
less, unhappy. That horrible prison that I am 
pent in — God, how I hate it ! Such heart-sicken- 
ing waiting — waiting! — and meanwhile that in- 
tolerable treadmill! It drives me wild! I am so 
full of life, of passion; and to be dragged back — 
and back — and stamped on ! Each day I feel my- 
self weaker; each day my power and my joy are 
going. Let me go — let me go! 
Is my inspiration of no value at all, my ardor, 
my tenderness, my faith, — all nothing? You 
treat me as if I were an ox! 
It is like being chained in the galleys! The 
dust and the heat, the jostling crowds, the bang- 
ing and rattling, the bare, hideous streets — and 
above it all the wild, rampant vulgarity — the 
sordidness, the cheapness, the chaffering! ]My 
eyes stare at advertisements and signs until they 
bum me in my head. 
Oh, the hell of egotism and vulgarity that is 
a city! 
— " A\hy so much trouble? Other men bear 
dust and heat, and do their work without com- 
plaining! " Ah, yes! — but they do not have to 
write poems in the bargain! 
If it were for truth and beauty, such a life 
would be heroism. But the hoards of wealth that 
they heap up — they spend it upon fine houses, 
and silly clothes, and gimcracks, and jewels, and 
rich food to eat, and wines to drink, and cigars to 
smoke! Bah! — 
It is the brutality of it all that drives me wild. 
I see great, hulking, disgusting bodies that live to 
be pampered and fed. And after that, in the 
place of minds, I see little restless centers of van- 
ity — hungering, toiling, plotting, intriguing — to 
be stared at and praised and admired. 
August 2oth. 
I thought that I would surely have heard 
from my poet by now. I am not a good waiter. 
The senior-partner's nephew is a young Ger- 
man, over to learn the language. He is on a fur- 
lough from the army. He has close-cropped 
hair, a low forehead, and two front teeth like a 
squirrel's. When he smiles he makes you think 
of a horse. He has opinions, commercial and 
political, which he enunciates in a loud voice. 
Think of hstening to Prussian opinions ! 
And there is another clerk who was meant for 
a variety-show specialist. He hums comic songs 
and cracks jokes, and conducts witty pantomime 
incessantly. He is very popular. He is never 
quiet. Sometimes he slaps you on the back. 
I wrestle with my soul all day; the rage of it 
is like to burst me. The infinite pettiness of it — 
that is the thing! I am bitten and stung by a 
swarm of poisonous flies! 
August 24th. 
Another twelve dollars yesterday! I gasp 
with relief as if I were hauling a load up succes- 
sive slopes; here is so much gained, so much 
safe. I have gotten along on twelve dollars; I 
have a little over thirty-five. 
I believe these things are more wearing than 
the toil of writing; I know I find it so. Then I 
accomplish something; here I work myself into 
nervous frenzies, and chafe and pant for nothing. 
I can feel how it weakens me; I can feel that I 
have less elasticity, less elan every day. Ah, God, 
let me go! 
August 25th. 
Why doesn't he answer my letter? 
August 27th. 
To-day I took myself off in a comer. I said: 
"Am I not here, have I not this thing to dof 
The power that I have in my soul — it is to be 
used for the doing of this; if I am to save my soul, 
it must be by the doing of this! And I am a fool 
that I do not face the fact. I shall be free some 
day — that I know — I have only to bide my time 
and wait. Meanwhile I am to stay here — or until 
I have money enough; and now I will turn my 
soul to iron, and do it ! I am going to study what 
I can in this place, and at night I am going to 
speed home and get into a book. I will never 
stop again, and never give up — and above all 
never think, and never feel! I will get books of 
fact to read — I will read histories, and no more 
poetry. I will read Motley, and Parkman, and 
Prescott, and Gibbon, and Macaulay. — Macaulay 
will not afflict me with wild yearnings, I guess." 
— Is there any author in the world more vul- 
gar than Macaulay? — unless it be Gibbon. Or 
possibly Chesterfield. 
I have heard Chesterfield's letters referred to 
as a " school for gentlemen." When the world is 
a little bit civilized, men will read them as they 
