with countless faults, she had been to him a far better mother than
most men are blessed with.
And now, poor thing, she was grateful to the verge of tears for his one
word of blessing that seemed to wipe out all the rest. She wished that
when her hour came, she might hear him say again 'God bless you,' and
then die.
She let him go, and sat down amongst her furs, with a deep sigh of
satisfaction.
'I've made up my mind what to do,' she said, almost as if she were
talking to herself. 'I'm tired of it all, Tom, and I'm losing my good
looks and my figure. If this goes on, I shall soon be ridiculous. You
would not like your mother to be ridiculous, would you?'
'Certainly not!'
'No, my angel! Be good if you can; if you can't be good, be bad; but
never be ridiculous! Oh, never, never! I could not bear that. So I
shall leave the stage, quietly, without any farewell. I shall cancel my
engagements when I have finished singing here. The doctors will swear
to anything. What are they for? I was never ill in my life, but they
shall say I am ill now. What is it that every one has nowadays--the
appendix? I will have the appendix. The doctors shall swear that I have
it well. So I shall leave the stage with a good reason, and pay no
forfeit for cancelling the contracts. That is business. Then I will be
a nun.'
'Eh?' ejaculated Lushington, staring at her.
'Yes, I will be a nun,' continued Madame Bonanni unmoved. 'I will go
into religion. When your mother is a nun, my child, I presume that the
Church will protect her, and no one will dare to say anything against
her. Then you can marry or not, as you please, but you will no longer
be ashamed of your mother! I shall be a blue nun with a white bonnet
and a black veil, and I shall call myself Sister Juliet, because that
has been my great part, and the name will remind me of old times. Don't
you think "Sister Juliet" sounds very well? And dark blue is becoming
to me--I always said so.'
'Yes--yes,' answered Lushington in an uncertain tone and biting his
lip.
'I cannot do more than that for you, my treasure,' said his mother, a
touch of real human sadness in her voice. 'You will not take the
miserable money--but perhaps you will take the sacrifice, if I shut
myself up in a convent and wear a hair shirt, and feed sick babies, and
eat cabbage. How could any one say a word against me then? And you will
be happy, Tom. That is all I ask.'
'I shall not be happy, if you make yourself miserable, mother,' said
Lushington, smiling.
'Miserable? Ah, well, I daresay there will not be cabbage every day,'
answered Madame Bonanni thoughtfully. 'And I like fish. Fortunately, I
am fond of fish. The simplest, you know. Only a fried sole with a
meunière sauce. Bah! When I talk of eating you never believe I am in
earnest. Go away, my beloved child! Go and write to little Miss Donne
that she may have all my engagements, because I am entering religion.
You shall see! She will marry you in a week. Go over to Paris and talk
to her. She is crying her eyes out for you, and that is bad for the
voice. It relaxes the vocal cords frightfully. I always have to gargle
for half-an-hour if I have been crying and am going to sing.'
Through all her rambling talk, half earnest and half absurd, Lushington
detected the signs of a coming change. He did not think she would leave
the stage so suddenly as she said she would; he assuredly did not
believe that she would ever 'enter religion'; but he saw for the first
time that she was tired of the life she had led, that she felt herself
growing old and longed for rest and quiet. She had lived as very few
live, to satisfy every ambition and satiate every passion to the full,
and now, with advancing years, she had not the one great bad passion of
old age, which is avarice, as an incentive for prolonging her career.
In its place, on the contrary, stood her one redeeming virtue, that
abundant generosity which had made her welcome Margaret Donne's great
talent with honest enthusiasm, and which had been like a providence to
hundreds, perhaps to thousands of unknown men, women and children ever
since she had gained the means of helping the poor and distressed. But
it had been part of her nature to hide that. Logotheti, who managed
most of her business, knew more about her charities than her own son,
and the world knew next to nothing at all.
CHAPTER XIII
When Lushington had run over to Paris the day before the conversation
just recorded, he had entertained a vague notion of going out to
Versailles in the afternoon; for he felt that all had not been said
between himself and Margaret and that their last parting in the street
had not been really final. The fact was that he merely yielded to the
tormenting desire to see her again, if for only a few minutes and in
the presence of Mrs. Rushmore.
But the meeting in the Boulevard Péreire had chilled him like a stream
of cold water poured down his back; than which homely simile there is
none more true. He had fancied her very grave and even a little sad,
going quietly to her rehearsals with a maid, or even with Mrs.
Rushmore, speaking to no one at the theatre and returning at once to
Versailles to reflect on the vicissitudes to which human affections are
subject.
He had come upon her suddenly and unawares, in a very smart frock and a
superlatively becoming hat, smiling gaily, just stepping out of a
magnificent white motor car, resting her hand familiarly on that of the
most successful young financier in Paris, whose conquests among women
of the world were a byword, and chaperoned by a flighty little
Neapolitan teacher of singing. Truly, if some one had deliberately
rubbed the back of his neck with a large lump of ice on that warm
spring day, the chill could not have been more effectual. Morally
speaking, Lushington caught a bad cold, which 'struck in,' as old
people used to say.
He might have explained to himself that as he had insisted upon parting
from Margaret for ever, and against her will, her subsequent doings
were none of his business. But he was half an Englishman by birth and
altogether one by bringing up, and he therefore could not admit that
she should be apparently enjoying herself, while he was gloomily
