“There’s no doubt of it,” whispered Bates; “they can finish him if
they choose. But oh, my Lord, what will happen in New York to-morrow!’
“Ward protect legitimate banks,” was the next message.
“The little whelp!” sneered Bates. “By legitimate banks he means
those that back his syndicates. A lot of protecting he will do!”
But then the newspaper man in Bates rose to the surface. “Oh, what a
story,” he whispered, clenching his hands, and pounding his knees.
“Oh, what a story!”
Montague carried away but a faint recollection of the rest of
Rodney’s communications; he was too much overwhelmed by his own
thoughts. Bates, however, continued to spell out the words; and he
caught the statement that General Prentice, who was a director in
the Gotham Trust, was to vote against any plan to close the doors of
that institution. While they were after it, they were going to
finish it.
Also he caught the sentence, “Panic useful, curb President!” And he
heard Bates’s excited exclamations over that. “Did you catch that?”
 he cried. “That’s Waterman! Oh, the nerve of it! We are in at the
making of history to-night, Mr. Montague.”
Perhaps half an hour later, Montague, standing beside Bates, saw his
hand jerked violently several times.
“That means pull up!” cried he. “Quick!”
And he seized the rope. “Put your weight on it,” he whispered. “It
will hold.”
They proceeded to haul. Rodney helped them by catching hold of the
cornice of the window and lifting himself. Then there was a moment
of great straining, during which Montague held his breath; after
which the weight grew lighter again. Rodney had got his knees upon
the cornice.
A few moments later his fingers appeared, clutching the edge of the
sill. He swung himself up, and Montague and Bates grasped him under
the arms, and fairly jerked him into the room.
He staggered to his feet; and there was a moment’s pause, while all
three caught their breath. Then Rodney leaped at Bates, and grasped
him by the shoulders. “Old man!” he cried. “We landed them! We
landed them!”
“We landed them!” laughed the other in exultation.
“Oh, what a scoop!” shouted Rodney. “There was never one like it.”
The two were like schoolboys in their glee. They hugged each other,
and laughed and danced about. But it was not long before they became
serious again. Montague turned on the lights, and pulled down the
window; and Rodney stood there, with his clothing dishevelled and
his face ablaze with excitement, and talked to them.
“Oh, you can’t imagine that scene!” he said. “It makes my hair stand
on end to think of it. Just fancy--I was not more than twenty feet
from Dan Waterman, and most of the time he seemed to be glaring
right at me. I hardly dared wink, for fear he’d notice; and I
thought every instant he would jump up and run to the window. But
there he sat, and pounded on the table, and glared about at those
fellows, and laid down the law to them.”
“I’ve heard him talk,” said Bates. “I know how it is.”
“Why, he fairly knocked them over!” said the other. “You could have
heard a pin drop when he got through. Oh, it was a mad thing to
see!”
“I’ve hardly been able to get my breath,” said Bates. “I can’t
believe it.”
“They have no idea what it will mean,” said Montague.
“They know,” said Rodney; “but they don’t care. They’ve smelt blood.
That’s about the size of it--they were like a lot of hounds on the
trail. You should have seen Waterman, with that lean, hungry face of
his. ‘The time has come,’ said he. ‘There’s no one here but has
known that sooner or later this work had to be done. We must crush
them, once and for all time!’ And you should have seen him turn on
Prentice, when he ventured a word.”
“Prentice doesn’t like it, then?” asked Montague.
“I should think he wouldn’t!” put in Bates.
“Waterman said he’d protect him,” said Rodney. “But he must place
himself absolutely in their hands. It seems that the Trust Company
of the Republic has a million dollars with the Gotham Trust, and
that’s to be withdrawn.”
“Imagine it!” gasped Bates.
“And wait!” exclaimed the other; “then they got on to politics. I
would have given one arm if I could have got a photograph of Dan
Waterman at that moment--just to spread it before the American
people and ask them what they thought of it! David Ward had made the
remark that ‘A little trouble mightn’t have a bad effect just now.’
And Waterman brought down his fist on the table. ‘This country needs
a lesson,’ he cried. ‘There’s been too much abuse of responsible
men, and there’s been too much wild talk in high places. If the
people get a little taste of hard times, they’ll have something else
to think about besides abusing those who have made the prosperity of
the country; and it seems to me, gentlemen, that we have it in our
power to put an end to this campaign of radicalism.’”
“Think of it, think of it!” gasped Bates. “The old devil!”
“And then Duval chimed in, with a laugh, ‘To put it in a nutshell,
gentlemen, we are going to smash Ryder and scare the President!’”
“Was the conference over?” asked Bates, after a moment’s pause.
“All but the hand-shakes,” said the other. “I didn’t dare to stay
while they were moving about.”
And Bates started suddenly to his feet. “Come!” he said. “We haven’t
any time to waste. Our work isn’t done yet, by a long sight.”
He proceeded to untie the rope and coil it up. Rodney took the
blanket and put it on the bed, covering it with the spread, so as to
conceal the holes which had been worn by the rope. He wound up the
ball of cord, and dropped it into the bag with the rest of the
stuff. Bates took his hat and coat and started for the door.
“You will excuse us, Mr. Montague,” he said. “You can understand
that this story will need a lot of work.”
“I understand,” said Montague.
“We’ll try to thank you by and by,” added the other. “Come around
