them there 's a fringe of light wood, birch, poplar. Just 
about now it's divine. Well, inside the shade the birds seem 
 
to know they can have it their own way. They come earlier 
there, they sing louder, they seem to sing longer in the year. 
I 've called it the Valley of Birds, that 's all." 
" But what's Mr. Lovell done to it? " 
" Why, the devil possessed him, and he's written a pretty 
essay about it and told where it is, the fool, and students in 
nature-study and old ladies with spy-glasses'll come down 
here to find it. And if they do, I 'm blest if I don't send 
them over to Lovell's and tell them he 's a distinguished 
author and wants to be interviewed. Blest if I don't ! " 
He walked off muttering maledictions, but with a face as 
sunny as the day, and Celia, looking after him, thought he 
was very handsome but his manners were most unrefined. She 
went slowly in, musingon Lovell now, her pretty brows knitted. 
"Where 's my sister, Lyddy ? " she asked in the kitchen. 
Lyddy was taking her afternoon rest by the window in 
the sun. 
" Up in the shed-chamber," she wakened to answer briefly, 
and Celia turned back and climbed the old rough stairs. 
The door was open and she paused there to look at Bess, 
seated by a cobwebby south window, and asleep. She had on 
her print morning dress, and her sleeves, rolled up a little, left 
her white wrists free. She had thrown her head back in the 
chair, and Celia, regarding the beautiful outline of it and the 
serious, sweet look of her flushed face, thought she seemed 
more a young mother than a girl. Her eyes came open sud- 
denly and met her sister's. 
" What is it ? " she asked quietly, without stirring. Celia 
went in and sat down on a stool at her feet. 
" What makes you stay up here ? " she asked. 
" I don't know," said Bess. She glanced about her, as if 
to seek some sufiicient reason. "It's kind of away from 
everything. It smells good, too, — herbs and old things." 
 
Celiahad a moment of considering whether Lovellwastoo 
young a man to be expected to do anything for Bess. If he 
had been an old man, it would be simple. After all, it was 
really only borrowing money on the security of a voice. 
Perhaps, even with a young man, it was simple. At least 
nothing would be lost if he liked her, and nothing was more 
likely than that he should, for he was half hermit in his tastes, 
and here was Bess making the shed-chamber her retreat. 
" Mr. Lovell has just called," she said. 
" Has he ? " asked Bess, with no appearance of interest 
"He looked very handsome." 
But this Bess did not answer, and Celia, looking up at 
her, saw that she was frowningly, yet with delicacy, extract- 
ing a fly from a cobweb on the pane. Rescues seemed to go 
in pairs that day. 
" Do you think he 's handsome, Bess? " insisted Celia. 
" Handsome ? " echoed Bess. She had unwound the last 
filament from the fettered gauze and now set the prisoner 
free outside the window. " I guess so. It don't make so 
much difference about men-folks anyway. If they 're strong 
and well, that 's enough." 
Celia looked at her a moment and then burst out laugh- 
ing. This was a real laugh, not her tinkling accompaniment. 
" I should think you were Lyddy," she cried, " O you 
darling thing ! " 
 
XV 
IT was not many days after this that Bess, sweeping ofF 
the front steps to save Lyddy's old bones, saw a little 
figure full of haste, yet dignity, advancing up the path. 
It was Tonty, clad in blue checked gingham and anxiety, no 
hat on her smoothly braided brown hair, and a little willow 
switch in her hand. That Tonty always carried when she 
walked abroad, because she was afraid of Tom Peasley's 
turkey-gobbler. She stopped a couple of feet short of the 
flight of steps, and regarded Bess with some surprise and 
much pleasure, evidently having expected to encounter 
Lyddy. 
"Is Jackie at home ? " she asked. 
She had heard Winterbourne's name, but chiefly from 
her mother's lips and those of persons inclined to stiffiiess 
and willingness to be grown up, and she made no doubt 
that Jackie was his own best name. 
" Who, little dear ? " Bess answered, with a desire to get 
her arms about the womanly figure. 
" Is Jackie at home ? " 
Winterbourne himself now came round the corner, smok- 
ing his morning pipe and picking his way on the flagstones 
bordered by the newly springing grass. 
" Well, my buttons ! " said he. " If here isn't the lady 
of the manor and the Maid of the Mist! I do feel honored, 
mum." 
He took out his pipe and knuckled his forehead in good 
old English style. But Tonty found no awakening laughter. 
Her face broke up into relief and happiness and misery. 
 
and when he reached her on the walk, she set upon him 
and clung. 
" O Jackie," she choked, " Tony 's awful sick." 
" Tony sick ? " he asked her gravely. " Where 's mother ? " 
" Mother 's gone to Cleveland. Is it far ? " 
" Pretty far," Winterbourne replied grimly. " But Hades 
is n't," he added, with an afterthought of Mrs. Ramsay 
