which they carried was carefully covered with brown canvas.  Other
trucks were piled high with sections of corrugated iron, hollow steel
tubes, and bundles of matched boards and planking.
For these vehicles there was a dragoon escort.
"Aeroplanes and material for portable sheds," said Warner.  "They intend
to erect hangars.  There is going to be trouble in the valley of the
Récollette."
He turned and looked out and around him, and saw the valley already
alive with soldiers.  Across the river on the quarry road they were also
moving now, cavalry and artillery; and, as far as he could follow
eastward with his eye, red-legged soldiers were continuing the lines of
trenches already begun on this side of the river.
An officer of hussars rode up, saluted the Sisters and Warner, glanced
sharply at Asticot, who had flattened himself against the vines on the
schoolhouse wall, and, leaning forward from his saddle, asked if the
German cavalry had been there that morning.
"Six Uhlans, mon capitaine," said Warner.  "They ripped up a plank
from the floor; I can’t imagine why. You can see it through the door
from where you sit your saddle."
The officer rode up close to the steps and looked into the schoolroom.
"Thank you, Monsieur.  You see what they’ve done, I suppose?"
"No, I didn’t understand."
"It is simple.  The Esser cement works across the river built this
school two years ago.  It’s a German concern.  While they were about it
they laid down a few cement gun platforms—with an eye to this very
moment which confronts us now."
He shrugged his shoulders:
"The Esser cement works over there are full of gun emplacements in
cement, masquerading as pits, retaining walls, foundations, and other
peaceful necessities. A British officer discovered all this only a few
days ago——"
"Captain Halkett!" exclaimed Warner, inspired.
The Hussar glanced at him, surprised and smiling.
"Yes, Monsieur.  Are you acquainted with Captain Halkett?"
"Indeed, I am!  And," he turned to the Sisters of Charity, "he is a good
friend of all of us."
"He is my friend, also," said the Hussar warmly. "He has told me about
Saïs and how, masquerading as a quarry workman one evening, he
discovered gun platforms along the Récollette and among the quarries.
You understand they were very cunning, those Germans, and the cement
works and quarries of Herr Heinrich von Esser are all ready to turn
those hills yonder into a fortress.  Which," he added, laughing, "we may
find very convenient."
Sister Eila, standing beside the horse’s head, stroked it, looking up at
the officer out of grave eyes.
"Is Captain Halkett well?" she asked calmly.
"I think so, Sister.  I saw him yesterday."
"If you see him again, would you say to him that Captain Gray is at the
Château des Oiseaux recovering from an accident?"
"Yes, I will tell him, Sister; but he must be around here somewhere——"
"Here!" exclaimed Warner.
"Why, yes.  Our aëroplanes have just passed through.  A British Bristol
biplane is among them in charge of a flight-lieutenant—Ferris, I think
his name is.  Captain Halkett ought to be somewhere about. Possibly he
may be superintending the disembarkment and the erection of the sheds."
He pointed northwest, adding that he understood the sheds were to be
erected on the level stretch of fields beyond the school.
"However, I shall give him your message, Sister, if I meet him," he
said, saluted them ceremoniously in turn, cast another puzzled and
slightly suspicious glance at Asticot, and rode away.
"I should like to find Halkett," said Warner.  "I certainly should like
to see him again.  We had become friends, you see.  Shall we walk back
that way across the fields, Sister Eila?"
Sister Eila turned to Sister Félicité.  Her color was high, but she
spoke very calmly:
"Had I not better remain with you and help you close the school?"
Sister Félicité shook her head vigorously:
"I can attend to that if it becomes necessary.  I shall not budge unless
I am called to field duty."
"But the children?  Had I not better take some of them home?"
"There’s time enough.  If there is going to be any danger to them, I can
arrange all that."
Sister Eila hesitated, her lovely head lowered.
"If we could find Halkett on our way back," said Warner, "I think he
would be very glad to hear from us that Gray is alive."
Sister Eila nodded in silence; Warner made his adieux; the Sisters of
Charity consulted together a moment, then the American and Sister Eila
went out through the rear door and through the little garden. And at
their heels shuffled Asticot, furtively chewing a purloined apple.
                             *CHAPTER XXXI*
As they reached the plateau above the school and halted for a few
moments to look back across the valley of the Récollette, Warner began
to understand.
The cannonading in the north had ceased.  On every road, in whichever
direction he looked, troops, artillery, and wagons were moving eastward.
This was no mere cavalry reconnoissance; it was a serious offensive
movement in force toward the east.  Eastward and south lay the Vosges;
beyond, the lost provinces stretched away in green valleys toward the
Rhine.
There lay the objective of this movement which was based on the great
Barrier Forts from Verdun to Toul, from Toul to Nancy and Luneville,
southward to Epinal, to the great, grim citadel of Belfort.
This was no raid, no feint, no diversion made by a flying corps along
the frontier.  A great screen of cavalry was brushing back every hostile
scout toward the mountains; the contact at the cement works was a mere
detail.  Nor was this movement directed toward the north, where the
Grand Duchy was crawling alive with Prussians already battering at the
"Iron Gate of France."
No, the guns of Longwy were not calling these French horsemen north,
whatever was happening at Verdun or along the Moselle.  Their helmets
