 
"If you'll let me spin your top, you may read 
my book," he at length said. 
" I will," quickly returned Henry. 
The top and book were exchanged, and, for a 
time, both were well pleased. But the book was 
rather beyond the grasp of Henry's mind. He 
tired of it soon. 
"You may have your book now, Clarence. — 
I'm done reading it. Give me my top, won't you .'" 
" I'm not done with it yet. I let you read my 
book until you were tired, and now you must let 
me spin your top until I am tired." 
Henry rarely contended with his brother. He 
did not like contention. Knowing how resolute 
Clarence was in doing any thing that suited his 
humor, he said no more, but went and sat down 
quietly upon a litde chair, and looked on wishfully 
while Clarence spun his top. 
It was half an hour before Henry again got pos- 
session of his top; but the zest with which he had 
at first played with it was gone. Afier throwing it 
for a few times he said — 
" Here, Clarence, you may have it. I don't 
-want it." 
" May I have it for good .'" eagerly asked Cla- 
rence. 
'' Yes, for good." 
 
"You'll want it back." 
" No, I won't. You may keep it for ever." 
Clarence took possession of the top with right 
good will, and went on spinning it to his heart's 
content. After dinner Henry wanted it back again, 
and when his brother refused to give it up, went 
crying to his mother. Mrs. Hartley called up 
Clarence, and asked him why he did not give 
Henry his top. 
" It isn't his top, mother ; it is mine," said 
Clarence. 
" Yours ! How came it yours ." 
" Henry gave it to me." 
" Did you give it to him, Henry ?" 
"Yes, ma'am, this morning.: But it's my top, 
and I want it." 
"No, it is not your top any longer if you have 
given it to Clarence. It is his, and he must keep 
it. Have you forgotten what I told you when [ 
gave it to you. If you give away your things, 
they are no longer yours, and you cannot expect 
to get them back again. I hope, my son, that, 
hereafter, you will be more careful what you 
do." 
Henry cried bitterly, but his mother would not 
compel Clarence, upon whom Henry's tears had 
no effect, to restore the toy. The poor litde fel- 
 
low's lieart was almost broken at this hard lesson 
in the school of human life. 
In about a week, Mrs. Hartley tried it over again. 
Gifts were made to the children, and soon Clarence 
\vent to work to get possession of what his brother 
had. But Henry had not forgotten the top, and 
vas, therefore, not quite so generous as before. 
He withstood every effort for the first day. On 
the second, however, he yielded. On the follow- 
ing day he reclaimed his toys ; but his mother in- 
terposed again, and maintained Clarence's right to 
what Henry had given him. 
The poor child seemed unable to comprehend 
the justice of this decision, and grieved so much 
about it, that Mrs. Hartley felt unhappy. But ulti- 
mate good, she was sure, would be the result, 
painful as it might be to correct her child's fault. 
On the next occasion, Clarence found it much 
harder to prevail upon Henry to give him his play- 
things than before. The same result following, 
the little fellow's eyes began to be opened. He 
would look ahead and think when Clarence want- 
ed him to give him any thing, and the recollection 
of the permanent losses he had already sustained, 
at length gave him the resolution to persevere in 
refusing to yield up his right to any thing that had 
been given to him. He would lend whatever he 
 
had, cheerfully. But when asked to give, he gene- 
rally said — 
"No. — If I give it to you, I can't get it back 
again." 
The parents did not like to check the generous 
spirit of their child, but they felt that it was neces- 
sary both for his good and the good of his brother, 
that he should be taught to set a higher value upon 
what was his own. If he were not led to do this 
while young, it might prevent his usefulness when 
a man, by leaving him the prey of every one. — 
Besides, the want of a due regard to his own 
property in any thing was not right. 
Another fault in Henry they felt bound to visit 
with a rigid system of correction. He was natu- 
rally an obedient child, while his brother was the 
reverse. He was also very yielding, and could 
easily be persuaded by Clarence to join in acts 
which were forbidden by their parents. When 
called to account, his usual excuse was, that he 
had been asked by Clarence, or had gone with 
him. He did not appear to think that he was to 
blame for any thing, if he acted upon his older 
brother's suggestions. The only way to correct 
this, was to let each be punished for offences mu- 
tually committed, even tiiough Henry was far less 
to blame than Clarence. It was only by doing so, 
 
the parents felt, that Henry could be made to see 
that he must be held responsible for his own acts. 
This course soon effected all they desired. Cla- 
rence was usually alone in all flagrant violations 
of parental authority. 
CHAPTER Vni. 
A STRONG CONTRAST. 
Nearer than Mrs. Hartley had supposed, lived 
for many years an old but now almost forgotten 
friend — Florence Armitage ', or rather, Mrs. Archer. 
We will introduce her on the very night that 
Marien's birth-day party took place, by way of 
contrast. The house in which she lives is a small, 
comfortless one, in an obscure street not far from 
the residence of Mr. and Mrs. Hartley. Her father 
has become poor, and her husband, whose habits 
are more irregular than when a single man, receives 
a small salary as clerk, more than half of which he 
spends in self-indulgence ; the other half is eked 
out to his wife, who, on this pittance, is compelled 
to provide for five children. She has had six, but 
one is dead. 
 
It was a clear bright evening without, but there 
"was nothing cheerful in the dwelling of William 
Archer. The supper table was in the floor, and 
on it burned a poor light. The mother sal near 
the table, with an infant on her lap, mending a pair 
of dark stockings with coarse yarn of a lighter 
color. A little girl, three years of age, was swing- 
ing on her chair, and a boy two years older was 
drumming on the floor with two large sticks, ma- 
king a deafening noise. This noise Mrs. Archer 
bore as long as she could, when her patience be- 
coming exhausted, she cried out in a loud, fretful 
voice — 
" You Bill ! Stop that noise !" 
The boy paused for a single moment, and then 
resumed his amusement. 
" Did you hear me, Bill ? you heedless wretch !'' 
exclaimed the mother, after she had borne the 
sound for some time longer. 
There was silence for about a minute — and the 
noise began again. 
" If you don't stop that, Bill, FlI box your ears 
soundly," screamed the impatient mother. 
The boy stopped for the space of nearly two 
