things have passed away. 
" And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come 
again and receive you unto myself ; that where I am, there 
ye may be also." 
While Ellen was yet going over and over these precious 
things, with a strong sense of their preciousness in all her 
throbbing grief, there came to her ear through the perfect 
stillness of the night the faint, far-off, not-to-be-mistaken, 
sound of quick-coming horse's feet, — nearer and nearer every 
second. It came with a mingled pang of pain and pleasure, 
both very acute ; she rose instantly to her feet, and stood 
pressing her hand to her heart while the quick measured beat 
of hoofs grew louder and louder, until it ceased at the very 
door. The minutes were few ; but they were moments of 
intense bitterness. The tired horse stooped his head, as the 
rider flung himself from the saddle and came to the door 
where Ellen stood fixed. A look asked, and a look answered, 
the question that lips could not speak. Ellen only pointed 
the way and uttered the words, " up stairs and John 
rushed thither. He checked himself however at the door of 
the room, and opened it and went in as calmly as if he had 
but come from a walk. But his caution was very needless. 
Alice knew his step, she knew his horse s step, too well ; she 
had raised herself up and stretched out both arms towards 
him before he entered. In another moment they were round 
his neck, and she was supported in his. There was a long, 
long silence. 
"Are you happy, Alice ?" whispered her brother. 
Perfectly. This was all I wanted. Kiss me, dear John." 
As he did so, again and again, she felt his tears on her 
cheek, and put up her hand to his face to wipe them away ; 
kissed him then, and then once again laid her head on his 
breast. They remained so a little while without stirring ; 
except that some whispers were exchanged too low for others 
to hear, and once more she raised her face to kiss him. A 
few minutes after those who could look saw his color change ; 
he felt the arms unclasp their hold ; and as he laid her gently 
back on the pillow they fell languidly down ; the will and 
the power that had sustained them were gone. Alice was 
gone ; but the departing spirit had left a ray of brightness 
on its earthly house ; there was a half smile on the sweet 
face, of most entire peace and satisfaction. Her brother 
looked for a moment, — closed the eyes, — kissed, once and 
again, the sweet lips, — and left the room. 
Ellen saw him no more that night, nor knew how he passed 
it. For her, wearied with grief and excitement, it was spent 
in long heavy slumber. From the pitch to which her spirits 
had been wrought by care, sorrow, and self-restraint, they 
now suddenly and completely sank down ; naturally, and 
happily, she lost all sense of trouble in sleep. 
When sleep at last left her, and she stole down stairs into 
the sitting-room in the morning, it was rather early. Nobody 
was stirring about the house but herself. It seemed de- 
serted ; the old sitting-room looked empty and forlorn ; the 
stillness was oppressive. Ellen could not bear it. Softly 
opening the glass door she went out upon the lawn where 
everything was sparkling in the early freshness of the summer 
morning. How could it look so pleasant without, when all 
pleasantness was gone within ? — It pressed upon Ellen's head. 
With a restless feeling of pain, she went on, round the corner 
of the house, and paced slowly along the road till she came 
to the foot-path that led up to the place on the mountain 
John had called the Bridge of the Nose. Ellen took that 
path, often traveled and much loved by her ; and slowly, and 
with slow-dripping tears, made her way up over moss wet 
with the dew, and the stones and rocks with which the rough 
way was strewn. She passed the place where Alice had first 
found her, — she remembered it well ; — there was the very 
stone beside which they had kneeled together, and where 
Alice's folded hands were laid. Ellen knelt down beside it 
again, and for a moment laid her cheek to the cold stone 
while her arms embraced it, and a second time it was watered 
with tears. She rose up again quickly and went on her way, 
toiling up the steep path beyond, till she turned the edge of 
the mountain and stood on the old place where she and Alice 
that evening had watched the setting sun. Many a setting 
sun they had watched from thence ; it had been a favorite 
pleasure of them both to run up there for a few minutes 
before or after tea and see the sun go down at the far end of 
the long valley. It seemed to Ellen one of Alice's haunts ; 
she missed her there ; and the thought went keenly home 
that there she would come with her no more. She sat down 
on the stone she called her own, and leaning her head on 
Alice's which was close by, she wept bitterly. Yet not very 
long ; she was too tired and subdued for bitter weeping ; she 
raised her head again, and wiping away her tears looked 
abroad over the beautiful landscape. Never more beautiful 
than then. 
The early sun filled the valley with patches of light and 
shade. The sides and tops of the hills looking towards the 
east were bright with the cool brightness of the morning ; 
beyond and between them deep shadows lay. The sun could 
not yet look at that side of the mountain where Ellen sat, 
nor at the long reach of ground it screened from his view, 
stretching from the mountain foot to the other end of the 
valley ; but to the left, between that and the Cat's back, the 
rays of the sun streamed through, touching the houses of the 
village, showing the lake, and making every tree and barn and 
clump of wood in the distance stand out in bright relief. 
Deliciously cool, both the air and the light, thougli a warm 
day was promised. The night had wept away all the heat of 
yesterday. Now, the air was fresh with the dew and sweei 
from hayfield and meadow ; and the birds were singing like 
mad all around. There was no answering echo in the little 
human heart that looked and hstened. Ellen loved all these 
things too well not to notice them even now ; she felt their 
full beauty ; but she felt it sadly. ''She will look at it no 
more !" she said to herself. But instantly came an answer to 
her thought ; — " Behold I create new heavens, and a new 
earth ; and the former shall not be remembered, nor come into 
mind. Thy sun shall no more go down ; neither shall thy 
moon withdraw itself : for the Lord shall be thine everlasting 
light, and the days of thy mourning shall be ended." . 
" She is there now,'' thought Ellen, — " she is happy, — 
why should I be sorry for her ? I am not ; but oh ! I must 
be sorry for myself — Oh Alice ! — dear Alice !" 
She wept ; but then again came sweeping over her mind 
the words with which she was so familiar, — " the days of thy 
mourning shall be ended ;" and again with her regret mingled 
the consciousness that it must be for herself alone. And for herself, — " Can I not trust Him whom she trusted ?" she thought. 
Somewhat soothed and more calm, she sat still looking down 
into the brightening valley or off to the hills that stretched 
away on either hand of it ; when up through the still air the 
sound of the little Carra-carra church bell came to her ear. 
It rang for a minute and then stopped. 
It crossed Ellen's mind to wonder what it could be ringing 
for at that time of day ; but she went back to her musings 
and had entirely forgotten it, when again, clear and full 
through the stillness the sound came pealing up. 
" One— two !" 
Ellen knew now ! It went through her very heart. 
It is the custom in the country to toil the church bell upon 
occasion of the death of any one in tlfe township or parish. 
A few strokes are rung by way of drawing attention; these 
are followed after a little pause by a single one if the knell i? 
for a man, or two for a woman. Then another short pause. 
Then follows the number of the years the person has lived, 
told in short, rather slow strokes, as one would count them 
up. After pausing once more the tolling begins, and is kept 
up for some time ; the strokes following in slow and sad sucession, each one being permitted to die quite away before 
another breaks upon the ear. 
Ellen had been told of this custom, but habit had never 
made it familiar. Only once she had happened to hear this 
notice of death given out ; and that was long ago ; the bell 
could not be heard at Miss Fortune's house. It came upon 
her now with all the force of novelty and surprise. As the 
number of the years of Alice's life was sadly told out, every 
stroke was to her as if it fell upon a raw nerve. Ellen hid 
her face in her lap and tried to keep from counting, but she 
could not ; and as the tremulous sound of the last of the 
twenty-four died away upon the air, she was shuddering from 
head io foot. A burst of tears relieved her when the sound 
ceased. 
Just then a voice close beside her said low, as if the speak- 
er might not trust its higher tones, — " I will lift up mine eyes 
unto the hills, from whence cometh my help ! ' 
How differently that sound struck upon Ellen's ear ! With 
an indescribable air of mingled tenderness, weariness, and sorrow, she slowly rose from her seat and put both her arms 
round the speaker's neck. Neither said a word ; but to Ellen 
the arm that held her was more than all words ; it was the 
