that it seems to me sometimes as if my heart would break. 
0, mamma, if I could just kiss you once more, I would give 
anything in the whole world. I can't be happy as long as you 
are away, and I am afraid I can't be good either ; but I will 
try. I will try, mamma. I have so much to say to you 
that I don't know where to begin. I am sure my paper will 
never hold it all. You will want to know about my journey. 
The first day was on the steamboat, you know. I should 
have had a dreadful time that day, mamma, but for some- 
thing I'll tell you about. I was sitting up on the upper deck. 





thinking about you, and feeling very badly indeed, when a 
gentleman came and spoke to me, and asked me what was 
the matter. Mamma, I can't tell you how kind he was to me. 
He kept me with him the whole day. He took me all over 
the boat, and showed me all about a great many things, and 
he talked to me a great deal. 0, mamma, how he talked to 
me. He read in the Bible to me, and explained it, and he 
tried to make me be a Christian. And 0, mamma, when he 
was talking to me, how I wanted to do as he said, and I 
resolved I would. I did, mamma, and I have not forgotten 
it. I will try indeed, but I am afraid it will be very hard 
without you or him, or anybody else to help me. You 
couldn't have been kinder yourself, mamma ; he kissed me 
at night when I bid him good-bye, and I was very sorry 
indeed. I wish I could see him again. Mamma, I will 
always love that gentleman if I never see him again in the 
world. I wish there was somebody here that I could love, 
but there is not. You will want to know what sort of a person my aunt Fortune is. I think she is very good looking, 
or she would be if her nose was not quite so sharp : but, 
mamma, I can't tell you what sort of a feeling I have about 
her ; it seems to me as if she was sharp all over. I am sure 
her eyes are as sharp as two needles. And she don't walk 
like other people ; at least sometimes. She makes queer 
little jerks and starts and jumps, and flies about like T don't 
know what. I am afraid it is not right for me to write so about 
her ; but may I not tell you, mamma ? There's nobody else 
for me to talk to. I can't like aunt Fortune much yet, and 
I am sure she don't like me ; but I will try to make her. I 
have not forgotten what you said to me about that. 0, dear 
mamma, I will try to mind everything you "ever said to me 
in your life. I am afraid you won't like what I have written 
about aunt Fortune ; but indeed I have done nothing to displease her, and I will try not to. If you were only here, 
mamma, I should say it was the loveliest place I ever saw in 
my life. Perhaps, after all, I shall feel better, and be quite 
happy by-and-by ; but O, mamma, how glad I shall be when 
I get a letter from you. I shall begin to look for it soon, and 
I t\ .ink I shall go out of my wits with joy when it comes. I 
had the funniest ride down here from Thirlwall that you can 
think ; how do you guess I came ? In a cart drawn by oxen. 







They went so slow we were an age getting here ; but I liked 
it very much. There was a good-natured man driving the 
oxen, and he was kind to me ; but, mamma, what do you 
think ? he eats at the table. I know what you would tell 
me ; you would say I must not mind trifles. Well, I will 
try not, mamma. O darling mother, I can't think much of 
anything but you. I think of you the whole time. Who 
makes tea for you now ? Are you better ? Are you going 
to leave New York soon ? It seems dreadfully long since 
saw you. I am tired, dear mamma, and cold ; and it is getting 
dark. I must stop. I have a good big room to myself ; that 
is a good thing. I should not like to sleep with aunt Fortune. Good night, dear mamma. I wish I could sleep with 
you once more. 0, when will that be again, mamma ? Good 
night. Good night. 

" Your affectionate Ellen." 

The letter finished was carefully folded, enclosed, and 
directed ; and then with an odd mixture of pleasure and sadness, Ellen lit one of her little wax matches, as she called 
them, and sealed it very nicely. She looked at it fondly 
a minute when all was done, thinking of the dear fingers that 
would hold and open it ; her next movement was to sink her 
face in her hands, and pray most earnestly for a blessing upon 
her mother, and help for herself, — poor Ellen felt she needed 
it. She was afraid of lingering lest tea should be ready ; so, 
locking up her letter, she went down stairs. 

The tea was ready. Miss Fortune and Mr. Yan Brunt 
were at the table, and so was the old lady, whom Ellen had 
not seen before that day. She quietly drew up her chair to 
its place. 

" Well," said Miss Fortune, " I hope you feel better for 
your long stay up stairs." 

" I do, ma'am," said Ellen ; " a great deal better." 

" What have you been about ?" 

" I have been writing, ma'am." 

" Writing what?" 

" I have been writing to mamma." 

Perhaps Miss Fortune heard the trembling of Ellen's voice, 
or her sharp glance saw the lip quiver and eyelid droop. 
Something softened her. She spoke in a different tone ; 







asked Ellen if her tea was good ; took care she had plenty 
of the bread and butter, and excellent cheese, which was on 
the table ; and lastly cut her a large piece of the pumpkin 
pie. Mr. Van Brunt too looked once or twice at Ellen's face 
as if he thought all was not right there. He was not so sharp 
as Miss Fortune, but the swollen eyes and tear-stains were 
not quite lost upon him. 

After tea, when Mr. Van Brunt was gone, and the tea- 
things cleared away, Ellen had the pleasure of finding out 
the mystery of the brass kettle and the white maple bark. 
The kettle now stood in the chimney comer. Miss Fortune, 
seating herself before it, threw in all Ellen's stockings except 
one pair, which she flung over to her, saying, " There — I 
don't care if you keep that one." Then, tucking up her 
sleeves to the elbows, she fished up pair after pair out of the 
kettle, and wringing them out hung them on chairs to dry. 
But, as Ellen had opined, they were no longer white, but of 
a fine slate color. She looked on in silence, too much vexed 
to ask questions. 

" Well, how do you like that ?" said Miss Fortune at length, 
when she had got two or three chairs round the fire pretty 
well hung with a display of slate-colored cotton legs. 

" I don't like it at all,' said Ellen. 

" Well, I do. How many pair of white stockings would you 
like to drive into the mud and let me wash out every week ?" 

" You wash !" said Ellen, in surprise ; " I didn't think of 
your doing it." 

" Who did you think was going to do it ? There's nothing 
in this house but goes through my hands, I can tell you, and 
so must you. I suppose you've lived all your life among 
people that thought a great deal of wetting their little finger ; 
but I'm not one of 'em, I guess you'll find." 

Ellen was convinced of that already. 

" Well, what are you thinking of ?" said Miss Fortune 
presently. 

