clothes, and so far I have not been able to get anybody to sew for me.
If you like, I will give you three or four weeks' sewing at least."
"I shall be very glad to have it, and very thankful for your kindness
in offering it to me," returned Mrs. Partridge, rising from her chair,
and adding as she did so--
"But I must be getting home. It is nearly dark, and Jane will be
anxious to see me back again."
I handed her the seventy-five cents she had earned for washing for me
during a whole day. Promising to come over and see me early in the
morning about the sewing, she withdrew, and I was left again to my own
reflections.
"If ever a murmurer and complainer received a severe rebuke, it is I!"
was the first almost audible thought that passed through my mind. "To
think that I, with my cup full and running over with blessings, should
make myself and all around me unhappy, because a few minor things are
not just to my satisfaction, while this woman, who toils like a slave
from morning until night, and who can hardly procure food and clothing
for her children, from whom she is almost constantly separated, is
patient and hopeful, makes me feel as if I deserved to lose what I have
refused to enjoy."
On the next morning Mrs. Partridge called quite early. She cut and
fitted several frocks for the children, at which work she seemed very
handy, and then took them home to make. She sewed for me five weeks,
and then got work in another family where I recommended her. Since
then, she has been kept constantly employed in sewing, at good prices,
by about six families. In all of these I have spoken of her and created
an interest in her favour. The mere wages that she earns is much less
than what she really receives. All her children's clothes are given to
her, and she receives many a bag of meal and load of coal without
knowing from whence it comes. In fact, her condition is more
comfortable in every way than it was, and, in fact, so is mine. The
lesson of patience I learned from Mrs. Partridge in my first, and in
many subsequent interviews, impressed itself deeply upon my mind, and
caused me to look at and value the good I had, rather than fret over
the few occurrences that were not altogether to my wishes. I saw, too,
how the small trouble to me had been the means of working out a great
good to her. My need of a washerwoman, about which I had been so
annoyed, and the temporary want of a seamstress which I had
experienced--light things as they should have been--led me to search
about for aid, and, providentially, to fall upon Mrs. Partridge, who
needed just what it was in my power to do for her.
Whenever I find myself falling into my old habit, which I am sorry to
say is too frequently the case, I turn my thoughts to this poor woman,
who is still toiling on under heavy life-burdens, yet with meekness and
patience, and bowing my head in shame, say--
"If she is thankful for the good she has, how deep should be my
gratitude!"
I DIDN'T THINK OF THAT!
MR. LAWSON, the tailor, was considered a very good member of society.
He was industrious, paid what he owed, was a kind husband and father
and a pleasant and considerate neighbour. He was, moreover, attached to
the church, and, by his brethren in the faith, considered a pious and
good man. And, to say the truth, Mr. Lawson would compare favourably
with most people.
One day as Mr. Lawson stood at his cutting board, shears in hand, a
poorly dressed young woman entered his shop, and approaching him,
asked, with some embarrassment and timidity, if he had any work to give
out.
"What can you do?" asked the tailor, looking rather coldly upon his
visitor.
"I can make pantaloons and vests," replied the girl.
"Have you ever worked for the merchant tailors?"
"Yes, sir, I worked for Mr. Wright."
"Hasn't he any thing for you to do?"
"No, not just now. He has regular hands who always get the preference."
"Did your work suit him?"
"He never found fault with it."
"Where do you live?"
"In Cherry street," replied the young woman.
"At No.--."
Mr. Lawson stood and mused for a short time.
"I have a vest here," he at length said, taking a small bundle from a
shelf, "which I want by tomorrow evening at the latest. If you think
you can make it very neatly, and have it done in time, you can take it."
"It shall be done in time," said the young woman, reaching out eagerly
for the bundle.
"And remember, I shall expect it made well. If I like your work, I will
give you more."
"I will try to please you," returned the girl, in a low voice.
"To-morrow evening, recollect."
"Yes, sir. I will have it done."
The girl turned and went quickly away. As she walked along hurriedly,
her slender form bent forward, and there was an unsteadiness in her
steps, as if from weakness. She did not linger a moment, nor heed any
thing that was passing in the street.
A back room in the third story of an old house in Cherry street was the
home of the poor sewing girl. As she entered, she said, in a cheerful
voice, to a person who was lying upon a bed which the room contained--
"I have got work, sister. It is a vest, and it must be done by
to-morrow evening."
"Can you finish it in time?" inquired the invalid in a faint voice.
"Oh, yes, easily;" and as she spoke, she laid off her bonnet and shawl
hurriedly and sat down to unroll the work she had obtained.
The vest proved to be of white Marseilles. As soon as the invalid
sister saw this, she said--
"I'm afraid you won't be able to get that done in time, Ellen; it is
very particular work. To stitch the edges well will alone take you many
hours."
"I will sit up late, and get a fair start to-night, Mary. Then I can
easily finish it in time. You know a vest is only a day's work for a
good sewer, and I have nearly a day and a half before me."
"Yes; but you must remember, Ellen, that you are not very fast with
your needle, and are, besides, far from being well. The work, too, is
of the most particular kind, and cannot be hurried."
"Don't fear for me in the least, Mary. I will do all I have engaged to
do," and the young woman, who had already arranged the cut-out garment,
took a portion of it in her lap and commenced her task.
The two sisters, here introduced, were poor, in bad health, and without
friends. Mary, the older, had declined rapidly within a few months, and
become so much exhausted as to be obliged to keep her bed most of the
time. The task of providing for the wants of both fell, consequently,
upon Ellen. Increased exertion was more than her delicate frame could
well endure. Daily were the vital energies of her system becoming more
and more exhausted, a fact of which she was painfully conscious, and
which she, with studious care, sought to conceal from Mary.
When, through loss of friends and change of circumstances, the two
sisters were thrown entirely dependent upon their own exertions for a
livelihood, they, with prudent forethought, immediately applied
themselves to the learning of a trade in order to have the means of
support. Confinement for twelve or fourteen hours a day, sitting in one
position--a great change for them--could not long be endured without
producing ill effects on frail young creatures at best. Mary, the
older, failed first; and, at the time of which we are writing, had so
far declined as to be little more than the shadow of any thing earthly.
With her own unaided hands, Ellen found it impossible to earn enough
for even their most simple need. Often Mary was without medicine,
because there was no money left after food and fuel were bought. More
and more earnestly did Ellen apply herself as want came in more varied
shapes; but the returns of her labour became daily less and less
adequate to meet the demands of nature.
The busy season had passed, and trade was dull. Ellen worked for only
two merchant tailors, and with them she was considered an extra hand.
When business fell off, as the season approached towards mid-summer,
she was the first to receive notice that no more work could be given
out for the present. With a disheartened feeling she returned home on
receiving this intelligence. Mary saw that something was wrong the
moment she entered, and tenderly inquired the cause of her trouble. On
learning what it was, she endeavoured to comfort and assure her, but to
little purpose.
As soon as Ellen could regain sufficient composure of mind, she went
forth in search of work at other shops. To one of her peculiar, timid,
and shrinking disposition this was a severe trial. But there was no
passing it by. Three days elapsed, during which every effort to get
work proved unsuccessful. Even the clothing stores had nothing to give
out to extra hands.
Reduced to their last penny, Ellen was almost in despair, when she
called upon Mr. Lawson. The garment he gave her to make seemed to her
like help sent from heaven. Cheerfully did she work upon it until a
late hour at night, and she was ready to resume her labour with the
rising sun. But, as Mary had feared, the work did not progress
altogether to her satisfaction. She had never made over one or two
white Marseilles vests, and found that she was not so well skilled in
the art of neat and accurate stitching as was required to give the
garment a beautiful and workmanlike appearance. The stitches did not
impress themselves along the edges with the accuracy that her eye told
her was required, and she was troubled to find that, be as careful as
she would, the pure white fabric grew soiled beneath her fingers. Mary,
to whom she frequently submitted the work, tried to encourage her; but
her eyes were not deceived.
It was after dark when Ellen finished the garment. She was weary and
