
"I can no more help it than I can help feeling and thinking, Ellen. I
am indignant, and I must express my feelings. What a poor substitute is
birth, or family connexion, or standing in society for a mother to
offer to her son, in the place of a pure heart that can love fervently.
If I had yielded to dictation on this subject, I would long ago have
been the unhappy husband of a vain, selfish, proud creature, whom I
never could have loved. No--no--Ellen. I cannot help being angry, if I
may so speak, at the thought of such unjust, such unwise assumption of
the prerogative in a parent. It is God who joins together in orderly
marriage--not man; and when man attempts to assume the place of God in
this matter, his work is evil. I would give my child, were I a parent,
all the light, all the intelligence in my power to give him, and then
let him choose for himself. To do more, would be, in my opinion, a sin
against God, and, as such, I would shun it with horror."

In time, the deep affliction of mind which Ellen had experienced
subsided. She felt the injustice of Mrs. Linden's conduct, and, though
she had no indignant nor unkind feeling toward her, she thought of her
without an emotion of filial regard. Year after year went by, and, as
no notice whatever was taken of Charles and his wife by Mrs. Linden,
they did not again venture near her, nor take any pains to conciliate
her favour. Her treatment of Ellen had so outraged her son, that he
tried to forget that he had a mother; for he could not think of her
without a bitterness which he did not wish to feel. The only means of
knowing what took place at home was through his sister, between whom
and himself had always existed a warm affection. She wrote to him
frequently, and he as well as his wife wrote to her often. Their
letters to her were, at her request, sent under cover to a friend, to
prevent the unpleasant consequences that would ensue, should the proud,
overbearing mother become aware of the correspondence.

From his sister, who had something of his own independence of feeling,
Charles learned, that his brother William, at his mother's instance,
was about to marry Antoinette Billings. And, also, that an application
had been made to the legislature to have his name changed to Beauchamp,
his mother's family name. As an inducement for him to gratify her pride
in this thing, Mrs. Linden had promised William, that, on the very day
that the legislature granted the petition, she should transfer to him
the whole amount of her property, with the exception of about twenty
thousand dollars. Subsequently, Charles learned that the name of his
brother had been changed; that the marriage had taken place; and that
his mother had relinquished all her property, with a small reservation,
into the hands of her son. All this took place within three years after
his marriage.

The next intelligence was of an attempt being made to force Florence,
his sister, into a marriage most repugnant to her feelings. This
aroused his indignation afresh. He wrote to her strongly, and conjured
her by every high and holy consideration not to permit the sacrifice to
take place. Florence possessed too much of the same spirit that he did
to yield tamely in a matter like this. His frequent letters
strengthened her to resist all the attempts of her mother and brother
to induce her to yield to their mercenary wishes. Finding that she was
firm, a system of persecution, in the hope of forcing her to an assent,
was commenced against her. As soon as Charles learned this, he went
immediately to P--, and saw Florence at the home of a mutual friend. He
had little difficulty in persuading her to return home with him.
Neither her mother nor William showed her any real affection, and they
were both plotting against her happiness for life. On the other hand,
there had always been between her and Charles a deep attachment. She
not only loved him, but confided in him. She had never seen his wife;
but Charles had written so much about her, and Ellen's letters had
pictured a mind so gentle, so good, that Florence loved her only less
than she loved her brother. And there was another there to love, of
whom she had heard much--a fair-haired girl named Florence. Is it a
subject of wonder that she fled from her mother, to find a paradise in
comparison to what she had left, in the home of Charles and his
pure-hearted companion? We think not.

The meeting between her and Ellen was one in which both their hearts
overflowed--in which affections mingled--in which two loving spirits
became united in bonds that nothing could break.

We turn, now, to the disappointed Mrs. Linden. Knowing that to inform
her mother of the step she had resolved to take would do no good, but
only cause her to endure a storm of passion, Florence left home without
the slightest intimation of her purpose.

Mrs. Linden, in settling upon her son William her whole estate, with
the small reservation before mentioned, gave up to him the splendid
mansion in which she lived, with its costly furniture--and the entire
control of it, as a matter that followed of course, to his young wife.
Many months had not passed, before doubts of the propriety of what she
had done began to creep into the mind of Mrs. Linden. Her pride of
family had been gratified--but already had her pride of independence
been assailed. It was plain that she was not now of as much importance
in the eyes of her son as before. As to Antoinette, the more she came
intimately in contact with her, the less she liked her. She found
little in her that she could love. The scheme of marrying Florence to a
young man of "one of the first families" (the only recommendation he
had) was heartily entered into by this worthy trio, and while there was
a prospect of its accomplishment, they drew together with much
appearance of harmony.

The end united them. But after Florence had broken away from the toils
they had been throwing around her, and they became satisfied from the
strong independent letters which she sent home, that all hope of
bending her to their wishes was at an end, the true character of each
began to show itself more fully.

Mrs. Linden had an imperious will. She had always exercised over her
children a rigid control, at the same time that in their earlier years
she had won their affections. The freedom of mature years, and the
sense of individual responsibility which it brings, caused all of them
to rebel against the continued exercise of parental domination. In the
case of Charles and Florence, the effect was a broad separation.
William had sinister ends to gain in yielding a passive obedience to
his mother's will. When the bulk of her property was transferred to
him, those ends were gained, and he felt no longer disposed to suffer
any encroachment upon his freedom. In one act of obedience he had
fulfilled all obligations of filial duty, and was not disposed to
trouble himself further. He had consented to give up his father's name,
and to marry a woman for whom he had no affection, to please his mother
and get an estate. The estate set off against these balanced the
account; and now, there being nothing more to gain, he had nothing more
to yield. When, therefore, after the design of marrying Florence to a
man of "good family" had failed, the first effort on the part of his
mother to exercise control over him was met in a very decided way. His
wife, likewise, showed a disposition to make her keep in her own place.
She was mistress in the house now, and she let it be clearly seen. It
was not long before the mother's eyes were fully open to the folly she
had committed. But true sight had come too late. Reflection on the
ungratefulness of her children aroused her indignation, instead of
subduing her feelings. An open rupture ensued, and then came a
separation. Mrs. Linden left the house of her son--but a short time
before it was her own house--and took lodgings in the family of an old
friend, with a heart full of bitterness toward her children. In
Antoinette she had been miserably disappointed. A weak, vain,
passionate, selfish creature, she had shown not the slightest regard
for Mrs. Linden, but had exhibited toward her a most unamiable temper.

When it was communicated to Antoinette by her husband that his mother
had left them, she tossed her head and said--"I'm glad to hear it."

"No, you must not say that," was William's reply, with an effort to
look serious and offended.

"And why not? It's the truth. She has made herself as disagreeable as
she could, ever since we were married, and I would be a hypocrite to
say that I was not glad to be rid of her."

"She is my mother, and you must not speak so about her," returned
William, now feeling really offended.

"How will you help it, pray?" was the stinging reply. And the
ill-tempered creature looked at her husband with a curl of the lip.

Muttering a curse, he turned from her and left the house. The rage of a
husband who is only restrained by the fear of disgrace from striking
his wife, is impotent. His only resource is to fly from the object of
indignation. So felt and acted William Beauchamp. A mere wordy
contention with his wife, experience had already proved to him, would
be an inglorious one.

Fearing, from his knowledge of his brother's character and disposition,
a result, sooner or later, like that which had taken place, Charles
Linden, although he had no correspondence with any of his family, had
the most accurate information from a friend of all that transpired at
P--.
