helps in margin from learned commentators, still it had been 
embellished with certain way-marks and guide-boards of 
Tom's own invention, and which helped him more than the 
most learned expositions could have done. It had been his 
custom to get the Bible read to him by his master's children, 
in particular by young Master George ; and as they read he 
would designate, by bold strong marks and dashes, with 
pen and ink, the passages which more particularly gratified 
his ear or affected his heart. His Bible was thus marked 
through from one end to the other, with a variety of styles 
and designations ; so he could in a moment seize upon his 
favourite passages, without the labour of spelling out what 
lay between them ; and while it lay there before him, every 
passage breathing of some old home scene, and recalling 
some past enjoyment, his Bible seemed to him all of this life 
that remained, as well as the promise of a future one. 
Among the passengers on the boat was a young gentleman of fortune and family, resident in New Orleans, who 
bore the name of St. Clare. He had with him a daughter 
between five and six years of age, together with a lady, who 
seemed to claim relationship to both, and to have the little 
one especially under her charge. 
Tom had often caught glimpses of this little girl, for she 
was one of those busy, tripping creatures that can be no 
more contained in one place than a sunbeam or a summer 
breeze ; nor was she one that, once seen, could be easily 
forgotten. 
Her form was the perfection of childish beauty, without 
its usual chubbiness and squareness of outline. There was 
about it an undulating and aerial grace, such as one might 
dream of for some mythic and allegorical being.' Her face 
was remarkable, less for its perfect beauty of feature than for 
a singular and dreamy earnestness of expression, which made 
the ideal start when they looked at her, and by which the 
dullest and most literal were impressed, without exactly knowing why. The shape of her head and the turn of her neck 
and bust was peculiarly noble ; and the long, golden-brown 
hair that floated like a cloud around it, the deep, spiritual 
gravity of her violet blue eyes, shaded by heavy fringes of 
golden brown all marked her out from other children, and 
made every one turn and look after her, as she glided hither 
and thither on the boat. Nevertheless, the little one was 
not what you would have called either a grave child or a 
sad one. On the contrary, an airy and innocent playfulness 
seemed to flicker like the shadow of summer leaves over her 
childish face and around her buoyant figure. She was 
always in motion, always with a half smile on her rosy 
mouth, flying hither and thither, with an undulating and 
cloud-like tread, singing to herself as she moved, as in a 
happy dream. Her father and female guardian were incessantly busy in pursuit of her, but, when caught, she melted 
from them again like a summer cloud : and as no word of 
chiding or reproof ever fell on her ear for whatever she chose 
to do, she pursued her own way all over the boat. Always 
dressed in white, she seemed to move like a shadow through 
all sorts of places, without contracting spot or stain; and 
there was not a corner or nook, above or below, where those 
fairy footsteps had not glided, and that visionary golden 
head, with its deep blue eyes, fleeted along. 
The fireman, as he looked up from his sweaty toil, sometimes found those eyes looking wonderingly into the raging 
depths of the furnace, and fearfully and pityingly at him, as 
if she thought him in some dreadful danger. Anon the 
steersman at the wheel paused and smiled, as the picture- 
like head gleamed through the window of the round-house, 
and in a moment was gone again. A thousand times a day 
rough voices blessed her, and smiles of unwonted softness 
stole over hard faces, as she passed ; and when she tripped 
fearlessly over dangerous places, rough, sooty hands were 
stretched involuntarily out to save her, and smooth her path. 
Tom, who had the soft impressible nature of his kindly 
race, ever yearning toward the simple and child-like, watched 
the little creature with daily increasing interest. To him she 
seemed something almost divine ; and whenever her golden 
head and deep blue eyes peered out upon him from behind 
some dusky cotton-bale, or looked down upon him over some 
ridge of packages, he half believed that he saw one of the 
angels stepped out of his New Testament. 
Often and often she walked mournfully round the place 
where Haley's gang of men and women sat in their chains. 
She would glide in among them, and look at them with an 
air of perplexed and sorrowful earnestness ; and sometimes 
she would lift their chains with her slender hands, and then 
sigh woefully, as she glided away. Several times she appeared 
suddenly among them, with her hands full of candy, nuts, and 
oranges, which she would distribute joyfully to them, and 
then be gone again. 
Tom watched the little lady a great deal, before he 
ventured on any overtures towards acquaintanceship. He 
knew an abundance of simple acts to propitiate and invite 
the approaches of the little people, and he resolved to play 
his part right skilfully. He could cut cunning little baskets 
out of cherry-stones, could make grotesque faces on hickory 
nuts, or odd-jumping figures out of elder-pith, and he 
was a very Pan in the manufacture of whistles of all sizes 
and sorts. His pockets were full of miscellaneous articles 
of attraction, which he had hoarded in days of old for his 
master's children, and which he now produced, with commendable prudence and economy, one by one, as overtures 
for acquaintance and friendship. 
The little one was shy, for all her busy interest in everything going on, and it was not easy to tame her. FOR a 
while, she would perch like a canary-bird on some box or 
package near Tom, while busy in the little arts aforenamed, 
and take from him, with, a kind of grave bashfulness, the 
little articles he offered. But at last they got on quite 
confidential terms. 
" What's little missy's name ? " said Tom at last, when he 
thought matters were ripe to push such an inquiry. 
" Evangeline St. Clare," said the little one, " though 
papa and everybody else call me Eva. Now, what's your 
name?" 
"My name's Tom; the little chil'en used to call me 
Uncle "Tom, way back thar in Kentuck." 
" Then I mean to call you Uncle Tom, because, you see, 
I like you," said Eva. " So, Uncle Tom, where are you 
going?" 
" I don't know, Miss Eva." 
" Don't know ? " said Eva. 
"No. I am going to be sold to somebody. I don't 
know who." 
" My papa can buy you," said Eva, quickly ; " and if he 
buys you, you will have good times. I mean to ask him to, 
this very day." 
" Thank you, my little lady," said Tom. 
The boat here stopped at a small landing to take in wood, 
and Eva, hearing her father's voice, bounded nimbly away. 
Tom rose up, and went forward to offer his service in 
wooding, and soon was busy among the hands. 
Eva and her father were standing together by the railings 
to see the boat start from the landing-place, the wheel had 
made two or three revolutions in the water, when, by some 
sudden movement, the little one suddenly lost her balance, 
and fell sheer over the side of the boat into the water. Her 
father, scarce knowing what he did, was plunging in after 
her, but was held back by some behind him, who saw that 
more efficient aid had followed his child. 
Tom was standing just under her, on the lower deck, as 
she fell. He saw her strike the water and sink, and was 
after her in a moment. A broad-chested, strong-armed fellow, 
it was nothing for him to keep afloat in the water, till, in a 
moment or two, the child rose to the surface, and he caught 
her in his arms, and, swimming with her to the boat-side, 
handed her up, all dripping, to the grasp of hundreds of 
hands, which, as if they had all belonged to one man, were 
stretched eagerly out to receive her. A few moments more, 
and her father bore her, dripping and senseless, to the ladies' 
cabin, where, as is usual in cases of the kind, there ensued a 
very well-meaning and kind-hearted strife among the female 
occupants generally, as to who should do the most things to 
r.ialvc a disturbance, and- to hinder her recovery in every way  
possible: 
It was a sultry close day, the next day, as the steamer 
drew near to New Orleans. A general bustle of expectation 
and preparation was spread through the boat ; in the cabin, 
one and another were gathering their things together and 
arranging them preparatory to going ashore. The steward 
and chambermaid, and all, were busily engaged in cleaning, 
furbishing, and arranging the splendid boat, preparatory to a 
grand entree. 
On the lower deck sat our friend Tom, with his arms 
folded, and anxiously, from time to time, turning his eyes 
towards a group on the other side of the boat. 
There stood the fair Evangeline, a little paler than the 
day before, but otherwise exhibiting no traces of the accident 
which had befallen her. A graceful, elegantly-formed young 
