"I don't know, Sir  I thought I should like to read it," said
Fleda, drooping her eyelids, that the bright drops under them
might not be seen.
"And finished in eleven days, as I live!" said the doctor,
wagging his head. " 'July 19. 3 Goldsmith's A. N.'
" 'Aug. 6. 4 Do. Do.' "
"That is one of Fleda's favourite books," put in Hugh.
"So it seems. '6 Hist. de France.'  What does this little
cross mean?"
"That shows when the book is finished," said Fleda, looking on
the page  "the last volume, I mean."
" 'Retrospect of Western Travel'  'Goldsmith's A. N., last
vol.'  'Mémoires de Sully'  in the French ?"
"Yes, Sir."
" 'Life of Newton'  What's this?  'Sep. 8. 1 Fairy Queen!' 
not Spenser's?"
"Yes, Sir, I believe so  the Fairy Queen, in five volumes."
The doctor looked up comically at his niece and her husband,
who were both sitting or standing close by.
" 'Sep. 10. Paolo e Virginia'  in what language?"
"Italian, Sir; I was just beginning, and I haven't finished it
yet."
" 'Sep. 16. Milner's Church History!' What the deuce!  'Vol.
2. Fairy Queen.'  Why, this must have been a favourite book,
too."
"That's one of the books Fleda loves best," said Hugh;  "she
went through that very fast."
"Over it, you mean, I reckon; how much did you skip, Fleda?"
"I didn't skip at all," said Fleda; "I read every word of it."
" ' Sep. 20. 2 Mém. de Sully.' Well, you're an industrious
mouse, I'll say that for you. What's this?  'Don Quixote!' 
'Life of Howard.'  'Nov. 17. 3 Fairy Queen.'  'Nov. 29. 4
Fairy Queen.'  'Dec. 8. 1 Goldsmith's England.'  Well, if
this list of books is a fair exhibit of your taste and
capacity, you have a most happily proportioned set of
intellectuals. Let us see  history, fun, facts, nature,
theology, poetry and divinity!  upon my soul!  and poetry
and history the leading features!  a little fun  as much as
you could lay your hand on, I'll warrant, by that pinch in the
corner of your eye. And here, the eleventh of December, you
finished the Fairy Queen; and ever since, I suppose, you have
been imagining yourself the 'faire Una,' with Hugh standing
for Prince Arthur or the Red-cross Knight  haven't you?"
"No, Sir. I didn't imagine anything about it."
"Don't tell me. What did you read it for?"
"Only because I liked it, Sir. I liked it better than any
other book I read last year."
"You did! Well, the year ends, I see, with another volume of
Sully. I wont enter upon this year's list. Pray, how much of
all these volumes do you suppose you remember? I'll try and
find out next time I come to see you. I can give a guess, if
you study with that little pug in your lap."
"He is not a pug!" said Fleda, in whose arms King was lying
luxuriously  "and he never gets into my lap, besides."
"Don't he! Why not?"
"Because I don't like it, Sir. I don't like to see dogs in
laps."
"But all the ladies in the land do it, you little Saxon! it is
universally considered a mark of distinction."
"I can't help what all the ladies in the land do," said Fleda.
"That wont alter my liking; and I don't think a lady's lap is
a place for a dog."
"I wish you were my daughter!' said the old doctor, shaking
his head at her with a comic fierce expression of countenance,
which Fleda perfectly understood and laughed at accordingly.
Then as the two children with the dog went off into the other
room, he said, turning to his niece and Mr. Rossitur 
"If that girl ever takes a wrong turn with the bit in her
teeth, you'll be puzzled to hold her. What stuff will you make
the reins of?"
"I don't think she ever will take a wrong turn," said Mr.
Rossitur.
"A look is enough to manage her, if she did," said his wife. "
Hugh is not more gentle."
"I should be inclined rather to fear her not having stability
of character enough," said Mr. Rossitur. "She is so very meek
and yielding, I almost doubt whether anything would give her
courage to take ground of her own, and keep it."
"Hum  well, well!" said the old doctor, walking off after the
children. "Prince Arthur, will you bring this damsel up to my
den some of these days?  the 'faire Una' is safe from the
wild beasts, you know;  and I'll show her books enough to
build herself a house with, if she likes."
The acceptance of this invitation led to some of the
pleasantest hours of Fleda's city life. The visits to the
great library became very frequent. Dr. Gregory and the
children were little while in growing fond of each other; he
loved to see them, and taught them to come at such times as
the library was free of visitors and his hands of engagements.
Then he delighted himself with giving them pleasure,
especially Fleda, whose quick curiosity and intelligence were
a constant amusement to him. He would establish the children
in some corner of the large apartments, out of the way behind
a screen of books and tables; and there, shut out from the
world, they would enjoy a kind of fairyland pleasure over some
volume or set of engravings that they could not see at home.
Hours and hours were spent so. Fleda would stand clasping her
hands before Audubon, or rapt over a finely illustrated book
of travels, or going through and through, with Hugh, the works
of the best masters of the pencil and the graver. The doctor
found he could trust them, and then all the treasures of the
library were at their disposal. Very often he put chosen
pieces of reading into their hands; and it was pleasantest of
all when he was not busy and came and sat down with them; for
with all his odd manner he was extremely kind, and could and
did put them in the way to profit greatly by their
opportunities. The doctor and the children had nice times
there together.
They lasted for many months, and grew more and more worth. Mr.
Schwiden carried off Marion, as Fleda had foreseen he would,
before the end of spring; and after she was gone, something
like the old pleasant Paris life was taken up again. They had
no more company now than was agreeable, and it was picked not
to suit Marion's taste, but her father's  a very different
matter. Fleda and Hugh were not forbidden the dinner-table,
and so had the good of hearing much useful conversation, from
which the former, according to custom, made her steady,
precious gleanings. The pleasant evenings in the family were
still better enjoyed than they used to be. Fleda was older;
and the snug, handsome American house had a home-feeling to
her that the wide Parisian saloons never knew. She had become
bound to her uncle and aunt by all but the ties of blood;
nobody in the house ever remembered that she was not born
their daughter; except, indeed, Fleda herself, who remembered
everything, and with whom the forming of any new affections or
relations somehow never blotted out or even faded the register
of the old. It lived in all its brightness; the writing of
past loves and friendships was as plain as ever in her heart;
and often, often the eye and the kiss of memory fell upon it.
In the secret of her heart's core; for still, as at the first,
no one had a suspicion of the movings of thought that were
beneath that childish brow. No one guessed how clear a
judgment weighed and decided upon many things. No one dreamed,
amid their busy, bustling, thoughtless life, how often, in the
street, in her bed, in company and alone, her mother's last
prayer was in Fleda's heart; well cherished; never forgotten.
Her education and Hugh's meanwhile went on after the old
fashion. If Mr. Rossitur had more time, he seemed to have no
more thought for the matter; and Mrs. Rossitur, fine-natured
as she was, had never been trained to self-exertion, and, of
course, was entirely out of the way of training others. Her
children were pieces of perfection, and needed no oversight;
her house was a piece of perfection too. If either had not
been, Mrs. Rossitur would have been utterly at a loss how to
mend matters,  except in the latter instance, by getting a
new housekeeper; and as Mrs. Renney, the good woman who held
that station, was in everybody's opinion another treasure,
Mrs. Rossitur's mind was uncrossed by the shadow of such a
dilemma. With Mrs. Renney, as with every one else, Fleda was
held in highest regard  always welcome to her premises, and
to those mysteries of her trade which were sacred from other
intrusion. Fleda's natural inquisitiveness carried her often
to the housekeeper's room, and made her there the same curious
and careful observer that she had been in the library or at
the Louvre.
"Come," said Hugh, one day when he had sought and found her in
Mrs. Renney's precincts  "come away, Fleda! What do you want
to stand here and see Mrs. Renney roll butter and sugar for?"
"My dear Mr. Rossitur," said Fleda, "you don't understand
quelquechoses. How do you know but I may have to get my living
