shall shock you by adding  not of beauties."
"That sounds very odd," said Florence.
"But let us understand," said Mrs. Evelyn, with the air of a
person solving a problem; "I suppose we are to infer that your
taste in beauty is of a peculiar kind?"
"That may be a fair inference," he said.
"What is it, then?" said Constance, eagerly.
"Yes  what is it you look for in a face?" said Mrs. Evelyn.
"Let us hear whether America has any chance," said Mr. Thorn,
who had joined the group, and placed himself precisely so as
to hinder Fleda's view.
"My fancy has no stamp of nationality, in this, at least," he
said, pleasantly.
"Now, for instance, the Miss Delancys  don't you call them
handsome, Mr. Carleton?" said Florence.
"Yes," he said, half smiling.
"But not beautiful? Now, what is it they want?"
"I do not wish, if I could, to make the want visible to other
eyes than my own."
"Well, Cornelia Schenck  how do you like her face?"
"It is very pretty-featured."
"Pretty-featured! Why, she is called beautiful! She has a
beautiful smile, Mr. Carleton!"
"She has only one."
"Only one! and how many smiles ought the same person to have?"
cried Florence, impatiently. But that which instantly answered
her said forcibly, that a plurality of them was possible.
"I have seen one face," he said, gravely, and his eye seeking
the floor, "that had, I think, a thousand."
"Different smiles!" said Mrs. Evelyn, in a constrained voice.
"If they were not all absolutely that, they had so much of
freshness and variety that they all seemed new."
"Was the mouth so beautiful?" said Florence.
"Perhaps it would not have been remarked for beauty when it
was perfectly at rest, but it could not move with the least
play of feeling, grave or gay, that it did not become so in a
very high degree. I think there was no touch or shade of
sentiment in the mind that the lips did not give with singular
nicety; and the mind was one of the most finely wrought I have
ever known."
"And what other features went with this mouth?" said Florence.
"The usual complement, I suppose," said Thorn. " 'Item, two
lips indifferent red; item, two gray eyes, with lids to them;
item, one neck, one chin, and so forth."
"Mr. Carleton, Sir," said Mrs. Evelyn, blandly," as Mr. Evelyn
says, women may be forgiven for wondering, wont you answer
Florence's question?"
"Mr. Thorn has done it, Mrs. Evelyn, for me."
"But I have great doubts of the correctness of Mr. Thorn's
description, Sir; wont you indulge us with yours?"
"Word-painting is a difficult matter, Mrs. Evelyn, in some
instances; if I must do it, I will borrow my colours. In
general, 'that which made her fairness much the fairer was,
that it was but an ambassador of a most fair mind.' "
"A most exquisite picture!" said Thorn; "and the originals
don't stand so thick that one is in any danger of mistaking
them. Is the painter Shakespeare?  I don't recollect."
"I think Sidney, Sir; I am not sure."
"But still, Mr. Carleton," said Mrs. Evelyn, "this is only in
general  I want very much to know the particulars; what style
of features belonged to this face?"
"The fairest, I think, I have ever known," said Mr. Carleton.
"You asked me, Miss Evelyn, what was my notion of beauty; this
face was a good illustration of it. Not perfection of outline,
though it had that, too, in very uncommon degree; but the
loveliness of mind and character to which these features were
only an index; the thoughts were invariably telegraphed
through eye and mouth more faithfully than words could give
them."
"What kind of eyes?" said Florence.
His own grew dark as he answered 
"Clear and pure as one might imagine an angel's  through
which I am sure my good angel many a time looked at me."
Good angels were at a premium among the eyes that were
exchanging glances just then.
"And Mr. Carleton," said Mrs. Evelyn, "is it fair to ask 
this paragon  is she living, still?"
"I hope so," he answered, with his old light smile, dismissing
the subject.
"You spoke so much in the past tense," said Mrs. Evelyn,
apologetically.
"Yes; I have not seen it since it was a child's."
"A child's face! Oh," said Florence, "I think you see a great
many children's faces with that kind of look."
"I never saw but the one," said Mr. Carleton, drily.
So far Fleda listened, with cheeks that would certainly have
excited Mrs. Thorn's alarm, if she had not been happily
engrossed with Miss Tomlinson's affairs; though up to the last
two minutes the idea of herself had not entered Fleda's head
in connection with the subject of conversation. But then,
feeling it impossible to make her appearance in public that
evening, she quietly slipped out of the open window close by,
which led into a little greenhouse on the piazza, and by
another door gained the hall and the dressing-room.
When Dr. Gregory came to Mrs. Evelyn's an hour or two after, a
figure all cloaked and hooded ran down the stairs and met him
in the hall.
"Ready!" said the doctor, in surprise.
"I have been ready some time, Sir," said Fleda.
"Well," said he, "then we'll go straight home, for I've not
done my work yet."
"Dear uncle Orrin," said Fleda, "if I had known you had work
to do, I wouldn't have come."
"Yes, you would," said he, decidedly.
She clasped her uncle's arm, and walked with him briskly home
through the frosty air, looking at the silent lights and
shadows on the walls of the street, and feeling a great desire
to cry.
"Did you have a pleasant evening?" said the doctor, when they
were about half way.
"Not particularly, Sir," said Fleda, hesitating.
He said not another word till they got home, and Fleda went up
to her room. But the habit of patience overcame the wish to
cry; and though the outside of her little gold-clasped bible
awoke it again, a few words of the inside were enough to lay
it quietly to sleep.
"Well," said the doctor, as they sat at breakfast the next
morning, "where are you going next?"
"To the concert, I must, to-night," said Fleda. "I couldn't
help myself."
"Why should you want to help yourself?" said the doctor. "And
to Mrs. Thorn's to-morrow night?"
"No, Sir; I believe not."
"I believe you will," said he, looking at her.
"I am sure I should enjoy myself more at home, uncle Orrin.
There is very little rational pleasure to be had in these
assemblages."
"Rational pleasure!" said he. "Didn't you have any rational
pleasure last night?"
"I didn't hear a single word spoken, Sir, that was worth
listening to; at least, that was spoken to me; and the hollow
kind of rattle that one hears from every tongue, makes me more
tired than anything else, I believe. I am out of tune with it,
somehow."
"Out of tune!" said the old doctor, giving her a look made up
of humourous vexation and real sadness; "I wish I knew the
right tuning-key to take hold of you!"
"I become harmonious rapidly, uncle Orrin, when I am in this
pleasant little room alone with you."
"That wont do!" said he, shaking his head at the smile with
which this was said  "there is too much tension upon the
strings. So that was the reason you were all ready waiting for
me last night? Well, you must tune up, my little piece of
discordance, and go with me to Mrs. Thorn's to-morrow night 
I wont let you off."
"With you, Sir!" said Fleda.
"Yes," he said. "I'll go along and take care of you, lest you
get drawn into something else you don't like."
"But, dear uncle Orrin, there is another difficulty  it is to
be a large party, and I have not a dress exactly fit."
"What have you got?" said he, with a comic kind of fierceness.
"I have silks, but they are none of them proper for this
occasion  they are ever so little old-fashioned."
"What do you want?"
"Nothing, Sir," said Fleda; "for I don't want to go."
"You mend a pair of stockings to put on," said he, nodding at
her, "and I'll see to the rest."
"Apparently you place great importance in stockings," said
Fleda, laughing, "for you always mention them first. But,
please don't get anything for me, uncle Orrin  please don't!
