  bonds, and kept me; and now would you have me leave my securities to
  suffer, have me lie and deceive the court?’
  “‘O! if you will leave, your bail will not have to suffer; that can,
  I think, be settled without much trouble,’ said Mr H.
  “‘They shall not have trouble on my account,’ said I.
  “After talking with Mr. H. and one or two more on personal piety,
  &c., I went to the arbor, took my seat in the door of the stand for
  a minute; then rose, and, after referring to a few texts of
  Scripture, to show that all those who will live godly shall suffer
  persecution, I inquired, 1st, What is persecution? 2ndly, noticed
  the fact, ‘shall suffer;’ gave a synoptical history of persecution,
  by showing that Abel was the first martyr for the right—the
  Israelites’ sufferings. The prophets were stoned, were sawn asunder,
  were tempted, were slain with the sword, had to wander in deserts,
  mountains, dens and caves of the earth, were driven from their
  houses, given to ferocious beasts, lashed to the stake, and
  destroyed in different ways. Spoke of John the Baptist; showed how
  he was persecuted, and what the charge. Christ was persecuted for
  doing what John was persecuted for not doing. Spoke of the
  sufferings of the apostles, and their final death; of Luther and his
  coadjutors; of the Wesleys and early Methodists; of Fox and the
  early Quakers; of the early settlers in the colonies of the United
  States. Noticed why the righteous were persecuted, the advantages
  thereof to the righteous themselves, and how they should treat their
  persecutors—with kindness, &c. Spoke, I suppose, some half an hour,
  and dismissed. Towards the close, some of the rioters got quite
  angry, and yelled, ‘Stop him!’ ‘Pull him out!’ ‘The righteous were
  never persecuted for d——d abolitionism,’ &c. Some of them paid good
  attention to what I said. And thus we spent the time from twelve to
  three o’clock, and thus the meeting passed by.
  “Brother dear, I am more and more confirmed in the righteousness of
  our cause. I would rather, much rather, die for good principles,
  than to have applause and honor for propagating false theories and
  abominations. You perhaps would like to know how I feel. Happy, most
  of the time; a religion that will not stand persecution will not
  take us to heaven. Blessed be God, that I have not, thus far, been
  suffered to deny Him. Sometimes I have thought that I was nearly
  home. I generally feel a calmness of soul, but sometimes my
  enjoyments are rapturous. I have had a great burden of prayer for
  the dear flock; help me pray for them. Thank God, I have not heard
  of one of them giving up or turning; and I believe some, if not most
  of them, would go to the stake rather than give back. I forgot to
  say I read a part of the fifth chapter of the Acts of the Apostles
  to the rioters, commencing at the 17th verse. I told them, if their
  institutions were of God, I could not harm them; that if our cause
  was of God, they could not stop it—that they could kill me, but
  they could not kill the truth. Though I talked plainly, I talked
  and felt kindly to them.
  “I have had to write in such haste, and being fatigued and unwell,
  my letter is disconnected. I meant to give you a copy of the letter
  of the mob. Here it is:
  “‘Mr. MCBRIDE:
  “‘We, the subscribers, very and most respectfully request you not to
  attempt to fulfil your appointment at this place. If you do, you
  will surely be interrupted.
                                               [Signed by 32 persons.]
  “‘May 6, 1851.’
  “Some were professors of religion—Presbyterians, Episcopal
  Methodists, and Methodist Protestants. One of the latter was an
  ‘exhorter.’ I understand some of the crowd were negro-traders
                                          “Farewell,      J. MCBRIDE.”
-----
Footnote 23:
  The writer is describing here a scene of recent occurrence in a slave
  state, of whose particulars she has the best means of knowledge. The
  work in question was “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”
                                PART IV.
                               CHAPTER I.
            THE INFLUENCE OF THE AMERICAN CHURCH ON SLAVERY.
There is no country in the world where the religious influence has a
greater ascendency than in America. There is no country where the clergy
are more powerful. This is the more remarkable, because in America
religion is entirely divorced from the state, and the clergy have none
of those artificial means for supporting their influence which result
from rank and wealth. Taken as a body of men, the American clergy are
generally poor. The salaries given to them afford only a bare support,
and yield them no means of acquiring property. Their style of living can
be barely decent and respectable, and no more. The fact that, under
these circumstances, the American clergy are probably the most powerful
body of men in the country, is of itself a strong presumptive argument
in their favor. It certainly argues in them, as a class, both
intellectual and moral superiority.
It is a well-known fact that the influence of the clergy is looked upon
by our statesmen as a most serious element in making up their political
combinations; and that that influence is so great, that no statesman
would ever undertake to carry a measure against which all the clergy of
the country should unite. Such a degree of power, though it be only a
power of opinion, argument and example, is not without its dangers to
the purity of any body of men. To be courted by political partisans is
always a dangerous thing for the integrity and spirituality of men who
profess to be governed by principles which are not of this world. The
possession, too, of so great a power as we have described, involves a
most weighty responsibility; since, if the clergy do possess the power
to rectify any great national immorality, the fact of its not being done
seems in some sort to bring the sin of the omission to their door.
We have spoken, thus far, of the clergy alone; but in America, where the
clergyman is, in most denominations, elected by the church, and
supported by its voluntary contributions, the influence of the church
and that of the clergy are, to a very great extent, identical. The
clergyman is the very ideal and expression of the church. They choose
him, and retain him, because he expresses more perfectly than any other
man they can obtain, their ideas of truth and right. The clergyman is
supported, in all cases, by his church, or else he cannot retain his
position in it. The fact of his remaining there is generally proof of
identity of opinion, since if he differed very materially from them,
they have the power to withdraw from him and choose another.
The influence of a clergyman, thus retained by the free consent of the
understanding and heart of his church, is in some respects greater even
than that of a papal priest. The priest can control only by a blind
spiritual authority, to which, very often, the reason demurs, while it
yields an outward assent; but the successful free minister takes captive
the affections of the heart by his affections, overrules the reasoning
powers by superior strength of reason, and thus, availing himself of
affection, reason, conscience, and the entire man, possesses a power,
from the very freedom of the organization, greater than can ever result
from blind spiritual despotism. If a minister cannot succeed in doing
this to some good extent in a church, he is called unsuccessful; and he
who realizes this description most perfectly has the highest and most
perfect kind of power, and expresses the idea of a successful American
minister.
In speaking, therefore, of this subject, we shall speak of the church
and the clergy as identical, using the word church in the American sense
of the word, for that class of men, of all denominations, who are
organized in bodies distinct from nominal Christians, as professing to
be actually controlled by the precepts of Christ.
What, then, is the influence of the church on this great question of
slavery?
Certain things are evident on the very face of the matter.
1. It has not put an end to it.
2. It has not prevented the increase of it.
3. It has not occasioned the repeal of the laws which forbid education
to the slave.
4. It has not attempted to have laws passed forbidding the separation of
families and legalizing the marriage of slaves.
5. It has not stopped the internal slavetrade.
6. It has not prevented the extension of this system, with all its
wrongs, over new territories.
With regard to these assertions it is presumed there can be no
difference of opinion.
What, then, have they done?
In reply to this, it can be stated,
1. That almost every one of the leading denominations have, at some
time, in their collective capacity, expressed a decided disapprobation
of the system, and recommended that something should be done with a view
to its abolition.
2. One denomination of Christians has pursued such a course as entirely,
and in fact, to free every one of its members from any participation in
slave-holding. We refer to the Quakers. The course by which this result
has been effected will be shown by a pamphlet soon to be issued by the
poet J. G. Whittier, one of their own body.
3. Individual members, in all denominations, animated by the spirit of
Christianity, have in various ways entered their protest against it.
It will be well now to consider more definitely and minutely the
sentiments which some leading ecclesiastical bodies in the church have
expressed on this subject.
It is fair that the writer should state the sources from which the
quotations are drawn. Those relating to the action of Southern
judicatories are principally from a pamphlet compiled by the Hon. James
G. Birney, and entitled “The Church the Bulwark of Slavery.” The writer
addressed a letter to Mr. Birney, in which she inquired the sources from
