shine." 
" I am sure," said I, " here is Fourrier's system in one 
particular. "We enjoy the floors, and the man enjoys the 
dancing." 
Madame Belloc had fitted up my room with the most 
thoughtful care. A large bouquet adorns the table ; fancy 
writing materials are displayed ; and a waiter, with sirups and 
an extempore soda fount, one of Parisian household refinements, stands just at my elbow. Above all, my walls are 
hung with beautiful engravings from Claude and Zuccarelli. 
This house pertains to the government, and is held by M. 
Belloc in virtue of his situation as director of the Imperial 
School of Design, to which institution about one half of it is 
devoted. A public examination is at hand, in preparing for 
which M. Belloc is heart and soul engaged. This school is a 
government provision for the gratuitous instruction of the 
working classes in art. I went into the rooms where the works 
of the scholars are arranged for the inspection of the judges. 
The course of instruction is excellent — commencing with 
the study of nature. Around the room various plants are 
growing, which serve for models, interspersed with imitations 
in drawing or modelling, by the pupils. I noticed a hollyhock 
and thistle, modelled with singular accuracy. As some pupils 
can come only at evening, M. Belloc has prepared a set of 
casts of plants, which he says are plaster daguerreotypes. 
By pouring warm gelatine upon a leaf, a delicate mould is 
made, from which these casts are taken. lie showed me 
bunches of leaves, and branches of the vine, executed by 
them, which were beautiful. In like manner the pupil commences the study of the human figure, with the skeleton, 
which he copies bone by bone. Gutta percha muscles are 
added in succession, till finally he has the whole form. Be- 
sides, each student has particular objects given him to study 
for a certain period, after which he copies them from memory. 
The same course is pursued with prints and engravings. 
When an accurate knowledge of forms is gained, the pupil 
receives lessons in combination. Such subjects as these are 
given : a vase of flowers, a mediaeval or classic vase, shields, 
>iftlmets, escutcheons, &o., of different stylos. The first prize 
composition was a hunting frieze, modelled, in which were 
introduced fanciful combinations of leaf and scroll work, dogs, 
hunters, and children. Figures of 'almost every animal and 
plant were modelled ; the drawings and modellings from mem- 
ory were wonderful, and showed, in* their combination, great 
richness of fancy. Scattered about the room were casts of 
the best classic figures of the Louvre, placed there, as M. 
Belloc gracefully remarked, not as models, but as inspirations, 
to cultivate the sense of beauty. 
I was shown, moreover, their books of mathematical 
studies, which looked intricate and learned, but of which I 
appreciated only the delicate chirography. u And where," 
said I, " are these young mechanics taugh to read and write ? " 
" In the brothers' schools," he said. Paris is divided into 
regular parishes, centring round different churches, and con- 
nected with each church is a parochial school, for boys and 
girls, taught by ecclesiastics and nuns. 
With such thorough training of the sense of beauty, it may 
be easily seen that the facility of French enthusiasm in esthet- 
ics is not, as often imagined, superficial pretence. The nerves 
of beauty are so exquisitely tuned and strung that they must 
thrill at every touch. 
One sees this, in French life, to the very foundation of soci- 
ety. A poor family will give, cheerfully, a part of their bread 
money to buy a flower. The idea of artistic symmetry per- 
vades every thing, from the arrangement of the simplest room 
to the composition of a picture. At the chateau of Madame 
V. the whiteheaded butler begged madame to apologize for 
the central flower basket on the table. He " had not had time 
to study the composition." 
The English and Americans, seeing the French so serious 
and intent on matters of beauty, fancy it to be mere affectation. To be serious on a barrel of flour, or a bushel of 
potatoes, we can well understand ; but to be equally earnest 
in the adorning of a room or the " composition " of a bouquet 
seems ridiculous. But did not He who made the appetite for 
food make also that for beauty ? and while the former will 
perish with the body, is not the latter immortal ? With all 
New England's earnestness and practical efficiency, there is a 
long withering of the soul's more ethereal part, — a crushing 
out of the beautiful, — which is horrible. Children are born 
there with a sense of beauty equally delicate with any in the 
world, in whom it dies a lingering death of smothered desire 
and pining, weary starvation. I know, because I have felt it. 
One in whom this sense has long been repressed, in coming 
into Paris, feels a rustling and a waking within him, as if the 
soul were trying to unfold her wings, long unused and mildewed. Instead of scorning, then, the lighthearted, mobile, 
beauty-loving French, would that we might exchange instructions with them — imparting our severer discipline in religious lore, accepting their thorough methods in art; and, 
teaching and taught, study together under the great Master 
of all. 
I went with M. Belloc into the gallery of antique sculpture. 
How wonderful these old Greeks ! What set them out on 
such a course, I wonder — anymore, for instance, than the 
Sandwich Islanders ? This reminds me to tell you that in the 
Berlin Museum, which the King of Prussia is now finishing 
in high style, I saw what is said to be the most complete 
Egyptian collection in the world; a whole Egyptian temple, 
word for word — pillars, paintings, and all; numberless sarcophagi, and mummies ad nauseam I They are no more fragrant than the eleven thousand virgins, these mummies ! and 
my stomach revolts equally from the odor of sanctity and of 
science. 
I saw there a mummy of a little baby ; and though it was 
black as my shoe, and a disgusting, dry thing, nevertheless 
the little head was covered with fine, soft, auburn hair. Four 
thousand years ago, some mother thought the poor little thing 
a beauty. Also I saw mummies of cats, crocodiles, the ibis, 
and all the other religious bijouterie of Egypt, with many cases 
of their domestic utensils, ornaments, &c. 
The whole view impressed me with quite an idea of bar- 
barism ; much more so than the Assyrian collection. About 
the winged bulls there is a solemn and imposing grandeur; 
they have a mountainous and majestic nature. These Egyp- 
tian things give one an idea of inexpressible ungainliness. 
They had a clumsy, elephantine character of mind, these 
Egyptians. There was not wanting grace, but they seemed 
to pick it up accidentally ; because among all possible forms 
some must be graceful. They had a kind of grand, mammoth 
civilization, gloomy and goblin. They seem to have floun- 
dered up out of Nile mud, like that old, slimy, pre-Adamite 
brood, the what's-their-name — megalosaurus, ichthyosaurus, 
pterodactyle, iguanodon, and other misshapen abominations, 
with now and then wreaths of lotus and water lilies round 
their tusks. 
The human face, as represented in Assyrian sculptures, is 
a higher type of face than even the Greek : it is noble and 
princely ; the Egyptian faces are broad, flat, and clumsy. If 
Egypt gave birth to Greece, with her beautiful arts, then truly 
this immense, clumsy roc's egg hatched a miraculous nest of 
loves and graces. 
Among the antiques here, my two favorites are Venus de 
Milon, which I have described to you, and the Diane Chas- 
seresse : this goddess is represented by the side of a stag ; 
and so completely is the marble made alive, that one seems to 
perceive that a tread so airy would not bend a flower. Every 
side of the statue is almost equally graceful. The small, 
proud head is thrown back with the freedom of a stag ; there 
is a gay, haughty self-reliance, an airy defiance, a rejoicing 
fulness of health and immortal youth in the whole figure. 
You see before you the whole Greek conception of an immor- 
tal — a creature full of intellect, full of the sparkle and elixir 
of existence, in whom the principle of life seems to be crystal- 
lized and concentrated with a dazzling abundance ; light, airy, 
incapable alike of love and of sympathy ; living for self, and self 
only. Alas for poor souls, who, in the heavy anguish of life, 
had only such goddesses to go to ! How far in advance is 
even the idolatry of Christianity ! how different the idea of 
Mary from the Diana ! 
Yet, as I walked up and down among these remains of 
Greek art, I could not but wonder at the spectacle of their 
civilization : no modern development reproduces it, nor ever 
can or will. It is well to cherish and make much of that 
ethereal past, as a specimen of one phase of humanity, for it 
is past forever. Those isles of Greece, with their gold and 
purple haze of light and shadow, their exquisite, half-spiritual, half-bodily formation — islands where flesh and blood 
became semi-spiritual, and where the sense of beauty was an 
existence — have passed as a vision of glory, never to return. 
One scarcely realizes how full of poetry was their mythology ; 
all successive ages have drawn on it for images of beauty 
without exhausting it ; and painters and artists, to this day, 
are fettered and repressed by vain efforts to reproduce it. 
But as a religion for the soul and the heart, all this is vain and 
void ; all powerless to give repose or comfort. One who should 
seek repose on the bosom of such a mythology is as one who 
seeks to pillow himself on the many-tinted clouds of evening ; 
soft and beautiful as they are, there is nothing real to them but 
