  I would be fair and stately, with a bright star to shine
  And give a queenly air to this crimson robe of mine."
  And proudly she cried, "These fire-flies shall be
  My jewels, since the stars can never come to me."
  Just then a tiny dew-drop that hung o'er the dell
  On the breast of the bud like a soft star fell;
  But impatiently she flung it away from her leaf,
  And it fell on her mother like a tear of grief,
  While she folded to her breast, with wilful pride,
  A glittering fire-fly that hung by her side.
  "Heed," said the mother rose, "daughter mine,
  Why shouldst thou seek for beauty not thine?
  The Father hath made thee what thou now art;
  And what he most loveth is a sweet, pure heart.
  Then why dost thou take with such discontent
  The loving gift which he to thee hath sent?
  For the cool fresh dew will render thee far
  More lovely and sweet than the brightest star;
  They were made for Heaven, and can never come to shine
  Like the fire-fly thou hast in that foolish breast of thine.
  O my foolish little bud, do listen to thy mother;
  Care only for true beauty, and seek for no other.
  There will be grief and trouble in that wilful little heart;
  Unfold thy leaves, my daughter, and let the fly depart."
  But the proud little bud would have her own will,
  And folded the fire-fly more closely still;
  Till the struggling insect tore open the vest
  Of purple and green, that covered her breast.
  When the sun came up, she saw with grief
  The blooming of her sister bud leaf by leaf.
  While she, once as fair and bright as the rest,
  Hung her weary head down on her wounded breast.
  Bright grew the sunshine, and the soft summer air
  Was filled with the music of flowers singing there;
  But faint grew the little bud with thirst and pain,
  And longed for the cool dew; but now 't was in vain.
  Then bitterly she wept for her folly and pride,
  As drooping she stood by her fair sister's side.
  Then the rose mother leaned the weary little head
  On her bosom to rest, and tenderly she said:
  "Thou hast learned, my little bud, that, whatever may betide,
  Thou canst win thyself no joy by passion or by pride.
  The loving Father sends the sunshine and the shower,
  That thou mayst become a perfect little flower;--
  The sweet dews to feed thee, the soft wind to cheer,
  And the earth as a pleasant home, while thou art dwelling here.
  Then shouldst thou not be grateful for all this kindly care,
  And strive to keep thyself most innocent and fair?
  Then seek, my little blossom, to win humility;
  Be fair without, be pure within, and thou wilt happy be.
  So when the quiet Autumn of thy fragrant life shall come,
  Thou mayst pass away, to bloom in the Flower Spirits' home."
  Then from the mother's breast, where it still lay hid,
  Into the fading bud the dew-drop gently slid;
  Stronger grew the little form, and happy tears fell,
  As the dew did its silent work, and the bud grew well,
  While the gentle rose leaned, with motherly pride,
  O'er the fair little ones that bloomed at her side.
  Night came again, and the fire-flies flew;
  But the bud let them pass, and drank of the dew;
  While the soft stars shone, from the still summer heaven,
  On the happy little flower that had learned the lesson given.
The music-loving Elves clapped their hands, as Star-Twinkle ceased;
and the Queen placed a flower crown, with a gentle smile, upon the
Fairy's head, saying,--
"The little bud's lesson shall teach us how sad a thing is pride,
and that humility alone can bring true happiness to flower and Fairy.
You shall come next, Zephyr."
And the little Fairy, who lay rocking to and fro upon a fluttering
vine-leaf, thus began her story:--
"As I lay resting in the bosom of a cowslip that bent above the brook,
a little wind, tired of play, told me this tale of
LILY-BELL AND THISTLEDOWN.
ONCE upon a time, two little Fairies went out into the world, to
seek their fortune.  Thistledown was as gay and gallant a little Elf
as ever spread a wing.  His purple mantle, and doublet of green, were
embroidered with the brightest threads, and the plume in his cap
came always from the wing of the gayest butterfly.
But he was not loved in Fairy-Land, for, like the flower whose
name and colors he wore, though fair to look upon, many were the
little thorns of cruelty and selfishness that lay concealed by his
gay mantle.  Many a gentle flower and harmless bird died by his hand,
for he cared for himself alone, and whatever gave him pleasure must
be his, though happy hearts were rendered sad, and peaceful homes
destroyed.
Such was Thistledown; but far different was his little friend,
Lily-Bell.  Kind, compassionate, and loving, wherever her gentle face
was seen, joy and gratitude were found; no suffering flower or insect,
that did not love and bless the kindly Fairy; and thus all Elf-Land
looked upon her as a friend.
Nor did this make her vain and heedless of others; she humbly dwelt
among them, seeking to do all the good she might; and many a houseless
bird and hungry insect that Thistledown had harmed did she feed and
shelter, and in return no evil could befall her, for so many
friends were all about her, seeking to repay her tenderness and love
by their watchful care.
She would not now have left Fairy-Land, but to help and counsel her
wild companion, Thistledown, who, discontented with his quiet home,
WOULD seek his fortune in the great world, and she feared he would
suffer from his own faults for others would not always be as gentle
and forgiving as his kindred.  So the kind little Fairy left her home
and friends to go with him; and thus, side by side, they flew beneath
the bright summer sky.
On and on, over hill and valley, they went, chasing the gay
butterflies, or listening to the bees, as they flew from flower to
flower like busy little housewives, singing as they worked; till
at last they reached a pleasant garden, filled with flowers and green,
old trees.
"See," cried Thistledown, "what a lovely home is here; let us rest
among the cool leaves, and hear the flowers sing, for I am sadly tired
and hungry."
So into the quiet garden they went, and the winds gayly welcomed them,
while the flowers nodded on their stems, offering their bright leaves
for the Elves to rest upon, and fresh, sweet honey to refresh them.
"Now, dear Thistle, do not harm these friendly blossoms," said
Lily-Bell; "see how kindly they spread their leaves, and offer us
their dew.  It would be very wrong in you to repay their care with
cruelty and pain.  You will be tender for my sake, dear Thistle."
Then she went among the flowers, and they bent lovingly before her,
and laid their soft leaves against her little face, that she might see
how glad they were to welcome one so good and gentle, and kindly
offered their dew and honey to the weary little Fairy, who sat among
their fragrant petals and looked smilingly on the happy blossoms, who,
with their soft, low voices, sang her to sleep.
While Lily-Bell lay dreaming among the rose-leaves, Thistledown went
wandering through the garden.  First he robbed the bees of their
honey, and rudely shook the little flowers, that he might get the dew
they had gathered to bathe their buds in.  Then he chased the bright
winged flies, and wounded them with the sharp thorn he carried for a
sword; he broke the spider's shining webs, lamed the birds, and soon
wherever he passed lay wounded insects and drooping flowers; while
the winds carried the tidings over the garden, and bird and blossom
looked upon him as an evil spirit, and fled away or closed their
leaves, lest he should harm them.
Thus he went, leaving sorrow and pain behind him, till he came to the
roses where Lily-Bell lay sleeping.  There, weary of his cruel sport,
he stayed to rest beneath a graceful rose-tree, where grew one
blooming flower and a tiny bud.
"Why are you so slow in blooming, little one? You are too old to be
rocked in your green cradle longer, and should be out among your
sister flowers," said Thistle, as he lay idly in the shadow of the
tree.
"My little bud is not yet strong enough to venture forth," replied the
rose, as she bent fondly over it; "the sunlight and the rain would
blight her tender form, were she to blossom now, but soon she will be
fit to bear them; till then she is content to rest beside her mother,
and to wait."
"You silly flower," said Thistledown, "see how quickly I will make you
bloom! your waiting is all useless."  And speaking thus, he pulled
rudely apart the folded leaves, and laid them open to the sun and air;
while the rose mother implored the cruel Fairy to leave her little bud
untouched.
"It is my first, my only one," said she, "and I have watched over it
with such care, hoping it would soon bloom beside me; and now you have
destroyed it.  How could you harm the little helpless one, that never
did aught to injure you?"  And while her tears fell like summer rain,
she drooped in grief above the little bud, and sadly watched it fading
in the sunlight; but Thistledown, heedless of the sorrow he had given,
spread his wings and flew away.
Soon the sky grew dark, and heavy drops began to fall.  Then Thistle
