the wine, he would concert with most of the company to rise at the same
time. Charley was at the helm, and Ida could safely have slept upon
her watch. Mr. Read demurred at an infringement upon banquetting laws,
but the seceders gallantly insisted upon attending their fair leaders;
and the most disaffected had not courage to stand their ground. It was
a weary, weary evening to Ida; she looked and felt wretchedly ill,
after the guests dispersed. Richard looked in again, after saying "good
night."
"I have purchased a buggy to-day," said he, to Ida; "and my pet horse
is in town. Shall I have the pleasure of driving you out in the
morning?"
She assented.
"At what hour?" he asked.
"I wonder what has happened, that Ashlin stayed away!" said Mr. Read.
Richard started violently. "Ashlin!" he echoed with a fiery look at his
sister. "Ashlin--Ashlin;" he repeated, sensible of his imprudence. "I
have heard the name--who is he?"
"An old friend of your sister's," replied Josephine.
Richard's face was profoundly meditative. "A small man--is he not?
red-haired, stoops in the shoulders, and wears spectacles?"
Mr. Read spoke up indignantly. "A magnificent fellow! gentlemanly,
intelligent, and one of the best hearts in the world."
"I do not know him then!" said Richard, emphatically. "Now I think
of it, the red head's name may have been Ashton. Say eleven
o'clock,"--to Ida--"it will be pleasantly warm then."
"It will suit me," she rejoined, trembling before his gaze.
He was punctual to the hour. Mr. Read hobbled to the door to admire
his "turn-out." To him, Richard was lively and friendly as usual, but
he refused his sister's invitation to come in, and his bow, as his
horse sprang off at the loosened rein, was to him. They left the city
by the shortest route. Beyond the houses, Richard slackened their
headlong speed.
"Miss Ross!" he said, abruptly facing her, "I have classed you among
the limited number of your sex, who are upright and truthful. Within
twelve hours past, I have doubted you. You are under no personal
obligations to answer my questions;--but as a brother--for the honor of
my family, I demand of you, all that you know of this Ashlin."
"Which is very little. I never saw him until Mr. Cranleigh's marriage,
when he was introduced to me at Mrs. Morris'."
"By whom? by Helen?"
"By Mrs. Morris, herself. He made a party call, and has continued to
visit the house."
"Artful as ever!" he said, through his shut teeth. "Does Mrs. Read see
him?"
"Yes; and Mr. Read."
"The old blinkard! Does Helen receive him as your friend or as hers?"
"As the friend of the family."
"Tush! I might commend your diplomacy, Miss Ross, if I were not so
thoroughly in earnest. It is clear you will not advance a step, without
knowing why you are questioned. Having more confidence in you, than
you have in me, I will set you an example of candor. Ashlin and my
sister were betrothed when he was at college. We were 'chums.' He is
ardent--generous in some of his impulses, but as I perceived, even with
my boyishly irregular notions, lax in principle. Helen was not ignorant
of my opinion, and with a woman's faith and perseverance, set herself
to break it down. You do not know her as she was then--high-spirited,
proud and passionate, but tractable as a child to the voice of
affection. Her will was more ungovernable than mine, and she almost
reconciled me to her choice. He had just completed his course at the
University, when the death of an uncle put him in possession of a
valuable estate in Cuba. The marriage, which was to have taken place
immediately, was postponed for twelve months. Meantime, he was to
visit his property, and prepare for a permanent residence in the
West Indies. The year elapsed--he did not return--and suddenly his
letters were suspended. Helen was insanely trustful; he might be ill
or dead--dying, or in the grave, he was true! Her romantic independent
disposition led her to the formation of a mad project--to search for
him in person, since she could learn nothing in any other way. I
could not dissuade her;--she made but one concession,--that I might
accompany her. The object and direction of our expedition was known
only to ourselves. We were ready--a day before that fixed for starting,
a letter came! He was enamored of an Italian cantatrice; 'designed
marrying her, if Helen would liberate him;--if not, he would redeem his
early pledge to her.' She was ill for weeks; and upon what, I believed
was her death-bed, she extorted from me a vow not to revenge her. She
'should have foreseen how it would end,' she said, 'blind, confiding
dupe, that she was!' She arose--a hardened, I think, sometimes, a
heartless woman of the world:--with her trust in him, had perished her
faith in God and man; an unfeminine panting for wealth and distinction
filling its place. Chance threw this gold-fish, Read, in her net; and
she clutched him. I had sorrowed for, and commiserated her until then;
but so sordid, so wickedly weak was this act, that I reproached her
angrily. I said it sprang from wounded vanity, and a mean desire to
glitter, a hollow-hearted, tinselled doll in the view of those who
would gibe, while pretending to applaud;--that her conduct was as
degrading to her, as mortifying to us,--and she bore my vituperations,
without attempting to defend herself, 'Richard!' she said, when I
had exhausted my indignation, 'better reason with a tornado, than a
slighted woman!'
"You regard me as a chattering coxcomb, Miss Ida; but I solemnly
declare that I could have gone to the block more resignedly, than
I saw my beautiful sister sold to her hoary bridegroom. These were
circumstances, with which I could not cope--but the diabolical schemes
of this assassin of her peace shall not mature! This is the sad
tale--is it quite new to you?"
"In its details;" and she related Celestia's version.
"Which furnished you with a key--you have a clear head, and a woman's
wit--have you found no locks that it fitted?"
No reply.
"Did you divine the cause of Helen's embarrassment at my appearance,
yesterday?"
"Not at the time."
"But afterwards. He was invited--did she warn him of my being there? If
so, do not say it. I can bear your silence better than the truth."
"I can neither deny nor assert, Mr. Copeland. I have imagined many
dreadful things, which may have no real existence. You may judge for
yourself."
His brow was lighter, when he had heard her unvarnished relation.
"I thank you!" said he, heartily. "We may cicatrize this wound yet.
I will see Helen to-night; she expects a reproof; and if she is not
what she appears,--refined steel--I will make her feel. I dare not
meet Ashlin--but I will write--and if he crosses my path again--."
He resumed in a milder tone, "I would crave one more proof of your
good-will, but that I fear a refusal."
"Ask it."
"If he renews his visits, will you inform me?"
"No, sir!" said Ida, positively. "The service savors too much of
espionage."
"I was afraid you would see it in that light. Miss Read," he continued,
scornfully, "would require no persuasion to play the spy. I was near
committing myself last night. His name was a galvanic shock."
"I cannot but hope," said Ida, "that our fears have magnified shadows
into spectres. We are so prone to shape events after the fashion of
our inclinations or forebodings. Do not consider it an impertinent
liberty, Mr. Copeland, if I recommend to you to be very gentle in your
reprehension of your sister. Callous, self-dependent in semblance,
think what her sufferings are, empaled by memory and conscience. Oh! if
we had more charity for the tempted!"
"Temptation, sin, suffering! how naturally the words succeed each
other!" mused Richard.
"And they are an epitome of all human woe," said Ida "It is a doctrine
of mine, that a small proportion of the great aggregate of crime is
committed from actual love of sin."
She was gratified at his demeanor towards his sister upon their return.
He dined with them, and was markedly attentive to her, combining so
much brotherly kindness with a certain deference to her wishes and
sentiments, that she struggled with the softness which menaced her
proud composure. As they quitted the table, he passed his arm around
her waist, and there were tears in the eyes upraised to his. No
more auspicious time could occur for the contemplated conversation;
and Ida enticed Mr. Read into his reading room, by the lure of an
uncut periodical. The words fell from her mouth mechanically--her
mind was upon the momentous interview. In the character and life
delineated by Richard, she traced, with a thrill, a similarity to
her own; the impetuous temper--unmanageable, save when the breath of
love sighed over the heart; the blasted hope; the unworthiness of
the object of adoration--ah! this bitterest ingredient in the cup
of despair was spared her! but the prostration of soul and body;
then the heaven-threatening billows of blasphemous misanthropy, and
self-abandonment--the parallel was just here--to diverge how widely
in the result of the ordeal! one, wilfully completing the ruin of her
happiness by perjury--cauterizing her heart with corrodents, that eat
away its fevered life; the other, dragging herself, wounded and weary,
to the feet of the Good Physician, to be healed, and fed, and sustained
by His loving mercy; and the language of Ida's thanksgiving was, "Lord!
Thou hast made me to differ!"
CHAPTER XXV.
The season of sunshine and roses had come, and Carry's demands for her
friend's society were importunate.
"You would not fret your dear heart with harrowing doubts of my love
