shall see you before I leave town;" and the poor fellow turned away to
hide his tears.
"Poor Little Paul!" said Tony, when he had gone.
"How I pity him!" added Henry Brown.
"So do I," reiterated Joseph Hooper.
"How much do you pity him, fellows?" asked Tony, seating himself in his
arm-chair.
"So much that we would help him if we could," answered Henry.
"You can help him."
A deep silence ensued.
"Have you the nerve to make a great sacrifice, Butterflies?" exclaimed
Tony with energy.
"We have."
"I move you, Mr. Chairman, that our four hundred dollars be applied to
the relief of Little Paul's father," said Henry Brown, catching Tony's
idea.
"Second the motion," added Dick Chester, promptly.
"Bravo!" shouted Tony, slapping the table with his fist. "That's what I
call noble! But before we do it, just think what a fine thing the fleet
would be. It is a great sacrifice."
"Question!" called Joseph Hooper.
"Think well, fellows," said Tony. "Any remarks upon the subject will be
in order. It is a great question, and ought not to be hastily decided."
"Question!" shouted the whole club, wildly.
"Those in favor of applying the four hundred dollars to the relief of
Mr. Munroe will signify it," said Tony.
"All up!"
"It is a unanimous vote!"
CHAPTER XI.
BETTER TO GIVE THAN RECEIVE.
"All aboard!" shouted Tony, as soon as he had declared the vote: and the
boys hurried into the boat to be in readiness to join the Zephyr, which
was already upon the lake.
Tony's spirits were unusually buoyant. The sympathy and co-operation of
the club in regard to Little Paul's father was in the highest degree
grateful to his feelings. Perhaps his companions did not so cheerfully
resign the project of the fleet; perhaps they had acted upon the impulse
of the moment; but they were all to experience the benefit of doing a
good deed, and sacrificing their own gratification for the happiness of
others. Tony felt better for the sacrifice they had made, and probably
the rest of them shared his feelings. He was satisfied that they did not
fully realize what they had done, and with the determination to take a
fit opportunity to talk over the matter with them, he took his place in
the boat.
The Zephyrs were laying on their oars, waiting for the Butterfly when
she backed out of the boat house.
"You are late, Tony, which is rather odd for you," said Frank.
"We had a little business to attend to, which detained us," replied
Tony; "and while we are here we may as well tell you about it. We have
voted our money away."
"For the fleet?"
"No; we have given that up."
"Indeed! Given it up?" exclaimed Frank, not a little surprised at this
declaration.
"Fact, Frank!"
"Something new has turned up, then?"
"Let us lash boats to keep us from drifting apart, and I will tell you
all about it."
The two boats were fastened together fore and aft, and Tony proceeded to
tell the story of Little Paul's father. He spoke loud enough for all the
Zephyrs to hear him, and as his heart warmed towards Mr. Munroe in his
misfortunes, his eyes dilated, and his gestures were as apt and
energetic as though he had been an orator all his lifetime.
"I see what you have done with your money," said Frank, as the speaker
paused at the close of the narrative. "It was like you, Tony--noble and
generous!"
"We gave all our money for the relief of Mr. Munroe; but I didn't even
suggest the thing to the fellows. Henry Brown made the motion, and it
was a unanimous vote."
"Bravo, Butterflies!"
"Have you given up the fleet?" asked Tim Bunker, whose face was the only
one which did not glow with satisfaction.
"Yes."
"There is more fun in helping a poor man out of trouble than in working
a fleet," added Henry Brown.
"So I say," put in Dick Chester.
"Humph!" grunted Tim.
"But, Tony, you said the note was five hundred dollars--didn't you?"
asked Frank.
"I did."
"And you have only four hundred?"
"That's all;" and Tony's eyes rekindled with delight at the anticipation
of what the Zephyrs would do.
"You hear that, fellows."
"Would a motion be in order now?" asked Charles Hardy.
"Hold your tongue, you fool!" said Tim Bunker, in a low tone. "We can
get another boat with our money, and you shall be coxswain of it."
Charles looked at him.
"A motion would be in order; at least we can make it in order,"
replied Frank.
But Charles hesitated. The tempting offer of Tim, the absurdity of which
he did not stop to consider, conquered his first impulse.
"I move you we appropriate one hundred dollars to put with the
Butterfly's money for Mr. Munroe," said William Blight, and Charles had
lost the honor of making the motion.
"Second the motion," added Fred Harper.
Those in favor of giving our money to Mr. Munroe will signify it."
"Vote against it," said Tim, and Charles accepted the suggestion.
"Ten; it is a vote, though not unanimous," continued Frank, as he cast a
reproachful glance at his friend who had voted against the proposition.
He was not surprised to see Tim Bunker vote against it; but that
Charles should receive the advice of such a counselor, and such advice,
too, was calculated to alarm him. His friend had but little firmness,
and was perhaps more likely to be led away by bad influence than any
other member of the club. He was sorry to see Tim exhibiting his dogged
disposition, but more sorry to see Charles so much under his control.
"Hurrah!" shouted Tony, when the vote was declared. "Let us send up to
Mr. Munroe, and tell him what we have done, and get little Paul. They
won't want him now."
"But, Tony, you forget that our doings must be approved by our
directors," said Frank.
"I'll risk them."
"It would be better to have everything right before we promise Mr.
Munroe."
"So it would. Is your father at home?"
"I believe so."
"George is, and it won't take five minutes to obtain his consent. Let go
the fasts forward," said Tony, as he cast off the line astern.
"We will go ashore and try to find my father," added Frank.
"Ready--pull!"
Away dashed the Zephyr towards her boat house, while the Butterfly came
about so that Tony could leap on shore.
Of course both Captain Sedley and George Weston were surprised at the
sudden action of the clubs; but the deed was too noble, too honorable to
their kind hearts to want their sanction, and it was readily given. In
less than half an hour the boats were pulling towards a convenient
landing-place near Mr. Munroe's house.
The poor man was confounded when the committee of two from each club
waited upon him and stated their business. His eyes filled with tears,
and he and Little Paul wept together.
But Mr. Munroe could not think of taking the money at first. He declared
that he would suffer anything rather than deprive the boys of the
gratification which their money would purchase.
"We are a little selfish about it, sir," said Tony. "We want to keep
Paul among us."
"That's the idea," added Henry Brown, who was his colleague on the
committee.
"I can't take your money, boys," replied Mr. Munroe, firmly.
"You will oblige us very much by taking it. My brother and Captain
Sedley both know what we are about. I am sure we shall feel happier in
letting you have this money than we should be made by anything it will
buy. It was a unanimous vote in our club."
"Noble little fellows!" exclaimed Mr. Munroe, with a fresh burst of
tears, as he grasped the hand of Tony.
The matter was argued for some time longer, and finally compromised by
Mr. Munroe's agreeing to accept the money as a loan.
The notes were drawn up and signed by the poor man, whose heart was
filled to overflowing with gratitude at this unexpected relief.
"Now you will let Paul come with us--won't you, Mr. Munroe?" asked Tony.
"Certainly; and I shall never cease to thank God that he has found such
noble and true friends," replied the poor man; and as they took their
leave, he warmly pressed the hands of each member of the committee.
"Cheer up, Paul; don't be downhearted. It is all right now," said Tony.
"I can't be lively," replied Little Paul, whose sadness cast a shade
upon the enjoyment of the others.
"Why not, Paul?"
"I feel so sad; and your goodness to my poor father overcomes me."
"Never mind that, Paul; cheer up, and we will have a glorious time."
But Little Paul's feelings were too strong and deep to be easily
subdued. His pride seemed to be wounded by the events of the day, and
