sometimes.
He turned away, and began a conversation with old Mr. Zachary Coan on
the raising of buckwheat--a subject which evidently required profound
thought, for he never looked more grave, not to say melancholy.
Mary glanced that way, and was struck with the sad and almost severe
expression with which he was listening to the details of Mr. Zachary,
and was convinced that he was no more thinking of buckwheat than she
was.
"I never thought of hurting his feelings so much," said she, relenting;
"after all, he has been very kind to me. But he might have told me about
it, and not somebody else." And hereupon she cast another glance towards
him.
William was not talking, but sat with his eyes fixed on the
snuffer-tray, with an intense gravity of gaze that quite troubled her,
and she could not help again blaming herself.
"To be sure! Aunt was right; he could not help his thoughts. I will try
to forget it," thought she.
Now, you must not think Mary was sitting still and gazing during this
soliloquy. No, she was talking and laughing, apparently the most
unconcerned spectator in the room. So passed the evening till the little
company broke up.
"I am ready to attend you home," said William, in a tone of cold and
almost haughty deference.
"I am obliged to you," said the young lady, in a similar tone, "but I
shall stay all night;" then, suddenly changing her tone, she said, "No,
I cannot keep it up any longer. I will go home with you, Cousin
William."
"Keep up what?" said William, with surprise.
Mary was gone for her bonnet. She came out, took his arm, and walked on
a little way.
"You have advised me always to be frank, cousin," said Mary, "and I must
and will be; so I shall tell you all, though I dare say it is not
according to rule."
"All what?" said William.
"Cousin," said she, not at all regarding what he said, "I was very much
vexed this afternoon."
"So I perceived, Mary."
"Well, it is vexatious," she continued, "though, after all, we cannot
expect people to think us perfect; but I did not think it quite fair in
you not to tell me."
"Tell you what, Mary?"
Here they came to a place where the road turned through a small patch of
woods. It was green and shady, and enlivened by a lively chatterbox of a
brook. There was a mossy trunk of a tree that had fallen beside it, and
made a pretty seat. The moonlight lay in little patches upon it, as it
streamed down through the branches of the trees. It was a fairy-looking
place, and Mary stopped and sat down, as if to collect her thoughts.
After picking up a stick, and playing a moment in the water, she
began:--
"After all, cousin, it was very natural in you to say so, if you thought
so; though I should not have supposed you would think so."
"Well, I should be glad if I could know what it is," said William, in a
tone of patient resignation.
"O, I forgot that I had not told you," said she, pushing back her hat,
and speaking like one determined to go through with the thing. "Why,
cousin, I have been told that you spoke of my manners towards yourself
as being freer--more--obtrusive than they should be. And now," said she,
her eyes flashing, "you see it was not a very easy thing to tell you,
but I began with being frank, and I will be so, for the sake of
satisfying myself."
To this William simply replied, "Who told you this, Mary?"
"My aunt."
"Did she say I said it to her?"
"Yes; and I do not so much object to your saying it as to your
thinking it, for you know I did not force myself on your notice; it
was you who sought my acquaintance and won my confidence; and that you,
above all others, should think of me in this way!"
"I never did think so, Mary," said William, quietly.
"Nor ever said so?"
"Never. I should think you might have known it, Mary."
"But----" said Mary.
"But," said William, firmly, "Aunt Abigail is certainly mistaken."
"Well, I am glad of it," said Mary, looking relieved, and gazing in the
brook. Then looking up with warmth, "and, cousin, you never must think
so. I am ardent, and I express myself freely; but I never meant, I am
sure I never should mean, any thing more than a sister might say."
"And are you sure you never could, if all my happiness depended on it,
Mary?"
She turned and looked up in his face, and saw a look that brought
conviction. She rose to go on, and her hand was taken and drawn into the
arm of her cousin, and that was the end of the first and the last
difficulty that ever arose between them.
THE MINISTRATION OF OUR DEPARTED FRIENDS.
A NEW YEAR'S REVERY.
    "It is a beautiful belief,
        That ever round our head
    Are hovering on viewless wings
        The spirits of the dead."
While every year is taking one and another from the ranks of life and
usefulness, or the charmed circle of friendship and love, it is soothing
to remember that the spiritual world is gaining in riches through the
poverty of this.
In early life, with our friends all around us,--hearing their voices,
cheered by their smiles,--death and the spiritual world are to us
remote, misty, and half-fabulous; but as we advance in our journey, and
voice after voice is hushed, and form after form vanishes from our side,
and our shadow falls almost solitary on the hillside of life, the soul,
by a necessity of its being, tends to the unseen and spiritual, and
pursues in another life those it seeks in vain in this.
For with every friend that dies, dies also some especial form of social
enjoyment, whose being depended on the peculiar character of that
friend; till, late in the afternoon of life, the pilgrim seems to
himself to have passed over to the unseen world in successive portions
half his own spirit; and poor indeed is he who has not familiarized
himself with that unknown, whither, despite himself, his soul is
earnestly tending.
One of the deepest and most imperative cravings of the human heart, as
it follows its beloved ones beyond the veil, is for some assurance that
they still love and care for us. Could we firmly believe this,
bereavement would lose half its bitterness. As a German writer
beautifully expresses it, "Our friend is not wholly gone from us; we see
across the river of death, in the blue distance, the smoke of his
cottage;" hence the heart, always creating what it desires, has ever
made the guardianship and ministration of departed spirits a favorite
theme of poetic fiction.
But is it, then, fiction? Does revelation, which gives so many hopes
which nature had not, give none here? Is there no sober certainty to
correspond to the inborn and passionate craving of the soul? Do departed
spirits in verity retain any knowledge of what transpires in this world,
and take any part in its scenes? All that revelation says of a spiritual
state is more intimation than assertion; it has no distinct treatise,
and teaches nothing apparently of set purpose; but gives vague, glorious
images, while now and then some accidental ray of intelligence looks
out,--
    "----like eyes of cherubs shining
      From out the veil that hid the ark."
But out of all the different hints and assertions of the Bible we think
a better inferential argument might be constructed to prove the
ministration of departed spirits than for many a doctrine which has
passed in its day for the height of orthodoxy.
First, then, the Bible distinctly says that there is a class of
invisible spirits who minister to the children of men: "Are they not all
ministering spirits, sent forth to minister to those who shall be heirs
of salvation?" It is said of little children, that "their angels do
always behold the face of our Father which is in heaven." This last
passage, from the words of our Savior, taken in connection with the
well-known tradition of his time, fully recognizes the idea of
individual guardian spirits; for God's government over mind is, it
seems, throughout, one of intermediate agencies, and these not chosen at
random, but with the nicest reference to their adaptation to the purpose
intended. Not even the All-seeing, All-knowing One was deemed perfectly
adapted to become a human Savior without a human experience. Knowledge
intuitive, gained from above, of human wants and woes was not enough--to
it must be added the home-born certainty of consciousness and memory;
the Head of all mediation must become human. Is it likely, then, that,
in selecting subordinate agencies, this so necessary a requisite of a
human life and experience is overlooked? While around the throne of God
stand spirits, now sainted and glorified, yet thrillingly conscious of a
past experience of sin and sorrow, and trembling in sympathy with
temptations and struggles like their own, is it likely that he would
pass by these souls, thus burning for the work, and commit it to those
bright abstract beings whose knowledge and experience are comparatively
so distant and so cold?
It is strongly in confirmation of this idea, that in the transfiguration
scene--which seems to have been intended purposely to give the disciples
a glimpse of the glorified state of their Master--we find him attended
by two spirits of earth, Moses and Elias, "which appeared with him in
glory, and spake of his death which he should accomplish at Jerusalem."
It appears that these so long departed ones were still mingling in deep
sympathy with the tide of human affairs--not only aware of the present,
