with Christine. The influence of Darcet strengthened all that was
good within her; and as they remained long engaged in deep and
earnest conversation, the elevation and purity of his sentiments
gave clearness and strength to ideas that had been obscure to her
before, because unexpressed. Her peculiar situation had made her far
more thoughtful than many of her years. She thought she had lost the
gay buoyancy of her childhood, but she was mistaken. She was one to
profit by lessons that pressed down the bounding lightness of her
spirit; she was yet to learn that she could grow young in glad
feelings, as years rolled over her head. There was a subdued joy in
her heart, that was new to her, and gave a sweetness to her manner,
as she poured forth the guileless thoughts that first rose to her
lips. It seemed strange to meet with the ardent sympathy which
Darcet manifested by every look of his intelligent face; she could
scarcely realize that it was herself, that anybody really felt
interested in the thoughts and imaginings that had clustered around
her solitary hours. At parting, he said with warm interest, as he
slightly pressed her hand, "I hope, Miss Christine, we may have many
conversations on the subjects we have touched upon to-night."
"Oh! I hope so," replied Christine, with a frank, bright smile.
After the gentlemen had gone, Christine threw her arm around her
sister, and said gayly, "Hav'n't we had a pleasant evening, Ann, my
dear?"
"Pleasant enough," said Ann, trying to yawn, "but I felt rather
stupid, as I often do."
"Stupid! Is it possible?" exclaimed the astonished girl. "You were
talking with Mr. Burns; well, he didn't look as if he would ever set
the North River afire with his energies, it is true."
Ann smiled very slightly, then rather pettishly disengaged herself
from the detaining hand of Christine, and taking a light, retired
without saying anything, but a brief good-night to her mother.
Christine soon followed, wondering what made Ann so mute and sharp
in her actions. "Why, Ann, are you angry with me?" she asked, going
up to her, as soon as she entered the apartment.
"I don't know what I should be angry for," was the impatient reply.
"Can't a person be a little short when sleepy, without being
tormented with questions about it?"
"Oh, yes, I won't trouble you any more." And making due allowance
for Ann's quick temper, Christine occupied herself good-humouredly
with her own thoughts. The secret of Ann's shortness and sleepiness
lay here. Her vanity was wounded to think, that Christine was more
interesting than her own beautiful self.
"Well, he is a sort of a puritan, and now I begin to understand
Christine, better, I think she is too," thought Ann, after she had
mused her irritation away a little. "He is very polite and
agreeable, and it was very pleasant to have him always ready to take
me out when I wanted to go, but I never felt perfectly easy in his
company; I was always afraid I might say something dreadful;
something that would shock his wonderful goodness. But Christine
seemed perfectly at home. How bright and lovely she looked! I will
not allow evil thoughts to triumph over me. I will not be vexed
simply because she eclipsed me, where no one ever did before. She is
a dear, affectionate girl, and I made a vow before God to love her
always, never to be to her as I was once."
A fervent prayer brought back to Ann all her former tranquillity,
and she pressed a kiss upon Christine's forehead, full of repentant
affection. Just before she went to sleep, she thought to herself,
"Well, if I may trust my woman's perception, Darcet will be
exclaiming, after he has seen Christine a few times more,
"Oh! love, young love, bound in thy rosy bands."
Ann's perception proved correct. About a year after these
cogitations, Christine became Mrs. Darcet. The sisters were much
changed, but Christine the most so. There was a child-like
simplicity and sweetness beaming from her young face, which Ann
needed. Yet had much haughtiness faded from the brow of that
beautiful girl; she had grown better; but as yet her heart had not
been schooled in suffering as Christine's had. There was deep
affection in the warm tears that fell upon the bride's cheek, as
poor Ann felt that she had indeed gone to bless another with her
tender goodness. Christine's warm heart grew yet more sunny in her
own happy little home, and her feelings more open and expansive,
beneath the genial influence of friendly eyes.
THE HOURS OF LIFE.
TWILIGHT.--The dewy morning of childhood has passed, and the noon of
youth has gone, and the gloom of twilight is gathering over my
spirit. Alas! alas! how my heart sinks in a wan despair! One by one
my hopes have died out, have faded like the gleams of sunshine that
have just vanished beneath the grove of trees. Hopes! Ah, such warm,
bright, beautiful, loving hopes! But, methinks, than lived upon the
earth, unlike the gleaming rays of sunshine that are fed from
heaven. The earth's darkness dims not their glory; pure and radiant
they shine behind the black shadow. But human hopes are earth-born;
they spring from the earth, like the flitting light of night, and
lead us into bogs and quagmires.
Yet it is beautiful to realize that we have had hopes; they are the
past light of the soul, and their glow yet lingers in this gloomy
twilight, reminding one that there has been a sunny day, and
memories of things pleasant and joyous mingle with the present
loneliness and cheerless desolation.
Words, that excited hopes, that awoke thrilling emotions, linger on
the listening ear. But, ah! the heart grows very sad, when the ear
listens in vain, and the yearning, unsatisfied spirit realizes that
the words, so loved, so fondly dwelt upon, were but words, empty,
vain words. But, to have believed them, was a fleeting blindness.
They served for food to the yearning heart, when they were given,
and shall the traveller through the desolate wilderness look back
with scorn upon the bread and water that once satisfied his hunger
and thirst, even though it is now withheld? No--let him be thankful
for the past; otherwise, the keen biting hunger, the thirsty anguish
of the soul, will have a bitterness and a gall in it, that will
corrode his whole being. Ah! what is this being? if one could but
understand one's own existence, what a relief it would be; but to
understand nothing--alas!
Life is a weary burden. I feel weighed down with it, and I do not
know what is in the pack that bows me so wearily to the earth. I do
know that in it are agonized feelings, bitter disappointments, and a
desolation of the heart. But there is a something else in it; for,
now and then, come vague, vast perceptions of a dim future; but I
shut my eyes. I cannot look beyond the earth. I could have been
satisfied here with a very little; a little of human love would have
made me so happy. Yes, I would never have dreamed of an unknown
heaven. Heaven! What is heaven? I remember when I was a little
child, lying on my bed in the early morning twilight (ah! that was a
twilight, unlike this, which is sinking into a black night, for that
was ushering in the beautiful golden day), but it was twilight when
I looked through the uncurtained window; and through the
intertwining branches of a noble tree I saw the far, dim, misty
sky--and I wondered, in my childish way, "if heaven is like that;"
and all at once it seemed to me that the dim, distant sky opened,
and my dead mother's face looked out upon me so beautifully, I did
not know her, for she died when I was an unconscious infant, and yet
I did know her. Yes, that beautiful face was my mother's, and my
heart was full of delight. That my mother could see me, and love me,
from the far heavens, was like a revelation to me. And often, on
other mornings, I awakened and looked through the very same branches
of the tree, out into the far sky, and thought to see my mother's
face shining through the window and watching over her lonely,
sleeping child. But my fancy never again conjured up the vision.
Fancy! What is fancy? If one could but understand, could grasp the
phantom and mystery of life! And above all, if one could but
understand what heaven is!
When I was a child, heaven was to me a peopled place, a wonderful
reality; and I remember a dream that I had--what a strange dream it
was! For I went to heaven, and I saw a shining One, sitting on a
throne, and many beautiful ones were standing and seated around the
throne, and my father and mother were there; and they had crowns on
their heads, and held each other by the hand, and looked down upon
me so lovingly. I knew that it was my father, because my mother held
him by the hand, though my father died the day I was born, and I
stood before them in the great light of a Heavenly Presence, as such
a poor little earth-child, but I was happy, inexpressibly happy,
only they did not touch me; but I was not fit to be touched by such
soft, shining hands. And what was yet a greater joy than ever to see
my unknown father and mother on the other side of the throne, I saw
my brother, my dear, gentle, beautiful little brother, who, seven
years older than I, had loved and played with me on the earth. He
was clothed in white garments, and was grown from a child to a
youth, and was so full of a noble and beautiful grace. He smiled
upon me; he did not speak; none spoke. All was so still, and serene,
and bright, and beautiful. Next morning I awoke as if yet in my
dream, so vivid was the whole scene before me. I could have danced
and sung all day, "I have seen my father and mother and brother in
the heavenly courts." But what are dreams?
Yet, it is wonderful to go back to the dreams and thoughts of
childhood; they are so distinct; such living realities. I often
remember a speech I made in those far childish days. I was lying in
bed with a friend in the early gray morning. All at once I started
up and said--"Oh, how I wish I had lived in the days when Jesus
lived upon the earth!"
I was asked why? And I replied, "Because I could have loved Him; I
