" Blow on me, and see what you will get. 

" I don't mean to blow on you. 

" Yes you do. 


" I will not lie about it ; that's all." 

" By jolly ! see that horse ! " exclaimed Tom, suddenly, as he pointed to the road leading to Riverdale 
centre. 

" By gracious ! ' added Bobby, dropping his fish 
pole, as he saw the horse running at a furious rate 
up the road from the village. 

The mad animal was attached to a chaise, in which 
was seated a lady, whose frantic shrieks pierced the 
soul of our youthful hero. 

The course of the road was by the river's side for 
nearly half a mile, and crossed the stream at a wooden 
bridge but a few rods from the place where the boys 
were fishing. 

Bobby Bright's impulses were noble and generous ; 
and without stopping to consider the peril to which 
the attempt would expose him, he boldly resolved to 
stop that horse, or let the animal dash him to pieces 
on the bridge. 

" Now or never ! " shouted he, as he leaped from 
the rock, and ran with all his might to the bridge. 

The shrieks of the lady rang in his ears, and seemed 
to command him, with an authority which he could not 



 

resist, to stop the horse. There was no time for de- 
liberation ; and, indeed, Bobby did not want any de- 
liberation. The lady was in danger ; if the horse's 
flight was not checked, she would be dashed in 
pieces ; and what then could excuse him for neglect- 
ing his duty ? Not the fear of broken limbs, of 
mangled flesh, or even of a sudden and violent death. 
It is true Bobby did not think of any of these 
things ; though, if he had, it would have made no 
difference with him. He was a bov who would not 



fight except in self-defence, but he had the courage 
to do a deed which might have made the stoutest 
heart tremble with terror. 

Grasping a broken rail as he leaped over the fence, 
he planted himself in the middle of the bridge, which 
was not more than half as wide as the road at each 
end of it, to await the coming of the furious animal. 
On he came, and the piercing shrieks of the affrighted 
lady nerved him to the performance of his perilous 
duty. 

The horse approached him at a mad run, and his 
feet struck the loose planks of the bridge. The brave 
boy then raised his big club, and brandished it with 


all his might in the air. Probably the horse did not 
mean any thing very bad; was only frightened, and had 
no wicked intentions towards the lady ; so that, when 
a new danger menaced him in front, he stopped sud- 
denly, and with so much violence as to throw the 
lady forward from her seat upon the dasher of the 
chaise. He gave a long snort, which was his way of 
expressing his fear. He was evidently astonished at 
the sudden barrier to his further progress, and com- 
menced running back. 

" Save me ! " screamed the lady. 

" I will, ma'am; don't be scared! " replied Bobby, 
confidently, as he dropped his club, and grasped the 
bridle of the horse, just as he was on the point of 
whirling round to escape by the way he had come. 

" Stop him ! Do stop him ! " cried the lady. 

" Whoa ! " said Bobby in gentle tones, as he patted 
the trembling horse on his neck. " Whoa, good 
horse ! Be quiet ! Whoa ! ' 

The animal, in his terror kept running backward, 
and forward ; but Bobby persevered in his gentle 
treatment, and finally soothed him, so that he stood 
quiet enough for the lady to get out of the chaise. 



 

"What a miracle that I am alive ! " exclaimed she, 
when she realized that she stood once more upon the 
firm earth. 

" Yes, ma'am, it is lucky he didn't break the chaise. 
Whoa ! Good horse ! Stand quiet ! " 

" What a brave little fellow you are ! " said the lady, 
as soon as she could recover her breath so as to ex- 
press her admiration of Bobby's bold act. 

" O, I don't mind it," replied he, blushing like a 
rose in June. " Did he run away with you ? ' 

" No ; my father left me in the chaise for a moment 
while he went into a store in the village, and a teainster who was passing by snapped his whip, which 
frightened Kate so that she started off at the top of 
her speed. I was so terrified, that I screamed with 
all my might, which frightened her the more. The 
more I screamed, the faster she ran." 

" I dare say. Good horse ! Whoa, Kate ! ' 

" She is a splendid creature ; she never did such a 
thing before. My father will think I am killed." 

By this time, Kate had become quite reasonable, 
and seemed very much obliged to Bobby for prevent- 
ing her from doing mischief to her mistress ; for she 



 

looked at the lady with a glance of satisfaction, which 
her deliverer interpreted as a promise to behave better 
in future. He relaxed his grasp upon the bridle, 
patted her upon the neck, and said sundry pleasant 
things to encourage her in her assumed purpose of 
doing better. Kate appeared to understand Bobby's 
kind words, and declared as plainly as a horse could 
declare that she would be sober and tractable. 

" Now, ma'am, if you will get into the chaise again, 
I think Kate will let me drive her down to the vil- 
lage." 

" O, dear ! I should not dare to do so." 

" Then, if you please, I will drive down alone, so 
as to let your father know that you are safe." 

"Do." 

" I am sure he must feel very bad, and I may save 
him a great deal of pain, for a man can suffer a great 
