
Elizabeth started a little from her fixed attitude and began
to handle her dressing-comb.

"'Taint so far folks can't get here, I guess."

"Clam!" -- said her mistress facing about.

"Well, Miss Lizzie --"

"Go and take care of Karen. I don't want you."

"She don't want me," said Clam. "And you've had no dinner."

"Do as I tell you. I shall not have any."

With this spur, Elizabeth was soon dressed, and then walked
into Mrs. Haye's room. Rose apparently had had leisure for
meditation and had made up her mind upon several things; but
her brow changed as her cousin came in.

"Lizzie -- Why you've been up all night, Emma says."

"That's nothing. I have been down all day."

"But what's the matter with this old woman?"

"I don't know. She don't know herself."

"But Emma said she thought she was dying?"

"So she did. I don't know whether she is right or not."

"Dying! -- is she!" said Rose with a little scream.

"I don't know. I hope not, so soon as she thinks. She is no
worse to-night."

"But what are you going to do?"

"Nothing -- more than I have done."

"But are you going to stay here?"

"Stay here, Rose! --"

"Yes -- I mean -- who's going to take care of her? And isn't she
your cook?"

A curious quick gleam of a laugh passed over Elizabeth's face;
it settled graver than before.

"Clam can cook all you and I want."

"But who's going to take care of her?"

"I have sent for help, and for a doctor."

"Haven't you sent for a doctor before! Why Lizzie!"

"I sent early this morning. The messenger had to go a number
of miles."

"And isn't there anybody about the house but Clam and Emma?"

"Anderese is here. I sent somebody else."

"What use is an old thing like that about a place?"

Elizabeth was silent. The cloud gathered on Rose's face, and
as if that it might not cast its shadow on her cousin, she
looked out of the window. Then Clam came in.

"Where'll supper be, Miss 'Lizabeth?"

"Is Karen in the kitchen?"

"Oh! -- I won't have tea in there!" said Rose with one of her
old little screams.

"Let it be here, Clam."

"What'll it be, Miss 'Lizabeth?"

"Anything you please."

"There's nothing in the house to be pleased with," said Clam;
"and you've had no dinner."

"Bread and butter and tea -- and boil an egg."

"That would be pleasant," said Clam, capacity and fun shining
out of every feature; -- "but Karen's hens don't lay no eggs
when she ain't round."

"Bread and butter and tea, then."

"Butter's gone," said Clam.

"Bread and cold meat, then."

"Fresh meat was all eat up days ago; and you and Mis' Haye
don't make no 'count of ham."

Elizabeth got up and went out to Anderese and despatched him
to Mountain Spring after what forage he could find. Then from
a sense of duty went back to her cousin. Rose was looking out
of the window again when she came in, and kept silence for a
little space; but silence was never Rose's forte.

"Lizzie -- what makes you live in such a place?"

"It was the pleasantest place I could find," said her cousin,
with a tone of suppressed feeling.

"It's so lonely!" said Rose.

"It suited me."

"But it isn't safe," said Rose. "What if something happened to
you, with nobody about, -- what would you do?"

"It has not been a subject of fear with me," said Elizabeth.
"I haven't thought about it."

"Who comes to see you here? anybody?"

"No. Who should come?" said Elizabeth sternly. "Whom should I
want to see?"

"Don't you want to see anybody, ever? I do. I don't like to be
in a desert so."

Elizabeth was silent, with a set of the lips that told of
thoughts at work.

"Doesn't Winthrop Landholm come here?"

"No!"

"I'm not used to it," said Rose whimpering, -- "I can't live
so. It makes me feel dreadfully."

"Whom do you want to see, Rose?" said Elizabeth, with an
expression that ought to have reminded her companion whom she
was dealing with.

"I don't care who -- any one. It's dreadful to live so, and see
nothing but the leaves shaking and the river rolling and this
great empty place."

"Empty!" said Elizabeth, with again a quick glancing laugh.
"Well! -- you are yourself yet! But at any rate the leaves
don't shake much to-day."

"They did last night," said Rose. "I was so frightened I
didn't know what to do, and with no man in the house either,
good for anything -- I didn't sleep a wink till after one
o'clock."

