The unequal contest, however, soon termirated in 
the capture of our resolute hero, and the man tied 
his hands behind his back ; but he did not dare to 
.'eave the young lion to go in pursuit of his less un- 
fortunate, but more guilty, confederate. 
" There, Master Harry West, I think you have got 
into a tight place now," said his captor, whose name 
was Nathan Leman, brother of the person to whom 
the boat belonged. " We will soon put you in a 
place where you won't burn any more barns." 
Harry was confounded at this charge, and promptly 
and indignantly denied it. He had not considered 
the possibility of being accused of such a crime, and 
it seemed to put a new aspect upon his case. 
" You did not set fire to Squire Walker's barn last 
night ? " replied Leman, incredulously. 
" No, I did not." 
" Pei haps you can make ^he squire believe it,* 
sneered his captor. 
" I didn't do it." 
" Didn't steal my brother's boat either, did you?" 
"I  didn't." 
" Who did ? " 
Harry thought a moment. After the mean trick 
which Ben Smart had served him, he did not feel 
very kindly towards him, but he was not yet prepared 
to betray him. 
" I didn't," was his reply. 
Nathan Leman then conducted his prisoner to the 
river's side. By this time the other pursuer, who 
had been obliged to ascend the river for a quarter of 
a mile before he could cross, joined him. 
" Where is the other fellow ? " he asked. 
" Couldn't catch him. This one fought like a 
young tiger, and I couldn't leave him," replied Na- 
than. " If you will take Harry up to the village, \ 
will soon have him." 
The other assented, and while Nathan wont in 
eearch of Ben, Harry was conducted back to ihe 
village. 
The prisoner was sad and depressed in spirits; but 
tie did not lose all hope. He was appalled at the 
idea of being accused of burning tbe barn ; but Le 
was innocent, and had a vague assurance tbat no 
harm could befall him on that account. 
When they entered the village, a crowd gathered 
around them, eager to learn the particulars of the 
capture ; but without pausing to gratify this curiosi- 
ty, Harry's conductor lrd him to the poor house, and 
placed bim in charge of Mr. Naaon. 
 
The keeper of the poorhouse received Harry in 
sullen silence, and conducted him to the chamber in 
which he had been ordered to keep him a close 
prisoner. He had apparently lost all confidence in 
him, and regretted that he had connived at his 
escape. 
Harry did not like the cold and repulsive deport- 
ment of his late friend. Mr. Nason had always been 
kind to him ; now he seemed to have fallen in with 
Squire Walker's plans, and was willing to be the 
instrument of the overseer's narrow and cruel policy. 
Before, he had taken his part against the mighty, so 
far as it was prudent for him to do so ; now, he was 
willing to go over to the enemy. 
This reverse made him sadder than any other circumstance of his return — sadder than the fear of 
punishment, or even of being sent to live with Jacob 
Wire. 
"I've get back again," said Harry, when they 
reached the chamber in which he was to be confined. 
" I see you have," replied Mr. Nason, in freezing 
tones. 
The keeper had never spoken to him in high
tones, and Harry burst into tears. His only riend 
had deserted him, and he felt more desolate than 
ever before in his life. 
" You needn't cry, now," said Mr. Nason, sternly. 
" I can't help it," sobbed the little prisoner. 
*' Can't you ? " 
Mr. Nason sneered as he spoke, and his sreer 
pierced the heart of Harry. 
" O Mr. Nason ! " 
" There — that will do. You needn't bL.bbcr any 
aiore. You have n.ade jvur bed, fad now you ran 
lie in it ; " and the keeper turned on his heel to 
eave the room. 
" Don't leave me yet," pleaded Harry. 
" Leave you ? What do you want of me ? I 
t 
luppose you want to tell me I advised you to burn 
the barn." 
"I didn't set the barn afire !" exclaimed Harry, 
now for the first time realizing the cause of his 
friend's displeasure. 
" Don't lie." 
" I speak the truth. I did not set it afire, or even 
know that it was going to be set on fire." 
Mr. Nason closed the door which he had opened 
to depart. The firm denial, as well as the tone and 
manner of the boy, arrested his judgment against 
him. He had learned to place implicit confidence in 
Harry's word ; for though he might have told lies 
to others, he never told them to him. 
" Who did burn the barn r " asked the keeper, 
locking sternly into the eye of the culprit. 
Harry hesitated. A sense of honor and magna- 
nimity pervaded his soul. He had obtained some 
f:ilse notions ; and he did not understand that he 
could hardly be false to one who had been false to 
himself — that to help a criminal conceal his cr'*ne 
was to onspire against the peace and happiness of 
his fellow-beings. Shabbily as lien Smart had used 
him, he could not at once make up his mind to be
ray him. 
" You don't answer," added Mr. Nason. 
" I didn't do it." 
" Rut who did ? " 
" I don't like to tell." 
" Very well ; you can do as you like. After what 
I had done for you, it was a little strange that you 
should do as you have." 
" I will tell you all about it, Mr. Nason, if you 
will promise not to tell." 
" I know all about it. You and I be Smart put 
your heads together to be revenged on the squire ; 
you set his barn afire, and then stole Leman's beat." 
" No, sir ; I didn't set the barn afire, nor steal 
the boat, nor help to do either." 
" You and he were together." 
' We were ; and if it wasn't for being mean to 
lien, I would tell you all about it." 
" Mean to Ben ! As soon as it was known that 
you and Ben were missing, every body in the village 
knew who set the barn afire. All you have got to 
do is to clear yourself, if you can ; Ben is condemned 
already." 
 
*' If you will hear my story I will tell you all 
ab)ut it." 
Harry proceeded to narrate every thing that had 
occurred since he left the house on the preceding 
night. It was a very clear and plausible statement. 
He ans vcred all the questions which Mr Nason pro- 
posed with promptness, and his replies were con- 
nistent. 
" I believe you, Harry," said the keeper, when he 
had finished his examination. " Somehow I couldn't 
believe you would do such a thing as set the squire's 
barn afire." 
" I wouldn't," replied Harry, warmly, and much 
pleased to find he had reestablished the confidence of 
his friend. 
" But it is a bad case. The fact of your being 
with Ben Smart is almost enough to convict you." 
" I shouldn't have been with him, if I had known 
be set the barn afire." 
" I don't know as I can dc any thing for you, 
Harry ; but I will try." 
" Thank you." 
Mr. Nason left him, and Harry had an opportunity 
