"stock" and for the services of Mrs. Colvin, were nearly a dollar, and
her heart beat with renewed hope at this continued success. Her grand
idea hardly seemed like an experiment now, for she had proved that she
could make good candy, and that people were willing to buy the article.
She met with about the same treatment from those to whom she offered
her wares; one spoke kindly, and purchased by wholesale, and another
spoke gruffly, and would not buy even a single stick. Here she was
driven out of doors, and there she was petted, and made large sales.
So far as Katy's person and manners were concerned, she was admirably
adapted to the business she had chosen. She was rather small in stature
for one of her age, but she was very well formed, and her movements
were agile and graceful. Her face was not as pretty as it might have
been, but her expression was artless and winning. Her light brown hair
hung in curls upon her shoulders, and contributed not a little to make
up the deficiency in what the painters and sculptors would call a
finely chiseled face.
If she had been dressed in silk, and lace, and embroidery, I doubt not
people would have called her pretty, though in my opinion it does not
make much difference whether she was pretty or not; for, after all, the
best way to judge of a person's beauty is by the old standard,
"Handsome is that handsome does." But I have said thus much about
Katy's face and form in order to explain the secret of her great
success as a candy merchant. Hundreds of persons would buy a stick of
candy of a little girl with a pretty face and a graceful form, who
would not do so of one less attractive. Though she was well favored in
this respect, I believe it was her gentle, polite manners, her sweet
voice, made sweet by a loving heart, that contributed most to her
success. But above all the accidents of a good form, graceful
movements, brown ringlets, and a pleasing address, she prospered in
trade because she was in earnest, and persevered in all her efforts. A
person cannot succeed in business by being merely good looking, though
this may sometimes be of much assistance. It is patience, perseverance,
energy, and above all, integrity and uprightness, that lead to the true
success.
Encouraged by her prosperity, Katy continued to sell candy with about
the same result as had cheered her heart on the first two days. Her
profits, however, were not so great as on those two days, and did not
average above seventy-five cents a day or four dollars and a half a
week. This was doing exceedingly well, and she had every reason to be
grateful for her good fortune.
At the end of three weeks, rent day came round again, and Dr. Flynch
called for the money. To his utter astonishment, it was ready for him,
and he departed without a single ill-natured word, though this was,
perhaps, because he had a wholesome regard for the opinion of Mrs.
Gordon. Two weeks later Katy found that her savings were sufficient to
enable her to pay the month's rent for which Mrs. Gordon had given a
receipt, and also the dollar which Grace had loaned her. These debts
had pressed heavily on her mind. She knew that they were regarded as
free gifts and her pride prompted her to remove what she considered a
stain upon her character. Till they were paid, she felt like a beggar.
Taking her money one day, she paid a visit to Temple Street. Michael
opened the door and received her with a smile. Knowing she was in favor
with his mistress, he conducted her to the sitting-room, where the
portraits hung. Those roguish eyes of the lady, who somewhat resembled
her mother, were fixed on her again. She was sure that her mother did
not look like that picture then, but she was equally sure that she had,
some time or other cast just such a glance at her. The expression of
the lady found something like its  counterpart in her memory. Now, her
mother was sick and sad; she seldom smiled. But some time she must have
been a young girl, and then she must have looked like that portrait.
She felt just like asking Mrs. Gordon if that was her portrait, but she
did not dare to do such a thing. While she was attentively watching the
roguish lady's face, her kind friend entered the room, followed by
Grace.
"How do you do, Katy?" said the former, with a benevolent smile.
"Quite well, I thank you, ma'am. I hope you will excuse me for coming
again," replied she.
"I am very glad you have come."
"I was thinking of you the other day, and wishing I might see you,"
added Grace, "for the Mayor told us a very pretty story about you."
"He was very good to me; and I never shall forget him or you," answered
Katy, warmly.
"I suppose you have come to get another receipt; but I told Dr. Flynch
not to disturb you," said Mrs. Gordon.
"O, no ma'am--I didn't come for that. You were too kind to me before,
and I have come now to pay you for that month's rent."
"Indeed?"
"Yes, ma'am; we have been able to earn money enough, and I am very glad
that I can pay it," replied Katy, taking the four dollars from her
pocket. "Here it is."
"No, my child; you shall keep it. I will not take it."
Katy's cheeks flushed, for she did not feel poor and proud then. She
felt rich; that is she was proud of being able to pay all she owed, and
she did not like to be thought capable of accepting a gift--of being
the recipient of charity. But she knew the hearts of her kind friends,
and left unspoken the words of indignation that trembled on her tongue.
"Please to take the money, ma'am," said she her cheeks still red with
shame.
"No, my child; you are a good girl; I will not take your money."
"I shall feel very bad if you don't, and it will make my mother very
unhappy."
"Nay, Katy, you must not be too proud."
"I am not too proud to ask or to accept a favor, but please don't make
me feel like a beggar."
"You are a very strange child," said Mrs. Gordon.
"Indeed you are," added Grace
"I shall not feel right if you don't take this money. You know I
promised to pay you at the time you gave me the receipt."
"I did not suppose you would, that is, I did not think you would be
able to pay it. Your mother has got well, then?"
"No, ma'am; she is better, but she does not sit up any yet."
"Then how did you get this money?"
"I earned it."
"You!"
"Yes, ma'am; selling candy."
"Is it possible? The mayor told me you were a little candy merchant,
but I did not suppose you carried on such an extensive trade."
"I make a great deal of money; almost five dollars a week; and now I am
able, I hope you will let me pay you."
"If you insist upon it, I shall, though I had much rather you would
keep the money."
"Thank you, ma'am. I shall feel much better when it is paid."
Mrs. Gordon reluctantly received the four dollars. It was a very small
sum to her, though a very large one to Katy. She saw that the little
candy merchant's pride was of the right kind, and she was not disposed
to give her any unnecessary mortification, though she resolved that
neither Katy nor her mother should ever want a friend in their need.
"I owe you one dollar, also," continued Katy, advancing to the side of
Grace.
"Well, I declare!" laughed Grace. "If that isn't a good one!"
"I promised to pay you; and you know I would not take the money as a
gift," replied Katy.
"I am aware that you would not, and you are the promptest paymistress I
ever knew."
"With the dollar you lent me, I bought the molasses to make the first
lot of candy I sold. Your dollar has done a great deal of good."
"I am glad it has; but I don't want to take it."
"Won't you let me feel like myself?"
"Certainly I will," laughed Grace.
"Then let me pay my debts, and not feel just like a beggar."
"You are the queerest child I ever saw!" exclaimed Grace, as she took
the dollar. "I am going to keep this dollar for you, and perhaps some
time you will not be so proud as you are now, though I hope you will
always have all the money you want."
"I think I shall, if my trade continues to be good," replied Katy, who,
now that all her debts had been paid, felt a heavy load removed from
her heart.
"You must bring your candy up here. The mayor says it is very good. I
have a sweet tooth, and I will buy lots of it," added Grace.
"I will bring you up some to-morrow," replied Katy, moving towards the
door, and casting a last glance at the mischievous lady in the picture.
"The mayor told me to ask you to call and see him again," said Mrs.
Gordon. "He is very much interested in you."
"He is very kind;" and she bade them good-by.
Katy felt highly honored by the notice the mayor had taken of her. Like
Master Simon Sneed, she felt almost like calling him her friend the
mayor; but she resolved to call upon him on her way home. He received
her very kindly, told her what a mistake she had made in giving the
pawnbroker his note, who had never delivered it to the marshal, and
promised to buy lots of candy when she came with her tray.
When she returned home she found a message there from Tommy Howard,
requesting to see her that afternoon. She did not feel like spending
any more time in idleness, when she had so much candy to sell; but
Tommy's request was not to be neglected; and, taking her tray, she
called at his house as she passed up to the court.
Tommy had been talking for a year about going to sea, and had been for
some time on the lookout for a chance as a cabin-boy or a reefer. He
had told her his plans, how he intended to be a good sailor and work
his way up to be captain of some fine ship. She suspected, therefore,
that he had found a chance to go to sea, and wanted to tell her all
