occasion, when she had striven so hard to be in advance, was more
than Mrs. Bellman could endure. The result of a night's thinking on
the subject was a determination to pursue a very extraordinary
course, the nature of which will be seen. By telegraph Mrs. Bellman
communicated with her friend in New York, desiring her to send on by
the evening of the next day, which was Saturday, the bonnet she had
ordered, if four prices had to be paid as an inducement to get the
milliner to use extra exertions in getting it up. In due time,
notice came back that the bonnet would be sent on by express on
Saturday, much to the joy of Mrs. Ballman, who from the interest she
felt in carrying out her intentions, had entirely recovered from the
painful disappointment at first experienced.
Saturday brought the bonnet, and a beautiful one it was. A few
natural sighs were expended over the elegant affair, and then other
feelings came in to chase away regrets at not having been first to
secure the article.
On the day previous, Friday, Mrs. Ballman called upon a fashionable
milliner, and held with her the following conversation.
"You have heard of Mrs. Claudine's new bonnet, I presume?"
"Yes, madam," replied the milliner.
"Do you think it will take?" asked Mrs. Ballman.
"I do."
"You have not the pattern?"
"Oh, yes. I received one a week ago."
"You did!"
"Yes. But some one must introduce it. As Mrs. Claudine is about
doing this there is little doubt of its becoming the fashion, for
the style is striking as well as tasteful."
Mrs. Ballman mused for some moments. There she drew the milliner
aside, and said, in a low confidential tone.
"Do you think you could get up a bonnet a handsome as that, and in
just as good taste?"
"I know I could. In my last received London and Paris fashions are
several bonnets a handsome as the one that is about being adopted in
New York, and here also without doubt."
"I am not so sure of its being adopted here," said the lady.
"If Mrs. Claudine introduces it, as I understand she intends doing
on Sunday, it will certainly be approved and the style followed."
"I very much doubt it. But we will see. Where are the bonnets you
spoke of just now?"
The milliner brought forth a number of pattern cards and plates, and
pointed out two bonnets, either of which, in her judgment, was more
beautiful than the one Mrs. Claudine had received.
"Far handsomer," was the brief remark with which Mrs. Ballman
approved the milliner's judgment. "And now," she added, "can you get
me up one of these by Sunday?"
"I will try."
"Try won't do," said the lady, with some excitement in her manner.
"I must have the bonnet. Can you make it?"
"Yes."
"Very well. Then make it. And let it be done in your very best
manner. Why I wish to have this bonnet I need hardly explain to you.
I believed that I would have received the bonnet, about to be
adopted in New York, first. I had written to a friend to procure it;
but, by some means, Mrs. Claudine has obtained hers in advance of
me. Mine will be here to-morrow, but I don't mean to wear it. I wish
to lead."
"If you were both to appear in this bonnet, the fashion would be
decided," said the milliner.
"I know. But I have no wish to share the honor with Mrs. Claudine.
Make me the bonnet I have selected, and I will see that it puts
hers down."
"You will remember," said the milliner, "that hers has been
already adopted in New York. This will be almost sure to give it the
preference. It would be better that you did not attempt a rivalry,
than that you should be beaten."
"But I don't mean to be beaten," replied the lady. "I have taken
measures to prevent that. After Sunday you will hear no more of the
New York bonnet. Mine will go, and this, I need not tell you, will
be a feather in your cap, and dollars in your pocket; as I will
refer to you as the only one who can get it up. So do your best, and
improve the pattern we have selected, if it will bear improvement."
The milliner promised to do her "prettiest," and Mrs. Ballman
returned home in a state of considerable elation at the prospect of
carrying off the palm, and humiliating her rival at the same time.
Mrs. Claudine, though a little vain, and fond of excelling, was a
woman of kind feelings, and entirely superior to the petty
jealousies that annoyed Mrs. Ballman, and soured her towards all who
succeeded in rivalling her in matters of taste and fashion. Of what
was passing in the mind of the lady who had been so troubled at her
reception of a new style of bonnet from New York, she was entirely
ignorant. She was not even aware that Mrs. Ballman had ordered the
same article, nor that she had suffered a disappointment.
Saturday came. Mrs. Claudine was busy over some little article of
dress that was to add to her appearance on the next day, when an
Irish girl, who had formerly lived with her, entered her room.
"Ah! Kitty!" said the lady pleasantly. "How do you do?"
"I'm right well, mum, thankee," replied Kitty, with a courtesy.
"Where do you live now, Kitty?" inquired Mrs. Claudine.
"I'm living with Mrs. Ballman," said the girl.
"A very good place, I have no doubt."
"Oh, yes, mum. It is a good place. I hain't much to do, barrin'
going out with the children on good days, and seein' after them in
the house; and I get good wages."
"I'm very glad to hear it, Kitty; and hope you will not give up so
good a home."
"No, indeed, mum; and I won't do that. But Mrs. Claudine--"
Kitty's face flushed, and she stammered in her speech.
"What do you wish to say?" inquired the lady, seeing that Kitty
hesitated to speak of what was on her mind.
"Indade, mum," said Kitty, evincing much perplexity, "I hardly know
what I ought to do. But yez were good to me, mum, when I was sick
and didn't send me off to the poor house like some girls are sent;
and I never can forget yez while there's breath in me body. And now
I've come to ask yez, just as a favor to me, not to wear that new
bonnet from New York, to-morrow."
It was some moments before, the surprise occasioned by so novel and
unexpected a request left Mrs. Claudine free to make any reply.
"Why, Kitty!" she at length exclaimed, "what on earth can you mean?"
"Indade, mum, and yez mustn't ask me what I mane, only don't wear
the bonnet to church on the morrow, because--because--och, indade,
mum, dear! I can't say any more. It wouldn't be right."
Mrs. Claudine told Kitty to sit down, an invitation which the girl,
who was much agitated, accepted. The lady then remained silent and
thoughtful for some time.
"Kitty," she remarked, at length, in a serious manner, "what you
have said to me sounds very strangely. How you should know that I
intended appearing in a new bonnet to-morrow, or why you should be
so much interested in the matter is more than I can understand. As
to acting as you desire, I see no reason for that whatever."
This reply only had the effect of causing Kitty to urge her request
more strenuously. But she would give no reason for her singular
conduct. After the girl had gone away, Mrs. Claudine laid aside her
work--for she was not in a state of mind to do any thing but
think---and sat for at least an hour, musing upon the strange
incident which had occurred. All at once, it flashed upon her mind
that there must be some plot in progress to discredit or rival her
new bonnet, which Kitty had learned at Mrs. Ballman's. The more she
thought of this, the more fully did she become satisfied that it
must be so. She was aware that Mrs. Ballman had been chagrined at
her leading off in new fashions once or twice before; and the fact,
evident now, that she knew of her reception of the bonnet, and
Kitty's anxiety that she should not wear it on Sunday, led her to
the conviction that there was some plot against her. At first, she
determined to appear in her new bonnet, disregardful of Kitty's
warning. But subsequent reflection brought her to a different
conclusion.
The moment Mrs. Claudine settled it in her mind that she would not
appear in the new bonnet, she began dressing herself, hurriedly, to
go out. It was as late as five o'clock in the afternoon when she
called at the store of the milliner who had been commissioned by
Mrs. Ballman to get the rival bonnet.
"Have you the last fashions from abroad?" enquired Mrs. Claudine.
"We have," replied the milliner.
"Will you let me see them?"
"Certainly, ma'am."
And the patterns were shown. After examining them carefully, for
some time, Mrs. Claudine selected a style of bonnet that pleased her
fancy, and said--
"You must get me up this bonnet so that I can wear it to-morrow."
"Impossible, madam!" replied the milliner. "This is Saturday
evening."
"I know it is; but for money you can get one of your girls to work
all night. I don't care what you charge; but I must have the
bonnet."
The milliner still hesitated, and seemed to be confused and uneasy.
She asked Mrs. Claudine to sit down and wait for a little while, and
then retired to think upon what she had better do. The fact was,
Mrs. Claudine had pitched upon the very bonnet Mrs. Ballman had
ordered, and her earnestness about having it made in time to wear on
