is;—different things, you know, are useful to different people.’
‘Well,’ said Mrs. Scudder, ‘I see that it’s our call to be a remnant
small and despised, but I hope we sha’n’t shrink from it. I thought,
when I saw all those fashionable people go out Sunday, tossing their
heads and looking so scornful, that I hoped grace would be given me to
be faithful.’
‘And what does the Doctor say?’ said Miss Prissy.
‘He hasn’t said a word; his mind seems to be very much lifted above all
these things.’
‘La, yes,’ said Miss Prissy, ‘that’s one comfort; he’ll never know
where his shirts come from; and besides that, Miss Scudder,’ she said,
sinking her voice to a whisper, ‘as you know, I haven’t any children
to provide for,—though I was telling Elizabeth t’other day, when I was
making up frocks for her children, that I believed old maids, first and
last, did more providing for children than married women: but still I
do contrive to slip away a pound-note, now and then, in my little old
silver teapot that was given to me when they settled old Mrs. Simpson’s
property (I nursed her all through her last sickness, and laid her out
with my own hands), and, as I was saying, if ever the Doctor should
want money, you just let me know.’
‘Thank you, Miss Prissy,’ said Mrs. Scudder; ‘we all know where your
heart is.’
‘And now,’ added Miss Prissy, ‘what do you suppose they say? Why, they
say Colonel Burr is struck dead in love with our Mary; and you know
his wife’s dead, and he’s a widower; and they do say that he’ll get
to be the next President. Sakes alive! Well, Mary must be careful, if
she don’t want to be carried off; for they do say that there can’t
any woman resist him, that sees enough of him. Why, there’s that poor
Frenchwoman, Madame —— what do you call her, that’s staying with the
Vernons?—they say she’s over head and ears in love with him.’
‘But she’s a married woman,’ said Mary; ‘it can’t be possible!’
Mrs. Scudder looked reprovingly at Miss Prissy, and for a few moments
there was great shaking of heads and a whispered conference between the
two ladies, ending in Miss Prissy’s going off, saying, as she went down
stairs,—
‘Well, if women will do so, I, for my part, can’t blame the men.’
In a few moments Miss Prissy rushed back as much discomposed as a
clucking hen who has seen a hawk.
‘Well, Miss Scudder, what do you think? Here’s Colonel Burr come to
call on the ladies!’
Mrs. Scudder’s first movement, in common with all middle-aged
gentlewomen, was to put her hand to her head and reflect that she had
not on her best cap; and Mary looked down at her dimpled hands, which
were blue from the contact with mixed yarn she had just been spinning.
‘Now, I’ll tell you what,’ said Miss Prissy,—‘wasn’t it lucky you had
me here? for I first saw him coming in at the gate, and I whipped in
quick as a wink and opened the best room window-shutters, and then I
was back at the door, and he bowed to me as if I’d been a queen, and
says he, “Miss Prissy, how fresh you’re looking this morning!” You see,
I was in working at the Vernons’, but I never thought as he’d noticed
me. And then he inquired in the handsomest way for the ladies and the
Doctor, and so I took him into the parlour and settled him down, and
then I ran into the study, and you may depend upon it I flew round
lively for a few minutes. I got the Doctor’s study-gown off, and got
his best coat on, and put on his wig for him, and started him up kinder
lively,—you know it takes me to get him down into this world,—and so
there he’s in talking with him; and so you can just slip down and dress
yourselves,—easy as not.’
Meanwhile Colonel Burr was entertaining the simple-minded Doctor with
all the grace of a young neophyte come to sit at the feet of superior
truth. There are some people who receive from Nature as a gift a sort
of graceful facility of sympathy by which they incline to take on,
for the time being, the sentiments and opinions of those with whom
they converse, as the chameleon was fabled to change its hue with
every surrounding. Such are often supposed to be wilfully acting a
part, as exerting themselves to flatter and deceive, when in fact
they are only framed so sensitive to the sphere of mental emanation
which surrounds others that it would require an exertion not in some
measure to harmonize with it. In approaching others in conversation,
they are like a musician who joins a performer on an instrument,—it
is impossible for them to strike a discord; their very nature urges
them to bring into play faculties according in vibration with those
which another is exerting. It was as natural as possible for Burr to
commence talking with the Doctor on scenes and incidents in the family
of President Edwards, and his old tutor, Dr. Bellamy,—and thence to
glide on to the points of difference and agreement in theology, with
a suavity and deference which acted on the good man like a June sun
on a budding elm-tree. The Doctor was soon wide awake, talking with
fervent animation on the topic of disinterested benevolence,—Burr
the meanwhile studying him with the quiet interest of an observer of
natural history, who sees a new species developing before him. At all
the best possible points he interposed suggestive questions, and set up
objections in the quietest manner for the Doctor to knock down, smiling
ever the while as a man may who truly and genuinely does not care a
sou for truth on any subject not practically connected with his own
schemes in life. He therefore gently guided the Doctor to sail down the
stream of his own thoughts till his bark glided out into the smooth
waters of the Millennium, on which, with great simplicity, he gave his
views at length.
It was just in the midst of this that Mary and her mother entered.
Burr interrupted the conversation to pay them the compliments of
the morning,—to inquire for their health, and hope they suffered no
inconvenience from their night ride from the party; then, seeing the
Doctor still looking eager to go on, he contrived with gentle dexterity
to tie again the broken thread of conversation.
‘Our excellent friend,’ he said, ‘was explaining to me his views of
a future Millennium. I assure you, ladies, that we sometimes find
ourselves in company which enables us to believe in the perfectibility
of the human species. We see family retreats, so unaffected, so
charming in their simplicity, where industry and piety so go hand
in hand! One has only to suppose all families such, to imagine a
Millennium!’
There was no disclaiming this compliment, because so delicately worded,
that, while perfectly clear to the internal sense, it was, in a manner,
veiled and unspoken.
Meanwhile, the Doctor, who sat ready to begin where he left off, turned
to his complaisant listener and resumed an exposition of the Apocalypse.
‘To my mind, it is certain,’ he said, ‘as it is now three hundred years
since the fifth vial was poured out, there is good reason to suppose
that the sixth vial began to be poured out at the beginning of the last
century, and has been running for a hundred years or more, so that it
is run nearly out; the seventh and last vial will begin to run early
in the next century.’
‘You anticipate, then, no rest for the world for some time to come?’
said Burr.
‘Certainly not,’ said the Doctor, definitively; ‘there will be no rest
from overturnings till He whose right it is shall come.’
‘The passage,’ he added, ‘concerning the drying up of the river
Euphrates, under the sixth vial, has a distinct reference, I think,
to the account in ancient writers of the taking of Babylon, and
prefigures, in like manner, that the resources of that modern Babylon,
the Popish power, shall continue to be drained off, as they have now
been drying up for a century or more, till, at last, there will come a
sudden and final downfall of that power. And after that will come the
first triumphs of truth and righteousness,—the marriage-supper of the
Lamb.’
‘These investigations must undoubtedly possess a deep interest for
you, sir,’ said Burr; ‘the hope of a future as well as the tradition
of a past age of gold seems to have been one of the most cherished
conceptions of the human breast.’
‘In those times,’ continued the Doctor, ‘the whole earth will be of one
language.’
‘Which language, sir, do you suppose will be considered worthy of such
pre-eminence?’ inquired his listener.
‘That will probably be decided by an amicable conference of all
nations,’ said the Doctor; ‘and the one universally considered most
valuable will be adopted; and the literature of all other nations being
translated into it, they will gradually drop all other tongues. Brother
Stiles thinks it will be the Hebrew. I am not clear on that point. The
Hebrew seems to me too inflexible, and not sufficiently copious. I do
not think,’ he added, after some consideration, ‘that it will be the
Hebrew tongue.’
‘I am most happy to hear it, sir,’ said Burr, gravely; ‘I never felt
much attracted to that language. But, ladies,’ he added, starting up
with animation, ‘I must improve this fine weather to ask you to show
me the view of the sea from this little hill beyond your house, it is
evidently so fine;—I trust I am not intruding too far on your morning?’
‘By no means, sir,’ said Mrs. Scudder, rising; ‘we will go with you in
a moment.’
And soon Colonel Burr, with one on either arm, was to be seen on the
top of the hill beyond the house,—the very one from which Mary, the
week before, had seen the retreating sail we all wot of. Hence, though
her companion contrived, with the adroitness of a practised man of
gallantry, to direct his words and looks as constantly to her as if
they had been in a tête-à-tête, and although nothing could be more
graceful, more delicately flattering, more engaging, still the little
heart kept equal poise; for where a true love has once bolted the door,
a false one serenades in vain under the window.
Some fine, instinctive perceptions of the real character of the man
beside her seemed to have dawned on Mary’s mind in the conversation
