Captain Briskett, who was to be first officer of 
the Flyaway, as well as pilot, summoned them io 
the windlass to heave up the anchor ; and in a 
few minutes the yacht was standing down the 
harbor under all sail. The Teneans gave three 
rousing cheers, and then distributed themselves in 
various parts of the deck to enjoy the exciting 
scene. 
'' All hands aft," said Captain Gordon, when 
the yacht had reached the open bay. 
"Ay, ay, sir," replied several, as the crew took 
their places in the standing room. 
" Now, boys, we must make our arrangements. 
When a ship goes to sea, it is customary to 
divide the crew into two watches. I shall take 
the starboard watch, and Captain Briskett the lar- 
 
board. Each of us will choose a man in his turn 
till all are taken." 
"Go on," said Captain Briskett. 
" Henry Littleton," replied the skipper- 
"Paul Duncan," added the pilot. 
And so they proceeded till all the boys were 
chosen, except John, who resented the slight thus 
put upon him. To satisfy him, therefore, he was 
taken into the captain's watch. 
" There are only eight berths in the cabin, 
boys, and you must draw lots for them," contin- 
ued the master; "but they are all wide enough 
to hold two each. Now, if you want to pair off, 
you can do so." 
Lots were drawn, and Paul and Henry were to 
occupy the same berth. Again John found him- 
self thrown out of the calculation ; but the captain 
said he would make a bed for him on a locker, 
and he was satisfied. The boys then went below 
to see their berths, which had all been numbered 
for the occasion. 
 
CHAPTER XVI. 
PAUL WITNESSES A MUTINY. 
« When the Flyaway had passed Farm Island, 
and reached the fishing ground, she lay to, for 
the purpose of enabling the crew to catch a few 
cod and haddock, for the chowder and fry. But 
cod and haddock are singularly obstinate at times, 
and persistently refuse to appreciate the angler's 
endeavors in their behalf They were so on the 
present occasion, and it was two hours before the 
chief of the culinary department could say there 
were enough to satisfy the ravenous appetites of 
the sixteen persons on board. Some of the boys 
had actually decided that fishing was a nuisance, 
but they were just as fond of chowder as those 
who enjoyed the fun even of catching only one 
fish per hour. 
As fast as they were caught, Dick aressed them 
 
and prepared them for the chowder pot or the 
frying pan. There were some queer fish caught, 
including quite a number of sculpins, " a wolfer 
eel," — so Captain Briskett called him, — and a 
large catfish. The latter was an ugly monster, 
having dangerous-looking teeth, with which he 
laid hold of every thing that came in his way. 
There was also in the collection a large scate, or 
ray, which called forth some rather large fish 
stories from the two experienced skippers on 
board. 
As the culinary department was How supplied, 
the yacht stood away for Gloucester, which was 
to be her first port. They had a fine wind, and 
before the chowder was ready, the Flyaway was 
in sight of the Reef of Norman's Woe. 
" Dinner is ready," said Dick, at last, for the 
stomachs of the boys had been in a state of re- 
bellion for two hours. 
There was a grand rush for the cabin ; but, to 
the astonishment of the hungry crew, Captain 
Gordon placed himself at the companion way, and 
would not permit a single one of them to go 
below, 
" That's not the way to do on board ship," 
said he. " Are you all going below at once ? " 
"Why not?" asked Tom Nettle. 
" Suppose we should have occasion to tack, or 
to take in sail in a hurry ? Have we got to wait 
for you to finish your plate of chowder ? " 
"We are all as hungry as bears, Captain Gor- 
don," added Frank Thompson. " We can't stand 
it any longer." 
" Part of you must stand it half an hour 
longer. Captain Briskctt has the helm, and the 
larboard watch will remain on deck, the starboard 
watch go below." 
The captain's watch tumbled down the com- 
panion way, ranged themselves round the table, 
and went to work as though they had not eaten 
any thing for a month. As they are doing very 
well, we will return to the deck, and listen a 
few moments to the remarks of the mate's watch. 
Paul had seated himself by the side of the 
 
helmsman, and was asking questions in regard to 
the reef, the depth of water in the harbor, and 
other questions of interest only to nautical per- 
sons. The rest of the watch had gathered in a 
group on the forecastle. It was unfortunate that 
so many of the refractory spirits had been chosen 
into the same watch; but there were Tom Nettle, 
Frank Thompson, and Samuel Nason, all three of 
whom had once been expelled from the club for 
misconduct, and only been readmitted on their 
solemn promise to mend their manners, and be- 
have like gentlemen in future. 
'' I don't like it," said Tom ; " and if the rest of 
the fellows will back me up, I will go below and 
have dinner with the crowd." 
" I will back you up, for one," said Frank. 
" And I, for another," added Samuel. 
'' But Captain Gordon gave a good reason why 
some of us should remain on deck," suggested 
one of the boys. 
"No, he didn't. What is there to do? We 
shan't have to touch a sail this hour — see if we 
do," retorted Tom. 
 
" But we might hsxxe occasion to do so, and 
for one, I am willing to observe the discipline of 
the vessel," said Charles Lawrence. 
'' I don't like the idea of having old Gordon 
domineering over us for a week," added Frank. 
" I don't care so much about the dinner as I do 
the spirit the old fellow exhibited. He placed 
himself before the companion way, just as though 
he had been the captain of a ship, and we were 
all common sailors." 
" We will cure him of that before we have 
been with him many days," added Tom. 
" I'll bet we will," answered Frank ; " and I 
think the present is the best time to begin. How 
many of you will make a grand rush into the 
cabin?" 
There were only four of them who were willing 
to take this rash step. 
" Come on, then," said Tom, " I will go if 
there is only one fellow to back me up." 
"We will follow you," added Frank. "Go 
ahead, Tom!" 
 
"You had better count the cost before you 
go any farther," interposed Charles Lawrence. 
" You know we all promised to obey Captain 
Gordon in every thing he directed, whether on 
shore or on board." 
" We didn't expect he was going to treat us 
like servants — like dogs." 
" Captain Littleton wouldn't let him domineer 
over us in that style if he were here. Come on, 
boys," said Tom, as he led the way aft. 
