when Christ broke the bars of death and rose.
Breakfast had been a little late, and there was not much time to spare
when it was over.
"You had better not try to go out this morning, dear Faith," Mr. Linden
said as they left the table and came round the fire in the sitting-room.
"O yes! I can go.--I must go"--she added softly.
"I have not much to tell you,"--he said in the same tone,--"nothing,
but what is most sweet and fair. Would you like to go up there with me
by and by?"
"Yes.--After church?"
"After church in the afternoon would give us most time."
The Sunday classes were first met--how was not likely to be forgotten
by scholars or teachers. It was an absorbing hour to Faith and her two
little children that were left to her; an hour that tried her very
much. She controlled herself, but took her revenge all church time. As
soon as she was where nobody need know what she did, Faith felt
unnerved, and a luxury of tears that she could not restrain lasted till
the service was over. It lasted no longer. And the only two persons
that knew of the tears, were glad to have them come.
After the afternoon service, when people were not only out of church
but at home, Mr. Linden and Faith set out on their solitary drive--it
was too far for her to walk, both for strength and time,--the afternoon
was well on its way.
The outer room into which Faith had first gone the day before, had a
low murmur of voices and a little sprinkling of people within; but Mr.
Linden let none of them stop her, and merely bowing as he passed
through, he led her on. In the next room were two of the boys, but they
went away at once; and Mr. Linden put his arm round Faith, letting her
lean all her weight on him if she chose, and led her up to the bedside.
They stood there and looked--as one might look at a ray of eternal
sunlight falling athwart the dark shadows of time.
The child lay in his deep sleep as if Mr. Linden had just laid him
down; his head a little turned towards them, a little drooping, his
hands in their own natural position on breast and neck. A faint
pink-tinted wrapper lay in soft folds about him, with its white frills
at neck and wrists,--on his breast a bunch of the first snowdrops spoke
of the "everlasting spring, and never withering flowers!"
With hearts and faces that grew every moment more quiet, more steady,
Johnny's two teachers stood and looked at him,--then knelt together,
and prayed that in the way which they had shewed him, they might
themselves be found faithful.
"You shouldn't say we"--said Faith when they had risen and were
standing there again. "It was you--to him and me both." And bending
forward to kiss the little face again, she added, "He taught me as much
as he ever learned from me!"
But the words were spoken with difficulty, and Faith did not try any
more.
They stood there till the twilight began to fall, and then turned their
faces homewards with a strange mingling of joy and sorrow in their
hearts. How many times Mr. Linden went there afterwards Faith did not
know--she could only guess.
There was no school for the next two days. Tuesday was white with
snow,--not falling thick upon the ground, but in fine light flakes, and
few people cared to be out. Mr. Linden had been, early in the
morning,--since dinner he had been in his room; and now as it drew
towards three o'clock, he came down and left the house, taking the road
towards that of Jonathan Fax. Other dark figures now appeared from time
to time, bending their steps in the same direction,--some sturdy farmer
in his fearnought coat, or two of the school-boys with their arms round
each other. Then this ceased, and the soft falling snow alone was in
the field.
The afternoon wore on, and the sun was towards the setting, when a
faint reddish tinge began to flush along the western horizon, and the
snowflakes grew thinner. Then, just as the first sunbeams shot through
their cloudy prison, making the snow a mere white veil to their
splendour, the little carriage of Mr. Somers came slowly down the road,
and in it Mr. Somers himself. A half dozen of the neighbouring farmers
followed. Then the little coffin of Johnny Fax, borne by Reuben Taylor
and Sam Stoutenburgh and Phil Davids and Joe Deacon, each cap and left
arm bound with crape; followed by Johnny's two little
classmates--Charles Twelfth and Robbie Waters. Then the chief
mourners--Jonathan Fax and Mr. Linden, arm in arm, and Mr. Linden
wearing the crape badge. After them the whole school, two and two. The
flickering snowflakes fell softly on the little pall, but through them
the sunbeams shot joyously, and said that the child had gone--
   "Through a dark stormy night,
   To a calm land of light!"--
   "Meet again? Yes, we shall meet again,
   Though now we part in pain!
   His people all
   Together Christ shall call,
   Hallelujah!"
"Child," said Mrs. Derrick in a choked voice, and wiping her eyes, when
the last one had long passed out of view, "it's good to see him and
Jonathan Fax walking together! anyway. I guess Jonathan 'll never say a
word against him again. Faith, he's beautiful!"
CHAPTER XIII.
It seemed to Faith as if the little shadow which February had brought
and left did not pass away--or rather, as if it had stretched on till
it met another; though whence that came, from what possible cloud, she
could not see. She was not the cloud--that she knew and felt: if such
care and tenderness and attention as she had had all winter could be
increased, then were they now,--every spare moment was given to her,
all sorts of things were undertaken to give her pleasure, and that she
was Mr. Linden's sunbeam was never more clear. Yet to her fancy that
shadow went out and came in with him--lived even in her presence,--nay,
as if she had been a real sunbeam, grew deeper there. And yet not
that,--what was it? The slight change of voice or face in the very
midst of some bright talk, the eyes that followed her about the room or
studied her face while she studied her lesson--she felt if she did not
see them,--even the increased unwillingness to have her out of his
sight,--what did they all mean? So constant, yet so intangible,--so
going hand in hand with all the clear, bright activity that had ever
been part of Mr. Linden's doings; while the pleasure of nothing seemed
to be checked, and yet a little pain mingled with all,--Faith felt
puzzled and grieved by turns. She bore it for a while, in wondering and
sorrowful silence, till she began to be afraid of the shadow's
spreading to her own face. Nay, she felt it there sometimes. Faith
couldn't stand it any longer.
He had come in rather late one evening. It was a bleak evening in
March, but the fire--never more wanted--burned splendidly and lit up
the sitting-room in style. Before it, in the easy-chair, Mr. Linden sat
meditating. He might be tired--but Faith fancied she saw the shadow.
She came up behind his chair, put both hands on one of his shoulders
and leaned down.
"Endecott"--she said in some of her most winning tones,--"may I ask you
something?"
He came out of his muse instantly, and laying his hand on hers, asked
her "what she thought about it herself?"
"I think I may, if you'll promise not to answer me--unless you have a
mind!"
"Do you suppose I would?" Mr. Linden said laughing. "What trust you
have in your own power!"
"No, not a bit," said Faith. "Then shall I ask you?"
"You are beginning to work upon my timid disposition!--of which I
believe I once told you. What are you going to ask me?--to challenge
Dr. Harrison?--or to run for President?"
"Would you like to do either of those two things?"
"I was only putting myself at your disposal--as I have done before."
"Would you do either of 'em if I asked you?" said Faith softly.
"I suppose I am safe in saying yes!" said Mr. Linden smiling. "Little
bird--why do you keep on the wing?"
"I wanted to make sure of lighting in a right place," said Faith.
"Endy"--and her voice came back to the rich softness of the tones of
her first question, a little dashed with timidity,--"has anybody been
putting 'nonsense' into your head?"
He lifted her hand from its resting place, bringing it round to his
cheek and lips at first in silence,
"Do you know," he said, "that is just the point over which I thought
you were hovering?"--But the certainty had changed his tone. And rising
up quick and suddenly, he drew her off to the sofa and seated her
there, keeping his arm still about her as if for a shield.
"Faith," he said, "do you remember that I promised some time to tell
you a long story?"
She looked up into his face gravely and affectionately, reading his
look. "But you won't have time for it now, Endecott--tea will be ready
directly. We must wait till by and by."
"My little Sunbeam," he said, looking at her and gently pushing back
her hair, "do you know I love you very much!--What made you think there
was anything in my head but the most profound and abstract sense?"
Faith shook her head with a little bit of a smile.
"I saw that you were growing either more sensible of late--or
less,--and I wanted to know which it was."
"Please to explain yourself! How could I grow more sensible?--and in
what way did I grow less?"
"I am talking nonsense," said Faith simply. "But if it was sense in
your head, Endy, there was a little too much of it; and I had seen
nonsense look so--so I wanted to know."
"Faith," Mr. Linden said, "you remind me often of that Englishman
Madame D'Arblay tells about,--who to the end of his life declared that
