"Thank you, Phil!" said Faith, surprised and grateful.
"I see it go out of your hand," said Phil.
"Yes," said. Mr. Linden--whose smile and word of thanks had accompanied
Faith's,--"Phil has singularly quick eyes. They have done me good
service before."
As they turned again, Farmer Davids stood at their horses' heads. They
were just at the farmer's door, and he so entreated them to come 'in
and rest,' that there was no refusing his hospitality. It was large,
and various--Pumpkin pies and cider, and much pouring forth of
gratitude and admiration for Mr. Linden's success with Phil.
"What have you done to that fellow?" his father remarked admiringly to
Mr. Linden. "You never see such an alteration in a boy. He
used--oncet--to talk hard words agin you, sir;--you won't mind hearing
it now; but he's come all about, and lately there's nothing to Phil's
mind can equal up to Mr. Linden. He don't say much about it, sir, but
it's evident. And he's been at me and his mother this fortnight or two,
to give him something to make a present to you--the boys do, he says;
and he wants the best thing on the farm should go, and so do I, sir, if
we knowed oncet what would be most favourable. It would be a kindness,
sir, as I should be grateful for,--if you'd say what would do you most
service or be most pleasure--of anything that is on the farm;--fruit or
vegetables or dairy. We're plain folks, sir; I say what I mean. Take
some pie, Mr. Linden!--some cider, sir?"
Answering these various questions and demands as best he might, Mr.
Linden contrived to convince Mr. Davids that Phil himself was the thing
"on the farm" that he cared most about; and his goodwill, better than
any special manifestation thereof; giving at the same time full and
grateful thanks for the other things that had come to him when he was
ill.
"Yes," said Mr. Davids, smiling one of his grim and rare smiles,--"all
that don't help our difficulty, you see. Well, Phil and I'll have to
put our heads together. But there's one person can send nothing that
will tell half his good feelings of gratefulness to you,--and that's
me." And a very unwonted softening of the stern man's eye and brow
shewed that he spoke a gentle truth.
Kind words answered him,--words of personal kindness and interest, and
deep pleasure too; but Mr. Davids knew it was a pleasure, an interest,
a kindness, that had each (like Samuel Rutherford's hope) "a face
looking straight out unto that day!"
Truly, "a city that is set on an hill, cannot be hid!"
And the farmer felt it, and his manner softened, and his interest grew
more wistful and intent with every minute they stayed.
Faith was on horseback and Mr. Linden about to follow, when Farmer
Davids arrested him with a low remark and question.
"She's a fine-faced girl--looks as her father needn't ha' been ashamed
of her. Looks good--like he did. Is she going to marry the son of
Judge Harrison, sir?"
"Dr. Harrison has told me nothing of the kind."
"I heerd it"--said the farmer. "I didn't know nothing, how it might be.
Good day, sir! I hope you'll come again." And they trotted off at last,
with again the renewed feeling of liberty and pleasure of motion. But
the sun had descended perceptibly nearer to the horizon than he was
when they dismounted. However there was nothing to do but to ride, for
the proposed route was a circuit and they were passed the first half of
the way already.
"That was good, Mr. Linden," said Faith.
"Which part of it this time?"
"I don't mean the pumpkin pie and the cider," she said smiling.
"Do you feel rested?"
"Oh yes! Rested and tired too. At least, quite ready to move on again."
"Yes, so am I. But do you know Göthe left out one very important item
in his daily directions?"
"What was that?"
"One should, if possible, every day give some one else a little
pleasure."
"Yes!" said Faith. "And it's so true, and so easy. How much you gave
there just now, Mr. Linden!"
"It was rather of their taking than my giving. But Miss Faith,
   --'How necessary is it now-a-days,
   That each body live uprightly in all manner ways?'"
"Yes, Mr. Linden! What are you thinking of?"
"Just that--" he said smiling. "A thought of the darkness makes one
want to trim the lights. Did you ever notice, Miss Faith, that many
things which were written in a mere worldly sense, will bear a very
sweet Christian application? Take this for instance:--
   'Thus would I double my life's fading space,
   For he who runs it well, runs twice his race.
   And in this true delight,
   These unbought sports, that happy state,
   I would not fear nor wish my fate,
   But boldly say each night,--
   To-morrow let my sun his beams display,
   Or in clouds hide them; I have lived to-day.'"
She listened with a bright face at first; then as the quotation was
ended her face flushed, she turned her eyes away, and a grave look of
sorrow crept over her lips. But in a little while she looked again.
"How many books do you carry about in your head, Mr. Linden?"
"If I should tell you, Miss Faith, then you would know--and then I
could never delude you any more! Now we must quicken our pace, or we
shall scarce get our poem before tea."
For awhile the trotting was pretty brisk, then they drew bridle again
and went gently on, but now towards the setting sun, whose bright rays
were caught and held by the white sails that gleamed here and there in
the distance. Now they met lines of cattle, driven by some bare-footed
boy or sun-bonneted girl, and ploughmen trudged along the road behind
their teams. Thicker curls of smoke from wayside chimneys spoke of
supper, and where a house stood in the shadow of some bit of forest,
lights were already gleaming from the windows.
   "How many things by season seasoned are
   To their right praise, and true perfection!"
Which bit of excellent eulogy might also have been true of Quapaw creek
and the bridge over it, which they reached in seasonable time. Quapaw
creek was here a little bit of a river, and the bridge over it was an
insignificant little bridge--'no count,' in Squire Deacon's language.
But now, of all times in the year, the little bridge was already full
of more than it could hold, literally, for it couldn't hold what was
upon it. A heavy farm-wagon loaded with some sort of produce had got
fairly upon the bridge some hour or two before and then broken through;
men and teams had for the present deserted it, and there was the way
pretty effectually blocked up. What was to be done? They were not more
now than a mile or two from home, but to go back and round by the
nearest way would be several miles. The water was not very broad, nor
generally deep; but the banks and the bed of the stream were uneven and
strewn with rocks and stones, small and great. It was fordable,
certainly; a good rider might cross well enough; but a good rider would
scarce choose to trust an unskilful one there. What was to be done?
"We shall have to go back, Mr. Linden," said Faith;--"and you mustn't
mind my riding fast now, or mother will be uneasy."
Mr. Linden took the case into consideration.
"Will you mind riding before me, Miss Faith?"
"What, sir?" she said, not understanding.
"Will you let me take you across?"
"How can you, Mr. Linden?" she said, looking a little startled, and
flushing.
"Very easily--on my horse. Stay where you are a minute, and let me try
the ford." And not waiting for an answer to that, he rode down the bank
and into the stream. It was easy enough, for a man who knew what to do
with his horse's mouth; not easy, nor perhaps safe for another. The
footing needed to be chosen by the hand of the rider; so chosen it was
good. Mr. Linden rode to the other side and came back.
"Will you try, Miss Faith?"
"Yes," she said, putting her horse in motion,--"I am not afraid. I will
follow you. It will be better than going round." But his horse did not
stir.
"I shall not follow you, Miss Faith,--and yet if you cross it must be
before me. No other way is safe for you."
"Well, we can go round, can't we?" said Faith.
"Yes," he said,--as the sun dropped down behind the low horizon, and
the cool shade fell on everything but the tree tops. "You know it is
about six times as far. Are you afraid of my horse?"
"No, not when you hold him. I will do just what you please, Mr.
Linden," she said, though her colour mounted.
"Then do not be afraid of me," he said, dropping his own bridle and
gently disengaging the hand from hers. "Please take your foot out of
the stirrup, Miss Faith--" and the transfer was made in a moment: she
was lifted across the little space between the two horses, and seated
in front of Mr. Linden, and held fast.
"Are you afraid?" he repeated, looking gravely down at her.
"No sir.--Not a bit, Mr. Linden," she said, throwing a little more
warmth into her words, for the first had been spoken somewhat under
breath. So leaving the one horse fastened to a tree-branch, the other
set forward with his unwonted burden, which indeed at first he did not
much approve; pricking his ears, and sidling about, with some
doubtfulness of intent. But being after all a sensible horse, and
apprehending the voice and rein suggestions which were made to him, he
began to pick his way slowly and carefully among the stones on the
bank, and then through the stones in the river; setting down his feet
with great judgment and precaution, and paying no heed to the rushing
and splashing of the little stream, except by his ears--which certainly
worked, for once. And so the dangerous "pass" was soon behind them, and
