as grave as herself, or to walk as slow, or 
to lie down and be quiet as many times in 
the day. He would not even stand and 
meditate, with his feet in the brook. Perhaps she thought that he could learn it all 
quick enough, when the time came; and 
so doubtless he might. But when the time 
came — that is, not that time, but another, 
— the calf was taken to the butcher to be 
killed, and then his skin was stripped off 
and carried to the tanner’s. There every 
bit of the hair was scraped away, and the 
skin was put into the tan-pits, to make it 
fit for shoes. In the tan-pit there was 
water, and bark from an oak-tree; and 
when the calf’s skin had lain there some 
time it became soft and thick, and was 
called leather; and when it was tanned 
enough, it was taken out and dyed a beautiful red colour. Then the shoemaker 
bought it. There were many other pieces 
of leather in his shop, — black, and blue, 
and green, and even yellow; and there 
was some very thick leather to make the 
soles of the shoes. 
One day the shoemaker took down the 
piece of red leather, and with a sharp knife 
cut out a little pair of shoes ; and he cut 
some thicker leather for the soles, and some 
white stuff for the lining; and then they 
were sewed and fitted on a last. The last 
was a little wooden block, shaped something like a foot. Then somebody bound 
the shoes with red ribbon, and put in red 
strings, and then they were wrapped up in 
paper and sent home. 
Now, when the boy who carried the 
little bundle knocked at Mrs. Delaine’s 
door, Debby herself opened it. 
“Here’s something for you, I guess,” 
said the boy'; and he put the shoes into 
Debby’ s hand, and ran off. Debby walked 
straight into the room where her mother 
was. 
“Mother,” she said, “here’s my red 
shoes ! May I put ’em right on ?” 
“If you choose,” said her mother. 
Then Debby sat down on her little 
bench and pulled off her black shoes in a 
great hurry, and flung them aside just as 
if she had not been very proud of them 
once, — which indeed she had. But her mother said not a word, and Debby never 
knew how she looked; for as soon as the 
red shoes were on she could see nothing 
hut them. There she sat, with her feet 
stuck out into the sunshine, till you would 
almost think nobody had ever had feet before, — much less red shoes. 
“Mother,” said Debby, “did you ever 
see any thing so pretty as my red 
shoes?” 
“Well, Debby,” said her mother, “you 
know I have some queer notions about 
pretty things. How, shoes never look 
pretty to me unless they walk well.” 
“But, mother,” said Debby, “how can 
shoes walk?” 
“Oh, only when the feet that are in 
them walk,” said her mother. 
“Oh, yes, to be sure,” said Debby. 
“Well, bow do feet walk well?” 
“Why, when they are in a good path 
and going at a good rate,” said her mother. 
“Well, what is a good path?” said 
Debby. 
“It is a path which leads to good 
things.” 
-“What path are my shoes in now?” 
said Debby, looking at them affectionately. 
“ In a path that leads to vanity, I should 
think,” said her mother, “and going at a 
very good rate, too.” Debby drew her 
feet in under her frock in quick time. 
“Mother,” she said, “you’re so funny !” 
“Am I?” said her mother, smiling. 
“But isn’t it true?” 
“Well,” said Debby, “I suppose, perhaps, it is !” 
“It is what lies at the end of a path 
that makes it really had or good,” said her 
mother. “A path may be very smooth 
and flowery, and yet lead to a precipice ; 
or it may be very rough, and lead to a 
good happy home. So the people that 
choose a path or a way of life merely because they like the looks of it, may sometimes make a great mistake.” 
“But how can they choose, then?” said 
Debby. “For I am sure they cannot see 
away, away to the end.” 
“Not always,” said her mother. “But 
they can always ask God to lead them, for 
he sees the end from the beginning, and if 
they want very much to go only towards 
heaven, they will soon learn the way. If 
you were far, far away from home, Debby, 
and longing to get there, you would be 
very careful not to take a single little step 
that even seemed like going astray.” 
“Yes, indeed, I should,” said Debby. 
“And if I said to you, 'Debby, every 
step on the dry ground will bring you towards home, and every step on the wet 
ground will take you farther off,' — how 
would you walk?” 
“Why, I’d go on the dry ground, to be 
sure, and never go near the wet.” 
“Then suppose the dry ground was 
rough and steep, while down in the wet 
there were beautiful-looking flowers, — red 
and yellow and blue : then may-be you 
would think, ‘I dare say there’s some 
dry ground down there, — enough to walk 
upon if I’m careful to pick my way.’ And 
then you would try, and go stepping along ; 
and first your shoes would be a little damp, 
and then down would go one foot in the 
mud ! ’ ’ 
“I know how it would be,” said Debby; 
“because I did just that way coming home 
one night. But I had old shoes on.” 
“Ah! there is one use of new shoes,’ 
said her mother, smiling : “ they are apt to 
make people careful. But if we are travelling home with eager hearts, whether 
with shoes or no shoes, with red slippers 
or only clean little feet, we shall not want 
to get in the mud and so he belated and 
weary and ashamed. 
“ ‘Who are they whose little feet, 
Pacing life’s dark journey through, 
Now have reach’d that heavenly seat 
They had ever kept in view ? 
Each the welcome “ Come !” awaits, 
Conquerors over death and sin: 
Lift your heads, ye golden gates ! 
Let the little travellers in !’ 
“That is the sort of little feet I love, 
Debby, — the only ones that are really 
beautiful; and whether they wear red 
shoes or no shoes, does not make much 
difference. You may learn the whole 
hymn, if you like.” So Debby sat down 
to learn. 
“ CHILDREN AT THE GATE OF HEAVEN.” 
“Little travellers Zionward, 
Each one entering into rest, 
In the kingdom of your Lord, 
In the mansions of the blest; 
There, to welcome, Jesus waits, 
Gives the crowns his followers win : 
Lift your heads, ye golden gates ! 
Let the little travellers in ! 
“ Who are they whose little feet, 
Pacing life’s dark journey through, 
Now have reach’d that heavenly seat 
They had ever kept in view ? 
‘ I from Greenland’s frozen land;’ 
‘ I from India’s sultry plain;’ 
