could be, when the little one brought her flowers."
"Well, Agnes," said the old woman, "I shall come for you after the Ave
Maria." Saying which, she lifted her basket and departed.
The garden where the two were left was one of the most peaceful
retreats that the imagination of a poet could create.
Around it ran on all sides the Byzantine arches of a cloistered walk,
which, according to the quaint, rich fashion of that style, had been
painted with vermilion, blue, and gold. The vaulted roof was spangled
with gold stars on a blue ground, and along the sides was a series of
fresco pictures representing the various scenes in the life of Saint
Agnes; and as the foundress of the Convent was royal in her means,
there was no lack either of gold or gems or of gorgeous painting.
Full justice was done in the first picture to the princely wealth
and estate of the fair Agnes, who was represented as a pure-looking,
pensive child, standing in a thoughtful attitude, with long ripples of
golden hair flowing down over a simple white tunic, and her small hands
clasping a cross on her bosom, while, kneeling at her feet, obsequious
slaves and tire-women were offering the richest gems and the most
gorgeous robes to her serious and abstracted gaze.
In another, she was represented as walking modestly to school, and
winning the admiration of the son of the Roman Prætor, who fell
sick--so says the legend--for the love of her.
Then there was the demand of her hand in marriage by the princely
father of the young man, and her calm rejection of the gorgeous gifts
and splendid gems which he had brought to purchase her consent.
Then followed in order her accusation before the tribunals as a
Christian, her trial, and the various scenes of her martyrdom.
Although the drawing of the figures and the treatment of the subjects
had the quaint stiffness of the thirteenth century, their general
effect, as seen from the shady bowers of the garden, was of a solemn
brightness, a strange and fanciful richness, which was poetical and
impressive.
In the centre of the garden was a fountain of white marble, which
evidently was the wreck of something that had belonged to the old Greek
temple. The statue of a nymph sat on a green mossy pedestal in the
midst of a sculptured basin, and from a partially reversed urn on which
she was leaning, a clear stream of water dashed down from one mossy
fragment to another, till it lost itself in the placid pool.
The figure and face of this nymph, in their classic finish of outline,
formed a striking contrast to the drawing of the Byzantine paintings
within the cloisters, and their juxtaposition in the same enclosure
seemed a presentation of the spirit of a past and present era: the past
so graceful in line, so perfect and airy in conception, so utterly
without spiritual aspiration or life; the present limited in artistic
power, but so earnest, so intense, seeming to struggle and burn, amid
its stiff and restricted boundaries, for the expression of some diviner
phase of humanity.
Nevertheless, the nymph of the fountain, different in style and
execution as it was, was so fair a creature, that it was thought best,
after the spirit of those days, to purge her from all heathen and
improper histories by baptizing her in the waters of her own fountain,
and bestowing on her the name of the saint to whose convent she was
devoted. The simple sisterhood, little conversant in nice points of
antiquity, regarded her as Saint Agnes dispensing the waters of purity
to her convent; and marvelous and sacred properties were ascribed to
the water, when taken fasting with a sufficient number of prayers and
other religious exercises. All around the neighborhood of this fountain
the ground was one bed of blue and white violets, whose fragrance
filled the air, and which were deemed by the nuns to have come up there
in especial token of the favor with which Saint Agnes regarded the
conversion of this heathen relic to pious and Christian uses.
This nymph had been an especial favorite of the childhood of Agnes, and
she had always had a pleasure which she could not exactly account for
in gazing upon it. It is seldom that one sees in the antique conception
of the immortals any trace of human feeling. Passionless perfection
and repose seem to be their uniform character. But now and then from
the ruins of Southern Italy fragments have been dug, not only pure in
outline, but invested with a strange pathetic charm, as if the calm,
inviolable circle of divinity had been touched by some sorrowing sense
of that unexplained anguish with which the whole lower creation groans.
One sees this mystery of expression in the face of that strange and
beautiful Psyche which still enchants the Museum of Naples. Something
of this charm of mournful pathos lingered on the beautiful features
of this nymph,--an expression so delicate and shadowy that it seemed
to address itself only to finer natures. It was as if all the silent,
patient woe and discouragement of a dumb antiquity had been congealed
into this memorial. Agnes was often conscious, when a child, of being
saddened by it, and yet drawn towards it with a mysterious attraction.
About this fountain, under the shadow of bending rose trees and yellow
jessamines, was a circle of garden seats, adopted also from the ruins
of the past. Here a graceful Corinthian capital, with every white
acanthus-leaf perfect, stood in a mat of acanthus-leaves of Nature's
own making, glossy green and sharply cut; and there was a long portion
of a frieze sculptured with graceful dancing figures; and in another
place a fragment of a fluted column, with lycopodium and colosseum vine
hanging from its fissures in graceful draping. On these seats Agnes
had dreamed away many a tranquil hour, making garlands of violets, and
listening to the marvelous legends of old Jocunda.
In order to understand anything of the true idea of conventual life in
those days, we must consider that books were as yet unknown, except
as literary rarities, and reading and writing were among the rare
accomplishments of the higher classes; and that Italy, from the time
that the great Roman Empire fell and broke into a thousand shivers,
had been subject to a continual series of conflicts and struggles,
which took from life all security. Norman, Dane, Sicilian, Spaniard,
Frenchman, and German mingled and struggled, now up and now down;
and every struggle was attended by the little ceremonies of sacking
towns, burning villages, and routing out entire populations to utter
misery and wretchedness. During these tumultuous ages, those buildings
consecrated by a religion recognized alike by all parties afforded to
misfortune the only inviolable asylum, and to feeble and discouraged
spirits the only home safe from the prospect of reverses.
If the destiny of woman is a problem that calls for grave attention
even in our enlightened times, and if she is too often a sufferer from
the inevitable movements of society, what must have been her position
and needs in those ruder ages, unless the genius of Christianity had
opened refuges for her weakness, made inviolable by the awful sanctions
of religion?
What could they do, all these girls and women together, with the
twenty-four long hours of every day, without reading or writing, and
without the care of children? Enough; with their multiplied diurnal
prayer periods, with each its chants and ritual of observances,--with
the preparation for meals, and the clearing away thereafter,--with the
care of the chapel, shrine, sacred gifts, drapery, and ornaments,--with
embroidering altar-cloths and making sacred tapers,--with preparing
conserves of rose leaves and curious spiceries,--with mixing drugs for
the sick,--with all those mutual offices and services to each other
which their relations in one family gave rise to,--and with divers
feminine gossipries and harmless chatterings and cooings, one can
conceive that these dove-cots of the Church presented often some of the
most tranquil scenes of those convulsive and disturbed periods.
Human nature probably had its varieties there as otherwhere. There were
there the domineering and the weak, the ignorant and the vulgar, and
the patrician and the princess, and though professedly all brought on
the footing of sisterly equality, we are not to suppose any Utopian
degree of perfection among them. The way of pure spirituality was
probably, in the convent as well as out, that strait and narrow one
which there be few to find. There, as elsewhere, the devotee who
sought to progress faster toward heaven than suited the paces of her
fellow-travelers was reckoned a troublesome enthusiast, till she got
far enough in advance to be worshiped as a saint.
Sister Theresa, the abbess of this convent, was the youngest daughter
in a princely Neapolitan family, who from her cradle had been destined
to the cloister, in order that her brother and sister might inherit
more splendid fortunes and form more splendid connections. She had been
sent to this place too early to have much recollection of any other
mode of life; and when the time came to take the irrevocable step, she
renounced with composure a world she had never known.
Her brother had endowed her with a livre des heures, illuminated
with all the wealth of blue and gold and divers colors which the art
of those times afforded,--a work executed by a pupil of the celebrated
Fra Angelico; and the possession of this treasure was regarded by her
as a far richer inheritance than that princely state of which she knew
nothing. Her neat little cell had a window that looked down on the
sea,--on Capri, with its fantastic grottoes,--on Vesuvius, with its
weird daily and nightly changes. The light that came in from the joint
reflection of sea and sky gave a golden and picturesque coloring to the
simple and bare furniture, and in sunny weather she often sat there,
just as a lizard lies upon a wall, with the simple, warm, delightful
sense of living and being amid scenes of so much beauty. Of the life
that people lived in the outer world, the struggle, the hope, the
fear, the vivid joy, the bitter sorrow, Sister Theresa knew nothing.
She could form no judgment and give no advice founded on any such
experience.
The only life she knew was a certain ideal one, drawn from the legends
of the saints; and her piety was a calm, pure enthusiasm which had
never been disturbed by a temptation or a struggle. Her rule in the
Convent was even and serene; but those who came to her flock from the
real world, from the trials and temptations of a real experience, were
always enigmas to her, and she could scarcely comprehend or aid them.
