returned to the place where he had prepared the materials for starting
the conflagration. Again Sandy stated his objections, and urged Richard
to abandon the scheme; but the latter, without any reply to this
remonstrance, drew a card of matches across a stone, and applied the
burning mass to the hay which had been saturated with turpentine.
The heap of combustible matter suddenly blazed up, lighting all the
fields around them. The work had been surely done, and it was too late
for Sandy to urge any more of his objections.
"Come, Sandy, the work is done. Now use your legs," said Richard, as he
started at the top of his speed towards the inlet where the Greyhound
lay.
Sandy's legs did not fail him on this emergency, for he soon
outstripped his companion. They had gone but a few rods, when both were
appalled at the discovery of two men, who were running towards the fire
with all their might--which was not saying much, for both of them
seemed to be old and stiff, and incapable of making very good time even
on so pressing an emergency as the present.
The guilty boys were filled with terror. The shock was so great that it
seemed to deprive them of their strength, and they found their legs
giving out under them.
"We are caught, Dick," gasped Sandy, when he could regain breath enough
to speak.
"No, we are not; come along. Don't stop here," answered Richard, who
was beginning to recover his self-possession.
They ran as fast as their weakened limbs would permit, till they
reached the bank of the river. Richard jumped into the boat and hoisted
the sails, while Sandy cast off the painter, and they were soon
standing out from the shore before the fresh breeze. Neither of them
spoke for some minutes, for neither of them had breath enough left in
his body to do so.
"The fire don't burn," said Richard, when the boat had gone far enough
to enable him to see over the high bank of the river.
"Don't it?" asked Sandy, hoarsely, for the terror and exhaustion of the
awful moments through which he had just passed seemed to have choked up
his throat, and deprived him of his voice.
"No; it is as dark up there as it was before we landed."
"I am glad of it," gasped Sandy, who was beginning to breathe a little
easier.
"I'm not," added Richard, firmly. "We shall only have the job to do
over again."
"If you ever catch me in such a scrape as this again, you may let me
know it when you do."
"You might as well have the game as the name."
"I don't know about that. I am glad the barn didn't burn. Are you sure
the fire has gone out?"
"No doubt of it. There isn't enough to light your cigar."
"I suppose those men put it out. Who do you think they were?"
"I don't know, and I don't care. I wish they had been somewhere else.
They have spoiled my night's work."
"I am glad they have; and I thank them with all my heart for what they
have done."
"I don't; you might as well be hung for an old sheep as a lamb. If we
are caught it will be all the same with us as though we had burned the
barn."
"Who do you suppose the men were?"
"I haven't the least idea. I don't care."
"Yes, you do care, Dick. What's the use of talking in that way? You
don't want to be found out any more than I do."
"I know that, but we are not found out; and that isn't all--we shall
not be."
"I should like to be satisfied on that point."
"The men didn't take any notice at all of us, and I am certain they did
not see us."
"They couldn't help seeing us, Dick. The fire lit up the whole field,
so that it was as light as broad day."
"Suppose they did see us; they couldn't tell who we were. Keep a stiff
upper lip, Sandy, and it will be all right."
"I can only hope for the best, but I shall be scared at my own shadow
for a month to come," added Sandy, in whose nature a vein of candor
appeared to be suddenly developed, for he was not in the habit of
acknowledging that he was afraid of any thing.
"You don't talk a bit like Sandy Brimblecom," sneered Richard; "and you
act more like an old woman than a fellow of any spunk."
"Humph! I'll bet you are as scared as I am, only you won't own it."
"I don't know what fear means, Sandy."
"O, you can brag; but when a fellow can go and set a man's barn afire,
without wincing, he's worse than I am; that's all I've got to say."
"Worse than you are!" said Richard. "Didn't you agree to the whole
thing? Didn't you go in for paying off Old Batterbones? Didn't you come
down here to burn the barn with me?"
"I did, but I didn't want to come."
"What did you come for, then?"
"Because I agreed to come."
"You're not the fellow I took you to be. You joined me in the affair,
and then, at the last moment, you begin to whine like a sick monkey."
"I'm not so far gone that I can burn a man's barn without feeling it."
"You haven't got the pluck of a mosquito."
"You've said about enough on that tack, Dick Grant," replied Sandy, who
did not relish the reflections cast upon his courage.
"I shall say what I think best."
"No, you won't! I'm sorry for what I've done, and I'm willing to own
it; but I won't take any sauce from you or any other fellow."
"You can talk big enough," sneered Richard.
"Shut up, or I'll bat you over the head."
"Humph!"
"Just put me ashore, Dick Grant, and you and I will part company."
"I'm willing."
Both boys felt that enough had been said, and the conversation was
discontinued by mutual consent. Richard, notwithstanding his bravado,
was no better satisfied with himself than Sandy. Though he had spoken
of "doing the job over again," he had not the slightest idea of
repeating the experiment. The shock which the discovery of the two men
had given him, was too much even for his strong nerves; and though he
was not willing to confess it, he was sorry for what he had done. The
terror of being found out had damped the spirit of revenge. The
excitement of the affair had passed away, and like his companion in
wickedness, visions of public trial, of the house of correction, or the
state prison, began to flit before him.
He was not sorry that the barn had been saved from destruction; and the
only pleasant reflection in connection with the whole transaction was,
that he had insisted upon saving the horses and the oxen. It was with
Richard as it is with all who commit crimes. They are led on by the
spirit of revenge, or some other strong motive. There is a kind of
excitement which urges them on till the wicked deed is committed. Then
the criminal excitement subsides; the hour of reflection comes,
burdened also with the fear of discovery. To some extent, crime is its
own punishment; at least, it is so with those who have not become
hardened in iniquity.
Richard brought the Greyhound up to the point where he had taken Sandy
on board. He did not like to part with him in anger, for, to a certain
extent, he sympathized with him in his penitential confession. But,
more than this, he was afraid Sandy might revenge himself upon him for
the reproaches he had uttered.
"Let's not quarrel, Sandy," said Richard, as he laid the boat alongside
the landing place.
"I don't want to quarrel, but I won't be picked upon by you," replied
Sandy, with spirit.
"I'll take it all back. Let's be friends again. We have failed to do
what we intended, and perhaps it will be just as well for us."
"I'm glad you are coming to your senses. Do you mean to try it again?"
"We won't burn the barn, Sandy, but we must pay off Old Batterbones in
some other way."
"I'll do it. I'll hook his apples, pull out the linchpins of his wagon,
throw a dead cat into his well, or any thing of that sort, with you,
but I won't attempt to burn any man's barn again. No, never!"
"We'll fix him yet, Sandy. When shall I see you again?"
"I shall be round the wharf to-morrow."
"I'll see you there. Good night to you, Sandy."
"Good night, Dick."
Boys don't usually bid each other good night after they have been doing
wicked deeds; and Richard's parting salutation was a peace-offering,
rather than the kindly wish of a friend.
Sandy made his way up to Whitestone, and Richard again pushed off upon
the troubled waters of the Hudson. The Greyhound leaped over the waves
as though she was in haste to get out of the disgraceful business in
which she had been employed. Richard heard the clocks in Whitestone
striking three, as he grappled his moorings and made fast to them.
He landed from the skiff, and, like a thief in the night, stole up to
his father's house. Before he attempted to ascend the trellis, he
pulled off his boots, and fastening them together with his
handkerchief, slung them around his neck. He reached the roof of the
conservatory without noise, and then, to his utter consternation,
discovered a light in Mr. Presby's room. But the precaution he had
taken in the removal of his boots enabled him to reach his chamber
window without producing a sound. Then, to his astonishment and terror,
he found that the window he had left open was closed.
Some one had been there.
CHAPTER VIII.
RICHARD BEHOLDS HOW GREAT A MATTER A LITTLE FIRE KINDLETH.
The window of the chamber was not fastened, and when Richard gained
