ing, charitable Aunt Ruth a deprecating remark to her 
nephew Robert. 
" She's a good-hearted girl, I don't doubt, Robert ! And 
I have great confidence in her principles ; she wouldn't 
knowingly do a wrong thing ; but it's a pity the poor child 
has no mother !" 
The rout over, the adieux were brief a single glance 
was interchanged, and a hand-clasp, fervent, but not pro- 
 
longed ; a jesting phrase, intended for the benefit of the 
bystanders,- 
" Good-by, Nelly ! Take care of yourself!" and 
" Good-by, Aleck ! I suppose we shall not see you again 
until you are a fat Mynheer, whose thick tongue will be 
unintelligible to untravelled ears." 
This was all ! As he had said, they were both very young 
then ; it was his choice to leave her untrammelled by the 
shadow of a pledge. The ring might have been a friend's 
parting gift. She was a woman now more grave, more 
thoughtful, more judicious than in the days when she seem 
ed to prefer his society to that of other admirers even to 
Robert's ; a woman who had chosen for herself a life partner, and who would, in seven weeks more, be his brother's 
wife! 
He thought all this over, without the change of a muscle 
or an audible sigh. His will was strong, and his pride stub 
born ; himself one of the men who can meet death, however 
horrible its form, with a steady or smiling front, if it be 
proved to be inevitable, and there are others looking on to 
mark how they sustain the trial. 
His voice, cheery and unfaltering, ended the protracted 
pause. 
" Ah, well, aunty, you and I need not stay here to embarrass the movements of the rightful master and mistress 
of this establishment. Greenfield is a dear and lovely spot 
to us both, but duty and expediency unite in forbidding my 
longer residence here. Maple Hill is sadly in want of a 
tenant, and I have always looked forward to a settlement 
of myself and worldly goods there when I should be ready 
to begin life in earnest. But I cannot keep house by myself, you know. It would be a doleful and disgraceful Bachelor's Hall, that would cause you to disown me forever. I 
must have somebody to scold the maids, to pour out my 
coffee and lecture me occasionally. You will not mind the 
change of home so much as if I invited you to be my com 
panion in a strange neighborhood and unfamiliar house, will 
you?" 
" I was born there, lived there until your mother and 
grandfather died, and your father begged me to come here 
and take charge of you boys !" 
A tear found its way from beneath the spectacles. 
"And you have no idea what an exemplary character I 
mean to become," pursued Aleck. " Not quite so good as 
Robin, to be sure, but a very decorous and decent young 
man, notwithstanding beard and meerschaum." 
Miss Ruth smiled up at him affectionately. Scapegrace 
though she was often obliged to consider him, he had ever been 
her favorite of her adopted children ; and the vision of an 
independent home with him was far more pleasant, more in 
consonance with her tastes, than the thought of resigning 
the insignia of authority, i. e., the keybasket, into the hands 
of Robert's wife, and the meek acceptance of a secondary 
position in the court where she had reigned supreme for 
upwards of twenty years. 
"You were always kind-hearted and generous, Aleck! 
one of the sort whose worst side is the outside. I hope 
you'll get a good wife of your own some day." 
" Don't trouble your brain with such useless wishes and 
unprofitable imaginings, aunty! I do not! Why! it is 
ten o'clock ! Is Robert generally so late in returning from 
court ?" 
" No ! I'm afraid he went home with Colonel Floyd ! 
He often does. It is naturally hard work for him, now he 
is in love, to pass the Belleview gate on his road, especially 
when he thinks that there is nobody here but me, and knows 
that I am never lonesome. We had not an idea of seeing 
you for a fortnight to come. How stupid and selfish it was 
in me not to think sooner of sending a boy to the colonel's 
to inquire if he was there. But, you see, I kept expecting 
him every minute." 
Exactly ! I understand ! I am glad your after-thought 
came so late. I would not have him disturbed from his 
present agreeable quarters on my account. You think that 
he will not be home to-night, then ?" 
"Hardly. He usually stays at the colonel's all night 
when he goes there from court. I suppose that, like most 
other courting couples, they sit up till past midnight, and he 
doesn't like to trouble me by coming in so late. I should 
think they would have talked it all out before this time, but 
that is always the way. Engaged people never seem at a 
loss what to say to one another." 
" Theirs is a theme which is exhaustless, until after marriage !" said Aleck, yawning and rising. "I feel tired after 
my journey, and it is already long past your bed-time. 
Good-night!" 
His chamber was the same he had shared with Robert 
until their separation, two years before ; the same in which 
he had lain, helpless and suifering, during the weeks that followed the accident already described. There was a bright 
fire on the hearth ; his mother's picture, the object of his 
boyish idolatry, still smiled down at him from its place 
above the mantel ; every article of the old familiar furniture 
was endeared to him by its associations of a happy childhood 
and joyous, hopeful youth, yet the place was inexpressibly 
cheerless and desolate ; awoke a sensation of homesickness, 
more acute than any he had felt in the way-side inns of for 
eign lands. 
He looked through the window. The moon shone with 
fitful lustre between flying clouds ; the high autumn wind 
roared through a pine-grove to the right of the house, and 
tore showers of leaves from other trees the dismantled 
boughs groaning in every fibre as they gave up their summer 
treasures. It was a weird, dreary night to a solitary and sad 
watcher, whether his lonely vigil were kept above a dead 
form or a dead hope ; a night to make friends draw closer the 
ring surrounding the social blaze, and talk more earnestly 
and frankly ; a night to cause lovers to cling more nearly and 
fondly to one another, to feel, as they had never done before, 
the warmth and blessedness and glory of that heart sunshine 
which beamed the fairer for the rush and crash of outward 
storms. 
" This is my welcome home !" 
He left his look-out ; went to a trunk which, with the rest 
of his baggage, stood against the wall, unstrapped and opened it, and took from its depths a pretty casket. The lid of 
this was raised, and a subtle perfume stole through the apartment the odor of rose-leaves. Then, the entire contents 
of the box were emptied upon the table : notes, dried flowers, 
a knot of blue ribbon lastly, a lady's cambric handkerchief, 
with dark-red stains upon it. With this, the rude compress 
of moss and bruised herbs had been bound upon his shoulder 
on that memorable day. One corner bore a name. He tore 
this off and threw it into the fire, turning his back that he 
might not see it burn ; the rest, cambric, papers, withered 
stalks and petals, were rent into small bits, not impatiently, 
but carefully, deliberately, as one performs a solemn duty, 
re-collected and returned to the casket. The November 
blast screamed hoarsely past his ear as he lifted the sash. 
In a second it caught the pile of fragments ; whirled them 
aloft ; dashed them downwards ; scattered them far and 
wide over plain, hill, and grove. 
" So let it be !" was all Aleck said, as he lowered the 
window. 
CHAPTER II. 
THERE was no lack of cheerful company in Colonel 
Floyd's parlor that evening. The colonel himself read the 
papers he had taken from the post-office in the afternoon 
seated by a round stand at the warmest corner of the fire 
place. So real was his absorbed interest in the sheet he 
held, that his presence imposed less restraint than it was 
wont to exert upon the innocent hilarity of the junior portion of the party. He had enjoyed in his younger days the 
reputation of being the handsomest man, the best rider, and 
most graceful dancer in the county; and the years which 
had frosted his hair, and made rigid the once flexible lines 
of his face, had not bowed the stately form, robbed the eye 
of its fire, or the limbs of their strength. He looked proud 
and resolute, and he was both of these, and more, proud, 
with a haughtiness that inspired dislike and fear, ratherthan 
respect ; arrogant and overbearing to an extent which made 
him popular throughout the region where he would have 
ruled with absolute sway. In his family, he was an autocrat; upon his plantation, a despot, whose laws were 
Draconian in severity ; everywhere, in theory and in prac 
tice, he was an aristocrat of the sternest type. It was a com 
mon saying among the working classes, that it was almost as 
much as a poor man's life was worth, to press Colonel Floyd 
for the payment of a just debt ; yet no tradesman or me 
chanic durst refuse him unlimited credit. It is a sight that 
may be seen every day in other communities, North, East 
