"Why mamma," said Ransom, "pickerel fishing is splendid!"
Mr. Randolph looked at Daisy. No heat nor shadow too much for her! With
one hand clasped in Nora's, her little face was a pattern of perfect
content; nay, it was full of delighted joy. Mr. Randolph thought he
could endure his portion of the heat.
"Nora," said Daisy, "isn't it nice?"
"It goes nicely now," said Nora.
"But isn't it pleasant?"
"Yes. It is a great deal pleasanter than in a little boat. This one is
good and large."
"Isn't the water pretty?"
"I like the green grass better," said Nora.
"O yes! but then I like this too. I like it very much. Nora, what did
you mean by a pic-nic?"
"A pic-nic?" said Nora.
"Yes; you said you thought people did not eat dinner, but it was a
pic-nic."
"Well, I thought they didn't."
"What did you mean by a pic-nic?"
"Why I meant just that. You know what a pic-nic is."
"We always have dinner when we go on a pic-nic," said Daisy.
"Then I don't think it is a pic-nic."
"What is it?"
"I don't know. Daisy, are you going to ride in that queer chair?"
"I suppose so. My ankle isn't quite strong yet, you know. Wasn't it nice
of Dr. Sandford to prepare it for me?"
"I don't know, I don't think he is nice," said Nora.
Which expression of opinion was so very startling to Daisy that it took
her some time to recover from it. She sought out the doctor with her eye
where he was sitting forward of the mast, somewhat hid from her by a
piece of the sail; she scanned his countenance, with its calm nobleness
of feature, and steadfast, reserved, beautiful blue eye. Doubtless, he
was not everything Daisy wished him; nevertheless to her he was very
"nice" indeed. Her eye came back satisfied.
At the other end of the boat the party were talkative and gay. Mr.
Randolph held the main sheet in his own hand; Mr. Sandford had the
rudder; neither of them had much to do; for the wind was gentle and
fair, and the boat kept her straight course for the opposite shore. The
river was wide however at this place; the other shore was an object in
view for a good while before they reached it. Slowly and steadily the
little skiff skimmed over; they got to the middle of the river; then the
trees before them on the other side, with the cleared fields in one or
two spots, began to shew in more distinct forms and colours. The sun was
very hot! So hot, that it seemed to kill the breeze. As they drew near
their place of disembarkation, the motion of the vessel grew slack; the
sail fluttered now and then; the propelling force just lasted till they
got to shore, and then nobody said anything more of any air felt to be
stirring.
"I think we had better stay on the water," said Mrs. Gary. "It is
positively stifling here."
"It will be better when we get in the woods," suggested Mr. Sandford.
"No,--begging your pardon," Mr. Randolph answered.
"No?--will it be worse, Mr. Randolph?" said his wife.
"I hope not--for I think you could broil a beefsteak here in another
hour; when the sun gets on the meridian."
"Then do let us move away from here at once! it is oppressive. I do not
know how we are going to walk, but I suppose we shall find out. We may
hope there will be a little freshness by the lake."
Mr. Stanfield's boat however had to be waited for a few minutes. It got
to shore just as Mr. Fish's skiff appeared in sight coasting down on the
same side, from behind a point. The whole party were soon together,
exchanging shakes of the hand and puffs of condolence on the state of
the atmosphere. There was presently a division of forces. All the boys,
Preston, Ransom, and Alexander Fish, compared notes and fishing tackle.
The ladies and gentlemen, with one or two elder girls, Frederica Fish
and Theresa Stanfield and Eloïse Gary, congregated into a moving mass of
muslins and parasols. While Daisy and Nora were joined by Ella
Stanfield; and a great constraint fell upon all three. Ella was a
comparative stranger; a nice looking child, thoughtful and old beyond
her years. She looked like gravity; Nora liked gayety; while Daisy was
most like the thing that bears her name. They stood like little pinks of
propriety, without saying anything to each other. This constraint was
soon broken up by the preparations for the march. On enquiry it was
found that there were two or three ways to the lake. One was short and
easy (in comparison) but very narrow; a mere footpath through the woods.
Another had a wider track; but it had also a rough footing of rocks and
stones, and was much longer; taking a circuit to reach the place.
Another still was only used by eager lovers of the picturesque, though
it was said to reward them.
As soon as all this was explained to the understanding of the company,
the larger division set off immediately for the easiest and quickest
road to the lake; no other recommendation was worth a moment's
considering. With quick disappearance one after another muslin dress and
gay parasol was lost within the edge of the woods which their chosen
path immediately entered. They vanished from the shore. Every one of
them was presently out of sight. Mr. Randolph had seen that Dr. Sandford
was putting Daisy into her travelling conveyance; and thinking no
attention of his own could be needful he had gone on in advance of the
party with Mrs. Stanfield. The very last of them, muslins and parasols
and all, was swallowed up in the enclosing woods, almost before Daisy
was established in her chair. Her bearers lifted it then to receive
instructions from Dr. Sandford as to their method of playing their part.
They were Logan and Sam; James was devoted to his own particular charge.
"Why where are Nora and Ella?" Daisy suddenly exclaimed.
"Everybody seems to have gone on," answered the doctor. "Except the
boys. Now Daisy, are you comfortable? is it all right?"
"It is nice, Dr. Sandford!"--But at the same time Daisy wondered much
and grieved not a little that her companions should have left her to go
alone. Was that kindness? or good manners?
"Did they know which way I was going?" she said.
"I fancy so," said the doctor; "they have done as everybody else
does--gone with the crowd. Now, you fellows, you know the way."
"Yes, sir."
"When you come to a house, remember, you must turn sharp to the right.
Boys, you must go with the chair as a body-guard."
"Why must we?" said Ransom.
"You would not have your sister go alone?"
"You are going that way."
"You are mistaken. I am not."
"She has got Logan and Sam to take care of her. Girls always have to be
taken care of!" exclaimed Ransom in disgust.
"I am astonished at your want of gallantry. Preston, I shall depend on
you to see that the chair is properly attended."
"Which way are you going, sir?"
"By myself--to see if I can get a shot at something."
Preston did not look delighted, Daisy saw, though he accepted the charge
the doctor gave him. The doctor himself strode off with his gun,
disappearing in the woods at the nearest point. Daisy was left with her
two bearers and her three attendants.
"Well boys, we may as well get along," said Ransom discontentedly.
"There is no occasion that we should keep poking on behind this
concern."
They passed it and took the lead. Preston as he passed asked Daisy how
it went, and if she were comfortable. It went very nicely, and she was
very comfortable; and receiving this assurance Preston sprang forward to
regain Alexander Fish's company, with whom he was holding an animated
discourse on the making and using of artificial flies. The three boys
trudged along in advance; the motions of their busy heads, and of their
active feet, telling that there was no lack of interest or excitement
there. The chair followed steadily with its little burden. It went
nicely; she was very comfortable; it was a new and most pleasant mode of
getting over the ground; and yet--there was something at work in Daisy's
heart that was not pleasure. She was sadly disappointed. She was left
alone. It had tried her a good deal that Nora and Ella should have ran
after the larger party with so cavalier an abandonment of her, when they
knew her chair must go another road. Then she was very sorry that the
doctor had seen good to forsake her; and felt that from the
thoughtfulness or unselfishness of boys she had little to hope for. Look
at them! there they went before her, putting more and more distance
between them and the chair every minute. Perhaps they would entirely
forget their little convoy and be out of sight in a trifle more time.
And in all that big party of pleasure, everybody engaged with somebody
else, she was left with no one to speak to her, and no company at all
but that of Logan and Sam. Daisy two or three times put up her hand
stealthily to her face to get rid of a tear that had found its way
there. Daisy thought at first that she would not have done so to her
friends as they had done to her; but then presently she reflected what
reason she had to know better and to do better, that they had not; and
instead of anything like resentment, a very gentle and tender feeling of
pity and kindness arose in Daisy's mind toward them. Her hurt sense of
unfriendliness quite soothed itself away; and now Daisy began to enjoy
herself and the day and the party of pleasure. Her share of it, at
least. Her chair was under shadow of the tall woods now. It is true, it
was very hot there. No air seemed moving. The chair-bearers often raised
an arm to their brows to wipe away the heated moisture that stood there
and ran down their faces. But Daisy had no exertion to make; and instead
of that, her own motion seemed to give a little life to the lifeless
air. Then she was at leisure to look and enjoy; not having even to take
care of her own footing. The depth of green leafage over her head when
she looked up; the depth of green shade on either hand of her, pierced
