“If I were well and strong like you, sir, I think I should be so
thankful nothing could trouble me;” and with a sigh the boy glanced
at the vigorous frame and energetic countenance of his new friend,
wondering at the despondent look he wore.
“If you were poor, so poor you had no means wherewith to get a crust
of bread, nor a shelter for the night; if you were worn-out with
suffering and labor, soured by disappointment and haunted by
ambitious hopes never to be realized, what would you do, Jamie?”
 suddenly asked the young man, prompted by the desire that every
human heart has felt for sympathy and counsel, even from the little
creature before him ignorant and inexperienced as he was.
But the child, wiser in his innocence than many an older counsellor,
pointed upward, saying with a look of perfect trust,--
“I should look up to the cross upon the tower and think of what Bess
told me about God, who feeds the birds and clothes the flowers, and
I should wait patiently, feeling sure he would remember me.”
The young man leaned his head upon his folded arms and nothing
stirred in the room, but the wind that stole in through the roses to
fan the placid face upon the pillow.
“Are you weary waiting for me, Jamie dear? I could not come before;”
 and as her eager voice broke the silence, Sister Bess came hastening
in.
The stranger, looking up, saw a young girl regarding him from
Jamie’s close embrace, with a face whose only beauty was the light
her brother spoke of, that beamed warm and bright from her mild
countenance and made the poor room fairer for its presence.
“This is Bess, my Bess, sir,” cried the boy, “and she will thank you
for your kindness in sitting here so long with me.”
“I am the person who lodges just below you; I mistook this room for
my own; pardon me, and let me come again, for Jamie has already done
me good,” replied the stranger as he rose to go.
“Bess, dear, will you bring me a cup of water?” Jamie said; and as
she hastened away, he beckoned his friend nearer, saying with a
timid wistful look,--
“Forgive me, if it’s wrong, but I wish you would let me give you
this; it’s very little, but it may help some; and I think you’ll
take it to please ‘poor Jamie.’ Won’t you, sir?” and as he spoke,
the child offered a bright coin, the proceeds of his work.
Tears sprung into the proud man’s eyes; he held the little wasted
hand fast in his own a moment, saying seriously,--
“I will take it, Jamie, as a loan wherewith to begin anew the life
I was about to fling away as readily as I do this;” and with a quick
motion he sent a vial whirling down into the street. “I’ll try the
world once more in a humbler spirit, and have faith in you, at
least, my little Providence.”
With an altered purpose in his heart, and a brave smile on his lips,
the young man went away, leaving the child with another happy
memory, to watch the cross upon the old church tower.
It was mid-winter; and in the gloomy house reigned suffering and
want. Sister Bess worked steadily to earn the dear daily bread so
many pray for and so many need. Jamie lay upon his bed, carving with
feeble hands the toys which would have found far readier purchasers,
could they have told the touching story of the frail boy lying
meekly in the shadow of the solemn change which daily drew more
near.
Cheerful and patient always, poverty and pain seemed to have no
power to darken his bright spirit; for God’s blessed charity had
gifted him with that inward strength and peace it so often brings to
those who seem to human eyes most heavily afflicted.
Secret tears fell sometimes on his pillow, and whispered prayers
went up; but Bess never knew it, and like a ray of sunshine, the
boy’s tranquil presence lit up that poor home; and amid the darkest
hours of their adversity, the little rushlight of his childish faith
never wavered nor went out.
Below them lived the young man, no stranger now, but a true friend,
whose generous pity would not let them suffer any want he could
supply. Hunger and cold were hard teachers, but he learned their
lessons bravely, and though his frame grew gaunt and his eye hollow,
yet, at heart, he felt a better, happier man for the stern
discipline that taught him the beauty of self-denial and the
blessedness of loving his neighbor better than himself.
The child’s influence remained unchanged, and when anxiety or
disappointment burdened him, the young man sat at Jamie’s bedside
listening to the boy’s unconscious teaching, and receiving fresh
hope and courage from the childish words and the wan face, always
cheerful and serene.
With this example constantly before him, he struggled on, feeling
that if the world were cold and dark, he had within himself one true
affection to warm and brighten his hard life.
“Give me joy, Jamie! Give me joy, Bess! the book sells well, and we
shall yet be rich and famous,” cried the young author as he burst
into the quiet room one wintry night with snow-flakes glittering in
his hair, and his face aglow with the keen air which had no chill in
it to him now.
Bess looked up to smile a welcome, and Jamie tried to cry “Hurrah;”
 but the feeble voice faltered and failed, and he could only wave his
hand and cling fast to his friend, whispering, brokenly,--
“I’m glad, oh, very glad; for now you need not rob yourself for us.
I know you have, Walter; I have seen it in your poor thin face and
these old clothes. It never would have been so, but for Bess and
me.”
“Hush, Jamie, and lie here upon my arm and rest; for you are very
tired with your work,--I know by this hot hand and shortened breath.
Are you easy now? Then listen; for I’ve brave news to tell you, and
never say again I do too much for you,--the cause of my success.”
“I, Walter,” cried the boy; “what do you mean?”
Looking down upon the wondering face uplifted to his own, the young
man answered with deep feeling,--
“Six months ago I came into this room a desperate and despairing
man, weary of life, because I knew not how to use it, and eager to
quit the struggle because I had not learned to conquer fortune by
energy and patience. You kept me, Jamie, till the reckless mood was
passed, and by the beauty of your life showed me what mine should
be. Your courage shamed my cowardice; your faith rebuked my fears;
your lot made my own seem bright again. I, a man with youth, health,
and the world before me, was about to fling away the life which you,
a helpless little child, made useful, good, and happy, by the power
of your own brave will. I felt how weak, how wicked I had been, and
was not ashamed to learn of you the lesson you so unconsciously were
teaching. God bless you, Jamie, for the work you did that day.”
“Did I do so much?” asked the boy with innocent wonder; “I never
knew it, and always thought you had grown happier and kinder because
I had learned to love you more. I’m very glad if I did anything for
you, who do so much for us. But tell me of the book; you never would
before.”
With a kindling eye Walter replied,--
“I would not tell you till all was sure; now, listen. I wrote a
story, Jamie,--a story of our lives, weaving in few fancies of my
own and leaving you unchanged,--the little counsellor and good angel
of the ambitious man’s hard life. I painted no fictitious sorrows.
What I had seen and keenly felt I could truly tell,--your cheerful
patience, Bess’s faithful love, my struggles, hopes, and fears. This
book, unlike the others, was not rejected; for the simple truth,
told by an earnest pen, touched and interested. It was accepted, and
has been kindly welcomed, thanks to you, Jamie; for many buy it to
learn more of you, to weep and smile over artless words of yours,
and forget their pity in their reverence and love for the child who
taught the man to be, not what he is, but what, with God’s help, he
will yet become.”
“They are very kind, and so are you, Walter, and I shall be proud to
have you rich and great, though I may not be here to see it.”
“You will, Jamie, you must; for it will be nothing without you;” and
as he spoke, the young man held the thin hand closer in his own and
looked more tenderly into the face upon his arm.
The boy’s eyes shone with a feverish light, a scarlet flush burned
on his hollow cheek, and the breath came slowly from his parted
lips, but over his whole countenance there lay a beautiful serenity
which filled his friend with hope and fear.
“Walter bid Bess put away that tiresome work; she has sat at it all
day long, never stirring but to wait on me;” and as he spoke, a
troubled look flitted across the boy’s calm face.
“I shall soon be done, Jamie, and I must not think of rest till
then, for there is neither food nor fuel for the morrow. Sleep,
yourself, dear, and dream of pleasant things; I am not very tired.”
And Bess bent closer to her work, trying to sing a little song, that
they might not guess how near the tears were to her aching eyes.
From beneath his pillow Jamie drew a bit of bread, whispering to his
friend as he displayed it,--
“Give it to Bess; I saved it for her till you came, for she will not
take it from me, and she has eaten nothing all this day.”
“And you, Jamie?” asked Walter, struck by the sharpened features of
the boy, and the hungry look which for a moment glistened in his
eye.
“I don’t need much, you know, for I don’t work like Bess; but yet
she gives me all. Oh, how can I bear to see her working so for me,
and I lying idle here!”
As he spoke, Jamie clasped his hands before his face, and through
his slender fingers streamed such tears as children seldom shed.
It was so rare a thing for him to weep that it filled Walter with
dismay and a keener sense of his own powerlessness. Ho could bear
