could not do. She could not make certain before it came the weary
foreboding that pressed upon her. She went to her father's room after
dinner as usual, leaning her heart on that word which had been her
walking-staff for three weeks past. "The Lord is my portion, saith my
soul; therefore will I hope in him!"
Mrs. Powle was there, quietly knitting. The Squire had gathered himself
up into a heap in his easy chair, denoting a contracted state of mind;
after that curious fashion which bodily attitudes have, of repeating
the mental. Eleanor took the newspaper and sat down.
"Is there anything there particular?" growled the Squire.
"I do not see anything very particular, sir. Here is the continuation
of the debate on--"
"How about that bill of yours and Mr. Carlisle's?" broke in Mrs. Powle.
"It was ordered to be printed, mamma--it has not reached the second
reading yet. It will not for some time."
"What do you suppose will become of it then?"
"What the Lord pleases. I do not know," said Eleanor with a pang at her
heart. "I have done my part--all I could--so far."
"I suppose you expect Mr. Carlisle will take it up as his own cause,
after it has ceased to be yours?"
Eleanor understood this, and was silent. She took up the paper again to
find where to read.
"Put that down, Eleanor Powle," said her father who was evidently in a
very bad humour, as he had cause, poor old gentleman; there is nobody
so bad to be out of humour with as yourself;--"put that down! until we
know whether you are going to read to me any more or no. I should like
to know your decision."
Eleanor hesitated, for it was difficult to speak.
"Come!--out with it. Time's up. Now for your answer. Are you going to
be an obedient child, and give Mr. Carlisle a good wife? Hey? Speak!"
"An obedient child, sir, in everything but this. I can give Mr.
Carlisle nothing, any more than he has."
"Any more than he has? What is that?"
"A certain degree of esteem and regard, sir--and perhaps, forgiveness."
"Then you will not marry him, as I command you?"
"No--I cannot."
"And you won't give up being a Methodist?"
"I cannot help being what I am. I will not go to church, papa, anywhere
that you forbid me."
She spoke low, endeavouring to keep calm. The Squire got up out of his
chair. He had no calmness to keep, and he spoke loud.
"Have you taught your sister to think there is any harm in dancing?"
"In dancing parties, I suppose I have."
"And you think they are wicked, and won't go to them?"
"I do not like them. I cannot go to them, papa; for I am a servant of
Christ; and I can do no work for my Master there at all; but if I go, I
bear witness that they are good."
"Now hear me, Eleanor Powle--" the Squire spoke with suppressed
rage--"No such foolery will I have in my house, and no such disrespect
to people that are better than you. I told you what would come of all
this if you did not give it up--and I stand to my word. You come here
to-morrow morning, prepared to put your hand in Mr. Carlisle's and let
him know that you will be his obedient servant--or, you quit my house.
To-morrow morning you do one thing or the other. And when you go, you
will stay. I will never have you back, except as Mr. Carlisle's wife.
Now go! I don't want your paper any more."
Eleanor went slowly away. She paused in the drawing-room; there was no
one there this time; rang the bell and ordered Thomas to be sent to
her. Thomas came, and received orders to be in readiness and have
everything in readiness to attend her on a journey the next day. The
orders were given clearly and distinctly as usual; but Thomas shook his
head as he went down from her presence at the white face his young
mistress had worn. "She don't use to look that way," he said to
himself, "for she is one of them ladies that carry a hearty brave
colour in their cheeks; and now there wasn't a bit of it." But the old
servant kept his own counsel and obeyed directions.
Eleanor went through the evening and much of the night without giving
herself a moment to think. Packing occupied all that time and the early
hours of the next day; she was afraid to be idle, and even dreaded the
times of prayer; because whenever she stopped to think, the tears would
come. But she grew quiet; and was only pale still, when at an early
hour in the morning she left the house. She could not bear to go
through a parting scene with her father; she knew him better than to
try it; and she shrank from one with her mother. She bid nobody
good-bye, for she could not tell anybody that she was going. London
streets looked very gloomy to Eleanor that morning as she drove through
them to the railway station.
She had still another reason for slipping away, in the fear that else
she would be detained to meet Mr. Carlisle again. The evening before
she had had a note from him, promising her all freedom for all her
religious predilections and opinions--leave to do what she would, if
she would only be his wife. She guessed he would endeavour to see her,
if she staid long enough in London after the receipt of that note.
Eleanor made her escape.
Thomas was sorry at heart to see her cheeks so white yet when they set
off; and he noticed that his young mistress hid her face during the
first part of the journey. He watched to see it raised up again; and
then saw with content that Eleanor's gaze was earnestly fixed on the
things without the window. Yes, there was something there. She felt she
was out of London; and that whatever might be before her, one sorrowful
and disagreeable page of life's book was turned over. London was gone,
and she was in the midst of the country again, and the country was at
the beginning of June. Green fields and roses and flowery hedge-rows,
and sweet air, all wooed her back to hopefulness. Hopefulness for the
moment stole in. Eleanor thought things could hardly continue so bad as
they seemed. It was not natural. It could not be. And yet--Mr. Carlisle
was in the business, and mother and father were set on her making a
splendid match and being a great lady. It might be indeed, that there
would be no return for Eleanor, that she must remain in banishment,
until Mr. Carlisle should take a new fancy or forget her. How long
would that be? A field for calculation over which Eleanor's thoughts
roamed for some time.
One comfort she had promised herself, in seeing Julia on the way; so
she turned out of her direct course to go to Wiglands. She was
disappointed. Julia and her governess had left the Lodge only the day
before to pay a visit of a week at some distance. By order, Eleanor
could not help suspecting it had been; of set purpose, to prevent the
sisters meeting. This disappointment was bitter. It was hard to keep
from angry thoughts. Eleanor fought them resolutely, but she felt more
desolate than she had ever known in her life before. The old place of
her home, empty and still, had so many reminders of childish and happy
times; careless times; days when nobody thought of great marriages or
settlements, or when such thoughts lay all hidden in Mrs. Powle's mind.
Every tree and room and book was so full of good and homely
associations of the past, that it half broke Eleanor's heart. Home
associations now so broken up; the family divided, literally and
otherwise; and worst of all, and over which Eleanor's tears flowed
bitterest, her own ministrations and influence were cut off from those
who most needed them and whom she most wished to benefit. Eleanor's day
at home was a day of tears; it was impossible to help it. The roses
with their sweet faces looked remonstrance at her; the roads and walks
and fields where she had been so happy invited her back to them; the
very grey tower of the Priory rising above the trees held out worldly
temptation and worldly reproof, with a mocking embodiment of her causes
of trouble. Eleanor could not bear it; she spent one night at home;
wrote a letter to Julia which she entrusted to a servant's hands for
her; and the next morning set her face towards Plassy. Julia lay on her
heart. That conversation they had held together the morning when
Eleanor waylaid her--it was the last that had been allowed. They had
never had a good talk since then. Was that the last chance indeed, for
ever? It was impossible to know.
In spite of June beauty, it was a dreary journey to her from home to
her aunt's; and the beautiful hilly outlines beyond Plassy rose upon
her view with a new expression. Sterner, and graver; they seemed to
say, "It is life work, now, my child; you must be firm, and if
necessary rugged, like us; but truth of action has its own beauty too,
and the sunlight of Divine favour rests there always." A shadowless
sunlight lay on the crowns and shoulders of the mountains as Eleanor
drew near. She got out of the carriage to walk the last few steps and
look at the place. Plassy never was more lovely. An aromatic breath,
pure and strong, came from the hills and gathered the sweetness of the
valleys. Roses and honeysuckles and jessamines and primroses, with a
thousand others, loaded the air with their gifts to it, from Mrs.
Caxton's garden and from all the fields and hedge-rows around. And one
after another bit of hilly outline reminded Eleanor that off there
went the narrow valley that led to the little church at Glanog; there
went the road to the village, where she and Powis had gone so often of
Wednesday afternoons; and in that direction lay the little cot where
she had watched all night by the dying woman. Not much time for such
remembrances was just now; for the farmhouse stood just before her. The
dear old farmhouse! looking as pretty as everything else in its dark
red stone walls and slate roof; stretching along the ground at that
rambling, picturesque, and also opulent style. Eleanor would not knock
now, and the door was not fastened to make her need it. Softly she
opened it, went in, and stood upon the tiled floor.
No sound of anything in particular; only certain tokens of life in the
house. Eleanor went on, opened the door of the sitting parlour and
looked in. Nobody there; the room in its summer state of neatness and
coolness as she had left it. Eleanor's heart began to grow warm. She
would not yet summon a servant; she left that part of the house and
