"But there must be some reason," said Daisy; "or it would stand still."
"It is in the nature of the thing, I suppose," said Dr. Sandford; "but
we do not fully know its nature yet. Only what I am telling you."
"How came people to find these things out?"
"By watching--and experimenting--and calculating."
"Then how big is the sun, Dr. Sandford?"
"How big does it look?"
"Not very large--I don't know--I can't think of anything it looks like."
"It looks just about as big as the moon does."
"Is it just the same size as the moon? But Dr. Sandford, it is a great
deal further off, isn't it?"
"Four hundred times as far."
"Then it must be four hundred times as large, I should think."
"It is just about that."
"But I do not know how large that would be. I cannot think."
"Nor can I, Daisy. But I can help you. Suppose we, and our earth, were
in the centre of the sun; and our moon going round us at the same
distance from us that she is now; there would be room enough for the
whole concern, as far as distances are concerned."
"In the sun, Dr. Sandford?"
"In the sun."
"And the moon as far off as she is now?"
"Yes."
"But the moon would not be in the sun too?"
"Plenty of room, and to spare."
Daisy was silent now. Preston looked from her face to the doctor's.
"Not only that, Daisy; but the moon then would be two hundred thousand
miles within the circumference of the sun; the sun's surface would be
two hundred thousand miles beyond her."
"Thank you, Dr. Sandford!"
"What for, Daisy?"
"I am so glad to know all that."
"Why?"
Daisy did not answer. She did not feel ready to tell her whole thought,
not to both her friends together, at least; and she did not know how to
frame her reply. But then perceiving that Dr. Sandford was looking for
an answer, and that she was guilty of the rudeness of withholding it,
she blushed and spoke.
"It makes me understand some things better."
"What, for instance?" said the doctor, looking as grave as ever, though
Preston was inclined to laugh. Daisy saw it; nevertheless she answered,
"The first chapter of Genesis."
"O you are there, are you?" said the doctor. "What light have I thrown
upon the passage, Daisy? It has not appeared to myself."
Now Daisy hesitated. A sure though childish instinct told her that her
thoughts and feelings on this subject would meet with no sympathy. She
did not like to speak them.
"Daisy has peculiar views, Dr. Sandford," said Preston. But the doctor
paid him no attention. He looked at Daisy, lifted her up and arranged
her pillows; then as he laid her back said, "Give me my explanation of
that chapter, Daisy."
"It isn't an explanation, sir;--I did not know there was anything to
explain."
"The light I have thrown on it then--out of the sun."
Preston was amused, Daisy saw; she could not tell whether the doctor
was; his blue eyes gave no sign, except of a will to hear what she had
to say. Daisy hesitated, and hesitated, and then with something very
like the old diplomacy she had partly learned and partly inherited from
her mother, she said,
"If you will read the chapter, I will tell you."
Now Daisy did not think Dr. Sandford would care to read the chapter, or
perhaps have the time for it; but with an unmoved face he swung himself
round on his chair and called on Mrs. Benoit for a Bible. Preston was in
a state of delight, and Mrs. Benoit of wonder. The Bible was brought,
Dr. Sandford took it, and opened it.
"We have only time for a short lecture to-day," he remarked, "for I must
be off. Now Daisy, I will read, and you shall comment."
Daisy felt worried. She turned uneasily and rested her face on her hand,
and so lay looking at the doctor; at his handsome calm features and
glittering blue eye. What could she say to him? The doctor's eye saw a
grave sweet little face, a good deal flushed, very grave, with a whole
burden of thought behind its unruffled simplicity. It may be said, that
his curiosity was as great as Daisy's unwillingness. He began, facing
her as he read. Juanita stood by, somewhat anxious.
'"In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth."'--
The doctor stopped and looked down at that face of Daisy looking up at
him. He waited.
"I did not use to think how much all that meant," said Daisy humbly. The
doctor went on.
He went on with the grand, majestic words of the story, which sounded
very strange to Daisy from his lips, but very grand; till he came to the
fourteenth verse. '"And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament
of the heaven to divide the day from the night; and let them be for
signs, and for seasons, and for days, and years: and let them be for
lights in the firmament of the heaven, to give light upon the earth: and
it was so."' The doctor looked at Daisy again.
"There," said she, "that is very different now from what it used to
be--I didn't know what sort of lights those were; it's a great deal more
wonderful now. Won't you read on a little further?"
"'And God made two great lights; the greater light to rule the day, and
the lesser light to rule the night; he made the stars also. And God set
them in the firmament of the heaven, to give light upon the earth, and
to rule over the day, and over the night, and to divide the light from
the darkness: and God saw that it was good.'"
"That is what I mean," said Daisy, as the doctor paused. "I never knew
before what those 'lights' meant--I thought the sun was--I don't know
what; I didn't think much about it; but now I never shall forget again.
I know now what sort of a light was made to rule the day; and I don't
wonder--"
"Do not wonder what, Daisy?"
"I do not wonder that God said that it was good. I am so much obliged to
you for telling me about it."
"Never heard a more satisfactory application of knowledge in my
life,"--the doctor remarked with a smile as he handed back the Bible to
Mrs. Benoit. And then he and Preston went off; but Daisy lay long very
thoughtfully looking after them out of her window. Till the sound of the
horses' feet was far out of hearing Daisy lay there looking into the
evening. She did not stir till Mrs. Benoit brought her supper.
"Isn't it wonderful, Juanita," she said with a long drawn breath, "how
the sun divides the light from the darkness?"
"Most things is wonderful, that the Lord makes," answered the black
woman.
"Are they?" said Daisy.
"But what makes my love sigh?" said Juanita anxiously; for Daisy's face
had not brightened up, though she was taking her tea. Daisy looked at
her.
"O Juanita!" she said,--"I am afraid that Dr. Sandford is in the
darkness!"
"Where the sun don't shine it be darkness, sure!" said Juanita. "And he
do not see the Light of the world, Miss Daisy."
Daisy's eyes filled, filled. She liked Dr. Sandford very much. And then
who else that she loved had never seen that Light! Daisy pushed aside
her tears and tried to drink her tea; but at last she gave it up. Her
spoon fell into her saucer and she lay down and hid her face in the
pillow. The black woman stood with a strange grave look and with
watering eyes, silent for a little time; holding Daisy's tray in her
hands and waiting.
"Miss Daisy--"
"What, Juanita?"
"My love take her tea, to be strong; and then see how many she can bring
out of the darkness."
"I, Juanita?" said Daisy rousing up.
"Maybe the Lord send his message by little hands. What hinder?"
"But, Juanita, I can't do anything?"
"Carry the Lord's message, Miss Daisy."
"Can I?"
"Why not, my love? The dear Lord, he do all. And Miss Daisy knows, he
hear the prayer of his servants."
The child looked at the black woman, with a wistful, earnest, searching
look that it was curious to see. She said nothing more; she eyed Juanita
as if she were searching into the depth of something; then she went on
with her supper. She was thoughtful all the evening; busy with
cogitations which she did not reveal; quiet and absent minded. Juanita
guessed why; and many a prayer went up from her own secret heart.
But from, about this time Daisy began to grow well again. She could not
be moved, of course; Dr. Sandford would not permit that; neither to be
carried home, nor to change her place and position in the cottage. But
she was getting ready for it. The latter half of August cooled off from
its fierce heats and was pleasantly warm. Daisy took the benefit of the
change. She had rather a good time, those last weeks at Juanita's house;
and perhaps that was one reason why Dr. Sandford, seeing it, chose to
let well alone and would not have anybody take Daisy home. Daisy had a
very good time. She had the peace of Juanita's house; and at home she
knew there would be things to trouble her. She had books and could read
now as much as she liked; and she was very fond of reading. Preston did
not find it expedient to bring the geography tray; on the other hand,
Mr. Randolph thought it good to come every day and spend a piece of time
with his little daughter; and became better acquainted with her than
ever he had been in his life before. He discovered that Daisy was very
fond of knowledge; that he could please her no way better than by taking
