with blood.
"That's a worse wound than Pemberton's. Didn't you know it, Tom?"
"Well, of course I knew it; but I didn't think it was any thing," replied
Tom, apologetically. "I knew it wouldn't do to drop down, or we should all
be in Dixie in half an hour."
"You are my man for the present," said the doctor, as he proceeded to a
further examination of the wound.
Tom was hit in the side by one of the pistol bullets. As I have not the
surgeon's report of the case, I cannot give a minute description of it;
but he comforted Hapgood and the captain with the assurance that, though
severe, it was not a dangerous wound.
"Tom Somers, there's a sergeant's warrant in Company K for one of you
three men," said Captain Benson, when the patient was comfortably settled
upon his camp bed. "The colonel told me to give him the name of the most
deserving man in my company."
"Give it to Tom," said Hapgood, promptly. "He led off in this matter, and
ef't hadn't been for him, we should all have been on t'other side of the
river, and p'raps on t'other side of Jordan, afore this time. And then, to
think that the poor fellow stood by, and handled the boat like a
commodore, when the life-blood was runnin' out of him all the time! It
belongs to Tom."
"Give it to Tom," added Fred, who lay near the patient.
"No, Captain Benson," interposed Tom, faintly. "Hapgood is an old soldier,
and deserves it more than I do. Give it to him, and I shall be better
satisfied than if you give it to me."
"Tom Somers!" exclaimed old Hapgood, a flood of tears sliding down his
furrowed cheeks, "I won't stand nothin' of the sort! I'd jump into the
river and drownd myself before I'd take it, after what you've done."
"You are both worthy of it," added Captain Benson.
"Please give it to Hapgood," pleaded Tom. "He first proposed going out
after the little schooner."
"Give it to Tom, cap'n. It'll help heal his wound," said Hapgood.
"No; it would do me more good to have you receive it," protested Tom.
"Well, here, I can't have this battle fought in the hospital," interposed
the surgeon. "They are good friends, captain, and whichever one you give
it to, the other will be suited. You had better settle the case at
head-quarters."
"If you please, Captain Benson, I would like to have Hapgood stay with me
to-night, if he can be spared."
The veteran was promptly detailed for hospital duty, and the captain
returned to his quarters to decide the momentous question in regard to the
sergeant's warrant.
CHAPTER XXVI.
TOM IS SENTIMENTAL.
The little schooner which the picket guard had captured was loaded with
valuable supplies for the rebels, which of course were confiscated without
ceremony. The mail bag which was on board contained a great many letters
from traitors in Baltimore, some of whom were exposed by the capture of
their treasonable correspondence.
Tom's wound proved to be more serious than even the surgeon had
anticipated; but the best care which it was possible to give in a military
hospital was bestowed upon him. Old Hapgood, in recognition of his
services on that eventful night, was permitted to be near the patient as
much as the interests of the service would permit; and the old man was
happy when seated by the rude couch of the soldier boy, ministering to his
necessities, or cheering him with bright hopes of the future. A strong
friendship had grown up between them, for Tom's kind heart and brave
conduct produced a deep impression upon the old man.
"Here, Tom," said Captain Benson, as he approached the sufferer, a few
days after he entered the hospital, and laid a paper upon the bed. "Here's
a prescription which the colonel says you must take."
"What is it?" asked Tom, with a faint smile.
"A sergeant's warrant."
"Glory, glory, hallelujah, as we go marching on!" exclaimed old Hapgood,
jumping up like a youth of sixteen, and swinging his cap above his head.
"Shut up, there!" shouted the hospital steward. "Don't you know any better
than to make such a racket in this place?"
"I beg pardon, Jameson. I forgot where I was," apologized the veteran.
"The news was so good I couldn't help it. Our Tom is a sergeant now!"
"Not yet, Hapgood," replied Tom, feebly. "I can't accept it, Captain
Benson; it belongs to Hapgood, sir, and I shall feel a great deal better
if you put his name in place of mine."
"Don't do it, cap'n!" interposed the old man, vehemently. "Tom shall be a
brigadier general if the war lasts one year more. I should feel like a
whipped kitten if that warrant was altered."
"The matter has been fully and fairly considered at head-quarters, and
there is no such thing as altering the decision now; so, Tom, you can put
the stripes on your arm just as soon as you please."
Hapgood insisted, the surgeon insisted, and the captain insisted; and Tom
was too sick to hold way with them in an argument, and his name was placed
upon the roster of the company as a sergeant. He was proud of the
distinction which had been conferred upon him, though he thought Hapgood,
as an older and abler soldier, was better entitled to the honor than
himself.
It was six weeks before Tom was able to enter upon the actual enjoyment of
the well-merited promotion which he had won by his gallantry; but when he
appeared before the company with the chevron of the sergeant upon his arm,
he was lustily cheered by his comrades, and it was evident that the
appointment was a very popular one. Not even the grumblers, of whom there
is a full quota in every regiment, deemed it prudent to growl at the
decision of the officers. If any one ventured to suggest that he was too
young to be placed over older and stronger men, his friends replied, that
men in the army were measured by bravery and skill, not by years.
If my young readers wish to know why Tom's appointment was so well
received by his companions in arms, I can only reply, that he had not only
been brave and cheerful in the midst of peril and hardship, but he was
kind and obliging to his comrades. He had always been willing to help
those that needed help, to sympathize with those in trouble, and generally
to do all he could to render those around him happy.
Above all these considerations, Tom was a young man of high principle. He
had obeyed his mother's parting injunction, often repeated in the letters
which came to him from home, and had faithfully "read his Testament."
Without being a hypocrite or a canting saint, Tom carried about with him
the true elements of Christian character.
Tom had fought a greater battle than that in which he had been engaged at
Bull Run a hundred times, in resisting the temptations which beset him
from within and without. True to God and true to himself, he had won the
victory. Though his lot was cast in the midst of men who swore, gambled,
and drank liquor, he had shunned these vices, and loved the sinner while
he hated the sin. Such a person could not fail to win the respect of his
companions. Though he had been jeered at and insulted for being sober,
honest, and pious, he had fought down and lived down all these vilifiers,
and won their esteem.
It must be acknowledged that Tom's piety was of the robust type. He would
not allow any man to insult him; and after the chastisement he had given
Ben Lethbridge, not even those who were strong enough to whip him were
disposed to trespass upon his rights and dignity. Perhaps Tom's creed
needed a little revising; but he lived under martial law, which does not
take cognizance of insults and revilings. He was willing to be smitten on
the one cheek, and on the other also, for the good of his country, or even
his friends, but not to be wantonly insulted.
The influence of Tom's principles was not confined to himself, for "a
little leaven leaveneth the whole lump." This was particularly true of
Hapgood, who, more through Tom's preaching and practice than from any
strength in his own character, had steadily maintained his purpose to
abstain from intoxicating drinks, though occasional opportunities were
presented for the indulgence of his darling vice. Tom and he read the
Testament and other good books which were sent to the regiment, and both
profited by them.
When the soldier boy was discharged from the hospital, the surgeon gave
him a pair of woolen socks, from a case of them which had been sent by the
friends of the soldier in Boston and its vicinity. He was very much in
need of them, and from the depths of his heart he blessed the ladies who
had done this good work. He unrolled the socks, and proceeded to pull one
of them on. It was as good a fit as though his mother had knit it on
purpose for him.
"God bless the lady that knit these socks!" exclaimed Tom, as he began to
draw on the other.
"Amen!" replied Hapgood, who was watching the operation in full sympathy
with his protege.
"Eh! what's this?" added Tom, for his foot had met with an obstruction in
its passage down the leg.
He pulled off the sock, and thrusting his hand into it, took therefrom a
letter enclosed in an envelope.
"See that, uncle?" said he, exhibiting the prize.
"What is it, Tom? Open it quick," replied Hapgood.
The soldier boy broke the envelope, and took from it a note enclosing a
photograph. Tom looked at the picture with a feeling of pleasure, which
would have caused the original of the miniature, the author of the note,
and the author of the socks, to blush up to her eyes if she had beheld the
expression of admiration which glowed upon the handsome, manly face of the
young sergeant.
"By all that's lovely, isn't she a beauty!" exclaimed Tom, rapturously, as
he glanced from the picture to Hapgood, who was looking over his shoulder.
"She's hahnsome, and no mistake," replied the veteran, with a grim smile.
"Well, she is!" added Tom, whose eyes were riveted to the photograph.
"Well, why don't you read the letter, Tom?" demanded the old soldier,
after the young man had gazed with blushing cheek upon the sweet face of
the author of his socks for full five minutes.
"I guess I will," said Tom; but he did not; for the picture seemed to be
