was strengthened seven fold. Already she had begun 
her work in a secret fostering of antagonisms that ex 
isted among the children, so that permanent alienations 
might result, and the enemy she had to encounter 
stand divided and in conflict with itself. After the 
birth of her own child, Mrs. Guy used every means 
within her reach to turn the father's mind away from 
his other children. She gave him no peace until Adam, 
John and Lydia were sent away from the city to a 
boarding school, where they were kept for years, only 
visiting their homes during seasons of vacation. 
 
With the pleasure that only an evil spirit could real 
ize, Mrs. Guy saw at each return of the older children, 
that John and Lydia were moving in paths, the end of 
which would be almost certain alienation from their 
father. John's spendthrift habits, and animal propensi 
ties she stimulated by frequent. additions to the limited 
supply of pocket money that was allowed ; and he had 
learned to write to her in confidence, and solicit these ad 
ditions with a certainty of always receiving a favorable 
response. In sending him money, Mrs. Guy never failed 
to give admonition of the soundest kind, and always en 
joined secrecy, as the knowledge by his father of these de 
partures from his wishes, would result in cutting off all 
indulgence. John loved himself and the means of en 
joyment thus conferred, too well to betray their secret ; 
and as habits of self-indulgence grew stronger, his calls 
for money increased, until Mrs. Guy found the drain 
upon her individual purse, becoming far heavier than 
she could conveniently bear. The limitations had to 
be imposed. Against limitations sensuality always re 
bels. The boy demanded increased supplies ; but his 
step-mother was, whenever it suited her so to be, as 
unyielding as iron. She did not meet his demands for 
an increase, but lessened the sums she had been accus 
tomed to transmit. Self-denial was not in the boy. 
Towards restriction, he had only one course of action, 
and that was resistance. But, resistance to his step 
mother he soon discovered to be a waste of strength. 
He must take from her just what she chose to accord, 
and make up the balance of his wants in some other 
way. 
 
In some other way ! Ah, there was peril here ! 
Deeply versed in human nature, Mrs. Guy was not un 
aware of the boy's danger. She knew very well, that 
the good advice, about curbing appetite and desire 
about self-restraint, and all that which she urged in 
her letters, would pass him like the idle wind, and that 
he would cast about for some means of obtaining the 
sums of monev which she denied. Her indulgence had 
given his grosser propensities too large stimulus, and 
to the cutting down of gratification he would not sub 
mit. If one source of supply were diminished, he must 
find another. 
Mrs. Guy had not been well informed as to John's 
defect of principle, but many lapses from integrity had 
come under her own observation, and she was, there 
fore, fully prepared to hear, at any time, of his disgrace 
at school, on the accusation and proof of dishonest ap 
propriations ; and not only prepared as to an anticipa 
tion of the fact, but strong in a spirit of submission and 
resignation whenever the fact should be announced. 
Several years had glided away since the three older 
children left home for school. Adam had gained his 
nineteenth year ; John was reaching towards eighteen 
and Lydia was a tall, womanly looking girl, only a year 
younger than John. At home, the family had been in 
creased by an addition of two more children, number 
ing three born to the second Mrs. Guy two sons and 
one daughter all living arguments against the rights 
of Mr. Guy's first children. 
At this period, we will bring the reader, for a little 
while, to a nearer point of observation, and let him see 
 
in what measure the ends of life with Adam Guy, are 
working out the grand results of happiness which, twen 
ty years before, made the future look so bright with 
promise, that patience to wait the slow evolution of 
years could hardly be maintained. 
Mr. Guy left his home ene morning, with the pres 
sure on his feelings that always rested there while at 
home a pressure which had its origin in an ever abid 
ing sense of weakness. Out in the world his money 
was an undisputed argument. His will was free ; his 
word a law. But, at home, as in the latter days of his 
first wife, there was a subtle, almost intangible power, 
against which resistance seemed hopeless. If he struck 
against it, like a man beating the wind, the result was 
only self-exhaustion. Mrs. Guy did not, like her pre 
decessor, oppose an open resistance, or stifle him with 
impassiveness. She was usually calm, self-possessed, 
and gentle in tone ; never meeting him with resolute 
opposition ; yet, was he all the while conscious, that 
she was bending him to her will, and gaining at every 
point of approach. She was the watchful spider, si 
lently spinning her web. He did not feel the silken 
cord, of invisible fineness, as it fell lightly over him, 
and only knew that he was in her toils, when some 
movement warned him of his bands and his helplessness. 
Mr. Guy left home one morning, as we have said, 
with the usual uncomfortable weight upon his feelings, and 
repaired to his store. A number of letters were on his 
desk, most of them business letters, directed to the firm. 
Among them, were two addressed to himself. One of 
these, he recognized as from his son Adam. The busi- 
 
ness letters were first read. Then ho broke the seal of 
one of those that remained. It read thus : 
" DEAR SIR : I have most painful intelligence to 
communicate. Your son John has been guilty of con 
duct that renders it impossible for me any longer to con 
tinue him in my school. The charge of appropriating 
money, and various articles belonging to other persons, 
has been so fully proved against him, that no question as 
to his guilt is entertained by any one. Not wishing, for 
your sake and his own, to subject him to the disgrace 
of expulsion, I write to request that you will direct his 
immediate return home. He is already suspended from 
participation in the exercises of my school. 
" It is also my duty to say, that John's habits are of 
a dangerous kind, and will, unless they can be broken, 
lead him to certain ruin. The freedom with which he 
has been supplied with pocket money, has led to con 
stant self-indulgence, and he has, during the last six 
months, as I now learn, been several times intoxicated. 
To my surprise and pain, I have been informed within 
twenty-four hours, that he has, for some time, kept wines, 
and other liquors, in his room. I very much regret that 
a knowledge of this fact was so long concealed from me 
by those who were advised of it. My object in com 
municating it now, is that you may clearly comprehend 
his danger, and so be able to adopt the most effectual 
neans for his rescue. 
" With high respect, I am, truly yours, 
"R E, ." 
The first reading of this letter, so stunned Mr. Guy, 
O ' 
that his mind fell into a state of painful confusion. He 
rallied in a little while, and read the letter again, when 
the whole truth stood out in all its shocking magni 
tude. 
"A thief and a drunkard!-" Mr. Guy shuddered 
inwardly, as he repeated this sentence to himself. He 
was in his counting-room, with clerks around him, and 
must not betray an outward sign of the agitation against 
which he was struggling. 
Next, Adam's -letter was opened. It recounted, with 
some particularity, the criminal conduct of his brother, 
condemning him in strong language, and prophesying no 
good in the future. " He doesn't seem to have a single 
redeeming quality," was the strong language used by 
this boy, " after his father's own heart," followed by 
sentences like these : u He only thinks of self-indul 
gence, and would spend a thousand dollars a month, if 
he had his will." " I don't know how it is, but, to my 
certain knowledge, he spends three or four dollars to 
one of your allowance. Where does the rest come 
from ? He's in debt to the boys ; but not enough to 
