a handsome escort for a man of my humble pretensions." 
 
The captain of the company ordered his men to keep 
back, and Somers and De Banyan walked by the side of 
his horse, a few yards in advance of the platoons. He 
had evidently adopted this method to draw out his pris- 
oners ; for as such our officers were compelled to regard 
themselves. 
" Marvel, you used to be a very sensible fellow when 
you were in the Third Tennessee," said the rebel cap- 
tain. " I am surprised to see you adopting snch a 
stupid method to conceal your identity." 
" I had good reasons for it," replied De Banyan, cast- 
ing his eyes behind him, as if to assure himself that 
none of the soldiers were within hearing. 
''What reasons?" asked the officer curiously. 
" I should think a man of your discretion would 
easily understand the reason, without any explanation. 
If I am to be tried for any offence, I don't want to be 
judged by a whole company cf cavalry. You know I 
always took pride in my reputation." 
" I used to think so ; but, when we missed you one 
day, we got rid of that opinion in the Third Ten- 
nessee.' 
" Then you wronged me ; for I have faithfully served 
my country from that day to this." 
kt I am glad to hear it, and I hope you will be able to 
prove what you have said. How came you here ? " 
" I came over from the other side of the river last 
 
night. You intimated that my departure from the Third 
was not all regular," added the captain. 
"In a word, it was understood that you had deserted/ 
" That was a mistake." 
" I am very glad to hear it ; but you will remember 
that your loyalty to the Southern Confederacy was not 
above suspicion when you joined the regiment." 
De Banyan punched Somers with his elbow at these 
words, as though he wished him to take particular notice 
of them ; but his admiring friend needed no such admo- 
nition to induce him to give strict attention to the state- 
ment, for it was the most satisfactory remark he had 
heard during the interview. Captain de Banyan rose 
twenty-five per cent in his estimation at the utterance 
of those words, however injurious they were in the 
opinion of him who had spoken them. There was hope 
for the captain ; and Somers trusted that he would be 
able fully to exonerate himself from the foul charge, 
when the occasion should permit such an exposition. 
" My loyalty ought to be considered above suspicion, 
and those who know me best do so regard it," added De 
Banyan as he administered another mild punch on the 
ribs of his fellow-sufferer. " I was taken by the Yan- 
kees, in short ; and, at the first convenient opportunity, I 
have come over to see you again." 
" I hope it is all right, Barney ; but I am afraid it is 
not." 
 
" I shall be able to clear myself of every imputation 
of disloyalty, before the proper tribunal." 
" How did you get over?" 
" I have been following the fortunes of the Yankee 
army till last night ; when I took a boat, and came over 
the river. On the way I met a pilot whose name was 
Andy, who turned me over to this man, who is also a 
pilot, and came down to take out a fire-ship." 
" The one that was burned in the creek last night?" 
" The same. I refer you to Captain Osborn for the 
truth of the last part of my statement ; though the time 
was when you did not ask me to bring youchers for what 
I said." 
"For nothing, except your stories oi' the Crimea and 
the Italian war," replied the captain of cavalry with a 
significant smile. " I must do you the justice to say, 
that I never knew you to tell a falsehood on any matter 
connected with your social or business relations." 
"Thank you for so much," replied De Banyan. 
" Now that I have made it all right, I suppose you 
needn't trouble yourself to attend to my affairs any 
further/' 
" No trouble at all, I assure you. Under the circum- 
stances, I shall feel it my duty to deliver you into the 
hands of my superiors, and they can do as they please 
with you. But I sincerely hope that you will be able 
to vindicate your character from the stain which rests 
upon it." 
 
" I don't think it needs any vindication." 
" There is some difference of opinion between us on 
that point. Where are you going now?" 
"To Richmond," replied De Banyan - promptly ; and 
perhaps he intended to go there with the Army of the 
Potomac, though its present prospect of reaching the 
rebel capital was not very favorable. 
"This is not the way to Richmond. Your stories 
don't agree very well." 
" I thought it was ; or rather to Petersburg, and from 
there we expected to get a ride up in the cars." 
" Oh, very well ! I can procure you a pass to Rich- 
mond," added the rebel. 
" And an escort to attend us, I suppose," replied De 
Banyan with a smile. 
" A small one ; but here is the house where Captain 
Osborn lodges. If he knows your friend here, and can 
vouch for his loyalty, all well ; if not, we shall not part 
two such loving friends." 
Captain Osborn had not risen when the company of 
cavalry reached his quarters : but he was called from his 
bed, and appeared in front of the house in the worst 
possible humor ; for, being human, he did not like to 
have his slumbers disturbed by unseasonable calls. As 
Somers feared, Captain Osborn denied all knowledge of 
the prisoners, except so far as related to his interview 
with them during the night. He had never seen either 
 
of them before ; and he even took the trouble to add that 
he didn't believe the young fellow was a pilot, which 
was gratuitous and uncalled for on his part. 
" Well, Marvel," added the cavalry officer rather 
coldly, " this business is settled very much as I sup- 
posed it would be. I shall have to send you up to 
Richmond, where, if your stories are all true, I doubt 
not you will be able to clear yourself." 
" Thank you, captain. You are the same affectionate 
fellow you used to be when you were a lieutenant in the 
Third Tennessee," replied De Banyan with a sneer ; for 
it was evident that he was not at all pleased with the 
result of the affair. 
Four soldiers were detailed from the company to con- 
duct the prisoners to a certain camp near the railroad at 
-City Point, and there deliver them over to the keeping 
of an officer whose name was mentioned. 
" Good-morning, captain," said De Banyan with 
forced gayety. 
" Good- morning, Marvel, and success to you." 
" Thank you." 
" By the way, Barney, if there is any thing I can do 
for you, don't fail to call upon me ; that is, any thing 
consistent with the duty of a faithful officer." 
" Such a remark was entirely uncalled for," said De 
Banyan with dignity. " Do you think I would ask an 
officer to sacrifice his conscience ? " 
" Excuse me, Barney. I meant no offence," added 
the rebel captain, touched by the proud and dignified 
manner of his former friend. 
" Your words and your conduct are in keeping with 
each other." 
" Really, Barney, I meant nothing by the remark." 
" Then it was the more unmanly to make it." 
" I am still your friend. In proof of it, permit me 1o 
do you a favor," pleaded the rebel, much concerned at 
the wound he had inflicted on the sensitive nature of his 
late associate in the Third Tennessee. 
" I ask no favors," answered De Banyan proudly. 
" You are too hard upon me. Upon my word, I 
meant no offence. As a proof of my friendship, I will 
take your parole of honor not to escape, and you shall 
report at Richmond at your own pleasure. If you have 
any interest in this young man, I will allow him the 
same favor." 
