“ You needn’t preach. Say just what you 
said to me, and no more, — I’m sorry.” 
“ Um — well, I don’t know but you’re right 
I ’ll think about it.” 
ONE gets used to anything, and after 
a while Gypsy became used to 
Tom’s being away. It took a few 
weeks, to be sure ; the first twilights 
were very dreary without him, the first bright 
mornings empty and cold ; the first few Sunday 
nights it was exceedingly easy to cry ; then all 
the fun seemed to have dropped out of boat-rides 
and nutting-parties; hay-cocks and wood-piles 
were a mockery ; there was a sting in the sight of 
the very cat, now that there was no one to tie tin 
dippers to her tail and make her walk through 
stove-pipes. But after a while it came to seem 
a matter of course that there should be no Tom 
about, — strange, sometimes, to think that it had 
ever been otherwise ; though his handsome, 
merry face was just as often in her thoughts, he 
himself just as dear. Then there were the 
letters. And such letters ! — eight, ten, twelve 
pages, twice a week, from Gypsy to Tom ; a 
full sheet hurried over in study hours, once a 
week, from Tom to Gypsy, which was more than 
she expected, and certainly, considering how 
many letters Tom had to write, was a great 
deal. This was for the first three weeks. The 
fourth week Sarah Rowe had a birthday party, 
and Gypsy was so busy festooning a new white 
dress with little knots of blue ribbon that she 
only wrote to Tom once, and a scrap of a note at 
that. The fifth week Tom did not write at all. 
Somehow or other it came about after this that 
Gypsy — “ well, she meant to send off her letters 
regularly, of course ; but something was always 
happening just at the time she wanted to write. 
and then she was always losing the mails, and 
one time she had her letter all written and 
ready, and Winnie dropped it into the well, and 
— well, you needn’t laugh; she would write 
three times next week and make up. But writing 
letters was horrid work, and there wasn’t 
half as much to say as there was at first; be- 
sides, she always blotted her fingers so.” 
Indeed, she had — like a few other sisters — 
been more negligent about it than she sup- 
posed. She had occasion afterwards to be very 
sorry. 
Tom said little about himself to any one, in 
his letters home. They all noticed that, as the 
term went on. His letters were very short, 
very funny, very much like Tom; they gave 
accounts of the hazing, his last quarrel with his 
landlady, the Tutor’s Latest, how the Sophs 
were beaten at the last rush,” how hard the 
seats were at the chapel, what a pretty girl he 
saw on Temple Street yesterday, how many 
weeks there were to the end of the term, and 
how glad he should be when it was over. But 
they heard little about his studies, scarcely 
anything of the friends he made. His chum was 
referred to often, but it was usually, “ Hall was 
out late last night, and woke me up coming in ; ” 
or, “ Hall is waiting for me to go out with 
him ; ” or, “ Hall is bothering me to translate 
his Homer for him, and I don’t know any more 
about it than he does ; ” sometimes, “ Hall is a 
jolly fellow, but he isn’t your style exactly, 
mother.” His mother’s face saddened some- 
times as she folded the letters, but she never 
said why. 
So the term passed on, and all thoughts of 
Tom merged at last into a happy looking to its 
end. He would be here in five weeks; he 
would be here in four ; the four slipped into 
three ; the three slided into two ; the two were 
one before they knew it. Ah, it was pleasant 
enough to have only days to count. 
“ I feel precisely like an India-rubber ball,” 
said Gypsy, confidentially, to Peace. 
“ An India-rubber ball ! ” 
“Yes; I want to be on the bounce all the 
time, and I can’t keep still to save me. I ’ve 
upset three tumblers of water, two ink-bottles, 
and a milk-pitcher, to-day, jumping round, 
besides throwing a snow-ball smash ! through 
Mrs. Surly’s kitchen window. Just think. Peace, 
of having your brother come home to be 
hugged and kissed, in just four days ! ” 
Peace thought, perhaps, more than Gypsy 
meant her to. She did not say, “ I haven’t 
anybody to kiss. Oh, Gypsy ! God has given 
you so much — so much, and me so little ! ” 
She did not say this. Peace never complained ; 
seldom talked about herself. Gypsy’s joy was 
her joy, and she answered with her bright, still 
smile, and eyes that were glad for Gypsy’s 
sake. But something in the quiet eyes, a 
faint, flitting shadow, — Peace could not help 
it, — made Gypsy stop with some merry words 
unspoken on her lips, and throw her arms 
around her neck, and say : — 
“ Oh, Peace, I never thought ! Mayn’t I 
love you enough to make up ? ” 
And a while after, knotting her merry brows 
as if over a great new puzzle that she should be 
much obliged to anybody for answering : — 
“ I should like to know, Peace Maythorne, 
what makes all the good people have the 
troubles, and horrid, ugly, wicked people like 
me, that scold, and get mad, and forget their 
prayers, and all, live along just like one of those 
funny little round sunbeams coming in there 
through the hole in the curtain ! ” 
“ Sometimes I can’t see anything but a piece 
of gray cloud through the curtain,” said Peace, 
half to herself. 
“ Sunbeams don’t last forever — no,” said 
Gypsy, musing a little. “ I wonder how they 
feel rainy days ! ” 
At this she jumped up with a shiver and ran 
home. 
They were busy days, — these last before 
Tom came. “ We must have some lemon 
pies; Tom likes them,” said his mother. “ I ’m 
going to make him a new neck-tie,” said Gypsy, 
“ and put it in his bureau drawer, and let him 
find it.” “Tom’s cornin’ home, and I’m goin’ 
to hang his room up with lots of pictures,” 
said Winnie ; and one day, when nobody was 
there, in he went with mucilage and scissors, 
and pasted a bewilderment of mad dogs, passenger c
ars, steamboats, hair-oil advertisements 
and other interesting selections from the newspapers, 
all over the pretty pink rosebuds that 
covered the walls. 
But the last day came, as all last days come, 
and the early December twilight fell in upon as 
pretty and cosey and eager a group as any col- 
lege boy need desire to find waiting for him on 
his first coming home. The fire — a wood-fire, 
for it had such a cheerful look, Mr. Breynton 
said — was flaring and snapping and crackling 
in the parlour grate ; the bright curtains were 
drawn aside so that Tom could see the light 
shining far down the road ; the door open into 
the dining-room where the tea-table was set and 
the silver was flashing ; a tempting odour of 
unknown deliciousness — drop-cakes, perhaps, 
or creamy Jenny Lind — stealing in from the 
kitchen. They were all gathered in the parlour 
now, listening for the coach ; the mother sitting 
quietly by the fire ; the father pacing the room 
a little nervously ; Gypsy perched on one window-sill 
and Winnie on the other, with their 
noses flattened on the glass ; and Patty’s head 
pushed in every now and then through the 
dining-room door to keep a sort of angelic 
