deal of our time out of the house, though my grandmother 
and I did not often go far. The forest was just as good for 
reading or knitting or studying lessons, as the house was ; 
and being as good, it was much better. At last we found 
out that it was the best place for dinner ; and through the 
beautiful days of September and October we came to have 
rarely any worse dining-room than the forest a thousand 
years old. 
The pleasantness of those dinners it is impossible to tell to 
anybody who has never known the like. How sweet the air 
was ; how soft the light ; how pretty our carpet of moss or 
pine leaves; how refreshing our music! For the breeze 
would rustle dreamily in the high tops of the pines, or flutter 
the oak leaves ; the red squirrels would chatter from the 
boughs of a chestnut ; the woodpecker could be heard in the 
distance, and the chick-a-dee near by ; and sometimes the 
whirr of a partridge's wing. For the place was so wild that 
the creatures were almost tame ; and the white ears of a 
particular rabbit were often seen bounding along behind the 
rocks near us. 
The third time, I think it was, that we took dinner in the 
woods, we removed a little further off to a particular rock 
and glade that my uncle and the boys had visited. The 
I)ath was easy enough for my grandmother to walk. Uncle 
Sam carried me in his arms ; for he was strong, and I was 
lame, and lighter, he said, than he wished I was. Besides, 
the distance was not great. Dan carried the tea-kettle, and 
liph trundled a wheelbarrow which contained our stores. 
The place was lovely when we got to it. A long ridge of 
rock made an opening for itself through the trees, like a 
rib of the earth's skeleton. There the warm (September sun- 
shine lay all along, on a surface gray with the close lichen 
and crisp gray moss. The sunshine Hy there all along; 
but a shadow fell here and there from a pine-tree or a group 
of young oaks, and gray rocks and stones were scattered 
about in the edges of the wood. 
Dan and liph put three or four stones together to serve 
for a fireplace, and Priscilla kindled a fire under the kettle. 
Uncle Sam, having deposited me on the rock in a nice shady 
place, took upon him the business of getting fuel; while the 
boys prepared ears of com to roast. My grandmother 
always had her knitting ; but I wanted nothing but to look 
and listen and take in the sweetness of all around me. How 
golden the sun was in the tree tops ! How dainty the gray 
moss on the rock ? How rich-coloured the green moss that 
grew here and there on the tree branches! Then such a 
gentle September sky overhead; such pure air; and below 
— Priscilla's fire crackling and snapping, and my uncle 
breaking up sticks, and Dan and Liph as busy as bees. Oh, 
we were very happy ! They were, and I know I was, though 
I could do nothing. By the time the tea-kettle had boiled, 
they were all ready to come and sit down and be quiet. We 
gathered round on the rock and opened our baskets, and 
Priscilla filled the cups with tea. 
" Uncle Sam," said Liph, " do you suppose they had roasted 
corn in the garden of Eden?" 
" I should think the fire could have been dispensed with, 
Liph." 
" Why, sir, the fire is not unpleasant here— and it is a warm 
day." 
" Coats and trousers are not unpleasant, either."
" Uncle Sam," said Priscilla, " I shouldn't think such very 
hot weather would have been comfortable. When the 
weather is so hot as that, it makes my head ache." 
" There were no headaches in the garden of Eden," said my 
uncle. 
" Uncle Sam," said I, " were you ever in Eden " 
 
"Tiny, I have been all over those countries, so I suppose I 
have. But nobody knows just where it was." 
" It was between the Euphrates and the Tigris, wasn't it, 
sir?" saidLiph. 
" I have just said, I don't know." 
"But the Euphrates is mentioned, sir?" 
"Yes. And I suppose the Tigris is mentioned; but it 
does not say that Eden was between them. It is no matter 
where it was, now." 
"Uncle Sam," said I, "do you think Eden — I mean, the 
garden — was much pleasanter than this place is ?" 
" This place ! " said my uncle. " Ah, little Tiny ! " 
I could not imagine anything much pleasanter, as I looked 
at the green moss beds and the soft shadows of the trees 
across our rock, and the bright sunlight up overhead in the 
branches. I said so. My uncle hugged me up in his arms 
and kissed me. 
" No, you cannot imagine it," he said. " We cannot imagine 
the glorious things God does for those that love Him and 
that He loves. Why, Tiny, I suppose every bit of the earth 
was as lovely as this ; but that was a garden which the Lord 
planted for His two children before they did anything wrong; 
there has been nothing like it in the world ever since. There 
was every tree that is pleasant to the sight or good for food; 
and such beds of flowers, I suppose, Tiny, as you and I never 
saw the like, nor dreamed of." 
"Uncle Sam," said my brother Liph, "do you think they 
lived upon fruit entirely ?" 
" Fruit and vegetables." 
" Well I couldn't," said Liph. " And you couldn't, either, 
uncle Sam. Not and take such walks through the forest as 
we do. And our woodcutters, uncle ; they couldn't live on 
apples and nuts?" 
"Man did not live by the sweat of his brow then, Liph ; 
and in the second place, we are in a cold climate. That 
makes a great deal of difference. In Norway men eat more 
meat than we do ; and under the tropics you would care for 
reiyhttle, and that of a very delicate kind." 
" I should like that," I remarked. 
" Yes, there was no killing of white-eared rabbits in the 
garden of Eden, and nobody set snares for the wild partridges, or shot the quail."
" The boys would not' have liked the garden of Eden," said 
Priscilla. 
" It was not made for them," said my uncle. 
" I should think one might have got tired of living on 
fruit, though," said Liph. 
" You don't know what you are talking about," said my 
uncle. " The fruits of the earth, even now, are not all goose- 
berries and apples. I have breakfasted in the West Indies, 
Liph, with as many as ten kinds of fruit on the table, nearly 
all of which you never saw." 
" On what, uncle Sam ?"
"I cannot tell you. There was one, the guana hana, as 
large as Tiny's head almost, that had a thick rind and the 
inside like a custard ; we ate it with spoons. Another was 
dipped in gravy and eaten with salt and pepper. There were 
oranges and pine-apples, and roasted plantains, and nisperos, 
and others. The world is rich yet. But the word Eden 
means pleasure ; and no doubt the garden of Eden was the 
crown of all the world, or, as the Hindoo legend calls it, the 
seed-cup of the lotus of the earth." 
" So the Hindoos know about the garden of Eden, uncle 
Sam?" 
" They have kept some tradition of it— that is all, Tiny. 
They say that it is a city on a golden mountain, washed by 
the Ganges ; and that the Ganges, flowing from the foot of 
their god Vishnu, comes to the moon, and from there falls 
through the skies to this city, and then goes off in four streams 
to the four corners of the earth." 
" Why there are the four rivers again !" said I. 
" And they say the tree of life is there, and a river of the 
water of life, making immortal those who drink. And that 
is all they know about Paradise." 
" And what more do we know, uncle ? " 
"Come, Tiny, I did not expect that of you. Letua see 
 
what we do know, more than the heathen. In the first place, 
God made man in His own image." 
" Oh yes, uncle ; but I was speaking of Paradise."
" Well, that is Paradise," said my uncle. " Boys, what does 
it mean ? " 
" It means, that man was made with a spirit, does it not, 
sir ? a spirit that thinks ; a mind." 
" Is that all, Dan ? The fallen angels have such a mind, a 
thinking nature ; are they in the image of God ? " 
" No, sir, — certainly ; not now." 
" Then it means something more." 
" Goodness ! " cried Priscilla. 
"The Bible says, speaking of the first man, Adam, and of 
the second man, which is the Lord from heaven, that as 
we have borne the image of the earthy, we shall also bear the 
image of the heavenly.' And it says in another place, that 
