liked to drink themselves, for this was the only fault we 
 
 
could detect in our chief officer, and it was a pretty 
serious one, as it turned out. I told you didn't I, that 
we were bound for Havana?" 
"Yes," said Charlie. 
"Well, it sometimes happens that there are violent 
storms in those latitudes, and the coast is dangerous to 
approach. Time passed, and although Captain Harvey 
would have his blow-out now and then, yet there had 
been no particular damage so far, perhaps because we 
had had pretty quiet weather. Now, however, we had 
got into the region of gales, and we all hoped the cap- 
tain would keep sober. 
" But that wasn't to be. 
'' One morning, I remember, we had a powerfhl gale. 
The ship was behaving pretty well under it. She was a 
staunch craft when we started, and bade fair to see a 
great many years' service. So, on the whole, we didn't 
feel uneasy till the captain came on deck. 
"We saw at once that he was drunk, a good deal 
drunk, and not fit to take care of the ship. He stag- 
gered up to the mate, and asked him how fast the ship 
was going. 
" The mate reported, ten tnots an hour. 
" Ten knots an hour!' repeated the captain, contemptuously. ' Is that all? We must go faster.' 
" ' But, Captain Harvey,' said the mate, ' there is a 
violent gale. Do you think it prudent to increase our 
speed?' 
"' Prudent!' thundered the captain, 'do you think 
I would give the order if I didn't think so? Not a 
word more, sir, but call all hands, and make sail.' 
" Nothing was to be done but to obey. 
 
" Accordingly the reefs were let out of the topsails,, 
the topgallant sails set, and even the fore top-mast 
studding sail. Now, my lad, although you ai-e not 
much of a sailor, you can understand that it was per- 
fect madness to carry so much sail in such a tempest. 
I knew at once what would happen, and prepared for 
the worst. There was a hen-coop lying on deck, and I 
resolved, that if the worst should come to the worst, I 
would spring for that. 
" The worst did come to the worst. The ship pitched 
about like a mad thing, and creaked and groaned as if 
she were a human being in the greatest distress, and I 
can tell you the sailors looked black enough. We felt 
that our lives were being risked, and all for the intem- 
perance of one man. That scene cured me of drinking 
grog. I haven't drank a drop since." 
" Did anything happen to the ship ? " 
" Yes, my lad, something did happen to the ship. A 
heavy sea struck her amidships, and pitched her over 
upon her side. After we recovered, we found that she 
was strained severely and leaking badly. Well, the end 
of it was, that we had to abandon her. The rest of the 
crfew got on board the boats, but there wasn't fairly 
room, and they were so overloaded that I thought it 
would be safer trusting to the old hen-coop. They tried 
to get me on board the boats, but I had a kind of sus- 
picion that the boats wouldn't live. So I stuffed all my 
pockets with biscuit, filled a tin measure with water, 
and trusted myself to the hen-coop." 
"Did the boats live? " inquired Charlie, with interest. 
" Not a single one. They were never heard from 
again. No doubt they all went down in the storm. 
 
 
" Well, my lad, it wasn't the pleasantest thing pitch- 
ing about on a hen-ooop on the wild sea, fifty miles, at 
least, from land. But my hope was, that I should be 
seen by some vessel bound for HaTana. In that case I 
knew I would be safe. I had proyisioa enough to last 
me three days, and I could make my water last as long 
by being sparing of it. I had to hold on to the hen- 
coop pretty tight, or I should have been washed off by 
some of the heavy seas. Of course, I got completely 
drenched by the salt water, and what was worse, the 
biscuit got drenched too, which didn't improve its taste, 
I can tell you." 
"So I tossed about for twenty-four hours. By this 
time the gale had gone down, and the sea was more 
quiet. It was at this time that, casting my eyes about 
to see if I could anywhere catch sight of a sail, I de- 
d cried one apparently making towards mo." 
" Wer'n't you delighted ? " 
" I was at first," said Bill, "but as she came nearer 
I tried not to attract her notice." 
" Why? " asked Charlie, in great surprise. 
" Because, my lad, I recognized in her the Red Eover  
one of the mo  noted pirates that cruised in those seas.'' 
 
XXI. 
 
" How did you know she was a pirate?" inquired 
Charlie. 
. "I suspected her in the first place, from her rakish 
look. All pirate ships, you know, are made for speed. 
Besides, this particular ship had been described to me 
by a messmate who had once been on board a ship that 
was chased by her, though, luckily, before the pirate 
had a chance to overhaul her, two other vessels came in 
sight, and frightened her away. 
" As soon as I made out the approaching vessel to be 
the Red Rover, I repented bitterly the signs by which I 
had drawn her attention. I ceased making signals, but 
it was too late. She had already seen me, and a boat 
was filling with men to take me on board. Finding I 
could not well help myself, I concluded to make the 
best of it, and not show any objection to going with the 
boat's crew. So when they came near, and hailed me, 
asking me who I was, I answered as heartily as I could, 
'Bill Sturdy, of the good ship Peregrine, bound for 
Havana.' 
'' ' And what's become of your ship? ' 
'' ' Gone to the bottom,' I answered. 
 
 
" ' How long since ? ' 
" ' About twenty-four hours.' 
" ' How did it happen? ' 
. "In reply, I told all the circumstances, without 
reserve, for concealment would have done no good. 
" There was a little  consultation on board the boat, 
and then the officer in command brought it up alongside 
my hen-coop, and ordered me aboard. 
" This I did with as much alacrity as possible, and I 
tell you, my lad, it did seem good once more to be in a 
boat, even though it belonged to a pirate, after pitching 
about on a hen-coop for twenty-four hours. 
" Now that I had a chance, I looked at the men thaj 
manned the boat. They were villanous-lpoking cut- 
throats, — mostly Spaniards, with dark, lowering faces 
and forbidding expressions. I couldn't help turning it 
over in my mind, what they would be likely to do with 
me. 
" It didn't take long to reach the pirate vessel. Those 
On board pressed forward, as I came up and got on deck. 
They were all pretty much alike. The captain was a 
large, stout, muscular man, though I believe," added 
Bill, with some complacency, " that I could have got 
the better of him in a regular rough-and-tumble fight. 
However, this isn't neither here nor there. He came up 
to me, and made me answer over again the same ques- 
tions which had been asked me before. I answered 
them in the same way. After he had got through with 
his questions, he fixed his sharp, black eyes on me, and 
inquired, ' Do you know the name of the ship that has 
picked you up?' 
 
 
" ' I do said I, coolly, though I didn't feel as cool as 
I.appeared. 
"'Ha!' he exclaimed, in surprise. 'What is it?' 
" ' It is the Red Rover said I, making believe to be 
unconcerned. . 
"'And are you acquainted with its character?' said 
the captain, with another of his sharp looks. 
" ' I believe so,' said I. 
