"Mr. Somers, I am happy to meet and to know you. Your name and
reputation are already familiar to me."
"I am glad to know you, sir," replied Somers, with some confusion. "Your
face looks so familiar to me, that I think we must have met before."
"Never, to my knowledge," answered the lieutenant, with easy
self-possession.
"I was quite sure I had seen you before."
"Possibly; I do not remember it, however."
"If I had met you without the favor of an introduction, I should
certainly have claimed the honor of your acquaintance."
"I should have been proud to be so claimed, but I must confess you would
have had the advantage of me."
"Of course, I must be mistaken, as you suggest."
"It is not unlikely that we have met in some ante-room where we were
dancing attendance on the powers that be, in search of employment; but I
am quite sure, Mr. Somers, that I should have been proud and happy to
number you among my friends."
"It is not too late now," said the commodore.
"Certainly not. I should be but too happy to have as my friend one who
has served his country so faithfully," added Mr. Pillgrim, as he bowed
gracefully to Somers, "especially as I understand we are appointed to
the same ship."
"Indeed!"
"I am ordered to the Chatauqua."
"So am I."
"Then, Mr. Pillgrim, you will take care of our Prodigy; you will be
excellent friends, I trust," said Kate, beginning very impulsively in
her old way, and suddenly checking herself when her resolution to be
"proper" interposed itself.
"What is the matter, Kate? Have you and Mr. Somers had a falling out?"
demanded the commodore.
"O, no, father."
"You talk as though you had had a quarrel, and for a moment had
forgotten to be savage."
"We have had no quarrel, pa," replied Kate, blushing. "I was going to be
saucy, but ma says I must not be saucy, and I shall not be saucy any
more. I only hoped the two gentlemen who are going to live together in
the same ship would be good friends."
"Of course they will. Officers never quarrel."
"Perhaps they don't; but they are not always as good friends as I hope
these gentlemen will be," laughed Kate.
"Perhaps he will be my friend for your sake, if he is not for mine,"
added Pillgrim.
"I do not wish that. I don't like to have anybody do anything for my
sake, unless it be to take paregoric when I am sick."
"I trust I shall not be paregoric to him," said Pillgrim.
"Then he will not take you for my sake."
"As Lieutenant Pillgrim is my superior officer, I should be likely to
court his good will, and prize his friendship very highly. If we are not
friends, I am sure it will not be my fault."
At this moment the dinner bell rang; and although Somers did not feel
intimate enough with the family to invite himself to dine, he was easily
prevailed upon to remain, and gallantly gave his arm to Mrs. Portington,
as Kate, for some wayward reason of her own, had already seized upon
that of Lieutenant Pillgrim.
At the table Somers sat opposite the lieutenant, and he found it
impossible to avoid looking upon him with a strange and undefinable
interest. Since his first glance at the commodore's visitor, who seemed
to be on the best of terms with the family, he had been perplexed by
some strange misgivings. He could not banish from his mind an assurance
that he had seen him before; that he had talked with him, and even been,
to some extent, intimate with him.
The thought that Kate was somewhat changed in her demeanor towards him
did not contribute to increase his satisfaction. She had contrived to
take the lieutenant's arm instead of his own, and perhaps he had come as
the successor of Phil Kennedy, who had been reputed to be high in her
good graces. But Mr. Pillgrim was a gentleman of thirty-five, at least,
and this was not probable, in his view of the matter. Somers, being
disinterested, was more worried to know when, where, and under what
circumstances he had met the lieutenant.
CHAPTER II.
WAITING FOR THE SHIP.
Somers was utterly unable to satisfy himself in regard to Lieutenant
Pillgrim. The face was certainly familiar to him, not as a combination
of remembered features, but rather as an expression. To him the eye
seemed to be the whole of the man, and its gaze would haunt him, though
his memory refused to identify it with any time, place, or
circumstances. Though his reason compelled him to believe that he was
mistaken, and that Mr. Pillgrim was actually a stranger, his
consciousness of having seen, and even of having been intimate with, the
gentleman, most obstinately refused to be shaken.
"Of course, gentlemen, you have no idea to what point the Chatauqua has
been ordered?" said the commodore.
"I have not," replied Mr. Pillgrim.
"I have heard it said that she was going to the Gulf," added Somers.
"Very likely; there are two points where extensive naval operations are
likely to be undertaken--at Mobile and at Wilmington. The rebellion has
had so many hard knocks that the bottom must drop out before many
months."
"I am afraid the end is farther off than most people at the North are
willing to believe," said Mr. Pillgrim.
"Every thing looks hopeful. If we can contrive to batter down Fort
Fisher, and open Mobile Bay, the rebels may count the months of their
Confederacy on their fingers."
"I think there is greater power of resistance left in the South, than we
give it the credit for."
"The rebels have fought well; what of it?" continued the commodore, who
did not seem to be pleased with the style of the lieutenant's remarks.
"As fighting men, we can hardly fail to respect those who have fought so
bravely as the people of the South."
"People of the South!" sneered the commodore. "Why don't you call them
rebels?"
"Of course that is what I mean," answered Mr. Pillgrim, a slight flush
visible on his cheek.
"If you mean it, why don't you say it? Call things by their right names.
The people of the South are not all rebels. Why, confound it, Farragut
is a Southerner; so is General Anderson; so are a hundred men, who have
distinguished themselves in putting down treason. It's an insult to
these men to talk about the people of the South as rebels."
"I agree with you, Commodore Portington, and what I said was only a form
of expression."
"It's a very bad form of expression. Why, man, you are a Southerner
yourself."
"I am; and I suppose that is what makes me so proud of the good fighting
the people of the South--I mean the rebels--have done. We can't help
respecting men who have behaved with so much gallantry."
"Can't we?" exclaimed the commodore, with a sneer so wholesome and
honest, that Lieutenant Pillgrim withered under it. "I can help it. I
have no respect for rebels and traitors under any circumstances."
"Nor I, as rebels and traitors," replied Pillgrim, mildly.
"As rebels and traitors! I don't like these fine-spun distinctions. If a
man is a traitor, call him so, and swing him up on the fore-yard arm,
where he belongs."
"You are willing to acknowledge that the rebels have fought well in this
war?" added the lieutenant.
"They have fought well: I don't deny it."
"And you appreciate gallant conduct?"
"That depends on the cause. No, sir! I don't appreciate gallant conduct
on the part of rebels and traitors. It is not gallant conduct; and the
better they fight, the more wicked they are."
"I can hardly take your view of the case."
"Can't you? The best fighting I ever saw in my life was on the deck of
a pirate ship. The black-hearted villains fought like demons. Not a man
of them would yield the breadth of a hair. We had to cut them down like
dogs. Is piracy respectable because these men fought well?"
"Certainly not; but the bravery of such men--"
"Nonsense! I know what you are going to say; but you can't separate the
pirate from his piracy, nor the traitor from his treason," replied the
commodore, warmly. "The other day I saw a little dirty urchin fighting
with his mother. The young cub had run away, I suppose, and the woman
was dragging him back to the house. He was not more than six years old,
but he displayed a power of resistance which rather astonished me. He
kicked, bit, scratched, and yelled like a young tiger. He called his
mother everything but a lady. The poor woman tugged at him with all her
strength, but the little rascal was almost a match for her. I wanted to
take him by the nape of the neck, and shake the ugly out of him: nothing
but my fixed principles of neutrality prevented me from doing so. I
suppose, Mr. Pillgrim, you would have sympathized with the brat, because
he fought bravely."
"Hardly," replied the lieutenant, laughing at the simile.
"But he fought like a tiger, and displayed no mean strategy in his
rebellious warfare. Of course he was worthy of your admiration," sneered
the commodore.
"That's hardly a fair comparison."
"The fairest in the world. The rebels have insulted their own
mother--the parent that fostered, protected, and loved them. They
undertook to run away from her; and when she attempts to bring them back
to their duty, they kick, and scratch, and bite; and you admire them
because they fight well."
"I stand convicted, Commodore Portington. I never took this view of the
