and sheets!"
"All ready, sir," reported the second midshipman, who was in the
foretop, superintending the operation.
"Lower on the halyards! Ease off the tacks, and haul on the sheet!"
The two top-gallant studding-sails were thus brought into the top, where
they were made up. The fore-topmast and the lower studding sails were
taken in by a similar routine, and the Young America then moved along
less furiously through the water.
"Now about the chain," said Wilton, when the lookouts had returned
to their stations.
"Let me see; where did I leave off?" replied Shuffles.
"You said there was to be a row; which I don't believe."
"I may be mistaken about that; if I am, the job will be all the more
difficult. Lowington has got us out to sea now, and, in my opinion, he
means to shake us up. He is a tyrant at heart, and he will carry it
with a high hand. I hate the man!" added Shuffles, with savage
earnestness.
"You may, but the fellows don't generally."
"They will as soon as he begins to put the twisters on them. You won't
hear him say, 'If you please, young gentlemen,' now that we are in blue
water. You know how savage he was with me."
"Well, but you were disobedient. You told him, up and down, you wouldn't
do what he ordered you to do."
"No matter for that. You had a chance to see the spirit of the man. He
was a perfect demon. He put me in irons!" exclaimed Shuffles, still
groaning under this indignity. "I have been insulted and outraged, and I
will teach him that Bob Shuffles is not to be treated in that manner! I
will be revenged upon him, if it costs me my life."
"The fellows won't go into any such desperate game as that," replied
Wilton, cautiously.
"But there will be fun in the thing," added the malcontent, softening
his tone. "We shall have the ship all to ourselves. We needn't trouble
ourselves anything about Latin and Greek, and trigonometry and algebra.
We shall go in for a good time generally."
"It is all moonshine; it can't be done. What's the use of talking about
such a thing?" said Wilton.
"It can be done, and it shall be," replied Shuffles, stamping his foot
on the deck.
"How?"
"I am not quite ready to tell you yet."
"Very well; I don't want to know anything more about it," answered the
timid conspirator, who was almost disgusted at the foolhardiness of the
plan.
"I can get along without you," added Shuffles, with assumed
indifference.
"I would rather have you do so."
"All right; but you will want to come in when we have got along a little
farther."
"Perhaps I shall; if I do, I suppose the door will be open to me."
"It may be open; but perhaps you can't walk into the cabin then."
"Why not?"
"Do you suppose the fellows who do the burden of the work are going to
be shut out of the cabin? If you join at the eleventh hour, you will
have to be what you are now--a foremast hand."
"What can I be if I join now?"
"Second or third officer."
"Who will be first."
"I can't mention his name yet. He belongs in the cabin now."
"You don't mean so!" said Wilton, astonished to learn that his bold
companion expected to find friends among the present officers of the
ship.
"I know what I'm about," replied Shuffles, confidently.
With this information Wilton thought more favorably of the mad
enterprise. If it was to be a winning game, he wished to have a part in
it; if a losing one, he desired to avoid it. There was something in the
decided manner of the chief conspirator which made an impression upon
this doubting mind.
"I don't want to go in till I know more about it," said he, after
walking two or three times across the top-gallant forecastle.
"You can't know anything more about it until you have been toggled,"
replied Shuffles.
"Toggled?" repeated the sceptic, curiously.
"This thing is to be well managed, Wilton. We shall not use any hard
words, that outsiders can understand; and if any of them happen to hear
anything that don't concern them, they will not know what it means. Will
you join, or not?"
"I will," replied Wilton, desperately.
The strange words which Shuffles used, and the confidence he manifested
in the success of his project, carried the hesitating lookout man. He
was fascinated by the "clap-trap" which the leader of "our fellows" had
adopted to help along his scheme, for it promised to afford no little
excitement during the voyage.
"Now you talk like a man, Wilton," replied Shuffles. "You shall be a
member of the league at once."
"What's the league?"
"The Chain League."
"Upon my word, Shuffles, you have been reading yellow-covered novels to
some purpose."
"I didn't get this idea from a novel. I invented it myself."
"The Chain League!" repeated Wilton, who was pleased with the title of
the conspirators.
"It will be called simply 'The Chain.' I am the first member, and you
are the second; or you will be when you have been toggled."
"Toggled again!" laughed Wilton. "What do you mean?"
"Initiated."
"Go ahead, then."
"Repeat after me."
"Go on," replied Wilton, deeply interested in the proceeding, even while
he was amused at its formality.
"I am a link of the chain."
"I am a link of the chain," repeated Wilton.
"I will obey my superior officers."
"I will obey my superior officers."
"And I will reveal none of its secrets."
"And I will reveal none of its secrets."
"This I promise----"
"This I promise----"
"On penalty of falling overboard accidentally."
"On penalty of what?" demanded Wilton, both puzzled and terrified by the
mysterious words.
"Repeat the words after me. On penalty," said Shuffles, sternly.
"I know what the words are, but I'll be hanged if I will repeat them.
'Falling overboard accidentally!' What does that mean?"
"It means that, if you betray the secrets of The Chain, you might fall
overboard accidentally, some day."
"That is, you would push me over when no one was looking," added Wilton,
involuntarily retreating from the conspirator, whom, for the moment, he
regarded as a very dangerous companion.
"That's what the words mean," replied Shuffles, coolly.
"Have I been toggled?" demanded Wilton.
"No; you didn't repeat all the words."
"Then you needn't toggle me any more. I've got enough of this thing."
"All right; just as you say. But I can tell you this, my dear fellow? if
you should whisper the first word of what has passed between us
to-night, you might fall overboard," continued Shuffles, sharply, as he
laid his hand on his companion's shoulder.
Wilton grasped the sheet of the fore-topmast staysail which was the
nearest rope to him, and held on as though he was then in imminent
danger of "falling overboard accidentally."
"I won't say a word," protested he, vehemently; for he did not know but
that Shuffles was wicked enough to push him into the sea.
"Wilton, you are a fool!" added the disappointed conspirator, with deep
disgust. "Why didn't you say what I told you?"
"I don't want to be bound in any such way as that," replied the
terrified student.
"Don't you see it is only a form?"
"No, I don't; or if it is, I don't want anything to do with such forms.
You won't get any fellows to be toggled in that way."
"Yes, I shall? I shall get plenty of them. They are not babies, like
you."
"I'm not a baby."
"Yes, you are--a great calf! What are you afraid of?"
"I'm not afraid; I didn't think you meant to have any murder in your
Chain."
"I don't; no fellow will think of such a thing as betraying one of the
secrets."
"Then what's the use of having such a penalty?"
"It will prevent any fellow from opening his mouth when he ought to keep
it shut."
"I don't want anything to do with a concern that means murder. I'm not
any better than I should be, but I'm too good for that."
"Suit yourself; but remember, if you should happen to say a word, you
will fall overboard accidentally, some night when you are on the
lookout, or out on the yard-arm."
"Two bells," said Wilton, greatly relieved to hear them, for he did not
like to stand any longer on the top-gallant forecastle, where there was
no railing, with such a dangerous fellow as Shuffles proved to be.
Two other members of the watch were sent forward to take their places.
Wilton and Shuffles went down and mingled with their shipmates, who were
talking about what they should do and what they should see in Ireland,
