It was very dark now, and very cold; the crisp frost glistened on the
grass, and an ugly-looking red moon peered over the mountain. It seemed
to Gypsy like a great, glaring eye, that was singling her out and
following her, and asking, "Where are Joy and Winnie?" over and over.
"Gypsy Breynton, Gypsy Breynton, where are Joy and Winnie?" She turned
around with her back to it, so as not to see it.
Once they passed an old woman on the road hobbling along with a stick.
Mr. Breynton reined up and asked if she had seen anything of two
children.
"Haow?" said the old woman.
"Have you seen anything of two children along here?"
"Chilblains? No, I don't have none this time o' year, an' I don't know
what business it is o' yourn, nuther."
"Children!" shouted Mr. Breynton; "two children, a boy and a girl."
"Speak a little louder, can't you? I'm deaf," said the old woman.
"Have you—seen anything—of—two—children—a little boy, and a
girl in black?"
"Chickens? black chickens?" said the old woman, with an angry shake of
the head; "no, I hain't got no chickens for yer. My pullet's white, and
I set a heap on't an' wouldn't sell it to nobody as come askin' oncivil
questions of a lone, lorn widdy. Besides, the cat eat it up las' week,
feathers 'n' all."
Mr. Breynton concluded there was not much information to be had in that
quarter, and drove on.
A little way farther they came across a small boy turning somersets in
the ditch. Mr. Breynton stopped again and repeated his questions.
"How many of 'em?" asked the boy, with a thoughtful look.
"Two, a boy and a girl."
"Two?"
"Yes."
"A boy and a girl?"
"Yes."
"You said one was a boy and t'other was a girl?" repeated the small boy,
looking very bright.
"Yes. The boy was quite small, and the girl wore a black dress. They're
lost, and we're trying to find them."
"Be you, now, really!" said the small boy, apparently struck with sudden
and overwhelming admiration. "That is terribly good in you. Seems to me
now I reckon I see two young uns 'long here somewhars, didn't I? Le' me
see."
"Oh, where, where?" cried Gypsy. "Oh, I'm so glad! Did the little boy
have on a plaid jacket and brown coat?"
"Waal, now, seems as ef 'twas somethin' like that."
"And the girl wore a hat and a long veil?" pursued Gypsy, eagerly.
"Was she about the height of this girl here, and whereabouts did you see
her?" asked Tom.
"Waal, couldn't tell exactly; somewhars between here an' the village, I
reckon. Seems to me she did have a veil or suthin'."
"And she was real pale?" cried Gypsy, "and the boy was dreadfully
muddy?"
"Couldn't say as to that"—the small boy began to hesitate and look
very wise—"don't seem to remember the mud, and on the whole, I ain't
partiklar sure 'bout the veil. Oh, come to think on't, it wasn't a gal;
it was a deaf old woman, an' there warn't no boy noways."
Well was it for the small boy that, as the carriage rattled on, he took
good care to be out of the reach of Tom's whip-lash.
It grew darker and colder, and the red moon rode on silently in the sky.
They had come now to the opening of the cross-road, but there were no
signs of the children—only the still road and the shadows under the
trees.
"Hark! what's that?" said Mr. Breynton, suddenly. He stopped the
carriage, and they all listened. A faint, sobbing sound broke the
silence. Gypsy leaned over the side of the carriage, peering in among
the trees where the shadow was blackest.
"Father, may I get out a minute?"
She sprang over the wheel, ran into the cross-road, into a clump of
bushes, pushed them aside, screamed for joy.
"Here they are, here they are—quick, quick! Oh, Winnie Breynton, do
just wake up and let me look at you! Oh, Joy, I am so glad!"
And there on the ground, true enough, sat Joy, exhausted and frightened
and sobbing, with Winnie sound asleep in her lap.
"I didn't know the way, and Winnie kept telling me wrong, and, oh, I was
so tired, and I sat down to rest, and it is so dark, and—and oh, I
thought nobody'd ever come!"
And poor Joy sprang into her uncle's arms, and cried as hard as she
could cry.
Joy was thoroughly tired and chilled; it seemed that she had had to
carry Winnie in her arms a large part of the way, and the child was by
no means a light weight. Evidently, Master Winnie had taken matters
pretty comfortably throughout, having had, Joy said, the utmost
confidence in his own piloting, declaring "it was just the next house,
right around the corner, Joy; how stupid in her not to know! he knew all
the whole of it just as well as anything," and was none the worse for
the adventure. Gypsy tried to wake him up, but he doubled up both fists
in his dream, and greeted her with the characteristic reply, "Naughty!"
and that was all that was to be had from him. So he was rolled up warmly
on the carriage floor; they drove home as fast as Billy would go, and
the two children, after a hot supper and a great many kisses, were put
snugly to bed.
After Joy was asleep, Mrs. Breynton said she would like to see Gypsy a
few moments downstairs.
"Yes'm," said Gypsy, and came slowly down. They sat down in the
dining-room alone. Mrs. Breynton drew up her rocking-chair by the fire,
and Gypsy took the cricket.
There was a silence. Gypsy had an uncomfortable feeling that her mother
was waiting for her to speak first. She kicked off her slipper, and put
it on; she rattled the tongs, and pounded the hearth with the poker; she
smoothed her hair out of her eyes, and folded up her handkerchief six
times; she looked up sideways at her mother; then she began to cough. At
last she broke out—
"I suppose you want me to say I'm sorry. Well, I am. But I don't see why
I'm to blame, I'm sure."
"I haven't said you were to blame," said her mother, quietly. "You know
I have had no time yet to hear what happened this afternoon, and I
thought you would like to tell me."
"Well," said Gypsy, "I'd just as lief;" and Gypsy looked a little, a
very little, as if she hadn't just as lief at all. "You see, 'in the
first place and commencing,' as Winnie says, Joy wanted to take him.
Now, she doesn't know anything about that child, not a thing, and if
she'd taken him to places as much as I have, and had to lug him home
screaming all the way, I guess she would have stopped wanting to, pretty
quick, and I always take Winnie when I can, you know now, mother; and
then Joy wouldn't talk going over, either."
"Whom did she walk with?" interrupted Mrs. Breynton.
"Why, with Winnie, I believe. Of course she might have come on with
Sarah and Delia and me if she'd wanted to, but—I don't know——"
"Very well," said Mrs. Breynton, "go on."
"Then, you see, Joy didn't like chestnuts, and couldn't climb, and—oh,
Winnie kept losing his shoes, and got stuck in the fence, and you never
saw anything so funny! And then Joy couldn't climb, and she just hung
there swinging; and now, mother, I couldn't help laughing to save me, it
was so exactly like a great pendulum with hoops on. Well, Joy was mad
'cause we laughed and all, and so she said she'd go home. Then—let me
see—oh, it was after that, Winnie tumbled into the ditch, splash in!
with his feet up in the air, and I thought I should go off to see
him."
"But what about Joy?"
"Oh, well, Joy took Winnie—he was so funny and muddy, you don't
know—'cause she brought him, you know, and so they came home, and I
thought she knew the way as much as could be, and I guess that's all."
"Well," said her mother, after a pause, "what do you think about it?"
"About what?"
"Do you think you have done just right, Gypsy?"
"I don't see why not," said Gypsy, uneasily. "It was perfectly fair Joy
should take Winnie, and of course I wasn't bound to give up my nutting
party and come home, just for her."
"I'm not speaking of what is fair, Gypsy. Strictly speaking, Joy had
her rights, and you had yours, and the arrangement might have been
called fair enough. But what do you think honestly, Gypsy—were you a
little selfish?"
Gypsy opened her eyes wide. Honestly she might have said she didn't
know. She was by nature a generous child, and the charge of selfishness
was seldom brought against her. Plenty of faults she had, but they were
faults of quick temper and carelessness. Of deliberate selfishness it
had scarcely ever occurred to her that anybody could think her capable.
So she echoed—
"Selfish!" in simple surprise.
"Just look at it," said her mother, gently; "Joy was your visitor, a
stranger, feeling awkward and unhappy, most probably, with the girls
whom you knew so well, and not knowing anything about the matters which
you talked over. You might, might you not, have by a little effort made
her soon feel at home and happy? Instead of that, you went off with the
girls, and let her fall behind, with nobody but Winnie to talk to."
Gypsy's face turned to a sudden crimson.
"Then, a nutting party was a new thing to Joy, and with the care of
Winnie and all, it is no wonder she did not find it very pleasant, and
she had never climbed a tree in her life. This was her first Saturday
afternoon in Yorkbury, and she was, no doubt, feeling lonely and
homesick, and it made her none the happier to be laughed at for not
doing something she had not the slightest idea how to do. Was it quite
