has been bitter to me in the past ; but I firmly believe you 
can make my future bright. I know you will not fail me ; 
and in time to come I will answer for myself." 
It was a cruel strait for Daisy. Her unwillingness to give 
pain, her deep sympathy, the thought that by refusing her 
friendship she effectually broke the tie between him and 
Lily, filled her heart with anxious and troubled emotions. 
More than this, she saw the great risk she ran of being mis- 
understood. She felt how impossible it was to love him. 
But she could give no satisfactory reason. It was rather 
one of those inevitable conclusions which force themselves 
upon the mind, and flash out of being all logical deductions. 
He took her unresisting hand, and went on pleading his 
case eloquently. 
" O, please don't ! " she said, in a voice of pitiful entreaty. 
" I will be your friend ; I will write, if you desire it ; but 
more than this I cannot promise. I am sorry to give you 
pain, but better pain now, than disappointment in the end." 
" I am content to leave the case to the future. Friend- 
ship is all I ask at present. And now shall I tell you some- 
thing about my appointment ? " 
She caught at the change eagerly, yet unwittingly she 
gave him .--, great advantage. 
Still she was troubled about the promise she had given, 
and, after he left her, waited some time for Richard. She 
fancied at the moment that she had sufficient courage to ask 
bis opinion and advice. 
 
CHAPTER XXXI. 
How bitter a thing it is to look into happiness through another man's eyes ! 
As You LIKE IT. 
I cannot but remember such things were, 
That were most precious to me. 
MACBETH. 
IP Daisy could have looked into Richard's heart, her light 
slumber would have been still more disturbed. 
He had returned quite early, and not finding her in the 
house, sought her in the garden, as it was still light. These 
quiet hours with her had become an intense delight to him. 
Not dreaming of a visitor, he hastened down the path. A 
row of syringas screened the bench on which she and Mr. 
Auchester sat ; so he caught the sound of their voices before 
he saw them. He could not mistake the import. Clear 
and decisive the words rang through his brain : "I know 
you will not fail me, and in time to come I will answer for 
myself." He waited in almost deathly silence for her to 
speak. Above the murmurous voice of the wind, above the 
rustle of the trees, he heard the beating of his own heart. 
What was her answer? Basses, caresses, and whispered 
words ? He turned away sick and faint, and lost what might 
have comforted him. 
Retracing his steps mechanically, he passed through the 
hall, the little court-yard, and into the street, hardly noticing 
whither he went, so long as the place was unfrequented. 
He wanted to look his future in the face, for he saw clearly 
how it was with himself. His soul was unveiled. Instead 
of having buried hope and desire in the .grave of a first dis- 
 
appointment, he found them here in their eternal freshness, 
their entire strength. He loved Daisy. How or when thip 
latter passion had dawned upon him in all the solemn surety 
of truth, broader, deeper, richer than the other, and com- 
prehending every want of his life, he could never tell. All 
minor dreams and affections had been overswept by this. 
Leaving behind youthful crudeness and evanescent feelings 
that he had once fancied must be permanent, his heart had 
reached the point where manhood's love caused it to throb 
with a pure and steady faith. This had come upon him so 
gradually that no struggle had occurred, no scruples had 
disturbed him. Sailing blindly over the summer sea of life, 
the deep, swift, rushing waters of a " too late " cut him off 
from the main land, and sent him drifting down a darker 
stream. Another had garnered the sweet flower he had 
transplanted from its ungenial soil, and caused to blossom 
in rare beauty. Another, who had all the world to choose 
from! 
He was a man, and at first felt wronged, outraged. Jeal- 
ousy gave a fierce tug at his heart. A certain strength and 
sense of power lured him on to the resolve of contesting the 
prize with Mr. Auchester. Surely he had a right to be 
heard. He could not give her up his all, his second life. 
Every moment she grew dearer. He had never dreamed of 
loving in this intense manner, and every pulse quivered with 
the power of his emotion. 
But what if Daisy loved Mr. Auchester ? He remem- 
bered how from the very first she had admired and approved 
of him. He was eminently attractive. And Richard allowed 
that he had proved himself not unwise by choosing her. If 
he could win her back, if from any sense of obligation, any 
thought of gratitude, she gave him her regard, would it 
Hatisfy him? No, no. He spurned the thought. Love, 
spontaneous, above all doubt or question, must be his. 
This only could he place upon the throne in his heart. 
And the future ? He shrank from it with a pain so deep, 
that, strong man as he was, he could hardly refrain from 
crying out that his burden was greater than he could bear. 
Wherein had he failed, that to him should continually be 
given solitary places to walk through, when his heart yearned 
for home joys, home faces, and tenderest tones ? Every 
hope was swept away with this, every sweet dream that had 
unconsciously rendered life so bright. For when he came 
to disentangle the rosy web that had floated over him for 
months past, he found every thread was intimately con- 
nected with Daisy. How cold and gray it looked without 
her ! 
He rambled on in a vague, purposeless mood, until he 
heard the city clocks strike the hour of midnight. He could 
have prayed for the night and darkness to be eternal. Since 
the sweetest day of life had passed for him, what comfort 
could a new sunrise bring ? The glory of all time had faded 
utterly out of his pathway. 
He had said so once before, and proved what? That 
a new affection could blossom over the ashes of the old. 
Would it be so again ? Was this faculty of transferring 
feelings something inherent in a man's nature ? 
Not with such a love as this. He had come to manhood's 
full tide. Daisy met every want of his nature. The pas- 
sion was the more absorbing, perhaps, because daily he 
gathered sweetness and strength from her in some subtle, 
indescribable manner. She gave continually out of her 
overflowing heart. She was peace, serenity. This was 
what he longed for now. Contrasting the two, his first love 
seemed only to have touched the surface ; this penetrated 
the holy of holies, and became, as I have said, a part of his 
very life. 
He came back at last to the shadow of home the home 
that might have been so happy. How still and desolate ! 
As if every leafy tree had a presentiment, as if the shadows 
lying so thickly around robed themselves in a deeper gloom. 
And going down the empty-handed years, there would at 
 
length be no happy voice to bid him welcome no tendei 
eyes to smile upon him. Already the chill of loneliness 
made itself felt in every nerve. It seemed as if a fair dead 
corse was lying there to confront him evermore. 
Richard wrestled till daybreak. It might be that he, too, 
refused to let the angel go until he blessed him. At all 
events, he was calm, and his face had a high, saintly look, 
his voice an inflection of rarest sadness that startled Daisy. 
In order to strengthen himself, he delicately put a slight, 
nameless distance between them, resolved to be just to her 
if every step crushed his own heart. 
Daisy tried to talk a little. She thought she had a great 
deal to say about Mr. Auchester's proposed departure, but 
she did not get beyond a few incidents connected with the 
fact. Drawing a long and desperate breath, she ventured to 
ask, timidly, 
" How do you suppose Lily will take it ? " 
" Do not distress yourself, lie can never again be any- 
thing to Lily, you know," he answered, decisively. 
Why should she suddenly thrill with her old fear of Rich- 
ard ? The solid ground seemed slipping from beneath her 
feet. Those past days of pain and desolation flashed over 
her days when she felt he might justly be angry with her. 
Since then, how deep a tenderness she had discovered in 
that grave face ! What made it cold, even to sternness, 
now ? She wanted to grasp him, cling to him ; yet some 
strong barrier interposed. She was pained to the heart, 
when at length he rose, and went out silently. 
It was a long, wearisome day. No tangible grievance 
