 
When Joe had breakfast ready, he forced himself to 
eat. His father was sleeping soundly in the adjoining 
room. It came to Joe, although she was not very 
keen-sighted, that never in her whole life had she seen 
Stephen's face wear such an expression. It chilled her 
into silence. Only when he rose and took down his hat, 
from force of habit, she said, 
"I want some flour, Stephen. I forgot it yesterday. 
You'll have time to stop before you go to work, and 
some one's always there." 
" I wasn't going to the Foundery," he answered, 
slowly. " Did you want a barrel ? " 
"Yes." Then curiosity mastered her. "What's up, 
Stephen?" 
He felt that it must come. Perhaps, indeed, before 
night he would be in jail, and the terrible story in every 
one's mouth. 
" I was discharged yesterday." 
" What for ? What you goin' to do ? " 
"I don't know "-^ in a vague, absent tone. 
" You can't go back ? " 
" No." 
"Tfcat hateful old Vennard ! He'll keep on till he 
drives every man to ruin. I wish he " 
" Hush, Joe." He said it with white, quivering lips. 
Then he turned away. 
Joe left the table as it was, made her own bed, and 
tidied her room, and, hearing no stir on her uncle's 
part, went to Stephen's. His bed in perfect order I 
what did it mean ? How strange Stephen was ! Some- 
thing on his mind always. Looking out of the window, 
she drummed idly on the sash, and speculated. Stephen 
had never been the same since he took to following John 
Gilbert about. And this Adams What had occurred 
at the Foundery? In a blind way she espoused Ste- 
phen's side, whatever the trouble might be. 
She turned, at length, and took up her broom. The 
chimney ran up close by the window, and a long, hang- 
ing dust-web caught her eye. Sweeping it slowly 
down, she espied a book lodged there in the crevice. 
The space was too narrow for fingers. Joe glanced 
around, then broke a twig of woodbine just outside, 
stripped off the leaves, and used it for a lever. The 
book fell into the other hand she was holding for sup- 
port, and some papers fluttered out. Bank bills ! For 
some seconds she was motionless with surprise. 
Josephine Dane had none of that nice honor and del- 
icate self-respect born in some women. She felt that 
of late Stephen had rather defrauded her in the matter 
of confidence ; and if she could learn anything in this 
way, she had no scruples to hold her back. So she 
turned the leaves slowly. 
Thomas Vennard's property. 
Then she counted the money, and replaced it. Five 
hundred dollars. 
She stared around in a blank, puzzled manner. How 
 
did Stephen come by this ? Hidden away, too ! Was 
he a thief? But her cheek burned indignantly at the 
thought. Did he mean to take it back? Had it any- 
thing to do with his being discharged ? Joe's brain was 
in a sad whirl. 
If the money was only theirs ! Why, she had never 
seen half so much together. They could build the new 
room Stephen had been talking about ; they could have 
carpet and chairs ; and may be he would give her a silk 
dress. But then it ought to be a wedding dress ; and 
here Joe sighed. 
She concluded at last that he would surely return it. 
Perhaps he was waiting for Mr. Vennard to offer a re- 
ward. That was right enough. How odd that he should 
have put it just there, and she should have seen it ! If 
she dared tease him a little ! 
She dropped it back into its hiding-place, and swept 
the room. Then, hearing her uncle stumbling about, 
she ran down, with a most innocent face. 
Archy Dane had reached the settle. His blood-shot 
eyes were staring around, with an eager, frightened 
look. His face, was dismally gray, the lips pinched 
and colorless. 
" He's had a buster this time," thought Joe ; but she 
said aloud, "Will you have some breakfast ?" 
"Where's Stephen?" feebly and piteously. 
" Why, it's after seven ; " and Joe forced a short, dis- 
cordant laugh. Was the world being turned upside down ? 
" Stephen's a good boy. He allers was. He won't 
stan' by and see his old father 'bused. Is the Fotmdery 
open, Joe?" 
" Lord ! Why should the Foundery be shut up ? 
You're half fuddled." 
He looked up at her, his eyes glazing over with dull 
terror. 
"I don't want any breakfast, Joe " staggering up. 
"Take me back to bed. And if anybody comes, send 
for Stephen. He'll stan' by me. He's a good boy 
Stephen. He's all I've got ; " and the old man 
maundered on, while Joe cleared away the dishes, her 
usually torpid brain roused to new activity. 
Meanwhile Stephen Dane had gone down the street, 
in a slow, irresolute manner, peering cautiously into the 
faces of those he passed, as he gave his familiar, half- 
abstracted nod. Arrived at the flouring-mill, he went 
in ami did his errand. As he took out his money he 
thought of the hundreds at home with a bright red 
mark upon them. This was honestly earned and free 
from stain. He fingered it with a little manly pride ; 
but as he recalled the bitter sneers that had come with 
it, his brow grew fiercely hot. 
He lingered until the Foundery bell rang. Some one 
said, 
" Taking a holiday, Dane ? " 
He gave a sickly smile, but had not the courage to 
own the truth. Had no one heard ? 
 
Two men halted, seeing him standing in the door. 
One was Forbes. 
"Dane," he asked, "what's the row down yonder? 
Doesn't any one know where Vennard is ? He's plaguy 
close-mouthed ; but he wouldn't go off without a word 
to any one would he ? " 
Stephen Dane made a great effort. " Gone off 
where?" he asked, incredulously. 
"Why, man, haven't you heard? haven't you been 
down to the Foundery ? " 
"No." 
"They're all up in arms. Mrs. Vennard sent over 
he wasn't home last night didn't leave any mes- 
sage. No one can tell anything about him. Fact. You 
needn't look as if you didn't believe a fellow ! " 
"He might have had business," said Dane, speaking 
over a great lump in his throat. 
" He'd a' told time-keeper, any how. And it's mighty 
odd. There's no love lost atween Vennard and some 
o' the men." 
" You don't mean " and Mr. Bross paused amid the 
bags he was lifting. 
" I don't mean anything special," said Forbes. " Only, 
if an accident had happened to him, I know a few who 
wouldn't make their black very expensive. He's a mean 
old niggard. It was a sorry day for Trcgony when he 
came into it. And I'll bless the Lord for the day he goes 
out o' it. I don't see why God lets such men live and 
prosper." 
Forbes was growing excited. Stephen Dane shiv- 
ered. 
"Wasn't he home last night?" asked Mr. Bross. 
"No. And it ain't just his style to go off without a 
word. It looks queer." 
Dane could not endure the talk ; so he stepped out. 
The glare of the sunlight in the street blinded him. 
How strange this glowing wealth of summer appeared, 
when human souls were hourly dying and leaving 
it all ! Then his mind wandered to the secluded spot 
in the river, where some one lay sleeping never to 
waken again. 
Some inexplicable whim dragged him to the Foun- 
dery. His breath came hard and short ; every nerve 
in his body seemed bare and exposed to a biting blast. 
The fearful expectation of something kept his senses 
