Miss Ayre would find out about that other girl 
and Csesar, and then she would praise me up, 
and we should have a great time. 
But she doesn't do any such thing. I wish I 
lived in a story-book. It would be nice. 
Once I read about a girl who wrote a " glow 
ing composition " on the " Future," and it took 
a prize. Do you suppose I could write a 
glowing composition on the Future? 
Love to Father and Winnie. 
Your everlasting GYPSY. 
There was a postscript added and erased. 
It is given for the benefit of the curious : 
Maude Clare is so pretty. I do like to watch 
her. I wish she wouldn't sit with her window 
open so much ; I am afraid she will take cold. 
Poor Miss Holly has to sit in her furs, and 
cough. She says that Maude sits there to see 
Ben Sizer go by, but Maude says she likes 
the air. I wish there weren't any boys ia 
Snapberry. 
THINK it is about time to say what 
perhaps I ought to have said in a 
proper little preface, or introduction, 
or dedication, that if you took up this book, 
girls, expecting to find it a miniature novel, of 
thickly woven plot and heroine extraordinary, 
of all exciting incidents and contretemps, such 
as seldom happen at school, except in story 
books, you will certainly be disappointed. 
It is simply my business to describe Gypsy 's 
school-days at the Golden Crescent, just as they 
happened; and Gypsy 's school-days, I fancy, 
were very much like the school-days of other 
girls. Nobody stole a gold-pencil and slipped 
it into her pocket ; or a ten-dollar bill, and put 
it into her trunk. Nobody burnt her prize 
composition the night before it was to be read. 
Most of the girls were ladies, and, in general, 
behaved like such. The Mondays and Tues 
days, the Saturdays and Sundays, followed 
each other quietly, with just such amount of 
study and headache, of " blues " and homesick 
ness, of fun and frolic, of little ambitions and 
rivalries, of making and breaking friendships, 
as Mondays and Tuesdays, Saturdays and Sun 
days are apt to bring. Of such flashes of extra 
excitement as occurred now and then, it shall 
be faithfully told you. 
None of Gypsy 's schoolmates chanced to be 
entirely bad or entirely good. If Maude Clare 
was selfish and unladylike, she was affectionate 
and of gentle manners. 
If Jane was self-forgetful and industrious, she 
was reserved and did not easily make friends. 
Poor little shallow Jack, I think, was almost as 
much to be pitied as blamed. Lou Armstrong 
was a scholar, but she would break rules. 
Ab uno disce omnes. Gypsy herself was very 
much, as she used to say, " Never one thing for 
five minutes." She was into mischief, out of it, 
in again, a dozen times a week. If there was 
any golden lesson that the year brought her, 
and I think there was, one could scarcely 
catch sight of its broken fragments day by day. 
She seemed to be living, as so many girls seem 
to live, like a leaf upon a breeze; but the wind 
bloweth where it listeth, and who can tell 
whither it will go? 
So I give you her story as she gave it to me, 
the "scrapes" and the penitence, the learn- 
mg and unlearning, a word here, a glimpse of 
character there, a bit of fun, a sorry thought, a 
dream, a rude deceiving, a self-acquaintance 
I give you just her days and nights, her terms 
and vacations, as they marked her memory 
and moulded her life. 
One day Gypsy went up to desolate " Spin 
ster," to ask Mademoiselle the meaning of a sen 
tence in the Telemaque lesson. Mademoiselle 
was sitting alone in the dark and cold, crying. 
" How funny ! " said Gypsy to herself, and 
forgot it by the time that she was downstairs. 
Not long after, she was in the music-room 
practising alone, when Mademoiselle came in. 
" Oh, Mees Gypsy pardonnez ! I leave the 
dictionnaire in here." 
" Come in, oh, come in," said Gypsy, 
carelessly, running over " Don Giovanni " as she 
spoke. "You can stay if you want to; you 
don't disturb me." 
The piano stool stood just between two win 
dows, in a corner, and Gypsy, as she bent for 
ward a little to read her notes, her lips parted 
and smiling, and her pretty head nodding time 
unconsciously, was all framed in by the late 
western light. Her face, especially, was 
touched out brightly. 
Mademoiselle did a queer thing. She forgot 
all about the " dictionnaire," and stood still in 
the middle of the room, and threw up her 
hands once in an odd way she had, like some 
one lonely or in pain. Then coming suddenly 
up behind Gypsy, she drew her face back into 
her hands, and kissed her on the forehead. Before 
Gypsy could speak, she had left the room. 
The freak of Mademoiselle 's has no partic 
ular connection with this chapter, except that 
it happened about the same time. But Gypsy 
had afterwards occasion to remember it. 
About the middle of the term there came a 
long, dreary, drifting snow-storm. The Golden 
Crescent was blocked up for two or three days, 
and the girls were restless enough before they 
were over. Especially Gypsy, used as she was 
to long walks every day in the fresh winter air, 
was thrown into much the condition of bottled 
cider. Give the cork a little screw, and beware 
of the results ! 
A crowd of girls assembled in council at the 
end of one of the short, dark afternoons, in the 
garret where they had been playing Blind 
Man 's Buff to beguile the time. 
" Oh, I wish there was something magnifi 
cent and funny to do ! " sighed Gypsy, drearily. 
" I wish I could go out and swim about 
through those drifts." 
" Dear me, I should be afraid," said Jacque 
line. 
" Afraid ! " echoed Gypsy, in supreme con 
tempt. "What is there to be afraid of? 
Wouldn't it be fun ! I don't see why Mrs. M. 
won't let me." 
Jo Courtis was looking over some old things 
in a corner of the garret, dresses and hoods, 
and female attire of various sorts, that were 
waiting there for the rag-man or the Town-Poor 
Society. All at once she shouted. 
"Why, Jo, what is the matter? " 
" I 've thought oh, dear me ! I 've thought 
of the very way. There 's an hour yet before 
it 's quite dark. Hush ! come here." 
Gypsy came. 
Awhile after, a negro woman made her ap 
pearance in the kitchen. She wore an old 
calico dress, a faded shawl, and a ragged hood. 
She held in her hand an old spotted lace veil. 
Dolly jumped and screamed. 
" Hush sh ! " said the negro, choking down 
a laugh, and, coming up, she whispered some 
thing in her ear. 
" Oh, the good Land ! Oil, good gracious ! 
You 'll be me death of laughing some fine day. 
Oh, Miss Gyp " 
" Hush ! Will you do it? It 's a real pretty 
veil, see ; and so becoming. You shall have 
it the moment I come back, if you let me in 
Eke a good girl, and keep still. If anybody 
should be in the kitchen, why, I 'll just make 
you a call. Is it a bargain?" 
