is, I think I would rather have the old temple ru- 
inous in every part than restored as you find it. 
The sacristan felt the wrongs of the place keenly, 
and said, referring to the removal of the bronze 
roof, which took place some centuries ago, " They 
have robbed us of every thing" (Channo levato 
tutto) ; as if he and the Pantheon were of one blood, 
and he had suffered personal hurt in its spoliation. 
What a sense of the wildness everywhere lurk- 
ing about Rome we had given us by that group of 
peasants who had built a fire of brushwood almost 
within the portico of the Pantheon, and were cook- 
ing their supper at it, the light of the flames luridly 
painting their swarthy faces ! 
XIII. 
POOR little Numero Cinque Via del Gambero has 
seldom, I imagine, known so violent a sensation as 
that it experienced when, on the day of the Immac- 
ulate Conception, the Armenian Archbishop rolled 
up to the door in his red coach. The master of the 
house had always seemed to like us ; now he ap- 
peared with profound respect suffusing, as it were, 
his whole being, and announced, " Signore, it is 
Monsignore come to take you to the Sistine Chapel 
in his carriage," and drew himself up in a line, as 
 
much like a series of serving-men as possible, to 
let us pass out. There was a private carriage for 
the ladies near that of Monsignore, for he had al- 
ready advertised us that the sex were not permitted 
to ride in the red coach. As they appeared, how- 
ever, he renewed his expressions of desolation at 
being deprived of their company, and assured them 
of his good- will with a multiplicity of smiles and 
nods, intermixed with shrugs of recurrence to his 
poignant regret. But ! In fine, it was forbidden ! 
Monsignore was in full costume, with his best ec- 
clesiastical clothes on, and with his great gold chain 
about his neck. The dress was richer than that of 
the western archbishops ; and the long white beard 
of Monsiornore made him look much more like a 
Scriptural monsignore than these. He lacked, per- 
haps, the fine spiritual grace of his brother, the 
Archbishop at Venice, to whose letter of introduc- 
tion we owed his acquaintance and untiring civili- 
ties; but if a man cannot be plump and spiritual, 
he can be plump and pleasant, as Monsignore was to 
the last degree. He enlivened our ride with dis- 
course about the Armenians at Venice, equally be- 
loved of us ; and, arrived at the Sistine Chapel, he 
marshaled the ladies before him, and won them early 
entrance through the crowd of English people crush- 
ing one another at the door. Then he laid hold upon 
the captain of the Swiss Guard, who was swift to 
provide them with the best places ; and in nowise 
did he seem one of the uninfluential and insignificant 
priests that About describes the archbishops at Rome 
 
to be. According to this lively author, a Swiss guard 
was striking back the crowd on some occasion with 
the butt of his halberd, and smote a cardinal on the 
breast. He instantly dropped upon his knees, with 
" Pardon, Eminenza ! I thought it was a mon- 
signore ! " Even the chief of these handsome fellows 
had nothing but respect and obedience for our Arch- 
bishop. 
The gentlemen present were separated from the 
ladies, and in a very narrow space outside of the 
chapel men of every nation were penned up together. 
All talked several priests as loudly as the rest. 
But the rudest among them were certain Germans, 
who not only talked but stood upon a seat to see 
better, and were ordered down by one of the Swiss 
with a fierce " Griu, signore, giu ! " Otherwise the 
guard kept good order in the chapel, and were no 
doubt as useful and genuine as any thing about the 
poor old Pope. What gorgeous fellows they were, 
and, as soldiers, how absurd ! The weapons they 
bore were as obsolete as the excommunication. It 
was amusing to pass one of these play-soldiers on 
guard at the door of the Vatican tall, straight, 
beautiful, superb, with his halberd on his shoulder 
and then come to a real warrior outside, a little, ugly, 
red-legged French sentinel, with his Minie* on his 
arm. 
Except for the singing of the Pope's choir which 
was angelically sweet, and heavenly far above all 
praise the religious ceremonies affected me, like 
all others of that faith, as tedious and empty. Each 
 
of the cardinals, as he entered the chapel, blew a 
sonorous nose ; and was received standing by his 
brother prelates a grotesque company of old-wom- 
anish old men in gaudy gowns. One of the last to 
come was Antonelli, who has the very wickedest face 
in the world. He sat with his eyes fastened upon his 
book, but obviously open at every pore to all that 
went on about him. As he passed out he cast gleam- 
ing, terrible, sidelong looks upon the people, full of 
hate and guile. 
From where I stood I saw the Pope's face only in 
profile : it was gentle and benign enough, but not 
great in expression, and the smile on it almost de- 
generated into a simper. His Holiness had a cold ; 
and his recitative, though full, was not smooth. He 
was all priest when, in the midst of the service, he 
hawked, held his handkerchief up before his face, a 
little way off, and ruthlessly spat in it I 
 
FORZA MAGGIORE. 
I IMAGINE that Grossetto is not a town much 
known to travel, for it is absent from all the guide- 
books I have looked at. However, it is chief in the 
Maremma, where sweet Pia de' Tolommei lan- 
guished and perished of the poisonous air and her 
love's cruelty, and where, so many mute centuries 
since, the Etrurian cities flourished and fell. Further, 
one may say that Grossetto is on the diligence road 
from Civita Vecchia to Leghorn, and that in the very 
heart of the place there is a lovely palm-tree, rare, 
if not sole, in that latitude. This palm stands in a 
well-sheltered, dull little court, out of every thing's 
way, and turns tenderly toward the wall that shields 
it on the north. It has no other company but a beau- 
tiful young girl, who leans out of a window high 
over its head, and I have no doubt talks with it. At 
the moment we discovered the friends, the maiden 
was looking pathetically to the northward, while the 
palm softly stirred and opened its plumes, as a bird 
does when his song is finished ; and there is very lit- 
tle question but it had just been singing to her that 
song of which the palms are so fond, 
" Ein Fichtenbaum steht einsam 
Im Norden auf kahler HohV 
 
Grossetto does her utmost to hide the secret of this 
tree's existence, as if a hard, matter-of-fact place 
ought to be ashamed of a sentimentality of the kind. 
It pretended to be a very worldly town, and tried to 
keep us in the neighborhood of its cathedral, where 
the caffS and shops are, and where, in the evening, 
four or five officers of the garrison clinked their sa- 
bres on the stones, and promenaded up and down, 
and as many ladies shopped for gloves ; and as many 
citizens sat at the principal caff and drank black 
coffee. This was lively enough ; and we knew that 
the citizens were talking of the last week's news and 
the Roman question ; that the ladies were really 
looking for loves, not gloves ; that such of the offi- 
cers as had no local intrigue to keep their hearts 
at rest were terribly bored, and longed for Florence 
or Milan or Turin. 
Besides the social charms of her piazza, Grossetto 
put forth others of an artistic nature. The cathedral 
was very old and very beautiful, built of alternate 
lines of red and white marble, and lately restored in 
the best spirit of fidelity and reverence. But it was 
not open, and we were obliged to turn from it to the 
group of statuary in the middle of the piazza, repre- 
sentative of the Maremma and Family returning 
