apart and done with, since his sad misfortune.”
“Not entirely; while women pity and pet the poor fellow, his comrades
will be jealous, absurd as it is.”
“No one pets him but me, and I have a right to do it, for he is my
cousin,” said the girl, feeling a touch of jealousy herself.
“Rose and Blanche Talbot outdo you, my dear, and there is no cousinship
to excuse them.”
“Then let Frank Annon be jealous of them, and leave me in peace. They
promised to come today; I’m afraid something has happened to prevent
them.” And Octavia gladly seized upon the new subject. But my lady was
not to be eluded.
“They said they could not come till after dinner. They will soon arrive.
Before they do so, I must say a few words, Tavia, and I beg you to give
heed to them. I desire you to be courteous and amiable to Mr. Annon, and
before strangers to be less attentive and affectionate to Maurice. You
mean it kindly, but it looks ill, and causes disagreeable remarks.”
“Who blames me for being devoted to my cousin? Can I ever do enough to
repay him for his devotion? Mamma, you forget he saved your son’s life.”
Indignant tears filled the girl’s eyes, and she spoke passionately,
forgetting that Mrs. Snowdon was within earshot of her raised voice.
With a frown my lady laid her hand on her daughter’s lips, saying
coldly, “I do not forget, and I religiously discharge my every
obligation by every care and comfort it is in my power to bestow. You
are young, romantic, and tender-hearted. You think you must give your
time and health, must sacrifice your future happiness to this duty. You
are wrong, and unless you learn wisdom in season, you will find that you
have done harm, not good.”
“God forbid! How can I do that? Tell me, and I will be wise in time.”
Turning the earnest face up to her own, Lady Treherne whispered
anxiously, “Has Maurice ever looked or hinted anything of love during
this year he has been with us, and you his constant companion?”
“Never, Mamma; he is too honorable and too unhappy to speak or think of
that. I am his little nurse, sister, and friend, no more, nor ever shall
be. Do not suspect us, or put such fears into my mind, else all our
comfort will be spoiled.”
Flushed and eager was the girl, but her clear eyes betrayed no tender
confusion as she spoke, and all her thought seemed to be to clear her
cousin from the charge of loving her too well. Lady Treherne looked
relieved, paused a moment, then said, seriously but gently, “This is
well, but, child, I charge you tell me at once, if ever he forgets
himself, for this thing cannot be. Once I hoped it might, now it is
impossible; remember that he continue a friend and cousin, nothing more.
I warn you in time, but if you neglect the warning, Maurice must go. No
more of this; recollect my wish regarding Mr. Annon, and let your cousin
amuse himself without you in public.”
“Mamma, do you wish me to like Frank Annon?”
The abrupt question rather disturbed my lady, but knowing her daughter’s
frank, impetuous nature, she felt somewhat relieved by this candor, and
answered decidedly, “I do. He is your equal in all respects; he loves
you, Jasper desires it, I approve, and you, being heart-whole, can have
no just objection to the alliance.”
“Has he spoken to you?”
“No, to your brother.”
“You wish this much, Mamma?”
“Very much, my child.”
“I will try to please you, then.” And stifling a sigh, the girl kissed
her mother with unwonted meekness in tone and manner.
“Now I am well pleased. Be happy, my love. No one will urge or distress
you. Let matters take their course, and if this hope of ours can be
fulfilled, I shall be relieved of the chief care of my life.”
A sound of girlish voices here broke on their ears, and springing up,
Octavia hurried to meet her friends, exclaiming joyfully, “They have
come! they have come!”
Two smiling, blooming girls met her at the door, and, being at an
enthusiastic age, they gushed in girlish fashion for several minutes,
making a pretty group as they stood in each other’s arms, all talking at
once, with frequent kisses and little bursts of laughter, as vents for
their emotion. Madame Mère welcomed them and then went to join Mrs.
Snowdon, leaving the trio to gossip unrestrained.
“My dearest creature, I thought we never should get here, for Papa had a
tiresome dinner party, and we were obliged to stay, you know,” cried
Rose, the lively sister, shaking out the pretty dress and glancing at
herself in the mirror as she fluttered about the room like a butterfly.
“We were dying to come, and so charmed when you asked us, for we haven’t
seen you this age, darling,” added Blanche, the pensive one, smoothing
her blond curls after a fresh embrace.
“I’m sorry the Ulsters couldn’t come to keep Christmas with us, for we
have no gentlemen but Jasper, Frank Annon, and the major. Sad, isn’t
it?” said Octavia, with a look of despair, which caused a fresh peal
of laughter.
“One apiece, my dear, it might be worse.” And Rose privately decided to
appropriate Sir Jasper.
“Where is your cousin?” asked Blanche, with a sigh of sentimental
interest.
“He is here, of course. I forget him, but he is not on the flirting
list, you know. We must amuse him, and not expect him to amuse us,
though really, all the capital suggestions and plans for merrymaking
always come from him.”
“He is better, I hope?” asked both sisters with real sympathy, making
their young faces womanly and sweet.
“Yes, and has hopes of entire recovery. At least, they tell him so,
though Dr. Ashley said there was no chance of it.”
“Dear, dear, how sad! Shall we see him, Tavia?”
“Certainly; he is able to be with us now in the evening, and enjoys
society as much as ever. But please take no notice of his infirmity, and
make no inquiries beyond the usual ‘How do you do.’ He is sensitive, and
hates to be considered an invalid more than ever.”
“How charming it must be to take care of him, he is so accomplished and
delightful. I quite envy you,” said Blanche pensively.
“Sir Jasper told us that the General and Mrs. Snowdon were coming. I
hope they will, for I’ve a most intense curiosity to see her--”
 began Rose.
“Hush, she is here with Mamma! Why curious? What is the mystery? For you
look as if there was one,” questioned Octavia under her breath.
The three charming heads bent toward one another as Rose replied in a
whisper, “If I knew, I shouldn’t be inquisitive. There was a rumor that
she married the old general in a fit of pique, and now repents. I asked
Mamma once, but she said such matters were not for young girls to hear,
and not a word more would she say. N’importe, I have wits of my
own, and I can satisfy myself. The gentlemen are coming! Am I all right,
dear?” And the three glanced at one another with a swift scrutiny that
nothing could escape, then grouped themselves prettily, and waited, with
a little flutter of expectation in each young heart.
In came the gentlemen, and instantly a new atmosphere seemed to pervade
the drawing room, for with the first words uttered, several romances
began. Sir Jasper was taken possession of by Rose, Blanche intended to
devote herself to Maurice Treherne, but Annon intercepted her, and
Octavia was spared any effort at politeness by this unexpected move on
the part of her lover.
“He is angry, and wishes to pique me by devoting himself to Blanche. I
wish he would, with all my heart, and leave me in peace. Poor Maurice,
he expects me, and I long to go to him, but must obey Mamma.” And
Octavia went to join the group formed by my lady, Mrs. Snowdon, the
general, and the major.
The two young couples flirted in different parts of the room, and
Treherne sat alone, watching them all with eyes that pierced below the
surface, reading the hidden wishes, hopes, and fears that ruled them. A
singular expression sat on his face as he turned from Octavia’s clear
countenance to Mrs. Snowdon’s gloomy one. He leaned his head upon his
hand and fell into deep thought, for he was passing through one of those
fateful moments which come to us all, and which may make or mar a life.
Such moments come when least looked for: an unexpected meeting, a
peculiar mood, some trivial circumstance, or careless word produces it,
and often it is gone before we realize its presence, leaving
aftereffects to show us what we have gained or lost. Treherne was
conscious that the present hour, and the acts that filled it, possessed
unusual interest, and would exert an unusual influence on his life.
Before him was the good and evil genius of his nature in the guise of
those two women. Edith Snowdon had already tried her power, and accident
only had saved him. Octavia, all unconscious as she was, never failed to
rouse and stimulate the noblest attributes of mind and heart. A year
spent in her society had done much for him, and he loved her with a
strange mingling of passion, reverence, and gratitude. He knew why Edith
Snowdon came, he felt that the old fascination had not lost its charm,
and though fear was unknown to him, he was ill pleased at the sight of
the beautiful, dangerous woman. On the other hand, he saw that Lady
Treherne desired her daughter to shun him and smile on Annon; he
acknowledged that he had no right to win the young creature, crippled
and poor as he was, and a pang of jealous pain wrung his heart as he
watched her.
Then a sense of power came to him, for helpless, poor, and seemingly an
object of pity, he yet felt that he held the honor, peace, and happiness
of nearly every person present in his hands. It was a strong temptation
to this man, so full of repressed passion and power, so set apart and
shut out from the more stirring duties and pleasures of life. A few
words from his lips, and the pity all felt for him would be turned to
fear, respect, and admiration. Why not utter them, and enjoy all that
was possible? He owed the Trehernes nothing; why suffer injustice,
dependence, and the compassion that wounds a proud man deepest? Wealth,
love, pleasure might be his with a breath. Why not secure them now?
