held it unfolded in his hand. He looked at the letter, and then at Mr.
Stoute. The fat professor laughed, but the lean professor frowned. The
jolly one knew just what the precise one wanted, but he waited patiently
for the exordium.
"Mr. Stoute, may I trouble you?" he began, after he had put himself in
proper position.
"Certainly, sir," replied the fat gentleman.
"If this letter had been written in Greek or Latin, I could have read
it," continued Mr. Hamblin, glancing at the sheet.
"Precisely so; if it had been written in Greek or Latin I could not read
it," laughed Mr. Stoute.
"My French, as I have had occasion to acknowledge to you with deep
humiliation, has been neglected for more important studies. This letter
appears to have been written by some distinguished person, but
unfortunately he has chosen to indite it in French."
"In a word, you wish me to read it to you."
"That is what I was about to request of you. May I ask you to retire
with me to our state-room?" continued Professor Hamblin, glancing at the
officers who were reading their letters in the cabin.
"Excuse me, Mr. Hamblin; you forget that I carry round with me two
hundred and odd pounds of flesh, besides bone and muscle, and that I
have been on my feet three hours. I think, sir, if I knew this vessel
was going to the bottom of the Scheldt this instant, I should go down
with her rather than move. Have me excused, I pray you, and have
compassion on mine infirmities," laughed Mr. Stoute.
Mr. Hamblin was vexed, but he gave the letter to his associate, who
turned the sheet and glanced at the signature.
"Ah!" exclaimed he, looking at Mr. Hamblin.
"What is it? Do me the favor to read it," replied the learned gentleman,
impatiently.
"It is from Monsieur Charles Rogier, the president of the council, and
minister of foreign affairs," added Professor Stoute. "He is the man who
organized the revolution of 1830, and the greatest man in Belgium, King
Leopold excepted."
"Is it possible!" ejaculated Mr. Hamblin, struggling to keep down the
smile in which his vanity sought to manifest itself. "What does he say?"
"He says that just as he was leaving Antwerp for Brussels, he heard that
the very learned and distinguished Professor Hamblin was on board of a
vessel at anchor in the river."
"Does he say that?" asked the learned gentleman, who, knowing that Mr.
Stoute had a horrid vein of humor running through his fat frame, had,
perhaps, a suspicion that he was making fun at his expense.
"That is precisely what it says."
"How should Mr. Rogier know me?" queried Mr. Hamblin.
"I was about to read his explanation on that point: he says he heard of
you through a friend who was in London a few weeks since. He wished to
see you and extend to you a welcome to the kingdom of Belgium; but the
command of his royal master required him to leave Antwerp by the next
train; and he was deprived of the pleasure of extending to you in person
the expression of his distinguished consideration. He hopes when you
visit Brussels you will do him the honor to call upon him at the Palais
de la Nation, Rue de la Soie."
"Humph!" ejaculated the learned professor, prolonging the interjection,
and trying to suppress the smile which had a sad tendency to overwhelm
his dignity.
"You are fortunate, Mr. Hamblin," added Mr. Stoute; "of course he will
present you to King Leopold."
"Possibly," replied the Greek savant, stroking his chin, and frowning,
to counteract the sinister influence of the smile he could not wholly
overcome.
Mr. Hamblin took the letter and read the signature. It was certainly
"Charles Rogier," with a flourish extensive enough for any great man.
From the letter he glanced at the fat professor, who, being always
good-natured, was so now. He could not get rid of a lingering suspicion
that his undignified associate was imposing upon him. It was a great
misfortune that his own knowledge of French was so limited, and if it
had not been so late, he would have gone on board of the ship to ask
Professor Badois to translate the epistle to him.
Instead of doing this, he went to the record book of the Josephine, and
ascertained that Duncan was marked among the highest in French. Now
Duncan was a very polite and respectful student, and Mr. Hamblin had a
greater regard for him than for most of his companions. Finding this
promising young man on deck, he invited him to the sacred precincts of
the professor's state-room. Duncan was even more polite and obliging
than usual. At the request of his present host, who did not offer any
explanations, he wrote out a translation of the important letter. Mr.
Hamblin thanked him, and he retired.
There was no material difference between the translations of Mr. Stoute
and Duncan, and the learned professor congratulated himself upon the
distinction he had attained. His fame as a savant had preceded him
across the ocean. The king's chief minister courted his acquaintance.
This was the homage which greatness paid to learning, and Mr. Hamblin
was willing to believe that it was a deserved tribute. He soon worked
himself into a flutter of excitement, in anticipation of being taken by
the hand by the king's chief minister, and he slept but little during
the night, so absorbed was he in the contemplation of the distinguished
honor which awaited him.
"Professor Hamblin is going to court," said Duncan to his old friend
the captain, when they met on deck after supper.
"To court whom?" laughed Paul.
"He has had an invitation to go to court to see the big bugs. I
translated a letter for him from the minister of foreign affairs; and I
suppose he's about the biggest toad in the Belgian puddle," added
Duncan. "You won't be able to touch him with a ten-foot pole after
that."
"We shall get along very well with him, if we only do our duty," said
Paul.
"The fellows are not very fond of him; and if he puts on any more airs,
they won't be able to stand it."
"Why, what's the matter, Duncan? asked Paul, anxiously, for generally
everything had gone on so well on board of the Josephine, that he
dreaded any trouble.
"O, nothing, nothing!" laughed Duncan; "only the fellows don't like
him."
"Ben, there's something up," said Paul, earnestly. "If the fellows think
anything at all of me, they won't make any trouble. If I don't complain
of Mr. Hamblin, they needn't."
"I don't find any fault with him myself," protested Ben. "I don't like
him, but I have always got along very well with him."
"What did you mean by mentioning this matter to me, Ben?" asked Paul.
"Nothing; only I shouldn't be surprised if the fellows were to haze the
venerable patriarch a little in a quiet way. They are all down upon
him."
"I am sorry for that. I hope all the fellows will do their duty, and
not get into any scrapes, replied Paul, very seriously.
"I am sorry, but I can't say that I blame them much."
"I shall blame them if they commit any act of disrespect," said the
captain, decidedly. "I hope you will say what you can forward to keep
the fellows from doing anything that would hurt Mr. Hamblin's feelings."
"What can I do? The old fossil doesn't treat the students like
gentlemen; and if he behaves so, what can you expect of the fellows? He
is cross, crabbed, and tyrannical."
"Have they just found it out?"
"No, but they were willing to bear it rather than make any trouble on
board. After what he did last Saturday, they are not disposed to be so
patient; and I can't blame them much."
"What happened last Saturday was between Mr. Hamblin and me, and the
students needn't trouble themselves about that."
"But the fellows all like you first rate, even the worst ones we have on
board; and there are some pretty hard boys here," laughed Duncan.
"If they like me, they will not get up a row."
"I will take care that all of them know just how you feel," said Duncan,
concluding to end the conversation at this point, for the subject of
these remarks had just come on deck.
The learned gentleman appeared to carry his head even higher, and to be
more dignified, stiff, and reserved, than usual. With an invitation in
his pocket to visit the greatest statesman in Belgium, he felt like a
very exalted personage; for not even Mr. Lowington had been so highly
favored. Mr. Hamblin was puffed up and swelled out by the honor the
great man had done him, and as he walked up and down the deck, the
students might have known by his air, if they had not been told of the
fact, that greatness had suddenly been thrust upon him.
It presently occurred to him that the principal had not been informed of
the distinguished consideration in which the government of Belgium
regarded the Josephine's senior instructor. It was important that he
should know it, for the fact would certainly elevate him in the
estimation of the principal, and cause him to regret that in the recent
difficulty he had not more fully sustained his notable professor.
Besides, he wished to make some arrangements which would permit him to
visit the Palais de la Nation, and to dine with the minister, if he
should be invited, as he had no doubt he should be.
With as much sternness on his wrinkled face as he could assume, he
walked forward to demand a boat of Captain Kendall. As he was passing in
the waist, a coil of signal line dropped down from the gaff above,
square upon the top of his hat, forcing it far down upon his head. Mr.
Hamblin immediately threw himself into an undignified passion. When he
had with some difficulty extricated his head from the linings of his
hat, he looked up to see who had been guilty of this act of flagrant
disrespect.
"I beg your pardon, Mr. Hamblin," shouted Grimme, a seaman, whose legs
