so far I was willing, that I gave up all care-taking and
ceased to struggle. My mood grew even sunshiny as I walked
back to the hotel where we were all stationed. Hope began to
execute little dances before me.
The doctor was busy now, I understood, with trying to find
some party with whom I might make the journey to Switzerland.
Mrs. Sandford was eager to get back to Melbourne, or its
neighbourhood; I always called the whole region by that name.
How I wished I could be allowed to go with her, and wait there
till an opportunity offered for my further journey! But such
were not the views of my guardian.
"Here's devotion!" exclaimed Mrs. Sandford as I came in to tea
one evening. "My dear, he says he will go with you himself."
"Where? - who?" I asked.
"Why, Grant, to be sure. He says he will go with you, himself,
and then his mind will be easy."
"How can he?" I said. "An army surgeon, - how can he get
away?"
"Yes, and in war-time," said Mrs. Sandford. "But the truth is,
that he needs to get away, he says; he is not fit for duty;
and the voyage over and back will just set him up. I think it
is a capital plan, for my part. He won't be gone any length of
time, you know; and indeed he must not; he will just run
across and put you in the hands of your friends; and so your
passage is engaged, Daisy, in the Persia. I only wish I was
going along, but I can't. I advise you never to marry Grant.
It ties one up terribly."
"It does not tie you very close," the doctor answered.
"When does the Persia go?" I asked.
"Yes, indeed; that is a question," said Mrs. Sandford. "Just
think - she sails Saturday, and this is Thursday. Only one
single day for you, Daisy; but after all, it is best so. You
can be ready just as well, and the sooner you are off now the
better. I shall miss you dreadfully, though."
I felt my cheeks turn cold, and I busied myself with my cup of
tea.
"You are not so eager to be off, Miss Randolph, as my good
sister is to have you," I heard the doctor say.
"No, not quite. I would like better to go if all this trouble
in the country were ended."
"That would be to wait some time, I am afraid, said the
doctor, helping himself to a piece of toast. And I do not know
what in his motion and his manner of speech conveyed to me the
notion that he was glad I could not wait. And, my mother's
child though I was, I could not thwart him this time.
"It is a good time to be away, I think," said Mrs. Sandford.
"I'd keep the news from her, Grant, if I were you. She sits
and studies the papers as if her life were in them."
"There will be no news on board the steamer," said the doctor.
Yes, I knew that. The very beginning of my journey was to cut
me off from tidings. How should I get them in Switzerland? And
I must go too without seeing Miss Cardigan. Well, I thought,
nothing can take my best Friend from me.
CHAPTER VIII.
DAISY'S POST
Dr. Sandford and I stood together on the deck of the steamer,
looking at the lessening shore. I was afraid the doctor should
see how I looked, yet I could not turn my eyes from it. I had
given up the care of myself; I could bear to see America
fading out of my sight; yet it seemed to me as if I left Daisy
and her life there, and as if I must be like a wandering
spirit from another world till I should come back to those
shores again. I would minister to my father and mother, but
nobody would minister to me. And I thought it was very likely
very good for me. Maybe I was in danger of growing selfish and
of forgetting my work and all happiness except my own and
Thorold's. I could do nothing for either of those now; nothing
actively. But I called myself up as soon as that thought
passed through me. I could always pray; and I could be quiet
and trust; and I could be full of faith, hope and love; and
anybody with those is not unhappy. And God is with his people;
and he can feed them in a desert. And with that, I went down
to my stateroom, to sob my heart out. Not altogether in
sorrow, or I think I should not have shed a tear; but with
that sense of joy and riches in the midst of trial; the
feeling of care that was over my helplessness, and hope that
could never die nor be disappointed sin spite of the many
hopes that fail.
After that, my voyage was pleasant, as every voyage or journey
is when one goes in the Lord's hand and with Him for a
companion. I had no news, as the doctor had said, and I laid
down all the matter of the war; though I was obliged to hear
it talked of very much and in a way that was often extremely
hard to bear. The English people on board seemed to think that
Americans had no feeling on the subject of their country, or
no country to feel about. Certainly they showed no respect for
mine; and though Dr. Sandford and one or two other gentlemen
could and did answer their words well and cogently, and there
was satisfaction in that; yet it was a warfare I did not
choose to enter into unless good breeding could be a defence
on both sides. They abused Mr. Lincoln; how they abused him!
they have learned better since. They abused republics in
general, rejoicing openly in the ruin they affected to see
before ours. Yes, the United States of America and their
boasted Constitution were a vast bubble - no solidity - rather
a collection of bubbles, which would go to pieces by their own
contact. Specially the weight of dislike and maligning fell on
the Northern portion of the country; sympathy was with the
South. These natives of the free British Isles were
unmistakably disposed to cheer and help on a nation of
oppressors, and wished them success. It was some time before I
could understand such an anomaly; at last I saw that the
instinct of self-preservation was at work, and I forgave as
natural, what I could not admire as noble.
This element in our little society troubled somewhat my
enjoyment of the voyage. I had some patriotic nerves, if I was
an American; and every one of them was often tingling with
disagreeable irritation. Besides, ill-breeding is of itself
always disagreeable enough; and here was ill-breeding in well-
bred people, - worst of all. And I had my own private reasons
for annoyance. A favourite theme with the company was the want
of soldiers or generals at the North, and the impossibility
that a set of mechanics and tradesmen, who knew only how to
make money and keep it, should be able in chivalrous and
gentlemanly exercises to cope with the Southern cavaliers, who
were accustomed to sword and pistol and the use of them from
their youth up. Bull Run, they said, showed what the
consequence must always be, of a conflict between soldiers
with the martial spirit and soldiers without it. It would be
much better and cheaper for the North to succumb at once. I
had Southern prejudice enough to believe there might be a good
deal of truth in this, but I could not bear to hear it or to
think it; for besides the question of country and right, the
ruin of the North would be disaster to Mr. Thorold and me. I
shunned at last all conversation with our English companions,
as far as I could, and bent my thoughts forward to the joyful
meeting which lay before me with father and mother and
brother. Brighter and brighter the prospect grew, as each day
brought it nearer; and I sat sometimes by the hour looking
over the waters and resting my heart in the hope of that
meeting.
"Almost in, Miss Randolph," said the doctor, coming to my side
one of those times.
I brought my eyes from the dancing sea, and answered "You are
glad."
"Very glad."
"What route will you take, when we get to land?"
"The shortest."
"You do not wish to see anything by the way?"
"I can see enough, after I get to them," I answered.
"You are at a happy time of life!" the doctor said after a
pause.
"Are you past it, Dr. Sandford?" I asked, replying, I think,
to something in the tones of his voice.
"I do not know. I think, yes. Cologne cathedral will never be
to me what it will be to you."
"What will it be to me?"
"I wish you would tell me, when you see it."
"Does it lie in our route?" I asked somewhat eagerly.
"It can - if you choose."
"But I should not want to stop to look at it," I said; "and I
could not see it without stopping, I suppose."
"I suppose not. Well, we will push forward as fast as
possible. To Lausanne, is it?"
"They were at Lausanne. They were talking of going to
Lucerne."
"To stay?"
"For some time, I think. Papa was getting tired of Lausanne.
We shall know as soon as we reach our port."
"Wonderful things will crowd upon you now, Daisy," the doctor
