the servant, her face brightening up, for Johnny was a great favorite in
the house.
"I jumped into the water after him," said Dick, modestly.
"I heard Mr. Rockwell say he was expecting you to-night. Come right in.
Mistress is very anxious to see you."
Placed a little at his ease by this cordial reception, Dick followed the
servant upstairs to a pleasant sitting-room on the second floor. Mr. and
Mrs. Rockwell were seated at a centre-table reading the evening papers,
while Johnny and his sister Grace were constructing a Tower of Babel
with some blocks upon the carpet before the fire.
Dick entered, and stood just within the door, with his cap in his hand,
feeling a little embarrassed.
"I am glad to see you, Richard," said Mr. Rockwell, rising from his
seat, and advancing to our hero with a pleasant smile. "Mrs. Rockwell
has been anxious to see you. My dear, this is the brave boy who saved
our little Johnny."
Mrs. Rockwell, a tall, graceful lady, with a smile that quite captivated
Dick, offered her hand, and said, earnestly, "My brave boy, I have been
wishing to see you. I shudder to think that, but for your prompt
courage, I should now be mourning the loss of my dear little Johnny.
Accept a mother's thanks for a favor so great that she can never hope to
repay it."
Now this acknowledgment was very pleasant to Dick, but it was also very
embarrassing. It is difficult to receive praise gracefully. So our hero,
not knowing what else to say, stammered out that she was very welcome.
"I understand that you have entered my husband's employment," said Mrs.
Rockwell.
"Yes," said Dick. "He was kind enough to take me."
"I hope to make a man of business of our young friend," said Mr.
Rockwell. "He will soon feel at home in his new position, and I hope we
may find the connection mutually satisfactory."
"Have you a pleasant boarding-place?" asked Mrs. Rockwell.
"Tip-top," said Dick. "I mean pretty good," he added, in a little
confusion.
"Where is it?"
"In Bleecker Street," said Dick, very glad that he was not obliged to
say Mott Street.
"That is quite a good location," said Mr. Rockwell. "How do you spend
your evenings, Richard?"
"In studying with a friend of mine," said Dick. "I want to know
something by the time I grow up."
"That is an excellent resolution," said his employer, with warm
approval. "I wish more boys of your age were equally sensible. You may
depend upon it that a good education is the best preparation for an
honorable and useful manhood. What is your friend's name?"
"Henry Fosdick. He rooms with me."
"I am glad you have a friend who shares your tastes. But perhaps you
would like to renew your acquaintance with the young gentleman to whom
you have rendered so great a service. Johnny has been allowed to stay up
beyond his usual bedtime because you were coming. Johnny, come here!"
Johnny rose from his blocks, and came to his mother's side. He was a
pleasant-looking little fellow, with a pair of bright eyes, and round,
plump cheeks. He looked shyly at Dick.
"Did you ever see this young man?" asked his mother.
"Yes," said Johnny.
"When was it?"
"When I was in the river," said Johnny. "He pulled me out."
"Are you glad to see him?"
"Yes," said Johnny. "What is his name?"
"Dick," said our hero, who somehow could not help feeling, when called
Richard, that some other boy was meant.
"Won't you come and help me build a house?" asked little Johnny.
Dick accepted the invitation with pleasure, feeling more at home with
children than with older persons.
"This is sister Grace," said Johnny, with an offhand introduction.
"I saw you on the boat," said Dick.
"Yes," said Grace, "I was there. Oh, how frightened I was when Johnny
fell into the water! I don't see how you dared to jump in after him."
"Oh, I've been in swimming many a time. I don't mind it," said Dick.
"I s'pose you're used to it, like the fishes," said Johnny. "I'm glad
I'm not a fish. I shouldn't like to live in the water."
"I don't think I should, either," said Dick. "Now, what do you think the
fishes do when it rains?"
"I do not know."
"They go down to the bottom of the sea to get out of the wet."
"Isn't it wet down at the bottom of the sea?" asked Johnny, in good
faith.
"Of course it is, you little goose," said Grace, with an air of superior
wisdom.
"Will you make me a house?" said Johnny.
"What kind of a house do you want?" said Dick, seating himself on the
carpet, and taking up the blocks.
"Any kind," said Johnny.
Dick, beginning to feel quite at home with the children, erected an
imposing-looking house, leaving little spaces for the doors and windows.
"That's better than the house Grace made," said Johnny, looking at it
with complacency.
"But it won't last very long," said Dick. "You'd better sell it before
it tumbles over."
"Do you own any houses?" asked Johnny.
"Not many," said Dick, smiling.
"My father owns this house," said Johnny, positively. "He paid fifty
dollars for it."
"I didn't think houses were so cheap," said Dick. "I'd like to buy one
at that price."
"You're a little goose, Johnny," said Grace. "He gave as much as five
hundred dollars."
"Grace doesn't know much more about the price of real estate than
Johnny," said Mr. Rockwell.
"Didn't the house cost as much as five hundred dollars?" asked Grace.
"As much as that certainly, my dear."
Just then, by an unguarded movement of Johnny's foot, the edifice of
blocks reared by Dick became a confused ruin.
"I've got tired of building houses," he announced, "Won't you tell me a
story, Dick?"
"I don't think I know any," said our hero.
"Here is a book of pictures," said his mother, bringing one from the
table. "Perhaps your new friend will show them to you."
Dick took the book, and felt very glad that he had learned to read.
Otherwise he might have been considerably embarrassed.
The children asked a great many questions of Dick about the pictures,
some of which he could not answer. Johnny, on being shown the picture of
a Turkish mosque, asked if that was the place where the turkeys went to
church.
"If there was any place for a goose to go to church, you'd go there,"
said his sister.
"I aint a goose any more than you are," said Johnny, indignantly; "am I,
Dick?"
Just then the servant came in to carry the children to bed, and,
considerably against their wishes, they were obliged to withdraw.
"Come again, Dick," said Johnny.
"Thank you," said Dick. "Good-night."
"Good-night," said the two children, and the door closed upon them.
"I think I'll be going," said Dick, who did not feel quite so much at
ease, now that his young friends had left him.
"Wait a few minutes," said Mrs. Rockwell.
She rang the bell, and a servant brought up some cake and apples, of
which Dick was invited to partake.
I need not detail the conversation; but Mrs. Rockwell, with the tact of
a genuine lady, managed to draw out Dick, and put him quite at his ease.
"How old are you, Richard?" she asked.
"Fifteen," said Dick; "goin' on sixteen."
"You are getting to be quite a young man,--old enough to wear a watch.
Have you one?"
"No," said Dick, not suspecting the motive that led to her question.
"Will you allow me the pleasure of supplying the deficiency?" said Mrs.
Rockwell.
As she spoke, she drew from a box at her side a very neat gold watch and
chain, and placed it in Dick's hands.
Our hero was so astonished at first that he could scarcely believe that
this valuable present was intended for him.
"Is it for me?" he asked, hesitatingly.
"Yes," said Mrs. Rockwell, smiling pleasantly. "I hope you will find it
of service."
"It is too much," said Dick. "I do not deserve it."
"You must let me be the judge of that," said the lady, kindly. "Here is
the key; I nearly forgot to give it to you. I suppose you know how to
wind it up?"
"Yes," said Dick. "I understand that. I am very much obliged to you."
"You are very welcome. Whenever you look at it, let it remind you that
under all circumstances you can rely upon the friendship of Johnny's
parents."
Dick slipped the watch into a watch-pocket in his vest, for which he had
never before had any use, and attached the chain to his button-hole.
"How beautiful it is!" he said, in tones of admiration.
"It was bought at Ball & Black's," said Mrs. Rockwell. "If it should not
keep good time, or anything should happen to it, I advise you to take it
there, and they will repair it for you."
Dick perceived by his new watch that it was nearly ten o'clock, and rose
to go. He was kindly invited to renew his visit, and promised to do so.
