authorized reprisals upon the personal property of those in the
vicinity who were in sympathy with the rebellion, to an extent
sufficient to remunerate the government for all losses by their
depredations. A bitter partisan organ, the Memphis Avalanche, which
published incendiary and treasonable articles, was promptly suppressed.
He took possession of unoccupied premises belonging to persons absent
and in arms against the government, rented them, and paid the proceeds
into the treasury of the United States. For the benefit of the fugitive
negroes, who crowded into his lines, he issued humane and just orders,
particularly defining the manner in which they should be employed and
paid. Persons from the South who were willing to bluster, but not to
fight, for the Confederacy, and hastened to Memphis to escape the
remorseless rebel conscription, were made liable to draft.
In dealing with the troops under his own command, Grant was just and
humane; but "bumming" and marauding on private account were prohibited.
When the soldiers, in some instances, disobeyed the strict orders on
this subject, the value of property taken or destroyed by them was
charged to the account of their regiment, and deducted from their pay,
if the offenders could not be discovered.
In dealing with civil affairs, in the multitudinous details which come
within the scope of a department commander, he displayed a decided
talent and ability to adjust the most difficult matters. He always knew
where he was, and what to do. For every difficulty he had a remedy; for
every infraction of law or discipline he had a check. In the management
of the trying affairs of a military district, which has so frequently
proved to be the severest demand upon the wisdom, skill, and patience
of the soldier holding it under martial law, he displayed the highest
order of ability. His judgment, tact, and discretion would have been
more than creditable in one who had spent a lifetime in the study and
practice of the principles of political economy, or who had served a
long apprenticeship as a magistrate. Without being a politician, he was
a statesman.
But Grant had hardly made his mark yet, and, except as the hero of
Donelson and Shiloh, he was scarcely known to the country, before which
he was soon to stand as the foremost man of his time. I watched Grant
at Memphis, I watched him at Corinth and at Jackson, as he controlled
the difficult details of his department, kept the rebel civilians in
subjection, and directed his forces to certain conquest, and I would
rather have been Ulysses S. Grant than my illustrious ancestor Sir
Bernard Galligasken, whose knightly prowess and whose glittering title
had early tickled my imagination. Even then I loved the man, and almost
adored him, as I realized that a brilliant destiny was in store for him.
As far back as May, 1862, when McClellan had only proved that he was
great as the organizer of an army,--and it must be conceded that he
has not since proved any more than this,--my excellent friend Mr.
Washburne, in his noble speech in Congress, deemed it expedient to use
these remarkable words: "Let no gentleman have any fears of General
Grant. He is no candidate for the presidency." Surely with only the
lustre of Donelson and Shiloh reflected upon him, he never thought of
aspiring to that magnificent position. Why was it necessary, when the
illustrious soldier had only taken a couple of steps towards fame, to
make this astounding declaration? Was it seen even then that he was
a probable or a possible candidate in the future? The noble-minded
and patriotic representative made this declaration to save Grant
from the persecution of the wire-pullers, whose friends, the possible
candidates, would be damaged by the appearance of a new aspirant, who,
with a fitness for the office, added thereto the merit of availability.
It was well for the politicians to take the bull by the horns, but they
might as well attempt to nullify the laws of nature as to defeat the
will of the people.
Grant had then no thought of being president. His modesty, if
nothing else, would have forbidden the aspiration. He was a pure
patriot then, as he is now; and the only consideration with him was
to suppress the rebellion. He never "pulled the wires," even for a
brigadier's commission, which was not above the ambition of thousands
of fourth-rate politicians. He was ready to serve the country in any
capacity, obeyed his orders, and quietly submitted to disgrace and
insult for the good of the cause. The people are not blind. They see
and know their man.
CHAPTER XIX.
    Wherein Captain Galligasken shows how six Months were spent around
    Vicksburg by the illustrious Soldier, and how the President rather
    liked the Man, and thought he would try him a little longer.
The second line of rebel defences had been broken. Memphis, Corinth,
and the towns on the Tennessee River, in Northern Alabama, connecting
links in the chain, were in possession of the national forces. But
Buell had failed in his expedition to East Tennessee. He had made no
impression upon Chattanooga; he had been beaten at Perrysville, and had
been superseded by Rosecrans.
After the departure of General Halleck from the West to act as
general-in-chief, Grant was left virtually in charge of the department
of the Tennessee, and discharged all the duties of that important
position. On the 16th of October, 1862, he was formally assigned to
the command, and near the close of the month issued his order to that
effect, and defined the limits of his jurisdiction. Very soon after,
he proposed to Halleck to commence a movement upon Vicksburg; and this
was the first mention which had been made by either of them of this
important point. But Grant meekly and modestly added that he was ready
to do with all his might whatever his superior, should order, and
without criticism, which, I humbly submit, was a magnificent position
for a man of his enlarged and comprehensive views to take, for most of
our generals believed they were nothing unless they were critical. He
was a grand exception, and we do not, in a single instance, outside of
the line of his duty, find him analyzing and carping at the operations
of others.
Vicksburg was now the objective point, for Halleck gave the commander
of the department of the Tennessee full power and permission to carry
out his own plans and purposes in his own way. From this time there
was no clashing between the two generals. They heartily supported each
other, as Grant had always been willing to do, and Halleck afforded
him every assistance and encouragement in his power. It is possible
that he had received a new revelation in regard to the abilities
of the hero of Donelson and Shiloh; that Grant's exhibition of his
skill in constructing earthworks at Corinth had won the heart of the
general-in-chief, or that his handsome strategic movements in the
operations which had included Iuka, Corinth, and the Hatchie had
demonstrated the fact that he was not a mere bull-dog thirsting for
blood, and without any perception of military tact and skill. It was
rather late for Halleck to learn this; but to his honor and glory let
it be said, that he no longer permitted himself to be a stumbling-block
in the path of his subordinate; that he fairly and squarely sustained
him in his grand enterprises.
From the beginning of the war the Confederacy had been fully alive
to the vital importance of the Mississippi River. From Columbus to
the Gulf it had been fortified and protected by every means which the
skill and resources of the South could afford. Forts Jackson and St.
Philip guarded its lower part, and covered New Orleans; though these
were nullified by the daring of Farragut, and the city fell early in
the war. But there were half a dozen other "Gibraltars" on its long
line--Columbus, Island No. 10, Fort Pillow, Memphis, Vicksburg, and
Port Hudson. Foote had used up Island No. 10, after the rebels were
compelled to evacuate Columbus. Fort Pillow and Memphis had yielded
before the persuasive force of the naval squadron, and only Vicksburg
and Port Hudson were left to dispute the passage of the great river.
Between these two points the enemy, depending almost wholly upon
Texas for its supplies of cattle, ferried them over, and by the line
of railroads from Vicksburg to Charleston, not yet approached by the
national arms, were enabled still to send food to all their armies in
the east and south.
Bold Farragut had passed the batteries at Port Hudson with his
squadron, and sailed up to Vicksburg, more than five hundred miles from
the Gulf. Here he had bombarded the strong works which protected the
city; but as they were planted on high bluffs, all the advantage was in
favor of the enemy, and the result was not a success. The troops which
accompanied him under General Williams attempted to open the canal,
which was to form a new bed for the river, and enable the fleet to
pass the city. But this scheme also failed, and though a part of the
squadron ran the gantlet of the batteries, and joined the naval force
above the city, the expedition was obliged to return to New Orleans to
escape the diseases incident to the climate.
About the 1st of November Grant initiated his movement in the direction
of Vicksburg. Commencing on the line of defence which had just been
wrested from the rebels, there was a railroad extending from Memphis
to Grenada. Fifty miles east of Memphis, from near La Grange, on the
railroad extending east and west, was another line to the south--the
Mississippi Central--which also went to Grenada, where the two roads
meeting extended to Jackson, forty miles east of Vicksburg, and thence
to New Orleans. Both of these roads crossed the Tallahatchie River,
a branch of the Yazoo, which flowed into the Mississippi a few miles
above Vicksburg. Grant's plan was to move down upon these lines of
railway, depending upon them in his rear for supplies.
Pemberton, who was in command of Vicksburg and the forces which were
covering it in the State of Mississippi, was holding the railroad,
and made the Tallahatchie River his line of defence. On the 4th
of November, Grant took possession of La Grange, near the Central
Railroad, driving the Confederate advance to Holly Springs, about
twenty miles farther south.
While Grant moved in this direction, Sherman started from Memphis, and
another force was moved out from Helena to coöperate with him. Grant
proceeded on the railroad, captured Holly Springs, and made it his
