prospect before him. "I'm afraid of being run over."
"If you are, you can sue 'em for damages," said Dick.
Finally Frank got safely over after several narrow escapes, as he
considered them.
"Is it always so crowded?" he asked.
"A good deal worse sometimes," said Dick. "I knowed a young man once
who waited six hours for a chance to cross, and at last got run
over by an omnibus, leaving a widder and a large family of orphan
children. His widder, a beautiful young woman, was obliged to start
a peanut and apple stand. There she is now."
"Where?"
Dick pointed to a hideous old woman, of large proportions, wearing a
bonnet of immense size, who presided over an apple-stand close by.
Frank laughed.
"If that is the case," he said, "I think I will patronize her."
"Leave it to me," said Dick, winking.
He advanced gravely to the apple-stand, and said, "Old lady,
have you paid your taxes?"
The astonished woman opened her eyes.
"I'm a gov'ment officer," said Dick, "sent by the mayor to collect
your taxes. I'll take it in apples just to oblige. That big red one
will about pay what you're owin' to the gov'ment."
"I don't know nothing about no taxes," said the old woman, in
bewilderment.
"Then," said Dick, "I'll let you off this time. Give us two of
your best apples, and my friend here, the President of the Common
Council, will pay you."
Frank smiling, paid three cents apiece for the apples, and they
sauntered on, Dick remarking, "If these apples aint good, old lady,
we'll return 'em, and get our money back." This would have been
rather difficult in his case, as the apple was already half
consumed.
Chatham Street, where they wished to go, being on the East side, the
two boys crossed the Park. This is an enclosure of about ten acres,
which years ago was covered with a green sward, but is now a great
thoroughfare for pedestrians and contains several important public
buildings. Dick pointed out the City Hall, the Hall of Records, and
the Rotunda. The former is a white building of large size, and
surmounted by a cupola.
"That's where the mayor's office is," said Dick. "Him and me
are very good friends. I once blacked his boots by partic'lar
appointment. That's the way I pay my city taxes."
CHAPTER V
CHATHAM STREET AND BROADWAY
They were soon in Chatham Street, walking between rows of ready-made
clothing shops, many of which had half their stock in trade exposed
on the sidewalk. The proprietors of these establishments stood at
the doors, watching attentively the passersby, extending urgent
invitations to any who even glanced at the goods to enter.
"Walk in, young gentlemen," said a stout man, at the entrance of one
shop.
"No, I thank you," replied Dick, "as the fly said to the spider."
"We're selling off at less than cost."
"Of course you be. That's where you makes your money," said Dick.
"There aint nobody of any enterprise that pretends to make any
profit on his goods."
The Chatham Street trader looked after our hero as if he didn't
quite comprehend him; but Dick, without waiting for a reply, passed
on with his companion.
In some of the shops auctions seemed to be going on.
"I am only offered two dollars, gentlemen, for this elegant pair
of doeskin pants, made of the very best of cloth. It's a frightful
sacrifice. Who'll give an eighth? Thank you, sir. Only seventeen
shillings! Why the cloth cost more by the yard!"
This speaker was standing on a little platform haranguing to three
men, holding in his hand meanwhile a pair of pants very loose in
the legs, and presenting a cheap Bowery look.
Frank and Dick paused before the shop door, and finally saw them
knocked down to rather a verdant-looking individual at three
dollars.
"Clothes seem to be pretty cheap here," said Frank.
"Yes, but Baxter Street is the cheapest place."
"Is it?"
"Yes. Johnny Nolan got a whole rig-out there last week, for a
dollar,--coat, cap, vest, pants, and shoes. They was very good
measure, too, like my best clothes that I took off to oblige you."
"I shall know where to come for clothes next time," said Frank,
laughing. "I had no idea the city was so much cheaper than the
country. I suppose the Baxter Street tailors are fashionable?"
"In course they are. Me and Horace Greeley always go there for
clothes. When Horace gets a new suit, I always have one made just
like it; but I can't go the white hat. It aint becomin' to my
style of beauty."
A little farther on a man was standing out on the sidewalk,
distributing small printed handbills. One was handed to Frank,
which he read as follows,--
"GRAND CLOSING-OUT SALE!--A variety of Beautiful and Costly
Articles for Sale, at a Dollar apiece. Unparalleled Inducements!
Walk in, Gentlemen!"
"Whereabouts is this sale?" asked Frank.
"In here, young gentlemen," said a black-whiskered individual,
who appeared suddenly on the scene. "Walk in."
"Shall we go in, Dick?"
"It's a swindlin' shop," said Dick, in a low voice. "I've been
there. That man's a regular cheat. He's seen me before, but he
don't know me coz of my clothes."
"Step in and see the articles," said the man, persuasively. "You
needn't buy, you know."
"Are all the articles worth more'n a dollar?" asked Dick.
"Yes," said the other, "and some worth a great deal more."
"Such as what?"
"Well, there's a silver pitcher worth twenty dollars."
"And you sell it for a dollar. That's very kind of you," said Dick,
innocently.
"Walk in, and you'll understand it."
"No, I guess not," said Dick. "My servants is so dishonest that I
wouldn't like to trust 'em with a silver pitcher. Come along, Frank.
I hope you'll succeed in your charitable enterprise of supplyin'
the public with silver pitchers at nineteen dollars less than they
are worth."
"How does he manage, Dick?" asked Frank, as they went on.
"All his articles are numbered, and he makes you pay a dollar, and
then shakes some dice, and whatever the figgers come to, is the
number of the article you draw. Most of 'em aint worth sixpence."
A hat and cap store being close at hand, Dick and Frank went in. For
seventy-five cents, which Frank insisted on paying, Dick succeeded
in getting quite a neat-looking cap, which corresponded much better
with his appearance than the one he had on. The last, not being
considered worth keeping, Dick dropped on the sidewalk, from which,
on looking back, he saw it picked up by a brother boot-black who
appeared to consider it better than his own.
They retraced their steps and went up Chambers Street to Broadway.
At the corner of Broadway and Chambers Street is a large white
marble warehouse, which attracted Frank's attention.
"What building is that?" he asked, with interest.
"That belongs to my friend A. T. Stewart," said Dick. "It's the
biggest store on Broadway.* If I ever retire from boot-blackin', and
go into mercantile pursuits, I may buy him out, or build another
store that'll take the shine off this one."
* Mr. Stewart's Tenth Street store was not open at the time
Dick spoke.
"Were you ever in the store?" asked Frank.
"No," said Dick; "but I'm intimate with one of Stewart's partners.
He is a cash boy, and does nothing but take money all day."
"A very agreeable employment," said Frank, laughing.
"Yes," said Dick, "I'd like to be in it."
The boys crossed to the West side of Broadway, and walked slowly up
the street. To Frank it was a very interesting spectacle. Accustomed
to the quiet of the country, there was something fascinating in the
crowds of people thronging the sidewalks, and the great variety of
vehicles constantly passing and repassing in the street. Then again
the shop-windows with their multifarious contents interested and
amused him, and he was constantly checking Dick to look in at some
well-stocked window.
"I don't see how so many shopkeepers can find people enough to buy
of them," he said. "We haven't got but two stores in our village,
and Broadway seems to be full of them."
"Yes," said Dick; "and its pretty much the same in the avenoos,
'specially the Third, Sixth, and Eighth avenoos. The Bowery, too,
is a great place for shoppin'. There everybody sells cheaper'n
anybody else, and nobody pretends to make no profit on their goods."
"Where's Barnum's Museum?" asked Frank.
"Oh, that's down nearly opposite the Astor House," said Dick.
"Didn't you see a great building with lots of flags?"
"Yes."
"Well, that's Barnum's.* That's where the Happy Family live, and the
lions, and bears, and curiosities generally. It's a tip-top place.
Haven't you ever been there? It's most as good as the Old Bowery,
only the plays isn't quite so excitin'."
* Since destroyed by fire, and rebuilt farther up Broadway,
