made one sad to see a hope missed, or, perhaps, dropped 
out of life. It startled me for a moment. 
And then I wondered if I should ever find such a star 
to light me on my way. Existence would be bare and 
bleak without it. I was capable of loving with passionate 
 
intensity ; and yet, standing here upon the shore, I 
trembled with nameless apprehension. What if I should 
wreck this precious bark? There were so many ingulfing 
tides and quicksands. I longed to dare its mystery, and 
yet shrank from that fateful time. 
Our stay had been prolonged on account of the opera, 
which had been unusually fine. It was mid-October be- 
fore a day for our return was appointed. 
I had grown warmly attached to the Westervelts. Be- 
tween Philip and myself there existed a warm regard, too 
generous for love, and yet singularly comprehensive. I 
had a faint misgiving that his mother expected it to ripen 
into the rare bloom of that passion ; and Mrs. Lawrence 
smiled an unqualified approval. 
I had a fancy, too, that another watched. Was it for 
his sake? That thought annoyed me. Did Mr. St. John 
fancy that I should take pleasure in idly coquetting with 
such a heart, or did he believe me not worthy of so high a 
regard ? 
I had been lingering in the library a long while with 
Philip one afternoon, and fallen into a pleasant reverie, 
when a light step brought me back to reality ; or, rather, 
the peculiar presence which I felt with a vivid presenti- 
ment. I turned, and our eyes met. Mr. St. John crossed 
the room, and stood beside me. 
" Well?" I said, at length, wishing to break the power- 
ful spell. 
" Would one dare to be friends with you ? " It was ut- 
tered in a low tone, and did impress me singularly. 
"Mr. Westervelt doesn't find it a difficult matter," I 
answered, coldly. 
" It is about that ; and if I take a friend's privilege, 
pardon me. You are young, and have turned but few 
pages in the book of experience : I have read it to its 
 
bitter end. Am I not right in thinking you would avoid 
giving pain to one who is susceptible to deepest anguish 
as well as dearest joy ?" 
His voice was grave, but gentle in its inflection, as if 
somewhere in the daikness a chord of music had been 
touched, and sent back a responsive thrill. 
I made no answer with my lips, but I think he saw as- 
sent in my eyes* 
" Philip is affectionate, confiding, essentially truthful. Is 
it quite right to encourage a love that you do not, cannot 
return ? " 
"Why can I not?" I said, almost defiantly, yet scarcely- 
above a whisper. 
"Because your soul was cast in a different mould." 
"You do not understand. I have given no encourage- 
ment of the kind you mean." 
" Not intentionally. I acquit you of that. But a ship 
m:iy be lost by following a stray light from some distant 
hill. Child, it is saving you as Well. Tell me that I may 
trust you." 
His hand touched mine: the strength and power mag- 
netized me into a yielding mood. It was like being borne 
along by some swift current. 
" You may trust me." 
I said it almost without any volition of my own. The 
eyes, dusky with a luminous light, transfixed mine, reading 
my inmost soul, an unwritten page as yet. Then our lips 
met just an instant. If he had willed, he could have car- 
ried every pulse captive. What hidden cause restrained 
him ? 
I knew then that I could not love Philip Westervelt with 
the strength and passion of my slowly dawning nature. 
He was manly to the heart's core, tender, susceptible, and 
the woman of his choice would be twice blest when she 
 
gave and when she received. But this chalice was not for 
me ; it would be held to some other lips. My draught 
might be perilously sweet, yet there would be in it a flavor 
keen almost to bitterness. 
I sat there in silence long after he left me, trembling 
\vitli strange anticipations. I fancied my life was not to 
be as other lives, but filled with extremes, as it had been 
in childhood. I felt like one who has been long in dark- 
ness, and whose pulses flutter at the first tremulous ray of 
light. I would go whithersoever it led. 
t 
CHAPTER VII. 
" I do believe, 
Though T have found them not, that there may be 
Words which are things, hopes which will not deceive.-" 
CHILDE HAROLD. 
I AM delighted to be at Laurelwood again. 
In the ripened flushes of gold and crimson the season 
seems to gather up its trailing garments, and sweep impe- 
riously through fields of mellow sunshine, groves of flow- 
ers, and clustering trees, leaving the maple scarlet and 
glowing with the warm embrace, and lighting the whole 
landscape with tawny flames. I thrill at the splendor, and 
long to hold the days in some giant clasp, that they fly 
not too rapidly. Long, inspiriting rides bring a flush to 
my cheek, and sometimes I can almost feel the fire that I 
know must flash from my eyes. 
Mrs. Lawrence left me alone with nature while she pre- 
pared the house for a ball, that I might not lack in-door 
entertainment. I thought there was nothing to improve, 
but she did find some alterations to make. She has a re- 
markable eye, certainly. I don't wonder that Mr. St. John 
admires her: she is so quiet and elegant in all she docs. 
I believe she could have everything taken out of the 
drawing-room and replaced, without a person suspecting 
it from any noise or bustle. 
The house was a marvel on the night of the ball. The 
spacious hall, with its marble floor polished anew, every 
niche surprising you with a tall vase of flowers, or some 
dainty statue gracefully posed ; the wide stairs, with their 
 
soft carpet, a mass of delicate climbing vines, and moss 
that seemed to have been just gathered from rank, sliaily 
woods, yet dripping with moisture. The lights were soft- 
ened, in order to give it a dreamy, suggestive look, rather 
than a brilliant glare. 
If possible, the drawing-room was still more magnificent. 
At any time it was a storehouse of rare treasures, so ex- 
quisitely arranged that it never seemed crowded, and yet 
lured you on and on with a sense of undiscovered beauty. 
On the opposite side of the hall the library displayed its 
choice stores, and the gilded organ pipes made bright one 
shadowy corner. A large reception room for ordinary pur- 
poses had been turned into a cosy nook by bringing out 
some curious little stands, exquisitely carved or inlaid, 
until they looked like pure mother-of-pearl. A vase of 
flow-el's, a book of engravings, or some odd foreign toy 
won you to look, and then a luxurious chair wooed you 
to stay. 
Mr. St. John asked me to go through the rooms before 
the revel began, never checking my enthusiasm in its 
wildest flights. I think he has been more friendly of late; 
some of his moods absolutely startle me, for I feel as if I 
were drifting down pome weird, entrancing shore, and 
long to reach out my hand to cling to solid rock or tree. 
I am afraid of him, and yet I never appear to have the 
power to rescue myself. I am not sure but I like that 
bright, generous gei.iulity best ; it has less power in it, and 
does not give one the sense of hurrying on breathlessly 
whither? 
All the neighboring gentry had been invited, and some 
guests from a distance. By dusk there was a trooping 
through the halls, and a low, pleasant confusion of voices. 
I obeyed Mrs. Lawrence's injunctions, and kept to my 
room. Thirza, it seemed, would never have done with me. 
 
I had grown quite used to her pleasant service; but now 
she dallied unconscionably. 
A servant came up from Mr. St. John. He had sent me 
a few Cromatilla rose-buds and lemon-blossoms to wear, 
and I thanked him from the depth of my heart for his 
interest. 
At last I was dressed. Mrs. Lawrence pronounced me 
perfect. I hardly knew myself, I was such a marvel of 
