    hoped he'd marry soon, and I quite agree with her that it would
    be well for him. Frankfort was delightful; I saw Goethe's house,
    Schiller's statue, and Dannecker's famous 'Ariadne.' It was very
    lovely, but I should have enjoyed it more if I had known the
    story better. I didn't like to ask, as every one knew it, or
    pretended they did. I wish Jo would tell me all about it; I
    ought to have read more, for I find I don't know anything, and
    it mortifies me.
    "Now comes the serious part,--for it happened here, and Fred is
    just gone. He has been so kind and jolly that we all got quite
    fond of him; I never thought of anything but a travelling
    friendship, till the serenade night. Since then I've begun to
    feel that the moonlight walks, balcony talks, and daily
    adventures were something more to him than fun. I haven't
    flirted, mother, truly, but remembered what you said to me, and
    have done my very best. I can't help it if people like me; I
    don't try to make them, and it worries me if I don't care for
    them, though Jo says I haven't got any heart. Now I know mother
    will shake her head, and the girls say, 'Oh, the mercenary
    little wretch!' but I've made up my mind, and, if Fred asks me,
    I shall accept him, though I'm not madly in love. I like him,
    and we get on comfortably together. He is handsome, young,
    clever enough, and very rich,--ever so much richer than the
    Laurences. I don't think his family would object, and I should
    be very happy, for they are all kind, well-bred, generous
    people, and they like me. Fred, as the eldest twin, will have
    the estate, I suppose, and such a splendid one as it is! A city
    house in a fashionable street, not so showy as our big houses,
    but twice as comfortable, and full of solid luxury, such as
    English people believe in. I like it, for it's genuine. I've
    seen the plate, the family jewels, the old servants, and
    pictures of the country place, with its park, great house,
    lovely grounds, and fine horses. Oh, it would be all I should
    ask! and I'd rather have it than any title such as girls snap up
    so readily, and find nothing behind. I may be mercenary, but I
    hate poverty, and don't mean to bear it a minute longer than I
    can help. One of us must marry well; Meg didn't, Jo won't,
    Beth can't yet, so I shall, and make everything cosey all round.
    I wouldn't marry a man I hated or despised. You may be sure of
    that; and, though Fred is not my model hero, he does very well,
    and, in time, I should get fond enough of him if he was very
    fond of me, and let me do just as I liked. So I've been turning
    the matter over in my mind the last week, for it was impossible
    to help seeing that Fred liked me. He said nothing, but little
    things showed it; he never goes with Flo, always gets on my side
    of the carriage, table, or promenade, looks sentimental when we
    are alone, and frowns at any one else who ventures to speak to
    me. Yesterday, at dinner, when an Austrian officer stared at us,
    and then said something to his friend,--a rakish-looking
    baron,--about 'ein wonderschönes Blöndchen,' Fred looked as
    fierce as a lion, and cut his meat so savagely, it nearly flew
    off his plate. He isn't one of the cool, stiff Englishmen, but
    is rather peppery, for he has Scotch blood in him, as one might
    guess from his bonnie blue eyes.
    "Well, last evening we went up to the castle about sunset,--at
    least all of us but Fred, who was to meet us there, after going
    to the Post Restante for letters. We had a charming time poking
    about the ruins, the vaults where the monster tun is, and the
    beautiful gardens made by the elector, long ago, for his English
    wife. I liked the great terrace best, for the view was divine;
    so, while the rest went to see the rooms inside, I sat there
    trying to sketch the gray stone lion's head on the wall, with
    scarlet woodbine sprays hanging round it. I felt as if I'd got
    into a romance, sitting there, watching the Neckar rolling
    through the valley, listening to the music of the Austrian band
    below, and waiting for my lover, like a real story-book girl. I
    had a feeling that something was going to happen, and I was
    ready for it. I didn't feel blushy or quakey, but quite cool,
    and only a little excited.
    "By and by I heard Fred's voice, and then he came hurrying
    through the great arch to find me. He looked so troubled that I
    forgot all about myself, and asked what the matter was. He said
    he'd just got a letter begging him to come home, for Frank was
    very ill; so he was going at once, in the night train, and only
    had time to say good-by. I was very sorry for him, and
    disappointed for myself, but only for a minute, because he
    said, as he shook hands,--and said it in a way that I could not
    mistake,--'I shall soon come back; you won't forget me, Amy?'
    "I didn't promise, but I looked at him, and he seemed satisfied,
    and there was no time for anything but messages and good-byes,
    for he was off in an hour, and we all miss him very much. I know
    he wanted to speak, but I think, from something he once hinted,
    that he had promised his father not to do anything of the sort
    yet awhile, for he is a rash boy, and the old gentleman dreads a
    foreign daughter-in-law. We shall soon meet in Rome; and then,
    if I don't change my mind, I'll say 'Yes, thank you,' when he
    says 'Will you, please?'
    "Of course this is all very private, but I wished you to know
    what was going on. Don't be anxious about me; remember I am your
    'prudent Amy,' and be sure I will do nothing rashly. Send me as
    much advice as you like; I'll use it if I can. I wish I could
    see you for a good talk, Marmee. Love and trust me.
                                    "Ever your                 AMY."
                                 XXXII.
                            TENDER TROUBLES.
"Jo, I'm anxious about Beth."
"Why, mother, she has seemed unusually well since the babies came."
"It's not her health that troubles me now; it's her spirits. I'm sure
there is something on her mind, and I want you to discover what it is."
"What makes you think so, mother?"
"She sits alone a good deal, and doesn't talk to her father as much as
she used. I found her crying over the babies the other day. When she
sings, the songs are always sad ones, and now and then I see a look in
her face that I don't understand. This isn't like Beth, and it worries
me."
"Have you asked her about it?"
"I have tried once or twice; but she either evaded my questions, or
looked so distressed that I stopped. I never force my children's
confidence, and I seldom have to wait for it long."
Mrs. March glanced at Jo as she spoke, but the face opposite seemed
quite unconscious of any secret disquietude but Beth's; and, after
sewing thoughtfully for a minute, Jo said,--
"I think she is growing up, and so begins to dream dreams, and have
hopes and fears and fidgets, without knowing why, or being able to
explain them. Why, mother, Beth's eighteen, but we don't realize it, and
treat her like a child, forgetting she's a woman."
"So she is. Dear heart, how fast you do grow up," returned her mother,
with a sigh and a smile.
"Can't be helped, Marmee, so you must resign yourself to all sorts of
worries, and let your birds hop out of the nest, one by one. I promise
never to hop very far, if that is any comfort to you."
"It is a great comfort, Jo; I always feel strong when you are at home,
now Meg is gone. Beth is too feeble and Amy too young to depend upon;
but when the tug comes, you are always ready."
"Why, you know I don't mind hard jobs much, and there must always be one
scrub in a family. Amy is splendid in fine works, and I'm not; but I
feel in my element when all the carpets are to be taken up, or half the
family fall sick at once. Amy is distinguishing herself abroad; but if
anything is amiss at home, I'm your man."
"I leave Beth to your hands, then, for she will open her tender little
heart to her Jo sooner than to any one else. Be very kind, and don't let
her think any one watches or talks about her. If she only would get
quite strong and cheerful again, I shouldn't have a wish in the world."
"Happy woman! I've got heaps."
"My dear, what are they?"
"I'll settle Bethy's troubles, and then I'll tell you mine. They are not
very wearing, so they'll keep;" and Jo stitched away, with a wise nod
which set her mother's heart at rest about her, for the present at
least.
While apparently absorbed in her own affairs, Jo watched Beth; and,
after many conflicting conjectures, finally settled upon one which
seemed to explain the change in her. A slight incident gave Jo the clue
to the mystery, she thought, and lively fancy, loving heart did the
rest. She was affecting to write busily one Saturday afternoon, when she
and Beth were alone together; yet as she scribbled, she kept her eye on
her sister, who seemed unusually quiet. Sitting at the window, Beth's
work often dropped into her lap, and she leaned her head upon her hand,
in a dejected attitude, while her eyes rested on the dull, autumnal
landscape. Suddenly some one passed below, whistling like an operatic
blackbird, and a voice called out,--
           [Illustration: She leaned her head upon her hands]
"All serene! Coming in to-night."
Beth started, leaned forward, smiled and nodded, watched the passer-by
till his quick tramp died away, then said softly, as if to herself,--
"How strong and well and happy that dear boy looks."
"Hum!" said Jo, still intent upon her sister's face; for the bright
color faded as quickly as it came, the smile vanished, and presently a
tear lay shining on the window-ledge. Beth whisked it off, and glanced
apprehensively at Jo; but she was scratching away at a tremendous rate,
apparently engrossed in "Olympia's Oath." The instant Beth turned, Jo
