"Mr. President," commenced Roswell, gazing about him in a vacant way,
"this is a great occasion."
"Of course it is," said Burgess.
"We are assembled to-night--"
"So we are. Bright boy!" said David Green.
"I am a gentleman's son," continued Roswell.
"What's the gentleman's name?" interrupted Wilmot.
"And I think it's a shame that I should only be paid six dollars a week
for my services."
"Bring your employer here, and we'll lynch him," said Tracy. "Such mean
treatment of a member of the Madison Club should meet with the severest
punishment. Go ahead."
"I don't think I've got anything more to say," said Roswell. "As my
head doesn't feel just right, I'll sit down."
There was a round of applause, and Wilmot arose.
"Mr. President," he said, gravely, "I have been very much impressed
with the remarks of the gentleman who has just sat down. They do equal
credit to his head and his heart. His reference to his salary was most
touching. If you will allow me, I will pause a moment and wipe away
an unbidden tear." (Here amid laughter and applause, Wilmot made an
imposing demonstration with a large handkerchief. He then proceeded.)
"Excuse my emotion, gentlemen. I merely arose to make the motion that
the gentleman should furnish us a copy of his remarks, that they may
be engrossed on parchment, and a copy sent to the principal libraries
in Europe and America."
Roswell was hardly in a condition to understand that fun was being made
of him, but listened soberly, sipping from time to time from his glass.
"The motion is not in order," said Brandon. "The hour for business has
gone by."
The punch was now removed, and cards were produced. The remainder of
the evening was spent in playing euchre and other games. Roswell took
a hand, but found he was too dizzy to play correctly, and for the
remainder of the evening contented himself with looking on. Small sums
were staked among some of the players, and thus a taste for gambling
was fostered which might hereafter lead to moral shipwreck and ruin.
This was the way in which the members of the Madison Club spent
their evenings,--a very poor way, as my young readers will readily
acknowledge. I heartily approve of societies organized by young people
for debate and mutual improvement. They are oftentimes productive of
great good. Some of our distinguished men date their first impulse to
improve and advance themselves to their connection with such a society.
But the Madison Club had no salutary object in view. It was adapted to
inspire a taste for gambling and drinking, and the money spent by the
members to sustain it was worse than wasted.
Roswell, however, who would have found nothing to interest or attract
him in a Debating Society, was very favorably impressed by what he
had seen of the Madison Club. He got an erroneous impression that it
was likely to introduce him into the society of gentlemen, and his
aristocratic predilections were, as we know, one of Roswell's hobbies.
It was about eleven when the club broke up its meeting. Previous to
this there was a personal difficulty between Wilmot and Tracy, which
resulted in a rough-and-tumble fight, in which Wilmot got the worst of
it. How the quarrel arose no one could remember,--the principals least
of all. At last they were reconciled, and were persuaded to shake hands.
They issued into the street, a noisy throng. Roswell's head ached, the
punch, to which he was not accustomed, having affected him in this way.
Besides this he felt a little dizzy.
"I wish you'd come home with me, Ralph," he said to his friend. "I
don't feel quite right."
"Oh, you'll feel all right to-morrow. Your head will become as strong
as mine after a while. I'm as cool as a cucumber."
"It's rather late, isn't it?" asked Roswell.
"Hark, there's the clock striking. I'll count the strokes. Eleven
o'clock!" he said, after counting. "That isn't very late."
Ralph accompanied Roswell to the door of his mother's house in Clinton
Place.
"Good-night, old fellow!" he said. "You'll be all right in the morning."
"Good-night," said Roswell.
He crept up to bed, but his brain was excited by the punch he had
drank, and it was only after tossing about for two hours that he at
length sank into a troubled sleep.
CHAPTER XXIII.
WHO WAS THE THIEF?
When Roswell rose the next morning he felt cross and out of sorts. His
head still ached a little, and he wished he were not obliged to go to
the store. But it was out of the question to remain at home, so he
started about half an hour after the usual time, and of course arrived
late.
"You are late this morning," said Mr. Baker. "You must be more
particular about being here in good season."
Roswell muttered something about not feeling quite well.
Putting his hand into his pocket by chance, his fingers came in contact
with the key which he had made to open the cash drawer. Just as he was
passing Mark, he drew it out and let it drop into the side-pocket of
his jacket. So, if suspicion were excited, the key would be found on
Mark, not on him.
The critical moment came sooner than he had anticipated.
A Mr. Gay, one of the regular customers of the bookstore, entered a few
minutes later.
"Good-morning, Mr. Baker," he said. "Have you got a 'Tribune' this
morning?"
"Yes, here is one. By the way, you are just the man I wanted to see."
"Indeed, I feel complimented."
"Wait till you hear what I am going to say. You bought a copy of
'Corinne' here on Monday?"
"Yes."
"And handed me a five-dollar bill on the Park Bank?"
"Yes."
"Well, I find the bill was a skilfully executed counterfeit."
"Indeed! I didn't examine it very closely. But I know where I took it,
and will give you a good bill in exchange for it."
"I locked it up lest it should get out," said Mr. Baker.
He went to the drawer which Roswell had opened. Roswell listened to
this conversation with dismay. He realized that he was in a tight
place, for it was undoubtedly the five-dollar counterfeit which he
had taken, and paid to the Secretary of the Madison Club. He awaited
nervously the result of Mr. Baker's examination.
"Don't you find it?" asked Mr. Gay.
"It is very strange," said Mr. Baker. "I placed it at the top of a pile
of bills, and now it is gone."
"Look through the pile. Perhaps your memory is at fault," said Mr. Gay.
Mr. Baker did so.
"No," he said, "the bill has disappeared."
"Do you miss anything else?"
"No. The money is just five dollars short."
"Perhaps you forget yourself, and paid it away to a customer."
"Impossible; I always make change out of this drawer."
"Well, when you find it, I will make it right. I am in a hurry this
morning."
Mr. Gay went out.
"Has any one been to this drawer?" inquired Mr. Baker, abruptly.
"You always keep it locked,--do you not?" said Mr. Jones.
"And keep the key myself. Yes."
"Then I don't see how it could have been opened."
"There was nothing peculiar about the lock. There might easily be
another key to fit it."
"I hope you don't suspect me, Mr. Baker?"
"No, Mr. Jones, you have been with me five years, and I have perfect
confidence in you."
"Thank you, sir."
"I hope you don't suspect me, sir," said Roswell, boldly. "I am willing
to turn my pockets inside-out, to show that I have no key that will fit
the lock."
"Very well. You may do so."
Roswell turned his pockets inside-out, but of course no key was found.
"How lucky I got rid of it!" he thought.
"Now it's your turn, Mark," he said.
"I'm perfectly willing," said Mark, promptly.
He put his hand into his pocket, and, to his unutterable astonishment
and dismay, drew out a key.
"I didn't know I had this in my pocket," he said, startled.
"Hand me that key," said Mr. Baker, sternly.
Mark handed it to him mechanically.
Mr. Baker went behind the counter, and fitted the key in the lock. It
proved to open the drawer with ease.
"Where did you get this key?" he said.
"I didn't know I had it, sir," said Mark, earnestly. "I hope you will
believe me."
"I don't understand how you can hope anything of the kind. It seems
very clear that you have been at my drawer, and taken the missing
money. When did you take it?"
"I have never opened the drawer, nor taken your money," said Mark, in a
firm voice, though his cheek was pale, and his look was troubled.
"I am sorry to say that I do not believe you," said Mr. Baker, coldly.
"Once more, when did you take the five dollars?"
"I did not take it at all, sir."
"Have you lent the key to any one?"
"No, sir. I did not know I had it."
"I don't know what to do in the matter," said the bookseller, turning
to Mr. Jones, his assistant. "It seems clear to me that the boy took
