"Didn't she seem disturbed at your seeing her thus engaged?"
"She seemed angry, and accused me of prying into her actions."
"What opinion did you form of her object at that time?" asked the
lawyer.
"I thought she was looking for the will," said John, frankly.
"Are your relations with your stepmother pleasant?" asked Squire Selwyn.
"I am sorry to say they are not," said John. "If they had been, I
would not have troubled myself about the will. But I can see that Mrs.
Oakley is determined to persecute me, and make my life unhappy, and
that she is determined not to carry out any of my father's plans about
my education. She has already taken away my horse, and sold it. She
intended to give it to Ben, but he had an unlucky adventure with it one
afternoon."
"I heard of that," said the lawyer, smiling. "He got thrown, didn't he?"
"Yes, sir. That cured him of wanting to ride, and so the horse was
sold."
"It was a present to you from your father, was it not?"
"Yes, sir. Ben received at the same time a gold watch, which he still
has."
"That seems hardly fair. One question more: Have you any knowledge of
any secret drawer in your father's desk, or in any article which he
used to own?"
"No, sir."
"I suppose not. If there had been one, he would hardly have disclosed
its whereabouts to a boy. Well, my young friend," said the lawyer,
rising, as if to terminate the interview, "I am glad to have received
this call from you. I regard your information as important. It
strengthens the conviction which I before entertained, that your
father's last will is in existence somewhere. Out of regard to your
interests, as well as to carry out his last wishes, I sincerely hope
that it may be found. But I need not tell you that in the present
position of affairs the greatest caution is absolutely necessary. I am
not prepared to advise you at present, but shall take your case under
my most serious consideration."
John took his cap and books, and Squire Selwyn accompanied him to the
door of the office. As they stood on the threshold, an open wagon drove
by. Both looked up simultaneously, and an expression of vexation swept
over the lawyer's face as he recognized Mrs. Oakley and her brother.
Mrs. Oakley's eye lighted up as it rested upon John.
"He is getting dangerous," she thought. "It is well I am going to be
rid of him."
CHAPTER XII.
AN UNEXPECTED JOURNEY.
John could not help wondering what inference Mrs. Oakley would draw
from seeing him in consultation with the lawyer. He anticipated that it
would arouse her suspicions, and lead to his being treated with greater
coldness and harshness than ever. It was with considerable surprise,
therefore, that on presenting himself at the supper-table he received
a very pleasant greeting from his stepmother. She made no allusion to
having met him, but, in her conversation with her brother, asked two or
three questions of John, in an easy way, as if the relations between
them were perfectly cordial. Ben glanced at his mother once or twice in
surprise, for she had not seen fit to take him into her confidence, and
he did not understand what this sudden cordiality meant. John, who had
usually been excluded from any share in the conversation, was not only
surprised, but pleased, and hoped that the change would be permanent.
His resentment was not lasting, and he was prepared to respond to his
stepmother's advances. Mr. Huxter's conduct puzzled him a little. That
gentleman seemed disposed to be quite affable and social.
"I hope, Mr. Oakley, you and Benjamin will some time favor me with a
visit at my humble home. I cannot promise you as good accommodations as
you have at home, but I shall be very glad to see you--very."
"Thank you, sir," said John.
Ben, who was not remarkable for politeness, did not deign a word in
reply to his uncle's invitation.
In spite of Mr. Huxter's not very prepossessing exterior John began
to think him quite a pleasant man, and felt obliged to him for his
invitation, though he felt no particular desire to accept it.
After supper was over, Mr. Huxter turned to John:--
"I am going out on the door-step to smoke my pipe. I suppose you don't
smoke?"
"No, sir," said John.
"I was going to ask you to join me; but of course you don't smoke. It
isn't good for boys. Do you smoke, Ben?"
"I don't smoke a pipe," said Ben, glancing with some disgust at the
clay pipe, the bowl of which his uncle was filling.
"I suppose you, being a young gentleman, smoke cigars. They are more
aristocratic. But I'm a poor man, and I can't afford them. Well, if
you'll get your cigar, we'll have a social smoke together."
"I've got an engagement," said Ben, not very graciously, and, putting
on his hat, he stalked off.
"He's an impudent puppy," said Mr. Huxter to himself. "I wish I had the
training of him for a little while. But I must put up with his insults,
or lose all hope of help from my sister."
"Come home early, Benjamin," said his mother.
"Oh, you needn't sit up for me. You go to bed so precious early it
doesn't give me any evening at all."
Mrs. Oakley followed him with her eyes a little uneasily. While Mr.
Oakley was alive Ben kept pretty straight, for he stood somewhat in
awe of his stepfather; but since his death he had shown a disposition
to have his own way, and his mother's wishes weighed very little with
him. She could not help feeling that the boy in whom her dearest hopes
centred, and for whom she was willing even to wrong another, manifested
very little gratitude for her devotion to him. John, whom she charged
with lack of respect, treated her at all times much more respectfully
than her own son. But Mrs. Oakley was prejudiced, and would not see
this. She shut her eyes alike to John's merits and Ben's faults, and
the latter took his own way, spending the evening in the bar-room and
billiard saloon, and learning much that he ought not to have learned.
About half-past nine in the evening, when John was studying his lesson
in "Xenophon's Anabasis," he heard a low knock at the door. Supposing
it to be one of the servants, he said, carelessly, "Come in!"
Looking up, as the door opened, he was not a little surprised at the
entrance of his stepmother. With the instincts of a young gentleman, he
rose hastily, and, drawing a chair, said:--
"Won't you sit down, Mrs. Oakley?"
"Thank you, John," said his stepmother; "I will sit down a moment. You
are studying, I suppose."
"Yes, I was preparing my Greek lesson for to-morrow."
John tried not to look surprised, but he wondered very much what should
have led to a call from Mrs. Oakley, especially at so late an hour.
"You are getting on well in your studies, I have no doubt."
"Thank you. So my teacher says."
"I am glad to hear it. I am afraid it will be an interruption for you
to be absent from school a few days."
"Yes, it would be an interruption; but if you wish it, I could try to
make it up afterwards."
"I came to ask a favor of that kind."
"Does she want me to work on the farm?" thought John, puzzled.
But he was not long kept in doubt.
"My brother, who is now stopping here, leaves for home to-morrow
morning," proceeded Mrs. Oakley. "There's a little business I want
attended to, which makes it desirable that some one should go back with
him. I might send Ben, but I don't think he would answer the purpose.
So I have thought of you."
"Does Mr. Huxter go to-morrow morning?" asked John.
"He has just decided to do so. That, I am aware, gives you but short
notice," said Mrs. Oakley.
"Shall I need to be away long?"
"A few days at least. Have you a carpet-bag?"
"A small one."
"That will answer. You can put in a couple of shirts, some collars,
stockings, and handkerchiefs."
"How shall I know what to do?"
"My brother will give you all the needful information. And now,
good-night. We shall breakfast at six, in order to be in time for the
stage."
"Very well, I will be ready."
Mrs. Oakley left the room, and went downstairs, leaving John
considerably puzzled by what had happened. He was sorry to be kept from
school for a few days even, for he was at the head of his class both in
Greek and Latin, and would lose his standing temporarily at least. But
it was characteristic of him to be obliging, even at the cost of some
self-sacrifice, and therefore he had made no opposition to the wishes
of his stepmother, though it did occur to him that, as Ben neither
attended school nor did anything else except amuse himself, he might
have executed his mother's commission. However, John knew enough of
Ben's disobliging disposition to suspect that he had been applied to
and refused, especially as he could see that he had no great affection
for his uncle. Of course he could have no suspicion of the trap which
Mrs. Oakley had artfully laid for him, and that the few days' absence
were intended by her to extend to months and possibly years.
"If I am going early to-morrow morning," thought John, "I may as well
stop studying and pack my carpet-bag. I wish I had asked Mrs. Oakley
where her brother lives."
John closed his "Anabasis," and found his carpet-bag. Into it he put
whatever he thought would be needed in a week's absence. He did not
suppose he should be away longer than that.
"If it were not so late," he thought, "I would run over and tell Sam
that I am to be away for a few days. He will be surprised when he don't
