"No; and they shall not know it. If they don't know enough to go ashore
when the vessel is adrift, let them stay on board."
"Well, Perth is the only fellow to whom I mentioned it."
"That's all right; but don't let him say anything about how the thing
is to be done."
"He don't know. I only told him we had a plan which could not possibly
fail."
"It won't, if Peaks don't make trouble. We must let off the gun when he
is not on deck," continued Little.
"We shall be able to see, after to-night, how things are to be done on
board, and whether any of the men are to keep watch," added Herman. "We
needn't give up if we don't happen to get off to-morrow night, for we
have two or three weeks to do the job in."
Little, seated out on the bowsprit, rehearsed his plan again, and went
into all the minor details. They were presently joined by Perth, and
the whole affair was explained to him. He approved it, and made a
number of suggestions in regard to the boats.
"I am bound to go this time," said Perth, earnestly. "I don't stay
another week in the Academy. I have had my shoulder-straps stripped
off, and am pointed at by the lambs as an example of a naughty boy. I
bluffed them all on board the ship, but with me the die is cast. If
your plan don't work, I shall jump overboard, and swim ashore. I have
been degraded and disgraced, and I can't possibly stand it any longer."
"We are all in the same boat; and if we can't get off any other way, we
will set the vessel afire, and swim ashore by the light of it," added
Little.
"You are the fellow for me!" exclaimed Perth. "I don't want any milk
and water about this scrape. If we can't make it go in one way, we will
try another."
Peaks, who was planking the deck, extended his walk to the forecastle,
and the trio discontinued their conversation. They were satisfied that
setting the vessel adrift, some time in the night, would accomplish
their purpose, and they were willing to wait till the next evening.
They had some difficulty in escaping the observation of their
companions who were not in the secret; but they assured them something
would be done just as soon as Mr. Fluxion started for Italy, which it
was understood, would be on the following day.
Berths were assigned to the temporary crew of the Josephine, and at an
early hour they turned in. None of them were detailed to keep the
anchor watch on deck; but in the night Little crawled out of his berth,
and went up the ladder. All was still on deck, and he could not see
that any one was on watch. Seven bells struck on board a man-of-war at
anchor near the vessel. It was half past eleven. He crept stealthily to
the forecastle, where he found Bitts, who was asleep under the lee of
the capstan. This discovery satisfied him that the forward officers
were to keep the anchor watch. The arrangement was not favorable to the
carrying out of Little's scheme; but if the man on deck would only
sleep, it would not make so much difference.
Little carefully studied the situation, which suggested to his fertile
invention half a dozen expedients, in case he failed at the proper time
to unbit the cable. Four of them could jump into one of the cutters,
lower the boat from the davit, and might reach the shore before a
single man could call assistance, and get another boat into the water.
One of them could pretend to be sick, and, sending the watchman to the
cabin to procure medicine, escape while he was looking for it. And so
the little schemer went on till he had a quiver full of expedients, any
one of which promised to be successful. Having satisfied himself that
he had not been reckoning too fast, he went below again, and turned in.
At daylight in the morning all hands were called on board of the Young
America. An early breakfast was taken, and a steamer came alongside to
convey the happy party to the shore. The hands on board the Josephine
were turned out at the same hour, and they had the satisfaction of
seeing the members of the Order of the Faithful depart on their
pleasant tour to the Rhine. Breakfast was served to them at the usual
hour, and when Herman and Little went on deck, after the meal, they saw
a man in a canoe coming alongside. He looked like a pilot, but neither
of the two runaways who saw him suspected that he had a mission on
board. He came on deck, and was duly welcomed by Mr. Fluxion.
"What does that covey want here?" said Little.
"I don't know," replied Herman.
"He has made his canoe fast astern, as though he meant to stay here
some time."
"O, he's only loafing, and wants to see a Yankee ship and a Yankee
crew," laughed Herman.
Little did not exactly like the coming of the pilot; not that he had
any suspicion of the actual programme, but he was afraid the vessel
might be moored in some less convenient place for the escape than her
present berth. As the runaways finished their breakfast, they came on
deck, and some of them recognized the pilot as the one who had brought
the Josephine into port the day before.
"All hands, on deck, ahoy!" shouted Peaks, blowing a pipe more shrill
than had ever before been heard on board of the consort.
All hands were on deck already; but the call produced a decided
sensation. Something was to be done, and all hands fell to discussing
probabilities with a zeal, which ought to have brought forth correct
conclusions. The general opinion seemed to be, that nothing more than a
sermon was coming off, though the vice-principal was not much given to
preaching. If Mr. Fluxion was going to Italy, it would be necessary for
him formally to transfer his authority to Professor Carboy. On the
whole, therefore, the prospect was rather pleasing than otherwise.
Herman, and some of the others who were deeply concerned in coming
events, advised all the fellows to behave well, and take the preaching
kindly, so that the officers need not "smell a mice."
"All hands, up anchor, ahoy!" roared old Peaks, piping a blast which
seemed to come from the breath of a north-wester, while the leading
spirits were counselling meekness and submission.
"What does that mean?" demanded the astonished Perth.
"O, nothing! Only we are going to have another anchorage," replied
Herman.
"Lively, my hearties," said the boatswain, as he stepped forward into
the waist. "Don't you hear the pipe?"
"I hear it; but we haven't been stationed in this vessel," replied
Herman.
"That's very true, my lad; for once you speak the truth."
"You are a little fast, Peaks," said the vice-principal, coming up from
the cabin with a paper in his hand. "Here is the bill, and we will
station the crew before we do anything."
Every one of the runaways was stationed for each of the various
evolutions of getting under way, making and taking in sail, reefing and
tacking. They were all good seamen, and it was not necessary to drill
them in their duties. The boatswain again piped, "All hands, up anchor,
ahoy!"
The hands took their stations promptly enough, and when the anchor was
hove up to a short stay, the foresail and mainsail were hoisted.
"Clear away the jib and flying-jib!" shouted Mr. Fluxion, who gave all
the orders himself, though they were repeated by Peaks and Cleats, who
acted as first and second officers.
"All ready forward, sir," reported Cleats.
"Man the capstan! Stand by the jib-halyards!"
"Anchor a-weigh, sir!" said Cleats, who was doing duty on the
forecastle.
"Hoist the jib!"
"Up with the jib!" repeated Peaks.
As the anchor came up to the hawse-hole, the jib filled, and the vessel
began to move.
"Cat and fish the anchor!" called the vice-principal; and his order was
passed forward.
"Cat and fish the anchor!" exclaimed Perth. That doesn't look as though
we were going to another anchorage."
"It's all right; we can't go far," added Herman.
While those who were stationed on the top-gallant forecastle were
engaged in catting and fishing the anchor, those who had been assigned
to places on the topsail and top-gallant yards were sent aloft.
"Lay aloft, sail-loosers!" continued Mr. Fluxion, and the top-men and
top-gallant-men ran up the rigging as nimbly as though they had
perfectly comprehended the purpose of the officers. "Lay out and
loose!"
"All ready!" shouted Bitts, who had gone aloft with the top-men.
"Let fall!"
"Let fall," passed from Peaks to Bitts, and from the latter to the
top-men.
"Man the topsail and top-gallant sheets and halyards. Sheet home, and
hoist away!"
The topsails and top-gallant sails were speedily set, the braces were
manned, and the yards trimmed. Gage had the helm, the pilot standing
near him to give out the courses. The main gaff-topsail was next set,
and the Josephine was then under full sail. With the wind fair, and
everything drawing, she flew through the Goulet at the rate of ten
knots an hour. Peaks was as busy as a bee, and in person saw that every
rope was properly coiled up or flemished, that the cable was in order
to run out when needed, and in general, that everything was in
ship-shape order.
As good seamen, the young gentlemen understood that these careful
preparations did not indicate merely a change in the holding-ground of
the vessel. Everything about the Josephine seemed to be shrouded in
profound mystery. Peaks kept all hands at work till the strict order of
a man-of-war prevailed in every part of the deck and rigging. He did
not say anything, or do anything, which afforded the slightest hint in
regard to the destination of the consort. Mr. Fluxion planked the
quarter-deck, and did not manifest the least sign of an intention to go
