Kathie that must be made immediately, for Aunt 
Euth wanted her as soon as she would be ready to 
come. 
" She doesn't need a nurse now, but some one to 
do little errands and wait upon her, and you are so 
used to that. And Uncle Robert has been making 
arrangements for you to take lessons in music ; so 
this, with a practice every day, will give you a walk. 
Mr. Meredith was very anxious that you should come 
and recite with his brother's little girl, but we con- 
cluded that would be rather too much." 
" Oh, did you see Ada ? " 
" Yes. I have met her twice only. Mr. Meredith 
is very fond of her, and I believe she is quite accom- 
plished." 
That was all Mrs. Alston said. She did not 
admire Ada altogether, but neither did she desire 
that Kathie should be prejudiced or acquire habits of 
unkind criticism. She thought that she could safely 
trust her little girl even to adverse influence for so 
short a time. 
" I 'm glad that I can study music. Miss Jessie 
has been giving me a few lessons, and I like it so 
much. I suppose we shall have a piano." 
" Some time," answered her mother, quietly. She 
knew that it was to be Kathie's Christmas gift, but 
it was a secret as yet. 
They went out to find a dressmaker, and though 
Miss Latimer was very busy, she promised to give 
them two days and do the fitting, and to have a 
seamstress at the same time would expedite matters. 
"How odd it seems to be looking for people to 
come and work for us ! " said Kathie, gayly. " I 
sometimes almost forget who I am." 
Mrs. Alston found it quite a relief. She had spent 
a good deal of her time during the past six weeks in 
sewing, and active exercise was a pleasant change. 
And so Miss Latimer came and cut and talked. 
She appeared to know about everybody, and all the 
clothes they had worn for the last seven years. She 
was very pleasant, however, and not ill-natured in her 
gossip, though she did say at her next place, which 
happened to be the Thornes', " Half a dozen dresses, 
and not a single silk among 'em ! The child going to 
New York too, where she 'll be asked out to parties. 
I would let her have something like other girls in 
her station, if I was her mother!' 
Kathie thought them especially pretty, a cloth 
dress trimmed with scarlet, and a waterproof with a 
scarlet hood, a beautiful bright plaid poplin, and some 
soft merinos. The green one was made with a dainty 
zouave ; the blue, almost the color of her Cinderella 
dress, as she called it, was embroidered with black 
braid, her mother's work during the long watches ; and 
then the lovely rose crimson, which seemed the pret- 
tiest of all, if there could be any choice. 
" Kathie," her mother said, " it is Aunt Euth's 
fancy to have you come, for she is so accustomed to 
your ways. Dr. Markham did not quite approve of 
it at first, as he thought it too confining ; but when 
the arrangements were made he acquiesced, though 
he reserved the right of sending you home if he found 
it was likely to injure your health. I expect you will 
be lonesome at first, and if you get homesick you 
need not be afraid to write. I do not want you to 
stay if you are not contented." 
"But I think I ought to be," replied Kathie, "and 
with Aunt Kuth too ! " 
" Two months will be quite a long stay, though 
likely you will come home during that time. But I 
have said this so that you might feel sure we should 
not be disappointed if you desired a change, or think 
it a crime." 
"Mamma, I shall be very sorry to leave you" 
Kathie answered, gravely. " But it will be pleasant 
for Aunt Kuth, and that must be my comfort when I 
feel a little down-hearted, if I should." 
The bright face promised a most cheerful compan- 
ion, and yet it was not an easy thing to go among 
strangers when she loved them all so well at home. 
But Eob thought that all the nice things came to 
her. Two days would have finished him out, had it 
happened right for him to try the experiment. 
Kathie went to Mrs. Gardiner's to take tea, and to 
Miss Jessie's. The latter was coming to the city to 
spend a fortnight with some cousins, and altogether 
the prospect did not look very alarming. Kathie 
kept up a brave heart, though she did have two or 
three quiet cries when she was all alone at the thought 
of parting with mamma. 
Uncle Robert treated it as a pleasant visit, and it 
would have been quite impossible to get low-spirited. 
So she said her good-bys cheerfully, and they were 
whirled to the city as fast as the great iron horse 
could take them. 
Aunt Ruth was delighted to see them. Kathie was 
a little shocked at the change. She had seen her 
when she had been pale and thin, but now her com- 
plexion was transparent, and all the tiny blue veins 
had come to the surface. Her eyes had a peculiar, 
wistful look, and the tears came into them as she 
kissed Kathie. 
" My little darling," she said, with deep emotion, 
" I cannot tell how glad I am to see you. Your 
coming is like sunshine to me." 
At that Kathie felt repaid for the sacrifice. 
" I suppose you are getting well ? " she asked, hesi- 
tatingly. 
" yes, but it is so very slow " ; and Aunt Ruth 
sighed. 
" Are you sorry that I wished it ? " Kathie's soft 
lips murmured against Aunt Ruth's cheek. 
"My precious child, no. It is very tiresome to 
be sure, but I think of the delight we shall have 
when I am well. And I have longed to see you 
so. Now that you have come I shall be content." 
The past ten or twelve days had been very lonely 
for Aunt Euth. She had suffered a good deal and 
was weak and nervous, and longed for a familiar face. 
For so many years she had been the centre of the 
household, listening to childish cares and griefs, and 
sharing every one's pleasures. The utter depriva- 
tion of interest, and the enforced quiet had worn 
upon her spirits, that were usually so cheerful. 
Dr. Markham eyed Katliie with a trifle of suspi- 
cion, yet his voice was pleasant as he asked, " Do 
you think you can play nurse, little one ? >: 
" Yes," answered Kathie, " if any one will tell me 
just what to do." 
What a bright, winsome face the child had, to be 
sure, and such a soft, low voice ! 
" Oh, there 's nothing to do, that 's the worst of it. 
And keeping still is not very entertaining to young 
people." 
 
Aunt Kuth smiled at Kathie, as if they two could 
enjoy quiet moments, even if much talking was for- 
bidden. 
Presently Uncle Kobert left them to go to his 
hotel, and Dr. Markham, after giving a few orders, 
went down to attend to a new patient. Kathie had 
time then to take a survey of the place. 
A large back room in the third story, with a pros- 
pect that was not very enchanting, it must be con- 
fessed, as you could see nothing but the rear of the 
houses in the next street. It was very pretty and 
pleasant inside, however. A little fire was burn- 
ing in the low grate, and it gave the green carpet 
a cheerful glow, while the flowered chintz curtains 
at the window were suggestive of sunshine ; a tiny 
centre-table with a vase of flowers, and no untidy 
bottles or cups standing round. Just beyond was 
a smaller apartment containing a single bed. 
" I suppose this is to be mine," said Kathie, smil- 
ingly. " Did you have a nurse after mamma went 
away ? " 
" There is another patient, and as we are neither 
of us in a critical condition one nurse answered very 
well for both. But when one has to lie in bed help- 
less it is so nice to have some one of your own. I 
