nice." 
So it was. Pleasant light from withinside 
streamed warm through the hanging window- 
blinds of the long windows, and promised welcome before they got in. At the door, under 
the projecting hood, a lamp shone bright upon 
the entrance steps. People were flocking in. 
The opening door let them into a cheerful 
room, not large, with long rows of seats on 
either hand of a wide matted aisle ; the view 
closed by a little desk at the further end on a 
raised platform. Right and left of the desk, 
two small transepts did somewhat to enlarge 
the accommodations of the place ; which had 
a cozy, home look, comfortable and bright. 
Where do those doors lead to ? " Clarissa 
whispered ; " behind the desk ? " 
" O, those open to the infant class room. 
Isn't it nice ? " Maria answered. 
" It is small," said Clarissa. 
 
" It is large enough, though. We shall not 
fill it to-night." 
And they did not. There was only a little 
company gathered, of various ages. Some 
quite grown people ; many who were younger. 
They had drawn towards the upper end of 
the room, and clustered near the platform. 
" There is Mr. Richmond," Maria whis- 
pered presently ; " do you see him ? he is up 
there near the desk talking to Mr. Barker, 
Mr. Barker is one of our teachers, but he haa 
got nothing to do with the Band. That is 
Mrs. Trembleton, isn't she pretty ? sitting 
down there in front; she always sits just 
there, if she can, and I have seen her ever so 
put out if she couldn't when somebody else 
had got it, you know. And there " 
" But, Maria," whispered Clarissa gravely, 
" do you think it is quite proper to whisper so 
in church ? " 
This isn't church ! " Maria replied with 
great readiness. 
" What then ? " 
" Why, it is only our Sunday school room 
and this is a Band meeting." 
"It looks very like church to me," said 
Clarissa. " Hush ! don't whisper any more." 
For the minister now took his stand at the 
little desk before mentioned ; and even Maria 
was quiet enough during the prayer with 
which he began the proceedings. But then 
Mr. Richmond came in front of the desk, and 
began to speak, seriously indeed, but with an 
easy simplicity which Clarissa thought was 
" not like church." 
" It may not be known to everybody pres- 
ent," Mr. Richmond began, " exactly what 
was done at our last meeting here Thursday 
night. I wish it to be very well understood, 
that every one may join with us in the action 
we took, intelligently ; or keep away from 
it, intelligently. I wish it to be thoroughly 
understood. We simply pledged ourselves, 
some of us who were here Thursday night, to 
live and work for Christ to the best and the 
utmost of our ability, as He would give us 
 
grace to do. We pledged ourselves to each 
other and to our Master ; to the end that we 
might the better help each other, being so 
pledged; and that we might enter into some 
system and plan of work by which we might 
accomplish much more than we could hope to 
do without plan or system. I have a list in 
my hand, of various kinds of work which it 
may be well for us to attempt ; some kinds 
will suit some people and other kinds will suit 
other people ; but before we go into a consideration of these, I will read something else to 
you. We must do this thing we must 
enter into this pledge to God and each other, 
those of us who enter into it, knowing exactly what we do, and if possible, why we do 
it. I have drawn up in a few words what we 
mean, or what we ought to mean, in giving 
this pledge ; and now I am going to read it 
to you ; and after I have read it I shall ask all 
of you who have heard it and agreed to it, to 
rise up, without any regard to the question 
whether you were among those who rose last 
 
Thursday or not. I wish no one to stand 
who does not fully and intelligently agree to 
every word of this covenant ; but I hope 
that will be the case with every one of you 
all. The children can understand it as 
well as the grown people. This is the covenant. 
" ' We are the servants of Christ. 
" ' And as he died for all, that they which 
live should not live unto themselves but unto 
him so we do not count ourselves to belong 
to ourselves. We are the Lord's. 
" ' We want to do all we can do, that would 
please him and honour him, whether it be in 
our own hearts or in the world. 
" ' So we stand ready to do his will ; in telling the good news to others ; in shewing how 
precious we hold it ; in carrying help of every 
sort to our neighbour, upon every opportunity ; 
walking as children of the Light; if by any 
means we may advance our Lord's kingdom 
and glory. 
" ' And all this we will try to do, by his 
help, trusting in his grace and resting in 
his promises, whose word cannot fail.' " 
" Now," said Mr. Richmond when he had 
read this, which he read very slowly and deliberately, as if he wished that every one 
should weigh every word, " I am going to ask 
you to rise and so declare your agreement 
with this covenant all of you who have 
heard and understood it, and who are ready 
to pledge yourselves to its responsibilities. 
Every one whose own mind and wish this 
covenant expresses will please rise." 
The little stir which this request occasioned 
through the room, left few of the assembly in 
their seats. Maria, as soon as she was upon 
her feet, looked to see how it was with her 
companions. To her great satisfaction, 
Clarissa was standing beside her; but Anne 
and Letitia were sitting in their places, and 
so was Matilda in hers beyond them. Maria 
frowned and nodded at her; but Mr. Richmond had desired the people to sit down 
again before these signs could take any effect, 
" It is as I hoped," Mr. Richmond said in a 
satisfied voice. " I have no alteration to 
make in my lists, beyond the addition of one 
or two new names ; and that sort of alteration 
J shall be glad to make whenever people will 
let me. I will receive new names at any time, 
of those who wish to join our Band our 
Working Band. I do not know what we 
shall call ourselves ; but one thing is certain, 
we mean to be a working people. Now suppose we see what kinds of work we are 
prepared to undertake each one of us in particular. Of course, we are all to do all we 
can and of all kinds ; but there are some kinds 
of work that each one can do better than he 
can do others ; and to those particular lines of 
effort each one will pledge himself to give 
special attention. 
" The first thing on my list, is, 
"'Bringing new scholars to the school! 
Who will take this as his special work ? Observe, it is not meant that you should ask 
any children to come to our school who are 
already members of some other school. We 
do not wish that. But who will undertake to 
look out and bring in some of the children 
that go nowhere ? All who want to do this 
raise your hands." 
There was a show of hands. 
" We must have a secretary," said Mr. 
Richmond. " Mr. Van Dyke, here is paper 
and ink, will you kindly come and write 
