
“ To-morrow, I think.” 

Rob threw up his cap. Freddy followed suit, but 
his hat being straw, a whiff of wind took it, and away 
it floated over the observatory railing. 


 


“Bad for your enthusiasm,” said Uncle Robert, 
laughingly ; “ but I guess we shall find it on the roof 
as we go down.” 

“I ’ll take a little ride on Firefly,” was Freddy’s 
philosophical announcement; and he mounted his 
steed while the rest returned to the lower floor, Rob 
enjoying the fun of climbing out of the window for 
the missing hat. 

Presently they all went back. “What a forlorn 
little place ! ” ejaculated Rob, cutting off the top of a 
hollyhock with a little switch he had picked up else- 
where. “ To think that we have lived in it so many 
years ! ” and he gave a disdainful glance around. 

“ But it ’s been real nice,” said Katliie. “ I shall 
always remember two such delightful events.” 

“ What ? ” asked Rob. He could think of nothing 
but bringing coal and water, splitting kindlings, and 
working in the garden when he wanted to go fishing. 

“ Miss Jessie’s staying to tea, and dear Uncle 
Robert’s coming home. And then the first day she 
took Aunt Ruth sleigh-riding, and Oh, ever so many 
pleasant things ! ” 

“ But the new house for me, say I ! ” 

Kathie looked thoughtful. She did anticipate a 


 


great deal of happiness in the future, hut somehow 
the memories of the last six months were very dear 
and sweet to her. It seemed to her that she wasn’t 
quite the same little Kathie who had found a few 
gifts on the kitchen mantel in the early dawn of 
Christmas morning. She used to think it very hard 
to have to stay in and sew when other girls ran out 
to play, to wear shabby boots, and dresses that were 
faded and mended, and never have any money to 
spend. Did she really deserve all these blessings ? ” 

She prayed softly that God would not let her 
go astray, and that she might be a comfort to 
them all. 

The next morning there was some packing, though 
Mrs. Alston had decided to keep only a few things 
that were endeared to her by old and pleasant as- 
sociations. The remainder were to be sold at auction, 
and the house also was to pass into new hands. 

They took Aunt Ruth in a carriage, and then 
Uncle Robert insisted upon carrying her up and 
down stairs in order to have her see every room. 
Her joy and gratitude were very touching. Even 
in the old prosperous days they had not been quite 
so elegant. Her own apartment suited her to a charm. 


 


“ I am so glad you chose crimson,” she said. “ It 
has such a warm, cosey look in winter.” 

“ She ’s like Fred,” said Rob, laughing, — “making 
arrangements for winter. Why, it will be midsum- 
mer first ! ” 

“ True enough ! Well, Rob, here ’s the lovely 
lake looking cool and shady. The view from this 
bay-window is charming. Altogether I feel like 
Kathie, — as if I were in fairy-land.” 

“And now I have one of my wishes,” said the 
child, with a bright smile. “ If I can only have 
the next ; but I shall not know what to ask for 
the third.” 

“ It is one of the fortunate dispensations of 
Providence that our wishes shall always increase,” 
said Uncle Robert, with a mirthful expression. 

“ Kathie isn’t a fair sample,” continued Rob. 
“ She doesn’t empty her purse, nor do any of the 
things that I would like.” 

“ When I make my next fortune, Rob, I shall sure- 
ly have to take you into partnership,” said his uncle. 

It seemed so odd to have supper in that long 
dining-room, where the sideboard was ornamented 
with choice glasses and lovely bouquets, and the 


 


bright pictures banging on the walls made it look 
like giving a party, Fred said. 

“ I think we ought to have a house-warming ; 
isn’t that what people call it ? ” Eob exclaimed. 

“ And I too,” declared his uncle. “ We must 
christen our own abode. Kathie, we will send for 
Mr. Meredith and have a gay time.” 

“ O Uncle Eobert, you always do plan such 
delightful things ! ” and Kathie’s face was in a glow 
of pleasure. 

“ We will write to-morrow, and ask him to spend 
a week or two with us, and while he is here we 
will give the party.” 

“ Whom shall we ask ? ” said Eob, alive with 
interest. “ I ’cl like to have some boys.” 

“ How odd ! Now Kathie and I would be better 
pleased with girls.” 

“ A girls’ party ! Why, it wouldn’t be any fun 
at all ! ” and Eob was going into the scarlet hues 
of indignation when a merry twinkle in his uncle’s 
eye caused him to pause and feel rather abashed. 

“ Yes, have some girls,” said Freddy. “ Can’t 
Miss Jessie come, and, Oh Unde Eobert, if you 
would only buy me a parrot ! ” 


 


At this there was a general laugh. 

“Well, we will have boys and girls and grown 
people. I don’t know as parrots would be considered 
an addition ” ; and Uncle Eobert looked very grave. 

Freddy didn’t exactly see the point, but just then 
the dessert was brought in, and both party and 
