"Eva, child! I would not have thought this of you. Why haven't you told
me before?"
"Because, mamma, it was only this afternoon that I found out that he
loved me and wanted me to be his wife."
"And may I presume to ask now who it is?" said Mrs. Van Arsdel, in a
tone of pique.
"Dear mother, it is Harry Henderson."
"Mr. Henderson! Well, I do think that is too dishonorable; when I told
him your relations with Mr. Sydney."
"Mother, you gave him to understand that I was engaged to Mr. Sydney,
and I told him, this afternoon, that I was not, and never would be. He
was honorable. After you had that conversation with him, he avoided our
house a long time, and avoided me. I was wretched about it, and he was
wretched; but this afternoon we met accidentally in the Park; and I
insisted on knowing from him why he avoided us so. And, at last, I found
out all; and he found out all. We understand each other perfectly now,
and nothing can ever come between us. Mother, I would go with him to the
ends of the earth. There is nothing that I do not feel able to do or
suffer for him. And I am glad and proud of myself to know that I can
love him as I do."
"Oh well, poor child! I do not know what we shall do," said Mrs. Van
Arsdel, with profound dejection.
"Deary mother, I will do everything I can to help you, and everything I
can to help papa. I do not believe there is one of us children that
would not. And I think it is true, what Ida is always telling us, that
it would be a great deal better for us if we had less, and had to depend
on ourselves and use our own faculties more. There are the boys in
college; there is no need of their having spending-money as they do. And
I know if papa would tell them of his difficulties it would make men of
them, just as it would make a woman of me."
"Well, I do not know," said Mrs. Van Arsdel. "Your father has not told
me of any particular embarrassments, only I see he is anxious and
nervous, and I know him so well that I always know when his affairs
trouble him. And this is a great blow to me, Eva."
"Well, dear mother, I am very sorry it is so; but I cannot help it. It
would be wicked for me, mother, to marry any other man when I love Harry
as I do. Love is not a glove that you can take off as you please. It is
something very different. Now, with him, I never felt tired. I always
like to be with him; I always like to talk with him; he never makes me
nervous; I never wish he was gone; he can always understand me, and I
can understand him. We can almost tell what the other is thinking of
without speaking. And I will risk our not being happy together. So
please do, dear mother, look a little cheerful about it. Let me be happy
in my own way."
"Well, I suppose I must," said Mrs. Van Arsdel, with a deep sigh, taking
up the lamp. "You always did have your own way, Eva."
"Oh, well, mother dear; some day you'll be glad of it. Good night."
CHAPTER XXXVII.
FURTHER CONSULTATIONS.
After the departure of her mother, Eva in vain tried to compose herself
to sleep. Her cheeks were flushed, and her brain was in a complete
whirl. Her mother had said and hinted just enough about the financial
condition of the family to fill her with vague alarms. She walked
uneasily up and down her luxurious chamber, all whose appointments spoke
of wealth and taste; and it was with an unpleasant feeling of insecurity
that she regarded the pictures and statues and sofas, and all the
charming arrangements, in perfecting which her father had always allowed
her carte blanche as to money. She reflected uneasily, that in making
all these expensive arrangements, she had ordered simply what pleased
her fancy, without inquiry as to price, and without ever glancing over a
bill to know the result; and now, she found herself affianced to a young
man without any other resources than those which must come from the
exertion of his talents, seconded by prudence and economy. And here,
again, offered to her acceptance, was another marriage, which would
afford her the means of gratifying every taste, and of continuing to
live in all those habits of easy luxury and careless expenses that she
could not but feel were very agreeable to her. Not for one moment did
she feel an inclination, or a temptation, to purchase that luxury, and
that ease, by the sale of herself; but still, when she thought of her
lover--of the difficulties that he must necessarily meet, of the cares
which she must bring upon him--she asked herself, "Was it not an act of
injustice to him to burden him with so incapable and helpless a wife, as
she feared she should prove?"
"But I am not incapable," she said to herself, "and I will not be
helpless. I have strength in me, and I will use it; I will show that I
am good for something. I wonder if it is true that papa is embarrassed.
If he is, I wish he would trust us; I wish he would tell us at once, and
let us help him economize. I would do it; I am sure we all would do it."
It was in vain, under the pressure of these thoughts, to try to compose
herself to sleep; and, at last, she passed into her sister Ida's room,
who, with her usual systematic regularity as to hours, had for a long
time been in the enjoyment of quiet slumber.
"Ida, dear!" she said, stooping over and speaking to her sister, "Ida,
look here!"
Ida opened her eyes, and sat up in bed. "Why Eva, child, not gone to bed
yet? What is the matter with you? You will certainly ruin your health
with these irregular hours."
"Oh Ida, I am so nervous I can't sleep! I am sorry to disturb you, but,
indeed, I want to talk to you about something that worries me; and you
know you are always gone before I am up in the morning."
"Well, dear, what is it?" said Ida, stroking her head.
"Do you know mamma has just been into my room with a letter from Mr.
Sydney. He is coming into the field again, and has written to mamma, and
mamma has been in talking to me till I am just ready to cry. Now, Ida,
you know all that took place between Mr. Henderson and me yesterday in
the Park; we are engaged, are we not, as much as two people can be?"
"Certainly you are," said Ida, decisively.
"Well now, mamma is so distressed and disappointed."
"You told her about it, then?" said Ida.
"Certainly; yes, I told her all about it; and oh, Ida! what do you
think? mamma really made me feel as if something dreadful was going to
happen in the family, that papa was getting embarrassed in his business,
and perhaps we might all fail and come to ruin if I did not help him by
marrying Mr. Sydney. Now, do you think it would be right for me? It
certainly can not be my duty!"
"Ask yourself that question," said Ida; "think what you must promise and
vow in marriage."
"To be sure! and how wicked it would be to promise and vow all that to
one man when I know that I love another one better!"
"Then," said Ida, "asking a woman to take false marriage vows to save
her family, or her parents from trouble, is just like asking her to
steal money, or forge a false note to save them. Eva, you cannot do it."
"Well," said Eva, "that is what I told mamma. But, Ida dear, is it
really true, do you think, that papa is troubled in his business?"
"Papa is not a man that would speak freely to any woman on business
matters," said Ida, "not even to me; but I know that his liabilities and
ventures are terrific; and nothing would surprise me less than to have
this whole air-castle that we have been living in dissolve like a
morning mist, and let us down on the pavement. All I have to say is,
that if it comes it is just what I have been preparing for all my life.
I have absolutely refused to be made such a helpless doll as young girls
in our position commonly are. I have determined that I would keep my
faculties bright, and my bodily health firm and strong; and that all
these luxuries should not become a necessity to me, so but what I could
take care of myself, and take care of others, without them. And all I
have to say is, if a crash comes it will find me ready, and it won't
crush me."
"But, Ida, don't you think it would be a great deal better if we would
all begin now to economize, and live very differently? Why, I am sure I
would be willing to move out of this house, and rent it, or sell it, and
live in a smaller one, and give up the carriages and horses. We could
live a great deal cheaper and more quietly than we do, and yet have
everything that I care about. Yes, I'd even rather sell the
pictures--all except a few--and feel safe and independent, than to live
in this sort of glittering, uncertain way, and be pressed to marry a man
that I do not love, for the sake of getting out of it."
"Well, dear," said Ida, "you never will get Aunt Maria to let ma stop
running this race with the Elmores till the last gun fires, and the ship
is ready to sink; that's the whole of it. It is what people will say,
and the thought of being pitied by their set, and being beaten in the
race, that will go further than anything else. If you talk about any
drawing in of expenses, they say that we must not do anything of the
sort--that it will injure papa's credit. Now I know enough of what
things cost, and what business estimates are, to know that we are
spending at a tremendous rate. If we had an entailed estate settled upon
us with an annual income of two or three hundred thousand dollars, there
might be some sense in living as we do; but when all depends on the
value of stocks that are going up to-day and down to-morrow, there is
never any knowing what may happen; and that is what I have always
felt. Father made a lucky hit by investing in stocks that doubled, and
trebled, and quadrupled in value; but now, there is a combination
against them, and they are falling. I know it gives father great
anxiety; and, as I said before, I should not wonder in the
least--nothing would surprise me less, than that we should have a great
crisis one of these times."
"Poor Harry!" said Eva, "it was the thought of my being an heiress that
made him hesitate so long; perhaps he'll have a chance to take me
without that obstacle. Ida, do you think it would be right and just in
me to let him take such an inefficient body as I am? Am I quite spoiled,
do you think--past all redemption?"
