him whistling low, and Matilda knew well 
enough that he regarded it as a very odd 
place for either himself or Pink to find them 
selves in. 

" What's to be done now ? " he inquired of 
her, as she was putting the bread and matches 
on a shelf of the cupboard. 

" The first thing is to make a fire, Norton. 



 

I've got wood enough here. And the 
matches." 

" You have got " said Norton stooping to 
fetch out the sticks from the lower cupboard 
where Matilda had stowed them. " Did you 
get it ? Where did you get it ? " 

" Mr. Swain split it up for me, at the 
iron shop, you know." 

" Did you go to the iron shop for it ? And 
bring it back yourself? " 

" There was nobody else to do it," said 
Matilda. 

"You're a brick!" said Norton. "That's 
what I said. But is this all, Pink ? " 

" It is plenty, Norton." 

" Plenty for to-day. It won't last for any 
more. What then ? " 

I don't know," said Matilda. " O Norton, 
are you going to make the fire ? " 

Norton shewed that such was his intention, 
and shewed besides that he knew very well 
what he was about. Matilda, after looking 
on admiringly, ran off to the pump with her 



 

kettle. The pump was at some distance ; 
before she could fill her kettle and come back, 
Norton overtook her. He quietly assumed 
the tea-kettle as a matter of course. 

" O thank you, Norton ! how good you are," 
Matilda exclaimed. " It was heavy." 

" Look here. Do you come here to do this 
sort of thing all by yourself ? " said Norton. 

" I cannot help that," said Matilda. " And 
I like to do it, too." 

" You mustn't " said Norton. 

" Who will, then, Norton ? And the poor 
old woman cannot do anything for herself." 

" Isn't there somebody in the world to take 
care of her ? " 

" No ; nobody." 

" That's a shame. And I don't believe it, 
either." 

" O but there is nobody, Norton. She is 
quite alone. And if some one will not help 
her, she must go without everything." 

Norton said no more, but he looked very 
much disgusted with this state of society. 



 

He silently watched what Matilda was doing, 
without putting in any hinderance or hinting 
at any annoyance further ; which she thought 
was very good of him. Instead of that, he 
looked after the fire and lifted the kettle when 
it was needful. Matilda as yesterday made 
the tea and spread bread and butter and 
cooked a herring ; and then had the satisfaction of seeing the poor old woman luxuriating 
over what was to her a delicious meal. She 
had said very little since their coming in ; 
but eyed all they did, with a gradual relaxing 
of the lines of her face. Something like 
pleasure, something like comfort, was stealing 
into her heart and working to soften those 
hard lines. Matilda waited now until the 
meal should be quite finished before she 
brought forward anything of different interest. 

" That's a new kettle," was the first 
remark, made while Matilda was clearing 
away the remains of the supper. 

" How do you like it ? " said Norton. 



The old woman looked at him, she had 
done that a great deal already, and answered, 
Who be you ? " 

" I'm the fellow that brought the kettle 
from the shop," said Norton. 

Whose kettle is it ? " 

"It ought to be your's it's on your 
stove." 

"It is your's, Mrs. Eldridge," said Matilda. 

" Well, I hain't had a tea-kettle," said the 
old woman meditatively, " not since I 
declare, I don't know when 'twas. I hain't 
had a tea-kettle, not since my old un fell 
down the well. I never could get it out. 
That one hadn't no kiver." 

" Don't let this one get down in the well," 
said Norton. 

" I shan't go to the well no more," said 
Mrs. Eldridge. " When I had a place, and a 
well, and a bucket, it was good times ! 
That ain't my kettle." 

" Yes, Mrs. Eldridge, it is," said Matilda. 
" It is your's ; and it just fits the stove hole." 





" A kettle's a good thing," said the old 
woman. " It looks good." 

" Now would you like to have a little read 
ing again?" Matilda inquired, bringing out 
her Bible. 

" Have you got anything more about the 
