
 

Ada laughed at the ridiculous idea. A year ago 
she might have considered him prosy, contrasting 
him with Saratoga exquisites ; but he appeared ex- 
ceedingly entertaining now. 

" I have no one to practise with," she said, in
answer. 

" But some one to sing to, I dare say. It is a pity 
to give up the pleasure of so fine a voice." 

" yes, a quadrille, by all means. Uncle Robert 
and Mr. Langdon will dance, I know. There will be 
just enough for two," exclaimed Kathie, in the gayest 
of tones. 

Uncle Robert counted noses. 

" Some one must play, unless we depute that to 
the music-box." 

Mrs. Alston offered herself as a substitute. She 
had helped Hannah take the tea-dishes out to the 
kitchen, and, instead of grumbling, the willing 
domestic had insisted upon doing all the rest. 

Fred Lauriston insisted that he could not dance, 
and Harry Cox made them laugh by declaring that 
he went through the figures with the grace of an 
elephant and the agility of a two-story Shanghai. How- 
ever, Uncle Robert promised to call off, and nearly 
everybody knew the Lancers liy heart. 



 

Mr. Langdon led out Ada, and Uncle Robert took 
Annie Gardiner in charge, who was quite elated. 
They all danced in such earnest that Ada absolutely 
caught the infection. Now and then some one 
blundered and laughed over it, or gave the wrong hand, 
but they were all merry enough. 

Afterward Dick asked Ada to dance with him, and 
then Edmund Gardiner begged the favor. And though 
there was little complimenting, there were a good 
many pleasant and honest things said, which was 
much better. 

So they danced till they were warm and tired. Mr. 
Langdon had a talk with Emma Lauristori, and Ada 
was quite sure he had forgotten all about the song. 
Then the Gardiners thought they must go home, and 
Mary said it was time for them to start, as well. 

" We have had the very loveliest time there could 
possibly be ! We always do have such a good time 
when we come here ! " declared enthusiastic Mary. 

Kathie was very glad. She kissed them a cordial 
good-night down on the lawn path, and when she 
went back Ada was singing for Mr. Langdon, while 
Dick and Fred were a most attentive audience. In- 
deed, they aat up much later than usual. 



 

" I did not suppose it would be half so pleasant," 
Ada said afterward, " for, as a general thing, such 
children are unendurable." 

" There were only two younger than I am," Kathie 
answered, with a smile. 

" O, you know what I mean. Country children do 
not seem to grow up so soon. How nice Fred Lau- 
riston is, and Dick Grayson always was a gentleman. 
But Mr. Langdon is charming. And how lovely you 
did get along with the supper and the serving. I am 
ifraid mamma would have thought my having such a 
jompany an awful bother and nuisance." 

" But we did not go much out of the ordinary 
course, you see, and that made it less trouble. Then 
I helped with the baking this morning, so that 
Hannah should not be all tired out before supper- 
time." 

" You ! " Ada exclaimed, in astonishment. 

" It was my company, you know, and Jane had to 
be away." 

" But I should have thought you would have 
wanted to be fresh for to-night," was the slow reply. 

" And wasn't I fresh ? " 

She looked as bright as a pink now, although it 



 

was past eleven. And how ready, how generous she- 
had been with herself and all her surroundings ! Yes, 
there was some rich, hidden stream that kept the 
banks always overflowing and always blooming. 

It was late, as usual, when Ada came down the 
next morning. Kathie brought in the tete-a-tete 
breakfast. 

It occurred to Ada then that she was making a 
good deal of needless trouble. So long as there was 
a servant to do it, she felt no compunctions of con- 
science. Servants were paid for it, and it was no 
matter how much one gave them to do. But to- 
morrow she would really try. Perhaps the resolve 
was stronger for being made in the quiet of her own 
soul. Then she went into the parlor and practised 
for an hour. When she returned to her own room 
everything was in the neatest order. 

" Who takes care of the chambers now that Jane 
is away ? " she asked of Kathie. 

The child blushed with sudden embarrassment. 

" Mamma does hers, and I mine." 

" And mine ? " 

Kathie's color deepened. 

" I am sorry to make you so much extra work." 



 

" Ada, you need not be sorry. It is a pleasure 
to do what you can for another, and I wanted you to 
come. It is unfortunate that Jane should be away 
just at this time, but I find plenty of leisure for little 
things like that. And if you care at all for me, you 
will enjoy it, and not think yourself a trouble." 

"You are good, Kathie. I wish I could make 
amends." 

" You did last night," was the eager reply. " I was 
glad to see you talk to Mr. Langdon, and to have you 
sing and act so graciously towards the others, who 
