“Well, it would be all well enough if this sort of woman ever would
be reasonable; but they won’t. They don’t in the least comprehend the
necessities of genius. They want to yoke Pegasus to a cart, you see.
Now, I understand Charlie perfectly. I could give him that which he
needs. I appreciate him. I make a bower of peace and enjoyment for him,
where his artistic nature finds the repose it craves.”
“And she pitches into him about you,” said Lillie, not slow to perceive
the true literal rendering of all this.
“Of course, ma chère,—tears him, rends him, lacerates his soul;
sometimes he comes to me in the most dreadful states. Really, dear, I
have apprehended something quite awful! I shouldn’t in the least be
surprised if he should blow his brains out!”
And Mrs. Follingsbee sighed deeply, gave a glance at herself in an
opposite mirror, and smoothed down a bow pensively, as the prima donna
at the grand opera generally does when her lover is getting ready to
stab himself.
“Oh! I don’t think he’s going to kill himself,” said Mrs. Lillie, who,
it must be understood, was secretly somewhat sceptical about the power
of her friend’s charms, and looked on this little French romance with
the eye of an outsider: “never you believe that, dearest. These men
make dreadful tearings, and shocking eyes and mouths; but they take
pretty good care to keep in the world, after all. You see, if a man’s
dead, there’s an end of all things; and I fancy they think of that
before they quite come to any thing decisive.”
“Chère étourdie,” said Mrs. Follingsbee, regarding Lillie with a
pensive smile: “you are just your old self, I see; you are now at the
height of your power,—‘jeune Madame, un mari qui vous adore,’ ready
to put all things under your feet. How can you feel for a worn, lonely
heart like mine, that sighs for congeniality?”
“Bless me, now,” said Lillie, briskly; “you don’t tell me that you’re
going to be so silly as to get in love with Charlie yourself! It’s
all well enough to keep these fellows on the tragic high ropes; but,
if a woman falls in love herself, there’s an end of her power. And,
darling, just think of it: you wouldn’t have married that creature if
you could; he’s poor as a rat, and always will be; these desperately
interesting fellows always are. Now you have money without end; and of
course you have position; and your husband is a man you can get any
thing in the world out of.”
“Oh! as to that, I don’t complain of Dick,” said Mrs. Follingsbee:
“he’s coarse and vulgar, to be sure, but he never stands in my way,
and I never stand in his; and, as you say, he’s free about money. But
still, darling, sometimes it seems to me such a weary thing to live
without sympathy of soul! A marriage without congeniality, mon Dieu,
what is it? And then the harsh, cold laws of human society prevent any
relief. They forbid natures that are made for each other from being to
each other what they can be.”
“You mean that people will talk about you,” said Lillie. “Well, I
assure you, dearest, they will talk awfully, if you are not very
careful. I say this to you frankly, as your friend, you know.”
“Ah, ma petite! you don’t need to tell me that. I am careful,” said
Mrs. Follingsbee. “I am always lecturing Charlie, and showing him that
we must keep up les convenances; but is it not hard on us poor women
to lead always this repressed, secretive life?”
“What made you marry Mr. Follingsbee?” said Lillie, with apparent
artlessness.
“Darling, I was but a child. I was ignorant of the mysteries of my own
nature, of my capabilities. As Charlie said to me the other day, we
never learn what we are till some congenial soul unlocks the secret
door of our hearts. The fact is, dearest, that American society, with
its strait-laced, puritanical notions, bears terribly hard on woman’s
heart. Poor Charlie! he is no less one of the victims of society.”
“Oh, nonsense!” said Lillie. “You take it too much to heart. You
mustn’t mind all these men say. They are always being desperate and
tragic. Charlie has talked just so to me, time and time again. I
understand it all. He talked exactly so to me when he came to Newport
last summer. You must take matters easy, my dear,—you, with your
beauty, and your style, and your money. Why, you can lead all New York
captive! Forty fellows like Charlie are not worth spoiling one’s dinner
for. Come, cheer up; positively I shan’t let you be blue, ma reine.
Let me ring for your maid to dress you for dinner. Au revoir.”
The fact was, that Mrs. Lillie, having formerly set down this lovely
Charlie on the list of her own adorers, had small sympathy with the
sentimental romance of her friend.
“What a fool she makes of herself!” she thought, as she contemplated
her own sylph-like figure and wonderful freshness of complexion in the
glass. “Don’t I know Charlie Ferrola? he wants her to get him into
fashionable life, and knows the way to do it. To think of that stout,
middle-aged party imagining that Charlie Ferrola’s going to die for her
charms! it’s too funny! How stout the dear old thing does get, to be
sure!”
It will be observed here that our dear Lillie did not want for
perspicacity. There is nothing so absolutely clear-sighted, in certain
directions, as selfishness. Entire want of sympathy with others clears
up one’s vision astonishingly, and enables us to see all the weak
points and ridiculous places of our neighbors in the most accurate
manner possible.
As to Mr. Charlie Ferrola, our Lillie was certainly in the right in
respect to him. He was one of those blossoms of male humanity that
seem as expressly designed by nature for the ornamentation of ladies’
boudoirs, as an Italian greyhound: he had precisely the same graceful,
shivery adaptation to live by petting and caresses. His tastes were all
so exquisite that it was the most difficult thing in the world to keep
him out of misery a moment. He was in a chronic state of disgust with
something or other in our lower world from morning till night.
His profession was nominally that of architecture and landscape
gardening; but, in point of fact, consisted in telling certain rich,
blasé, stupid, fashionable people how they could quickest get rid of
their money. He ruled despotically in the Follingsbee halls: he bought
and rejected pictures and jewelry, ordered and sent off furniture, with
the air of an absolute master; amusing himself meanwhile with running
a French romance with the handsome mistress of the establishment.
As a consequence, he had not only opportunities for much quiet
feathering of his own nest, but the éclat of always having the use
of the Follingsbees’ carriages, horses, and opera-boxes, and being
the acknowledged and supreme head of fashionable dictation. Ladies
sometimes pull caps for such charming individuals, as we have seen in
the case of Mrs. Follingsbee and Lillie.
For it is not to be supposed that Mrs. Follingsbee, though she had
assumed the gushing style with her young friend, wanted spirit or
perception on her part. Her darling Lillie had left a nettle in her
bosom which rankled there.
“The vanity of these thin, light, watery blondes!” she said to herself,
as she looked into her own great dark eyes in the mirror,—“thinking
Charlie Ferrola cares for her! I know just what he thinks of her,
thank heaven! Poor thing! Don’t you think Mrs. John Seymour has gone
off astonishingly since her marriage?” she said to Thérèse.
“Mon Dieu, madame, q’oui,” said the obedient tire-woman, scraping
the very back of her throat in her zeal. “Madame Seymour has the real
American maigreur. These thin women, madame, they have no substance;
there is noting to them. For young girl, they are charming; but, as
woman, they are just noting at all. Now, you will see, madame, what I
tell you. In a year or two, people shall ask, ‘Was she ever handsome?’
But you, madame, you come to your prime like great rose! Oh, dere is
no comparison of you to Mrs. John Seymour!”
And Thérèse found her words highly acceptable, after the manner of all
her tribe, who prophesy smooth things unto their mistresses.
It may be imagined that the entertaining of Dick Follingsbee was no
small strain on the conjugal endurance of our faithful John; but he was
on duty, and endured without flinching that gentleman’s free and easy
jokes and patronizing civilities.
“I do wish, darling, you’d teach that creature not to call you ‘Lillie’
in that abominably free manner,” he said to his wife, the first day,
after dinner.
“Mercy on us, John! what can I do? All the world knows that Dick
Follingsbee’s an oddity; and everybody agrees to take what he says for
what it’s worth. If I should go to putting on any airs, he’d behave ten
times worse than he does: the only way is, to pass it over quietly, and
not to seem to notice any thing he says or does. My way is, to smile,
and look gracious, and act as if I hadn’t heard any thing but what is
perfectly proper.”
“It’s a tremendous infliction, Lillie!”
“Poor man! is it?” said Lillie, putting her arm round his neck, and
stroking his whiskers. “Well, now, he’s a good man to bear it so well,
so he is; and they shan’t plague him long. But, John, you must confess
Mrs. Follingsbee is nice: poor woman! she is mortified with the way
Dick will go on; but she can’t do any thing with him.”
“Yes, I can get on with her,” said John. In fact, John was one of
the men so loyal to women that his path of virtue in regard to them
always ran down hill. Mrs. Follingsbee was handsome, and had a gift
in language, and some considerable tact in adapting herself to her
society; and, as she put forth all her powers to win his admiration,
she succeeded.
Grace had done her part to assist John in his hospitable intents, by
securing the prompt co-operation of the Fergusons. The very first
evening after their arrival, old Mrs. Ferguson, with Letitia and Rose,
called, not formally but socially, as had always been the custom
of the two families. Dick Follingsbee was out, enjoying an evening
cigar,—a circumstance on which John secretly congratulated himself as
a favorable feature in the case. He felt instinctively a sort of uneasy
responsibility for his guests; and, judging the Fergusons by himself,
