want them, while we were waiting," replied Sanford.

"I don't think it is very cold, and as to the evening, the sun don't
set till about eight o'clock," added the officer, as he went aft to
the professors who were going on shore, and reported that the boat was
ready; for it had already been lowered into the water, and made fast
to the swinging boom.

Her crew went over the side, and seated themselves in the cutter.

"Ready!" said the coxswain, as the stern-sheets of the barge ranged
alongside the little stage at the foot of the ladder. "Up oars!"

Up went the eight oars to a perpendicular position, where they were
held till the boat should be ready to go.

"I wonder where Ole is," said Sanford.

"Sh!" whispered Stockwell, who pulled the bow oar, shaking his head
with energy.

"What do you mean?" demanded the coxswain, in a low tone, for he was
very much mystified by the pantomime of the bow oarsman.

"Don't say a word."

"Where is he?" persisted Sanford, who was not willing to have a secret
kept from him even for a moment.

Stockwell pointed into the bottom of the boat, and then looked up at
the sky, with an affectation of cunning, while the rest of the crew
smiled as though they were in possession of the secret. Sanford said
no more, and joined the bowman in studying the aspect of the sky. Ole
was in the boat to act as guide and interpreter, and if they chose to
leave without running away, everything seemed to be favorable to the
enterprise. Mr. Mapps and Dr. Winstock presently descended the steps,
and seated themselves in the boat, followed by De Forrest.

"All ready, coxswain," said the latter.

"Ready! Let fall!" said Sanford, as he shoved off the stern of the
cutter. "Give way--together!"

The well-trained crew bent to their oars, and the boat shot away from
the ship towards the shore. Mr. Mapps was going to the town to obtain
some additional material for his lecture the following morning, and
the surgeon intended to call on Paul Kendall and lady at the hotel.

"This is a very picturesque town, doctor," said Mr. Mapps, as he gazed
at the high, rocky steeps which surround Christiansand.

"Very; and I am rather sorry we are not to see more of the environs of
the place," replied the surgeon. "I understand we sail to-morrow
night."

"I dare say the students will see enough of Norway before they leave
it."

"We want to go into the interior," said De Forrest. "There is fine
fishing in the streams of Norway."

"Very likely Mr. Lowington will take you into the interior from
Christiania," suggested Dr. Winstock.

"I don't exactly see how it is possible to do so," added Mr. Mapps.
"The only conveyance of the country is the cariole, which seats but
one person--perhaps two boys; and our squadron has nearly two hundred
students. I am afraid there are not carioles enough in Christiania to
carry the whole of them."

"I think it's too bad we can't have a trial at the salmon," pouted De
Forrest.

"Perhaps, if you waited till July, you might catch them," replied Mr.
Mapps.

"We should be contented with trout, then."

"I have no doubt Mr. Lowington will do the best he can for you," said
Dr. Winstock, as the boat neared the pier.

"In, bows!" called the coxswain; and the two bowmen tossed and boated
their oars, taking their stations in the fore-sheets, one of them with
the boat-hook in his hand. "Way enough!" added Sanford; and the rest
of the crew tossed their oars, and then dropped them upon the thwarts,
with a precision which seemed to astonish the group of Norwegians on
the wharf, who were observing them.

The two gentlemen landed, and walked up to the town together, leaving
the barge to wait for them.

"Part of you may go on shore for half an hour, if you wish, and walk
about," said De Forrest to his crew.

"I don't care about going ashore," replied Sanford.

"Nor I either," added Stockwell; and so they all said, very much to
the astonishment of the fourth lieutenant, who naturally supposed that
boys who had been at sea about four weeks would like to stretch their
legs on the solid land for a short time.

"Don't any of you wish to go on shore?" he inquired.

"Not yet," replied Sanford. "If you wish to take a walk, I will push
off from the shore, and wait till you return," said Sanford, very
respectfully.

"What's up? You won't go on shore, and you wish me to do so!"
exclaimed the suspicious officer.

"Nothing, sir," protested Sanford. "We don't intend to run away. We
think that is played out."

"If you wanted to do so in this desolate country, I would let you do
it, if I were the principal. But you are up to some trick, I know."

"What trick, sir?" demanded the coxswain, innocently.

"I don't know, but it is your next move," replied De Forrest, as he
seated himself, and seemed confident of his ability to check any
mischief which might be in the minds of his crew. "Shove off, bowman!
Up oars! Let fall! Give way together!"

The oarsmen, rather vexed at the turn of events, obeyed the several
orders, and the boat was again cutting the still waters of the fjord.
All around them were rocks, with several large and small islands in
sight. In various places on the rocks were affixed iron rings, to
which vessels could make fast in warping out of the bay when the wind
was light or foul. A portion of the rock to which they were attached
was whitewashed, so that the rings could easily be found, even in the
night. To one of these rings, on a small island near Odderö, which
commanded a full view of the landing-place, De Forrest directed the
coxswain to steer the boat.

"Make fast to that ring," said the officer.

"Ay, ay, sir," replied the bowman.

"Perhaps you would like to land here," added the lieutenant, in a
jeering tone, as though he felt that he had checkmated his crew in any
evil purpose they entertained. "Whether you do or not, I think I shall
stretch my legs on these rocks."

De Forrest leaped from thwart to thwart, and then over the bow upon
the island, as though he felt nothing but contempt for the power of
the boat's crew to do mischief. He walked up the rough rocks to the
summit of the islet, where he paused, and for the first time glanced
at his companions, whom he suspected of harboring some design against
the peace and dignity of the ship. As he did so, he discovered a
steamer, which had just passed through the narrow opening between
Odderö and the main land, and whose course lay close to the point of
the island where the cutter was moored. He saw that the swash of the
steamer was likely to throw the boat on the rocks, and grind her
planking upon the sharp points of the island.

"In the boat!" he shouted, lustily. "Shove off!"

Sanford saw the danger which the lieutenant wished to avert, and
promptly obeyed the orders.

