"O that is my fault, Norton," said Matilda; "because I could not decide
which fashion to have."
"Sure you have got the right one now?" said Norton.
"I got the newest."
"That's the right one," said Norton, as if the question was settled.
But it was not settled, in Matilda's mind; and all the way home she was
trying the boots over again. Had she done right? It was on her lips to
say she wished there were no such thing as fashion, but conscience
checked her; she felt it was very delightful to be in the fashion.
Was that wrong? How could it be wrong? But she had paid for being in
the fashion. Had she paid too much? And was she any the better for
having round toes to her boots, that she should be so delighted about
it? She wanted to be as well dressed as Judy. She wanted that Judy
should not be able to laugh at her for a country girl. She could not
help feeling that, she thought; but then, she had paid for it. Was this
going to be the way always?
Matilda was in such a confusion of thoughts that she did not know what
she was passing in the street. Only, she did know when there were
little street-sweepers at the crossings, and she tried to slip by
without seeming to see them, and to put Norton between them and
herself. Not a penny had she for one of them. And she would not have,
until the month came round again. Fashion certainly cost. But she had
the narrow-toed boots; she was glad of that.
"What ails you?" said Norton at last. "Are you cold?"
"No, Norton. Nothing ails me. I am thinking."
"About what? You think a great deal too much. Pink, we will go to the
Park this afternoon; that will give you something to think about."
"Norton, we cannot this afternoon, you know. I have got to go to the
dressmaker's."
"O so you have! What a nuisance. Well, to-morrow, then. And I say,
Pink! there is another thing you have to think of--Christmas presents."
"Christmas presents!" said Matilda.
"Yes; we always have a great time. Only David and Judy do scowl; it is
fun to see them."
"Don't they like Christmas presents?" said Matilda, very much
bewildered.
"Christmas presents all right; but not Christmas. You know they are
Jews."
"Jews?" said Matilda. "What then? What has their being Jews to do with
it?"
"Why!" said Norton, "don't you know? Do you think Jews love Christmas?
You forget what Christmas is, don't you?"
"O--I remember. They don't believe in Christ," said Matilda in an awed
and sorrowful tone.
"Of course. And that's a mild way to put it," rejoined Norton. "But
grandmamma will always keep Christmas with all her might, and aunt Judy
too; just because Davie and Judy don't like it, I believe. So we have
times."
"But how comes it they don't like what you all like, and their mother?"
Matilda asked.
"They have Jew relations, you see," said Norton; "and that goes very
much against the grain with aunt Judy. There is some old Rabbi here in
New York that is David's great uncle and makes much of him; and so
David has been taught about Jewish things, and told, I suppose, that he
must never forget he is a Jew; and he don't, I guess. Not often."
"Is he good?" asked Matilda.
"Good? David Bartholomew? Not particularly. Yes, he is good in a way.
He knows how to behave himself."
"Then how is he not good?"
"He has a mind of his own," said Norton; "and if you try him, you will
find he has a temper. I have seen him fight--I tell you!--like that
Bengal tiger if he was a Jew; when a fellow tried him a little too
hard. His mother don't know, and you mustn't tell mamma. The boys let
him alone now."
"At school, was it?" said Matilda.
"At school. You see, fellows try a boy at school, all round, till they
find where they can have him; and then he has got to shew what he is
made of."
"Do they try you?"
"Well, no; they like me pretty well at St. Giles'."
"And they don't like David?"
"They let him alone," said Norton. "No, they don't like him much. He
keeps himself to himself too much for their liking. They would forget
he is a Jew, if he would forget it; but he never does."
Matilda's thoughts had got into a new channel and ran along fast, till
Norton brought them back.
"So we have got to look out for Christmas, Pink, as I told you. It's
only just three weeks from to-morrow."
"What then, Norton? What do you do?"
"Everything we can think of," said Norton; "and to begin, everybody in
the house gives something to every other body. That makes confusion, I
should think!"
"Do you give things to your mother? and to Mrs. Lloyd?"
"To every one of 'em," said Norton; "and it's a job. I shall begin next
week to get ready; and so must you."
Matilda had it on her tongue to say that she had no money and therefore
nothing to get ready; but she remembered in time that if she said that
or anything like it, Norton would report and ask for a supply for her.
So she held her tongue. But how delightful it must be to get presents
for everybody! Not for Mrs. Lloyd, exactly; Matilda had no special
longings to bestow any tokens upon her; or Mrs. Bartholomew; but Maria,
and Anne, and Letitia! And Norton himself. How she would like to give
him something! And if she could, what in the world would it be? On this
question Matilda's fancy fairly went off and lost itself, and Norton
got no more talk from her till they reached home.
She mused about it again when she was alone in the carriage that
afternoon driving to Mme. Fournisson's. As she had not the money, she
thought she might as well have the comfort of fancying she had it and
thinking what she would do with it; and so she puzzled in delightful
mazes of dreamland, thinking what she would get for Norton if she had
the power. It was so difficult a point to decide that the speculation
gave her a great deal to do. Norton was pretty well supplied with
things a boy might wish for; he did not want any of the class of
presents Matilda had carried to Maria. But Norton was very fond of
pretty things. Matilda knew that; yet her experience of delicate
matters of art was too limited, and her knowledge of the resources of
New York stores too unformed, to give her fancy much scope. She had a
vague idea that there were pretty things that he might like, if only
she knew where they were to be found. In the mean time, it was but the
other day, she had heard him complaining that the guard of his watch
was broken. Matilda knew how to make a very pretty, strong sort of
watch guard; if she only had some strong brown silk to weave it of.
That was easy to get, and would not cost much; if she had but a few
shillings. Those round toed boots! It darted into her mind, how the two
dollars and a half she had paid for those round toes, would have bought
the silk for a watch guard and left a great deal to spare. There was a
little sharp regret just here. It would have been such pleasure! And
she would not have been quite empty handed in the great Christmas
festival. But the round toes? Could she have done without them?
The question was not settled when she got to the dressmaker's; and for
a good while there Matilda could think of nothing but her new dresses
and the fashion and style which belonged to them. All that while the
dressmaker, not Mme. Fournissons by any means, but one of her women,
was trying on the bodies of these dresses, measuring lengths, fitting
trimmings, and trying effects. It was done at last; and then Matilda
desired the coachman to take her to 316 Bolivar street.
It was very grand, to ride in a carriage all alone by herself; to sink
back on those luxurious cushions and look out at the people who were
getting along in the world less easily; trudging over the stones and
going through the dirt. And it was very pleasant to feel that she had a
stock of rich and elegant dresses getting ready for her wear, and such
a home of comfort, instead of the old last summer's life at Mrs.
Candy's. Matilda was grown strong and well, her cheeks filled out and
fresh-coloured; she felt like another Matilda. But as she drove along
with these thoughts, the other thought came up to her, of her new
opportunities. The Lord's child,--yes, that was not changed; she was
that still; what was the work she ought to do, here and now?
Opportunities for what, had she? Matilda thought carefully about it.
And one thing which she had expected she could do, she feared was going
out of her reach. How was she ever to have more money to spare for
people needing it, if the demands of her new position kept pace with
her increased means? If her boots must always cost seven dollars
instead of three, having twice as much money to buy them with would not
much help the matter. "And they must," said Matilda to herself. "With
such dresses as these I am to have, and in such a house as Mrs.
Lloyd's, those common boots I used to wear at Shadywalk would not do at
all. And to wear with my red and green silks, I know I must have a new
pair of slippers, with bows, like Judy's. I wonder how much they will
cost? And then I shall hardly have even pennies for the little girls
that sweep the street, at that rate."
Opportunities? were all her opportunities gone from her at once? That
could not be; and yet Matilda did not see her way out of the question.
So the carriage rolled along with her, and she by and by got tired of
thinking and began to examine more carefully into what there was to
see. She was coming into a quarter of the city unlike those where she
had been before. The house of Mme. Fournissons was in a very quiet
street certainly; but what she was passing now was far below that in
pretension. These streets were very uncomfortable, she thought, even
to ride through. Yet the houses themselves were as good and as large as
many houses in Shadywalk. But nothing in Shadywalk, no, not Lilac lane
