Add to this a certain obstinate vein in this 
young woman, which suggested it to her fancy 
as a point of loyalty to her father's memory 
not to strain her sorrow beyond its honest 
altitude, and what follows.' To be at first very 
sadly shocked, to be next very truly lonely; to 
wish that she had never been cross to him 
(which she had), and to be sure that he had never 
been cross to her (which he had) ; to see, and 
love to see, the best of the departed life and 
the sweetest of the departed days ; and then to 
wander musing away, by sheer force of con- 
trast, upon her own unfinished life, and into 
the sweetness of her own coming days, and repent 
of it next moment ; to forget one afternoon to 
notice the five-o'clock solitude because 
Maverick comes in ; to take very much to her 
Prayer-Book the first fortnight, and entirely to 
Five Falls the second ; and to be pouring out 
her lover's coffee this morning, very lovely, a 
little quiet, and less unhappy. 
" But pale ? " suggested Maverick, leaning 
back in his chair, with the raised eyebrow of a 
connoisseur, to pronounce upon the effect of her. 
The effect was good, very good. Her black 
dress, and the little silver tete-d-tete service over 
which she leaned, set one another off quaintly ; 
and a trifle more color in her face would have 
left the impression of a sketch finished by two 
artists who had failed of each other's idea. 
Perley did not know that she was pale ; did 
not feel pale ; felt perhaps — and paused. 
How did she feel." 
Apparently she did not feel like explaining 
to Maverick . Hayle. Something in the delicate 
motion with which he raised the delicate napkin 
in his well-shaped hand to his delicately 
trimmed mustache acted perhaps as a counter- 
irritant to some delicate shading of her thought. 
It would not have been the first time that such 
a thing had happened. He was as necessary to 
Perley Kelso as her Axminster carpets ; he 
suited her in the same way ; in the same way 
he — sometimes — wearied her. But how did 
she feel ? 
" As nearly as I can make out," said Perley, 
" I feel like a large damask curtain taken down 
for the first time off its cornice," with a glance 
at the heavy walnut mouldings of her windows. 
" All in a heap, you know, and surprised. Or 
like a — what do you call it .' that part of a 
plane that runs in a groove, when you stop the 
groove up. And I 'm not used, you know, Maver- 
ick, to feeling at all ; it 's never been asked of 
me before." 
She smiled and playfully shook her head ; but 
her young eyes were perplexed and gently sad. 
" It was coming to this cold house, under the 
circumstances," suggested Maverick. 
No ; Perley shook her head again ; the house 
was not cold ; never mind. Was his cup out ? 
The milk was cold, at any rate ; he must wait 
a minute ; and so sat thoughtfully silent while 
she touched the bell, with the little silver service
shining against her shoulder and the curve 
of her arm. 
" What did you come down here for .' " asked 
Maverick, over his second cup. 
Perley didn't know. 
" When shall you go back ? " 
Perley didn't know that. 
" What are you going to do ? " 
Perley didn't know that, either. " Perhaps I 
shall not go back. I am tired of town. Per- 
haps I shall stay here and look after — things." 
" Things .'' For instance .' " 
" The mills, for instance. My property, for 
instance." 
Maverick lazily laughed ; pushing back his 
chair, and raising the connoisseur's eyebrow 
again at the liLcle shining service, and the black 
curve of the womanly, warm arm. 
Perhaps she would take his place this morn- 
ing ; he was late, now ; she could rake over a 
shoddy-heap, he was sure, or scold an overseer. 
He would agree to sit by the fire and order dinner, 
if she would just run over to father's for him 
and bring him his slippers. 
" I 'll run over to the counting-room with you, 
and bring you to repentance," said Perley ; " the 
air must be like wine this morning, and the sun 
like heaven." 
The air was so much like wine and the sun like 
heaven, that Perley, upon leaving the junior 
partner at the mill-gates, strolled on by a path on the 
river's brink through and beyond the town, find- 
ing herself loath to go back and sit by the fire 
and order dinner ; the more so, possibly, because 
she was a bit annoyed that Maverick should have 
hit with such exactness her typical morning ; it 
had, somehow, a useless, silly sound. 
A useless, silly sound in this town of Five 
Falls was artistically out of place. She almost 
felt herself to be a superfluity in the cold, crisp 
air filled to the full with business noises ; and 
took a pleasure in following the river almost out 
of hearing of the mill machinery, and quite into 
the frozen silence of the upper streaih. 
Though the stream was large, the town was 
not ; neither had the mills, from that distance, an 
imposing air. Perley, with a sudden remem- 
brance of the size of her income, wondered at 
this for the first time. " The business " had been 
a standing mystery in the young lady's careless 
fancy, the existence of which she had dimly understood
from her father, as she had dimly under- 
stood the existence of " The Blue Plum " ; perhaps
both had been about equally withheld from 
her comprehension. That there was some cotton 
in it she felt sure ; that it was a responsible 
business and a profitable business she understood ; 
that there were girls in little shawls, ragged men, 
and bad tobacco, an occasional strike, and a mission 
Sunday school connected with it, she remem- 
bered. 
Upon the cool of her summer rest the hot 
whir of the thing had never breathed. Factory 
feet had trodden as lightly as dewdrops upon her 
early dreams. 
She put on Five Falls for a few months every 
year as she put on a white dress, — a cool thing, 
which kept wash-people busy. 
Five Falls in July agreed with her, and she 
fancied it. Five Falls in February entertained 
her, and she found it suggestive ; and indeed 
Five Falls in February was not a barren sight. 
She had wandered, it might be, half a mile up 
stream, and had turned to look behind her, just 
at the spot from which the five cascades, which 
named the town, broke into view ; more accurately, 
there were four cascades — pretty, swift, 
slender things — and the dam. The stream was 
a deep one, with a powerful current, and Perley 
noticed the unusual strength of the bridge below 
the dam. It was a county bridge and well built ; 
its stone piers, freckled and fringed with heavy 
frost, had the sombre, opulent air of time-worn 
frescos, behind which arches of light and sky 
drew breath like living things, and palpitated in 
time to the irregular pulse of the water. 
The pulse of the water was sluggish, half 
choked by swathings of beautiful ice ; the falls, 
caught in their tiny leap, hung, frozen to the heart, 
in mid-air; the open dam, swift, relentless, and 
free, mocked at them with peals of hollow laughter ; 
and great puffs and palls of smoke, which 
overhung the distant hum of the little town, made 
mouths, one fancied, at the shining whiteness of 
the fields and river bank. 
Miss Kelso, turning to retrace her steps with 
