thought the horse was drawin’ an empty carriage, the way she darted
along.”
“Then his horse must be perfectly worn out to-day,” said Isabel,
refusing to admit the pool fellow directly even to the honors of a
defeat. He had proved too much, and was put out of court with no hope of
repairing his error.
“Why, it seems a pity,” whispered Basil, dispassionately, “to turn this
man adrift, when he had a reasonable hope of being with us all day, and
has been so civil and obliging.”
“O yes, Basil, sentimentalize him, do! Why don’t you sentimentalize his
helpless, overworked horse?--all in a reek of perspiration.”
“Perspiration! Why, my dear, it’s the rain!”
“Well, rain or shine, darling, I don’t want to go round the mountain
with one horse; and it’s very unkind of you to insist now, when you’ve
tacitly promised me all along to take two.”
“Now, this is a little too much, Isabel. You know we never mentioned the
matter till this moment.”
“It’s the same as a promise, your not saying you wouldn’t. But I don’t
ask you to keep your word. I don’t want to go round the mountain. I’d
much rather go to the hotel. I’m tired.”
“Very well, then, Isabel, I’ll leave you at the hotel.”
In a moment it had come, the first serious dispute of their wedded life.
It had come as all such calamities come, from nothing, and it was on
them in full disaster ere they knew. Such a very little while ago, there
in the convent garden, their lives had been drawn closer in sympathy
than ever before; and now that blessed time seemed ages since, and
they were further asunder than those who have never been friends. “I
thought,” bitterly mused Isabel, “that he would have done anything
for me.” “Who could have dreamed that a woman of her sense would be
so unreasonable,” he wondered. Both had tempers, as I know my dearest
reader has (if a lady), and neither would yield; and so, presently, they
could hardly tell how, for they were aghast at it all, Isabel was
alone in her room amidst the ruins of her life, and Basil alone in
the one-horse carriage, trying to drive away from the wreck of his
happiness. All was over; the dream was past; the charm was broken. The
sweetness of their love was turned to gall; whatever had pleased them in
their loving moods was loathsome now, and the things they had praised a
moment before were hateful. In that baleful light, which seemed to dwell
upon all they ever said or did in mutual enjoyment, how poor and stupid
and empty looked their wedding-journey! Basil spent five minutes in
arraigning his wife and convicting her of every folly and fault. His
soul was in a whirl,
     “For to be wroth with one we love
     Doth work like madness in the brain.”
In the midst of his bitter and furious upbraidings he found himself
suddenly become her ardent advocate, and ready to denounce her judge as
a heartless monster. “On our wedding journey, too! Good heavens, what an
incredible brute I am!” Then he said, “What an ass I am!” And the pathos
of the case having yielded to its absurdity, he was helpless. In five
minutes more he was at Isabel’s side, the one-horse carriage driver
dismissed with a handsome pour-boire, and a pair of lusty bays with a
glittering barouche waiting at the door below. He swiftly accounted for
his presence, which she seemed to find the most natural thing that could
be, and she met his surrender with the openness of a heart that forgives
but does not forget, if indeed the most gracious art is the only one
unknown to the sex.
She rose with a smile from the ruins of her life, amidst which she
had heart-brokenly sat down with all her things on. “I knew you’d come
back,” she said.
“So did I,” he answered. “I am much too good and noble to sacrifice my
preference to my duty.”
“I didn’t care particularly for the two horses, Basil,” she said, as
they descended to the barouche. “It was your refusing them that hurt
me.”
“And I didn’t want the one-horse carriage. It was your insisting so that
provoked me.”
“Do you think people ever quarreled before on a wedding journey?” asked
Isabel as they drove gayly out of the city.
“Never! I can’t conceive of it. I suppose if this were written down,
nobody would believe it.”
“No, nobody could,” said Isabel, musingly, and she added after a pause,
“I wish you would tell me just what you thought of me, dearest. Did you
feel as you did when our little affair was broken off, long ago? Did you
hate me?”
“I did, most cordially; but not half so much as I despised myself the
next moment. As to its being like a lover’s quarrel, it wasn’t. It was
more bitter, so much more love than lovers ever give had to be taken
back. Besides, it had no dignity, and a lover’s quarrel always has. A
lover’s quarrel always springs from a more serious cause, and has an air
of romantic tragedy. This had no grace of the kind. It was a poor shabby
little squabble.”
“O, don’t call it so, Basil! I should like you to respect even a quarrel
of ours more than that. It was tragical enough with me, for I didn’t
see how it could ever be made up. I knew I couldn’t make the advances. I
don’t think it is quite feminine to be the first to forgive, is it?”
“I’m sure I can’t say. Perhaps it would be rather unladylike.”
“Well, you see, dearest, what I am trying to get at is this: whether we
shall love each other the more or the less for it. I think we shall get
on all the better for a while, on account of it. But I should have said
it was totally out of character it’s something you might have expected
of a very young bridal couple; but after what we’ve been through, it
seems too improbable.”
“Very well,” said Basil, who, having made all the concessions, could
not enjoy the quarrel as she did, simply because it was theirs; “let’s
behave as if it had never been.”
“O no, we can’t. To me, it’s as if we had just won each other.”
In fact it gave a wonderful zest and freshness to that ride round the
mountain, and shed a beneficent glow upon the rest of their journey. The
sun came out through the thin clouds, and lighted up the vast plain that
swept away north and east, with the purple heights against the eastern
sky. The royal mountain lifted its graceful mass beside them, and hid
the city wholly from sight. Peasant-villages, in the shade of beautiful
elms, dotted the plain in every direction, and at intervals crept up
to the side of the road along which they drove. But these had been
corrupted by a more ambitious architecture since Basil saw them last,
and were no longer purely French in appearance. Then, nearly every house
was a tannery in a modest way, and poetically published the fact by
the display of a sheep’s tail over the front door, like a bush at
a wine-shop. Now, if the tanneries still existed, the poetry of the
sheeps’ tails had vanished from the portals. But our friends were
consoled by meeting numbers of the peasants jolting home from market in
the painted carts, which are doubtless of the pattern of the carts first
built there two hundred years ago. They were grateful for the immortal
old wooden, crooked and brown with the labor of the fields, who abounded
in these vehicles; when a huge girl jumped from the tail of her cart,
and showed the thick, clumsy ankles of a true peasant-maid, they could
only sigh out their unspeakable satisfaction.
Gardens embowered and perfumed the low cottages, through the open doors
of which they could see the exquisite neatness of the life within. One
of the doors opened into a school-house, where they beheld with rapture
the school-mistress, book in hand, and with a quaint cap on her gray
head, and encircled by her flock of little boys and girls.
By and by it began to rain again; and now while their driver stopped to
put up the top of the barouche, they entered a country church which had
taken their fancy, and walked up the aisle with the steps that blend
with silence rather than break it, while they heard only the soft
whisper of the shower without. There was no one there but themselves.
The urn of holy water seemed not to have been troubled that day, and
no penitent knelt at the shrine, before which twinkled so faintly one
lighted lamp. The white roof swelled into dim arches over their heads;
the pale day like a visible hush stole through the painted windows; they
heard themselves breathe as they crept from picture to picture.
A narrow door opened at the side of the high altar, and a slender young
priest appeared in a long black robe, and with shaven head. He, too as
he moved with noiseless feet, seemed a part of the silence; and when
he approached with dreamy black eyes fixed upon them, and bowed
courteously, it seemed impossible he should speak. But he spoke, the
pale young priest, the dark-robed tradition, the tonsured vision of an
age and a church that are passing.
“Do you understand French, monsieur?”
“A very little, monsieur.”
“A very little is more than my English,” he said, yet he politely went
the round of the pictures with them, and gave them the names of the
painters between his crossings at the different altars. At the high
altar there was a very fair Crucifixion; before this the priest bent one
knee. “Fine picture, fine altar, fine church,” he said in English. At
last they stopped next the poor-box. As their coins clinked against
those within, he smiled serenely upon the good heretics. Then he bowed,
and, as if he had relapsed into the past, he vanished through the narrow
door by which he had entered.
Basil and Isabel stood speechless a moment on the church steps. Then she
cried,
“O, why didn’t something happen?”
“Ah, my dear! what could have been half so good as the nothing that
did happen? Suppose we knew him to have taken orders because of a
disappointment in love: how common it would have made him; everybody has
been crossed in love once or twice.” He bade the driver take them back
to the hotel. “This is the very bouquet of adventure why should we care
for the grosser body? I dare say if we knew all about yonder pale young
priest, we should not think him half so interesting as we do now.”
