the city looks very much like a well-constructed cobweb; but the town
extends far beyond this line, and has a circumference of twenty miles.
The Moscow river, a branch of the Oka, runs through the city, with a
great bend extending up to the Kremlin."
"What is the Kremlin, sir?" asked a student.
"It was originally the citadel or fortress of the city. It was first
enclosed with oak walls, and afterwards with stone. It is in the form
of a triangle, with a perimeter of about a mile, and contains the
palace, the holiest churches, and many other public buildings. Moscow
has between three and four hundred churches, the number being variously
estimated, for some writers include several in one establishment, while
others count all as one. A monastery may have two or three churches
within its walls. Now we will walk to the Kremlin, and ascend the Tower
of Ivan Veliki, or John the Great, from which you will obtain a fine
view of the whole city."
In Moscow it is difficult, if not impossible, to obtain a guide who
speaks English; but a German was procured, and the students left the
hotel under his direction. The walk through the streets was full of
interest, and there was no lack of variety. There is not a straight
avenue in the city, and there seems to be no fixed line upon which the
houses are erected. Now the street is narrow, and then it suddenly
doubles its width for a short distance, and some of them are nearly
in the shape of a wedge. They twist about even worse than in Boston,
where the tradition is that the early fathers followed the cow-paths
when they laid out the streets. They are paved with irregular stones,
and there seem to be no particular localities in which the wealthier
class erect their elegant residences, for next to a lofty and beautiful
mansion may be the humble low house of the poor man. The buildings are
painted or colored in nearly all the hues of the rainbow.
One cannot walk far without coming to a church, either small or large,
and at least a dozen domes are always in sight--gold, green, and blue.
The signs in the streets, too, are peculiar, and more intelligible than
in most Russian cities, for pictorial effects seem to be the fashion,
and the butcher, baker, grocer, and other merchants cover all the
available space in front of their shops with representations of their
various wares.
In many of the open spaces there are drosky stands and several new
varieties of carriages were presented to the students. Most of the
droskies have hoods, or covers, like a chaise, and are wider than those
of St. Petersburg. One kind of vehicle consists of a board, covered and
stuffed, extending from the forward to the hind axletree. The drivers
are dressed as in other Russian cities, and carry their white gloves,
while waiting for a job, in their belt. These men are very polite, and
take off their hats when they solicit employment.
"There is the Kremlin," said the doctor, as he pointed to the high
walls, upon which, at intervals are several elaborate towers. "You will
enter by the 'Sacred Gate,' or 'Porta Triumphalis.' Be sure and take
off your caps, and do not put them on till you have passed entirely
through the archway."
This opening was under a Gothic tower, and is sometimes called the
"Redeemer's Gate," from the picture of the Redeemer, of Smolensk,
which is placed above it. It is held in the highest reverence by the
Russians, who believe that the Tartars were driven back by it, and that
miraculous clouds concealed the defenders of the fortress, who sought
its protection from the eyes of the enemy. It is in a glass case, and
a huge lamp, raised and lowered by a large chain over a pulley, is
always burning before it. It is said that the French, supposing the
frame to be of gold, wished to plunder it, but every ladder planted
beneath instantly broke in twain. The invaders then loaded a cannon
to batter down the wall, but the powder would not burn till they
made a great fire of coals over the vent, and then it went off the
wrong way, blowing out the breech of the gun, and killing some of the
artillerists. The Frenchmen then acknowledged the miraculous character
of the picture, and retired, leaving it unharmed. It was borne in the
battle-field by the armies of Pojarski, and the Poles fled before it.
On account of the signal service it has thus rendered, every one must
bare his head as he passes through the gate, be he Czar or peasant,
Greek or Christian. At the entrance stood a soldier with a drawn sabre
in his hand, who enforced this behest of custom. Umbrellas must be
closed, and care is taken to prevent dogs from entering the enclosure
by this gate. The students uncovered, and passed through. The Russians
bowed, knelt, and crossed themselves repeatedly, as they did so.
CHAPTER XIII.
IN THE KREMLIN OF MOSCOW.
The guide led his party directly to the Tower of Ivan Veliki, though
the students saw the great bell and a dozen other objects which
challenged their attention at the same moment. The curious spires,
domes, and cupolas, so different from anything they had seen before,
were full of interest. They were covered with gold, and glittered
in the sunshine. These domes are not such as are seen in the United
States, but are purely Oriental. They are somewhat in the shape of
an inverted onion. But there are also cupolas of almost every other
shape--round, square, and octagonal, and even all three in the same
one. The doctor hurried the boys into the tower, wishing them to obtain
a general view before they attended to the details.
This tower is a very singular structure. It was built in 1600, by Boris
Godunoff. It is three hundred and twenty-five feet from the ground to
the top of the cross, and contains five stories, the first four of
which are square, and the last circular, with a dome. In the lower
story is a chapel, and the next three contain thirty-four bells of
all sizes, the largest of which weighs sixty-four tons. Though it is
a pygmy compared with the great bell at the foot of the tower, it is
a monster beside those in ordinary use, for our church bells rarely
exceed one sixth of its weight. There are forty or fifty bells in the
entire tower, all of which are rung at Easter, to proclaim anew that
"Christ is risen." The great bell thunders forth the glad tidings,
which are also gently chanted in the sweet tones of the small silver
bells.
From each story of the tower a view of the city is obtained, but in the
highest beneath the dome, the most sublime panorama is presented. There
is no such city as Moscow in the world, and the sight is therefore as
unique as it is beautiful. For half an hour the students gazed with
wonder and admiration upon the beautiful picture.
The party descended, and hastened to the Great Bell, called the Czar
Kolokol, or Czar of Bells. Some say that it was never hung, though
a Polish traveller, in 1611, speaks of a bell he saw that required
twenty-four men to swing the clapper in ringing it. The present bell
was recast by order of the Empress Anne, in 1733, its predecessors
having fallen in the several fires, and been broken. This one also had
a fall in a fire in 1737, which knocked a piece out of the side. It
lay buried in the ground where it fell till Nicholas caused it to be
placed on a stone platform in 1836. The bell weighs about two hundred
and twenty tons. The piece broken out weighs eleven tons. The interior
is twenty feet high, with a diameter of twenty-one feet. It is two feet
thick, and has figures in relief of Alexis and Anne, and of some sacred
subjects, with an inscription relating to its origin and size. On the
summit is a cross, and the interior has been consecrated as a chapel.
The bell is regarded as holy by the people. At five cents a pound, the
material would be worth over twenty thousand dollars. As the thing is
utterly useless either for service or as a work of art, and perpetuates
no historical event, this dead capital would be better employed in
planting school-houses in the villages, the influence of which would
soon transform the shanties into houses, and add wealth to the nation
by the more intelligent and rapid development of its vast resources.
The party next visited the palace occupied by the members of the royal
family when they visit Moscow. On this locality stood the palaces of
the ancient sovereigns, which were partially destroyed by fire, and
rebuilt. The present structure was built in the reign of Nicholas, and
all that was left of the old palaces was incorporated in it. A porter
was detailed to accompany the students, and they passed through the
private apartments of the emperor and empress, which are very elegant,
and the boys looked with no little curiosity into bed-rooms, cabinets,
bath-rooms, where royalty slept, wrote, and took its bath in marble
tubs. The guide was very particular to show an elevator in which
the empress is raised to her apartments above; but it was hardly a
curiosity to the young Americans, who had seen vastly superior machines
of this kind in the hotels of their own country.
In the palace are three magnificent halls, which are not surpassed
by anything in Europe. The one devoted to the order of St. George
is two hundred feet long. The old parts of the palace, which have
been restored in the ancient style are as curious as they are
interesting. Connected with the main building are the throne-room and
banqueting-hall, where the emperor, after his coronation in the church,
sits in state, wearing for the first time the imperial insignia; and
here also he dines with the nobles. Near this is the Terema, a most
singular edifice, four stories high, but each of them diminishing in
size till the upper one contains but a single room. In ancient times
it was occupied by the Czarina and her children. Above the first, each
story opens upon a balcony on which the inmates could walk. The affair
looks more like a pyramid than a house. It contains many relics of the
ancient sovereigns.
Near the palace is the treasury, in which are kept the venerable
relics of Russian history. It contains vast quantities of armor,
weapons, banners, and other military trophies. In one room are original
portraits of the Romanoff family, and the coronation chairs of several
sovereigns. In the next room is the throne of Poland, brought from
Warsaw; an ivory throne brought by Sophia from Constantinople on her
marriage with Ivan III. Another throne came from Persia, and is studded
with diamonds and rubies, nearly a thousand of the former. An orb sent
by the Greek emperor to Vladimir is covered with precious stones. In
