To make my long story short, it happened to be colder 
next morning at Naples than it was in Germany. The 
sun shone ; but the north-east wind, which the natives 
poetically call the Tramontane, was blowing, and the 
white smoke of Vesuvius rolled towards the sea. It 
would only last three days, it was very unusual, and all 
that. The next day -it was colder, and the next colder 
yet. Snow fell, and blew about unmelted : I saw it in 
the streets of Pompeii. The fountains were frozen, 
icicles hung from the locks of the marble statues in the 
Chiaia. And yet the oranges glowed like gold amono- 
their green leaves ; the roses, the heliotrope, the gera° 
mums, bloomed in all the gardens. It is the most con- 
tradictory climate. We lunched one day, sittino- in our 
open carriage in a lemon grove, and near at hand the 
L.ucrine Lake was half frozen over. We feasted our eyes 
on the brilliant light and color on the sea, and the 
lovely outlined mountains round the shore, and waited 
for a change of wind. The Neapolitans declare that 
they have not had such weather in twenty years. It is 
scarcely one's ideal of balmy Italy. 
Before the weather changed, I began to feel in this 
great Naples, with its roaring population of over half a 
million, very much like the sailor I saw at the American 
consul's, who applied for help to be sent home, claiming 
to be an American. He was an oratorical bummer, and 
told his story with all the dignity and elevated language 
of an old Roman. He had been cast away in London. 
How cast away ? Oh ! it was all along of a boarding- 
house. And then he found himself shipped on an 
English vessel, and he had lost his discharge-papere ; 
and " Listen, your honor," said he, calmly extending his 
right hand, " here I am cast away on this desolate island, 
with nothing before me but wind and weather." 
RAVENNA. 
 
EAVENNA is so remote from the route of general 
travel in Italy, that I am certain you can have no 
late news from there, nor can I bring you any thing much 
later than the sixth century. Yet, if you were to see 
Ravenna, you would say that that is late enough. I am 
surprised that a city which contains the most interesting 
early Christian churches and mosaics, is the richest in 
undisturbed specimens of early Christian art, and con- 
tains the only monuments of Roman emperors still in 
their original positions, should be so seldom visited. 
Ravenna has been dead for some centuries ; and, be- 
cause nobody has cared to bury it, its ancient monuments 
are yet above ground. Grass grows in its wide streets, 
and its houses s'tand in a sleepy, vacant contemplation 
of each other : the wind must like to mourn about its 
silent squares. The, waves of the Adriatic once brought 
the commerce of the East to its wharves ; but the 
deposits of the Po and the tides have, in process of time, 
made it an inland town, and the sea is four miles away. 
In the time of Augustus, Ravenna was a favorite 
Roman port and harbor for fleets of war and merchan- 
dise. There Theodoric, the reat king of the Goths, 
set up his palace, and there is his enormous mausoleum. 
As early as A.D. 44 it became an episcopal see, with 
St. Apollinaris, a disciple of St. Peter, for its bishop. 
There some of the later Roman emperors fixed their 
residences, and there they repose. In and about it 
revolved the adventurous Ufe of Galla Placidia, a wo- 
  
man of considerable talent and no principle, the daugh- 
ter of Theodosius (the great Theodosius, who subdued 
the Arian heresy, the first emperor baptized in the 
true faith of the Trinity, the last who had a spark of 
genius), the sister of one emperor, and the mother 
of another, — twice a slave, once a queen, and once an 
empress; and she, too, rests there in the great mau- 
soleum builded for lier. There, also, lies Dante, in his 
tomb " by the upbraiding shore ; " rejected once of un- 
grateful Florence, and forever after passionately longed 
for. There, in one of the earliest Christian churches in 
existence, are the fine mosaics of the Emperor Justinian, 
and Theodora, the handsome courtesan whom he raised 
to the dignity and luxury of an empress on his throne in 
Constantinople. There is the famous forest of pines, 
stretching unbroken twenty miles down the coast to 
Rimini, in whose cool and breezy glades Dante and 
Boccaccio walked and meditated, which Dryden has 
commemorated, and Byron has invested with the fas 
cination of his genius ; and under the whispering boughs 
of which moved the glittering cavalcade which fetched 
the bride to Kimini, — the fair Francesca, whose sinful 
confession Dante heard in hell. 
We went down to Ravenna from Bologna one after- 
noon, through a country level and rich, riding along 
toward hazy evening, the land getting flatter as we pro- 
ceeded (you know, there is a difierence between level 
and flat), through interminable mulberry-trees and vines, 
and fields with the tender green of spring, with church- 
spires in the rosy horizon ; on till the meadows became 
marshes, in which millions of frogs sang the overture of 
the opening year. Our arrival, I have reason to believe, 
was an event in the old town. We had a crowd of 
mouldy loafers to witness it at the station, not one of 
whom had ambition enough to work to earn a sou by 
lilting our travelling-bags. We had our hotel to our- 
selves, and wished that anybody else had it. The rival 
house was quite aware of our advent, and watched us with 
 
jealous eyes ; and we, in turn, looked wistfully at it, for 
our own food was so scarce that, as an old traveller says, 
we feared tliat we shouldn't have enough, until we saw 
it on the table, when its quality made it appear too much. 
The next morning, when I sallied out to hire a convey- 
ance, I was an object of interest to the entire population, 
who seemed to think it very odd that any one should 
walk about and explore the quiet streets. If I were to 
describe Ravenna, I should say that it is as flat as Hol- 
land and as lively as New London. There are broad 
streets, with high houses, that once were handsome, 
palaces that were once the abode of luxury, gardens 
that still bloom, and churches by the score. It is an 
open gate through which one walks unchallenged into 
the past, with little to break the association with the early 
Christian ages, their monuments undimmed by time, un- 
touched by restoration and innovation, the whole struck 
with ecclesiastical death. With all that we saw that 
day, — churches, basilicas, mosaics, statues, mausoleums, 
— I will not burden these pages ; but I will set down 
enough to give you the local color, and to recall some 
of the most interesting passages in Christian history in 
this out-of-the-way city on the Adriatic. 
Our first pilgrimage was to the Church of St. Apol- 
linare Nuova ; but why it is called new I do not know, 
as Theodoric built it, for an Arian cathedral in about 
the year 500. It is a noble interior, having twenty-four 
inarble columns of gray Cippolino, brought from Con- 
stantinople, with composite capitals, on each of which is 
an impost with Latin crosses sculptured on it. These 
columns support round arches, which divide the nave 
from the aisles, and on the whole length of the wall of 
the nave so supported are superb mosaics, full-length 
fi:ures, in colors as fresh as if done yesterday, though 
they were executed thirteen hundred years ago. The 
mosaic on the left side — which is, perhaps, the finest 
oue of the period in existence — is interestmg on an- 
other account. It represents the city of Classis, with 
sea and ships, and a long procession of twenty-two 
virgins presenting offerings to the Virgin and Child, 
seated on a throne. The Virgin is surrounded by 
angels, and has a glory round her head, which shows 
that homage is being paid to her. It has been supposed, 
from the early monuments of Christian art, that the 
worship of the Virgin is of comparatively recent origin ; 
but this mosaic would go to show that Mariolatry was 
established before the end of the sixth century. Near 
this church is part of the front of the palace of Theo- 
doric, in which the Exarchs and Lombard kings sub- 
sequently resided. Its treasures and marbles Char- 
lemagne carried off to Germany. 
 
ITE drove three miles beyond the city, to the 
Church of St. Apollinare ia Classe, a lonely edi- 
fice in a waste of marsh, a grand old basilica, a purer 
specimen of Christian art than Rome or any other Italian 
