They found the Territorial Enterprise, a poverty-stricken 
weekly journal, gasping for breath and hkely to die. They 
bought it, type, fixtures, good-will and all, for a thousand dollars, 
on long time.. The editorial sanctum, news-room, press- 
room, publication office, bed-chamber, parlor, and kitchen were 
all compressed into one apartment and it was a small one, 
too. The editors and printers slept on the floor, a China- 
man did their cooking, and the " imposing-stone " was the 
general dinner table. But now things were changed. The 
paper was a great daily, printed by steam ; there were five 
editors and twenty-three compositors; the subscription price 
was sixteen dollars a year ; the advertising rates were exorbi- 
tant, and the columns crowded. The paper was clearing from 
six to ten thousand dollars a month, and the " Enterprise Build- 
ing" was finished and ready for occupation — a stately tire- 
proof brick. Every day from five all the way up to eleven 
columns of " live " advertisements were left out or crowded 
into spasmodic and irregular " supplements." 
The " Gould & Curry " company were erecting a monster 
hundred-stamp mill at a cost that ultimately fell little short of 
a million dollars. Gould & Curry stock paid heavy dividends. 
— a rare thing, and an experience confined to the dozen or fifteen 
claims located on the " main lead," the " Comstock." The 
Superintendent of the Gould & Curry lived, rent free, in a 
fine house built and furnished by the company. He drove a 
fine pair of horses which were a present from the company, 
and his salary was twelve thousand dollars a year. The super- 
intendent of another of the great mines traveled in grand 
state, had a salary of twenty-eight thousand dollars a year, and 
in a law suit in after days claimed that he was to have had 
one per cent, on the gross yield of the bullion likewise. 
Money was wonderfully plenty. The trouble was, not 
how to get it, — but how to spend it, how to lavish it, 
get rid of it, squander it. And so it was a happy thing 
that just at this juncture the news came over the wires 
that a great United States Sanitary Commission had been 
formed and money was wanted for the relief of the wounded 
sailors and soldiers of the Union languishing in the Eastern 
hospitals. Right on the heels of it came word that San 
Francisco had responded superbly before the telegram was 
half a day old. Virginia rose as one man ! A Sanitary 
Committee was hurriedly organized, and its chairman mounted 
a vacant cart in C street and tried to make the clamorous mul- 
titude understand that the rest of the committee were flying 
hither and thither and working with all their might and main, 
and that if the town would only wait an hour, an office would 
be ready, books opened, and the Commission prepared to 
receive contributions. His voice was drowned and his infor- 
mation lost in a ceaseless roar of cheers, and demands that 
the money be received now — they swore they would not wait. 
The chairman pleaded and argued, but, deaf to all entreaty, 
men plowed their way through the throng and rained checks 
of gold coin into the cart and skurried away for more. Hands 
clutching money, were thrust aloft out of the jam by men who 
hoped this eloquent appeal would cleave a road their strug- 
gling? could not open. The very Chinamen and Indians 
caught the excitement and dashed their half dollars into the 
cart without knowing or caring what it was all about. Women 
plunged into the crowd, trimly attired, fought their way to the 
cart with their coin, and emerged again, by and bj, with their 
apparel in a state of hopeless dilapidation. It was the wildest 
mob Virginia had ever seen and the most determined and ungovernable ; 
and when at last it abated its fury and dispersed, 
couldn't wait. 
It had not a penny in its pocket. To use its own phraseology, 
it came there " flush " and went away " busted." 
After that, the Commission got itself into systematic work- 
ing order, and for weeks the contributions flowed into its 
treasury in a generous stream. Individuals and all sorts of 
organizations levied upon themselves a regular weekly tax for 
the sanitary fund, graduated according to their means, and 
there was not another grand universal outburst till the famous 
" Sanitary Flour Sack " came our way. Its history is peculiar 
and interesting. A former schoolmate of mine, by the name 
of Reuel Gridley, was living at the little city of Austin, in 
the Reese river country, at this time, and was the Democratic 
candidate for mayor. He and the Republican candidate made 
an agreement that the defeated man should be publicly pre- 
sented with a fifty-pound sack of flour by the successful one, 
and should carry it home on his shoulder. Gridley was 
defeated. The new mayor gave him the sack of flour, and he 
shouldered it and carried it a mile or two, from Lower Austin 
to his home in Upper Austin, attended by a band of music and 
the whole population. Arrived there, he said he did not need 
the flour, and asked what the people thought he had better do 
with it. A voice said : 
" Sell it to the highest bidder, for the benefit of the Sani- 
tary fund." 
The suggestion was greeted with a round of applause, and 
Gridley mounted a dry-goods box and assumed the role of 
auctioneer. The bids v*'ent higher and higher, as the sympa- 
thies of the pioneers awoke and expanded, till at last the sack 
was knocked down to a mill man at two hundred and fifty 
dollars, and his check taken. He was asked where he would 
have the flour delivered, and he said : 
" Nowhere — sell it again." 
Now the cheers went up royally, and the multitude were 
fairly in the spirit of the thing. So Gridley stood there and 
shouted and perspired till the sun went down ; and when the 
crowd dispersed he had sold the sack to three hundred difierent 
people, and had taken in eight thousand dollars in gold. And 
still the flour sack was in his possession. 
The news came to Virginia, and a telegram went back: 
" Fetch along your flour sack ! " 
Thirty-six hours afterward Gridley arrived, and an after- 
noon mass meeting was held in the Opera House, and the 
auction began. But the sack had come sooner than it was 
expected ; the people were not thoroughly aroused, and the 
sale dragged. At nightfall only live thousand dollars had 
been secured, and there was a crestfallen feeling in the com- 
munity. However, there was no disposition to let the matter 
rest here and acknowledge vanquishnient at the hands of the 
village of Austin. Till late in the night the principal citizens 
were at work arranging the morrow's campaign, and when 
they went to bed they had no fears for the result. At eleven 
the next morning a procession of open carriages, attended by 
clamorous bands of music and adorned with a moving display 
of flags, filed along C street and was soon in danger of 
blockade by a huzzaing multitude of citizens. In the first 
carriage sat Gridley, with the flour sack in prominent view, 
the latter splendid with bright paint and gilt lettering ; also in 
the same carriage sat the mayor and the recorder. The other 
carriages contained the Common Council, the editors and 
reporters, and other people of imposing consequence. The 
crowd pressed to the corner of C and Taylor streets, expecting 
the sale to begin there, but they were disappointed, and also 
unspeakably surprised ; for the cavalcade moved on as if 
Virginia had ceased to be of importance, and took its way 
over the "divide," toward the small town of Gold Hill. 
Telegrams had gone ahead to Gold Hill, Silver City and 
Dayton, and those communities were at fever heat and 
rife for the conflict. It was a very hot day, and wonderfully 
dusty. At the end of a short half hour we descended into 
Gold Hill with drums beating and colors flying, and enveloped 
in imposing clouds of dust. The whole population — men, 
women and children, Chinamen and Indians, were massed in 
the main street, all the flags in town were at the mast head, 
and the blare of the bands was drowned in cheers. Gridley 
stood up and asked who would make the first bid for the 
National Sanitary Flour Sack. Gen. W. said : 
" The Yellow Jacket silver mining company oflfers a thou- 
sand dollars, coin ! " 
A tempest of applause followed. A telegram carried 
the news to Yirginia, and fifteen minutes afterward that city's 
population was massed in the streets devouring the tidings — 
for it was part of the programme that the bulletin boards 
should do a good work that day. Every few minutes a new 
dispatch was bulletined from Gold Hill, and still the excite- 
ment grew. Telegrams began to return to us from Virginia 
beseeching Gridley to bring back the flour sack; but such 
was not the plan of the campaign. At the end of an hour 
Gold Hill's small population had paid a figure for the flour 
sack that awoke all the enthusiasm of Virginia when the grand 
total was displayed upon the bulletin boards. Then the 
Gridley cavalcade moved on, a giant refreshed with new lager 
beer and plenty of it — for the people brought it to the 
carriages without waiting to measure it — and within three 
hours more the expedition had carried Silver City and Dayton 
by storm and was on its way back covered with glory. Every 
move had been telegraphed and bulletined, and as the pro- 
