"Why now?" Norton asked.
"Seems as if folks couldn't be runnin' round in it all winter long and
manage to keep out o' sight."
"That's its peculiarity," said Norton.
"I s'pect a great deal could happen there, and the world not know," the
housekeeper went on.
"Much more than what it does know," said Norton.
"I allays think sich must be poor kind o' places. Corners that the
world can't see into ain't healthy. Now I like a place like Shadywalk,
that you know all through; and if there's something wrong, why it has a
chance to get mended. There's wrong enough here, no doubt; but most of
it'll bear the light of day. And most of us are pretty good sort o'
folks."
"Now that Mrs. Candy is out of town," Norton remarked.
Matilda had a great deal to hear about Sunday school people, and her
friends in Lilac Lane. For Lilac Lane was there yet, Miss Redwood
observed. Through it all, Matilda watched for David's coming in. But
the evening ended and he came not.
It hurt a little the joy of her Sunday waking up, which else would have
been most joyous. Norton was in the house this time; he had consented
to be at the parsonage for the Sunday. Monday morning they were all to
go home by the earliest train. So there was no drawback to Matilda's
joy except this one. It was delightful to hear the old bell once more;
delightful to see the spring light streaming between the pines and
lighting the ugly old church tower; pleasanter than any other beautiful
one to Matilda's eyes. With all the coming delights of the day crowding
upon her mind, she rose and dressed, hoping that David would come to
breakfast.
But he did not.
The sweet Sabbath day moved on slowly, with its services in the old
church and its pleasant talk and society in the house; the Sunday
school hours; the meeting old friends and acquaintances; but dinner and
Sunday school were over, and nothing was heard of David Bartholomew.
"What has become of him?" said Mr. Richmond, as he and Matilda came in
after Sunday school.
"What can have become of him, Mr. Richmond?" said Matilda.
"Nothing very bad," said Mr. Richmond, smiling at her distressed face.
"Suppose we go and look him up?"
"Where would you go, Mr. Richmond? he has not been here since
yesterday morning."
"I think I should try the hotel."
"Do you think he is there!--Shall we go?"
"I think we will," said Mr. Richmond; and hand in hand he and Matilda
went down the street, to the corner. Just opposite, a little below, was
the Shadywalk house of public entertainment.
Nobody knew David Bartholomew there by name. But in answer to Mr.
Richmond's enquiries and description of him, the barkeeper stated that
such a young gentleman had certainly come there the day before and was
in Room No. 45. He had scarcely been seen since he entered the house,
the man said; had refused almost everything that was offered him; but
anyhow, he was there.
Where was Room No. 45? A man was sent to direct them to it; and Mr.
Richmond and Matilda went up the stairs and along a gallery. No. 45 was
at the end of the gallery.
"I will wait here for you, Matilda," Mr. Richmond said. "I think you
had better go alone to see him--at first."
CHAPTER XI.
Matilda went to the door and knocked. She heard nothing, and was
obliged to knock again. Then the door opened, and David stood before
her. What to say to him Matilda had not just determined, and while she
hesitated he stepped back, mutely inviting her to enter. Matilda went
in and he closed the door. She was afraid to speak when she saw his
face, it was so pale and disturbed. But he prevented her.
"I have found it out, Matilda," he said. "It's all true."
Matilda started and looked up at him to see what he meant.
"I know it now," he said. "He is the Messiah! he is my Messiah; he is
my King But--my people, my people!--"
Breaking off abruptly with this cry, David sat down at a little table
where he had been sitting,--for his Bible was open upon it,--and put
his head down in his hands and burst into tears. And Matilda had never
seen anybody weep as she saw him then; nor in her childishness had
supposed that a boy could; the little deal table shook under the
strength of his sobs. Matilda was bewildered and half frightened; she
stepped back into the gallery, meaning to summon Mr. Richmond; but Mr.
Richmond was not there; and she went back again, and stood, much
distressed, waiting until this paroxysm of pain should have passed by.
It lasted some time. Probably David had not shed a tear until then, and
speaking to her had broken down the barrier. Matilda did not know what
to do. At last she put her hand timidly among the thick dark curls
which lay lower than she had ever seen them before, and spoke.
"Dear David! don't,--please don't do so!"
He heard and heeded the anxious little voice, for the sobs lessened,
and presently he raised himself up and as it were shook them off. But
Matilda thought he looked very sad yet. She waited silently.
"You see, Matilda," he said, "I understand it all now. And they
don't!"
"Who don't, David?"
"My people," he said sadly. "I see it all now. They did not know
him--they did not know him! And so they lost him. You know what he
said,--the kingdom is 'taken from them, and given to another nation,
bringing forth the fruits thereof.' So they are scattered abroad on the
face of the whole earth. And still they don't know him!"
"But you do, David?" said Matilda earnestly.
"Tilly, I wish my life was longer, to use it for him. I wish my hands
were stronger, to do his service! But all I am is his, every bit of it,
and all I have; from this day for ever."
The boy stood, with a kind of sad joyfulness, very quiet, with folded
hands, speaking hardly as it seemed to Matilda, but perhaps to angels
and the Lord himself.
"Won't you come and tell Mr. Richmond?"
"Certainly!" he said, starting from his attitude.
"When we heard nothing of you for ever so long, I grew troubled; I
didn't know what had become of you; and then Mr. Richmond proposed that
we should come here and look after you. You'll come to the parsonage
to-night, David? you know we are all going away to-morrow morning."
"I'll be ready in two minutes."
Matilda waited while he washed his face and brushed his hair; then they
went downstairs and found Mr. Richmond. He stretched out his hand to
David, which the boy took with a flitting change of colour that told of
some difficulty of self-command. However in a moment his words were
firm.
"I have found my Messiah, sir, where you bade me look for him. He is
my Messiah, and my King, and I am his servant. I wish I could be his
servant twenty times over!"
"Why?"
"One life is too little to give."
"You may serve him to the ages of the ages. Service shall not end with
this life, do you think so?"
Then David lifted up his dark eyes and smiled. Matilda had always known
him a very grave boy; perhaps partly for that reason this smile seemed
to her like a rift of light between clouds, so sweet and bright. It
filled Matilda with so much awe that she did not open her lips all the
way to the parsonage. Nor did Mr. Richmond say much.
They were in danger of being a silent party at tea, too; only I think
the minister exerted himself to prevent it. Matilda had no words for
anything, and indeed could hardly eat her supper; as often as she
dared, she stole a look at David. For he did not look at all like
himself. He was grave; to be sure that was like him; only now it was a
new sort of high, sweet gravity, even gentle and humble in its seeming;
and if he was silent, it was not that he was not ready and willing to
speak when there was occasion. But Matilda guessed he had too much to
think of to want to talk much. Norton was perhaps a little curious as
to what there was between his three companions; and Miss Redwood was
seldom free with her tongue in the minister's presence. Mr. Richmond,
as I said, had to exert himself, or the silence of the tea-table would
have been too marked.
They all went to church together. Matilda caught a look of extreme
surprise on Norton's face when he saw that David was one of the party;
but there was no time for explanations then. Little Matilda thought she
had hardly ever been so happy in her life. In the old place, Mr.
Richmond preaching, and David and Norton beside her, one of them there
in heart as well as in person. The singing was sweet, and the prayers
were happy.
Coming back from church, Matilda and Norton fell a little behind the
others.
"What's come over David Bartholomew?" Norton whispered. "Politeness?"
"O no, Norton; not politeness. He will tell you himself."
"Davy's strong on politeness," said Norton. "I didn't know but it was
that. Politeness took me; but of course, to take Davy, it would have
to be a most extraordinary and uncommon sort of politeness. I can
hardly believe my eyes yet."
"You always said Mr. Richmond was a brick, Norton," said Matilda.
"Yes, but you never heard me say David Bartholomew was another, did
you?"
"Well, but he is, Norton."
"He is! Phew! that's news."
They came to the parsonage door and Matilda could not reply. Going in,
Mr. Richmond said to them that he had something to talk with David
about, and that they must not sit up if they were tired. So he and
David turned into the study, and Norton and Matilda went on into the
