calmness, " that you have sold The Retreat ?" 
" Couldn 't help myself. Had to do it. Got me all 
tied up." 
His last sentence made everything clear. I had 
dreaded this. As soon as I was out of the way his 
sporting friends had come down upon him for gam 
bling debts, and he had settled with them, while half 
intoxicated, by passing over our saloon, with its 
lease, fixtures and license. 
I felt like striking him down, I was so filled with 
sudden rage against him, but held myself under con 
trol, keeping back even the bitter denunciations that 
were crowding for utterance. 
I turned my back upon him with impotent curses 
in my heart. He laid himself down, and in a little 
while was fast asleep and breathing heavily. I tried 
to arouse him when our supper of bread and choco 
late was handed in, but his stupor was so heavy that 
the effort proved fruitless. Night came down, but 
  
he slept on. I went to bed about nine o clock and 
tried to sleep, but my brain was too busy and my 
feelings too sensitively alive. Rest was far from 
me. 
It was near midnight before Lloyd 's heavy slum 
ber was broken. Then he became restless and 
talked in his sleep, but in a jerky, incoherent way, 
muttering and mumbling, and sometimes crying out 
in a clear, sharp voice. I began to feel uneasy. It 
flashed across my mind that the sudden withdrawal 
of liquor might result in delirium, and a chill crept 
over me at the thought. 
Toward daylight I was awakened from a light 
slumber into which I had fallen by feeling his hand 
on me and hearing his voice. 
" Hiram !" he called. 
" What is it ?" I asked, rousing up. 
" Is there any water here ? I'm burning up with 
thirst." 
"You 'll find a spicket over by the door," I 
replied. 
He went shuffling across the cell, and felt about 
the wall, but could not find the spicket. 
" Low down, on the left side," I called. 
He fumbled a while longer, and then I heard the 
cup rattle against the spicket. But he could not 
open it. 
"For heaven 's sake, Hiram," he called, "come 
and find me the water." 
I got up and drew him a cup of water, but he 
 
spilled half of it in trying to raise the cup to his 
lips. 
" Hold it for me," he said, his voice shaking. 
I put the cup to his mouth, and he drank eagerly. 
He then went back to bed, muttering and cursing. 
As daylight came creeping slowly through the 
narrow window into our cell, and I could make out 
his face, I saw that it was greatly changed from what 
it was on the day before. It was now haggard and 
pale. His eyes were restless and all his motions 
nervous. He took again freely of water. When our 
breakfast came in, he drank a basin of the tea that 
was served, but it did not allay his nervousness. 
" Oh for a cup of strong coffee !" he exclaimed. 
" I 'd give ten dollars for a cup of strong coffee." 
As the morning advanced Lloyd 's nervousness in 
creased. I tried to get him to talk about our affairs, 
but he would not be drawn out. I urged him, and 
he grew angry and violent. I did not like the ex 
pression of his eyes. 
When our dinner came, I urged him to take some 
of the soup, but he turned from it with loathing. 
He had no appetite for food. 
" I 'd give my right hand for a glass of brandy," 
he exclaimed, striding about the cell. " Brandy, 
brandy, Hiram ! God help me if I don 't  get 
whisky or brandy !" and I saw him shiver. 
I was beginning to feel very uneasy. And now 
there came a yell of agony from " purgatory " 
Another poor wretch was among the demons. 
  
Lloyd started up he had thrown himself on his 
bed a few moments before and looked at me in wild 
alarm. 
" What is that, Hiram ?" he asked, in a hoarse 
whisper. I saw him tremble. 
Could I answer him truly? I dared not do so, 
for he was himself near that world of horrors into 
which the wretch whose cries were in our ears had 
plunged, and a breath might topple him over. So I 
pretended not to know. 
Again the fearful outcries smote our ears. 
"They re murdering somebody, Hiram," he ex 
claimed. 
" No," I replied. " They don 't  murder people 
here." 
" Then they are torturing somebody. Hark !" 
His face grew pale as a wilder scream of terror 
and the sound as of men in some deadly struggle 
startled the air. 
" What is it, Hiram ? If you know, for Heaven 's 
sake tell me !" 
I hesitated a little, and then said, throwing a light 
expression into my voice, 
" It 's from the delirium tremens ward, I guess." 
He looked at me strangely, then drew his eyes 
away from mine and sat quietly for a little while. 
The yells and outcries still came at intervals to our 
ears. 
" Oh, it 's too awful ! I 'll never be able to stand 
it !" he exclaimed at last, starting up from the bed on 
 
which he had been sitting and looking wildly and 
helplessly around. 
I tried to soothe him told him to do as I had 
done at first, stop his ears. He shut his hands 
tightly over them, and stood for half a minute in the 
middle of the cell. 
" It 's no use, Hiram," he said, despairingly, as he 
withdrew his hands. " I hear it all the time just the 
same. I cannot stop it out." 
And yet, while his hands were upon his ears, not 
a sound had come from "purgatory." 
A long, long time the maniac cries were heard 
before the miserable sufferer became unconscious, 
Lloyd all the while manifesting the keenest sensi 
tiveness. They had ceased altogether for about 
half an hour, and I thought Lloyd, who was lying 
down, had fallen asleep, when I heard him say in a 
quick, rather startled voice, 
" See there, Hiram !" 
I turned, and saw him gazing with wide-open eyes 
and mouth drawn apart into a corner of the cell. 
" What are you looking at ? I don 't  see anything," 
I returned, feeling a chill pass over me, for I knew 
too well what was coming. 
II There 's a devilish-looking thing in the corner, 
Hiram ! There ! Don 't you see it coming out ?" 
and he shrunk as close to the wall as he could get, 
his eyes staring into the corner of the cell. 
" Pshaw !" I said. " Don 't be a fool, Tom. Be a 
man, and shake this thing off." 
  
But that was impossible. 
" It 's coming, Hiram, it 's coming !" he cried out, 
his face convulsed with terror. 
I went over and tried to soothe him, but he broke 
away from me with a yell of fear that rang out into 
the corridor. A few minutes afterward the little 
window in our cell was opened, and a voice said, 
" What 's the trouble in there ?" 
" Won 't you come in ?" I asked. " There 's a sick 
man in here." 
" A sick man, eh ? Very well ; I 'll send the doctor." 
In about ten minutes the doctor came. Mean 
while, Lloyd had been driving about the cell in a 
mad way to escape the horrid things that seemed to 
be after him, shaking in every nerve and muscle and 
crying out in terror. 
