Mandeville could not say about the myths. 
We couldn't tell what interpretation succeeding 
ages would put upon our lives and history and 
literature when they have become remote and 
shadowy. But we need not go to antiquity for 
epigrammatic wisdom, or for characters as racy 
of the fresh earth as those handed down to us 
from the dawn of history. He would put Ben 
jamin Franklin against any of the sages of the 
mythic or the classic period. He would have 
been perfectly at home in ancient Athens, as 
Socrates would have been in modern Boston. 
There might have been more heroic characters 
at the siege of Troy than Abraham Lincoln, but 
there was not one more strongly marked individ 
ually ; not one his superior in what we call pri 
meval craft and humor. He was just the man, 
if he could not have dislodged Priam by a writ 
. of ejectment, to have invented the wooden horse, 
and then to have made Paris the hero of some 
ridiculous story that would have set all Asia in a 
roar. 
Mandeville said further, that as to poetry, he 
did not know much about that, and there was not 
 
much he cared to read except parts of Shake 
speare and Homer, and passages of Milton. But 
it did seem to him that we had men nowadays, 
who could, if they would give their minds to it, 
manufacture in quantity the same sort of epi 
grammatic sayings and legends that our scholars 
were digging out of the Orient. He did not 
know why Emerson in antique setting was not 
as good as Saadi. Take for instance, said Man- 
deville, such a legend as this, and how easy it 
would be to make others like it : 
The son of an Emir Jiad red hair, of which he 
was ashamed, and wished to dye it. But his 
fathier said : " Nay, my son, rather behave in such 
a manner that all fathers shall wish their sons 
had red hair" 
This was too absurd. Mandeville had gone too 
far, except in the opinion of Our Next Door, who 
declared that an imitation was just as good as 
an original, if you could not detect it. But Her 
bert said that the closer an imitation is to an 
original, the more unendurable it is. But nobody 
could tell exactly why. 
The Fire-Tender said that we are imposed on 
 
by forms. The nuggets of wisdom that are dug 
out of the Oriental and remote literatures would 
often prove to be only commonplace if stripped 
of their quaint setting. If you give an Oriental 
twist to some of our modern thought its value 
would be greatly enhanced for many people. 
I have seen those, said the Mistress, who seem 
to prefer dried fruit to fresh ; but I like the 
strawberry and the peach of each season, and 
for me the last is always the best. 
Even the Parson admitted that there were no 
signs of fatigue or decay in the creative energy 
of the world ; and if it is a question of Pagans, 
he preferred Mandeville to Saadi. 
happened, or rather, to tell the truth, 
it was contrived, for I have waited 
too long for things to turn up to have 
much faith in " happen," that we who have 
sat by this hearthstone before should all be 
together on Christmas eve. There was a splen 
did backlog of hickory just beginning to burn with 
a glow that promised to grow more fiery till long 
past midnight, which would have needed no 
apology in a loggers' camp, not so much as 
the religion of which a lady (in a city which 
shall be nameless) said, " If you must have a 
religion, this one will do nicely." 
There was not much conversation, as is apt to 
be the case when people come together who have 
 
a great deal to say, and are intimate enough to 
permit the freedom of silence. It was Mande- 
ville who suggested that we read something, and 
the Young Lady, who was in a mood to enjoy 
her own thoughts, said, " Do." And finally it 
came about that the Fire-Tender, without more 
resistance to the urging than was becoming, went 
to his library, and returned with a manuscript, 
from which he read the story of 
MY UNCLE IN INDIA. 
NOT that it is my uncle, let me explain. It is 
Polly's uncle, as I very well know, from the many 
times she has thrown him up to me, and is liable 
so to do at any moment. Having small expecta 
tions myself, and having wedded Polly when they 
were smaller, I have come to feel the full force, 
the crushing weight, of her lightest remark about 
" My Uncle in India." The words as I write 
them convey no idea of the tone in which they 
fall upon my ears. I think it is the only fault of 
that estimable woman, that she has an uncle in 
India, and does not let him quietly remain there. 
 
I feel quite sure that if I had an uncle in Botany 
Bay, I should never, never throw him up to Polly 
in the way mentioned. If there is any jar in our 
quiet life, he is the cause of it ; all along of pos 
sible "expectations" on the one side calculated 
to overawe the other side not having expecta 
tions. And yet I know that if her uncle in India 
were this night to roll a barrel of " India's golden 
sands," as I feel that he any moment may do, 
into our sitting-room, at Polly's feet, that charm 
ing wife, who is more generous than the month 
of May, and who has no thought but for my com 
fort in two worlds, would straightway make it 
over to me, to have and to hold, if I could lift it, 
forever and forever. And that makes it more 
inexplicable that she, being a woman, will con 
tinue to mention him in the way she does. 
In a large and general way I regard uncles as 
not out of place in this transitory state of exist 
ence. They stand for a great many possible 
advantages. They are liable to "tip" you at 
school, they are .resources in vacation, they come 
grandly in play about the holidays, at which sea 
son my heart always did warm towards them 
 
with lively expectations, which were often turned 
into golden solidities ; and then there is always 
the prospect, sad to a sensitive mind, that uncles 
are mortal, and, in their timely taking off, may 
prove as generous in the will as they were in the 
deed. And there is always this redeeming possi 
bility in a niggardly uncle. Still there must be 
something wrong in the character of the uncle 
per se, or all history would not agree that nepo 
tism is such a dreadful thing. 
But, to return from this unnecessary digression, 
I am reminded that the charioteer of the patient 
year has brought round the holiday time. It 
has been a growing year, as most years are. It is 
very pleasant to see how the shrubs in our little 
patch of ground widen and thicken and bloom at 
the right time, and to know that the great trees 
have added a layer to their trunks. To be sure, 
our garden, which I planted under Polly's direc 
tions, with seeds that must have been patented, 
and I forgot to buy the right of, for they are 
mostly still waiting the final resurrection, gave 
evidence that it shared in the misfortune of the 
Fall, and was never an Eden from which one 
would have required to have been driven. It was 
the easiest garden to keep the neighbors' pigs and 
hens out of I ever saw. If its increase was small, 
its temptations were smaller, and that is no little 
recommendation in this world of temptations. 
But, as a general thing, everything has grown, 
except our house. That little cottage, over which 
Polly presides with grace enough to adorn a pal 
