boats in these parts."
"O, that's the reason he said I might know about her?" added Captain
Chinks, apparently relieved by the explanation.
"Yes, sir, I suppose so. Now, do you know anything about her?" asked
the young skipper, forcing the question home.
"Possibly I have seen her. I don't know."
"Then she don't belong to you?"
"Why do you keep asking me that question, Bobtail? Do you think I own
her?" demanded the captain, rather sharply.
"I don't think anything at all about it. I don't know. I can't tell by
the looks of a man whether he owns this boat or not. I'm looking for her
owner, and so I asked you the question."
"Well, I don't own her," said Captain Chinks, with more earnestness than
Bobtail thought the occasion required; but he could not help suspecting,
from his manner, that Captain Chinks knew something about the Skylark.
"Do you happen to know who does own her?" continued Bobtail.
"No, I don't know anything at all about her."
The Darwinian had left his dinner when Bobtail did, and had come as far
as the companion-way, where he stood listening to the conversation which
took place while the parties stood on deck. Captain Chinks had
discovered Monkey's presence only a moment before, and it was possible
that his decided answers were called forth by the fact that a third
person was near.
"Won't you take a bite with us?" continued Bobtail, when he happened to
remember that he had not finished his dinner.
"No; I had my dinner just before I came from home; but I will go below
with you," replied Captain Chinks, following Bobtail into the cabin.
The skipper and Monkey resumed their places at the table, and finished
the meal. While he was eating, Bobtail related all the particulars of
the finding of the Skylark, so far as the boat was concerned, but
prudently repressed all allusion to the twenty cases of brandy. Captain
Chinks appeared to be nervous and uneasy, though, as he did not own the
boat, and knew nothing at all about her, Bobtail could not see why he
should be so. The dishes were cleared away, washed, and carefully
deposited in the lockers. The cook-room was put in order, the cabin
floor swept, and every article of furniture put in its place. Bobtail
seated himself on the transom, opposite Captain Chinks, and wondered
more than ever why he had taken so much trouble to visit the Skylark
when she lay so far from the town.
"What do you suppose this boat is worth, Bobtail?" asked Captain Chinks,
as he glanced forward and then aft, as if to survey the quality and
capacity of the yacht.
"I'm sure I have no idea," replied the young skipper.
"They asked me twelve hundred dollars for one about this size in Newport
last year," added the captain.
"That's a big price for a boat."
"But it was three hundred dollars less than she cost her owner two years
before. This don't look like an old boat."
"No, she's nearly new. I looked into the run this morning, and the
timbers and plank are as fresh as though she had just been built."
"I reckon she is a year or two old," added the captain. "She isn't worth
less than a thousand dollars, though you may buy such a boat sometimes
for half that money."
"Five hundred dollars is about all any boat of this size is worth down
here."
"By the way, Bobtail, did she have any sort of a cargo in her when you
picked her up?" asked Captain Chinks, in a careless way, as he raised
and lowered the table-leaf in front of him, just as though he was more
intent on ascertaining how the leaf worked than in obtaining an answer
to his question.
This was a very important interrogatory on the part of the visitor,
notwithstanding the indifference with which it had apparently been
propounded; and Bobtail had been expecting it. In spite of all the
captain had said, and in spite of the fact that he had declared he knew
nothing about the Skylark, our hero could not help connecting his
visitor with the contraband cargo; perhaps because the captain was the
only man in Camden who had the reputation of being concerned in this
sort of business.
"This is a pleasure craft, and wasn't built to carry cargo," replied
Bobtail, who had already decided how to meet the question.
"That may be; but such boats do sometimes carry a small cargo. For
instance, you could put many thousand dollars' worth of some kinds of
goods in this cabin," added the captain, still fumbling over the
table-leaf, which seemed to be an inexplicable mystery to him, though it
may be added in defence of a man of his intelligence, and a
boat-builder, too, that he always built keel-boats, while the Skylark
was a centre-board.
"I dare say she could carry a million dollars' worth of gold or
diamonds," added Bobtail, cheerfully, for he felt that his wily visitor
was not getting much ahead of him.
"Yes; but she might carry heavier goods, such as cigars, liquors, silks,
and things of that sort, for it don't take a great lot to be worth a
thousand dollars. Did she have anything of this kind in her when you
picked her up, Bobtail?"
"Why should any one think of carrying cigars and liquors in such a craft
as this?" asked the skipper, laughing.
"That wan't exactly the question. I say, Monkey, won't you go on deck,
and see which way the wind is," added the captain, turning suddenly upon
the Darwinian, who was listening to the conversation with his mouth wide
open, and trying with, all his might to discover what Chinks was driving
at. "I reckon it's hauling more to the southward."
"Sartin; I'll see," replied Monkey, hastening on deck through the
cook-room.
"You don't answer the question, Bobtail," said the captain.
"What makes you think there was any cargo in her?" demanded the skipper.
"I didn't say I thought there was any; I only asked you if there was."
In spite of Little Bobtail's indefinite opinions in regard to the moral
turpitude of smuggling, he had very decided views on the subject of
lying. He believed in telling the truth, though, like most other boys, I
am afraid he did not invariably do so; but he always felt mean and
guilty when he told anything in the shape of a lie. In the present
instance he had made up his mind either to tell the truth or to keep
still, not only because it was wicked to tell a lie, but because, in a
smuggling case in which the government officers might soon have a hand,
it might prove extremely dangerous.
"Well, captain, I didn't say there was any cargo in her," answered
Bobtail, cautiously.
"I know you didn't; but I want you to tell me squarely whether there was
or not."
"Why do you want me to tell you?"
"No matter why. I want you to tell me: that's all."
"The wind's about nor'-west, Captain Chinks," said Monkey, crawling
into the cabin from the cook-room.
"It hasn't changed, then," added the visitor, vexed at the return of the
Darwinian, who seated himself near Bobtail, intent upon hearing the rest
of the conversation.
"No, sir, not a bit; it's been nor'-west all day, and I don't believe
its goin' to change afore night."
"I say, Monkey, I want some fish for breakfast. If you will catch me two
or three, and dress them, I'll make it all right with you."
Monkey did not like to lose any of the conversation about the boat; but
he reluctantly went on deck in the hope of making a trifle by the job.
"I want you to answer my question squarely, Bobtail," continued Captain
Chinks, returning vigorously to the charge, so vigorously that the
skipper was almost confirmed in his suspicion connecting his visitor
with the contraband cargo.
"I don't say there was or was not any cargo in her," replied Bobtail.
"But I want you to say," persisted the captain, sharply and sternly.
"Do you own this yacht, Captain Chinks?"
"I don't say whether I own her or not."
"And I don't say whether there was any cargo in her or not."
"What do you mean, Bobtail?"
"That depends upon what you mean, Captain Chinks."
"I don't understand you, Bobtail," said the visitor, struggling to
suppress his anger.
"That's just my trouble; I don't understand you," laughed the skipper.
"I reckon we don't understand each other at all."
"I asked you a question, Bobtail, and I want an answer," added the
captain, bringing his fist down upon the table-leaf, whose mysterious
mechanism he had by this time fully mastered.
"I asked you a question, Captain Chinks, and I want an answer,"
replied Bobtail.
"I don't want any of your impudence, and I won't take any of it."
"I didn't mean to be impudent, sir."
"But you talk to me just as though I was a boy like yourself. Now,
answer my question."
"I hope you will excuse me, sir, when I say I can't answer it. I mean to
be respectful, sir."
"You can answer it, Bobtail."
"I mean that, for certain reasons, I must decline to answer it."
"You must, eh?"
"Yes, sir."
"I didn't think this of you, Bobtail. This morning I got you out of a
bad scrape. If I hadn't done so, you would have been taken up for
stealing that letter, which contained five hundred dollars. Now, you go
back on me the same day," added the captain, more gently.
"I don't go back on you, sir. If you own this boat, I'll tell you all I
know about her."
"I don't say that I own her."
"I know you don't say so; and for that reason I can't say anything more
