to part kindly with him.
"You can make it hard for me," she answered, "but the end will be the
same."
"I won't make it hard for you, then," he returned, after a pause, in
which he grew paler and she stood with a wan face plucking the red
leaves from a low bough that stretched itself towards her.
He turned and walked away some steps; then he came suddenly back. "I
wish to express my regret," he began formally, and with his old air of
doing what was required of him as a gentleman, "that I should have
unintentionally done anything to wound--"
"O, better not speak of that," interrupted Kitty with bitterness,
"it's all over now." And the final tinge of superiority in his manner
made her give him a little stab of dismissal. "Good by. I see my cousins
coming."
She stood and watched him walk away, the sunlight playing on his figure
through the mantling leaves, till he passed out of the grove.
The cataract roared with a seven-fold tumult in her ears, and danced
before her eyes. All things swam together, as in her blurred sight her
cousins came wavering towards her.
"Where is Mr. Arbuton?" asked Mrs. Ellison.
Kitty threw her arms about the neck of that foolish woman, whoso loving
heart she could not doubt, and clung sobbing to her. "Gone," she said;
and Mrs. Ellison, wise for once, asked no more.
She had the whole story that evening, without asking; and whilst she
raged, she approved of Kitty, and covered her with praises and
condolences.
"Why, of course, Fanny, I didn't care for knowing those people. What
should I want to know them for? But what hurt me was that he should so
postpone me to them, and ignore me before them, and leave me without a
word, then, when I ought to have been everything in the world to him and
first of all. I believe things came to me while I sat there, as they do
to drowning people, all at once, and I saw the whole affair more
distinctly than ever I did. We were too far apart in what we had been
and what we believed in and respected, ever to grow really together. And
if he gave me the highest position in the world, I should have only
that. He never could like the people who had been good to me, and whom I
loved so dearly, and he only could like me as far as he could estrange
me from them. If he could coolly put me aside now, how would it be
afterwards with the rest, and with me too? That's what flashed through
me, and I don't believe that getting splendidly married is as good as
being true to the love that came long before, and honestly living your
own life out, without fear or trembling, whatever it is. So perhaps,"
said Kitty, with a fresh burst of tears, "you needn't condole with me so
much, Fanny. Perhaps if you had seen him, you would have thought he was
the one to be pitied. I pitied him, though he was so cruel. When he
first turned to meet them, you'd have thought he was a man sentenced to
death, or under some dreadful spell or other; and while he was walking
up and down listening to that horrible comical old woman,--the young
lady didn't talk much,--and trying to make straight answers to her, and
to look as if I didn't exist, it was the most ridiculous thing in the
world."
"How queer you are, Kitty!"
"Yes; but you needn't think I didn't feel it. I seemed to be like two
persons sitting there, one in agony, and one just coolly watching it.
But O," she broke out again while Fanny held her closer in her arms,
"how could he have done it, how could he have acted so towards me; and
just after I had begun to think him so generous and noble! It seems too
dreadful to be true." And with this Kitty kissed her cousin and they had
a little cry together over the trust so done to death; and Kitty dried
her eyes, and bade Fanny a brave good-night, and went off to weep again,
upon her pillow.
But before that, she called Fanny to her door, and with a smile breaking
through the trouble of her face, she asked, "How do you suppose he got
back? I never thought of it before."
"Oh!" cried Mrs. Ellison with profound disgust, "I hope he had to
walk back. But I'm afraid there were only too many chances for him to
ride. I dare say he could get a calash at the hotel there."
Kitty had not spoken a word of reproach to Fanny for her part in
promoting this hapless affair; and when the latter, returning to her own
room, found the colonel there, she told him the story and then began to
discern that she was not without credit for Kitty's fortunate escape, as
she called it.
"Yes," said the colonel, "under exactly similar circumstances she'll
know just what to expect another time, if that's any comfort."
"It's a great comfort," retorted Mrs. Ellison; "you can't find out
what the world is, too soon, I can tell you; and if I hadn't maneuvered
a little to bring them together, Kitty might have gone off with some
lingering fancy for him; and think what a misfortune that would have
been!"
"Horrible."
"And now, she'll not have a single regret for him."
"I should think not," said the colonel; and he spoke in a tone of such
dejection, that it went to his wife's heart more than any reproach of
Kitty's could have done. "You're all right, and nobody blames you,
Fanny; but if you think it's well for such a girl as Kitty to find out
that a man who has had the best that the world can give, and has really
some fine qualities of his own, can be such a poor devil, after all,
then I don't. She may be the wiser for it, but you know she won't be
the happier."
"O don't, Dick, don't speak seriously! It's so dreadful from you. If
you feel so about it, why don't you do something."
"O yes, there's a fine opening. We know, because we know ever so much
more, how the case really is; but the way it seems to stand is, that
Kitty couldn't bear to have him show civility to his friends, and ran
away, and then wouldn't give him a chance to explain. Besides, what
could I do under any circumstances?"
"Well, Dick, of course you're right, and I wish I could see things as
clearly as you do. But I really believe Kitty's glad to be out of it."
"What?" thundered the colonel.
"I think Kitty's secretly relieved to have it all over. But you needn't
stun me."
"You do?" The colonel paused as if to gain force enough for a reply.
But after waiting, nothing whatever came to him, and he wound up his
watch.
"To be sure," added Mrs. Ellison thoughtfully, after a pause, "she's
giving up a great deal; and she'll probably never have such another
chance as long as she lives."
"I hope she won't," said the colonel.
"O, you needn't pretend that a high position and the social advantages
he could have given her are to be despised."
"No, you heartless worldling; and neither are peace of mind, and
self-respect, and whole feelings, and your little joke."
"O, you--you sickly sentimentalist!"
"That's what they used to call us in the good old abolition days,"
laughed the colonel; and the two being quite alone, they made their
peace with a kiss, and were as happy for the moment as if they had
thereby assuaged Kitty's grief and mortification.
"Besides, Fanny," continued the colonel, "though I'm not much on
religion, I believe these things are ordered."
"Don't be blasphemous, Colonel Ellison!" cried his wife, who represented
the church if not religion in her family. "As if Providence had anything
to do with love-affairs!"
"Well, I won't; but I will say that if Kitty turned her back on Mr.
Arbuton and the social advantages he could offer her, it's a sign she
wasn't fit for them. And, poor thing, if she doesn't know how much she's
lost, why she has the less to grieve over. If she thinks she couldn't be
happy with a husband who would keep her snubbed and frightened after he
lifted her from her lowly sphere, and would tremble whenever she met any
of his own sort, of course it may be a sad mistake, but it can't be
helped. She must go back to Eriecreek, and try to worry along without
him. Perhaps she'll work out her destiny some other way."
XIV.
AFTERWARDS.
Mrs. Ellison had Kitty's whole story, and so has the reader, but for a
little thing that happened next day, and which is perhaps scarcely
worthy of being set down.
Mr. Arbuton's valise was sent for at night from the Hôtel St. Louis, and
they did not see him again. When Kitty woke next morning, a fine cold
rain was falling upon the drooping hollyhocks in the Ursulines' Garden,
which seemed stricken through every leaf and flower with sudden autumn.
All the forenoon the garden-paths remained empty, but under the porch by
the poplars sat the slender nun and the stout nun side by side, and held
each other's hands. They did not move, they did not appear to speak.
The fine cold rain was still falling as Kitty and Fanny drove down
Mountain Street toward the Railway Station, whither Dick and the baggage
had preceded them, for they were going away from Quebec. Midway, their
carriage was stopped by a mass of ascending vehicles, and their driver
drew rein till the press was over. At the same time Kitty saw advancing
up the sidewalk a figure grotesquely resembling Mr. Arbuton. It was he,
but shorter, and smaller, and meaner. Then it was not he, but only a
light overcoat like his covering a very common little man about whom it
hung loosely,--a burlesque of Mr. Arbuton's self-respectful overcoat, or
the garment itself in a state of miserable yet comical collapse.
"What is that ridiculous little wretch staring at you for, Kitty?" asked
Fanny.
"I don't know," answered Kitty, absently.
The man was now smiling and gesturing violently. Kitty remembered having
seen him before, and then recognized the cooper who had released Mr.
Arbuton from the dog in the Sault au Matelot, and to whom he had given
his lacerated overcoat.
