"I don't see why."
"I'll tell you why. I paid three of those bills to Mr. Leach to-night
for the Maud's suit of sails. One of them was a mended bill."
"Yes, I remember that one, for I noticed it after the captain gave me
the money," added Laud.
"Mr. Leach paid that bill to Captain Patterdale."
"To Captain Patterdale!" exclaimed Laud, springing to his feet.
"What odds does it make to you whom he paid it to?" asked Donald,
astonished at this sudden demonstration.
"None at all," replied Laud, recovering his self-possession.
"What made you jump so, then?"
"A mosquito bit me," laughed Laud. But it was a graveyard laugh. "Leach
paid the bill to Captain Patterdale--you say?"
"Yes, and Captain Patterdale says there is something wrong about the
bill," continued Donald, who was far from satisfied with the explanation
of his companion.
"What was the matter? Wasn't the bill good?" inquired Laud.
"Yes, the bill was good; but something was wrong, he didn't tell me
what."
"That was an odd way to leave it. Why didn't he tell you what was
wrong?"
"I don't know. I suppose he knows what he is about, but I don't."
"I should like to know what was wrong about this bill. It has passed
through my hands, and it may affect my honor in some way," mused Laud.
"You had better have your honor insured, for it will get burned up one
of these days," added Donald, as he rose from his seat, and hauled in
his skiff, which was towing astern.
He stepped into the boat, and tossed Laud's basket to him.
"Here is your basket, Laud," added he. "It was my evidence against you;
and next time, when you want to burn a yacht, don't leave it on her
deck."
"You will keep shady--won't you, Don John?" he pleaded.
"That will depend upon what you say and do," answered Donald, as he
shoved off, and sculled to the wharf where the Maud lay, to assure
himself that she was in no danger.
He was not quite satisfied to trust her alone all night, and he decided
to sleep in her cabin. He went to the house, and told Barbara he was
afraid some accident might happen to the yacht, and with the lantern and
some bed-clothes, he returned to her. He swept up the half-burned
shavings, and threw them overboard. There was not a vestige of the fire
left, and he swabbed up the water with a sponge. Making his bed on the
transom, he lay down to think over the events of the evening. He went
to sleep after a while, and we will leave him in this oblivious
condition while we follow Laud Cavendish, who, it cannot be denied, was
in a most unhappy frame of mind. He ran the Juno up to her moorings, and
after he had secured her sail, and locked up the cabin door, he went on
shore. Undoubtedly he had done an immense amount of heavy thinking
within the last two hours, and as he was not overstocked with brains, it
wore upon him.
It was nearly ten o'clock in the evening, but late as it was, Laud
walked directly to the house of Captain Shivernock. There was a light in
the strange man's library, or office, and another in the dining-room,
where the housekeeper usually sat, which indicated that the family had
not retired. Laud walked up to the side door, and rang the bell, which
was promptly answered by Mrs. Sykes.
"Is Captain Shivernock at home?" asked the late visitor.
"He is; but he don't see anybody so late as this," replied the
housekeeper.
"I wish to speak to him on very important business, and it is absolutely
necessary that I should see him to-night," persisted Laud.
"I will tell him."
Mrs. Sykes did tell him, and the strange man swore he would not see any
one, not even his grandmother, come down from heaven. She reported this
answer in substance to Laud.
"I wish to see him on a matter in which he is deeply concerned," said
the troubled visitor. "Tell him, if you please, in regard to the
Hasbrook affair."
Perhaps Mrs. Sykes knew something about the Hasbrook affair herself, for
she promptly consented to make this second application for the admission
of the stranger, for such he was to her.
She returned in a few moments with an invitation to enter, and so it
appeared that there was some power in the "Hasbrook affair." Laud was
conducted to the library,--as the retired shipmaster chose to call the
apartment, though there were not a dozen books in it,--where the captain
sat in a large rocking-chair, with his feet on the table.
"Who are you?" demanded the strange man; and we are obliged to modify
his phraseology in order to make it admissible to our pages.
"Mr. Laud Cavendish, at your service," replied he, politely.
"Mister Laud Cavendish!" repeated the captain, with a palpable sneer;
"you are the swell that used to drive the grocery wagon."
"I was formerly employed at Miller's store, but I am not there now."
"Well, what do you want here?"
"I wish to see you, sir."
"You do see me--don't you?" growled the eccentric. "What's your
business?"
"On the morning after the Hasbrook outrage, Captain Shivernock, you were
seen at Seal Harbor," said Laud.
"Who says I was?" roared the captain, springing to his feet.
"I beg your pardon sir; but I say so," answered Laud, apparently unmoved
by the violence of his auditor. "You were in the boat formerly owned by
Mr. Ramsay, and you ran over towards the Northport shore."
"Did you see me?"
"I did," replied Laud.
"And you have come to levy black-mail upon me," added the captain, with
a withering stare at his visitor.
"Nothing of the sort, sir. I claim to be a gentleman."
"O, you do!"
Captain Shivernock laughed heartily.
"I do, sir. I am not capable of anything derogatory to the character of
a gentleman."
"Bugs and brickbats!" roared the strange man, with another outburst of
laughter. "You are a gentleman! That's good! And you won't do anything
derogatory to the character of a gentleman. That's good, too!"
"I trust I have the instincts of a gentleman," added Laud, smoothing
down his jet mustache.
"I trust you have; but what do you want of me, if you have the instincts
of a gentleman, and don't bleed men with money when you think you have
them on the hip?"
"If you will honor me with your attention a few moments, I will inform
you what I want of you."
"Good again!" chuckled the captain. "I will honor you with my attention.
You have got cheek enough to fit out a life insurance agency."
"I am not the only one who saw you that Saturday morning," said Laud.
"Who else saw me?"
"Don John."
"How do you know he did?"
"He told mo so."
"The young hypocrite!" exclaimed the strange man, with an oath. "I made
it a rule years ago never to trust a man or a boy who has much to do
with churches and Sunday Schools. The little snivelling puppy! And he
has gone back on me."
"It is only necessary for me to state facts," answered Laud. "You can
form your own conclusions, without any help from me."
"Perhaps I can," added Captain Shivernock, who seemed to be in an
unusual humor on this occasion, for the pretentious manners of his
visitor appeared to amuse rather than irritate him.
"Again, sir, Jacob Hasbrook, of Lincolnville, believes you are the man
who pounded him to a jelly that night," continued Laud.
"Does he?" laughed the captain. "Well, that is a good joke; but I want
to say that I respect the man who did it, whoever he is."
"Self-respect is a gentlemanly quality. The man who don't respect
himself will not be respected by others," said Laud, stroking his chin.
"Eh?"
Laud confidently repeated the proposition.
"You respect yourself, and of course you respect the man that pounded
Hasbrook," he added.
"Do you mean to say I flogged Hasbrook?" demanded the strange man,
doubling his fist, and shaking it savagely in Laud's face.
"It isn't for me to say that you did, for you know better than I do; but
you will pardon me if I say that the evidence points in this direction.
Hasbrook has been over to Belfast several times to work up his case. The
last time I saw him he was looking for Don John, who, I am afraid, is
rather leaky."
In spite of his bluff manners, Laud saw that the captain was not a
little startled by the information just imparted.
"The miserable little psalm-singer," growled the strange man, walking
the room, muttering to himself. "If he disobeys my orders, I'll thrash
him worse than--Hasbrook was thrashed."
"It is unpleasant to be suspected of a crime, and revolting to the
instincts of a gentleman," added Laud.
"Do you mean to say that I am suspected of a crime, you long-eared
puppy?" yelled the captain.
"I beg your pardon, Captain Shivernock, but it isn't agreeable to a
gentleman to be called by such opprobrious names," said Laud, rising
from his chair, and taking his round-top hat from the table. "I am
willing to leave you, but not to be insulted."
Laud looked like the very impersonation of dignity itself, as he walked
towards the door.
"Stop!" yelled the captain.
"I do not know that any one but Hasbrook suspects you of a crime," Laud
