from Jessie's natural gravity. They all felt, indeed, as if 
 
gayety was something that went with the old life, and could 
have no place here. 
"I wonder what aunt Waltham would say to this," in 
terposed Eleanor. " She used to think society one of the 
indispensable adjuncts to a good marriage; and here is 
little Jessie, who has scarcely stirred from her Cinderella 
chimney-corner, engaged to a man whom the world courts 
daily, and would be proud to attract. And though I am 
too sadly wise now to believe wealth the great good of 
life, still I am glad, for Jessie's sake, that she will be raised 
above the trials of poverty. She has done her duty so 
nobly thus far, that her destiny seems doubly precious and 
satisfying to me." 
" I stand in awe of it as if it were too grand for me," 
Jessie said, simply. " I wonder how I can ever fill the 
station." 
"As you have filled this one," replied Madge; "by al- 
ways doing the duty nearest. I cannot tell you how glad 
I am. And it is odd that I never thought of it, but Mr. 
Graham seemed so much older than we " 
" You are determined to make him out quite ancient," 
interrupted Philip, smiling. " He is just thirty-two 
twelve years older than Jessie." 
" And twelve years is too much, under ordinary circum- 
stances ; but I think we can trust him not to grow old too 
rapidly," said Mrs. Ashburton. " I should not wish to bias 
Jessie's inclination on the subject ; indeed, I desire her to 
consider well before she decides " 
" The time for consideration is past, I am afraid," re- 
marked Madge, with a touch of the old quaintness. "Jessie 
looks as if she had made her election." 
" I did not think so much of that as of " 
" Well, Miss Tender Conscience ?" 
" O, Philip ! do not laugh at me," she entreated, blushing 
painfully. " I did wish that we were rich again. I ana 
almost sorry to take so much and give so little ! " 
"As if the love of a tender and noble woman wag 
nothing ! " 
"I honor him for his choice," said Eleanor. "And, 
Jessie, you will find, in your contact with the world, that 
refinement and virtue are not always the prerogatives of 
wealth. There is much meanness, and baseness, and indi- 
gence of soul under a golden exterior. To my fancy, Mr. 
Graham has but few peers, and it is a high compliment 
for any woman to have won such a heart. But never think 
of your poverty in connection with him." 
" No, Jessie, you need not experience any fear. I do 
believe Ward Graham one of the noblest of men. How 
oddly it has all come about ! If Madge had not obeyed 
my crazy behest, we might never have had such a friend." 
Madge smiled faintly, remembering that time of trial. 
" To have made it a perfect romance, he ought to have 
fallen in love with her," said Jessie. 
"But there are few perfect romances in this world, and 
it is all best as it is," returned the sweet, low voice, with 
its underlying strand of pain. 
 
CHAPTER XVin. 
A VEXED QUESTION. 
THE Ashburtons settled themselves very qui jtly to the 
fact of Jessie's engagement. The spirit was one of tender 
thankfulness, rather thaii any intense delight. Circum- 
stances gave it a kind of solemn sacredness. Eleanor's 
worldly betrothal, with its display and gratulations, and 
Madge's childish, eager promises, were so different from 
this ! 
But each day Jessie felt more secure and satisfied. 
When the first strangeness had worn off, and she gained 
courage for some shy confessions, they learned how much 
their souls and aims were alike a something that did 
r.ot lift them above the petty duties of life, but ennobled 
every common claim. For it is in these small things that 
we have our daily existence. Now and then there comes 
a great sorrow, or trial, or temptation ; but it seems as if 
with the emergency new strength was provided. And the 
trivial incidents are perhaps the true test of character, the 
hourly patience and grace, the content with distasteful 
duties, the round that does become tiresome at times, when 
the soul longs to fly beyond its narrow orbit. 
It appeared to Jessie, at first, as if leaving home woald 
be quite an impossibility. How could they do without 
her ? And then she found Eleanor taking her place, be- 
coming an invaluable companion to their father. The 
wonders of the old world that she had often lingered over 
in a spirit of ennui or carelessness were as exhumed 
treasures to her, now that Mr. Ashburton loved to listen. 
She did endeavor to attach him to herself when she knew 
 
that ere long he would be called upon to pait with 
Jessie. 
Madge kept to the calm tenor of her way. Even her 
mother was shut out of her great sorrow ; indeed, she 
said steadily to herself that she would burden no one with 
it. Since she could not forget, she would lock it in her 
own soul, and have no long procession of pitying eyes. 
And thus the spring came to them once again. Mr. 
Ashburton's operation would take place in the early 
autumn, as then a friend of Dr. Conway, an eminent 
oculist, would be home from Paris. This would necessi- 
tate change of abode for a month or two at least, and it 
was judged wisest that Mrs. Ashburton should be his at- 
tendant. Mr. Graham was deeply interested in this mat- 
ter, and desired to have a son's right in deed and name 
before this occurrence. 
There seemed no good reason why Jessie should refuse. 
Philip insisted that Madge should give up school the com- 
ing year, for she was growing vaguely shadow-like. Al- 
ways well, she said ; but there was a weariness sad to see, 
a shadow in the eyes that had once been so bright, a 
dreaminess and hesitation unlike the old promptness and 
energy. 
One pleasant May afternoon they were gathered in the 
sitting-room, Eleanor reading aloud while Jessie and her 
mother sewed. Madge had just come home, and was 
lying listlessly on the sofa. Being the only unoccupied 
one, she answered the ring at the door bell. A small, 
slight figure, dressed in deep mourning, the tiny gloved 
hand looking like a child's as she raised her veil. 
M Is Mr. Ashburton at home ?" 
Madge started. A face that, if not strictly beautiful, 
was still a marvel, with its pearly complexion, delicate 
features, and waves of fine, pale-golden hair. 
"Mr. Ashburton !" she exclaimed in amaze. 
It was so seldom that a stranger came for any ont 
 
besides Eleanor, that Madge unconsciously stared at hei 
visitor. 
" Does he not reside here ? " 
The voice had a peculiar sweetness of modulation. 
Indeed, the whole air of this strange little creature be- 
Bpoke the extreme of refinement and cultivation. 
a Yes ; will you walk in ? " replied Madge, collecting 
her scattered senses. 
The folding-doors between the two rooms were wide open. 
Madge seated her visitor, and walked straight through. 
" Papa," brushing the straggling locks from his forehead, 
" a lady wishes to see you." 
He held out his hand, and Madge led him forward. 
The visitor rose, extended her slender fingers, and then 
questioned them both with her eyes. 
" He is blind," Ma<lge said, briefly. Somehow she had 
taken an unreasonable dislike to this stranger. 
"Blind! O, Mr. Ashburton! Then you cannot recog- 
nize, even if you remembered me. I am Rose Stanhope." 
Mr. Ashburton took a seat with quiet dignity. 
" Tour father " 
"Papa died at Genoa in February last." 
There was a peculiar atmosphere of awkwardness. 
Miss Stanhope's fingers worked nervously. 
"Perhaps you prefer seeing papa alone?" Madge 
queried, presently. 
" If you please." 
A scarlet flush overspread the fair face as she uttered 
these words. 
Madge rose and closed the doors between. 
"Mr. Stanhope is dead," she began, in a low tone. "I 
wonder what can have happened ? " 
Eleanor glanced up thoughtfully, studying her mother's 
