words of comfort came not to his lips ; in the 
presence of so great a sorrow he bowed his 
head in silence. The friends who were in the 
house, came out to meet him, but no one spoke ; 
they knew by his face that the worst was true. 
They did not follow him into the presence of 
 
the mourners, but going down to the gate, they 
waited there. 
' Mr. Leslie entered the sitting-room. " The 
Lord gave and the Lord hath taken away," he 
said solemnly. "Blessed be the name of the 
Lord. Hugh, our dear Hugh is dead." 
Sibyl screamed and fell back fainting, the 
children burst into tears, and Aunt Faith knelt 
down by her chair and hid her face in her hands. 
Bessie alone was calm. " Are they bringing 
him home ? " she asked, lifting her tearless eyes 
to Mr. Leslie's face. 
" Yes Bessie ; they will soon be here, now." 
Without reply she rose, smoothed her dis- 
ordered curls and arranged her dress. " Sibyl," 
she said, " do not cry ; Hugh never could bear 
to hear any one cry! Aunt Faith, Hugh is 
coming. Let us go to meet him." 
Her strange composure awed the violent 
grief of the others into silence, and they followed 
her mechanically as she led the way to the piazza; 
involuntarily they all took the positions of the 
previous evening, and, with Bessie standing 
alone in the centre, they waited for their dead. 
The young men bore their burden up the 
walk slowly and solemnly, and behind followed 
a train of sorrowing friends, two and two, thus 
rendering respect to the youth who had so 
suddenly been taken from them in all the flush 
and vigor of early manhood. On came the sad 
procession, and when the bearers reached the 
piazza, the friends fell back and stood with 
uncovered heads, as up the steps, and under the 
faded triumphal arch, Hugh Warrington came 
home for the last time to the old stone house. 
At midnight Aunt Faith went softly into the 
parlor ; a faint light shone from the chandelier 
upon the still figure beneath, and Bessie with 
her face hidden in her hands, sat by its side. 
She did not move as Aunt Faith came to her ; 
she did not answer when Aunt Faith spoke to 
her ; she seemed almost as cold and rigid as the 
dead. 
" Bessie dear, I have something to show you," 
 
said Aunt Faith, in a low tone ; " I have a letter 
to you from Hugh." 
Bessie started and looked up ; her face was 
pinched and colorless, and her dark eyes wild 
and despairing. 
" I have a letter to you, dear, from Hugh," 
repeated Aunt Faith; "he wrote it on board 
the floating deck just before he died." 
" Give it to me," said Bessie hoarsely, holding 
out her cold hands. 
" In a moment, dear. Come upstairs with me 
and you shall see it," answered Aunt Faith, 
trying to lead her away. But Bessie resisted 
wildly. " I will not go ! " she said. " I shall 
stay with Hugh until the last. Give me my 
letter ! It is mine ! You have no right to keep it. 
Give it to me, I say ! " 
Alarmed at the expression of her eyes, Aunt 
Faith took out the captain's note-book, opened it, 
and handed it to her niece. The words were 
scrawled across the page in irregular lines ; 
there seemed to be two paragraphs. The first 
was this : " Bessie, try to be good, dear ; I love 
you." The second : " I can say the two sen- 
tences, Aunt Faith, — I am saying them now. — 
Hugh." 
The writing was trembling and indistinct, and 
the last words barely legible ; the signature was 
but a blur. 
As Bessie deciphered the two messages, a 
sudden tremor shook her frame ; then she read 
them over again, speaking the words aloud as 
if to give them reality. " Oh Hugh ! Hugh ! " 
she cried, " how can I live without you ! " 
With a quick movement, Aunt Faith turned 
up the gas and threw back the pall ; then she 
put her arms around the desolate girl and raised 
her to her feet. "Look at him, Bessie!" she 
said earnestly ; " look at dear Hugh, and think 
how hard it must have been for him to write 
those words, how hard he must have tried, how 
much he must have loved you ! " 
Hugh's face was calm, the curling, golden hair 
concealed the cruel wound on his temple, and 
 
there was a beautiful expression about the 
mouth, that strange peace which sometimes 
comes after death, as if sent to comfort the 
mourners. His right hand, bruised by the hard 
night's work, was covered with vine-leaves, but 
the left, the hand that had held the little child, 
was folded across his breast ; he was dressed as 
he had been in life, and some one had placed 
a cross on his heart, — a little cross of ivy simply 
twined. " My soldier, true soldier of the cross, " 
murmured Aunt Faith, stooping to kiss the cold 
brow. " In those hours it all became clear to 
you. 'Lord, I believe, help Thou mine unbe- 
lief ; ' — ' Lord be merciful to me a sinner.' 
With these two sentences on your lips, you 
passed into another country. Farewell, Hugh! 
You will not return to us, but. we shall go to 
you." 
Bessie had not raised her head from Aunt 
Faith's shoulder. She had not looked upon 
Hugh since they brought him home, and now 
she stood holding the note-book in her hands, 
and trembling convulsively. 
" Look at him, Bessie," said Aunt Faith 
again ; " look at dear Hugh. He is speaking to 
you now, in that dying message." 
At last Bessie raised her head and looked upon 
the still face long and earnestly ; then, throw- 
ing herself down upon her knees, she burst into 
a passion of wild grief, calling upon Hugh, be- 
seeching him to speak to her, and listening for 
his answer in vain. Aunt Faith did not try to 
check her, for these were her first tears ; she 
knew they would relieve that tension of the head 
and heart, which, if long continued, must have 
ended in physical and mental prostration. After 
a few moments, Sibyl came in, and the two 
watched over Bessie until she sank exhausted to 
the floor, when they lifted her slight form and 
bore her upstairs. 
Then, from the sitting-room, two of Hugh's 
friends came in, turned down the light, covered 
the still face, and went back to keep their watch 
in the desolate hours of mourning. 
The sun was sinking towards the west in unclouded 
brightness when a throng gathered in 
the old stone house to pay their last tribute of 
respect to the dead. " Fitz Hugh Warrington, 
aged twenty years and ten months," said the 
inscription on the coffin-lid, and many tears 
dropped upon it, as, one by one, the friends bent 
over to take a farewell look at the handsome face 
with its clustering golden hair. Then came the 
voice of the aged pastor, reading the words of the 
Gospel of St. John, — Hugh's favorite chapter, the 
fourteenth. A hymn followed, — Hugh's favor- 
ite hymn, " Brightest and best of the sons of the 
morning," and then they all knelt in prayer, the 
fervent prayer mingled with tears which ascends 
from the house where the dearest one of all is 
dead. 
Mr. Leslie took no part in the services ; he 
stood with Sibyl as one of the family. Aunt 
