expression you sometimes see, making you think of a serpent’s eyes. She
was dressed in common finery and adorned by cheap jewelry.
“What do you think of that, Pinky Swett?” exclaimed Mrs. Bray, in a
voice of exultation. “Got her all right, haven’t I?”
“Well, you have!” answered the woman, shaking all over with unrestrained
laughter. “The fattest pigeon I’ve happened to see for a month of
Sundays. Is she very rich?”
“Her husband is, and that’s all the same. And now, Pinky”--Mrs. Bray
assumed a mock gravity of tone and manner--“you know your fate--New
Orleans and the yellow fever. You must pack right off. Passage free and
a hundred dollars for funeral expenses. Nice wet graves down there--keep
off the fire;” and she gave a low chuckle.
“Oh yes; all settled. When does the next steamer sail?” and Pinky almost
screamed with merriment. She had been drinking.
“H-u-s-h! h-u-s-h! None of that here, Pinky. The people down stairs are
good Methodists, and think me a saint.”
“You a saint? Oh dear!” and she shook with repressed enjoyment.
After this the two women grew serious, and put their heads together for
business.
“Who is this woman, Fan? What’s her name, and where does she live?”
 asked Pinky Swett.
“That’s my secret, Pinky,” replied Mrs. Bray, “and I can’t let it go; it
wouldn’t be safe. You get a little off the handle sometimes, and don’t
know what you say--might let the cat out of the bag. Sally Long took the
baby away, and she died two months ago; so I’m the only one now in
the secret. All I want of you is to keep track of the baby. Here is a
five-dollar bill; I can’t trust you with more at a time. I know your
weakness, Pinky;” and she touched her under the chin in a familiar,
patronizing way.
Pinky wasn’t satisfied with this, and growled a little, just showing her
teeth like an unquiet dog.
“Give me ten,” she said; “the woman gave you thirty. I heard her say so.
And she’s going to bring you seventy to-morrow.”
“You’ll only waste it, Pinky,” remonstrated Mrs. Bray. “It will all be
gone before morning.”
“Fan,” said the woman, leaning toward Mrs. Bray and speaking in a low,
confidential tone, “I dreamed of a cow last night, and that’s good
luck, you know. Tom Oaks made a splendid hit last Saturday--drew twenty
dollars--and Sue Minty got ten. They’re all buzzing about it down in our
street, and going to Sam McFaddon’s office in a stream.”
“Do they have good luck at Sam McFaddon’s?” asked Mrs. Bray, with
considerable interest in her manner.
“It’s the luckiest place that I know. Never dreamed of a cow or a hen
that I didn’t make a hit, and I dreamed of a cow last night. She was
giving such a splendid pail of milk, full to the brim, just as old Spot
and Brindle used to give. You remember our Spot and Brindle, Fan?”
“Oh yes.” There was a falling inflection in Mrs. Bray’s voice, as if
the reference had sent her thoughts away back to other and more innocent
days.
The two women sat silent for some moments after that; and when Pinky
spoke, which she did first, it was in lower and softer tones:
“I don’t like to think much about them old times, Fan; do you? I might
have done better. But it’s no use grizzling about it now. What’s done’s
done, and can’t be helped. Water doesn’t run up hill again after it’s
once run down. I’ve got going, and can’t stop, you see. There’s nothing
to catch at that won’t break as soon as you touch it. So I mean to be
jolly as I move along.”
“Laughing is better than crying at any time,” returned Mrs. Bray; “here
are five more;” and she handed Pinky Swett another bank-bill. “I’m going
to try my luck. Put half a dollar on ten different rows, and we’ll go
shares on what is drawn. I dreamed the other night that I saw a flock of
sheep, and that’s good luck, isn’t it?”
Pinky thrust her hand into her pocket and drew out a worn and soiled
dream-book.
“A flock of sheep; let me see;” and she commenced turning over the
leaves. “Sheep; here it is: ‘To see them is a sign of sorrow--11, 20,
40, 48. To be surrounded by many sheep denotes good luck--2, 11, 55.’
That’s your row; put down 2, 11, 55. We’ll try that. Next put down 41
11, 44--that’s the lucky row when you dream of a cow.”
As Pinky leaned toward her friend she dropped her parasol.
“That’s for luck, maybe,” she said, with a brightening face. “Let’s see
what it says about a parasol;” and she turned over her dream-book.
“For a maiden to dream she loses her parasol shows that her sweetheart
is false and will never marry her--5, 51, 56.”
“But you didn’t dream about a parasol, Pinky.”
“That’s no matter; it’s just as good as a dream. 5, 51, 56 is the row.
Put that down for the second, Fan.”
As Mrs. Bray was writing out these numbers the clock on the mantel
struck five.
“8, 12, 60,” said Pinky, turning to the clock; “that’s the clock row.”
And Mrs. Bray put down these figures also.
“That’s three rows,” said Pinky, “and we want ten.” She arose, as she
spoke, and going to the front window, looked down upon the street.
“There’s an organ-grinder; it’s the first thing I saw;” and she came
back fingering the leaves of her dream-book. “Put down 40, 50, 26.”
Mrs. Bray wrote the numbers on her slip of paper.
“It’s November; let’s find the November row.” Pinky consulted her book
again. “Signifies you will have trouble through life--7, 9, 63. That’s
true as preaching; I was born in November, and I’ve had it all trouble.
How many rows does that make?”
“Five.”
“Then we will cut cards for the rest;” and Pinky drew a soiled pack from
her pocket, shuffled the cards and let her friends cut them.
“Ten of diamonds;” she referred to the dream-book. “10, 13, 31; put that
down.”
The cards were shuffled and cut again.
“Six of clubs--6, 35, 39.”
Again they were cut and shuffled. This time the knave of clubs was
turned up.
“That’s 17, 19, 28,” said Pinky, reading from her book.
The next cut gave the ace of clubs, and the policy numbers were 18, 63,
75.
“Once more, and the ten rows will be full;” and the cards were cut
again.
“Five of hearts--5, 12, 60;” and the ten rows were complete.
“There’s luck there, Fan; sure to make a hit,” said Pinky, with almost
childish confidence, as she gazed at the ten rows of figures. “One
of ‘em can’t help coming out right, and that would be fifty
dollars--twenty-five for me and twenty-five for you; two rows would give
a hundred dollars, and the whole ten a thousand. Think of that, Fan!
five hundred dollars apiece.”
“It would break Sam McFaddon, I’m afraid,” remarked Mrs. Bray.
“Sam’s got nothing to do with it,” returned Pinky.
“He hasn’t?”
“No.”
“Who has, then?”
“His backer.”
“What’s that?”
“Oh, I found it all out--I know how it’s done. Sam’s got a backer--a man
that puts up the money. Sam only sells for his backer. When there’s a
hit, the backer pays.”
“Who’s Sam’s backer, as you call him?”
“Couldn’t get him to tell; tried him hard, but he was close as an
oyster. Drives in the Park and wears a two thousand dollar diamond pin;
he let that out. So he’s good for the hits. Sam always puts the money
down, fair and square.”
“Very well; you get the policy, and do it right off, Pinky, or the
money’ll slip through your fingers.”
“All right,” answered Pinky as she folded the slip of paper containing
the lucky rows. “Never you fear. I’ll be at Sam McFaddon’s in ten
minutes after I leave here.”
“And be sure,” said Mrs. Bray, “to look after the baby to-night, and see
that it doesn’t perish with cold; the air’s getting sharp.”
“It ought to have something warmer than cotton rags on its poor little
body,” returned Pinky. “Can’t you get it some flannel? It will die if
you don’t.”
“I sent it a warm petticoat last week,” said Mrs. Bray.
“You did?”
“Yes; I bought one at a Jew shop, and had it sent to the woman.”
“Was it a nice warm one?”
“Yes.”
Pinky drew a sigh. “I saw the poor baby last night; hadn’t anything on
but dirty cotton rags. It was lying asleep in a cold cellar on a little
heap of straw. The woman had given it something, I guess, by the way
it slept. The petticoat had gone, most likely, to Sam McFaddon’s. She
spends everything she can lay her hands on in policies and whisky.”
“She’s paid a dollar a week for taking care of the baby at night and on
Sundays,” said Mrs. Bray.
“It wouldn’t help the baby any if she got ten dollars,” returned Pinky.
“It ought to be taken away from her.”
“But who’s to do that? Sally Long sold it to the two beggar women, and
they board it out. I have no right to interfere; they own the baby, and
can do as they please with it.”
“It could be got to the almshouse,” said Pinky; “it would be a thousand
times better off.”
“It mustn’t go to the almshouse,” replied Mrs. Bray; “I might lose track
of it, and that would never do.”
“You’ll lose track of it for good and all before long, if you don’t get
it out of them women’s bands. No baby can hold out being begged with
long; it’s too hard on the little things. For you know how it is, Fan;
