the grandees of Spain preferred the St. Augustine orange to any other.
In Spain the trees live to a great age; some of them are said to be six
hundred years old, having been planted by the Moors, but here an
unexpected frost has several times destroyed all the groves, so that
the crop is by no means a sure one.”
“So the frost does come here,” I said. “We have seen nothing of it; the
thermometer has ranged from sixty-eight to seventy-eight ever since we
arrived.”
“They had snow in New York last week,” said Aunt Di.
“It has melted, I think,” said John. “At least I saw this item last
evening in a New York paper: ‘If the red sleigher thinks that he sleighs
to-day, he is mistaken!’”
“Shades of Emerson and Brahma, defend us!” said Sara.
Then we all began to eat oranges, and make dripping spectacles of
ourselves generally. I defy any one to be graceful, or even dainty, with
an orange; it is a great, rich, generous, pulpy fruit, and you have got
to eat it in a great, rich, generous, pulpy way. How we did enjoy those
oranges under the glossy green and fragrant blossoms of the trees
themselves! We gave it up then and there, and said openly that no bought
Northern oranges could compare with them.
“I don’t feel politically so much disturbed now about the cost of that
sea-wall,” said Sara, “if it keeps this orange grove from washing away.
It is doing a sweet and noble duty in life, and herein is cause
sufficient for its stony existence.”
We strolled back to the town by another way, and crossed again the Maria
Sanchez Creek.
“Observe how she meanders down the marsh, this fairy streamlet,” I said,
taking up a position on the stone culvert. “Observe how green are her
rushes, how playful her little minnows, how martial her fiddler-crabs! O
lost Maria! come back and tell your story. Were you sadly drowned in
these overwhelming waves, or were you the first explorer of these
marshes, pushing onward in your canoe with your eyes fixed on futurity!”
Nobody knew; so we went home. But in the evening John produced the
following, which he said had been preserved in the archives of the town
for centuries. “I have made a free translation, as you will see,” he
said; “but the original is in pure Castilian.”
“THE LEGEND OF MARIA SANCHEZ CREEK.
              “Maria Sanchez
              Her dug-out launches,
    And down the stream to catch some crabs she takes her way,
              A Spanish maiden,
              With crabs well laden;
    When evening falls she lifts her trawls to cross the bay.
              “Grim terror blanches
              Maria Sanchez,
    Who, not to put too fine a point, is rather brown;
    A norther coming,
    Already humming,
    Doth bear away that Spanish mai--den far from town.
              “Maria Sanchez,
              Caught in the branches
    That sweetly droop across a creek far down the coast,
              That calm spectator,
              The alligator,
    Doth spy, then wait to call his mate, who rules the roast.
              “She comes and craunches
              Maria Sanchez,
    While boat and crabs the gentle husband meekly chews.
              How could they eat her,
              That señorita,
    Whose story still doth make quite ill the Spanish Muse?”
We heaped praises upon John’s pure Castilian ode--all save the
Professor, who undertook to criticise a little. “I have made something
of a study of poetry,” he began, “and I have noticed that much depends
upon the selection of choice terms. For instance, in the first verse you
make use of the local word ‘dug-out.’ Now in my opinion, ‘craft’ or
‘canoe’ would be better. You begin, if I remember correctly, in this
way:
    “‘Maria Sanchez
      Launches her dug-out--’”
“Oh no, Professor,” said Sara; “this is it:
    “‘Maria Sanchez
      Her dug-out launches.’”
“The same idea, I opine, Miss St. John,” said the Professor, loftily.
“But the rhymes, Sir?”
The Professor had not noticed the rhymes; poetry should be above rhymes
altogether, in his opinion.
The pleasant days passed, we sailed up and down the Matanzas, walked on
the sea-wall, and sat in the little overhanging balcony, which, like all
others in St. Augustine, was hung up on the side of the house like a
cupboard without any support from below. Letters from home meanwhile
brought tidings of snow and ice and storm, disasters by land and by sea.
A lady friend, a new arrival, had visited the Ancient City forty years
before, in the days of the ancien régime. “It is much changed,” she
said. “These modern houses springing up every where have altered the
whole aspect of the town. I am glad I came back while there is still
something left of the old time. Another five years and the last old wall
will be torn down for a horrible paling fence. Forty years ago the town
was largely Spanish or Moorish in its architecture. The houses were all
built of coquina, with a blank wall toward the north, galleries running
around a court-yard behind, where were flowers, vines, and a central
fountain. The halls, with their stone arches, opened out into this
greenery without doors of any kind, tropical fashion. Those were the
proud days of St. Augustine; the old families reigned with undisputed
sway; the slaves were well treated, hospitality was boundless, and the
intermixture of Spanish and Italian blood showed itself in the dark eyes
that glanced over the balconies as the stranger passed below. It has all
vanished now. The war effaced the last fading hue of the traditional
grandeur, and broke down the barriers between the haughty little city
and the outside world. The old houses have been modernized, and many of
them have given place to new and, to my ideas, thoroughly commonplace
dwellings. There is one left, however, the very mansion where I was so
charmingly entertained forty years ago; its open arches remain just as
they were, and the old wall still surrounds the garden. Up stairs is the
large parlor where we had our gay little parties, with wines, and those
delicious curled-up cakes, all stamped with figures, thin as a wafer,
crisp and brittle, which seemed to be peculiar to St. Augustine.”
“Did you know there was a native artist here?” said John, calling up one
morning as he sat on the balcony, Sara and myself endeavoring to write
duty letters.
“Painter or sculptor?” I inquired, pen in hand, pausing over an
elaborate description of a sunset with which I was favoring a
soul-to-soul correspondent. “Let me see: standing on the glacis with the
look-out tower outlined against--”
“Sculptor,” answered John. “His studio is on Charlotte Street not far
from here. Let us walk down and see him.”
“Look-out tower outlined against the golden after-glow. Is it worth
going to see?”
“Indeed it is. There is a fine design--a lion carved in stone, and also
a full-length figure of Henry Clay walking in the gardens of Ashland;
and what is more, these statues are on top of the house outlined
against--”
“The golden after-glow,” I suggested.
“Certainly,” said John. “And inside you will find rare antique vases,
Egyptian crocodiles, Grecian caskets, and other remarkable works, all
executed in stone.”
“I have long craved an alligator, but could not undertake the cigar-box
discipline,” I answered, rising. “A crocodile carved in stone will be
just the thing. Come, Sara.”
We walked down Charlotte Street, and presently came to a small house
with a low wing, whose open shutter showed the studio within. On the
roof were two figures in coquina, one a nondescript animal like the
cattle of a Noah’s ark, the other a little stone man who seemed to have
been so dwarfed by the weight of his hat that he never smiled again.
“The lion, and Henry Clay,” said John, introducing the figures.
“Passé for the lion; but how do you make out the other?”
“Oh, Henry seems to be the beau ideal of the South. You meet him every
where on the way down in a plaster and marble dress-coat, extending his
hand in a conversational manner, and so, of course, I supposed this to
be another one. And as to the gardens of Ashland, as he has his hat
on--indeed, he is principally hat--he must be taking a walk somewhere,
and where so likely as his own bucolic garden?”
“I shall go back to my after-glow, Mr. Hoffman. Your Henry Clay is a
fraud.”
“Wait and see the artist, Martha,” said Sara. “He is a colored man and a
cripple.”
We tapped on the shutter, and the artist appeared, supporting himself on
crutches; a young negro, with a cheerful shining countenance, and an
evident pride in the specimens of his skill scattered about the
floorless studio--alligators, boxes, roughly cut vases, all made of the
native coquina; or, as the artist’s sign had it,
“It must require no small amount of skill to cut any thing out of this
crumbling shell-rock,” I said, as, after purchasing a charming little
alligator, and conversing some time with the dusky artist, we turned
homeward.
“It does,” replied John. “Ignorant as he is, that man is not without his
ideas of beauty and symmetry--another witness to the capability for
education which I have every where noticed among the freedmen of the
South.”
“I too have been impressed with this capability,” said Sara--“strongly
