"Good-evening, Mr. Fletcher," said Harry, observing that young
gentleman near him.
"Good-evening, sir," said Fletcher stiffly, and turned on his heel
without offering his hand.
"Fletcher don't feel well," whispered Oscar.  "He had a visit from a
poor relation the other day--a tin-pedler--and it gave such a shock
to his sensitive system that he hasn't recovered from it yet."
"I didn't imagine Mr. Fletcher had such a plebeian relative," said
Harry.
"Nor did any of us.  The interview was rich.  It amused us all, but
what was sport to us was death to poor Fitz.  You have only to make
the most distant allusion to a tin-pedler in his hearing, and he will
become furious."
"Then I will be careful."
"Oh, it won't do any harm.  The fact was, the boy was getting too
overbearing, and putting on altogether too many airs.  The lesson
will do him good, or ought to."
Here the Society was called to order, and Oscar and Harry took their
seats.
The exercises proceeded in regular order until the President
announced a declamation by Fitzgerald Fletcher.
"Mr. President," said Fletcher, rising, "I must ask to be excused.  I
have not had time to prepare a declamation."
"Mr. President," said Tom Carver, "under the circumstances I hope you
will excuse Mr. Fletcher, as during the last week he has had an
addition to his family."
There was a chorus of laughter, loud and long, at this sally.  All
were amused except Fletcher himself, who looked flushed and provoked.
"Mr. Fletcher is excused," said the President, unable to refrain from
smiling.  "Will any member volunteer to speak in his place?  It will
be a pity to have our exercises incomplete."
Fletcher was angry, and wanted to be revenged on somebody.  A bright
idea came to him.  He would place the "printer's devil," whose
admission to the Society he resented, in an awkward position.  He
rose with a malicious smile upon his face.
"Mr. President," he said, "doubtless Mr. Walton, the new member who
has done us the honor to join our society, will be willing to
supply my place."
"We shall certainly be glad to hear a declamation from Mr. Walton,
though it is hardly fair to call upon him at such short notice."
"Can't you speak something, Harry?" whispered Oscar.  "Don't do it,
unless you are sure you can get through."
Harry started in surprise when his name was first mentioned, but he
quickly resolved to accept his duty.  He had a high reputation at
home for speaking, and he had recently learned a spirited poem,
familiar, no doubt, to many of my young readers, called "Shamus
O'Brien."  It is the story of an Irish volunteer, who was arrested
for participating in the Irish rebellion of '98, and is by turns
spirited and pathetic.  Harry had rehearsed it to himself only the
night before, and he had confidence in a strong and retentive memory.
At the President's invitation he rose to his feet, and said, "Mr.
President, I will do as well as I can, but I hope the members of the
Society will make allowance for me, as I have had no time for special
preparation."
All eyes were fixed with interest upon our hero, as he advanced to
the platform, and, bowing composedly, commenced his declamation.  It
was not long before that interest increased, as Harry proceeded in
his recitation.  He lost all diffidence, forgot the audience, and
entered thoroughly into the spirit of the piece.  Especially when, in
the trial scene, Shamus is called upon to plead guilty or not guilty,
Harry surpassed himself, and spoke with a spirit and fire which
brought down the house.  This is the passage:--
  "My lord, if you ask me, if in my life-time
  I thought any treason, or did any crime,
  That should call to my cheek, as I stand alone here,
  The hot blush of shame, or the coldness of fear,
  Though I stood by the grave to receive my death-blow,
  Before God and the world I would answer you, no!
  But if you would ask me, as I think it like,
  If in the rebellion I carried a pike,
  An' fought for ould Ireland from the first to the close,
  An' shed the heart's blood of her bitterest foes,
  I answer you, yes; and I tell you again,
  Though I stand here to perish, it's my glory that then
  In her cause I was willing my veins should run dhry,
  An' that now for her sake I am ready to die."
After the applause had subsided, Harry proceeded, and at the
conclusion of the declamation, when he bowed modestly and left the
platform, the hall fairly shook with the stamping, in which all
joined except Fletcher, who sat scowling with dissatisfaction at a
result so different from his hopes.  He had expected to bring
discomfiture to our hero.  Instead, he had given him an opportunity
to achieve a memorable triumph.
"You did yourself credit, old boy!" said Oscar, seizing and wringing
the hand of Harry, as the latter resumed his seat.  "Why, you ought
to go on the stage!"
"Thank you," said Harry; "I am glad I got through well."
"Isn't Fitz mad, though?  He thought you'd break down.  Look at him!"
Harry looked over to Fletcher, who, with a sour expression, was
sitting upright, and looking straight before him.
"He don't look happy, does he?" whispered Oscar, comically.
Harry came near laughing aloud, but luckily for Fletcher's peace of
mind, succeeded in restraining himself.
"He won't call you up again in a hurry; see if he does," continued
Oscar.
"I am sure we have all been gratified by Mr. Walton's spirited
declamation," said the President, rising.  "We congratulate ourselves
upon adding so fine a speaker to our society, and hope often to have
the pleasure of hearing him declaim."
There was a fresh outbreak of applause, after which the other
exercises followed.  When the meeting was over the members of the
Society crowded around Harry, and congratulated him on his success.
These congratulations he received so modestly, as to confirm the
favorable impression he had made by his declamation.
"By Jove! old fellow," said Oscar, as they were walking home, "I am
beginning to be proud of you.  You are doing great credit to your
teacher."
"Thank you, Professor," said Harry.  "Don't compliment me too much,
or I may become vain, and put on airs."
"If you do, I'll get Fitz to call, and remind you that you are only a
printer's devil, after all."
CHAPTER XIII.
VACATION BEGINS AT THE ACADEMY.
Not long after his election as a member of the Clionian Society, the
summer term of the Prescott Academy closed.  The examination took
place about the tenth of June, and a vacation followed, lasting till
the first day of September.  Of course, the Clionian Society, which
was composed of Academy students, suspended its meetings for the same
length of time.  Indeed, the last meeting for the season took place
during the first week in June, as the evenings were too short and too
warm, and the weather was not favorable to oratory.  At the last
meeting, an election was held of officers to serve for the following
term.  The same President and Vice-President were chosen; but as the
Secretary declined to serve another term, Harry Walton, considerably
to his surprise, found himself elected in his place.
Fitzgerald Fletcher did not vote for him.  Indeed, he expressed it as
his opinion that it was a shame to elect a "printer's devil"
Secretary of the Society.
"Why is it?" said Oscar.  "Printing is a department of literature,
and the Clionian is a literary society, isn't it?"
"Of course it is a literary society, but a printer's devil is not
literary."
"He's as literary as a tin-pedler," said Tom Carver, maliciously.
Fletcher turned red, but managed to say, "And what does that prove?"
"We don't object to you because you are connected with the tin
business."
"Do you mean to insult me?" demanded Fletcher, angrily.  "What have I
to do with the tin business?"
"Oh, I beg pardon, it's your cousin that's in it."
"I deny the relationship," said Fletcher, "and I will thank you not
to refer again to that vulgar pedler."
"Really, Fitz, you speak rather roughly, considering he's your
cousin.  But as to Harry Walton, he's a fine fellow, and he has an
excellent handwriting, and I was very glad to vote for him."
Fitzgerald walked away, not a little disgusted, as well at the
allusion to the tin-pedler, as at the success of Harry Walton in
obtaining an office to which he had himself secretly aspired.  He had
fancied that it would sound well to put "Secretary of the Clionian
Society" after his name, and would give him increased consequence at
home.  As to the tin-pedler, it would have relieved his mind to hear
that Mr. Bickford had been carried off suddenly by an apoplectic fit,
and notwithstanding the tie of kindred, he would not have taken the
trouble to put on mourning in his honor.
Harry Walton sat in Oscar Vincent's room, on the last evening of the
term.  He had just finished reciting the last French lesson in which
he would have Oscar's assistance for some time to come.
"You have made excellent progress," said Oscar.  "It is only two
months since you began French, and now you take a long lesson in
translation."
"That is because I have so good a teacher.  But do you think I can
