clean and as dainty as a drawing-room ; when I looked 
down her long, gilded saloon, it was like gazing 
through a splendid tunnel; she had an oil-picture, by 
some gifted sign-painter, on every state-room door ; 
she glittered with no end of prism-fringed chandeliers ; 
the clerk’s office was elegant, the bar was marvelous, 
and the barkeeper had been barbered and upholstered 
at incredible cost. The boiler-deck (i. e., the second 
story of the boat, so to speak), was as spacious as a 
church, it seemed to me; so with the forecastle; and 
there was no pitiful handful of deck-hands, firemen, 
and roustabouts down there, but a whole battalion of 
men. The fires were fiercely glaring from a long row 
of furnaces, and over them were eight huge boilers ! 
This was unutterable pomp. The mighty engines — - 
but enough of this. I had never felt so fine before. 
And when I found that the regiment of natty servants 
respectfully “sir'd” me, my satisfaction was complete. 
CHAPTER VII. 
A DARING DEED 
W HEN I returned to the pilot-house St. Louis was 
gone, and I was lost. Here was a piece of river 
which was all down in my book, but I could make 
neither head nor tail of it: you understand, it was 
turned around. I had seen it when coming up-stream, 
but I had never faced about to see how it looked when 
it was behind me. My heart broke again, for it was 
plain that I had got to learn this troublesome river both 
ways. 
The pilot-house was full of pilots, going down to 
“look at the river .’ 9 What is called the “upper 
river” (the two hundred miles between St. Louis and 
Cairo, where the Ohio comes in) was low; and the 
Mississippi changes its channel so constantly that the 
pilots used to always find it necessary to run down to 
Cairo to take a fresh look, when their boats were to 
lie in port a week; that is, when the water was at a 
low stage. A deal of this “ looking at the river” was 
done by poor fellows who seldom had a berth, and 
whose only hope of getting one lay in their being 
always freshly posted and therefore ready to drop into 
the shoes of some reputable pilot, for a single trip, on 
account of such pilot’s sudden illness, or some other 
necessity. And a good many of them constantly ran 
up and down inspecting the river, not because they 
ever really hoped to get a berth, but because (they 
being guests of the boat) it was cheaper to “look at 
the river” than stay ashore and pay board. In time 
these fellows grew dainty in their tastes, and only 
infested boats that had an established reputation for 
setting good tables. All visiting pilots were useful, 
for they were always ready and willing, winter or sum- 
mer, night or day, to go out in the yawl and help buoy 
the channel or assist the boat’s pilots in any way they 
could. They were likewise welcome because all pilots 
are tireless talkers, when gathered together, and as 
they talk only about the river they are always under- 
stood and are always interesting. Your true pilot cares 
nothing about anything on earth but the river, and his 
pride in his occupation surpasses the pride of kings. 
We had a fine company of these river inspectors 
along this trip. There were eight or ten, and there 
was abundance of room for them in our great pilot- 
house. Two or three of them wore polished silk hats, 
elaborate shirt-fronts, diamond breastpins, kid gloves, 
and patent-leather boots. They were choice in their 
English, and bore themselves with a dignity proper to 
men of solid means and prodigious reputation as pilots. 
The others were more or less loosely clad, and wore 
upon their heads tall felt cones that were suggestive of 
the days of the Commonwealth. 
I was a cipher in this august company, and felt sub- 
dued, not to say torpid. I was not even of sufficient 
consequence to assist at the wheel when it was neces- 
sary to put the tiller hard down in a hurry; the guest 
that stood nearest did that when occasion required — 
and this was pretty much all the time, because of the 
crookedness of the channel and the scant vater. I 
stood in a corner ; and the talk I listened to took the 
hope all out of me. One visitor said to another: 
“Jim, how did you run Plum Point, coming up?” 
“ It was in the night, there, and I ran it the way one 
of the boys on the Diana told me ; started out about 
fifty yards above the wood-pile on the false point, and 
held on the cabin under Plum Point till I raised the 
reef — quarter less twain — then straightened up for 
the middle bar till I got well abreast the old one- 
limbed cottonwood in the bend, then got my stern on 
the cottonwood, and head on the low place above the 
point, and came through a-booming — nine and a 
half.” 
“ Pretty square crossing, an’t it?” 
“ Yes, but the upper bar's working down fast.” 
Another pilot spoke up and said : 
“I had better water than that, and ran it lower 
down; started out from the false point — mark twain 
— raised the second reef abreast the big snag in the 
bend, and had quarter less twain.” 
One of the gorgeous ones remarked : 
“ I don’t want to find fault with your leadsmen, but 
that’s a good deal of water for Plum Point, it seems to  
me. '
There was an approving nod all around as this qiuet 
snub dropped on the boaster and “settled” him. 
And so they went on talk-talk-talking. Meantime, the 
thing that was running in my mind was, “Now, if my 
ears hear aright, I have not only to get the names of 
all the towns and islands and bends, and so on, by 
heart, but I must even get up a warm personal ac- 
quaintanceship with every old snag and one-limbed 
cottonwood and obscure wood-pile that ornaments the 
banks of this river for twelve hundred miles; and more 
than that, I must actually know where these things are 
in the dark, unless these guests are gifted with eyes 
that can pierce through two miles of solid blackness. 
I wish the piloting business was in Jericho and I had 
never thought of it.” 
At dusk Mr. Bixby tapped the big bell three times 
(the signal to land), and the captain emerged from his 
drawing-room in the forward end of the “ texas,” and 
looked up inquiringly. Mr. Bixby said: 
“ We will lay up here all night, captain.” 
“ Very well, sir.” 
That was all. The boat came to shore and was tied 
up for the night. It seemed to me a fine thing that 
the pilot could do as he pleased, without asking so 
grand a captain’s permission. I took my supper and 
went immediately to bed, discouraged by my day’s 
observations and experiences. My late voyage’s note- 
booking was but a confusion of meaningless names. It 
had tangled me all up in a knot every time I had 
looked at it in the daytime. I now hoped for respite 
in sleep ; but no, it reveled all through my head till 
sunrise again, a frantic and tireless nightmare. 
Next morning I felt pretty rusty and low-spirited. 
We went booming along, taking a good many chances, 
for we were anxious to “get out of the river” (as 
getting out to Cairo was called) before night should 
overtake us. But Mr. Bixby’s partner, the other 
pilot, presently grounded the boat, and we lost so 
much time getting her off that it was plain the darkness 
would overtake us a good long way above the mouth. 
This was a great misfortune, especially to certain of 
our visiting pilots, whose boats would have to wait for 
their return, no matter how long that might be. It 
sobered the pilot-house talk a good deal. Coming up- 
stream, pilots did not mind low water or any kind of 
darkness ; nothing stopped them but fog. But down- 
stream work was different; a boat was too nearly help- 
less, with a stiff current pushing behind her ; so it was 
not customary to run down-stream at night in low 
water. 
There seemed to be one small hope, however: if we 
could get through the intricate and dangerous Hat 
Island crossing before night, we could venture the rest, 
for we would have plainer sailing and better water. 
But it would be insanity to attempt Hat Island at 
night. So there was a deal of looking at watches all 
the rest of the day, and a constant ciphering upon the 
speed we were making; Hat Island was the eternal 
