than hundreds of lectures. Will you be a little 
patient with their rough ways and want of con- 
sideration ? I am offering you a part of my 
burden, to be sure ; but then, with your father's 
permission, I am to share part of yours. I am 
to stand with you to-morrow at your little sis- 
ter's christening. Believe me, that I am very 
glad to be here." 
 
Papa had intended to ask Mr. Searle, his senior 
warden. I .was surprised at the change. 
"Do you not like that, either?' and there 
was a tinge of disappointment in his tone. 
"Excuse me. It was only the suddenness." 
"I like the claim it gives me upon all your 
remembrances. Then your interest need only last 
a little while, if you so elect, while mine stretches 
over a whole life." 
" There is papa ! ' I exclaimed, with a great 
breath of relief, and sprang towards him. He 
put his dear arm around me, and I felt as if my 
perplexities had come to a sudden end. 
On the porch we found Fanny and mamma, 
and the conversation became very bright and 
general. Indeed, we sat up past our usual hour. 
When Fan and I were up stairs she began 
at once. 
"Mr. Duncan is just splendid! I envied you 
your walk, and I came back so soon that I had 
half a mind to run after you." 
"I wish you had been in my place. We did 
not get on at all. I wonder if we shall like the 
boys." 
"I shall not worry about them until they 
come." 
 
"But a fortnight soon passes, and then good- 
by to our quiet house." 
"A quiet house, with seven children in it!" 
and Fan laughed merrily. 
"Well they are not " 
"Boys! of course. But then, boys grow to 
be men. And men like Stephen Duncan are 
charming. One can afford to have a little 
trouble." 
" O, Fan! how can you talk so?' 
"I wasn't born blind or dumb. I cannot ac- 
count for it in any other way. Now, I dare 
say, Miss Prim, you are thinking of the two 
hundred dollars at the end of the summer, and 
all that it is to buy." 
"It has to be earned first." 
"We will take Mrs. Green's cheerful view of 
boarders. 4 They are not much trouble in the 
summer, when you only eat 'em and sleep 
'em. ; 
I could not help smiling at the quotation. 
"I wish it were Stephen instead. And how 
he talks of running over to England ! not mak- 
ing as much of it as we should of going to Ncu 
York. It is just royal to be rich. Rose, I 
think I shall marry for money, and set a good 
 
example to the five girls coming after me ; 
my dear, I have a strong suspicion that you will 
be an old maid." 
"O, Fanny, to-morrow will be Sunday, and 
the baby's christening." 
"Dear little Tot! yes. And we must set her 
a pattern of sweetness, so that she may see the 
manifest duty of all women. So, good-night, 
Mother Hubbard of many troubles." 
Fan gave me two or three smothering kisses, 
and subsided. I tried to do a little serious 
thinking, but was too sleepy ; and, in spite of 
my efforts, I went off in a dream about her and 
Mr. Duncan walking up the church aisle to- 
gether, Fan in a trailing white dress. I awoke 
with the thought in my mind. But it was fool- 
ish, and I tried to get it out. 
Sunday was beautiful. The air was full of 
fragrance ; bloom of tree and shrub, pungent 
odors of growing evergreens, and the freshening 
breath of grassy fields. After a pleasant break- 
fast, the children were made ready for church. 
Sundays were always such enjoyable days with 
us ! I don't know quite what the charm was ; 
but they seemed restful, and full of tender talking 
and sweet singing. 
After Sunday school, in the afternoon, the 
children were catechized, and there was a short 
service. 
Very few knew of the baby's christening ; so 
the congregation w^as not larger than usual. 
After the lesson, we went forward, mamma, 
Mrs. Whitcomb, baby, Mr. Duncan, and I. A 
sweet solemn service it was, baby being very 
good and quiet. Edith Duncan. The second 
name had been agreed upon in the morning, at 
Stephen's request. 
The children crowded around papa afterwards. 
"I do not wonder that everybody loves him," 
Mr. Duncan said, as we walked homeward. 
" And I feel as if I had a small claim upon 
him myself. I am a sort of brother to you now, 
Nelly." 
"Are you?' answered Nelly, with a roguish 
laugh. "I did not think it was so near a re- 
lation as that." 
" Perhaps it may be a grandfather, then," was 
the grave reply. 
"O, that's splendid!" declared Tiny Tim, 
who had big ears. "For we never had a grand- 
father, you know, only " 
"Only what?" 
 
"Your hair is not very white," commented 
Tim, as if suspicious of so near a relationship 
with a young man. 
He. laughed gayly. 
"I mean to be adopted into the family, nev- 
ertheless. My hair may turn white some day." 
"There is no hurry," returned Fanny. I doubt 
if Tim would be the more cordial on that ac- 
count." 
"Perhaps not;' with a shrewd smile. "But 
you will have to give me a sort of elder broth- 
er's place." 
"Will you really be our brother?' asked 
Daisy. 
"I shall be delighted to, if every one will 
consent. Ask Miss Rose if I may." 
"You like him don't you, Rose?' Papa 
said 
"We will take him for a brother," I returned, 
gaspingly, my cheeks scarlet, for fear of some 
indiscreet revelation. 
"I have never had any sisters; so I am very 
glad to get you all. I hope you will treat me 
well, and bring me home something nice when 
you go abroad." 
"But we are not going," said Tim; "and I 
don't believe I could hem a handkerchief nicely 
enough for you." 
" Then it will have to be the other way. Let 
me see : seven sisters. Well, I shall not forget 
you while I am gone." 
Mr. Duncan went to church that evening 
with Fan and Nelly, and, after he came home, 
had a long talk with papa out on the porch. 
Papa had enjoyed his guest very much and I 
was glad of that. It had been quite a holiday 
time. 
After breakfast the next morning, Mr. Dun- 
can went away. lie took little Edith in his 
arms, and walked up and down the room with 
her. 
"I feel as if I did not want to go away," he 
said, turning to mamma. "I think you must spoil 
everybody in this house. I almost envy the 
