always calls 'Mr. Hamilton's rooms.' I think they will suit you; at any
rate, I fitted them on purpose for your use."
"That was very considerate," laughed the merchant.
"The three rooms will just accommodate your family. I have four other
parlors, not quite so large, with one bed-room to each," continued the
landlord, looking around at the New Yorkers, as if to ascertain their
wants. "Of course you needn't have private parlors, if you don't want
them. I have plenty of nice single rooms."
"We want the private parlors," replied Mr. Hamilton. "I did not expect
to find such accommodations in Rockhaven."
"I think I know what a hotel ought to be," added the landlord. "By and
by, if our guests don't want private parlors, we shall put beds in
them."
"Squire Moses says you have raised the price," laughed the rich
merchant.
"Yes, sir: I couldn't afford to keep such a house as I mean to keep at
two dollars a day in these times."
"You have done quite right, and the price is very reasonable."
"I shall have to charge five dollars a day for the parlors, if anybody
wants them."
"Certainly; that is also proper; and we want five of them. Now I will go
to the office, and enter the names on the register," said Mr. Hamilton.
Their were five gentlemen with their wives, two single gentlemen, two
young ladies, and one young gentleman of sixteen. Rooms were assigned to
them according to their several needs, and all the party expressed
themselves as delighted with their accommodations. The furniture was not
costly, but it was neat and comfortable. The beds were clean, and
everything was in good order. The baggage, which the boats had brought
ashore after landing the passengers, was conveyed by the wagon to the
hotel. In less than an hour, the guests were all comfortable and happy.
Mr. Bennington was on the jump all the time, and so was Leopold. The
landlady, who was also the cook, was "spreading herself" to the utmost
upon the dinner. They all knew that the success of the house depended in
a very great measure upon the satisfaction given to these wealthy and
influential guests. The landlord, however, knew better than to waste his
strength upon mere "style," for he could not expect to equal that to
which his present patrons were all accustomed at home. He wanted the
best of meats and vegetables, well cooked, and served hot. He knew very
well that a teaspoonful of string beans, mashed potato, stewed tomato,
or green peas, in a miniature dish, placed before a guest after it had
been standing half an hour on the pantry table, was not eatable; and he
governed himself accordingly.
At dinner the guests appeared modestly dressed, and it would have been
difficult to identify in them the bundles of water-proofs, shawls, and
overcoats which had landed at the wharf. Leopold had put on a "biled
shirt," as he called it, and dressed himself in his best clothes. To
him was assigned the duty of waiting upon Mr. Hamilton and his family.
In his "store clothes" Leopold was a good-looking fellow, and he was
remarkably attentive to the wants of Miss Rosabel.
The dinner proceeded satisfactorily to the new guests, as to the old
ones. Dr. Heilenwinder declared that the soup was marvellously good; and
when he learned that Mrs. Bennington, who made it was a German by birth,
its excellence was explained to him.
The fog and rain continued for three days, and the ladies of the party
hardly ventured out of the house. The bowling alleys and billiard tables
were in constant use, and every evening, in the large hall connected
with the hotel, there was a dance, to which Mr. Hamilton invited many of
the town's people. It was fun and frolic from morning till midnight; and
no party weather-bound in a hotel ever enjoyed themselves more.
The fourth day was bright and pleasant.
CHAPTER XIII.
THE EXCURSION TO HIGH ROCK.
The yacht party which had come to Rockhaven in the Orion, in spite of
the fog and the rain, appeared to be very happy. If they were
aristocratic in the metropolis, they were not so in their summer resort.
Though the party was large enough to enable them to "have a good time"
without any assistance from outside of the hotel, they invited many of
the people of Rockhaven to join them in their indoor amusements. As Mr.
Hamilton was a native of the town, he was quite at home there, though he
had been absent from his boyhood. In addition to the dancing, the
billiards, and the bowling, one of the gentlemen of the party was an
elocutionist, and gave several "readings" in the parlor. A celebrated
writing-master, who was a guest at the hotel, gave an exhibition of his
sleight of hand tricks, in which he was almost as skillful as in the use
of his pen. At the end of the third day it was voted that, in spite of
the weather, the party had enjoyed themselves to the utmost. Mr.
Bennington and Leopold were unremitting in their efforts to make the
guests comfortable and happy.
But in spite of the enjoyment within doors, the New Yorkers were glad to
see the sun shine again. For the first time since their arrival they
were permitted to gaze upon the rugged and beautiful scenery of the
island. They were delighted with the cliffs, and with the views from
them. Most of the party spent the day in rambling about the town and in
climbing the rocks; but the younger members of it insisted upon
something more exciting. When Leopold carried their coffee to Rosabel
and her friend Isabel Peterson, at the breakfast table, he found them
very much excited. They were talking together with a furious enthusiasm,
though there was to be no wedding, or even a grand ball.
"We want to go to High Rock right off after breakfast," said Rosabel;
and it appeared that the high spirits of the young ladies were produced
simply by the anticipation of this excursion.
"In the Rosabel?" asked Leopold.
"Yes, certainly," answered Miss Hamilton.
"I will be ready for you," added the skipper.
"High Rock is such a delightful place!" exclaimed Rosabel, turning to
Isabel again. "I went there twice last summer; and I never enjoyed
myself so much as I did in climbing the rocks, and looking out upon the
ocean. I want you to see the place at once, Belle."
"I shall be delighted to go, especially if we are to sail in the
Rosabel," replied Miss Peterson. "Isn't it a nice thing to have a boat
named after you!"
"Of course it is a very great honor," laughed Rosabel, as she shook back
the affluence of wavy auburn locks which fell upon her shoulders.
"Leopold is a real good fellow."
"He is a very good-looking fellow, too," added Isabel, in a lower tone.
"His face is handsome, and if he were only dressed in good style, he
would be magnificent."
"I think he is nice now," said Rosabel, candidly, and without a blush,
for the little beauty was conscious of nothing but a kindly regard for
the landlord's son.
"He doesn't talk a bit country, and isn't clumsy and awkward, like many
young fellows away from the city."
"His manners are as pleasant as those of any young man I ever met. Do
you know, Belle, he speaks German?"
"What, Leopold!"
"He knows how to speak it a great deal better than I do, though he never
studied it in school, as I have for two years."
Leopold had left the dining-room for a moment, so that he did not hear
any of this conversation, and therefore had no idea how well he stood in
the estimation of these young ladies. Of course they did not intend that
he should know; and the next remark of Isabel, to the effect that she
wished he was not a "waiter," would certainly have hurt his feelings.
Leopold had gone into the office, where he found a boy waiting for a
chance to set up pins in the bowling alley, whom he sent for Stumpy,
with directions for him to have the Rosabel ready immediately for the
excursion to High Rock. Stumpy often went with him, and, as he intended
to wear his good clothes on the trip, he wanted his help on this
occasion.
As soon as breakfast was finished, Leopold was ready. His passengers
were to be Rosabel, Isabel, and Charley Redmond, a young man of
seventeen, and the son of one of the New Yorkers in the party. The sloop
was all ready when they reached the river. Stumpy had hoisted the
mainsail, and hauled her up where the passengers could embark without
difficulty.
"Why, she is a real nice boat!" exclaimed Isabel, as she seated herself
in the standing-room.
"I told you she was," replied Rosabel.
"Quite nobby," added Charley Redmond, with a patronizing tone, as he
adjusted his eye-glasses, for he was either near-sighted, or fancied
that the glasses added to his dignity and importance. "I dare say this
rustic is quite a boatman."
"He may be a rustic, but he is not so green as you are, Charley
Redmond," added Isabel, indignantly; but she spoke for her friend rather
than for herself.
The "rustic" did not hear any of these remarks, for after helping the
girls to their seats, he had gone to cast off the cable which Stumpy was
hauling in. But Leopold did not like Charley Redmond, for the young
gentleman was a person of ten times as much importance, in his own
estimation, as his father. He was supercilious, and, unlike the rest of
the party, looked down upon the boatman, and everybody else in the town.
"Of course you couldn't expect much of a fellow down here," added
Charley.
"He knows twice as much as you do," retorted Isabel, as the skipper took
his place at the helm, thus putting an end to the conversation.
"Now shove her off, Stumpy," said Leopold.
"Stumpy!" ejaculated Charley, with a laugh. "That's a romantic name."
"His name is Stumpfield Wormbury," Leopold explained. "He is a
first-rate fellow."
"No doubt of it," sneered the New Yorker, who was not a good specimen of
his genus, and could not appreciate such a "good fellow," with his
