 
a band of linen round his throat, he wore a strip of 
cloth covered with small white beads, edged above 
and below with a single row of pale blue ones. 
As lie mounted the steps with Ferris, Mrs. Ver 
vain came forward a little to meet them, while 
Florida rose and stood beside her chair in a sort of 
proud suspense and timidity. The elder lady was 
in that black from which she had so seldom been 
able to escape ; but the daughter wore a dress of 
delicate green, in which she seemed a part of the 
young season that everywhere clothed itself in the 
same tint. The sunlight fell upon her blonde 
hair, melting into its light gold ; her level brows 
frowned somewhat with the glance of scrutiny 
which she gave the dark young priest, who was 
making his stately bow to her mother, and trying 
to answer her English greetings in the same tongue. 
; My daughter," said Mrs. Vervain, and Don 
Ippolito made another low bow, and then looked at 
the girl with a sort of frank and melancholy won 
der, as she turned and exchanged a few words with 
Ferris, who was assailing her seriousness and hau 
teur with unabashed levity of compliment. A quick 
light flashed and fled in her cheek as she talked, 
and the fringes of her serious, asking eyes swept 
slowly up and down as she bent them upon him a 
moment before she broke abruptly, not coquettishly, 
away from him, and moved towards her mother, 
while Ferris walked off to the other end of the ter 
race, with a laugh. Mrs. Vervain and the priest 
 
were trying each other in French, and not making 
great advance ; he explained to Florida in Italian, 
and she answered him hesitatingly ; whereupon he 
praised her Italian in set phrase. 
" Thank you," said the girl sincerely, " I have 
tried to learn. I hope," she added as before, " you 
can make me see how little I know." The depre 
cating wave of the hand with which Don Ippolito 
appealed to her from herself, seemed arrested mid 
way by his perception of some novel quality in her. 
He said gravely that he should try to be of use, and 
then the two stood silent. 
" Come, Mr. Ferris," called out Mrs. Vervain, 
"breakfast is ready, and I want you to take me 
in." 
" Too much honor," said the painter, coming for 
ward and offering his arm, and Mrs. Vervain led 
the way indoors. 
" I suppose I ought to have taken Don Tppolito's 
arm," she confided in under-tone, " but the fact is, 
our French is so unlike that we don 't understand 
each other very well." 
"Oh," returned Ferris, " I've known Italians and 
Americans whom Frenchmen themselves couldn t 
understand." 
" You see it's an American breakfast," said Mrs. 
Vervain with a critical glance at the table before 
she sat down. " All but hot bread ; that you cant 
have," and Don Ippolito was for the first time in 
his life confronted by a breakfast of hot beef-steak, 
 
f&gt; 
eggs and toast, fried potatoes, and coffee with milk, 
with a choice of tea. He subdued all signs of the 
wonder he must have felt, and beyond cutting his 
meat into little bits before eating it, did nothin^ to 
o o 
betray his strangeness to the feast. 
The breakfast had passed off very pleasantly, 
with occasional lapses. " We break down under 
the burden of so many languages," said Ferris. " It 
is an embarras de richesses. Let us fix upon a com 
mon maccheronic. May I trouble you for a poco 
piu di sugar dans mon cafe, Mrs. Vervain ? What 
do you think of the bellazza de ce weather magni- 
fique, Don Ippolito ? " 
" How ridiculous ! " said Mrs. Vervain in a tone 
of fond admiration aside to Don Ippolito, who 
smiled, but shrank from contributing to the new 
tongue. 
" Very well, th-n," said the painter. " I shall 
stick to my native Bergamask for the future ; and 
Don Ippolito may translate for the foreign ladies." 
He ended by speaking English with everybodv ; 
Don Ippolito eked out his speeches to Mrs. Vervain 
in that tongue with a little French ; Florida, con 
scious of Ferris's ironical observance, used an em 
barrassed but defiant Italian with the priest. 
" I in so pleased ! " said Mrs. Vervain, rising 
when Ferris said that he must go, and Florida 
shook hands with both guests. 
"Thank you, Mrs. Vervain ; I could have gone 
before, if I d thought you would have liked it," an 
swered the painter. 
 
" Oh nonsense, now," returned the lady. " You 
know what I mean. I'm perfectly delighted with 
him," she continued, getting Ferris to one side, 
" and I know he must have a good accent. So very 
kind of you. Will you arrange with him about the 
pay ? SU ch a shame ! Thanks. Then I needn 't 
say anything to him about that. I'm so glad I had 
him to breakfast the first day ; though Florida 
thought not. Of course, one needn 't keep it 
up. But seriously, it isn t an ordinary case, you 
know." 
Ferris laughed at her with a sort of affection 
ate disrespect, and said good-by. Don Ippolito lin 
gered for a while to talk over the proposed lessons, 
and then went, after more elaborate adieux. Mrs. 
Vervain remained thoughtful a moment before she 
said : 
" That was rather droll, Florida." 
" What, mother ? " 
"His cutting his meat into small bites, before he 
began to eat. But perhaps it's the Venetian cus 
tom. At any rate, my dear, he's a gentleman in 
virtue of his profession, and I couldn t do less than 
ask him to breakfast. He has beautiful manners ; 
and if he must take snuff, I suppose it's neater to 
carry two handkerchiefs, though it does look odd. 
I wish he would n t take snuff." 
"I don 't see why we need care, mother. At any 
rate, we cannot help it." 
" That's true, my dear. And his nails. Now, 
 
when they re spread out on a book, you know, to 
keep it open, won 't it be unpleasant? " 
" They seem to have just such fingernails all over 
Europe except in England." 
" Oh, yes ; I know it. I dare say we shouldn 't 
care for it in him, if he didn 't seem so very nice 
otherwise. How handsome he is ! " 
V. 
IT was understood that Don Ippolito should come 
every morning at ten o clock, and read and talk 
with Miss Vervain for an hour or two ; but Mrs. 
Vervain's hospitality was too aggressive for the let 
ter of the agreement. She oftener had him to 
breakfast at nine, for, as she explained to Ferris, 
she could not endure to have him feel that it was 
a mere mercenary transaction, and there was no 
limit fixed for the lessons on these days. When 
she could, she had Ferris come, too, and she missed 
him when he did not come. " I like that bluntness 
of his," she professed to her daughter, " and I don 't 
mind his making light of me. You are so apt to 
be heavy if you're not made light of occasionally. 
I certainly shouldn 't want a son to be so respectful 
and obedient as you are, my dear." 
The painter honestly returned her fondness, and 
with not much greater reason. He saw that she 
took pleasure in his talk, and enjoyed it even when 
she did not understand it ; and this is a kind of 
flattery not easy to resist. Besides, there was very 
little ladies society in Venice in those times, and 
Ferris, after trying the little he could get at, had 
gladly denied himself its pleasures, and consorted 
