with apprehension. What strange story might not have 
been evolved out of the affair? She tried to rally her 
forces, but her very tongue seemed numb and speech- 
less. 
" Dora, do not torture me any longer with this terri- 
ble suspense. Tell me, at once — did you expect him ? 
Did you go to meet him, thinking — " 
" As God hears me, Ralph, I had believed him dead 
for years. A note came, that morning, from Mr. Colby, 
requesting an immediate interview, upon some impor- 
tant business. I could not understand it, at all, and 
started to bring it to you. Just as I stepped out of 
the cam I was confronted by Jasper Cameron. And 
it seemed, at that moment as if all my happy life had 
come to an end, that I was in some sort a criminal." 
She covered her face with her hands and drew a long, 
convulsive breath. 
" If you had gone to Catherine first ; " she cried, in 
passionate despair, as it seemed impossible for her ever 
to unravel the tangled mass. " She watched over me 
during those fearful days, and nights, when it appeared 
as if I must die, only, miserable people never do. And 
she knows every act, every thought, every wish of my 
heart." 
' * Am I never to know ? " 
A slow, wounded tone it was, that touched her deepfy, 
and made her feel quite like a culprit. 
" I was wild, Ealph, and hardly knew what I did. 
So we drove to the Park for a quiet talk. I dared not 
face you, with that man at my side, and when I learned 
that he was resolute to claim me, that he proposed 
still to love, and was ready to dare anything, I knew 
not which way to turn." 
"If you had come to me ! " 
"I know it all now, Ralph, to the very bitterest 
depths of shame and sorrow. Could I have confessed 
under the light of his cruel eyes, that I had deceived 
you, could I have endured jour surprise and perhaps 
condemnation, with him for a witness? I was wild 
with agony. I felt that I must see you alope, first, and 
explain the mystery. And after that, it seems like a 
horrible nightmare, until I saw Catherine standing in 
her own door, and fainted dead away in her arms." 
The terror overpowered her again. Weak and dizzy, 
she would have stumbled, had he not caught her in his 
arms and seated her tenderly on the sofa. 
"But this note to me," he said, " still in some con- 
fusion. "Catherine came to the office, one day, and 
failing to see me, left a message. Before that, I had 
heard Jasper Cameron's version. He had knowledge 
of every movement, he represented you as being — 
undecided, at least," and Tremaine's face flushed. 
"He made me understand that your wish was for se- 
clusion. Then, from Catherine^ note I inferred that 
she was quite anxious, but that you — " 
"Oh, Ralph, do not kill me!" she cried, passion- 
ately. " For, though I look so guilty in your eyes, I 
never wavered, one instant. I hated Jasper Cameron 
so bitterly, that I could have found it in my heart to 
murder him. Whatever vile falsehood he has told, I 
cannot now help, but I never so loved you, so longed 
for you, as through those dreary days. If it is all at 
an end, between us Ralph, if you can never forgive, 
still, I must love you, till I go to my grave ! " 
He took the flushed and tearful face in his hands, 
and kissed her, with such fever and tenderness, that she 
knew the past was to be put away, forever. 
"My darling," he said, with a great tremulousness 
in his voice. " Yon love me. I am hungering for the 
one word that acquits you, makes you blameless in my 
sight for all time. I always did believe that yon could 
explain the mystery, and now, that we are to begin our 
lives over again, I want to know — what I ought to 
have been told long before, what would, indeed, have 
saved us both all this trouble. Why was it kept from 
me?" 
He drew her head to a rest on his shoulder, with the 
old, fond, tender care. How had she lived without it 
these weary months ! 
"O, do not believe that I was base and deceitful, 
Ralph," she cried, piteously. " Uncle Verner promised 
to tell you the story, and gave me to understand that 
he had. I was really grateful to have you make no 
further reference to it, for it was most distasteful to 
me. And I never knew, until he lay dying, that lie 
had spoken of it as an engagement, merely. Jasper 
Cameron being dead, there could no harm come from 
the secret, he urged, while a confession of it now might 
bring me life-long unhappiness. I was a coward, and 
yielded, but it always stood between us. When you 
were fond, I sometimes felt as if I were taking your 
love under false pretences. Yet, you will think it 
strange, that I married Cameron, in the first place. 
Let me tell you all, now." 
There followed an account of her isolated girlhood, 
her girlish fancy, for it had been no more, though it 
led to such a serious. issue. Next, her foster-mother's 
death, and her going to Mr. Verner's. 
" And here is a link that I can supply ; " interrupted 
Mr. Tremaine- "A packet of papers has fallen into 
my hands, by accident, that may be of service to your 
mother. It contains Mrs. Denver's last letter and 
some other matters, and looking over them, gave me 
the first glimmering of the truth. The fortune was 
Cameron's aim, from the beginning, and the silence 
and estrangement furthered his plan. He told me his 
story, with great apparent frankness, but did not men- 
tion that you were ill, intimated, indeed* that it was by • 
your desire that he withheld j'our address. I may 
have been too proud, but it hardly seemed my duty to 
intrude upon you." 
"Yet, you would have come, if you" had known the 
truth?" 
Dora asked it, with the old, breathless eagerness, and 
her glowing ej'es sought his face. 
" Can you doubt it, my darling? " 
She crept closer to him, and the soft, wet cheek was 
pressed against his. Ah, she loved him now. She 
would never torment him again, with those half admis- 
sions, half reservations. 
u And then, that morning, Dora? You must have 
had some presentiment?" 
" I had a hundred, it seems to me. Perhaps it was 
because I had come to love you so well. If you had 
remained, I think I must have told you. And, if I 
could have suspected my message, I should have gone 
tQ the city, with you." 
"Everything conspired to keep me in the dark, it 
seems. I wonder that Colby did not send me word ! " 
They would never know the stronger motive, impell- 
ing Mr. Colby to secrecy, while they had been missing, 
and wrongly interpreting one another. It hardly 
seemed that they could have gone on so for months, 
when a single confession would have brought matters 
straight, so easily. 
"And yet," said Dora, "but for Jasper Cameron, 
I should not have known my mother." 
"We will put that to his credit, among so many 
evil deeds," was the answer. 
Dora roused presently, from the tender kisses that 
were showered upon lip, and cheek, and brow. 
" Ralph," and a crimson flush stained her fair face — 
' ' do you remember that I once went to Woodlea ? " 
A little tremor ran through the strong frame. That, 
too, was an interview of cross purposes. And then a 
smile hovered over the grave face. 
" You were jealous, Dora," yet he pressed her to his 
heart, as if the remembrance made her all the dearer. 
She raised her eyes, with their old, eager expression. 
"Bitterly so. To see that handsome woman in my 
place — " 
" Not in your place, my darling. God will bear me 
witness, that no such thought ever entered my mind. 
I invited them to-Woodlea, from motives of the most 
simple hospitality ; and if they had not come, I should 
have shut up the house. And, though I think Edith is 
a sweeter, better, and nobler woman, than when I first 
loved her, my heart was too full of loss and sorrow, to 
take in another. Will you believe me, Dora ? " 
" Yes," she said, softly, kissing him. " And I was 
