'Mid sabres' bright slashing and fighting, 
And I'll rise all weaponed up out of my grave, 
For the Emperor, the Emperor fighting ! " 
"This simple ballad went straight to the heart of 
old Jacques; tears rolled down his cheeks as I read, 
and he would have it over and over again. ' Ah ! 
that comrade was happy,' he said. ' He died when 
the Emperor was only taken. I too would have gone 
to my grave smiling, could I have thought that my 
Emperor would come riding over it with all his army 
around him again ! But he is dead, - my Emperor 
is dead ! Ah ! that comrade was a happy man ; he 
died ! He did not have to stand by while the English 
may they be forever cursed! slowly, slowly mur- 
dered him, murdered the great Napoleon ! No j that 
comrade died. Perhaps he is with the Emperor now, 
that comrade-grenadier.' 
 
"To be with his Emperor was Jacques's idea of 
heaven. 
" From that moment each time I visited the Agency 
I must repeat the verses again and again ; they became 
a sort of hymn. Jacques had not the capacity to learn 
the ballad, although he so often listened to it, but the 
seventh verse he managed to repeat after a fashion 
of his own, setting it to a nondescript tune, and croon- 
ing it about the house as he came and went on his 
little rounds. Gradually he altered the words, but I 
could not make out the new phrases as he muttered 
them over to himself, as if trying them. 
" ' What is it you are saying, Jacques ? ' I asked. 
"But he would not tell me. After a time I dis- 
covered that he had added the altered verse to his 
prayers ; for always when I was at the Agency I went 
with him to his sanctuary, if for no other purpose 
than to prevent the uttered imprecation that served 
as amen for the whole. The verse, whatever it was, 
came in before this. 
" So the summer passed. The vague intention of 
going on to the Red River of the North had faded 
away, and Jacques lived along on the island as though 
he had never lived anywhere else. He grew wonted 
to the Agency, like some old family cat, until he 
seemed to belong to the house, and all thought of 
disturbing him was forgotten. ' There is Jacques out 
washing his clothes,' 'There is Jacques going to buy 
 
his coffee,' 'There is Jacques sitting on the piazza/ 
said the islanders ; the old man served them instead 
of a clock. 
" One dark autumn day I came over from the Che- 
naux to get the mail. The water was rough, and my 
boat, tilted far over on one side, skimmed the crests of 
the waves in the daring fashion peculiar to the Macki- 
nac craft ; the mail-steamer had not come in, owing to 
the storm outside, and I went on to the Agency to see 
Jacques. He seemed as usual, and we had dinner over 
the little fire, for the day was chilly ; the meal over, 
iny host put everything in order again in his method- 
ical way, and then retired to his sanctuary for prayers. 
I followed, and stood in the doorway while he knelt. 
The room was dusky, and the uniform with its out- 
stretched sabre looked like a dead soldier leaning 
against the wall ; the face of Napoleon opposite seemed 
to gaze down on Jacques as he knelt, as though listen- 
ing. Jacques muttered his prayers, and I responded 
Amen ! then, after a silence, came the altered verse ; 
then, with a quick glance toward me, another si- 
lence, which I felt sure contained the unspoken curse. 
Gravely he led the way back to the kitchen for, ow- 
ing to the cold, he allowed me to dispense with the 
parlor, and there we spent the afternoon together, 
talking, and watching for the mail-boat. 'Jacques,' 
I said, 'what is that verse you have added to your 
prayers ? Come, my friend, why should you keep it 
from me ? ' 
 
"'It is nothing, mon pere, nothing,' he replied. 
But again I urged him to tell me ; more to pass away 
the time than from any real interest. ' Come/ I said, 
' it may be your last chance. Who knows but that I 
may be drowned on my way back to the Cheuaux ?' 
" ' True,' replied the old soldier, calmly. ' Well, then, 
here it is, mon pere : my death- wish. Voila ! ' 
" ' Something you wish to have done after death ? ' 
"'Yes.' 
" ' And who is to do it ? ' 
" ' My Emperor.' 
" ' But, Jacques, the Emperor is dead.' 
" ' He will have it done all the same, mon pere.' 
" In vain I argued ; Jacques was calmly obstinate. 
He had mixed up his Emperor with the stories of the 
Saints; why should not Napoleon do what they had 
done? 
" ' What is the verse, any way ? ' I said at last. 
" ' It is my death-wish, as I said before, mon pere.' 
And he repeated the following. He said it in French, 
for I had given him a French translation, as he knew 
nothing of German ; but I will give you the English, as 
he had altered it : 
' The Emperor's face with its green leaf band 
Shall rest on my heart that loved him so. 
Give me the sprig in my dead hand, 
My uniform and sabre around me. 
Amen.' 
 
" So prays Grenadier Jacques. 
" The old soldier had sacrificed the smooth metre ; 
but I understood what he meant. 
" The storm increased, and I spent the night at the 
Agency, lying on the bed of boughs, covered with a 
blanket. The house shook in the gale, the shutters 
rattled, and all the floors near and far creaked as 
though feet were walking over them. I was wakeful 
and restless, but Jacques slept quietly, and did not stir 
until daylight broke over the stormy water, showing 
the ships scudding by under bare poles, and the dis- 
tant mail-boat laboring up toward the island through 
the heavy sea. My host made his toilet, washing 
and shaving himself carefully, and putting on his old 
clothes as though going on parade. Then came break- 
fast, with a stew added in honor of my presence ; and 
as by this time the steamer was not far from Eound 
Island, I started down toward the little post-office, 
anxious to receive some expected letters. The steamer 
came in slowly, the mail was distributed slowly, and I 
stopped to read my letters before returning. I had 
a picture-paper for Jacques, and as I looked out across 
the straits, I saw that the storm was over, and decided 
to return to the Chenaux in the afternoon, leaving 
word with my half-breeds to have the sail- boat in 
readiness at three o'clock. The sun was throwing out 
a watery gleam as, after the lapse of an hour or two, I 
walked up the limestone road and entered the great 
 
gate of the Agency. As I came through the garden 
along the cherry-tree avenue I saw Jacques sitting on 
that bench in the sun, for this was his hour for sun- 
shine ; his staff was in his hand, and he was leaning 
back against the side of the house with his eyes closed, 
as if in revery. ' Jacques, here is a picture-paper for 
you,' I said, laying my hand on his shoulder. He did 
not answer. He was dead. 
" Alone, sitting in the sunshine, apparently without 
a struggle or a pang, the soul of the old soldier had 
departed. Whither? We know not. But smile if 
you will, madame I trust he is with his Emperor." 
I did not sniile ; my eyes were too full of tears. 
"I buried him, as he wished," continued Father 
Piret, " in his old uniform, with the picture of Napo- 
leon laid on his breast, the sabre by his side, and the 
withered sprig in his lifeless hand. He lies in our 
little cemetery on the height, near the shadow of 
the great cross ; the low white board tablet at the 
head of the mound once bore the words 'Grenadier 
Jacques,' but the rains and the snows have washed 
away the painted letters. It is as well" 
The priest paused, and we both looked toward the 
empty bench, as though we saw a figure seated there, 
staff in hand. After a time my little hostess came 
