have sinned, and which are often severest where there is the most
moral vitality, and she was anxious to prevent any repetition on Aunt
Maria's part of former unwise proceedings. All the other habitués
of the house partook of her own feeling; Alice and Angie were warmly
interested for the poor girl; and if Aunt Maria could be brought to
tolerate the arrangement, the danger of a sudden domiciliary visit
from her attended with inflammatory results might be averted.
So Eva was very sweet and very persuasive in her manner to-day, for
Aunt Maria had been devoting herself so entirely to the family service
during the few weeks past, that she felt in some sort under a debt
of obligation to her. The hardest person in the world to manage is a
sincere, willful, pig-headed, pertinacious friend who will insist on
doing you all sorts of kindnesses in a way that plagues about as much
as it helps you.
But Eva was the diplomatist of the family; the one with the precise
mixture of the suaviter in modo with the fortiter in re. She
had hitherto carried her points with the good lady in a way that
gave her great advantage, for Aunt Maria was one of those happily
self-complacent people who do not fail to arrogate to themselves the
after the most strenuous efforts, to hinder, and Eva's credit of all
the good things that they have not been able, housekeeping and social
successes, so far, were quite a feather in her cap. So, after dinner,
Eva began with:
"Well, you know, Aunt Maria, what with these two weddings coming on,
there is to be a terrible pressure of work--both coming the week after
Easter, you see. So," she added quickly, "I think it quite lucky that
I have found Maggie and got her back again, for she is one of the
quickest and best seamstresses that I know of." Aunt Maria's brow
suddenly darkened. Every trace of good-humor vanished from her face as
she said:
"Now do tell me, Eva, if you are going to be such a fool, when
you were once fairly quit of that girl, to bring her back into your
family."
"Yes, Aunt, I thought it my Christian duty to take care of her, and
see that she did not go to utter ruin."
"I don't know what you mean," said Aunt Maria. "I should say she
had gone there now. Do you think it your duty to turn your house
into a Magdalen asylum?"
"No, I do not; but I do think it is our duty to try to help and save
this one girl whom we know--who is truly repentant, and who wants to
do well."
"Repentant!" said Aunt Maria in a scornful tone. "Don't tell me. I
know their tricks, and you'll just be imposed on and get yourself into
trouble. I know the world, and I know all about it." Eva now rose
and played her last card. "Aunt Maria," she said, "You profess to be
a Christian and to follow the Saviour who came to seek and save the
lost, and I don't think you do right to treat with such scorn a poor
girl that is trying to do better."
"It's pretty well of you, Miss, to lecture me in this style! Trying
to do better!" said Aunt Maria, "then what did she go off for, when
she was at your house and you were doing all you could for her? It was
just that she wanted to go to the bad."
"She went off, Aunt Maria," said Eva, "because she overheard all you
said about her, the day you were at my house. She heard you advising
me to send her mother away on her account, and saying that she was a
disgrace to me. No wonder she ran off."
"Well, serves her right for listening! Listeners never hear any good
of themselves," said Aunt Maria.
"Now, Aunty," said Eva, "nobody has more respect for your good
qualities than I have, or more sense of what we all owe you for your
kindness to us; but I must tell you fairly that, now I am married,
you must not come to my house to dictate about or interfere with my
family arrangements. You must understand that Harry and I manage these
matters ourselves and will not allow any interference; and I tell
you now that Maggie is to be at our house, and under my care, and I
request that you will not come there to say or do anything which may
hurt her mother's feelings or hers."
"Mighty fine," said Aunt Maria, rising in wrath, "when it has come to
this, that servants are preferred before me!"
"It has not come to that, Aunt Maria. It has simply come to this: that
I am to be sole mistress in my own family, and sole judge of what it
is right and proper to do; and when I need your advice I shall ask it;
but I don't want you to offer it unless I do."
Having made this concluding speech while she was putting on her bonnet
and shawl, Eva now cheerfully wished her aunt good afternoon, and made
the best of her way down-stairs.
"I don't see, Eva, how you could get up the courage to face your aunt
down in that way," said Mrs. Van Arsdel, to whom Eva related the
interview.
"Dear Mamma, it'll do her good. She will be as sweet as a rose after
the first week of indignation. Aunt Maria is a sensible woman, after
all, and resigns herself to the inevitable. She worries and hectors
you, my precious Mammy, because you will let her. If you'd show a
brave face, she wouldn't do it; but it isn't in you, you poor, lovely
darling, and so she just preys upon you; but Harry and I are resolved
to make her stand and give the countersign when she comes to our camp."
And it is a fact that, a week after, Aunt Maria spent a day with Eva
in the balmiest state of grace, and made no allusion whatever to the
conversation above cited. Nothing operates so healthfully on such
moral constitutions as a good dose of certainty.
CHAPTER XLVIII.
THE PEARL CROSS.
Every thoughtful person who exercises the least supervision over what
goes on within, is conscious of living two distinct lives--the outward
and the inward.
The external life is positive, visible, definable; easily made the
subject of conversation. The inner life is shy, retiring, most
difficult to be expressed in words, often inexplicable, even to the
subject of it, yet no less a positive reality than the outward.
We have not succeeded in the picture of our Eva unless we have shown
her to have one of those sensitive moral organizations, whose nature
it is to reflect deeply, to feel intensely, and to aspire after a high
moral ideal.
If we do not mistake the age we live in, the perplexities and
anxieties of such natures form a very large item in our modern life.
It is said that the Christian religion is losing its hold on society.
On the contrary, we believe there never was a time when faith in
Christianity was so deep and all-pervading, and when it was working in
so many minds as a disturbing force.
The main thing which is now perplexing modern society, is the effort
which is making to reduce the teachings of the New Testament to
actual practice in life and to regulate society by them. There is no
skepticism as to the ends sought by Jesus in human life. Nobody doubts
that love is the fulfilling of the law, and that to do as we would be
done by, applied universally, would bring back the golden age, if ever
such ages were.
But the problem that meets the Christian student, and the practical
person who means to live the Christian life, is the problem of
redemption and of self-sacrifice.
In a world where there is always ruin and misery, where the
inexperienced are ensnared and the blind misled, and where fatal and
inexorable penalties follow every false step, there must be a band of
redeemers, seekers and savers of the lost. There must be those who
sacrifice ease, luxury and leisure, to labor for the restoration of
the foolish and wicked who have sold their birthright and lost their
inheritance; and here is just the problem that our age and day present
to the thoughtful person who, having professed, in whatever church or
creed, to be a Christian, wishes to make a reality of that profession.
The night that Eva had spent in visiting the worst parts of New York
had been to her a new revelation of that phase of paganism which
exists in our modern city life, within sound of hundreds of church
bells of every denomination. She saw authorized as a regular trade,
and protected by law, the selling of that poisoned liquor which
brings on insanity worse than death; which engenders idiocy, and the
certainty of vicious propensities in the brain of the helpless unborn
infant; which is the source of all the poverty, and more than half
the crime, that fills alms-houses and prisons, and of untold miseries
and agonies to thousands of families. She saw woman degraded as the
minister of sin and shame; the fallen and guilty Eve, forever plucking
and giving to Adam the forbidden fruit whose mortal taste brings death
into the world; and her heart had been stirred by the sight of those
multitudes of poor ruined wrecks of human beings, men and women, that
she had seen crowding in to that midnight supper, and by the earnest
pleadings of faith and love that she had heard in the good man's
prayers for them. She recalled his simple faith, his undaunted courage
in thus maintaining this forlorn hope in so hopeless a region, and she
could not rest satisfied with herself, doing nothing to help.
In talking with Mr. James on his prospects, he had said that he very
much wished to enlarge this Home so as to put there some dormitories
for the men who were willing to take the pledge to abandon drinking,
where they could find shelter and care until some kind of work could
be provided for them. He stated further that he wished to connect with
the enterprise a farm in the country where work could be found for
both men and women, of a kind which would be remunerative, and which
might prove self-supporting.
Eva reflected with herself whether she had anything to give or to do
for a purpose so sacred. Their income was already subject to a strict
economy. The little elegancies and adornments of her house were those
that are furnished by thought and care rather than by money. Even with
the most rigorous self-scrutiny, Eva could not find fault with the
