beginning of June until the end of September. And in winter, a dish of
apples and oranges flanked by one of boiled chestnuts, and another of
picked walnut or hickory-nut kernels, will often please John and the
bairns better than the rich dessert that cost you a hot hour over the
kitchen-range, when Bridget was called away to a cousin’s funeral, or
Daphne was laid up with “a misery in her head.”
Among the creams, jellies and “forms” of a state-dinner dessert, fruit
is indispensable, and the arrangement and preparation of the choicer
varieties is a matter for the taste and skill of the mistress, or her
refined daughters, as are the floral decorations of the feast.
FROSTED PEACHES.
12 large rich peaches—freestones.
Whites of three eggs, whisked to a standing froth.
2 table-spoonfuls water.
1 cup powdered sugar.
Put water and beaten whites together; dip in each peach when you have
rubbed off the fur with a clean cloth, and then roll in powdered sugar.
Set up carefully, on the stem end, upon a sheet of white paper, laid
on a waiter in a sunny window. When half dry, roll again in the sugar.
Expose to the sun and breeze until perfectly dry, then, put in a cool,
dry place until you are ready to arrange them in the glass dish for
table.
Garnish with green leaves.
FROSTED AND GLACÉ ORANGES.
6 sweet, large oranges.
  Whites of two eggs, whisked stiff,  }
  1 table-spoonful water,             } for frosting.
  1 cup powdered sugar.               }
  Cochineal.                          }
  1 cup sugar,                 }
  1 ounce gum arabic,          } for glazing.
  2 table-spoonfuls hot water, }
Pare the oranges, squeezing them as little as you can, remove every
particle of the inner white skin, and divide them into lobes, taking
care not to break the skin. Take half of the sugar meant for frosting,
and stir it up with a few drops of liquid cochineal. Spread on a dish
in the sun to dry, and if it lump, roll or pound again to powder. Put
the white sugar in another dish. Add the water to the stiffened whites;
dip in one-third of the orange lobes and roll in the white sugar;
another third, first in the eggs and water, then in the red sugar. Lay
them upon a sheet of paper to dry.
Put the gum arabic and hot water together over the fire, and when the
gum is melted, add the cup of sugar. Stir until it is a clear, thick
glue. Set in a pan of hot water and dip the remaining pieces of orange
in it. Lay a stick lengthwise on a flat dish, and lean the lobes
against it on both sides, to dry.
Heap red, white, and yellow together in a glass dish, and garnish with
leaves—orange or lemon leaves if you can get them.
This is a delicate, but not difficult, bit of work, and the effect is
very pretty.
TROPICAL SNOW. +
10 sweet oranges.
1 grated cocoanut.
2 glasses pale sherry.
1 cup powdered sugar.
6 red bananas.
Peel the oranges; divide into lobes and cut these across three times,
making small pieces, from which the seeds must be taken. Put a layer of
these in the bottom of a glass bowl, and pour a little wine over them.
Strew thickly with white sugar. The cocoanut should have been pared and
thrown into cold water before it was grated. Spread some of it over the
sugared oranges; cut the bananas into very thin round slices, and put a
layer of the fruit close together, all over the cocoanut. More oranges,
wine, sugar and cocoanut, and when the dish is full, heap high with the
cocoanut. Sprinkle sugar on this, and ornament with rings of sliced
banana. Eat very soon, or the oranges will grow tough in the wine.
Oranges cut up in the way I have described are more easily managed with
a spoon, and less juice is wasted, than when they are sliced in the
usual manner.
This is a handsome and delightful dessert.
COCOANUT FROST ON CUSTARD. +
2 cups rich milk.
½ pound sweet almonds, blanched and pounded.
4 eggs, beaten light.
½ cup powdered sugar.
Rose-water.
1 cocoanut, pared, thrown into cold water and grated.
Scald the milk and sweeten. Stir into it the almonds pounded to a
paste, with a little rose-water. Boil three minutes, and pour gradually
upon the beaten eggs, stirring all the time. Return to the fire and
boil until well thickened. When cold turn into a glass bowl, and heap
high with the grated cocoanut. Sift a little powdered sugar over all.
STEWED APPLES. +
Core the fruit without paring it, and put it into a glass or stoneware
jar, with a cover. Set in a pot of cold water and bring to a slow boil.
Leave it at the back of the range for seven or eight hours, boiling
gently all the time. Let the apples get perfectly cold before you open
the jar.
Eat with plenty of sugar and cream.
Only sweet apples are good cooked in this manner, and they are very
good.
BAKED PEARS. +
Cut ripe pears in half, without peeling or removing the stems. Pack
in layers in a stoneware or glass jar. Strew a little sugar over each
layer. Put a small cupful of water in the bottom of the jar to prevent
burning; fit on a close cover, and set in a moderate oven. Bake three
hours, and let the jar stand unopened in the oven all night.
APPLES AND JELLY. +
Fill a baking-dish with pippins, or other tender juicy apples, pared
and cored, but not sliced. Make a syrup of one cup of water, and half
as much sugar; stir until the sugar is dissolved, and pour over the
apples. Cover closely, and bake slowly until tender. Draw from the
oven, and let the apples cool without uncovering. Pour off the syrup,
and fill the hollowed centres with some bright fruit jelly.
Boil down the syrup fast, until quite thick, and, just before sending
the apples to table, stir into it some rich cream sweetened very
abundantly. Pass with the apples.
BOILED CHESTNUTS.
Put into warm (not hot) water, slightly salted, bring to a boil, and
cook fast fifteen minutes. Turn off the water through a cullender; stir
a good piece of butter into the hot chestnuts, tossing them over and
over until they are glossy and dry.
Serve upon a hot napkin in a deep dish.
WALNUTS AND HICKORY NUTS.
Crack and pick from the shells; sprinkle salt lightly over them, and
serve mixed in the same dish.
Black walnuts are much more wholesome when eaten with salt. Indeed,
they are not wholesome at all without it.
MELONS.
Wipe watermelons clean when they are taken from the ice. They should
lie on, or in ice, for at least four hours before they are eaten. Carve
at table by slicing off each end, then cutting the middle in sharp,
long points, letting the knife go half way through the melon at every
stroke. Pull the halves apart, and you will have a dentated crown.
Wash nutmeg and muskmelons; wipe dry; cut in two, scrape out the seeds,
and put a lump of ice in each half.
Eat with sugar, or with mixed pepper and salt.
CAKES OF ALL KINDS.
NELLIE’S CUP CAKE. +
5 cups of flour.
5 eggs, whites and yolks separated—the latter strained.
1 cup of butter, }
3 cups of sugar, } well creamed together.
1 cup of sweet milk.
1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.
2 teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, sifted with flour.
1 teaspoonful of vanilla.
If prepared flour be used in this or any other cake, there is no need
of soda and cream of tartar.
Hecker’s flour I have found invaluable in cake-making. Indeed, I have
never achieved anything short of triumphant success when I have used it.
CAROLINA CAKE (WITHOUT EGGS.) +
1 coffee-cup of sugar—powdered.
2 large table-spoonfuls butter, rubbed into the sugar.
1½ cups of flour.
½ cup sweet cream.
½ teaspoonful of soda.
Bake quickly in small tins, and eat while fresh and warm.
WHITE CAKE. +
1 cup of butter, }
2 cups of sugar, } rubbed to a light cream.
1 cup of sweet milk.
6 eggs, the whites only—beaten stiff.
½ teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in boiling water.
1 teaspoonful of cream tartar, sifted with flour.
4 cups of flour, or enough for tolerably thick batter.
Juice of 1 lemon, and half the grated peel.
CHOCOLATE CAKE. +
2 cups of sugar.
4 table-spoonfuls butter, rubbed in with the sugar.
