and coming along an hour ago, suffering no man 
kuQws what agony, I met Jim Wilson and paid 
him the two hundred and fifty dollars on account ; 
and to think that here you are, now, and I have 
n't got a cent ! But as sure as I am standing here 
on this ground, on this particular brick, — there, 
I've scratched a mark on the brick to remember it 
by, — I'll borrow that money and pay it over to you 
at twelve o'clock sharp, to-morrow ! Now, stand 
let me look at you just once more." 
And 80 on. Yate's life became a burden to him. 
He could not escape his debtor and his debtor's 
awful suffering on account of not being able to pay. 
He dreaded to show himself in the street, lest he 
should find Stephen lying in wait for him at the 
corner. 
Bogart's billiarrl saloon was a great resort for. 
pilots in those days. They met there about as 
much to exchange river news as to play. One 
morning Yates was there , Stephen 7as there, too, 
but kept out of sight. But by and by, when about 
all the pilots had arrived who were iu town, Ste- 
phen suddenly appeared in the midst, and rushed 
for Yates as for a long-lost brother. , 
" Oh, I am so glad to see you ! Oh my soul, tha 
sight of you is such a comfort to my eyes ! Gentle- 
men, I owe all of you money ; among you I owe 
probable forty thousand dollars. I want to pay it ; 
[ intend to pay it — every last cent of it. You all 
know, without my telling you, what sorrow it has 
cost me to remain so long under such deep obliga- 
tions to such patient and generous friends ; but 
the sharpest pang I suffer — by far the sharpest — 
is from the debt I owe to this noble young man here ; 
and I have come to this place this morning especi- 
ally to make the announcement that I have at last 
found a method whereby I can pay off all my debts ! 
And most especially I wanted him to be here when 
I announced it. Yes, my faithful friend, — my 
benefactor, I've found the method to pay off all my 
debt, and you'll get your money !'' Hope dawned 
in Yates's eye ; then Stephen, beaming benignantly, 
and placing his hand upon Yates's head, added, 
"I am going to pay them oft" in alphabetical 
order ! " 
Then he turned and disappeared. The full sig- 
nificance of Stephen's " method " did not dawn 
upon the perplexed and musing crowd for somi; two 
minutes ; and tlion Yates murmured with a sigh : — 
'' Well, the Y's stand a gaudy chance. He won't 
get any farther than the C's in this world, and I 
reckon that after a good deal of eternity has wasted 
away in the next one, I'll still be referred to up 
there as ' that poor, ragged pilot that came her 
from St. Louis in the early days ! ' " 
Would the reader please to cast his eye over the 
following verses, and see if he can discover any- 
thing harmful in them ? 
" Conductor, when you receive a fare, 
Punch in the presence of the passenjare, 
A blue trip slip for an eight-cent fare, 
A buff trip slip for a six-cent fare, 
A pink trip slip for a three-cent fare ; 
Punch in the presence of the passenjare. 
CHORUS. 
Punch, brothers ! punch with care ! 
Punch in the presence of the passenjare. 
I came across these jingling rhymes in a news- 
paper a little while ago, and read them a couple of 
times. They took instant and entire possession ot 
me. All through breakfast they went waltzing 
through my brain ; and when, at last, I rolled up 
my napkin, I could not tell whether I had eaten 
anything or not. I had carefully laid out my day's 
work the day before — a thiilling tragedy in the 
novel which I am writing. I went to my den to 
begin my deed of blood. I took up my pen, but 
all I could get to say was, " Punch in the presence 
of the passenjare." I fought hard for an hour, but 
it was useless. My head kept humming, " A blue 
trip slip for an eight- cent fare, a buff trip slip for a 
six-cent fare," and so on, and so on, without peace 
or respite. The day's work was ruined — I could 
see that plainly enough. I gave up and drifted 
down town, and presently discovered that my feet 
were keeping time to that relentless jingle. When 
I could stand it no longer I altered my step. But 
it did no good ; those rhymes accommodated them- 
selves to the new step, and went on harassing me 
just as before. I returned home and suffered all 
the afternoon ; suffered all through an unconscious 
And unrefreshing dinner; suffered, and cried, and 
jingled all through the evening ; went to bed, and 
rolled, tossed, and jingled right along, the same as 
ever; got up at midnight frantic, and tried to read ; 
but there was nothing visible on the whirling page 
except, " Punch ! punch in the presence of the pas- 
senjare." By sunrise I was out of my mind, and 
everybody marvelled and was distressed at the 
idiotic burden of my ravings — " Punch ! oh, punch ! 
punch in the presence of the passenjare !" 
Two days later, on Sunday morning, I rose, a 
tottering wreck, and went forth to fulfil an engage- 
ment with a valued friend, the Rev. Mr. — — , to 
walk to the Talcolt Tower, ten miles distant. He 
stared at me, but asked no questions. We started. 
Mr. talked, talkjd, talked — as is his Wont. I 
said nothing : I heard nothing. At the end ot a 
mile Mr. said : 
" Mark, are you sick ? I never saw a man look 
so haggard and worn and absent-minded. Say 
something ; do ! " 
Drearily, without enthusiasm, I said : " Punch, 
brother, punch with care ! Punch in the presence 
of the passenjare ! " 
My friend eyed me blandly, looked perplexed, 
then said — 
" I do not think I get your drift, Mark. There 
does not seem to be any relevancy in what you 
have said, certainly nothing sad ; and yet — maybe 
it was the way you said the words — I never heard 
anything that sounded so pathetic. What is — " 
But I heard no more. I was already far away 
with my pitiless, heart-breaking " blue trip slip for 
an eight-cent fare, buff trip slip for a six-cent fare, 
pink trip slip for a three-cent fare ; punch in the 
presence of the passenjare." I do not know what 
occurred during the other nine miles. However, 
all of a sudden Mr. laid his hand on my 
shoulder and shouted — 
" Oh, wake up ! wake up ! wake up ! Don't 
sleep all day ! Here we are at the Tower, man ! I 
have talked myself deaf and dumb and blind, and 
never got a response. Just look at this magnificent 
autumn landscape ! Look at it ! look at it ! Feast 
your eyes on it ! You have travelled ; you have 
seen boasted landscapes elsewhere. Come now, 
deliver an honest opinion. What do you say to 
this ? " 
I sighed wearily, and murmured — 
" A buff trip slip for a six-cent fare, a pink trip 
slip for a three-cent fare ; punch in the presence of 
the passenger." 
Rev. Mr. stood there, very grave, full of 
concern, apparently, and looked long at me ; then 
he said : 
" Mark, there is something about this that I can- 
not understand. Those are about the same words 
you said before ; there does not seem to be anything 
in them, and yet they nearly break my heart when 
you say them. Punch in me — how is it they go ? '' 
I began at the beginning, and repeated all the 
lines. My friend's face lighted with interest. He 
said : 
" Why, what a captivating jingle it is ! It is 
almost music. It flows along so nicely. I have 
nearly caught the rhymes myself Say them over 
just once more, and then I 'll have them sure." 
I said them over. Then Mr. said them. He 
made one little mistake, which I corrected. The 
