heathen ! And this had been the result of his training. 
He understood fear and hate ; but did he know the mean 
ing of love? She would try him again. 
" Bertie, do you love papa?" 
" Yes," returned Bertie readily. 
" What do you do when you love a person? " 
Bertie drew a long breath, and thought for a moment ; 
then wisely and truly answered, "I don't know." 
"You try to please them; you obey them when they 
ask you to do any thing; you would never strike them, 
nor do any thing cruel to them, nor tell them a falsehood. 
Can you remember this?" 
Bertie gave her a searching glance. He felt, somehow, 
that he had lost caste ; and, with a child's eager vanity, 
he wanted to redeem himself. 
"But I know my tables," he said, "and who all the 
great generals were ; and I'm studying Latin. Caesar 
conquered Gaul, and a great part of Britain. Afterwards, 
the Normans went over with William the Conqueror ; 
and, oh ! I know all of the kings of England and France. 
Sometimes they have had emperors. And the King of 
Russia is called a czar. Russia is the largest division in 
Europe. Switzerland is the only republic ; " and the child 
paused for a breath. 
"What a purely mechanical being!" Nelly thought 
with a sad smile. 
" Never mind," she said : " we will talk of other mat 
ters, though you have studied well, Bertie." And then 
she endeavored to rouse his mind into some kind of per 
sonal activity ; but it was disheartening work. Miss 
Grove was no believer in filling a child's head with any 
thing but good, substantial facts. She snubbed and 
discouraged all curiosity on the part of a young pupil. 
Very methodical, very precise, cold by nature, she had no 
patience with the sentimental part of humanity. To dress 
well, and keep neat and clean ; to behave properly on all 
occasions ; to have the mind well stored with knowledge, 
the taste cultivated in certain respects ; to be dignified and 
ladylike for a girl, manly and stoical for a boy, she held 
the most necessary requirements of life. The children 
had known none of the caressing tenderness and sympathy 
that had been daily food to the Endicotts. Their mother 
consigned them to a nurse. Their father saw them but 
seldom ; and he had not been a demonstrative man in those 
earlier years. Though they had been rather delicate, yet 
no dangerous illness had ever roused his anxiety concern 
ing them ; and, under Miss Grove's government, they were 
still farther removed from him. Nelly's first feeling about 
them had been quite true : they were not dear, naughty, 
sweet, delightful children. 
No : there was nothing to call out the mother-love that 
glorifies so many women. These Endicott girls had been 
nourished on it, first from their mother, and then the 
habit each older girl fell into of loving and caring for 
younger ones, of playing mother, in turn. For a little 
while Nelly felt cold and sick at heart. Might she not as 
well let it go? The children would have all physical 
comforts, be well educated, well dressed, make average 
people, no doubt, and be just as grateful to her as if she 
gave her very life for them. Their father did not bring 
her here for their comfort, but his own. And here was 
their aunt, who desired the sole charge. How easily she 
could slip off any responsibility ! 
But her duty ! Was it not to bring into these pinched, 
bleak, and barren lives some of the sweetness and 
strength, the beauty and comfort, that had been put in 
hers, scattered all along her twenty years of richness and 
fulness? Perhaps that was just what God had given it 
all for, so wide and delightful a kingdom ! that she 
might call in not only the charming, the refined, and 
those quick of sight and mood, but the halt and the 
blind, those by the great wayside, that, after all, compre 
hends so much. 
At the very alphabet of love she must begin, and raise 
the ignorant, careless feet that would stumble so often. 
Bertie sat there studying the beautiful but perturbed face, 
and thinking, child-fashion, of himself. 
"Couldn't you teach me my lessons?" he asked pres 
ently. " I'd try not to miss a word ; and, if you wouldn't 
make me stand in the corner " 
' ' What do you do in the corner ? " 
"Why, I hold a big book, so." And he jumped up, 
taking a broken stick in his hands to represent the book, 
which he held about on a level with his chin. " Then, if 
I don't keep it just straight, she cracks me with a ruler. 
It makes me so tired ! " and he sighed. 
Indeed, all manner of pett}* punishments had been 
invented by Miss Grove since the whipping was tabooed. 
Her rigid sense of justice must be satisfied in some 
manner. 
 
"The best way, Bertie, is to be a good boy. Try to 
please Aunt Adelaide." 
"But Maud tells on me always ; and, when I tell on 
her, Aunt Adelaide won't listen." 
Maud was evidently Aunt Adelaide's favorite. Bertie 
was too old and too sharp-eyed not to be injured by the 
show of partiality. Yet, if Miss Grove did not love him, 
even in her rigid manner, why should she strive to keep 
him so completely within her influence ? 
Yet, in her way, Miss Grove was extremely conscien 
tious. Her duty to her dead sister's children, that was 
her watchword ; and, undemonstrative as her regard for 
them appeared, she would have fought for them, if occasion 
required. She would have watched every sharp word or 
look from Dr. Kinnard's new wife, resented any thing like 
a show of authority, and made the children's interests 
paramount in the family, if she could. She even hated 
their father's interference. Already she was jealous of 
the young stepmother ; and that was one reason of her 
great coldness. If Dr. Kinnard had gone over to the 
fair enemy, the children should not, without a great 
struggle on her part. 
" No wife can love another woman's children," she had 
said to the doctor's mother. " They will not expect it. 
Poor things ! It is little they will have of their father's 
affection, either. But I think it my duty to stay, and 
see that they are not unjustly treated. Nothing else 
would keep me here a da} r ." 
So she judged that she had a right to put the children 
on their guard, as she phrased it. How much of this 
bitter duty-work is done in the world ! 
But that evening, as Nelly Kinnard sat by her hus 
band's side, talking over various small household matters, 
she said, 
" Barton, I do believe it would be better to send Bertie 
to school. He wants companionship. Does he never 
play with any neighboring children ? " 
" I really don't know. There are children about. I 
have been thinking of it myself to-day. I like boys to 
be boys. They are to fill men's places in the world, not 
women's. But Adelaide would feel dreadfully vexed 
about it." 
' ' I suppose there are no good day-schools nearer than 
the village?" 
" Oh ! " the doctor said, with a nod or two. " I had 
thought of boarding-school." 
" But he is so young ! No : I should not like to have 
him sent away from home, this year, at least ; " and she 
colored delicately. 
He inferred her reason, and respected it. " There are 
two or three excellent schools in the village. He could be 
taken in the morning, I suppose. But I don't alwaj-s go 
in one direction; which makes me think, Nelly how 
would you like to have a horse of your own ? " 
" Oh, delightful ! And yet I always go out with you." 
" But some time the girls will be here, I hope ; or are 
you keeping them away out of pure jealousy, Mrs. Kin- 
iiard? I do admire Queen Bess exceedingly. Well, 
then, you would like to have a separate establishment of 
your own ? " 
' ' How good you are to me ! " 
' ' Am I ? No doubt but that I shall be a stern tyrant 
in the course of a few years. You had better make your 
hay during this fine spell of weather." 
" Barton," she said a little shyly, " I had a reason for 
putting off the promised visit. You said Miss Grove 
always went away in August." 
" Exactly. We should enjoy ourselves better, I think. 
Only the house is to be altered then." 
