said. And then she came up and kissed Wych Hazel's hand, and 
went away.
CHAPTER XIII.
UNDER THE CHESTNUT TREES.
Mr. Falkirk did not go out to breakfast that Sunday morning; and 
no one at Chickaree but the two old retainers knew how Miss 
Wych had tired herself, nor where she had rested overnight. 
Monday came and went in uneventful rain, and Tuesday was the 
day of the party in the woods.
A simple enough affair,just chestnuts and lunch; but rarely had 
the young lady of the domain been so hard to please in the matter 
of her dress. For words do leave their footsteps, drive them out as 
we will; and this Prim's words had done. Not quite according to 
Prim's intent, however; for the one clear idea in Wych Hazel's 
mind, was that Mr. Rollo was (or would be when he noticed it at 
all) dissatisfied with her dress. And that was precisely the line in 
which she had never before met criticism. Hazel took off one 
colour after another, until Phoebe was in despair and Mrs. Bywank 
turned away and smiled out of the window.
'And dear me, ma'am,' cried Phoebe at last, 'there comes a 
carriage!'
Hazel looked towards the window, caught the old housekeeper's 
eye, and suddenly embellishing her proceedings with a pair of 
scarlet cheeks, she opened another press, seized the first white 
dress that came to hand, and put it on without more ado. A dainty 
white piqué, all on the wing with delicate embroideries and lace, 
and broad sash ends of the colour of red gold.
'But Miss Wych!' Mrs. Bywank remonstrated. 'The wind is very 
fresh.'
Wych Hazel made another plunge after sealskin jacket and cap; 
turned over a box of gloves till she matched her ribbands; gave 
Mrs. Bywank a laugh and a flash from her eyes, and was off. But 
that carriage it seemed had rolled by, and there was no one at the 
meeting place in the woods when the girl seated herself there to 
await her guests.
' "Do you think Dane will like to have you dress as you do?" 'so 
ran her thoughts. 'Well,how do I dress?'
She sat looking into the soft silence of the October air, feeling that 
for her life was changing fast. The old bounds to her action had 
somehow now stretched out to take in her will; her own pleasure 
now often in the mood to wait, uncertain of its choice, till she 
knew the pleasure of somebody else. There was the least bit of 
rebellion at this here and there; and yet on the whole Wych Hazel 
by no means wished herself back in the old times when nobody 
cared. Ah how lonely she had been!and how full the world 
seemed now, with that secret sense of happiness pervading all 
things! Meanwhile, as Prim had said, what was she going to do 
about dress?
It happened that the first interruption to her meditations came from 
a visiter who did not intend to be a guest. No less than Gov. 
Powder; a portly, gentlemanly, somewhat imposing personage, 
who was less known to society than were his wife and daughters. 
However, without wife and daughters, here he was.
'Good morning, my dear, good morning!' he began blandly, 
shaking Wych Hazel's hand with a sort of paternal-official 
benignity. 'Your guardian has not come upon the scene yet? I 
thought I should find him here. Why how cool you look, for 
October!'
'Yes, sirI like to look cool,' said Hazel, conscious that she could 
not always accomplish the feat. 'Especially when I have the world 
on my hands. Just now I am undefended., Gov. Powder; but I 
suppose both my guardians will be here by and by.'
'What do you do with two guardians, eh? Keep 'em both in good 
humour?'
'One at a time is as much as I often try for,' said Hazel. 'But Gov. 
Powder, I wish you would let me have a little fun right over the 
heads of them both.'
'I?' said the ex-governor, somewhat surprised. 'Eh? It does not 
often happen to me now-a-days to have the honour of such an 
appealunless from my own mad daughters. In what direction do 
you want me to come over your guardians, Miss Kennedy? and 
which of them?'
'O it is nothing mad at all, in my case,' said Hazel. 'And neither of 
them must know. But will you walk a little way down the wood 
with me, sir? I do not want them even to see a consultation.'
A man must be much set in his own purposes who would not go 
more than 'a little way' after such a voice; and Gov. Powder was 
but an ordinary man. So, finding the white ruffles a very pretty sort 
of a convoy, the ex-governor strolled down among the golden 
hickories and ruddy oaks, and never once guessed that he had a 
siren at his elbow.
'Last winter,' Hazel began, speaking fast now, to keep pace with 
the minutes, 'I had quite a large legacy left to me.'
'Somebody who wanted to protect you against misfortune, eh?' 
said the governor.
'Or who did not believe in guardians, sir; for mine were to have no 
control over it whatever.'
'I see!' said the governor. 'Pocket money to purchase sugar-plums.'
'But perhaps you know, sir, that we girls like sugar-plums of many 
sorts.'
'Miss Kennedy, do you know my daughters?'
'Well sir,' said Hazel weighing her words, wondering to herself 
whether diplomats get along without telling fibs; and if they do, 
how they do,'it would be quite a novelty of a bonbon to invest 
this money in some splendid way, all by myself. Not the whole of 
it, you know, sir,only a few thousands.' She was so eager! and 
so terribly afraid of shewing her eagerness.
'That is a sort of bonbon that is very tempting to old fellows like 
me; but, pardon me, I should think it was more in Mr. Falkirk's 
way than in yours?'
'Mr. Falkirk may admire it afterwards, if he chooses, but I want to 
make the investment. And I learned from somebody,' said Hazel, 
careful of her words, "that the best thing I could do, was to buy 
that bit of land of yours, Gov. Powder, lying just at the head of the 
Hollow. It is not worth more than twenty thousand, is it?' she went 
on, suggestively. 'And I was told, sir, that you were ready to 
dispose of it.'
'Somebody spoke too fast,' said the governor, looking 
unmistakably surprised this time. 'Really, I am in no hurry to 
dispose of that piece of land. Its value is in its water power. You 
don't want to build mills, do you?'
'No, sir,the whole of my legacy would not cover that. And I 
would rather not invest more than twenty thousand at first.'
'Twenty thousand' has a pleasant sound to a man with 'mad' 
daughters, and other expenses! Nevertheless the governor looked 
steadily into the face of facts.
'My dear Miss Kennedy, I must remark to you, that if you do not 
want to put mills on that ground, it would be a very poor 
investment for your twenty thousand. The water power is all the 
value there. And Paul Charteris has been trying to get it of me for 
his own purposes. Now I know what he wants; but I do not see 
what you want with land in Mill Hollow.'
'Why Governor Powder,' said Hazel, 'Mr. Falkirk would go to 
sleep in luxury, if he could only see why I want things! One might 
as well be a manor Mr. Paul Charterisat once!'
'Isn't Paul Charteris a man?' inquired Gov. Powder laughing. Hazel 
laughed too, but returned to the charge.
'I shall not invest in him,' she said, 'even so much as an opinion. 
What I want is the land, and the water power, and the fun.'
Gov. Powder stepped back and took a survey of the little lady.
'You mustn't break your teeth with a bonbon,' said he. 'Suppose 
you let me speak to my friend Mr. Falkirk about it?'
'No indeed, sir! Mr. Falkirk never approves of anything he does 
not suggest himself. All great men have their weak points, Gov. 
Powder,' said Wych Hazel.
'Well, let us say Rollo then. I think he is a wild man with his own 
fortune; but I reckon he would look out for yours. By the way! he 
may want the land for himself? eh?'
'Of course he may,' said Wych Hazel, 'but not half so much as I do. 
To consult him, would be saying no to me, Gov. Powder. And you 
know you are going to say yes.'
'I don't understand doing business with ladies!' said the poor 
governor, shaking his head. 'I can get along with my own sort. 
Miss Kennedy, there are certain complications, which I cannot 
explain to you. Paul Charteris has been at me to get those very 
acres that you want. What would he say, if I threw him over and 
sold them to you? I guess you must let me settle with him first.'
'Tell him you sold the land to somebody who offered more,' said 
Hazel. 'That is easy enough. How much would he give, sir?'
'Ah but, the thing is, there are complications,there are 
complications,' repeated the governor. 'Give? He don't want to give 
above the half of your twenty thousand; and I couldn't in 
conscience take the whole. The land is not worth so much as that, 
Miss Kennedy. But young ladies don't understand complications,' 
he added with a smile. 'I can't just throw Paul over, without a 
word.'
'Push him off,' said Hazel. 'Nobody can teach me anything about 
complications!Push him off, sir. Just give him a negative and do 
not say why.'
'What do you want it for?'
