she sailed away, a heavyhearted woman, yet not quite disconsolate,
for she knew her mourning was excessively becoming and felt sure that
Stephen would not find her altered by her trials as much as might have
been expected.
Then nothing was left of that gay household but the empty rooms, silence
never broken by a blithe voice anymore, and pictures full of promise,
but all unfinished, like poor Charlie’s life.
There was much mourning for the bonny Prince, but no need to tell of it
except as it affected Rose, for it is with her we have most to do, the
other characters being of secondary importance.
When time had soothed the first shock of sudden loss, she was surprised
to find the memory of his faults and failings, short life and piteous
death, grew dim, as if a kindly hand had wiped out the record and given
him back to her in the likeness of the brave, bright boy she had loved,
not as the wayward, passionate young man who had loved her.
This comforted her very much, and folding down the last blotted leaf
where his name was written, she gladly turned back to reopen and reread
the happier chapters which painted the youthful knight before he went
out to fall in his first battle. None of the bitterness of love
bereaved marred this memory for Rose, because she found that the warmer
sentiment, just budding in her heart, had died with Charlie and lay cold
and quiet in his grave. She wondered, yet was glad, though sometimes a
remorseful pang smote her when she discovered how possible it was to go
on without him, feeling almost as if a burden had been lifted off, since
his happiness was taken out of her hands. The time had not yet come when
the knowledge that a man’s heart was in her keeping would make the pride
and joy of her life, and while she waited for that moment she enjoyed
the liberty she seemed to have recovered.
Such being her inward state, it much annoyed her to be regarded as a
brokenhearted girl and pitied for the loss of her young lover. She could
not explain to all the world, so let it pass, and occupied her mind with
the good works which always lie ready to be taken up and carried on.
Having chosen philanthropy as her profession, she felt that it was high
time to begin the task too long neglected.
Her projects were excellent, but did not prosper as rapidly as she
hoped, for, having to deal with people, not things, unexpected obstacles
were constantly arising. The “Home for Decayed Gentlewomen,” as the boys
insisted on calling her two newly repaired houses, started finely and
it was a pleasant sight to see the comfortable rooms filled with
respectable women busy at their various tasks, surrounded by the
decencies and many of the comforts which make life endurable. But,
presently, Rose was disturbed to find that the good people expected her
to take care of them in a way she had not bargained for. Buffum, her
agent, was constantly reporting complaints, new wants, and general
discontent if they were not attended to. Things were very neglected,
water pipes froze and burst, drains got out of order, yards were in
a mess, and rents behind-hand. Worst of all, outsiders, instead of
sympathizing, only laughed and said, “We told you so,” which is a most
discouraging remark to older and wiser workers than Rose.
Uncle Alec, however, stood by her staunchly and helped her out of many
of her woes by good advice and an occasional visit of inspection, which
did much to impress upon the dwellers there the fact that, if they did
not do their part, their leases would be short ones.
“I didn’t expect to make anything out of it, but I did think they would
be grateful,” said Rose on one occasion when several complaints had come
in at once and Buffum had reported great difficulty in collecting the
low rents.
“If you do this thing for the sake of the gratitude, then it is a
failure but if it is done for the love of helping those who need help,
it is a success, for in spite of their worry every one of these women
feel what privileges they enjoy and value them highly,” said Dr. Alec as
they went home after one of these unsatisfactory calls.
“Then the least they can do is to say ‘thank you.’ I’m afraid I have
thought more of the gratitude than the work, but if there isn’t any, I
must make up my mind to go without,” answered Rose, feeling defrauded of
her due.
“Favors often separate instead of attracting people nearer to one
another, and I’ve seen many a friendship spoilt by the obligation being
all on one side. Can’t explain it, but it is so, and I’ve come to the
conclusion that it is as hard to give in the right spirit as it is to
receive. Puzzle it out, my dear, while you are learning to do good for
its own sake.”
“I know one sort of people who are grateful and I’m going to devote
my mind to them. They thank me in many ways, and helping them is all
pleasure and no worry. Come into the hospital and see the dear babies,
or the Asylum, and carry oranges to Phebe’s orphans they don’t complain
and fidget one’s life out, bless their hearts!” cried Rose, cheering up
suddenly.
After that she left Buffum to manage the “Retreat,” and devoted her
energies to the little folks, always so ready to receive the smallest
gift and repay the giver with their artless thanks. Here she found
plenty to do, and did it with such sweet goodwill that she won her way
like sunshine, making many a little heart dance over splendid dolls, gay
picture books, and pots of flowers, as well as food, fire, and clothes
for the small bodies pinched with want and pain.
As spring came new plans sprang up as naturally as dandelions. The poor
children longed for the country; and, as the green fields could not come
to them, Rose carried them to the green fields. Down on the Point stood
an old farmhouse, often used by the Campbell tribe for summer holidays.
That spring it was set to rights unusually early, several women
installed as housekeeper, cook, and nurses, and when the May days grew
bright and warm, squads of pale children came to toddle in the grass,
run over the rocks, and play upon the smooth sands of the beach. A
pretty sight, and one that well repaid those who brought it to pass.
Everyone took an interest in the “Rose Garden,” as Mac named it, and the
womenfolk were continually driving over to the Point for something for
the “poor dears.” Aunt Plenty sowed gingerbread broadcast; Aunt Jessie
made pinafores by the dozen while Aunt Jane “kept her eye” on the
nurses, and Aunt Myra supplied medicines so liberally that the mortality
would have been awful if Dr. Alec had not taken them in charge. To him
this was the most delightful spot in the world and well it might be, for
he suggested the idea and gave Rose all the credit of it. He was often
there, and his appearance was always greeted with shrieks of rapture,
as the children gathered from all quarters creeping, running, hopping
on crutches, or carried in arms which they gladly left to sit on “Uncle
Doctor’s” knee, for that was the title by which he went among them.
He seemed as young as any of his comrades, though the curly head was
getting gray, and the frolics that went on when he arrived were better
than any medicine to children who had never learned to play. It was
a standing joke among the friends that the bachelor brother had the
largest family and was the most domestic man of the remaining four,
though Uncle Mac did his part manfully and kept Aunt Jane in a constant
fidget by his rash propositions to adopt the heartiest boys and
prettiest girls to amuse him and employ her.
On one occasion Aunt Jane had a very narrow escape, and the culprit
being her son, not her husband, she felt free to repay herself for many
scares of this sort by a good scolding, which, unlike many, produced
excellent results.
One bright June day, as Rose came cantering home from the Point on her
pretty bay pony, she saw a man sitting on a fallen tree beside the road
and something in his despondent attitude arrested her attention. As she
drew nearer he turned his head, and she stopped short, exclaiming in
great surprise: “Why, Mac! What are you doing here?”
“Trying to solve a problem,” he answered, looking up with a whimsical
expression of perplexity and amusement in his face which made Rose smile
till his next words turned her sober in a twinkling: “I’ve eloped with
a young lady, and don’t know what to do with her. I took her home, of
course, but mother turned her out of the house, and I’m in a quandary.”
“Is that her baggage?” asked Rose, pointing with her whip to the large
bundle which he held while the wild idea flashed through her head that
perhaps he really had done some rash deed of this sort.
“No, this is the young lady herself.” And, opening a corner of the brown
shawl, he displayed a child of three so pale, so thin and tiny that she
looked like a small scared bird just fallen from the nest as she shrank
away from the light with great frightened eyes and a hand like a little
claw tightly clutched a button of Mac’s coat.
“Poor baby! Where did it come from?” cried Rose, leaning down to look.
“I’ll tell you the story, and then you shall advise me what to do. At
our hospital we’ve had a poor woman who got hurt and died two days
ago. I had nothing to do with her, only took her a bit of fruit once or
twice, for she had big, wistful sort of eyes that haunted me. The day
she died I stopped a minute, and the nurse said she’d been wanting to
speak to me but didn’t dare. So I asked if I could do anything for her
and, though she could hardly breathe for pain being almost gone she
implored me to take care of baby. I found out where the child was, and
promised I’d see after her for the poor soul couldn’t seem to die till
I’d given her that comfort. I never can forget the look in her eyes as
I held her hand and said, ‘Baby shall be taken care of.’ She tried to
thank me, and died soon after quite peacefully. Well, I went today and
hunted up the poor little wretch. Found her in a miserable place, left
in the care of an old hag who had shut her up alone to keep her out of
the way, and there this mite was, huddled in a corner, crying ‘Marmar,
marmar!’ fit to touch a heart of stone. I blew up at the woman and took
the baby straightaway, for she had been abused. It was high time. Look
there, will you?”
Mac turned the little skinny arm and showed a blue mark which made Rose
drop her reins and stretch out both hands, crying with a tender sort
of indignation: “How dared they do it? Give her to me, poor little
motherless thing!”
Mac laid the bundle in her arms, and Rose began to cuddle it in the
