The boys did as they had often done before--went to the cell grating and
gave Potter some tobacco and matches. He was on the ground floor and
there were no guards.

His gratitude for their gifts had always smote their consciences
before--it cut deeper than ever, this time. They felt cowardly and
treacherous to the last degree when Potter said:

“You’ve been mighty good to me, boys--better’n anybody else in this town.
And I don’t forget it, I don’t. Often I says to myself, says I, ‘I used
to mend all the boys’ kites and things, and show ‘em where the good
fishin’ places was, and befriend ‘em what I could, and now they’ve
all forgot old Muff when he’s in trouble; but Tom don’t, and Huck
don’t-- they  don’t forget him, says I, ‘and I don’t forget them.’ Well,
boys, I done an awful thing--drunk and crazy at the time--that’s the only
way I account for it--and now I got to swing for it, and it’s right.
Right, and  best, too, I reckon--hope so, anyway. Well, we won’t talk
about that. I don’t want to make  you  feel bad; you’ve befriended me.
But what I want to say, is, don’t  you  ever get drunk--then you won’t
ever get here. Stand a litter furder west--so--that’s it; it’s a prime
comfort to see faces that’s friendly when a body’s in such a muck
of trouble, and there don’t none come here but yourn. Good friendly
faces--good friendly faces. Git up on one another’s backs and let me
touch ‘em. That’s it. Shake hands--yourn’ll come through the bars, but
mine’s too big. Little hands, and weak--but they’ve helped Muff Potter a
power, and they’d help him more if they could.”

Tom went home miserable, and his dreams that night were full of horrors.
The next day and the day after, he hung about the courtroom, drawn by an
almost irresistible impulse to go in, but forcing himself to stay out.
Huck was having the same experience. They studiously avoided each other.
Each wandered away, from time to time, but the same dismal fascination
always brought them back presently. Tom kept his ears open when idlers
sauntered out of the courtroom, but invariably heard distressing
news--the toils were closing more and more relentlessly around poor
Potter. At the end of the second day the village talk was to the effect
that Injun Joe’s evidence stood firm and unshaken, and that there was
not the slightest question as to what the jury’s verdict would be.

Tom was out late, that night, and came to bed through the window. He
was in a tremendous state of excitement. It was hours before he got to
sleep. All the village flocked to the courthouse the next morning, for
this was to be the great day. Both sexes were about equally represented
in the packed audience. After a long wait the jury filed in and took
their places; shortly afterward, Potter, pale and haggard, timid and
hopeless, was brought in, with chains upon him, and seated where all
the curious eyes could stare at him; no less conspicuous was Injun Joe,
stolid as ever. There was another pause, and then the judge arrived and
the sheriff proclaimed the opening of the court. The usual whisperings
among the lawyers and gathering together of papers followed. These
details and accompanying delays worked up an atmosphere of preparation
that was as impressive as it was fascinating.

Now a witness was called who testified that he found Muff Potter washing
in the brook, at an early hour of the morning that the murder was
discovered, and that he immediately sneaked away. After some further
questioning, counsel for the prosecution said:

“Take the witness.”

The prisoner raised his eyes for a moment, but dropped them again when
his own counsel said:

“I have no questions to ask him.”

The next witness proved the finding of the knife near the corpse.
Counsel for the prosecution said:

“Take the witness.”

“I have no questions to ask him,” Potter’s lawyer replied.

A third witness swore he had often seen the knife in Potter’s
possession.

“Take the witness.”

Counsel for Potter declined to question him. The faces of the audience
began to betray annoyance. Did this attorney mean to throw away his
client’s life without an effort?

Several witnesses deposed concerning Potter’s guilty behavior when
brought to the scene of the murder. They were allowed to leave the stand
without being cross-questioned.

Every detail of the damaging circumstances that occurred in the
graveyard upon that morning which all present remembered so well was
brought out by credible witnesses, but none of them were cross-examined
by Potter’s lawyer. The perplexity and dissatisfaction of the house
expressed itself in murmurs and provoked a reproof from the bench.
Counsel for the prosecution now said:

“By the oaths of citizens whose simple word is above suspicion, we have
fastened this awful crime, beyond all possibility of question, upon the
unhappy prisoner at the bar. We rest our case here.”

A groan escaped from poor Potter, and he put his face in his hands and
rocked his body softly to and fro, while a painful silence reigned
in the courtroom. Many men were moved, and many women’s compassion
testified itself in tears. Counsel for the defence rose and said:

“Your honor, in our remarks at the opening of this trial, we
foreshadowed our purpose to prove that our client did this fearful deed
while under the influence of a blind and irresponsible delirium produced
by drink. We have changed our mind. We shall not offer that plea.” [Then
to the clerk:] “Call Thomas Sawyer!”

A puzzled amazement awoke in every face in the house, not even excepting
Potter’s. Every eye fastened itself with wondering interest upon Tom as
he rose and took his place upon the stand. The boy looked wild enough,
for he was badly scared. The oath was administered.

“Thomas Sawyer, where were you on the seventeenth of June, about the
hour of midnight?”

Tom glanced at Injun Joe’s iron face and his tongue failed him. The
audience listened breathless, but the words refused to come. After a few
moments, however, the boy got a little of his strength back, and managed
to put enough of it into his voice to make part of the house hear:

“In the graveyard!”

“A little bit louder, please. Don’t be afraid. You were--”

“In the graveyard.”

A contemptuous smile flitted across Injun Joe’s face.

“Were you anywhere near Horse Williams’ grave?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Speak up--just a trifle louder. How near were you?”

“Near as I am to you.”

“Were you hidden, or not?”

“I was hid.”

“Where?”

“Behind the elms that’s on the edge of the grave.”

Injun Joe gave a barely perceptible start.

“Any one with you?”

“Yes, sir. I went there with--”

“Wait--wait a moment. Never mind mentioning your companion’s name. We
will produce him at the proper time. Did you carry anything there with
you.”

Tom hesitated and looked confused.

“Speak out, my boy--don’t be diffident. The truth is always respectable.
What did you take there?”

“Only a--a--dead cat.”
