last saw it; for his eyes were put out by the order of Irene. His very
existence was forgotten in the depths of the palace, and for several
years the ambitious mother reigned with brilliancy and the respect of
distant potentates, until a conspiracy of eunuchs overturned her power,
and she was banished to Lesbos. Here history, which delights in these
strokes of poetic justice, represents the empress earning her bread by
the use of her distaff.
As we came from Mitylene into the open sea, the view was surpassingly
lovely, islands green and poetic, a coast ever retreating and advancing,
as if in coquetry with the blue waves, purple robing the hills,—a
voyage for poets and lotus-eaters. We were coming at night to Tenedos,
to which the crafty Greeks withdrew their fleet when they pretended to
abandon the siege, and to old Troy, opposite; we should be able to feel
their presence in the darkness.
Our steamer, as we have intimated, was a study of nationalities and
languages, as well as of manners. We were English, American, Greek,
Italian, Turkish, Arab, Russian, French, Armenian, Egyptian, Jew,
Georgian, Abyssinian, Nubian, German, Koor-land, Persian, Kurd; one
might talk with a person just from Mecca or Medina, from Bagdad, from
Calcutta, from every Greek or Turkish island, and from most of the
capitals of Europe. A couple of Capuchins, tonsured, in brown serge
with hanging crosses, walked up and down amid the throng of Christians,
Moslems, and pagans, withdrawn from the world while in it, like beings
of a new sex. There was a couple opposite us at table whom we could
not make out,—either recently married or recently eloped, the man
apparently a Turkish officer, and his companion a tall, showy woman, you
might say a Frenchman’s idea of physical beauty, a little like a
wax Madonna, but with nothing holy about her; said by some to be a
Circassian, by others to be a French grisette on an Eastern tour; but
she spoke Italian, and might be one of the Continental countesses.
The square occupied by the emir and his suite—a sort of bazaar of
rugs and narghilehs—had music all day long; a soloist, on three
notes, singing, in the Arab drawl, an unending improvised ballad, and
accompanying himself on the mandolin. When we go to look at and listen
to him, the musician betrays neither self-consciousness nor pride,
unless you detect the latter in a superior smile that plays about
his lips, as he throws back his head and lets his voice break into a
falsetto. It probably does not even occur to his Oriental conceit
that he does well,—that his race have taken for granted a thousand
years,—and he could not be instructed by the orchestra of Von Bulow,
nor be astonished by the Lohengrin of Wagner.
Among the adventurers on board—we all had more or less the appearance
of experiments in that odd assembly—I particularly liked the French
prestidigitateur Caseneau, for his bold eye, utter self-possession, and
that indefinable varnish upon him, which belonged as much to his dress
as to his manner, and suggested the gentleman without concealing the
adventurer. He had a taste for antiquities, and wore some antique gems,
which had I know not what mysterious about them, as if he had inherited
them from an Ephesian magician or a Saracenic doctor of the black
art. At the table after dinner, surrounded by French and Italians,
the conjurer exhibited some tricks at cards. I dare say they were not
extraordinary, yet they pleased me just as well as the manifestations
of the spiritists. One of them I noted. The trickster was blindfolded. A
gentleman counted out a pack of cards, and while doing so mentally fixed
upon one of them by number. Caseneau took the pack, still blinded, and
threw out the card the gentleman had thought of. The experiment was
repeated by sceptics, who suspected a confederate, but the result was
always the same.
The Circassian beauty turned out to be a Jewess from Smyrna. I believe
the Jewesses of that luxurious city imitate all the kinds of beauty in
the world.
In the evening the Italians were grouped around the tables in the
saloon, upon which cards were cast about, matched, sorted, and
redistributed, and there were little piles of silver at the corners,
the occasional chinking of which appeared to add to the interest of the
amusement. On deck the English and Americans were singing the hymns
of the Protestant faith; and in the lull of the strains of “O mother
dear, Jerusalem,” you might hear the twang of strings and the whine of
some Arab improvisatore on the forward deck, and the chink of changing
silver below. We were making our way through a superb night,—a
thousand people packed so closely that you could not move without
stepping into a harem or a mass of Greek pilgrims,—singing hymns,
gambling, listening to a recital of the deeds of Antar, over silver
waves, under a flooding moon, and along the dim shores of Asia. That
mysterious continent lay in the obscurity of the past; here and there
solitary lights, from some shepherd’s hut in the hills or fortress
casemate by the shore, were the rents in the veil through which we saw
antiquity.
XXIII.—THROUGH THE DARDANELLES.
THE Achille, which has a nose for freight, but none for poetry, did not
stop at Tenedos, puffed steadily past the plain of Troy, turned into the
broad opening of the Dardanelles, and by daylight was anchored midway
between the Two Castles. On such a night, if ever, one might see the
evolution of shadowy armies upon the windy plain,—if, indeed, this
conspicuous site was anything more than the theatre of Homer’s
creations,—the spectators on the walls of Ilium, the Greeks hastily
embarking on their ships for Tenedos, the joyful procession that drew
the fatal gift into the impregnable walls.
There is a strong current southward through the Dardanelles, which swung
the vessel round as we came to anchor. The forts which, with their heavy
modern guns, completely command this strait, are something less than
a mile and a half apart, and near each is a large and handsome
town,—Khilid-bahri on the European shore and Chanak-Kalesi on the
Asiatic. The latter name signifies the pottery-castle, and is derived
from the chief manufactory of the place; the town of a couple of
thousand houses, gayly painted and decorated in lively colors, lies
upon a sandy flat and presents a very cheerful appearance. It is a great
Asiatic entrepôt for European products, and consular flags attest its
commercial importance.
When I came upon deck its enterprising traders had already boarded
the steamer, and encumbered it with their pottery, which found a ready
market with the pilgrims, for it is both cheap and ugly. Perhaps we
should rather say fantastic than ugly. You see specimens of it all over
the East, and in the bazaars of Cairo, Jerusalem, and Damascus it may be
offered you as something rare. Whatever the vessel is,—a pitcher, cup,
vase, jar, or cream-pot,—its form is either that of some impossible
animal, some griffin, or dragon, or dog of the underworld, or its spout
is the neck and head of some fantastic monster. The ware is painted
in the most startling reds, greens, yellows, and blacks, and sometimes
gilt, and then glazed. It is altogether hideous, and fascinating enough
to drive the majolica out of favor.
Above these two towns the strait expands into a sort of bay, formed on
the north by a promontory jutting out from the Asiatic shore, and upon
this promontory it is now agreed stood old Abydos; it is occupied by a
fort which grimly regards a corresponding one on the opposite shore, not
a mile distant. Here Leander swam to Hero, Byron to aquatic fame, and
here Xerxes laid his bridge. All this is plain to be seen; this is the
narrowest part of the passage; exactly opposite this sloping site of
Abydos is a depression between two high cliffs, the only point where the
Persian could have rested the European extremity of his bridge; and it
surely requires no stretch of the imagination to see Hero standing upon
this projecting point holding the torch for her lover.
The shore is very pretty each side, not bold, but quiet scenery; and yet
there is a contrast: on the Asiatic horizon are mountains, rising behind
each other, while the narrow peninsula, the Thracian Chersonesus of the
ancients, which forms the western bank of the Dardanelles, offers only
a range of moderate hills. What a beautiful stream, indeed, is this, and
how fond history has been of enacting its spectacles upon it! How the
civilizations of the East and West, in a continual flow and reflow, push
each other across it! With a sort of periodic regularity it is the scene
of a great movement, and from age to age the destinies of the race have
seemed to hang upon its possession; and from time to time the attention
of the world is concentrated upon this water-street between two
continents. Under whatever name, the Oriental civilization has been
a misfortune, and the Western a blessing to the border-land; and how
narrowly has Europe, more than once, from Xerxes to Chosroes, from Omar
to the Osmanlis, seemed to escape the torrent of Eastern slavery. Once
the culture of Greece passed these limits, and annexed all Asia Minor
and the territory as far as the Euphrates to the empire of intelligence.
Who shall say that the day is not at hand when the ancient movement of
free thought, if not of Grecian art and arms, is about to be renewed,
and Europe is not again to impose its laws and manners upon Little Asia?
The conquest, which one sees going on under his eyes, is not indeed
with the pomp of armies, but by the more powerful and enduring might of
commerce, intercourse, and the weight of a world’s opinion diffused by
travel and literature. The Osmanli sits supinely and watches the change;
the Greeks, the rajahs of all religions, establish schools, and the new
generation is getting ready for the revolution; the Turk does not care
for schools. That it may be his fate to abandon European Turkey and even
Constantinople, he admits. But it is plain that if he goes thus far he
must go farther; and that he must surrender a good part of the Roman
Eastern Empire. For any one can see that the Hellespont could not be
occupied by two powers, and that it is no more possible to divide the
control of the Bosphorus than it is that of the Hudson or the Thames.
The morning was cold, and the temperature as well as the sky admonished
us that we were passing out of the warm latitude. Twenty-five miles from
the Chang and Eng forts we passed near but did not call at Gallipoli,
an ancient city with few antiquities, but of great strategic importance.
Whoever holds it has the key to Constantinople and the Black Sea; it was
seized by the Moslems in the thirteenth century before they imposed the
