she was made independent. As I wished to be her heir, I had always
treated her with the utmost consideration. Captain Halliard managed
some stocks for her, and he was anxious to keep in her good graces.
I put the check in my pocket with the utmost nonchalance, and again
begging my uncle not to fail to be present at the ceremony, I left him.
It was all right with me for the present. When I started on my bridal
tour I owed about six hundred dollars, which I calculated that I could
easily pay off in six months with my increased salary. When we returned
from Washington I had barely money enough left to pay the hackman for
conveying us to the house of my wife’s father. If I had not been so
cautious as to count up my money, and estimate the expenses of the
return trip, I should have exhausted my exchequer before we reached
home. When I found I had just enough left to pay these expenses, I
told Lilian that I had received a letter which compelled me to return
immediately, though we had intended to stay two days longer.
She pouted, but I told her I should lose my situation if I did not
go back. She thought I might get another situation rather than break
up the pleasant excursion so abruptly. I told her I could easily
get another situation, but it was not exactly prudent to give up one
until the other was obtained. It almost broke my heart to cross her
in anything, and if I could have met a friend good-natured enough to
lend me a hundred dollars I might have been spared the annoyance. I met
no such friend, and we went on cheating each other as before. It was
stupid in me to do so, but I had not the courage to tell her that I was
not made of money, and I permitted her to believe that my pockets were
still well lined.
We returned home, but on the way I was obliged to pretend that I was
sick, in order to save the expense of supper aboard the steamer. We had
dined at four o’clock, and though it was absurd to eat again at six,
Lilian wanted to see who were at the tables; but my pretended illness
saved me, and, what was more important, saved the two dollars for the
hack hire in Boston.
“What shall we do when we get home?” asked Lilian, as we sat that
evening in the cabin of the steamer.
“We shall live on love for years to come,” I replied, with enthusiasm.
“Of course we shall do that,” she added; but I thought she did not
seem to be exactly pleased with the diet. “Shall we board or keep
house?”
“Which do you prefer, my dear Lilian?” I asked, for though we had
discussed this question before, she had not been able to make up her
mind.
“If we can board at the Revere House, or at Mrs. Peecksmith’s in Beacon
street, I would rather board.”
“It would not be possible to obtain such rooms as would suit us at
the Revere House at this season of the year; and I heard a gentleman
in Washington say that Mrs. Peecksmith had not a single apartment
unoccupied.”
“How provoking!”
It was provoking, but I had to invent my excuses as I went along. I
did not venture to suggest that my entire salary would not pay the
expenses of boarding at either of the places she named. I was too weak
and vain to tell her the truth. I deceived her. She had no knowledge
of the world, no experience of the value of money, for her poor father
had actually ruined himself in a vain attempt to keep up the style of
living he had enjoyed in more prosperous days. Nearly all his profits
went upon the backs of his daughters, each of whom had been taught to
believe that a husband, when interpreted, was money. I did nothing to
disturb the illusion.
“I think we must find a place to board for a few weeks, till we can get
a house, and then we will go to housekeeping,” I suggested.
“We must go to housekeeping if we can’t get rooms at the Revere, or at
Mrs. Peecksmith’s,” added Lilian. “But dear ma will take us to board
for a time; and really I could not think of going anywhere else.”
We went to “dear ma’s,” and after I had paid the hackman, I had just
twenty-five cents left in my pocket. “Dear ma” was willing to take
us to board for a time, under the circumstances, though it would be
a great inconvenience to her. She would not think of taking anybody
else, though she had plenty of house room. I ventured to hint that, as
a prudent man, I should like to know what the terms would be, though
really it did not make the least difference to me, in point of fact.
“Dear ma” did not like to speak of such things; she was going to take
us simply as a matter of accommodation—“under the circumstances.”
“Of course, Mrs. Oliphant, I understand you, and I am very grateful
for the sacrifice you propose to make; but it is always well to have
things clearly set forth,” I replied, mildly.
“Certainly it is. I always believe in having things in black and
white. I suppose it would cost you fifty dollars a week to board at
Mrs. Peecksmith’s; but I should not think of charging you that,” she
continued, with a benevolent smile.
“Gracious! I should hope not,” I mentally ejaculated, for at the Beacon
Street house the boarders walked on Wilton carpets, looked out through
windows decked with velvet draperies, slept upon rosewood bedsteads,
and had seven courses at dinner, while Mr. Oliphant’s house was an old
one, its furniture worn out and dilapidated, its carpets threadbare,
and the fare—when they had no extra company—below the grade of a
cheap boarding-house. If I had not loved Lilian with all my soul, I
should have deemed it a charity to take her off her parents’ hands. As
it was, she was cheap at any price.
“Whatever you say will be all right,” I replied. “I am getting a
handsome salary now, and I am willing to pay a fair price.”
“I think thirty dollars a week would be no more than the cost to us. Of
course I don’t expect you to pay anything near what it would cost at
Mrs. Peecksmith’s.”
Whew! I could board at a house only one grade below Beacon Street for
twenty. I expected she would say ten, or at the most fifteen dollars,
but, poor “dear ma!” I suppose she needed the money to deck out the
next daughter for the sacrifice. I could not object. It was all in the
family; but I determined to find a house with all possible dispatch.
I went to the bank and took my place. I flatter myself that I was
smart, for I won the approbation of even Mr. Bristlebach. I made no
mistakes. I was not nervous. When I drew my month’s salary of one
hundred and fifty dollars, all but about twenty dollars of it went
into the purse of “dear ma,” for board which would have been high at
ten dollars a week. Though Lilian complained of the accommodations,
she said nothing about housekeeping. I made some inquiries, and
found I could board better for half the price I was paying. I then
said something about engaging rooms nearer to the bank. My dear wife
protested. She could not leave “dear ma’s,” where she had all the
comforts of a home, and was in her own family. I saw that she was a
party to the swindle; that “dear ma” had instructed her what to do and
what to say.
My home was no home at all, and I was determined to leave it before I
had another month’s board to pay. To stay any longer would be ruin. My
twenty dollars’ surplus would pay for only a few concerts and rides,
and in less than a fortnight I was penniless again. My debts began to
trouble me. One day Captain Halliard wanted to know if he had not lent
me three hundred dollars for a few weeks. I assured him he had, and
that I intended to pay him in a few days. Tom Flynn hinted that he was
short, though he did not directly say he wanted his money. My tailor
was becoming slightly unreasonable, and the keeper of a livery stable
stupidly insisted upon being paid, and even had the audacity to refuse
to trust me for any more teams.
It would not do for me to have these importunate creditors coming into
the bank to see me. The president and the cashier would be alarmed if
they discovered that the paying teller was in debt. But trying as these
duns were, they were insignificant compared with the annoyances which I
endured at “dear ma’s.” Lilian hinted, and then insisted, that I should
refurnish our room at my own expense. I told her I would think of it,
and went out to walk after dinner. I did think of it; and thought
I would not do it. Strange as it may seem, “dear ma” was absolutely
becoming disagreeable to me, and I wondered how such an angel as Lilian
could have been born of such a designing woman as I found her mother to
be.
I stumbled upon a friend who had been to look at a house. It was a
splendid little place, but not quite large enough for him, and the rent
was only six hundred dollars a year. I went with him to see it. It
looked like a fairy palace to me, and was just the size I wanted. It
was an English basement house, three stories high. I went to see the
owner. Another man had just left it, and meant to take the house, but
he must first consult his wife. If I stopped to consult mine, I should
lose it, and I closed with him on the instant, regarding myself as the
luckiest fellow in the world.
Lilian would be delighted with it; there could be no doubt of that.
What a magnificent surprise it would be to her, if I could take her
in, after it was all furnished! Stupid as the idea may seem to lady
housekeepers, I was so enamored of my plan that I determined to put it
into operation. I was satisfied we could live in this gem of a house
for less than I paid for board, and live in much better style.
The idea of a surprise to Lilian was delightful to me, and I laid out
the plan in detail; but the first thing was to provide the funds.
Then my jaw dropped down. I owed over six hundred dollars to certain
restless creditors; but I could save money by going to housekeeping,
and my duty to them required that I should do so. I had not yet
troubled Aunt Rachel, and taking Lilian with me, I went down to
Springhaven to spend the Fourth of July, ostensibly to escape the noise
and dust of the city, but really to lay siege to my venerable aunt’s
purse strings.
The only thing that was likely to defeat me was the fact that Aunt
Rachel did not like my wife, for Lilian, who regarded the worthy
spinster as an “old fuss,” had not always been as prudent in her
