stores in his applications for employment, had spent nearly all his
money, and been robbed of all his clothing except what he wore.
Again Ben began to feel an appetite. He had eaten his dinner late, but
it had consisted of a plate of meat only. His funds being now reduced to
two cents, he was obliged to content himself with an apple, which did
something towards appeasing his appetite.
Next Ben began to consider anxiously how he was to pass the night.
Having no money to spend for lodging, there seemed nothing to do but to
sleep out of doors. It was warm weather, and plenty of street boys did
it. But to Ben it would be a new experience, and he regarded it with
some dread. He wished he could meet with Jerry Collins, his acquaintance
of the morning. From him he might obtain some information that would be
of service in his present strait.
Three or four hours must elapse before it would be time to go to bed.
Ben hardly knew how or where to pass them. He had become tired of the
park; besides, he had got over a part of his fatigue, and felt able to
walk about and explore the city. He turned at a venture up Chatham
Street, and was soon interested in the sights of this peculiar
thoroughfare,--the shops open to the street, with half their stock in
trade exposed on the sidewalk, the importunities of the traders, and the
appearance of the people whom he met. It seemed very lively and
picturesque to Ben, and drew away his attention from his own awkward
position.
He was asked to buy by some of the traders, being promised wonderful
bargains; but his penniless condition put him out of the reach of
temptation.
So he wandered on until he came to the Bowery, a broad avenue, wider
than Broadway, and lined by shops of a great variety, but of a grade
inferior to those of its more aristocratic neighbor.
Here, also, the goods are liberally displayed on the sidewalk, and are
generally labelled with low prices, which tempts many purchasers. The
purchaser, however, must look carefully to the quality of the goods
which he buys, or he will in many cases find the low price merely a
snare and a delusion, and regret that he had not paid more liberally and
bought a better article.
Later in the evening, on his return walk, Ben came to an establishment
brilliant with light, from which proceeded strains of music. Looking
in, he saw that it was filled with small tables, around which were
seated men, women, and children. They had glasses before them from which
they drank. This was a Lager Beer Hall or Garden,--an institution
transplanted from Germany, and chiefly patronized by those of German
birth or extraction. It seemed bright and cheerful, and our young
adventurer thought it would be pleasant to go in, and spend an hour or
two, listening to the music; but he was prevented by the consciousness
that he had no money to spend, and might be considered an intruder.
While he was looking in wistfully, he was struck on the back; and
turning, saw, to his surprise, the face of his only acquaintance in New
York, Jerry Collins, the boot-black.
"I am glad to see you," he said, eagerly offering his hand, without
considering that Jerry's hand, unwashed during the day, was stained with
blacking. He felt so glad to meet an acquaintance, however, that he
would not have minded this, even if it had occurred to him.
"The same to you," said Jerry. "Are you going in?"
"I haven't got any money," said Ben, a little ashamed of the confession.
"Well, I have, and that'll do just as well."
He took Ben by the arm, and they passed through a vestibule, and entered
the main apartment, which was of large size. On one side, about half way
down, was a large instrument some like an organ, from which the music
proceeded. The tables were very well filled, Germans largely
predominating among the guests.
"Sit down here," said Jerry.
They took seats at one of the tables. Opposite was a stout German and
his wife, the latter holding a baby. Both had glasses of lager before
them, and the baby was also offered a share by its mother; but, from the
contortions of its face, did not appear to relish it.
"Zwei Glass Lager," said Jerry, to a passing attendant.
"Can you speak German?" asked Ben, surprised.
"Yaw," said Jerry; "my father was an Irishman, and my mother was a
Dutchman."
Jerry's German, however, seemed to be limited, as he made no further
attempts to converse in that language.
The glasses were brought. Jerry drank his down at a draught, but Ben,
who had never before tasted lager, could not at once become reconciled
to its bitter taste.
"Don't you like it?" asked Jerry.
"Not very much," said Ben.
"Then I'll finish it for you;" and he suited the action to the word.
Besides the lager a few plain cakes were sold, but nothing more
substantial. Evidently the beer was the great attraction. Ben could not
help observing, with some surprise, that, though everybody was drinking,
there was not the slightest disturbance, or want of decorum, or
drunkenness. The music, which was furnished at intervals, was of very
good quality, and was listened to with attention.
"I was goin' to Tony Pastor's to-night," said Jerry, "if I hadn't met
you."
"What sort of a place is that?" asked Ben.
"Oh, it's a bully place--lots of fun. You must go there some time."
"I think I will," answered Ben, mentally adding, "if I ever have money
enough."
Here the music struck up, and they stopped to listen to it. When this
was over, Jerry proposed to go out. Ben would have been willing to stay
longer; but he saw that his companion did not care so much for the music
as himself, and he did not wish to lose sight of him. To be alone in a
great city, particularly under Ben's circumstances, is not very
pleasant, and our young adventurer determined to stick to his new
acquaintance, who, though rough in his manners, had yet seemed inclined
to be friendly, and Ben felt sadly in need of a friend.
CHAPTER VI.
THE BURNING BALES.
"Where are you going to sleep to-night?" asked Ben, introducing a
subject which had given him some anxiety.
"I don't know," said Jerry, carelessly. "I'll find a place somewhere."
"I'll go with you, if you'll let me," said Ben.
"In course I will."
"I haven't got any money."
"What's the odds? They don't charge nothin' at the hotel where I stop."
"What time do you go to bed?"
"Most any time. Do you feel sleepy?"
"Rather. I didn't sleep much last night."
"Well, we'll go and find a place now. How'd you like sleepin' on
cotton-bales?"
"I think that would be comfortable."
"There's a pile of bales down on the pier, where the New Orleans
steamers come in. Maybe we could get a chance there."
"All right. Where is it?"
"Pier 8, North River. It'll take us twenty minutes, or maybe half an
hour, to go there."
"Let us go," said Ben.
He felt relieved at the idea of so comfortable a bed as a cotton-bale,
and was anxious to get stowed away for the night.
The two boys struck across to Broadway, and followed that street down
past Trinity Church, turning down the first street beyond. Rector
Street, notwithstanding its clerical name, is far from an attractive
street. Just in the rear of the great church, and extending down to the
wharves, is a collection of miserable dwellings, occupied by tenants
upon whom the near presence of the sanctuary appears to produce little
impression of a salutary character. Ben looked about him in
ill-concealed disgust. He neither fancied the neighborhood, nor the
people whom he met. But the Island is very narrow just here, and he had
not far to walk to West Street, which runs along the edge of Manhattan
Island, and is lined with wharves. Jerry, of course, did not mind the
surroundings. He was too well used to them to care.
They brought out opposite the pier.
"There it is," said Jerry.
Ben saw a pile of cotton-bales heaped up on the wharf in front. Just
behind them was a gate, and over it the sign of the New Orleans Company.
"I should think somebody would steal the bales," said Ben. "Are they
left out here all night?"
"There's a watchman round here somewhere," said Jerry. "He stays here
all night to guard the bales."
"Will he let us sleep here?"
"I don't know," said Jerry. "We'll creep in, when he isn't looking."
The watchman was sitting down, leaning his back against one of the
bales. A short pipe was in his mouth, and he seemed to be enjoying his
smoke. This was contrary to orders, for the cotton being combustible
might easily catch fire; but this man, supposing that he would not be
detected, indulged himself in the forbidden luxury.
"Now creep along softly," said Jerry.
The latter, being barefooted, had an advantage over Ben, but our young
adventurer crept after him as softly as he could. Jerry found a bale
screened from observation by the higher piles on each side, where he
thought they could sleep unobserved. Following his lead, Ben stretched
himself out upon it.
The watchman was too busily occupied with his pipe to detect any noise.
"Aint it comfortable?" whispered Jerry.
"Yes," said Ben, in the same low tone.
"I wouldn't ask for nothin' better," said Jerry.
Ben was not so sure about that; but then he had not slept out hundreds
of nights, like Jerry, in old wagons, or on door-steps, or wherever else
he could; so he had a different standard of comparison.
