very important sometimes for me to see that steeple; and in the midst
of my investigations the tin horn would blow a great blast from the
farm-house, which would send a cold chill down my back in the hottest
days. I knew what it meant. It had a frightfully impatient quaver in
it, not at all like the sweet note that called us to dinner from the
hayfield. It said, "Why on earth doesn't that boy come home? It is
almost dark, and the cows ain't milked!" And that was the time the cows
had to start into a brisk pace and make up for lost time. I wonder if
any boy ever drove the cows home late, who did not say that the cows
were at the very farther end of the pasture, and that "Old Brindle" was
hidden in the woods, and he couldn't find her for ever so long! The
brindle cow is the boy's scapegoat, many a time.

No other boy knows how to appreciate a holiday as the farm-boy does;
and his best ones are of a peculiar kind. Going fishing is of course
one sort. The excitement of rigging up the tackle, digging the bait,
and the anticipation of great luck,—these are pure pleasures, enjoyed
because they are rare. Boys who can go a-fishing any time care but
little for it. Tramping all day through bush and brier, fighting flies
and mosquitoes, and branches that tangle the line, and snags that break
the hook, and returning home late and hungry, with wet feet and a
string of speckled trout on a willow twig, and having the family crowd
out at the kitchen door to look at 'em, and say, "Pretty well done for
you, bub; did you catch that big one yourself?"—this is also pure
happiness, the like of which the boy will never have again, not if he
comes to be selectman and deacon and to "keep store."

But the holidays I recall with delight were the two days in spring and
fall, when we went to the distant pasture-land, in a neighboring town,
may be, to drive thither the young cattle and colts, and to bring them
back again. It was a wild and rocky upland where our great pasture
was, many miles from home, the road to it running by a brawling river,
and up a dashing brookside among great hills. What a day's adventure
it was! It was like a journey to Europe. The night before, I could
scarcely sleep for thinking of it, and there was no trouble about
getting me up at sunrise that morning. The breakfast was eaten, the
luncheon was packed in a large basket, with bottles of root beer and
a jug of switchel, which packing I superintended with the greatest
interest; and then the cattle were to be collected for the march,
and the horses hitched up. Did I shirk any duty? Was I slow? I think
not. I was willing to run my legs off after the frisky steers, who
seemed to have an idea they were going on a lark, and frolicked about,
dashing into all gates, and through all bars except the right ones;
and how cheerfully I did yell at them; it was a glorious chance to
"holler," and I have never since heard any public speaker on the stump
or at camp-meeting who could make more noise. I have often thought
it fortunate that the amount of noise in a boy does not increase in
proportion to his size; if it did the world could not contain it.

The whole day was full of excitement and of freedom. We were away from
the farm, which to a boy is one of the best parts of farming; we saw
other farms and other people at work; I had the pleasure of marching
along, and swinging my whip, past boys whom I knew, who were picking
up stones. Every turn of the road, every bend and rapid of the river,
the great boulders by the wayside, the watering-troughs, the giant pine
that had been struck by lightning, the mysterious covered bridge over
the river where it was most swift and rocky and foamy, the chance eagle
in the blue sky, the sense of going somewhere,—why, as I recall all
these things I feel that even the Prince Imperial, as he used to dash
on horseback through the Bois de Boulogne, with fifty mounted hussars
clattering at his heels, and crowds of people cheering, could not have
been as happy as was I, a boy in short jacket and shorter pantaloons,
trudging in the dust that day behind the steers and colts, cracking my
black-stock whip.



I wish the journey would never end; but at last, by noon, we reach
the pastures and turn in the herd; and, after making the tour of
the lots to make sure there are no breaks in the fences, we take our
luncheon from the wagon and eat it under the trees by the spring.
This is the supreme moment of the day. This is the way to live; this
is like the Swiss Family Robinson, and all the rest of my delightful
acquaintances in romance. Baked beans, rye-and-indian bread (moist,
remember), doughnuts and cheese, pie, and root beer. What richness!
You may live to dine at Delmonico's, or, if those Frenchmen do not eat
each other up, at Philippe's, in the Rue Montorgueil in Paris, where
the dear old Thackeray used to eat as good a dinner as anybody; but you
will get there neither doughnuts, nor pie, nor root beer, nor anything
so good as that luncheon at noon in the old pasture, high among the
Massachusetts hills! Nor will you ever, if you live to be the oldest
boy in the world, have any holiday equal to the one I have described.
But I always regretted that I did not take along a fish-line, just to
"throw in" the brook we passed. I know there were trout there.




IV

NO FARMING WITHOUT A BOY


Say what you will about the general usefulness of boys, it is my
impression that a farm without a boy would very soon come to grief.
What the boy does is the life of the farm. He is the factotum, always
in demand, always expected to do the thousand indispensable things that
nobody else will do. Upon him fall all the odds and ends, the most
difficult things. After everybody else is through, he has to finish up.
His work is like a woman's,—perpetual waiting on others. Everybody
knows how much easier it is to eat a good dinner than it is to wash the
dishes afterwards. Consider what a boy on a farm is required to do;
things that must be done, or life would actually stop.

It is understood, in the first place, that he is to do all the errands,
to go to the store, to the post-office, and to carry all sorts of
messages. If he had as many legs as a centipede, they would tire before
night. His two short limbs seem to him entirely inadequate to the task.
He would like to have as many legs as a wheel has spokes, and rotate
about in the same way. This he sometimes tries to do; and people who
have seen him "turning cart-wheels" along the side of the road have
supposed that he was amusing himself, and idling his time; he was only
trying to invent a new mode of locomotion, so that he could economize
his legs and do his errands with greater dispatch. He practices
standing on his head, in order to accustom himself to any position.
Leap-frog is one of his methods of getting over the ground quickly. He
would willingly go an errand any distance if he could leap-frog it with
a few other boys. He has a natural genius for combining pleasure with
business. This is the reason why, when he is sent to the spring for a
pitcher of water, and the family are waiting at the dinner-table, he is
absent so long; for he stops to poke the frog that sits on the stone,
or, if there is a penstock, to put his hand over the spout and squirt
the water a little while. He is the one who spreads the grass when the
men have cut it; he mows it away in the barn; he rides the horse to
cultivate the corn, up and down the hot, weary rows; he picks up the
potatoes when they are dug; he drives the cows night and morning; he
brings wood and water and splits kindling; he gets up the horse and
puts out the horse; whether he is in the house or out of it, there is
always something for him to do. Just before school in winter he shovels
paths; in summer he turns the grindstone. He knows where there are lots
of wintergreen and sweet flag root, but instead of going for them he is
to stay indoors and pare apples and stone raisins and pound something
in a mortar. And yet, with his mind full of schemes of what he would
like to do, and his hands full of occupations, he is an idle boy who
has nothing to busy himself with but school and chores! He would gladly
do all the work if somebody else would do the chores, he thinks, and
yet I doubt if any boy ever amounted to anything in the world, or was
of much use as a man, who did not enjoy the advantages of a liberal
education in the way of chores.

A boy on a farm is nothing without his pets; at least a dog, and
probably rabbits, chickens, ducks, and guinea hens. A guinea hen
suits a boy. It is entirely useless, and makes a more disagreeable
noise than a Chinese gong. I once domesticated a young fox which a
neighbor had caught. It is a mistake to suppose the fox cannot be
tamed. Jacko was a very clever little animal, and behaved, in all
respects, with propriety. He kept Sunday as well as any day, and all
the ten commandments that he could understand. He was a very graceful
playfellow, and seemed to have an affection for me. He lived in a
woodpile, in the dooryard, and when I lay down at the entrance to his
house and called him, he would come out and sit on his tail and lick
my face just like a grown person. I taught him a great many tricks and
all the virtues. That year I had a large number of hens, and Jacko went
about among them with the most perfect indifference, never looking on
them to lust after them, as I could see, and never touching an egg or
a feather. So excellent was his reputation that I would have trusted
him in the hen-roost in the dark without counting the hens. In short,
he was domesticated, and I was fond of him and very proud of him,
exhibiting him to all our visitors as an example of what affectionate
treatment would do in subduing the brute instincts. I preferred him
