

 

demonstrate the proposition at which my friend 
had seemed to demur. 

"You may be right," was answered "no 
doubt are right ; but you do not make the way to 
heaven attractive." 

"But heaven is attractive; and there is only 
one way to get there as there is only one way for 
the distant mariner to reach his home that lies 
far across a stormy ocean." 

" Through toil and suffering ?" 

" Through a denial of selfish and worldly affec 
tions; and just in the degree that this denial in 
volves suffering, must pain come. It is because 
we are evil that we suffer. Evil must die in us 
before good can be born ; and there is pain in 
both conditions death-pains and birth-pains 
but after the new birth, tranquil peace, and joy 
that passeth understanding." 





IX. 

NOT AS OUR WAYS. 

" ALL His ways are in mercy," said the minister. "Do not forget that, my sister." 
They were the parting sentences of one who 
had often tried, in the sunny days of Mrs. Field 
ing 's life, to lift her thoughts above the outer 
world, into a consciousness of those higher and 
purer things, from which abiding happiness 
comes. Yet, until now, he had spoken to sealed 
ears. Until now ! Ah, the sunshine had gone 
from her sky. It was night with Mrs. Field 
ing dark and silent night ; for sorrow and trou 
ble had found her out. But, in the stillness of 
this night, the sound of voices, speaking from an 
inner world, had power to reach her ears. These 
were angel-voices, and at first she only felt their 



 

tenderness and sweetness, without any clear con 
sciousness of meaning in their utterances. 

Less than one year before, Mrs. Fielding was a 
wife and mother; now, she was widowed and 
childless. Then she had a home, in which every 
comfort for natural life was provided ; now, she 
was in the home of another, and dependent. No 
wonder the truth that all of God 's ways are in 
love and mercy, was afar off from her perceptions, 
and but dimly seen. She was one of those who 
tenderly love children. In her own babes, her 
very life had rested ; rested in such overweening 
tenderness, that weak indulgence took the place 
of a wise maternal discipline. She could not 
bear to cross their natural desires in anything, 
even though reason told her that it was essential 
to their higher good. Better for them, the wiser 
ministrations of angels, in the heaven of inno 
cence, than the weak compliances of an over-fond 
mother. They were safe, and she sorrowing for 
their loss as one without hope. Widowed and 



 

childless ! Ah, the night was very dark around 
the mourner! 

Mrs. Fielding had an active, independent mind. 
As her bowed spirit lifted itself, feebly, under the 
weight which had at first crushed her to the earth, 
and she began to realize her new position and relation to the world, thought turned in all direc 
tions, searching for the right way. She could not 
sit down, with folded hands, and become a burden 
some drone ; pride, if no higher impulse, would 
have forbidden that. But, like far too many 
young ladies, whose parents expend large sums 
on their education, she had closed her school-girl 
days without a thorough knowledge of any one 
of the branches to which she had given attention. 
She had a clear, intelligent mind, and was regarded as a well-educated woman ; but her education was not of the kind to fit her for the duties 
of a teacher. She was not well grounded in Eng 
lish ; nor in French, Italian, or German, though 
she had attempted the acquirement of these languages under competent instructors. For music, 



 

she had no taste ; and, though she played tolerably well at the time of her marriage, her skill 
soon left her, for want of practice. Tenderly she 
loved children, as we have said, and this love led 
her thoughts out towards them in her questioning 
as to the future, and she was beginning to think 
of a school for little ones. " I can teach them," 
she said. And of this, it had come into her 
thought to speak several times. But, the way 
did not look clear before her yet. 

"All His ways are in mercy." She was still 
dwelling upon what the minister had said, and 
trying to see how affliction and poverty could be 
in mercy to her, when a friend who had drawn 
very near since her days of darkness began, came 
in. 

" It must be so," Mrs. Fielding said, referring 
to the minister 's words, " and yet, in coming down 
to my own case, doubt arises. In my heart, I 
cannot accept this faith." 

" The time is not yet, but it will come," an 
swered the friend, " for it is a true faith. God 's 



 

ways are not our ways especially not as our 
ways in regard to the individual alone. Good is 
always the end of God 's providences ; not good to 
you or to me only, in the dispensations that reach 
us, but good, as well, to all who can in any way 
be affected through our lives. Did you ever 
think of that ?" 

Mrs. Fielding 's countenance showed a newly 
awakening interest. " The thought, as you pre 
sent it," she said, " has never before come into my 
mind." 

" Yet, it must be true. Think for a moment. 
In the Lord 's eyes, all are equal. He regards 
you with the same tenderness and care that he regards me, and the children of my neighbor are as 
precious in his sight as mine." 

" Yes, yes. That must be so," assented Mrs. 
Fielding. 

"And He is ever making us the ministers of 
His good, one towards another, through willing 
service, if there is love in our hearts ; but through 
constraint, and the compelling power of circum- 

