Cummings (for that is the name of the slighter 
man, who remains standing as he speaks) : " It 's 
warm, isn't it?" His gentle face evinces a curi- 
ous and kindly interest in his friend's sturdy demonstrations
of fatigue. 
Bartlett : " Yes, hot confoundedly." He rubs 
his handkerchief vigorously across his forehead, 
and then looks down at his dusty shoes, with ap- 
parently no mind to molest them in their dustiness. 
"The idea of people going back to town in this, 
weather ! However, I 'm glad they 're such asses ; 
it gives me free scope here. Every time I don't 
hear some young woman banging on that piano, I 
fall into transports of joy." 
Cummings, smiling : " And after to-day you 
won't be bothered even with me." 
Bartlett : " Oh, I shall rather miss you, you 
know. I like somebody to contradict." 
Cummings : " You can contradict the ostler." 
Hartlett : " No, I can't. They 've sent him 
away ; and I believe you 're going to carry off the 
last of the table-girls with you in the stage to-mor- 
row. The landlord and his wife are to run the 
concern themselves the rest of the fall. Poor old 
fellow ! The hard times have made lean pickings 
for him this year. His house wasn't full in the 
height of the season, and it 's been pretty empty 
since." 
 
Cummings : " I wonder he doesn't shut up altogether." 
Bartlett : " Well, there are a good many transients, as they call them, at this time of year, 
fellows who drive over from the little hill-towns 
with their girls in buggies, and take dinner and 
supper ; then there are picnics from the larger 
places, ten and twelve miles off, that come to the 
grounds on the pond, and he always gets something out of them. And as long as he can hope 
for anything else, my eight dollars a week are 
worth hanging on to. Yes, I think I shall stay 
here all through October. I Ve got no orders, and 
it 's cheap. Besides, I Ve managed to get on confidential terms with the local scenery ; I thought 
we should like each other last summer, and I feel 
now that we 're ready to swear eternal friendship. 
I shall do some fairish work here, yet. Phew ! " 
He mops his forehead again, and springing out of 
his chair he goes up to the canvas, which he has 
faced to the wall, and turning it about retires some 
paces, and with a swift, worried glance at the win- 
dows falls to considering it critically. 
 
Cummings : " You 've done some fairish work 
already, if I 'm any judge." He comes to his 
friend's side, as if to get his effect of the picture. 
" I don't believe the spirit of a graceful elm that 
just begins to feel the approach of autumn was 
ever better interpreted. There is something tre- 
mendously tragical to me in the thing. It makes 
me think of some lovely and charming girl, all 
grace and tenderness, who finds the first gray hair 
in her head. I should call that picture The First 
Gray Hair." 
Bartlett, with unheeding petulance : " The whole 
thing 's too infernally brown ! I beg your par- 
don, Cummings : what were you saying ? Go on ! 
I like your prattle about pictures ; I do, indeed. 
I like to see how far you art-cultured fellows can 
miss all that was in a poor devil's mind when he 
was at work. But I 'd rather you 'd sentimentalize 
my pictures than moralize them. If there 's any- 
thing that makes me quite limp, it 's to have an 
allegory discovered in one of my poor stupid old 
landscapes. But The First Gray Hair isn't bad, 
really. And a good, senseless, sloppy name like 
that often sells a picture." 
 
Cummings : " You 're brutal, Bartlett. I don't 
believe your pictures would own you, if they had 
their way about it." 
Bartlett : " And I wouldn't own them if I had 
mine. I 've got about forty that I wish somebody 
else owned and I had the money for them ; but 
we seem inseparable. Glad you 're going to-mor- 
row? You are a good fellow, Cummings, and I 
am a brute. Come, I 'll make a great concession 
to friendship: it struck me, too, while I was at 
work on that elm, that it was something like an 
old girl ! " Bartlett laughs, and catching his friend 
by either shoulder twists him about in his strong 
clutch, while he looks him merrily in the face. 
" I 'm not a poet, old fellow ; and sometimes I 
think I ought to have been a painter and glazier 
instead of a mere painter. I believe it would have 
paid better." 
Cummings : " Bartlett, I hate to have you talk 
in that way." 
Bartlett : " Oh, I know it 's a stale kind." 
Cummings : " It 's worse than stale. It 's de- 
structive. A man can soon talk himself out of 
 
heart with his better self. You can end by really- 
being as sordid-minded and hopeless and low-pur- 
posed as you pretend to be. It 's insanity." 
Bartlett: "Good! I've had my little knock 
on the head, you know. I don't deny being 
cracked. But I've a method in my madness." 
Cummings : " They all have. But it 's a very 
poor method ; and I don't believe you could say 
just what yours is. You think because a girl on 
whom you set your fancy it 's nonsense to 
pretend it was your heart found out she didn't 
like you as well as she thought, and honestly 
told you so in good time, that your wisest course 
is to take up that role of misanthrope which be- 
gins with yourself and leaves people to imagine 
how low an opinion you have of the rest of man- 
kind." 
Bartlett : " My dear fellow, you know I always 
speak well of that young lady. I've invariably 
told you that she behaved in the handsomest man- 
ner. She even expressed the wish I distinctly 
remember being struck by the novelty of the wish 
at the time that we should remain friends. 
You misconceive " 
 
Cummings : " How many poor girls have been 
jilted who don't go about doing misanthropy, but 
mope at home and sorrow and sicken over their 
wrong in secret, a wrong that attacks not merely 
their pride, but their life itself. Take the case 
I was telling you of: did you ever hear of any- 
thing more atrocious ? And do you compare this 
little sting to your vanity with a death-blow like 
that ? " 
Bartlett : " It 's quite impossible to compute the 
number of jilted girls who take the line you de- 
scribe. But if it were within the scope of arith- 
metic, I don't know that a billion of jilted girls 
would comfort me or reform me. I never could 
regard myself in that abstract way a mere unit 
on one side or other of the balance. My little per- 
sonal snub goes on rankling beyond the reach of 
statistical consolation. But even if there were any 
edification in the case of the young lady in Paris, 
she 's too far off to be an example for me. Take 
some jilted girl nearer home, Cummings, if you 
want me to go round sickening and sorrowing in 
secret. I don't believe you can find any. Women 
 
are much tougher about the pericardium than we 
give them credit for, my dear fellow, much. I 
don't see why it should hurt a woman more than a 
man to be jilted. We shall never truly philoso- 
phize this important matter till we regard women 
with something of the fine penetration arid impar- 
tiality with which they regard each other. Look at 
the stabs they give and take they would kill 
men ! And the graceful ferocity with which they 
dispatch any of their number who happens to be 
down is quite unexampled in natural history. How 
much do you suppose her lady friends have left of 
that poor girl whose case wrings your foolish bosom 
