“ I want to see him,” says Theo. 
He promises that she shall. 
There is not much more talk. We go up stairs pres- 
ently. 
“Don’t say any thing more to me,” cries Theo: “I 
cannot bear it to-night.” 
She crawls into my arms, poor stricken girl ! 
The next day she puts on all her bravery. 
“You are going to have me forever,” she says, — 
“ useless little thing ! But I can trim your hats, and make 
your dresses, if Dell doesn’t quite supersede me with her 
style and elegance.” 
Poor Dell’s birthday is at hand. Oh ! if I could only 
earn some money for her watch. 
I wonder often why God allowed us to have all this 
trouble for nought, it seems. What lesson can we ex- 
tract from it, that we did not know before? If Theo did 
not marrv with the highest kind of love, it was from no 
purely selfish motives. 
One day aunt Hetty had been up again, bewailing mat- 
ters with brisk cheerfulness. Theo laughed as she related 
it to me. 
 
“ The wise purpose in it seems to be made manifest to 
aunt Hetty,” she says rather drolly. “It is, that Chris 
should be punished, and James Miller avenged. And 
some wiser people draw almost as absurd a deduction.” 
The day is appointed for Mr. Quinlan to come ; and it is 
deemed best that Mr. Ross shall be present also. Theo 
writes, in answer to a week-old note, asking him to come 
on a certain evening. She wishes particularly to see him. 
“ I wonder if it is deceitful,” she says with a deprecat- 
ing look in her sweet eyes. She has such a keen sense of 
honor, that she would not treat a worm meanly “ Oh, I 
wish it were all over ! ” 
Mr. Quinlan arrives at noon at Mr. Sargent’s office. 
After some dinner, they come out to Cottage Place. 
Mother recognizes the man in an instant. 
He has some Old-World peculiarities and modes of 
speech ; but he seems very honest, with that stupid, blum 
dering honesty we find made so much of by certain 
w'riters for its humorous or picturesque effects. Stripped 
of its quaint comments, his story is this : The young 
w"oman. Miss Janet Carr, was still boarding in the family 
of her guardian, who were trying to induce her to marry 
their son. Alex Ross was a dashing young fellow, quite 
a favorite with ladies, but had not yet completed his time 
of apprenticeship in a chemical factoiy, wffiere he w"as 
learning the business, though he looked very mature for 
his age. Being forbidden the pri\ilege of calling upon 
JMiss Carr, the couple met in secret, and laid their plans, 
and then disappeared. After a forthight’s absence, they 
returned, and commenced housekeeping. They were very 
gay and extravagant, and Mrs. Ross extremely fond of 
attention, which led to frequent disputes, until their un- 
happiness became a matter of comment. Mr. Ross’s sister 
was married, and going to Australia ; and, now that their 
money was nearly spent, he proposed they should seek 
their fortune in a newer world. She refused ; and he 
threatened to go without her, but did not. A few months 
afterward, he left her, and came to America. When he 
had been here about two years, he sent for her. But, in the 
mean while, her father’s elder brother, a cranly bachelor, 
offered to make the child his heir, and give her a home, 
which she accepted. She refused to come to America ; but 
they corresponded for some time. Once afterward he 
asked her to come, threatening then to remarry if she did 
not. Mr. Quinlan had relatives liAung in the vicinity of 
the Carr estate, and had \dsited them the previous sum- 
mer. Mrs. Ross had called on him to ask about her hus- 
band, whom she had not then heard from in nearly three 
years. She exhibited much interest in him, Mr. Quinlan 
thought. Old Mr. Carr was very poorly, and had become 
quite fond of his niece. That Mrs. Ross would never 
come to America was quite certain ; but after old Mr. 
Carr’s death, if Mr. Ross should return, he had no doubt 
they would make it up, Ross had gi'own so steady and 
changed like. 
Mr. Quinlan had come to Northwood with these tidings. 
‘ ‘ Not that she begged me to tell him ; but I see by her 
face, and the sound of her voice when she said, ‘ You’ll 
see Ross when you go back to America,’ that I was to let 
him know how matters stood. You see, her uncle was 
kind of sharp like, and wouldn’t allow followers ; and it 
had been rather dull for the poor thing. So when you 
told me, ma’am,” this to mother, “that he had married 
your daughter, I was struck suddenty ; for I’d been a-tell- 
ing Mrs. Janet that he never had married. When I come 
back that day, he rushed out to meet me, and carried me 
off. He were fearful angry, and he do have a main high 
temper of his own. He made me tell over and over again 
what had been said, and most accused me o’ Ijdng. Then 
he said, he’d been away seven year, and had a right to 
marry ; and I asked him, did he tell the girl how it was 
with him ? First he said he did ; then he said. No, he 
 
hadn’t, and that it would kill her to know. ‘ Well,’ 
said I, ‘what’s to hinder some day, when you. get vexed 
and out o’ conceit wi’ her, packing up your traps, and 
going back to Mistress Janet, if she be free, and have 
money? ’ — ‘ Her good behavior,’ says he : ‘if she were 
such a fury as t’other one, I wouldn’t stay wi’ her.’ Then 
I argied, as there were no like o’ children, he ought to tell 
her how it were, and let her take her choice ; for it seemed 
main dangerous and unfair to me. Well, we went pretty 
high, a ’most coming to blows ; and I said once, I would 
come and tell myself. Then he said he loved this one, your 
daughter, the best ; and he’d get a separation fra’ Mistress 
Janet, and that would make it all right ; and he bound me 
ower and ower again never to tell. He seemed so near 
to crazy, that I promised ; and that same evening he saw 
me on the train, safe started for home. It was along o’ 
my promise, that I didn’t speak when I first saw the notice 
in the paper. But after a while I went to inquire ; and 
the man told me you were in deep trouble, wanting to 
know whether there was a wife abroad, and, since it had 
come out, I felt free to speak.” 
“ Whom the gods destroy they first make mad.” This 
had been the case with Alex Ross. If he had come home 
careless and unconcerned, and accounted for the interview ' 
as a mere business-errand, our suspicions would have 
died away. But, oh ! how much better for Theo to be 
saved now than have this happen in after-years, when 
babies might be clinging to her knee. 
She listened to the story in a quiet, wondering fashion, 
asking a few questions, but showing less emotion than I 
had fancied she would. 
The legal point in all this was, that Mr. Quinlan knew 
nothing that would do us any absolute good. He did not 
know where they were married, and had never seen the 
certificate. That they were husband and wife, he had no 
doubt : indeed, under the easy Scottish laws, the publicity 
made the marriage valid. 
We waited, then, in a breathless sort of way. Would 
Mr. Ross come, or would some occult presentiment warn 
him? 
Eight o’clock sped by. Theo’s nerves seemed strained 
to their utmost, though she sat still, looking like a marble 
statue. Yes, a quick step, a ring, and Mr. Ross is 
ushered in the midst. 
I must admire the man’s supreme self-control. Redoes 
not flush : he may, perchance, grow a little paler, as his 
eyes wander around the group, and settle upon his friend 
John Quinlan. But there comes into them such a blinding, 
blazing look of hatred, such utter, settled vindictiveness, 
as if he could tear him limb from limb, crush him, stamp 
upon him, grind him to powder in his fury. Ah, thank 
God that Theo will never have to face that ! though a 
t3Tant has fallen to many a good woman’s lot before 
this. 
Mr. Sargent goes briefly over the case. Mr. Ross 
listens in a bravado of contempt, his handsome lips 
parted into a half-smile. Then he steps forward a little. 
“ Mr. Quinlan,” he says with the very irony of calm- 
ness, “ were you present at my marriage, or did you ever 
have speech with aiy one who was ? ’ ’ 
“No,” hesitatingly, and nervously picking the edge of 
his coat. 
“ Did you ever see my marriage-lines ? ” 
“ No ; but you must have been married.” 
