Newman looked at her; he felt a little dizzy; for the moment he seemed
to be turning his somersault again. The little Italian prince came to
his help: “Ah, madam, who has not that?” he softly sighed.
“Don’t teach Mr. Newman to say fadaises,” said the duchess. “It is his
merit that he doesn’t know how.”
“Yes, I don’t know how to say fadaises,” said Newman, “and I don’t
want to say anything unpleasant.”
“I am sure you are very considerate,” said the duchess with a smile; and
she gave him a little nod for good-bye with which he took his departure.
Once in the street, he stood for some time on the pavement, wondering
whether, after all, he was not an ass not to have discharged his pistol.
And then again he decided that to talk to anyone whomsoever about
the Bellegardes would be extremely disagreeable to him. The least
disagreeable thing, under the circumstances, was to banish them from his
mind, and never think of them again. Indecision had not hitherto
been one of Newman’s weaknesses, and in this case it was not of long
duration. For three days after this he did not, or at least he tried not
to, think of the Bellegardes. He dined with Mrs. Tristram, and on her
mentioning their name, he begged her almost severely to desist. This
gave Tom Tristram a much-coveted opportunity to offer his condolences.
He leaned forward, laying his hand on Newman’s arm compressing his lips
and shaking his head. “The fact is my dear fellow, you see, that you
ought never to have gone into it. It was not your doing, I know--it was
all my wife. If you want to come down on her, I’ll stand off; I give you
leave to hit her as hard as you like. You know she has never had a word
of reproach from me in her life, and I think she is in need of something
of the kind. Why didn’t you listen to me? You know I didn’t believe in
the thing. I thought it at the best an amiable delusion. I don’t profess
to be a Don Juan or a gay Lothario,--that class of man, you know; but I
do pretend to know something about the harder sex. I have never disliked
a woman in my life that she has not turned out badly. I was not at all
deceived in Lizzie, for instance; I always had my doubts about her.
Whatever you may think of my present situation, I must at least admit
that I got into it with my eyes open. Now suppose you had got into
something like this box with Madame de Cintré. You may depend upon it
she would have turned out a stiff one. And upon my word I don’t see
where you could have found your comfort. Not from the marquis, my dear
Newman; he wasn’t a man you could go and talk things over with in a
sociable, common-sense way. Did he ever seem to want to have you on the
premises--did he ever try to see you alone? Did he ever ask you to come
and smoke a cigar with him of an evening, or step in, when you had been
calling on the ladies, and take something? I don’t think you would have
got much encouragement out of him. And as for the old lady, she struck
one as an uncommonly strong dose. They have a great expression here, you
know; they call it ‘sympathetic.’ Everything is sympathetic--or ought
to be. Now Madame de Bellegarde is about as sympathetic as that
mustard-pot. They’re a d--d cold-blooded lot, any way; I felt it awfully
at that ball of theirs. I felt as if I were walking up and down in the
Armory, in the Tower of London! My dear boy, don’t think me a vulgar
brute for hinting at it, but you may depend upon it, all they wanted
was your money. I know something about that; I can tell when people
want one’s money! Why they stopped wanting yours I don’t know; I suppose
because they could get someone else’s without working so hard for it. It
isn’t worth finding out. It may be that it was not Madame de Cintré that
backed out first, very likely the old woman put her up to it. I suspect
she and her mother are really as thick as thieves, eh? You are well out
of it, my boy; make up your mind to that. If I express myself strongly
it is all because I love you so much; and from that point of view I may
say I should as soon have thought of making up to that piece of pale
high-mightiness as I should have thought of making up to the Obelisk in
the Place de la Concorde.”
Newman sat gazing at Tristram during this harangue with a lack-lustre
eye; never yet had he seemed to himself to have outgrown so completely
the phase of equal comradeship with Tom Tristram. Mrs. Tristram’s glance
at her husband had more of a spark; she turned to Newman with a slightly
lurid smile. “You must at least do justice,” she said, “to the felicity
with which Mr. Tristram repairs the indiscretions of a too zealous
wife.”
But even without the aid of Tom Tristram’s conversational felicities,
Newman would have begun to think of the Bellegardes again. He could
cease to think of them only when he ceased to think of his loss and
privation, and the days had as yet but scantily lightened the weight
of this incommodity. In vain Mrs. Tristram begged him to cheer up; she
assured him that the sight of his countenance made her miserable.
“How can I help it?” he demanded with a trembling voice. “I feel like
a widower--and a widower who has not even the consolation of going to
stand beside the grave of his wife--who has not the right to wear so
much mourning as a weed on his hat. I feel,” he added in a moment “as if
my wife had been murdered and her assassins were still at large.”
Mrs. Tristram made no immediate rejoinder, but at last she said, with
a smile which, in so far as it was a forced one, was less successfully
simulated than such smiles, on her lips, usually were; “Are you very
sure that you would have been happy?”
Newman stared a moment, and then shook his head. “That’s weak,” he said;
“that won’t do.”
“Well,” said Mrs. Tristram with a more triumphant bravery, “I don’t
believe you would have been happy.”
Newman gave a little laugh. “Say I should have been miserable, then;
it’s a misery I should have preferred to any happiness.”
Mrs. Tristram began to muse. “I should have been curious to see; it
would have been very strange.”
“Was it from curiosity that you urged me to try and marry her?”
“A little,” said Mrs. Tristram, growing still more audacious. Newman
gave her the one angry look he had been destined ever to give her,
turned away and took up his hat. She watched him a moment, and then
she said, “That sounds very cruel, but it is less so than it sounds.
Curiosity has a share in almost everything I do. I wanted very much to
see, first, whether such a marriage could actually take place; second,
what would happen if it should take place.”
“So you didn’t believe,” said Newman, resentfully.
“Yes, I believed--I believed that it would take place, and that you
would be happy. Otherwise I should have been, among my speculations,
a very heartless creature. But,” she continued, laying her hand upon
Newman’s arm and hazarding a grave smile, “it was the highest flight
ever taken by a tolerably bold imagination!”
Shortly after this she recommended him to leave Paris and travel for
three months. Change of scene would do him good, and he would forget his
misfortune sooner in absence from the objects which had witnessed it. “I
really feel,” Newman rejoined, “as if to leave you, at least, would
do me good--and cost me very little effort. You are growing cynical, you
shock me and pain me.”
“Very good,” said Mrs. Tristram, good-naturedly or cynically, as may be
thought most probable. “I shall certainly see you again.”
Newman was very willing to get away from Paris; the brilliant streets he
had walked through in his happier hours, and which then seemed to wear
a higher brilliancy in honor of his happiness, appeared now to be in
the secret of his defeat and to look down upon it in shining mockery. He
would go somewhere; he cared little where; and he made his preparations.
Then, one morning, at haphazard, he drove to the train that would
transport him to Boulogne and dispatch him thence to the shores of
Britain. As he rolled along in the train he asked himself what had
become of his revenge, and he was able to say that it was provisionally
pigeon-holed in a very safe place; it would keep till called for.
He arrived in London in the midst of what is called “the season,” and
it seemed to him at first that he might here put himself in the way
of being diverted from his heavy-heartedness. He knew no one in all
England, but the spectacle of the mighty metropolis roused him somewhat
from his apathy. Anything that was enormous usually found favor with
Newman, and the multitudinous energies and industries of England stirred
within him a dull vivacity of contemplation. It is on record that the
weather, at that moment, was of the finest English quality; he took
long walks and explored London in every direction; he sat by the hour in
Kensington Gardens and beside the adjoining Drive, watching the people
and the horses and the carriages; the rosy English beauties, the
wonderful English dandies, and the splendid flunkies. He went to the
opera and found it better than in Paris; he went to the theatre and
found a surprising charm in listening to dialogue the finest points
of which came within the range of his comprehension. He made several
excursions into the country, recommended by the waiter at his hotel,
with whom, on this and similar points, he had established confidential
relations. He watched the deer in Windsor Forest and admired the Thames
from Richmond Hill; he ate white-bait and brown-bread and butter
at Greenwich, and strolled in the grassy shadow of the cathedral of
Canterbury. He also visited the Tower of London and Madame Tussaud’s
exhibition. One day he thought he would go to Sheffield, and then,
thinking again, he gave it up. Why should he go to Sheffield? He had
a feeling that the link which bound him to a possible interest in the
manufacture of cutlery was broken. He had no desire for an “inside view”
 of any successful enterprise whatever, and he would not have given the
smallest sum for the privilege of talking over the details of the most
“splendid” business with the shrewdest of overseers.
One afternoon he had walked into Hyde Park, and was slowly threading
his way through the human maze which edges the Drive. The stream of
carriages was no less dense, and Newman, as usual, marveled at the
strange, dingy figures which he saw taking the air in some of the
stateliest vehicles. They reminded him of what he had read of eastern
and southern countries, in which grotesque idols and fetiches were
sometimes taken out of their temples and carried abroad in golden
chariots to be displayed to the multitude. He saw a great many pretty
cheeks beneath high-plumed hats as he squeezed his way through serried
