except a new and most becoming humility of manner when with Gladys, as
if silently asking pardon for many shortcomings. With Helwyze he was
cold and distant, evidently dreading to have him discover the change he
had foretold, and feeling as if his knowledge of it would profane the
first really sacred emotion the young man had known since his mother
died.
Anxious for some screen behind which to hide the novel, yet most
pleasurable, sensations which beset him, he found Olivia a useful
friend, and still kept up some semblance of the admiration, out of which
all dangerous ardor was fast fading. She saw this at once, and did not
regret it: for she had a generous nature, which an all-absorbing and
unhappy passion had not entirely spoiled.
Obedience to Helwyze was her delight; but, knowing him better than any
other human being could, she was troubled by his increasing interest in
Gladys, more especially since discovering that the girl possessed the
originality, fire, and energy which were more attractive to him than her
youth, gentleness, or grace. Jealousy was stronger than the desire to
obey; and, calling it compassion, Olivia resolved to be magnanimous, and
spare Gladys further pain, letting Canaris return to his allegiance, as
he seemed inclined to do, unhindered by any act of hers.
“The poor child is so young, so utterly unable to cope with me, it is
doubly cruel to torment her, just to gratify a whim of Jasper’s. Better
make my peace handsomely, and be her friend, than rob her of the only
treasure she possesses, since I do not covet it,” she thought, driving
through the May-day sunshine, to carry Jasper the earliest sprays of
white and rosy hawthorn from the villa garden, whither she had been to
set all in order for the summer.
Helwyze was not yet visible; and, full of her new design, Olivia
hastened up to find Gladys, meaning by some friendly word, some
unmistakable but most delicate hint, to reassure her regarding the
errant young husband, whom she had not yet learned to hold.
There was no answer to her hasty tap, and Olivia went in to seek yet
further. Half-way across the larger apartment she paused abruptly, and
stood looking straight before her, with a face which passed rapidly from
its first expression of good-will to one of surprise, then softened,
till tears stood in the brilliant eyes, and some sudden memory or
thought made that usually proud countenance both sad and tender.
Gladys sat alone in her little room, her work lying on her knee, her
arms folded, her head bent, singing to herself as she rocked to and fro,
lost in some reverie that made her lips smile faintly, and her voice
very low. She often sat so now, but Olivia had never seen her thus; and,
seeing, divined at once the hope which lifted her above all sorrow, the
help sent by Heaven, when most she needed it. For the song Gladys sang
was a lullaby, the look she wore was that which comes to a woman’s face
when she rocks her first-born on her knee, and above her head was a new
picture, an angel, with the Lily of Annunciation in its hand.
The one precious memory of Olivia’s stormy life was the little daughter,
who for a sweet, short year was all in all to her, and whose small grave
was yearly covered with the first spring flowers. Fresh from this secret
pilgrimage, the woman’s nature was at its noblest now; and seeing that
other woman, so young, so lonely, yet so blest, her heart yearned over
her,—
                 “All her worser self slipped from her
                 Like a robe,”—
and, hurrying in, she said, impulsively,—
“O child, I wish you had a mother!”
Gladys looked up, unstartled from the calm in which she dwelt. Olivia’s
face explained her words, and she answered them with the only reproach
much pain had wrung from her,—
“You might have been one to me.”
“It is not too late! What shall I do to prove my sincerity?” cried
Olivia, stricken with remorse.
“Help me to give my little child an honest father.”
“I will! show me how.”
Then these two women spent a memorable hour together; for the new tie of
motherhood bridged across all differences of age and character, made
confession easy, confidence sweet, friendship possible. Yet, after all,
Gladys was the comforter, Olivia the one who poured out her heart, and
found relief in telling the sorrows that had been, the temptations that
still beset her, the good that yet remained to answer, when the right
chord was touched. She longed to give as much as she received; but when
she had owned, with a new sense of shame, that she was merely playing
with Canaris for her own amusement (being true to Helwyze even in her
falsehood), there seemed no more for her to do, since Gladys asked but
one other question, and that she could not answer.
“If he does not love you, and, perhaps, it is as you say,—only a poet’s
admiration for beauty,—what is the trouble that keeps us apart? At
first I was too blindly happy to perceive it; now tears have cleared my
eyes, and I see that he hides something from me,—something which he
longs, yet dares not tell.”
“I know: I saw it long ago; but Jasper alone can tell that secret. He
holds Felix by it, and I fear the knowledge would be worse than the
suspicion. Let it be: time sets all things right, and it is ill
thwarting my poor cousin. I have a charming plan for you and Felix; and,
when you have him to yourself, you may be able to win his confidence,
as, I am sure, you have already won his heart.”
Then Olivia told her plan, which was both generous and politic; since it
made Gladys truly happy, proved her own sincerity, secured her own peace
and that of the men whose lives seemed to become more and more
inextricably tangled together.
“Now I shall go to Jasper, and conquer all his opposition; for I know I
am right. Dear little creature, what is it about you that makes one feel
both humble and strong when one is near you?” asked Olivia, looking down
at Gladys with a hand on either shoulder, and genuine wonder in the eyes
still soft with unwonted tears.
“God made me truthful, and I try to keep so; that is all,” she answered,
simply.
“That is enough. Kiss me, Gladys, and make me better. I am not good
enough to be the mother that I might have been to you; but I am a
friend; believe that, and trust me, if you can?”
“I do;” and Gladys sealed her confidence with both lips and hand.
“Jasper, I have invited those children to spend the summer at the villa,
since you have decided for the sea. Gladys is mortally tired of this
hot-house life, so is Felix: give them a long holiday, or they will run
away together. Mrs. Bland and I will take care of you till they come
back.”
Olivia walked in upon Helwyze with this abrupt announcement, well
knowing that persuasion would be useless, and vigorous measures surest
to win the day. Artful as well as courageous in her assault, she
answered in that one speech several objections against her plan, and
suggested several strong reasons for it, sure that he would yield the
first, and own the latter.
He did, with unexpected readiness; for a motive which she could not
fathom prompted his seemingly careless acquiescence. He had no thought
of relinquishing his hold on Canaris, since through him alone he held
Gladys; but he often longed to escape from both for a time, that he
might study and adjust the new power which had come into his life,
unbidden, undesired. Surprise and disappointment were almost
instantaneously followed by a sense of relief when Olivia spoke; for he
saw at once that this project was a wiser one than she knew.
Before her rapid sentences were ended, the thought had come and gone,
the decision was made, and he could answer, in a tone of indifference
which both pleased and perplexed her,—
“Amiable woman, with what helpful aspirations are you blest. Seeing your
failure with Felix, I have been wondering how I should get rid of him
till he recovers from this comically tardy passion for his wife. They
can have another and a longer honeymoon up at the villa, if they like:
the other was far from romantic, I suspect. Well, why that sphinx-like
expression, if you please?” he added, as Olivia stood regarding him from
behind the fading hawthorn which she forgot to offer.
“I was wondering if I should ever understand you, Jasper.”
“Doubtful, since I shall never understand myself.”
“You ought, if any man; for you spend your life in studying yourself.”
“And the more I study, the less I know. It is very like a child with a
toy ark: I never know what animal may appear first. I put in my hand for
a dove, and I get a serpent; I open the door for the sagacious elephant,
and out rushes a tiger; I think I have found a favorite dog, and it is a
wolf, looking ready to devour me. An unsatisfactory toy, better put it
away and choose another.”
Helwyze spoke in the half-jesting, half-serious way habitual to him; but
though his mouth smiled, his eyes were gloomy, and Olivia hastened to
turn his thoughts from a subject in which he took a morbid interest.
“Fanciful, but true. Now, follow your own excellent advice, and find
wholesome amusement in helping me pack off the young people, and then
ourselves. It is not too early for them to go at once. Canaris can come
in and out as you want him for a month longer, then I will have all
things ready for you in the old cottage by the sea. You used to be happy
there: can you not be so again?”
“If you can give me back my twenty years. May-day is over for both of
us; why try to make the dead hawthorn bloom again? Carry out your plan,
and let the children be happy.”
They were very happy; for the prospect of entire freedom was so
delicious, that Gladys had some difficulty in concealing her delight,
while Canaris openly rejoiced when told of Olivia’s offer. All
dinner-time he was talking of it; and afterward, under pretence of
showing her a new plant, he took his wife into the conservatory, that he
might continue planning how they should spend this unexpected holiday.
Helwyze saw them wandering arm in arm; Canaris talking rapidly, and
Gladys listening, with happy laughter, to his whimsical suggestions and
projects. Their content displeased the looker-on; but there was
