of blue sky overhead had never seemed so unearthly blue ; 
the drapery of oak and hemlock boughs had never been 
so graceful and bright ; there_ was a presence in the old 
gorge that afternoon, which went with them and cleared 
their eyes from vapour and their minds from everything, it 
seemed, but a susceptibility to beauty and delight in its influence. Perhaps the young officer would have said that 
this presence was embodied in the unconscious eyes and 
fair calm brow which went beside him ; I think he saw 
them more distinctly than anything else. Diana did not 
know it. Somehow she very rarely looked her companion 
in the face ; and yet she knew very well how his face looked too ; so well perhaps that she did not need to refresh 
her memory. So they wandered on ; and the fords were 
pleasant places, where she had to be helped over the 
stones. Not that Diana needed such help ; her foot was 
fearless and true ; she never had had help there before ; 



 

was that what made it so pleasant ? Certainly it did seem 
to her that it was a prettier way of going up the brook than 
alone and unaided. 

' I am not getting much fish at this rate,' said young 
Knowlton at length with a light laugh. 

' No,' said Diana. ' Why don't you stop and try here ? 
Here looks like a good place. Right in that still, deep 
spot, I dare say there are trout.' 

' What will you do in the mean time, if I stop and fish ? 
it will be very stupid for you.' 

' For me ? O no. I shall sit here and look on. It will 
not be stupid. I will keep still, never fear.' 

' I don't want you to keep still ; that would be very 
stupid for me.' 

' You can't talk while you are fishing ; it would scare 
the trout, you know.' 

' I don't believe it.' 

' I have always heard so.' 

' I don't believe it will pay,' said Knowlton as he fitted 
his rod ' If I am to purchase trout at the expense of all 
that ' 

All what, Diana wondered? 

' Suppose we talk very softly in whispers,' he went on 
laughing. ' Do you suppose the trout are so observant as to 
mind it ? If you sit here, on this mossy stone, close by 
me, can't I enjoy two things at once ? ' 

Diana made no objection to this arrangement. She 
took the place indicated, full of a breathless kind of pleasure 
which she did not stop to analyze ; and watched in silence the 
progress of the fishing. In silence, for after Mr. Knowlton's 
arrangement had been carried into effect, he too subsided 
into stillness ; whether engrossed with the business of his 
line, or satisfied, or with thoughts otherwise engaged, did not 



 

appear. But as presently and again a large trout, -speckled, 
and beautiful, was swung up out of the pool below, the two 
faces were turned towards each other and the two pairs of 
eyes met with a smile of so much sympathy that I rather 
think the temporary absence of words lost nothing to the 
growth of the understanding between them. 

The place where they sat was lovely. Just there the 
bank was high, overhanging the brook. A projecting 
rock, brown and green and grey, with lichen and mosses of 
various kinds, held besides a delicate young silver birch, 
the roots of which found their way to nourishment somehow through fissures in the rock. Here sat Knowlton, with 
Diana beside him on a stone, just a little behind ; while he 
sat on the brink to cast, or rather drop, his line into the 
little pool below where the trout were lurking. The opposite side of the stream was but a few yards off, thick with 
a lovely growth of young wood, with one great hemlock 
not far above towering up towards the sky. The view in 
that direction went up a vista of the ravine, so wood-fringed 
on both sides, with the stream leaping and tumbling down 
a steep rocky bed. Overhead the narrow line of blue 
sky. 

' Four ! ' whispered Diana, as another spotted trout 
came up from the pool. 

' I wonder how many there are down there ? ' said 
Knowlton as he unhooked the fish. ' It makes me hungry-' 

' Catching the trout ? ' said Diana softly. 

He nodded. ' Here comes another. I wish we could 
make a fire somewhere hereabouts and cook them.' 

' Is that a good way ? ' 

' The best in the world,' he said adjusting his fly, and 
then looking with a smile at her. ' There is no way that 



fish taste so good. I used to do that, you see, in the hills 
round about the Academy ; and I know all about it.' 

' We could make a fire,' said Diana ; ' but we have no 
gridiron here.' 

' I had no gridiron there. Couldn't have carried a grid- 
iron in my pocket if I had had one. Here's another ' 

'You had not a gridiron of course.' 

' Nor a pocket either.' 

' But did you eat the trout all alone ? without bread, I 
mean, or anything ? ' 

' No ; we took bread and salt and pepper and butter and 
a few such things. There were generally a lot of us ; or 
if only two or three we could manage that. The butter 
was the worst thing to accomplish Here's another ! ' 

' Such beauties ! ' said Diana. 'Well Mr. Knowlton, if 
you get too hungry, we'll cook you one at home, you 
know.' 

' Will you ? ' said he. ' I wish we had salt and bread 
here ! I should like to shew you how wood cookery goes, 
though. But I'll tell you ! we'll get Mrs. Starling to let 
us have it out in the meadow that won't be bad.' . 

Diana thought of her mother's utter astonishment and 
disapprobation at such a proposal ; and there was silence 
again for a few minutes, while the line hung motionless 
over the pool, and Diana's eyes watched it movelessly, 
and the liquid sweetness of the water's talk with the stones 
was heard, as one hears things when the senses are strung 
to double keenness. Diana heard it at least, and listened to 
something in it she had never perceived before; something 
not only sweet and liquid and musical, but in some odd 
sense admonitory. What did it say ? Diana hardly questioned, but yet she heard. " My peace never changes. 
My song never dies. Listen, or not listen, it is all the 




same. You may be in twenty moods in a year. In my 
depth of content I flow on forever." 

A slight rustling of leaves, a slight crackling of stems 
or branches, brought the eyes of both watchers in another 
