the rest, every house-father must himself play the schoolmaster. And in
many respects, those must have been glorious times. Every evening when
the fire was kindled on the hearth of the so-called Flett'" (a sort of
hall or common room between the barn and the house), "'and the women
were busy on the hearth with their cooking, the house-father with the
whole of the household assembled around the fire--children, servants,
and maids. Then the little ones were instructed in spelling and reading,
in which business the servants and maids were faithful helpers of the
house-father. After that, the catechism was taken in hand; some
spiritual songs were sung; a portion was read aloud from the Bible and
talked about, in the course of which very lovely and profitable words
were often spoken; the old histories and legends and stories of the
country, handed down from father to son, came in for their share of
attention; the laws, manners, and usages which custom had made binding
were discussed; and the "Flett" hour was one so full of enjoyment and
so full of instruction that it was looked forward to during the whole
day by both old and young. And this "Flett" hour was a strong fortress
against the intrusion of innovations; and it can be shown, that the new
ways, that is, the godless new ways, never came until the "Flett" hours
were given up. This Flett'" (or great middle hall of the house) "'with
its hearth was as it were the home sanctuary, in a certain degree the
domestic altar. From there, too, the peasant could overlook his whole
house and prevent any disorders. Usually there was only one
dwelling-room in the house, called the "Dönz," which, however, was for
the most part used merely for eating and spinning, and served for the
whole, for grandparents and father and mother and children and men and
maids; for the meals were also in common; and that old people should be
portioned off and take what was called their part, was a thing unheard
of; it would have brought unending disgrace upon the peasant's head. It
was just as little thought possible that the peasant should take his
meals separate from his men and maid-servants; they all formed one great
family.

"'I said awhile ago, that in the ravages of the war these people had
saved what they held dearest, namely, their books. They had managed it
in this way. In every "Dönz" the furniture consisted only of a large
table, a table with folding leaves'" (a Klapptisch--I don't know whether
that is a table that folds together, or a table shelf that folds up
against the wall), "'a cupboard, and some wooden chairs and stools; but
by the side of the stove there stood a "grandfather's chair" of more
pretension, covered with leather, in which indeed the peasant himself,
when he came home from the field in the evening, was wont to rest
himself for a while. The seat, also covered with leather, they had made
movable, so that it could be lifted up and shut down; and beneath this
seat the books were placed in security; nothing was to be seen of them
when the seat was shut down, and nobody would look for them there. And
it was quite needful that they should preserve their books so
carefully; for the Catholic soldiers in the Thirty Years' War waged a
regular war of extermination against Lutheran books.

"'One evening, Drewes the father, that is, the farmer, was sitting in
his house, with his people around the hearth in the "Flett," and they
were just speaking of the great victory which the Lutherans under
General Torstensohn had fought for and gained at Leipzig; and the
house-father was giving his opinion that soon now surely enough blood
would have flowed, and that peace must be near. Upon that came his
neighbour hastily in and said,--"Neighbour, hurry and loose your cattle,
and let us flee to the wood; the emperor's forces are only half an hour
off." Quick everybody sprang up; the cattle were muzzled to prevent
their bellowing; the few bits of clothing and some victuals were caught
up; and away they went plunging into the thickest part of the forest, as
fast and as noiselessly as they could. Hinz closed the procession, and
when the cattle were got out of sight he took post behind a tree, that
he might see what the soldiers would do. He had not long to watch; for
it was scarcely a quarter of an hour later that bright flames went
crackling up into the sky; both houses together with the out-buildings
were in a blaze. The soldiers were enraged that they had found no booty,
and had set fire to everything. Hinz hastened now into the thick of the
wood after the others, and when he caught up with them he told them of
their misfortune. With that, they all fell upon their knees and thanked
God that he had saved their lives and their cattle; and it never came
into any one's head to weep so much as a single tear; they could build
huts for themselves in the wood; and their hearts did not hang upon
things of this world. But what is this? what could all of a sudden force
such a deep sigh from Father Drewes that it absolutely startled them
all? what could bring great tears into the eyes of that strong man, whom
nobody had ever seen weep before? "Godfather Hinz," he said with his
voice half stifled with pain,--"our books! our books! Ah, they are burnt
up by now! our own and our children's only treasure and comfort!" And
behold, they all then fell to weeping, men and women and children, men
and maids, as if their hearts would break. At last spoke out the old
Father Hinz, an eighty-years-old grey-headed man,--"Hush, children! if
our books are burned, our God and Saviour is not gone with them; we have
Him in our hearts; and His Word we have too, not only in the Bible but
in our memories. I will say out a chapter for you every morning and
every evening, out of my heart." Then they grew quiet, and he folded his
hands and began at once, and prayed first the twenty-third psalm, and
then the seventy-third psalm, and finally the eighth chapter of the
Epistle to the Romans; all verse for verse from the beginning to the
end.'"

"The twenty-third and the seventy-third?" said Maggie interrupting.
"Which are they?"

"Don't you know? The twenty-third begins,--'The Lord is my Shepherd; I
shall not want.'"

"And it goes on,--" said Mr. Murray,--"'He prepareth a table before me
in the presence of mine enemies; he anointeth my head with oil; my cup
runneth over.'"

"Not very appropriate," said Flora.

"I thought very appropriate."

"Why they were just in great want, sir; even of the most ordinary
comforts."

"A good time to remind themselves of their extraordinary comforts."

"What had they to justify them in talking of their 'cup running over?'"

"Something which they know who know, Miss Flora, and other people would
try in vain to comprehend."

"Well, the other word, 'I shall not want;'--they were in want already."

"No," said Meredith, "excuse me. I have read what comes after."

"They were in want, Ditto, certainly."

"Only such want--never mind, I will not forestall my story."

"What is the other psalm?" Flora asked.

"Very beautiful in this connection," said Mr. Murray, who had got out
his Bible. "It begins,--'Truly God is good to Israel, even to such as
are of a clean heart.'"

"There again!" said Flora, "what reason had they just then to think that
He was good?"

"That is faith, Miss Flora."

"Faith?" the young lady repeated.

"Yes. Faith takes on trust, when it cannot see."

Flora looked at the speaker.

"The psalm goes on to describe the temptations to doubt which had beset
the psalmist on observing the prosperity of wicked people and the hard
times the Lord's people often had; and then how he saw his mistake; and
then he breaks out, 'Whom have I in heaven but Thee? and there is none
upon earth that I desire beside Thee. My flesh and my heart faileth, but
God is the strength of my heart, and my portion for ever.'"

"That is beautiful, and appropriate," said Flora.

"As soon as a man gets where he can say--'Thou shalt guide me with Thy
counsel, and afterward receive me to glory,'--he can stand a few ups and
downs in this life. The choice of passages made by that old man was
beautiful in the extreme; and proved not only that he knew the Bible,
but that it was part of his life."

"And the chapter of Romans?"

"A worthy third in the trio. That is a chapter of triumph in the
Christian's privilege and hopes, ending--'Who shall separate us from the
love of Christ? shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or
