it would take some ingenuity to set forth ; it is 
enough that while she looked about her she found 
something to occupy her imagination. She as- 
sured herself that she was enchanted with her new 
relatives ; she professed to herself that, like her 
brother, she felt it a sacred satisfaction to have 
found a family. It is certain that she enjoyed to 
the utmost the gentleness of her kinsfolk's defer- 
ence. She had, first and last, received a great 
deal of admiration, and her experience of well- 
turned compliments was very considerable ; but 
she knew that she had never been so real a power, 
never counted for so much, as now when, for the 
first time, the standard of comparison of her little 
circle was a prey to vagueness. The sense, indeed, 
that the good people about her had, as regards her 
remarkable self, no standard of comparison at all 
gave her a feeling of almost illimitable power. It 
was true, as she said to herself, that if for this rea- 
son they would .be able to discover nothing against 
her, so they would perhaps neglect to perceive 
some of her superior points ; but she always wound 
up her reflections by declaring that she would take 
care of that. 
Charlotte and Gertrude were in some perplexity 
between their desire to show all proper attention 
to Madame Miinster and their fear of being im- 
portunate. The little house in the orchard had 
 
hitherto been occupied during the summer months 
by intimate friends of the family, or by poor rela- 
tions who found in Mr. Wentworth a landlord at- 
tentive to repairs and oblivious of quarter-day. 
Under these circumstances the open door of the 
small house and that of the large one, facing each 
other across their homely gardens, levied no tax 
upon hourly visits. But the Misses Wentworth 
received an impression that Eugenia was no friend 
to the primitive custom of " dropping in ; " she 
evidently had no idea of living without a door- 
keeper. " One goes into your house as into an 
inn except that there are no servants rushing 
forward," she said to Charlotte. And she added 
that that was very charming. Gertrude explained 
to her sister that she meant just the reverse ; she 
did n't like it at all. Charlotte inquired why she 
should tell an untruth, and Gertrude answered 
that there was probably some very good reason for 
it which they should discover when they knew her 
better. " There can surely be no good reason for 
telling an untruth," said Charlotte. " I hope she 
does not think so." 
They had of course desired, from the first, to do 
everything in the way of helping her to arrange 
herself. It had seemed to Charlotte that there 
would be a great many things to talk about ; but 
the Baroness was apparently inclined to talk about 
nothing. 
   
" Write her a note, asking her leave to come 
and see her. I think that is what she will like," 
said Gertrude. 
" Why should I give her the trouble of answer- 
ing me?" Charlotte asked. "She will have to 
write a note and send it over." 
"I don't think she will take any trouble," said 
Gertrude, profoundly. 
" What then will she do ? " 
" That is what I am curious to see," said Ger- 
trude, leaving her sister with an impression that 
her curiosity was morbid. 
They went to see the Baroness without pre- 
liminary correspondence ; and in the little salon 
which she had already created, with its becoming 
light and its festoons, they found Robert Acton. 
Eugenia was intensely gracious, but she accused 
them of neglecting her cruelly. " You see Mr. 
Acton has had to take pity upon me," she said. 
" My brother goes off sketching, for hours ; I can 
never depend upon him. So I was to send Mr. 
Acton to beg you to come and give me the benefit 
of your wisdom." 
Gertrude looked at her sister. She wanted to 
say, " That is what she would have done." Char- 
lotte said that they hoped the Baroness would 
always come and dine with them ; it would give 
them so much pleasure ; and, in that case, she 
would spare herself the trouble of having a cook. 
 
" Ah, but I must have a cook ! " cried the Bar- 
oness. " An old negress in a yellow turban. I 
have set my heart upon that. I want to look out 
of my window and see her sitting there on the 
grass, against the background of those crooked, 
dusky little apple-trees, pulling the husks off a 
lapful of Indian corn. That will be local color, 
you know. There is n't much of it here you 
don't mind my saying that, do you ? so one 
must make the most of what one can get. I shall 
be most happy to dine with you whenever you will 
let me ; but I want to be able to ask you some- 
times. And I want to be able to ask Mr. Acton," 
added the Baroness. 
"You must come and ask me at home," said 
Acton. " You must come and see me ; you must 
dine with me first. I want to show you my place ; 
I want to introduce you to my mother." He 
called again upon Madame Miinster, two days 
later. He was constantly at the other house; he 
used to walk across the fields from his own place, 
and he appeared to have fewer scruples than his 
cousins with regard to dropping in. On this oc- 
casion he found that Mr. Brand had come to pay 
his respects to the charming stranger ; but after 
Acton's arrival the young theologian said nothing. 
He sat in his chair with his two hands clasped, 
fixing upon his hostess a grave, fascinated stare. 
   
The Baroness talked to Robert Acton, but, as she 
talked, she turned and smiled at Mr. Brand, who 
never took his eyes off her. The two men walked 
away together ; they were going to Mr. Went- 
worth's. Mr. Brand still said nothing ; but after 
they had passed into Mr. Wentworth's garden he 
stopped and looked back for some time at the lit- 
tle white house. Then, looking at his companion, 
with his head bent a little to one side and his eyes 
somewhat contracted, " Now I suppose that 's what 
is called conversation," he said; "real conversa- 
tion." 
" It 's what I call a very clever woman," said 
Acton, laughing. 
" It is most interesting," Mr. Brand continued. 
" I only wish she would speak French ; it would 
seem more in keeping. It must be quite the style 
that we have heard about, that we have read about 
the style of conversation of Madame de Stael, 
of Madame R^camier." 
Acton also looked at Madame Miinster's resi- 
dence among its hollyhocks and apple-trees. 
" What I should like to know," he said, smiling, 
" is just what has brought Madame Re"camier to 
live in that place ! " 
V. 
MB. WENTWORTH, with his cane and his gloves 
in his hand, went every afternoon to call upon 
his niece. A couple of hours later she came over 
to the great house to tea. She had let the pro- 
posal that she should regularly dine there fall to 
the ground ; she was in the enjoyment of what- 
ever satisfaction was to be derived from the spec- 
tacle of an old negress in a crimson turban shell- 
ing peas under the apple-trees. Charlotte, who 
had provided the ancient negress, thought it must 
be a strange household, Eugenia having told her 
that Augustine managed everything, the ancient 
negress included Augustine who was naturally 
devoid of all acquaintance with the expurgatory 
English tongue. By far the most immoral senti- 
ment which I shall have occasion to attribute to 
