off into the brush. I became accustomed to this dumb 
society, and picked on in silence, attributing all the 
wood noises to the cattle, thinking nothing of any 
real bear. In point of fact, however, I was thinking 
all the time of a nice romantic bear, and, as I picked, 
was composing a &tory about a generous she-bear who 
had lost her cub, and who seized a small girl in this 
very wood, carried her tenderly off to a cave, and 
brought her up on bear's milk and honey. When the 
girl got big enough to run away, moved by her in-» 
herited instincts, she escaped, and came into the valley 
to her father's house (this part of the story was to be 
worked out, so that the child would know her father 
by some family resemblance, and have some language 
in which to address him), and told him where the bear 
lived. The father took his gun, and, guided by the 
unfeeling daughter, went into the woods and shot the 
bear, who never made any resistance, and only, when 
dying, turned reproachful eyes upon her murderer. 
The moral of the tale was to be kindness to animals. 

I was in the midst of this tale, when I happened to 
look some rods away to the other edge of the clearing, 
and there was a bear ! He was standing on his hind- 
legs, and doing just what I was doing, — picking 
blackberries. With one paw he bent down the bush, 
while with the other he clawed the berries into his 
mouth, — green ones and all. To say that I was as- 
tonished is inside the mark. I suddenly discovered 
that I didn't want to see a bear, after all. At about 
the same moment the bear saw me, stopped eating 
berries, and regarded me with a glad surprise. It is 
all very well to imagine what you would do under such 
circumstances. Probably you wouldn't do it : I did n't. 
The bear dropped down on his fore-feet, and came 
slowly towards me. Climbing a tree was of no use, 
with so good a climber in the rear. If I started to 
run, I had no doubt the bear would give chase ; and 



 

although a bear cannot run down hill as fast as he 
can run up hill, yet I felt that he could get over this 
rough, brush-tangled ground faster than I could. 

The bear was approaching. It suddenly occurred 
to me how I could divert his mind until I could fall 
back upon my military base. My pail was nearly full 
of excellent berries, — much better than the bear 
could pick himself. I put the pail on the ground, and 
slowly backed away from it, keeping my eye, as beast- 
tamers do, on the bear. The ruse succeeded. 

The bear came up to the berries, and stopped. Not 
accustomed to eat out of a pail, he tipped it over, and 
nosed about in the fruit, " gorming " (if there is such 
a word) it down, mixed with leaves and dirt, like a 
pig. The bear is a worse feeder than the pig. When- 
ever he disturbs a maple-sugar camp in the spring, he 
always upsets the buckets of sirup, and tramples 
round in the sticky sweets, wasting more than he eats. 
The bear's manners are thoroughly disagreeable. 

As soon as my enemy's head was down, I started 
and ran. Somewhat out of breath, and shaky, I 
reached my faithful rifle. It was not a moment too 
soon. I heard the bear crashing through the brush 
after me. Enraged at my duplicity, he was now com- 
ing on with blood in his eye. I felt that the time of 
one of us was probably short. The rapidity of thought 
at such moments of peril is well known. I thought 
an octavo volume, had it illustrated and published, sold 
fifty thousand copies, and went to Europe on the pro- 
ceeds, while that bear was loping across the clearing. 
As I was cocking the gun, I made a hasty and unsatis- 
factory review of my whole life. I noted that, even in 
such a compulsory review, it is almost impossible to 
think of any good thing you have done. The sins 





come out uncommonly strong. I recollected a news- 
paper subscription I had delayed paying years and 
years ago, until both editor and newspaper were dead, 
and which now never could be paid to all eternity. 

The bear was coming on. 

I tried to remember what I had read about encoun?- 
ters with bears. I couldn't recall an instance in 
which a man had run away from a bear in the woods 
and escaped, although I recalled plenty where the bear 
had run from the man and got off. I tried to think 
what is the best way to kill a bear with a gun, when you 
are not near enough to club him with the stock. My 
first thought was to fire at his head ; to plant the ball 
between his eyes ; but this is a dangerous experiment. 
The bear's brain is very small ; and unless you hit 
that, the bear does not mind a bullet in his head ; that 
is, not at the time. I remembered that the instant 
death of the bear would follow a bullet planted just 
back of his fore-leg, and sent into his heart. This 
spot is also difficult to reach, unless the bear stands 
off, side towards you, like a target. I finally deter- 
mined to fire at him generally. 

The bear was coming on. 

The contest seemed to me very different from any- 
thing at Creedmoor. I had carefully read the reports 
of the shooting there ; but it was not easy to apply 
the experience I had thus acquired. I hesitated 
whether I had better fire lying on my stomach ; or 
lying on my back, and resting the gun on my toes. 
But in neither position, I reflected, could I see the 
bear until he was upon me. The range was too short ; 
and the bear wouldn't wait for me to examine the 
thermometer, and note the direction of the wind. 
Trial of the Creedmoor method, therefore, had to be 



 

abandoned ; and I bitterly regretted that I had not 
read more accounts of offhand shooting. 

For the bear was coming on. 

I tried to fix my last thoughts upon my family. As 
my family is small, this was not difficult. Dread of 
displeasing my wife, or hurting her feelings, was up- 
permost in my mind. What would be her anxiety as 
hour after hour passed on, and I did not return ! 
TThat would the rest of the household think as the 
afternoon passed, and no blackberries came ! "What 
would be my wife's mortification when the news was 
brought that her husband had been eaten by a bear ! 
I cannot imagine any thing more ignominious than to 
have a husband eaten by a bear. And this was not 
my only anxiety. The mind at such times is not 
under control. With the gravest fears the most whim- 
sical ideas will occur. I looked beyond the mourning 
friends, and thought what kind of an epitaph they 
would be compelled to put upon the stone. Some- 
thing like this : — 


Aug. 20, 1877. 

It is a very unheroic and even disagreeable epitaph. 
That " eaten by a bear " is intolerable. It is gTO- 
tesque. And then I thought what an inadequate lan- 
guage the English is for compact expression. It would 
not answer to put upon the stone simply " eaten ; " for 
that is indefinite, and requires explanation : it might 
