to feel as I did--they were all used to it--but it was all new and
wonderful to me, and made heavenly things so real that I felt almost
averse to coming back to every day life. I wanted to go alone to my
room and dwell on it. There was quite a company invited to dinner,
and I did not feel like joining them, but I knew Aunty wanted me to
make myself agreeable, and so I tried my best, and after a while took
my part in the conversation, as gay as the rest of them. Only once in
a while some of those noble words I had been hearing came back to me
with a sudden thrill, and would bring tears to my eyes even while I
was gayest.
Cousin Alfred noticed that I was feeling very much about something,
and in the evening when we were alone for a few minutes he asked
me about it, and then I told him all how the service affected me,
and made me feel. He looked a little surprised at first, and then
he seemed thoughtful; and when I said, "I should think those who
hear and say such glorious things at church, ought to live the
very noblest lives, to be perfect Christians," he said, "Cousin, I
am sorry to say, it is not so with me. We hear these things from
childhood; we hear them Sunday after Sunday, in all sorts of moods,
and I'm afraid many of us form a habit of not really thinking how
much they mean. I wish I could hear our service as you have done, for
the first time, and that it would seem as real and earnest to me as
it does to you."
We talked a good deal after this; he has a deep, thoughtful mind, and
I wish you, my dear Father, could talk with him. I know you will
like him. Isn't it pleasant to find relations that one can like and
esteem so much? Cousin Alfred is like a brother to me already, and
to-morrow we are going out to explore the antiquities of Boston. He
seems as much interested in them as I do.
Dear Parents, this Christmas puts me in mind of the time years ago
when they dressed the little church in Poganuc, and I ran away, over
to the church, and got asleep under a great cedar-bush, listening to
the Christmas music. It affected me then just as it has done now. Is
it not beautiful to think we are singing words that Christians have
been singing for more than a thousand years! It gives you the feeling
of being in a great army--one of a great host; and for a poor little
insignificant thing like me it is a joyful feeling.
You ought to see how delighted Aunt Deborah is that I take so kindly
to the prayer-book and the service. She gives me little approving
nods now and then, and taps me on the shoulder in a patronizing way
and says there is good blood in my veins, for all I was brought up a
Presbyterian! This is all very well, but when she goes to unchurching
all our churches and saying there are no ordained ministers in the
United States except the few in Episcopal pulpits, I am dreadfully
tempted to run a tilt with her, though I know it would do no earthly
good. I believe I should do it, however, if Cousin Alfred did not
take up the argument on our side, and combat her so much better than
I could that I am content to let her alone. She tells him that he is
no Englishman and no churchman, but a very radical; and he tells her
that he came to America to learn to use his common sense and get rid
of old rubbish!
For all this they are excellent friends, and dear old Grandmamma
always takes our part because she is so afraid Aunt Debby will hurt
my feelings, though Aunty says that in her heart Grandmamma is a
regular old Tory.
I asked Grandma about this one day, when we were alone, and she said
she always loved and honored the king and royal family, and was
grieved when they stopped praying for them in the churches. If she
was a Tory she was so from love, and it is quite charming to hear her
talk about the old times.
It seems to me no great change ever comes on this earth without
grieving some good people.
But it is past midnight and I must not sit up writing any longer.
Dear parents, I wish you a happy Christmas!
  Your loving            DOLLY.
CHAPTER XL.
ALFRED DUNBAR TO EUGENE SINCLAIR.
DEAR OLD FELLOW: Here I am in America--in Boston--and every day
I spend here makes me more and more satisfied with my change of
situation. The very air here is free and inspiring, full of new hope
and life. The old world with all its restraints and bounds, its musty
prejudices, its time-honored inconveniences and hindrances, is a
thing gone by; it is blue in the dim distance, and I see before me a
free, generous, noble country that offers everything equally to all.
I like Massachusetts; I like Boston; and more and more I feel that I
am a fortunate fellow to have been selected by my uncle for this lot.
He is all that is kind and generous and fatherly to me, and I should
be an ungrateful cur if I did not give him the devotion of a son. He
is so amiable and reasonable that this is not at all a hard task.
We are spending our Christmas holidays with his mother and sister;
after that he will go to housekeeping in his own house. He wants me
to get married with all convenient dispatch, but I am one that cannot
enter into the holy state simply to furnish a housekeeper to my uncle
or to place a well-dressed, well-mannered woman at the head of my own
table.
You at home called me fastidious and romantic. Well, I am so to this
degree, that I never shall marry unless I see the woman I cannot live
without. The feast of matrimony may be well appointed, the oxen and
fatlings be killed, and all things ready, but I never shall accept
unless some divine power "compels" me to come in;--and up to this
day I have felt no such call.
Mark me, I say, up to this day; for I am by no means certain I
shall say as much a month hence. To be frank with you, there is
spending the Christmas holidays under the same roof with me a very
charming girl whom I am instructed by my Aunt Deborah to call "Cousin
Dolly."
Now, in point of fact, this assumption of relationship is the most
transparent moonshine. I am, I believe, second or third cousin to
my "Uncle Israel," who is real uncle to this Miss Dolly. Of course
my cousinship to her must be of a still more remote and impalpable
nature; but if it is agreed that we call each other "cousin,"
certainly it is not I that am going to object to the position and
its immunities--oh, no! A cousin stands on a vantage-ground; all
sorts of delightful freedoms and privileges are permitted to him!
I "take the good the gods provide" me, and so Cousin Dolly and I have
become the best of friends, and we have been busy making wreaths
and crosses and Christmas decorations under the superintendence
of Aunt Deborah, in the most edifying and amicable way. This Aunt
Deborah is the conventional upright, downright, good, opinionated,
honest, sincere old Englishwoman, of whom there are dozens at every
turn in the old country, but who here in America have the interest
that appertains to the relics of a past age. But she is vigorously
determined that in her domains the old customs shall be in full
force, and every rule of Christmas-keeping observed.
Of course I put up mistletoe in all the proper places, and I found
my new cousin, having grown up as a New England Congregational
minister's daughter, knew nothing of its peculiar privileges and
peculiarities, so that when the kissing began I saw a bright flush of
amazement and almost resentment pass over her face; though when it
was explained to be an old Christmas custom she laughed and gave way
with a good grace. But I observed my young lady warily inspecting
the trimmings of the room, and quietly avoiding all the little green
traps thereafter.
It is quite evident that, though she has all the gentleness of a
dove, she has some of the wisdom of the serpent, and possesses
very definite opinions as to what she likes and does not like. She
impresses me as having, behind an air of softness and timidity, a
very positive and decided character. There is a sort of reserved
force in her; and one must study her to become fully acquainted with
her. Thus far I hope I have not lost ground.
I find she is an enthusiast for her country, for her religion, for
everything high and noble; and not one of the mere dolls that have no
capability for anything but ribbons and laces. She has promised to
show me the antiquities of Boston and put me in the way of knowing
all that a good American ought to know; you see our time for the
holidays is very agreeably planned out in advance.
And now, my dear old fellow, I see you shake your head and say, What
is to come of all this?
Wait and see. If it should so happen that I should succeed in
pleasing this little American princess--if, having gained her ear as
Cousin, I should succeed in proving to her that I am no cousin at
all, but want to be more than cousin or brother or the whole world
together to her--if all this should come to pass, why--there have
stranger things happened in this world of ours.
But I am running before my time. Miss Dolly is yet an unknown
quantity and there may be a long algebraic problem to be done before
I can know what may be; and so, good-night for the present.
  Yours ever truly,
  ALFRED DUNBAR.
CHAPTER XLI.
FINALE.
After reading the preceding letters, there is no one who has cared to
follow Dolly's fortunes thus far that is not ready to declare the end
of the story.
One sees how the Christmas holidays stretched on and on; how Aunt
and Grandmamma importuned Dolly to stay longer; how Dolly staid, and
how she and Cousin Alfred walked and talked and studied New England
history, and visited all the shrines in Boston and Cambridge and the
region round about; how Aunt Debby plumed herself on the interesting
state of things evidently growing up, but wisely said nothing to
