spoon so soon as they are done, and arrange upon a hot dish, setting
this within the open oven, or upon a pot of boiling water to keep
warm. Drop the eggs, as you break them, into the hot fat left in the
frying-pan. Do not put so many in as to crowd one another. Each egg
should preserve its individuality. Cook about three minutes, without
turning. Take up with a spatula, or cake-turner, and lay one upon each
slice of ham. Do not send the gravy to table. Strain, and use for
dripping.
SALMI OF DUCK.
From the cold ducks left after yesterday’s dinner cut all the meat in
as neat slices as you can, leaving the joints of legs and wings whole.
Take off the skin; break the carcass into pieces, and put these, with
the stuffing, into a saucepan with a fried onion, some sweet herbs,
pepper, salt, and a pinch of allspice. Cover with cold water and stew
gently, after it reaches the boil, for one hour. Cool, that the fat
may rise and be taken off. Strain the gravy when you have skimmed
it; return to the saucepan, boil and skim again, and stir in two
tablespoonfuls of browned flour, wet with cold water; lastly, stir in
a great spoonful of butter. Stew five minutes longer, and put in the
meat. Draw to one side of the range, and set, closely covered, in a pot
of boiling water for ten minutes. The meat must be thoroughly heated
and steeped in the gravy, but not boil. Take the meat out with a
perforated spoon, pile neatly upon a dish and pour the gravy over it.
Garnish with triangles of stale bread fried crisp, and send a piece to
each person who is helped to salmi.
FRIED PARSNIPS.
Boil, until tender, in hot water slightly salted; let them get almost
cold, scrape off the skin, and cut in thick, long slices. Dredge with
flour and fry in hot dripping, turning as they brown. Drain very dry in
a hot colander; pepper and salt and serve.
STEWED SALSIFY.
Scrape the roots, dropping each into cold water as you do this, that
they may not change color. Cut in pieces an inch long; cover with hot
water and stew until tender. Drain off two-thirds of the water and add
enough milk to cover the salsify. Stew ten minutes in this; put in a
good lump of butter rolled thickly in flour. Pepper and salt. Boil up
for one minute.
SWEET POTATOES—IN JACKETS.
Parboil in their skins when you have washed them, selecting such as
are of like size. Then put in a moderate oven and bake until soft all
through. You can ascertain this by pinching the largest. Wipe off and
serve in their skins.
ROSIE’S RICE CUSTARD.
  1 quart of milk.
  3 eggs, well beaten.
  4 tablespoonfuls of sugar.
  1 tablespoonful of butter.
  1 cup boiled rice.
  A little salt.
  Half the grated rind of a lemon.
Boil the rice, drain, and stir, while hot, into the milk. Beat the eggs
well; rub butter and sugar to a cream with lemon-peel and a little
salt, and stir into the warm milk. Mix well and bake in a buttered dish
in a brisk oven. Eat warm or cold. We like it better warm, with a
little cream poured over it when served in saucers.
  Second Week.      Sunday.
  ——
  Soupe au Julienne.
  Roast Turkey.      Cranberry Sauce.
  Mashed Potatoes, Browned.      Stewed Corn.
  Celery.
  ——
  Tropical Snow.
  Light Cakes and Coffee.
  ——
SOUPE AU JULIENNE.
  6 lbs. of lean beef. If possible, get it from the shin and have
          the accompanying bones cracked to bits.
  6 quarts of water—cold.
Prepare the stock on Saturday. Put meat and bones into a pot with a
close cover, pour on the water, and set it where it will heat very
slowly. Boil, also very slowly, six hours, at the back of the range.
Should the water sink fast in the pot, replenish from the boiling
tea-kettle. At the end of six hours, turn the soup, meat, bones and
all, into an earthenware vessel; pepper and salt it and set on the
cellar floor, covered, until next day. Take off, then, the cake of
excellent dripping from the top; strain the soup and set over the fire,
about an hour before dinner, and heat gradually.
The vegetables should be—
  2 carrots.
  3 turnips.
  Half a head of cabbage.
  1 pint Shaker corn, soaked overnight.
  6 stalks of celery.
  1 quart of tomatoes.
  1 large onion.
Clean, scrape, and mince all these, except the corn and tomatoes. Cut
the carrot into dice and stew, by itself, in a little cold water. Boil
the corn in enough water to cover it, and add more hot water as it
swells. Cover the minced vegetables with cold water, and so soon as
it boils, turn it off, and replenish with boiling, from the kettle.
This will take away the rank taste from cabbage and onion. When they
are soft enough to pulp, strain well, but without pressing, into the
soup. It is needless to add the vegetables, as the strength is in the
liquor. Boil up and skim the soup before putting in the boiled corn and
the canned tomatoes, which should be cut up small, and the unripe parts
removed. Boil fifteen minutes, add the carrot, season to taste, and
serve.[B]
ROAST TURKEY.
Rinse out the turkey well with soda and water; then with salt, lastly
with fair water. Stuff with a dressing made of bread-crumbs, wet up
with butter and water and seasoned to your taste. Stuff the craw and
tie up the neck. Fill the body and sew up the vent. I need hardly
say that these strings are to be clipped and removed after the fowl
is roasted. Tie the legs to the lower part of the body that they may
not “sprawl,” as the sinews shrink. Put into the dripping-pan, pour a
teacupful of boiling water over it, and roast, basting often, allowing
about ten minutes’ time for every pound. Be careful not to have your
oven too hot—especially during the first half-hour or so. The turkey
would, otherwise, be dry and blackened on the outside and raw within.
And remember how much of the perfection of roasting meats and poultry
depends upon basting faithfully. Boil the giblets tender in a little
water. When the turkey is done, set it where it will keep warm; skim
the gravy left in the pan; add a little boiling water; thicken slightly
with browned flour; boil up once and add the giblets minced fine.
Season to taste; give another boil, and send to table in a gravy-boat.
CRANBERRY SAUCE.
Wash and pick over the cranberries; put on to cook in a tin or
porcelain vessel, allowing a teacupful of water to each quart. Stew
slowly, stirring often until they are as thick as marmalade. Take from
the fire in little over an hour, if they have cooked steadily, sweeten
plentifully with white sugar, and strain through coarse tarlatan, or
mosquito-net, into a mould wet with cold water.
Do this on Saturday. On Sunday, turn out into a glass dish.
MASHED POTATOES—BROWNED.
Having mashed them in the usual manner, mound them smoothly upon
a shallow earthenware dish and set them in a quick oven, glazing
them with butter as they color. They should be of a light brown.
Slip the mound from a coarser to a finer platter by the help of
your cake-turner. It is still better if you have one of the pretty
“enamelled” bake-dishes lined with porcelain, with silver stands for
the table. They are invaluable for puddings, scallops, etc.
STEWED CORN.
Stew one quart of canned corn in its own liquor, setting the
vessel containing it in an outer, of hot water. Should the corn be
exceptionally dry, add a little cold water. When tender, pour in enough
milk to cover the corn, bring to a boil, and put in a tablespoonful
of butter rolled in flour, and salt to taste. Stew gently, stirring
well, three or four minutes, and turn into a deep dish. Keep the vessel
containing the corn closely covered while it is cooking. The steam
facilitates the process and preserves the color of the corn.
CELERY
Is the usual accompaniment of roast turkey. Prepare by selecting
the blanched stalks, scraping off the rust, cutting off all but the
youngest and tenderest tops, and laying these in cold water to crisp
until wanted for the table. Garnish your turkey with alternate light
and dark green sprigs of celery.
TROPICAL SNOW.
  8 sweet oranges.
  1 grated cocoanut.
  1 glass of pale sherry.
  1 cup of powdered sugar.
  5 red bananas.
Peel and cut the oranges into small pieces by dividing each lobe
crosswise into thirds. Extract the seeds and put a layer of the fruit
in the bottom of a glass dish. Pour a little wine upon it, and strew
with powdered sugar. The cocoanut must have been prepared by removing
the rind and throwing it into cold water for some time before grating
it. Over the layer of oranges spread one of cocoanut; cut the bananas
into very thin, round slices, and lay these, one deep, upon the
