
Mr. Westgate stared and laughed. " Oh no, 
of course you don 't like the gnats. We shall expect you to like a good many things over here, 
but we sha n't insist upon your liking the gnats ; 
though certainly you'll admit that, as gnats, they 
are fine, eh? But you oughtn't to remain in 
the city." 

" So we think," said Lord Lambeth. " If you 
would kindly suggest something " 

" Suggest something, my dear Sir ?" and Mr. 
Westgate looked at him, narrowing his eyelids. 
" Open your mouth and shut your eyes ! Leave 
it to me, and I'll put you through. It 's a matter 
of national pride with me that all Englishmen 
should have a good time ; and as I have had 
considerable practice, I have learned to minister 
to their wants. I find they generally want the 
right thing. So just please to consider your 
selves my property ; and if any one should try to 
appropriate you, please to say, Hands off; too 
late for the market. But let 's see," continued 
the American, in his slow, humorous voice, with 
a distinctness of utterance which appeared to his 
visitors to be part of a humorous intention a 
strangely leisurely, speculative voice for a man 
evidently so busy and, as they felt, so professional " let 's see ; are you going to make something 
of a stay, Lord Lambeth ?" 

"Oh dear no," said the young Englishman; 
"my cousin was coming over on some business, 
so I just came across, at an hour 's notice, for the 
lark." 

" Is it your first visit to the United States ?" 

" Oh dear yes." 

"I was obliged to come on some business," 
said Percy Beaumont, " and I brought Lambeth 
along." 


" And you have been here before, Sir ?" 

" Never never." - 

" I thought, from your referring to business " 
said Mr. Westgate. 

" Oh, you see I'm by way of being a barrister," 
Percy Beaumont answered. " I know some people that think of bringing a suit against one of 
your railways, and they asked me to come over 
and take measures accordingly." 

Mr. Westgate gave one of his slow, keen looks 
again. " What 's your railroad ?" he asked. 

" The Tennessee Central." 

The American tilted back his chair a little, 
and poised it an instant. " Well, I'm sorry you 
want to attack one of our institutions," he said, 
smiling. " But I guess you had better enjoy yourself first!" 

"I'm certainly rather afraid I can 't work in 
this weather," the young barrister confessed. 

" Leave that to the natives," said Mr. West- 
gate. " Leave the Tennessee Central to me, Mr. 
Beaumont. Some day we'll talk it over, and I 
guess I can make it square. But I didn 't know 
you Englishmen ever did any work, in the upper 
clashes." 

" Oh, we do a lot of work ; don 't we, Lambeth ?" 
asked Percy Beaumont. 

"I must certainly be at home by the 19th of 

September," said the younger Englishman, irrelevantly 
but gently. 

"For the shooting, eh ? or is it the hunting, or 
the fishing ?" inquired his entertainer. 

"Oh, I must be in Scotland," said Lord Lam 
beth, blushing a little. 

" Well, then," rejoined Mr. Westgate, " you had 
better amuse yourself first, also. You must go 
down and see Mrs. Westgate." 

" We should be so happy, if you would kindly tell us the train," said Percy Beaumont. 

"It isn't a train it 's a boat." 

" Oh, I see. And what is the name of a the 
a town ?" 

" It isn't a town," said Mr. Westgate, laughing. 
" It 's a well, what shall I call it ? It 's a water 
ing-place. In short, it 's Newport. You'll see 
what it is. It 's cool ; that 's the principal thing. 
You will greatly oblige me by going down there 
and putting yourself into the hands of Mrs. 
Westgate. It isn't perhaps for me to say it, 
but you couldn 't be in better hands. Also in 
those of her sister, who is staying with her. She 
is very fond of Englishmen. She thinks there is 
nothing like them." 

"Mrs. Westgate or a her sister?" asked 
Percy Beaumont, modestly, yet in the tone of an 
inquiring traveller. 





" Oh, I mean my wife," said Mr. Westgate. 
"I don 't suppose my sister-in-law knows much 
about them. She has always led a very quiet 
life ; she has lived in Boston." 

Percy Beaumont listened with interest. " That, 
I believe," he said, "is the most a intellectual 
town ?" 

"I believe it is very intellectual. I don 't go 
there much," responded his host. 

"I say, we ought to go there," said Lord Lambeth to his companion. 

" Oh, Lord Lambeth, wait till the great heat is 
over," Mr. Westgate interposed. "Boston in 
this weather would be very trying; it 's not the 
temperature for intellectual exertion. At Boston, you know, you have to pass an examination 
at the city limits ; and when you come away they 
give you a kind of degree." 

Lord Lambeth stared, blushing a little ; and 
Percy Beaumont stared a little also but only 
with his fine natural complexion glancing aside 
after a moment to see that his companion was 
not looking too credulous, for he had heard a 
great deal of American humor. " I dare say it 
is very jolly," said the younger gentleman. 

" I dare say it is," said Mr. Westgate. " Only 
I must impress upon you that at present to 
morrow morning, at an early hour you will be 
expected at Newport. We have a house there; 
half the people in New York go there for the 
summer. I am not sure that at this very moment my wife can 'take you in ; she has got a lot 
of people staying with her; I don 't know who 
they all are; only she may have no room. But 
you can begin with the hotel, and meanwhile you 
can live at my house. In that way simply 
