several spindle-legged tables. Pictures hung on 
the walls; the whole effect was of quaint, ancient 
respectability. Crossing the hall towards the stairs, 
for I was told my sister was in her room and begged 
me to come to her  here, a door opened at one side, 
and Mr. Iredell met me. 

" So you are come ! " said he cordially. " I am 
very glad. Olive has been longing for you." 



 

I breathed freer. The encounter was over. Answer I think I made none. Mr. Iredell told a servant to shew me the way, and went back to the 
room he had come from. Through the half open 
door I caught the shine of firelight upon dark, 
warm-coloured furniture; the stairway and pasages as I went up were a continuation of the 
samw soft, old-fashioned luxury. It flitted across 
my brain as I went, how the frost snapped and bit 
one's face and fingers on the staircase and in the 
hall at Chesterfield; and I thought, surely Olive 
ought to be satisfied with one side of her lot. 
Then I came to her room. 

There was a fire there too, and Olive rose from a 
soft lounge to meet me. I looked for traces of ill 
ness in her face, but did not find them. Olive 
looked a little pale, perhaps, like a person too 
much housed; in another respect her face struck 
me. It was not as bright as I had expected to 
see it; in fact I had seen it brighter. I sat down, 
looking at her. 

" Take off your things, Desire. You are come to 
stay with me, and I don't want to see you with 
your bonnet on. That's a very old bonnet, by the 
by ; don't I remember it ? " 

"I dare say you do," said I smiling; "you have 
seen it often enough." 

"You shall have a new one. Lay your things 
off there; you shall go to your room afterwards. 
Did you see anybody down stairs ? " 

"Anybody? I saw Mr. Iredell." 

 

"Did he go for you ?" 

"0 uo. I saw him a moment in the hall." 

"How do you like the house?" 

"Lovely! just what delights me. Comfortable, 
and roomy, and quaint. At least, so it seems to 
me. But your room is not like the rest." 

Truly it was not. Entering it, I had come into 
a different world. Curtains of rose-coloured dam 
ask, windows still further shaded with thick lace 
draperies; a carpet with flowers on a white ground, 
a rug which displayed a bunch of roses; bright 
chintz furniture which quite toned down some of 
the same old dark wood chairs and tables I had 
seen below in the hall; a basket of flowers on one 
table, writing materials on another, books and pictures on a third, bits of biscuit, bits of old china, 
bits of bronze. I looked for my St. Cecilia and 
the Xiobe, but they were not there. A beautiful 
affghan lay upon the lounge from which Olive had 
risen, and on a little tripod beside it a cup which 
seemed to have held chocolate. Olive threw her 
self down on her cushions again and made me 
take an easy chair. 

"No," she said, answering my remark. "I was 
determined to have something bright about me. 
The whole house is old, and everything in it is old. 
It has been in the family for ever. Till last year it 
was inhabited by two old aunts of Mr. Iredell; just 
suited them, I should think; now they have gone 
west to live with a son of one of em, who has got 
a place there in some business. That was no reason, I think, why we should occupy it; but Mr. 
Iredell thought differently." 

I cannot express how strange this speech was in 
my ears. 

"You have not lived at the Mansion at all? " 

"I should think not! Out of the world. No, I 
wanted to be in the city, and Mr. Iredell liked it 
too ; only he liked this old house, and I didn't. So 
I determined I would let the light into one room 
of it. Don't you like my taste ? " 

" Olive, I have a fancy for old-fashioned things, 
I believe." 

"You are so old-fashioned yourself. I hear 
you have taken up the trade of sick nurse at 
home." 

"No," said I; "not at all; only upon occasion." 

"When there is somebody sick, I suppose that 
means," Olive said deridingly. "There is no sense 
in it, Desire ! Of course you get popularity by it ; 
but it's absurd. People must take care of their 
own sick ; but to take care of all the world That's 
Mr. Iredell's idea ! " 

"Well, what do we live for, Olive?" 

"Live for?" she echoed. "I don't know what 
you live for. /try to get some good out of life." 

" How do you succeed ? " 

" I should succeed, if my husband would think . 
I do." 

" Or, perhaps, if you would think as he does ? " 

" Nonsense, Desire ! As I said, you may get popularity by it; I have heard your praises sung, up 



 

and down ; but it don't pay. You will find it don't 
pay. People thank you at the minute, and forget 
you afterwards." 

" If you mean that popularity don't pay, I perfectly agree with you. They have their reward, 
is a very miserable sentence." 

" What do you do it for then ? " 

" Do what ? " 

" Make yourself everybody's servant. First Mrs. 
Saddler s; and then when Mr. Binnacle broke his 
leg; and then when the Lansoms got into trouble." 

" I did not do much for the Lansoms." 

" Only were there night and day. I heard all 
about it." 

" Well, Olive, if you had seen the distress they 
were in, you would not have wondered at my try 
ing to help them." 

" What could you do ? " 

"Stand by, when everybody else fell away; and 
so encourage them to think there is one other 
