any letters for me?"
"I have three."
"Give them to me, quick. I am hungry for news from home."
Tom sat down on a keg, and fairly devoured the letters, two of which
were from his father. One of these gave him much to think of. I will
transcribe the passages which gave Tom most concern:--
"Yesterday I paid Squire Hudson his regular semi-annual interest,
amounting to sixty-six dollars. Thanks to your liberal remittances, I
had no difficulty in making the payment. Indeed, I had two hundred
dollars left over. Imagine my dismay when the squire told me he had made
up his mind to call in the mortgage, having another use for the money.
"'But I can't pay it up,' said I.
"'You ought to be able to obtain the money somewhere,' he returned.
"'You are the only capitalist with whom I am acquainted,' said I.
'Since I have paid you the interest promptly, what more can you desire?'
"He insisted that he needed the money. I offered to pay him the two
hundred dollars which he had advanced for your journey. He seemed
surprised, but repeated that he must have the whole. The upshot of it
was that he gave me a formal notice of three months, as stipulated in
the mortgage. At the end of that time, unless I am ready to pay the
twenty-two hundred dollars, he will foreclose, and the old farm must be
sold. Of course it will be sold much below its real value. Probably the
squire will get it for the amount of the mortgage, and we shall be
thrown upon the world, without a home. It seems hard, Tom, and very
selfish; but might makes right, and Squire Hudson has the power on his
side."
In a postscript Mark Nelson added, "I understand that Squire Hudson has
a connection, his wife's brother, for whom he wants the farm. That
explains his resolute refusal to give me time to redeem it. Of course it
is too early to decide upon any plans. I must hire some tenement to move
into when I have to leave here. It will be hard upon us all to give up
the old farm. Walter, who has a taste for farming, and whom I look to be
my successor, feels very sad. Don't let this news depress you too much,
Tom. We shall not suffer. Thanks to you, I have some money ahead, and we
shall not lack for comfort."
Tom looked up when he had finished reading the letter.
"John," he said, quickly, "when does the next steamer start for New
York?"
"Day after to-morrow."
"Where can I engage passage?"
"Are you going home?"
"Yes, John, it is absolutely necessary. Squire Hudson is about to
foreclose the mortgage on my father's farm. I must be there to stop it."
"Have you money enough?"
"Three times over. He shall be defeated in his wicked purpose, or my
name isn't Tom Nelson."
Tom spoke in a quick, indignant tone, and his voice had a manly ring.
"Wait, John, let me read you the letter."
"The man's a mean rascal!" said Miles. "A rich man who will take
advantage of a poor man's necessity to deprive him of his home deserves
to be horsewhipped."
"I shan't attempt that," said Tom, smiling; "but I will disappoint him.
He little thinks I have it in my power to defeat his plans."
That very evening Tom engaged passage to New York, and two days later he
sailed out of the Golden Gate.
"I don't know how long I shall be gone, John," he said. "You need send
me no remittances, for I have money enough with me. You will hear from
me as soon as I have reached home, and transacted my business with
Squire Hudson."
"You will come out here again, Tom, won't you?"
"Yes, and before long. I have been so busily occupied making money that
I have seen almost nothing of San Francisco."
Tom did not journey alone. Ferguson, having thriven beyond his
expectations, decided to sail to New York, and thence to Scotland, on a
visit to his relatives, though he thought it probable he should come
back within a year. Dick Russell also was now in a position to study law
at home, and gave up the business of gold-mining forever.
"I owe all my present prosperity to you two," he said. "But for you I
should have blown my brains out five months since."
"We owe our prosperity to you also," said Tom. "You guided us to the
mines from which we gathered a golden harvest."
"We have worked together, and been mutual helpers," said Ferguson. "God
has favored us all, and to Him be the thanks!"
CHAPTER XXX.
THE NIGHT BEFORE THE AUCTION.
It was a sad household, that of Mark Nelson, on the day preceding the
departure from the farm. There was to be an auction the next day, at
which the farm-stock and farm-implements were to be sold. It was well
understood that Squire Hudson was to be the buyer of the farm, and as he
was not likely to have any competitor there was little hope that it
would fetch more than the amount of the mortgage.
During the afternoon Mr. Nelson called on Squire Hudson to make the best
terms he could at private sale.
"The farm is worth at least a thousand dollars more than the mortgage,
Squire Hudson," said the farmer.
"It is worth what it will fetch, Mr. Nelson," said the squire.
"Do you mean that an article always commands its full value at auction,
Squire Hudson?"
"Ahem! it brings its market value, Mr. Nelson."
"Which may be far below its intrinsic value. Suppose a diamond worth ten
thousand dollars were put up at auction in our village, do you consider
that it would bring a fair price?"
"Ahem! you are wandering from the subject. We are talking of farms, not
diamonds."
"As to the farm, then, you are likely to be the only bidder, unless you
allow the mortgage to remain."
"If I were inclined to do that I would not disturb you as long as you
paid the interest promptly."
"Then you decline to buy the farm at private sale?"
"I do."
"I don't think you will be any better off in the end, Squire Hudson, for
oppressing a poor man, and robbing him of his little all," said Mark
Nelson, bitterly.
"You don't look at the matter from a business point of view," said the
squire, coldly. "I am acting as any business man would under the
circumstances."
"I cannot believe you, sir. All business men are not so hard-hearted."
"I really don't think there is any use in prolonging this interview,"
said Squire Hudson, stiffly. "I have resolved upon my course, in which I
am perfectly justified, however you may choose to regard it."
This removed the farmer's last hope, and he had only to look about for
another home for his family. There was small choice of houses in the
little farming town. In fact there was but one house,--a shabby,
dilapidated building, a mile from the church and store. This, Mr.
Nelson, having no choice, engaged for a period of three months.
"It makes me homesick to think of going to live in that barn," said
Sarah, as they were sitting together after supper.
"It may not be so bad as you think for, Sarah," said her mother; but
she secretly sympathized with her daughter.
"I wish Squire Hudson had to live there himself," said Walter, in an
angry outburst.
Usually Walter was checked by his father when uttering such speeches;
but to-night Mark Nelson took no notice of his son's angry remark. He
felt that it would only be a righteous retribution upon the squire for
his cold selfishness.
While they were sitting in the plain room endeared to them by the
association of years, a sound of wheels was heard, and the village stage
stopped before the door.
"Who can it be?" said Sarah, wonderingly.
The whole family hurried to the window. What youthful, yet manly figure,
was that actively descending from his perch beside the driver?
"It's Tom!" exclaimed Mrs. Nelson. "Heaven be praised! It is my dear
boy."
Tom was almost suffocated by the embraces which he received on entering
the house.
"How you have grown, Tom!" said Sarah. "And how well you look!"
"Thank you for the compliment," said Tom, laughing. "But I don't feel
well."
"What is the matter?" asked his mother, with maternal solicitude.
"I am as hungry as a bear. Have you got anything to eat in the house?"
This hint was enough. Fresh tea was made, and the wanderer was soon
sitting before a bountiful supply of food, cooked in his mother's best
style.
"It seems good to be at home," said Tom, looking around him, his face
beaming with happiness.
"Did you get my letter, Tom, announcing the squire's intention to
foreclose the mortgage?" asked his father, gravely.
"Yes, father; is it really true?"
"Yes; he will listen to no persuasions."
"When does the sale take place?"
"To-morrow."
"I shall be present. Have you thought of any other house, father?"
"The old Belcher house is the only one I can hire."
"That is a poor place."
"It must do for lack of a better."
"I didn't think the squire would act so meanly. At any rate, father, I
will see that you don't any of you suffer for lack of money."
"Have you been doing well, Tom?" asked Walter.
"Ask me to-morrow, Walter. To-night I want to hear all the news, and
everything that has happened since I went away."
