The other young ruffian rose, and walked out quietly.

"If you didn't mind, Ben Hay," she said, an hour or so after, as they
were shutting up for the night, "I'd like to have you drop in quite
often of an evening. The boys are hardly big enough if we should ever be
beset by such scamps as that, and you've always been so friendly-like."

"Yes," answered Ben, flushing, and casting a sheepish look at the desk,
where Rose's curly head was bent over her accounts. "Yes, I'm at your
service. It's enough sight cheerfuller here than in Mother Mitchell's
boarding-house. I'll be glad to come."

"Thank you."

Miss Barry heard of this, and told it over to Jack.

"Ben Hay is a good, plucky fellow. He used to go down at noon for beer,
but I do not think he has been since the coffee-house was opened.
Sylvie, do you know, I believe reformers in general would be more
successful if they put a good and pleasant thing in the place of the
evil they assail. Too often they leave their convert to pick his way
alone. Hay is very much interested in the plans of the mill. The
meetings have done this much already,--a spirit of inquiry has been
awakened in some of the men, and they are reading up what other people
have achieved in this line. I want them to get well grounded before
there comes any strain. We can't go on prospering forever. That would be
too much like fairy-land."

"But every one thinks the panic nearly at an end," and Sylvie studied
the grave face before her.

"I do not want to croak," and Jack gave a little laugh that sounded
forced, "but we have just begun to pay off our debts. Every city and
town, and nearly every individual, is in debt. If we could pay with
promises to pay, we might tide over a while longer; but when interest
reaches a certain point, it swallows capital. If we can meet our
indebtedness everywhere, as fast as it matures, well and good: if not,
then we have only nibbled at the crust of our bitter pie."

"Anyhow," cried Sylvie, with the woman's sanguine nature, "Yerbury is a
great deal better off than it was last winter. Every one admits there
is much less suffering."

"There is more employment, and no broken bank," with a cheerful smile.

"Do you know," said the young girl presently, while a faint color went
wandering over her fair face, "that they are doing a marvellous stroke
of business at Garafield's, even if the times are bad? Mrs. Garafield
was down to tea a few evenings since, and she was greatly encouraged.
There is such a rage about the new style of papering. Everybody has run
mad on dados and friezes, and fresco patterns, bordering, and harmonies
of color," laughingly. "And they have some wonderful new designs."

"Fred is in just the right place. If he has courage to fight through,"
and there came a curious, almost foreboding expression in the
sympathetic eyes.

"You care a good deal for him, Jack! And yet he did not use you nobly,"
with a peculiar regret in the tone. "It is the one thing"--

"Sylvie, if I forgave it, surely you can." Then he turned his eyes upon
her, and read or rather dreamed of something in a dim, dazed way, the
story of a bygone summer. Had it been more to her than any one thought?
Miss Barry had hinted to his mother that Sylvie's decision in the matter
was a great disappointment to her. There had been a decision, then, and
one adverse to Fred Lawrence.

"I hate a false and cowardly man!" her cheeks were flaming now. "And
when you were schoolboys together,--when Agatha and Gertrude were so
afraid he would lower himself if he looked at any boy below his own
social position,--he used to stand up for you,--yes, he did,--and fight;
of course not in a brutal way with fists," and she laughed at her own
conceit, "but in that higher, finer manner, with no shield or weapon
save his love for you. I used to like to see you together,--you so
sturdy and manful and true, and he delicate and handsome and adoring.
And then"--

"Sylvie, I wonder if a woman can understand a man's friendship. We never
had any quarrel. We just drifted apart. I don't believe we forgot each
other. Circumstances took him out of my sphere, into a new one. If I had
been there in college, going along with him step by step, don't you
suppose he would have stood up for me in the face of his fine friends,
just as he used to with his sisters?"

"I hope so: I would like to believe it."

"I am more just to him than you, Sylvie," said Jack, a little wounded.
"I know it. I don't doubt it any more than I doubt--well, myself. He
might have come--I was always sorry to see him avoid me, and I think he
was weak, but he never forgot."

"He was weak, he was worse, Jack." There was a curious cry of anguish
in her voice, and her shoulders swayed unconsciously, while her eyes
looked out on the summer night he could not see.

"Don't get so excited over it, Sylvie," and the pleasant, cheery laugh
seemed to bring healing on its wings. "Whatever it was, and we will let
all that go, he made the amende honorable the night we had tea
together up there in the great house. We took up our friendship just
where it had dropped. Men never go over those crooked and thorny steps
of the past, they have so much work to do in the present and the future.
I wanted then to make a position for him in the mill; but it was not
possible, and would not have been the part of wisdom under any
circumstances. Yet it seemed as if I had stepped in his place. I was
glad to hear of this other, though Fred would have been happier
elsewhere. Sylvie, I do not believe you realize what it cost him to come
back to Yerbury, to walk about, a working-man, where he had driven in
his carriage. So down at the bottom there is the temper of the real blue
steel, which can bend."

"How generous you are, Jack!" There was something more than admiration
in her tone, and yet she was wondering if she could ever forgive her
fallen hero.

"See here, Sylvie, I don't mean to question any one's religion, but I've
often thought about the rejoicing up above, over the one who went
astray. I do not believe we rejoice with a very full heart: maybe we are
not heavenly enough. We can never be sure of our own strength until some
far-reaching test is applied, and yet it may not be an entirely true
test. It may quiver about the weak spot in our souls; but, while there
is any feeling, one cannot be entirely lost. That is why I say he never
forgot. And you and I ought to rejoice that he did come back instead
of going off in that gloomy, diseased, Manfred style, and upbraiding the
world. 'Whatever his hand found to do'--that was one of grandmother's
texts, and he went bravely at it."

"I do believe you are a better Christian than I," she answered softly,
her eyes limpid with emotion.

"No. Perhaps not even a better friend;" and a smile played about his
mouth.

"A truer friend, a more generous one"--

"What were we talking of?" in a sudden change of tone. "Oh, the business
at Garafield's! Fred is a good deal of an artist, an intellectual artist
I should say; and, though he may not attain to fame by painting
pictures, there are many other points coming to be appreciated. He is in
the way for usefulness; and, if he wins the bays for beauty as well, I
am sure we shall all rejoice. I heard he had been designing."

"You hear every thing." Sylvie made a capricious little moue. Her nods
and gestures were so much a part of her, so piquant, decisive, and full
of expression, when she did not intrench herself behind a studied
dignity.

"I am glad you have heard it. I was wondering how best to tell you. I
thought Garafield's might be a stepping-stone, these hard times, but it
may prove the veritable ladder itself. Only"--

"Well!" with a trifle of impatience, as if she could not endure the
suggestiveness of the tone.

"I wonder if you understand the courage it took for Fred Lawrence to
make a home here in Yerbury, to bring his mother and sister; for you see
he must endure for them as well as himself. Mrs. Lawrence will always be
an invalid, I suppose. He thinks her quite changed and softened:
evidently she clings to him. They see none of their old friends. Miss
Lawrence never goes anywhere."

