cried. 

u I will not see him ! " said Lydia instantly. 

" No," assented her aunt. u It wouldn 't be at 
all the thing. Besides, he 's asked for me. Your 
uncle might see him, but he 's out of the way ; of 
course he would be out of the way. Now, let me 
see ! " The excitement inspired her ; she rose in 
bed, and called for the pretty sack in which she 
ordinarily breakfasted, and took a look at herself in 
a hand-glass that lay on the bed. Lydia did not 
move ; she scarcely seemed to breathe ; but a swift 
pulse in her neck beat visibly. "If it would be 
decent to keep him waiting so long, I could dress, 
and see him myself. I 'm well enough." Mrs. 
Erwin again reflected. " Well," she said at last, 
"you must see him, Lydia." 

"I" — began the girl. 

"Yes, you. Some one must. It will be all 
right. On second thought, I believe I should send 
you, even if I were quite ready to go myself. This 
affair has been carried on so far on the American 
plan, and I think I shall let you finish it without 
my interference. Yes, as your uncle said when I 
told him, you 're all Americans together ; and you 
arc. Mr. Staniford has come to see you, though he 
asks for me. That 's perfectly proper ; but I can't 
see him, and I want you to excuse me to him." 

"What would you — what must I" — Lydia 
began again. 



" No, Lydia," interrupted her aunt. " I won't 
tell you a thing. I might have advised you when 
you first came ; but now, I — Well, I think I 've 
lived too long in Europe to be of use in such a case, 
and I won't have anything to do with it. I won't 
tell you how to meet him, or what to say ; but 
oh, child," — here the woman's love of loving 
triumphed in her breast, — "I wish I was in your 
place! Go!" 

Lydia slowly rose, breathless. 

" Lydia ! " cried her aunt. " Look at me ! " 
Lydia turned her head. " Are you going to be 
hard with him? " 

" I don't know what he 's coming for," said Lydia 
dishonestly. 

" But if he 's coming for what you hope ? " 

" I don't hope for anything." 

"But you did. Don't be severe. You 're terri- 
ble when you 're severe." 

"I will be just." 

" Oh, no, you must n't, my dear. It won't do at 
all to be just with men, poor fellows. Kiss me, 
Lydia ! " She pulled her down, and kissed her. 
When the girl had got as far as the door, " Lydia, 
Lydia ! " she called after her. Lydia turned. 
" Do you realize what dress you 've got on ? " 
Lydia look down at her robe ; it was the blue 
flannel yachting-suit of the Aroostook, which she 
had put on for convenience in taking care of her 
aunt. " Isn 't it too ridiculous ? " Mrs. Erwin 



 

meant to praise the coincidence, not to blame the 
dress. Lydia smiled faintly for answer, and the 
next moment she stood at the parlor door. 

Staniford, at her entrance, turned from looking 
out of the window and saw her as in his dream, with 
her hand behind her, pushing the door to ; but the 
face with which she looked at him was not like the 
dead, sad face of his dream. It was thrillingly 
alive, and all passions were blent in it, — love, 
doubt, reproach, indignation ; the tears stood in 
her eyes, but a fire burnt through the tears. With 
his first headlong impulse to console, explain, de- 
plore, came a thought that struck him silent at 
sight of her. He remembered, as he had not till 
then remembered, in all his wild longing and fear- 
ing, that there had not yet been anything explicit 
between them ; that there was no engagement ; and 
that he had upon the face of things, at least, no 
right to offer her more than some formal expres- 
sion of regret for not having been able to keep his 
promise to come sooner. While this stupefying 
thought gradually filled his whole sense to the ex- 
clusion of all else, he- stood looking at her with 
a dumb and helpless appeal, utterly stunned and 
wretched. He felt the life die out of his face and 
leave it blank, and when at last she spoke, he knew 
that it was in pity of him, or contempt of him. 
u Mrs. Erwin is not well," she said, "and she 
wished me " — 

But he broke in upon her : " Oh, don't talk to 



 

me of Mrs. Envin ! It was you I wanted to see. 
Are you well ? Are you alive ? Do you " — He 
stopped as precipitately as he began ; and after an- 
other hopeless pause, he went on piteously : "I 
don't know where to begin. I ought to have been 
here five days ago. I don't know what you think 
of me, or whether you have thought of me at all ; 
and before I can ask I must tell you why I wanted 
to come then, and why I come now, and why I 
think I must have come back from the dead to see 
you. You are all the world to me, and have been 
ever since I saw you. It seems a ridiculously un- 
necessary thing to say, I have been looking and 
acting and living it so long ; but I say it, because I 
choose to have you know it, whether you ever 
cared for me or not. I thought I was coming here 
to explain why I had not come sooner, but I need 
n't do that unless — unless " — He looked at her 
where she still stood aloof, and he added : " Oh, 
answer me something, for pity's sake ! Don't send 
me away without a word. There have been times 
when you wouldn 't have done that ! " 

" Oh, I did care for you ! " she broke out. " You 
know I did " — 

He was instantly across the room, beside her. 
" Yes, yes, I know it ! " But she shrank away. 

" You tried to make me believe you cared for 
me, by everything you could do. And I did be- 
lieve you then ; and yes, I believed you afterwards, 
when I didn 't know what to believe. You were 



 

the one true thing in the world to me. But it 
seems that you didn 't believe it yourself." 

" That I didn 't believe it myself ? That I — I 
don't know what you mean." 
