want to speak to you."
"All right."
"Where did you find him?" asked Mrs. Vivian, when Frank with some
difficulty had prepared his charge for bed.
"In the billiard-saloon to which you directed me. He was upstairs
playing cards for money. They were cheating him in the most outrageous
manner."
"I suppose they got all his money."
"Not all; but they would soon have done so. Here is his pocket-book,
which I just took from his pocket."
"There are twenty dollars left," said 'Mrs. Vivian, after an
examination. "They must have secured the rest. O my poor boy! Would that
I could shield you from these dangerous companions!"
"I don't think they will trouble him again, Mrs. Vivian."
"Why not? You do not know them."
"I told them that, if they came near him, hereafter, you would have them
arrested for swindling your son out of money belonging to you."
"Will that have any effect upon them?"
"Yes, because they know that I am ready to appear as a witness against
them."
"Did Fred show any unwillingness to come with you?"
"No; I made him think I was an old acquaintance of his. Besides, he was
feeling sleepy."
"You have acted with great judgment for so young a lad," said Mrs.
Vivian. "I wish Fred had a companion like you to influence him for good.
Where do you live?"
"At the Newsboys Lodging-House. I cannot afford to hire a room."
Mrs. Vivian looked thoughtful.
"Give me your name and address," she said.
These she noted down.
"I won't keep you any longer to-night," she said, "for you must be
tired. You will hear from me again."
"Oh," said Frank, "I nearly forgot. Here is the balance of the money you
handed me for expenses."
"Keep it for yourself," said Mrs. Vivian, "and accept my thanks
besides."
Though Frank had paid for the cab, there was a balance of nearly two
dollars in his hands which he was very glad to keep.
CHAPTER XIV.
FRANK MAKES AN EVENING CALL.
The next day Frank chanced to meet Mrs. Vivian in the street. She
recognized him at once.
"I see you are kept busy," she said, pleasantly.
"Yes," answered Frank. "Our business is pretty good just now. How is
your son?"
"He slept well, and woke much refreshed this morning. He is a good boy
naturally, but unable to withstand temptation. I have decided to send
him to the country for a few weeks, to visit a cousin of about his own
age. There he will be secure from temptation, and will have a chance to
ride. I would have sent him away before, but that it would leave me
alone in the house. You told me last evening that you had no
boarding-place."
"My only home is at the lodging-house," said Frank.
"How would you like to occupy a room at my house while my son is away?"
"Very much," said Frank, promptly.
"I shall find it convenient to have you in the house, and shall feel
safer."
"I am afraid I shouldn't be a match for an able-bodied burglar," said
Frank, smiling.
"Perhaps not; but you could summon a policeman. When can you come and
see me about this arrangement?"
"I am off duty to-night."
"Very well; I will expect you. Fred will not go away till to-morrow, and
you will have a chance to see him under more favorable circumstances
than last evening."
"Thank you very much for your kind invitation," said Frank, politely.
Mrs. Vivian bade him good-morning, very favorably impressed with his
manners and deportment.
Frank looked upon the proposal made him by Mrs. Vivian as a piece of
great good-fortune. In his new position, excellent as were the beds at
the lodging-house, he found it inconvenient to go there to sleep. Once
or twice, on account of the late hour at which he was released from
duty, he was unable to secure admittance, and had to pay fifty cents for
a bed at a hotel on the European system. He had for some time been
thinking seriously of hiring a room; but the probable expense deterred
him. At Mrs. Vivian's he would have nothing to pay.
In the evening he changed his uniform for the neat suit given him by Mr.
Bowen, and about eight o'clock rang the bell of the house in
Thirty-eighth street.
He was at once ushered into the presence of Mrs. Vivian and her son.
"I am glad to see you, my young friend," said Mrs. Vivian, glancing with
approval at the neat appearance of her young visitor. "Fred, this is the
young man who brought you home last night."
"I am much obliged to you," said Fred Vivian, offering his hand to
Frank. "I am ashamed of having been found in such a place."
"I don't think the young men with you were very much your friends," said
Frank; "I detected one in cheating you."
"You mean at cards?"
"I don't mean that, though I presume they did; but you handed a
ten-dollar bill to one of them, and he took it as a five."
"Are you sure of that?" asked Fred, his face flushing with indignation.
"Yes, I saw the number of the bill, though he put it away very quickly."
"And I had been treating that fellow all the afternoon! I gave him a
good dinner, too."
"Are you surprised at such treatment from such a person?" asked his
mother. "I should have expected it."
"I will never notice the fellow again as long as I live," said Fred, who
seemed a good deal impressed by his companion's treachery. "Why, it's
nothing better than robbery."
"You have given it the right name, Fred," said his mother, quietly.
"He ought to give the money back," said Fred.
"Let it go, my son. I am willing to lose it, if it severs all
acquaintance between you and your unworthy companions."
"Have I ever met you before?" asked Fred, turning to Frank.
"Not before last evening."
"I thought you spoke of yourself as an old acquaintance."
"That was to induce you to come with me," explained Frank. "I hope you
will excuse the deception."
"Certainly I will. I had been drinking so much that it was quite
necessary to treat me as a child; but I don't mean to be caught in such
a scrape again."
"May you keep that resolution, Fred!" said his mother, earnestly.
"I will try to, mother."
"My mother tells me that you are going to take my place while I am in
the country," said Fred, turning to Frank.
"I shall be very glad to do so," said our hero. "I never had such a good
home before."
"You are a telegraph boy, are you not?" asked Fred.
"Yes," answered Frank.
"Tell me about it. Is it hard work?"
"Not hard, but sometimes when I have been kept pretty busy, I get tired
towards night."
"I should think it would be rather good fun," said Fred.
"Do you think you would like it?" asked his mother, with a smile.
"I might like it for about half a day, but all day would be too much for
me. However, I am too old for such a position."
Fred had no false pride, and though he knew that Frank was in a social
position considerably below his own, he treated him as an equal. Those
who are secure of their own position are much more likely to avoid
"putting on airs" than those who have recently been elevated in the
social scale. Frank was destined that same evening to see the contrast
between true and false gentility.
It so happened that Victor Dupont, already mentioned, was an
acquaintance and former school-fellow of Fred Vivian. It also chanced
that he selected this evening for a call, as the Vivians stood very high
socially, being an old family. Victor was rather proud of his
acquaintance with them, and took occasion to call frequently.
As he was ushered into the room he did not at first recognize Frank in
his new clothes.
"Victor, this is a friend of mine, Frank Kavanagh," said Fred,
introducing his two visitors. "Frank, let me introduce my old
school-fellow Victor Dupont."
"We are already acquainted," said Frank. "Good-evening, Victor."
Victor stared in amusing astonishment at Frank.
"How do you happen to be here?" asked Victor, brusquely.
"By Mrs. Vivian's kind invitation," said Frank, quite at ease.
"How do you two happen to know each other?" asked Fred.
"We met in the country last summer," said Frank, finding Victor did not
answer.
"I suppose you had a very good time together," said Mrs. Vivian.
"Our acquaintance was very slight," said Victor superciliously.
"We must have gone fishing together at least a dozen times," said Frank,
quietly.
"How in the world did the fellow thrust himself in here?" said Victor to
himself. "They can't know his low position."
In the amiable desire of enlightening the Vivians Victor took an early
opportunity to draw Fred aside.
"Have you known Frank Kavanagh long?" he asked.
"Not very long."
"Do you know that he is a telegraph boy?"
