was going to rush off and give you the last proof of 
his confidence." 
" It was not a proof of confidence," said Angela. 
" It had nothing to do with me. It was as between 
himself and you; it was a proof of independence. 
He did believe you, more or less, and what you said 
fell in with his own impressions — strange impres- 
sions that they were, poor man ! At the same time, 
as I say, he liked me, too ; it was out of his liking me 
that all his trouble came ! He caught himself in the 
act of listening to you too credulously — and that 
seemed to him unmanly and dishonorable. The sen- 
sation brought with it a reaction, and to prove to 
himself that in such a matter he could be influenced 
by nobody, he marched away, an hour after he had 
talked with you, and, in the teeth of his perfect mis- 
trust, confirmed by your account of my irregularities 
— heaven forgive you both ! — again asked me to be 
his wife. But he hoped I would refuse ! " 
" Ah, " cried Bernard, " the recreant ! He deserved 
— he deserved — " 
" That I should accept him ? " Angela asked, smil- 
ing still. 
Bernard was so much affected by this revelation, it 
seemed to him to make such a difference in his own 
responsibility and to lift such a weight off his con- 
science, that he broke out again into the liveliest 
ejaculations of relief 
" Oh, I don't care for anything, now, and I can do 
what I please ! Gordon may hate me, and I shall be 
sorry for him ; but it 's not my fault, and I owe him 
no reparation. No, no ; I am free ! " 
" It 's only I who am not, I suppose," said Angela, 
"and the reparation must come from me! If he is 
unhappy, I must take the responsibility." 
" Ah yes, of course," said Bernard, kissing her. 
" But why should he be unhappy ? " asked Angela. 
If I refused him, it was what he wanted." 
" He is hard to please," Bernard rejoined. " He 
has got a wife of his own." 
"If Blanche doesn't please him, he is certainly 
difficult ; " and Angela mused a little. " But you 
told me the other day that they were getting on so 
well." 
"Yes, I believe I told you," Bernard answered, 
musing a little too. 
" You are not attending to what I say." 
" No, I am thinking of something else — I am 
thinking of what' it was that made you refuse him 
that way, at the last, after you had let your mother 
hope." And Bernard stood there, smiling at her. 
" Don't think any more ; you will not find out," the 
girl declared, turning away. 
" Ah, it was cruel of you to let me think I was 
wrong all these years," he went on ; " and, at the 
time, since you meant to refuse him, you might 
have been more frank with me." 
" I thought my fault had been that I was too 
frank." 
" I was densely stupid, and you might have made 
me understand better." 
"Ah," said Angela, "you ask a great deal of a 
girl ! " 
" Why have you let me go on so long thinking 
that my deluded words had had an effect upon Gordon 
— feeling that I had done you a brutal wrong ? It 
was real to me, the wrong — and I have told you of 
the pangs and the shame which, for so many months, 
it has cost me ! Why have you never undeceived me 
until to-day, and then only by accident ? " 
At this question Angela blushed a little ; then she 
answered, smiling — 
" It was my vengeance." 
Bernard shook his head. 
"That won't do — you don't mean it. You never 
cared — you were too proud to care; and when I 
spoke to you about my fault, you didn' t even know 
what I meant. You might have told me, therefore, 
that my remorse was idle, that what I said to Gordon 
had not been of the smallest consequence, and that 
the rupture had come from yourself" 
For some time Angela said nothing, then at last 
she gave him one of the deeply serious looks with 
which her face was occasionally ornamented. 
" If you want really to know, then — can't you see 
that your remorse seemed to me connected in a certain 
way with your affection ; a sort of guarantee of it ? 
You thought you had injured some one or other, and 
that seemed to be mixed up with your loving me, and 
therefore I let it alone." 
" Ah," said Bernard, " my remorse is all gone, and 
yet I think I love you about as much as ever ! So 
you see how wrong you were not to tell me." 
" The wrong to you I don't care about. It is very 
true I might have told you for Mr. Wright's sake. 
It would perhaps have made him look better. But 
as you never attacked him for deserting me, it seemed 
needless for me to defend him.'' 
" I confess," said Bernard, " I am quite at sea 
about Gordon's look in the matter. Is he looking 
better now — or is he looking worse ? You put it 
very well just now ; I was attending to you, thoiigh 
you said I was not. If he hoped you would refuse 
him, with whom is his quarrel at present ? And why 
was he so cool to me for months after we parted at 
Baden ? If that was his state of mind, why should 
he accuse me of inconsistency ? " 
" There is something in it, after all, that a woman 
can understand. I don't know whether a man can. 
He hoped I would refuse him, and yet when I had 
done so he was vexed. After a while his vexation 
subsided, and he married poor Blanche; hut, on 
learning to-day that I had accepted you, it flickered 
up again. I suppose that was natural enough ; but it 
won't be serious." 
" What will not be serious, my dear?" asked Mrs. 
Vivian, who had come back to the drawing-room, and 
who, apparently, could not hear that the attribute in 
question was wanting in any direction, without some 
alarm. 
" Shall I tell mamma, Bernard ? " said Angela. 
" Ah, my dear child, I hope it 's nothing tliat 
threatens your mutual happiness," mamma murmured, 
with gentle earnestness. 
" Does it threaten our mutual happiness, Bernard ? " 
the girl went on, smiling. 
" Let Mrs. Vivian decide whether we ought to let 
it make us miserable," said Bernard. "Dear Mrs. 
Vivian, you are a casuist, and this is a nice case." 
" Is it anything about poor Mr. Wright ? " the elder 
lady inquired. 
"Why do you say 'poor' Mr. Wright?" asked 
Bernard. 
" Because I am sadly afraid he is not Tiappy with 
Blanche." 
" Hdw did you discover that — without seeing 
them together ? " 
" Well, perhaps you will think me very fanciful," 
said Mrs. Vivian ; " but it was by the way he looked 
at Angela. He has such an expressive face." 
" He looked at me very kindly, mamma," Angela 
observed. 
" He regularly stared, my daughter. In any one else 
I should have said it was rude. But his situation is 
so peculiar ; and one could see that he admired you 
still." And Mrs. Vivian gave a little soft sigh. 
" Ah ! she is thinking of the thirty thousand a 
year," Bernard said to himself. 
" I am sure I hope he admires me still," the girl 
cried, laughing. " There is no great harm in that." 
'' He was comparing you with Blanche — and he was 
struck with the contrast." 
" It couldn 't have been in my favor. If it 's a 
question of being looked at, Blanche bears it better 
than I." 
" Poor little Blanche ! " murmured Mrs. Vivian, 
sweetly. 
" Why did you tell me he was so happy with her ? " 
Angela asked, turning to Bernard, abruptly. 
Bernard gazed at her a moment, with his eyebrows 
