brooding and moping. She had, of course, no fac- 
ulty for quenching memory in dissipation ; but she 
mingled freely in the usual gayeties of the town, 
and she became at last an inevitable figure at all 
respectable entertainments. She was greatly liked, 
and as time went on she grew to be a sort of kind- 
ly maiden -aunt to the younger portion of society. 
Young girls were apt to confide to her their love 
affairs (which they never did to Mrs. Penniman), 
and young men to be fond of her without knowing 
why. She developed a few harmless eccentricities ; 
her habits, once formed, were rather stiffly maintain- 
ed ; her opinions, on all moral and social matters, 
were extremely conservative; and before she was 
forty she was regarded as an old-fashioned person, 
and an authority on customs that had passed away. 
Mrs. Penniman, in comparison, was quite a girlish 
figure; she grew younger as she advanced in life. 
She lost none of her relish for beauty and mystery, 
but she had little opportunity to exercise it. With 
Catherine's later wooers she failed to establish rela- 
tions as intimate as those which had given her so 
many interesting hours in the society of Morris 
Townsend. These gentlemen had an indefinable 
mistrust of her good offices, and they never talked 
to her about Catherine's charms. Her ringlets, her 
buckles and bangles glistened more brightly with 
each succeeding year, and she remained quite the 
same officious and imaginative Mrs. Penniman, and 
the odd mixture of impetuosity and circumspection, 
that we have hitherto known. As regards one point, 
however, her circumspection prevailed, and she must 
be given due credit for it. For upward of seven- 
teen years she never mentioned Morris Townsend's 
name to her niece. Catherine was grateful to her, 
but this consistent silence, so little in accord with 
her aunt's character, gave her a certain alarm, and 
she could never wholly rid herself of a suspicion 
that Mrs. Peunirnan sometimes had news of him. 
XXXIII. 
LITTLE by little Doctor Sloper had retired from 
his profession ; he visited only those patients in 
whose symptoms he recognized a certain originality. 
He went again to Europe, and remained two years ; 
Catherine went with him, and on this occasion Mrs. 
Penniman was of the party. Europe apparently 
had few surprises for Mrs. Penniman, who frequent- 
ly remarked, in the most romantic sites, " You know 
I am very familiar with all this." It should be add- 
ed that such remarks were usually not addressed to 
her brother, or yet to her niece, but to fellow-tourists 
who happened to be at hand, or even to the cicerone 
or the goatherd in the foreground. 
One day, after his return from Europe, the Doc- 
tor said something to his daughter that made her 
start it seemed to come from so far out of the 
past. 
"I should like you to promise me something be- 
fore I die." 
" Why do you talk about your dying ?" she asked. 
" Because I am sixty-eight years old." 
" I hope you will live a long time," said Cathe- 
rine. 
" I hope I shall ! But some day I shall take a 
bad cold, and then it will not matter much what any 
one hopes. That will be the manner of my exit, 
and when it takes place, remember I told you so. 
Promise me not to marry Morris Townsend after 
I am gone." 
This was what made Catherine start, as I have 
said ; but her start was a silent one, and for some 
moments she said nothing. " Why do you speak of 
him ?" she asked at last. 
"You challenge everything I say. I speak of 
him because he's a topic, like any other. He's to be 
seen, like any one else, and he is still looking for a 
wife having had one and got rid of her, I don't 
know by what means. He has lately been in New 
York, and at your cousin Marian's house ; your aunt 
Elizabeth saw him there." 
u They neither of them told me," said Catherine. 
" That's their merit ; it's not yours. He has grown 
fat and bald, and he has not made his fortune. But 
I can't trust those facts alone to steel your heart 
against him, and that's why I ask you to promise." 
" Fat and bald ;" these words presented a strange 
image to Catherine's mind, out of which the mem- 
ory of the most beautiful young man in the world 
had never faded. " I don't think you understand," 
she said. " I very seldom think of Mr. Townsend." 
" It will be very easy for you to go on, then. 
Promise me, after my death, to do the same." 
Again, for some moments, Catherine was silent ; 
her father's request deeply amazed her ; it opened 
an old wound, and made it ache afresh. " I don't 
think I can promise that," she answered. 
" It would be a great satisfaction," said her father. 
" You don't understand. I can't promise that." 
The Doctor was silent a minute. " I ask you for a 
particular reason. I am altering my will." 
This reason failed to strike Catherine ; and indeed 
she scarcely understood it. All her feelings were 
merged in the sense that he was trying to treat her 
as he had treated her years before. She had suffered 
from it then ; and now all her experience, all her 
acquired tranquillity and rigidity protested. She 
had been so humble in her youth that she could 
now afford to have a little pride, and there was some- 
thing in this request, and in her father's thinking 
himself so free to make it, that seemed an injury to 
her dignity. Poor Catherine's dignity was not ag- 
gressive; it never sat in state; but if you pushed 
far enough you could find it. Her father had push- 
ed very far. 
" I can't promise," she simply repeated. 
" You are very obstinate," said the Doctor. 
" I don't think you understand." 
"Please explain, then." 
" I can't explain," said Catherine ; " and I can't 
promise." 
" Upon my word," her father exclaimed, " I had 
no idea how obstinate you are !" 
She knew herself that she was obstinate, and it 
gave her a certain joy. She was now a middle-aged 
woman. 
About a year after this, the accident that the Doc- 
tor had spoken of occurred : he took a violent cold. 
Driving out to Bloomingdale one April day to see 
a patient of unsound mind, who was confined in a 
private asylum for the insane, and whose family 
greatly desired a medical opinion from an eminent 
source, he was caught in a spring shower., and being 
in a buggy, without a hood, he found himself soaked 
to the skin. He came home with an ominous chill, 
and on the morrow he was seriously ill. " It is con- 
gestion of the lungs," he said to Catherine ; " I shall 
need very good nursing. It will make no differ- 
ence, for I shall not recover ; but I wish everything 
to be done, to the smallest detail, as if I should. I 
hate an ill-conducted sick-room, and you will be so 
good as to nurse me, on the hypothesis that I shall 
get well." He told her which of his fellow-physi- 
cians to send for, and gave her a multitude of mi- 
nute directions ; it was quite on the optimistic hy- 
pothesis that she nursed him. But he had never 
been wrong in his life, and he was not wrong now. 
He was touching his seventieth year, and though he 
had a very well-tempered constitution, his hold upon 
life had lost its firmness. He died after three weeks' 
illness, during which Mrs. Penniman, as well as his 
daughter, had been assiduous at his bedside. 
On his will being opened, after a decent interval, 
it was found to consist of two portions. The first 
of these dated from ten years back, and consisted of 
a series of dispositions by which he left the great 
mass of his property to his daughter, with becoming 
legacies to his two sisters. The second was a codicil, 
of recent origin, maintaining the annuities to Mrs. 
Penniman and .Mrs. Almond, but reducing Cathe- 
rine's share to a fifth of what he had first bequeathed 
