bread-crumbs, butter, salt, pepper, and a little white sugar. Spread
thickly upon each stratum of tomatoes, and when the dish is nearly
full, put tomatoes uppermost, a good bit of butter upon each slice.
Dust with pepper and a little sugar. Strew with dry bread-crumbs, and
bake covered half an hour; remove the lid and bake brown.
SCALLOP OF TOMATOES AND GREEN CORN. 
This is made as above, substituting for the bread-crumbs in the
force-meat, green corn cut from the cob, and seasoning with some fat
pork chopped very fine, a minced shallot, pepper, salt, and sugar.
Let the top layer be tomatoes, butter and season, and sift grated
bread-crumbs over it to brown the scallop. Bake covered half an hour;
uncover and leave in the oven as much longer. This time is for a large
dishful.
BROILED TOMATOES.
Select large, firm ones, and do not peel. Slice half an inch thick,
and broil upon an oyster gridiron. A few minutes will suffice to cook
them. Have ready in a cup some hot butter, seasoned with pepper, salt,
a little sugar, and a half a teaspoonful of made mustard. As soon as
the tomatoes are done, dip each piece in this mixture and lay upon
a hot chafing-dish. When all are dished, heat what remains of the
seasoning to a boil, pour upon them, and serve at once.
Broiled tomatoes are much liked by those who have eaten them cooked in
this manner.
BAKED TOMATOES (Plain.)
Peel and slice a quarter of an inch thick. Pack in a pudding-dish,
seasoning each layer with salt, pepper, butter, and a very little white
sugar. Bake covered half an hour, remove the lid, and brown for fifteen
minutes. Five minutes before taking from the oven, pour over the top
three or four tablespoonfuls of cream whipped up for a few minutes with
melted butter.
RAW TOMATOES.
Do not loosen the skins with scalding water. It impairs the flavor and
destroys the crispness. Pare with a keen knife, slice and lay in a
glass dish. Season with pepper, salt, and vinegar, stirring a piece of
ice rapidly around in the dressing before pouring it over the tomatoes,
and setting the dish in the refrigerator until wanted.
There is no salad, excepting, perhaps, lettuce and cucumbers, that is
more improved by the use of ice than tomatoes.
RAW CUCUMBERS.
Pare neatly from end to end, and lay in ice-water one hour. Wipe them
and slice thin. Season with pepper, salt and vinegar—and oil, if you
wish—laying some bits of ice among them, with thin slices of onion.
Cucumbers should be gathered while the dew is on them, and eaten the
same day. Leave them in a cool place until you are ready to pare them.
FRIED CUCUMBERS. 
Pare and lay in ice-water half an hour. Cut lengthwise, into slices
nearly half an inch thick, and lay in ice-water ten minutes longer.
Wipe each piece dry with a soft cloth, sprinkle with pepper and salt,
and dredge with flour. Fry to a delicate brown in sweet clarified
dripping, nice lard, or butter.
Many declare that cucumbers are never fit to eat unless fried, and they
are assuredly far more wholesome than when served raw.
STEWED CUCUMBERS.
Pare, lay in ice-water an hour; then, slice a quarter of an inch
thick. Pick out the seeds with a penknife, and put into a saucepan
with enough boiling water to cover them. Stew fifteen minutes, and
drain off the water. Add enough from the boiling tea-kettle to keep
them from burning; season with salt and pepper, and stir carefully
in a tablespoonful of butter—or two, should the quantity of cucumber
be large. Stew gently ten minutes, and add half a cupful of rich
milk; thicken with a little flour, boil up, and serve in a deep dish,
squeezing some lemon-juice in at the last.
This is a popular English dish, although it seems a strange one to
American ideas.
BOILED GREEN CORN.
Choose young sugar-corn, full grown, but not hard; test with the nail.
When the grain is pierced, the milk should escape in a jet, and not be
thick. Clean by stripping off the outer leaves, turn back the innermost
covering carefully, pick off every thread of silk, and recover the ear
with the thin husk that grew nearest it. Tie at the top with a bit
of thread, put into boiling water salted, and cook fast from twenty
minutes to half an hour, in proportion to size and age. Cut off the
stalks close to the cob, and send whole to table wrapped in a napkin.
Or, you can cut from the cob while hot, and season with butter, pepper
and salt. Send to table in a vegetable dish.
CORN AND TOMATOES.
Take equal quantities of green corn cut from the cob, and tomatoes
sliced and peeled. Stew together half an hour; season with pepper,
salt, and a very little sugar. Stew fifteen minutes longer, and stir
in a great lump of butter. Five minutes later, pour out and serve.
SUCCOTASH.
This is made of green corn and Lima beans, although you can substitute
for the latter string or butter beans. Have a third more corn than
beans, when the former has been cut from the cob and the beans shelled.
Put into boiling water enough to cover them—no more—and stew gently
together until tender—perhaps half an hour—stirring now and then. Pour
off nearly all the water, and add a large cupful of milk. Stew in this,
watching to prevent burning, for an hour; then stir in a great lump of
butter, a teaspoonful of flour wet with cold milk, pepper and salt to
taste. Boil up once, and pour into a deep vegetable-dish. If you use
string-beans, string and cut up into half-inch lengths before cooking.
GREEN CORN PUDDING. 
    1 quart milk.
    5 eggs.
    2 tablespoonfuls melted butter.
    1 tablespoonful white sugar.
    1 dozen ears of corn—large ones.
Grate the corn from the cob; beat the whites and yolks of the eggs
separately. Put the corn and yolks together, stir hard, and add the
butter; then the milk gradually, beating all the while; next the sugar
and a little salt; lastly the whites. Bake slowly at first, covering
the dish, for an hour. Remove the cover, and brown finely.
This is a most delicious accompaniment to a meat course, when properly
mixed and baked. Warm up what is left from dinner for breakfast, by
moistening it with a little warm milk, and stirring in a saucepan until
smoking hot. You can make this pudding from canned corn in winter,
chopping the corn fine.
GREEN CORN FRITTERS OR CAKES. 
Grate the corn, and allow an egg and a half for every cupful, with
a tablespoonful of milk or cream. Beat the eggs well, add the corn
by degrees, beating very hard; salt to taste; put a tablespoonful of
melted butter to every pint of corn; stir in the milk, and thicken with
just enough flour to hold them together—say a tablespoonful for every
two eggs. You may fry in hot lard, as you would fritters, but a better
plan is to cook upon a griddle, like batter cakes. Test a little first,
to see that it is of the right consistency.
Eaten at dinner or breakfast, these always meet with a cordial welcome.
STEWED GREEN CORN.
Cut from the cob, and stew fifteen minutes in boiling water. Turn off
most of this, cover with cold milk, and stew until very tender, adding,
before you take it up, a large lump of butter cut into bits and rolled
in flour. Season with pepper and salt to taste. Boil five minutes, and
serve.
Cold corn left from dinner should be cut from the cob and stewed a
few minutes in a little milk, adding seasoning as above. Or, you can
mix it with chopped cold potatoes—Irish or sweet; heat a piece of
butter or beef-dripping in a frying-pan, and stir in the mixture until
smoking-hot. Never throw away a good ear of sweet corn.
ROASTED GREEN CORN.
Turn back the husks upon the stalk, pick off the silk, recover with
the husks as closely as possible, and roast in the hot ashes of a
wood-fire. Eat with butter, salt, and pepper, out of doors, in the
forest, or on the beach.
SALSIFY OR OYSTER-PLANT. (Stewed.) 
Scrape the roots, dropping each into cold water as soon as it is
cleaned. Exposure to the air blackens them. Cut in pieces an inch long,
put into a saucepan with hot water enough to cover them, and stew until
tender. Turn off nearly all the water, and add a cupful of cold milk.
Stew ten minutes after this begins to boil; put in a great lump of
butter, cut into bits, and rolled in flour; pepper and salt to taste.
Boil up once, and serve. The taste is curiously like that of stewed
oysters.
FRIED SALSIFY, OR MOCK OYSTERS. 
Scrape the roots thoroughly, and lay in cold water ten or fifteen
minutes. Boil whole until tender, drain, and when cold, mash with a
wooden spoon to a smooth paste, picking out all the fibres. Moisten
with a little milk; add a tablespoonful of butter, and an egg and a
half for every cupful of salsify. Beat the eggs light. Make into round
cakes, dredge with flour, and fry brown.
FRIED EGG-PLANT. 
Slice the egg-plant at least half an inch thick; pare each piece
carefully, and lay in salt and water, putting a plate upon the topmost
to keep it under the brine, and let them alone for an hour or more.
Wipe each slice, dip in beaten egg, then in cracker-crumbs, and fry in
hot lard until well done and nicely browned.
STUFFED EGG-PLANT. 
Parboil for ten minutes. Slit each down the side, and extract the
seeds. Prop open the cut with a bit of clean wood or china, and lay
in cold salt and water while you prepare the force-meat. Make this of
bread-crumbs, minute bits of fat pork, salt, pepper, nutmeg, parsley,
