would never know this, and she could still hold her head 
high among them. But oh, the fatal madness of her visit 
to Queenie ! If Harry could have known how keenly she 
bewailed this blunder it might have proved a comfort as 
to her punishment. 
But the present sting was the haunting fear that Harry 
had not been loved with the ardor of a young girl's first 
absorbing regard. It might have been fanned into an 
abiding flame. Had the golden moment really gone by ? 
Here was that fascinating Roger Lasselle, a hero in her 
eyes, doubtless, and the haughty woman bit her lip at hav- 
ing thus outwitted herself. 
As for Harry Grenville, he felt crushed and stunned. 
His generous soul had delighted in the prospect of bestow- 
ing so much upon her, could he turn and woo her as an 
heiress? Would not the Byingtons believe him actuated 
by mercenary motives ? Had she known that day when 
she went away so joyfully, leaving him no clue ? 
He had insisted that the facts should be made known to 
her as soon as possible. For a while at least, he must 
stand aloof. If she loved him 
" Clara," Madame Grenville said graciously at lunch, turn- 
ing to her daughter, "I think you and Blanche ought to 
call on Miss Waldeburgh, and ask her to come to us at 
Newport. We were all so startled and confused last even- 
ing. Her grandfather is anxious the breach shall be healed, 
and if we were cool now, it would be attributed to our dis- 
inclination to give up the fortune. No one can regret that 
unfortunate stage episode more than I ; " and she glanced 
around with proud complacency ; " but I think it can be 
managed if the Byingtons are careful, so that the world 
shall know nothing about it." 
" Grandmamma," Harry interrupted pointedly, " I think 
it the noblest act that could crown any life. She did not 
do it for fame, or from any sense of pleasure to herself, but 
for others." 
"We cannot publish her motives to the whole world, 
Harry, and she did attain considerable notoriety. We 
should hardly care to take in our home a woman whose 
only recommendation was skilful ballet-dancing. However, 
my ideas may belong to the refinements of a past genera- 
tion. I am growing old, I know;" with a pathetic little 
laugh that was a half sigh. 
"I shall be delighted!" cried Blanche. "You will come 
with us, Harry. You would not go last night n 
A sudden paleness and pain crossed his face, much to 
his sister's amazement. 
Could he see her first in the presence of others? Oh, 
what cruel things had his grandmother said to her? Yet, 
if they took up kindly relations it would go hard indeed if 
he could not persuade her to forget that shameful inter- 
view, to remember that he had loved her for her own sweet 
self. 
A week had wrought a wondrous change in Queenie 
or was it her new position ? Of the fortune she was still 
in ignorance. Something about her chilled him with swift 
apprehension : the cordiality with which she accepted the 
relationship, as if she wished that to make amends. 
Mrs. Grenville was a soft, pleasant woman, with no cor- 
ners or angles, inheriting neither her mother's beauty nor 
that startling individuality. Queenie was attracted by the 
very unlikeness. The girls were fond and cousinly. 
Blanche was prepared to accept any favorite of her lover's 
family ; but Queenie's winsome beauty would have con- 
quered stronger obstacles. 
Mrs. Byington promised readily that she would afford 
them frequent opportunities of meeting. For the present, 
she and Mr. Byington considered their claim was the 
strongest; indeed, they felt answerable to her father, to 
whom the joyful tidings had been sent, and who would, no 
doubt, hasten to America. 
Once Harry managed to whisper, " I shall write to you," 
but he felt that it would be ungenerous to ask a private 
interview. 
There came a few days of comparative quiet to Queenie, 
for which she was deeply grateful. Roger never tired nor 
exhausted her. He planned, and she acquiesced. He con- 
stituted himself her music teacher, and they learned duets, 
they read, they sat with aunt Alice, and talked in a joyous 
unconstrained manner, though she rarely spoke of her past. 
Was it wrong or selfish to throw them so much together ? 
Mrs. Byington asked herself. 
Harry's missive came, a wild, imploring love-letter. The 
young girl read it with crimson cheeks and throbbing 
pulses. Oh, what should she do ? He had loved her so 
generously when there was no one else, when she was a 
stage-dancer, living in an obscure home, would it not be 
blackest ingratitude to refuse him now ? 
"What can I say?" she asked Mrs. Byington, with 
passionate, yearning anguish. 
" I think, my darling, that you have no right to dispose 
of your future until your father is here to sanction it. You 
may come to understand your own heart better, and feel 
quite differently. At present, gratitude is the strongest," 
and Mrs. Byington flushed a trifle, as she hesitated. Was 
she entirely sincere ! Did not her heart incline to Roger ? 
"At least," she resumed, after a pause, "I would beg 
him not to discuss the matter until your father's return. 
You belong to him, first of all." 
That was the only shadow on Queenie's happy summer. 
Captain Mullins came home, and there was the wildest joy 
in the household. Queenie went for a whole long day, 
and the children sent Roger an invitation to supper. What 
a merry, boisterous time it was! Every child seemed to 
have stored up a special remembrance of what Queenie had 
said or done in the dark nicrht of their sorrow. 
"I don't know what I can ever do for you," said Captain 
Mullins, with tears in his honest eyes. " If you'd been an 
angel you couldn't have brought 'em into port any bette- 
and they must love you always and forever. The good 
Lord reward you " 
" He has, already," replied Queenie, reverently. 
"The children are all so improved. I never saw the 
beat of it. Why, Tip's a real gentleman, and he says it's 
all owing to you. Cissy's growing pretty as a picture, and 
as for the twins, any man might be proud of 'em ! How 
you and sister Madeira managed it puzzles me. I am glad 
enough your ship came in, though if it hadn't you'd never 
be let to want for anything. God bless you child Yc't 
deserve the very best, and may it always be yours." 
Miss Madeira laughed, and cried, and grew more in- 
coherent and mismatched with every sentence. 
" It's all right, thank the Lord ! " she said, at parting, 
" but I don't know how to live without you. I'm a foolish 
old body, sure enough ! " 
Queenie followed up her good work by interesting Mr. 
Byington in Tip. The boy had corne to manly wants ind 
aspirations, and this kindly helping hand was the founla- 
tion of all his after fortune and success. 
Tim Chafney called upon Queenie, when the joyful news 
reached him. His surprise was absolutely laughable. He 
could only think of the little Nora who had clung to him, 
but this exquisitely beautiful girl astounded him. Still, no 
one rejoiced more truly in her restoration. 
They took the promised trip to Newport. Queenie 
shyly sheltered herself under Mrs. Byington's wing, but 
her beauty would have been remarked anywhere. Madamo 
Grenville introduced her with great empressement^ quite de- 
termined to make amends for her former neglect. It be- 
came whispered about that the young girl's father was a 
baron, and in spite of herself Queenie again played thf 
part of heroine unconsciously. 
Early in September the Grenvilles were to return South, 
Lucia's marriage was appointed for October. Lawrence 
plead for a union at the same time. The engagement had 
been brief, to be sure, but Mrs. Byington was impatient to 
welcome Blanche in her own household, the long-coveted 
daughter. 
Mr. Grenville preferred that it should be so, and the 
elder ladies acquiesced. He had arranged with Harry that 
generous bridal portions should be bestowed upon his 
sisters, and Grenville, the family birthright, go to him. 
" You are to be my bridesmaid, Queenie," announced 
Blanche, " you and Harry; we have it all planned. You 
are to come to Grenville, it is such a beautiful old place. 
And some of the neighbors remember your mother so well. 
Oh, my darling Queenie, I am so glad that your father is 
alive, and an honorable gentleman, so that your mother's 
memory will be rescued from the cloud under which it has 
rested. It was cruel in grandpapa to disown her." 
