
" This?" said Dolly. "What other help in the 
world is there ? " 

" Friends ? " suggested Rupert. 

" Yes, you were a great help last night," Dolly 
said slowly. " But there come times and things 
when friends cannot do anything." 

" And then what does the book do ? " 

" The book ? " Dolly repeated again. " Rupert, 
it tells of the Friend that can do everything ! " 
Her eyes flushed with tears and she clasped her 
hands as she spoke. 

"What?" said Rupert; for her action was eloquent and he was curious; and besides he liked to 
make her talk. 

Dolly looked at him and saw that the question 
was serious. She opened her book. 

" Listen. ' Let your conversation be without 
covetousness ; and be content with such things as 
ye have ; for he hath said, I will never leave thee 
nor forsake thee. So that we may boldly say, The 
Lord is my helper, and I will not fear what man 
shall do unto me.' " 

" That makes pretty close work of it. Can you 
get hold of that rope ? and how much strain will 
it bear ? " 

"I believe it will bear anything," said Dolly 
slowly and thoughtfully; "if one takes hold with 
both hands. I guess the trouble with me is, that I 
only take hold with one." 

" What do you do with the other hand ? " 

" Stretch it out towards something else, I suppose. For see here, Rupert; 'Thou wilt keep 
him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on 
thee ; because he trusteth in thee.' I am just 
ashamed of myself!" said Dolly breaking down 
and bursting into tears. 

" What for ?" said Rupert. 

"Because I do not trust so." 

" I should think it would be very difficult." 

" It ought not to be difficult to trust a friend 
whose truth you know. There ! that has done me 
good," said the girl, sitting up and brushing away 
the tears. " Rupert, if there is anything you want 



 

to see or to do here in Venice, be about it ; for I 
think we shall go off to Eome at once." 

She told the same thing to St. Leger when he 
came in; and having got rid of both the young 
men set herself anew to consider how she should 
speak to her father. And consideration helped 
nothing; she could not tell; she had to leave it to 
the moment to decide. 

It was late in the morning, later than the usual 
hour for the dejeuner a la fourchette, which Mr. 
Copley liked. He did not want anything to-day, 
his wife said; and she and Dolly and Rupert had 
finished their meal. Dolly contrived then that her 
mother should go out under Eupert's convoy, to 
visit the curiosity shop again, (nothing else would 
have tempted her) and to make one or two little 
purchases for which Dolly gave Rupert the means. 
When they were fairly off, she went to her father's 
room; he was up and dressed, she knew. She 
went with a very faint heart, not knowing in the 
least what she would do or say, but feeling that 
something must be said and done, both. 

Mr. Copley was sitting listlessly in a chair by 
the window; miserable enough, Dolly could see 
by the gloomy blank of his face; looking out, and 
caring for nothing that he saw. His features 
shewed traces of the evening before, in red eyes 
and pale cheeks; and yet worse, in the spiritless, 
abased expression, which was more than Dolly 
could bear. She had come in very quietly, but 
when she saw this she made one spring to his side 




 

and sank down on the floor before him, hiding her 
face on his knee. Mr. Copley's trembling hand 
presently lifted her up into his arms, and Dolly sat 
on his knee and buried her face in his breast. 
Neither of them was ready to speak; neither did 
speak for some time. It was Mr. Copley who 
began. 

" Well, Dolly, I suppose you will say to me 
that I have broken my word ? " 

" father ! " it came in a sort of despair from 
Dolly's heart, " what shall we do ? " 

Mr. Copley had certainly no answer ready to this 
question ; and his next words were a departure. 

" How came you to be at that place last night ? " 

" I was afraid you were there ' 

" How did you dare come poking about through 
all those crooked ways, and at what time of night ? " 

" Father," Dolly said without lifting her head, 
"that was nothing. I dared nothing, compared 
with what you dared ! " 

"I? You are mistaken, child. I did not run 
the slightest risk. In fact I was only doing what 
everybody else does. You make much of nothing, 
in your inexperience." 

" Father," said Dolly, with a great effort, " you 
promised me. And when a man cannot keep his 
promise '' 

She had meant to be perfectly quiet; she had 
begun very calmly; but at that word, suddenly, 
her calmness failed her. It was too much; and 
with a sort of wailing cry, which in its forlornness reached and wrung even Mr. Copley's nerves, 
she broke into a terrible passion of weeping. Terrible ! young hearts ought never to know such an 
agony; and never, never should such an agony 
be known for the shame or even the weakness of 
a father. The hand appointed to shield, the love 
which ought to shelter, when the blow comes 
from that quarter, it finds the heart bare and defenceless indeed, and comes so much the harder in 
that it comes from so near. No other, more distant, can give such a stroke. And to the young 
heart, unaccustomed to sorrow, new to life, not 
knowing how many its burdens and how heavy; 
not knowing on the other hand the equalizing, 
tempering effects of time; the first great pain 
comes crushing. The shoulders are not adjusted 
to the burden, and they feel as if they must break. 
Dolly's sobs were so convulsive and racking that 
her father was startled, and shocked. What had 
he done? Alas, the man never knows what he 
has done; he cannot understand how women die, 
