
“I will!” cried Jack, ready to follow where his beloved friend led, and
the others nodded, unwilling to be outdone by the youngest member.

“Good! With all of us to lend a hand, we can do a great deal; and I tell
you, boys, it is time, if we want to keep poor Bob straight. We all turn
our backs on him, so he loafs round the tavern, and goes with fellows
we don’t care to know. But he isn’t bad yet, and we can keep him up, I’m
sure, if we just try. I hope to get him into the Lodge, and that will be
half the battle, won’t it, Frank?” added Ed, sure that this suggestion
would have weight with the honorable Chairman.

“Bring him along; I’m with you!” answered Frank, making up his mind at
once, for he had joined the Temperance Lodge four years ago, and already
six boys had followed his example.

“He is learning to smoke, but we’ll make him drop it before it leads
to worse. You can help him there, Admiral, if you only will,” added Ed,
giving a grateful look at one friend, and turning to the other.

“I’m your man;” and Gus looked as if he knew what he promised, for he
had given up smoking to oblige his father, and kept his word like a
hero.

“You other fellows can do a good deal by just being kind and not
twitting him with old scrapes, and I’ll do anything I can for you all
to pay for this;” and Ed sat down with a beaming smile, feeling that his
cause was won.

The vote was taken, and all hands went up, for even surly Joe gave in;
so Bob and Tom were duly elected, and proved their gratitude for the
honor done them by becoming worthy members of the club. It was only
boys’ play now, but the kind heart and pure instincts of one lad showed
the others how to lend a helping hand to a comrade in danger, and win
him away from temptation to the safer pastimes of their more guarded
lives.

Well pleased with themselves--for every genuine act or word, no matter
how trifling it seems, leaves a sweet and strengthening influence
behind--the members settled down to the debate, which was never very
long, and often only an excuse for fun of all sorts.

“Ralph, Gus, and Ed are for, and Brickbat, Grif, and Chick against, I
suppose?” said Frank, surveying his company like a general preparing for
battle.

“No, sir! I believe in co-everything!” cried Chick, a mild youth, who
loyally escorted a chosen damsel home from school every day.

A laugh greeted this bold declaration, and Chick sat down, red but firm.

“I’ll speak for two since the Chairman can’t, and Jack won’t go against
those who pet him most to death,” said Joe, who, not being a favorite
with the girls, considered them a nuisance and lost no opportunity of
telling them so.

“Fire away, then, since you are up;” commanded Frank.

“Well,” began Joe, feeling too late how much he had undertaken, “I don’t
know a great deal about it, and I don’t care, but I do not believe in
having girls at college. They don’t belong there, nobody wants ‘em, and
they’d better be at home darning their stockings.”

“Yours, too,” put in Ralph, who had heard that argument so often he was
tired of it.

“Of course; that’s what girls are for. I don’t mind ‘em at school,
but I’d just as soon they had a room to themselves. We should get on
better.”

“You would if Mabel wasn’t in your class and always ahead of you,”
 observed Ed, whose friend was a fine scholar, and he very proud of the
fact.

“Look here, if you fellows keep interrupting, I won’t sit down for half
an hour,” said Joe, well knowing that eloquence was not his gift, but
bound to have his say out.

Deep silence reigned, for that threat quelled the most impatient member,
and Joe prosed on, using all the arguments he had ever heard, and
paying off several old scores by sly hits of a personal nature, as older
orators often do.

“It is clear to my mind that boys would get on better without any
girls fooling round. As for their being as smart as we are, it is all
nonsense, for some of ‘em cry over their lessons every day, or go home
with headaches, or get mad and scold all recess, because something
‘isn’t fair.’ No, sir; girls ain’t meant to know much, and they can’t.
Wise folks say so and I believe ‘em. Haven’t got any sisters myself, and
I don’t want any, for they don’t seem to amount to much, according to
those who do have ‘em.”

Groans from Gus and Ed greeted the closing remarks of the ungallant Joe,
who sat down, feeling that he had made somebody squirm. Up jumped Grif,
the delight of whose life was practical jokes, which amiable weakness
made him the terror of the girls, though they had no other fault to find
with the merry lad.

“Mr. Chairman, the ground I take is this: girls have not the strength to
go to college with us. They couldn’t row a race, go on a lark, or take
care of themselves, as we do. They are all well enough at home, and I
like them at parties, but for real fun and go I wouldn’t give a cent for
them,” began Grif, whose views of a collegiate life were confined to the
enjoyments rather than the studies of that festive period. “I have tried
them, and they can’t stand anything. They scream if you tell them there
is a mouse in the room, and run if they see a big dog. I just put a
cockroach in Molly’s desk one day, and when she opened it she jumped as
if she was shot.”

So did the gentlemen of the club, for at that moment half-a-dozen
fire-crackers exploded under the chair Grif had left, and flew wildly
about the room. Order was with difficulty restored, the mischievous
party summarily chastised and commanded to hold his tongue, under
penalty of ejectment from the room if he spoke again. Firmly grasping
that red and unruly member, Grif composed himself to listen, with his
nose in the air and his eyes shining like black beads.

Ed was always the peace-maker, and now, when he rose with his engaging
smile, his voice fell like oil upon the troubled waters, and his bright
face was full of the becoming bashfulness which afflicts youths of
seventeen when touching upon such subjects of newly acquired interest as
girls and their pleasant but perplexing ways.

“It seems to me we have hardly considered the matter enough to be able
to say much. But I think that school would be awfully dry and dismal
without--ahem!--any young ladies to make it nice. I wouldn’t give a pin
to go if there was only a crowd of fellows, though I like a good game
as well as any man. I pity any boy who has no sisters,” continued Ed,
warming up as he thought of his own, who loved him dearly, as well they
might, for a better brother never lived. “Home wouldn’t be worth having
without them to look after a fellow, to keep him out of scrapes, help
him with his lessons, and make things jolly for his friends. I tell you
we can’t do without girls, and I’m not ashamed to say that I think the
more we see of them, and try to be like them in many ways, the better
men we shall be by and by.”

“Hear! hear!” cried Frank, in his deepest tone, for he heartily agreed
to that, having talked the matter over with his mother, and received
much light upon things which should always be set right in young heads
and hearts. And who can do this so wisely and well as mothers, if they
only will?

Feeling that his sentiments had been approved, and he need not be
ashamed of the honest color in his cheeks, Ed sat down amid the applause
of his side, especially of Jack, who pounded so vigorously with his
crutch that Mrs. Pecq popped in her head to see if anything was wanted.

“No, thank you, ma’am, we were only cheering Ed,” said Gus, now upon
his legs, and rather at a loss what to say till Mrs. Pecq’s appearance
suggested an idea, and he seized upon it.

“My honored friend has spoken so well that I have little to add. I agree
with him, and if you want an example of what girls can do, why, look
at Jill. She’s young, I know, but a first-rate scholar for her age. As
for pluck, she is as brave as a boy, and almost as smart at running,
rowing, and so on. Of course, she can’t play ball--no girl can; their
arms are not made right to throw--but she can catch remarkably well.
I’ll say that for her. Now, if she and Mabel--and--and--some others I
could name, are so clever and strong at the beginning, I don’t see why
they shouldn’t keep up and go along with us all through. I’m willing,
