the invitations in her clear, characteristic hand, formed 
under her father's training, and Dolly folds and encloses 
them in their envelopes. They dress for tea and go down 
to the family sitting-room, where they find Leighton St. 
George, and presently Miss Clement enters rather timidly, 
but Dolly greets her with the old-time cordiality. 
The piano is over in the state drawing-room, and as 
there has been no fire, they must do their best this evening 
with conversation. There is certainly no lack. Dolly is 
 
 
TfvacioQB, descriptive, ridiculous to an absolute point of 
wit. She is an admirable mimic and raconteur; they have 
Newport elance and Western drollery served up to them. 
St. George warms into brilliancy. Christmas watches 
them and remembers Dolly's half -laughing prediction that 
she shall marry St. George. He belongs to the Allaires 
by all the rites of friendship ; yet Dolly will always be a 
daring, audacious child. Do such women carry off the 
prizes ? Ah, why could not Helen have waited? 
They are very much engrossed for the next eight days. 
The weather is clear and cold, and there falls sufficient 
snow for some delightful sleighing. The old house takes 
on a new aspect under Dolly's supervision. Mrs. Donald- 
son is quite charmed by the gay girl, and joins in the plan 
heartily. 
"You are going to spoil my most excellent business 
woman," says Mr. Donaldson, rather disapprovingly ; but 
no one sympathizes with his view ; they are all infected 
with Dolly's interest and delight. 
The evening comes around ; it is clear, with a moon 
almost at the full. The avenue is hung with lanterns, and 
the house is fairly illuminated. Even the observatory in 
the tower has a lamp and reflector that sheds long rays 
around. The appointments are not lavish as entertain- 
ments have been at Meadowcroft, yet Christmas is thor- 
oughly satisfied. There is light and glow, warmth and 
flowers. The young and middle aged in neighboring fam- 
ilies have been invited. There is to be music and dan- 
cing in the spacious drawing-room and hall ; there can be 
card playing and conversation for the elders; and the 
supper has been pronounced au fait by Dolly, who is in 
shimmering satin with clouds of lace, her hair seeming to 
shake off the glitter of gold. 
It wouid seem that no one has declined. Whether from 
curiosity or a desire to appear friendly with the young 
mistress of Glen Ormiston, one party after another pre- 
 
 
 
sents itself. The young girls chatter in the dresstng- 
rooms, and are rather shy at first, perhaps a trifle afraid 
of this stately Miss Ormiston, who looks taller than ever to- 
night in her trained dress of soft silk in pale Nile green, that 
is wonderfully becoming. But Dolly soon has them eager 
and interested. The music, too, stirs their blood, and 
after a quadrille or two they are ready for every enjoy- 
ment There may be a few signs of provincialism ; but 
many of these people have been abroad. There is the wife 
and daughter of a senator, the daughter of a well-known 
judge, and some lesser social lights. There are discus- 
sions in the sitting-room that evince breadth and vigor ; 
there are talks on fashion and pictures and books, theatres 
and operas, and for a wonder, there are no lapses of dul- 
ness. Some of the elder people refer mysteriously to the 
Treverton reign, and all admit that Miss Ormiston fell 
into excellent hands. Philip Donaldson seems a man of 
mark among them; it appears to Christmas that he is 
rated higher than Mr. St. Grcorge ; but these people under- 
stand his capabilities better. 
Mrs. Donaldson has not been much into society. Her 
ill-health at first, and a disinclination later on, with a 
touch of uncertainty in their position, have kept her in the 
background. The loss of fortune had been a bitter blow 
to her as well ; but she feels now they have taken some 
strides toward their old standing. She looks high-bred 
and lovely in her black velvet and costly laces, and Leigh- 
ton St. George pays her a marked deference. 
The supper and the serving are successes ; the ices are 
fine and plentiful. There is more dancing, and every- 
body goes away as nearly replete with satisfaction as is 
possible. Dolly has flirted audaciously, bewitchingly, and 
been the belle of the evening. The guests depart with 
expressions of enjoyment and kindly wishes for their 
young hostess, whose variations of fortune have been a 
source of interest to them for many years, and who remem* 
 
 
A woman's inheritance. Ill 
ber her father as a rather distant, unsocial person before 
the accident that was terrible enough to change almost 
any man's nature. 
" It was delightful ! " Dolly declares. " Christmas, you 
are really to be envied ! It is ever so much more gratify- 
ing to be the great lady in a smaller place, than merely one 
of many in a large city, where you may drop out unnoticed, 
and where everybody is eager to push you out to their 
own advantage. If mamma were not going abroad, you 
would really have a chance to get tired of me. I should 
invite myself for a whole summer." 
"I invite you now," says Christmas, ''for any summer 
you may like. If you need a friend or a refuge, any 
time, come to me." 
A strange expression goes over Dolly's face, leaving 
it frightened and gray. Then, recovering herself, she 
answers, with a little forced laugh, — 
"How tragic you are, and how generous, too ! If one 
wanted a true and tender friend, one could trust you to 
the uttermost. But I shall come without being in need, 
for the very delight of it." 
There is a curious, pathetic falter in Dolly's voice that 
Christmas remembers long afterward. 
Indeed, it seems as if Dolly hated to leave Glen Ormis- 
ton. She puts off her departure, day after day, until a 
rather peremptory message comes from her mother ; and 
then she appears more moved than Christmas ever remem- 
bers her. But the good-byes have to be said at length. 
St. George takes her back to the city, and sees them off 
on their winter journey, half wishing that he was going 
himself, as they have been trying to persuade him. 
"I may come over, in the spring, with Mrs. Stannard," 
he says, and resolves so to do, for a curious unrest has 
taken possession of him. 
The city is at its gayest. There are distinguished 
Tiiitors at the clubs ; there are savants and travellers for 
 
 
 
pleasure ; inyitations pile up on his table ; but he tossefl 
them aside with an ennnied feeliAg. Is he really losing 
his interest in the world of homiinity? Fainting grows 
tiresome as well. What does he care for fame, and of 
money he sorely has enough ! Were the zest and interest 
the charm of youth, — youth that has really passed? Yet 
manhood's promises seemed to be those of greater rich* 
ness and satisfaction. He finds it in his heart to look at
Philip Donaldson's busy life with feelings akin to envy. 
Is it, indeed, wife and children that broaden out a man's 
existence with the beneficent vitality his has come to lack? 
There is one place in which he spends many hours that 
would otherwise hang heavy on his hands ; this is Mrs. 
Stannard's drawing-room. Madam Stannard has paid her 
last debt and been decorously laid in the Brower vault 
with the past generations. Miss Stannard has bestowed 
her hand upon a mild-mannered ritualistic clergyman, and 
they go on in the old house ; but the divided fortune has 
added a little to the prosperity of the son and daughter. 
Mrs. Stannard is still a queen in her realm, a dignified, 
beautiful woman, cold, serene, and stately for the world ; 
but she softens to a few intimate friends, of whom St. 
George is one; though in the round of pleasures she 
holds herself above it with that indescribable exclusive- 
ness of her inner self. She likes the power, the defer- 
ence, people pay her ; she has reared such a fine, intangi- 
ble defence about herself that no one ventures to obtrude, 
and invitations are received with a peculiar gratitude. 
Marriage has not narrowed her intellectual attainments, 
but rather given a new impetus to them, since her ambi- 
tion is to be the peer of the intellectual men and women 
she meets. There is always some charming visitor in her 
