“What right spirit?” croaked Mrs. Maynard.
“The wish to please him, to”--
“I don’t choose to have him say that his child disgraces him,” replied
Mrs. Maynard, in the low, husky, monotonous murmur in which she was
obliged to utter everything.
“But, dear Louise!” cried the other, “you choose something else too,
don’t you? You wish to meet him as if no unkindness had parted you, and
as if you were to be always together after this? I hope you do! Then I
should feel that all this suffering and, trouble was a mercy.”
“Other people’s misery is always a mercy to them,” hoarsely suggested
Mrs. Maynard.
“Yes, I know that,” Grace submitted, with meek conviction. “But,
Louise,” she pleaded, “you will make up with your husband, won’t you?
Whatever he has done, that will surely be best. I know that you love
him, and that he must love you, yet. It’s the only way. If you were
finally separated from him, and you and he could be happy apart, what
would become of that poor child? Who will take a father’s place with
her? That’s the worst about it. Oh, Louise, I feel so badly for you--for
what you have lost, and may lose. Marriage must change people so that
unless they live to each other, their lives will be maimed and useless.
It ought to be so much easier to forgive any wrong your husband does you
than to punish it; for that perpetuates the wrong, and forgiveness ends
it, and it’s the only thing that can end a wrong. I am sure that
your husband will be ready to do or say anything you wish; but if he
shouldn’t, Louise, you will receive him forgivingly, and make the first
advance? It’s a woman’s right to make the advances in forgiving.”
Mrs. Maynard lay with her hands stretched at her side under the
covering, and only her face visible above it. She now turned her head a
little, so as to pierce the earnest speaker with a gleam from her dull
eye. “Have you accepted Walter Libby?” she asked.
“Louise!” cried Grace, with a blush that burned like fire.
“That’s the way I used to talk when I was first engaged. Wait till
you’re married a while. I want Bella to have on her pique, and her pink
sash,--not the cherry one. I should think you would have studied to be
a minister instead of a doctor. But you need n’t preach to me; I shall
know how to behave to George Maynard when he comes,--if he ever does
come. And now I should think you had made me talk enough!”
“Yes, Yes,” said Grace, recalled to her more immediate duty in alarm.
All her helpfulness was soon to be needed. The disease, which had
lingered more than usual in the early stages, suddenly approached a
crisis. That night Mrs. Maynard grew so much worse that Grace sent Libby
at daybreak for Dr. Mulbridge; and the young man, after leading out his
own mare to see if her lameness had abated, ruefully put her back in the
stable, and set off to Corbitant with the splay-foot at a rate of speed
unparalleled, probably, in the animal’s recollection of a long and
useful life. In the two anxious days that followed, Libby and Grace were
associated in the freedom of a common interest outside of themselves;
she went to him for help and suggestion, and he gave them, as if nothing
had passed to restrict or embarrass their relations. There was that, in
fact, in the awe of the time and an involuntary disoccupation of hers
that threw them together even more constantly than before. Dr. Mulbridge
remained with his patient well into the forenoon; in the afternoon he
came again, and that night he did not go away. He superseded Grace as
a nurse no less completely than he had displaced her as a physician. He
let her relieve him when he flung himself down for a few minutes’ sleep,
or when he went out for the huge meals which he devoured, preferring
the unwholesome things with a depravity shocking to the tender physical
consciences of the ladies who looked on; but when he returned to his
charge, he showed himself jealous of all that Grace had done involving
the exercise of more than a servile discretion. When she asked him once
if there were nothing else that she could do, he said, “fires, keep
those women and children quiet,” in a tone that classed her with both.
She longed to ask him what he thought of Mrs. May nard’s condition; but
she had not the courage to invoke the intelligence that ignored her
so completely, and she struggled in silence with such disheartening
auguries as her theoretical science enabled her to make.
The next day was a Sunday, and the Sabbath hush which always hung over
Jocelyn’s was intensified to the sense of those who ached between hope
and fear for the life that seemed to waver and flicker in that still
air. Dr. Mulbridge watched beside his patient, noting every change with
a wary intelligence which no fact escaped and no anxiety clouded; alert,
gentle, prompt; suffering no question, and absolutely silent as to all
impressions. He allowed Grace to remain with him when she liked, and
let her do his bidding in minor matters; but when from time to time she
escaped from the intolerable tension in which his reticence and her own
fear held her, he did not seem to see whether she went or came. Toward
nightfall she met him coming out of Mrs. Maynard’s room, as she drew
near in the narrow corridor.
“Where is your friend--the young man--the one who smokes?” he asked, as
if nothing unusual had occupied him. “I want him to give me a cigar.”
“Dr. Mulbridge,” she said, “I will not bear this any longer. I must know
the worst--you have no right to treat me in this way. Tell me now--tell
me instantly: will she live?”
He looked at her with an imaginable apprehension of hysterics, but as
she continued firm, and placed herself resolutely in his way, he relaxed
his scrutiny, and said, with a smile, “Oh, I think so. What made you
think she would n’t?”
She drew herself aside, and made way far him.
“Go!” she cried. She would have said more, but her indignation choked
her.
He did not pass at once, and he did not seem troubled at her anger.
“Dr. Breen,” he said, “I saw a good deal of pneumonia in the army, and
I don’t remember a single case that was saved by the anxiety of the
surgeon.”
He went now, as people do when they fancy themselves to have made a
good point; and she heard him asking Barlow for Libby, outside, and then
walking over the gravel toward the stable. At that moment she doubted
and hated him so much that she world have been glad to keep Libby from
talking or even smoking with him. But she relented a little toward him
afterwards, when he returned and resumed the charge of his patient with
the gentle, vigilant cheerfulness which she had admired in him from the
first, omitting no care and betraying none. He appeared to take it for
granted that Grace saw an improvement, but he recognized it by nothing
explicit till he rose and said, “I think I will leave Mrs. Maynard with
you to-night, Dr. Breen.”
The sick woman’s eyes turned to him imploringly from her pillow,
and Grace spoke the terror of both when she faltered in return, “Are
you--you are not going home?”
“I shall sleep in the house.”
“Oh, thank you!” she cried fervently.
“And you can call me if you wish. But there won’t be any occasion.
Mrs. Maynard is very much better.” He waited to give, in a sort of
absent-minded way, certain directions. Then he went out, and Grace sank
back into the chair from which she had started at his rising, and wept
long and silently with a hidden face. When she took away her hands and
dried her tears, she saw Mrs. Maynard beckoning to her. She went to the
bedside.
“What is it, dear?” she asked tenderly.
“Stoop down,” whispered the other; and as Grace bowed her ear Mrs.
Maynard touched her cheek with her dry lips. In this kiss doubtless
she forgave the wrong which she had hoarded in her heart, and there
perverted into a deadly injury. But they both knew upon what terms the
pardon was accorded, and that if Mrs. Maynard had died, she would have
died holding Grace answerable for her undoing.
IX.
In the morning Dr. Mulbridge drove back to Corbitant, and in the evening
Libby came over from New Leyden with Maynard, in a hired wagon. He was
a day later than his wife had computed, but as she appeared to have
reflected, she had left the intervening Sunday out of her calculation;
this was one of the few things she taxed herself to say. For the rest,
she seemed to be hoarding her strength against his coming.
Grace met him at a little distance from the house, whither she had
walked with Bella, for a breath of the fresh air after her long day in
the sick-room, and did not find him the boisterous and jovial Hoosier
she had imagined him. It was, in fact, hardly the moment for the
expression of Western humor. He arrived a sleep-broken, travel-creased
figure, with more than the Western man’s usual indifference to dress;
with sad, dull eyes, and an untrimmed beard that hung in points and
tags, and thinly hid the corners of a large mouth. He took her hand
laxly in his, and bowing over her from his lank height listened to her
report of his wife’s state, while he held his little girl on his left
arm, and the child fondly pressed her cheek against his bearded face,
to which he had quietly lifted her as soon as he alighted from Libby’s
buggy.
Libby introduced Grace as Dr. Breen, and drove on, and Maynard gave
her the title whenever he addressed her, with a perfect effect of
single-mindedness in his gravity, as if it were an every-day thing
with him to meet young ladies who were physicians. He had a certain
neighborly manner of having known her a long time, and of being on good
terms with her; and somewhere there resided in his loosely knit organism
a powerful energy. She had almost to run in keeping at his side, as
he walked on to the house, carrying his little girl on his arm, and
glancing about him; and she was not sure at last that she had succeeded
in making him understand how serious the case had been.
“I don’t know whether I ought to let you go in,” she said, “without
preparing her.”
“She’s been expecting me, has n’t she?” he asked.
“Yes, but”--
“And she’s awake?”
“Then I’ll just go in and prepare her myself. I’m a pretty good hand
