     people are prone in this country, from the long course of internal
     and external soakage they experience, he had grown dry and stiff in
     the process of years. The skin of his face had so shrunk away that
     he could not close eyes or mouth--the latter, therefore, stood on a
     perpetual ghastly grin, and the former on an incessant stare. He
     had but one serviceable joint in his body, which was at the bottom
     of the backbone, and that creaked and grated whenever he bent. He
     could not raise his feet from the ground, but skated along the
     drawing-room carpet whenever he wished to ring the bell. The only
     sign of moisture in his whole body was a pellucid drop that I
     occasionally noticed on the end of a long, dry nose. He used
     generally to shuffle about in company with a little fellow that was
     fat on one side and lean on the other. That is to say, he was
     warped on one side as if he had been scorched before the fire; he
     had a wry neck, which made his head lean on one shoulder; his hair
     was smugly powdered, and he had a round, smirking, smiling, apple
     face, with a bloom on it like that of a frost-bitten leaf in
     autumn. We had an old, fat general by the name of Trotter, who had,
     I suspect, been promoted to his high rank to get him out of the way
     of more able and active officers, being an instance that a man may
     occasionally rise in the world through absolute lack of merit. I
     could not help watching the movements of this redoubtable old Hero,
     who, I'll warrant, has been the champion and safeguard of half the
     garrison towns in England, and fancying to myself how Bonaparte
     would have delighted in having such toast-and-butter generals to
     deal with. This old cad is doubtless a sample of those generals
     that flourished in the old military school, when armies would
     manoeuvre and watch each other for months; now and then have a
     desperate skirmish, and, after marching and countermarching about
     the 'Low Countries' through a glorious campaign, retire on the
     first pinch of cold weather into snug winter quarters in some fat
     Flemish town, and eat and drink and fiddle through the winter.
     Boney must have sadly disconcerted the comfortable system of these
     old warriors by the harrowing, restless, cut-and-slash mode of
     warfare that he introduced. He has put an end to all the old carte
     and tierce system in which the cavaliers of the old school fought
     so decorously, as it were with a small sword in one hand and a
     chapeau bras in the other. During his career there has been a sad
     laying on the shelf of old generals who could not keep up with the
     hurry, the fierceness and dashing of the new system; and among the
     number I presume has been my worthy house-mate, old Trotter. The
     old gentleman, in spite of his warlike title, had a most pacific
     appearance. He was large and fat, with a broad, hazy, muffin face,
     a sleepy eye, and a full double chin. He had a deep ravine from
     each corner of his mouth, not occasioned by any irascible
     contraction of the muscles, but apparently the deep-worn channels
     of two rivulets of gravy that oozed out from the huge mouthfuls
     that he masticated. But I forbear to dwell on the odd beings that
     were congregated together in one hotel. I have been thus prolix
     about the old general because you desired me in one of your letters
     to give you ample details whenever I happened to be in company with
     the 'great and glorious,' and old Trotter is more deserving of the
     epithet than any of the personages I have lately encountered."
It was at the same resort of fashion and disease that Irving observed a
phenomenon upon which Brevoort had commented as beginning to be
noticeable in America.
     "Your account [he writes] of the brevity of the old lady's nether
     garments distresses me.... I cannot help observing that this
     fashion of short skirts must have been invented by the French
     ladies as a complete trick upon John Bull's 'woman-folk.' It was
     introduced just at the time the English flocked in such crowds to
     Paris. The French women, you know, are remarkable for pretty feet
     and ankles, and can display them in perfect security. The English
     are remarkable for the contrary. Seeing the proneness of the
     English women to follow French fashions, they therefore led them
     into this disastrous one, and sent them home with their petticoats
     up to their knees, exhibiting such a variety of sturdy little legs
     as would have afforded Hogarth an ample choice to match one of his
     assemblages of queer heads. It is really a great source of
     curiosity and amusement on the promenade of a watering-place to
     observe the little sturdy English women, trudging about in their
     stout leather shoes, and to study the various 'understandings'
     betrayed to view by this mischievous fashion."
The years passed rather wearily in England. Peter continued to be an
invalid, and Washington himself, never robust, felt the pressure more
and more of the irksome and unprosperous business affairs. Of his own
want of health, however, he never complains; he maintains a patient
spirit in the ill turns of fortune, and his impatience in the business
complications is that of a man hindered from his proper career. The
times were depressing.
     "In America [he writes to Brevoort] you have financial
     difficulties, the embarrassments of trade, the distress of
     merchants, but here you have what is far worse, the distress of the
     poor--not merely mental sufferings, but the absolute miseries of
     nature: hunger, nakedness, wretchedness of all kinds that the
     laboring people in this country are liable to. In the best of times
     they do but subsist, but in adverse times they starve. How the
     country is to extricate itself from its present embarrassment, how
     it is to escape from the poverty that seems to be overwhelming it,
     and how the government is to quiet the multitudes that are already
     turbulent and clamorous, and are yet but in the beginning of their
     real miseries, I cannot conceive."
The embarrassments of the agricultural and laboring classes and of the
government were as serious in 1816 as they have again become in 1881.
During 1817 Irving was mostly in the depths of gloom, a prey to the
monotony of life and torpidity of intellect. Rays of sunlight pierce the
clouds occasionally. The Van Wart household at Birmingham was a frequent
refuge for him, and we have pretty pictures of the domestic life there;
glimpses of Old Parr, whose reputation as a gourmand was only second to
his fame as a Grecian, and of that delightful genius, the Rev. Rann
Kennedy, who might have been famous if he had ever committed to paper
the long poems that he carried about in his head, and the engaging sight
of Irving playing the flute for the little Van Warts to dance. During
the holidays Irving paid another visit to the haunts of Isaac Walton,
and his description of the adventures and mishaps of a pleasure party
on the banks of the Dove suggest that the incorrigible bachelor was
still sensitive to the allurements of life, and liable to wander over
the "dead-line" of matrimonial danger. He confesses that he was all day
in Elysium. "When we had descended from the last precipice," he says,
"and come to where the Dove flowed musically through a verdant
meadow--then--fancy me, oh, thou 'sweetest of poets,' wandering by the
course of this romantic stream--a lovely girl hanging on my arm,
pointing out the beauties of the surrounding scenery, and repeating in
the most dulcet voice tracts of heaven-born poetry. If a strawberry
smothered in cream has any consciousness of its delicious situation, it
must feel as I felt at that moment." Indeed, the letters of this doleful
year are enlivened by so many references to the graces and attractions
of lovely women, seen and remembered, that insensibility cannot be
attributed to the author of the "Sketch-Book."
The death of Irving's mother in the spring of 1817 determined him to
remain another year abroad. Business did not improve. His
brother-in-law Van Wart called a meeting of his creditors, the Irving
brothers floundered on into greater depths of embarrassment, and
Washington, who could not think of returning home to face poverty in New
York, began to revolve a plan that would give him a scanty but
sufficient support. The idea of the "Sketch-Book" was in his mind. He
had as yet made few literary acquaintances in England. It is an
illustration of the warping effect of friendship upon the critical
faculty that his opinion of Moore at this time was totally changed by
subsequent intimacy. At a later date the two authors became warm friends
and mutual admirers of each other's productions. In June, 1817, "Lalla
Rookh" was just from the press, and Irving writes to Brevoort: "Moore's
new poem is just out. I have not sent it to you, for it is dear and
worthless. It is written in the most effeminate taste, and fit only to
delight boarding-school girls and lads of nineteen just in their first
loves. Moore should have kept to songs and epigrammatic conceits. His
stream of intellect is too small to bear expansion--it spreads into
mere surface." Too much cream for the strawberry!
Notwithstanding business harassments in the summer and fall of 1817 he
found time for some wandering about the island; he was occasionally in
London, dining at Murray's, where he made the acquaintance of the elder
D'Israeli and other men of letters (one of his notes of a dinner at
Murray's is this: "Lord Byron told Murray that he was much happier after
breaking with Lady Byron--he hated this still, quiet life"); he was
publishing a new edition of the "Knickerbocker," illustrated by Leslie
and Allston; and we find him at home in the friendly and brilliant
society of Edinburgh; both the magazine publishers, Constable and
Blackwood, were very civil to him, and Mr. Jeffrey (Mrs. Renwick was his
sister) was very attentive; and he passed some days with Walter Scott,
whose home life he so agreeably describes in his sketch of "Abbotsford."
He looked back longingly to the happy hours there (he writes to his
brother): "Scott reading, occasionally, from 'Prince Arthur'; telling
border stories or characteristic anecdotes; Sophy Scott singing with
charming naïveté a little border song; the rest of the family disposed
in listening groups, while greyhounds, spaniels, and cats bask in
unbounded indulgence before the fire. Everything about Scott is perfect
character and picture."
In the beginning of 1818 the business affairs of the brothers became so
irretrievably involved that Peter and Washington went through the
humiliating experience of taking the bankrupt act. Washington's
