of inside work. 
When Bicker left him Bartley hesitated. He was 
half minded to go home and wait for Witherby to 
look him up, as the most dignified and perhaps the 
most prudent course. But he was curious and im 
patient, and he was afraid of letting the chance, 
whatever it might be, slip through his fingers. He 
suddenly resolved upon a little ruse, which would 
still oblige Witherby to make the advance, and yet 
would risk nothing by delay. He mounted to Wither- 
by 's room in the Events building, and pushed open 
the door. Then he drew back, embarrassed, as if he 
had made a mistake. "Excuse me," he said, " isn 't 
Mr. Atherton 's office on this floor ? " 
Witherby looked up from the papers on his desk, 
and cleared his throat. When he overreached him 
self he was apt to hold any party to the transaction 
accountable for his error. Ever since he refused 
Hartley 's paper on the logging-camp, he had accused 
him in his heart of fraud because he had sold the 
rejected sketch to another paper, and anticipated 
Witherby 's tardy enterprise in the same direction. 
Each little success that Bartley made added to 
Witherby 's dislike ; and whilst Bartley had written 
for all the other papers, he had never got any work 
from the Events. Witherby had the guilty sense 
of having hated him as he looked up, and Bartley 
on his part was uneasily sensible of some mocking 
paragraphs of a more or less personal cast, which 
he had written in the Chronicle-Abstract, about the 
enterprise of the Events. 
" Mr. Atherton is on the floor above," said Wither- 
by. " But I in very glad you happened to look in, 
Mr. Hubbard. I I was just thinking about you. 
Ah wont you take a chair ? " 
" Thanks," said Bartley, non-committally ; but he 
sat down in the chair which the other rose to offer him. 
Witherby fumbled about among the tilings on hi* 
desk before lie resumed his own seat. " I hope you 
have been well since I saw you ? " 
" Oh, yes, I'm always well. How have you been ? " 
Bartley wondered whither this exchange of civilities 
tended ; but he believed he could keep it up as lung 
as old Witherby could. 
" Why, I have not been very well," said Witherby, 
 
getting into his chair, and taking up a paper-weight 
to help him in talk. " The fact is, I find that I 
have been working too hard. I have undertaken to 
manage the editorial department of the JCveiits in 
addition to looking after its business, and the care 
has been too great. It has told upon me. I flatter 
myself that I have not allowed either department to 
suffer " 
He referred this point so directly to him, that 
Bartley made a murmur of assent, and Witherby 
resumed. 
" But the care has told upon me. I am not so well 
as I could wish. I need rest, and I need help," he 
added. 
Bartley had by this time made up his mind that, if 
Witherby had anything to say to him, he should say 
it unaided. 
Witherby put down the paper-weight, and gave 
his attention for a moment to a paper-cutter. " I 
don 't know whether you have heard that Mr. Clayton 
is going to leave us ? " 
" No," Bartley said, " I hadn 't heard that." 
" Yes, he is going to leave us. Mr. Clayton and 
I have not agreed upon some points, and we have 
both judged it best that we should part." Witherby 
paused again, and changed the positions of his ink 
stand and mucilage-bottle. " Mr. Clayton has failed 
me, as I may say, at the last moment, and we have 
been compelled to part. I found Mr. Clayton 
unpractical." 
He looked again at Bartley, who said, " Yes ? " 
"Yes. I found Mr. Clayton so much at variance 
in his views with with my own views that I 
could do nothing with him. He has used language 
to me which I am sure lie will regret. But that is 
neither here nor there , he is going. I have had my 
eye on you, Mr. Hubbard, ever since you came to 
 
Boston, and have watched your career with interest. 
But I thought of Mr. Clayton, in the first instance, 
he cause he was already attached to the Events, and I 
wished to promote him. Office during good behavior, 
and promotion in the direct line : I 'm thai much of a 
civil-service reformer," said Witherby. 
" Certainly," said Hartley. 
" But of course my idea in starting the Events 
was to make money." 
" Of course." 
" I hold that the first duty of a public journal is 
to make money for the owner ; all the rest follows 
naturally." 
" You 're quite right, Mr. Witherby," said Bartley. 
" Unless it makes money, there can he no enterprise 
about it, no independence, nothing. That was the 
way I did with my little paper down in Maine. The 
first thing I told the committee when I took hold 
of the paper is to keep it from losing money; the 
next is to make money with it. First peaceable, then 
pure : that 's what I told them." 
" Precisely so ! " Witherby was now so much at 
his ease with Bartley that he left off tormenting the 
things on his desk, and used his hands in gesticu 
lating. "Look at the churches themselves: Xo 
church can do any good till it 's on a paying basis. 
As long as a church is in debt, it can 't secure the 
best talent for the pulpit or the choir, and the 
members go about feeling discouraged and out of 
heart. It 's just so with a newspaper. I say that 
a paper does no good till it pays ; it has no influ 
ence, its motives are always suspected, and you 've 
got to make it pay by hook or by crook, before you 
can hope to to forward any good cause by it. 
That 's what I say. Of course," he added, in a large, 
smooth way, " I in not going to contend that a 
newspaper should be run soldid in the interest of 
 
the counting-room. Not at all ! But I do -contend 
that, when the counting-room protests against a cer 
tain course the editorial room is taking, it ought to be 
respectfully listened to. There are always two sides 
to every question. Suppose all the newspapers pitch 
i n as they sometimes do and denounce a certain 
public enterprise : a projected scheme of railroad 
legislation, or a peculiar system of banking, or a 
co-operative mining interest, and the counting-room 
sends up word that the company advertises heavily 
with us ; shall we go and join indiscriminately in that 
hue and cry, or shall we give our friends the benefit 
of the doubt ? " 
"Give them the benefit of the doubt," answered 
Bartley. " That 's what I say." 
" And so would any other practical man ! " said 
Witherby. "And that 's just where Mr. Clayton 
and I differed. Well, I needn 't allude to him any 
more," he added leniently. "What I wish to say 
is this, Mr. Hubbard. I am overworked, and I feel 
the need of some sort of relief. I know that I have 
started the Events in the right line at last, the 
only line in which it can be made a great, useful, and 
respectable journal, efficient in every good cause, 
and what I want now is some sort of assistant 
in the management who shall be in full sympathy 
with my own ideas. I don 't want a mere slave, a 
tool ; but I do want an independent, right-minded 
man, who shall be with me for the success of the 
paper the whole time and every time, and shall not 
be continually setting up his will against mine on 
all sorts of doctrinaire points. That was the trouble 
with Mr. Clayton. I have nothing against Mr. Clay 
ton personally ; he is an excellent young man in 
very many respects ; but he was all wrong about 
journalism, all wrong, Mr. Hubbard. I talked with 
him a great deal, and tried to make him see where 
 
