less at first, then found his tongue and fell to bluster- 
ing and threatening; but Hendon was tranquil, and 
waited with patience till his breath was spent; then 
said: 
“I have a liking to thee, friend, and would not 
willingly see thee come to harm. Observe, I heard 
it all — every word. I will prove it to thee.” Then 
he repeated the conversation which the officer and 
the woman had had together in the hall, word for 
word, and ended with: 
“There — have I set it forth correctly? Should 
not I be able to set it forth correctly before the 
judge, if occasion required?” 
The man was dumb with fear and distress for 
a moment; then he rallied and said with forced 
lightness: 
‘ ‘ ’Tis making a mighty matter indeed, out of a jest ; 
I but plagued the woman for mine amusement.” 
“Kept you the woman’s pig for amusement?” 
The man answered sharply: 
“Naught else, good sir — I teH thee ’twas but a jest.” 
“I do begin to believe thee,” said Hendon, with 
a perplexing mixture of mockery and half-con'viction 
in his tone; “but tarry thou here a moment whilst I 
run and ask his worship — for nathless, he being a 
man experienced in law, in jests, in — ” 
He was moving away, still talking; ilae constable 
hesitated, fidgeted, spat out an oath or two, then 
cried out: 
“Hold, hold, good sir — prithee, wait a little— 
the judge! why man, he hath no more sympathy 
with a jest than hath a dead coipse! — come, and 
W'e will speak further, Ods body! I seem to be in 
evil case — and all for an innocent and thoughtless 
pleasantry. I am a man of family; and my wife 
and little ones — List to reason, good yotur wor- 
ship; what wouldst thou of me?” 
“Only that thou be blind and dumb and paralytic 
whilst one may count a hundred thousand — count- 
ing slowly,” said Hendon, with the expression of a 
man who asks but a reasonable favor, and that a 
very little one, 
“It is my destruction!” said the constable de- 
spairingly, “Ah, be reasonable, good sir; only 
look at this matter, on all its sides, and see how 
mere a jest it is — how manifestly and how plainly 
it is so. And even if one granted it were not a jest, 
it is a fault so small that e’en the grimmest penalty 
it could call forth would be but a rebuke and 
warning from the judge’s lips.” 
Hendon relied with a solemnity which chilled 
the air about him: 
“This jest of thine hath a name in law — wot you 
what it is?” 
“I knew it not! Peradventure I have been unwise.
I never dreamed it had a name — ah, sweet 
heaven, I thought it was original.” 
“Yes, it hath a name. In the law this crime is 
called Non compos mentis lex talionis sic transit 
gloria Mundi.” 
“Ah, my God!” 
“And the penalty is death!” 
“God be merciful to me, a sinner!” 
“By advantage taken of one in fault, in dire 
peril, and at thy mercy, thou hast seized goods 
worth above thirteen pence ha’penny, paying but a 
trifle for the same; and this, in the eye of the law, 
is constructive barratry, misprision of treason, 
malfeasance in office, ad hominem expurgatis in statu 
quo — and the penalty is death by the halter, 
without ransom, commutation, or benefit of clergy.” 
“Bear me up, bear me up, sweet sir, my legs do 
fail me! Be thou merciful — spare me this doom, 
and I will turn my back and see naught that shall 
happen.” 
“Good! now thou’rt wise and reasonable. And 
thou’lt restore the pig?” 
“I will, I will, indeed — nor ever touch another, 
though heaven send it and an archangel fetch it. 
Go — am blind for thy sake — see nothing. I 
will say thou didst break in and wrest the prisoner 
from my hands by force. It is but a crazy, and 
door — I will batter it down myself betwixt midnight 
and the morning.” 
“Do it, good soul, no harm will come of it; the 
judge hath a loving charity for this poor lad, and 
will shed no tears and break no jailer’s bones for his 
escape.” 
HENDON HALL 
As soon as Hendon and the king were out of sight 
 of the constable, his majesty was instructed to 
hurry to a certain place outside the town, and wait 
there, whilst Hendon should go to the inn and settle 
his account. Half an hour later the two friends 
were blithely jogging eastward on Hendon’s sorry 
steeds. The king was warm and comfortable now, 
for he had cast his rags and clothed himself in the 
second-hand suit which Hendon had bought on 
London Bridge. 
Hendon wished to guard against over-fatiguing 
the boy; he judged that hard journeys, irregular 
meals, and illiberal measures of sleep would be bad 
for his crazed mind; while rest, regularity, and 
moderate exercise would be pretty sure to hasten 
its cure; he longed to see the stricken intellect made 
well again and its diseased visions driven out of the 
tormented little head; therefore he resolved to move 
by easy stages toward the home whence he had so 
long been banished, instead of obeying the impulse 
of his impatience and hurrying along night and day. 
When he and the king had journeyed about ten 
mules, they reached a considerable village, and halted 
there for the night, at a good inn. The former 
relations were resumed; Hendon stood behind the 
Hug’s chair while he dined, and waited upon him; 
imdressed liim when he was ready for bed; then 
took the floor for his own quarters, and slept athwart 
the door, rolled up in a blanket. 
The next day, and the next day after, they jogged 
lazily along talking over the adventures they had 
met since their separation, and mightily enjoying 
each other’s narratives. Hendon detailed all his 
wide wanderings in search of the king, and described 
how the archangel had led him a fool’s journey all 
over the forest, and taken him back to the hut 
finally, when he found he could not get rid of him. 
Then — he said — the old man went into the bed- 
chamber and came staggering back looking broken- 
hearted, and saying he had expected to find that 
the boy had returned and lain down in there to rest, 
but it was not so. Hendon had waited at the hut 
all day; hope of the king’s return died out then, and 
he departed upon the quest again. 
“And old Sanctum Sanctorum was truly sorry 
your Highness came not back,” said Hendon; “I 
saw it in his face.” 
“Marry, I will never doubt that!” said the Hng — 
and then told his own story; after which Hendon 
was sorry he had not destroyed the archangel. 
During the last day of the trip, Hendon’s spirits 
were soaring. His tongue ran constantly. He 
talked about his old father, and his brother Arthur, 
and told of many things which illustrated their high 
and generous characters; he went into loving frensies 
over his Edith, and was so glad-hearted that he 
was’ even able to say some gentle and brothery 
things about Hugh. He dwelt a deal on the coming 
meeting at Hendon Hall; what a surprise it would 
be to everybody, and what an outburst of thanks- 
giving and delight there would be. 
It was a fair region, dotted with cottages and 
orchards, and the road led through broad pasture- 
lands whose receding expanses, marked with gentle 
elevations and depressions, suggested the swelling 
and subsiding undulations of the sea. In the 
afternoon the returning prodigal made constant 
deflections from his course to see if by ascending some 
hillock he might not pierce the distance and catch a 
glimpse of his home. At last he was successful, and 
cried out excitedly: 
