in the morning ; it seemed to him that this would be an insult 
to an unprotected woman. Nor could he wait until after she 
had gone, unless he should wait longer than he had patience for. 
It would not do to start the next day. She worried him ; she 
oppressed him ; the idea of spending the day in a European 
railway-carriage with her offered a complication of irritations. 
'Still, she was a lady travelling alone ; it was his duty to put 
himself out for her. There could be no two questions about 
that ; it was a perfectly clear necessity. He looked extremely 
grave for some moments, and then he said, without any of the 
richness of gallantry, but in a tone of extreme distinctness " Of 
course, if you are going to-morrow, I will go too, as I may be of 
assistance to you." 
"Well, Mr. Goodwood, I should hope so!" Henrietta 
remarked, serenely. 
XLY. 
I HAVE already had reason to say that Isabel knew that her 
husband was displeased by the continuance of Ralph's visit to 
Rome. This knowledge was very present to her as she went to 
her cousin's hotel the day after she had invited Lord Warburton 
to give a tangible proof of his sincerity ; and at this moment, 
as at others, she had a sufficient perception of the sources of 
Osmond's displeasure. He wished her to have no freedom of 
mind, and he knew perfectly well that Ralph was an apostle of 
freedom. It was just because he was this, Isabel said to herself, 
that it was a refreshment to go and see him. It will be per- 
ceived that she partook of this refreshment in spite of her 
husband's disapproval ; that is, she partook of it, as she nattered 
herself, discreetly. She had not as yet undertaken to act in 
direct opposition to Osmond's wishes ; he was her master ; she 
gazed at moments with a sort of incredulous blankness at this 
fact. It weighed upon her imagination, however ; constantly 
present to her mind were all the traditionary decencies and 
sanctities of marriage. The idea of violating them tilled her 
with shame as well as with dread, for when she gave hers< If 
away she had lost sight of this contingency in the perfect belief 
that her husband's intentions were as generous as her own. She 
seemed to see, however, the rapid approach of the day when she 
should have to take back something that she had solemnly given. 
Such a ceremony would be odious and monstrous ; she tried to 
shut her eyes to it meanwhile. Osmond would do nothing to 
help it by beginning first ; he would put that burden upon her. 
 
He had not yet formally forbidden her to go and see Ralph; "but 
she felt sure that unless Ralph should very soon depart this 
prohibition would come. How could poor Ralph depart? The 
weather as yet made it impossible. She could perfectly under- 
stand her husband's wish for the event; to be just, she didn't 
see how he could like her to be with her cousin. Ralph never 
said a word against him ; but Osmond's objections were none 
the less founded. If Osmond should positively interpose, then 
she should have to decide, and that would not be easy. The 
prospect made her heart beat and her cheeks burn, as I say, in 
advance ; there were moments when, in her wish to avoid an 
open rupture with her husband, she found herself wishing that 
Ralph would start even at a risk. And it was of no use that 
when catching herself in this state of mind, she called herself a 
feeble spirit, a coward. It was not that she loved Ralph less, but 
that almost anything seemed preferable to repudiating the most 
serious act the single sacred act of her life. That appeared 
to make the whole future hideous. To break with Osmond 
once would be to break for ever ; any open acknowledgment 
of irreconcilable needs would be an admission that their whole 
attempt had proved a failure. For them there could be no 
condonement, no compromise, no easy forgetfulness, no formal 
readjustment. They had attempted only one thing, but that one 
thing was to have been exquisite. Qnce they missed it, nothing 
else would do ; there is no substitute for th&t success. For the 
moment, Isabel went to the Hotel de Paris as often as she 
thought well ; the measure of expediency resided in her moral 
consciousness. It had been very liberal to-day, for in addition 
to the general truth that she couldn't leave Ralph to die alone, 
she had something important to ask of him. This indeed was 
Gilbert's business as well as her own. 
She came very soon to what she wished to speak of. 
" I want you to answer me a question," she said. " It's about 
Lord Warburton." 
" I think I know it," Ralph answered from his arm-chair, out 
of which his thin legs protruded at greater length than ever. 
" It's very possible," said Isabel. u Please then answer it." 
" Oh, I don't say I can do that." 
" You are intimate with him," said Isabel ; " you have a great 
deal of observation of him." 
" Very true. But think how he must dissimulate ! " 
" Why should he dissimulate ? That's not his nature." 
" Ah, you must remember that the circumstances are pecu- 
liar," said Ralph, with an air of private amusement. 
 
"To a certain extent yes. But is he really in loveV' 
"Very much, I think. I can make that out." 
" Ah ! " said Isabel, with a certain dry ness. 
Ralph looked at her a moment ; a shade of perplexity mingled 
with his mild hilarity. 
" You said that as if you were disappointed." 
Isabel got up, slowly, smoothing her gloves, and eyeing them 
thoughtfully. 
"It's after all no business of mine." 
" You are very philosophic," said her cousin. And then in a 
moment " May I inquire what you are talking about ? " 
Isabel stared a little. " I thought you knew. Lord War- 
burton tells me he desires to marry Pansy. I have told you 
that before, without eliciting a comment from you. You might 
risk one this morning, I think. Is it your belief that he really 
cares for her ? " 
" Ah, for Pansy, no ! " cried Ralph, very positively. 
" But you said just now that he did." 
Ralph hesitated a moment. "That he cared for you, Mrs. 
Osmond." 
Isabel shook her head, gravely. "That's nonsense, you 
know." 
" Of course it is. But the nonsense is Warburton's, not mine." 
" That would be very tiresome," Isabel said, speaking, as she 
nattered herself, witn much subtlety. 
" I ought to tell you indeed," Ralph went on, " that to me he 
has denied it." 
" It's very good of you to talk about it together ! Has he 
also told you that he is in love with Pansy ? " 
" He has spoken very well of her very properly. He has 
let me know, of course, that he thinks she would do very well 
at Lockleigh." 
" Does he really think it ?" 
"Ah, what Warburton really thinks !" said Ralph. 
Isabel fell to smoothing her gloves again ; they were long, 
loose gloves upon which she could freely expend herself. Soon, 
however, she looked up, and then 
" Ah, Ralph, you give me no help ! " she cried, abruptly, 
passionately. 
It was the first time she had alluded to the need for help, and 
the words shook her cousin with their violence. He gave a long 
murmur of relief, of pity, of tenderness ; it seemed to him that 
at last the gulf between them had been bridged. It was this 
that made him exclaim in a moment 
 
" How unhappy you must "be ! " 
He had no sooner spoken than she recovered her self-posses- 
sion, and the first use she made of it was to pretend she had not 
heard him. 
" When I talk of your helping me, I talk great nonsense," 
she said, with a quick smile. "The idea of my troubling you 
with my domestic embarrassments ! The matter is very simple ; 
Lord Warburton must get on by himself. I can't undertake to 
help him." 
" He ought to succeed easily," said Ralph. 
Isabel hesitated a moment. " Yes but he has not always 
succeeded." 
" Very true. You know, however, how that always surprised 
me. Is Miss Osmond capable of giving us a surprise ? " 
" It will come from him, rather. I suspect that after all he 
will let the matter drop." 
" He will do nothing dishonourable," said Ralph. 
" I am very sure of that. Nothing can be more honourable 
than for him to leave the poor child alone. She cares for some 
one else, and it is cruel to attempt to bribe her by magnificent 
offers to give him up." 
" Cruel to the other person perhaps the one she cares for. 
But Warburton isn't obliged to mind that." 
" No, cruel to her," said Isabel. " She would be very un- 
happy if she were to allow herself to be persuaded to desert poor 
Mr. Rosier. That idea seems to amuse you ; of course you are 
not in love with him. He has the merit of being in love with 
