I ever saw who was able to save a man from him 
self ! " 
He took her hand with more self-control than 
he had shown for many days ; and they parted, 
heavily and silently. 
He went by the Monday 's boat. Mr. Butter- 
well drove him to Jonesboro on Sunday. Doctor 
Zay had been out all night, and most of the day. 
She was lying on the parlor sofa when he went to 
say good-by. She had flung herself down, 
exhausted, craving five minutes rest. She had on 
 
that white linen dress, and the vari-colored afghan 
over her feet. It was a sultry August day, but 
her hand was cold ; he had often noticed that it 
was so after she had been up all night. She rose 
when she saw him, and asked if he found the 
package of medicine, with the directions, and if 
he understood them all. He thanked her, and 
said they were quite clear. Her face had its 
stolid look. He searched in vain for its beautiful 
sensitiveness. 
" I shall write to you," he said, hesitating, " if 
I may." 
" Oh yes. Do, by all means. I shall wish, to 
hear all about the journey, and its effect on you. 
Tell your mother if I had had two weeks more I 
would have sent you back in better condition." 
" Or worse," he said, impetuously. She put her 
finger on her lips, and smiled. They shook hands. 
He pulled his hat over his eyes, and got away. 
He looked back through the little oval buggy 
window, as Mr. Butterwell drove him off. Mrs. 
Butterwell was wiping the tears off her black silk 
dress. Handy, by the wood-pile, very large as to 
his hat and bare as to his feet, eloquently confided 
his emotions to the sawdust heap. 
The phaeton and the gray pony stood at the 
doctor 's gate. She did not come out. The big 
 
sorrel turned the post-office corner, and Mr. But- 
terwell observed that there was a fine lobster 
factory on the road. They canned em. Which had 
the worst of it, the consumer or the lobster, Mr. 
Butterwell would not undertake to say. 
Half a mile down the Jonesboro road, Mr. But 
terwell reined up. 
" There ain't but one horse in these parts that 
can overtake the sorrel," he said, leisurely. " I 
hear the pony after us." 
Yorke looked back through the little buggy win 
dow. The gray mare, with a stiff head and clean 
step, was close behind them. Before he could turn 
his head, the doctor 's phaeton overtook the buggy. 
"Mr. Yorke has forgotten his brandy-flask," 
she called, cheerily. * Mrs. Butterwell found it 
out in the nick of time. You might have missed 
it on the boat." She stretched her hand over 
the wheel with the wicker traveling-flask, which 
Yorke took stupidly. He forgot to thank her. 
Their eyes met for a moment. She flung him a 
bright, light smile, turned dexterously in the nar 
row road, and whirled away. He leaned out of the 
buggy to look after her. All he saw distinctly 
was the Scotch plaid shawl folded on the empty 
seat beside her. 
XII. 
IT was an ill-tempered December day, gray 
from Passamaquoddy to Point Judith ; grimmer in 
the State of Maine than in any other privileged 
portion of the proud New England coast. 
" We allers do hev everything wuss than other 
folks," said a passenger in the Bangor mail-coach. 
" Freeze and Prohibition, mud and Fusion. We 've 
got one of the constitooshuns that take things. 
Like my boy. He 's had the measles n the 
chicken-porx and the mumps and the nettle-rash, 
and fell in love with his school-marm  got 
religion and lost the prize for elocootin all in one 
darned year." 
A passenger from Boston laughed at this. He 
had not laughed before since they left Bangor, at 
seven o clock in the morning, with the thermometer 
eight below, and the storm-signals flying from Kit- 
tery to Kitty Hawk. Of all places where it might 
be supposed that a man with a free will and fore 
knowledge absolute of his especial fate would not 
be on a December day, the Bangor and Sherman 
mail-stage was the most notable. The mud of for- 
 
gotten seasons and un mentioned regions, splashed, 
tormented, and congealed, adorned the rotund yel 
low body and black, loose-jointed top of the vehi 
cle. The high windows were opaque with the 
thick brown spatter. The laborious wheels, en 
crusted with frozen clay, had given place to gaunt 
runners, that "brought up" on the abundant in 
equalities of the road with a kind of moral ferocity, 
like unpleasant second thoughts or good resolutions 
after moral lapses. The driver swore at his horses, 
and insulted the passengers by looking perfectly 
comfortable in a new buffalo coat. Inside the 
stage, lunatic gloom and the chill of the Glacial 
Period descended upon the unfortunate travelers. 
The straw was cold and thin. The blankets- were 
icy and emaciated. The leather seats seemed to 
have absorbed and preserved the storms of winters, 
the rheumatism of the past, the sciatica of the fut 
ure. The Boston passenger, though protected by 
his individual traveling blanket and highly-becom 
ing seal-bound coat, expressed an opinion that he 
was freezing to the cushions, which the jocose pas 
senger honored by a stare and the comforting ob 
servation, 
" Why, we expect to." 
This pleasant person got out, about four o clock, 
at what he called his " store," a centre of trade 
 
at some uncertain remove from the metropolis of 
East Sherman, and the traveler from Boston 
had the impressive experience of finding himself . 
alone in the stage during its passage through that 
segment of the Black Forest which the Bangor and 
Sherman route embraced. 
He looked through the muddy windows upon 
the ghastly scenery with a sense of repulsion so 
active that it fairly kept him warm. The forest, 
through which the Machias stage-route ran nine 
awful miles unmet by a human habitation, turned 
its December expression upon him like a Medusa, 
before which the bravest pulse must petrify. Twi 
light and the storm were coming on. The runners 
made a fine, grating sound, like a badly-tuned 
stringed instrument, in the solidly-packed snow. 
Darkness already had its lair in the woods. Ice 
encrusted the trunks of the trees and the fallen 
logs. The stripped and tossing boughs moaned in 
the rising wind with an incredibly human cry. 
The leathery leaves that clung to the low oaks 
rustled as the stage crept by, as if they had been 
watching for it. It was too late to hear in the 
distant gloom the thud of the wood-chopper 's axe. 
One leisurely and lonely rabbit, white against the 
whiteness, crossed the way and disappeared in 
the thicket. All the shadows on the snowy road 
 
were blue. The light that struggled from the sky 
was gray. The drifts were freshly blown over 
and deep, and the horses plunged and struggled in 
them, and panted up the little hills. In the for 
est the snow lay on a level of five feet. The 
silence was profound; the desolation pathetic; the 
cold deadly. It was like the corpse of a world. 
The vivid face of the young man in the fur-trimmed 
coat disappeared, at the end of the first 
mile, from the mud-bespattered stage window. 
He rolled himself up to the throat in his travel 
ing-rug, pulled his hat over his eyes, and let the 
Black Forest severely alone. His whole soul sank 
before it. He thought of the lives barred in be 
