what it is. She is like one of Fra Angelico's angels. Fancy Philip set
down opposite to one of Fra Angelico's angels in flesh and blood!"
"Can a man do better than marry an angel?"
"Yes! so long as he is not an angel himself, and don't live in
Paradise."
"They do not marry in Paradise," said Mr. Burrage dryly. "But why a
fellow may not get as near a paradisaical condition as he can, with the
drawback of marriage, and in this mundane sphere,--I do not see."
"Men never see anything till afterwards. I don't know anything about
this girl, Chauncey, except her face. But it is just the way with men,
to fall in love with a face. I do not know what she is, only she is
nobody; and Philip ought to marry somebody. I know where they are from.
She has no money, and she has no family; she has of course no breeding;
she has probably no education, to fit her for being his wife. Philip
ought to have the very reverse of all that. Or else he ought not to
marry at all, and let his money come to little Phil Chauncey."
"What are you going to do about it?" asked the gentleman, seeming
amused.
But Mrs. Burrage made no answer, and the rest of the drive, long as it
was, was rather stupid.
CHAPTER XLII.
RULES.
The next day Mr. Dillwyn came to take Madge to see Brett's Collection
of Paintings. Mrs. Wishart declared herself not yet up to it. Madge
came home in a great state of delight.
"It was so nice!" she explained to her sister; "just as nice as it
could be. Mr. Dillwyn was so pleasant; and told me everything and about
everything; about the pictures, and the masters; I shouldn't have known
what anything meant, but he explained it all. And it was such fun to
see the people."
"The people!" said Lois.
"Yes. There were a great many people; almost a crowd; and it did
amuse me to watch them."
"I thought you went to see the paintings."
"Well, I saw the paintings; and I heard more about them than I can ever
remember."
"What was there?"
"O, I can't tell you. Landscapes and landscapes; and then Holy
Families; and saints in misery, of one sort or another; and
battle-pieces, but those were such confusion that all I could make out
was horses on their hind-legs; and portraits. I think it is nonsense
for people to try to paint battles; they can't do it; and, besides, as
far as the fighting goes, one fight is just like another. Mr. Dillwyn
told me of a travelling showman, in Germany, who travelled about with
the panorama of a battle; and every year he gave it a new name, the
name of the last battle that was in men's mouths; and all he had to do
was to change the uniforms, he said. He had a pot of green paint for
the Prussians, and red for the English, and blue, I believe, for the
French, and so on; and it did just as well."
"What did you see that you liked best?"
"I'll tell you. It was a little picture of kittens, in and out of a
basket. Mr. Dillwyn didn't care about it; but I thought it was the
prettiest thing there. Mrs. Burrage was there."
"Was she?"
"And Mr. Dillwyn does know more than ever anybody else in the world, I
think. O, he was so nice, Lois! so nice and kind. I wouldn't have given
a pin to be there, if it hadn't been for him. He wouldn't let me get
tired; and he made everything amusing; and O, I could have sat there
till now and watched the people."
"The people! If the pictures were good, I don't see how you could have
eyes for the people."
"'The proper study of mankind is man,' my dear; and I like them alive
better than painted. It was fun to see the dresses; and then the ways.
How some people tried to be interested--"
"Like you?"
"What do you mean? I was interested; and some talked and flirted, and
some stared. I watched every new set that came in. Mr. DilIwyn says he
will come and take us to the Philarmonic, as soon as the performances
begin."
"Madge, it is better for us to go with Mrs. Wishart."
"She may go too, if she likes."
"And it is better for us not to go with Mr. DilIwyn, more than we can
help."
"I won't," said Madge. "I can't help going with him whenever he asks
me, and I am not going any other time."
"What did Mrs. Burrage say to you?"
"Hm!-- Not much. I caught her looking at me more than once. She said
she would have a musical party next week, and we must come; and she
asked if you would be well enough."
"I hope I shall not."
"That's nonsense. Mr. Dillwyn wants us to go, I know."
"That is not a reason for going."
"I think it is. He is just as good as he can be, and I like him more
than anybody else I ever saw in my life. I'd like to see the thing he'd
ask me, that I wouldn't do."
"Madge, Madge!"
"Hush, Lois; that's nonsense."
"Madge you trouble me very much."
"And that's nonsense too."
Madge was beginning to get over the first sense of novelty and
strangeness in all about her; and, as she overcame that, a feeling of
delight replaced it, and grew and grew. Madge was revelling in
enjoyment. She went out with Mrs. Wishart, for drives in the Park and
for shopping expeditions in the city, and once or twice to make visits.
She went out with Mr. Dillwyn, too, as we have seen, who took her to
drive, and conducted her to galleries of pictures and museums of
curiosities; and finally, and with Mrs. Wishart, to a Philharmonic
rehearsal. Madge came home in a great state of exultation; though Lois
was almost indignant to find that the place and the people had rivalled
the performance in producing it. Lois herself was almost well enough to
go, though delicate enough still to allow her the choice of staying at
home. She was looking like herself again; yet a little paler in colour
and more deliberate in action than her old wont; both the tokens of a
want of strength which continued to be very manifest. One day Madge
came home from going with Mrs. Wishart to Dulles & Grant's. I may
remark that the evening at Mrs. Burrage's had not yet come off, owing
to a great storm the night of the music party; but another was looming
up in the distance.
"Lois," Madge delivered herself as she was taking off her wrappings,
"it is a great thing to be rich!"
"One needs to be sick to know how true that is," responded Lois. "If
you could guess what I would have given last summer and fall for a few
crumbs of the comfort with which this house is stacked full--like hay
in a barn!"
"But I am not thinking of comfort."
"I am. How I wanted everything for the sick people at Esterbrooke.
Think of not being able to change their bed linen properly, nor
anything like properly!"
"Of course," said Madge, "poor people do not have plenty of things. But
I was not thinking of comfort, when I spoke."
"Comfort is the best thing."
"Don't you like pretty things?"
"Too well, I am afraid."
"You cannot like them too well. Pretty things were meant to be liked.
What else were they made for? And of all pretty things--O, those
carpets and rugs! Lois, I never saw or dreamed of anything so
magnificent. I should like to be rich, for once!"
"To buy a Persian carpet?"
"Yes. That and other things. Why not?"
"Madge, don't you know this was what grandmother was afraid of, when we
were learning to know Mr. Dillwyn?"
"What?" said Madge defiantly.
"That we would be bewitched--or dazzled--and lose sight of better
things; I think 'bewitched' is the word; all these beautiful things and
this luxurious comfort--it is bewitching; and so are the fine manners
and the cultivation and the delightful talk. I confess it. I feel it as
much as you do; but this is just what dear grandmother wanted to
protect us from."
"What did she want to protect us from?" repeated Madge vehemently.
"Not Persian carpets, nor luxury; we are not likely to be tempted by
either of them in Shampuashuh."
"We might here."
"Be tempted? To what? I shall hardly be likely to go and buy a
fifteen-hundred-dollar carpet. And it was cheap at that, Lois! I can
live without it, besides. I haven't got so far that I can't stand on
the floor, without any carpet at all, if I must. You needn't think it."
"I do not think it. Only, do not be tempted to fancy, darling, that
there is any way open to you to get such things; that is all."
"Any way open to me? You mean, I might marry a rich man some day?"
"You might think you might."
"Why shouldn't I?"
"Because, dear Madge, you will not be asked. I told you why. And if you
were,--Madge, you would not, you could not, marry a man that was not
a Christian? Grandmother made me promise I never would."
"She did not make me promise it. Lois, don't be ridiculous. I don't
want to marry anybody at present; but I like Persian carpets, and
nothing will make me say I don't. And I like silver and gold; and
servants, and silk dresses, and ice-cream, and pictures, and big
houses, and big mirrors, and all the rest of it."
"You can find it all in the eighteenth chapter of Revelation, in the
