fallen; and the water was so clear that he could see the grains of sand
on the bottom.
Pearl saw that his purpose was likely to be defeated by the prompt
action of the boy; and, before any one could stop him, he had leaped
into the water after Dory.
"That man will drown your nephew if you let him do it, Captain
Gildrock!" exclaimed Peppers, as he saw Pearl leap into the water.
But the captain had no intention of being a passive observer of what was
about to transpire in the water; for he leaped into his boat, and
ordered his crew to back her. In an instant they were pulling with all
their might; and the boat had nearly run over Pearl before the captain
gave the order, "Way enough!"
"Lay hold of that man," said the captain to the two men who pulled the
bow oars.
The young fellows unshipped their oars, and grabbed Pearl with no tender
grasp. They threw him down, and then dragged him into the boat.
"Hold on to him, my lads!" added the captain. "Don't let him go."
Pearl struggled for his liberty; but the two young fellows jammed him
down in the bottom of the boat, and held him there in spite of his
efforts to shake them off.
"This is an outrage, Captain Gildrock!" gasped Pearl, out of breath from
the violence of his exertions. "I did not think this of you! I have
always heard you spoken of as a fair man; but you interfere with my
business, and hand me over to my enemies!"
[Illustration: "THE YOUNG FELLOWS GRABBED PEARL WITH NO TENDER GRASP."
PAGE 264.]
"Your enemies, as you call them, are willing to have the truth, whatever
it is, shown out; but you are not," replied Captain Gildrock. "If the
officer in the cuddy don't make out a case against you, I shall not
meddle with you; and you can go to Canada, or wherever else you please.
Give way," he added to the two after oarsmen.
The two men pulled the boat, and the captain steered it to the spot
where Dory was looking for the key. He had taken no notice of what had
been transpiring behind him, but had kept his eyes fixed on the spot
where he had seen the key drop into the water. After a few minutes'
search he saw it lying on the sand, and picked it up. By this time the
boat had come up to him; but he paid no attention to it, and began to
wade back to the schooner.
"Come into the boat, Theodore," said Captain Gildrock.
"No, I thank you, sir: I will wade back to the Goldwing. It won't take
me but a moment."
The captain thought the boy behaved very strangely, as he had ever since
the boats from the Sylph had come alongside the schooner. But he
permitted his nephew to have his own way, and Dory soon climbed over the
side of the boat into the standing-room. Taking the key from his pocket,
he unlocked the padlock, and threw the doors open. Peppers and Moody
crawled out of their prison, and stretched their limbs; for they were
rather stiff after being kept so long in one position.
By the time Captain Gildrock's boat came along side, the two prisoners
were at liberty. The two bow oarsmen were told to let their captive up.
Pearl could not have been more wrathy if he had tried. The pleasant game
over which he had rubbed his hands so felicitously had gone against him.
He knew that Peppers would get the best of him in the argument, and he
had lost all hope. He regarded Dory as the cause of all his misfortunes;
and, as soon as he was released, he sprang into the standing-room of the
schooner, and rushed upon him.
Very likely it would have gone hard with poor Dory, if Moody and Peppers
had not seen what the villain intended. Both of them dropped upon him,
and bore him to the floor. He struggled desperately, but foolishly; for
he had no chance whatever against Moody, who was a powerful man.
While the maker of tomato-wine held him, Peppers put the irons on his
wrists.
CHAPTER XXV.
WIND SOUTH-SOUTH-WEST, BLOWING FRESH.
"I think we have him now where we want him," said Peppers, after Moody,
under his direction, had tied the prisoner, with the rope that had bound
Dory, to the side of the boat.
Pearl Hawlinshed was panting from his effort to escape. He made no reply
to the remark of the detective. He felt that he had lost the battle, and
any further resistance would be useless.
"I am ready to hear any thing you have to say, officer," said Captain
Gildrock, as he stepped into the standing-room from his boat. "If you
haven't any case, I shall simply put things where I found them, with the
exception of taking my nephew on board of the Sylph."
Dory had his doubts about this; for he was as determined as ever not to
put himself into his uncle's hands. He had a sore grudge against him,
and he did not want to have any thing to do with him. He had no doubt
that the captain would decide against Pearl, for he knew enough of the
case to understand that it was a good one. He was already considering in
what manner he should get away from his uncle after the robbery question
had been settled. He was likely to have a chance yet to use his skill
and ingenuity in getting away from the Sylph.
"I am entirely willing to have you do what you think is right after you
have heard the facts in the case," replied Peppers.
"Have you arrested my nephew for robbery, stealing, or any other crime?"
asked the captain, glancing at Dory, who had retreated to the forward
deck; for he wished to be in a situation for action when he felt that it
was required of him.
"No, sir: I have not, and he has not been arrested. But I will tell you
the whole story, and you will see in what manner Dory is connected with
the robbery," answered the detective.
Peppers narrated all that had occurred at the hotel in Plattsburgh,
giving all the details that were known in regard to the robbery of
Moody's room. He added to it the particulars of the two days' chase of
the Missisquoi after the Goldwing, with the landlord's statement in
regard to Dory's supposed connection with the robbery.
"Then Theodore was charged with the robbery?" asked Captain Gildrock.
"By Hawlinshed, he was; but that was to cover up his own tracks. As soon
as the landlord told me that Pearl accused your nephew of the crime,
declaring that he had bought this boat with the money he stole from the
room, I got an idea," continued the detective. "I found Moody, and he
frankly told the facts. He will excuse me; but he makes temperance wine,
though he drinks whiskey himself."
"I don't believe I shall ever drink any more," interposed Moody. "I have
been in the habit of drinking considerable whiskey when I went to
Plattsburgh: and, after I had done my business, I felt pretty good; for
I had sold two hundred dollars' worth of my goods, and I felt like
celebrating the event with a little tear. But I was afraid that I might
lose my money; and I put one hundred and fifty dollars of it in my bag,
keeping the rest in my pocket. I guess that scoundrel saw me put it
there."
"It was not till after the Missisquoi had gone off on her cruise that
Moody told me he had marked his money with the rubber stamp," continued
Peppers. "Then the landlord told me that Dory had taken the money, and
had been seen about the hall, near the room. He had bought and paid for
the boat that morning, and I went to the auctioneer. I wanted to see the
money the boy had paid. It was five ten-dollar bills; and that settled
it that Dory had not paid for the boat with the money taken from Moody's
room."
"I am glad to hear that," added Captain Gildrock.
Dory had thought he would be sorry to hear it; but there was a bad
misunderstanding between him and his uncle.
"When Dory came back, he showed me the money he had, about sixty
dollars," continued Peppers.
"Sixty dollars, besides what he had paid for the boat?" queried the
captain.
"That is what he had; but he got eight dollars back from the
auctioneer," replied the officer.
"That makes over a hundred dollars," said Captain Gildrock, knitting his
brow as though he did not like the looks of this fact. "Where did he
get so much money, if he did not steal it?"
"That's the question, Captain Gildrock," interposed Pearl, who spoke for
the first time since the narrative was begun. "When you have looked into
the matter, you will find that he stole it."
"I don't know where he got it," Peppers proceeded. "That is none of my
business. All I know is, that none of the money found upon Dory, and
none that he had paid out, was the bills Moody lost."
"But have you no idea where my nephew got so much money?" asked the
captain.
"I have not the remotest idea, Captain Gildrock. It don't concern me to
know, and I make it a rule to mind my own business. But I did find some
of Moody's money in Plattsburgh. One five with the stamp on it was paid
for a pistol, and the other for the provisions taken on board of the
Missisquoi. Both of them came from Hawlinshed."
"It is a lie!" exclaimed Pearl with an oath.
"Both of the shopkeepers are ready to swear to the identity of their
man. Now, I shall take the liberty to do what I have not had an
opportunity to do before. I shall search the prisoner. Before I do it I
should like to have you look at these two bills, Captain Gildrock. They
are the fives paid for the pistol and the provisions by Hawlinshed." And
Peppers handed him the bank-notes.
"It will be an easy matter to identify these bills. In addition to the
stamp on them, this is the first time they have ever been out of the
bank," said the captain, after he had looked at the bills.
Pearl was furious when the officer, assisted by Moody, attempted to
search him. Moody handled him very roughly, and he was forced to submit
to the operation. Peppers took from a pocket inside of his vest a
wallet, which was found to contain quite a roll of new bills. The
detective spread a couple of them out on the top of the centre-board
casing. The red stamp appeared upon them, and they were exactly like
