those of the meritorious New England community where she had spent her
youth. In this history they were to be aunt and niece, of the same name,
which, after long cogitation, she decided should be Young, because it
had "a plain, respectable sound." She herself was to be a widow (could
it have been possible that, for once in her life, she wished to know,
even if but reminiscently, how the married state would feel?), and Anne
was to be her husband's niece. "Which will account for the lack of
resemblance," she said, fitting all the parts of her plan together like
those of a puzzle. She had even constructed an elaborate legend
concerning said husband, and its items she enumerated with relish. His
name, it appeared, had been Asher, and he had been something of a trial
to her, although at the last he had experienced religion, and died
thoroughly saved. His brother Eleazer, Anne's father, had been a very
different person, a sort of New England David. He had taught in an
academy, studied for the ministry, and died of "a galloping
consumption"--a consolation to all his friends. Miss Lois could describe
in detail both of these death-beds, and repeat the inscriptions on the
two tombstones. Her own name was Deborah, and Anne's was Ruth. On the
second day she evolved the additional item that Ruth was "worn out
keeping the accounts of an Asylum for the Aged, in Washington--which is
the farthest thing I can think of from teaching children in New
York--and I have brought you into the country for your health."

Anne was dismayed. "I shall certainly make some mistake in all this,"
she said.

"Not if you pay attention. And you can always say your head aches if you
don't want to talk. I am not sure but that you had better be threatened
with something serious," added Miss Lois, surveying her companion
consideringly. "It would have to be connected with the mind, because,
unfortunately, you always look the picture of health."

"Oh, please let me be myself," pleaded Anne.

"Never in the world," replied Miss Lois. "Ourselves? No indeed. We've
got to be conundrums as well as guess them, Ruth Young."

They arrived at their destination, not by the train, but in the little
country stage which came from the south. The witnesses from Timloesville
present at the trial had been persons connected with the hotel. In order
that Anne should not come under their observation, they took lodgings at
a farm-house at some distance from the village, and on the opposite side
of the valley. Anne was not to enter the village; but of the
meadow-paths and woods she would have free range, as the inhabitants of
Timloesville, like most country people, had not a high opinion of
pedestrian exercise. Anne was not to enter the town at all; but Miss
Lois was to examine "its every inch."

The first day passed safely, and the second and third. Anne was now
sufficiently accustomed to her new name not to start when she was
addressed, and sufficiently instructed in her "headaches" not to
repudiate them when inquiries were made; Miss Lois announced, therefore,
that the search could begin. She classified the probabilities under five
heads.

First. The man must be left-handed.

Second. He must say "gold" for "cold."

Third. As Timloesville was a secluded village to which few strangers
came, and as it had been expressly stated at the trial that no strangers
were noticed in its vicinity either before or after the murder, the deed
had evidently been committed, not as the prosecution mole-blindedly
averred, by the one stranger who was there, but by no stranger at
all--by a resident in the village itself or its neighborhood.

Fourth. As the arrival of Mr. and Mrs. Heathcote was unexpected, the
crime must have been one of impulse: there had not been time for a plan.

Fifth. The motive was robbery: the murder was probably a second thought,
occasioned, perhaps, by Helen's stirring.

Miss Lois did not waste time. Within a few days she was widely known in
Timloesville--"the widow Young, from Washington, staying at Farmer
Blackwell's, with her niece, who is out of health, poor thing, and her
aunt so anxious about her." The widow was very affable, very talkative;
she was considered an almost excitingly agreeable person. But it was
strange that she should not have heard of their event, their own
particular and now celebrated crime. Mrs. Strain, wife of J. Strain,
Esq., felt that this ignorance was lamentable. She therefore proposed to
the widow that she should in person go to the Timloe Hotel, and see with
her own eyes "the very spot."

"The effect, Mrs. Young, is curdling," she declared.

Mrs. Young was willing to be curdled, if Mrs. Strain would support her
in the experience. On the next afternoon, therefore, they went to the
Timloe Hotel, and were shown over "the very floor" which had been
pressed by the footsteps of the murderer, his beautiful wife, and her
highly respectable and observing (one might almost say providentially
observing) maid. The landlord himself, Mr. Graub, did not disdain to
accompany them. Mr. Graub had attended the trial in person, and he had
hardly ceased since to admire himself for his own perspicuous cleverness
in owning the house where such a very distinguished crime had been
committed. There might be localities where a like deed would have
injured the patronage of an inn; but the neighborhood of Timloesville
was not one of them. The people slowly took in and appreciated their
event, as an anaconda is said slowly to take in and appreciate his
dinner; they digested it at their leisure. Farmers coming in to town on
Saturdays, instead of bringing luncheon in a tin pail, as usual, went
to the expense of dining at the hotel, with their wives and daughters,
in order to see the room, the blind, and the outside stairway. Mr.
Graub, in this position of affairs, was willing to repeat the tale, even
to a non-diner. For Mrs. Young was a stranger from Washington, and who
knew but that Washington itself might be stirred to a dining interest in
the scene of the tragedy, especially as the second trial was still to
come?

The impression on the blind was displayed; it was very faint, but
clearly that of a left hand.

"And here is the cloth that covered the bureau," continued the landlord,
taking it from a paper and spreading it on the old-fashioned chest of
drawers. "It is not the identical cloth, for that was required at the
trial, together with a fac-simile of the blind; but I can assure you
that this one is just like the original, blue-bordered and fringed
precisely the same, and we traced the spots on it exactly similar before
we let the other go. For we knew that folks would naturally be
interested in such a memento."

"It is indeed deeply absorbing," said Mrs. Young. "I wonder, now, what
the size of that hand might be? Not yours, Mr. Graub; yours is a very
small hand. Let me compare. Suppose I place my fingers so (I will not
touch it). Yes, a large hand, without doubt, and a left hand. Do you
know of any left-handed persons about here?"

"Why, the man himself was left-handed," answered the landlord and Mrs.
Strain together--"Captain Heathcote himself."

"He had been wounded, and carried his right arm in a sling," added Mr.
Graub.

"Ah, yes," said the widow; "I remember now. Was this impression
measured?"

"Yes; I have the exact figures," replied the landlord, taking out a
note-book, and reading the items aloud in a slow, important voice.

"Did you measure it yourself?" asked the widow. "Because if you did
it, I shall feel sure the figures are correct."

"I did not measure it myself," answered Mr. Graub, not unimpressed by
this confidence. "I can, however, re-measure it in a moment if it would
be any gratification to you."

"It would be--immense," said the widow. Whereupon he went down stairs
for a measure.

"I am subject to dizziness myself, but I must hear some one come up
that outside stairway," said Mrs. Young to Mrs. Strain during his
absence. "Would you do it for me? I want to imagine the whole."

Mrs. J. Strain, though stout, consented; and when her highly decorated
bonnet was out of sight, the visitor swiftly drew from her pocket the
paper outline of Heathcote's hand which Anne had given her, and compared
it with the impression. The outlines seemed different; the hand which
had touched the cloth appeared to have been shorter and wider than
Heathcote's, the finger-tips broader, as though cushioned with flesh
underneath. Mrs. Strain's substantial step was now heard on the outside
stairway. But the pattern was already safely returned to the deep pocket
