a clear day Brentney Mountain in Vermont, and in a different direction
the snowy top of Mount Washington, far away to the northeast.
He entered the humble store with his companion.
Behind the counter stood Master Hoyt, a tall man, of stern aspect,
which could strike terror into the hearts of delinquent scholars when
in the winter they came to receive instruction from him.
“Good morning, Daniel,” said Master Hoyt, who was waiting upon a
customer.
“Good morning, sir,” answered Daniel, respectfully.
“I hope you won’t forget what you learned at school last winter.”
“No, sir, I will try not to.”
“You mustn’t forget your reading and writing.”
“No, sir; I read whatever I can find, but I don’t like writing much.”
“You’ll never make much of a hand at writing, Daniel. Ezekiel writes
far better than you. But you won’t need writing much when you’re
following the plough.”
“I hope I shan’t have to do that, Master Hoyt.”
“Ay, you’re hardly strong enough, you may find something else to do in
time. You may keep school like me—who knows?—but you’ll have to get
some one else to set the copies,” and Master Hoyt laughed, as if he
thought it a good joke.
Daniel listened gravely to the master’s prediction, but it seemed
to him he should hardly care to be a teacher like Mr. Hoyt, for the
latter, though he was a good reader, wrote an excellent hand, and had
a slight knowledge of grammar, could carry his pupils no further. No
pupil was likely to wonder that “one small head could carry all he
knew.” Yet the boys respected him, and in his limited way he did them
good.
Master Hoyt had by this time finished waiting upon his customer, and
was at leisure to pay attention to his two young callers. He regarded
them rather as pupils than as customers, for it is quite the custom in
sparsely settled neighborhoods to “drop in” at the store for a chat.
Meanwhile Daniel’s roving eyes had been attracted by a cotton
pocket-handkerchief, which appeared to have something printed upon it.
Master Hoyt noticed the direction of the boy’s gaze.
“I see you are looking at the handkerchief,” he said. “Would you like
to see what is printed on it?”
“Yes, sir.”
The handkerchief was taken down and placed in the boy’s hands. It was
quite customary in those days, when books and papers were comparatively
rare and difficult to obtain, to combine literature with plain homely
utility, by printing reading matter of some kind on cheap cotton
handkerchiefs. Nowadays boys would probably object to such a custom,
but the boy, Daniel who was fond of reading, was attracted.
“Is it a story?” he asked.
“No, Daniel; it is the Constitution of the United States—the government
we live under.”
Daniel’s interest was excited. Of the government he knew something,
but not much, and up to that moment he had not known that there was a
constitution, and indeed he couldn’t tell what a constitution was, but
he thought he would like to know.
“What is the price?” he asked.
“Twenty-five cents.”
Daniel felt in his pocket, and drew out a quarter of a dollar. It
represented all his worldly wealth. It had not come to him all at once,
but was the accumulation of pennies saved. He may have had other plans
for spending it, but now when there was a chance of securing something
to read he could not resist the temptation, so he passed over his
precious coin, and the handkerchief became his.
“It’s a good purchase,” said Master Hoyt, approvingly. “Take it home,
Daniel, and read it, and you’ll know something of the government we’re
living under. I suppose you’ve heard your father talk of the days when
he was a soldier, and fought against the British?”
“Yes, sir.”
“When soldiers were called for, Captain Webster was one of the first to
answer the call. But of course you are too young to remember that time.”
“Yes, sir; but I have heard father talk about it.”
“Ay, ay; your father was selected to stand guard before General
Washington’s headquarters on the night after Arnold’s treason. The
general knew he could depend upon him.”
“Yes, sir; I am sure of that,” said the boy proudly, for he had a high
reverence and respect for his soldier father, who on his side was
devoted to the best interests of his sons, and was ready when the time
came to make sacrifices for them such as would have made most fathers
hesitate.
“Ah, those were dark days, Daniel. You are lucky to live in peaceful
times, under a free government, but you must never forget how your
father and other brave men fought to secure the blessings we now enjoy.
Now General Washington is President, and we are no longer a subject
colony, but we have a free and independent government.”
It is doubtful how far Daniel and his young companion understood the
remarks of Master Hoyt, but doubtless a time came further on when the
words recurred to him, and in the light of his father’s conversations,
which from time to time he held with his neighbors, gave him a more
adequate idea of the character of that government in which in after
years he was to take so prominent a part.
“Are you going, Daniel?” asked William Hoyt, as the boys turned to
leave his humble store.
“Yes, sir; father may want me at home.”
“Don’t forget your learning, my lad. You must be ready to take up your
studies next winter. Soon you will know as much as I do.”
It was meant for an encouraging remark, but the prospect it held out
was not one to dazzle the imagination even of a boy of eight, for as I
have already said the good man’s acquirements were of the most limited
character.
Daniel went home with his precious handkerchief snugly stowed away in
his pocket. He was saving it till evening when he promised himself the
pleasure of reading it.
After supper by the light of the open log fire he brought out his new
possession.
“What have you there, my son?” asked his father.
“It is a handkerchief, father, with the Constitution of the United
States printed on it.”
“Where did you get it?”
“At Master Hoyt’s store.”
“Dan spent all his money for it,” said Ezekiel.
“Well, well, he might have done worse. It will do him no harm to read
the Constitution of his country,” said the father, gravely.
Thus assured of his father’s approval, the boy devoted himself to
the reading of that famous document, of which in after years he was
to become the staunch supporter and defender. For this boy was in his
manhood to rank among the great men of the earth, and to leave a name
and a fame to which his countrymen for centuries to come will point
with just and patriotic pride.
This boy with slender form, swarthy face, and dark eyes, was Daniel
Webster.
CHAPTER II.
DANIEL AND HIS FATHER.
Daniel’s family had not lived many years at Elms Farm. Captain Webster
first occupied a log house which he had himself built, and in this
humble dwelling Ezekiel and one of his sisters were born. He was poor
in worldly goods, but rich in children, having had ten born to him,
five by the second marriage. Daniel was the youngest but one, and Sarah
the youngest of all.
When the war of the American Revolution broke out Daniel’s father was
one of the first to take up arms. He himself drew up, and induced
eighty-four of his townsmen to sign, the following patriotic pledge:
“We do solemnly engage and promise that we will, to the utmost of our
power, at the risk of our lives and fortunes, with arms, oppose the
hostile proceedings of the British fleets and armies against the United
American Colonies.”
Daniel was proud of his descent from such a man, and in the last year
of his life declared that “this is sufficient emblazonry for my arms;
enough of heraldry for me.”
Ebenezer Webster, Daniel’s father, is described as “a man of great
firmness, whose bearing and manner were decisive; tall and erect, with
a full chest, black hair and eyes, and rather large and prominent
features.” He had never attended school, but his natural powers,
supplemented by his own persistent efforts for education, qualified
him for a high and influential place in the community in which he
lived. But in one thing he was lacking, the ability to make money, and
was obliged to practise the utmost frugality in his household. Though
he filled various important positions, his compensation was of the
smallest. He charged the town for important services but three or four
shillings a day—a sum which even the most modest of office-holders
nowadays would regard as quite beneath their acceptance.
How he succeeded in wresting a subsistence for his large family from
his sterile acres must remain a mystery. He was willing to live poorly,
but there was one subject which cost him anxious thought. How was he
to provide his family, and especially the two youngest boys, with the
educational advantages which had been denied to him? There were no good
schools near home, and without money he could not send his boys out of
town to school.
Help came in an unexpected way.
One day the stalwart farmer entered his house with a look of
satisfaction on his dark and rugged features.
“Wife,” he said, “I have been appointed Judge of the Court of Common
Pleas for the county.”
“Indeed!” said his wife, naturally pleased at the honor which had been
conferred upon her husband.
