Madam Carroll. Did he ever mention his parents?"
"Mamma, I think we had better go now," interposed Sara Carroll. "You are
very tired, I know."
"Oh, yes," said all the ladies, "do go, dear Madam Carroll." "You have
had so much to do lately." "You are looking quite fatigued, really."
"Pray take care of yourself, for all our sakes."
Madam Carroll looked at the mound, which was now nearly completed. Then
she made a little gesture of farewell to the group, and turned with her
daughter towards the gate. All the ladies wore black dresses: it was the
custom at Far Edgerley to wear black at funerals. Madam Carroll not
only wore a black dress, but she had put a black ribbon on her little
straw bonnet.
"Isn't it sweet of her to do that?" said Miss Dalley. "It makes it a
sort of mourning, you know; and I like to think that the poor lonely
fellow had at least one mourner to stand beside his grave."
The path took the two ladies past the study. Its door was open; the
rector saw them, and came out. He offered his arm in silence to Madam
Carroll. She took it. She was trembling a little. "I am excessively
tired," she said, as if apologizing.
"Yes, I noticed it during the prayer."
"Then you were there?" She spoke mechanically, more as if she were
filling the time that must pass before they could reach the gate than as
though she cared for reply.
"I was both at the house and the grave," answered Owen. He did not look
at Sara, who was on the other side of Madam Carroll. He could not.
During all these days and nights of Dupont's last illness, and since his
death, he had been haunted by the thought of the grief she must be
enduring. And yet to have seen the least trace of that grief in her face
(and he should be sure to see it, though others might not), would have
been intolerable to him. He did not, therefore, once look at her; he was
a man of stern self-control as regarded his actions. But he could not
help his feelings; and these gave him new suffering as he walked on, so
near her, yet separated from her by the gulf of that bitter knowledge.
Their carriage was waiting at the gate; he assisted them in, bowed, and
they drove away.
Scar and the Major were sitting at the open window of the library as the
two ladies alighted at the door. "Mamma, it seems a very long time
since you and sister Sara went away," said the child, leaning out to
speak to them. "Papa and I have taken a walk, and looked at all our
pictures, and told all our stories; and now we are sitting here waiting
for you."
"I will come in a few minutes, my pet," said Madam Carroll.
Sara went directly to the library, and sat down beside her father's
chair. He wished to hear all about the funeral of "that poor young man,"
and she answered his questions at length, and told him everything she
could think of in connection with it. The Major had known Dupont but
vaguely; he had seen him at the reception, but the face had faded from
his memory, and he should not have known him had they met again. He was
a musical genius who had appeared among them. He was glad that he had
appeared; it was a variety, and they had so little variety in Far
Edgerley. Good music was always an addition, and Marion was very fond
of music, very; he was glad she could have this little enjoyment. He had
said this to Marion several times. But it was a sad end--very--to die
alone among strangers, so far from home.
After some delay, Madam Carroll came in. She had taken off her black
dress and put on a bright little gown of blue; her hair had been
recurled, and there was a lovely color in her cheeks, and some sprays of
cream-colored honeysuckle in her blue belt. As she came nearer, the
Major's old eyes dwelt upon her with childlike pleasure and pride. "You
are looking very charming this evening, Madam Carroll," he said, with
his old-fashioned gallantry.
She sat down beside him. "Sara has been telling me about the funeral of
that unfortunate young musician," he continued. "It was like you,
Marion, to show so much kindness to the poor fellow, whoever he was, and
I am glad you did it. Kindness to the unfortunate and the stranger has
always been an especial characteristic of the Carroll family, and you
have merely represented me in this matter, done what I, of course,
should have done had I been well--had I quite recovered from my illness
of last winter, you know. But I am much improved--much improved. This
poor young man seems to have been utterly alone in the world, since even
when he was dying, and knew that he was, he told no one, as I
understand it, anything of his parentage, or life, or history, and left
no letters or even a message for friends. It is really quite
remarkable."
"Papa," said Sara, "now that we are all here, wouldn't it be a good time
to look at the new photographs?" The photographs were views of English
scenery which she had sent for; the Major had been in England, and liked
to relate reminiscences of his visit. He was interested at once.
"Certainly," he answered, with alacrity, "an excellent idea. Scar, get
the boxes."
Scar brought the boxes, and gave one of them to his mother; as he did so
his hand touched hers. "Why, mamma, are you so cold?" he said, in
surprise. "It is still summer, mamma, and quite warm."
"It is nothing," answered Madam Carroll; "only a passing chill. It is
over now."
CHAPTER VII.
A few days after the funeral of the musician the Major was taken ill. It
was not the failure of strength, which often came over him, nor the
confused feeling in the head, of which he never spoke, but which his
wife always recognized when she saw him sitting with his forehead bent
and his hand over his eyes. This time he had fever, and was slightly
delirious; he seemed also to be in pain. Madam Carroll and Sara did not
leave him; they were in deep anxiety. But in the evening relief came;
the fever ceased, and he fell into a quiet sleep. The two women kissed
him softly, and, still anxious, stole into the next room to keep the
watch, leaving the door open between the two. A shaded night-lamp
faintly illumined the room where he lay, but the outer one was in
darkness. Scar had gone to bed, and the house was very still; they could
hear the murmur of the brook through the open window; for although it
was now towards the last of October, it was still summer in that favored
land. The outer room was large, and they sat on a sofa at its far end;
they could talk in low tones without danger of disturbing the Major,
whose sleeping face they could see through the open door.
The moon rose. Madam Carroll went into the Major's room and closed the
dark curtains, so that the increasing light should not waken him; when
she came back the silver radiance had reached Sara, and was illuminating
her face and figure as she leaned against the cushions of the sofa. "He
is sleeping naturally and restfully now," said the wife, as she took her
seat again; "his face has lost that look of pain it has had all day. But
do you know that you yourself are looking far from well, Sara?"
"I know it. And I am ashamed of it. When I see you doing everything, and
bearing everything, without one outward sign, without the least change
in your face or expression, I am ashamed that I have so little
self-control."
"Have you been supposing, then, that all this unvarying pink and white
color was my own? Have you never suspected that I put it on?--that it
was fictitious? I began in July--you know when. It was for that reason
that I altered the hours of our receptions from afternoon to evening:
candle-light is more favorable, you know. I also began then to wear a
little lace veil. You think me about thirty-five, don't you? I am
forty-eight. I was thirty-five when I married the Major. All this golden
hair would be heavily streaked with gray if I should let it alone."
"Do not feel obliged to tell me anything, mamma."
"I prefer that you should know; and it is also a relief to me to tell,"
answered Madam Carroll, her eyes on the dark outline of the mountains,
visible in the moonlight through the open window. "My poor little
Cecilia passed easily for six, she was so small and frail, like Scar; in
reality she was over ten. The story was, you know, that I had been
married the first time at sixteen. That part was true; but nineteen
years had passed instead of seven, as they supposed. You are wondering,
probably, why I should have deceived your father in such little things,
matters unimportant. There had been no plan for deceiving him; it had
been begun before I met him; he simply believed what the others
believed. And later I found that they were not unimportant to him--those
little things; they were important. He thought a great deal of them. He
thought a great deal of my youth; youth and ignorance of the world,
child-like inexperience, had made up his ideal of me, and by the time I
found it out, his love and goodness, his dear protection, had become so
much to me that I could not run the risk of losing them by telling him
his mistake. I know now that I need not have feared this, I need not
have feared anything where he was concerned; but I did not know then,
and I was afraid. He saw in me a little blue-eyed, golden-haired
girl-mother, unacquainted with the dark side of life, trusting, sweet.
It was this very youth and childlike look which had attracted him, man
of the world as he was himself, and no longer young. I feared to shatter
his dream. In addition, that part did not seem to me of any especial
consequence; I knew that I should be able to live up to his ideal, to
maintain it not only fully, but longer, probably, than as though I had
been in reality the person he supposed me to be; for now it would be a
purpose, determinedly and carefully carried out, and not mere chance. I
knew that I could look the same for years longer; I have that kind of
diminutive prettiness which, with attention, does not change; and I
should give the greatest attention. I felt, too, that I should always be
entirely devoted to him. Gallant and handsome as he was, he was not
young, and I knew that I should care for him just the same through
illness, age, or infirmity; for I have that kind of faithfulness (many
women haven't) and--I loved him.
"And as to my little dead boy, there again there had been no plan for
deceiving him. People had supposed from my young face that I could have
been married but a year or two, and that Cecilia had been my only child.
