as the sensation of being free from Mr. Barker. A moment, however,
sufficed to banish any such thoughts. In the first place, if she were
away from the metropolis it would take just so many hours longer for the
Doctor's letters to reach her. There had been a lacuna in the
correspondence of late, and it seemed to her that the letters she had
received were always dated some days before the time stamped on the
Heidelberg postmark. He spoke always of leaving very soon; but though he
said many loving and tender things, he was silent as to his own doings.
She supposed he was occupied with the important matter he described as
the "other reason," and so in the two or three short notes she wrote him
she abstained from questioning any more.
Furthermore, she reflected that however much she might wish to be away,
it was most emphatically not the thing to do. On the whole, she would
stay where she was.
She was roused from her reverie by Clémentine, who entered in a halo of
smiles, as though she were the bearer of good news. In the first place
she had a telegram, which proved to be from Claudius, dated Berlin, and
simply announcing the fact that he would sail at once. Margaret could
hardly conceal her great satisfaction, and the colour came so quickly to
her face as she read the flimsy bit of paper from the cable office that
Clémentine made the most desperate efforts to get possession of it, or
at least to see the signature. But Margaret kept it under her pillow for
half an hour, and then burned it carefully by the taper, to Clémentine's
inexpressible chagrin.
Meanwhile, however, there were other news in the wind, and when the
artful Frenchwoman had succeeded in opening the window just so that a
ray of light should fall on madam's face, she fired her second shot.
"Monsieur le Duc is of return, Madame," she said, suddenly turning
towards her mistress.
"The Duke?" repeated Margaret innocently. "When did he come?"
"Ah, Madame," said the maid, disappointed at having produced so little
effect, "it is precisely what I do not know. I come from meeting
Monsieur Veelees upon the carrefour. He has prayed me to present the
compliments of Monsieur le Duc and to ask at what hour Madame la
Comtesse would be in disposition to see him."
"Ah, very well," said the Countess. "I will get up, Clémentine."
"Si tôt, Madame? it is yet very morning," argued the girl with a little
show of polite surprise.
"That is indifferent. Go, Clémentine, and tell Monsieur le Duc I will
see him at once."
"At once, Madame? I run," said Clémentine, going slowly to the door.
"Enfin--when I am dressed. Don't you understand?" said Margaret
impatiently.
"Parfaitement, Madame. I will speak with Monsieur Veelees." And she
vanished.
It was a bright November morning, and though there had been a slight
frost daring the night, it was fast vanishing before the sun. Margaret
went to the window and breathed the cool air. An indescribable longing
seized her to be out, among trees and plants and fresh growing
things--to blow away the dark dreams of the night, the visions of Barker
and Screw, and of the ballroom, and of that detestable Japanese boudoir.
She hurried her toilet in a manner that completely aroused Clémentine's
vigilant suspicion.
"Hélas," Clémentine used to say to Willis the Duke's servant, "Je ne lui
ai jamais connu d'amant. I had pourtant much hoped of Monsieur
Clodiuse." But she never ventured such remarks when old Vladimir was at
hand.
When the Countess was dressed she went out into her little drawing-room,
and found the Duke looking more sunburnt and healthy than ever, though a
trifle thinner. The rough active Western life always agreed with him. He
came forward with a bright smile to meet her.
"Upon my word, how well you look!" he exclaimed as he shook hands; and
indeed she was beautiful to see, for if the sleepless night had made her
pale, the good news of Claudius's coming had brought the fire to her
eyes.
"Do I?" said she. "I am glad; and you look well too. Your run on the
prairies has done you good. Come," said she, leading him to the window,
"it is a beautiful day. Let us go out."
"By all means: but first I have some good news for you. Fitzdoggin has
telegraphed me that Claudius--I mean," he said, interrupting himself
and blushing awkwardly, "I mean that it is all right, you know. They
have arranged all your affairs beautifully." Margaret looked at him
curiously a moment while he spoke. Then she recognised that the Duke
must have had a hand in the matter, and spoke very gratefully to him,
not mentioning that she had received news direct, for she did not wish
to spoil his pleasure in being the first to tell her. To tell the truth,
the impulsive Englishman was rather in doubt whether he had not betrayed
the Doctor's secret, and seemed very little inclined to say anything
more about it.
"I wish," she said at last, "that we could ride this morning. I have not
been on a horse for ever so long, and I want the air."
"By Jove," cried the Duke, overjoyed at the prospect of breaking an
interview which seemed likely to lead him too far, "I should think so. I
will send and get some horses directly. The very thing, by Jove!" And he
went to the door.
"How are you going to get anything fit to ride in New York, at such
short notice?" asked Margaret, laughing at his impetuosity.
"There's a fellow here lends me anything in his stable when I am in New
York," he answered, half out of the room. "I'll go myself," he called
back from the landing, and shut the door behind him. "Upon my word," he
said to himself as he lighted a cigarette in the cab, and drove away to
his friend's stable, "she is the most beautiful thing I ever saw. I
almost let the cat out of the bag, just to please her. I don't wonder
Claudius is crazy about her. I will talk about the West when we are
riding, and avoid the subject." With which sage resolution his Grace
seemed well satisfied. When he returned, he found Margaret clad in a
marvellous habit, that reminded him of home.
"The horses will be at the Park by the time we have driven there," he
said. "We will drive up." He made no toilet himself, for being English
and to the saddle born, he cared not a jot how he looked on horseback.
In half an hour they were mounted, and walking their horses down the
broad bend of the road where it enters the Central Park. Margaret asked
about Lady Victoria, and the Duke, to make sure of not getting off the
track, immediately began talking about the journey they had just made.
But Margaret was not listening.
"Do you know?" she said, "it is very pleasant to feel I am not poor any
longer. I suppose it is a very low sentiment."
"Of course," said the Duke. "Beastly thing to have no money."
"Do you know--" she began again, but stopped.
"Well," said the Duke, following her first train of thought, "it always
seems to me that I have no money myself. I don't suppose I am exactly
poor, though."
"No," laughed Margaret, "I was not thinking of that."
"What is it?" he asked.
"I think I will confide in you a little, for you have always been such a
good friend to me. What do you know of Mr. Barker?"
"I am sure I don't know," said the Englishman, taken off his guard by
the question. "I have known him some time--in this sort of way," he
added vaguely.
"I believe," said the Countess bluntly, "that it was Mr. Barker who made
all this trouble for Dr. Claudius."
"I believe you are right," answered the Duke suddenly turning in his
saddle and facing her. "I wonder how he could be such a brute?"
Margaret was silent. She was astonished at the readiness with which her
companion assented to her proposition. He must have known it all along,
she thought.
"What makes you think so?" he asked presently.
"What are your reasons for believing it?" she asked, with a smile.
"Really," he began; then shortly, "I believe I don't like his eyes."
"Last night," said Margaret, "I was talking with him at a party. I
chanced to speak of the Doctor's coming back, and Mr. Barker laughed and
sneered, and said it was ridiculous."
The Duke moved angrily in his saddle, making the horse he rode shake his
head and plunge a little.
"He is a brute," he said at last.
"Your horse?" inquired Margaret sweetly.
"No--Barker. And pray what did you answer him? I hope you gave him a
lesson for his impertinence."
"I told him," said she, "that I had documents in my possession that
would establish his right as well as any he could get in Germany."
"Barker must have been rather taken aback," said the other in high glee.
"I am glad you said that."
"So am I. I do not imagine I shall see much of Mr. Barker in future,"
she added demurely.
"Um! As bad as that?" The Duke was beginning to catch the drift of what
Margaret was saying. She had no intention of telling him any more,
however. Bitterly as she felt towards Barker, she would not allow
herself the triumph of telling her friend she had refused to marry him.
"I know it is a very womanly fancy," she said, "but I want to ride fast,
please. I want exercise."
"All right," said the Duke, and they put their horses into a canter. The
Countess felt safe now that her friends had returned and that Claudius
had telegraphed he was about to sail. She felt as though her troubles
were over, and as if the world were again at her feet. And as they
galloped along the roads, soft in the warm sun to the horses' feet,
breathing in great draughts of good clean air, the past two months
seemed to dwindle away to a mere speck in the far distance of her life,
instead of being entangled with all the yesterdays of the dark season
just over.
And Claudius--the man who made all this change in her life, who had
