a full heart: Be true to your principles, and we will be true to you,
and God will be true to us all!”
“I say amen to that! amen to that!” answered Mr. Lincoln, taking his
hand in both his own, while his face lighted up sympathetically.
I may as well mention here the first public occasion on which Mr.
Lincoln’s name was mentioned for the Presidency.
On the 9th and 10th of May the Republican State Convention met at
Decatur. Mr. Lincoln was present as a spectator, but he attracted the
attention of Gov. Oglesby, who rose, and said: “I am informed that a
distinguished citizen of Illinois, and one whom Illinois will ever
delight to honor, is present; and I wish to move that this body invite
him to a seat on the stand.”
Public interest and curiosity were aroused. Who was this distinguished
citizen?
The Governor paused a moment, and then uttered the name of Abraham
Lincoln.
Instantly there was a roar of applause, there was a rush to where the
astonished Lincoln sat, he was seized, and the crowd being too dense to
press through, he was literally passed over the heads and shoulders of
the great throng until breathless he found himself on the platform.
Willing or unwilling he was literally for the time being “in the hands
of his friends.”
Later on Gov. Oglesby rose once more and said: “There is an old Democrat
outside who has something which he wishes to present to the Convention.”
“What is it?” “What is it?” “Receive it!” shouts the crowd.
The door of the wigwam opens, and an old man, bluff and hearty, comes
forward, bearing on his shoulder two small rails, surmounted by a
banner, with this inscription:--
TWO RAILS
     From a lot made by Abraham Lincoln and John Hanks, in the Sangamon
     Bottom, in the year 1830.
This old man was John Hanks himself! His entrance was greeted with
tumultuous applause.
“Lincoln! Lincoln! A speech!” shouts the crowd.
Mr. Lincoln seemed amused. He rose at length and said:
“Gentlemen, I suppose you want to know something about those things,”
(the rails). “Well, the truth is, John Hanks and I did make rails in
the Sangamon Bottom. I don’t know whether we made those rails or not;
fact is, I don’t think they are a credit to the makers,” (laughing as he
spoke). “But I do know this: I made rails then, and I think I could make
better ones than these now.”
Before the Convention dissolved, a resolution was passed, declaring that
“Abraham Lincoln is the first choice of the Republican party of Illinois
for the Presidency, and instructing the delegates to the Chicago
Convention to use all honorable means to secure his nomination, and to
cast the vote of the State as a unit for him.”
So Abraham Lincoln, “the rail-splitter,” as he was familiarly called,
was fairly in the field as a candidate for the highest office in the
gift of the nation.
CHAPTER XIX.
NOMINATED FOR PRESIDENT.
On the 16th of May the Republican Convention assembled in Chicago.
Considered with reference to its outcome, no more important convention
had assembled since the organization of the Government. Though this
could not be realized at the time, its deliberations were followed with
great interest all over the country. The opponents of the slave power
were, for the first time, to make a formidable effort to prevent its
extension and indefinite perpetuation.
Of course, there had been more or less electioneering in advance. Half a
dozen candidates were in the field; but there were two who were
recognized as leading in strength and popularity. These were William H.
Seward and Abraham Lincoln. The former, in length and variety of public
service, in general culture, and national reputation, was far superior.
It was felt that he would make an admirable candidate, and that he
deserved the nomination; but there were many who were strongly opposed
to him. Three important States--Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and
Indiana--declared that, as against Douglas, they could do nothing if
Seward were the nominee. Illinois, of course, was for Lincoln, and this
giant of the Western prairies enjoyed a popularity which his more
experienced competitor could not boast. Yet for the first two days
Seward’s chances seemed the better of the two. The other candidates
whose names were presented to the Convention were Mr. Dayton, of New
Jersey; Mr. Cameron, of Pennsylvania; Edward Bates, of Missouri; and
Ohio offered two distinguished sons--Salmon P. Chase and John McLean.
On the first and second ballots Mr. Seward led; but, on the third, Mr.
Lincoln lacked but a vote and a half of the number necessary to make him
the nominee. An Ohio delegate rose and changed four votes from Chase to
Lincoln. This was sufficient. He was nominated. The vast building shook
with the cheers of the dense throng. State after State changed its vote
to the man of destiny, and his nomination was made unanimous. In the
afternoon, Hannibal Hamlin, of Maine, was nominated for Vice-President.
Meanwhile Mr. Lincoln was in Springfield, bearing the suspense as well
as he could. My boy readers will be interested to know that he spent a
considerable part of his time in playing baseball, his mind being too
preoccupied to do his ordinary work. Dispatches were received from time
to time, but nothing decisive.
Mr. Lincoln and some of his friends were waiting in the office of the
Journal when the local editor rushed in, in a fever of excitement.
“What’s the news?” was the breathless inquiry.
“The Convention has made a nomination,” he said, “and Mr. Seward----”
A look of intense disappointment was beginning to show itself on the
faces of the listeners. They supposed that Seward was nominated.
“And Seward is--the second man on the list,” continued the editor.
He could no longer restrain himself. Jumping on the editorial table, he
shouted, “Gentlemen, I propose three cheers for Abraham Lincoln, the
next President of the United States.”
The cheers were given with a will.
The dispatch was handed to Mr. Lincoln, who read it quietly.
Then he put it in his pocket, saying, “There is a little woman on Eighth
Street who will be interested to hear this,” and he walked home.
In Springfield the news excited the greatest enthusiasm. All knew and
loved Abraham Lincoln. He set himself above no one, but greeted all with
cordial kindness. The nomination was felt to be a personal compliment to
Springfield. The country had come to them for a President, and to the
man above all others whom they would personally have selected.
That day Mr. Lincoln had to keep open house. His modest residence proved
quite too small to contain the crowds who wanted to enter and shake
hands with the man who had become so suddenly of national importance.
They received a cordial welcome; and no one could detect in the nominee
any unusual elation nor any deviation from his usual plain and modest
deportment.
The next day Mr. Lincoln was formally notified of his election by a
Committee of the Convention, with Mr. Ashmun at the head. This was his
response:
“Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen of the Committee:--I tender to you, and
through you to the Republican National Convention, and all the people
represented in it, my profoundest thanks for the high honor done me,
which you now formally announce. Deeply and even painfully sensible of
the great responsibility which is inseparable from this high honor--a
responsibility which I could almost wish had fallen upon some one of the
far more eminent men and experienced statesmen whose distinguished names
were before the Convention, I shall, by your leave, consider more fully
the resolutions of the Convention, denominated the platform, and,
without unnecessary and unreasonable delay, respond to you, Mr.
Chairman, in writing, not doubting that the platform will be found
satisfactory, and the nomination gratefully accepted. And now I will not
longer defer the pleasure of taking you, and each of you, by the hand.”
Let us consider who were Mr. Lincoln’s rivals in the Presidential race.
Usually there are but two tickets in the field. This time there were
four. First in order of time had come the National Constitutional Union
Convention, made up largely of old Whigs. At this Convention John Bell,
of Tennessee, was nominated for President, and Edward Everett, of
Massachusetts, for Vice-President. The Democratic National Convention
had met at Charleston, but adjourned without deciding upon a candidate.
Mr. Douglas was the most prominent man before it, but extreme
Southerners doubted his entire devotion to slavery, and he was unable to
obtain the necessary two-thirds vote. The two factions into which the
Convention split afterward met: the one at Baltimore, the other at
Richmond. At the Baltimore Convention Stephen A. Douglas was nominated
for President, and Mr. Johnson, of Georgia, for Vice-President. At the
Richmond Convention of Southern seceders, John C. Breckinridge, of
Kentucky, and Joseph Lane, of Oregon, were selected as standard-bearers.
In this division of the Democracy lay the hope of the new Republican
party. With the Democracy united they would have been unable to cope;
but they were stronger than either faction. When the eventful 6th of
November arrived, the result was what might have been anticipated.
Abraham Lincoln, the poor boy whose fortunes we have so long followed,
reached the highest step of political preferment. He received 1,857,610
votes; Mr. Douglas came next, with 1,291,574; while Mr. Breckinridge
could muster only 850,082; Mr. Bell secured 646,124. Of the electoral
votes, however, Mr. Lincoln received a majority, namely, 180 out of 292.
To go back a little. From the day of Mr. Lincoln’s nomination he was
beset by callers--some drawn by curiosity, and many by considerations of
private interest. They found him the same unaffected, plain man that he
had always been. He even answered the door-bell himself, and personally
ushered visitors in and out. My readers will be interested in two
anecdotes of this time, which I transcribe from the interesting volume
of Dr. Holland, already more than once referred to:
“Mr. Lincoln being seated in conversation with a gentleman one day, two
raw, plainly-dressed young ‘Suckers’ entered the room and bashfully
