shabby things or shabby people ; if she stained one of her 
frocks she was seized with a kind of frenzy she would 
tear it to pieces. At Nice, at Baden, at Brighton, 
wherever we stayed, she used to be sent for by all the 
great people to play with their children. She has 
played at kissing-games with people who now stand on 
the steps of thrones ! I have gone so far as to think at 
times that those childish kisses were a sign a symbol 
a pledge ! You may laugh at me if you like, but haven't 
such things happened again and again without half so 
good a cause, and doesn't history notoriously repeat 
itself? There was a little Spanish girl at a second-rate 
English boarding-school thirty years ago ! . . . The 
Empress, certainly, is a pretty woman ; but what is my 
Christina, pray ? I have dreamt of it sometimes, every 
night for a month. I won't tell you I have been to con 
sult those old women who advertise in the newspapers ; 
you ll call me an old imbecile. Imbecile, if you please ! I 
have refused magnificent offers because I believed that 
somehow or other if wars and revolutions were needed 
to bring it about we should have nothing less than that. 
There might be another coup'd etat somewhere, and 
another brilliant young sovereign looking out for a wife ! 
At last, however," Mrs. Light proceeded with incompar 
able gravity, "since the overturning of the poor king of 
Naples and that charming queen, and the expulsion of 
all those dear little old-fashioned Italian grand-dukes, 
and the dreadful radical talk that is going on all over 
the world, it has come to seem to me that with Christina 
in such a position I should be really very nervous. Even 
in such a position she would hold her head very high, 
and if anything should happen to her she would make 
no concessions to the popular fury. The best thing, if 
one would be prudent, seems to be a nobleman of the 
highest possible rank short of belonging to a reigning 
stock. There you see one striding up and down looking 
at his watch and counting the minutes till my daughter 
reappears !" 
Rowland listened to all this with a large compassion 
for the heroine of the tale. What an education, what a 
history, what a school of character and of morals ! He 
looked at the Prince and wondered whether he too had 
heard Mrs. Light 's story. If he had he was a brave 
man. " I certainly hope you will nail him," he said to 
Mrs. Light. "You have played a dangerous game 
with your daughter ; it would be a pity not to win ! 
But there is hope for you yet ; here she comes at last ! " 
Christina reappeared as he spoke these words, strolling 
beside her companion with the same indifferent tread with 
which she had departed. Rowland imagined that there 
was a faint pink flush in her cheek which she had not 
carried away with her, and there was certainly a light in 
Roderick 's eyes which he had not seen there for a week. 
" Bless my soul, how they are all looking at us !" she 
cried as they advanced. " One would think we were 
prisoners of the Inquisition !" And she paused and 
glanced from the Prince to her mother, and from Row 
land to the Cavaliere, and then threw back her head and 
 
burst into far-ringing laughter. "What is it, pray? 
Have I been very improper ? Am I ruined for ever ? 
Dear Prince, you are looking at me as if I had committed 
the unpardonable sin ! " 
"I myself," said the Prince, "would never have ven 
tured to ask you to walk with me alone in the country 
for an hour !" 
"The more fool you, dear Prince, as the vulgar say ! 
Our walk has been charming. I hope you, on your side, 
have enjoyed each other 's society." 
" My dear daughter," said Mrs. Light, taking the arm 
of her predestined son-in-law, " I shall have something 
serious to say to you when we reach home. We will go 
back to the carriage. " 
" Something serious ! Decidedly, it is the Inquisition. 
Mr. Hudson, stand firm, and let us agree to make no 
confessions without conferring previously with each 
other ! They may put us on the rack first. Mr. Mallet 
I see also," Christina added, "has something serious to 
say to me !" 
Rowland had been looking at her with the shadow of 
his lately-stirred pity in his eyes. "Possibly," he said. 
" But it must be for some other time." 
"I am at your service. I see our good humour is 
gone. And I only wanted to be amiable ! It is very 
discouraging. Cavaliere, you alone look as if you had 
a little of the milk of human kindness left ; from your 
dear old stupid face, at least, there is no telling what 
you think. Give me your arm and take me away ! " 
The party took its course back to the carriage, which 
was waiting in the grounds of the villa, and Rowland 
and Roderick bade their friends farewell. Christina 
threw herself back in her seat and closed her eyes ; a 
manoeuvre for which Rowland imagined the Prince 
was grateful, as it enabled him to look at her without 
seeming to depart from his attitude of distinguished 
disapproval. 
Rowland found himself aroused from sleep early the 
next morning to see Roderick standing before him, 
dressed for departure, with his bag in his hand. " I am 
off," he said. "I am back to work. I have an idea. 
I must strike while the iron is hot ! Farewell !" And 
he departed by the first train. Rowland went alone by 
the next. 
XIII. 
ROWLAND went very often to the Coliseum ; he was 
never tired of inspecting this monument. One morning, 
about a month after his return from Frascati, as he was 
strolling across the vast arena, he observed a young 
woman seated on one of the fragments of stone which 
are ranged along the line of the ancient parapet. It 
seemed to him that he had seen her before, but he was 
unable to localise her face. Passing her again he per 
ceived that one of the little red-legged French soldiers 
who were at that time on guard there had approached 
her and was gallantly making himself agreeable. She 
smiled brilliantly, and Rowland recognised the smile (it 
had always pleased him) of a certain comely Assunta 
who sometimes opened the door for Mrs. Light 's visitors. 
He wondered what she was doing alone in the Coliseum, 
and conjectured that Assunta had admirers as well as her 
young mistress, but that being without the same domi 
ciliary conveniences she was using this massive heritage 
of her Latin ancestors as a boudoir. In other words, 
she had an appointment with her lover, who would do 
well from present appearances to be punctual. It was a 
long time since Rowland had ascended to the ruinous 
upper tiers of the great circus, and as the day was radiant 
and the distant views promised to be particularly clear, 
he determined to give himself this pleasure. The cus- 
 
todian unlocked the great wooden wicket, and he climbed 
through the winding shafts where the eager Roman 
crowds had billowed and trampled, not pausing till he 
reached the highest accessible point of the ruin. The 
views were as fine as he had supposed ; the lights on the 
Sabine mountains had never been more lovely. He 
gazed to his satisfaction, and retraced his steps. In a 
moment he paused again on an abutment somewhat 
lower, from which the glance dropped dizzily into the 
interior. There are accidents of ruggedness in the upper 
portions of the Coliseum which offer a very fair imitation 
of the mighty excrescences in the face of an Alpine cliff. 
In those days a multitude of delicate flowers and sprays 
of wild herbage had found a friendly soil in the hoary 
crevices, and they bloomed and nodded amid the antique 
masonry as naturally as if it were the boulders of a 
mountain. Rowland was turning away when he heard 
a sound of voices rising up from below. He had but to 
step slightly forward to find himself overlooking two 
persons who had seated themselves on a narrow ledge in 
a sunny corner. They had apparently an eye to extreme 
privacy, but they had not observed that their position 
was commanded by the abutment on which Rowland 
stood. One of these airy adventurers was a lady, thickly 
veiled, so that even if he had not been placed directly 
above her Rowland could not have seen her face. The 
other was a young man whose face was also invisible, 
but who presently gave a toss of his clustering locks 
which was equivalent to a master 's signature. A mo 
ment 's reflection satisfied him of the identity of the lady. 
