He obeyed quickly and noiselessly, as he did everything. She had taken
his chair, and he sat down beside her, waiting for her to speak.
"I thought I should find you here, Julius," she said, calling him by his
Christian name without the smallest hesitation. "I wanted to speak to
you alone."
"You have the faculty of finding me," said Julius with a short, low
laugh.
"Since when is it so disagreeable to you?" asked Diana.
Julius was silent, for there was nothing he could say. He wished he had
said nothing at first,--it would have been much better. Diana
continued.
"You and I know each other well enough to talk freely," she said. "We
need not beat about the bush and say pretty things to each other, and I
forgive you for being rude, because I know you very well, and am willing
to sacrifice something. But I will not forgive you again if you are rude
in public. There are certain things one does not permit one's self, when
one is a gentleman."
"You are very good, Diana," said Batiscombe, humbly. "I am very sorry. I
lost my temper."
"Naturally," she answered coolly. "You always lose your temper,--you
always did,--and yet you fancy continually that you hide it. Let that
go. I have forgiven you for this time, because I am the best friend you
have."
"The only one," said Julius.
"Perhaps. You are well hated, I can tell you. Then treat me as a friend
in future, if you please, and not as an inquisitive acquaintance who
makes a point of annoying you for her own ends."
She spoke calmly, in a quiet, determined voice, without the slightest
hesitation or affectation. Julius bent his head.
"I always mean to," he said.
"Now listen to me," she continued. "I came upon you this afternoon by
pure accident. I do not owe you any apology for that, and you know very
well that I am the last person in the world to do things in that way, by
stealth. That is the reason I come to you here, at night, to tell you my
mind frankly."
"Yes," said Batiscombe, in a muffled voice, "I know."
"I came upon you by accident," said she, "and I made a discovery. You
pass your afternoons in the society of my sister-in-law, and you lose
your temper with me when I find you together,--though you always wish me
to understand that you prefer my society to that of any woman in the
world."
"Ah--how you express it!" exclaimed Julius.
"I express it as plainly as I can. I cannot help it if you do not like
it. It is all true. And the inference is perfectly clear. Do you see?"
"No," said Batiscombe.
"You do not? Very well, I will draw it for you."
She leaned back in the chair and looked at him; her eyes were accustomed
by this time to the gloom, and she could see him quite clearly in the
starlight. He moved uneasily.
"Pray go on," he said.
"The inference is this. You are making love to Leonora Carantoni."
"You shall not say that," said Batiscombe, between his teeth, still
looking fiercely at her.
"You might forbid a man to say it," answered Diana, in low, calm tones.
"And for anything I care you may forbid any other woman in the world to
say it. But you cannot forbid me. I have the right."
"In that case," said Julius, rising, and struggling to speak quietly,
"there is nothing I can do but to leave you, since I will certainly not
listen."
But Diana rose also, and laid her white hand on his arm, as though she
could have bowed the strong man to the earth if she chose. She seemed
taller than he in the power and determination of her gesture.
"Sit down instantly," she said, under her breath.
Julius obeyed silently and sullenly. Then Diana resumed her seat.
"I have the right, Julius," she continued, "not because you pretend to
have loved me for ten years,--nor because I once thought I might accept
your love,--nor yet because I am sometimes weak enough to like you
still, in a sisterly way. But I have the right because you are making
love to my brother's wife, because she is young and innocent, and
because there is not another human being in the world to stand by her,
or to give her any protection in her danger."
"If you think that, why do you not tell your brother so?"
"Do you call yourself intelligent? Do you call yourself a gentleman?"
exclaimed Diana in bitter scorn. "Would you have me destroy the peace of
my brother and of his wife, because you are doing a bad action, that has
not yet borne fruit? Do you think I am afraid of you? Of you?" She
repeated the word almost between her teeth.
"No," said Batiscombe, under his breath, "I do not. But I would like to
ask you a question."
"I will answer," said Diana.
"Why did you tell that absurd story about me this afternoon? Did you not
see it was just the very worst thing you could possibly do, from your
own point? That nothing rouses a woman's interest like such tales?"
"I promised to answer your question," said Diana, coldly, "and I will. I
told the story thoughtlessly, because I am a woman, and admire such
things quite independently of the person who has done them. Do not
flatter yourself that a woman like Leonora Carantoni will fall in love
with you because you are brave. But I dare say I did wrong, and I am
sorry for it. You have qualities which any one may admire, but you have
others which I despise."
"I despise them myself, sometimes," said Julius, almost to himself.
"Despise them always,--at least, and be consistent," answered Diana.
"But you will not. You like them, those bad qualities, and when you like
them, they make a miserable wretch of you, as they do now. You know well
enough, however cleverly you may deceive yourself, that you ought not to
be here. You stay,--you are a coward, besides being a great many worse
things which I leave you to understand."
Batiscombe's eyes flashed angrily in the starlight.
"You are cruel, Diana, and unkind," he said.
Diana was silent a moment, and she drew her dark lace shawl about her,
as though she were cold. When she spoke her voice was infinitely soft
and gentle.
"Do not say that, Julius. Do not say I am ever cruel to you,--for to
you, of all people in the world, I would be most kind."
Julius bent down and pressed his hands to his temples, and sighed
heavily.
"Oh, Diana," he groaned, "I know it, I know it."
"Then I will not say any more. Do this thing because it is right,--not
because I ask you to. Have I ever reproached you before, when you have
come to me of your own accord and told me your troubles? What right have
I to reproach you?"
Julius was silent. He knew in his heart that she had the right, because
he still loved her best. He sat immovable, his head buried in his hands.
Diana rose and stood beside him; she lightly laid her hand upon his
shoulder, allowing it to linger kindly for a moment, and then she turned
and moved away.
The spell was broken, and Batiscombe rose swiftly and followed her.
There was a light in the drawing-room that opened upon the terrace,
which Batiscombe had not noticed before. As they entered they found
Marcantonio with a candle, overturning books and papers as if in search
of something. He looked up with a curious expression of surprise in his
face, holding the candle before him.
"Ah!" he cried, "good-evening, my friends. You have been taking a little
air. Eh? I imagined that you were all asleep."
Madame de Charleroi smiled serenely at her brother. She knew it was an
accident, and that he had a habit of forgetting things and coming to
look for them. She said it had been hot all day, and she and Monsieur
Batiscombe had been enjoying the coolness of the terrace. Julius bowed
blandly and said good-night. But he suspected Marcantonio of having come
to watch his sister. They passed on, and Marcantonio stood for a moment
looking after them as they went out into the hall, where lights were
still burning. He shrugged his shoulders.
"Eh!" he exclaimed aloud to himself, in Italian, "I do not understand
anything about it--ma proprio niente." And he continued his search for
the missing letter, pondering deeply.
Batiscombe spent a sleepless night, which was very unusual with him. The
interview with Diana had made a deep impression on him at the time. He
knew that whenever she was at hand to exert her influence he should
succumb to it. But as the night wore on, the strength of the impression
diminished, and the old feeling of obstinate defiance gradually
returned. At all events, he thought, he would show her that her
suspicions were empty, and that nothing--no harm, at least--could come
of his intimacy with Leonora. He would also be sure that if Diana
interrupted another interview it could hardly be by accident. Such
accidents did not occur every day. In the early dawn he rose and went
down in his slippers to the sea, and bathed in the cool salt water, and
smoked a cigarette on the rocks, and another in the archway where the
scene of the previous afternoon had occurred. Then he went up to the
house and walked round it, and surveyed the various angles, and
terraces, and balconies, and eccentricities of patchwork architecture
that made up the dwelling. Suddenly he stopped as though an idea had
struck him.
Houses in the south have often as many as five or six broad terraces, of
various sizes and at various elevations, built from time to time to suit
the taste and convenience of the owners. The strong brown vines grow up
leafless from the ground till they reach the trellis, and then spread
out into luxuriant foliage and a multiplicity of rich fruit-bearing
branches, making a thick shade, into which even the noonday sun finds it
hard to penetrate. Julius had just observed that there was a large
terrace of this kind which he had not yet noticed, having been but a
