spread it with oil, and gave Gigi a glass of the Serveti wine, and little Nino had some with water. 
And Mariuccia begged to have the child left with 
her till Gigi went back the next day ; for she is fond 
of children and comes from Serveti herself. And 
that is how Nino came to live with us. That old 
woman has no principles of economy, and she likes 
children. 
"What does a little creature like that eat?" she 
asked. " A bit of bread, a little soup macchd ! You 
will never notice it, I tell you. And the poor thing 
has been living on charity. Just imagine whether 
you are not quite as able to feed him as Gigi is 1 " 
So she persuaded me. But at first I did it to 
please her, for I told her our proverb, which says 
there can be nothing so untidy about a house as 
children and chickens. He was such a dirty little 
boy, with only one shoe and a battered hat, and he 
was always singing at the top of his voice and throw 
ing things into the well in the cortile. 
Mariuccia can read a little, though I never believed 
it until I found her one day teaching Nino his letters 
out of the Vite dei Santi. That was probably the 
first time that her reading was ever of any use to 
her, and the last, for I think she knows the Lives of 
the Saints by heart, and she will certainly not venture 
to read a new book at her age. However, Nino very 
soon learned to know as much as she, and she will 
always be able to say that she laid the foundation of 
his education. He soon forgot to throw handfuls of 
 
mud into the well, and Mariuccia washed him, and 
I bought him a pair of shoes, and we made him look 
very decent. After a time he did not even remem 
ber to pull the cat's tail in the morning, so as to 
make her sing with him, as he said. When Mariuccia went to church she would take him with her, and 
he seemed very fond of going, so that I asked him 
one day if he would like to be a priest when he grew 
up, and wear beautiful robes and have pretty little 
boys to wait on him with censers in their hands. 
"No," said the little urchin, stoutly, "I won't be 
a priest." He found in his pocket a roast chestnut 
Mariuccia had given him, and began to shell it. 
" Why are you always so fond of going to church, 
then?" I asked. 
"If I were a big man," quoth he, "but really big, 
I would sing in church, like Maestro de Pretis." 
"What would you sing, Nino?" said I, laughing. 
He looked very grave and got a piece of brown paper 
and folded it up. Then he began to beat time on my 
knees and sang out boldly, Cornu ejus exaltabitur. 
It was enough to make one laugh, for he was 
only seven years old, and ugly too. But Mariuccia, 
who was knitting in the hall-way, called out that it 
was just what Maestro Ercole had sung the day 
before at vespers, every syllable. 
I have an old piano in my sitting-room. It is 
a masterpiece of an instrument, I can tell you; for 
one of the legs is gone and I propped it up with two 
empty boxes, and the keys are all black except those 
that have lost the ivory, and those are green. It 
has also five pedals, disposed as a harp underneath; 
 
but none of them make any impression on the sound, 
except the middle one, which rings a bell. The 
sound-board has a crack in it somewhere, Nino says, 
and two of the notes are dumb since the great German maestro came home with my boy one night, and 
insisted on playing an accompaniment after supper. 
We had stewed chickens and a flask of Cesanese, I 
remember, and I knew something would happen to 
the piano. But Nino would never have any other, 
for De Pretis has a very good one ; and Nino studies 
without anything just a common tuning fork that 
he carries in his pocket. But the old piano was the 
beginning of his fame. He got into the sitting-room 
one day, by himself, and found out that he could 
make a noise by striking the keys, and then he dis 
covered that he could make tunes, and pick out the 
ones that were always ringing in his head. After that 
he could hardly be dragged away from it, so that I 
sent him to school to have some quiet in the house. 
He was a clever boy, and I taught him Latin and 
gave him our poets to read; and as he grew up I 
would have made a scholar of him, but he would 
not. At least, he was always willing to learn and 
to read; but he was always singing, too. Once I 
caught him declaiming "Arma virumque cano " to 
an air from the Trovatore, and knew he could 
never be a scholar then, though he might know a 
great deal. Besides, he always preferred Dante to 
Virgil, and Leopardi to Horace. 
One day, when he was sixteen or thereabouts, he 
was making a noise, as usual, shouting some motive 
or other to Mariuccia and the cat, while I was labouring to collect my senses over a lecture I had to pre 
pare. Suddenly his voice cracked horribly and his 
singing ended in a sort of groan. It happened again 
once or twice, the next day, and then the house was 
quiet. I found him at night asleep over the old 
piano, his eyes all wet with tears. 
"What is the matter, Nino?" I asked. "It is 
time for youngsters like you to be in bed." 
"Ah, Messer Cornelio," he said, when he was 
awake, "I had better go to bed, as you say. I 
shall never sing again, for my voice is all broken to 
pieces ; " and he sobbed bitterly. 
"The saints be praised," thought I; "I shall make 
a philosopher of you yet! " 
But he would not be comforted, and for several 
months he went about as if he were trying to find 
the moon, as we say; and though he read his books 
and made progress, he was always sad and wretched, 
and grew much thinner, so that Mariuccia said he 
was consuming himself, and I thought he must be in 
love. But the house was very quiet. 
I thought as he did, that he would never sing again, 
but I never talked to him about it, lest he should try, 
now that he was as quiet as a nightingale with its 
tongue cut out. But nature meant differently, I suppose. One day De Pretis came to see me ; it must have 
been near the new year, for he never came often at 
that time. It was only a friendly recollection of the 
days when I had a castello and a church of my own 
at Serveti, and used to have him come from Rome to 
sing at the festa, and he came every year to see me ; 
and his head grew bald as mine grew grey, so that at; 
 
last he wears a black skull cap everywhere, like a 
priest, and only takes it off when he sings the Gloria 
Patri, or at the Elevation. However, he came to 
see me, and Nino sat mutely by, as we smoked a little and drank the syrup of violets with water that 
Mariuccia brought us. It was one of her external 
extravagances, but somehow, though she never understood the value of economy, my professorship 
brought in more than enough for us, and it was not 
long after this that I began to buy the bit of vineyard out of Porta Salara, by instalments from my 
savings. And since then, we have our own wine. 
De Pretis was talking to me about a new opera he 
had heard. He never sang except in church, of 
course, but he used to go to the theatre of an even 
ing ; so it was quite natural that he should go to the 
piano and begin to sing a snatch of the tenor air to 
me, explaining the situation as he went along, between his singing. 
Nino could not sit still, and went and leaned over 
Sor Ercole, as we call the maestro, hanging on the 
notes, not daring to try and sing, for he had lost his 
voice, but making the words with his lips. 
"Dio mio! " he cried at last, "how I wish I could 
sing that!" 
"Try it," said De Pretis, laughing and half interested by the boy's earnest look. " Try it I will 
sing it again." But Nino's face fell. 
"It is of no use," he said. "My voice is all broken 
to pieces now, because I sang too much before." 
"Perhaps it will come back," said the musician 
kindly, seeing the tears in the young fellow's eyes. 
 
"See, we will try a scale." He struck a chord. 
"Now, open your mouth so Do-o-o-o!" He 
sang a long note. Nino could not resist any longer, 
whether he had any voice or not. He blushed red 
and turned away, but he opened his mouth and made 
a sound. 
" Do-o-o-o I " He sang like the master, but much 
weaker. 
