" You are very generous." 
" You will write every few days and keep me informed 
of any change. For the rest, I can only commend you to 
your own patience and God's wisdom. I can trust you 
not to take any rash or desperate step. When this matter 
is decided, we will attend to other plans and changes." 
Robert Alston sat in silence by the open window, very 
heavy hearted, very despondent, shut out of everything 
that would make life worth having, home and love such as 
he could fancy now. There was just endurance. He felt 
secretly that he should accept his uncle's views and act 
upon them, not from any high motive of expiation or res- 
ignation, but because he would be ashamed, partly, to ill- 
requite such tender devotion. They must know at home, 
and the least disgrace the better for them all. 
The parting was not as warm and tender as the meeting 
had been. Rob seemed frozen into utter indifference. 
Nothing could hurt him ; there was no further struggle ; 
he had nothing to gain. His life was wrecked ; that was 
all of it. 
At home Uncle Robert found them going on much as 
usual. There was a promise of less absolute gayety, 
Georgie Halford, the moving spirit in all this, having suc- 
cumbed to woman's destiny, her troop of admirers settling 
itself to one lover. The Langdons were busy and inter- 
ested in their house, as they had decided upon the summer 
residence at Brookside and winters wherever they chose. 
Emma had disposed of several pictures through the winter 
and taken orders for others. Mr. Langdon was very 
proud of her success. 
The new bride, Mrs. Hunsdon, was quite a central figure 
already. They had little intellectual clubs and gatherings, 
and discussed progress and the new phases of art, the true 
and the beautiful, leaving the good to get crowded in. 
There was music, and talking, and research. It made 
Kathie think a little of Ada Garnier's evenings, only there 
every one was desperately in earnest about the great ques- 
tions, the vital pith of life ; here it was culture and grace, 
ease and pleasantness, harmony ; the kind of living that 
a little knot of people in a pretty country place invariably 
settle into when there is education and refinement, instead 
of ostentation and striving to outshine each other. There 
were some who voted these things a bore, and could only 
be roused on the subject of new gowns, dinner parties, 
and diamonds ; but this class was apt to seek the conge- 
nial society of fashionable watering-places in the summer. 
When Kathie wanted something plainer and more stir- 
ring she went up to the quaint old parsonage at Middle - 
ville. It seemed now as if Sarah must have been there 
always. The sour-visaged housekeeper was gone, and in 
her place a cheerful young girl, stout and strong, who held 
her mistress in a kind of wondering awe and joy. The 
little girls were still shy of strangers, but they made friends 
with Kathie, and clung to their new mother as if they were 
afraid some untoward fate might spirit her away. 
Mr. Truesdell was much changed, improved. He 
seemed to have gone into an ampler, more generous and 
vivifying way of living. He read and talked with his wife, 
they visited together, they studied the wide out-of-door 
world, and his sermons showed the added breadth and 
vigor. The narrow animosities and objections were dying 
out, as such things invariably do when left to themselves. 
For the younger people the parsonage was a rallying point. 
There were music, books not too good to lend, pictures and 
photographs that whetted one's mental appetite to know 
more about the great world outside. 
" I can sympathize with them so," Sarah said. " There 
is a side that cannot be quite satisfied with the every-day 
work of clearing up a house, washing, ironing, and mend- 
ing. It is the 'clause,' the 'making things divine,' the 
more than raiment, the unfolding of the seed implanted by 
a divine hand. It is what He puts the husbandmen in the 
world for, to watch, and care, and tend, while he jour- 
neys." 
Kathie always wondered a little. This was to be her 
life. How could she grow into it, to be a very part as 
Sarah was ! 
They were very glad to get Uncle Robert home again, 
and asked questions innumerable about his namesake, 
easily enough answered, since none of them trenched on 
the main point. And then he was so busy with town 
work, streets, and mills, and drainage, temperance and 
sobriety, and schools, that Kathie seemed left altogether 
to Charlie in his frequent visits. 
It seemed the most natural thing in the world to be 
engaged. They talked about the kind of place they would 
like, they planned church music, and services, and ser- 
mons, gathe lings that should include rich and poor, work 
and worship, and the lovely, saintly life, the larger holi- 
ness that would grow out of it 
" If I only can be good enough," she always said, and 
he invariably replied : 
" But you are. It is only your exceeding humility that 
makes you fearful." 
She used to pray in these days, and was careful about 
a great many things, questioning with a very tender con- 
science, trying to shape her soul in a satisfying mould, and 
never quite succeeding. Perhaps it was so everywhere. 
God did not mean that here on earth there should be per- 
fect satisfaction. 
Mrs. Langdon expressed some surprise at the admission. 
" Are you really in love, Kathie?" she asked one day. 
" You take it all so much as a matter of course. It doesn't 
seem to be strange or wonderful in any way. Why, it 
appeared to me at first as if I had gone into some en- 
chanted country. In the morning when I woke up I was 
sure it was a dream, that nothing so entrancing, so ab- 
sorbing could ever come to me. I was so afraid, yes, I 
really was," blushing at the remembrance, " that Mr. 
Langdon would come in and say it was a mistake, that he 
had changed his mind. And oh, I was afraid he would die 
or something happen to take him away from me, and when 
he did come I was all in a tremble and hardly knew what I 
said. I suppose you think it all very silly," with an ex- 
pression of piquant deprecation. 
" Perhaps we are different," hesitatingly. 
' ' But you are a young girl with a first lover. And love 
is ever a ' sweet madness.' Only, you and Charlie have 
known each other always, and, well, I was going to save 
you for Fred, you know ; so no wonder I am a little dis- 
appointed." 
Fay Collamore had appeared surprised as well. Kathie 
felt the awkwardness ; there had always been a secret con- 
sciousness between the two, a curious little rough place 
now and then in spite of the tender friendship. It never 
was allowed to work any harm. Indeed, the two girls 
were quite inseparable. Mrs. Alston had a way of claim- 
ing Fay that was irresistible. 
Eugene rebelled passionately at first. 
" I don't believe it. I can't make it so," he cried vehe- 
mently. " They look just like friends, not lovers, and I 'm 
sure she doesn't know. It is just because they have been 
together all their lives, and girls are always foolish over 
ministers." 
"Kathie isn't foolish over anything," said Fay, " and 
Charlie does love her. O Eugene, if you had not cared ! " 
in a distressful tone. 
* ' But I have cared ! I shall always care ! There isn't 
another girl in the world like Kathie Alston ! " 
Eugene was very thankful for another business trip, this 
time a long one, westward. 
Dick Grayson had rejoiced warmly with the young 
couple. 
" I half envy you, Charlie," he said, wringing the slen- 
der hand in his own broad palm ; " I Ve had a suspicion 
now and then, and you are both so much alike. But for 
you I think I should have tried nrpself ; I always had a 
fancy that way," laughingty. " I Ve envied you Kathie, 
and Rob his uncle. There never was such a bright, en- 
joyable place as Cedarwood, or such delightful people." 
General and Mrs. Mackenzie smiled on the young 
lovers. How could they help it? but both were sore at 
heart. It might have been but for a little punctillio of 
honor. And yet would Bruce have been satisfied with 
so calm a regard ? But it was done past recall. The brave 
boy had uttered no word of blame to his father, but ac- 
cepted the loss, the shadow that stretched gray and des- 
olate in his path, and without knowing Rob's sorrow 
he had been tenderer from the pain of his own grief. 
Bruce and Kathie had "kept up an infrequent correspond- 
