same way. ' So you had a hard time to do it, too ! 
Do you suppose I ever can ? " 
' I wish you could tell me about it some time," said 
Felix. 'Now, if you are willing. Perhaps I have 
been in the very place where you are." Philip was 
ready to pour forth the whole story. He gave neither 
confidence nor interest piecemeal. The account was 
very full of Elizabeth and how she helped or hindered 
him. 
' Elizabeth is your sister ? Yes, I knew it, though 
I had forgotten for the moment. Mrs. Potter has 
spoken of her. And so you came to think it would be 
necessary for you to know more. Why do you want 
to write plays ? ' 
"Why, that is the only thing I care about, and I 
mean to be famous." 
" I believe you must have a higher object than that 
in your mind," said Felix, gently. : Though perhaps 
you are too young to recognize it if it is there, or feel 
the need of it." 
" What, please ? Isn't it high enough object to want 
to do any thing for the pleasure of it ? ' 
" Not the very highest, I think, though even that 
people can't feel all the time. They must be thankful 
if they keep it somewhere in their minds and can pull 
it out and look at it occasionally, as a pilgrim does his 
relic. What I meant was that the desire to do good 
work ought to be a sort of religion, doing it because it 
is the best way one has of enriching the world. Now 
shall I give you advice ? ' 
"Oh, if you would! I don't even dare talk with 
any body but Elizabeth, and she can't help really, but 
only be sorry." 
" That's a good deal, too. Now you are fifteen, you 
know very little, but have a great deal of ambition." 
Sure as Philip was of his desire to be told the truth, 
and familiar as he thought himself with his own de- 
ficiencies, he was conscious of a momentary resentment 
at this plain statement of his ignorance. 
' It is to be proved whether you have the genius for 
work which is the only possible thing to develop abil- 
ity. If you like, I will give you a start in Greek, be- 
 
sides keeping on with the Latin, and I can tell you, of 
course, what other directions to take. Now this isn't 
helping you to money, but the best thing you could do 
now, if you had a gold-mine, is to begin the course of 
study." 
Philip's eyes were dancing. 
" Do you think I can succeed ? Yes, I know you do, 
or you wouldn't offer to help me ! ' 
" It is best to work for every thing worth having as 
if it were possible," said Felix, equally afraid of giving 
baseless encouragement and failing in practical help. 
" But I am sure it will do you good to work." 
Philip heard only the words which answered his own 
desires, and went home happy. 
CHAPTER VIII. 
THERE were two religious societies in Stratford, 
which were not exactly rivals, neither claiming an 
exclusive knowledge of the path to heaven. There was, 
on the contrary, a most amicable feeling between them, 
though the Methodists were sure the Baptists failed in 
sundry-minor points of doctrine, while the Baptists were 
equally confident that their Methodistical neighbors 
were lax in having but one prayer meeting a week. 
But great events like revivals or praise-meetings were 
sure to unite them, as was the case this winter, when a 
traveling band of Evangelists came from Scone where 
they had made a stay of ten days, with, one of them 
nasally said, " a profit of forty-three souls." They be- 
gan a systematic course of exhortation urging to repent- 
ance, and graphic depicting of the consequences of 
hardness of heart. 
There were meetings held every evening in the week, 
at which Baptists and Methodists mingled their tears, 
prayers, and confessions without a thought of sectarian 
boundaries. 
Philip would not have thought twice of the meetings 
had he not been compelled to take them into consider- 
ation in a manner which roused his ire. Coming 
home, one afternoon, from school, the early twilight 
making the time seem far later than it was, he sat down 
at once to his Latin translation, which he had ambi- 
tiously lengthened, day by day. The other boys had 
long before dropped out of the class, quite satisfied 
with their brief sip of learning. Grandmother was 
standing by the stove, cleaning an old-fashioned brass 
candle-stick, melting the tallow and carefully wiping 
it away. 
' You'll have to get your chores done early to-night, 
Philip," she said, slowly fitting in a long candle. 
" Your mother 'll want to be at the meeting early to 
get a front seat. It's dark enough to carry a lantern, 
too ; I guess I'll clean it for you now." 
O mother," said Philip, putting down his book, 
you don't want me to go with you, do you ? I can't 
spare the time." 
' Can't spare time for the Lord ? " said Grand- 
mother, in her most weighty and lifeless voice. " The 
day may come when you are obliged to. Beware, lest 
you provoke Him to anger." 
Philip was too much absorbed in his own affairs not 
to be irritated by interruption, which seemed particu- 
larly ill-timed. Indeed, it probably seems so at any 
present moment when it occurs. 
' I don't believe the Lord would rather I should go 
to prayer meeting than get my lessons," he said, with 
his head so far over his lexicon that he was ignorant of 
the effect of his words. " If He doesn't want me to go 
right on doing what I ought to do, and not stop to hear 
somebody preach, I haven't " 
' Stop ! " rang through the kitchen. He looked up, 
startled, to see that the old lady had put down her 
work and was standing with her gingham apron 
grasped in one large hand, while the other rested 
heavily on the kitchen table. Her square, bony frame 
was trembling with indignation. 
" You shall never say another word like that, while 
you are in this house ! The next time I hear a 
blasphemy against the Lord, you go. My father would 
turn in his grave, if he knew any of his family could 
fall into such wickedness." 
The habit of obedience is strong, and though Philip 
had, more prominently than any other emotion at the 
moment, the sense that he was unjustly treated, he said 
nothing ; a glance at his mother, too, who was making 
biscuits at the table, her hands trembling too much to 
cut them, was -a powerful restraint. Grandmother 
walked into the sitting-room and did not come out 
until she was called to tea. There was silence through- 
out the meal, one of those silences which, in families, 
are so much harder to bear than storms of words. One 
coming in would have felt that the storm had been there. 
After tea, Mrs. Xye followed Philip into the shed, and 
said, in a trembling undertone, " You will go, Philip ? 
She'll be real put out if you don't." 
"I can't help it, mother; I must get my lessons. 
More depends on that than any body knows, any 
body except Mr. Kewe." 
" But I have to be here alone with her all day," 
said the mother, a tremulous note in her voice, the pre- 
cursor of tears. "You are at school, and Elizabeth, 
I do wish Elizabeth would come home ! ' 
The boy was touched, as much by the homesickness 
in his own heart for Elizabeth, as by hers. 
" Don't cry, mother. I'll go, yes, to a dozen 
 
prayer-meetings, and if Elder Jones isn't there, I'll go 
round and borrow his wig and preside." 
Mrs. Nye's coming tears resolved themselves into 
the accompaniment of a laugh. She was timidly con- 
servative in matters of religion, but she could not 
believe that the powers of heaven would militate 
against her boy's nonsense, much as they might 
concern themselves with other matters quite as 
trivial. 
' That's a good boy, and we'll go early so as to see 
our way." 
In consequence of their zeal they found themselves, 
