a town-hall, about five years back, and the first 
meeting they held in it they voted to change the 
name, Lumberville ica'n't a name, and it 's Lapham 
now." 
" Isn't it somewhere up in that region that they 
get the old Brandon red ?" asked Bartley. 
" We 're about ninety miles from Brandon. The 
Brandon's a good paint," said Lapham conscien 
tiously. " Like to show you round up at our place 
some odd time, if you get off." 
"Thanks. I should like it first-rate. Works 
there ?" 
" Yes ; works there. Well, sir, just about the 
time I got started, the war broke out ; and it 
knocked my paint higher than a kite. The thing 
dropped perfectly dead. I presume that if I 'd had 
any sort of influence, I might have got it into Govern 
ment hands, for gun-carriages and army wagons, 
and may be on board Government vessels. But I 
hadn't, and we had to face the music. I was about 
broken-hearted, but m'wife she looked at it another 
way. ' I guess it 's a providence,' says she. ' Silas, 
I guess you 've got a country that 's worth fighting 
for. Any rate, you better go out and give it a 
chance.' Well, sir, I went. I knew she meant 
business. It might kill her to have me go, but it 
would kill her sure if I stayed. She was one of that 
 
kind. I went. Her last words was, ' I 'll look 
after the paint, Si.' We hadn't but just one little 
girl then, boy 'd died, and Mis' Lapham's mother 
was livin' with us ; and I knew if times difl any 
ways come up again, m'wife 'd know just what to do. 
So I went. I got through ; and you can call me 
Colonel, if you want to. Feel there !" Lapham 
took Bartley's thumb and forefinger and put them 
on a bunch in his leg, just above the knee. " Any 
thing hard?" 
"Ball?" 
Lapham nodded. " Gettysburg. That 's my ther 
mometer. If it wa'n't for that, I shouldn't know 
enough to come in when it rains." 
Bartley laughed at a joke which betrayed some 
evidences of wear. " And when you came back, 
you took hold of the paint and rushed it." 
" I took hold of the paint and rushed it all I 
could," said Lapham, with less satisfaction than he 
had hitherto shown in his autobiography. " But I 
found that I had got back to another world. The 
day of small things was past, and I don't suppose it 
will ever come again in this country. My wife was 
at me all the time to take a partner somebody with 
capital ; but I couldn't seem to bear the idea. That 
paint was like my own blood to me. To have any 
body else concerned in it was like well, I don't 
know what. I saw it was the thing to do ; but I 
tried to fight it off, and I tried to joke it off. I 
used to say, ' Why didn't you take a partner your 
self, Persis, while I was away ? ' And she 'd say, 
 
'Well, if you hadn't come back, I should, Si.' 
Always did like a joke about as well as any woman 
I ever saw. Well, I had to come to it. I took a 
partner." Lapham dropped the bold blue eyes with 
which he had been till now staring into Bartley's 
face, and the reporter knew that here was a place 
for asterisks in his interview, if interviews were 
faithful. " He had money enough," continued 
Lapham, with a suppressed sigh ; " but he didn't 
know anything about paint. We hung on together 
for a year or two. And then we quit." 
" And he had the experience," suggested Bartley, 
with companionable ease. 
" I had some of the experience too," said Lapham, 
with a scowl ; and Bartley divined, through the 
freemasonry of all who have sore places in their 
memories, that this was a pointy which he must not 
touch again. 
" And since that, I suppose, you 've played it 
alone." 
" I 've played it alone." 
" You must ship some of this paint of yours 
to foreign countries, Colonel ?" suggested Bartley, 
putting on a professional air. 
" We ship it to all parts of the world. It goes 
to South America, lots of it. It goes to Australia, 
and it goes to India, and it goes to China, and it goes 
to the Cape of Good Hope. It 'll stand any climate. 
Of course, we don't export these fancy brands 
much. They're for home use. But we're intro 
ducing them elsewhere. Here." Lapham pulled 
 
open a drawer, and showed Bartley a lot of labels in 
different languages Spanish, French, German, and 
Italian. " We expect to do a good business in all 
those countries. We 've got our agencies in Cadiz 
now, and in Paris, and in Hamburg, and in Leghorn. 
It 's a thing that 's bound to make its way. Yes, sir. 
Wherever a man has got a ship, or a bridge, or a 
dock, or a house, or a car, or a fence, or a pig-pen 
anywhere in God's universe to paint, that 's the paint 
for him, and he 's bound to find it out sooner or later. 
You pass a ton of that paint dry through a blast 
furnace, and you 'll get a quarter of a ton of pig-iron. 
I believe in my paint. I believe it 's a blessing to 
the world. When folks come in, and kind of smell 
round, and ask me what I mix it with, I always say, 
' Well, in the first place, I mix it with Faith, and 
after that I grind it up with the best quality of 
boiled linseed oil that money will buy.' " 
Lapham took out his watch and looked at it, and 
Bartley perceived that his audience was drawing to 
a close. " 'F you ever want to run down and take 
a look at our works, pass you over the road," he 
called it rud, " and it sha'n't cost you a cent." 
" Well, may be I shall, sometime,',' said Bartley. 
" Good afternoon, Colonel." 
" Good afternoon. Or hold on ! My horse down 
there yet, William ?" he called to the young man in 
the counting-room who had taken his letter at the 
beginning of the interview. "Oh! All right !" he 
added, in response to something the young man said. 
t: Can't I set you down somewhere, Mr. Hubbard ? 
 
I 've got my horse at the door, and I can drop you 
on my way home. I 'm going to take Mis' Lapham 
to look at a house I 'm driving piles for, down on the 
New Land." 
" Don't care if I do," said Hartley. 
Lapham put on a straw hat, gathered up some 
papers lying on his desk, pulled down its rolling 
cover, turned the key in it, and gave the papers 
to an extremely handsome young woman at one 
of the desks in the outer office. She was stylishly 
dressed, as Bartley saw, and her smooth, yellow hair 
was sculpturesquely waved over a low, white fore 
head. " Here," said Lapham, with the same prompt 
gruff kindness that he had used in addressing the 
young man, " I want you should put these in shape, 
and give me a type- writer copy to morrow." 
" What an uncommonly pretty girl !" said Bartley, 
as they descended the rough stairway and found 
their way out to the street, past the dangling rope 
of a block and tackle wandering up into the caver 
nous darkness overhead. 
" She does her work," said Lapham shortly. 
Bartley mounted to the left side of the open buggy 
standing at the curb-stone, and Lapham, gathering 
up the hitching-weight, slid it under the buggy-seat 
and mounted beside him. 
" No chance to speed a horse here, of course," 
said Lapham, while the horse with a spirited gentle 
ness picked her way, with a high, long action, over 
the pavement of the street". The streets were all nar 
row, and most of them crooked, in that quarter of 
 
the town ; but at the end of one the spars of a vessel 
pencilled themselves delicately against the cool blue 
of the afternoon sky. The air was full of a smell 
pleasantly compounded of oakum, of leather, and of 
