softest compresses for Carrol's wound. He is asleep, so I'll begin with
you, and while I work I'll amuse you with the story of the old
table-cloth this lint came from," said Nurse Hunt, as she stood by the
bed where the thin, white face smiled at her, though the boy dreaded the
hard quarter of an hour he had to endure every day.

"Thanky, mum. We 'aven't 'ad a story for a good bit. I'm 'arty this
mornin', and think I'll be hup by this day week, won't I?"

"I hope so. Now shut your eyes and listen; then you wont mind the
twinges I give you, gentle as I try to be," answered the nurse,
beginning her painful task.

Then she told the story of Tabby's table-cloth, and the boy enjoyed it
immensely, laughing out at the slapping and the throwing water in the
ensign's face, and openly rejoicing when the red-coats got the worst of
it.

"As we've beaten all the rest of the world, I don't mind our 'aving bad
luck that time. We har' friends now, and I'll fight for you, mum, like a
British bull-dog, if I hever get the chance," said Johnny, when the tale
and dressing were ended.

"So you shall. I like to turn a brave enemy into a faithful friend, as I
hope we shall yet be able to do with our Southern brothers. I admire
their courage and their loyalty to what they believe to be right; and we
are all suffering the punishment we deserve for waiting till this sad
war came, instead of settling the trouble years ago, as we might have
done if we had loved honesty and honor more than money and power."

As she spoke, Miss Hunt turned to her other patient, and saw by the
expression of his face that he had heard both the tale and the talk. He
smiled, and said, "Good morning," as usual, but when she stooped to lay
a compress of the soft, wet damask on the angry wound in his breast, he
whispered, with a grateful look:--

"You have changed one 'Southern brother' from an enemy into a friend.
Whether I live or die, I never can forget how generous and kind you have
all been to me."

"Thank you! It is worth months of anxiety and care to hear such words.
Let us shake hands, and do our best to make North and South as good
friends as England and America now are," said the nurse, offering her
hand.

"Me, too! I've got one 'and left, and I give it ye with all me 'art. God
bless ye, sir, and a lively getting hup for the two of us!" cried
Johnny, stretching across the narrow space that divided the beds, with a
beaming face and true English readiness to forgive a fallen foe when he
had proved a brave one.

The three hands met in a warm shake, and the act was a little lesson
more eloquent than words to the lookers-on; for the spirit of
brotherhood that should bind us all together worked the miracle of
linking these three by the frail threads spun a century ago.

So Tabby's table-cloth did make a beautiful and useful end at last.




[Illustration]

ELI'S EDUCATION


"My turn now," said Walt, as they assembled again, after a busy day
spent in snow-balling, statue-making, and tumbling in the drifts that
still continued to rise on all sides.

"Here is just the story for you and Geoff. You are getting ready for
college, after years of the best schooling, and it will do you good to
hear how hard some boys have had to work to get a little learning," said
Grandma, glancing at the slip that Walt drew from the basket which Aunt
Elinor held out to him, and from which Lotty had drawn the story of
"Tabby's Table Cloth."

"This is a true tale, and the man became famous for his wisdom, as well
as much loved and honored for his virtue, and interest in all good
things," added Aunt Elinor, as she began to read the story of


                           ELI'S EDUCATION.

Many years ago, a boy of sixteen sat in a little room in an old
farm-house up among the Connecticut hills, writing busily in a book
made of odd bits of paper stitched together, with a cover formed of two
thin boards. The lid of a blue chest was his desk, the end of a tallow
candle stuck into a potato was his lamp, a mixture of soot and vinegar
his ink, and a quill from the gray goose his pen. A "Webster's
Spelling-book," "Dilworth's New Guide to the English Tongue," "Daboll's
Arithmetic," and the "American Preceptor," stood on the chimney-piece
over his head, with the "Assembly Catechism," and New Testament, in the
place of honor. This was his library; and now and then a borrowed
"Pilgrim's Progress," "Fox's Book of Martyrs," or some stray volume,
gladdened his heart; for he passionately loved books, and scoured the
neighborhood for miles around to feed this steadily increasing hunger.
Every penny he could earn or save went to buy a song or a story from the
peddlers who occasionally climbed the hill to the solitary farm-house.
When others took a noon-spell, he read under the trees or by the fire.
He carried a book in his pocket, and studied as he went with the cows to
and from the pasture, and sat late in his little room, ciphering on an
old slate, or puzzling his young brain over some question which no one
could answer for him.

His father had no patience with him, called him a shiftless dreamer, and
threatened to burn the beloved books. But his mother defended him, for
he was her youngest and the pride of her heart; so she let him scribble
all over her floors before she scrubbed them up, dipped extra thick
candles for his use, saved every scrap of paper to swell his little
store, and firmly believed that he would turn out the great man of the
family. His brothers joked about his queer ways, but in his sisters he
found firm friends and tender comforters for all his woes. So he
struggled along, working on the farm in summer and in a clock shop
during the winter, with such brief spells of schooling as he could get
between whiles, improving even these poor opportunities so well that he
was letter-writer for all the young people in the neighborhood.

Now, he was writing in his journal very slowly, but very well, shaping
his letters with unusual grace and freedom; for the wide snow-banks were
his copy-books in winter, and on their white pages he had learned to
sweep splendid capitals or link syllables handsomely together. This is
what he wrote that night, with a sparkle in the blue eyes and a firm
folding of the lips that made the boyish face resolute and manly.

     "I am set in my own mind that I get learning. I see not how, but my
     will is strong, and mother hopes for to make a scholar of me. So,
     please God, we shall do it."

Then he shut the little book and put it carefully away in the blue
chest, with pen and ink, as if they were very precious things; piously
said his prayers, and was soon asleep under the homespun coverlet,
dreaming splendid dreams, while a great bright star looked in at the low
window, as if waiting to show him the road to fortune.

And God did please to help the patient lad; only the next evening came
an opportunity he had never imagined. As he sat playing "Over the Hills
and Far Away" on the fiddle that he had himself made out of maple-wood,
with a bow strung from the tail of the old farm horse, a neighbor came
in to talk over the fall pork and cider, and tell the news.

"Ef you want ter go over the hills and far away, Eli, here's the chance.
I see a man down to Woodtick who was askin' ef I knew any likely young
chap who'd like to git 'scribers for a pious book he wants to sell. He'd
pay for the job when the names is got and the books give out. That's
ruther in your line, boy, so I calk'lated your daddy would spare you, as
you ain't much of a hand at shuckin' corn nor cartin' pummace."

"Haw! haw!" laughed the big brothers, Ambrose Vitruvius and Junius
Solomon, as neighbor Terry spoke with a sly twinkle in his eye.

But the sisters, Miranda and Pamela, smiled for joy, while the good
mother stopped her busy wheel to listen eagerly. Eli laid down his
fiddle and came to the hearth where the others sat, with such a
wide-awake expression on his usually thoughtful face that it was plain
that he liked the idea.

"I'll do it, if father'll let me," he said, looking wistfully at the
industrious man, who was shaving axe-handles for the winter
wood-chopping, after his day's work was over.
