mouth, shewed his irritation to be extreme; but 
what had irritated him ? However, she was some 
what accustomed to this sort of demonstration, 
which nevertheless always grieved her; and she 
was glad that she had escaped telling her father 
her second reason. The truth was, Esther's way 
of life was so restricted and monotonous, out 
wardly; she lived so by herself and to herself; that 
the stimulus and refreshment of a social occasion 
like that one when she had met Miss Frere a year 
ago, was almost too pleasant. It made Esther feel 
a little too sensibly how alone and shut out from 
human intercourse was the nobler part of herself. 
A little real intellectual converse and contact was 
almost too enjoyable; it was a mental breath of 
fresh air, in which life seemed to change and be 
come a different thing; and then, we all know 
how close air seems after fresh ; the routine of school 
teaching and the stillness and uniformity of her 
home existence, seemed to press upon her painfully, 
till after a time she became wonted to it again. 
So, on the whole, she thought it not amiss that her 
old party dress had done all the service it decently 
could, and that she had no means to get another. 
And now, after a few moments grave shadow on 
her face, all shadows cleared away, as they usually 
did, and she set herself to the doing of what this 
holiday at home gave her to do. There was mend 
ing making up accounts a drawing to finish for 
a model ; after that, if she could get it all done in 
time, there might be a bit of blessed reading in a 
new book that her old friend Miss Fairbairn had 
lent her. Esther set her face bravely to her day's 
work. 
The morning was not far advanced, and the 
mending was not finished, when the unwonted 
door knocker sounded again. This time the door 
 
was opened by some one whom Pitt did not know 
and who did not know him ; for Mrs. Bounder had 
come into town, and as Barker's hands were just in 
her bread, had volunteered to go to the door for 
her. Pitt was ushered into the little parlour, in 
which, as nobody was there, he had leisure to make 
several observations. Yesterday he had had no 
leisure for them. Now he looked about him. That 
the fortunes of the family must have come down 
very much it was evident. Such a street, in the 
first place; then this little bit of a house; and then, 
there was more than that; he could see tokens unmistakeable of scantness of means. The drugget 
was well worn, had been darned in two places ; very 
neatly, but darned it was; and the rest of it threat 
ened breaches. The carpet beyond the drugget was 
old and faded, and the furniture ? Pitt wondered 
if it could be the same furniture, it looked so different here. There was the colonel's couch, how 
ever; he recognized that, although in its chintz 
cover, which was no longer new, but faded like 
the carpet. Books on the table were certainly the 
colonel's books; but no pictures were on the walls, 
no pretty trifles lying about; nothing was there 
that could testify of the least margin of means for 
anything that was not strictly necessary. Yet it 
was neat, and comfortable; but Pitt felt that expenditures were very closely measured and no lat 
itude allowed to ease or to fancy. He stood a few 
minutes, looking and taking all this in; and then 
the inner door opened, and he forgot it instantly. 
At one stroke, as it were, the mean little room was 
transformed into a sacred temple, and here was 
the priestess. The two young people stood a second or two silent, facing each other. 
But Esther knew him at once; and more, as she 
met the frank, steadfast eyes that she had known 
and trusted so long ago, she tru^ed them at once 
again and perfectly. There was no mistaking 
either their truth or their kindness. In spite of 
his new connections and alienated life, her old 
friend had not forgotten her. She extended her 
hand, with a flash of surprise and pleasure in her 
face; which was not a flash but a dawn, for it grew 
and brightened into warmer kindliness. 
" Pitt Dallas ! " she said. " It is really you ! " 
The two hands met and clasped and lay in each 
other, but Pitt had no words for what went on 
within him. With the first sight of Esther he 
knew that he had met his fate. Here was all that 
he had left six or seven years ago, how changed ! 
The little head, so well set on its shoulders, with 
its wealth of beautifully ordered hair; those won 
derful grave, soft, sweet, thoughtful eyes ; the character of the quiet mouth; the pure dignity and 
grace of the whole creature; all laid a spell upon 
the man. He found no words to speak audibly; 
but in his mind words heaped on words, and he 
was crying to himself, " my beauty ! O my gazelle ! My fair saint ! My lily ! My Queen ! " 
What right he had to the personal pronoun does 
not appear; however, we know that appropriation 
 
is an instinct of humanity for that which it likes. 
And it may also be noted, that Pitt never thought 
of calling Esther a rose. Nor would any one else. 
That was not her symbol. Roses are sweet, sweeter 
than anything, and yielding in fairness to nothing; 
but let me be pardoned for saying it, they are 
also common. And Esther was rather something 
apart, rare. If I liken her to a lily, I do not mean 
those fair white lilies which painters throw at the 
feet of Franciscan monks and dedicate also to the 
Virgin; Annunciation lilies, so called. They are 
common too, and rather specially emblems of purity. 
What I am thinking of, and what Pitt was think 
ing of, is on the contrary one of those unique exotic 
lilies, which are as much wonders of colour as marvels of grace; apart, reserved, pure, also lofty, and 
delicate to the last degree; queening it over all 
the rest of the flowers around, not so much by of 
ficial preeminence of beauty as by the superiority 
of the spiritual nature. A difference internal and 
ineffable, which sets them of necessity aside of the 
crowd and above it. 
Pitt felt all this in a breath, which I have taken 
so many words clumsily to set forth. He, as I said, 
took no words ; and only gave such expression to 
his thoughts as he could at the moment by bowing 
very low over Esther's hand and kissing it. Something about the action hurt Esther; she drew her 
hand away. 
" It is a great surprise," she said quietly. " Won't 
you sit down ? " 
" The surprise ought to have been, that you did 
not see me before; not that I am here now." 
"I got over that surprise a great while ago," 
said Esther. "At least, I thought I did; but it 
comes back to me now that I see you. How was 
it ? How could it be ? " 
In answer to which, Pitt gave her a detailed ac 
count of his various efforts in past years to discover 
the retreat of his old friends. This was useful to 
him; he got his breath, as it were, which the sight 
of Esther had taken away; was himself again. 
Esther listened silently, with perfect faith in the 
speaker and his statements, with a little undefined 
sort of regretfulness. So then, Pitt need not have 
been lost to them, if only they could have been 
found! Just what that thought meant she had 
no time then to inquire. She hardly interrupted 
him at all. 
" What do you suppose became of your letters? " 
she asked when he had done. For Pitt had not 
said that they went to his father's hands. 
" I suppose they shared the fate of all letters 
uncalled-for; if not the dead-letter office, the 
fire." 
" It was not very strange that you could not find 
us when you came to New York. We really 
troubled the post office very little, having after a 
while nothing to expect from it; and that was the 
only place where you could hope to get a clue." 
Neither would Esther mention Mr. Dallas. With 
a woman's curious fine discernment she had ween 
 
that all was not right in that quarter; indeed had 
suspected it long ago. 
" But you got some letters from me ? " Pitt went 
on, " while you were in Seaforth. One or two, I 
