whole, which the elements he has described have, in some occult manner,
combined to produce. "There was an enchantment in her expression,"
"There was an irresistible sweetness about her;" these phrases tell more
than the most minute record of hue and outline; they place the reader
where he would be were the living, breathing presence before him,
instead of the mere printed page.
But in the case of Garda Thorne it could have been said that she had not
only brilliant beauty, but the loveliness which does not always
accompany it. There was sufficient regularity in her face to keep from
it the term irregular; but it had also all the changing expressions, all
the spirit, all the sweetness, which faces whose features are not by
rule often possess. She had undoubtedly a great charm, a charm which no
one had as yet analyzed; she was not a girl who turned one's thoughts
towards analysis, one was too much occupied in simply admiring her. She
was as open as the day, her frankness was wonderful; it would have been
said of her by every one that she had an extraordinary simplicity, were
it not that the richness of her beauty threw over her a sort of
sumptuousness which did not accord with the usual image of pure, rather
meagre limpidity called up by the use of that word.
Evert Winthrop, beholding her for the first time in the little Episcopal
church of Gracias, had said to himself that she was the most beautiful
girl (viewing the matter impersonally) whom he had ever seen.
Impersonally, because he would have set down his personal preference as
decidedly for something less striking, for eyes of blue rather than
black, eyes which should be not so much lustrous as gentle, for smooth
hair of pale gold, a forehead and eyebrows like those of a Raphael
Madonna. He was sure, also, that he much preferred slenderness; even a
certain virginal thinness and awkwardness he could accept, it might be
part of the charm. A friend of his, a lady older than himself, upon
hearing him express these sentiments not long before, had remarked that
they shed a good deal of light backward over his past. When he asked her
what she meant, she added that a liking for little wild flowers in a man
of the world of his age, and an indifference to tea-roses, did not so
much indicate a natural simplicity of taste as something quite apart
from that--too long an acquaintance, perhaps, with the heavily perfumed
atmosphere of conservatories.
"I don't know what you are trying to make me out," Winthrop had
answered, laughing.
"I make you out a very good fellow," replied the lady. "But you are like
my husband (who is also a very good fellow); he wonders how I can go to
the theatre, plays are so artificial. I suppose they are artificial; but
I notice that it required his closest--I may almost say his
nightly--attention for something like fifteen years to find it out."
Winthrop happened to think of this little conversation--he knew not
why--as he followed his guide through her green-walled path, which had
now become so narrow that he could no longer walk by her side. As it
came up in his mind he said to himself that here was a tea-rose, growing
if not quite in the seclusion of untrodden forests where the wild
flowers have their home, then at least in natural freedom, in the pure
air and sunshine, under the open sky. There was--there could be--nothing
of the conservatory, nothing artificial, in the only life Edgarda Thorne
had known, the life of this remote southern village where she had been
born and brought up. Her knowledge of the world outside was--must
be--confined to the Spanish-tinted legends of the slumberous little
community, to the limited traditions of her mother's small experience,
and to the perceptions and fancies of her own imagination; these last,
however numerous they might be in themselves, however vivid, must leave
her much in the condition of a would-be writer of dramas who has never
read a play nor seen one acted, but has merely evolved something vaguely
resembling one from the dreaming depths of his own consciousness;
Garda's idea of the world beyond the barrens must be equally vague and
unreal. And then, as he looked at her, sweet-natured and indifferent,
walking onward with her indolent step over her own land, under the low
blue sky, it came over him suddenly that probably she had not troubled
herself to evolve anything, to think much of any world, good or bad,
outside of her own personality. And he said to himself that wherever she
was would be world enough for most men. In which class, however, he
again did not include Evert Winthrop.
The path made a sudden turn, and stopped. It had brought them to the
borders of a waste.
"This was one of the sugar fields," said Garda, with her little air of
uninterested proprietorship.
Two old roads, raised on embankments, crossed the level, one from north
to south, the other from east to west. The verge upon which they stood
had once been a road also, though now narrowed and in some places
blocked by the bushes which had grown across it. "A little farther on,
beyond that point, you will find our ruin," said Garda. "There will not
be time to sketch it, I will wait for you here."
"You are deserting me very soon."
"I am not deserting you at all, I intend to take you remorselessly over
the entire place. But there are thorns in those bushes, and thorns are
dangerous."
"I know it, I am already wounded."
"I mean that the briers might tear my dress," explained Miss Thorne,
with dignity.
This stately rejection of so small and, as it were, self-made a pun
entertained her companion highly; it showed how unfamiliar she was with
the usual commonplaces. Talking with her would be not unlike talking
with a princess in a fairy tale--one of those who have always lived
mysteriously imprisoned in a tower; such a damsel, regarding her own
rank, would be apt to have a standard which might strike the first comer
as fantastically high. His entertainment, however, was not visible as,
with a demeanor modelled upon the requirements of her dignity, he bent
back the thorny bushes of the green cape, and made a passageway for her
round its point. When his little roadway was finished, she came over it
with her leisurely step, as though (he said to himself) it and the whole
world, including his own poor individuality, belonged to her by
inherited right, whenever she should choose to claim them. He was well
aware that he was saying to himself a good many things about this girl;
but was it not natural--coming unexpectedly upon so much beauty, set in
so unfamiliar a frame? It was a new portrait, and he was fond of
portraits; in picture-galleries he always looked more at the portraits
than at anything else.
On the opposite side of the thorny cape the ruin came into view,
standing back in a little arena of its own. Two of its high stone walls
remained upright, irregularly broken at the top, and over them clambered
a vine with slender leaves and long curling sprays that thrust
themselves boldly out into the air, covered with bell-shaped, golden
blossoms. This was the yellow jessamine, the lovely wild jessamine of
Florida.
"You will look at it, please, from the other side," announced Garda; "it
looks best from there. There will not be time to sketch it."
"Why do you keep taking it for granted that I sketch? Do I look like an
artist?"
"Oh no; I've never seen an artist, but I'm sure you don't look like one.
I suppose you sketch simply because I suppose northerners can do
everything; I shall be fearfully disappointed if they cannot--when I see
them."
"Do you wish to see them?"
"I wish to see hundreds," answered Miss Thorne, with great deliberation,
"I wish to see thousands. I wish to see them at balls; I have never seen
a ball. I wish to see them driving in parks; I have never seen a park. I
wish to see them climbing mountains; I have never seen a mountain--"
"They don't do it in droves, you know," interpolated her companion.
"--I wish to see them in the halls of Congress; I have never seen
Congress. I wish to see them at the Springs; I have never seen Springs.
I wish to see them wearing diamonds; I have never seen diamonds--"
"The last is a wish easily gratified. In America, as one may say, the
diamond's the only wear," remarked Winthrop, taking out a little
linen-covered book.
Garda did not question this assertion, which reduced her own
neighborhood to so insignificant an exception to a general rule that it
need not even be mentioned. To her Florida was Florida. America? That
was quite another country.
"You are going to sketch, after all," said the girl. She looked about
her for a conveniently shaped fragment among the fallen blocks, and,
finding one, seated herself, leaning against a second sun-warmed
fragment which she took as her chair's back. "I thought I mentioned that
there would not be time," she added, indolently, in her sweet voice.
"It will take but a moment," answered Winthrop. "I am no artist, as you
have already mentioned; but, plainly, as a northerner, I must do
something, or fall hopelessly below your expectations. There is no
mountain here for me to climb, there is no ball at which I can dance.
I'm not a Congressman and can't tell you about the 'halls,' and I
haven't a diamond to my name, not one. Clearly, therefore, I must
sketch; there is nothing else left." And with slow, accurate touch he
began to pencil an outline of the flower-starred walls upon his little
page. Garda, the handle of her white umbrella poised on one shoulder,
watched him from under its shade. He did not look up nor break the
silence, and after a while she closed her eyes and sat there motionless
in the flower-perfumed air. Thus they remained for fully fifteen
minutes, and Winthrop, going on with his work, admired her passiveness,
he had never before seen the ability to maintain undisturbed an easy
silence in a girl so young. True, the silence had in it something of
that same element of indifference which he had noted in her before; but
one could pardon her that for her tranquillity, which was so charming
and so rare.
"Ah--sketching?" said a voice, breaking the stillness. "Yes--yes--the
old mill has, I suppose, become an object of antiquity; we must think of
it now as venerable, moss-grown."
