
Quick Biscuits.

    One quart of sifted flour.

    Two heaping tablespoonfuls of sweet, firm lard.

    Two cups of new milk (warm from the cow if you can get
      it.)

    Two tablespoonfuls of baking powder.

    One teaspoonful of salt.

Sift salt, flour, and baking-powder twice into a bowl or tray. With
a clean sharp chopping-knife work the lard into this, turning and
chopping until no lumps are left. Into a hollow in the middle pour
the milk, working the flour downward until you have a soft, wet mass,
using the chopper for this purpose. Flour your pastry-board and your
hands, make the dough into a ball, handling it as little as possible,
and lay on the board. Roll out with a floured rolling-pin into a sheet
half an inch in thickness, and with very few strokes. Cut into round
cakes, sift flour lightly over the bottom of a baking-pan, and set your
biscuits—just not touching one another—in even rows within it.

Bake about twelve minutes in a quick oven. The dough should have a
rough appearance before it is baked, like what is known as “pebbled
morocco.” Too much handling will make it sleek without and tough within.

You can make excellent quick biscuits by the above receipt, by
substituting Hecker’s Prepared Flour for the barreled family flour,
and omitting the baking-powder. You will, however, probably be obliged
to add a little more milk, as prepared flour “thickens up” rather more
than other brands.




4

OTHER BREAKFAST BREADS.


Griddle Cakes.

IN making these, let quickness be the first, second and third rules.
Beat briskly and thoroughly; mix just as you are ready to send the
cakes to the table (except when yeast is used), bake, turn, and serve
promptly. Have all your materials on the table, measured and ready to
your hand. The griddle must be perfectly clean and wiped off with a dry
cloth just before you lay it on the stove. Heat it gradually at one
side of the stove or range, and when it is warm grease with a bit of
fat salt pork stuck firmly on a fork. The fat should be hissing hot,
but not scorching, when the batter is poured on. Before putting the
cakes on to fry, slip the griddle to the hottest part of the stove.
Drop the batter in great, even spoonfuls, and be careful not to spill
or spatter it.

M. H. PHILLIPS AND CO., of Troy, N. Y., manufacture a griddle with
three shallow cups sunken in an iron plate which moves on a hinge. When
the cakes are done on the lower side the turn of a handle reverses
the plate upon a heated surface. This makes the cakes of equal size
and thickness and saves the trouble of watching, spatula in hand, to
turn each one. It greatly simplifies the process of baking cakes, and,
lessens the heating labor of attending to them.

Be sure that each cake is done before you turn it. A twice-turned
“griddle” is spoiled.


Sour-milk Cakes.

    One quart of “loppered,” or of buttermilk.

    Three cups of sifted flour.

    One cup of Indian meal.

    One “rounded” teaspoonful of soda free from lumps.

    One teaspoonful of salt.

    Two tablespoonfuls of molasses.

Sift flour, salt and meal into a bowl. In another mix the milk,
molasses and soda. Stir these last to a foam, and pour into the hollow
in the middle of the flour. Work down the flour into the liquid with
a wooden spoon until you have a batter, and beat hard with upward
strokes, two minutes. Bake at once. These are cheap, easy and good
cakes.


Hominy Cakes.

    Two cups of fine hominy boiled and cold. (Take the
      tough skin from the top before mixing in the batter.)

    One heaping cup of sifted flour.

    One quart of milk.

    Three eggs beaten very light.

    One tablespoonful of molasses.

    One teaspoonful of salt.

Rub the hominy with the back of a wooden spoon until all the lumps are
broken up. Wet it little by little with the milk and molasses, working
it smooth as you go on. Sift flour and salt together, and put in next.
Beat for a whole minute before adding the whipped eggs, and another
minute very hard, before baking. Stir up well from the bottom before
putting each fresh batch of cakes on the griddle.

These cakes if properly made, are tender, wholesome and delightful.


Graham Cakes.

    Two cups of Graham flour.

    One of sifted white.

    One heaping tablespoonful of Indian meal.

    Three cups of buttermilk, or loppered milk.

    One rounded teaspoonful of soda.

    Two tablespoonfuls of molasses.

    One teaspoonful of salt sifted with the flour.

    Two eggs whipped very light.

    One tablespoonful melted butter.

Put Graham and salted white flour into a bowl with the Indian meal.
Stir up in another milk, molasses, soda and melted butter, and while
foaming pour into the hollowed flour. Work to a good batter and beat in
the eggs already whipped to a froth.

Beat one minute and bake at once.

This is a good standard breakfast hot bread.




5

EGGS.


MANY people do not know a well-boiled egg by sight or taste, yet
a fresh egg, boiled to a nicety, is one of the simplest, most
nutritious of breakfast dishes.


Boiled Eggs.
