powerful man unnecessarily. She looked at her son, and she was proud of
him.
"Bristol, you refuse to submit to the whipping you deserve?" demanded
Major Billcord, approaching the stout youth with the riding-whip
upraised.
"If you hit me with that whip, sir, I will knock you as far beyond the
middle of next week as I can," replied Paul firmly and quietly. "Your
son insulted my sister, and I treated him as he deserved, and just as I
would another time if he did the same thing. My sister is a poor girl,
but she is just as good as you are, and just as good as Mr. Walker is.
If she is insulted, sir, I will stand up against five hundred Billcords
as long as there is anything left of me."
"Is this your gratitude for what I have done for the family?" asked the
major, knitting his brow into a knot of wrinkles.
"Yes, sir; this is my gratitude. Do you think, because you allowed my
father to put his cottage on your land, that you and your son have the
right to insult my sister?" demanded Paul with considerable energy.
"No one insulted her, you young reprobate!" interposed the father. "Is a
civil and gentlemanly invitation an insult?"
"If he had stopped there, we should have had no trouble."
"But she refused the invitation."
"She had as much right to decline it as any lady in Westport would
have."
"Was it treating a member of my family properly, after all I have done
for you?" demanded the major more calmly, but with a terrible havoc in
his tender feelings.
"You have had a good deal to say about what you have done for us, Major
Billcord. The land on which that cottage stands," continued Paul,
pointing to it, "is not worth ten dollars. At ten per cent, the ground
rent would be one dollar a year, or two dollars for the two years it has
stood there. I have done work enough for you in the shape of errands,
taking care of your boat, and in other ways, to pay for the land twice
over. I have carried the first black bass of the season to your house,
when I could have sold the fish for a dollar apiece, for two years. As I
look at the question of gratitude, there is a balance of at least twenty
dollars in my favor; but I give it to you with all my heart, and I don't
claim the privilege of insulting your daughter for what I have done."
"You are a glib-talking puppy, and there is no more reason or common
sense in you than there is in a heifer calf. I have had enough of you,
and so has my son," responded the major, choking with wrath over the
unanswerable argument of the poor dependent.
"If you have had enough of me, you and Mr. Walker, I am satisfied to let
the matter drop where it is; but if Mr. Walker, or any other student of
the Chesterfield Collegiate Institute, insults my sister, I shall hit
him as hard as I can," replied Paul coolly.
"Woman, you have heard the insulting words of your son, and you uphold
him in his wickedness. I must take the next step. I will not have such a
vile reprobate on my land. I will not have you or your ungrateful
daughter on my territory. You are a tenant at will. That cottage must
not remain another day on my premises. Remove it at once. If it is here
at three o'clock to-morrow afternoon, I will give the students
permission to tumble it into the lake. Do you hear me, woman?" stormed
the major fiercely.
"I hear you, sir," replied Mrs. Bristol, covering her face with her
handkerchief, and beginning to weep bitterly.
"You needn't cry about it, marm. You and that graceless son of yours
have brought it on yourselves; and I think the students will enjoy the
fun of pitching the shanty into the lake."
"It is all the property I have in the world, Major Billcord," pleaded
the poor woman. "Give me a little time to remove the cottage, I implore
you!"
"Don't implore me, marm! Thank your wretch of a son for it. By three
o'clock to-morrow afternoon, if you haven't removed it in the mean time,
the shanty shall be rolled into the lake."
"I cannot get it through the woods to remove it," groaned Mrs. Bristol.
"That's your lookout, marm," said the major as he and Walk departed.
Mrs. Bristol seated herself on the lower step of the cottage, and
continued to weep bitterly.
CHAPTER IV.
THE ABSENCE OF THE TRUANT DRAGON.
The cottage of the Bristols had been framed in Burlington, and brought
down to Sandy Point on a schooner. As it stood, it was estimated to be
worth about three hundred and fifty dollars, which was the cost of it to
the poor woman when she invested her all in what was to be a home for
the family.
It was a small sum the cottage cost, but to the poor woman it was as big
as a million to a millionnaire. She had been well brought up in her
father's house, and she could not exist like a Chinaman or a Hottentot,
and it had cost the family a struggle to live during the absence of the
father.
Now all that she had was to be taken from her. As they had paid no
ground rent for the site, the law could do nothing for her. She was a
tenant on suffrance rather than a tenant at will, and had no rights
whatever. The magnate could tumble the cottage into the lake, and the
wind would carry it where it listed. It would probably be broken up on
the rocks or shoals, and the major might as well set it on fire as turn
it adrift on the lake.
The rich man intended to execute his mandate in the cruelest manner
possible. The students were to have a frolic in tumbling it into the
lake. The humble structure contained all their household goods, all the
little articles they valued far beyond the money they cost. It was
hardly possible to remove them in the time allowed for the purpose, for
everything would have to be carried by hand or transported in the
flatboat.
No team could be driven down to the point, for the major would not allow
a tree to be felled to make a road, and the owner had been compelled to
leave his saddle-horse at a considerable distance from the lake when he
visited it. Of course, the cruel magnate understood all this, and
realized that his final mandate doomed the cottage and all it contained
to certain destruction, for neither he nor his persecuted tenants could
see any means of relief.
Even if they could carry away their goods, they had no place to put
them. The brief period of probation given them was not more than enough
to enable the poor woman to find another tenement. It was two miles to
Westport, and five to Genverres, by water. The situation looked entirely
hopeless to Mrs. Bristol; and the more she thought of it, the more
bitterly she wept.
"I don't know what will become of us," said she when she had vented her
grief for a time.
"Don't cry, mother: we shall get out of the scrape in some way," replied
Paul in as soothing tones as he could command, for the situation was
hardly more hopeful to him than to his mother.
"I don't see that we can do anything but submit to the loss of
everything we have," moaned Mrs. Bristol. "We can't stay here any
longer, and we have no place to go to in the wide world. The students
will take a wicked delight in breaking up everything we have. I cannot
stay here to see them revel in the destruction of our home, which has
been as dear to me as though it had been a palace. But where can I go?"
"We had better go to Westport, mother," said Lily, wiping the tears from
her eyes. "We can take a few things with us in the boat."
"The boat went adrift in the row, and I saw it halfway over to Scotch
Bonnet," interposed Paul as he strained his eyes to discover the truant
craft.
"Then we can walk over to Westport; but we can't carry much of anything
in our hands in a walk of two miles," added Lily gloomily.
"Where shall we go in Westport when we get there?" asked Mrs. Bristol.
"We can't go to a hotel or boarding-house, for we haven't money enough
to pay our way for three days."
"I don't see that we can do a thing, mother," said Paul when he had
carefully looked over the situation. "I would borrow a boat, if there
was one to be had; but I am sure the institute boatman would not lend me
one now. Major Billcord's story will be all over the neighborhood in a
few hours. I could get one in Westport; but it might take me a whole day
to find our flatboat, for it must have been driven ashore on the other
side of the lake. Some vessel may have picked it up, for I saw two or
three going up the lake."
"I saw a sailboat go by while you were talking to the major," said Lily.
"I noticed her; it was one of the Beech Hill boats," added Paul. "One of
these vessels may have picked up the 'Dragon,'" as he had named the
flatboat, "and it may be five miles from here by this time."
"We are in the hands of Providence, and as helpless as babies,"
continued Mrs. Bristol. "I don't see that we can do a single thing for
ourselves, and we must trust in a higher power than man."
"We can stay in the cottage over night, at least, and it will be our
last in our happy home," said Paul. "The students will all be at their
studies in the forenoon, and then you and Lily can walk over to
Westport."
"What are you going to do, Paul?" inquired his mother, bestowing a look
of the deepest interest upon him.
"I shall stay here and save what I can."
"You must not stay here!" protested his mother warmly. "The students
will kill you, under the lead of Walker Billcord."
"I am not afraid of them."
"You must not stay here: if you do, I shall stay with you," replied the
devoted mother.
"There is that sailboat, Paul," said Lily, who had been gazing blankly
out upon the lake. "She looks as though she was headed for the point."
"That's the 'Goldwing,'" added Paul. "I hope Dory Dornwood is on board
of her. He is a good fellow, and he may do something to help us. If she
comes near enough, I will hail her."
