unwieldy bulk." 
" You take my meaning a little awry. Besides, I 
doubt if even the ground you assume is tenable. If 
a woman has lived long enough to be truly young 
herself, she won't find a man at forty either decrepit 
or grotesque. He can even make himself youthful 
to a girl of thought and imagination." 
" Yes," Colville assented, with a certain discomfort. 
" But to be truly young at forty," resumed Mr. 
Waters, "a man should be already married." 
"Yes?" 
" I sometimes feel," continued the old man, " that 
I made a mistake in yielding to a disappointment 
that I met with early in life, and in not permitting 
myself the chance of retrieval. I have missed a 
beautiful and consoling experience in my devotion 
to a barren regret." 
Colville said nothing, but he experienced a mixed 
feeling of amusement, of repulsion, and of curiosity 
at this. 
" We are put into the world to be of it. I am 
more and more convinced of that. We have scarcely 
a right to separate ourselves from the common lot in 
any way. I justify myself for having lived alone 
only as a widower might. I — lost her. It was a 
great while ago." 
" Yes," said Colville, after the pause which 
ensued ; " I agre e with you that one has no right to 
ii?( ?ate liimap.lf, tn rp.fnsp. his p nrh'nn of the common 
lot; but t he effects of even a r ebuff may last so long 
that one has no heart to put out his hand a second 
time — for a second rap over the knuckles. Oh, I 
know how trivial it is in the retrospect, and how 
what is called a disappointment is something to be 
humbly grateful for in most cases ; but for a while 
it certainly makes you doubtful whether you were 
ever really intended to share the common lot." He 
was aware of an insincerity in his words ; he hoped 
that it might not be perceptible, but he did not 
greatly care. 
Mr. Waters took no notice of what he had been 
saying. He resumed from another point. " But I 
should say that it would be unwise for a man of 
mature life to seek his happiness with one much 
younger than himself. I don't deny that there are 
cases in which the disparity of years counts for little 
or nothing, but generally speaking, people ought to 
be as equally mated in age as possible. They ought 
to start with the same advantages of ignorance. A 
young girl can only live her life through a com- 
munity of feeling, an equality of inexperience in the 
man she gives her heart to. If he is tired of things 
that still delight her, the chances of unhappiness are 
increased." 
"Yes, that's true," answered Colville gravely. 
" It 's apt to be a mistake and a wrong." 
" Oh, not always — not always," said the old 
minister. "We mustn't look at it in that way 
quite. Wrongs are of the will." He seemed to 
 
lapse into a greater iutimacy of feeling with Colville. 
" Have you seen Mrs. Bowen to-day ? Or — ah ! 
true ! I think you told me." 
" No," said Colville. " Have we spoken of her ? 
But I have seen her." 
" And was the little one well ?" 
" Very much better." 
" Pretty creatures, both of them," said the minis- 
ter, with as fresh a pleasure in his recognition of 
the fact as if he had not said nearly the same thing 
once before. " You 've noticed the very remark- 
able resemblance between mother and daughter?" 
" Oh yes." 
" There is a gentleness in Mrs. Bowen which 
seems to me the last refinement of a gracious spirit," 
suggested Mr. Waters. " I have never met any lady 
who reconciled more exquisitely what is charming in 
society with what is lovely in nature." 
" Yes," said Colville. " Mrs. Bowen always had 
that gentle manner. I used to know her here as a 
girl a great while ago." 
" Did you ? I wonder you allowed her to become 
Mrs. Bowen." 
This sprightliness of Mr. Waters amused Colville 
greatly. " At that time I was preoccupied with my 
great mistake, and I had no eyes for Mrs. Bowen." 
"It isn't too late yet," said Mr. Waters, with open 
insinuation. 
A bachelor of forty is always flattered by any sug- 
gestion of marriage ; the suggestion that a beautiful 
and charming woman would marry him is too much 
 
for whatever reserves of modesty and wisdom he 
may have stored up. Colville took leave of the old 
minister in better humour with himself than he had 
been for forty-eight hours, or than he had any very 
good reason for being now. 
Mr. Waters came with him to the head of the 
stairs and held up the lamp for him to see. The 
light fell upon the white locks thinly straggling 
from beneath his velvet skull-cap, and he looked 
like some mediaeval scholar of those who lived and 
died for learning in Florence when letters were a 
passion there almost as strong as love. 
The next day Colville would have liked to go at 
once and ask about Efiie, but upon the whole he 
thought he would not go till after he had been at 
the reception where he was going in the afternoon. 
It was an artist who was giving the reception ; he 
had a number of pictures to show, and there was to 
be tea. There are artists and artists. This painter 
was one who had a distinct social importance. It 
was felt to be rather a nice thing to be asked to his 
reception ; one was sure at least to meet the nicest 
people. 
This reason prevailed with Colville so far as it 
related to Mrs. Bowen, whom he felt that he would 
like to tell he had been there. He would speak 
to her of this person and tiiat — very respected and 
recognised social figures, — so that she might see he 
was not the outlaw, the Bohemian, he must some- 
times have appeared to her. It would not be going 
too far to say that something like an obscure inten- 
 
tion to show himself the next Sunday at the English 
chapel, where Mrs. Bowen went, was not forming 
itself in his mind. As he went along it began to 
seem not impossible that she would be at the recep- 
tion. If EflBe's indisposition was no more serious 
than it appeared yesterday, very probably Mrs. 
Bowen would be there. He even believed that he 
recognised her carriage among those which were 
drawn up in front of the old palace, under the 
painter's studio windows. 
There were a great number of people of the four 
nationalities that mostly consort in Italy. There 
were English and Americans and Russians and the 
sort of Italians resulting from the native inter- 
marriages with them ; here and there were Italians 
of pure blood, borderers upon the foreign life through 
a literary interest, or an artistic relation, or a matri- 
monial intention ; here and there, also, the large 
stomach of a German advanced the bounds of the 
new empire and the new ideal of duty. There were 
no Frenchmen ; one may meet them in more strictly 
Italian assemblages, but it is as if the sorrows and 
uncertainties of France in these times discouraged 
them from the international society in which they 
were always an infrequent element. It is not, of 
course, imaginable that as Frenchmen they have 
doubts of their merits, but that they have their 
misgivings as to the intelligence of others. The 
language that prevailed was English — in fact, one 
heard no other, — and the tea which our civilisation 
carries everywhere with it steamed from the cups 
 
in all hands. TJiis beverage, in fact, becomes a for- 
midable factor in the life of a Florentine winter. 
One finds it at all houses, and more or less mechani- 
cally drinks it. 
