tone: "Before thou thyself restest, go' and tell the 
queen privately that she send away her slaves, and 
await me and him thou hast brought in a few min- 
utes. This fellow must have a little refreshment, or 
he will die upon the steps." 
Zoroaster turned and went up the broad stairs, and 
threaded the courts and passages, and mounted to the 
terrace where he had first met Atossa before the king's 
apartments. There was no one there, and he was 
about to enter under the great curtain, when the 
queen herself came out and met him face to face. 
Though it was yet very early, she was attired with 
more than usual care, and the faint colours of her 
dress and the few ornaments she wore, shone and 
gleamed brightly in the level beams of the morning 
sun. She had guessed that Zoroaster would return 
that day, and she was prepared for him. 
As she came suddenly upon him, she gave a little 
cry, that mig,'ht well have been feigned. 
 
"What! Are you already returned ? " she asked, 
and the joy her voice expressed was genume. He 
looked so godlike as he stood there in the sunlight — 
her heart leaped for joy of only seeing him. 
" Yes — I bear this message from the Great King to 
the queen. The Great King commands that the 
queen send away her slaves, and await the king and 
him I have brought with me, in the space of a few 
minutes." 
"It is well," answered Atossa. "There are no 
slaves here and I await the king." She was silent a 
moment. " Are you not glad to have come back ? " 
she asked, presently. 
" Yes," said Zoroaster, whose face brightened 
quickly as he spoke. " I am indeed glad to be here 
again. Would not any one be glad to have finished 
such a journey ? " 
The queen stood with her back to the curtained 
doorway and could see down the whole length of the 
balcony to the head of the staircase. Zoroaster faced 
her and the door. As he spoke, Atossa's quick eyes 
caught sight of a figure coming quickly up the last 
steps of the stairway. She recognised Nehushta instantly, but no trembling of her lids or colouring of 
her cheek, betrayed that she had seen the approach 
of her enemy. She fixed her deep-blue eyes upon 
Zoroaster's, and gazing somewhat sadly, she spoke in 
low and gentle tones : 
" The time has seemed long to me since you rode 
away, Zoroaster," she said. 
Zoroaster, astonished at the manner in which she 
spoke, turned pale, and looked down coldly at her 
 
beautiful face. At that moment Nehushta stepped 
upon the smooth marble pavement of the balcony. 
Still Atossa kept her e3xs fixed on Zoroaster's. 
" You answer me nothing ? " she said in broken 
tones. Then suddenly, as though acting under an 
irresistible impulse, she threw her arms wildly about 
his neck and kissed him passionately again and again. 
" Oh Zoroaster, Zoroaster, my beloved I" she cried, 
" you must never, never leave me again ! " And 
again she kissed him, and fell forward upon his 
breast, holding him so tightly that, for a moment, he 
did not know which way to move. He put his hands 
upon her shoulders, to her waist — to try to push her 
from him. But it was in vain ; she clung to him 
desperately and sobbed upon his breast. 
In the sudden and fearful embarrassment in which 
he was placed, he did not hear a short, low groan far 
off behind him, nor the sound of quickly retreating 
steps upon the stairs. But Atossa heard and rejoiced 
fiercely; and when she looked up, Nehushta was 
gone, with the incurable wound in her breast. 
Atossa suddenly let her arms fall from the war- 
rior's neck, looked into his eyes once, and then, with 
a short, sharp cry, she buried her face in her hands 
and leaned back against the door-post by the heavy 
striped curtain. 
" Oh, my God ! What have I done ? " she moaned. 
Zoroaster stood for one moment in hesitation and 
doubt. It seemed as though he had received a sudden revelation of numberless things he had never 
understood. He spoke quietly, at last, with a great 
effort, and his voice sounded kindly. 
 
" I thank the good powers that I do not love thee 
— and I would that thou didst not love me. For I 
am the Great King's servant, faithful to death — and 
if I loved thee I should be a liar, and a coward, and 
the basest of all mankind. Forget, I pray thee, that 
thou hast spoken, and let me depart in peace. For 
the Great King is at hand, and thou must not suffer 
that he find thee weeping, lest he think thou fearest 
to meet Phraortes the Median face to face. Forget, 
I pray thee — and forgive thy servant if he have 
done anything amiss." 
Atossa looked up suddenly. Her eyes were bright 
and clear, and there was not a trace of tears in them. 
She laughed harshly. 
"I — weep before the king ! You do not know 
me. Go, if thou wilt. Farewell, Zoroaster," — her 
voice softened a little, — " farewell. It may be that 
you shall live, but it may be that you shall die, 
because I love you." 
Zoroaster bent his head in respectful homage, and 
turned and went his way. The queen looked after 
him, and as he disappeared upon the staircase, she 
began to smooth her head-dress and the locks of her 
golden hair, and for a moment, she smiled sweetly to 
herself. 
" That was a mortal wound, well dealt," she said 
aloud. But as she gazed out over the city, her face 
grew grave and thoughtful. " But I do love him," 
she added softly, "I do — I do— I loved him long 
ago." She turned quickly, as though fearing some 
one had overheard her. " How foolish I am ! " she 
exclaimed impatiently; and she turned and passed 
 
away under the heavy curtain, leaving the long 
balcony once more empty, — save for the rush of a 
swallow that now and then flew in between the 
pillars, and hovered for a moment high up by the 
cornice, and sped out again into the golden sunshine 
of the summer morning. 
Zoroaster left Atossa with the hope of finding 
some means of seeing Nehushta. But it was impos- 
sible. He knew well that he could not so far pre- 
sume as to go to her apartment by the lower passage 
where he had last seen her on the day of his departure for Ecbatana, and the slave whom he despatched 
from the main entrance of the women's part of the 
palace returned with the brief information that Ne- 
hushta was alone in her chamber, and that no one 
dared disturb her. 
Worn out with fatigue and excitement, and scarcely 
able to think connectedly upon the strange event of 
the morning, Zoroaster wearily resigned himself to 
seeing Nehushta at a later hour, and entering his 
own cool chamber, lay down to rest. It was evening 
when he awoke. 
Meanwhile the king commanded that Phraortes 
should be fed and refreshed, and immediately brought 
to the queen's apartment. Half an hour after Zoro- 
aster had left her, Atossa was in the chamber which 
was devoted to her toilet. She sat alone before her 
great silver mirror, calmly awaiting the turn of 
events. Some instinct had told her that she would 
feel stronger to resist an attack in the sanctuary of 
her small inner room, where every object was impregnated with her atmosphere, and where the lat- 
 
tices of the two windows were so disposed that she 
would be able to see the expression of her adver- 
saries without exposing her own face to the light. 
She leaned forward and looked closely at herself 
in the glass, and with a delicate brush of camel's 
hair smoothed one eyebrow that was a little ruffled. 
It had touched Zoroaster's tunic w^hen she threw 
herself upon his breast ; she looked at herself with a 
genuine artistic pleasure, and smiled. 
Before long she heard the sound of leathern shoes 
upon the pavement outside, and the curtain was sud- 
denly lifted. Darius pushed Phraortes into the 
