France. The presentation was duly made; but the 
Comte" de Chambord, who had changed his title in 
recognition of the gift, was despoiled of his property 
by the Government of Louis Philippe. He appealed 
for redress to the tribunals of his country; and the 
consequence of his appeal was an interminable litiga 
tion, by which, however, finally, after the lapse of 
twenty-five years, he was established in his rights. In 
1871 he paid his first visit to the domain which had 
been offered him half a century before, a term of 
which he had spent forty years in exile. It was from 
Chambord that he dated his famous letter of the 5th 

  

of July of that year, the letter, directed to his so- 
called subjects, in which he waves aloft the white 
flag of the Bourbons. This amazing epistle , which is 
virtually an invitation to the French people to re 
pudiate, as their national ensign, that immortal tricolor, 
the flag of the Revolution and the Empire, under 
which they have won the glory which of all glories 
has hitherto been dearest to them, and which is as 
sociated with the most romantic, the most heroic, the 
epic, the consolatory, period of their history, this 
luckless manifesto, I say, appears to give the measure 
of the political wisdom of the excellent Henry V. It 
is the most factitious proposal ever addressed to an 
eminently ironical nation. 

On the whole, Chambord makes a great impression ; 
and the hour I was there, while the yellow afternoon 
light slanted upon the September woods, there was a 
dignity in its desolation. It spoke, with a muffled 
but audible voice, of the vanished monarchy,  which 
had been so strong, so splendid, but to-day has be 
come a sort of fantastic vision, like the cupolas and 
chimneys that rose before me. I thought, while I 
lingered there, of all the fine things it takes to make 
up such a monarchy; and how one of them is a su 
perfluity of mouldering, empty palaces. Chambord is 
touching, that is the best word for it; and if the 
hopes of another restoration are in the follies of the 
Republic, a little reflection on that eloquence of ruin 
ought to put the Republic on its guard. A sentimental 
tourist may venture to remark that in the presence of 





several chateaux which appeal in this mystical manner 
to the retrospective imagination, it cannot afford to be 
foolish. I thought of all this as I drove back to Blois 
by the way of the Chateau de Cheverny. The road 
took us out of the park of Chambord, but through a 
region of flat woodland, where the trees were not 
mighty, and again into the prosy plain of the Sologne, 
a thankless soil, all of it, I believe , but lately much 
amended by the magic of cheerful French industry 
and thrift. The light had already begun to fade, and 
my drive reminded me of a passage in some rural 
novel of Madame Sand. I passed a couple of timber 
and plaster churches, which looked very old, black, 
and crooked, and had lumpish wooden porches and 
galleries encircling the base. By the time I reached 
Cheverny, the clear twilight had approached. It was 
late to ask to be allowed to visit an inhabited house; 
but it was the hour at which I like best to visit almost 
anything. My coachman drew up before a gateway, 
in a high wall , which opened upon a short avenue, 
along which I took my way on foot; the coachmen in 
those parts being, for reasons best known to them 
selves, mortally averse to driving up to a house. I 
answered the challenge of a very tidy little portress, 
who sat, in company with a couple of children, en 
joying the evening air in front of her lodge, and who 
told me to walk a little further and turn to the right. 
I obeyed her to the letter, and my turn brought me 
into sight of a house as charming as an old manor in 
a fairy tale. I had but a rapid and partial view of 



Cheverny; but that view was a glimpse of perfection. 
A light, sweet mansion stood looking over a wide green 
lawn, over banks of flowers and groups of trees. It 
had a striking character of elegance, produced partly 
by a series of Renaissance busts let into circular niches 
in the facade. The place looked so private, so reserved, 
that it seemed an act of violence to ring, a stranger 
and foreigner, at the graceful door. But if I had not 
rung I should be unable to express as it is such a 
pleasure to do my sense of the exceeding courtesy 
with which this admirable house is shown. It was 
near the dinner-hour, the most sacred hour of the 
day; but I was freely conducted into the inhabited 
apartments. They are extremely beautiful. What I 
chiefly remember is the charming staircase of white 
embroidered stone, and the great salle des gardes and 
chambre a coucher dn roi on the second floor. Che 
verny, built in 1634, i g f a much later date than the 
other royal residences of this part of France; it be 
longs to the end of the Renaissance, and has a touch 
of the rococo. The guard-room is a superb apartment; 
and as it contains little save its magnificent ceiling 
and fireplace and certain dim tapestries on its walls, 
you the more easily take the measure of its noble 
proportions. The servant opened the shutters of a 
single window, and the last rays of the twilight slanted 
into the rich brown gloom. It was in the same pic 
turesque fashion that I saw the bedroom (adjoining) of 
Henry IV., where a legendary-looking bed, draped in 
folds long unaltered, defined itself in the haunted 





dusk. Cheverny remains to me a very charming, a 
partly mysterious vision. I drove back to Blois in the 
dark, some nine miles, through the forest of Russy, 
which belongs to the State, and which, though con 
sisting apparently of small timber, looked under the 
stars sufficiently vast and primeval. There was a damp 
autumnal smell and the occasional sound of a stirring 
thing; and as I moved through the evening air I 
thought of Francis I. and Henry IV. 



VI. 

You may go to Amboise either from Blois or from 
Tours; it is about half-way between these towns. The 
great point is to go, especially if you have put it off 
repeatedly; and to go, if possible, on a day when the 
great view of the Loire, which you enjoy from the 
battlements and terraces, presents itself under a friendly 
sky. Three persons, of whom the author of these 
lines was one, spent the greater part of a perfect 
Sunday morning in looking at it. It was astonishing, 
in the course of the rainiest season in the memory of 
the oldest Tourangeau, how many perfect days we 
found to our hand. The town of Amboise lies, like 
Tours, on the left bank of the river, a little white- 
faced town, staring across an admirable bridge, and 
leaning, behind, as it were, against the pedestal of 
rock on which the dark castle masses itself. The town 
is so small, the pedestal so big, and the castle so high 



and striking, that the clustered houses at the base of 
the rock are like the crumbs that have fallen from a 
well-laden table. You pass among them, however, to 
ascend by a circuit to the chateau, which you attack, 
obliquely, from behind. It is the property of the 
Comte de Paris, another pretender to the French 
throne; having come to him remotely, by inheritance, 
