I was going to do wrong," said little May, as she put down the story she
had been reading.
There was no one else in the room, but she heard a sweet voice sing
these words close to her ear:--
    "Now hark, little May,
      If you want to do right,
    Under your pillow
      Just look every night.
    If you have been good
      All through the day,
    A gift you will find,
      Useful or gay;
    But if you have been
      Cross, selfish, or wild,
    A bad thing will come
      For the naughty child.
    So try, little dear,
      And soon you will see
    How easy and sweet
      To grow good it will be."
May was very much surprised at this, and looked everywhere to see who
spoke, but could find no one.
"I guess I dreamed it; but my eyes are wide open, and I can’t make up
poetry, asleep or awake."
As she said that, some one laughed; and the same voice sang again,--
    "Ha, ha! you can’t see,
      Although I am here;
    But listen to what
      I say in your ear.
    Tell no one of this,
      Because, if you do,
    My fun will be spoilt,
      And so will yours too.
    But if you are good,
      And patient, and gay,
    A real fairy will come
      To see little May."
"Oh, how splendid that will be!  I ’ll try hard, and be as good as an
angel if I can only get one peep at a live fairy.  I always said, there
were such people, and now I shall know how they look," cried the little
girl, so pleased that she danced all about the room, clapping her hands.
Something bright darted out of the window from among the flowers that
stood there, and no more songs were heard; so May knew that the elf had
gone.
"I ’ve got a fine secret all to myself, and I ’ll keep it carefully.  I
wonder what present will come to-night," she said, thinking this a very
interesting play.
She was very good all day, and made no fuss about going to bed, though
usually she fretted, and wanted to play, and called for water, and
plagued poor Nursey in many ways.  She got safely into her little nest,
and then was in such a hurry to see what was under her pillow that she
forgot, and called out crossly,--
"Do hurry and go away.  Don’t wait to hang up my clothes, you slow old
thing!  Go, go!"
That hurt Nurse’s feelings, and she went away without her good-night
kiss.  But May did n’t care, and felt under her pillow the minute the
door was shut.  A lamp was always left burning; so she could see the
little gold box she drew out.
"How pretty!  I hope there is some candy in it," she said, opening it
very carefully.
Oh, dear! what do you think happened?  A wasp flew out and stung her
lips; then both wasp and box vanished, and May was left to cry alone,
with a sharp pain in the lips that said the unkind words.
"What a dreadful present!  I don’t like that spiteful fairy who sends
such horrid things," she sobbed.
Then she lay still and thought about it; for she dared not call any one,
because nobody must guess the secret.  She knew in her own little heart
that the cross words hurt Nursey as the sting did her lips, and she felt
sorry.  At once the smart got better, and by the time she had resolved
to ask the good old woman to forgive her, it was all gone.
Next morning she kissed Nursey and begged pardon, and tried hard to be
good till tea-time; then she ran to see what nice things they were going
to have to eat, though she had often been told not to go into the
dining-room.  No one was there; and on the table stood a dish of
delicious little cakes, all white like snowballs.
"I must have just a taste, and I ’ll tell mamma afterward," she said;
and before she knew it one little cake was eaten all up.
"Nobody will miss it, and I can have another at tea.  Now, a lump of
sugar and a sip of cream before mamma comes, I so like to pick round."
Having done one wrong thing, May felt like going on; so she nibbled and
meddled with all sorts of forbidden things till she heard a step, then
she ran away; and by and by, when the bell rang, came in with the rest
as prim and proper as if she did not know how to play pranks.  No one
missed the cake, and her mother gave her another, saying,--
"There, dear, is a nice plummy one for my good child."
May turned red, and wanted to tell what she had done, but was ashamed
because there was company; and people thought she blushed like a modest
little girl at being praised.
But when she went to bed she was almost afraid to look under the pillow,
knowing that she had done wrong.  At last she slowly drew out the box,
and slowly opened it, expecting something to fly at her.  All she saw
was a tiny black bag, that began at once to grow larger, till it was big
enough to hold her two hands. Then it tied itself tight round her
wrists, as if to keep these meddlesome hands out of mischief.
"Well, this is very queer, but not so dreadful as the wasp.  I hope no
one will see it when I ’m asleep.  I do wish I ’d let those cakes and
things alone," sighed May, looking at the black bag, and vainly trying
to get her hands free.
She cried herself to sleep, and when she woke the bag was gone.  No one
had seen it; but she told her mamma about the cake, and promised not to
do so any more.
"Now this shall be a truly good day, every bit of it," she said, as she
skipped away, feeling as light as a feather after she had confessed her
little sins.
But, alas! it is so easy to forget and do wrong, that May spoilt her day
before dinner by going to the river and playing with the boats, in spite
of many orders not to do it.  She did not tell of it, and went to a
party in the afternoon, where she was so merry she never remembered the
naughty thing till she was in bed and opened the fairy box.  A little
chain appeared, which in a flash grew long and large, and fastened round
her ankles as if she were a prisoner.  May liked to tumble about, and
was much disgusted to be chained in this way; but there was no help for
it, so she lay very still and had plenty of time to be sorry.
"It is a good punishment for me, and I deserve it.  I won’t cry, but I
will--I will remember."  And May said her prayers very soberly, really
meaning to keep her word this time.
All the next day she was very careful to keep her lips from cross words,
her hands from forbidden things, and her feet from going wrong. Nothing
spoilt this day, she watched so well; and when mamma gave the good-night
kiss, she said,--
"What shall I give my good little daughter, who has been gentle,
obedient, and busy all day?"
"I want a white kitty, with blue eyes, and a pink ribbon on its neck,"
answered May.
"I’ll try and find one.  Now go to bed, deary, and happy dreams!" said
mamma, with many kisses on the rosy cheeks, and the smile that was a
reward.
May was so busy thinking about the kitty and the good day that she
forgot the box till she heard a little "Mew, mew!" under her pillow.
"Mercy me! what’s that?"  And she popped up her head to see.
Out came the box; off flew the lid, and there, on a red cushion, lay a
white kit about two inches long.  May could n’t believe that it was
alive till it jumped out of its nest, stretched itself, and grew all at
once just the right size to play with and be pretty.  Its eyes were
blue, its tail like a white plume, and a sweet pink bow was on its neck.
It danced all over the bed, ran up the curtains, hid under the clothes,
nipped May’s toes, licked her face, patted her nose with its soft paw,
and winked at her in such a funny way that she laughed for joy at having
such a dear kitty.  Presently, as if it knew that bed was the place to
lie quiet in, puss cuddled down in a little bunch and purred May to
sleep.
"I suppose that darling kit will be gone like all the other things,"
said May, as she waked up and looked round for her first pretty gift.
No; there was the lovely thing sitting in the sun among the flower-pots,
washing her face and getting ready for play.  What a fine frolic they
had; and how surprised every one was to see just the pussy May wanted!
They supposed it came as kitties often come; and May never told them it
was a fairy present, because she had promised not to.  She was so happy
with little puss that she was good all day; and when she went to bed she
thought,--
"I wish I had a dog to play with darling Snowdrop, and run with me when
I go to walk."
"Bow, wow, wow!" came from under the pillow; and out of the box trotted
a curly black dog, with long ears, a silver collar, and such bright,
kind eyes May was not a bit afraid of him, but loved him at once, and
named him Floss, he was so soft and silky.  Pussy liked him too; and
when May was sleepy they both snuggled down in the same basket like two
good babies, and went to by-low.
"Well, I never!  What shall we find next?" said Nurse, when she saw the
dog in the morning.
