the squire had promised, and after hesitating for a few moments followed
John into the library, determining to manage matters himself. As he
opened the door he met Mr. Ambrose coming towards him, and at the same
moment Mr. Juxon and Doctor Longstreet entered from the opposite end of
the long room. The cheerful and active physician was talking in a rather
excited tone.
"My dear sir," said he, "I cannot pretend to say that the man will or
will not recover. I must see him again. Things look quite differently by
daylight, and six or seven hours may make all the change in the world. To
say that he can be moved to-day or even to-morrow, is absurd. I will
stake my reputation as a practitioner--Hulloa!"
The exclamation was elicited by Mr. Booley, who had pushed past Mr.
Ambrose and stood confronting the doctor with a look which was intended
to express a combination of sarcasm, superior cunning and authority.
"This is Mr. Booley," explained the squire. "Doctor Longstreet will tell
you what he has been telling me," he added turning to the detective.
"I must see this man instantly," said the latter somewhat roughly. "I
believe I am being trifled with, and I will not submit to it. No, sir, I
will not be trifled with, I assure you! I must see this man at once. It
is absolutely necessary to identify him."
"And I say," said Doctor Longstreet with equal firmness, "that I must see
him first, in order to judge whether you can see him or not--"
"It is for me to judge of that," returned Mr. Booley, with more haste
than logic.
"After you have seen him, you cannot judge whether you ought to see him
or not," retorted Doctor Longstreet growing red in the face. The
detective attempted to push past him. At this moment John Short hastily
left the room and fled upstairs to warn Mrs. Ambrose of what was
happening.
"Really," said Mr. Ambrose, making a vain attempt to stop the course of
events, "this is very unwarrantable."
"Unwarrantable!" cried Mr. Booley. "Unwarrantable, indeed! I have the
warrant in my pocket. Mr. Juxon, sir, I fear I must insist."
"Permit me," said Mr. Juxon, planting his square and sturdy form between
the door and the detective. "You may certainly insist, but you must begin
by listening to reason."
Charles Juxon had been accustomed to command others for the greater part
of his life, and though he was generally the most unobtrusive and gentle
of men, when he raised his voice in a tone of authority his words carried
weight. His blue eyes stared hard at Mr. Booley, and there was something
imposing in his square head--even in the unruffled smoothness of his
brown hair. Mr. Booley paused and discontentedly thrust his hands into
his pockets.
"Well?" he said.
"Simply this," answered the squire. "You may accompany us to the door of
the room; you may wait with me, while Doctor Longstreet goes in to look
at the patient. If the man is unconscious you may go in and see him. If
he chances to be in a lucid interval, you must wait until he is
unconscious again. It will not be long. That is perfectly reasonable."
"Perfectly," echoed Mr. Ambrose, biting his long upper lip and glaring as
fiercely at Mr. Booley as though he had said it all himself.
"Absolutely reasonable," added Doctor Longstreet.
"Well, we will try it," said the detective moodily. "But I warn you I
will not be trifled with."
"Nobody is trifling with you," answered the squire coldly. "This way if
you please." And he forthwith led the way upstairs, followed by Mr.
Booley, the physician and the vicar.
Before they reached the door, however, the discussion broke out again.
Mr. Booley had been held in check for a few moments by Mr. Juxon's
determined manner, but as he followed the squire he began to regret that
he had yielded so far and he made a fresh assertion of his rights.
"I cannot see why you want to keep me outside," he said. "What difference
can it make, I should like to know?"
"You will have to take my word for it that it does make a difference,"
said the doctor, testily. "If you frighten the man, he will die. Now
then, here we are."
"I don't like your tone, sir," said Booley angrily, again trying to push
past the physician. "I think I must insist, after all. I will go in with
you--I tell you I will, sir--don't stop me."
Doctor Longstreet, who was fifteen or twenty years older than the
detective but still strong and active, gripped his arm quickly, and held
him back.
"If you go into that room without my permission, and if the man dies of
fright, I will have an action brought against you for manslaughter," he
said in a loud voice.
"And I will support it," said the squire. "I am justice of the peace
here, and what is more, I am in my own house. Do not think your position
will protect you."
Again Mr. Juxon's authoritative tone checked the detective, who drew
back, making some angry retort which no one heard. The squire tried the
door and finding it locked, knocked softly, not realising that every word
of the altercation had been heard within.
"Who is there?" asked John, who though he had heard all that had been
said was uncertain of the issue.
"Let in Doctor Longstreet," said the squire's voice.
But meanwhile Mrs. Ambrose and Mary Goddard were standing on each side of
the sick man. He must have heard the noises outside, and they conveyed
some impression to his brain.
"Mary, Mary!" he groaned indistinctly. "Save me--they are coming--I
cannot get away--softly, he is coming--now--I shall just catch him as he
goes by--Ugh! that dog--oh! oh!--"
With a wild shriek, the wretched man sprang up, upon his knees, his eyes
starting out, his face transfigured with horror. For one instant he
remained thus, half-supported by the two terror-struck women; then with a
groan his head drooped forward upon his breast and he fell back heavily
upon the pillows, breathing still but quite unconscious.
Doctor Longstreet entered at that moment and ran to his side. But when he
saw him he paused. Even Mrs. Ambrose was white with horror, and Mary
Goddard stood motionless, staring down at her husband, her hands gripping
the disordered coverlet convulsively.
Mr. Juxon had entered, too, while Mr. Ambrose remained outside with the
detective, who had been frightened into submission by the physician's
last threat. The squire saw what was happening and paced the room in the
greatest agitation, wringing his hands together and biting his lips. John
had closed the door and came to the foot of the bed and looked at
Goddard's face. After a pause, Doctor Longstreet spoke.
"We might possibly restore him to consciousness for a moment--"
"Don't!" cried Mary Goddard, starting as though some one had struck her.
"That is--" she added quickly, in broken tones, "unless he can live!"
"No," answered the physician, gravely, but looking hard at the unhappy
woman. "He is dying."
Goddard's staring eyes were glazed and white. Twice and three times he
gasped for breath, and then lay quite still. It was all over. Mary gazed
at his dead face for one instant, then a faint smile parted her lips: she
raised one hand to her forehead as though dazed.
"He is safe now," she murmured very faintly. Her limbs relaxed suddenly,
and she fell straight backwards. Charles Juxon, who was watching her,
sprang forward and caught her in his arms. Then he bore her from the
room, swiftly, while John Short who was as white and speechless as the
rest opened the door.
"You may go in now," said Juxon as he passed Booley and Mr. Ambrose in
the passage, with his burden in his arms. A few steps farther on he met
Holmes the butler, who carried a telegram on a salver.
"For Mr. Short, sir," said the impassive servant, not appearing to notice
anything strange in the fact that his master was carrying the inanimate
body of Mary Goddard.
"He is in there--go in," said Juxon hurriedly as he went on his way.
The detective and the vicar had already entered the room where the dead
convict was lying. All stood around the bed, gazing at his pale face as
he lay.
"A telegram for Mr. Short," said Holmes from the door. John started and
took the despatch from the butler's hands. He hastily tore it open,
glanced at the contents and thrust it into his pocket. Every one looked
round.
"What is it, John?" whispered the vicar, who was nearest to him.
"Oh--nothing. I am first in the Tripos, that is all," answered John very
simply, as though it were not a matter of the least consequence.
Through all those months of untiring labour, through privation and
anxiety, through days of weariness and nights of study, he had looked
forward to the triumph, often doubting but never despairing. But he had
little guessed that the news of victory would reach him at such a moment.
It was nothing, he said; and indeed as he stood with the group of pale
and awe-struck spectators by the dead man's bed, he felt that the
greatest thing which had ever happened to him was as nothing compared
with the tragedy of which he had witnessed the last act.
It was all over. There was nothing more to be said; the convict had
escaped the law in the end, at the very moment when the hand of the law
was upon him. Thomas Reid, the conservative sexton, buried him "four by
six by two," grumbling at the parish depth as of yore, and a simple stone
cross marked his nameless grave. There it stands to this day in the
churchyard of Billingsfield, Essex, in the shadow of the ancient abbey.
All these things happened a long time ago, according to Billingsfield
reckoning, but the story of the tramp who attacked Squire Juxon and was
pulled down by the bloodhound is still told by the villagers, and Mr.
Gall, being once in good cheer, vaguely hinted that he knew who the tramp
was; but from the singular reticence he has always shown in the matter,
and from the prosperity which has attended his constabulary career, it
may well be believed that he has a life interest in keeping his counsel.
Indeed as it is nearly ten years since Mr. Reid buried the poor tramp, it
is possible that Mr. Gall's memory may be already failing in regard to
