"You do not say anything," continued Bastianello, "and you do wrong.
What I tell you is true, and you cannot deny it. After all, we are men
and they are women. Are they to speak first?"
"It is just," answered Ruggiero laconically.
"But then, per Dio, go and talk to her. Are you going to begin giving
her the gold before you have spoken?"
From which question it will be clear to the unsophisticated foreigner
that a regular series of presents in jewelry is the natural
accompaniment of a well-to-do courtship in the south. The trinkets are
called collectively "the gold."
Ruggiero did not find a ready answer to so strong an argument. Little
guessing that his brother was almost as much in love with Teresina as he
himself was with her mistress, he saw no reason for undeceiving him
concerning his own feelings. Since Bastianello had discovered that he,
Ruggiero, was suffering from an acute attack of the affections, it had
become the latter's chief object to conceal the real truth. It was not
so much, that he dreaded the ridicule--he, a poor sailor--of being known
to love a great lady's daughter; ridicule was not among the things he
feared. But something far too subtle for him to define made him keep his
secret to himself--an inborn, chivalrous, manly instinct, inherited
through generations of peasants but surviving still, as the trace of
gold in the ashes of a rich stuff that has had gilded threads in it.
"If I did begin with the gold," he said at last, "and if she would not
have me when I spoke afterwards, she would give the gold back."
"Of course she would. What do you take her for?" Bastianello asked the
question almost angrily, for he loved Teresina and he resented the
slightest imputation upon her fair dealing.
Ruggiero looked at him curiously, but was far too much preoccupied with
his own thoughts to guess what the matter was. He turned away and went
towards the fire where the Gull was already tasting a slippery string of
the macaroni to find out whether it were enough cooked. Bastianello
shrugged his shoulders and followed him in silence. Before long they
were all seated round the huge earthen dish, each armed with an iron
fork in one hand and a ship biscuit in the other, with which to catch
the drippings neatly, according to good manners, in conveying the full
fork from the dish to the wide-opened mouth. By and by there was a sound
of liquid gurgling from a demijohn as it was poured into the big jug,
and the wine went round quickly from hand to hand, while those who
waited for their turn munched their biscuits. Some one has said that
great appetites, like great passions, are silent. Hardly a word was said
until the wine was passed a second time with a ration of hard cheese and
another biscuit. Then the tongues were unloosed and the strange, uncouth
jests of the rough men circulated in an undertone, and now and then one
of them suffered agonies in smothering a huge laugh, lest his mirth
should disturb the "excellencies" at their table. The latter, however,
were otherwise engaged and paid little attention to the sailors.
The Marchesa di Mola, having eaten about six mouthfuls of twice that
number of delicacies and having swallowed half a glass of champagne and
a cup of coffee, was extended in her cane rocking-chair, with her back
to the moon and her face to the lamp, trying to imagine herself in her
comfortable sitting room at the hotel, or even in her own luxurious
boudoir in her Sicilian home. The attempt was fairly successful, and the
result was a passing taste of that self-satisfied beatitude which is
the peculiar and enviable lot of very lazy people after dinner. She
cared for nothing and she cared for nobody. San Miniato and Beatrice
might sit over there by the water's edge, in the moonlight, and talk in
low tones as long as they pleased. There were no tiresome people from
the hotel to watch their proceedings, and nothing better could happen
than that they should fall in love, be engaged and married forthwith.
That was certainly not the way the Marchesa could have wished the
courtship and marriage to develop and come to maturity, if there had
been witnesses of the facts from amongst her near acquaintance. But
since there was nobody to see, and since it was quite impossible that
she should run after the pair when they chose to leave her side,
resignation was the best policy, resignation without effort, without
fatigue and without qualms. Moreover, San Miniato himself had told her
that in some of the best families in the north of Italy it was
considered permissible for a man to offer himself directly to a young
lady, and San Miniato was undoubtedly familiar with the usages of the
very best society. It was quite safe to trust to him.
San Miniato himself would have greatly preferred to leave the
negotiations in the hands of the Marchesa and would have done so had he
not known that she possessed no power whatever over Beatrice. But he saw
that the Marchesa, however much she might desire the marriage, would
never exert herself to influence her daughter. She was far too indolent,
and at heart, perhaps, too indifferent, and she knew the value of money
and especially of her own. San Miniato made up his mind that if he won
at all, it must be upon his own merits and by his own efforts.
He had not found it hard to lead Beatrice away from the lamp when dinner
was over, and after walking about on the rocks for a few minutes he
proposed that they should sit down near the water, facing the moonlit
sea. Beatrice sat upon a smooth projection and San Miniato placed
himself at her feet, in such a position that he could look up into her
face and talk to her without raising his voice.
"So you are glad you came here, Donna Beatrice," he said.
"Very glad," she answered. "It is something I have never seen
before--something I shall never forget, as long as I live."
"Nor I."
"Have you a good memory?"
"For some things, not for others."
"For what, for instance?"
"For those I love---"
"And a bad memory for those whom you have loved," suggested Beatrice
with a smile.
"Have you any reason for saying that?" asked San Miniato gravely. "You
know too little of me and my life to judge of either. I have not loved
many, and I have remembered them well."
"How many? A dozen, more or less? Or twenty? Or a hundred?"
"Two. One is dead, and one has forgotten me."
Beatrice was silent. It was admirably done, and for the first time he
made her believe that he was in earnest. It had not been very hard for
him either, for there was a foundation of truth in what he said. He had
not always been a man without heart.
"It is much to have loved twice," said the young girl at last, in a
dreamy voice. She was thinking of what had passed through her mind that
afternoon.
"It is much--but not enough. What has never been lived out, is never
enough."
"Perhaps--but who could love three times?"
"Any man--and the third might be the best and the strongest, as well as
the last."
"To me it seems impossible."
San Miniato had got his chance and he knew it. He was nervous and not
sure of himself, for he knew very well that she had but a passing
attraction for him, beyond the very solid inducement to marry her
offered by her fortune. But he knew that the opportunity must not be
lost, and he did not waste time. He spoke quietly, not wishing to risk a
dramatic effect until he could count on his own rather slight histrionic
powers.
"So it seems impossible to you, Donna Beatrice," he said, in a musing
tone. "Well, I daresay it does. Many things must seem impossible to you
which are rather startling facts to me. I am older than you, I am a man,
and I have been a soldier. I have lived a life such as you cannot dream
of--not worse perhaps than that of many another man, but certainly not
better. And I am quite sure that if I gave you my history you would not
understand four-fifths of it, and the other fifth would shock you. Of
course it would--how could it be otherwise? How could you and I look at
anything from quite the same point of view?"
"And yet we often agree," said Beatrice, thoughtfully.
"Yes, we do. That is quite true. And that is because a certain sympathy
exists between us. I feel that very much when I am with you, and that is
one reason why I try to be with you as much as possible."
"You say that is one reason. Have you many others?" Beatrice tried to
laugh a little, but she felt somehow that laughter was out of place and
that a serious moment in her life had come at last, in which it would be
wiser to be grave and to think well of what she was doing.
"One chief one, and many little ones," answered San Miniato. "You are
good to me, you are young, you are fresh--you are gifted and unlike the
others, and you have a rare charm such as I never met in any woman. Are
those not all good reasons? Are they not enough?"
"If they were all true, they would be more than enough. Is the chief
reason the last?"
"It is the last of all. I have not given it to you yet. Some things are
better not said at all."
"They must be bad things," answered Beatrice, with an air of innocence.
She was beginning to understand, at last, that he really intended to
make her a declaration of love. It was unheard of, almost inconceivable.
But there he was at her feet, looking very handsome in the moonlight,
his face turned up to hers with an unmistakable look of devotion in its
rather grave lines. His voice, too, had a new sound in it. Indifferent
as he might be by daylight and in ordinary life, the magic of the place
and scene affected him a little at the present moment. Perhaps a memory
of other years, when his pulse had quickened and his voice had trembled
oddly, just touched his heart now and it responded with a faint thrill.
For a moment at least he forgot his sordid plan, and Beatrice's own
personal attraction was upon him.
And she was very lovely as she sat there, looking down at him, with
white folded hands, hatless in the warm night, her eyes full of the
dancing rays that trembled upon the softly rippling water.
"If they are not bad things," she said, speaking again, "why do you not
