political future. He admires the young man in his earnest, 
whole-hearted way, and is arranging the canvass so that it 
shall be in no wise disagreeable to the candidate. 
The ladies of the Fairlie household are well educated 
and agreeable, and have travelled considerably. They 
are not as exclusive as the Stirlings, the Gwynnes, the 
Wentworths, and several others, and one meets people at 
their house who have not the sign-royal of blue blood ; 
still they are always presentable, and never of the vulgar 
rich order. Under the circumstances, it would be rude and 
quite impolitic for the Wentworths to hold aloof at this 
midsummer night, that has a twofold aspect, that of a 
garden party and a musicale. 
Graham is at home, and has insisted upon Olive and 
Doris accepting him as an escort. Trevenna is there also, 
 
 
 
and Graham manages that he shall look after Olive. As 
for Doris, she seems in an enchanted realm. Such mnsic 
would entice the steps of any Eurydice. There are 
selections from "The Walpurgis Night," that carry her 
back to those perfect days of the past ; there are Strauss 
waltzes and Austrian music, in which Venice seems to be 
again before her eyes, and even Lloyd himself is near. 
How utterly delightful it is ! 
She looks like a simple young girl, in her soft, white 
gown. There is a cluster of deep purple ribbon loops at 
her throat, and one in the drapery of her dress. She 
wears no jewelry beside her wedding ring, and her 
mother's engagement ring, — she had none of her own, 
though Lloyd evinced quite a passion for buying her rings 
and other trinkets. 
And at first she feels quite lost in this gay throng. To 
Graham's chagrin she will not dance ; but as the evening 
wears on, and she meets many charming people, a sense of 
enjoyment blossoms out in her face and makes her radiant. 
Mr. Stilling is very agreeable, and Mrs. Stirling quite 
unbends. One and another beg to be introduced. Gra- 
ham grumbles in a kind of humorous way that is wonder- 
fully amusing, and directs her movements quite as if he 
had some special right. 
The one who interests her most this evening is Mrs. 
Basil Wentworth. She is not handsome and stately like 
Mrs. Stirling, but rather brilliant and imperious, though 
quite as tall and elegant in figure, with dark hair and 
flashing dark eyes. To-night her dress is mostly black 
lace over something golden and shimmering, and she we^s 
yellow flowers. Basil talks with the knots of middle-aged 
men, she dances with young and distinguished looking 
partners, and in the glow and harmonious movement she 
is really beautiful, but there is something hard and indif- 
ferent about her face. Agatha's is weary, languid, listless. 
She dances too, and once waltzes with Graham. Doris 
 
 
 
thinks she could watch her all night. But Mrs. Basil is 
fascinating as well. 
" Why you grave old Don ! " cries a bright young 
voice at Basil's elbow. '' No wonder they talk of send- 
ing you to Congress I How you^have all changed, except 
Olive, who looks the most natural of the whole house- 
hold? And you are nearly all married." 
Basil recognizes the fresh, youthful face that ought to 
grow older, but does not. 
" Conyngham ! " he exclaims. " You are back here at 
Westwater ! '' 
" Well, you do not suppose I am going to steal the 
town ? " and Conyngham gives a merry, rippling laugh. 
" Why, you do not know how good, how utterly delightful 
it is to get among old friends again I Only you are all 
so immensely changed. I have come down to see about 
mother's house. She sold it, you know, but she will have 
to take it back, and my wife had heard so much of West- 
water that she was anxious to have a look at it. It is one 
of the loveliest of towns. And just this morning I stum- 
bled over Grace Fairlie, and half begged an invitation to 
the event of the season. Actually you seldom see any- 
thing as pretty at a watering-place." 
Conyngham laughs again, a cheery, wholesome sound 
that almost takes Basil back to boyhood. Alfred is not 
nearly as young as he looks, and was Graham's contem- 
porary. But he might be a good dozen years Basil's 
junior from present appearances. 
'' It is a most delightful entertainment," Basil replies ; 
but there is a curious apprehension in his mind, side by 
side with a presentiment of something he has known would 
happen. Mrs. Lloyd stands over yonder, quite uncon- 
scious of any impending danger; and Basil more than 
half wishes she were not here. Yet the events that are 
set for any one to meet do overtake them sooner or later, 
and he has known ail along this would meet her face to 
 
 
 
face. He shrinks intensely from the gossip that must 
ensue, and rouses himself to lead Conyngham out of this 
vicinity. There is a little talk about his mother's house 
and foreclosure proceedings ; then some one takes him off 
Basil's hands, who then saunters back. Doris has quite 
a little court about her. Grace Fairlie and two or three 
fair young girls are chatting eagerly. 
For the first time, Basil Wentworth allows himself to 
see the face of his cousin's wife in an unprejudiced man- 
ner. As she glances up, the light seems reflected in her 
eyes, and he can see the blue so like a deeper heaven than 
this night sky. The fair, smooth brow with swelling tem- 
ples, the softly rounded chin that is just defined against 
the neck, the pearly pink ear, the crown of golden hair, 
but above all that sweet, high, unworldly expression. 
Somewhere in Lloyd's letter that adjective is used. 
While he is studying her so intently, there is a movement 
in the circle. Grace Fairlie beckons, some one comes; 
there is a gesture of her hand as she utters two names, and 
Mrs. Wentworth responds in a pretty, elegant manner to 
Mr. Conyngham. The light is full in her face. She does 
not blench, there is no ripple of conscious color, and the 
eyes are noble, tender ; he feels that, utterly against his 
will. Can she be so consummate an actress ? Conyngham 
he cannot see ; surely the young fellow could not so suc- 
cessfully carry off the duplicity. 
They all rise now and stroll to a fountain. Conyngham 
walks one side of Mrs. Wentworth. She bends her head 
a trifle to catch what he is saying. Is it the secret under- 
standing between them ? Al Conyngham is noble enough 
not to betray a woman when he holds some unorthodox 
knowledge in his hand. Basil admires him for that. And 
now he hopes the secret may be kept. She is winning 
favor somewhat, and though he knows and must despise 
her, he will be glad for the child's sake to have her old 
lover keep silence on so discreditable a matter. 
 
 
 
Ah, it is not simply her old lover ! " Some scandal 
with a count." Basil's cheek flushes hotly. A scandal 
about one of the Wentworth women ! How can he 
endure it? 
The guests change about so continually that it is a series 
of pictures. Once Basil's eyes fall upon his wife. She is 
waltzing with Delmar Randolph, and his brow glooms over. 
She is very gay ; her whole life and soul is in society. She 
never cares to shine for him at home, — does he care to 
have her ? He is so busy, so full of his own plans and 
projects, and she is Judge Minturn's daughter. But if 
she could hold herself high and fine like Agatha ! 
Somewhere again he meets with Conyngham. 
" I want you to see my wife," the latter says, with par- 
donable pride. '' We shall remain here for a week or two, 
revisiting old haunts, and Mrs. Lloyd Wentworth has been 
good enough to ask us to the Elms. What splendid times 
we all used to have there ? Poor Lloyd ! How sad that 
he should have to leave all, and how lovely Mrs. Went- 
worth is ! " 
There is something in the tone that rouses Basil ; the 
suggestion of a first interview, in which he has been sur- 
prised. He is caiTying it on well. 
" You met her abroad, I believe, with her aunt ? " Went- 
worth says, in an outwardly calm tone. 
