that on which he had intended to preach. By an 
immediate inspiration he wrote a sermon on the 
text, " The tender mercies of the wicked are cruel," 
in which he taught how great harm could be done 
by the habit of saying what are called kind things. 
He showed that this habit arose not from goodness 
of heart, or from the desire to make others happy, 
but from the wish to spare one s-self the troublesome 
duty of formulating the truth so that it would per 
form its heavenly office without wounding those 
whom it was intended to heal. He warned his 
hearers that the kind things spoken from this motive 
were so many sins committed against the soul of the 
flatterer and the soul of him they were intended to 
flatter; they were deceits, lies; and he besought 
all within the sound of his voice to try to practise 
with one another an affectionate sincerity, which 
was compatible not only with the brotherliness of 
Christianity, but the politeness of the world. He 
enforced his points with many apt illustrations, and 
he treated the whole subject with so much fulness 
and fervour, that he fell into the error of the literary 
temperament, and almost felt that he had atoned 
for his wrongdoing by the force with which he had 
portrayed it. 
 
Mrs. Sewell, who did not always go to her husband 's 
sermons, was at church that day, and joined him 
when some ladies who had lingered to thank him 
for the excellent lesson he had given them at last 
left him to her. 
" Really, David," she said, " I wondered your 
congregation could keep their countenances while 
you were going on. Did you think of that poor boy 
up at Willoughby Pastures when you were writing 
that sermon ? " 
"Yes, my dear," replied Sewell gravely; "he was 
in my mind the whole time." 
" Well, you were rather hard upon yourself ; and 
I think I was rather too hard upon you, that time, 
though I was so vexed with you. But nothing has 
come of it, and I suppose there are cases where 
people are so lost to common sense that you can't do 
anything for them by telling them the truth." 
"But you'd better tell it, all the same," said 
Sewell, still in a glow of righteous warmth from his 
atonement; and now a sudden temptation to play 
with fire seized him. " You wouldn't have excused 
me if any trouble had come of it." 
" No, I certainly shouldn t," said his wife. " But 
I don't regret it altogether if it 's made you see what 
danger you run from that tendency of yours. What 
in the world made you think of it ! " 
" Oh, it came into my mind/ said Sewell. 
He did not find time to write to Barker the next 
day, and on recurring to his letter he saw that there 
was no danger of his taking another step without 
his advice, and he began to postpone it ; when he 
had time he was not in the mood ; he waited for the 
time and the mood to come together, and he also 
waited for the most favourable moment to tell his 
wife that he had got that letter from Barker and to 
ask her advice about answering it. If it had been 
really a serious matter, he would have told her at 
once ; but being the thing it was, he did not know 
just how to approach it, after his first concealment. 
He knew that, to begin with, he would have to 
account for his mistake in attempting to keep it from 
her, and would have to bear some just upbraiding 
for this unmanly course, and would then be miserably 
led to the distasteful contemplation of the folly by 
which he had brought this trouble upon himself. 
Sewell smiled to think how much easier it was to 
make one 's peace with one 's God than with one 's 
wife ; and before he had brought himself to the 
point of answering Barker 's letter, there came a busy 
season in which he forgot him altogether. 
II. 
ONE day in the midst of this Sewell was called 
from his study to see some one who was waiting for 
him in the reception-room, but who sent in no name 
by the housemaid. 
" I don't know as you remember me," the visitor 
said, rising awkwardly, as Sewell came forward with 
a smile of inquiry. " My name 's Barker." 
" Barker ? " said the minister, with a cold thrill 
of instant recognition, but playing with a factitious 
uncertainty till he could catch his breath in the 
presence of the calamity. " Oh yes ! How do you 
do ? " he said; and then planting himself adven 
turously upon the commandment to love one 's 
neighbour as one s-self, he added : " I' m very glad 
to see you ! " 
In token of his content, he gave Barker his hand 
and asked him to be seated. 
The young man Complied, and while Sewell waited 
for him to present himself in some shape that he 
could grapple with morally, he made an involuntary 
study of his personal appearance. That morning, 
before starting from home by the milk-train that 
 
left Willoughby Pastures at 4.5, Barker had given 
his Sunday boots a coat of blacking, which he had 
eked out with stove-polish, and he had put on his 
best pantaloons, which he had outgrown, and which, 
having been made very tight a season after tight 
pantaloons had gone out of fashion in Boston, caught 
on the tops of his boots and stuck there in spite of 
his efforts to kick them loose as he stood up, and his 
secret attempts to smooth them down when he had 
reseated himself. He wore a single-breasted coat 
of cheap broadcloth, fastened across his chest with a 
carnelian clasp-button of his father s, such as country 
youth wore thirty years ago, and a belated summer 
scarf of gingham, tied in a breadth of knot long since 
abandoned by polite society. 
Sewell had never thought his wife 's reception-room 
very splendidly appointed, but Barker must have 
been oppressed by it, for he sat in absolute silence 
after resuming his chair, and made no sign of intend 
ing to open the matter upon which he came. In 
the kindness of his heart Sewell could not refrain 
from helping him on. 
" When did you come to Boston ? " he asked with 
a cheeriness which he was far from feeling. 
"This morning," said Barker briefly, but without 
the tremor in his voice which Sewell expected. 
"You've  never been here before, I suppose," 
suggested Sewell, with the vague intention of 
generalising or particularising the conversation, as 
the case might be. 
Barker abruptly rejected the overture, whatever 
 
it was. " I don't know as you got a letter from me 
a spell back," he said. 
"Yes, I did," confessed Sewell. "I did receive 
that letter," he repeated, " and I ought to have 
answered it long ago. But the fact is " He 
corrected himself when it came to his saying this, 
and said, " I' mean that I put it by, intending to 
answer it when I could do so in the proper way, 
until, I' m very sorry to say, I forgot it altogether. 
Yes, I forgot it, and I certainly ask your pardon for 
my neglect. But I can't say that as it 's turned out 
I altogether regret it. I can talk with you a great 
leal better than I could write to you in regard to 
your " Sewell hesitated between the words poems 
and verses, and finally said " work. I have 
blamed myself a great deal," he continued, winc 
ing under the hurt which he felt that he must be 
inflicting on the young man as well as himself, " for 
not being more frank with you when I saw you at 
home in September. I hope your mother is well ? " 
" She 's middling," said Barker, "but my married 
sister that came to live with us since you was there 
has had a good deal of sickness in her family. Her 
husband 's laid up with the rheumatism most of the 
time." 
" Oh ! " murmured Sewell sympathetically. " Well ! 
I ought to have told you at that time that I could 
