brother to dragons;" the Government, and it heaps indignities upon him;
the University, and if he were a blockhead, it could not treat him worse
than it does. He is to serve all whom he can aid, and nobody ever does
anything for him; he is to serve all to whom he can be a helpful and
happy minister, and yet he is the most afflicted minister in the
country; and many consider his afflictions to be so many miscarriages,
and his sufferings in proportion to his sins. There was no popularity or
power for him from the hour when he stood to see his brother Burroughs
put to death on the Hill. He seems never to have got over his surprise
at his own failures; but he sank into deeper mortification and a more
childish peevishness to the end.


"ONE OF THE AFFLICTED"--HER CONFESSION.

Of only one of the class of express accusers--of the "afflicted"--will
we speak; but not because she was the only one reclaimed. One bewildered
child we have described as remorseful, and brave in her remorse; and
others married as they would hardly have done if they had been among the
"profligate." Ann Putnam's case remains the most prominent, and the most
pathetic. She was twelve years old when the "circle" at Mr. Parris'
was formed. She had no check from her parents, but much countenance
and encouragement from her morbidly-disposed mother. She has the bad
distinction of having been the last of the witnesses to declare a
"vision" against a suspected person; but, on the other hand, she has the
honor, such as it is, of having striven to humble herself before the
memory of her victims. When she was nineteen her father died, and her
mother followed within a fortnight, leaving the poor girl, in bad health
and with scanty means, to take care of a family of children so large
that there were eight, if not more, dependent on her. No doubt she was
aided, and she did what she could; but she died worn out at the age of
thirty-six. Ten years before that date she made her peace with the
Church and society by offering a public confession in the meeting-house.
In order to show what it was that the accusers did admit, we must make
room for Ann Putnam's confession:

"'I desire to be humbled before God for that sad and humbling providence
that befell my father's family in the year about '92; that I, then
being in my childhood, should, by such a providence of God, be made the
instrument for the accusing of several persons of a grievous crime,
whereby their lives were taken away from them, whom now I have just
grounds and good reason to believe they were innocent persons; and that
it was a great delusion of Satan that deceived me in that sad time,
whereby I justly fear that I have been instrumental with others, though
ignorantly and unwittingly, to bring upon myself and this land the guilt
of innocent blood; though what was said or done by me against any person
I can truly and uprightly say, before God and man, I did it not out of
any anger, malice, or ill-will to any person, for I had no such thing
against one of them; but what I did was ignorantly, being deluded by
Satan. And particularly, as I was a chief instrument of accusing
Goodwife Nurse and her two sisters, I desire to lie in the dust, and
to be humbled for it, in that I was a cause, with others, of so sad a
calamity to them and their families; for which cause I desire to lie in
the dust, and earnestly beg forgiveness of God, and from all those unto
whom I have given just cause of sorrow and offense, whose relations were
taken away or accused. (Signed) Ann Putnam.'

"This confession was read before the congregation, together with her
relation, August 25, 1706; and she acknowledged it.

  "J. GREEN, Pastor." (Vol. ii. p. 510.)


THE TRANSITION.

The most agreeable picture ever afforded by this remarkable community is
that which our eyes rest on at the close of the story. One of the church
members had refused to help to send Mr. Parris away, on the ground that
the village had had four pastors, and had gone through worse strifes
with every one; but he saw a change of scene on the advent of the fifth.
The Rev. Joseph Green was precisely the man for the place and occasion.
He was young--only two-and-twenty--and full of hope and cheerfulness,
while sobered by the trials of the time. He had a wife and infants, and
some private property, so that he could at once plant down a happy
home among his people, without any injurious dependence on them. While
exemplary in clerical duty, he encouraged an opposite tone of mind to
that which had prevailed--put all the devils out of sight, promoted
pigeon-shooting and fishing, and headed the young men in looking after
hostile Indians. Instead of being jealous at the uprising of new
churches, he went to lay the foundations, and invited the new brethren
to his home. He promoted the claims of the sufferers impoverished by the
recent social convulsion; he desired to bury not only delusions, but
ill offices in silence; and by his hospitality he infused a cheerful
social spirit into his stricken people. The very business of "seating"
the congregation was so managed under his ministry as that members
of the sinning and suffering families--members not in too direct
an antagonism--were brought together for prayer, singing, and
Sabbath-greeting, forgiving and forgetting as far as possible. Thus did
this excellent pastor create a new scene of peace and good-will, which
grew brighter for eighteen years, when he died at the age of forty. At
the earliest moment that was prudent, he induced his church to cancel
the excommunication of Rebecca Nurse and Giles Corey. It was ten years
more before the hard and haughty mother church in Salem would do its
part; but Mr. Green had the satisfaction of seeing that record also
cleansed of its foul stains three years before his death. Judge Sewall
had before made his penitential acknowledgment of proud error in full
assembly, and had resumed his seat on the bench amid the forgiveness and
respect of society; Chief Justice Stoughton had retired from the courts
in obstinate rage at his conflicts with Satan having been cut short;
the physicians hoped they should have no more patients "under the evil
hand," to make them look foolish and feel helpless; and the Tragedy was
over. There were doubtless secret tears and groans, horrors of shame and
remorse by night and by day, and indignant removal of the bones of the
murdered from outcast graves; and abstraction of painful pages from
books of record, and much stifling of any conversation which could grow
into tradition. The Tragedy was, no doubt, the central interest of
society, families, and individuals throughout the Province for the life
of one generation. Then, as silence had been kept in the homes as well
as at church and market, the next generation entered upon life almost
unconscious of the ghastly distinction which would attach in history to
Massachusetts in general, and Salem in particular, as the scene of the
Delusion and the Tragedy which showed the New World to be in essentials
no wiser than the Old.

How effectually the story of that year 1692 was buried in silence is
shown by a remark of Mr. Upham's--that it has been too common for the
Witch Tragedy to be made a jest of, or at least to be spoken of with
levity. We can have no doubt that his labors have put an end to this.
It is inconceivable that there can ever again be a joke heard on the
subject of Witchcraft in Salem. But this remark of our author brings us
at once home to our own country, time, and experience. It suggests the
question whether the lesson afforded by this singular perfect piece of
history is more or less appropriate to our own day and generation.


THE FETISH THEORY THEN AND NOW.

We have already observed that at the date of these events, the only
possible explanation of the phenomena presented was the fetish solution
which had in all ages been recurred to as a matter of course. In
heathen times it was god, goddess, or nymph who gave knowledge, or
power, or gifts of healing, or of prophecy, to men. In Christian times
it was angel, or devil, or spirit of the dead; and this conception was
in full force over all Christendom when the Puritan emigrants settled in
New England. The celebrated sermon of the Rev. Mr. Lawson, in the work
before us, discloses the elaborate doctrine held by the class of men who
were supposed to know best in regard to the powers given by Satan to his
agents, and the evils with which he afflicted his victims; and there
was not only no reason why the pastor's hearers should question his
interpretations, but no possibility that they should supply any of
a different kind. The accused themselves, while unable to admit or
conceive that they were themselves inspired by Satan, could propose no
explanation but that the acts were done by "some bad spirit." And such
has been the fetish tendency to this hour, through all the advance
that has been made in science, and in the arts of observation and
of reasoning. The fetish tendency--that of ascribing one's own
consciousness to external objects, as when the dog takes a watch to be
alive because it ticks, and when the savage thinks his god is angry
because it thunders, and when the Puritan catechumen cries out in
hysteria that Satan has set a witch to strangle her--that constant
tendency to explain everything by the facts, the feelings, and the
experience of the individual's own nature, is no nearer dying out
now than at the time of the Salem Tragedy; and hence, in part, the
seriousness and the instructiveness of this story to the present
generation. Ours is the generation which has seen the spread of
Spiritualism in Europe and America, a phenomenon which deprives us of
all right to treat the Salem Tragedy as a jest, or to adopt a tone of
superiority in compassion for the agents in that dismal drama. There are
hundreds, even several thousands, of lunatics in the asylums of the
United States, and not a few in our own country, who have been lodged
