echoes and reminiscences of their works in the air, con- 
founding themselves with the indefinable exhalations, the 
strange composite odour, half agreeable, half impure, of 
the boulevard. 'Splendid Paris, charming Paris' that 
refrain, the fragment of an invocation, a beginning without 
an end, hummed itself perpetually in Hyacinth's ears ; the 
only articulate words that got themselves uttered in the 
hymn of praise which his imagination had been offering 
to the French capital from the first hour of his stay. He 
recognised, he greeted, with a thousand palpitations, the 
seat of his maternal ancestors was proud to be asso- 
ciated with so much of the superb, so many proofs of a 
civilisation that had no visible rough spots. He had his 
perplexities, and he had even now and then a revulsion 
for which he had made no allowance, as when it came 
over him that the most brilliant city in the world was also 
the most blood-stained ; but the great sense that he under- 
stood and sympathised was preponderant, and his compre- 
hension gave him wings appeared to transport him to still 
wider fields of knowledge, still higher sensations. 
In other days, in London, he had thought again and 
again of his mother's father, the revolutionary watch-maker 
who had known the ecstasy of the barricade and had paid 
for it with his life, and his reveries had not been sensibly 
chilled by the fact that he knew next to nothing about him. 
He figured him in his mind, had a conviction that he was 
very short, like himself, and had curly hair, an immense 
talent for his work and an extraordinary natural eloquence, 
together with many of the most attractive qualities of the 
French character. But he was reckless, and a little cracked, 
and probably immoral ; he had difficulties and debts and 
irrepressible passions ; his life had been an incurable fever 
and its tragic termination was a matter of course. None 
the less it would have been a charm to hear him talk, to 
feel the influence of a gaiety which even political madness 
could never quench ; for his grandson had a theory that he 
spoke the French tongue of an earlier time, delightful and 
sociable in accent and phrase, exempt from the common- 
ness of modern slang. This vague yet vivid personage 
became Hyacinth's constant companion, from the day of 
his arrival ; he roamed about with Florentine's boy, hand 
in hand, sat opposite to him at dinner, at the small table in 
the restaurant, finished the bottle with him, made the bill a 
little longer, and treated him to innumerable revelations 
and counsels. He knew the lad's secret without being 
told, and looked at him across the diminutive tablecloth, 
where the great tube of bread, pushed aside a little, left 
room for his elbows (it puzzled Hyacinth that the people 
of Paris should ever have had the fierceness of hunger 
when the loaves were so big), gazed at him with eyes of 
deep, kind, glowing comprehension and with lips which 
seemed to murmur that when one was to die to-morrow 
one was wise to eat and drink to-day. There was nothing 
venerable, no constraint of importance or disapproval, in 
this edifying and impalpable presence; the young man 
considered that Hyacinthe Vivier was of his own time of 
life and could enter into his pleasures as well as his pains. 
Wondering, repeatedly, where the barricade on which his 
grandfather fell had been erected, he at last satisfied him- 
self (but I am unable to trace the process of the induction) 
 
that it had bristled across the Rue Saint-Honore, very near 
to the church of Saint-Roch. The pair had now roamed 
together through all the museums and gardens, through the 
principal churches (the republican martyr was very -good- 
natured about this), through the passages and arcades, up 
and down the great avenues, across all the bridges, and 
above all, again and again, along the river, where the 
quays were an endless entertainment to Hyacinth, who 
lingered by the half-hour beside the boxes of old books on 
the parapets, stuffing his pockets with five-penny volumes, 
while the bright industries of the Seine flashed and glittered 
beneath him, and on the other bank the glorious Louvre 
stretched either way for a league. Our young man took 
almost the same sort of satisfaction in the Louvre as if he 
had erected it ; he haunted the museum during all the first 
days, couldn't look enough at certain pictures, nor sufficiently 
admire the high polish of the great floors in which the 
golden, frescoed ceilings repeated themselves. All Paris 
struck him as tremendously artistic and decorative ; he felt 
as if hitherto he had lived in a dusky, frowsy, Philistine 
world, in which the taste was the taste of Little Peddlington 
and the idea of beautiful arrangement had never had an 
influence. In his ancestral city it had been active from the 
first, and that was why his quick sensibility responded ; and 
he murmured again his constant refrain, when the fairness 
of the great monuments arrested him, in the pearly, silvery 
light, or he saw them take gray-blue, delicate tones at the 
end of stately vistas. It seemed to him that Paris expressed 
herself, and did it in the grand style, while London remained 
vague and blurred, inarticulate, blunt and dim. 
Eustache Poupin had given him letters to three or four 
democratic friends, ardent votaries of the social question, 
who had by a miracle either escaped the cruelty of exile or 
suffered the outrage of pardon, and, in spite of republican 
mouekardS) no less infamous than the imperial, and the 
periodical swoops of a despotism which had only changed 
its buttons and postage-stamps, kept alive the sacred spark 
which would some day become a consuming flame. 
Hyacinth, however, had not had the thought of delivering 
these introductions ; he had accepted them because Poupin 
had had such a solemn glee in writing them, and also 
because he had not the courage to let the couple in Lisson 
Grove know that since that terrible night at Hoffendahl's a 
change had come over the spirit of his dream. He had 
not grown more concentrated, he had grown more relaxed, 
and it was inconsistent with relaxation that he should 
rummage out Poupin's friends one of whom lived in the 
Batignolles and the others in the Faubourg Saint- Antoine 
and pretend that he cared for what they cared for in the 
same way as they cared for it. What was supreme in his 
mind to-day was not the idea of how the society that sur- 
rounded him should be destroyed ; it was, much more, the 
sense of the wonderful, precious things it had produced, of 
the brilliant, impressive fabric it had raised. That destruc- 
tion was waiting for it there was forcible evidence, known 
to himself and others, to show; but since this truth had 
risen before him, in its magnitude he had become conscious 
of a transfer, partial if not complete, of his sympathies ; the 
same revulsion of which he had given a sign to the Princess 
in saying that now he pitied the rich, those who were 
regarded as happy. While the evening passed, therefore, 
as he kept his place at Tortoni's, the emotion that was last 
 
to visit him was a compunction for not having put himself 
in relation with poor Poupin's friends, for having neglected 
to make the acquaintance of earnest people. 
Who in the world, if one should come to that, was as 
earnest as he himself, or had given such signal even though 
secret proofs of it ? He could lay that unction to his soul 
in spite of his having amused himself cynically, spent all his 
time in theatres, galleries, walks of pleasure. The feeling 
had not failed him with which he accepted Mr. Vetch's 
furtherance the sense that since he was destined to perish 
in his flower he was right to make a dash at the beautiful, 
horrible world. That reflection had been natural enough, 
but what was strange was the fiddler's own impulse, his 
desire to do something pleasant for him, to beguile him and 
ship him off. What had been most odd in that was the 
way Mr. Vetch appeared to overlook the fact that his young 
friend had already had, that year, such an episode of 
dissipation as was surely rare in the experience of London 
artisans. This was one of the many things Hyacinth thought 
of; he thought of the others in turn and out of turn; it 
was almost the first time he had sat still long enough 
(except at the theatre), to collect himself. A hundred con- 
fused reverberations of the recent past crowded upon him, 
and he saw that he had lived more intensely in the previous 
six months than in all the rest of his existence. The suc- 
cession of events finally straightened itself, and he tasted 
some of the rarest, strangest moments over again. His last 
week at Medley, in especial, had already become a kind of 
fable, the echo of a song ; he could read it over like a 
story, gaze at it as he would have gazed at some exquisite 
picture. His visit there had been perfect to the end, and 
even the three days that Captain Sholto's sojourn lasted had 
not broken the spell, for the three more that had elapsed 
before his own departure (the Princess herself had given 
him the signal), were the most important of all. It was then 
the Princess had made it clear to him that she was in 
