Tarrant only twice in his life, but it was no use telling him 
that she was an adventuress though, certainly, it was 
very likely she would end by giving Miss Chancellor a cut. 
He chuckled, with a certain grimness, as this image passed 
before him ; it was not unpleasing, the idea that he should 
be avenged (for it would avenge him to know it), upon the 
wanton young woman who had invited him to come and 
see her in order simply to slap his face. But he had an 
odd sense of having lost something in not knowing of the 
other girl's appearance at the Women's Convention a 
vague feeling that he had been cheated and trifled with. 
The complaint was idle, inasmuch as it was not probable 
he could have gone to Boston to listen to her ; but it 
represented to him that he had not shared, even dimly and 
remotely, in an event which concerned her very closely. 
Why should he share, and what was more natural than that 
the things which concerned her closely should not concern 
him at all ? This question came to him only as he walked 
home that evening ; for the moment it remained quite in 
abeyance : therefore he was free to feel also that his 
imagination had been rather starved by his ignorance of 
the fact that she was near him again (comparatively), that 
 
she was in the dimness of the horizon (no longer beyond 
the curve of the globe), and yet he had not perceived it. 
This sense of personal loss, as I have called it, made him 
feel, further, that he had something to make up, to recover. 
He could scarcely have told you how he would go about 
it; but the idea, formless though it was, led him in a 
direction very different from the one he had been following 
a quarter of an hour before. As he watched it dance before 
him he fell into another silence, in the midst of which 
Mrs. Luna gave him another mystic smile. The effect of 
it was to make him rise to his feet ; the whole landscape 
of his mind had suddenly been illuminated. Decidedly, 
it was not his duty to marry Mrs. Luna, in order to have 
means to pursue his studies ; he jerked himself back, as if 
he had been on the point of it. 
'You don't mean to say you are going already? I 
haven't said half I wanted to ! ' she exclaimed. 
He glanced at the clock, saw it was not yet late, took 
a turn about the room, then sat down again in a different 
place, while she followed him with her eyes, wondering 
what was the matter with him. Ransom took good care 
not to ask her what it was she had still to say, and perhaps 
it was to prevent her telling him that he now began to 
talk, freely, quickly, in quite a new tone. He stayed half 
an hour longer, and made himself very agreeable. It 
seemed to Mrs. Luna now that he had every distinction 
(she had known he had most), that he was really a charming 
man. He abounded in conversation, till at last he took 
up his hat in earnest; he talked about the state of the 
South, its social peculiarities, the ruin wrought by the war, 
the dilapidated gentry, the queer types of superannuated 
fire-eaters, ragged and unreconciled, all the pathos and all 
the comedy of it, making her laugh at one moment, almost 
cry at another, and say to herself throughout that when he 
took it into his head there was no one who could make a 
lady's evening pass so pleasantly. It was only afterwards that 
she asked herself why he had not taken it into his head 
till the last, so quickly. She delighted in the dilapidated 
gentry ; her taste was completely different from her sister's, 
who took an interest only in the lower class, as it struggled 
 
to rise ; what Adeline cared for was the fallen aristocracy 
(it seemed to be falling everywhere very much; was not 
Basil Ransom an example of it ? was he not like a French 
gentilhomme de province after the Revolution ? or an old 
monarchical emigre from the Languedoc?), the despoiled 
patriciate, I say, whose attitude was noble and touching, 
and toward whom one might exercise a charity as discreet 
as their pride was sensitive. In all Mrs. Luna's visions 
of herself, her discretion was the leading feature. ' Are 
you going to let ten years elapse again before you come ? ' 
she asked, as Basil Ransom bade her good-night. ' You 
must let me know, because between this and your next visit 
I shall have time to go to Europe and come back. I shall 
take care to arrive the day before.' 
Instead of answering this sally, Ransom said, ' Are you 
not going one of these days to Boston? Are you not 
going to pay your sister another visit ?' 
Mrs. Luna stared. ' What good will that do you ? 
Excuse my stupidity,' she added ; ' of course, it gets me 
away. Thank you very much !' 
'  I don't want you to go away ; but I want to hear more 
about Miss Olive.' 
' Why in the world ? You know you loathe her ! ' 
Here, before Ransom could reply, Mrs. Luna again over- 
took herself. ' I verily believe that by Miss Olive you 
mean Miss Verena!' Her eyes charged him a moment 
with this perverse intention; then she exclaimed, 'Basil 
Ransom, are you in love with that creature?' 
He gave a perfectly natural laugh, not pleading guilty, 
in order to practise on Mrs. Luna, but expressing the 
simple state of the case. 'How should I be? I have 
seen her but twice in my life.' 
' If you had seen her more, I shouldn't be afraid ! 
Fancy your wanting to pack me off to Boston ! ' his hostess 
went on. ' I am in no hurry to stay with Olive again ; 
besides, that girl takes up the whole house. You had 
better go there yourself.' 
' I should like nothing better,' said Ransom. 
' Perhaps you would like me to ask Verena to spend a 
month with me it might be a way of attracting you 
 
to the house,' Adeline went on, in the tone of exuberant 
provocation. 
Ransom was on the point of replying that it would be a 
better way than any other, but he checked himself in time ; 
he had never yet, even in joke, made so crude, so rude a 
speech to a lady. You only knew when he was joking 
with women by his superadded civility. 'I beg you to 
believe there is nothing I would do for any woman in the 
world that I wouldn't do for you,' he said, bending, for the 
last time, over Mrs. Luna's plump hand. 
'I shall remember that and keep you up to it!' she 
cried after him, as he went. But even with this rather 
lively exchange of vows he felt that he had got off rather 
easily. He walked slowly up Fifth Avenue, into which, 
out of Adeline's cross-street, he had turned, by the light of 
a fine winter moon; and at every corner he stopped a 
minute, lingered in meditation, while he exhaled a soft, 
vague sigh. This was an unconscious, involuntary expres- 
sion of relief, such as a man might utter who had seen 
himself on the point of being run over and yet felt that he 
was whole. He didn't trouble himself much to ask what 
had saved him ; whatever it was it had produced a reaction, 
so that he felt rather ashamed of having found his look-out 
of late so blank. By the time he reached his lodgings, his 
ambition, his resolution, had rekindled; he had remembered 
that he formerly supposed he was a man of ability, that 
nothing particular had occurred to make him doubt it (the 
evidence was only negative, not positive), and that at any 
rate he was young enough to have another try. He 
whistled that night as he went to bed. 
XXIII. 
THREE weeks afterward he stood in front of Olive 
Chancellor's house, looking up and down the street and 
hesitating. He had told Mrs. Luna that he should like 
nothing better than to make another journey to Boston ; 
and it was not simply because he liked it that he had come. 
I was on the point of saying that a happy chance had 
favoured him, but it occurs to me that one is under no 
obligation to call chances by flattering epithets when they 
have been waited for so long. At any rate, the darkest 
hour is before the dawn ; and a few days after that melan- 
choly evening I have described, which Ransom spent in 
his German beer-cellar, before a single glass, soon emptied, 
staring at his future with an unremunerated eye, he found 
that the world appeared to have need of him yet. The 
 party as he would have said (I cannot pretend that his 
speech was too heroic for that), for whom he had transacted 
business in Boston so many months before, and who had 
expressed at the time but a limited appreciation of his 
services (there had been between the lawyer and his client 
a divergence of judgment), observing, apparently, that they 
proved more fruitful than he expected, had reopened the 
affair and presently requested Ransom to transport himself 
again to the sister city. His errand demanded more time 
than before, and for three days he gave it his constant 
