nobody knew, she said, how near to starving they had 
come ; and it was something to have a sober man. So, 
on this reasonable basis, Jack acquired a step-father, 
and his step-father sent him straightway to the Grand 
Banks. 
He meant it well enough, and perhaps it made no 
difference in the end. But Jack was a little fellow to 
go fishing, — only ten. His first voyage was hard: it 
was a March voyage ; he got badly frostbitten, and the 
skipper was rough. He was knocked about a good deal, 
and had the measles by himself in his berth ; and the 
men said they didn't know they had brought a baby tc 
the Banks, for they were very busy ; and Jack lay and 
cried a little, and thought about his mother, and wished 
he hadn't kicked her, but forgot it when he got well. 
So he swaggered about among the men, as a boy does 
when he is the only one in a crew, and aped their talk, 
and shared their grog, and did their hard work, and 
learned their songs, and came home with the early stages 
of moral ossification as well set in upon his little heart 
as a ten-year-old heart allows. 
The next voyage did not mend the matter ; nor the 
next. And though the old dory-mate was an honest fellow,
he had been more successful as a dory-mate than 
he was as a step-father. He and Jack did not " get on." 
Sometimes Jack's mother wondered if he had needed a 
man to manage him ; but she never said so. She was 
a good wife, and she had fuel enough, now ; she only 
kissed Jack and said she meant it for the best, and then 
she went away and sang Rock of Ages to the tune of 
Martyn, very slow, and quite on the wrong key. It 
seemed to make her feel better, poor thing. Jack some- 
times wondered why. 
When he was twelve years old he came home from a 
winter voyage one night, and got his pay for his share, 
— boy's pay, yet, for a boy's share ; but bigger than it 
used to be, — and did not go home first, but went
rollicking off with a crowd of Portuguese. It was a Sun- 
day night, and his mother was expecting him, for she 
knew the boat was in. His step-father expected him 
too, — and his money ; and Jack knew that. His mother 
had been sick, but Jack did not know that; she had been 
very sick, and had asked for him a great deal. There 
had been a baby, — born dead while its father was off- 
shore after cod, — and it had been very cold weather ; 
and something had gone wrong. 
At midnight of that night some one knocked at the 
door of the crumbling cottage. The step-father opened 
it ; he looked pale and agitated. Some boys were there 
in a confused group ; they bore what seemed to be a 
lifeless body on a drag, or bob-sled ; it was Jack, dead 
drunk. 
It was the first time, — he was only twelve, — and 
one of the Fairharbor boys took the pipe from his 
mouth to explain. 
" He was trapped by a Portygee, and they 've stole 
every cent of him, 'n kicked him out, 'n lef him, 
stranded like a monk-fish, so me and the other fellers 
we borryed a sled and brung him home, for we thought 
his mother 'd rather. He ain't dead, but he's just as 
drunk as if he was sixty ! " 
The Fairharbor boy mentioned this circumstance with 
a kind of abnormal pride, as if such superior maturity 
were a point for a comrade to make note of. But 
Jack's step-father went out softly, and shut the door, 
and said : 
" Look here, boys, — help me in with him, will you ? 
Not that way. His mother 's in there. She died an 
hour ago." 
And so the curse of his heredity came upon him. 
She never knew, thank Heaven. Her knowledge would 
have been a kind of terrible fore-omniscience, if she 
had. She would have had no hope of him from that 
hour. Her experience would have left her no illusions. 
The drunkard's wife would have educated the 
drunkard's mother too " liberally " for that. She would 
have taken in the whole scope and detail of the future 
in one midnight moment's breadth, as a problem in the 
higher mathematics may rest upon the width of a geometrical 
point. But she did not know. We say — I mean, 
it is our fashion of saying — that she did not know. 
God was merciful. She had asked for Jack, it seemed, 
over and over, but did not complain of him for not 
coming ; she never complained of Jack. She said the poor 
boy must have stayed somewhere to have a pleasant 
time ; and she said they were to give her love to him, if 
he came in while she was asleep. And then she asked 
her husband to sing Rock of Ages for her, because 
she did not feel very strong. He couldn't sing, — more 
than a halibut, poor fellow ; but he did not like to 
disappoint her, for he thought she looked what he called 
" miser'ble " ; so he sat down by the bed and raised his 
hoarse, weather-beaten voice to the tune of Marty's, as 
best he could, and mixed up two verses inextricably with 
a line from " Billy 's on the bright blue sea," which he 
added because he saw he. must have something to fill 
out, and it was all he could think of, — but she thanked 
him very gently, and said he sang quite well ; and said 
once more that he was to give her love to Jack ; and 
went to sleep afterward ; and by and by, they could 
not wake her to see her boy of twelve brought to her 
drunk. 
The curse of his heredity was upon him. We may 
blame, we may loathe, we may wonder, we may despair ; 
but we must not forget. There were enough to blame 
without remembering. Jack, like all drunkards, soon 
learned this. In fact, he did not remember it very well 
himself, — not having been acquainted with his father ; 
and never sentimentalized over himself nor whined for 
his bad luck, — but owned up to his sins, with the 
bluntness of an honest, bad fellow. He was rather an 
honest fellow, in spite of it all. He never lied when he 
was sober. 
If the curse of his ancestry had come upon him. its 
compensatory temperament came too. Jack had the 
merry heart of the easy drinker. 
Born with his father's alcoholized brain-cells, poor 
baby, endowed with the narcotined conscience which 
this species of parentage bequeaths, he fell heir to the 
kind of attractiveness that goes with the legacy. 
He was a happy-go-lucky fellow. Life sat airily on 
him. He had his mother's handsome eyes dashed with 
his father's fun (for she couldn't take a joke, to save 
her) ; he told a good story ; he did a kind deed ; he was 
generous with his money, when he had any, and never 
in the least disturbed when he had n't. He was popular 
to the dangerous extent that makes one's vices seem 
a kind of social introduction, and not in Jack's circle 
alone, be it said. 
Every crew wanted him. Drunk or so- 
ber, as a shipmate he was at par. It 
was usually easy for him to borrow. The 
fellows made up his fines for him, there 
was always somebody to go bail for 
him when he got before the police 
court. Arrested perhaps a half dozen 
times a year, in his maddest years, he never was 
sent to the House in his 
life. There were always people enough who thought it 
a pity to let such a good fellow go to prison. He had 
— I was going to say as a matter of course he had — 
curly hair. One should not omit to notice that he was 
splendidly tattooed. He was proud, as seamen are, of 
his brawny arms, dashed from wrist to shoulder with 
the decorative ingenuity of his class. Jack had aesthetic 
views of his own, indeed, about his personal allowance 
of indigo. He had objected to the customary medley 
of anchors, stars, and crescents, and exhibited a certain 
reserve of taste, which was rather interesting. On his 
left arm he bore a very crooked lighthouse rising from 
a heavy sea ; he was, in fact, quite flooded along the 
bicipital muscle with waves and billows, but nothing 
else interfered with the massive proportions of the effect. 
This was considered a masterly design, and Jack 
was often called upon to push up his sleeve and explain 
how he came by the inspiration. 
Upon the other arm he wore a crucifix, ten inches 
long ; this was touched with blood-red ink ; the dead 
Christ hung upon it, lean and pitiful. Jack said he took 
the crucifix against his drowning. It was an uncommonly 
