imagination. What else did they sing?”

“I can’t remember. But there was something they danced--to show how a
rheumatic old coloured uncle dances.”

He jumped nimbly up, and sketched the stiff and limping figure he had
seen. It was over in a flash. He dropped down again, laughing.

“Oh, how wonderfully good!” cried Mrs. Brinkley, with frank joy. “Do it
again.”

“Encore! Oh, encore!” came from the people on the beach.

Mavering jumped to his feet, and burlesqued the profuse bows of an actor
who refuses to repeat; he was about to drop down again amidst their
wails of protest.

“No, don’t sit down, Mr. Mavering,” said the lady who had introduced the
subject of ham. “Get some of the young ladies, and go and gather some
blueberries for the dessert. There are all the necessaries of life here,
but none of the luxuries.”

“I’m at the service of the young ladies as an escort,” said Mavering
gallantly, with an infusion of joke. “Will you come and pick blueberries
under my watchful eyes, Miss Pasmer?”

“They’ve gone to pick blueberries,” called the lady through her tubed
hand to the people on the beach, and the younger among them scrambled up
the rocks for cups and bowls to follow them.

Mrs. Pasmer had an impulse to call her daughter back, and to make
some excuse to keep her from going. She was in an access of decorum,
naturally following upon her late outbreak, and it seemed a very
pronounced thing for Alice to be going off into the woods with the young
man; but it would have been a pronounced thing to prevent her, and so
Mrs. Pasmer submitted.

“Isn’t it delightful,” asked Mrs. Brinkley, following them with her
eyes, “to see the charm that gay young fellow has for that serious girl?
She looked at him while he was dancing as if she couldn’t take her eyes
off him, and she followed him as if he drew her by an invisible spell.
Not that spells are ever visible,” she added, saving herself. “Though
this one seems to be,” she added further, again saving herself.

“Do you really think so?” pleaded Miss Cotton.

“Well, I say so, whatever I think. And I’m not going to be caught up
on the tenter-hooks of conscience as to all my meanings, Miss Cotton. I
don’t know them all. But I’m not one of the Aliceolaters, you know.”

“No; of course not. But shouldn’t you--Don’t you think it would be a
great pity--She’s so superior, so very uncommon in every way, that it
hardly seems--Ah, I should so like to see some one really fine--not a
coarse fibre in him, don’t you know. Not that Mr. Mavering’s coarse. But
beside her he does seem so light!”

“Perhaps that’s the reason she likes him.”

“No, no! I can’t believe that. She must see more in him than we can.”

“I dare say she thinks she does. At any rate, it’s a perfectly evident
case on both sides; and the frank way he’s followed her up here, and
devoted himself to her, as if--well, not as if she were the only girl in
the world, but incomparably the best--is certainly not common.”

“No,” sighed Miss Cotton, glad to admit it; “that’s beautiful.”




XV.

In the edge of the woods and the open spaces among the trees the
blueberries grew larger and sweeter in the late Northern summer than
a more southern sun seems to make them. They hung dense upon the low
bushes, and gave them their tint through the soft grey bloom that veiled
their blue. Sweet-fern in patches broke their mass here and there, and
exhaled its wild perfume to the foot or skirt brushing through it.

“I don’t think there’s anything much prettier than these clusters; do
you, Miss Pasmer?” asked Mavering, as he lifted a bunch pendent from the
little tree before he stripped it into the bowl he carried. “And see! it
spoils the bloom to gather them.” He held out a handful, and then tossed
them away. “It ought to be managed more aesthetically for an
occasion like this. I’ll tell you what, Miss Pasmer: are you used to
blueberrying?”

“No,” she said; “I don’t know that I ever went blueberrying before.
Why?” she asked.

“Because, if you haven’t, you wouldn’t be very efficient perhaps, and so
you might resign yourself to sitting on that log and holding the berries
in your lap, while I pick them.”

“But what about the bowls, then?”

“Oh, never mind them. I’ve got an idea. See here!” He clipped off a
bunch with his knife, and held it up before her, tilting it this way
and that. “Could anything be more graceful! My idea is to serve the
blueberry on its native stem at this picnic. What do you think? Sugar
would profane it, and of course they’ve only got milk enough for the
coffee.”

“Delightful!” Alice arranged herself on the log, and made a lap for the
bunch. He would not allow that the arrangement was perfect till he had
cushioned the seat and carpeted the ground for her feet with sweet-fern.

“Now you’re something like a wood-nymph,” he laughed. “Only, wouldn’t a
real wood-nymph have an apron?” he asked, looking down at her dress.

“Oh, it won’t hurt the dress. You must begin now, or they’ll be calling
us.”

He was standing and gazing at her with a distracted enjoyment of her
pose. “Oh yes, yes,” he answered, coming to himself, and he set about
his work.

He might have got on faster if he had not come to her with nearly every
bunch he cut at first, and when he began to deny himself this pleasure
he stopped to admire an idea of hers.

“Well, that’s charming--making them into bouquets.”

“Yes, isn’t it?” she cried delightedly, holding a bunch of the berries
up at arm’s-length to get the effect.

“Ah, but you must have some of this fern and this tall grass to go with
it. Why, it’s sweet-grass--the sweet-grass of the Indian baskets!”

“Is it?” She looked up at him. “And do you think that the mixture would
be better than the modest simplicity of the berries, with a few leaves
of the same?”

“No; you’re right; it wouldn’t,” he said, throwing away his ferns. “But
you’ll want something to tie the stems with; you must use the grass.” He
left that with her, and went back to his bushes. He added, from beyond
a little thicket, as if what he said were part of the subject, “I was
afraid you wouldn’t like my skipping about there on the rocks, doing the
coloured uncle.”

“Like it?”

“I mean--I--you thought it undignified--trivial--”

She said, after a moment: “It was very funny; and people do all sorts of
things at picnics. That’s the pleasure of it, isn’t it?”

“Yes, it is; but I know you don’t always like that kind of thing.”

“Do I seem so very severe?” she asked.

“Oh no, not severe. I should be afraid of you if you were. I shouldn’t
have dared to come to Campobello.”

He looked at her across the blueberry bushes. His gay speech meant
everything or nothing. She could parry it with a jest, and then it would
mean nothing. She let her head droop over her work, and made no answer.

“I wish you could have seen those fellows on the boat,” said Mavering.

