have befallen him, I turned, and behold, while I had been searching,
the throng had dispersed.
Night was coming on  All the citizens were strolling to their homes.
On street, and plain, and hill stirred the shadows of the departing
people.  They passed quietly.  Every voice was hushed.  All the world
was as still as a heart is after prayer.
In the silent purple plain, only I was left alone.  Moved by solitude,
which is the soul's sincerity, I yielded myself to strange impulses,
and turning to the spot, where He who was invisible had passed or
seemed to pass, I sought to find upon the ground and in the dusk some
chance imprint of His steps.  To do this it was necessary for me to
stoop; and while I was bowed, searching for some least sign of Him, in
the dew and dark, I knew not what wave of shame and sorrow came upon
me, but I fell upon my knees.  There was no creature to hear me, and I
spoke aloud, and said:--
"Thou departest from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord!" ...
"Lord," I said, "that I may receive my sight!"
I thought I had more to say than this, but when I had uttered these
words no more did follow them.  They seemed to fill my soul and flood
it till it overflowed.
And when I had lifted up my eyes, the first sight which did meet them
was the face of my own child.  I saw at once that he was quite safe and
happy.  But I saw that he was not alone.
One towered above me, strange and dim, who held the little fellow in
His arms.  When I cried out to Him, He smiled.  And He did give the
child to me, and spoke with me.
CHAPTER XVI.
The natural step to knowledge is through faith.  Even human science
teaches as much as this.  The faith of the scholar in the theoretic
value of his facts precedes his intelligent use of them.  Invention
dreams before it does.  Discovery believes before it finds.  Creation
imagines before it achieves.
Spiritual intelligence, when it came at last, to me, came with
something of the jar of all abnormal processes.  The wholesome
movements of trust I had omitted from my soul's economy.  The function
of faith was a disused thing in me.  Truth had to treat me as an
undeveloped mind.
In the depth of my consciousness, I knew that, come what might, I had
for ever lost the chance to be a symmetrical healthy human creature,
whose spiritual faculties are exercised like his brain or muscle; who
has lived upon the earth, and loved it, and gathered its wealth and
sweetness and love of living into his being, as visible food whereby to
create invisible stature; whose earthly experience has carried him on,
as Nature carries growth--unconsciously, powerfully, perfectly, into a
diviner life.  For ever it must remain with me that I had missed the
natural step.
If I say that the realization of knowledge was the first thing to teach
me the value of faith, I shall be understood by those who may have read
this narrative with any sort of sympathy to the present point; and, for
the rest, some wiser, better man than I must write.
I do not address those who follow these pages as I myself should once
have done.  I do not hope to make myself intelligible to you, as I
would to God I could!  Personal misery is intelligible, and the shock
of belated discovery.  But the experience of another in matters of this
kind has not a "scientific" character.
No one can know better than I how my story will be dismissed as
something which is not "a fact."
In the times to be, it is my belief that there shall yet arise a soul,
worthier of the sacred task than I to which shall be given the perilous
and precious commission of interpreter between the visible life and the
life invisible.  On this soul high privilege will be bestowed, and
awful opportunity.  Through it the deaf shall hear, the dumb shall
speak.  The bereaved shall bless it, and the faint of heart shall lean
on it, and those who know not God shall listen to it, and the power of
God shall be upon it.  But mine is not that soul.
Even as One who was above man did elect to experience the earthly lot
of man to save him; so one who is a man among men may yet be permitted
to use the heavenly lot in such wise as to comfort them.  The first
mission called for superhuman power.  The second may need only human
purity.
I now enter upon a turn in my narrative, where my vehicle of
communication begins to fail me.  Human language, as employed upon the
earth, has served me to some extent to express those phases of
celestial fact upon which I still looked with earth-blind eyes.  With
spiritual vision comes the immediate need of a spiritual vocabulary.
Like most men of my temperament and training, I have been accustomed to
some caution in the use of words.  I know not any, which would be
intelligible to the readers of this record, that can serve to express
my experiences onward from this point.
"A man becomes terrestrialized as he grows older," said an unbeliever
of our day, once, to me.
It is at least true that the terrestrial intellect celestializes by the
hardest; and it remains obvious, as it was written, that the things
which are prepared may not enter into the heart of man.
This is only another way of saying that my life from the solemn hour
which I have recorded underwent revolutions too profound for me to
desire to utter them, and that most of my experiences were of a nature
which I lack the means to report.  My story draws to a stop, as a cry
of anguish comes to a hush of peace.  What word is there to say?
There is, indeed, one.  With lips that tremble and praise God, I add it.
At a period not immediately following the event which I have described,
yet not so far beyond it that the time, as I recall it, seemed
wearisome to me, I received a summons to go upon an errand to a distant
place.  It was the first time that I had been intrusted with any
business of a wider nature than the care of my own affairs or the
immediate offices of neighbourhood, and I was gratified thereby.  I
had, indeed, longed to be counted worthy to perform some special
service at the will of Him who guided all our service, and had
cherished in my secret heart some project of praying that I might be
elected to a special task which had grown, from much musing, dear to
me.  I did most deeply desire to become worthy to wear the seal of a
commission to the earth; but I had ceased to urge the selfish cry of my
personal heart-break.  I did not pray now for the precious right to
visit my own home, nor weary the Will in which I had learned to confide
with passionate demands for my beloved.  I may rather say that I had
come almost to feel that when I was worthy to see Helen I should be
worthy of life eternal; and that I had dropped my love and my longing
and my shame into the Hands of Infinite Love, and seen them close over
these, as over a trust.
The special matter to which I refer was this: I desired to be permitted
to visit human homes, and set myself, as well as I might, to the effort
of cultivating their kindliness.  I longed to cherish the sacred graces
of human speech.  I wished to emphasize the opportunity of those who
love each other.  I groaned within me, till I might teach the
preciousness and the poignancy of words.  It seemed to me that if I
might but set the whole force of a man's experience and a spirit's
power to make an irritable scene in loving homes held as degrading as a
blow, that I could say what no man ever said before, and do what no
spirit would ever do again.
If this be called an exaggerated view of a specific case, I can only
say that every human life learns one lesson perfectly, and is qualified
to teach that, and that alone, as no other can.  This was mine.
When, therefore, I received the summons to which I have alluded, I
inferred that the wish of my heart had been heard, and I set forth
joyfully, expecting to be sent upon some service of the nature at which
I have hinted.  My soul was full of it, and I made haste to depart,
putting no question in the way of my obedience.  No information,
indeed, was granted to me beyond the fact that I should follow a
certain course until I came to its apparent end, and there await what
should occur, and act as my heart prompted.  The vagueness of this
command stirred my curiosity a little, I confess; but that only added
to the pleasure of the undertaking.  It would be difficult to say how
much relief I found in being occupied once again to some purpose, like
a man.  But it would be impossible to tell the solemn happiness I had
in being counted fit humbly to fulfil the smallest trust placed in me
by Him who was revealed, at this late, last moment, after all, to me,
unworthy.
I set forth alone.  The child was left behind me with a neighbour, for
so I thought the way of wisdom in this matter.  Following only the
general directions which I had received, I found myself soon within the
open country toward the region of the hills.  As I advanced, the
scenery became familiar to me, and I was not slow to recognize the path
as the one which I myself had trodden on my first entrance to the city
wherein of recent days I had found my home.  I stopped to consider this
fact, and to gather landmarks, gazing about me diligently and musing on
my unknown course; for the ways divided before me as foot-paths do in
fields, each looking like all and all like each.  While I stood
uncertain, and sensitively anxious to make no mistake, I heard the hit!
hit! of light feet patting the grass behind me, and, turning, saw a
little fellow coming like the morning wind across the plain.  His
bright hair blew straight before him, from his forehead.  He ran
sturdily.  How beautiful he was!
He did not call me nor show the slightest fear lest he should fail to
overtake me.  Ha had already learned that love always overtakes the
beloved in that blessed land.
"You forgot your little boy," he said reproachfully, and put his hand
quietly within mine and walked on beside me, and forgot that he had
been forgotten immediately, and looked upward at me radiantly.
Remembering the command to await what should occur, and do as my heart
prompted, I accepted this accident as part of a purpose wiser than my
