o'clock on that March night, the bare twigs of the birch-trees wriggling
in the bleak wind, the faint light of the decrescent moon, that seemed
to be upside down in the sky, falling on the white rocks, and on the
whitened branches torn down by the winter's storms, lying like bleached
bones upon the ground before us.
"Now," said Balsamides to the negro, "no one can hear us. You have one
chance of life. Tell us at once where we can find the Russian Effendi
whose property you stole and sold to Marchetto in the bazaar."
In the dim gloom I almost fancied that the black man changed color as
Gregorios put this question, but he answered coolly enough.
"You cannot find him," he said. "You need not have brought me here to
ask me about him. I would have told you what you wanted to know at Yeni
Köj, willingly enough."
"Why can he not be found?"
"Because he has been dead nearly two years, and his body was thrown into
the Bosphorus," answered the Lala defiantly.
"You killed him, I suppose?" Balsamides tightened his grip upon the
man's arm. But Selim was ready with his reply.
"You need not tear me in pieces. He killed himself."
The news was so unexpected that Balsamides and I both started and looked
at each other. The Lala spoke with the greatest decision.
"How did he kill himself?" asked Gregorios sternly.
"I will tell you, as far as I know. The Bekjí of Agia Sophia, the same
who admitted the Effendi, took me up by the other staircase. Franks are
never allowed to pass that way, as you know. When we were halfway up,
holding the tapers before us, we stumbled over the body of a man lying
at the foot of one of the flights, with his hand against the wall. We
stooped down and examined him. He was quite dead. 'Selim,' said the
Bekjí, who knows me very well, 'the Effendi has fallen down the stairs
in the dark, and has broken his neck.' 'If we give the alarm,' said I,
'we shall be held responsible for his death.' 'Leave it to me,' answered
the Bekjí. 'Behold, the man is dead. It is his fate. He has no further
use for valuables.' So the Bekjí took a ring, and a tobacco-box, and the
watch and chain, and some money which was in the man's pockets. Then he
said we should leave the corpse where it was. And when the prayers in
the mosque were over, before it was day, he got a vegetable-seller's
cart, and put the body in it and covered it with cabbages. Then we took
it down to the point below Top Kapu Serai, where the waters are swift
and deep. So we threw him in, for he was but a dog of a Giaour, and had
broken his neck in stumbling where it was forbidden to go. Is it my
fault that he stumbled?"
"No," answered Balsamides, "it was not your fault if he stumbled, and
the Bekjí was a Persian fox. But you robbed his body, and divided the
spoil. What share did the Bekjí take?"
"He took the ring and the tobacco-box and the money, for he was the
stronger," answered the Lala.
"Selim," said Balsamides quietly, "before the Khanum died to-night she
said that Alexander Patoff was alive. If so, you are lying. You are a
greater liar than Moseylama, the false prophet, as they say in your
country. But if not, you are a robber of dead bodies. Therefore, Selim,
say a Fatihah, for your hour is come."
With that, Balsamides drew a short revolver from his pocket and cocked
it before the man's eyes. The negro's limbs relaxed, and with a howl he
fell upon his knees.
"Mercy! In the name of Allah!" he cried. "I have told all the truth, I
swear by the grave of my father"----
"Don't move," said Gregorios, with horrible calmness. "You will do very
well in that position. Now--say your Fatihah, and be quick about it. I
cannot wait all night."
"You are not in earnest, Gregorios?" I asked in English, for my blood
ran cold at the sight.
"Very much in earnest," he answered in Turkish, presenting the muzzle of
the pistol to the Lala's head. "This fellow shall not laugh at our
beards a second time. I will count three. If you do not wish to say your
prayers, I will fire when I have said three. One--two"----
"He is alive!" screamed the Lala, before the fatal "three" was spoken by
Balsamides. "I have lied: he is alive! Mercy! and I will tell you all."
"I thought so," said Balsamides, coolly uncocking his pistol and putting
it back into his pocket. "Get up, dog, and tell us what you know."
Selim was literally almost frightened to death, as he kneeled on the
sharp stones at our feet. He could hardly speak, and I dragged him up
and made him sit upon the trunk of a fallen tree. I was indeed glad that
he was still alive, for though Balsamides had not yet told me the events
of the night, I could see that he was in no humor to be trifled with.
Even I, who am peaceably disposed towards all men, felt my blood boil
when the fellow told how he and the Bekjí had robbed the body of
Alexander Patoff, and thrown it into the Bosphorus for fear of being
suspected. But the whole story seemed improbable, and I had a strong
impression that Selim was lying. Perhaps nothing but the fear of death
could have made him confess, after all, and Balsamides had a way of
making death seem very real and near.
"I will tell you this, Selim," said Gregorios. "If you will give me
Alexander Patoff Effendi to-night, alive, well, and uninjured in any
way, you shall go free, and I will engage that you shall not be hurt.
You evidently wished to keep the Khanum's secret. The Khanum is dead,
and her secrets are the Padishah's, like everything else she possessed.
You are bound to deliver those secrets to my keeping. Therefore tell us
shortly where the Russian is, that we may liberate him and take him home
at once."
"He is alive and well. That is to say, he has been well treated,"
answered Selim. "If you can take him, you may take him to-night, for all
I care. But you must swear that you will then protect me."
"Filthy liquor in a dirty bottle!" exclaimed Balsamides angrily. "Will
you make conditions with me, you soul of a dog in a snake's body?"
"Very well," returned the Lala cunningly. "But if you should kill me by
mistake before I have taken you to him, you will never find him."
"I have told you that you shall not be hurt, if you will give him up.
That is enough. My word is good, and I will keep it. Speak; you are
safe."
"In the first place, we must go back to Yeni Köj. You might have saved
yourself the trouble of coming up here on such a night as this."
"I want no comments on my doings. Tell me where the man is."
"I will take you to him," said the Lala.
"Well, then, get up and come back to the carriage," said Balsamides,
seeing it was useless to bandy words with the fellow. Moreover, it was
bitterly cold in the forest, and the idea of being once more in the
comfortable carriage was attractive. Again we took Selim between us, and
rapidly descended the stony path. In a few moments we were driving
swiftly away from the arches of the aqueduct in the direction whence we
had come.
Before we had reached the door of Laleli's house, Selim asked Balsamides
to stop the carriage. We got out, and he took us up a narrow and filthy
lane between two high walls. The feeble light of the moon did not
penetrate the blackness, and we stumbled along in the mud as best we
could. After climbing in this way for nearly ten minutes, Selim stopped
before what appeared to be a small door sunk in a niche in the wall. I
heard a bunch of keys jingling in his hand, and in a few seconds he
admitted us. Balsamides held him firmly by the sleeve, as he turned to
lock the door behind us.
"You shall not lock it," he said in a low voice. "Are we mice to be
caught in a trap?"
Having made sure that the door was open, he pushed Selim forward. We
seemed to be in a very spacious garden, surrounded by high walls on all
sides. The trees were bare, excepting a few tall cypresses, which reared
their black spear-like heads against the dim sky. The flower-beds were
covered with dark earth, and the gravel in the paths was rough, as
though no one had trod upon it for a long time. The walls protected the
place from the wind, and a gloomy stillness prevailed, broken only by
the distant sighing of trees higher up, which caught the northern gale.
Selim followed the wall for some distance, and at last stood still. We
had reached one angle of the garden, and as well as I could see the
corner made by the walls was filled by a low stone building with
latticed windows, from one of which issued a faint light. Going nearer,
I saw that the lattices were not of wood, but were strong iron gratings,
such as no man's strength could break. The door in the middle of this
stone box was also heavily ironed. Selim went forward, and again I heard
the keys rattle in his hands. Almost instantly the shadow of a head
appeared at the window whence the light came. While the Lala was
unfastening the lock I went close to the grating. I was just tall enough
to meet a pair of dark eyes gazing at me intently through the lowest
bars.
"Alexander Patoff, is it you?" I asked in Russian.
"Good God!" exclaimed a tremulous voice. "Have the Russians taken
Constantinople at last? Who are you?"
"I am Paul Griggs. We have come to set you free."
The heavy door yielded and moved. I rushed in, and in another moment I
clasped the lost man's hand. Gregorios, far more prudent than I, held
Selim by the collar as a man would hold a dog, for he feared some
treachery.
"Is it really you?" I asked, for I could scarcely believe my eyes.
Alexander looked at me once, then broke into hysterical tears, laughing
and crying and sobbing all at once. He was indeed unrecognizable. I
remembered the descriptions I had heard of the young dandy, the gay
officer of a crack regiment, irreproachable in every detail of his
dress, and delicate as a woman in his tastes. I saw before me a man of
good height, wrapped in an old Turkish kaftan of green cloth lined with
fur, his feet thrust into a pair of worn-out red slippers. His dark
brown hair had grown till it fell upon his shoulders, his beard reached
halfway to his waist, his face was ghastly white and thin to emaciation.
The hand he had given me was like a parcel of bones in a thin glove. I
