verberator gave them at the hotel less of a sensa- 
tion than had been announced and bristled so much 
less than was to have been feared with explana 
tions of the anguish of the Proberts, this did not 
diminish the girl s sense of responsibility nor make 
the case a whit less grave. It only showed how sensitive and fastidious the Proberts were and therefore 
with what difficulty they could forgive. Moreover 
Francie made another reflection as she lay there for 
Delia kept her in bed nearly three days, feeling that 
for the moment at any rate that was an effectual reply to the wish she had signified that they should 
leave Paris. Perhaps they had got coarse and callous, 
Francie said to herself; perhaps they had read so 
many articles like that that they had lost their deli 
cacy, the sense of certain differences and decencies. 
Then, very weak and vague and passive as she was 
now, in the bedirnmed room, in the soft Parisian bed, 
and with Delia treating her as much as possible 
like a sick person, she thought of the lively and 
chatty letters that they had always seen in the 
papers and wondered whether they all meant a 
violation of sanctities, a convulsion of homes, a 
burning of smitten faces, a rupture of girls engage 
ments. It was present to her as an agreeable nega 
tive, I must add, that her father and sister took no 
strenuous view of her responsibility or of their own : 
they neither brought the matter up to her as a crime 
nor made her worse through her feeling that they 
hovered about in tacit disapproval. There was a 
pleasant, cheerful helplessness in her father in regard 
to this as in regard to everything else. There could 
be no more discussion among them on such a ques 
tion than there had ever been, for none was needed 
to illustrate the fact that for these candid minds the 
newspapers and all they contained were a part of 
the general fatality of things, of the recurrent fresh 
ness of the universe, coming out like the sun in 
the morning or the stars at night. The thing that 
worried Francie most while Delia kept her in bed 
was the apprehension of what her father might 
do : but this was not a fear of what he might do 
to Mr. Flack. He would go round perhaps to Mr. 
Probert s or to Mme. de Brecourt s to reprimand 
them for having made things so rough for his 
" chicken." It was true she had scarcely ever seen 
him reprimand any one for anything ; but on the 
other hand nothing like that had ever happened 
before to her or to Delia. They had made each 
other cry once or twice but no one else had ever 
made them, and no one had ever broken out on 
them that way and frightened them half to death. 
Francie wanted her father not to go round; she 
had a sense that those other people had somehow 
stores of censure, of superiority in any discussion, 
which he could not command. She wanted nothing 
done and no communication to pass only a 
proud, unbickering silence on the part of the 
Dossons. If the Proberts made a noise and they 
made none it would be they who would have the 
best appearance. Moreover, now, with each elaps- 
ing day she felt that she did wish to see Gaston 
about it. Her desire was to wait, counting the 
hours, so that she might just explain, saying two 
or three things. Perhaps these things would not 
make it better very likely they would not ; but 
at any rate nothing would have been done in the 
interval, at least on her part and her father s and 
Delia s, to make it worse. She told her father 
that she should not like him to go round, and 
she was in some degree relieved at perceiving 
that he did not seem very clear as to what it was 
open to him to say to the Proberts. He was not 
afraid but he was vague. His relation to almost 
everything that had happened to them as a family 
for a good while back was a sense of the absence 
of precedents, and precedents were particularly 
absent now, for he had never before seen a lot 
of people in a rage about a piece in the paper. 
Delia also reassured her; she said she would see 
to it that their father didn 't dash off. She com 
municated to her indeed that he had not the 
smallest doubt that Gaston, in a few days, would 
blow them all up much higher than they had 
blown her and that he was very sorry he had let 
her go round on that sort of summons to Mme. 
de Brecourt s. It was for her and the rest to 
come to Francie and to him, and if they had 
anything practical to say they would arrive in a 
body yet. If Mr. Dosson had the sense of his 
daughter s having been roughly handled he derived 
some of the consolation of amusement from his 
persistent humorous view of the Proberts as a 
, " body." If they were consistent with their char 
acter or with their complaint they would move 
en masse upon the hotel, and he stayed at home a 
good deal, as if he were waiting for them. Delia 
intimated to her sister that this vision cheered 
them up as they sat, they two, in the red salon 
while Francie was in bed. Of course it did not ex 
hilarate this young lady, and she even looked for 
no brighter side now. She knew almost nothing 
but her sharp little ache of suspense, her pre 
sentiment of Gaston s horror, which grew all the 
while. Delia remarked to her once that he would 
have seen lots of society-papers over there, he 
would have become familiar ; but this only sug 
gested to the girl (she had strange new moments 
of quick reasoning at present,) that that really 
would only prepare him to be disgusted, not to 
be indifferent. His disgust would be colder than 
anything she had ever known and would complete 
her knowledge of him make her understand him 
properly for the first time. She would just meet 
it as briefly as possible ; it would finish the busi 
ness, wind up the episode, and all would be over. 
He did not write ; that proved it in advance ; 
there had now been two or three posts without a 
letter. He had seen the paper in Boston or in 
New York and it had struck him dumb. It was 
very well for Delia to say that of course he didn 't 
write when he was on the sea : how could they 
get his letters even if he did ? There had been 
time before before he sailed; though Delia 
represented that people never wrote then. They 
were ever so much too busy at the last and they 
were going to see their correspondents in a few 
days anyway. The only missives that came to 
Francie were a copy of the Reverberator, 
addressed in Mr. Flack s hand and with a great 
inkmark on the margin of the fatal letter, and a 
long note from Mme. de Brecourt, received forty- 
eight hours after the scene at her house. This 
lady expressed herself as follows : 
" MY DEAR FRANCIE, I felt very badly after you had 
gone yesterday morning, and I had twenty minds to go 
and see you. But we have talked it over conscientiously 
and it appears to us that we have no right to take any such 
step till Gaston arrives. The situation is not exclusively 
ours but belongs to him as well, and we feel that we ought 
to make it over to him in as simple and compact a form as 
possible. Therefore, as we regard it, we had better not 
touch it (it s so delicate, isn 't it, rny poor child ?) but leave 
it just as it is. They think I even exceed my powers in 
writing you these simple lines, and that once your partici 
pation has been c.onstatee (which was the only advantage of 
that dreadful scene), everything should stop. But I have 
liked you, Francie, I have believed in you, and I don 't 
wish you to be able to say that in spite of the thunderbolt 
you have drawn down upon us I have not treated you with 
tenderness. It is a thunderbolt indeed, my poor and inno 
cent but disastrous little friend ! We are hearing more of 
it already the horrible Republican papers here have (as 
we know) already got hold of the unspeakable sheet and are 
preparing to reproduce the article : that is such parts of it 
as they may put forward (with innuendoes and sous-eniendus 
to eke out the rest) without exposing themselves to a suit 
for defamation. Poor Leonie de Villepreux has been with 
us constantly and Jeanne and her husband have telegraphed 
that we may expect them day after to-morrow. They are 
evidently immensely emotionnes, for they almost never 
telegraph. They wish so to receive Gaston. We have 
