"What would you do with it, Massa Bob?"
"I'll tell you what I'd do, Clip; I'd go down to St. Louis on it."
"Will you take me with you, Massa Bob?" asked Clip, eagerly.
"I will, if I go, Clip."
"Golly, won't that be fine!" said the delighted Clip. "How long will you
stay, Massa Bob?"
Clip supposed Bob intended a pleasure trip, for in his eyes pleasure was
the chief end of living. But Bob was more practical and business-like.
He had an idea which seemed to him a good one, though as yet he had
mentioned it to no one.
"Get out the boat, Clip," he said, "and we'll go aboard. I want to see
if the boat will be large enough for my purpose."
Clip laughed in amusement.
"You must think you'self mighty big, Massa Bob," he said, "if you think
there isn't room on that boat for you an' me."
"It would certainly be large enough for two passengers like ourselves,
Clip," answered Bob, smiling; "for that matter our rowboat is large
enough for two boys, but if I go I shall carry a load with me."
Clip was still in the dark, but he was busying himself in unloosing the
rowboat, according to Bob's bidding. The two boys jumped in, and a few
strokes of the oars carried them to the ferry-boat. Fastening the
flat-bottomed boat, the two boys clambered on deck.
Bob found the boat in good condition. It had occurred to him that it had
been deserted as old and past service, and allowed to drift down the
creek, but an examination showed that in this conjecture he was
mistaken. It was sufficiently good to serve for years yet. This
discovery was gratifying in one way, but in another it was a
disappointment. As a boat of little value, Bob could have taken
possession of it, fairly confident that no one would interfere with his
claim, but in its present condition it was hardly likely to be without
an owner, who would appear sooner or later and put in his claim to it.
"It seems to be a pretty good boat," said Bob.
"Dat's so, Massa Bob."
"It must have slipped its moorings and drifted down the creek during the
night. I wish I knew who owned it."
"You an' me own it, Massa Bob. Finding is keeping."
"I am afraid it won't be so in the present case. Probably the owner will
appear before long."
"Can't we get off down de river afore he comes, Massa Bob?"
"That wouldn't be honest, Clip."
Clip scratched his head in perplexity. He was not troubled with
conscientious scruples, and was not as clear about the rights of
property as his young patron. He was accustomed, however, to accept
whatever Bob said as correct and final. In fact, he was content to let
Bob do his thinking for him.
"What was you goin' to take down de ribber, Massa Bob?" he asked.
"I'll tell you what I was thinking of, Clip. You know we are gathering
our crop of grain, and of course it must be sold. Now, traders ask a
large commission for taking the wheat to market, and this would be a
heavy tax. If I could load it on board this boat, and take it down
myself, I should save all that, and I could sell it myself in St.
Louis."
"Can I go, too?" asked Clip, anxiously.
"You shall go if I do," answered Bob.
"When will you know?" asked Clip, eagerly.
"When I find out whether I can use this boat. I had thought of building
a raft, but that wouldn't do. No raft that I could build would carry our
crop to St. Louis. This boat will be just the thing. I think it must
have been used for that purpose before. See those large bins on each
side. Each would contain from fifty to a hundred bushels of wheat. I
only wish I knew the owner. Even if I couldn't buy the boat, I might
make a bargain to hire it."
Bob had hardly finished his sentence when he heard a voice hailing him
from the bank.
Going to the end of the boat, he looked towards the shore, and saw a
tall angular figure, who seemed from his dress and appearance to be a
Western Yankee. His figure was tall and angular, his face of the kind
usually described as hatchet face, with a long thin nose, and his head
was surmounted by a flapping sombrero, soft, broad-brimmed, and
shapeless.
"Boat ahoy!" called the stranger.
"Did you wish to speak to us?" asked Bob, politely.
"I reckon I do," answered the stranger. "I want you to take me aboard
that boat."
"Is the boat yours?" asked Bob.
"It doesn't belong to anybody else," was the reply.
"Untie the boat, Clip. We'll go back!" ordered Bob.
The two boys dropped into the rowboat, and soon touched the bank.
"If you will get in we'll row you over," said Bob. "When did you lose
the boat?"
"It drifted down last night," answered the new acquaintance. "I've been
usin' it as a ferry-boat about twenty miles up the creek. Last night I
thought it was tied securely, but this morning it was gone."
"I don't see how it could have broken away."
"Like as not some mischievous boy cut the cable," was the answer. "Any
way, here it is, and here am I, Ichabod Slocum, the owner."
"Then the boat and its owner are once more united."
"Yes, but that don't take the boat back to where it belongs. It's
drifted down here, easy enough; mebbe one of you boys will tell me how
it's goin' to drift back."
"There may be some difficulty about that," answered Bob with a smile.
"How long have you owned the boat?"
"About two years. I've been usin' her as a ferry-boat between Transfer
City and Romeo, and I've made a pretty fair livin' at it."
Bob was familiar with the names of these towns, though he had never been
so far up the creek.
"I'm afraid you'll have trouble in getting the boat back," he said. "It
will make quite an interruption in your business."
"I don't know as I keer so much about that," said Ichabod Slocum,
thoughtfully. "I've been thinkin' for some time about packin' up and
goin' farther west. I've got a cousin in Oregon, and I reckon I might
like to go out there for a year or two."
"Then, perhaps you might like to dispose of the boat, Mr. Slocum," said
Bob, eagerly.
"Well, I might," said Ichabod Slocum, cautiously. "Do you know of
anybody around here that wants a boat?"
"I might like it myself," was Bob's reply.
"What on airth does a boy like you want of a ferry-boat?" asked Slocum,
in surprise.
"I have a plan in my head," said Bob; "and think it would be useful to
me."
"There ain't no call for a ferry-boat here," said Ichabod.
"No; you are right there. I may as well tell you what I am thinking of.
Our crop of grain is ready to harvest, and I should like to load it on
this boat and carry it down to St. Louis and sell it there myself."
CHAPTER XV.
BOB BUYS THE FERRY-BOAT.
"Good!" said Mr. Slocum. "I like your pluck. Well, there's the boat. You
can have it if you want it--for a fair price, of course."
"What do you call a fair price?" asked Bob.
"I don't mind sayin' that I bought it second-hand myself, and I've got
good value out of it. I might sell it for--a hundred and twenty-five
dollars."
Bob shook his head.
"That may be cheap," he answered; "but I can't afford to pay so much
money."
"You can sell it at St. Louis when you're through usin' it."
"I should have to take my risk of it."
"You seem to be pretty good on a trade, for a boy. I reckon you'll sell
it."
"Do you want all the money down. Mr. Slocum?"
"Well, I might wait for half of it, ef I think it's safe. What's your
security?"
"We--that is, mother and I--own the ranch bordering on the other side of
the creek. The wheat crop we are harvesting will probably amount to
fourteen hundred bushels. I understand it is selling for two dollars a
bushel or thereabouts." (This was soon after the war, when high prices
prevailed for nearly all articles, including farm products.)
"I reckon you're safe, then," said Mr. Slocum. "Now we'll see if we can
agree upon a price."
I will not follow Bob and Mr. Slocum in the bargaining that succeeded.
The latter was the sharper of the two, but Bob felt obliged to reduce
the price as much as possible, in view of the heavy mortgage upon the
ranch.
"I shall never breathe easy till that mortgage is paid, mother," he
said. "Mr. Wolverton is about the last man I like to owe. His attempt to
collect the interest twice shows that he is unscrupulous. Besides, he
has a grudge against me, and it would give him pleasure, I feel sure, to
injure me."
"I am afraid you are right, Robert," answered his mother. "We must do
our best, and Heaven will help us."
Finally Mr. Slocum agreed to accept seventy-five dollars cash down, or
eighty dollars, half in cash, and the remainder payable after Bob's
river trip was over and the crop disposed of.
"I wouldn't make such terms to any one else," said the boat-owner, "but
I've been a boy myself, and I had a hard row to hoe, you bet. You seem
like a smart lad, and I'm favorin' you all I can."
"Thank you, Mr. Slocum. I consider your price very fair, and you may
depend upon my carrying out my agreement. Now, if you will come up to
the house, I will offer you some dinner, and pay you the money."
