much at home with the Saracinesca as he had felt in the 
society of the mayor and municipal council of Aquila, who 
possessed those qualifications also, though in a less degree. 
The iSaracinesca probably thought about most questions very 
much as he himself did, or if there were any difference in 
their mode of thinking it was due to Roman prejudice and 
tradition rather than to any peculiarity inherent in the 
organisation of the members of the higher aristocracy. If 
he should find himself in any dilemma owing to his ignorance 
of social details he would not hesitate to apply to the prince 
for information, since it was "by no means his fault if he had 
bepin brought up an innkeeper and was now to be a noble 
man. His immediate oHect was to place himself among his 
equals, and his next purpose was to marry again, in his new 
rank, a woman of good position and fortune. Of this matter 
he intended to speak to the prince in due time, when he 
should have secured the first requisite to his marriage by 
establishing himself firmly in society. He meant to apply 
to the prince, ostensibly as to the head of the family, thereby 
showing a deference to that dignity, which he supposed 
would be pleasing to the old gentleman ; but he had not 
forgotten in his calculations the pride which old Saracinesca 
must naturally feel in his race, and which would probably 
induce him to take very great pains in finding a suitable wife 
for Sa$ Giacinto rather than permit the latter to contract a 
discreditable alliance. 
San Giacinto left the house at half -past nine o'clock, 
under the pretext of another engagement, for he did not 
mean to weary his relations with too much of his company 
in the first instance. When he was gone the three looked at 
each other in silence for some moments. 
' He has surprisingly good manners, for an innkeeper,' said 
Corona at last. ' No one will ever suspect his former life. 
But I do not like him.'
' Nor I,' said the prince. 
' He wants something,' said Santa Ilario. ' And he will 
probably get it,' he added, after a short pause. ' He has a 
determined face.' 
CHAPTER IV 
ANASTASB GOUACHE recovered rapidly from his injuries, but 
not so quickly as he wished. There was trouble in the air, 
and many of his comrades were already gone to the frontier 
where the skirmishing with the irregular volunteers of Garibaldi's guerilla force had now begun in earnest. To be confined 
to the city at such a time was inexpressibly irksome to the 
gallant young Frenchman, who had a genuine love of fight 
ing in him, and longed for the first sensation of danger and 
the first shower of whistling bullets. But his inactivity was 
inevitable, and he was obliged to submit with the best grace 
he could, hoping only that all might not be over before he 
was well enough to tramp out and see some service with his 
companions-in-arms. 
The situation was indeed urgent. The first article of the 
famous convention between France and Italy, ratified in 
September 1864, read as follows : 
' Italy engages not to attack the actual territory of the 
Holy Father, and to prevent, even by force, all attack 
coming from outside against such territory.' 
Relying upon the observance of this chief clause, France 
had conscientiously executed the condition imposed by the 
second article, which provided that all French troops should 
be withdrawn from the States of the Church. The promise 
of Italy to prevent invasion by force applied to Garibaldi 
and his volunteers. Accordingly, on the 24th of September 
1867, the Italian Government issued a proclamation against 
the band and its proceedings, and arrested Garibaldi at 
Sinalunga, in the neighbourhood of Arezzo. This was the 
only force employed, and it may be believed that the Italian 
Government firmly expected that the volunteers would 
disperse as soon as they found themselves without a leader ; 
and had proper measures been taken for keeping the general 
in custody this would in all probability have followed very 
shortly, as his sons, who were left at large, did not possess 
any of their father's qualifications for leadership. Garibaldi, 
however, escaped eighteen days later, and again joined his band, 
which had meanwhile been defeated by the Pope's troops in 
a few small engagements, and had gained one or two equally 
insignificant advantages over the latter. As soon as it was 
known that Garibaldi was again at large, a simultaneous 
movement began, the numerous Garibaldian emissaries who 
had arrived in Rome stirring up an attempt at insurrection 
within the city, while Garibaldi himself made a bold dash 
and seized Monte Rotondo, another force at the same time 
striking at Sutbiaco, which, by a strange ignorance of the 
mountains, Garibaldi appears to have believed to be the 
southern key to the Campagna. In consequence of the 
protestations of the French minister to the court of Italy, 
and perhaps, too, in consequence of the approach of a large 
body of French troops by sea, the Italian Government again 
issued a proclamation against Garibaldi, who, however, 
remained in his strong position at Monte Rotondo. Finally, 
on the 30th of October, the day on which the French 
troops re-entered Rome, the Italians made a show of interfer 
ing in the Pope's favour, General Menatiea authorising the 
Italian forces to enter the Papal States in order to maintain 
order. They did not, however, do more than make a short 
advance, and no active measures were taken, but Garibaldi 
was routed on the 3d and 4th of November by the 
Papal forces, and his band being dispersed the incident was 
at an end. But for the armed intervention of France the 
result would have been that which actually came about in 
1870, when, the same Convention being still valid, the 
French were prevented by their own disasters from sending 
a force to the assistance of the Pope. 
It is not yet time to discuss the question of the an 
nexation of the States of the Church to the kingdom 
of Italy. It is sufficient to have shown that the move 
ment of 1867 took place without any actual violation 
of the letter of the Convention. The spirit in which 
the Italian Government acted might be criticised at 
length. It is sufficient however to notice that the Italian 
Government was, as it still is, a parliamentary one ; and to 
add that parliamentary government, in general, exhibits its 
weakest side in the emergency of war, as its greatest advan 
tages are best appreciated in times of peace. In the Italian 
Parliament of that day, as in that of the present time, there 
was a preponderance of representatives who considered Rome 
to be the natural capital of the country, and who were as 
ready to trample upon treaties for the accomplishment of 
what they believed a righteous end, as most parliaments 
have everywhere shown themselves in similar circumstances. 
That majority differed widely, indeed, in opinion from 
Garibaldi and Mazzini, but they conceived that they had 
a right to take full advantage of any revolution the latter 
chanced to bring about, and that it was their duty to their 
country to direct the stream of disorder into a channel 
which should lead to the aggrandisement of Italy, by making 
use of Italy's standing army. 
The defenders of the Papal States found themselves face 
to face, not with any organised and disciplined force, but 
with a horde of brutal ruffians and half-grown lads, desperate 
in that delight of unbridled license which has such attrac 
tions for the mob in all countries ; and aD alike, Zouaves, 
native troops and Frenchmen, were incensed to the high 
est degree by the conduct of their enemies. It would be 
absurd to make the Italian Government responsible for the 
atrocious defiling of churches, the pillage and the shocking 
crimes of all sorts, which marked the advance or retreat of 
the Garibaldians ; but it is equally absurd to deny that a 
majority of the Italians regarded these doings as a means to 
a very desirable end, and, if they had not been hindered by 
the French, would have marched a couple of army corps in 
excellent order to the gates of Koine through the channel 
opened by a mob of lawless insurgents. 
Anastase Gouache was disgusted with his state of forced 
inaction as he paced the crowded pavement of the Corso 
every afternoon for three weeks after his accident, smoking 
endless cigarettes, and cursing the fate which kept him an 
invalid at home when his fellow-soldiers were enjoying them 
selves amidst the smell of gunpowder and the adventures of 
frontier skirmishing. It was indeed bad luck, he thought, 
to have worn the uniform during nearly two years of perfect 
health and then to be disabled just when the fighting began. 
He had one consolation, however, in the midst of his annoy 
ance, and he made the most of it. He had been fascinated 
by Donna Faustina Montevarchi's brown eyes, and for lack 
of any other interest upon which to expend his energy he had 
BO well employed his time that he was now very seriously in 
love with that young lady. Among her numerous attractions 
was one which had a powerful influence on the young artist, 
namely, the fact that she was, according to all human calcula 
