me down onto a seat. I suddenly lost all consciousness
of the present, and we were together 
in a scene which was like a page from a past 
existence. The page was that of the dream we 
have found so difficult a problem, and you read 
it with me, not alone in your room — Weir! 
What is the matter ? " 
She had pushed him violently from her and 
sprung to her feet, and she stood before him 
with wide-open, terror-stricken eyes, and
quivering in every limb. She tried to speak, but no 
words came; her lips were white and shrivelled, 
and her tongue clove to the roof of her mouth. 
Then she threw up her arms and fell heavily to 
the floor. 
XIV. 
After Weir had been carried up-stairs, and he 
had ascertained that she was again conscious, 
Dartmouth went to his own room, knowing he 
could not see her again that night. He did not 
go to bed; there was no possibility of sleep for 
hours, and he preferred the slight distraction of 
pacing up and down the room. After a time he 
paused in front of the fireplace, and mechanically 
straightened one of the andirons with his 
foot. What had affected Weir so strangely ? 
Had the whole thing burst suddenly upon her? 
He had hardly told her enough for that; but 
what else could it be? Poor child! And poor 
Sir Iltyd! How should he explain to him? What 
story could he concoct to satisfy him ? It would 
be absurd to attempt the truth; no human being 
but himself and Weir could comprehend it; Sir 
Iltyd would only think them both mad. He un- 
consciously drew in a long breath, expelling the 
air again with some violence, like a man whose 
chest is oppressed. And how his head ached! 
If he could only get a few hours sleep without 
that cursed laudanum. Hark! what was that? 
 
A storm was coming up. It almost shook the 
castle, solid and of stone as it was. But he was 
glad. A storm was more in tune with his mood 
than calm. He would go out into the gallery 
and watch it. 
He left his room and went to the gallery 
to which he had gone to watch a storm a little 
over a week ago. A week? It seemed so re- 
mote that for the moment he could not recall 
the events of that last visit; his head ached so 
that everything but physical suffering was tem- 
porarily insignificant. There was no moon to- 
night. The sky was covered with black, 
scurrying clouds, and he could only hear the angry, 
boiling waters, not see them. He felt suffocated. 
He had felt so all the evening. Besides the pain 
in his head there was a pressure on his brain; he 
must have air; and he pulled open one of the 
windows and stood within it. The wind beat 
about his head, the sea-gulls screamed in his 
ears, and the roar of the sea was deafening; but 
it exhilarated him and eased his head for the 
moment. What a poem it would make, that 
black, storm-swept sky, those mighty, thundering
waters, that granite, wind-torn coast! How 
he could have immortalized it once! And he 
had it in him to immortalize it now, only that 
mechanical defect in his brain, no — that cruel 
iron hand, would not let him tell the world that 
he was greater than any to whom its people bent 
their knees. Ah, there it was at last! It had 
reawakened, and it was battling and struggling 
for speech as before. Perhaps this time it would 
succeed! It was strong enough to conquer in 
the end, and why should not the end have come ? 
Surely the fire in his brain must have melted that 
iron hand. Surely, far away, they were singing 
again. Where were they ? Within his brain ? — or 
battling with the storm to reach him ? What 
were those wraith-like things — those tiny forms 
dancing weirdly on the roaring waters? Ah, 
he knew. They were the elfins of his brain that 
had tormented him with their music and fled at 
his approach. They had flown from their little 
cells, and were holding court on the storm-waves 
like fairies on the green. It was like them to 
love the danger and the tumult and the night. 
It was like them to shout and bound with the 
intoxication of the hour, to scream with the gale, 
and to kiss with frantic rapture the waves that 
threatened them. Each was a Thought mightier 
than any known to living man, and in the bosom 
of maddened nature it had found its element. 
And they had not deserted him — they had fled 
but for the hour — they had turned suddenly and 
were holding out their arms to him. Ah! he 
would meet them half-way — 
A pair of arms, strong with terror, were
suddenly thrown about him, and he was dragged to 
the other side of the gallery. 
"Harold!" cried Weir; "what is the matter 
with you ? Are you mad ? " 
" I believe I am," he cried. " Come to the 
light. I have something to tell you." 
He caught her by the wrists and pulled her 
down the gallery until they were under the
lantern which burned in one of the windows on 
nights like this as a warning to mariners. She 
gave a faint scream of terror, and struggled to 
release herself. 
"You look so strange," she cried. "Let me 
go." 
" Not any more strange than you do," he said, 
rapidly. " You, too, have changed since that 
night in here, when the truth was told to both of 
us. You did not understand then, nor did I; 
but I know all now, and I will tell you." 
And then, in a torrent of almost unintelligible 
words, he poured forth the tale of his discovery: 
what had come to him in the study at Crumford 
Hall, the locket he had found, the letters he had 
read, the episode of his past he had lived over, 
the poem which had swept him up among the 
gods in its reading — all the sequence of facts 
whose constant reiteration during every un- 
guarded moment had mechanically forced them- 
selves into lasting coherence. She listened with 
head bent forward, and eyes through which 
terror, horror, despair, chased each other, then 
returned and fought together. " It is all true," 
he cried, in conclusion. " It is all true. Why 
don't you speak ? Cannot you understand ?" 
She wrenched her hands from his grasp and 
flung her arms above her head. " Yes," she 
cried, " I understand. I am a woman for whose 
sin Time has no mercy; you are a madman, and 
I am alone! " 
" What are you saying ? " he demanded, thickly. 
'' You are alone ? There is no hope, then ? " 
" No, there is no hope," she said, " nor has the 
worst " She sprang suddenly forward and 
caught him about the neck. " Oh, Harold ! " 
she cried, "you are not mad. It cannot be ! I 
cannot think of the sin, or care; I only know 
that I love you ! love you ! love you ! and 
that if we can be together always the past can 
go; even — Oh, Harold, speak to me; don't look 
at me in that way! " 
But his arms hung inertly at his sides, and he 
looked down into her agonized face with a smile. 
"No hope ! " he whispered. 
The poor girl dropped in a heap to the floor, 
as if the life had suddenly gone out of her. 
Harold gave a little laugh. " No hope ! " he 
said. 
She sprang to her feet and flew down the
gallery. But he stood where she had left him. 
She reached the open window, then turned and 
for a moment faced him again. " No," she cried, 
"no hope, and no rest or peace;" and then the 
