"Yes, I suppose so; he is an old man, though he doesn't look it. I will
go with you, of course. Or rather I will follow you in a few moments."
The post-office of Gary Hundred was opposite the Wingfield house; as Eve
crossed the broad street on her way back, the postmaster appeared at his
door, and beckoned to her mysteriously. He was a small elderly negro,
with a dignified manner; he wore blue goggles; Eve knew him slightly,
she had paid several visits to the office, and had been treated with
deferential attention. When she reached the sidewalk, therefore, she
paused.
"Would yer min' droppin' in fer one brief momen', miss? 'Portant
marter."
Eve stepped over the low sill of the small building--it was hardly more
than a shed, though smartly whitewashed, and adorned with bright green
blinds--and the postmaster immediately closed the door. He then
cautiously took from his desk a letter.
"Dere's sump'n' rudder quare 'bout dishyer letter, miss," he said,
glancing towards the window to see that no one was looking in. "Carn't
be too pertikler w'en it's guv'ment business; en so we 'lowed to ax de
favior ef you'd sorter glimpse yer eye ober it fer us."
"Read a letter?" said Eve. "Whose letter?"
"Not de letter, but him outside, miss. Whoms is it? Dat's de p'int. En
I wouldn't have you s'pose we 'ain't guv it our bes' cornsideration. We
knows de looks ob mos' ob 'em w'at comes yere; but dishyer one's
diffunt. Fuddermo', de stamp's diffunt too."
The postmaster's wife, a little yellow woman, was looking anxiously at
them from the small window in the partition of the real post-office, a
space six feet by three.
Eve took the letter. "It's an English stamp. And the name is plainly
written, 'Henry Barker, Esquire; Gary Hundred.'"
"No sech pusson yere. Dat's w'at I tol' Mister Cotesworth," said the
yellow woman, triumphantly.
"Do you mean to tell me that you cannot read?" said Eve, surveying
"Mister Cotesworth," with astonishment.
The government official had, for the moment, an abashed look. "We
'lowed," he began, "dat as you's fum de Norf--"
But his wife interrupted him. "He reads better'n mos', miss, Mister
Cotesworth does. But his eyes done got so bad lately--dat's w'at. Take
de letter, Mister Cotesworth, and doan' trouble de lady no mo'. Fine
wedder, miss." She came round and opened the door officiously; "seem lak
we 'ain't nebber see finer."
Miss Polly arrived at Cousin Sarah Cray's; she walked with apparent
carelessness round towards the stables, where the judge was
superintending the rubbing down and the feeding of the horse. A saddle
had been brought out, and was hanging on the fence; Cousin Sarah hovered
anxiously near.
"Grandpa is going out for a ride," explained Cicely. "But I told him
that the poor horse must be fed first, in common charity; he has been
so far already--to Bellington and back."
"Oh, but the judge is not going, now that I have come," said Miss Polly;
"he wouldn't be so uncivil." She went up to him; smiling winningly, she
put out her beautiful hand.
The judge was always gallant; he took the fair hand, and, bending his
head, deposited upon it a salute.
Miss Polly smiled still more graciously. "And is a stable-yard a place
for such courtesies, judge?" she said, in her rich voice, with her
luscious, indolent, Southern pronunciation. "Oh, surely not--surely not.
Let us go to Cousin Sarah Cray's parlor; I have something to tell you;
in fact, I came especially to see you." Looking very handsome and very
straight, she took his arm with a caressing touch.
The judge admired Miss Polly deeply.
And Miss Polly kept a firm hold upon his arm.
The judge yielded.
VII.
"Sea-beaches," said Eve,--"the minds of such people; you can trace the
line of their last high tide, that is, the year when they stopped
reading. Along the judge's line, one finds, for instance, Rogers; he
really has no idea that there have been any new poets since then."
"Dear me! We have always thought Horatio remarkably literary," protested
Cousin Sarah Cray. "That's his step now, I think."
The judge came in, little Jack on his shoulder. "I believe he has
dropped some--some portions of his clothing on the stairs," he said,
helplessly. "It's astonishing--the facility he has."
"And he has pulled off his shoes," added Eve, taking the little
reprobate and kissing him. "Naughty Jack. Tacks!"
"Esss, tacks!" repeated Jack, in high glee. "Dey gets in Jack's foots."
That was all he cared for her warning legend.
The judge sat down and wiped his forehead. "I have received a shock," he
said.
"Pity's sake!--what?" asked Cousin Sarah Cray, in alarm. Poor Cousin
Sarah dealt in interjections. But it might be added that she had lived
through times that were exclamatory.
"Our old friend, Roland Pettigru, is dead, Sarah; the news comes to us
in this--this Sheet, which, I am told, is published here." He drew a
small newspaper from his pocket. "With your permission, ladies, I will
read to you the opening sentence of an obituary notice which this--this
Sheet--has prepared for the occasion." He put on his spectacles, and,
holding the paper off at a distance, read aloud, with slow, indignant
enunciation, as follows: "'The Great Reaper has descended amongst us.
And this time he has carried back with him sadly brilliant sheaves; for
his arrows have been shot at a shining mark' (arrows for a reaper!"
commented the judge, surveying his audience squintingly, over his
glasses), "'and the aim has been only too true. Gaunt Sorrow stalks
abroad, we mourn with Pettigru Hill; we say--and we repeat--that the
death of Roland Pettigru has left a vortex among us.' Yes, vortex,
ladies;--the death of a quiet, cultivated gentleman a vortex!"
At this moment Deely, the house-maid, appeared at the door; giving her
calico skirt a twist by way of "manners," she announced, "Miss Wungfy."
Miss Leontine entered, carrying five books standing in a row upon her
left arm as though it had been a shelf. She shook hands with Cousin
Sarah Cray and Eve; then she went through the same ceremony with the
judge, but in a confused, downcast manner, and seated herself on a
slippery ottoman as near as possible to the door.
"I hope you liked the books? Pray let me take them," said Eve, for Miss
Leontine was still balancing them against her breast.
"Literature?" remarked the judge, who also seemed embarrassed. He took
up one of the volumes and opened it. "Ah, a novel."
"Yes, but one that will not hurt you," Eve answered. "For Miss Leontine
prefers those novels where the hero and heroine are married to begin
with, and then fall in love with each other afterwards; everything on
earth may happen to them during this process--poisonings and murders and
shootings; she does not mind these in the least, for it's sure in any
case to be moral, don't you see, because they were married in the
beginning. And marriage makes everything perfectly safe; doesn't it,
Miss Leontine?"
"I am sure I don't know," answered Miss Leontine, still a prey to
nervousness; "but--but I have always supposed so. Yes. We read them
aloud," she added, turning for relief to Cousin Sarah Cray; "that is, I
read to Polly--in the evenings."
"These modern novels seem to me poor productions," commented the judge,
turning over the pages of the volume he had taken.
"Naturally," responded Eve.
"May I ask why 'naturally'?"
"Oh, men who read their Montaigne year after year without change, and
who quote Charles Lamb, never care for novels, unless, indeed, it may be
'Tom Jones.' Montaigne and Lamb, Latin quotations that are not hard, a
glass of good wine with his dinner, and a convexity of person--these
mark your non-appreciator of novels, from Warwickshire to Gary Hundred."
"Upon my word, young lady--" began the judge, laughing.
But Miss Leontine, by her rising, interrupted him. "I think I must go
now. Yes. Thank you."
"But you have only just come," said Cousin Sarah Cray.
"I stopped to leave the books. Yes; really; that was all. Thanks, you
are very kind. Yes; thank you." She fumbled ineffectually for the handle
of the door, and, when it was opened for her, with an embarrassed bow
she passed out, her long back bent forward, her step hurried.
"I can't imagine what is the matter with her," said Cousin Sarah Cray,
returning.
"I am afraid, Sarah, that I can inform you," answered the judge gravely,
putting down the volume. "I met her in her own garden about an hour ago,
and we fell into conversation; I don't know what possessed me, but in
relating some anecdote of a jocular nature which happened to be in my
mind at the time, by way of finish--I can't imagine what I was thinking
of--but I up and chucked her under the chin."
"Chucked Miss Leontine!" exclaimed Cousin Sarah Cray, aghast, while Eve
gave way to irrepressible mirth. "Was she--was she deeply offended?"
"She was simply paralyzed with astonishment. I venture to say"--here the
judge sent an eye-beam towards the laughing Eve--"I venture to say that
Miss Leontine has never been chucked under the chin in all her life
before."
"Certainly not," answered Cousin Sarah Cray; "she is far too dignified."
Then, with a desire to be strictly truthful, she added, "Perhaps when
she was a baby?"
But even this seemed doubtful.
Not long after this the Misses Wingfield (it was really Miss Polly) gave
a party.
"Must we go?" said Eve.
"Why, it will be perfectly delightful!" answered Cousin Sarah Cray,
looking at her in astonishment. "Every one will be there. Let me see:
there will be ourselves, four; and Miss Polly and Miss Leontine, six;
then the Debbses, thirteen--fourteen if Mrs. Debbs comes; the Rev. Mr.
