limit resolutely," whispered Eve. 
"Well?" inquiringly. "Do you like it? How 
high will you go ? " 
"I had not thought of ash, nor a buffet; bid 
again while I consider." 
I did, rather reluctantly it seemed. The Jew 
scanned me eagerly. 
"Thirty dollars," concluded Eve. "It is all we 
ought to spend. The man is a second-hand dealer." 
A woman put in the next bid, then the Jew again. 
The two had another bout. Then I bid. The 
woman turned away in disgust. Two or three people 
went out. Then the Jew bid half a dollar, and I 
followed suit. It was up to twenty-nine dollars and 
a half; and we half turned, for we knew it was lost 
to us. The Jew was watching us closely. At the 
last moment I touched my limit. 
" We shall not get it," I said in a whisper ; and 
now I felt disappointed. 
"Going," said the man of lungs, "going," a 
long, long pause of alniost breathless silence, 
"gone!" 
I was so utterly amazed that I looked question- 
ingly at the Jew. 
 
"You haf a goot bargain. I buy him to sell again, 
and cannot give so mooch," shaking his head. 
Eve and I glanced at each other in a curious 
manner. 
" Well, it is a good deal for the money," said she ; 
" and it is pretty neat and solid-looking yes, I 
like it. Let us be content." 
We paid for it, and I found an expressman who 
took it to the station for seventy-five cents. On our 
homeward way we laughed a little, and felt quite 
uncertain. When we reached Athens, we found our 
other furniture had come, a chamber suite, two 
extra chairs with fine rush seats, but a good deal 
defaced, and two packing-boxes. 
" I think here is quite a large bargain also," 
laughed Eve. 
About four o'clock our city traps came up, and the 
load was moved over to the house. In all it made 
quite a show. And when we had the furniture set 
out in the dining-room, it looked very well indeed. 
The buffet, though simple, was very pretty, and the 
chairs excellent. 
" Yes, I do like it," declared Eve positively. " It 
wants cleaning and polishing, and it furnishes 
admirably." 
I thought so myself. In fact, though we had been 
rather surprised into bargain-making, we were not 
 
dissatisfied. I took the covers off the boxes, and we 
had a good laugh over the contents. There were 
several pieces of partly worn carpets, a pair of 
blankets, odds and ends of almost every kind, some 
pieces of elegant china and glass, some kitchen 
utensils, a pair of pillows, shades, brackets, and two 
or three pictures. 
"I thought the stair-carpet would do a while," said 
Eve, surveying it dubiously. " The edges are good, 
and we can have the middle covered. And there 
will be enough of our up-stairs matting for the 
hall until we get rich," laughingly. " We must 
believe ourselves at Lake George, or at the seaside, 
in a furnished cottage, and it will look all right." 
The next day we put the matting down in the 
parlor and dining-room. The latter appeared very 
pretty and summery. The piano was set up; and 
we brought in the odd chairs, and looked quite at 
home. 
" I shall not have a parlor suite at present," an 
nounced Eve. " You remember those lovely Turkish 
lounges in French cretonnes for ten dollars, I want 
one of those and some lounging-chairs, cheap folding 
ones, and no end of rocking-chairs. Those things 
will come by degrees. Now let us enjoy ourselves, 
and be content." 
The stair-carpet looked fairly well when it was 
down. Two breadths of matting all we had were 
put somewhat in the centre of the hall-room. The 
spaces at the edges were to be painted red. Those at 
the hall-door and at the rear were quite wide, and a 
rug could be laid in both places. Two of the Brus 
sels remnants we had purchased in the fall, harmo 
nized admirably. The room up-stairs was put in 
order, and the work seemed almost done. 
" So, you see, we will not need to run in debt, after 
all," said Eve triumphantly. " Indeed, the furnish 
ing has come much more easily than I expected. 
And Mrs. West will be pleasant company to keep me 
from longing after the delights of Egypt, as I sojourn 
in this wilderness." 
That night Joe said to me, " Thurston, should you 
mind if I did a little work for the new people at the 
building? They are short-handed, and the man is 
hurrying them dreadfully. They offered me a dollar 
and a half a day." 
" Why, no ! " In fact, I was rather pleased. " Do 
as much as you can anywhere." 
" It is so strange they don't send up for me ! " and 
Joe knit his brows anxiously. 
" Something may come to hand presently," I re 
turned, in a more hopeful tone than I really felt. I 
had written to Jersey City, and the reply was, that 
Joe Crawford was not very steady or reliable ; but 
 
when the rush came on, and they were short of 
hands, he might find a place. Already the poor 
lad's bad habits stood in his way. Yet he was so 
willing and good-tempered, ready to do any thing 
with all his strength. I had been casting about to see 
whether I could keep him a while longer ; but, with 
all I had on my hands, I could not pay him wages. 
He had taken express packages the last week, and 
earned himself a new hat ; but he did need a suit of 
clothes. 
He, it seems, was thinking of the same thing. " If 
I could earn a suit of clothes," he said. " I could 
get one for twelve dollars. And I could do a good 
deal for you nights and mornings." 
" That's good of you, Joe." 
" Well, I ought to make up my board. Oh, I wish 
I could stay with you always, Thurston ! I never 
liked any one half as well as you and Miss Eve." 
She was playing on. the piano, and we went in. 
Oh, how delightful and homelike it was ! I was one 
great throb of thankfulness. My cup seemed run 
ning over ; but I had a fear that it was too fairy-like, 
and would vanish. 
Joe was up at five the next morning, and delved 
away in the garden for nearly an hour, when he 
insisted that he should go down to the station. 
Eve made biscuits : we had radishes and fried eggs, 
 
that were done in a manner known only to Eve, 
and were simply delicious. 
" I have bargained for four more hens," said Eve. 
" They want to sit, and Mrs. Banks doesn't want 
them. The way she does, is to kill them off as soon 
as they begin to cluck. She was going to sell these 
to the butcher. She says they are of no account after 
you let them sit once, as they only lay six or eight 
eggs, and then want to sit again. But she says a 
late hatched pullet will lay all summer through. I 
shall treasure up all these bits of chicken-wisdom. 
And that reminds me that I ought to have some 
young chicks to-day. After breakfast, let us go out 
and see." 
Surely enough ! In one nest we found four, and 
in the other six. What lovely, cunning balls of 
down they were ! I do believe Eve kissed the one 
she held up to her cheek. Joe had made two coops 
of lath ; and now we put all the chickens and one 
hen in one, on the floor of the barn, and the eggs 
under the other hen. We brought out a saucer of 
water, and some crumbs of bread ; and two black- 
eyed chicks knew by intuition that eating was the 
great business of life. I could hardly tear myself 
