superiority of his voice over all other voices with such brilliant success. 
So Hilda and Greif were married, and none but Rex knew what a 
mortal danger had hung over their happiness until that day. When 
all was done and ended, Rex drew a long breath and sat down alone to 
think over the peril from which Greif had escaped. By this time 
he was fully persuaded that the latter would never be disturbed by 
the discovery of a letter left by his father, and he had entirely 
adopted the theory that no such letter had ever existed. It was a 
comforting belief, and seemed reasonable enough, so that he classi- 
fied it amongst his convictions and tormented himself no more. 
He could not help reflecting, however, upon the complications 
that might arise if such a document should after all find its way 
into Greif s hands, and as he thought over the various turns affairs 
might take he trembled at the responsibility he had assumed. 
There were delicate points of law involved, concerning which he 
himself was uncertain. 
In the first place, as Greifenstein, Greif was not married at all. 
His birth was illegitimate, and if he had been married under the name 
he supposed to be his, the union was not valid. For the law only 
acknowledges such marriages as take place under the true and lawful 
names of both parties. If one or the other, though wholly innocent 
and ignorant of any mistake, turns out to have been married under 
a wrong appellation, the office is void and of no effect. The 
question was, whether Greif, as Sigmundskron, was legally Hilda's 
husband. Rex was inclined to believe that he was. The Heralds' 
Office might withdraw from him the name and arms of Greifenstein, 
but Rex did not believe that they could interdict Greif from using 
those of Sigmundskron, since the Sigmundskrons had themselves 
conferred them upon him, in his own person, whatever he was 
before. In that case Greif was really and truly Sigmundskron, 
and he was not really anything else, except a nameless orphan. 
And, if so, the marriage was valid after all. It was a fortunate 
coincidence which had given a name to a man who really had none 
at all. 
Of course, if no one but Rex were ever to know the secret, 
there was no danger in store for the young couple. But if any 
untoward accident should reveal it, or if any other individual 
were already in possession of it, their case might be bad 
indeed. Rex could not think of it without experiencing a very 
unpleasant sensation. He remembered how old Greifenstein had 
lived during five and twenty years in ignorance of his own shame, 
and how it had found him out at last. It would be horrible indeed 
if such a catastrophe should fall upon Greif and Hilda. But it- 
would be better, in the extreme case, that Greif should learn the 
truth first. If Frau von Sigmundskrou should be the first to find 
it out, it was impossible to foretell what might happen. She 
would find it hard to believe that Greif had not known it when he 
married her daughter ; she would remember how he had done his 
best to refuse Hilda, and she would ascribe that to his knowledge 
that he was illegitimate ; his change of name would look like a 
piece of deliberate scheming to supply himself with what he most 
lacked, a name. She would misunderstand all his actions and mis- 
construe all his intentions ; he would appear to her in the light of 
a clever actor who had made the emotions he really felt serve the 
greater ends he had so carefully concealed. Rex thought of her 
behaviour with regard to the name, and he understood the immense 
value she put upon it ; he saw how she had persuaded herself that 
in Greif her husband's race was to be revived again, and he could 
guess what she would feel when she discovered that she had con- 
ferred what she held most holy on earth, not upon an unfortunate 
nobleman, but upon a murderer's bastard, who had cleverly robbed 
her of what she could no longer take back. 
Rex thought of the strange fatality which pursued himself and 
his brother. He himself had been the chief cause of the present 
situation, both by his silence concerning the secret and by his 
constant efforts to promote the marriage. If he had possessed old 
Greifenstein's character, he would have acted very differently. He 
would have told Greif the truth brutally in order to prevent even 
the distant possibility of such mischief as might now arise. And 
yet Rex's conscience did not reproach him. He asked himself 
whether he could possibly have dealt such a blow upon any human 
being, especially upon one who had suffered, like Greif, almost all 
that a man can suffer and live. He wondered whether he were 
amenable to the law for his silence, though he really cared very 
little about the legality or illegality of his actions in the present 
case. He felt that both he and his brother were men beyond 
the pale of common laws, pursued by an evil destiny that did not 
quite leave them even in their happiness. He went back to his 
own father's story from its first beginning, and beyond that to the 
untimely death of the father of old Greifenstein, which had led to 
the second marriage of the latter's mother, and so to the birth of 
Rieseneck with all his woes and miserable deeds ; then to the early 
quarrels of the two half-brothers, to their separation, to the 
singular state of things in which Greifenstein hardly knew of his 
brother's marriage and never saw the face of his brother's wife ; 
then onward to Rieseneck's surrender of the arsenal guard, to his 
imprisonment, escape and exile, followed by his wife's unlawful 
marriage to the brother of her living husband, then to the evil 
fatality which had sent a child in this false union to inherit so 
much shame and horror, to be saved from it, so far at least, by 
his unknown brother, appearing as his cousin, Rex, the traitor's 
son. In such a train of destiny, what might not be yet in store 
for Horst von Rieseneck and for his brother Greif von Sigmundskron'? 
Rex almost smiled as he gave to each, in his imagination, the 
only name that was lawfully his he smiled at the ingenuity of 
fate in finding so much mischief to do. 
CHAPTER XXIV 
REX was mistaken in his opinion concerning the letter. Before he 
died old Greifenstein had actually written it, as he had intended 
to do, and had directed it to his son. It is not yet time to 
explain what became of it, but in order to make this history more 
clear, it is as well to state at once that it was not destroyed, but 
was actually in existence at the time of Greif s marriage to Hilda. 
It is necessary, however, to consider the development of Rex's 
character during the year which followed the wedding, in order to 
understand the events which afterwards occurred. It had been 
his intention to undertake a journey to South America, when all 
was settled, in order to wind up his father's affairs, and ascertain 
the extent of the fortune he inherited. He was well aware that 
he was very rich, but as this was nothing new to him, and as he 
had always had whatever he wished, he was in no hurry to find 
out the exact amount of his income. The property was well 
administered, too, and there was no danger of loss, as Rieseneck 
had taken pains to provide against every contingency before 
making his last voyage to Europe. Rex w T as personally acquainted 
with the persons to whom his father had confided the management 
of his wealth, and so soon as they were informed of the latter's 
death, they took all the legal steps necessary to secure the 
inheritance, and remitted large sums of money to the heir at 
regular intervals and with scrupulous exactness. 
At first his situation seemed rather a strange one, and he did 
not exactly know what to do. Immediately after the marriage he 
found himself at Greifenstein alone with Hilda's mother, who sub- 
mitted to the arrangement readily enough. It was natural, she 
said, that the young people should wish to be left to themselves 
for some time. They had declared that when they were ready for 
society they would drive over from Sigmundskron, and bring back 
the baroness and Rex. These two, being both exceedingly 
 
methodical persons, agreed very well, and they found plenty to 
talk about in the possibilities of the future. Rex was utterly 
indifferent to solitude or company, but since the baroness was to 
be his companion, he took some trouble to make himself agreeable. 
She, on her part, knew well enough that the days when she could 
be constantly with Hilda were over, and she was glad that her son- 
in-law had such a man as Rex for his cousin. For Rex was far 
too tactful to parade his philosophic views in the presence of a 
lady whose practical religion he admired and respected, so that the 
only point upon which the two could have differed seriously was 
carefully avoided. An odd sort of intimacy sprang up between 
them, which neither had anticipated. Frau von Sigmundskron 
was surprised to find in Rex so much ready sympathy with her 
ideas, for her German soul would have been naturally inclined to 
find fault with a man who had been brought up in South America, 
and whose father could not have been supposed capable of teaching 
him much sound morality. Nor would it have seemed likely that 
her somewhat narrow, though elevated view of things in general 
would find a ready appreciation in one whose great breadth of 
understanding had made him familiar with all manner of heretically 
modern notions. She did not comprehend his nature, but she was 
satisfied in his society. 
There are, perhaps, no persons more agreeable to live with than 
those -few who have become conservative through excessive and 
constant change. They bring back with them to the land of 
stabilities an intimate practical knowledge of what instability 
really means, which distinguishes them from people who have 
lived within the shadow of their own steeple through a lifetime of 
dogged tradition -worship. Rex had tried everything that the 
world can give, except fame, which was beyond his reach, and, at 
forty years of age, he had a decided preference for old-fashioned 
