social life is greater than we can at present calculate.
XII.—CINCINNATI AND LOUISVILLE.
Cincinnati is a city that has a past. As Daniel Webster said, that at
least is secure. Among the many places that have been and are the Athens
of America, this was perhaps the first. As long ago as the first visit
of Charles Dickens to this country it was distinguished as a town of
refinement as well as cultivation; and the novelist, who saw little to
admire, though much to interest him in our raw country, was captivated
by this little village on the Ohio. It was already the centre of an
independent intellectual life, and produced scholars, artists, writers,
who subsequently went east instead of west. According to tradition,
there seems to have been early a tendency to free thought, and a
response to the movement which, for lack of a better name, was known in
Massachusetts as transcendentalism.
The evolution of Cincinnati seems to have been a little peculiar in
American life. It is a rich city, priding itself on the solidity of its
individual fortunes and business, and the freedom of its real property
from foreign mortgages. Usually in our development the pursuit of wealth
comes first, and then all other things are added thereto, as we read
the promise. In Cincinnati there seems to have been a very considerable
cultivation first in time, and we have the spectacle of what wealth
will do in the way of the sophistication and materialization of society.
Ordinarily we have the process of an uncultivated community gradually
working itself out into a more or less ornamented and artistic condition
as it gets money. The reverse process we might see if the philosophic
town of Concord, Massachusetts, should become the home of rich men
engaged in commerce and manufacturing. I may be all wrong in my notion
of Cincinnati, but there is a sort of tradition, a remaining flavor of
old-time culture before the town became commercially so important as it
was before the war.
It is difficult to think of Cincinnati as in Ohio. I cannot find their
similarity of traits. Indeed, I think that generally in the State there
is a feeling that it is an alien city; the general characteristics
of the State do not flow into and culminate in Cincinnati as its
metropolis. It has had somehow an independent life. If you look on a
geologic map of the State, you see that the glacial drift, I believe it
is called, which flowed over three-fourths of the State and took out its
wrinkles did not advance into the south-west. And Cincinnati lies in the
portion that was not smoothed into a kind of monotony. When a settlement
was made here it was a good landing-place for trade up and down the
river, and was probably not so much thought of as a distributing and
receiving point for the interior north of it. Indeed, up to the time of
the war, it looked to the South for its trade, and naturally, even when
the line of war was drawn, a good deal of its sympathies lay in the
direction of its trade. It had become a great city, and grown rich both
in trade and manufactures, but in the decline of steamboating and in the
era of railways there were physical difficulties in the way of adapting
itself easily to the new conditions. It was not easy to bring the
railways down the irregular hills and to find room for them on the
landing. The city itself had to contend with great natural obstacles
to get adequate foothold, and its radiation over, around, and among the
hills produced some novel features in business and in social life.
What Cincinnati would have been, with its early culture and its
increasing wealth, if it had not become so largely German in its
population, we can only conjecture. The German element was at once
conservative as to improvements and liberalizing, as the phrase is, in
theology and in life. Bituminous coal and the Germans combined to make
a novel American city. When Dickens saw the place it was a compact,
smiling little city, with a few country places on the hills. It is now
a scattered city of country places, with a little nucleus of beclouded
business streets. The traveller does not go there to see the city, but
to visit the suburbs, climbing into them, out of the smoke and grime, by
steam “inclines” and grip railways. The city is indeed difficult to
see. When you are in it, by the river, you can see nothing; when you are
outside of it you are in any one of half a dozen villages, in regions
of parks and elegant residences, altogether charming and geographically
confusing; and if from some commanding point you try to recover the city
idea, you look down upon black roofs half hid in black smoke, through
which the fires of factories gleam, and where the colored Ohio rolls
majestically along under a dark canopy. Looked at in one way, the real
Cincinnati is a German city, and you can only study its true character
“Over the Rhine,” and see it successfully through the bottom of an
upturned beer glass. Looked at another way, it is mainly an affair
of elegant suburbs, beautifully wooded hills, pleasure-grounds, and
isolated institutions of art or charity. I am thankful that there is no
obligation on me to depict it.
It would probably be described as a city of art rather than of theology,
and one of rural homes rather than metropolitan society. Perhaps
the German element has had something to do in giving it its musical
character, and the early culture may have determined its set more
towards art than religion. As the cloud of smoke became thicker and
thicker in the old city those who disliked this gloom escaped out upon
the hills in various directions. Many, of course, still cling to the
solid ancestral houses in the city, but the country movement was so
general that church-going became an affair of some difficulty, and I can
imagine that the church-going habit was a little broken up while the new
neighborhoods were forming on the hills and in the winding valleys, and
before the new churches in the suburbs were erected. Congregations
were scattered, and society itself was more or less disintegrated. Each
suburb is fairly accessible from the centre of the city, either by
a winding valley or by a bold climb up a precipice, but owing to the
configuration of the ground, it is difficult to get from one suburb to
another without returning to the centre and taking a fresh start. This
geographical hinderance must necessarily interfere with social life, and
tend to isolation of families, or to merely neighborhood association.
Although much yet remains to be done in the way of good roads, nature
and art have combined to make the suburbs of the city wonderfully
beautiful. The surface is most picturesquely broken, the forests
are fine, from this point and that there are views pleasing, poetic,
distant, perfectly satisfying in form and variety, and in advantageous
situations taste has guided wealth in the construction of stately
houses, having ample space in the midst of manorial parks. You are not
out of sight of these fine places in any of the suburbs, and there
are besides, in every direction, miles of streets of pleasing homes. I
scarcely know whether to prefer Clifton, with its wide sweeping avenues
rounding the hills, or the perhaps more commanding heights of Walnut,
nearer the river, and overlooking Kentucky. On the East Walnut Hills
is a private house worth going far to see for its color. It is built of
broken limestone, the chance find of a quarry, making the richest walls
I have anywhere seen, comparable to nothing else than the exquisite
colors in the rocks of the Yellowstone Falls, as I recall them in Mr.
Moran’s original studies.
If the city itself could substitute gas fuel for its smutty coal, I
fancy that, with its many solid homes and stately buildings, backed by
the picturesque hills, it would be a city at once curious and attractive
to the view. The visitor who ascends from the river as far as Fourth
Street is surprised to find room for fair avenues, and many streets and
buildings of mark. The Probasco fountain in another atmosphere would be
a thing of beauty, for one may go far to find so many groups in
bronze so good. The Post-office building is one of the best of the
Mullet-headed era of our national architecture—so good generally that
one wonders that the architect thought it expedient to destroy the
effect of the monolith columns by cutting them to resemble superimposed
blocks. A very remarkable building also is the new Chamber of Commerce
structure, from Richardson’s design, massive, mediæval, challenging
attention, and compelling criticism to give way to genuine admiration.
There are other buildings, public and private, that indicate a city of
solid growth; and the activity of its strong Chamber of Commerce is a
guarantee that its growth will be maintained with the enterprise common
to American cities. The effort is to make manufacturing take the place
in certain lines of business that, as in the item of pork-packing, has
been diverted by various causes. Money and effort have been freely given
to regain the Southern trade interrupted by the war, and I am forced to
believe that the success in this respect would have been greater if some
of the city newspapers had not thought it all-important to manufacture
political capital by keeping alive old antagonisms and prejudices.
Whatever people may say, sentiment does play a considerable part in
business, and it is within the knowledge of the writer that prominent
merchants in at least one Southern city have refused trade contracts
that would have been advantageous to Cincinnati, on account of this
exhibition of partisan spirit, as if the war were not over. Nothing
would be more contemptible than to see a community selling its
principles for trade; but it is true that men will trade, other things
being equal, where they are met with friendly cordiality and toleration,
and where there is a spirit of helpfulness instead of suspicion.
Professional politicians, North and South, may be able to demonstrate to
their satisfaction that they should have a chance to make a living,
but they ask too much when this shall be at the expense of free-flowing
trade, which is in itself the best solvent of any remaining alienation,
and the surest disintegrator of the objectionable political solidity,
and to the hinderance of that entire social and business good feeling
which is of all things desirable and necessary in a restored and
compacted Union. And it is as bad political as it is bad economic
policy. As a matter of fact, the politicians of Kentucky are grateful to
one or two Republican journals for aid in keeping their State “solid.”
It is a pity that the situation has its serious as well as its
ridiculous aspect.
Cincinnati in many respects is more an Eastern than a Western town;
it is developing its own life, and so far as I could see, without much
infusion of young fortune-hunting blood from the East. It has attained
