At the news of this munificence Roland swore and grit his teeth. Had his
circumstances been different it is probable that the ten thousand,
together with some enduring insult, he would have flung after her to the
eternal purgatory where he prayed she had gone. As it was, the modicity
of the bequest sobered him. Through some impalpable logic he had counted
but little on any inheritance at all; he had indeed hoped vaguely that
she might die and leave him what she had; and it may even be that, had
he learned that her will was in his favor, and had a suitable
opportunity presented itself, in some perfectly decorous manner he would
have hastened his aunt's demise. But concerning her will he had no
information; moreover, during his visit to the States the old lady saw
as little of him as she could help; and when she did see him, in spite
of gout and the ailments of advancing years there was such a rigidity in
her manner that the nephew told himself she might live long enough to
see him hanged. As a consequence he had expected nothing. But when the
news of her death reached him, together with the intelligence that
instead of the competence he might possibly have had he was mentioned
merely to the tune of ten thousand dollars,--this outrage, in
conjunction with Dunellen's relentlessness, sobered him to that degree,
that for a day and a night he gave himself to a debauch of thought. From
this orgy he issued with clearer mind. It may be--though the idea
advanced is one that can only be hazarded--it may be that had his aunt
disposed of her estate in his favor he would there and then have washed
his hands of the job he had undertaken, and left his wife to her own
devices. As it was, he saw that, to keep his head above water, the only
possible plank was one that Mr. Dunellen might send in his reach; and it
was with the knowledge that before the present scanty windfall
disappeared some conquest of Honest Paul's affection should be attempted
that he determined to return to New York. Once there again, who knew
what might happen? Surely, if the preceding year Mr. Dunellen had
strength for violence, to the naked eye he was even then manifestly
infirm. There was no gainsaying the matter--he at least would not live
very long. As to the disposition of his property after death Mistrial
was still assured. Whatever his attitude might be for the present, in
the end he could not wholly disinherit Justine--at least one-half the
property must come to her. On that fact Mistrial would have staked his
life; after all, it was the one hope he had left; and an ultimate hope,
we all know, is the thing we part with last.
Thereupon he recovered himself. He became amiable and considerate--a
change of demeanor which gave Justine a chill. She consented
nevertheless to the return trip, and the day after arriving called at
her father's house. When she got back to the hotel where they had put up
Mistrial was waiting for her. In answer to his questions she told him
that her father was willing to receive her, but her alone. "You must
take your choice," he had said, she repeated--"You must take your
choice."
"And what is that choice?" Mistrial had asked.
"I have made it," she answered, "and by it I will abide."
But at this he had expostulated; and when, seeing at last what he
meant--understanding that he would have her feign a compliance for the
sake of coin which at her father's death she could come back and share
with him--when, divining the infamy of his thought, she refused, he had
struck her in the face.
Because a man is not Chesterfield, it does not follow he is Sykes.
Mistrial had never struck a woman before, and in this initial assault it
is probable that he was actuated less by a desire to punish than by that
force which overmasters him who has ceased to be master of himself. By
instinct he was not a gentleman; for some time past he had not even
taken the trouble to appear one; yet at that moment, dancing in derision
before him, he saw the letters that form the monosyllable Cad. The sense
of abasement he displayed was so immediate and sincere, that Justine,
who, trembling with anger and disgust, stood staring in his face, read
it there and understood. Instead of separating them forever, the blow
reunited their hands. During the week that followed they were nearer to
each other than they had been for months before. The reconciliation was
seemingly complete. Mistrial made himself the lover again, and Justine
permitted herself to be wooed. They left their hotel and found a
flat--a furnished apartment in the neighborhood of Central Park; and
there the storm departing placed a rainbow in its stead.
A rainbow, however, is not a fixture, and this one went its way. While
Justine closed her eyes Mistrial's were alert. He had no intention of
suffering her to be disinherited, and though it was well enough to rely
on the courts it was better still not to be forced to do so. Rather than
run an avoidable risk he would have abandoned his wife, and forced her
through that abandonment to return to her father's house, convinced that
afterwards he could win her together with the estate back again to him.
Meanwhile another interview could not in any way jeopardize the chances
to which he clung. On the contrary, it might be highly serviceable. Mr.
Dunellen, he had learned, was much broken; he had given up his practice,
the the world even, everything in fact save perhaps the devil that was
in him, and sat uncompanioned in the desolate and spacious emptiness of
his house. It was only natural that he should wish to coerce his
daughter into obedience; yet now that he saw she was steadfast, her
pride unhumbled still, it was not improbable that he would yield; it was
presumable even that he was then waiting, weak of heart, prepared at her
next advance to welcome and forgive.
Of these things Mistrial made his wife aware, and it was then that the
rainbow departed. His arguments were as revolting as the cynicism they
exhaled. But she made no attempt to combat them. Since she had seen her
father she had felt a sorrow for him that Mistrial's altered demeanor
had given her time to heed. She knew that his attitude was due to her
defiance of his express commands, but she had no reason to suppose that
he had any other objection to her husband than such as his poverty might
have caused or instinctive antipathy might bring. But now, her own
experience aiding, she knew that he had been right; and, as he seemed
feeble and dispassionate, in answer to Mistrial's arguments she tied her
bonnet-strings and went. It was early in the afternoon when she started,
it was night when she returned.
Mistrial had been waiting for her, and when she entered the room in
which he sat he rose eagerly and aided her with her wrap. He was
impatient, she could see; and she was impatient also.
"Why did you not tell me of Guy's sister?" she began, at once.
And as he answered nothing she continued: "Years ago I knew of what she
died; it was only to-day I learned that it was you who murdered her."
"It is a lie."
"Oh, protest. I knew you would."
"From whom is it you heard this thing? Not from your father, I am sure."
As Mistrial spoke he gazed at her inquisitorially with shrewd,
perplexing eyes.
"What does it matter?" she answered. Her head was thrown back, her lips
compressed. "What does it matter since the charge is true?"
"But it is false," he cried; "it is a wanton lie. Your father never
could have stated it."
"Ah, but he did, though; and Guy was there to substantiate what he
said."
"Guy!" As he pronounced her cousin's name there came into his face an
expression which she knew and which she had learned to dread. "Madam,
you mean your lover, I suppose. And it is his ipse dixit you accept in
preference to mine?"
"Mistrial, you know he is not my lover."
"I know he was in love with you, and you with him."
"So he was; so he is, I think; and it was not until this night I saw my
own mistake."
"Voilà!" said Roland, suddenly calmed. He paused a second, and after
eying the polish of his finger-nails, affected to flick a speck of dust
from his sleeve. "Your cousin is mad," he added.
"He is sane as--" and Justine hesitated for a simile.
"His mother, you mean. Were you never aware that insanity is hereditary?
If his sister--presupposing that the accusation which he formulates
against me was originally advanced by her--if his sister--whom, by the
way, I never saw but once--if his sister accused me of complicity, then
she suffered from the hereditary taint as well. If I was guilty of what
your cousin charges, why was I not arrested, tried, and sentenced? But
are you such a dolt you cannot see that Guy is mad--mad not only by
nature, but crazed by jealousy as well. You say you know he loves you.
You have even the candor to admit that you love him! Now ask yourself
what would any impartial hearer deduce from statements such as yours?"
"My father was an impartial hearer, and he--"
"But how is it possible to be so blind? Can you not see that your cousin
has prejudiced him against me? I said, impartial hearer. But let the
matter drop. I tell you the charge is false; believe it or not, as you
prefer. There is, however, just this in the matter: if the charge is
made again, I will have your cousin under arrest. You forget that there
is such a thing as libel still."
Again he paused, and strove to collect himself; there was a design in
the carpet which appeared to interest him very much, but presently he
looked up again.
"Now tell me," he said, "what did your father say?"
"Nothing, save what he said before."
"Nothing?"
"Nothing that you would care to hear." Her eyes roamed from the
neighbourly ceiling over to him and back again. "He said," she added,
"that if I persisted in living with you his money would go to my child,
if I had one; if I had none, then to Guy."
"Were you alone with him when he said this, or was Guy, as you call him,
there?"
"No, I was alone with him; Guy came later."
"And is he aware of this provision?"
For all response Justine shrugged her shoulders.
"Does he know it, I ask you?"
