and the only question is where to find it. You leave 
him to me, Mrs. March ; I 'll watch out for him." 
Fulkerson showed some signs of going to the 
station when he found they were not driving, but 
she bade him a peremptory good-bye at the hotel door. 
'' He 's very nice, Lasil, and his way with you is 
perfectly charming. It's very sweet to see how 
really fond of you lie is. But I didn't want him 
stringing along up to Forty-second Street with ns, 
and spoiling our last moments together." 
At Third wenue they took the Elevated, for 
 
which she confessed an infatuation. She declared it 
the most ideal -way of getting about in the -world, 
and was not ashamed -vvhcn he reminded her of how 
she used to say that nothing under the sun could 
induce her to travel on it. She now said that the 
night transit was even more interesting than the 
day, and that the fleeting intimacy you formed with 
people in second and third floor interiors, while all 
the usual street life went on underneath, had a 
domestic intensity mixed with a perfect repose that 
was the last effect of good society with all its security 
and exclusiveness. He said it was better than the 
theatre, of which it reminded him, to see those 
people through their windows : a family party of 
work-folk at a late tea, some of the men in their 
shirt sleeves ; a woman sewing by a lamp ; a mother 
laying her child in its cradle ; a man with his head 
fallen on his hands upon a table ; a girl and her 
lover leaning over the window-sill together. "What 
suggestion ! what drama ! what infinite interest ! 
At the Forty-second Street station they stopped a 
minute on the bridge that crosses the track to the 
branch road for the Central Depot, and looked up 
and down the long stretch of the eleA\ated to north 
and south. The track that found and lost itself a 
thousand times in the flare and tremor of the innu- 
merable lights ; the moony sheen of the electrics 
mixing wiih the reddish points and blots of gas far 
and near; the architectural shapes of houses and 
churches and tOwers, rescued by the obscurity from 
all that was iirnoble in them, and the comin" and 
going of the trains marking the stations with vividor 
or fainter phimes of flame-shot steam — formed an 
incomparable perspective. They often talked after- 
ward of the superb spectacle, which in a city full of 
painters nightly works its unrecorded miracles ; and 
they were just to the Arachne roof spun in iron 
over the cross street on which they ran to the depot ; 
but for the present they were mostly inarticulate 
before it. They had another moment of rich silence 
when they paused in the gallery that leads from the 
elevated station to the waiting-rooms in the Central 
Depot and looked down upon the great night trains 
lying on the tracks dim under the rain of gas-lights 
that starred without dispersing the vast darkness of 
the place. What forces, what fates, slept in these 
bulks which would soon l)c hurling themselves north 
and cast and west through the night ! Now they 
waited there like fablcil monsters of Arab story ready 
for the magician's touch, tractable, reckless, will-less 
— organised lifelessness full of a strange semblance 
of life. 
The Marches admired the impressive sight with a 
thrill of patriotic pride in the fact that the whole 
world perhaps could not afTord just the like. Then 
they hurried down to the ticket offices, and he got 
her a lower berth in the Boston sleeper, and went 
with her to the car. They made the most of the 
fact that her berth AA-as in the very middle of the 
car ; and she promised to write as soon as she reached 
home. She promised also that having seen the 
limitations of Ncav York in respect to flats, she 
 
svould not be hard on him if lie took something not 
quite ideal. Only he must remember that it was 
not to be above Twentieth Street nor below Wash- 
ington Square ; it must not be higher than the third 
floor; it must have an elevator, steam-heat, hall- 
boys, and a pleasant janitor. These were essentials ; 
if he could not get them, then they must do without. 
But he must get them. 
XI. 
Mrs. March was one of those wives avIio exact a 
more rigid adherence to their ideals from their hus- 
bands than from themselves. Early in their married 
life she had taken charge of liim in all matters "which 
she considered practical. She did not include the 
business of bread-winning in these ; that was an 
affair that might safely be left to his absent-minded, 
dreamy inefficiency, and she did not interfere with 
him there. But in such things as relumging the pic- 
tures, deciding on a summer boarding-place, taking a 
seaside cottage, repapering rooms, choosing seats at 
the theatre, seeing what the children ate when she 
was not at table, shutting the cat out at night, keep- 
ing run of calls and invitations, and seeing if the fur- 
nace was damped, he had failed her so often that she 
felt she could not leave him the slightest discretion 
in regard to a flat. Her total distrust of his judg- 
ment in the matters cited and others like them con- 
sisted with the greatest admiration of his mind and 
respect for his character. She often said that if he 
would only bring them to bear in such exigencies he 
would be simply perfect; but she had long given up 
his ever doing so. She subjected him, therefore, to 
 
ail iron code, but after proclaiming it she was apt to 
abandon him to the native hxwlessness of his tem- 
perament. She expected him in this event to do as 
he pleased, and she resigned herself to it with con- 
siderable comfort in holding him accountable. He 
learned to expect this, and after suffering keenly 
from her disappointment with M'hatever he did he 
waited patiently till she forgot her grievance and 
began to extract what consolation lurks in the irre- 
parable. She would almost admit at moments that 
what he had done was a very good thing, but she 
reserved the right to return in full force to her 
original condemnation of it; and she accumulated 
each act of independent volition in witness and 
warning against him. Their mass oppressed but 
never deterred him. He expected to do the wrong 
thing when left to his own devices, and he did io 
without any apparent recollection of his former mis- 
deeds and their consequences. There was a good 
deal of comedy in it all, and some tragedy. 
He now experienced a certain expansion, such as 
husbands of his kind will imagine, on going back to 
his hotel alone. It was, perhaps, a revulsion from 
the pain of parting ; and he toyed with tho idea 
of Mrs. Grosvenor Green's apartment, which, in its 
preposterous unsuitability, had a strange attraction. 
He felt that he could take it with less risk than 
anything else they had seen, but he said he would 
look at all the other places in town first. He really 
spent the greater part of the next day in hunting up 
the owner of an apartment that had neither steam- 
heat nor an elevator, but was otherwise perfect, and 
trying to get him to take less than the agent asked. 
By a curious psychical operation he was able, in the 
transaction, to work himself into quite a passionate 
desire for the apartment, while he held the Gros- 
venor Green apartment in the background of his 
mind as something that he could return to as alto- 
gether more suitable. He conducted some simul- 
taneous negotiation for a furnished house, which 
enhanced still more the desirability of the Grosvenor 
Green apartment. Toward evening he went off at 
a tangent far up-town, so as to be able to tell his 
wife how utterly preposterous the best there would 
be as compared even with this ridiculous Grosvenor 
Green gimcrackery. It is hard to report the pro- 
cesses of his sophistication ; perhaps this, again, 
may best be left to the marital imagination. 
He rang at the last of these up-town apartments 
as it was falling dusk, and it was long before the 
janitor appeared. Then the man was very surly, 
and said if he looked at the flat now he would say 
