quaint, roomy, oblong, and still. An hour later the general and his
guest were waiting dinner in the balé-balé of the bungalow.
Presently from the panoplied steps came the tinkle of moving feet. The
general rose from his chair.
"My future wife," he announced, in an aside. "Mrs. Lyeth," he continued,
"this is Mr. Ennever."
She was a woman such as the midland counties alone produce, one whom it
would be proper to describe as queenly, were it not that queens are
dowds. She just lacked being tall. Her hair was of that hue of citron
which is noticeable in very young children, and it was arranged in the
fashion we have copied from the Greeks, but her features were wholly
English, features that the years would remold with coarser thumb, but
which as yet preserved the freshness and the suavity of a pastel. One
divined that her limbs were strong and supple. She held herself with a
grace of her own, on her cheeks was a flush, her mouth seemed to promise
more than any mortal mouth could give; in short, she was beautiful, a
northern splendor in a tropic frame.
Tancred, who had risen with the general, stared for a second and bowed.
"Muhammad's prophecy is realized," he murmured; and as Mrs. Lyeth eyed
him inquiringly, "At sunset," he added, "I behold a rising sun."
And moving forward he took her wrist and brushed it with his lips.
"One might fancy one's self at Versailles," Mrs. Lyeth replied, and sank
into a wicker chair.
"Olympus, rather," Tancred corrected, and found a seat at her side.
"H'm," mused the lady; but evidently nothing pertinent could have
occurred to her, for she hesitated a moment and then graciously enough
remarked, "The general tells me he knows your father."
"Yes, it may even be that we are connected; there was a Sosinje van Lier
who married an Ennever, oh, ages ago. The general, however, thinks she
was not a relative of his."
"I have forgotten," the general interjected, and glanced at his future
bride. "Is Liance never coming?"
From without came the hum of insects, a hum so insistent, so enervating,
and yet so Wagnerian in intensity that you would have said a nation of
them celebrating a feast of love. Presently the murmurs were punctuated
by the beat of a wooden gong, and as the reverberations fainted in the
night, a young girl appeared.
The general left his chair again.
"My daughter," he announced; and as Tancred bowed he remembered that the
general had been a widower before he became engaged to the divinity that
sat at his side.
"You're an American, aren't you?" the girl asked.
There was nothing forward in her manner: on the contrary, it was languid
and restrained, as though the equatorial sky had warped her nerves. But
her eyes had in them the flicker of smoldering fire; they seemed to
project interior flames. Her complexion was without color, unless indeed
olive may be accounted one. Her abundant hair was so dark it seemed
nearly blue. At the corners of her upper lip was the faintest trace of
down. Her frock was like the night, brilliant yet subdued; it was black,
but glittering with little sparks; about her bare arms were coils of
silver, and from her waist hung cords of plaited steel. She looked as
barbaric as Mrs. Lyeth looked divine.
"Yes," Tancred answered, smilingly; but before he could engage in
further speech, the general's "boy" announced that dinner was served.
"What do you think of it there?" asked Mrs. Lyeth, whose arm he found
within his own.
And as they passed from the balé-balé, as an uninclosed pavilion is
called, to the dining-room beyond, Tancred answered:
"What does one think of the Arabian Nights?"
But there was nothing Arabesque about the meal of which he was then
called upon to partake. It began with oysters, rather brackish but good,
and ended with cheese. Save for some green pigeons with their plumage
undisturbed, and a particularly fiery karri, it was just such a dinner
as the average diner-out enjoys on six nights out of seven. There were
three kinds of French wine and a variety of Dutch liqueurs. During its
service the general held forth, as generals will, on the subject of
nothing at all. And when the meal was done, for several hours the little
group, reunited in the balé-balé, exchanged the usual commonplace views.
During that interchange Tancred kept himself as near as he could to Mrs.
Lyeth, and when at last the party broke up and he found himself alone in
his room he drew a breath which might have been almost accounted one of
relief.
Through the open windows came a heaviness, subtle as the atmosphere of a
seraglio. Beyond, some palms masked a cluster of stars, but from above
rained down the light and messages of other worlds. In the distance was
the surge of the sea, sounding afar the approach and retreat of the
waves. Beneath, in the underbrush, fire-flies glittered, avoiding each
other in abrupt ziz-zags and sudden loops of flame. The moon had not yet
risen, but the sky still was visibly blue.
And as Tancred dropped on a seat he loosened his neck-cloth with a
thrust of the thumb. "That claret was heady," he told himself, and with
a bit of cambric he mopped his brow. But was it the claret? For a little
space he sat gazing at the invitations of the equator. In his ears the
hum of insects still sounded, and to his unheeding eyes the stars danced
their saraband. The sea seemed to beckon and the night to wait.
Thus far his life had been precisely like that of any other
well-nurtured lad of twenty-two. He had been educated at Concord, he was
a graduate of Harvard; but during his school and college days the
refinement of his own home had accompanied him afar. He was one of those
young men, more common now than a few years since, who find it awkward
to utter one word that could not be said aloud in a ball-room. And in
this he was guided less perhaps by good breeding--for breeding, like
every varnish, may cloak the coarsest fibre--than by native comeliness
of thought. He shrank from the distasteful as other men shrink from the
base. His parents had had the forethought to provide him with two
sisters, one a year older than himself, one a year his junior; and these
girls, who at the present hour suggest in our metropolitan assemblies
the charm and allurements of a politer age, had taken their brother in
hand. They had taught him what is best left undone, the grace of
self-effacement, and they had given him some breath of the aroma which
they themselves exhaled. To this his parents had added a smile of
singular beauty, and features clear-cut and sure. In short, his people
had done their best for him. And now that he was seeing the world in
that easiest way, which consists in travelling around it, his letter of
credit was not only in his pocket, but in his face and manner as well.
"I must go to-morrow," he continued. And as he tried to map his
departure, the tinkle of a footfall across the hall routed and disturbed
his thoughts. Unsummoned there visited him a melody, heard long since,
the accompaniment of a song of love. With a gesture he forced it back.
Had he not understood--? No; he remembered now there was no boat from
Siak for several days. He might engage a prahu, though, and in it effect
a crossing to Perang; he could even take the train and journey to
another place. Indeed, he reflected, he might readily do that. And as he
told himself this, from across the hall a tinkle fainter than before
reached his ear. He heard a whispering voice, a door closed, and some
one beat upon a gong of wood. It was midnight, he knew.
He threw his coat aside and stared at the stars. They were taciturn
still, yet more communicative than ever before. One in particular, that
shone sheer above the balé-balé, seemed instinct with lessons and
sayings of sooth. And to the precepts it uttered, its companions
acquiesced, and smiled. Everything, even to the immaterial, the surge
of the sea, the trail of the fire-flies, and the glint of a moonbeam,
now aslant at his feet, conspired to coerce his will. The very air was
alive with caresses, redolent with the balm and the odors of bamboo.
Slowly he undid the lachets of a shoe.
"It is wrong," he muttered, and a breeze that loitered answered, "It is
right." "I will go," he continued, and the great stars chorused, "You
will stay."
Meditatively still he continued to disrobe; but in spite of the stars
and the moonbeams the light must have been insufficient, for presently
he lit a candle, monologuing to himself the while. And as he monologued
he was aware of that fettering, overmastering force which visits youth
but once--the abnegation of self before that which is.
In that struggle in which we lay our arguments down and rejoice in
defeat he had wrestled with all the weakness of his years. And now, as
he flung himself on the bed, he clasped a pillow in his arms and sighed.
He hoped for nothing, he expected nothing; but it was bliss to be
conquered and enchained. The contest was done. During the coming week
his captor would move before him, a luring melody, a clear accord
sounded for his own delight, and then he would go, leaving the melody
undisturbed, yet bearing a strain of it to feed on, a memory of enduring
joy.
From without the hum of insects still persisted, and the waves were
noisier than before. His eyes closed, and he smiled. For a moment that
may have outlasted an hour he dreamed of the fabulous days in which
goatherds dared to fall in love with goddesses. And such is the
advantage of a classical education, that he mumbled a line from a Greek
pedant, another from a Roman bore. In the dactyls and the spondees he
caught the rhythm of tinkling feet; and as the measures sank him into
deeper sleep a monstrous beetle shot through the casement and put the
candle out.
The whir of wings disturbed him ever so little. For an instant he was
bending over sandals, caressing a peplum's hem. Then all was blank.
"Tuan! Tuan!"
It was a Malay servant, hailing the foreign lord, admonishing him to
rise.
The room was filled with sunlight, and on a palm tree opposite Tancred
caught a glimpse of a red monkey scratching his knee, chattering and
grimacing at a paroquet.
II.
