"We are not peasants; we do not live in a hut.  Voilà, this is my
home."  And Sophie laid before them a fine photograph of a large and
elegant house on lovely Lake Geneva.
It was droll to see the change in the faces of the girls as they looked,
admired, and slyly nudged one another, enjoying saucy Di’s astonishment,
for she had stoutly insisted that the Swiss girl was a poor relation.
Sophie meanwhile was folding up her plain piqué and muslin frocks, with
a glimmer of mirthful satisfaction in her eyes, and a tender pride in
the work of loving hands now far away.
Kind Fanny saw a little quiver of the lips as she smoothed the blue
corn-flowers in the best hat, and put her arm around Sophie,
whispering,--
"Never mind, dear, they don’t mean to be rude; it’s only our Yankee way
of asking questions.  I like all your things, and that hat is
perfectly lovely."
"Indeed, yes!  Dear mamma arranged it for me.  I was thinking of her and
longing for my morning kiss."
"Do you do that every day?" asked Fanny, forgetting herself in her
sympathetic interest.
"Surely, yes.  Papa and mamma sit always on the sofa, and we all have
the hand-shake and the embrace each day before our morning coffee.  I do
not see that here," answered Sophie, who sorely missed the affectionate
respect foreign children give their parents.
"Have n’t time," said Fanny, smiling too, at the idea of American
parents sitting still for five minutes in the busiest part of the busy
day to kiss their sons and daughters.
"It is what you call old-fashioned, but a sweet fashion to me; and since
I have not the dear warm cheeks to kiss, I embrace my pictures often.
See, I have them all."  And Sophie unfolded a Russia-leather case,
displaying with pride a long row of handsome brothers and sisters with
the parents in the midst.
More exclamations from the girls, and increased interest in "Wilhelmina
Tell," as they christened the loyal Swiss maiden, who was now accepted
as a companion, and soon became a favorite with old and young.
They could not resist teasing her, however,--her mistakes were so
amusing, her little flashes of temper so dramatic, and her tongue so
quick to give a sharp or witty answer when the new language did not
perplex her.  But Fanny always took her part, and helped her in many
ways.  Now they sat together on the rock, a pretty pair of mermaids with
wind-tossed hair, wave-washed feet, and eyes fixed on the approaching
boat.
The girl who sat in it was a great contrast to the gay creatures grouped
so picturesquely on the shore, for the old straw hat shaded a very
anxious face, the brown calico gown covered a heart full of hopes and
fears, and the boat that drifted so slowly with the incoming tide
carried Tilly Reed like a young Columbus toward the new world she longed
for, believed in, and was resolved to discover.
It was a weather-beaten little boat, yet very pretty; for a pile of nets
lay at one end, a creel of red lobsters at the other, and all between
stood baskets of berries and water-lilies, purple marsh rosemary and
orange butterfly-weed, shells and great smooth stones such as artists
like to paint little sea-views on.  A tame gull perched on the prow; and
the morning sunshine glittered from the blue water to the bluer sky.
"Oh, how pretty!  Come on, please, and sell us some lilies," cried Dora,
and roused Tilly from her waking dream.
Pushing back her hat, she saw the girls beckoning, felt that the
critical moment had come, and catching up her oars, rowed bravely on,
though her cheeks reddened and her heart beat, for this venture was her
last hope, and on its success depended the desire of her life.  As the
boat approached, the watchers forgot its cargo to look with surprise and
pleasure at its rower, for she was not the rough country lass they
expected to see, but a really splendid girl of fifteen, tall,
broad-shouldered, bright-eyed, and blooming, with a certain shy dignity
of her own and a very sweet smile, as she nodded and pulled in with
strong, steady strokes.  Before they could offer help, she had risen,
planted an oar in the water, and leaping to the shore, pulled her boat
high up on the beach, offering her wares with wistful eyes and a very
expressive wave of both brown hands.
"Everything is for sale, if you ’ll buy," said she.
Charmed with the novelty of this little adventure, the girls, after
scampering to the bathing-houses for purses and portemonnaies, crowded
around the boat like butterflies about a thistle, all eager to buy, and
to discover who this bonny fisher-maiden might be.
"Oh, see these beauties!"  "A dozen lilies for me!"  "All the yellow
flowers for me, they’ll be so becoming at the dance to-night!" "Ow! that
lob bites awfully!"  "Where do you come from?"  "Why have we never seen
you before?"
These were some of the exclamations and questions showered upon Tilly,
as she filled little birch-bark panniers with berries, dealt out
flowers, or dispensed handfuls of shells.  Her eyes shone, her cheeks
glowed, and her heart danced in her bosom; for this was a better
beginning than she had dared to hope for, and as the dimes tinkled into
the tin pail she used for her till, it was the sweetest music she had
ever heard.  This hearty welcome banished her shyness; and in these
eager, girlish customers she found it easy to confide.
"I ’m from the light-house.  You have never seen me because I never came
before, except with fish for the hotel.  But I mean to come every day,
if folks will buy my things, for I want to make some money, and this is
the only way in which I can do it."
Sophie glanced at the old hat and worn shoes of the speaker, and
dropping a bright half-dollar into the pail, said in her pretty way:
"For me all these lovely shells.  I will make necklaces of them for my
people at home as souvenirs of this charming place.  If you will bring
me more, I shall be much grateful to you."
"Oh, thank you!  I ’ll bring heaps; I know where to find beauties in
places where other folks can’t go.  Please take these; you paid too much
for the shells;" and quick to feel the kindness of the stranger, Tilly
put into her hands a little bark canoe heaped with red raspberries.
Not to be outdone by the foreigner, the other girls emptied their purses
and Tilly’s boat also of all but the lobsters, which were ordered for
the hotel.
"Is that jolly bird for sale?" asked Di, as the last berry vanished,
pointing to the gull who was swimming near them while the chatter went
on.
"If you can catch him," laughed Tilly, whose spirits were now the gayest
of the party.
The girls dashed into the water, and with shrieks of merriment swam away
to capture the gull, who paddled off as if he enjoyed the fun as much as
they.
Leaving them to splash vainly to and fro, Tilly swung the creel to her
shoulder and went off to leave her lobsters, longing to dance and sing
to the music of the silver clinking in her pocket.
When she came back, the bird was far out of reach and the girls diving
from her boat, which they had launched without leave.  Too happy to care
what happened now, Tilly threw herself down on the warm sand to plan a
new and still finer cargo for next day.
Sophie came and sat beside her while she dried her curly hair, and in
five minutes her sympathetic face and sweet ways had won Tilly to tell
all her hopes and cares and dreams.
"I want schooling, and I mean to have it. I ’ve got no folks of my own;
and uncle has married again, so he does n’t need me now. If I only had a
little money, I could go to school somewhere, and take care of myself.
Last summer I worked at the hotel, but I did n’t make much, and had to
have good clothes, and that took my wages pretty much.  Sewing is slow
work, and baby-tending leaves me no time to study; so I ’ve kept on at
home picking berries and doing what I could to pick up enough to buy
books.  Aunt thinks I ’m a fool; but uncle, he says, ’Go ahead, girl,
and see what you can do.’  And I mean to show him!"
Tilly’s brown hand came down on the sand with a resolute thump; and her
clear young eyes looked bravely out across the wide sea, as if far away
in the blue distance she saw her hope happily fulfilled.
Sophie’s eyes shone approval, for she understood this love of
independence, and had come to America because she longed for new scenes
and greater freedom than her native land could give her.  Education is a
large word, and both girls felt that desire for self-improvement that
comes to all energetic natures.  Sophie had laid a good foundation, but
still desired more; while Tilly was just climbing up the first steep
slope which rises to the heights few attain, yet all may strive for.
"That is beautiful!  You will do it!  I am glad to help you if I may.
See, I have many books; will you take some of them?  Come to my room
to-morrow and take what will best please you.  We will say nothing of
it, and it will make me a truly great pleasure."
As Sophie spoke, her little white hand touched the strong, sunburned one
that turned to meet and grasp hers with grateful warmth, while Tilly’s
face betrayed the hunger that possessed her, for it looked as a starving
girl’s would look when offered a generous meal.
"I will come.  Thank you so much!  I don’t know anything, but just
blunder along and do the best I can.  I got so discouraged I was real
desperate, and thought I ’d have one try, and see if I could n’t earn
enough to get books to study this winter.  Folks buy berries at the
cottages; so I just added flowers and shells, and I ’m going to bring my
boxes of butterflies, birds’ eggs, and seaweeds.  I ’ve got lots of such
things; and people seem to like spending money down here.  I often wish
I had a little of what they throw away."
Tilly paused with a sigh, then laughed as an impatient movement caused a
silver clink; and slapping her pocket, she added gayly,--
"I won’t blame ’em if they ’ll only throw their money in here."
Sophie’s hand went involuntarily toward her own pocket, where lay a
plump purse, for papa was generous, and simple Sophie had few wants. But
something in the intelligent face opposite made her hesitate to offer as
