
On this obverse, it were uncandid not to 
remember, are pale and pleasant compensations 
to benignant thought. Beyond a certain point, 
deprivation unquestionably dulls susceptibility, 
denial teaches endurance, obscurity preserves 
from responsibility, the transient pleasure is more emphatic, the finer foreboding 
perhaps less acute, aspiration cools into 
acceptance, and ignorance stratifies into repose. 

It is not a grateful task to remind people 
how unfortunate they are. One who seems 
to undertake it must expect to be accused of 
pessimism (chiefly by those persons who cannot 
be said, even for politeness' sake, to 
know what a pessimist is), and of " morbidness," 
— a word which apparently has been 
made to cover whatever form of viewing fact 
differs from one's own. " Of course," said a 
great writer of his own sad, honest look at 
life, — " of course it is exaggerated to those 
who feel feebly." " Let no man counsel me," 
said Sophocles, " but who has felt sorrow like 
mine." Nevertheless, it must be repeated that 
no consistent philosophy, no trained 
imagination, no instructed memory, no sensitive 
sympathy, and no intelligent religious trust can 
deny this to be a state of manifold, mysterious, 
and unmeasured suffering. It is a doctrine 
no newer than Plato that all our pleasure
consists in an escape from pain. 

The very failure of the pen in a space so 
small, before a subject so enormous, writes 
deeper and darker than its fluency could 
mark. The very sinking of the heart before 
a strain so tense upon its nerve ; the very 
impulse which leads two kinds of people, the 
dull and the fortunate — or, we might acid a 
third, the cold — into their clamor about the 
beauty and haj)piness of the world, itself 
accentuates the great onrolling sound of the 
truth, like the voices of children on the shore, 
which increase while they defy the roar of the 
breaker. 

It will be remembered that we have touched 
with a reticent and sparing finger upon what 
might be called three key-notes in the great 
discords of life : the cruelty of nature, the 
mystery of sex, and the misery of the poor. 
It will be seen that these present but a 
portion of the lost harmonies around which the 
chords of human suffering clash. It will be 
observed that of the great facts of heredity we 
have said nothing at all ; that to the immense 
influence of physical disease on happiness we 
have scarcely alluded ; that we have passed 
by all those finer phases of our question which 
have led metaphysicians to maintain that life 
is a continual vacillation between displeasure 
and ennui ; that we have omitted the acute 
historical illustrations of human woe ; that we 
have avoided the whole train of thought suggested 
by institutions of charity, penalty, and 
mental healing ; that we have not dwelt upon 
the obstinate argument of suicide ; that we 
have not considered the terrible phenomena of 
remorse ; that we have not brooded upon the 
pitiless and inexorable sentence of death which 
has gone out against every breathing creature 
on the earth. It will be acknowledged that we 
have spared ourselves in the task of " looking 
the worst in the face." 

The most irrecoverable " blue " in philosophy 
could not venture to overlook the sum of 
the world's enjoyment, if only for the mathematical 
reason that a given amount of it repre- 
sents so much less weight than the same amount 
of misery. The colors of lakes, the scents of 
blush roses, — who could forget ? — are ever 
with us. The radiance of lovers' eyes and the 
laughter of children we may not miss. The 
comforts of ease and the vagaries of wealth 
are present to us, and though the invalid poor 
die for lack of beef tea, it is a fixed fact that a 
velvet suit for a doll can be purchased to-day 
for fifteen dollars. But it should not be forgotten 
that, so far as we are able judicially to 
estimate questions affecting our emotions, pain 




" goes farther," as our idiom has it, in this 
world than pleasure. This the great inductive 
philosopher, experience, teaches, at least to the 
more sensitive of the species, early in life. 

Up to a certain degree, pain passes over 
the suffering cells of the brain without dis- 
integrating them ; but there comes a limit, as 
clear to the individual consciousness as it is 
difficult to make over to that of another, be- 
yond which the best that fate could offer could 
not atone for the worst she has inflicted. Wise 
men may dispute this nice point to the world's 
end. It would be possible to select one be- 
reaved mother, who might call them all as 
scholars to her feet. A great sufferer knoivs 
that he can set single hours of his life against 
the accumulated happiness of its years. He 
knows that the one, considered in its cold, intellectual 
character as a fact of consciousness, 
outweighs the other, sinking as far below it as 
the sod is from the stars. This knowledge is 
no more to be taken from him than his soul. 
He would go to the bar of God with it. 

There is yet another thing, which the gayest 
optimist of us all would do well, in a 
discussion like this, to bear in mind. The charm of 


nature, the glory of love, and the pride of life 
are facts of which a Creator, presumably not 
kindly inclined towards his creatures, would 
be presumptively sure to avail himself. He 
would not be a very shrewd Deity who, with 
malevolent intentions, should create a world of 
ugliness, hate, and unmitigated deprivation. 

Such a God would be too wise to construct 
a system of unrelieved woe. He would 
exultantly deepen pain by a background of plea- 
sure. He would fiendishly emphasize loss by 
experience of possession. He would create 
hope as a foil against despair. The color of 
the lily, the kiss of a child, the delirium of 
love, it might be his horrible ingenuity to hold 
as what artists call " values" against the
tornado, and the tooth of famine and the grave. 

Conceptions like these, almost enough to 
congest imagination, might be true, though 
not in the same measure, of the moral nature 
of man. It is conceivable that up to a cer- 
tain extent, at least, good impulses might have 
been created for evil ends. There is a large 
border-land of moral conflict, wherein our 
worst assaults seem to come on the wings 
of angels of light. It is conceivable that a 



maleficent God would bestow upon us aspiration 
to create in us remorse, and allow us to 
strive for purity that he might the more 
exquisitely gloat over our surrender to guilt. 
