
Fulkerson did not realise that it takes two to 
part. The culonel laid hold of his arm and turned 
away with him. "I will walk toward your })]ace 
with you. I can understand why you should be 
anxious to know the particulars of my interview 
with Mr. Dryfoos ;" and in the statement which 
followed he did not spare him the smallest. It out- 
lasted their walk, and detained them long on the 
steps of the Every Other Week building. But at the 
end, Fulkerson let himself in with his key as light 
of heart as if he had been listening to the gayest 
promises that fortune could make. 

By the time he met March at the office next 
morning, a little, but only a A'ery little, misgiving 
saddened his golden heaven. He took March's 
hand with high courage, and said, "Well, the old 
man sticks to his point, March." He added, with the 




sense of saying it before Miss Woodburn, "And I 
stick by you. I 've thought it all over, and I 'd 
rather be right with you than wrong with him." 

" "Well, I appreciate your motive, Fulkerson," 
said March. "But perhaps — perhaps we can save 
over our heroics for another occasion. Lindau 
seems to have got in with his, for the present." 

He told hira of Lindau's last visit, and they stood 
a moment looking at each other rather queerly. 
Fulkerson was the first to recover his spirits. 
" well,'"' he said cheerily, " that let 's us out." 

" Does it ? I 'm not sure it lets me out," said 
March; but he said this in tribute to his crippled 
self-respect rather than as a forecast of any action 
in the matter. 

" why, what are you going to do ? " Fulkerson 
asked. " If Lindau won't work for Dryfoos you 
can't make him." 

March sighed. " "What are you going to do with 
this money ? " He glanced at the heap of bills he 
had flung on the table between them. 

Fulkerson scratched his head. "Ah, dogged if 
I know. Can't we give it to the deserving poor, 
somehow, if we can find 'era ? " 

"I suppose we've no right to use it in any way. 
You must give it to Dryfoos." 

" To the deserving rich ] "Well, you can always 
find them. I reckon you don't want to appear in 
the transaction ; I don't, either ; but I guess I 
must." Fulkerson gathered up the money and 
carried it to Conrad. He directed him to account 



  

for it in his books as conscience-money, and he 
enjoyed the joke more than Conrad seemed to do 
when he was told wlierc it came from. 

Fulkerson was aide to wear off the disagreeable 
impression the affair left during the course of the 
forenoon, and he met Miss Woodburn with all a 
lover's buoyancy when he went to lunch. She was 
as happy as he when he told her how fortunately 
the whole thing had ended, and he took her view 
that it was a reward of his courage in having dared 
the worst. They both felt, as the newly ])liglitcd 
always do, that they were in the best relati(jns witli 
the beneficent powers, and that their felicity had 
l)een especially looked to in the disposition of events. 
They were in a glow of rapturous content with 
themselves and radiant worship of each other; she 
was sure that he merited the bright future opening 
to them both, as much as if he owed it directly to 
some noble action of his oavu ; he felt that he was 
indebted for the favour of Heaven entirely to the 
still incredible accident of her preference of him 
over other men. 

Colonel Woodburn, who was not yet in the secret 
of their love, perhaps failed for this reason to share 
their satisfaction with a result so unexpectedly 
brought about. The blessing on their hopes seemed 
to his ignorance to involve certain sacrifices of 
personal feeling at which he hinted in suggesting 
that Dryfoos should now be asked to make some 
abstract concessions and acknowledgments ; his 
daughter hastened to deny that these werc at all 



  

necessary ; and Fulkerson easily explained wlij-. 
The tiling was over ; what was the use of opening 
it up again ? 

" Perhaps none," the colonel admitted. But he 
added, " I should like the opportunity of taking Mr. 
Lindau's hand in the presence of Mr. Dryfoos, and 
assuring him that I considered him a man of principle 
and a man of lionour ; a gentleman, sir, whom I was 
proud and happy to have known." 

" Well, Ah 've no doabt," said his daughter 
demurely, " that you 'll have the chance some day ; 
and we would all lahke to join you. But at the 
same tahme, I think Mr. Fulkerson is well oat of it 
fo' the present." 



PART FIFTH. 



Superficially, the affairs of Every Other Wceh 
settled into their wonted form again, and for Fulker- 
son they seemed thoroughly reinstated. But !March 
liad a feeling of impermanency from wliat had 
happened, mixed witli a fantastic sense of shame 
toward Lindau. lie did not sympathise with 
Lindau's opinions, lie thought his remedy for existing 
evils as wildly impracticable as Colonel woodbnrn's. 
But while he thought this, and while he could justly 
blame Fulkerson for Lindau's presence at Dryfoos's 
dinner, which his zeal had brought about in sjiite of 
March's protests, still he could not rid himself of 
the reproach of uncandour with Lindau. He ought 
to have told him frankly about the ownership of the 
magazine, and what manner of man the man was 
whose money he was taking. But he said that ho 
never could have imagined that he was serious in 
his preposterous attitude in regard to a class of men 
who embody half the prosperity of the country ; 
and he had moments of revolt against his own 
humiliation before Lindau, in which he found it 



  

monstrous tliat lie should return Dryfoos's money as 
if it had been the spoil of a robber. His wife agreed 
with him in these moments, and said it was a great 
relief not to have that tiresome old German coming 
about. They had to account for his absence 
evasively to the children, whom they could not very 
