think you may count upon the availability of your verses.”
Hermia accepted her dismissal and went home much elated. The verses were
printed in the next issue of the magazine, and there was a mild storm on
the literary lake. The course of the magazine, in sending up a stream of
red-hot lava in place of the usual shower-bath of lemonade and
claret-cup, was severely criticised, but there were those who said that
this deliberately audacious editor enjoyed the little cyclone he had
provoked.
This was the most exciting episode Hermia could recall since Bessie’s
marriage.
                 
                               CHAPTER V.
                        THE SWEETS OF SOLITUDE.
A few weeks later Frank made an announcement which gave Hermia a genuine
thrill of delight. A fellow bank-clerk was obliged to spend some months
in California, and had offered Mordaunt his house in Jersey for the
summer. Hermia would not consent to go with them, in spite of their
entreaties. As far back as she could remember, way down through the long
perspective of her childhood, she had never been quite alone except at
night, nor could she remember the time when she had not longed for
solitude. And now! To be alone for four months! No more evenings of
domestic bliss, no more piles of stockings to darn, no more dinners to
concoct, no more discussions upon economy, no more daily tasks carefully
planned by Bessie’s methodical mind, no more lessons to teach, no more
anything which had been her daily portion for the last thirteen years.
Bridget would go with the family. She would do her own cooking, and not
eat at all if she did not wish. Her clothes could fall into rags, and
her hands look through every finger of her gloves. She would read and
dream and forget that the material world existed.
It was a beautiful spring morning when Hermia found herself alone. She
had gone with the family to Jersey, and had remained until they were
settled. Now the world was her own. When she returned to the flat, she
threw her things on the floor, pushed the parlor furniture awry, turned
the framed photographs to the wall, and hid the worsted tidies under the
sofa.
For two months she was well content. She reveled in her loneliness, in
the voiceless rooms, the deserted table, the aimless hours, the
forgotten past, the will-painted present. She regarded the post-man as
her natural enemy, and gave him orders not to ring her bell. Once a week
she took her letters from the box and devoted a half-hour to
correspondence. She had a hammock swung in one of the rooms, and dreamed
half the night through that she was in the hanging gardens of Semiramis.
The darkness alone was between her and the heavens thick with starry
gods; and below was the heavy perfume of oranges and lotus flowers.
There was music—soft—crashing—wooing her to a scene of bewildering
light and mad carousal. There was rapture of power and ecstasy of love.
She had but to fling aside the curtains—to fly down the corridor—
It is not to be supposed that Hermia’s imagination was faithful to the
Orient. Her nature had great sensuous breadth and wells of passion which
penetrated far down into the deep, hard substratum of New England rock;
but her dreams were apt to be inspired by what she had read last. She
loved the barbarous, sensuous, Oriental past, but she equally loved the
lore which told of the rugged strength and brutal sincerity of mediæval
days, when man turned his thoughts to love and war and naught besides;
when the strongest won the woman he wanted by murder and force, and the
woman loved him the better for doing it. Hermia would have gloried in
the breathless uncertainty of those days, when death and love went
hand-in-hand, and every kiss was bought with the swing of a battle-axe.
She would have liked to be locked in her tower by her feudal father, and
to have thrown down a rope-ladder to her lover at night. Other periods
of history at times demanded her, and she had a great many famous
lovers: Bolingbroke and Mirabeau, Napoleon and Aaron Burr, Skobeleff and
Cavour, a motley throng who bore a strong racial resemblance to one
another when roasting in the furnace of her super-heated imagination.
Again, there were times when love played but a small part in her
visions. She was one of the queens of that world to which she had been
born, a world whose mountains were of cold brown stone, and in whose few
and narrow currents drifted stately maidens in stiff, white collars and
tailor-made gowns. She should be one of that select band. It was her
birthright; and each instinct of power and fastidiousness, caste and
exclusiveness, flourished as greenly within her as if those currents had
swept their roots during every year of her life’s twenty-four. When
ambition sank down, gasping for breath, love would come forward eager
and warm, a halo enveloped the brown-stone front, and through the
plate-glass and silken curtains shone the sun of paradise.
For a few weeks the charm of solitude retained its edge. Then,
gradually, the restlessness of Hermia’s nature awoke after its sleep and
clamored for recognition. She grew to hate the monotony of her own
society as she had that of her little circle. She came to dread the
silence of the house; it seemed to close down upon her, oppressing,
stifling, until she would put her hand to her throat and gasp for
breath. Sometimes she would scream at every noise; her nerves became so
unstrung that sleep was a visitor who rarely remembered her. Once,
thinking she needed change of scene, she went to Jersey. She returned
the next morning. The interruption of the habit of years, the absolute
change of the past few months made it impossible to take up again the
strings of her old life. They had snapped forever, and the tension had
been too tight to permit a knot. She could go down to the river, but not
back to the existence of the past thirteen years.
For a week after her return from Jersey she felt as if she were going
mad. Life seemed to have stopped; the future was a blank sheet. Try to
write on it as she would, the characters took neither form nor color. To
go and live alone would mean no more than the change from her sister’s
flat to a bare-walled room; to remain in her present conditions was
unthinkable. She had neither the money nor the beauty to accumulate
interests in life. Books ceased to interest her, imagination failed her.
She tried to write, but passion was dead, and the blood throbbed in her
head and drowned words and ideas. She had come to the edge of life, and
at her feet swept the river—in its depths were peace and
oblivion—eternal rest—a long, cool night—the things which crawl in
the deep would suck the blood from her head—a claw with muscles of
steel would wrench the brain from her skull and carry it far, far, where
she could feel it throb and jump and ache no more—
And then, one day, John Suydam died and left her a million dollars.
                 
                              CHAPTER VI.
                   SUYDAM’S LEGACY AND HERMIA’S WILL.
Hermia attended her uncle’s funeral because Frank came over and insisted
upon it; and she and her brother-in-law were the only mourners. But few
people were in the church, a circumstance which Hermia remembered later
with gratitude. The Suydams had lived on Second Avenue since Second
Avenue had boasted a brick or brownstone front, but no one cared to
assume a respect he did not feel. Among the tablets which graced the
interior of St. Mark’s was one erected to the dead man’s father, who had
left many shekels to the diocese; but John Suydam was lowered into the
family vault with nothing to perpetuate his memory but his name and the
dates of his birth and death engraved on the silver plate of his coffin.
Hermia took no interest in her uncle’s death; she was even past the
regret that she would be the poorer by twenty-five dollars a year. When
she received the letter from Suydam’s lawyer, informing her that she was
heiress to a million dollars, her hands shook for an hour.
At first she was too excited to think connectedly. She went out and took
a long walk, and physical fatigue conquered her nerves. She returned
home and sat down on the edge of her bed and thought it all out. The
world was under her feet at last. With such a fortune she could
materialize every dream of her life. She would claim her place in
society here, then go abroad, and in the old world forget the Nineteenth
Century. She would have a house, each of whose rooms should be the
embodiment of one of that strange medley of castles she had built in the
land of her dreams. And men would love her—she was free to love in fact
instead of in fancy—free to go forth and in the crowded drawing-rooms
of that world not a bird’s flight away find the lover whose glance would
be recognition.
She sprang to her feet and threw her arms above her head. New life
seemed to have been poured into her veins, and it coursed through them
like quicksilver; she felt young for the first time in the twenty-four
centuries of her life. She dropped her arms and closed her hand slowly;
the world was in the palm. She smiled and let her head drop back. She
moved it slowly on the pivot of her throat. Her eyes met the glass.
The cry of horror which burst from her lips rang through the room. For
this girl had lived so long and so consistently in her imagination that
it was rarely she remembered she was not a beautiful woman. During the
past hours she had slowly grasped the fact that, as with the stroke of a
magician’s wand, her dream-estates had been hardened from shadow into
substance; it had not occurred to her that the gift most coveted was the
one gift withheld.
She sank in a heap on the bed, all spirit and hope gone out of her. For
many minutes she remained motionless. Then she slowly straightened
herself until she was erect once more, and in her face grew a look of
hope fighting down doubt. In a moment hope triumphed, then gave way to
determination, which in turn yielded to defiance. She sprang forward and
with her clenched hand shattered her mirror into a star with a thousand
points.
“I will be beautiful!” she cried aloud, “and I will never look into a
glass again until I am.”
                 
                              CHAPTER VII.
                         A HEROINE IN TRAINING.
The thirty or forty thousand dollars over John Suydam’s million had been
left to Bessie. She immediately bought a charming house on St. Mark’s
