want, for we all depend upon your Although their kind- 
ness touched me, I could not bring myself to take more 
than my share. 
Up to this time the two boats had always ket in sight 
of each other, but as the long boat sailed much faster than 
the other, the men in the latter exerted themselves to get 
nearer to us ; and, as they knew almost nothing of the 
management of a boat, entreated us to take them up into 
ours, lest they should be separated from us during the 
night. But our crew refused their request, and cried out 
to me, " Captain, if we take them in, we shall all go to 
the bottom, for the boat will not be able to sail" I could 
not prevail with them, and we were obliged to leave them 
to their fate. 
We were now miserable in the extreme. Our biscuit 
was all consumed, and we could see no land. I used all 
my powers of eloquence to convince the men that we could 
not be far from the coast of Java, and prayed them to 
hiive patience, but their patience did not last long ; they 
soon ceased to listen to me, and began to murmur and 
whisper among themselves, "Let the captain sav wliatie 
will, we are just as likely to be sailing abcut on the open 
sea as approaching the coast of Java." 
After we had fasted for a long time, and starvation 
seemed inevitable, a few sea-mews chanced to fly so near 
to us that we caught them in our hands, stripped off the 
feathers, and cut them up into little pieces, which we divi- 
ded most conscientiously; each man devoured the share 
that fell to him with the greatest avidity. As for myself, 
I thought it better than any delicacy I had evdr tasted ; 
honey had never been half so sweet to me, and we lamen- 
ted that there was no chance of our again enjoying such a 
treat. There was still no sign of land, and the men lost 
all courage, and silently awaited their fate, when the other 
boat again approached us, and the men in it renewed their 
entreaties to be taken in. As death seemed inevitable, we 
consented at least to die all together, and they left their 
boat to the mercy of the waves, bringing with them their 
thirty oars, which I arranged upon the benches, so as to 
form a kind of deck under which our seventy-two men, 
divided into two parties, alternately rested. 
In spite of all this, we were, as can easily be imagined, 
huddled very closely together, and gazed upon each other 
with the despairing expression of men who had nothing to 
"eat, no water to drink, and who could not see a bird upon 
the sea, nor a cloud in the air which might bring them 
relief. When we had given up all hope and had begun to 
prepare ouselves for death, it pleased God to reanimate our 
sinking courage once more, for a great number of flying 
Qsh sprung out of the waves and fell into the Voat ; we 
seized them eagerly, and devoured them raw, with as much 
 
enjoyment as formerly in the case of the searmews. But 
now our thirst increased fearfully, and in their despair, 
Bome of the men began to drink the water from the sea, 
although I cried out, " friends, forbear to drink the salt 
water, it will not quench your thirst and will kill you." 
Others sought refuge in the little pieces of lead and rusty 
nails that they could find in the vessel, which they chewed 
for a temporary relief. 
Our misery increased every day, and despair took pos- 
session of us, for the men cast upon each other angry, 
greedy looks, as though they longed to fall upon and 
devour one another; indeedj they soon began to speak 
openly of it, declaring that they would begin with the 
cabin-boy. Such horror seized me at this dreadful ide 
that I almost lost my courage and presence of mind. In 
this extremity I turned to God, and begged him as fer- 
vently as I could, not to permit such a horrible crime ; I 
then addressed my men, who were actually preparing to 
kill the cabin-boy, with all the earnestness, and with the 
most touching words at my command : 
"Friends, what are you about to do ? Do you not recoil 
from such a crime? Turn your thoughts to God; he 
will look in mercy upon you, and deliver you from this 
dreadful temptation, for we cannot be far from land." 
Then I showed them on the chart which I had cut on 
the deck, the spot where I believed we were, but they 
replied that I had said the same thing for many days, and 
deceived them with hopes that were never realized ; they 
could not tell whether I was deceived myself, or was only 
bent upon deceiving them. Spite of these threatening 
 
speeclies, they consentedj at my entreaty, to wait for three 
days, but swore to carry out their cruel determination if 
help did not appear at the end of that time. This decis- 
ion almost broke my heart. I redoubled my prayers, and 
implored God to have pity upon us and prevent the com- 
mission of such a crime. In the meanwhile the time flew 
by, and our hunger and thirst were so intense that they 
could scarcely be endured. 
" Ail," cried some, " if we were only on land, we could 
at least eat grass like the cattle." 
From this, one can form some idea of our fierce hunger; 
I tried to cheer up the men with the most encouraging 
words that I could think of Hope, which was decreasing 
rapidly in my breast, still sustained me, and although my 
wounds had weakened me much, and still pained me, I 
was among the strongest, and could still walk from one 
end to the other of the boat, while many could not stir 
from the spot where they were lying. 
Thirteen days had passed since the shipwreck, and our 
hope of reaching the coast of Sumatra, which I had not 
thought far distant, grew every hour more indistinct. All 
declared that our thirst was no longer to be borne, when 
the weather grew cloudy and rain began to fall; we imme- 
diately spread out the sail and laid down upon the deck 
to catch every drop that we could in our mouths, while we 
filled our casks as before. 
I was steering the vessel at this time, and according to 
my calculations, we were very near land ; I hoped that the 
weather would clear up, but it continued to rain so vio- 
lently, and I was so cold and wet that I could hold out no 
 
longer. I called to one of the sailors to relieve me, and 
crept under the deck to warm me. 
IV. 
"Land! land! Friends, we are close to the coast," 
suddenly cried the steersman, before he had been more 
than an hour at the helm, quite beside himself With joy. 
The land which we should have discovered much sooner 
in clear weather, lay really just before us, and it was a 
pleasure to see how all immediately aroused themselves, 
and came eagerly forward to see how far distant it was 
and how soon we could reach it. We spread all sail that 
we might arrive before nightfall. As we approached we 
perceived that the breakers were too strong to admit of 
our weathering them, and we discovered a little island 
where was a small bay, in which we cast anchor. The 
starved crew, gathering together all their remaining 
strength, sprang on shore, and distributed themselves 
every where, in search of something to eat; I threw 
myself upon the ground, kissed it, and gave thanks to 
God for his timely ?iid, and for having shielded us from the 
commission of so foul a crime as the men would have per- 
petrated on the following day, for this was the last of the 
days that they had promised to wait, and the cabin boy 
would have been killed on the morrow. 
We found an abundance of cocoanuts on the island, but 
no sweet water ; we were, however, quite satisfied with the 
refreshing juice of the youngest and tenderest nuts, while 
the harder ones served us for meat. We indulged too freely 
in this delicious food after our long fast, and were extremely 
ill the next day ; we rolled on the ground and shrieked 
with agony; but it did not last long, and on the following 
morning we were well again. 
We explored the island but found no food but cocoanuts, 
and encountered quite a large serpent ; we saw no human 
beings, but found traces of vessels having touched there. 
As it could not be far from Sumatra, according to our cal- 
culations, we loaded our vessel with cocoanuts and set sail 
again towards evening. The next morning, Sumatra lay 
in sight, and with a favourable breeze we bore down upon 
the coast and sailed along, looking for a harbor where we 
might land, until our provision of nuts was exhausted. 
Then, as the breakers seemed every where too strong to 
trust ourselves to them, it was decided that four or five of 
the best swimmers should attempt to reach the shore, and 
search more narrowly for a good landing place. This plan 
succeeded, and they soon arrived upon the shore of a river 
