" I don't care a straw for Lady Whiteroy." 
" And you promised me. But that's less still." 
" It is foolish it's quite idiotic," said Nick, with his hands 
in his pockets and his eyes on the ceiling. 
There was another silence, at the end of which Mrs. Dallow 
remarked : " You might have answered Mr. Macgeorge when 
he spoke to you." 
" Mr. Macgeorge what has he to do with it? " 
" He has to do with your getting on a little. If you think 
that's the way ! " 
Nick broke into a laugh. " I like lessons in getting on 
in other words I suppose you mean in urbanity from you, 
Julia ! " 
" Why not from me ? " 
" Because you can do nothing base. You're incapable of 
putting on a flattering manner, to get something by it : there- 
fore why should you expect me to ? You're unflattering 
that is you're austere in proportion as there may be some- 
thing to be got. ' 
Mrs. Dallow sprang up from her chair, coming towards him. 
" There is only one thing I want in the world you know very 
well." 
" Yes, you want it so much that you won't even take it when 
it's pressed upon you. How long do you seriously expect me 
to bear it ? " Nick repeated. 
" I never asked you to do anything base," she said, standing 
in front of him. "If I'm not clever about throwing myself 
into things, it's all the more reason you should be." 
" If you're not clever, my dear Julia ] " Nick, standing close 
to her, placed his hands on her shoulders and shook her a little 
with a mixture of tenderness and passion. " You're clever 
enough to make me furious, sometimes ! " 
She opened and closed her fan, looking down at it while she 
submitted to this attenuated violence. " All I want is that 
when a man like Mr. Macgeorge talks to you, you shouldn't 
appear to be bored to death. You used to be so charming in 
that sort of way. And now you appear to take no interest in 
anything. At dinner to-night you scarcely opened your lips ; 
you treated them all as if you only wished they'd go." 
" I did wish they'd go. Haven't I told you a hundred times 
what I think of your salon ] " 
" How then do you want me to live ? " Mrs, Dallow asked. 
" Am I not to have a creature in the house ? " 
" As many creatures as you like. Your freedom is complete, 
and as far as I am concerned always will be. Only when you 
challenge me and overhaul me not justly I think I must 
confess the simple truth, that there are many of your friends 
I don't delight in." 
" Oh, your idea of pleasant people ! '' Julia exclaimed. " I 
should like once for all to know what it really is." 
" I can tell you what it really isn't : it isn't Mr. Macgeorge. 
He's a being almost grotesquely limited." 
" He'll be where you'll never be unless you change." 
" To be where Mr. Macgeorge is not would be very nmch my 
desire. Therefore why should I change ? " Nick demanded. 
" However, I hadn't the least intention of being rude to him, 
and I don't think I was," he went on. " To the best of my 
ability I assume a virtue if I have it not ; but apparently I'm 
not enough of a comedian." 
" If you have it not ? It's when you say things like that 
that you're so dreadfully tiresome. As if there were anything 
that you haven't or mightn't have ! " 
Nick turned away from his hostess ; he took a few impatient 
steps in the room, looking at the carpet, with his hands in. his 
pockets again. Then he came back to the fire with the observ- 
ation : " It's rather hard to be found so wanting when one has 
tried to play one's part so beautifully." He paused, with his 
eyes on Mrs. Dallow's ; then continued, with a vibration in 
his voice : " I've imperilled my immortal soul, or at least I've 
bemuddled my intelligence, by all the things I don't care for 
that I've tried to do, and all the things I detest that I've tried 
to be, and all the things I never can be that I've tried to look 
as if I were all the appearances and imitations, the pretences 
and hypocrisies in which I've steeped myself to the eyes ; and 
at the end of it (it serves me right ! ) my reward is simply to 
learn that I'm still not half humbug enough ! " 
Mrs. Dallow looked away from him as soon as he had spoken 
these words ; she attached her eyes to the clock which stood 
behind him and observed irrelevantly : 
" I'm very sorry, but I think you had better go. I don't 
like you to stay after midnight." 
' ' Ah, what you like and what you don't like, and where one 
begins and the other ends all that's an impenetrable mys- 
tery ! " the young man declared. But he took no further 
notice of her allusion to his departure, adding in a different 
tone : " ' A man like Mr. Macgeorge ! ' When you say a thing 
of that sort, in a certain particular way, I should rather like 
to suffer you to perish." 
Mrs. Dallow stared ; it might have seemed for an instant 
that she was trying to look stupid. " How can I help it if a 
few years hence he is certain to be at the head of any Liberal 
government ? " 
" "We can't help it, of course, but we can help talking about 
it," Nick smiled. " If we don't mention it, it may not be 
noticed." 
" You're trying to make me angry. You're in one of your 
vicious moods," observed Mrs. Dallow, blowing out, on the 
chimney-piece, a guttering candle. 
" That I'm exasperated I have already had the honour very 
positively to inform you. All the same I maintain that I was 
irreproachable at dinner. I don't want you to think I shall 
always be so good as that." 
" You looked so out of it ; you were as gloomy as if every 
earthly hope had left you, and you didn't make a single con- 
tribution to any discussion that took place. Don't you think 
I observe you ? " Mrs. Dallow asked, with an irony tempered 
by a tenderness that was unsuccessfully concealed. 
" Ah, my darling, what you observe ! " Nick exclaimed, 
laughing and stopping. But he added the next moment, more 
seriously, as if his tone had been disrespectful: "You probe 
me to the bottom, no doubt." 
" You needn't come either to Griffin or to Severals if you 
don't want to." 
" Give them up yourself ; stay here with me ! " 
She coloured quickly, as he said this, and broke out : Lord ! 
how you hate political houses ! " 
" How can you say that, when from February to August I 
spend every blessed night in one? " 
" Yes, and hate that worst of all." 
" So do half the people who are in it. You must have so 
many things, so many people, so much miie-en-scene and such 
a perpetual spectacle to live," Nick went on. " Perpetual 
motion, perpetual visits, perpetual crowds ! If you go into the 
country you'll see forty people every day and be mixed up with 
them all day. The idea of a quiet fortnight in town, when by 
a happy if idiotic superstition everybody goes out of it, discon- 
certs and frightens you. It's the very time, it's the very place, 
to do a little work and possess one's soul." 
This vehement allocution found Mrs. Dallow evidently 
somewhat unprepared ; but she was sagacious enough, instead 
of attempting for the moment a general rejoinder, to seize on 
a single phrase and say : " Work ? What work can you do in 
London at such a moment as this ? " 
Nick hesitated a little. " I might tell you that I wanted 
to get up a lot of subjects, to sit at home and read blue-books; 
but that wouldn't be quite what I mean." 
" Do you mean you want to paint ? " 
" Yes, that's it, since you drag it out of me." 
" Why do you make such a mystery about it ? You're at 
perfect liberty," said Mrs. Dallow. 
She extended her hand, to rest it on the mantel-shelf, but 
her companion took it on the way and held it in both his 
own. " You're delightful, Julia, when you speak in that 
tone then I know why it is I love you ; but I can't do 
anything if I go to Griffin, if I go to Severals." 
" I see I see," said Julia, reflectively and kindly. 
" I've scarcely been inside of my studio for months and I 
feel quite homesick for it. The idea of putting in a few quiet 
days there has taken hold of me : I rather cling to it." 
"It seems so odd, your having a studio!" Julia dropped, 
speaking so quickly that the words were almost incom- 
prehensible. 
" Doesn't it sound absurd, for all the good it does me, or I 
do in it ? Of course one can produce nothing but rubbish on 
such terms without continuity or persistence, with just a few 
days here and there. I ought to be ashamed of myself, no 
doubt ; but even my rubbish interests me. ' Guenille si Von 
veut, ma guenille truest chere.' But I'll go down to Harsh with 
you in a moment, Julia," Nick pursued : " that would do as 
well, if we could be quiet there, without people, without a 
