friends of hers, but called them “Billy,” “Tom,” “John,” and they called
her “Puss” or “Hattie.”
Mr. Marsh sat at the head of the table, his wife sat at the foot. Marsh
was a man of sixty, and was an American; but if he had been born a
month earlier he would have been a Spaniard. He was plenty good enough
Spaniard as it was; his face was very dark, his hair very black, and his
eyes were not only exceedingly black but were very intense, and there
was something about them that indicated that they could burn with
passion upon occasion. He was stoop-shouldered and lean-faced, and the
general aspect of him was disagreeable; he was evidently not a very
companionable person. If looks went for anything, he was the very
opposite of his wife, who was all motherliness and charity, good
will and good nature. All the young men and the women called her Aunt
Rachael, which was another sign. Tracy’s wandering and interested
eye presently fell upon one boarder who had been overlooked in the
distribution of the stew. He was very pale and looked as if he had but
lately come out of a sick bed, and also as if he ought to get back into
it again as soon as possible. His face was very melancholy. The waves
of laughter and conversation broke upon it without affecting it any more
than if it had been a rock in the sea and the words and the laughter
veritable waters. He held his head down and looked ashamed. Some of the
women cast glances of pity toward him from time to time in a furtive
and half afraid way, and some of the youngest of the men plainly had
compassion on the young fellow--a compassion exhibited in their faces
but not in any more active or compromising way. But the great majority
of the people present showed entire indifference to the youth and his
sorrows. Marsh sat with his head down, but one could catch the malicious
gleam of his eyes through his shaggy brows. He was watching that
young fellow with evident relish. He had not neglected him through
carelessness, and apparently the table understood that fact. The
spectacle was making Mrs. Marsh very uncomfortable. She had the look of
one who hopes against hope that the impossible may happen. But as the
impossible did not happen, she finally ventured to speak up and remind
her husband that Nat Brady hadn’t been helped to the Irish stew.
Marsh lifted his head and gasped out with mock courtliness, “Oh, he
hasn’t, hasn’t he? What a pity that is. I don’t know how I came
to overlook him. Ah, he must pardon me. You must indeed
Mr--er--Baxter--Barker, you must pardon me. I--er--my attention was
directed to some other matter, I don’t know what. The thing that grieves
me mainly is, that it happens every meal now. But you must try to
overlook these little things, Mr. Bunker, these little neglects on my
part. They’re always likely to happen with me in any case, and they are
especially likely to happen where a person has--er--well, where a
person is, say, about three weeks in arrears for his board. You get my
meaning?--you get my idea? Here is your Irish stew, and--er--it gives me
the greatest pleasure to send it to you, and I hope that you will enjoy
the charity as much as I enjoy conferring it.”
A blush rose in Brady’s white cheeks and flowed slowly backward to his
ears and upward toward his forehead, but he said nothing and began to
eat his food under the embarrassment of a general silence and the sense
that all eyes were fastened upon him. Barrow whispered to Tracy:
“The old man’s been waiting for that. He wouldn’t have missed that
chance for anything.”
“It’s a brutal business,” said Tracy. Then he said to himself, purposing
to set the thought down in his diary later:
“Well, here in this very house is a republic where all are free and
equal, if men are free and equal anywhere in the earth, therefore I have
arrived at the place I started to find, and I am a man among men, and
on the strictest equality possible to men, no doubt. Yet here on the
threshold I find an inequality. There are people at this table who are
looked up to for some reason or another, and here is a poor devil of a
boy who is looked down upon, treated with indifference, and shamed by
humiliations, when he has committed no crime but that common one of
being poor. Equality ought to make men noble-minded. In fact I had
supposed it did do that.”
After supper, Barrow proposed a walk, and they started. Barrow had a
purpose. He wanted Tracy to get rid of that cowboy hat. He didn’t see
his way to finding mechanical or manual employment for a person rigged
in that fashion. Barrow presently said:
“As I understand it, you’re not a cowboy.”
“No, I’m not.”
“Well, now if you will not think me too curious, how did you come to
mount that hat? Where’d you get it?”
Tracy didn’t know quite how to reply to this, but presently said,
“Well, without going into particulars, I exchanged clothes with a
stranger under stress of weather, and I would like to find him and
re-exchange.”
“Well, why don’t you find him? Where is he?”
“I don’t know. I supposed the best way to find him would be to continue
to wear his clothes, which are conspicuous enough to attract his
attention if I should meet him on the street.”
“Oh, very well,” said Barrow, “the rest of the outfit, is well enough,
and while it’s not too conspicuous, it isn’t quite like the clothes
that anybody else wears. Suppress the hat. When you meet your man he’ll
recognize the rest of his suit. That’s a mighty embarrassing hat, you
know, in a centre of civilization like this. I don’t believe an angel
could get employment in Washington in a halo like that.”
Tracy agreed to replace the hat with something of a modester form, and
they stepped aboard a crowded car and stood with others on the rear
platform. Presently, as the car moved swiftly along the rails, two men
crossing the street caught sight of the backs of Barrow and Tracy, and
both exclaimed at once, “There he is!” It was Sellers and Hawkins.
Both were so paralyzed with joy that before they could pull themselves
together and make an effort to stop the car, it was gone too far, and
they decided to wait for the next one. They waited a while; then
it occurred to Washington that there could be no use in chasing one
horse-car with another, and he wanted to hunt up a hack. But the Colonel
said:
“When you come to think of it, there’s no occasion for that at all. Now
that I’ve got him materialized, I can command his motions. I’ll have him
at the house by the time we get there.”
Then they hurried off home in a state of great and joyful excitement.
The hat exchange accomplished, the two new friends started to walk back
leisurely to the boarding house. Barrow’s mind was full of curiosity
about this young fellow. He said,
“You’ve never been to the Rocky Mountains?”
“No.”
“You’ve never been out on the plains?”
“No.”
“How long have you been in this country?”
“Only a few days.”
“You’ve never been in America before?”
“No.”
Then Barrow communed with himself. “Now what odd shapes the notions of
romantic people take. Here’s a young fellow who’s read in England about
cowboys and adventures on the plains. He comes here and buys a
cowboy’s suit. Thinks he can play himself on folks for a cowboy, all
inexperienced as he is. Now the minute he’s caught in this poor little
game, he’s ashamed of it and ready to retire from it. It is that
exchange that he has put up as an explanation. It’s rather thin, too
thin altogether. Well, he’s young, never been anywhere, knows nothing
about the world, sentimental, no doubt. Perhaps it was the natural
thing for him to do, but it was a most singular choice, curious freak,
altogether.”
Both men were busy with their thoughts for a time, then Tracy heaved a
sigh and said,
“Mr. Barrow, the case of that young fellow troubles me.”
“You mean Nat Brady?”
“Yes, Brady, or Baxter, or whatever it was. The old landlord called him
by several different names.”
“Oh, yes, he has been very liberal with names for Brady, since Brady
fell into arrears for his board. Well, that’s one of his sarcasms--the
old man thinks he’s great on sarcasm.”
“Well, what is Brady’s difficulty? What is Brady--who is he?”
“Brady is a tinner. He’s a young journeyman tinner who was getting along
all right till he fell sick and lost his job. He was very popular before
he lost his job; everybody in the house liked Brady. The old man was
rather especially fond of him, but you know that when a man loses his
job and loses his ability to support himself and to pay his way as he
goes, it makes a great difference in the way people look at him and feel
about him.”
“Is that so! Is it so?”
Barrow looked at Tracy in a puzzled way. “Why of course it’s so.
Wouldn’t you know that, naturally. Don’t you know that the wounded deer
is always attacked and killed by its companions and friends?”
Tracy said to himself, while a chilly and boding discomfort spread
itself through his system, “In a republic of deer and men where all
are free and equal, misfortune is a crime, and the prosperous gore the
unfortunate to death.” Then he said aloud, “Here in the boarding house,
if one would have friends and be popular instead of having the cold
shoulder turned upon him, he must be prosperous.”
“Yes,” Barrow said, “that is so. It’s their human nature. They do turn
against Brady, now that he’s unfortunate, and they don’t like him as
well as they did before; but it isn’t because of any lack in Brady--he’s
just as he was before, has the same nature and the same impulses, but
they--well, Brady is a thorn in their consciences, you see. They know
they ought to help him and they’re too stingy to do it, and they’re
ashamed of themselves for that, and they ought also to hate themselves
on that account, but instead of that they hate Brady because he makes
them ashamed of themselves. I say that’s human nature; that occurs
