At this his friends retreated into the little room. Reulah reached the
middle seat of the central mat first and held it, his nostrils quivering
at the envy of the others.

Preceded by their host, Jesus and Judas found places near together, and,
the usual ablutions performed, the customary prayers recited, lay, the
upper part of the body supported by the left arm, the head raised, the
limbs outstretched.

On the stools were dishes of stewed lentils, milk, and cakes of mashed
locusts. Reulah ate with the tips of his lips, greedily, like a goat.
Judas, too, ate with an air of hunger. The Master broke bread absently,
his thoughts on other things. These thoughts Simon interrupted.

“Rabbi”—and to his wide mouth came the sneer of one propounding a riddle
already solved—“it is not meet, is it, to thresh on the Sabbath day? Yet
since you permit your followers to do so, how are we to distinguish
between what is lawful and what is not?”

The Master raised his eyes. The dawn was in them, high noon as well.

“Show yourself a tried money-changer. Choose that which is good metal,
reject that which is bad.”

Simon blinked as at a sudden light.

“But,” he persisted, “in seeking to observe the Law, there is not a jot or
tittle in it that can be rejected.”

With an acquiescence that was both vague and melancholy, Jesus looked the
Pharisee in the face.

“Seek those things that are great, and little things will be added unto
you——”

He would have said more, perhaps, but a woman who had entered from the
recess approached circuitously, and kneeling beside him let a tear, long
as a pearl, fall upon his unsandalled feet.

Judas’ heart bounded; he glared at her, his eyes dilating like a leopard
preparing to spring. At once he was back in the circus, gazing into the
perils and the splendors of a woman’s face, telling himself with
reiterated insistence that to hold her to him would be the birthday of his
life; and here, within reach of his hand, was she whom in the din of the
chariots he had recognized as the one woman in all the world, and who for
one moment the day before had lain unconscious in his arms.

Reulah sat motionless, his mouth agape, a finger extended. “The paramour
of Pandera,” he stammered at last; and lowering his eyes, he looked at her
covetously from beneath the lids.

Simon, too, sat motionless. There was rage in his expression, hate
even—that hatred which the beautiful excites in the base. Time and again
he had seen her; she was a byword with him; from the height of her
residence she looked down on his mean gray walls; her luxury had been an
insult to his abstinence; and with that zest which a small nature takes in
the humiliation of its superior, he determined, in spite of her manifest
abjection, to humiliate her still more.

“If this man,” he confided to his neighbor, “has in him anything of that
which goes to the making of a prophet, he will divine what manner of woman
she is. If he does not, I will denounce them both.” And nourishing his
hate he waited yet a while.

The Master seemed depressed. The great secret which in all the world he
alone possessed may have weighed with him. But he turned to Mary and
looked at her. As he looked she bent yet lower. The marvel of her hair was
unconfined; it fell about her in tangling streams of gold and flame, while
on his feet there fell from her tears such as no woman ever shed before.
In the era of primitive hospitality the daughters of kings had not
disdained to unlatch the sandals of their fathers’ guests; but now, at the
feet of Mercy, for the first time Repentance knelt. And still the tears
continued, unstanched and undetained. Grief, something keener still
perhaps, had claimed her as its own. She bent lower. Then Misery looked up
at Compassion.

The Master stretched his hand. For a moment it rested on her head. She
quivered and clutched at her throat; and as he withdrew that hand, in
which all panaceas were, from her gown she took a little box, opened it,
and dropping the contents where the tears had fallen, with a sudden
movement she caught her hair and poured its lava on his feet.

An aroma of beckoning oases filled the small room, passed into the recess,
mounted to the roof, pervaded and penetrated it, and escaped to the sky
above.

And still she wept. Judas no longer saw her tears, he heard them. They
fell swiftly one after another, like the ripple of the rain. A sob broke
from her, but in it was something which foretokened peace, the sob which
comes to those who have conceived a despairing hope, and suddenly
intercept its fulfilment. Her hands trembled; the little box fell from her
and broke. The noise it made exorcised the silence.

The Master turned to his host. “I have a word to say to you.”

Simon stroked his beard and bowed.

“There was once a man who had two debtors. One owed him five hundred
pence, the other fifty. Both were poor, and because of their poverty the
debt of each he forgave.”

For an instant Jesus paused and seemed to muse; then, with that indulgence
which was to illuminate the world, “Tell me, Simon,” he inquired, “which
was the more grateful?”

Simon assumed an air of perplexity, and glanced cunningly from one guest
to another. Presently he laughed outright.

“Why, the one who owed the most, of course.”

Reulah suppressed a giggle. By the expression of the others it was patent
that to them also the jest appealed. Only Judas did not seem to have
heard; he sat bolt upright, fumbling Mary with his violent eyes.

The Master made a gesture of assent, and turned to where Mary crouched.
She was staring at him with that look which the magnetized share with
animals.

“You see her?”

Straightening himself, he leaned on his elbow and scrutinized his host.

“Simon, I am your guest. When I entered here there was no kiss to greet
me, there was no oil for my head, no water for my feet. But this woman
whom you despise has not ceased to embrace them. She has washed them with
her tears, anointed them with nard, and dried them with her hair. Her
sins, it may be, are many, but, Simon, they are forgiven——”

Simon, Reulah, the others, muttered querulously. To forgive sins was
indeed an attribute which no one, save the Eternal, could arrogate to
himself.

“—for she has loved much.”

And turning again to Mary, who still crouched at his side, he added:

“Your sins are forgiven. Go now, and in peace.”

But the fierce surprise of the Pharisees was not to be shocked into
silence. Reulah showed his teeth; they were pointed and treacherous as a
jackal’s. Simon loudly asserted disapproval and wonder too.

“I am amazed——” he began.

The Master checked him:

“The beginning of truth is amazement. Wonder, then, at what you see; for
he that wonders shall reign, and he that reigns shall rest.”

The music of his voice heightened the beauty of the speech. On Mary it
fell and rested as had the touch of his hand.

“Messiah, my Lord!” she cried. “In your breast is the future, in your
heart the confidence of God. Let me but tell you. There are those that
live whose lives are passed; the tombs do not hold all of those that are
dead. I was dead; you brought me to life. I had no conscience; you gave me
one, for I was dead,” she insisted. “And yet,” she added, with a little
moan, so human, so sincere, that it might have stirred a Cæsar, let alone
a Christ, “not wholly dead. No, no, dear Lord, not wholly dead.”

