directed their steps towards it. It was but a short walk, and they soon
reached the lane that extended between the rows of huts.
The lieutenant took his two revolvers from his hip pockets, and examined
them as well as he could in the dark, and Mike did the same, for it was
necessary to be prepared for whatever might happen. The village was as
silent as though it were entirely deserted; but it was nearly midnight,
and doubtless they were asleep in the cabins. They entered one. It was
still and dark within the house. Mr. Pennant had brought with him a
small lantern, which he lighted where the glare of the match could not
be seen; but it revealed nothing to the inquirers.
Covering the lantern so that its light could not be seen, they followed
the lane between the two rows of cabins for some distance farther, and
then entered another. Like the first, it was deserted. They crossed to
the other side of the avenue, where they saw some signs that the cabin
was inhabited. Uncovering his lantern, Mr. Pennant threw the light upon
the interior. It contained two beds, and each of them was occupied by
two persons. In one were two silvered heads to be seen, while the other
displayed two heads that appeared to belong to women.
"Shut the door, Mike," said the officer, in order to prevent the light
from being seen.
"I think I know one of the old men," added the Russian as he returned
from the door, "Shall I wake him up?"
"Yes; but don't frighten him," replied Mr. Pennant.
"Uncle Job," said Mike, placing his hand on the shoulder of the sleeper
on the side of the bed nearest to him.
The head and hair of the old colored man were peculiar enough to enable
the Russian to identify him if he had ever seen him even once before.
His mouth was twisted to one side either naturally or by some injury,
and his kinky hair made him look as though he carried a great bale of
cotton on the top of his head. He opened his eyes when Mike shook him
gently, and looked at the two men at the side of his bed with a
wondering rather than an alarmed expression.
"Who dar?" inquired the negro.
"Good-morning, Uncle Job," replied Mike, taking the hand of the aged
colored person. "How is your health?"
"Don't hab no healf, massa," replied Job, gazing earnestly at the
intruder upon his slumbers.
"Don't you know me, Uncle Job?"
"'Pears like I do; I reckon you's Massa Cap'n Flanger."
"Not exactly; but I'm his man, Mike Bornhoff."
"Jes' so; you was born ob de debbil," replied the old negro, rising in
his bed, and showing all his remaining teeth in an expansive smile.
"He remembers me," said Mike turning to the lieutenant. "We have struck
the right man. But he don't mean that I am any wickeder than the rest of
the world. I used to be called here by my last name, and Job invented
the pun he has just used."
"Why do you say that we have struck the right man, Mike?" asked Mr.
Pennant, caring little for the former relations of the two men.
"Because, though he don't look it, he is the best posted nigger in these
parts. He is the wise man among his people, and a sort of leader among
them, and fetich man besides."
"All right; get him up if you can. Is he able to walk?"
"He is as tough as a he-bear, and can walk a hundred miles on a
stretch," replied Mike. "He knows everything that is going on in these
times."
The lieutenant had covered his lantern, for he did not wish to wake the
other sleepers in the cabin, after the description the Russian had given
of his man. Mike spoke in a low tone to him, and it did not take him
long to make his toilet, for he slept just as he was clothed during
the day. No one knew how old he was, but he was still brisk in his
movements. The officer led the way to one of the deserted cabins at a
considerable distance from the one occupied by Uncle Job.
No one was stirring in the vicinity, and the silence was as profound
as death itself. Not a word was said till they reached the cabin the
officer had selected, and when they had entered, he closed the door
behind them. The lantern was unveiled, and the lieutenant seated himself
upon a block of timber, of which there were several in the room.
"Now, Uncle Job, I want you to answer some questions," Mr. Pennant
began.
"'Pose I don't answer 'em?" suggested the negro.
"Then I shall put you in irons, and take you on board of the steamer,"
added the officer sternly.
"De steamer! wot's de steamer? Is't a Yankee gumboat?" demanded Uncle
Job, opening his eyes with wonder and astonishment.
"That's just what it is."
"Den I gib you all de answers you want," replied the negro with a
cheerful smile. "Whar de gumboat?"
"She is off the shore not far from here. Now you will answer my
questions. There is a fort here?"
"Yes, sar; ober dar," he replied, pointing to the west.
"How many men are there at the fort?"
"Only twenty, sar; all gone ober to New Orleans, sar."
"How many guns has it? I mean big guns, Uncle Job?"
"I done count only four ob dem w'en I was dar last time."
"Only four!" exclaimed Mr. Pennant. "Are you telling me the truth, Uncle
Job?"
"I neber spoke noffin but the truf, Massa Ossifer."
"Are those four very large,--long as this cabin is wide?" asked the
lieutenant with interest.
"No, sar!" exclaimed Job with energy.
"But they must have had very big guns."
"Yes, sar; but dey done tote 'em all ober to de Mis'sip Riber."
This seemed to be reasonable to the lieutenant, and in accordance
with the belief of his superiors on board of the Bronx, for no Union
man-of-war of any size could pass through the water courses to the great
river. It looked as though the big guns had been replaced with those of
smaller calibre.
Mr. Pennant put out the light in his lantern, and the party started to
cross the island.
CHAPTER XXIX
A PROFESSIONAL VISIT TO THE FORT
Mr. Pennant had some doubts about the correctness of the important
information he had obtained, but he was at a loss to know how to verify
it. It was a matter of course that sentinels patrolled the vicinity of
the fort, or at least the principal approach to it. He decided to
postpone his inquiry into this matter till a later hour of the night or
morning.
"Whar you gwine, Massa Ossifer?" asked Uncle Job, after they had walked
a short distance from the negro village.
"Over to the other side of the island," replied the lieutenant.
"Wot you gwine to do ober dar, massa?"
"I want to see what there is over there."
"Dis nigger kin told you wot dar is over dar."
"Well, what is there over there?"
"Dar's a steamer ober dar, an' I speck de Yankee gumboat's gwine in
dar to look arter dat steamer," said Uncle Job, chuckling as though he
enjoyed the prospect of such an event. "Say, Massa Ossifer, is Massa
Linkum in yore gumboat?"
"Not exactly; but she is well filled with his people," replied Mr.
Pennant, laughing.
"I done wish dat Massa Linkum come down here hisself," added the
venerable colored person.
"He can hardly spare the time to do that; his business is such that he
cannot leave," replied the lieutenant, much amused at the simplicity of
the negro. "Now tell me something more about this steamer in the bay.
How big is she?"
"I can't told you 'zackly, massa; she as big as de fort."
"Where did she come from?" asked the lieutenant, who had more confidence
in the honesty than in the intelligence of Job.
"I dunno, massa; but she done come in from de sea. When she git off dar
two mile she done stick in de mud," answered the negro, pointing in the
direction of the bar. "Den de little steamers from up the bay take off
de loadin', and she done come in."
"With what was she loaded?"
"All sorts o' tings, massa; guns, and pistols, and close. Dis nigger
help take de tings out ob her."
"What is she doing now in the bay?"
"Loadin' wid cotton de steamers fotch down."
"Where does she lie now?"
"Jes' off de ole Fort Lafitte, whar de water's deep."
In less than half an hour the party reached the locality indicated by
Job. The officer could see the steamer which looked, in the gloom of the
night, as though she was a craft of about five hundred tons. She was
moored in the deep water so far in that she could not be seen by vessels
in the offing. On each side of her was a small river steamer, and she
seemed not to have completed her cargo.
"Do you know the name of that steamer, Uncle Job," inquired Mr. Pennant.
"Yes, sar; I knows it like my own name, but I can't spoke it if I die
for't," answered Job, laughing.
"Try to do so."
"No use, Massa Ossifer; dis nigger don't hab teef enough to do dat."
"Can't you spell it?"
"No, sar; can't spell noffin."
But Job was very obliging, and he made a hissing sound, followed by an
effort to sneeze which was a failure. Then he hissed some more, though
the loss of his front teeth interfered with the effort. Then he said
"fing."
"I know what he means," interposed the Russian. "I know that steamer,
for she came in at Cedar Keys when I was there. He means the Sphinx."
"Dat's it, Massa Ossifer!" exclaimed Job, apparently delighted to find
