"Impossible!" ejaculated Lawrence, eying Fred with incredulous
amazement.
CHAPTER XV.
MR. PALMER WALKS INTO A TRAP.
"Nevertheless it is true. I arrested him at the Lynch House this
morning," affirmed the detective.
"Do you believe him guilty?" asked Mr. Lawrence, noting with perplexity
Fred's open countenance and tranquil manner.
"No. Still, circumstances are against him."
"Please explain."
"I found your uncle's gold watch and chain in his bundle?"
"Is it possible?"
"It is quite true, Mr. Lawrence," said Fred calmly. "Mr. Ferguson will
allow me to say that I was as much surprised as he to find them. The
bundle was a small one and only contained a shirt and collar which I
bought at Jersey City yesterday morning. I can only say that the watch
was not in the bundle then."
"Perhaps," said Lawrence, who was favorably impressed by Fred's
openness, "you have some theory as to the manner in which the watch got
into your bag."
"Yes, sir, I have. I had for a room-mate a stranger--a man whom I only
met last evening after the train arrived. We fell in with each other
the way to the hotel. We were obliged to room together on account of
there being but one room vacant at the hotel."
"What was the man's appearance?"
"He was rather tall, thin, and dark complexioned. Though it was late he
did not go to bed at once, but sat up for a while finishing a book in
which he was interested. When I awoke in the morning he was gone."
"You think he was the real burglar?"
"Yes, sir."
"What is your reason?"
"Because it must have been he that put the watch and chain in my
bundle."
"With a view of diverting suspicion from himself?"
"Yes, sir."
"One question more. When were you in Elmira, last?"
"I was never in Elmira at all," said Fred promptly. "I have never been
so far West before."
"What was your object in making your present journey?"
"I came to make money," answered Fred, smiling.
"That answer may go against you," said the detective.
"Not when I explain that I am the train boy. I have usually made short
runs, but yesterday morning the superintendent told me I was to go to
Niagara, and gave me permission to stay over Sunday to have a chance to
see the Falls. I began to think I would not see them, after all, but
Mr. Ferguson was kind enough to walk out with me, and let me have a
view of them."
"Is this boy also a train boy?" asked Lawrence, indicating Frank
Hamblin.
"No; he is related to the clerk of the Lynch House, and was kind enough
to come up to my room and keep me company."
"Who has the watch?" asked Lawrence, after a pause. "I have," answered
the detective, producing it. Lawrence took it from his hand.
"It is my uncle's watch, sure enough," he said. "I remember it a dozen
years since. He sent to Europe for it."
"His name is in it," said Ferguson. "But for that I might not have
recognized it as one of the articles lost."
"Do you know what was taken besides?"
"Money and securities, I am informed, but to what value I have not
learned."
"You think the boy's room-mate has them in his possession?"
"There seems to be little doubt of it."
"Where do you think he is?"
"On the Canada side, no doubt."
"He went there this morning?"
"Yes."
"I was myself at the Clifton House this morning, and I now remember the
arrival of a man presenting the appearance of this young fellow's
room-mate. He is probably still at the Clifton House."
"Then he is beyond my jurisdiction," said Ferguson.
"Do you remember what luggage he had?" asked Lawrence, turning to Fred.
"He had a small valise, about the size of this," said Fred, his eyes
resting on the satchel which Lawrence had brought from the Clifton, and
thrown down carelessly. "Why," continued Fred, in excitement, "this is
his valise. I recognize it by a dark spot on the side."
"What do you mean?" said Lawrence sharply. "This is my valise."
He took it in his hand, and uttered an ejaculation.
"The boy is right! This is not my valise."
"Do you mean to say this valise belongs to the man who roomed with you
last night?" demanded die detective.
"Yes, I feel sure of it."
"Then--good Heavens!--it no doubt contains the property stolen from my
uncle. Mr. Ferguson, shall we be justified in opening it?"
"I will take the responsibility," said the detective.
He took from his pocket a bent wire, and dexterously inserting it in
the lock opened the valise.
All gathered eagerly about it, anxious to ascertain whether their
suspicions were correct.
There were a few articles of underwear, which the detective took out
hastily and laid upon the bed.
"Ha, here we have it!" he exclaimed triumphantly as he drew out two
long envelopes, such as are employed for bonds and securities. "I will
take the liberty to open them."
One envelope proved to contain two one thousand dollar railroad bonds.
The other contained two U. S. Government bonds of five hundred dollars
each, and miscellaneous securities all together amounting to three
thousand dollars more.
"A very clever capture on my word!" said Ferguson. "Really, Mr.
Lawrence, you have beaten me in my own line."
"I am entitled to no credit. It belongs to the boy who identified the
valise. I assure you the wrong bag was given me at the Clifton most
fortunately. I am content to lose the few articles which my own
contained for the sake of recovering my uncle's property. It really
seems like an interposition of Providence."
"I suspect the thief will feel very ill-satisfied with the exchange. I
wonder what he will do about it."
There was little chance for speculation on this point. There was a
knock at the door, and a hall boy put in his head.
"There is a gentleman below who wishes to see you, Mr. Lawrence," he
said. "Here is his card."
Mr. Lawrence took from his hand a card on which had been written the
name
F. GRANT PALMER.
"That is the man, Mr. Lawrence," exclaimed Fred in excitement. "He has
come for his valise."
"Bring Mr. Palmer up in about five minutes," said Lawrence; "not
sooner."
"All right, sir!"
"Now let us repack the valise," said the detective. "I always carry a
large bunch of keys with me, and shall probably find one that will
relock it."
The shirts, socks, and other articles which had been taken from the bag
were carefully replaced, and Ferguson, as he had thought probable,
found a key which fitted the lock. Then the valise was laid carefully
on the sofa.
"Mr. Palmer must not see us, and particularly the train-boy," said the
detective, "or he will think something is up. Where can you conceal
us?"
"There is a bedroom attached to the apartment," said Lawrence. "Go in
there, all of you, and remain till I call you. You can leave the door
ajar, as you will probably be curious to hear what goes on between us."
"Capital! Couldn't be better!"
Ferguson, followed by the two boys, entered the smaller room, and
waited impatiently for the entrance of Palmer.
A knock was heard.
"Come in!" Lawrence called out lazily.
The door opened, and F. Grant Palmer entered, carrying in his hand a
valise which seemed to be a fac-simile of the one lying on the sofa.
Palmer's quick eye caught sight of it as he entered the room.
"Pardon me for my intrusion!" he said suavely, "but I believe we
exchanged valises--at the Clifton--this morning."
CHAPTER XVI.
PALMER'S MALICE.
"Indeed!" said Lawrence, in assumed surprise.
"Yes, mine was left with the clerk."
"And mine also."
"And he doubtless made a mistake in delivering them. Upon my word I am
not surprised, as they certainly are very much alike."
"So they are!" said Lawrence, taking the valise from Palmer's hand.
"And here is your name too."
"It is quite a joke, ha, ha!" laughed Palmer, his spirits rising as he
saw that there would be no difficulty in effecting the exchange. "I
suppose I may take mine?"
"You are quite sure it is yours? Pardon my asking, but you are a
stranger to me."
"Oh, it's all right! You see this spot on my valise. Outside of that,
there is really no difference."
"You are willing to swear that valise I brought over from the Clifton
is yours?"
"Why, of course!" returned Palmer in surprise. "How can there be a
