I had not betrayed the secret. He was so angry, I thought 
at first he would kill me ; but it had never passed my lips ! " 
" What do you know about it ? We have proof that the 
signatures were forged." 
He iixes his eyes steadily upon hers, as if to govern 
their wavering lights. 
"I don't know who did it. When I saw it, there were no 
names on it and no seal ; but I am positive it was the same 
will. And I couldn't tell then — I didn't know what they 
meant to do with it, or where it had come from. Then 
when I thought it over, I knew an unsigned will was of no 
account. And — he loved me so ! He did love me then ; 
but I think he is tired of me." And she gives a heart- 
breaking sigh. "I am not handsome like Regina. And lie 
cared for her, I know now. I was so proud to have him 
prefer me, to want to marry me ! Ah, what a silly child!" 
Her small, clinched hands beat her breast in passionate 
despair. 
Winterburne draws the other chair, and sits down beside 
her. 
" Will any one come, do you think ? " She starts as if 
she would fly, and glances frightenedly at the door. 
" No one will come ; " but he slips the bolt as a precau- 
tion. 
" Now," he says in his soothing, assuring tone, " tell me 
when you saw the will, and where it was ? " 
'•' While we were at Mount Sardis I went home one day. 
I went through into their rooms — I ought not to have 
gone," she cries with piteous regret. " I wanted to find 
Jasper. There was no one in the room at first ; it was old 
Mr. Bradley's, and the table was full of papers." 
She pauses, and looks up at him with dry, wild eyes. 
He takes her hands, chafes them gently ; for all the sum- 
mer day they are cold. 
"There was a queer, yellow, old paper spread out. It 
had been folded ; but it was all straight, and the letters 
across the top were so large that somehow I couldn't help 
seeing them. They were, ' The last Will and Testament 
of Silas Bradley.' I couldn't get away ; it was as if I had 
been frozen there. It was mean and shameful, I know, 
but I read it. I couldn't move my eyes from it. It was a 
snake charming uie. And it gave everything to Morton 
Bradley ; there wasn't another name mentioned. But no one 
had signed it, and Mrs. Grouse said there were two names 
beside Silas Bradley's, and a great red seal. They were 
not on it then — oh, I can see just how it looked. It's 
always before me when I shut my eyes ; " and she shudders. 
" And then ? " prompts Winterburne. 
"Jasper came down the tower stairs. I was so frightened, 
I sprang to him and screamed ; and he was so tender, so " — 
A faint color warms her pallid face. " I had not been quite 
sure until then how much he loved me. He used to tease 
me sometimes, and I was afraid — yes, I truly was afraid 
he would care most for Eegina. I was only a silly, little 
child ; but I thought if he loved any one better than he did 
me, my heart would break. And it has broken now," she 
cries pathetically. 
" You told him what you saw ? " 
" No, I didu't ; he wouldn't let me. I can't make you 
understand ; — but he said I had been frightened by the 
ghostly room, and he was so tender, so lovely ! He took 
me back to our part and comforted me, and I was so happy. 
When I returned to Mount Sardis with Regina, — she had 
been to look at the cottage, and only asked me if I saw old 
Mr. Bradley, — I couldn't think what I ought to do. I 
knew Jasper wouldn't forgive me if I told. And I asked 
a gentleman staying there — he used to call on Regina — to 
tell me about wills, and I found it was of no account what- 
ever unless it was signed. So I felt quite easy in my mind, 
but Jasper wouldn't let me speak of that morning. I didn't 
want to get married in the manner we did. I was a weak, 
silly girl to let him rule me so ; but he never gave me 
any time to consider. The others were going to leave 
Bradley House, you know, and I thought it such bliss to 
stay with Jasper. Why, I can't tell you " — her weary 
eyes kindle and a dreamy smile hovers about her lips ; " it 
 
was like being in paradise. He was a very prince ; but he 
hurried me from place to place, and I was all tired' out 
when we came home." 
She sighs, and leans back her head quite exhausted. He 
remarks then how tliin she is; how the bright little flower 
has faded and lost much of its charm. 
After some moments he brings her back to the narrative. 
She takes it up at the night of her hoine-coming, and her 
horror as she hears the story and knows that her aunt and 
cousins will be dispossessed ! And her startling manner 
of confronting the father and son moves Winterburne 
strangely. 
"Then I was ill, you know, after that horrible fire. I 
can't remember things clearly. But Jasper promised me 
when it was all settled that he would give back Aunt 
Halford's part, that he was not going to injure them in any 
manner. Of course he didn't. I used to write, but I was 
afraid to say anything about the money. Once when he 
was very angry, he said he should swear I could not have 
seen any will on the table that morning, for there never 
had been any. Sometimes I tried to think there wasn't, 
that it was all a dream, as he insisted. And if he had 
gone on loving me " — 
" My poor little girl " — 
" It was so wicked and deceitful in me not to say a word ! 
I might have prevented all the trouble if I had only had 
the courage to give up Jasper. And it hasn't been quite a 
year ! Sometimes we were very happy. Then there were 
handsome women with whom he talked and danced and 
spent whole long evenings, while I stayed at home and 
played on my violin, until its notes all seemed sorrowful 
cries. I wanted to come back to Beverly, but he would not 
let me. Then he planned to go to Europe, — he was tired 
of America, be said. I begged so to stay that he grew 
very cross with me. He had never been cross, only neglect- 
ful, indifferent, and teasing. I was too small, and plain, 
and pale, and uninteresting. He didn't see what had ever 
induced him to marry me ! I said one day it was because 
he. was afraid I would tell about the will I saw ; but he 
merely laughed and said I had never seen any, that it was 
only my crazy dream when I was ill. Then something 
came not very long ago, — a letter from his lawyer, that 
made him fearfully angry." She knits her brows as she 
studies "Winterburne's face anxiously. 
"We had some proof." He has listened with curious 
attention, convinced that the two men have schemed to 
possess the whole estate, and gained it fraudulently. One 
little word from Perdita might have led to the truth. Yet 
he can see how she has been between the two fires, to be 
scorched and almost devoured at the last, by the very fierce- 
ness on the side she trusted. " He was served with a notice. 
We know that one signature has been forged." 
" He thought I did it," she cries shudderingly. " He 
was so angry. I had never seen him like that. And since 
then it has been terrible ! He said a man could put his 
crazy wife in an asylum, and I was filled with terror. He 
did not let me go out of his sight for days. But last even- 
ing he went away with some gentlemen, just to be gone a 
few moments, he said. I had been ill all day with a head- 
ache. Then I rose and put on my plainest street dress, — 
an old one he had bidden me give to the maid, — and went 
out. It was nearly ten. I went to the railroad station 
and took the first train, and travelled all night, going out 
of my way, but I did not mind that. Then I felt that I 
dared not go to Beverly. But I must tell some one, and I 
thought of you. I had to make some changes. If I had 
not travelled so much, I should have been frightened to 
death. I could inquire about Warwick ; he would not 
dream of my coming here. And now that you do know, 
will you see that Aunt Halford has her share of the money 
back ? " 
" My dear child, yes ! There can be no doubt but that 
we shall have convincing proof." 
She rises. How small and sad and worn she looks ! 
His heart is filled with infinite pity. 
" Where are you going ? " he asks as she takes a few 
uncertain steps forward. 
"I am going to hide myself away someiTiiere, for you 
know I never can be liappy with Jasper again. He doesn't 
love me. I am afraid now that he never did. And I was 
blind and foolish and wicked ! I should like to go in a 
convent. Do you think I might ? Because there I could 
pray and repent. But you see living together would be 
